

ď d
SERIES B
COMPLETE
s
J
9^=4
JB
3
<D
g
Incomparable Value
The camera that everyone wants— and can now
find within their means —a Graflex.
While making an exposure you watch in the hood
a reflection of the subject. You see the image
right side up, watch the focus, keep your picture
under control until the moment of exposure.
Has fast shutter speeds (up to 1/1000) that
catch exciting action —slow speeds (down to 1/5,
that permit snaps in the bush or indoors). Posing
and pausing are seldom necessary—your pictures
have spirit.
Built of choice mahogany—a masterpiece of
photographic craftsmanship. Fitted with f 4,5
Anastigmat Lens, Kodak-Ross or Kodak-Cooke.
Price £l6, complete with one double dark-slide.
Ask for illustrated folder if you cannot call
Of all Kodak dealers, and
\T
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
(Australasia)
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2435.
Thursday, October 14, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


JHE New Library Catalogue for 1926
is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(LYSAGHT
O
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
A Most Exceptional Offer
in Stainless Steel Cutlery
Wade and Butcher Manufacture,
For a limited period only Stewart Dawson’s are offering' this
Special Bargain in Stainless Steel Cutlery. Each knife is Guar-
anteed Firth’s Stainless Steel throughout, with White Zyloniie
balanced square Handles. The name of the manufacturers (Wade
and Butcher) is a “household word’’ for dependability.
This is a most exceptional offer —the Value is unapproachable
anywhere for Quality.
BOXED IN HALF-DOZENS, AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE
KNIVES
16/6
Half Doz.
fdďf
ď d
DESSERT
KNIVES
15/-
Half Doz.
Higher Grades,-in Wade and Butcher Stainless Cutleiy, Mirror
finish, both square and round handles. Prices:—
Table Knives, 25/- Half Dozen.
Dessert Knives, 24/- Half Dozen.
Wade and Butcher Real Knife Sharpeners,
2/- to 4/6 each.
Call, and inspect these wonderful offers without .delay.
Catalogue of Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, etc., Post Free to
Country Residents. , iS; '
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS* WORIBP-WIPE REFUTATION.
Two Sydney 412 George Street
Establishments: 185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
(N.S.W.)j liTD.
Strand Comer.
•N
£
a
)tZj.
\
S
•
UCE
I
Host ffolirooASays ~
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
> Aye, and then I mature it
jlike m old wine.”
SCALES
f ďf
OR rapidly and
JL accurately weigh"
ing the great variety
of merchandise sold
in retail quantities,
Fairbanks Counter
Scales offer excep"
tional accuracy and
durability. The public prefers to buy in
shops using Fairbanks Scales.
Representative for Australia —
R. W. WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE FAIRBANKS C0.,416 Broome* St.,New York, U.S.A.
ACCURATE DEPENDABLE
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
“MUSTDIE”
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitos.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
' HILL
THAT FLY
J nowing tht
>ugh hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
[icrobes of
ise adher*
The Red Page
Impressionism and Expressionism
The world ot art mid letters has always
been divided into conflicting sects. The battle
still rages, though the names of the com-
batants are constantly changing. Once they
were called Classicists and Romanticists,
then Realists and Symbolists. To-day they
flaunt bright new banners inscribed with the
challenging words Impressionists and Ex-
pressionists. The terms are not easy to
define; but it is necessary to make the dis-
tinction clear and sharp. Therefore I ven-
ture to suggest that the Impressionist is
one for whom the visible world exists for
its own sake, and the Expressionist one
for whom the visible world*exists only for
the images it creates in the mind.
The art of the past, especially European
art, despite its many changes of form, may
be claimed as chiefly Impressionist. It
recognised the objective world, and its aim
was to render various aspects of visible
reality. Shakspeare stated quite plainly that
the mission of the artist was *to hold the
mirror up to nature; and, according to
Herman Bahr, whose little book of lectures
on Expressionism is an honest and excellent
exposition of the subject, to hold the mirror
up to nature, to perceive the world without,
was essentially the mission of all classics
art, from Greek times to our own. It may
seem paradoxical to many people that Im-
pressionism as represented by Manet and
Cezanne should now be regarded as the
culmination of classical art. But such it
seems to be. Bahr holds the same opinion
as Meldrum, that the history of painting is
nothing but the history of vision or seeing.
The Impressionists were Pastists, not Futu-
rists. They followed the old Greek and
Renaissance tradition, endeavoring to give a
still fuller vis - '" **
But the y» 1
away from J- «»?■:., 1
from Greek ai e
Greek. It is a
the objective t
has no use 1
demands a for >
of the mind. s
the inner to f • j
a protest aga:
Naturally, t 1
under Impres t
or not, resent >
now seek to 1
ideas. In en
pressionism, E 5
unfaithful to ; -I
which he ha t
though he st l,
which represe *f
the spirit of n
recognise that n
individual exp ;o
lias said, Frit m
Thursday. B re
Thursday last
What is th iis
Expressionism of
modern art, but pernaps is most revolu-
tionary in its idea of painting. The repre-
sentation of the visible world of man and
nature, which has always been the aim
of painting in Europe, is utterly repudi-
ated. The Expressionist painter makes
no attempt at “representation.” That
is why his pictures seem usually so queer
and incomprehensible. He maintains that
painting should become like music, whose
tunes are not taken from the external world
but from some world within himself. The
Expressionist appeals to science to uphold
his belief in “inner visualisation.” Galton
carried out investigations among people of
all kinds and discovered that this faculty
was not a universal gift. “To see with the
mind’s eye” was merely a figure of speech
to many people, while others could see a
mental picture as distinctly as if the reality
were before them. Indeed there was some-
times more in the mental picture than could
be found in the sensible one. For instance,
the mind’s eye could see all four walls of
a room, all the faces of a cube, a whole
sphere at one glance. This seems to prove,
says Bahr, that the power of seeing with
the mind’s eye, which nearly 'vail children
and some grown-up people possess, is more
than a mere remembering and reproducing
of objects and scenes viewed with the physi-
cal eye. At any rate, people differ far more
from one another in the manner of their
mental than in the manner of their physical
vision. It is this mental picture, not any
representation of nature, that the Expres-
sionist or Futurist painter seeks to put on
his canvas. It seems, then, in the nature
of the case, since mental sight is more
individualist than physical sight, it must
be more difficult to judge the value of an
Expressionist than an Impressionist work.
There can be no chance of deception in the
case of the Impressionist, whose effects are
simply true to nature, or they are not.
Nature is an open court of appeal. But we
have to take the Expressionist on trust.
He may be a faker for all we know, or he
may be a true artist painting what he actu-
ally sees. There is no way of checking him
up. It is only by an act of faith that we
can believe in the authenticity of his vision.
The way of seeing determines the method
of technique. • This explains the attitude
of the modernist who turns to Oriental and
sometimes to Negroid art in preference to
Greek. After a long period of objectivity,
it is now the day of subjectivity. Goethe
uses the terms “idea” and “experience.” By
“experience” he means our knowledge of the
world beyond ourselves by contact and
reaction, and by “idea” our own personal
vision of reality. Goethe, who desired the
perfect union of idea and experience in a
work of art, thought that even in the
acknowledged masterpieces there was usu-
ally some disproportion, some incongruity,
a lack of balance between the inner and
outer vision. He appears to have been both
an Impressionist and. an Expressionist.
The Impressionists have had a long
innings. From the Greeks to the generation
of Wagner. Ibsen and Manet they might all
have exclaimed with Theophile Gautier that
they were among those for whom the visible
world exists. Now is the time of the Ex-
pressionists. The younger generation looks
inward rather than outward; and just as
the Impressionists put little stress on the
creative power ot the personality, content
before nature to be as passive as a mirror,
so the Expressionists consider the outside
world of appearances infinitely less important
than the affirmation of the human spirit.
But neither Impressionism nor Expression-
ism is an end in itself. It is no more than
a mode of apprehending reality. Goethe
may have been right in desiring a harmony
of the inner and outer vision which is lack-
ing in both Impressionism and Expression-
ism, “the vital alliance of the eye of the
spirit with the eye of the body.” As things
are, however, Expressionism, the gospel of
youth, is just as biased and one-sided as
Impressionism, the doctrine of the past, each
discovering one side of human nature and
stating only half the truth. “The whole
truth flits past man,” so Bahr concludes,
“and he veers from one error to another.”
LOUIS ESSON.
Francis of Assisi
History holds no more fascinating and
lovable figure than Francis of Assisi, the
700th anniversary of whose death the Roman
Catholic world celebrated on October 4. In
this practical day, he would have been the
world’s most idealistic artist or poet. But he
was born 700 years ago in the heroic age of
Europe; an age that saw men of all nations
united for the first time in history, without
premeditation, without political intention,
united and warring for a religious senti-
ment. Before the Crusades there was no
Europe; the religious wars gave it birth —a
Christian Europe dramatically appearing
under the banner of the Cross. As novel,
too, was the moral unity of nations. Woman
had lately become semi-sacred, a little out
of human reach, and knighthood and chiv-
alry went arm-in-arm through a gracious
land, killing dragons and rescuing distressed
damsels; troubadours and jonglers told in
gay and polished courts of doughty doings.
The creator of Europe and chivalry ajud
knighthood, the Church, was at the most
powerful and brilliant epoch of its career —
and gliding to destruction.
Into this atmosphere of romance and
gaiety and disaster Francis was born in
1183. Ilis father, a hard-headed man, was
a wealthy merchant of Assisi. But his large
income came from France, after which the
grateful man had named his son. Francis
did not help in the money-getting. Instead,
he spent all he could lay his hands on in
feasting for his friends and bounty for the
poor. Gay, chivalrous, dissipated, he was
the soul of Assisi’s high life, the captain of
all its adventures, the king of its trouba-
dours. As is often the way, after a long,
grave illness, the ardent, emotional man,
lover of song and the merry life, turned from
the fading charm of natural things to the
unfading charm of the supernatural; turned
with the thoroughness of his highly enthusi-
astic nature. The only reform that occu-
pied his thoughts in the beginning was his
own. Disowned by his family, a hermit in
a cave, he who had been proclaimed the
flower of the youth of Assisi tended for two
years poverty and leprosy—that sacred dis-
ease of the Church for which it had com-
posed one of its most touching liturgies. He
was 27 when in 1209 he received his brief
from God. A chance reading of the gospel
at Mass, and the moral and social reforma-
tion of the thirteenth century was born.
Francis began his mission alone. As a
knight in that age of chivalry he paid his
devoirs to a lady—Poverty. “The lovers’
titles—Poverty and Francis,” Dante sings.
He loved her perfectly. Not even the tat-
tered gown, not even the breviary was to
be held a personal possession. He was re-
ceived as the world receives all supreme men,
with abus* and derision. His humility was
too formidable, too painful for arrogance
and cruelty, the age’s twin step-sisters.
Having reformed himself, and having in
a year gained, unasked, 11 companions, he
sent out a quixotic challenge to vice and
wealth, to dissension and cruelty. Forming
his small company into an order of penance,
with a few simple gospel passages as their
rule, he began to lead the life of Christ’s
Apostles. Barefoot, begging their food, he
and his companions went round the country,
a mediteval Salvation Army, preaching pen-
ance and practising it. Making their atti-
tude more effective they had banded together
as brothers without the sacramental graces
or power of office o'f priests, without the
help of monastic regulations of monks. It
was a startling innovation, as strange as it
was daring: a sublime challenge to the
wealth, pride and license of the time. They,
ordinary men of the world, had sanctified
themselves by the Gospel. What was pos-
sible for them was possible for the whole
human race. No longer could it be pro-
claimed that to live the life of Christ was
an impossibility.
In 1210 Francis appeared before the
arbiter of Europe, Innocent 111., asking for
ratification of his rule. No ecclesiastical
law then obliged religious orders to get this
approval from Rome; but Francis had no
intention of adding to the worries of the
Papacy. Though Innocent declared Fran-
cis’s heroic mode of life, embracing absolute
poverty, beyond human endurance, he sanc-
tioned the new-born poverty in the wealthy
Church, making Francis Superior-General.
So a new kind of clergyman was invented,
the mendicant friar, who soon began to meet
the needs of the time by doing what many
bishops, priests and monks were failing to
do—leading a holy life of self-sacrifice, de-
fending orthodox beliefs against heresies, and
awaking the world to a new spiritual life.
Francis himself, by his extraordinary self-
abnegation, his perfect charity, embracing
even the lower creation, his burning, impetu-
ous love of Christ, his boundless humility,
did more in that stormy period to re-anchor
man s restive loyalty to the Papacy than
heresy crusades and inquisitions together
What he did for society was no less
striking. In the third branch of his Order
created through the solicitation of men and
women weary of anarchy and corruption
and desiring to taste the repose of religious
(Continued on page 3.)


Jl
'ace
Clothes with the good appearance
every man demands plus a higher
quality and lower price
A Spring' Suit-to-Measure
in new worsteds
and navy serges
£6/6/
Careful tailoring, combining your personal style preferences with the accepted
decrees of Bond Street, is guaranteed, providing your order is placed with Anthony
Horderns’. Write to-day for self-measurement form and patterns, posted tree on
request, and select from New Spring Worsteds in Greys and
Brown, showing Herringbone, Plain and Check designs, also avy
Indigo-dye Serge. Price c j j
Anthony Horderns’ will turn you out a suit to your measure that will give you
complete satisfaction and prove a revelation in Tailoring Values.
Ankle
Fashioned.
lasting
rang
Good looks
Hee
w,
Tree Brand Footwear
This splendid value Footwear is exclusive to
Anthony Horderns’ and is branded on the soles with
the famous Tree Brand. Every pair is guaranteed
solid leather throughout and will be replaced should
reasonable service not eventuate. Choose from the
following leathers: Box Calf, Nigger Calf, Tan Calr
and Glace Kid. Each of the several styles has
genuinely welted soles and is designed with full
regard to comfort and the anatomy of the human
foot. Ideal footwear no matter what
the weather—rain or shine. Price. . .
19/11
Postage Paid on Men’s Wear in N.S.W. and to the Nearest Interstate Port.
imm
m
feS
Smart Pull-ons
Men’s Cream Sports Sweaters, knitted
in all-wool. Pull-over style, with club
SSFSSi? 12/6,16/6,25/-
Also in Super-quality Honeycomb Knit.
round V neck. Price 00//?
English make. Black stripes, u
Men’s Knitted Pull-overs, in all-wool.
New colorings. Fancy Marl and Jacquard
££ 18/6, 22/6, 39 6
Sports Shirts
Made in Anthony Horderns’ own work-
rooms are these Sports Shirts, with roll-
back collar, which also buttons-up to the
neck if desired. In white ry / s*
Mercerised Twill. Price .... *' O
In Cream Bradford Twill 7/6
In White Poplin-de-luxe 10/6
In Natural Fuji Silk 19/6
.
m.
i Us
n
Golf Shirts
Anthony Horderns’ made these Golf
Shirts for Men. Double cuffs, dressed
bands. V-cased fronts and collar to
match are features. Colors guaranteed.
In British Crepe, showing neat stripes
of Blue or Black on white Q/£
grounds. Price **< O
In Haircord with Black or Colored stripes
on White grounds. i i //»
In Poplin-de-Luxe. Smart checked
designs on Blue, Grey and Fawn -\ A n
grounds. Price 14 U
Plain White Poplin-de-Luxe 11/6
Men’s Pyjamas, in lightweight Striped
Flannelette. o /t\
Price O' U
In medium-weight Flannelette . . 9/6
In medium-weight Osmanette ... 16/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi-fed
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440-


.
I
-
v ; ' '
• .
THtS tABSL
-- HXMfc
, If
tflH
(0
& .t.
**€
m
A!
W
H
*
■
m
mm
' i s?i£2£d2k%s&<zLi\ .1.? J ..
aAt the Sign of the “ White Horses ”
It is that subtle difference marking a really fine whisky which
prompts the connoisseur to insist on
scotch Whisky
Made by the largest INDEPENDENT Whisky Firm in Scotland.
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
Agents.


PEP
Pep - Snap - Life
That describes Paris. After
long months of snappy ser-
vice Paris Garters go as
strong as a peppy cheer
leader. Count the moment
well spent when you ask for
PARIS.
Time for a fresh pair?
P/IRIS GARTERS
N® METAL HAM TOUCH YOU
Manufactured in Australia by
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., Ltd*., 50 York Street, Sydney
life without leaving the world, he struck at
the very root of the social disorder. One
of the most powerful influences for good in
mediaeval society, in Italy the Third Order,
besides reforming domestic morals, did wliat
no other power had been able to do—it
united the people. The Minister of Fred-
erick 11. affirmed in a letter to his master:
“The Friars Minor have risen up against
us....and to entirely destroy our predomi-
nance and wean the people’s affections from
us, they have created two new fraternities,
including men and women, into which every-
body is rushing; so that there is hardly
anyone whose name is not registered there-
in.” An explanation, possibly, of the defi-
nite triumph of the Guelplis.
Canon Knox Little does not hesitate to
rank Francis with statesmen of the very
highest order, for his grasp of the social
problems of his time, and the genius he dis-
played in their solution. Yet the man was
no student. Erudition was as far from him
as harshness. A part of the Franciscan
rule reads: “If anyone is not learned, let
him not be anxious to be so. but to cultivate
the spirit of the Lord.” Yet in himself
Francis has been the cause of more litera-
ture than any other saint in the calendar.
The most perfect type of self-renunciation
this, world perhaps lias seen, his power lay
in his absorbing, impetuous love of God ; and
his wonderful, beautiful Love of creation was
but a reflex of his love of the Creator.
B. BLOXHAM.
Henry Ford’s Fallacy
It is unfortunate that popular opinion
credits Henry Ford with being a leader not
only in business technique but in economic
thought. His doctrine, in a nutshell, is
this:—
The function of industry is service. Service im-
plies the supply of necessities to the consumer at
the lowest possible price and of the highest possible
quality. Since the main source of purchasing power
is wages, wages must be high to encourage demand
and thus assist towards higher production and lower
costs. Since low costs necessitate more mechanical
and less manual labor, the replacement of men by
machinery must be effected wherever possible. This
will not throw men out of work, but will increase
demand by reason of lower costs, thereby increasing
production and actually decreasing unemployment.
The theory has elements of logic and plausi-
bility, but it is inconsistent with actual con-
ditions and incapable of general application
—in present circumstances of industry, at
any rate. The success of the Ford Motor
Co. seems to give the lie to this criticism,
since it is claimed, and will not be denied
here, that the Ford industries are founded
on the Ford theory. But Ford’s methods,
peculiarly adapted as they are to automo-
bile manufacture, are by no means applic-
able generally. Perhaps the briefest and
most effective proof of that can be found in
the fact that they are not applied generally.
Does “T.8.C.” (R.P. 26/8/’2G) think that
manufacturers as a class are ignorant of
Lord's precepts, or that, knowing them, they
lack the courage to put them into practice?
“My Life and Work” is for the most part
a history of the Ford industries, and deals
mainly with the technical difficulties the fac-
tories encountered, and the way those diffi-
culties were overcome. The Ford ideal was
"service,” implying the manufacture of a
car for “the million” at the lowest possible
in-ice consistent with quality and service.
Mass production was therefore essential, and
since precision and uniformity, vital factors
in automobile manufacture, could not be
obtained without the elimination of the
human element, a continual replacement of
human by mechanical labor was necessary.
It was found profitable to pay high wages,
partly because the decreasing amount of
human energy in the product made this pos-
sible ; partly because high wages meant high
efficiency of the relatively small amount of
labor employed; partly because high wages
freed the factories from competition in the
labor market from other industries, and thus
reduced the "floating population,” a most
important consideration, as any manufac-
turer can testify.
The efficiency factor of high wages is
stressed in “My Life and Work.” The pro-
blem of consumer demand (the greatest
economic problem to-day) is scarcely
touched; indeed, it is almost emphatically
stated that there is no such problem where
production is carried out with an ever-
increasing technical efficiency. In “The
Great To-day: The Greater Future,” the
technique of industry is still the main sub-
ject of the author’s writings and opinions,
and economic theories are still formulated
on no broader basis than a knowledge of
automobile manufacture and distribution.
But now the problem of consumer demand
makes a timid entrance, and high wages
receive attention as a fund of purchasing
power, i.e., as potential consumer demand.
The possibility of future difficulty in finding
buyers for Ford cars can be seen creeping
into the author’s mind, but there is no
change in his conception of economics. One
can see that if in future Ford sales decline
Ford will be ready to say that the fault
may lie not with the car but with other
manufacturers, who, by “refusing” to pay high
wages, do not create a sufficient fund to
enable Ford cars to be sold at their ever-
increasing rate of production !
The widespread belief that economic dis-
tress is due to the faulty organisation or
lack of efficiency of individual businesses has
been assisted to popularity by Henry Ford
and his disciples, but it is quite unsound.
The factor overlooked is that of purchasing
power. Ford’s economic beliefs permit only
the physical problem to be seen. The fact
that one may grow a ton of potatoes with-
out increasing the purchasing power of the
community which has to buy them is dis-
regarded altogether. Or, rather, not dis-
regarded so much as turned upside down.
If it is the object of industry to create as
well as to supply customers, does indus-
try create customers for all it produces?
Do the Ford industries disburse purchasing
power equivalent to the netting prices of all
their products?
“T.8.C.” honors Ford’s conception of
economics with the term “American system.”
How is it that under this “American sys-
tem,” where efficiency is the watchword and
high wages and greater production are creat-
ing more customers, the American producers
cannot fiud buyers for their products, except
by resorting to a tremendous development
of the instalment system? Strange that
these Americans have to mortgage their
future incomes to buy what they produce!
Henry Ford is alive to this difficulty now.
He was quoted in a recent article in the
Observer (London) as stating, “The Ameri-
can people no longer buy; they are backed
into a corner and sold.” Why this diffi-
culty to sell? Does not the “American sys-
tem” itself create the purchasing power?
Henry Ford is now realising that all is
not well—that in spite of high wages the
purchasing power liberated by industry is
insufficient to maintain industry at its full
productive capacity. The fruits of this dis-
covery will be a final test of Ford’s great-
ness.
S. J. T.
The New Misprint
An American paper lately, dealing AA'ith
the D’Erlanger family (to which belonged
the first husband of the clever lady who
later came to Adelaide as wife of Governor
Galway, of South Aus.), spoke quite seri-
ously of a “Baroness Dapostrophe Erlanger.”
It had been so dictated, and therefore so
typed; and linotype men and proof-readers
will tell you that they do not profess to
handle foreign languages unless paid extra
for special knowledge.
The blunder is but an extreme form of
what every writer who dictates his work
has to face all the time. The whole risk of
misprint has changed. Mistakes come now
through the ear, instead of through the eye
as of old. In writing, “initiate” used to look
like “imitate,” and “lonely” like “lovely”;
at any rate, that is liow they got printed if
one was not careful. An English humorist
has lately recalled how, long ago, he wrote
a savage satire at the expense of an imagi-
nary Jones. “Jones ate soup with an audible
noise,” “Jones was a bounder without hope
of reform,” and so on. The printer set it
up every time as “I once ate soup,” “I once
was a bounder”.... Similarly, Reynolds,
jam-maker and politician in Adelaide in the
long ago, was once accused in the Assembly
of “thinking himself the great I AM” ; and
the compositor made it appear as “the great
JAM.” ("I thought that was the joke in-
tended," lie said innocently, when convicted
of the offence.) When I wrote of a fight
in a barn, that “at the close the place WllS
like a shambles,” the printer incredibly made
the first three words appear as “at 3 o'clock.”
A thoughtful remark about Dickens got a
double bad handling. I said that lie “found
the English novel but little removed from
its position under Fielding”-—-and left it
pretty nearly as we have it now. The printer
turned “found” into “formed,” and, as this
does not make grammar, some well-meaning
proof-reader dropped in an “it” ; thus I found
myself committed to the amazing statement
that Dickens “formed the English novel, but
little removed it from its position under
Fielding.”
That is the kind of thing, annoying rather
than funny, which used to happen in real
life; the comic misprints, the martyr with
his “shirt on fire,” the battle-scarred veteran
who appeared first as “battle-scared” and
next as “bottle-scarred,” were mostly inven-
tions. I have known punctuation mis-
placed with an odd effect. A. mil-
linery firm was anouncing its new
goods for all ages, “Ladies, Maids, Children.”
The commas got pushed up and became apos-
trophes, so that the ad. offered to cater for
“Ladies’ Maids’ Children.” A weird effect
was produced in another ecstatic announce-
ment of new season’s goods, ending with —-in
capitals, and a line to itself —"MA KOU-
SHIMI!” The Japanese touch was simply
unaccountable. Inquiry showed that the
advertiser had written “Ma Kunslmns,” an
alleged Scotch exclamation which was con-
sidered funny about that period.
. The risk nowadays, when everything is
dictated, is quite different. Many of the
traps are obvious: such words as “threw,"
“throne,” “scene” and “two” have to be spelt
out as a matter of course. “Norman” some-
how sounds like “Gordon,” “asset” like
“acid,” “encountered” like “accounted.”
“melody” and “title” like “malady” and
“total” ; stranger still, “the man,” when said
quickly, evidently sounds like “a man.” What
bad typists might do is beyond guessing. I
have one of the best —the kind that can spell
“psychology” and “physiology” without bat-
ting an eyelid. Yet here are some of the
things I have had to correct: —
As Spoken: As Typed:
At least the Easter
admiring marrying
calls him quarrelsome
order of peace order a piece
though he believed nobody believed
spare diet spared out
retailers of gossip retailers of gospel
it was noble it was an oval
it seems odd it seems hard
best riders best writers
an entirely in Italy
I long for it I hung for it
Sometimes the unexpected and for the
moment unaccountable stares one in the face.
“That is to save Austin” was one of these
remarks in type; it took research to find that
one had dictated “That is to say. Boston.”
The horse that had tripped over a lion proved
to have really had a mishap with a line, and
the people unaccountably “afraid of the fleas”
had really feared the police.
Someone lately described in The Bul-
letin a business letter which ended with
“Thanking you in our dissipation.” I can
quite believe it. When one has seen “Oxford
man” turned into “opposite man,” “close
analysis” into “personalities,” “one enters”
into “where it is,” “poor Mrs. Smith” into
“poems of Smith,” and “Dr. Jones” into
“Otto Jones,” one can believe anything.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
The Australian Accent
While in England the county accents and
dialects are fast disappearing and the people
are beginning to talk good and fairly gram-
matical King’s English, in Australia the
accent is getting steadily worse. No doubt
the Australians speak better than the
average Britisher; but do the more intelligent
Australians speak better than the same
grade of Britisher? A Britisher, returning
to England on visits, notices an advance
each time; the British schools are doing
tlieir work well. But here the Public
Schools are not doing much in the way of
teaching the rising generation to speak
King’s English, and our educated classes arc
themselves tainted. A great many C. of E.
clergymen do not pronounce the word “God”
as the Archbishop of Sydney does, but say
“Gawd.” Methodists and Congregationalists
and, indeed, some men of all the churches
(educated in Australia) put an r after
such a word as law, and pronounce “God” as
though it contained four letters. This is true
of men with University degrees; they do
not know they do it, and will deny it, prov-
ing that it has become an accent.
The rising generation is not taught to
pronounce the i and cannot do it. A
few weeks ago I had a “Camp Fire” for Boy
Scouts and Cubs. In the questions and
answers every boy pronounced the i like oi.
One little fellow 7 began “Mr. Green, Oi’ve a
story. It’s about a poirate who was wrecked
on a desert oisland.” It is no good denying
that “grace” is “grice” and “cakes” “kikes” in
N. S. Wales. I was giving a Scripture lesson
to boys at a Sydney public school. “Now,
boys,” I said, “I am going to give a lesson
this morning on a topic which is spelt with
three letters. It is a word no Australian
boy can pronounce. I will write it on the
blackboard, then ‘hands up’ any boy who
thinks he can pronounce it.” Then I wrote:
LAW
They looked at it, surprisingly, as though
trying to discover the “catch” in the test.
Then two hands went up. “Don’t speak
until I ask you.” Then I pointed to one
boy. He said: “Law.” Afterwards to the
other; he also replied “Law.” I was sur-
prised. “Well, boys, I must apologise to
you this morning; I didn’t think I would
find two boys in the class who could pro-
nounce that word properly. They said it
quite correctly. I thought that they would have
pronounced it as though it were spelt like
this: ‘LA WR.’ ”
A smile of gratification went round the
class at my discomfiture, and I turned to
put the rest of the work on the blackboard.
I then faced the class to continue the lesson,
but a little boy put up his hand before I
could start. “AVell ?” I said. “Please, sir,”
he replied, “them two boys is pommies.”
“Indeed! Where do you come from?” I
asked the first. “Leeds, sir,” was the reply.
“And you?” I asked the second. “Man-
chester, sir.” These towns are in counties
famous for their “barbarous accents.” And
indeed, you do hear very bad dialect from
the West: Riding of Yorkshire and from
the region round Manchester. But, all the
same, you hear some of the most perfect
English; and the same is true of Edinburgh
and Dublin.
It ought not to be forgotten that the
English dialects are the fragments of the
old English, correct in its day—in one part
fragments of Gaelic, in another of Doric or
Erse or Welsh. Our accent is merely a
mark of decadence. Having got rid of the
dialects and the accents, we are beginning
to develop some of our own. We ought to be
the best speakers of English, in the Empire;
and we should be if our schools, churches
and universities gave us a lead !
JAM ES BREEN.
A Satchel of Books
Tell-tale Stories, by “Weeroona” (E. /■ • Vidler).
This collection of short stories, reprinted from Tub
Bulletin, will find many readers glad to have them
in a more permanent form. Mrs. Mary Simpson,
under her pen-name of “Weeroona,” has long been
a welcomed contributor to the paper. She possesses
in a marked degree what is not too frequently found
in Australia, a keen sense of humor. This, allied
to a quick eye, a graphic style and a very thorough
knowledge of what is characteristic in our local
ways, habits and attitudes of mind, furnishes her with
a stock-in-trade that few of our short-story writers
possess so abundantly. Her tales deal with the
happenings of every-day life, social, civic and
domestic, and touch no problems _ of sex or psy-
chology. “Weeroona” sees the bright side, probes
things here and there with a not unkindly shaft of
satire, and all the time revels in fun.
Progressive Kindergarten Methods, by Mary Lush
(Lothian). An excellent little manual for Kinder-
garten students and teachers. Mary Lush is director
of the Carlton (Vic.) Free Kindergarten, and her
book bears evidence of wide practical experience,
added to a natural gift of sympathy and insight
into the child mind. Founded on sound x>rineiples
of child psychology, the curriculum and plan of
lessons here outlined should prove a source of inspira-
tion and a practical guide to all young students.
In addition, the book will repay perusal by all
interested in the environment provided by the
Kindergarten for the mental, physical and social
development of little children.
The Valley of Adventure, by Edward Vivian .Timms
(Angus and Robertson). In an unexplored region, far
off the tracks followed by “travellers” making their
way from Queensland to the N.T., lies, for the
purposes of this story for boys, a tract of country
that has been trodden by only one white man. This
solitary wayfarer left a rough chart >f a wonderful
place named by him Paradise Valley, In the centre
of the valley' lies a crocodile-infested swamp sur-
rounding an island —a native sanctuary. On that
island is gold—“the rock is rotten with it,” so
said the diary of its long-dead discoverer. To reach
that island and gather in their treasure two lads,
their father and black Charlie have to face such
adventures by' flood, field and air as carry the reader
breathless and in amaze from page to page. The
boy who does not devour this veracious chronicle
with a galloping appetite is no boy.
“Narran”: Re W. M. Flemings criticism of “Geof
fry Hamlyn”—“its chief defect is that it is not
Australian” —it is hard to acc ; pt Fleming's assertion
that its author, Henry Kingsley (an Englishman),
knew little about this country. No better description
has been printed of the bibulous country medico
who fought Dr. Mulhaus; of the sawyer introduced
in that case; and of the hutkeeper and shepherd of
those times. That Kingsley' observed keenly is shown
whenever he touched on thy animal, bird or reptile
life of the bush. His descriptions were so true
that any Australian who knows his bush would give
Kingsley credit for his bush lore. Have we a better
pen picture from any Australian writer than that
of the lost child who wandered on to his death
carrying the baby koala ?
The Hidden Lagoon, by Jack McLaren (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.). A story of quick movement by
McLaren, cast in the Solomon Islands, with the
romantic figure of Marcia AVilmot, rescued from the
villainous hands of Mamuta Joe, as its central interest,
in an environment of coral reefs, palms and ocean
spaces, is bound to find an appreciative welcome.
The Marquis de Bolibar, by Leo Perutz (John
Lane). This book is a translation by Graham Rawson
of a volume originally published in Germany, and
purports to be a shortened rendering of the Memoirs
of one Lieutenant v. Jockberg. The memoirs, real
or alleged, deal with a hitherto unexplained chapter
in Napoleon’s Peninsular campaign—the destruction
of two regiments of Hessian troops by Spanish
guerrillas. They have all the characteristics of a
novel, with at least an assumption of solid fact.


AS FINE AS MONEY CAN BUILD
CHRYSLER IMPERIAL
Chrysler Imperial Six has all
the conventional virtues you
expect in the finest of motor
cars. But it has also a special
identity of performance which
is distinctly its own. It is useless
to seek a basis of comparison.
The quiet, powerful motor has
advanced the six-cylinder car
into an entirely new realm of
efficiency— to which Chrysler
engineering and manufactur-
ing skill have added a new meas-
ure of enduring quality. Chry-
sler Imperial is not content to
prove its supremacy in a mere
comparative test, but carries the
special identity of its ability
throughout a long life of un-
approachable satisfaction.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S. W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House. William Street Sydney,
Vtc.: Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Old.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street. Brisbane.
Sth. Aust: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwooti. 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington, i


4
G
□
T3*
BOOKKEEPING
k
A
a \
as
should be
f
\
ADDING
CALCULATING
I
DISSECTION
SSCCr/ o/v
THE Burroughs long line of Adding, Bookkeeping,
Calculating and Duplex Machines constitutes the
only complete accounting service to business in
the figuring machine industry.
In developing these four distinct types of machines,
the Burroughs Company has proved that more than
one type is required if all classes and sizes of business
are to be served efficiently —that the requirements of
the small merchant cannot be compared with the
requirements of a big corporation —that for special
classes of work, special types of machines are desirable.
Therefore, it manufactures all types so that it can serve
business as business should be served.
Each type of Burroughs machine represents an
economy to the business man interested in saving time,
preventing errors and obtaining accurate figure in-
formation about his business.
Each type is an assurance that when you buy a
Burroughs you get the right machine for your business.
Our nearest office will be pleased to give you more
information and analyse your figure problem without
obligating you in any way.
More than
1,000,000
Burroughs
Machines are
in use to-day.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LIMITED
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Burroughs
Machines are
priced as low as
£5O
4009
ROCKHAMPTON - BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN - CHRISTCHURCH - WELLINGTON
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART -


MAR:
-ft
A
i 3
fc:/*
'flmm'S
55-,- 55>a 7 s^x
ill
I
IA,
■■-.
Vi
*1
m
LLA
or
-*&£
THE N£JF BEALE
Beale & Co’s Written
Guarantee for 25 Years.
m
iCg.;C
iS
if*
The Beale Factory at
Annandale, N.S. W.
Paris.
Of 1
N.S.W. Conservatorium
of Music.
vt
6f<i
as
Vito.
*'4
Presbyterian Ladies’
College, Croydon.
sK
Bi’oadcastin
1 Every New Beale that goes into use helps to sell its successors. The more it is played
the greater proof does it give of the superlative quality of the Beale. It lasts far longer
than the 25-years written guarantee. It withstands the extremes of the variable Aus-
tralian climate that play such havoc with most instruments. It is good because it is
built'good.” It stays good because every item in it is the best.
2 In 30 years over 60,000 Beale Pianos have been sold. Here are sixty thousand reasons
reasons, not inducements why you should augment the list of satisfied owners.
3 In 1908, Beale Pianos gained every award at the Franco-British Exhibition. And they’re
even better to-day.
What do experts think of the Beale ? They praise it; they honour it by awards. But
they do more. They buy these instruments ! Consider this list:
4 The N.S.W. State Conservatorium —the" University of Music”— purchased 19 New
Beales. These were bought after close scrutiny and keen comparison by the highest
authorities in the land.
5 Thirty Beales are in use at the Presbyterian Ladies’ Colleges at Pymble, Croydon and
Gouiburn—-bought on the cold, unemotional advice of experts.
6 The Studios of Farmer’s Broadcasting Station, 2 FC, have been equipped for the past
eighteen months with Beale Pianos, in horizontals, uprights and players.
7 Leading musicians of the State Lindiey Evans, Andre Skalski, E. Bennett North,
Frank Hutchens, Henry Penn, G.Vern Barnett—perform on or own New Beales. And—
-8 Her Majesty Queen Mary purchased at Wembley Exhibition a Beale piano for
Buckingham Palace. In a letter to the London representative of Beale & Company,
the Queen’s Treasurer stated : "Her Majesty is much pleased with the tone of the in-
strument, and greatly admires the workmanship of the beautiful case.”
What is it gives leadership to the New Beale ? Why has it sold itself to this long line of
critical buyers—unhampered by money considerations and unlimited in extent of choice ?
It is the amazing "singing” tone of the New Beale—the rich, liquid, satisfying tone.
Come in and play one of these instruments yourself in complete privacy.
"Let the New Beale sing to you.”
d
Encasements in oak, rosewood, mahogany,
walnut Special rare timbers, such as syca-
more and satinwood, to order.
Sold on a liberal extended payment plan.
Used pianos taken in part payment.
s Descriptive literature post free on request.
ď
COMPANY
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros,*
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd. Perth, and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street(opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane,T oowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairn*.


Cuticura
Heals Irritating Rashes
Don’t suffer with itching, burning
rashes, eczemas or irritations when
Cuticura Soap and Ointment will
quickly relieve and heal. Bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water, dry
and anoint with Cuticura Ointment.
Nothing quicker or safer than Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment for all
skin troubles.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
.HHT* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Supreme
where quality
counts . *
THEPERppf^IsCIL
v
L. & C. HARDTMUTH,
London, England.
Agent i f, StACtxiiroALrj, G.P.o. 16/>. SYliney.
One
Bismi
ouHastx
„50 , „
Brooms
Broom sweeping merely
scatters dust and dirt to settle
back on curtains, furniture, etc.
besides being injurious to fine
carpets. Bissell’s carpet sweep-
er banishes forever the dust
clouds and stooping-, the tired backand
weary arms of old fashioned broom
sweeping and besides, saves rugs,
brooms, time, money for an average
life of 10 to 15 years—often longer.
A Bissell carpet sweeper brightens
a carpet while it cleans it. The pure
selected bristles in the Bissell brush
comb deep into the nap of carpet and
rug, lifting up dust and dirt into the
closed dust pans for easy emptying.
“Cyco” Ball Bearings, an exclusive
Bissell feature, four sets of bearings
specially mounted, one set for each
wheel where they are needed and do
the most good, make the sweeper run
easier, last longer, sweep better.
Little Bissells for little girls at tri-
fling cost make delightful gifts and
happy children. Sold by leading mer-
chants everywhere. Write for booklet
BISSELL
CARPET SWEEPER CO.. GRANO RAPIDS. MICH.. U. S. A.
Carpet Sweepers
©6O-S
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOOROGK 511“ LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BETTER HEALTH.
To keep yourself in good health,
stimulate digestion and promote a
regular habit of the bowels, thus
strengthening you against disease, take
Chamberlain’s Tablets. There is no
preparation which will assist you to
keep in better health than these Tablets.
There*s a Smile in every Tablet.**
50J/ears
of smooth
runnk
u
have
made
the
SWAN
POUNTPENS
Size 1
Self-f'Uina
••SWAN ”
17/6
f
Self.filling “SWANS” from 17/6.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
133/5 Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Managing Agents: Phipson & Company, Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
dfd
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
THE P.
m
POST FREE
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Hills.
Take me to the hills again,
Back where I belong ;
Let me hear the wind’s refrain
And the river’s song,
Hear the runnels in the rain
When the nights are long;
Dream by morning waters cool,
Fringed with green morasses,
Swaying reed and amber pool
When October passes
Golden-eyed and beautiful
Through the feathery grasses.
Not for me the blue allure
Of the wide sea-lanes,
Creaming reef or shingled shore,
White steeds-’ flying manes;
Where I left my heart of yore
Still my heart remains.
Not for me the jostling whirl,
Cold and careless faces,
Where the dusty breezes swirl
Round the market places;
Better far the glens of pearl
That the cloud embraces.
1 could never watch the rose,
lade and jasper render
Radiance to the evening’s close
Veiled with purples tender
With the houses, rows on rows.
Shutting out the splendor.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Chanty of the Outward Bound.
It’s rouse all hands —oh, growl and go !
Now lift her, Johnnie, lift her!
'The anchor grips the mud below,
So man your bars and lift her.
Tramp round the capstan, bust and blow,
Sing “Outward Bound” and lift her.
We dropped our pay in Sydney town —
Now lift her, Johnnie, lift her!
"It’s “Jack, get up; let John sit down,”
So lay along, and lift her.
To girls and grog, to glass and gown,
Oh, fare ye well and lift her.
The tugboat ranges right ahead—
Now lift her, Johnnie, lift her!
A long, strong shove should shift the dead ;
Heave, boys, and break or lift her.
Oh, walk her round —she leaves her bed ;
Away to Rio, lift her.
The breeze blows brisk from off the land —
Now lift her, Johnnie, lift her!
“Make all plain sail,” the sharp command;
Oh, stretch each leech and lift her!
Oood tops’l halliards sailor-manned
With “Sally Brown” to lift her.
The gear coiled down, the watches set
Now lift her, Johnnie, lift her!
With old Cape Stiff to weather yet,
To England’s shores we’ll shift her.
Though southern seas are salt and wet,
We’re bound to go—so lift her!
There are in London many maids —
Now lift her, Johnnie, lift her!
God send us soon the sou’east trades,
For rolling home they’ll lift her.
Tail on our towrope, all ye jades,
Hey, haul away, and lift her!
TASMANIA.
J. E. PHILP.
The Wheat.
I was a weed in Egypt’s sands when
Thames ran into Rhine ;
They found me and I fed them well, as tie ’,
built King Cheops’ shrine;
Assyrian swords and Hittite bows, that
lusted ever for blood,
Were gripped by hands that drew their
strength from the wheat by Tigris’ flood.
Athens, the prodigy of Time, the blue
iEgean’s bride,
Set up her temples magnificent by cool
Ilissus’ side.
She hardened her beautiful, careless heart
so long as the wheat came forth,
By Hellespont and Bosphorus, from the dis-
tant fertile North.
But she humbled herself, and her heart grew
faint, and her stolen beauties paled,
When Sparta smashed her battle-fleet and
the northern wheat-stream failed.
Then Rome was queen of the Mid-Sea
world ; her emperor was a god—
The roaring lions awaited the fool who
dared his lightest nod.
For the fields of Carthage and Sicily and
faithful Egypt still
Sent tribute of wheat 'that the Roman mob
might have its unpaid fill.
But the god that had no wheat to give soon
lost divine estate;
And he was one of the myriad dead to whom
I have been Fate.
The cities are rank in wealth and pride, with
vice and beauty filled,
But I am the broad foundation-stone on
which the cities build.
Your thoughts may range to the farthest
star, but remember the plough and the
earth;
For I am no children’s toy for play—l am
your life and birth !
lam the milk from the breast of earth, to
feed her clustering sons;
For me they barter their brightest silks and
forge their greatest guns;
For me they weave their railway webs and
launch their lordly ships,
Making themselves my faithful slaves, my
name upon their lips;
And whispered in wire and the cable’s core
and air-borne o’er the sea.
Flashes the joy of the growing wheat when
all is well with me.
The cities are great and wonderful, with
their luxury and guilt,
But I am the firm foundation-stone on which
the cities are built.
N.S.VV.
K. G. HEINDEBSON.


&
/
m
m i
1 H '
I
J «fS
a n
n
sir i /
■
i
* --<■- §g£|||g#
I
rr
.j
bbbb
\ e
BHflHfl
mm
. ■ 4
m>
*/A . 3
w
i
«
■
:::•••■•:*
, 1 .
m ■eJHI
Ji
: '• .
■■■
1
' :i : :-;:j: :i; : .
■
mm
xmmmS
HH
.. ■..••■ ■•■■.■••■■ : ■"... ‘" . V.;. ' ..’ V ■•;
. . ,:■' ■ : ■' /." !■ ■: ■■ ■ ■ . ■
;V. r
msm
* *
■
HH
m
«
mm
H mm
m
,
msm
mmmmm ggs
.
r
P*P|S§
aSBBSsm
X, I
- ■' ■mm
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
#


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2435.
October 14, 192t>.
THE FISHERMEN.
“The Commonwealth Government will shortly float a six-million loan”.... “The underwriters were left with 84 per cent, of the N.S.YV. Loan,”
FEDERAL FISHERMAN PAGE: “My word, that’s nice fish you’ve caught! My luck ought to be in.”
STATE FISHERMAN LANG: “Caught be blowed! All I hooked wouldn’t feed a cat. I had to BUY these,”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPEft
“Australia, fbi- tile AVliite Mali.”
PHntfed and published by William MiCLfeob; of
Miisgtave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiik
Bulletin Newspaper 00;, Ltd., at the Office of thb
L'O;; 214 George Stlebt ; Sydney, N;8;W„ Australia.
MELBotiiiNE Office : 154-162 Flinders Street;
London Office: NO; i Wardour Street (neat Lieefi-
tiilty Circus), W:i ;
i’t'Bl.iSHKb OftCE A WEbK:
tim i/.s: to stnisciiiTititis
(ih Advance only).
frosted to any Address in AustkalasU, weekly:
12 months, HI 1,5.; 6 months, i2s. (id.; 3 (months, IS.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 (months, £1 lOs.; 6
nlonths, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs-,
(Cheques, drafts, eta, which should he crossed, and
all Business CbmaiUnications to he ■ addressed to the
M Unuget'i
Special Jfotict;
All Correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 11. 8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable lo be
refused.
The contents of this paper are Copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully rend and, where, praeti'c-
dble, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing With Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, salj,
3(100 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible fof the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hlack and AVliite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical, drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e.. any picture
which has to be. re-drawn —will be paid for as \a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying lo M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin’s" representative in Condon is
T>. St. C. Gromlona. So. t Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
llillill— Cil " Be obtained from him or
fJi^^B^ok^tall^jn^jilieAlainllalliit^Anstralia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 15-
IV Farringdon Street, London, E.Cand IF. Dam-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C,Ip; E. T. Hole., Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, .'its Elect Street, London. E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander.” j,1! r 17 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1 V.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House , Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley . and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth, and Co., Tit Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C,
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J,2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West .'list Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70!, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, Neiv Orleans. La. : The Wide World News Stand,
5!,1i South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Pcdder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China.—Brewer and Co., 31. Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — lt. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.If.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: ! t oz. to ltloz., lid.; each
additional !,oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., Ud,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: !,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
-ZSTi^zdZeivn.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1926.
WHY IS UNCLE SAM PROSPEROUS?
A nation's prosperity, like an individual’s
happiness, is seldom a matter for immediate
confession. Full consciousness of past
blessedness comes later, when the times grow
evil. Like the bread and jam in Alice’s
Wonderland, it's a matter of yesterday or
of to-morrow—hardly ever of to-day. But
the great American Republic has been strug-
gling ever since 1919 with-the conviction that
every day and in every way it is getting
better and better, and during the present
year the conviction seems to have over-
whelmed even the bankers —and when a
banker says times are good, money plenti-
ful and enterprise the watchword, one has
lo believe him.
* * * *
Naturally, since they are of an inquiring
turn of mind and full of admiration for
themselves, the people of the United States
are getting a lot of pleasure out of explain-
ing why they are so prosperous and happy.
On the material side here nr - some of their
reasons —perhaps they are merely symptoms
and not red,sons, but iiu matter. The United
States, accommodating 7 per cent, of the
wofld's population On its tertitoi-ies. Owns
almost exactly half tile world's visible, gold
supply; It ptoduces 40 per cent, of the
world’s. COal. 1)0 per cent, of its Steel, 30 per
cent. Of its copper. 25 per cent. Of its wheat;
and. 70 Per cent, of its petroleiim. The total
national income the last time ii: was assessed
—three years ago—was 70,000 million ddl-
iars. Among the sources of livelihood hiami-
factures headed the list with 23,800 million
dollars about 34 per cent. Agriculture and
the like came seebnd with 13.5 per cent;
Part of the inebriie was frdm abfOad—sooo
million dollars came in for exports ldst year;
l>ut Uncle Sam's people dpn’t fegafd them-
selves as big exporters. They send abroad
only 8 per .cfeht. of their manufactured and
17 per cent. Of their fa rip stuff. Tlie rest
is consumed at home. But they are not
fools enough to think foreign trade doesn't
matter. One of their high panjandrums said
recently that, though it was small in pro-
portion tij tlie domestic , total, it was mighty
important; He had noted that trade cycles
and other such movements don’t synchronise
all the world over. The big post-war slump
fbr example, was first felt in Japan, and
Swept through the trading world, hitting
hardest those communities that Were in the
habit of discounting their bills earliest, so
to speak. In a very big business i pef cent;
—even one-third of one per cent. —may mean
all the difference between a dividend and h
change Of management, xind because the
to reign market, made up of heathen in their
blindness, staunch buyers of wood and stone,
may be going strong when the working lad
at home is-, tailing a hole in liis belt, it lmS
to be cultivated by any manufacturing
nation.
But you can’t cultivate a manufacturing
export business oi* any other soft of busi-
ness to any great extent unless your heart
is in it. Herbert Hoover, Who wasf one of
those who felt called upon to explain Ameri-
can prosperity lately, poured about 24
columns into the ear of an interviewer. Only
one remark sticks: “We are willing to
work.’ Andrew W. Mellon, the ice-cold
little man who looks sourly at the Federal
finances, but—probably because he is so
wealthy that he can afford to be honest—
administers them as if every cent lost to
the Treasury came out of his own pocket,
doesn't believe very hard in anything. He
is a confirmed financier. He was asked to
explain why his country was so prosperous,
and the first thing he said was that the
standard of “real wages” was higher than it
had been in any previous period of Ameri-
oan history. Andrew Mellon reckoned
that they had to thank a sound banking
system, the maintenance of a steady price-
level, a tariff that ‘‘protected manufacturers
in the development of their business, so that
by reaching quantity-production they have
been able to pay high wages and at tlie same
time, manufacture cheaply,” and an “immi-
gration policy that prevented a too-'
rapid influx of a new population and
restrained the further dilution of the quality
ot our citizenship.” It all could be put into
plainer English, no doubt. America has mag-
nificent natural resources, and complete free-
dom of interchange, of commodities between
the communities of half a continent. In
addition, it stayed out of a war across the
Atlantic until it had more than defrayed the
cost of its subsequent participation, 'if any
proof of that is needed it may be found in
the fact that, whereas every other party to
the scrap owed more than was owed to it
(or reasonably recoverable) at the finish,
the United States emerged as the world’s
great creditor nation.
* -X- *
But even so, the prosperity of America
can t be held to rest entirely oh either a geo-
graphical or a political basis. Right down
at bottom, American material success rests
on pride. And it isn’t even pride of race.
It is the pride of people who have a fine
country, who are glad to live in it, and who
have learned that their material welfare
depends almost entirely upon their own
exertions. The harder they work, the more
they earn. If they don’t care to work, then
they can get as near starving as any civilised
State - will allow. “Hoot, hog or die!” is
probably the most characteristic of Ameri-
can idioms. In the last five years the out-
put of the 22 leading American industries
increased by 34 per cent, per man employed
—not in value, but in actual volume. The
idea of buying in the cheapest market and
selling in the dearest, still cherished in
Britain by too many captains of industry,
has been modified in America by the
influence of Henry Ford. Henry, if
he did nothing else, should go down
m history as the man who not only
noted that the wage-earner was a purchaser
of manufactures, but based his whole busi-
ness policy on the fact that the w r agc-earners
have more purchasing power than all the
millionaires and billionaires that ever were
created. In the United States, judging
by results, and by the very large pro-
portion of the population who can afford
petrol, the atmosphere is conducive to doing
a lot of work for a lot of wages. In Aus-
tralia, which has too many importers and too
few manufacturers, and which is too prone
to count its misfortunes instead of its bless-
ings. the atmosphere started like that, but
has been contaminated. The wicked notion
that only slaves work has had something
to do with it.
FEEBLE FEDERAL FINANCE.
A v\ estkalian legislator who knows his
Stale from Wyndham to Esperance told The
Bulletin recently that in all his experience,
" hich goes back 40 years, he had never seen
it more solidly prosperous than it is to-day.
Similar reports have been brought from west
to east by Donald Mackinnon, sometime
Vic. Attorney-General and Minister of Rail-
ways, and others with nothing to gain by
laying on the colors too thick. While the
gold output is declining (as it is everywhere
else), and Mitchell's group settlements are
no longer talked of in the extravagant lan-
guage used by their founder, there has been
a striking increase in the area under wheat,
the yield of which this year will be pretty
close to South Australia’s, which a few
years ago was two or three times as great.
The Sheep industry has also witnessed note-
worthy developments, not only in the quan-
tity and quality of wool shorn (the value of
the elifl has doubled in a few years), but in
tile extension of settlement tct vast Legions
which hSed to be fegafded its woftll-
less. Manufactures likewise show a distinct
advance, the dumber, Of factories having
grown from 817 In iiJi9-20 tb HBB iii 1024-
25, .the number Of, hands employed ffoni
15,409 to 21,758, and the. value Of the Output
from £8,723,928 to . £13.928,782.,, Add this
improvement would havfe Been Still mOre Sub-
stantial but for tlie stupid prejudice against
local produce which lingers, rribre persistently
here than in OthCr parts Of tlife Commbriivealth:
Other signs that tilings afp liOt going badly
are a plan for building a £500,000 theatre iri
Perth,. the sale of a . newspaper enterprise
tb Melbourne and London people for. Upwards
of three times the figure at which it was
valued by a Supreme Cdurt arbitrator. hot
long, before the war, and tlib interest which
N. S. Wales ironmasters Ere .taking iii .West-
ralian metals—the Broken Hill Prop, in the
irianganesC deposits, of, the MurchisPn .and
the Hoskins firm iii West Kimberley iroii
Ore.
♦
These arresting fiictss make honsense of
the cry tliat Westralia is being strangled by
the Federal octopus. Nevertheless .the cry
is kept up, especially by the queer Forqign-
traders Whom the State sends to the Com-
monwealth Parliament, and the. Lruce-
Pages havC. been so mdved by it—or sO
scared by the fempty threats of a handful
of secessionists—that they make liuge grants
to the State Government in addition to what
it gets iindef the 191(1 financial agreement;
And it is not entitled tb a, penny from that
source, ,fot the agreement legally expired ip
1920; although, the payments have been fool-
ishly continued by successive Cbmmtfnwealth
Governments instead of being applied tb the 1
redemption of State debts. If Federal Ti-ea-
Siiref Page reads Btate Treasurer Collier’s
Budget speech lie will realise (unless he is
hopelessly obtuse) how his leg has been
pulled. According to the Labor Premier, tilings
are so good in the West that last year the Gov-
ernment knocked off the 15 p.c. super-tqx
which the Mitchell Government imposed in
1921. They will be so much better this year
that there will be a surplus Of fiO.OOO or
£ll,OOO after _ provision of the usual sub-
stantial Contribution to the sinking fund,
which has reached £11,000,000; Last
year, on top of the £500,000 of sO of
ordinary Fedefal subsidy, Mr. Collier got
a “disabilities” grant of £353.000, and did
not use a penny of it. This yeaf £202,000
has been promised, and it is expected that
£200,000 or so will be forthcoming annually
while the Bruce-Page leg is there to be
pulled. Of the 1925-26 grant £200,000 is to
go towards debt extinction; the balance;
with about £13,000 added from the Govern-
ment’s own resources, is to be spent in assist-
ing the mining industry. The 1920-27
grant and those to come will pfovide the
wherewithal for a one-third cut in the State
income-tax, “which will represent a saving
to the taxpayers” (who will be churls if
they don’t remember it on election-day) “of
£200.000 per annum,” From the Westralian
Point of view this is a beautiful arrange-
ment, no doubt. But the beauty of it will
be lost on people in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, whose Federal tax-money is being
drawn on to finance the 33| per cent, reduc-
tion in the Westralian impost, already much
lighter on the whole than theirs, and who
have no chance of getting a similar (or, in-
deed, any) reduction from their own State
Governments, by Federal action or other-
wise.
* * * *
And "disabilities" grants are only part of
the story. Westralia stands to get £384,000
p.a. for 10 years from the insensate Federal
roads scheme into which the Bruce-Pages
rushed with their heads down, though road
construction and maintenance is prescrip-
tively a State matter. The roads tomfoolery
is being tested in the High Court by the
three States which are standing out, and
will probably be declared unconstitutional,
tor Section 99 says, “The Commonwealth
shall not, by any law or regulation of trade
or commerce, give preference to one State or
any part thereof over another State or any
part thereof.” (For that matter, it is ques-
tionable whether Federal “disabilities”
grants may lawfully be expended in State
tax-reduction schemes.) However, the pro-
ceedings will be protracted, and meantime
Federal road money is pouring into the
Westralian Treasury. Collier must grin
when he thinks what the simple-minded and
free-handed Bruce-Pages are doing to win
Ins election for him. The Commonwealth
is giving the States about £8.000,000 a year
(it grows with the population) to which
they have no right whatever, their title liav-
expii-ed over six years ago. With that
±8,000,000 p.a. to bargain with (it amounts
to a third of the States’ tax-revenues and a
fourth of their debt charges) a fearless Com-
monwealth Treasurer could do a lot of
things. Pie could say straightout that the
money would hereafter be available for the
taking over of State debts on suitable terms
and conditions, but for no other purpose
whatever. He could force N. S. Wales to join
the Loan Council, impose a new conscience
.(it ought to be an instrument
of debt-reduction instead of debt-expansion),
put an end to the duplication of taxes and
taxation departments (he would, of course,
retain the income-tax for the Common-
wealth), and arrange to Federalise 50 p.c.
of the State debts at once and the balance
as opportunity offered—for his sinking fund
he would be able to draw on Commonwealth
Bank and note-issue profits. It is a job
that a George Turner would relish. If it
i* too big for Earle Page that gentleman
should retire to his surgery and let a more
resolute Treasurer tackle it.
THE HOUSE AS I SAW IT.
[Dr. W. A. CitappTjE, tli<' writer of this article,
is a Maori hinder, born in Otago, who, after a bril-
liant, University career and early professional life
in Wellington, went to Europe and was M.P. for
Stirlingshire (1910-18) and for Dumfries (1922-24).
lie has written largely, especially on the subject of
physical fitness and development.]
An American from Way back returned to his
constituency after his first session in Con-
gress. In reply to the question “What is it
like tb' be there?” he said; “When 1 flttt
looked round the chflmber arid thought tridt
the voices of all our great ijtdtfe’smriri Jfftd
resounded through those halls 1 tVyridrifed
how the devil / got there. Later on, wrieb
t heard tile other members talk, I wondered
bow tlii; devil they got there.” The first
feeling in the Hdrise Of Goriiindns is due of
littleness lit the presence Of anti<iiiitsq arid
bf reverence in the-preSe'rice Of associations
hallbwed by Statesnieii whose, rianiCs bail
nevbr die; Then, With dxpefib'ncfe', bve.fW-
thing becbnieS commonplace, rind yoii reftlish
that the prevailing ability and character Of
tiie membefs are scarcely abbve the average
to be foiind in the Parliaffients with vvhicli
the people Of Australia and Maori laud ate
riiore familiar.
.. When a “colonial” tit the; periphery Of the
Empire,thinks of British literature, ShAkS-
peare, ThaOkeray and George Eliot cbnie
tb his blind, and lie tends to think them
typical. Thet are not—they tire atypical.
They are the mOuntain-peaks. The Vast
multitude, ate the plains below, no higlief
than the level in the far dominions overseas;
Sd it .is in politics. The feW we think of
are the. inbuntriin-tops Asqulth, Glad-
stone, Dlsraell. The multitude are . juSt
trie average politicians to be met with in
any . Parliamentary lobby in the British
Dominions. .......
Still, With ri House of 615 members, the
“hits” ill brato’ry.arid wit efinnbt well help
being frequent; The prevailing temper Of
the House is admirable, and the utmost good
humor is maintained except On very rftre
occasions. Hearty and spontaneous laughter
is always near the surface, even in debates
bn the topics.. Most of the laughter,
however,, is not pfovoked by wit rind hmrioT;
but bjr flifoll. sittiatibns ,<jf by meii wild aft
being laughed at, nest with. Witty, lrienibefs
never failed tb ,catch Mr. Speaker’s ,eye
wheii Lo.wther held the honbfable office:
Hilaire Belloc was One of these: SpencLr
Leigh Hughes .Was another;
, -Jack JOnE;S is Labor member , for ft Pbri-
don East End constituency He lias a strirti,
almost forbidding look, Which .lie hdvbi-
varies; He posies as a punster, but rarely
gets Off anything worth recording. But. life
chips jn persistently, especially if a lord is
bn his feet. Lbrd Curzon is bis pet avefsioii:
JaCk wits interjecting vigorously One day,
and getting sdrne, for himself in return; The
nobleman has a iong, narrow, fiat face, with
ft square chin and a, flat-tdpped foteiiead,
that Would fit well into a prirallelograrii.
JaCk’s last retort Was, “Weil, I haven’t got
a face like a tram-ticket, anyway!” To which
iny Lord Replied like a shot, “No, lucky for
you—you. might get it punched!”-— a fair
sample of the best sort ■of thing the House
of Commons has to laugh at:
. Ever since, the break-up of tile first Coali-
tion during the early stages of the Great Wai%
when Lloyd George became Prime Minister
and Asquith was relegated to the cold
shades from which lie has not since
emerged, Liberal leaders of all dimensions
have been developing liighly-sensitive corns
upon their sense of humor. Quarrel succeeds
quarrel, and personal antipathies cannot be
suppressed nor disguised. Sir Alfred MonU
is the latest of the Liberals to exhibit
the number and the hypersensitiveness of
bis nerve-endings. Sir Alfred suddenly
announces big abandonment of the Liberal
party to its chaotic fate and his lodgment
in the Tory ranks. His erstwhile colleague
and fast friend Lloyd George, mindful of
Mono's race and his strong facial conforma-
tion. observes that, like, a notorious member
of that ancient people, “he has gone to his
own place” (Acts i. 25). Now Sir Alfred
hits back, and, standing before a meeting of
big new Tory friends, his shining brow
extending backwards to the little band of
curly hair that unites his oars behind, be
tells of liis superhuman efforts to drag
Asquith and Lloyd George together,
"almost by the hair of the head,” in order
to get them to shake hands. Mond is the
victim of much caustic wit. But iris success
and striking prominence in public life are
due entirely to his great natural ability and
bis patriotic fervor notwithstanding his
exceedingly Hebraic appearance and accent.
. Monies great specialty is Freetrade. He
is a master of the subject, and none in the
House can deal with it so effectively. When-
ever Tariff Reform is the subject of debate
in the House Mono is bound to be starred
for the occasion, to the annoyance and the
discomfiture of the Tories, with whom he is
really no favorite. On one occasion during
a full-dress debate, when he was in full cry,
he had reached an effective part of his speech.
‘I will tell you now,” he said, “de brice of
wheat in New York; I will tell you de brice
of wheat in London, and” when Lord
Winterton, sitting opposite, with his elbows
on his knees and his chin in his hands, cut
in, “Oh, tell us de brice of mules in Jeru-
salem !”
David Kirkwood, the noisy but honest and
lovable Clydesider, once followed Mond in
the House after the 1 after had made an
effective onslaught on Socialism and the
Labor policy. Addressing Mr. Speaker, and
pointing at the honorable member, who had
just resumed his seat. David said: “Scotch
I ken, and English I ken ; but I find I must
ken another language in this Hoose.” But
the imperturbable Israelite wears his habitual
smile, for he is conscious of his strength,
his knowledge and his effectiveness no less
than of Iris German accent and bis Jewish
race.
The same David Kirkwood, now quite a
character in the House, and loved and
respected for his burning zeal and sterling
honesty, is so natural and unrestrained a son
of the North that he is always interesting
and often the cause of striking scenes and
much merriment. When lie, speaks he mostly
roars, and his long arms, like semaphores in
hysterics, stretch out at. full length in the
direction of any member or party to whom
1m refers, and even to Mr. Speaker, whom
he addresses familiarly, if not. affectionately.
He was at the height of his oratorical display
on one occasion when Lady As tor entered
the Chamber and tripped hurriedly to her
seat on the opposite benches. Lady Astor
has “enough o’ the de’il in her to keep the
de’il not.” —and a little to spare. She delights
in “ragging” the Labor members, and finds
the temptation irresistible when inflammatory
speakers harangue the House from the Labor
quarter. On this occasion she looked more
mischievous even than usual. She adjusted
her dress, squared herself in her seat, and


leaned fortvard with her eye fixed on David.
The whole House took in the situation and
waited expectantly for the first shot. Nor
was David blind to his opportunity and his
danger. He paused, pointed to her with his
long, outstretched arm, and, addressing Mr.
Speaker, said with his big, broad face full of
mischief: “If yon wumman’s gaun to eeritate
me, I hope you’ll protect me.” The turning
of attention to “yon wumman” made Davey
master of the situation, while the House
uproariously enjoyed itself.
W. A. CHAPPLE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Phantom Riches.
The Federal customs and excise returns
for the quarter just closed were £10,891,817,
so if- the pace is maintained the year’s tariff
revenue will be £43,567,268. That will mean
an increase of about £4,360,000 on last
year’s takings, and there should be enough
surplus to build a substantial instalment
of the South-to-North railway. The surplus
Avill be only paper or “rag” money, it is
true, of no use in meeting bills in London
or New York, but as good as gold for build-
ing an Australian railway, provided all the
material is made here, so as to furnish
employment and wages for Australian work-
men. Afterwards the paper railway may
develop another Kalgoorlie in the trackless
innards of the continent, or may otherwise
earn hard money with which to meet foreign
debts. The tariff revenue is generally about
seven-ninths customs (tax on foreign gobds)
and two-ninths excise (tax on locally-made
goods). The Freetrade, importing, anti-
Australian-manufacture person makes a great
song about two assertions. One.is that the
Federal Treasurer extracts from the people
more revenue than he requires; but unfor-
tunately he is always raising new loans
abroad, so apparently he doesn’t raise enough
revenue, or it is too exclusively in the phan-
tom currency that no outsider will accept
in payment. The other charge is that he
invariably collects more customs revenue
than he reckoned on when he manufactured
his budget. This is largely because he never
knows in advance exactly how big a fool
the community will be this time in the way
of discouraging its own industries. A fool
who is liable to import to the value of 99
millions one year, 164 the next, and 103 the
year after, is difficult to forecast. One thing
certain is that, going by the value of imports,
Australia has been a much bigger fool
during the last six years than in any previous
six. Unless something strenuous is done
about the matter in a voluntary way there is
likely to be a sudden, violent and involuntary
reduction through sheer lack of funds (our
own or borrowed) to keep up the pace. Then
the Treasurer will find his receipts of paper
customs revenue below expectations instead
of above, and the aspect of affairs will
change. The causes of inflated importations
(to be paid for in gold or gold value) and
inflated customs revenue (received in paper)
are various. One is the employment on often
wretchedly unprofitable public works of men
who ought to be in factories, making goods
Avliich are now imported. The public-works
trick is, however, played because it puts
patronage in the hands of shady patrons and
enables politicians to buy stupid voters. An-
other cause is the enthusiastic shoving “on
the land” of persons who are quite unfit for
that kind of adventure, and would be better
employed in factories making goods which
are now imported. The land-settlement trick
also puts the spending of much loan money
into dubious hands and makes room for much
boodling. Other matters which help towards
limited local production, bloated imports and
bloated customs receipts include strikes,
“dargs,” go-slow movements, 36-hour move-
ments, schemes for “the nationalisation of
the means of production, distribution and
exchange,” and revolutionary devices in
general. The importer’s invariable prescrip-
tion for allegedly superfluous tariff revenue
is to reduce customs duties, so that the
country will import more. If there really is
superfluous tariff revenue, a better way would
be to reduce excise duties, so that the country
will have a chance to manufacture more.
Then it might sell Avhisky abroad instead
of buying whisky abroad —not that whisky
is a specially desirable substance to either
sell or buy.
4
The Upper House Spectre Once More.
The dully and doggedly persistent N.S.W.
Premier has declared Avar on the Upper
House again, and if he does it often enough
he may yet carry his point. He knows what
he wants, which is plain and definite demoli-
tion. The other side wants reform, but it has
no definite reform on its programme, and the
dozen or more devices which unimportant
members have written out and sent to the
press haven’t shown a scrap of brilliance
among them. The Labor or Communist idea
is one House, the candidates nominated by
the party machine, the winners returned by
90 gerrymandered constituencies, and the
vote faked if advisable. The party says that
the nominee system is undemocratic, stupid
and dead; and, though Labor invented the
trick of putting nominees in the Assembly,
which was formerly clear of them, the state-
ment is true. Nominee Chambers are an
anomaly, whether the members are nomi-
nated for their own lives and the lives of a
line of eldest sons till the family dies out
or for their own lives only; or nominated
for a term of years, generally with a chance
of renewal; or whether the systems are
mixed. It isn’t worth while fighting to
preserve the nominee foolishness in any
shape or form, for it is doomed in demo-
cratic Australia, and if it doesn’t go one
day it will another. An elected House
based on a property qualification is not
quite so bad if the qualification is low, but
it is anomalous and undemocratic also. No
party can get a new lease by advocating
either nomineeism or property franchise.
There remains, then, the method of an
elective Top Chamber, chosen by the people
Amting as one constituency. This sort of
Second Chamber would represent the people
even more equitably than any customary
variety of Lower House could, for the prin-
ciple of One Vote One Value would remain
HO matter how population shifted
from town to town or from country to city.
It might also represent them better, for the
further reason that where there is only one
electorate its boundaries can’t be gerry-
mandered. The proposed Upper House
would, in addition, reflect public opinion at
a different angle from the Lower concern,
because no member would be chosen to re-
present one particular limited collection of
public works or public swindles. Both in
Australia and the United States the States
appoint their Federal Senators on these lines,
and because of the One Vote One Value the
method should apply even better in State
than in Federal affairs. It would probably
be advisable, and it is certainly customary,
to give the Council a longer term than its
neighbor downstairs —say by the whole
Assembly and half the Council retiring every
three years. This lends a pleasing variety to
the proceedings, and to a community which
has been accustomed to have its M’s. L.C.
for life a six-years’ tenure isn’t long. These
points are recited in the hope that the
badly-compacted parties of Bavin (“Nat.”)
and Buttensiiaw (“Prog.”) may see the
urgent necessity to decide on a definite
1 Tpper House policy and have it on hand.
N. S. Wales is tired of the present Top
Institution, and if the party of reform has
nothing ready to offer, the party of pure
destruction has so much the better chance.
It may get the support of people who would
much prefer a sane and coherent alternative
if there was any on the market.
4
N.S.W. Finance.
The situation of the experimental Ministry
of N. S. Wales grows worse every time.
Good news, with it, seems as extinct as the
dodo, not to mention the labyrinthodon
pachynathus. It had a resounding deficit at
June, 1925, though it blamed that on its
predecessors. It had a festive deficit at
June, 1926, both a railway deficit and a
shortage on general account. It has been
accumulating shortage at the rate of six
millions per annum since June, 1926. The
£4,000,000 lately borrowed in London was
insufficient (or will be insufficient when the
funds come in) to meet bank overdrafts
there, and more loan will be wanted very
soon. The London underwriters had to per-
sonally take up £3,360,000 of the late
£4,000,000 borrow, because the lending
public didn’t respond to any extent. Said
underwriters don’t want to see even a foot-
print of Lang till they have sold their over-
burden to private investors, and so far there
is no chance to dispose of much except at
a loss, which they naturally don’t care to
face. As loan money is being spent at the
rate of some £12,000,000 per annum, the
chances are that Lang will want the under-
writing people long before they want Lang.
Whether New York financiers would help
is very doubtful unless they got the Com-
monwealth guarantee, and Lang doesn’t
speak to the Commonwealth on financial
matters. Even if he was speaking it would
be impossible for the Federal Treasurer to
find all the money wanted, by such a crowd
without the other five States throwing dead
cattle at him. It is a hole, and a most
unholy hole. If N. S. Wales were outside
the Commonwealth it might print a few
tons of paper money to meet local require-
ments, though that would only make tilings
worse in a very short time. Frankly, The
Bulletin doesn’t know what Lang can do
about it. There is no precedent for a Trea-
surer bolting surreptitiously from his
troubles under the name of Smith, and seek-
ing surcease from soitoav on a sea-girt isle.
In any case, no one can bolt far without a
passport.
♦
How Opium Gets In.
“C. Coral” : The fast launch described by
a recent Bulletin writer as having got
away with a nice parcel of opium thrown
over by a southern-bound boat off the
Queensland coast belongs to a smart dope-
running syndicate whose members pride
themselves on having a craft that will out-
distance anything the Customs people can
put on their trail. One of the “firm” was
Adsiting recently a far-northern seaport
where a considerable quantity of opium is
said to come in, and was quite open in
explaining his methods. The possession of
the racing launch is depended on to ensure
success; and the Customs officials know it is
almost useless to try to do anything until
they are provided with a swifter craft. But
there are also plenty of other ways of
getting opium through. When I was travel-
ling south last a respectable-looking gentle-
man, with his arms full of parcels, asked
whether I would mind assisting him down
the gangway at one of the intermediate ports ;
the innocent-looking parcel of books which I
held for him turned out later to be more
valuable than priced on the cover. All kinds
of dodges are worked. One success some
time back was effected by a man avlio wired
secret information to the next port advising
that cabin number so-and-so be carefully
searched, and while the officials were concen-
trating on that point, to the indignation of
the innocent victim, the informant was able
to put through a nice little cargo of the
stuff. A more ambitious scheme was worked
by a couple of visitors to Thursday Island
avlio came up ostensibly to go in for pearl-
ing, and, having purchased a lugger, anchored
it off the jetty in the usual place, their going
to and fro each day for a few weeks causing
no comment. Then a big steamer came in
from “the East,” and a few days later the
pearl-seekers announced that they’d changed
their mind, as shelling Avas rather more of a
risk than they had thought, and the tAvo
departed south. It came out later that they’d
cleaned up nicely on the transaction. The
stuff was passed over to them from the
steamer anchored alongside, and they (not
being overseas travellers themselves) were
able to get through the Customs Avithout the
usual luggage-searching formalities. There
Avas also a lady traveller who journeyed
frequently on the Eastern-Australia route
who invariably took a stroll ashore at each
port accompanied by a fluffy little dog; the
pup did the “passing” in this case. Another
fair adventurer found that a basket of “saud-
Aviclies” to take ashore for a little picnic
provided quit* good camouflage. Ornately-
trimmed hats used to be of assistance; but
these and billowy skirts have now to give
place to other devices.
What, Is Killing the Beef Trade.
At an Animal Husbandry Conference in
Sydney the other day Dunn, N.S.W. Minis-
ter for Agriculture, gave the assembled
experts, etc., his opinion of how Australia
ought to run her beef industry. His idea
is that, if Australia is going to compete with
the Argentine—-which is sometimes Britain,
and just as often the U.S.A., as far as real
ownership goes “she must follow the
methods of her opponents.” These include
improvement and increase of production,
importation of pure-bred bulls, improvement
of grazing lands, better dressing and killing,
more careful handling of carcases, better con-
ditions of transport, and the arrangement of a
continuous supply of Australian meat to
British markets. Herein the Australian beef-
grower is told nothing that he doesn’t know
and little that he wouldn’t like to do or see.
What the long-suffering individual would
like to know is how Dunn and his party are
going to give him a chance against his com-
petitors overseas. Australian political con-
trol of railways and rail transport, for one
thing, has handicapped the Australian beef
man compared with his American and Argen-
tine competitors. These, using railways
which, even when Government-controlled,
lend an attentive ear to the demands of an
important trade, have had a tremendous
advantage over the “take it or leave it”
system to which Australian stock-owners are
accustomed. Australia's cattle rail-transport
methods have easily been the worst in the
world for years past; and the condition has
been aggravated of late by industrial condi-
tions, which in some States have reduced
railway service to a mixture of farce and
tragedy. On top of the impossibility of
shifting cattle in proper condition, the
tremendous cost has to be reckoned. Add
to that the greatly increased rentals and
taxation imposed on pastoral leases. Queens-
land, Australia’s greatest beef-producing
State, even put a capitation tax on cattle ; and
the increased rentals blocked any extensive
improvement of grazing grounds. As to the
better dressing and handling of carcases and
so on, the less said by Mr. Dunn the better.
He and the party he stands for have been
responsible for the decline in the Austra-
lian beef output because they have loaded
it with outrageous imposts which it is unable
to carry. The unctuous Minister said nothing
of the fact that Argentine labor in cattle-
production and beef-marketing costs less
than one-fifth of the Australian equivalent.
He was also silent on the fact that the
Argentine skinner or dresser or handler who
does a bad job can be sacked without provok-
ing a strike. The Australian worker in the
same position cannot even be criticised with-
out the risk of some union autocrat order-
ing the holding up of a big meat-treatment
concern. Small wonder, in all these circum-
stances, that Australian beef-breeders do not
buy high-class bulls in competition with their
more fortunate British and American breth-
ren of the Argentine. There is little offering
to them from a Government like the one
Dtjnn is, apparently, proud to belong to —
not even a seat on a meat boards
♦—
Comedy and Tragedy at the Stadium.
The Sydney Stadium is controlled by a syn-
dicate headed by John Wren, said to be the
richest man in Australia, and indisputably
the Labor party’s wealthiest patron. It is
the scene of pugilistic spectacles which at
times are spiced Avith comedy; at other times
touched with tragedy. Comedy had its turn
a month or two ago Avlien young Mr.
McKell, Assistant-Treasurer and Minister
for Justice, sparred with the then champion
middleweight in charity’s cause —sparred
“daintily attired in magenta trunks,” one
writer recorded. Tragedy intervened on the
night of September 29, when an 18-year-old
lad named Reginald Morphy was knocked
out in the 15th round of a fight with another
featherweight, and was carried away to a
private hospital, where, after lingering many
hours, he died. Incidentally, there is no
legal limit to the duration of boxing con-
tests in Australia, even in the case of grow-
ing boys, though bouts for the world’s cham-
pionship between mature scrappers like
Dempsey and Tunney are restricted in
America to ten rounds. Perhaps because the
death of an Australian boxer as a result of
injuries received in the ring is ceasing to
have news value, the passing of poor
Morphy received scant mention in the
Sydney papers. The day after he died there
wasn’t a line in some of the dailies —except
in the funeral notices. However, a sport-
ing weekly came out with a report of the
tight and the sequel. Its closing paragraph
is subjoined:—
At a meeting of those interested, it has been
decided to open a subscription list, and stage a
dance at the Stadium for the benefit of the mother
and family. I hope that all will give freely towards
this most deserving case.
The par.' is creditable to the author’s heart,
but it shouldn’t be needful to “open a
subscription list and stage a dance at the
Stadium.” The Labor party recently passed
a Workers’ Compensation Act, which, if it
were as impartial and comprehensive as has
been repeatedly and blatantly alleged, would
have obviated the necessity for jazzing and
sending round the hat. Mr. Badly, who
introduced the measure, boasted that it was
so comprehensive that even caddies would
enjoy its benefits. It includes not only
caddies, but jockeys (who were protected
already), stablebOys, bookmakers’ clerks,
racecourse hands, aviators, motorists and
cyclists employed in “racing, pacemaking, or
reliability or speed trials, or while practising
for such,” and employees of athletic and
sports clubs. Boxers were, however, omitted,
although their calling is as hazardous as
the jockey’s, and they are paid on practically
the same basis—so much an engagement or
a percentage, according to circumstances,
lake jockeys also they are nearly all of the
class which Political Labor claims to repre-
sent ; and probably 90 p.c. of those about
Sydney are working lads (Morphy was a
ease in point) who go into the ring to
supplement their wages. Noticing the omis-
sion, ex-Speaker Simon Hickey, one of tin*
25 Labor Leg. Councillors appointed last
year, moved a sub-clause that would have
repaired it when the measure was going-
through the Second Chamber. He plainly
regarded it as a thing shameful to a Labor
Government that golf clubs, which are not
money-making concerns, should be compelled
to insure boys engaged in quite the. healthiest
form of “work” in the world, while exemp-
tion was granted to boxing promoters like
Labor’s millionaire friend Wren, who for
money-making reasons hire hundreds of
working-class youths for a calling in which
several have been killed and others gravely
hurt in the course of a few years. But
Simon Hickey’s amendment, though sup
ported by a few alleged Tories, was opposed
by the representative of the Government and
defeated. So, another lad having lost liis
life, the collection-box goes round again. In
the affair of tin l unfortunate George Men-
dies, iirominent Labor politicians rattled the
box, and maybe they will have charge of it
on the present occasion. And maybe the
Minister for Justice will attend “the dance
to be staged at the Stadium,” which must
not be called a “dance of death”; but, since
it was a travesty of justice for boxers to
be excluded from the Compensation Act, he
should certainly go in his magenta trunks.
Melbourne’s Mail Building Regulations.
Tiie Victorian Statute Book is full of
examples of the public abhorrence of the
practice of coining blood into cash. Yet
every now and then an unpleasant reminder
is provided that only ceaseless vigilance can
prevent murky happenings that are no credit
to the nation’s humanity. Not long ago a
moving-picture “palace” was burnt down at
a seaside suburb. The fire broke out when
there were only a few mechanics in the
building, but even these barely escaped with
their lives, so rapidly did the structure turn
itself into a furnace. The metropolitan fire
chief, on such occasions the one man in the
community who can make pointed comments
without fear of having to face an action for
libel, said that, had the fire occurred when
the theatre was full, hundreds would have
been burned to death. He also pointed out
that, while the regulations governing build-
ings in the city proper arc reasonably strict,
the unscrupulous entrepreneur may seek out
a more complaisant suburban council and
erect his entertainment hall for city people
where restrictions are mild or non-existent.
Another example is the proposal to erect a
skyscraper in South Melbourne. Melbourne
proper refuses to allow its warrens to rise
more than 130 feet, which permits of a maxi-
mum of a dozen storeys. South Melbourne,
which is only separated from the city proper
by the width of the Yarra, has regulations
governing the thickness of the walls of build-
ings, but none whatever with regard to their
height. Suburban councils are usually hard
up, and their bumbles are apt to be obsessed
with a sense of their own importance ; hence
South Melbourne councillors would doubtless
like to see a replica of Manhattan grow up
to put Melbourne out of countenance. In
the same borough some Melbourne business
men have lately run up a dancing-hall. Its
front is an imitation of the wooden homes
of Holland, plus a windmill; and its interior
is a rococo masterpiece such as only this
jazz epoch could produce. Hither stream
nightly thousands of sheiks and flappers
from the city across Princes Bridge. The
same fire official who made remarks about
the picture-palace is alleged to have
expressed himself on this. The matter is
sub judice, a newspaper which printed a
comment having to face a charge of libel.
But whether there are faults to find with
the structure is not the chief consideration.
The objection is that a city which is a single
unit of congested human ants should have
over a score of warring and jealous authori-
ties to control its fate. When its powers are
so diffused all sorts of things are liable to
happen.
New Guinea’s New Goldfield.
The miners at the New Guinea goldfield on
the Bulolo River are already meeting a
handicap that was one of the sorest troubles
of their predecessors of the Papuan fields
—the desertion of native carriers. Nearly
all the New Guinea fields of the past were
situated, like this one, far from any easy
transport route, such as a navigable river.
New Guinea jungles arc practically devoid
of game on which a white man could hope to
live. Vegetable food takes a long time to
grow, and, in addition, space to grow it in
lias to be hacked out of dense forests. The
Vision and Viewpoint.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“‘I object to the talk of British and Britain,’
said Mr. C. Burrow, president of the Ballarat
branch, at the first annual dinner of the Royal
Society of St. George. ‘Cob ham’s machine was built
in England, and -was flown by Englishmen, yet they
were called and called themselves British. There is
too much “British.” ’ ”
The airman speeds upon eagle’s wings,
And sees through an eagle’s eyes;
And, lo! each stay, a-tlirumming, sings
Of empire wide as the skies:
“From northern mist to southern sun,
The little lands beneath me run;
Outstripping clouds that ride the breeze,
/ stride the little, tossing seas.
The dull, long leagues my engines eat
Till distance is itself defeat,
And brothers thrust a world apart
Are brought together, hand and, heart.”
But never a word of parochial things
He breathes from the burning skies;
For the airman speeds upon eagle’s wings
And sees with an eagle’s eyes.
The' burrowing mole beholds with pride
The height of his labored hills ;
And, lo ! his little eyes grow wide
With wonder that through him thrills:
“In all this realm of wood and! lea,
So vast I can but dimly see
The shadow of its far confine,
No mountains half so huge as mine;
So, what care 1 for kindred moles
Or how they delve in distant holesf —
So great the works I raise on high,
] need no brothers’ aid, not I!”
The world is long and the world is tvide,
And glory about him spills;
But the burrowing mole sees nought beside
The height of his own small hills.
VICTORIA.
MAOESS.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926
AGENTS WANTED .
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney,
it RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE, Manager and Secretary
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane,
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
w r on in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Commonwealth lanl: of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
miner is thus entirely dependent upon food
brought from outside. To supply an indi-
vidual miner is not such a serious matter.
The transport of supplies for his retinue of
native claim-laborers and carriers is a much
tougher problem, for every tin of meat and
pound of rice has to be carried by porters.
When this method of transport breaks down,
for one reason or another, production is at
a standstill, in addition, the miner's ex-
penses are very considerably increased, for
the deserting carrier usually takes his pack
with him, and eats its food contents. Five
and twenty years ago the northern goldfields
in Papua were practically hung up because
of an epidemic of desertion, and many out-
lying claims had to be thrown up. The only
remedies were to gaol an offender on a charge
of stealing, and then bring a civil action
against him for the value of the lost goods.
But gaol is a blessed haven to the Papuan,
and the civil action could only result in an
attachment of his wages, if lie had earned
any. All avenues were ransacked, as they
will be in this case, to find a more reliable
method of transport. One Papuan official
spent a lot of money in cutting a mule track
to a goldfield, only to find, when he had
finished, that there was nothing for the
mules to eat, unless it was imported from
Australia at murderous expense; and even
such a track to the mountain-ringed Bulolo
field would be impracticable. Aeroplane
transport has been suggested, but the cost
for the small loads it would carry would be
out of the question. There can be little
doubt that the native carrier will continue to
be an important factor in the development of
the new field: and there is no doubt, either,
that in this instance, as in those that arc
past, his vagaries will take much of the gilt
off the digger’s gingerbread.
Compulsory Health.
Curious figures are revealed in the com-
parative death-rates of Sydney municipalities'.
Time was when it was regarded as natural
that the highest death-rate should prevail iu
the most densely-populated and, therefore,
most slummy areas; but compulsory eleanli-
uess, sometimes more strictly enforced by
authority amongst the very poor than else-
where, has helped to make a change. Dar-
lington is the most densely-populated Sydney
area, and one of the poorest; with its den-
sity of 87.3 persons per acre, its death-rate
is 7.55 per 1000, which is better than the
7.97 of even outlying Kuring-gai, where
there are seven persons to 10 acres. Erskine-
ville has a death-rate of 9.13, Newtown of
9.78, Rcdfern of 10.71. Their respective
population densities are 58.3, 63.1 and 46.3
per acre; but the crowding would be more
evident if the acreage devoted to factories
(and, in the cast; of Erskiueville, to railway
yards) were deducted before the calculation
was made. On the mortality figures these
poor districts arc all better off than Bur-
wood, which has a death-rate of 12 per 1000.
although only 12.6 people live on an acre in
that municipality; and with the exception
of Iledfern they show up better than Peter-
sham, where the density is 19.2 and the
death-rate 10.17. Paddington has a death-
rate of no worse than 12.44. though it carries
64.2 people to the acre. Collateral reasons
that give a superior record to the districts
where it would be natural to expect the
heaviest death-rates are the clinics, free
milk distributions, and other recently-
adopted agencies for the improvement of
health. They are available in other dis-
tricts, too ; but while they are accepted and
used without question in the poor districts,
the lower middle-class, although unable to
buy the advantages for themselves and their
families, regard it as a humiliation to accept
benefits that can be had for nothing. The
pride that has this result may be admirable
in its way, but too big a price is paid for
it when the payment has to be made in
preventable deaths. The figures show the
partial failure of all measures to secure
health improvement which are not backed
more or less by compulsion ; the compulsion
not. only overcomes indifference, but by mak-
ing the measures apply to rich anil poor
alike removes all sense of humiliation which
may be associated with them.
Rabbits and Their Extermination.
“.Tim Domino" : I have been in charge of all
branches of rabbit destruction, and with
respect to trapping I consider that
Bunny is not decreased to any ex-
tent by this method. Trapping for
the carcase trade necessitates trapping
grounds being in reasonable proximity to
freezing-works, thus enabling motor-lorries,
railways, etc., to deliver the carcases at the
freezers soon after being caught. In conse-
quence millions of acres ‘Outside the trap-
ping area fail to attract trappers, since they
would have to be worked for pelts alone.
As landholders are compelled to deal with
Bunny, the position is attacked by faster
methods, such as poisoning and plougliing-
out. Probably E. Sorenson (B. 23/9/’26)
has good grounds for his assertion that
loyalties are demanded of trappers, but I
know lots of stations in western N.S.W. where
trappers would be welcomed, and probably
supplied with tucker, poison, cooking uten-
sils, etc., gratis. There is only one sure way
of exterminating the pest—to subdivide into
small netted paddocks, burn all hollow tim-
ber. plough out the burrows and follow up
with dog packs. This expensive method is
warranted where the country will develop a
greater carrying capacity; but in hilly,
heavily-timbered, impoverished country,
where Bunny would need to be dynamited
from his rocky residences, the proposition
would not be encouraging. I know hundreds
of square miles of rabbit-infested country
with a very remote possibility of being abso-
lutely reclaimed, which has to be poisoned
regularly to keep the rabbits in check. Un-
fortunately, Mr. Sorenson is correct regard-
ing the widespread poisoning of birds,
etc. I once saw 370 young ewes die as tbe
result of eating poisoned pollard. The chief
value of poison lies in the rapidity of de-
struction over large areas: 10 carts, for
example, working in close formation, can
cover an area of roughly 2000 acres iu a
day. If, as “.T. Jasper” states (B.
30/9/’26), the poison-carts are practically
abandoned —well, I can only say that it has
happened very suddenly.
♦
Straight Talk from O’lrelaiid.
The Irish Free State Parliamentary dele-
gates were entertained in Sydney by the
Irish-Australian Club, and at least half of
those present expected to be urged to heights
of emotion about the traditional wrongs* of
Ireland. That expectation was given a set-
THE GOOD SPIRIT OF COMPROMISE.
BLIND BILL : “Give us sixpence, lady; I'm blind."
LADY: “But you can see out of one eye."
BLIND BILL: “Well, We’ll split the difference, Mum. Giro us threepence."
back; they were told that the man who to-
day raises loud shrieks over the wrongs of
Ireland and the beastliness of its enemies is
a nuisance rather than a friend. It was
Senator O’llanlon whose speech supplied
the meat of the evening’s discourse; lie said
that the Irish Free State was glad to have
friends in all parts of the world, but it would
be glad if they would refrain from interfer-
ing in affairs about which the people in Ire-
land were best informed. O’Hanlon’s chief
points were that Ireland was sinking sec-
tarian bigotry, and that the people of the North
included some of the finest in the world, who,
although their separation was a disappoint-
ment, had a right to their opinions. With
the better feelings of brotherhood that were
growing in Ireland, they would probably
come in—if people outside, who did not
understand the circumstances, did not keep
on swinging the old dead cat of past differ-
ences. The good hint was aimed very
directly at those whose indignation over the
wrongs of Ireland has always appeared to be
rather inspired hy hatred of England than
by love of the country that used to be the
most distressful.
Imported ex-parson Garden, of N. S. Wales
Trades and Labor Council, found his level
last week when he attended a picnic of
Chinese who might have been pirates by the
tone of the incidental debate. The object of
Garden was to urge the Red Cantonese army,
largely organised, officered and financed by
Europeans from Russia, to go its hardest
and do its damnedest in the cause of “China
for the Chinese.” It. is doubtfully legal for
Garden or anybody else to urge a foreign
gang to insurrection against even the nomi-
nal Government of its own country. And
there is another point worthy of the considera-
tion of the ('liinese themselves. At tin* census
of 1921 there were 17,157 Chinese doing well
in Australia alone, while all the subjects of
the British Empire in China numbered only
14,701. The disproportion is so great that
it may be necessary to take some steps for
active deportation. This will be especially
so if the Chinaman is going to run an anti-
British agitation here and disturb the atmo-
sphere with his grievances, either with or
without the aid of degenerate Britons.
Dear Bulletin, —The delightful compliment
of “M.G.S.” (B. 30/9/’2G) in ascribing to
my sex an almost complete monopoly of good
sense and judgment, though it be a compli-
ment undeserved, has drawn me from my
retreat to express my thanks to him. And,
as one good turn deserves another, I want
to indicate to, “M.G.S.” a point where he
has made a mistake. A week, he says,
elapsed before he could get medical assistance
iu that case of diphtheria, and then an
injection of the appropriate serum “per-
formed a miracle.” Has he not learned that
the serum will not work tliese miracles after,
or even upon, the sixth day? And does not
a week consist of seven days? Further, in
many cases it has been found best to have
the patient strong, well and hearty unless the
result is to turn into heart-failure. Are
there not more practical reasons for boosting
the serum-monger's trade? Many personal
experiences, of a pleasantly lucrative nature,
attach themselves to the pseudo-science of
bacteriology.— t lon rs, Helena MacDougall,
Hon. Sec. Melbourne Branch of the British
Union for Abolition of Vivisection.
— ■ ■
“Stellsby” : The milk consumed in our
Melbourne household is sterilised and deli-
vered in sealed bottles—supposedly. The
other morning, waking earlier than usual,
I lit a cigarette, and, leaning over the sleep-
out balcony, drank in the scene below. A
milkeart was standing at the gate. Pre-
sently the offsider rushed out with three
empty bottles and handed them to his mate,
who removed the corks, smelt inside,
scratched his poll, filled the bottles from
the general can, jambed the corks back,
“sealed” them in some mysterious manner,
and handed them to his assistant, who
rushed back to the house and deposited them
on the doormat. My faith in sterilised milk
is gone.
Details of the agreement between Belgium,
France, Germany and Luxembourg to limit
their iron and steel output are reaching
Australia. Each country has been allotted
a quota of the total output, based on normal
production during the first quarter of 1920.
Every quarter after that a joint programme
of production is to be laid down as the
condition of the market may determine. If
possible, England and < ’zecbo-Slovakia are
to be brought into the joke, or conspiracy,
or whatever it is. Xakeu in conjunction with
the recent pooling of copper interests, it
looks as if the dav of cut-throat competition
among the Old-World metal producers and
-manufacturers is drawing to a close; and
Australia may soon have good cause to be
thankful that' she has made a beginning, at
least, at digging and smelting her own iron
ore and turning it into those products for
which national development calls so insis-
tently.
———■ ;
In their pursuit of the elusive dealer in un-
real and imaginary estate, the Melbourne
police make interesting discoveries. One in-
dividual in a large way proved to have been
convicted under six different names. He
appealed against his last conviction in 1924,
and. being let out on a surety of £25 and a
bond for the same amount, he disappeared.
For once in a way the Law managed to
collect the amount of the surety, but not
the bond. Then defendant obtained an estate-
agent’s license at a suburban court where
he was unknown, and a year later it was
renewed. The original idea of the license
system was that the man who proposed to
start estating or auctioneering should seek
his permits at the city court, where detectives
are much in evidence, and the Bench has
a trained nose for habitual offenders. But
the slipshod statute made the document
obtainable at any quiet suburban place
where crime is rare and ’tecs seldom come,
and the Law is venerable, spectacled and
amateur. The defendant remarked cheer-
fully that he had had a mighty good run
while it lasted, and as he operated in at
least two States he ought to have collected
a bit.
«
“Kelby” : In* many railway matters Aus-
tralia is years behind the times. Any
traveller will tell you that the Ma State’s
first-class carriages (or. indeed, those iu any
part of Australia) compare unfavorably with
the English third-class. The Melbourne
Limited is a good train, and perhaps as
luxurious as most “specials” in Europe and
elsewhere. But it can’t hold a candle to
the COte d’Azure express, and it’s not as
good as the “Flying Scotchman” or the “Irish
Mail.” A crying need of all N.S.W. lines is
a supply of 'dining-cars. For lack of these
the hapless traveller has to jump out at
wayside places like Mount Victoria or Moss
Vale and hurriedly bolt a meal at grave risks
to his digestion. Railway heads talk of the
difficulties of our steep grades for heavy
loads, but if places like Java and South
Africa can run to dining-cars sui'ely we can
do it here.
“Strict Veg.” : The only result so far of
the Herron report on Melbourne’s dubious
milk supply has been the multiplication of
milk-carts. The publicity given to the busi-
ness caused many people concerned about
the family health to abandon the gent, who
brings the fluid in an open can and patronise
the purveyors who use sealed bottles. The
consequence is that the uproar of twice as
many iron-shod chariots and heavy-footed
callers entertains the suburban insomniac
nowadays, and the early-morning invasion
lasts an hour or so longer. One livery stable
tells me it has no more rickety shandrydans
for hire, the bottled-milk people having taken
the lot. Wellington (M.L.), where Herron
came from, passed through this transition
period. It was charged against municipalisa-
tion that no single body could serve the
public as expeditiously as a million milkmen.
The public soon learnt better. One big lorry
and a couple of men now supply the needs
of a street in about a quarter of the time
occupied by the intermittent private erup-
tion. The reason is obvious. It hasn’t a
quarter of the ground to cover in its pursuit
of cnstomei's.
Excited by Marconi’s early experiments,
one prophet advised the Australian Govern-
ment to embark on no more expenditure on
land lines —and that was 20 years ago. Up
to date the net result of the introduction
of wireless has been a big increase in traffic
on the land lines and cables owing largely
to isolated spots being brought into the
main system. Another result is that the
old system has eagerly snapped up tbe de-
velopments of the new. One of these is the
carrier wave, which, applied to telephones
over long distances, has wrought wonders.
If the circuits now worked on this principle
continue to justify expectations, the scheme
will be extended until Cairns is able to ring
up Adelaide—the longest hello in the world.


Quality Cheated tie demand
Quality maintains the Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Parkins.
&
ft**
c.
m
TwX-
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN
POLITICAL
POINTS
The appearance in London of a disagree-
able pamphlet entitled “Australian Finance”
is an addition to the increasing crowd of
straws which show how the wind blows.
Officials in the High Commissioner and
Agent-General line of business are striking
the regular lofty attitude of astonishment at
the ignorance of hostile critics, but the atti-
tude is losing force. The sure way to prove
the complete ability of this country to meet
its foreign obligations (the annual interest
bill and any trifle required to pay for excess
of imports over exports) out of its own
money would be to meet them out of its own
money for a while, or, in other words, to
leave off British loans save for renewal pur-
poses long enough to prove the case. This
is what the pamphleteers advise, especially
as there are some 28 millions of old loans
to be renewed next year in England, and
.1. Bull has not very much to lend at the
moment except his coal strike, which nobody
wants.
A cat escaped from the Sydney Trades Hall
bag when one Henwood, a union president,
apologised in the Labor Daily for his mob’s
failure to join in the “We Want Lang!”
chorus. The apologist quoted a confidential
circular to unions, which shows how simple
•whitewashing is if one goes the right way
to work. The document “requested” the
addressee to at once (1) carry a vote of
confidence in Mr. Lang, and (2) call on the
P.L.L. to convene a special conference
to deal with Lang’s opponents, or,
as the circular euphemistically phrased it,
“with the political situation.”
Laborite Beasley, of Sydney, back weeping
from the Geneva Conference, told an admir-
ing audience at the Glebe that the gathering
had done nothing to improve “the inhuman
conditions under which workers were work-
ing." He was “more than ever convinced that
they would only get what they were strong
enough to demand.” He might have added
that they won’t get even what they are strong-
enough to demand 10 times over unless it is
possible for the thing to be supplied. The
Beasleys’ one idea is to order that wages
shall rise, and the cost of production shall
rise, and the cost of the product shall not
rise. An aboriginal could do as much as
that.
McCormack arrived at the Queensland Pre-
miership late, and they are to a great extent
other men’s fowls which are coming home to
roost on his table. Recently a Trades and
Labor Council deputation buttonholed him
with a demand for £5 a week basic wage and
child endowment in addition. The Arbitra-
tion Court had turned the demand' down as
impossible, so the T. and L. C. told the Gov-
ernment to over-ride the Court and hang im-
possibilities. McCormack refused, and the
alternative offered was very like a declara-
tion of war. Some arguments might have
been laid before the deputation, but it would
have served no purpose. The total value of
everything produced in Australia last year,
when prices were high, was £76 10s. per
inhabitant, or £72 after paying interest on
foreign debts. That might be called £216
for an average family of three, or £286 for a
family of four. In. fact, it might be called
a lot of things, but it can’t be called any-
thing which would provide a minimum pay of
£260 per annum for each adult worker, let
alone for each worker aged over 18, and a
child endowment thrown in. And there are
a lot of people who don’t look as if they
would be content with their share —Premiers,
for example.
Another hole has developed in N.S.W.’s
now well-ventilated Workers’ Compensa-
tion Act. That measure provides (Clause
7) for the toiler wffio, through no fault of
his own, is injured “on the daily or other
periodic journey between his place of abode
and his place of employment.” In the case
that made trouble the plaintiff was going to
a restaurant for some food in the compulsory
lunch-hour, so lie w r as not on the journey
between his abode and his job; hence the
Court had no option but to decide against
an unfortunate and badly-damaged citizen.
Evidently all the multitudes who have to
eat away from home owing to the size of
the N.S.W. metropolis are quite unprotected
during a very busy hour.
The S. Aus. Labor party is in for the
fight of its life at the approaching State
election. Three years ago the Liberals and
EA SILY REMEDIED.
“A serious drift in Victoria’s finances is disclosed by State Treasurer Peacock. The usual remedy,
increased taxation, is promised.”
TREASURER PEACOCK : “John, were drifting.”
PREMIER ALLAN : “That's no good. Shake up that man in front — he'll have to work
a lit harder.”
Cockies fought each other bitterly, but they
have now arranged a working agreement,
subject to ratification by district committees.
What a friendly understanding can do was
shown in the Federal sphere last year, when
ex-Senator Wilson’s candidature made the
circumstances rather difficult, and ratifica-
tion is unlikely to be refused. Another point
is that Lib.-leader Butler doesn’t bark so
annoyingly as Barwe.il, while Premier Hill
doesn’t carry so many guns as Gunn.
James Kell left the general-manager's
chair in the Commonwealth Bank on Satur
day. taking six months’ leave prior to
retirement, and the Government will have
to go on the hunt for a new- “Governor,” as
the chief is now miscalled—he ceased to be
really a governor when the Board of diree-
tors was appointed. There has been talk
of bringing a man from England; but a.
better man for the money can be got in
Australia. The pay of English banking
heads is high ; six to eight thousand even for
assistant g.-m.’s is common, whereas only
£4OOO is attached to the Australian job. This is
less than at least four other Australian banks
pay their heads; so the chance of getting a
front-rank man from outside for the smaller
money is poor. And, in any case, it is very
doubtful whether it is at all necessary to
go outside the Commonwealth Bank’s own
service. On that point the Board, after
consultation with the Bank of Eugland
potentate who is coming this way to talk
matters over with them, ought to be the
best judges.
During last session heads were counted in
the Speck’s Parliament to see if there was
a chance of putting through a salary grab,
but the Upper House was not willing. An
attempt will shortly be made to get the
measure through a side door. Tas. Shields,
the Launceston lawyer, will introduce a bill
in the Upper House to provide for better and
more economical government. Among other
things, it will propose to reduce the number
of members and raise the salaries of those
who remain. Those in the know predict that
the reduction of members will be dropped,
leaving the increase of salaries.
“Iford” : The complaint recently voiced in
London that money borrowed by Australian
Governments is frequently employed for un-
productive purposes recalls a debate on the
estimates in the W.A. Assembly some 15
years ago. A boundary rider had died while
patrolling the rabbit-proof fence and been
buried at a considerable distance from the
nearest township. Some inquisitive member
questioned whether the expense of digging
the grave and providing the coffin had been
debited to the department that was techni-
cally responsible, and the Government under-
took to look the matter up. The result was
the discovery that the poor devil had been
buried “out of loan funds*”
Spite of Franco-German foregatherings in
wayside pubs, a good deal of the old Adam
seems to linger in the bosom of the gentle-
men living east of the Rhine. The cables
have just reported that monarchist sympa-
thisers had been holding the customary
autumn manoeuvres in East Prussia, which
is fanatical for the Royal house almost to
the extent of foregoing its schnapps. A
special feature of the latest of these
manoeuvres, which have been annual events
since the Armistice, has been the casting
of the ex-Crown Prince’s eldest son, Wil-
helm, for a star part. Tilings seem to be
getting nicely in train to start trouble when
opportunity offers.
Vic.’s deficit for 1925-26 was £314,327, or
£60,000 less than Treasurer Peacock men-
tioned when giving a Budget forecast early
in .Tuly. The railways were responsible for
£189,623. According to Auditor-General
Norris, the accumulated shortage is now
£977,504, and if losses on soldier-settlement
and electricity had been added, instead of
funded, there would have been another
£840,328. The thing is, of course, attribut-
able to reckless borrowing and spending,
but the Government blames everything but
that.
From the Westraliau correspondence in
one of the big dailies: —
High hopes are entertained that a reduction in
State taxation will be effected during the current
year, as the Federal Government has paid into, the
Treasury a cheque for £500,000 as a recognition
of the claims that the State has for relief at the
hands of the Commonwealth.
And at latest advices Westralia was still
taxing its people much less than the average
—in fact, it was the most lightly taxed State
save one. Following the above par. was
one to the effect that the movement for seces-
sion from the Commonwealth is being shoved
hard —by way of gratitude for the £500,000
perhaps.
So far as it has gone, the “great Labor
testimonial to ex-Scnator Gardiner” is not
much of a compliment to that old warrior
and good fellow. Months ago it came out
that John Wren had contributed £lOO and
the rest of “the movement” (largely fellow-
politicians) £74 12s. 6d. or thereabouts. By
slow degrees the amount reached £257
18s., and “to allow of promises taking shape
it lias been decided not to close the fund
till November 3.” Twice £257 18s. was
subscribed, by Laborites to a large extent,
for a Yankee pug. who went broke in
Sydney; in fact, an exuberant Labor legis-
lator announced tliat he wouldn’t be happy
unless the pug. got £lOOO.
One of the allegations made by the gentle-
man who discovered the “bribery plot” for
Sydney Labor Daily was —er —unexpected.
The gentleman states that he applied for
the job of foreman at the Bunnerong power-
house, now being built by the noble City
Council on the 36-liour-week plan, and
sought the good offices of Alderman Mick
Burke, M.L.A., who, he alleges, said, “It
ought to be worth a hundred.” “I was in-
censed at this,” the gentleman asserts; at
all events, be didn’t get the job. It is
only one Laborite’s word against another’s,
but Alderman Burke may turn the situation
to good account by refuting, not only the
Bunnerong accusation, but also the charge
of a Royal Commission that he had offered
to get a municipal job done for a ratepayer
for “four fifties.”
Cohen, K.C., unofficial leader of Vic.’s
Dreary House, found himself in strange com-
pany the other night when he voted against
the second reading of the Assembly Seats
Re-division Bill. He had with him four
Laborites and Crockett, a seceder from the
Farmers’ Union and a present member of
the Country Progressives. On the other side
were 16 of the merinos of his own flock.
Cohen got the huff because an adjournment
was not granted immediately he sug-
gested it. The bill has been before the
Assembly for weeks, and everybody was sup-
posed to know it off by heart, but Cohen
said he hadn’t studied it. lie proposed a
couple of wrecking amendments which Minis-
ter Richardson scoffed at. Finally, in com-
mittee, a respite of a week was granted.
Cohen has never forgiven Allan and Peacock
for preferring Richardson to himself as
leader of the Landlords’ House when the
Ministry was formed nearly two years ago.
There have been merry doings in the
N. S. Wales Parliamentary Labor party
since the Lang and Loughlin factions offi-
cially buried the hatchet. Willis, leader of
the Leg. Council, suggested at the Eight-
hour dinner that the Loughlinites had been
guilty of “a dastardly attempt to assassi-
nate Jack Lang” by “crawling behind his
back with a poisoned dagger"—“one of the
blackest crimes in the history of this move-
ment.” Loughlin retaliated by describing
the Premier as a “humorless person” who
was being used by the “Moscow first” gentry,
and withal “humbly petitioning conference
for authprity to lead men who have no con-
fidence in him.” To which Lang replied
that “such criticism” was “despicable”—
“probably one of the most cowardly charges
ever brought against a leader of the Labor
party, and those responsible for it are be-
neath contempt.” Gone is the British Prime
Minister who remarked to his colleagues,
“It doesn’t matter a damn what we say so
long as we all say the same thing.” Had
the old gentleman lived long enough to
accompany the Empire Parliamentary dele-
gation to N. S. Wales he would have
enjoyed himself.
THE END OF THE JAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘The national debt of Australia at the end of
June was x 1,018,000,000, and our creditors are not
as affable as they used to be.”
The beer that erst was flowing
So free is getting low ;
Ere heavier scores we’re owing
It’s up to us to go.
It shameful seems and sinful
The revel thus to close;
But, still, we’ve had a skinful,
As everybody knows.
Glad were the 3 r ears of borrow,
And gay the months of boom,
No trace of care or sorrow
Found entrance to the room,
And sweet the nights of spending
With elbows all a-bend;
But now the jag- is ending,
As every jag must end.
The barmaid’s eyes don’t soften,
The smiles no longer lurk,
She hints, a lot too often,
We ought to go to work.
The pleasant twinkle passes
From Bung’s fat face of late,
Our gaze is on our glasses,
But his is on the slate.
A worried lot and wearied
Are those who’re apt to find
That each request is queried
With emphasis unkind.
Thin is our welcome wearing,
Our name will soon be Mud,
The chucker-out is nearing,
The jag has come a thud.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
<g>
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
s..i-
-1
m
The leading features of our 0.K.8. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque,
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
MSBSSSN
EILCTmC«i> 'coTltb
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.),
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY, SECURITY.
It is your Duty to appoint an Experienced Executor.
The Trustees, Executors & Agency Company,
Limited.
Its 48 years’ experience in administering Estates of every description is ample
assurance that the Company can manage yours to the best advantage.
Trust Funds administered EXCEED FORTY-ONE MILLIONS.
JAS. BORROWMAN, CHAS. R. SMIBERT,
General Manager. Manager.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Call or Write for Booklet.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Adelaide Steamship Co. :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1915. . £67,903 6 p.c. = £44,227 £23,676 £167,349
1916.. 226,531 104 „ „ 81,380 ( 269 500
Voted to Provident Fund, £50.000 ) yo ’ loi
1917.. 260,004 10 p.c. = 77,504 ) 905000
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 ( ld A &o ° 395.000
1918. . 207,504 10 p.c. = 77,504 130,000 525,000
1919.. 152,452 15 „ ~116,257 36,195 561,195
t'o. reconstructed. Assets written up.
£1,550,090 transferred to capital.
1920.. *88,713 3} p.c. = 87,192 1,521 47,521
1921-. 231,725 7* „ ~ 174,385 57,340 104,861
1922.. 199,485 74,, „ 174,385 25,100 129,961
1923.. 211,289 74 „ „ 174,385 36,904 166,855
1924.. 215,257 74 „ „ 174,385 40,872 207,737
1925.. 228,118 74 „ „ 174,385 53,733 261,470
1926.. 224,000 7|- „ ~ 180,198 44,402 305,872
“Portion of year only.
Net profit, after providing for depreciation
and all charges, £179,600, said the accounts.
But £25,000 was added to insurance fund
and £20,000 to repairs, renewals and replace-
ments reserve, so that this Column places
net income as having been about average, for
it counts the funds and additions thereto as
true profits. If anything, the co. may have
done even better. Certainly, the board was
so satisfied with the position that it raised
the final div. to 8 p.c., making 7J p.c. for the
12 months—the first change since the recon-
struction. In a year which contained at
least one outstanding offensive by the sea-
men plus some of the usual waterfront
troubles, the div. increase attracts notice; it
is hardly likely that the industrial Captain
Kidds will miss the fact, and those interested
in inter-State freight as space-buyers will not
feel happy, particularly when they count the
cost of the last increase. Shareholders, of
course, will register pleasure; and more par-
ticularly those whose holdings were trebled
by the wholesale gift-giving seven years ago.
As with most Australian shipping cos. the
accounts are uninformative. Thus, although
Adelaide Steam is heavily interested in coal
and other subsidiaries, net earnings are
grouped in the one entry. It may be
accepted from the results disclosed that none
of them are a burden, since the net return
was equal to 8.6 p.c. on average funds. The
market responded to the move in the div.
rate and to-day’s quote of b. 255. 6d., s.
255. 7£d. compares with b. 20s. 6d., s. 21s.
of 12 months ago. Apparently buyers count
the 8 p.c. as a set figure and.ai'e influenced
by the past and intrigued by the future. The
price suggests that the various unfavorable
factors which operate in the case of the ship-
ping industry and others employing labor
armies arc being discounted in the general
prosperity. Either that or investors are
satisfied that, in the case of Adelaide Steam,
what has been done in the past will perhaps
be duplicated some time in the future.
Having decided to build up its fleet—
depleted by war losses and sales —the co. has
done so in no half-hearted manner. In 1924
the Arcoona (now the Arkaba) and the
Allara were purchased; in 1925 the Ulooloo
and (from the Commonwealth Shipping
Board) the Dilga and Dundula ; last year the
Mulcra, Momba and Mundalla (new motor
cargo-carriers), a new tug and two small
steamers were purchased and orders placed
in England for a fast motor passenger-vessel,
a motor cargo-boat, and (with Mort’s Dock)
a tug. Since the close of the accounts an-
other steamer has been added. One of tin l
small tubs was sold. The new vessels, gener-
ally speaking, will cost less to run and are
not so completely dependent on the labor
forces. Despite the purchases and, possibly,
initial payments on account of vessels
ordered, the liquid position improved by
£179,033 in the 12 months:—
1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets .. . . £634,313 £628,164 £710,496
Liabilities (excluding
Provident Fund) . . 223,086 198,792 102,091
Surplus assets .. £411,227 £429,372 £608,405
That seems too good to be true. Fixed
assets —the item reads: “Steamers (includ-
ing vessels building), hulks, lighters, plant,
freehold properties, wharves, shares in other
companies, Government securities, etc.” —
were £120,631 lighter at £2,282,768, and it
may be that some of the securities or the
etceteras were moved out of that cupboard
to find a resting-place in Commonwealth
loans which, at £432,717, were almost
£200,000 heavier. Apart from notifying
changes in the fleet and stating that vessels
and plant were thoroughly maintained, the
directors have nothing to say which throws
light on the changes. Whatever be the move-
ments which resulted in that visible improve-
ment of £179,000-odd it is- plain that the
position is very solid. And it is more par-
ticularly pleasing in view of the changes in
the fleet which have improved its quality and
lessened running costs. In the circumstances
the increase in the div. to 8 p.c. does not
appear to have been premature, and the com-
fortable margin between earnings and dis-
tributions makes it plain that something
very drastic would be necessary to place the
rate in jeopardy.
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber
goods:—
To
Juno, Profits. Dividends.* Reserves. Reserves.
1916. .£16,436 124p.c. = £8,333 £8,103 £39,233
1917.. 25,906 124 „ „ 20,659 5,247 44,480
1918.. 30,873 124 „ „ 26,006 4,867 49,347
1919.. 38,048 124 ~ ~ 29,946 8,102 57,449
1920.. 43,667 124 „ „ 36,412 7,255 64,704
Loss.
1921.. 924 5 „ „ 21,512 42,268
Profit.
1922.. 58,612 10 „ „ 49,086 9,526 51,794
1923.. 66,718 124 „ „ 66,710 8 51,8)12
Deficit.
Transferred to Capital, £54,849.. 3.047
Premiums on new shares .. 2023 1,024
1924.. 83,299 124 p.c.= 82,275 1,024
Reserves.
1925. .100,172 12£ „ „ 91,375 8,797 8,797
r —Prefs.— N Ords.,
7 p.c. S p.c. 124 p.c.
1926. .137,431 3500 5896 102,084 25,951 34,748
“Including to 1925 7 p.c. on £50,000 of prefs.
And having set out those latest figures the
Wild Cat isn’t quite satisfied. First prefs.
received their usual 7 p.c.—in earlier entries
in the table added in with the amount dis-
tributed to ords. Second pref. capital was
in hand for part of the term; these shares
carry 8 p.c. cumulative. Ordinaries got 124
p.c. That is to say, .804,452 fully-paids were
given that rate, but the 502,782 contribs.
paid to ss. received 124 p.c. plus .246 pence
per share, equal to 1 p.c. on 15s. This latter
was in accordance with the terms of the issue,
which were that the new shares should carry
divs. on the amount paid up at the rate de-
clared on the fully-paid ords. with an addi-
tional 1 p.c. on the amount uncalled. The
15s. outstanding on the contribs. is to be
got in as required. Shareholders have been
given no hint of any immediate call. Capi-
tal was £373,027 in 1920; at June 30 last it
was £1,080,147, and when all the shares sub-
scribed are paid up the total will be
£1,457,234. Progress thus far has been
robust, there still are openings for trade,
and as the management has shown no lack
of enterprise there should be more ahead.
Last year’s profit was easily a record, but
there was, of course, much more money at
work over the period. In addition to the
usual appropriations, £25,000 was sent to
machinery and plant reserve. A similar re-
serve had grown to £46,893 by June 30,
1923; it disappeared in the capitalisation of
'24. The accounts are not garrulous. Gross
profits are not disclosed, and the fact that
the net income has been little more than
sufficient each year for div. requirements
casts the published figures under suspicion.
Certainly net reserves of £34,748 (£15,000
of goodwill reduces the amount from £49,748)
as support for over a million of capital is
absurdly inadequate. It is only because
there are good grounds for suspecting that
profits have been diminished by providing
internally for contingencies, chiefly by con-
servative valuation of stocks, that the 121 p.c.
is allowed to pass without criticism. Only
twice in the last 12 years have ordinaries
received less than 124 p.c. Those were the
years when rubber prices crashed. Even
then the co. paid 5 p.c. one year, and showed
profits more than sufficient for 10 p.c. in the
other. For these and other reasons this
Column thinks it unlikely that the board has
been over-liberal with divs.
• • • • a ,
Balance-sheet figures showed the influ-
ence of the new capital:—
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital . . £373,927 £703,617 £779,035 £1,080,147
Liabilities.. 90,239 193,411 180,290 197,206
Stock . . 225,768 404,601 352.687 531,382
Freeh olds,
plant, etc. 161,655 362,695 430,385 491,390
Book debts 160,748 174,766 235,379 348,613
Other assets 2,944 3,396 3,645 4,149
Balloon tyres, the boom in the motor trade,
and keenness in the production of all the
manifold lines of manufactured goods which
the Tariff makes possible, plus the increased
capital at work —these combined to make
last year’s output a record. Outside liabili-
ties were not so much greater, but heavier
trading added more than £lOO,OOO to book
debts. Stocks soared by £178,695 ; but that
was not out of proportion. Fixed assets
expanded by only £61,005. There is a sug-
gestion that earnings have been made to bear
substantial provision for contingencies, and in
this business contingencies are formidable.
Rubber prices are very elastic; and in that
connection it may be worth remembering that
the present restriction has only restricted
production, not the area under trees. In
other words, with a big output of crude
rubber possible in Malaya and a big produc-
tion almost certain in the Dutch East
Indies, prices may do some gymnastics. At
all events, there are all the elements of un-
certainty and wide fluctuations. Locally
there has been prosperity and loan-monger-
ing to assist business, but either of these may
be spragged at short notice. Much depends
on the management’s judgment as to the
possibilities. Its estimates in the past were
apparently made with fine discretion. But
there is more to count in these days, and it is
by the accuracy of present calculations that
future profits will be governed. The market
has been impressed by past results and pre-
sent trade buoyancy, and recent sales have
been made at 30s. 74d.
* * * #
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.,
Coburg (Vic.), a holding co. whose subsi-
diaries are Lincoln Knitting and Lincoln
Spinning Mills:—
, —Dividends —^
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves. Deficit.
£ 1 L,34 I
1922. . £16,284* £7,571 £8713 2,628
Loss.
1923.. 1,380 4,008
1924.. 1,169 _ 5,177
1925. . 934 ' 6111
Capital written off, £322,104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19,308 18,000 1308 1,30 S
* Three months.
The capital-reduction is the conclusion of a
series of incidents and accidents. Recon-
struction having been decided on, each of
the 402,631 £1 ordinary shares—an addi-
tional four at 4s. each were issued in the
process—was written down to 4s. This
enabled the parent to clean its own slate;
to write £BO,OOO of goodwill out of the books
of the subsidiaries; to wipe off their accu-
mulated losses (£27,241) ; and to write down
their plant and premises to present value.
It was drastic, but necessary. There is no
need to traverse the co.’s unfortunate his-
tory from the time the public was invited
in, beyond saying that matters were de-
cidedly unpromising (accumulated p. and 1.
debit of the subsidiaries at the close of the 1925
accounts was £27,241) when a fire destroyed
the greater part of the knitting mills and
made reconstruction imperative. Profits of
£98,875 p.a. were “conservatively estimated”
when the prospectus for the £400,000 of
pref. capital was issued, but they were never
even sighted, and after the first quarter pref.
holders had a droughty time. On this pre-
sent occasion they get their 9 p.c. from
December 31. Prefs. emerged out of the
reconstruction with the accrued divs. of
£133,333 thrown into the discard, but with
the right for 10 years to an extra 3 p.c.
out of the profits of any year after the ordi-
naries (now representing £80,527 of capi-
tal) have had £lO,OOO. Accounts for the
period under review suggest that the co.
has moved satisfactorily since the clean-up.
The spinning and hosiery mills were
operated at full capacity, and “the output
has been sold for some months ahead.” Half
of the new knitting plant was in position
at June 30, and the full equipment is ex-
pected to be running in the new mill build-
ing by the end of December. Incidentally,
£6OOO is being expended on a sprinkler in-
stallation.
On this occasion the accounts are accom-
panied by statements showing the combined
assets of the subsidiaries and their p. and 1.
items. And inasmuch as they represent the
holding co.’s capital, shareholders would be
only reasonably treated if the practice were
continued. For the six months to June 30
gross income amounted to £52,693, of which
£26,729 was absorbed by exes. Of the net
£25,964, £22,000 went in divs. to the parent.
The latter shows as assets £501,406, “shares
at cost in and advances to other cos.,” and
these are disclosed in the statement of the
subsidiaries as : Capital, £469,122 ; advances
from Lincoln Mills, £32,284. Combined
assets of the pups are: —
Land and buildings, at valuation . . .. £98,348
Plant and machinery: old, at valuation;
new at cost less depreciation .. .. 225,267
Stocks at cost, market value or replacement,
whichever is the lowest .. .. .. 208,186
Sundry debtors less reserves and cash .. 121,103
Against those were liabilities amounting to
£179,817. The cleaning-up seems to have been
pretty thorough. With a clear start and
the new tariff to help, Lincoln Mills should
go ahead, particularly when the new plant
is completed. Pref. holders at least can
hope for regular divs., with prospects of
getting some of the accumulation which they
had to forego in the reconstruction. The
outlook for ordinaries will be clearer when
accounts for the current year are completed.
Of the total capital of £480,527, prefs. stand
for £400,000, so that nominally they have
not much backing of ordinaries; but it has
to be remembered that the ordinary capital
has been written down drastically. As the
result of that and the improved tariff, which
has filled the subsidiary mills with profitable
orders, prefs. have had a great recovery, and
have been holding at well above par.: at
latest, 21s. 3d. There is 245. of assets at
the written-down values for each of these
shares.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd., wool, hide, skin
and tallow merchants (Sydney and else-
where) :
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. se Jn e 0 S ;
1918.. £27,181 8 p.c. = £20,800 £6,381 £6,381
1919.. 44,357 8 ~ „ 20,800 23,557 29,938
1920. . 148’,6G5 13 „ „ 41. 900 1 71,765 101,703
Reserves capitalised, £35,000 )
1921.. 31?367 Nil 70,336
Profits. 0 /> a
1922.. 66,132 124 p.c. = 50,000 16,132 86,468
1923.. 75,070 124 „ „ 50,000 25,0/0 lII.OJB
1924.. 60,682 10 „ „ 40,000 20,682 132,-0
1925.. 61,948 5 „ „ 20,000 50,272
1926.. 38,448 7 ~ ~ 28,000 10,448 60,720
Twice in six years the co. has been hit, and
the blows take much of the shine out of
the profitable years. Shareholders have
not been skimped; they . got 5 p.c. even
in 1925, though certainly it was paid
before the slump conditions developed.
Reserves were deeply cut into in that
term; and though £10,448 was laid by
after payment of the latest 7 p.c., the accu-
mulations amount to only £60,720, little
enough considering (1) paid capital of
£400,000; (2) the presence of goodwill—
believed to be modest —hidden in the assets ;
and (3) the liability of the business to
severe fluctuations. The loss registered for
1925 shows that the co. lias not succeeded
in eliminating the speculative part, although
that has been for some time past the thing
aimed at. Until such time as it succeeds
in confining the business to commission work,
uncertainty will be present.
Movements in balance-sheet figures, from
the co.’s first year—Wilcox-Mofflin is an
amalgamation of two old firms —have been
as follows:
1918. 1921. 1924. 1926.
Paid capital. . £260,000 £400,000 £400),000 £400,000
Liabilities . . 206,140 203,915 130,772 148,879
Fixed assets.. 257,009 299,935 320,603 322,620
Stocks . . 185,913 191,411 248,141 185,144
Book debts . . 51,624 179,618 123,459 129,041
Cash . . . . 561 13,439 1,947 794
Liabilities were well covered, and share-
holders could see at June 30 net assets with
a book value of 235. for each £1 share, less
its portion of goodwill. The market isn’t
discouraged by the fluctuations, and is pre-
pared to buy at 21s. 3d.; Adelaide is the
chief market for the stock.
* * * *
South Brisbane Gas and Light Co.,
Ltd.—The board seems to be doing its best
with a very difficult problem. Some share-
holders think it should do better, and did not
hesitate to say so at the annual meeting.
Chief difficulty appears to be the plant;
little, if any, is of the very latest pattern.
For instance, the co. is depending on the
vertical retorts which, after standing idle
for years, were recommissioned in 1925
because the horizontal retorts, besides being
out of date, would have cost too much to bring
into condition. That position still held at the
close of last month, when shareholders were
informed that “the vertical retorts continue
to give satisfactory results, but it will be
necessary during the current term to effect
considerable repairs. A large number of
horizontal retorts could be utilised, but
unfortunately they require a considerable
amount to be spent on them.” Profits
claimed by the accounts were £7837 com-
pared with £5361 for the previous year; that
was after making the provisions demanded by
the Gas Act. The amount written off for
depreciation is not stated. Reserves (hither-
to reserve for replacements, renewals and
contingencies) expanded by £5OOO, and that
probably represented the annual provision
which the co.’s engineer at the time of the
reconstruction stated was “absolutely essen-
tial for the next five years.” What may be
gathered from the chairman’s speech is that
at least £13,529 was expended on mains—
the chief activity of the 12 months —and the
new services mopped up a few thousands. The
principal asset was thus raised from £211,522
to £229,780. But the amount provided for
wastage and obsolescence is known only to
those inside. As the situation of the works
is far from ideal; as the plant is inadequate;
and as there is insufficient room for expan-
sion. it may be taken that, whatever the
writing-off was, it was not too much. The
co. is unable to meet the demands for exten-
sions, many of the existing mains are taxed
to the limit, and present consumers are
demanding better service. It is obvious,
therefore, that the board will have to seek
new capital. Householders on the “South
Side” are clamoring for services, so the co.
should be able to earn profits for whatever
money it seeks. It has the power to raise
further pref. capital ranking pari passu 01
in priority to the present prefs., which are
the old, interminable debenture stock con-
verted. All but £17,865 of this stock has
been changed over ; but there are also £70,000
of ordinary debentures with eight years to
run. The pref. capital (£82.134) got 6 p.c.
for the year; the ordinaries 7 p.c., and on
paper there was £4Ol of profit left over after
these payments were made and the require-
ments of the Gas Act satisfied.


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
" The ‘Wild Cat’ Morithly”
helps you t 0 find out.
Published the first Satiir-
day of every mdrith frorti
“Tfife fiullfetiri” Office.
£/- per single cdjiyj
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos Covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it
is used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
The splendid utility of Pioneer Wood Pipe inspires
complete confidence in the purity and unimpaired
full delivery of any water supply, when this now
well-known conduit is used. All progressive engi-
neers recognise it as being practically indispensable
to any scheme that is to be highly and lastingly
efficient under all conditions of climate and region.
Its immunity from frost and electrolysis, the fact
that its smooth inner bore affords no foothold for
encrustations or fungus and cannot rust or corrode,
together with its lightness and simplicity of con-
struction, make it readily adaptable for either local
town supply or for use in the most remote and rugged
regions. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yea i s' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• * * +
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide—manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO' MEET THE
INEVITABLE lIEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking; out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAR VAN,
Managing Director.
d
, so n
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Lswlft & Company Ltd.. Australasian Ascents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney U 1
ft
DU
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from l ire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen's Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queeu Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS
SYDNEY It. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD TOPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
A mining-engineer who lately went to
Malaya with the Wild Cat's blessing analyses
the tin-share boom :
The present position recalls the last tin boom.
Conditions existing then are present now: tin over
the £3OO mark and indiscriminate buying. These
boom markets generally rise by threepences and
sixpences, but tall in shillings. The market for
the metal certainly looks promising, but every fall
in the past came out of a clear sky. Liven
granting that the metal will continue at about the
present price, shares are ridiculously high. Those
who are holding at par should be on a good thing,
but 100 to 200 p.c. premiums are another matter.
When buying- a sound industrial stock one looks
tor at least 8 p.c. ; but some of the shares of the
cos. at present producing are changing hands on a
much lower basis, while many of those just about
to reach the producing stage are being bought
mostly oil faith and hope, Thabawleik wds quoted
(B. 30/9/’26), but what about Asam (655,), which,
oil a dividend basis of 6s. per annum, returns rio more
than 9 p.c.? Ulu Yam (sis.) t on a dividend of 3s, p,a,,
shows even less. What net return do these buyers
expect over a run of, say, 10 years after making
allowance for amortisation on a fast depreciating-
security? Also remember that the capitalisation of
both companies is 100,000 shares, a very important
point which seems to be absolutely ignored Icy most
buyers at present.
Kamunting, 300,000 shares (855.). market valua-
tion one and a quarter million sterling, div. return
6s. last year; this quarter the dividend was raised
to Is. 9d., but even at 7s. p.a. the return is only 8
p.c. without any allowance for amortisation. 1
know tlie property well; the dredges are not as
young as they used to be and are small compared
with the latest models, and ahead of them is a big
area of considerably lower values.
Takuapa Valley in Siam (250,000 shaves) is selling-
at 545.; market valuation £675,000. Returns of
late have been excellent, but as the whole area
averages 13oz. presumably the co. will have leaner
times later on. A second dredge is to be on the
property in about 18 months and dividends mean-
while are at the rate of 4s. per year. Buyers
certainly are discounting the future.
Rawangs of chequered career (240,000 shares)
are priced at 435., a market valuation of over
£500,000. At present they are on a rich run of
tin and are, no doubt, sticking to it closely. But
it cannot last for long, and they will then have
to face a large area of medium values. The sluicing
plant is also making good recoveries at present, but
both will have to go their hardest to hold up the
price of the shares. It will take over £50,000
p.a. to pay a dividend of 4s. after making- provision
for depreciation, etc., which is about 9 p.c. to a
buyer at the present time, without making any
allowance for the return of his 435., which is
dwindling away.
Compare the prospects of the three last-mentioned
companies -with well known stocks on the Sydney
market, say, Winchcombe, Carson (295. 6d.) or
Intercolonial Investment (325. 3d.), which I sup-
pose will be here long after the dredging companies
are forgotten, both of them capitalised at about the
£300,000 mark and both with six-figure reserves.
I consider that a 20 p.c. basis is a fair valuation
on which to buy proved tin producing companies’
shares, with the metal at £250 London. Tin will
have its ups and downs in the future as in the
past. Holding these views, the market valuation
of the shares of cos. just coming into production
leaves me aghast. Prices for Thabawleik (170,000
shares) and Bund: (85,000 shares) are altogether
too high, particularly as both companies -will start
heavily in debt. Kundang (116,000 shares) :s
selling at 395., market valuation £230,000. With a
life of approximately 12 years, this company will
need to pay about 35 p.c. per annum for the whole
period before a buyer would receive his capital back
plus 10 p.e. Interest ; allowing for 30 tons recovery
and with tin at £250 London, the annual profit
would be about £30,000, only sufficient to pay a
20 p.c. div. (45.) p.a. after administration charges
and depreciation have been provided for. Anyone
holding these shares at over 255. is taking a risk.
Much interest centres in the Alluvial Tin floats
—Malim Nawar (100.000 shares) ; Malim Nawar
South (120,000) ; Kuala Kampar (130,000) ; Tail-
ing Tualang (130,000) ; Changkat (120,000) —which
are selling in the region of 40s. (100 p.c. premium).
They are all in the ICinta Valley and, with the
exception of the first-named, are being- equipped
with V erf Conrad dredges, having buckets up to
12ft. capacity in a closely connected band about
140 ft. long, capable of digging 80 to 85 ft. below
water-level if required; jigs and classifiers are also
being installed. I know the Kinta Valley well and
remember the old hands boring it a decade ago. It
is mostly limestone bottom, which means trouble.
Amongst others, the late W. Bethune, one of the most
experienced and reliable engineers, tested various
sections and generally bottomed at about 30 to 40 ft.,
whereas depths of 80 to 85 ft. are now freely men-
tioned ; the inference being that former bores did not
reach true bottom, hut I doubt this very much,
and Bethune was quite) positive on the point. How-
ever, Malim Nawar South started last month and
Kuala Kampar will commence at the end of October
and these will soon decide the question. I hone
these shows are successful; if not, we will possibly
see a debacle in a market which is very much over-
bought.
* * * *
Visible stocks of tin on September 30
amounted to 13,456 tons, an increase of 769
tons as compared with a month earlier.
Deliveries for consumption were 8770 tons,
and total supplies received amounted to 9599
tons. Stocks at the end of September, 1925,
were 17,419 tons, consumption 9445 tons,
deliveries 7325 tons. It will be seen that
consumption in September, 1020, as com-
pared with September, 1925, lias declined
075 tons, and the supplies received increased
2214 tons. Stocks, however, are still 8003
tons less than they were a year ago*
Wiliina Gold Mines. Ltd, < W.A. L is
slowly but surely adding to reserves and
putting together a pilot oil flotation treat-
ment plant. The co. has also started to
build homes for its married and camps for
its single Workers, and sec to their comfort
and welfare in a Way never before attempted
in tile West, On other fields “squatters”
were allowed at the start to erect humpies
on leases and encroach on areas required
for mining and machinery purposes* blit the
Wiluna co, is blocking this,
*** ' #
Westralia’s latest gold find at Glenelg
Hills may prove more valuable than was at
first expected. So far all. stone broken
from the cap of the reef has dollied w ; ell and
some dish prospects have averaged as high
ns lOoz. Shrewd Jack McDermott has paid
a deposit on the prospectors’ two leases, and
other knowing persons are negotiating for
options on adjoining blocks. McDermott
proposes to take out a crushing or two, and
then, if the show proves as good, as lie anti-
cipates, invite London to come in. So far
the Golden Butterfly, Hansel Mundy, Mutoo-
roo and other Adelaide cos. which follow
up most rushes either east or west have not
arrived on the field, but are expected to
enter an appearance shortly.
The Perth crowd which is developing tile
silver-lead show at Braeside (Norwestralia)
is in great heart because of the develop-
ments in the main shaft at a depth of 125 ft.
The water-level is sft. deeper, and it is
intended to sink to this point, then crosscut
through the lode and drive thereon. It is
expected that the crosscutting will prove the
lode to be anything up to 50ft. wide, and
payable for lead. Meanwhile friends and
supporters are being asked to take up a new
issue of scrip at £5O per share, and the in-
vitation is being satisfactorily responded to.
Brilliant Mine at Yalgoo (W.A.) averaged
40s. per ton from 380 tons for its latest.
The clean-up was what is known as an inter-
mediate one; but even so the result is not
encouraging to shareholders, who are faced
with a heavy inflow of water, costly develop-
mental policy at depth, further calls, and
requests to the Westralian Mines Depart-
ment for additional cash advances. Brilliant
shareholders have been paying into their
show in the hope that some unexpected
development would repay them their constant
stream of calls, but it is not likely.
Another good goldmine, the New Morning
.Star, at Woods Point (Vic.), has gone to
the pack, owing to high working costs and
absence of gold. Woods Point was opened
in 1854, and by 1806 there were 30 regis-
tered and 21 progressive mines in full work.
All were gold producing on and near the sur-
face. The original Morning Star by October,
1867, had paid £119,087 in divs. Morning
Star Nos. 1 and 2 produced 42,2890 z. be-
tween September, 1866, and February, 1867.
The now-moribund New Morning Star got
one profitable floor in 1915 at 600 ft. ; be-
tween 500 ft. and 700 ft. it raised stone worth
£210,000, out of which it paid only £27,000
in divs. Since January, 1923, the co. has
sunk the main shaft to 1000 ft. and drilled in
different directions without finding gold.
And unless you find gold in a goldmine it
seems better to stop.
* * * *
Shareholders of the Palmer River Gold
Co. (N.Q.) have taken up 3546 of the 22,000
10 p.e. cum. prefs. (originally in as ords.)
now on offer; 10,000 are offered to the
holders of the 20,000 first-issue ordinaries.
Ordinaries are paid to 12s, and it is proposed
to apply 2s. of this as application and allot-
ment for prefs. applied for, leaving the ords.
paid up to 10s. Calls are not to be made on
the ords. till the prefs. are paid up to 15s.
This will leave 8454 for subscription by the
public, but existing shareholders will receive
priority of allotment. Roughly, £lO,OOO is
required to complete purchase of dredge, steel
pontoon, freight and starting of operations,
and this sum. it is anticipated, will be pro-
cured from the issue of 22,000 preference
shares. The Queensland Mines Department
has been approached for a loan of £4OOO.
Walter Baker did the boring for the co., and
states that there is sufficient work in sight
on the Strathleven area to keep the dredge
busy for seven years.
Lyra Park, Clermont district, is the latest
reputed oil region in the northern State.
The bore is down 400 ft. and the formation is
calcareous and carbonaceous shale giving off
a strong smell of oil and a gas which ignited
and burnt fiercely until controlled. A few
traces of supposed oil are reported in the
sludge, but on past experiences elsewhere
they may have travelled no further than
from the top of the bore by medium of plant
lubrication.
The prospective tinfield of Stahhills
(N.Q.) is marking time waiting for Me-
(’Miami's crushing from tlm Mallretfinld.
The Government battery is ail ready, but
the dam is empty. Long delay lias given the
field a bad name* but the North is lending
ail attentive ear, as one mining official is
emphatic that the prospects ate sound; One
Of two good crusliings will galvanise the
field into activity. Tliete are a number Of
poof-looking crops of tin formation there,
but that is apparently the rule of the field;
the Maubetania and COmPt were both poor
at the surface.
* * * #
The last crushing Of 300 tons from the
Great Northern, llerbertOn (N.Q.); went
about 7 p.c. concentrates, but the nice SlidOt
which has paid so many dividends is just
On the verge Of disappearing and it's a cash
of looking for more. This is by 110 means
the first time that a shoot lias been lbst ill
the old mine, and the manager is keeping li
keOii OpOn fob fresh leadefs.
NeW opal-fields have been opeiied up at
Grawiii (N.S.W.)j within 20 miles Of Light-
ning Ridge, where some Of the world’s best
black opal has beeii Unearthed. At present
about 50 miners are on the new" venture, and
more are arriving. The field to date has
produced in the region of £2OOO worth of
good stone, one claim alone yielding over
£BOO. Most of the gems are fine black opal,
and the stones are big. Much is expected of
this field, and a new movement to Cum-
borah, 12 miles further south, where pros-
pectors have struck good color, is anticipated.
* * * *
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) has
netted 1003 oz. in the month, worth
over £4OOO. It is a long while since
it did anything like that, the nearest
approach in recent times being the 848 oz.
in September last year. Collins-street
values the 75,000 255. shares with 235. (id.
paid on them at (is. 6d., which is double
the valuation of a year ago. The co. has
already returned the 255. capital in divs.,
but hasn’t got much further to go—unless
it can find a new mine.
Amalgamated B. 11., the umbrella under
which Collins-street recently brought the
Great Northern, Great Western and Cen-
tennial, has handed the job of finding
a mine to W. 11. Pettit. (Of course it
thinks it has one already ; but that is pre-
mature-assuming that a mine is something
that will pay to work over a reasonably
long period.) Stoping has begun in the Great
Western, and the Centennial will hustle
when the air-compressor and rock drills have
been installed this month.
* * * *
B. H. Southern Lode market wilted to 2s.
Id. on October 10, the date on which the
new issue of 33,000 shares paid to 2s. be-
came effective. The co. is still boring No.
3, having reached 300 ft. “in mineralised
matter.” The Hill, however, is not nearly
so sweet on the gamble as when share prices
were above Bs.
Manna Hill, Stuart Town (N.S.W.), has
extended No. 2 tunnel to 580 ft. on 24in.
of ore “with improving values.” No. 1
tunnel averages 18in. ore in the stope,
values varying “from sdwt. to 20z.,” and in
No. 1 rise there is 12in. of lOdwt. stuff.
The battery should soon be heard from, as
over 120 tons have gone through.
* * * *
September yield of Vegetable Creek, Ardle-
than (N.S.W.), gave 12 tons oxide from
766 tons ore, and showed a mining profit of
£714. The ore cost 31s. a ton to mine and
treat, and the net return was 495. 7d., leav-
ing 18s. 7d. profit, without allowing for
administrative exes. The rise on the spur
off tile western pipe continues on good ore,
and No. 6 pipe is on “fair grade” going
north. But the mill seems now to be working
on poorer ore.
* * * •*
Taranaki Oilfields is still without tlie oil,
after a 2540 ft. hole at Waiapu had caved
so badly that it had to be abandoned. The
rig will be removed to another selected site
on the Waiapu area, but a road will have
to be laid first.
* * -* *
E. C. St. Smith, late of the Queensland
Geological Survey, is the latest to join in
the scramble for tin-options in Asia. He is
on his way to Burma on behalf of Oriental
Tin, of Melbourne.
“G. Diehard M.” :
Valuable information concerning the development
of the Bergius method of liquefying coal to obtain
oil comes from Germany through the Petroleum
Times, of London. It seems true enough that the
great German organisation known as the J. G. Far-
benindustrie has arranged with the Standard Oil
group regarding the regulation of the sales of the
artificial-oil products when they are placed on the
market in large quantities. From a source closely
connected with th e Royal Dutch-Shell group, whose
Australian offshoot is the British Imperial Oil Co.,
it has been stated that the Deutsch Gasolin Co. is
erecting a plant for the commercial exploitation of
the Bergius process, with a daily capacity of 1000
tons of motor fuel, which would very nearly supply
the whole of the imports of petroleum motor fuel
into Germany, which amounted to 432,000 tons in
ii)2s ; Moreover* the production ttf ittotor fuel by tiid
Berg-ius process for export is also contemplated* and
the Farbenindustrib is arranging: td create (in inter l
national organisation to sell Bergihs motor fuel in
the markets of thd world. Standard Oii and Royal
Butch Shell are negotiating with the J, G. Farben-
indUstrie to exercise control of both production and sale
of the artificial petroleum products. It is stated that
the Royal Dutch Shell Co. bought an interest in tiro
Bergius process some years ago; also that the Stand l
ard Oil bought most of the synthetic methanol pro-
duced by the same process. In 1924 only 43 gallons
of methanol were imported into the United States
and in 1925* 508,409 gallons, Further, it is said,
both Royal Dutch Shell and Standard Oil ate
interested to the extent of 25 per cent, of the shares
of the Deutsch Gasolin Co., Which is handling the
Bergius process commercially. All of which indicates,
if it does not actually prove, that a synthetic petrol
is actually being manufactured from coal in Ger-
many and is being used there. With regard to the
future possibilities of the coal liquefaction process,
Sir Henri Deterding, the Dutch-German who is
called the Napoleon of Oil in London and Hamburg,
declares that the impression that artificial petroleum
products cannot compete with the natural products of
oil-wells has been exploded. Deterding, as sole con-
troller of the Royal Dutch Shell group, is said to
have told his shareholders that their company was
interested in the production of artificial petroleum
products, and the relatively high cost of making
them was not a permanent but merly a provisional
fact. This is written to call attention to and empha-
sise the fact that oil can be obtained from coal,
that Australia possesses an abundance of coal of all
kinds and that this country needs oil more urgently
than any other commodity.
* *
In the principal tin-dredging centres
throughout Malaya, club houses provide for
th«* white population most modern amuse-
ments, costs being shared under a joint
membership. In outlying districts, other
methods become necessary to brighten the
monotony of rather drab lives. Near
Renong, in Siam, an English co. supplies a
billiard- and meeting-room for its employees.
Takuapa, a Sydney co., operating on the
Siamese West Coast, has now gone one
better. Its community settlement is pro-
vided with a large bungalow, electrically
lighted, and houses a modern billiard-table
with all accessories, a technical and popular
library and, most appreciated of all, a
cold-storage and ice-making plant.


DAILY SHRIEK
COMPETITIONS
WONDERFUL SUCCESS
COMPETITION 3Lgr-
OEPARTM2N"
DMLY SHg'EK
GRAND
TRAIN
SMASH
DAILY SHRIEK
SPLENDID
MURDER
Envy starts >t.
And soon even o=i=ers P RIIE
FOR THE IDEAL. GRANDMOTHER .
P'NGERNA'L COMPETITION KEEPS “THE G'RLS B>US Y.
THE t 'SNooz& ,, GErs hysterical asoot Manly Calves,
While the^Arguss 15 Help agency seeks the Perfect Auntie,
And screech” offers lo *HS
ARB'TRATXON UVJOGe VSHO can SHED MOST TEARS,
LOOK OUT FOR OUR MILLION-POUND COMPETITION!


The quality of the uniQue 333 leaf
is enhanced by the State Express
methods of manufacture
20 for Yo
Manufactured in London by Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.
SWE(XPRESS
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“The Tra\ T eller”: The Vic. railway re-
freshment-rooms are now run by the depart-
ment on strict efficiency principles. How
strict Clapp’s regulations are lias been dis-
coA T ered by a passenger who arrived at Warr-
nambool the other day, after several hours’
travelling in a slow goods-train with his
livestock. Famishing, he rushed, into the
“refresh,” put a £5-note down, and
called for a beer, as a prelude to
some more solid food. Unfortu-
nately there was no change for a
fiver in the place, and the atten-
dant, after discovering that the
prospective customer had nothing
smaller, mercilessly took the pot
away again. That traveller is Avon-
dering now what became of the
beer.
THE ONES THAT MIGHT MATTER.
WIFEY : “Darling, I've been reading some of your old love-letters to-day.”
HUBBY : “Good-oh, dearie, so long as you don't find any of my new ones.”
“Sixenate”: Curious what an ocean of
trouble a trivial offence may land a sinner
in ! There is a citizen now in Parramatta
gaol who was regarded as a highly respect-
able suburbanite with a prosperous business
until he injudiciously got drunk enough to
be pinched. Then his tiepin was recognised
at the Aratch-house as an article renorted
stM — • the suspicions engendered in the
minds of the police caused them to raid their
captive’s comfortable suburban home. Before
they Avere finished Avith him they had accu-
mulated 118 charges of plain theft, house-
breaking, robbery Avith violence and receiving
stolen goods—ail against a man previously
quite unsuspected of complicity in crime.
“Bilbav” : Touching the die-hard snobbery
of inquiring into the parentage of candidates
for army commissions. When the A.I.F. was
being demobilised in T 9 the units in Belgium
Avere given flocks of imposing-looking blue
forms to be filled in for the information ot
the London Repatriation Office. Among
other bone-headed questions was “What was
your civil occupation immediately prior to
enlistment?” and “What salary?” The mob,
bored stiff by all this pink tape, and only
eager to get their feet on the deck of a troop-
ship, let themselves go on these two. My
cobber, an ex-shearer, put himself down as
a hot-cross bun maker with a salary ot
£l2OO per year, and the hard-case of the
platoon, Avho was working in a North Sydney
brick-pit when he enlisted in ’l4, scheduled
himself as having been a head-waiter with
an equally .generous screw. Others professed
to have been Supreme Court Judges and
bank managers when the call came. Those
documents must have caused some amuse-
ment in Victoria-street, London —if they were
ever read.
“Ebden”: Noticed in Brunswick-streel,
Fitzroy. not far from the “Narrows,” a
n e\v 1 y-pa in ted sign :
3 COURCE MEALS, 1/3.
After partaking of one, I thought it only
fair to mention to the proprietor that his
signwriter was an erratic speller. He said
he had noticed that himself, and would get
the slogan altered, lie has done so, with the
result that it now reads;
3 COARSE MEALS, 1/3.
“ The Deacon ”: Speaking of cemetery
courtships (B. 30/9/’2fl), the most incon-
gruous stamping-ground for lovers that I
ever remember was in a large western N. S.
Wales mining district. The local hospital
•boasted some hefty wenches on its nursing
staff, and the local Romeos were as ardent as
could be wished. But space naturally was
cramped, and overlapping inevitable. The
matron was being wooed with the rest, and
having first choice, by right of seniority and
authority, she pre-empted the cosiest and
most private place of all. It AA'as the hos-
pital morgue, roomy and Avell aired, and not
too well lighted either. It was a healthy
town, where the rendezvous was seldom put
to a grimmer use, and the lady duly landed
her fish. And to this day that bushwhacker
doesn’t know where his love-making took
place.
“Bottle Green”; The motor-car that car-
ried the 13 sheep is not the only one with a
queer freight. It is no uncommon thing for
a taxi to be requisitioned as a pantechnicon
for small articles of furniture, and not long
ago a driver found himself wandering round
Darlinghurst (Sydney) with a full load of
unpacked hats and frocks which the irre-
sponsible owner had instructed him to take
to an address that was found later to have
been wrongly given. One cargo the driver
did not relish was a two-year-old girl whom
relatives put in a taxi and consigned to the
other end of the city. The very juvenile
fare resented the packing-off and screamed
furiously, while the embarrassed taxi-man
went searching for her owner. Moving a
AFTER-EFFECTS.
M ISS YOUNGE : “My, you're awfully hoarse this morning, darling !”
MRS. PASSE: “Yes, dear John arrived home disgustingly late last night."
moderate library is quite a frequent job, and
pet, animals travel mostly by motor, not
being accepted' loose on other conveyances.
Finally, only a few days ago an enormous
pumpkin was sent to the city by a proud
amateur gardener per taxi in the cause
of charity, and was the vehicle’s proud sole
occupant.
* * * *
“W.1.U.” : Until Andy Brooks, since dead,
left by aeroplane for Sydney there were two
miners in the Broken Hill Hospital with
broken backs, the second one being \Y.
Thomas, whose spine was. fractured by a fail
of ground at the British mine on August 29
of last year. The two men were cobbers,
and for some months faced each other in the
ward. Thomas missed his mate badly, and
was anxious to follow him, but winter caused
a postponement of the trip, and meantime
Brooks died. Undeterred by the latter’s short
life in changed surroundings, Thomas has
persisted in his desire to go, and by the
time this sees print will be accommodated
in the Coast Hospital, travelling there in the
same way as Brooks did—by aeroplane to
Cootamundra, and train to Sydney.
* * # «
“Stellsby”: When Commissioner Clapp in-
troduced the “Geelong Flier” several months
ago it was timed to do the journey from
Melbourne in TOmin. The official time has
been twice reduced since then, and the train
is now scheduled to cover the 45 miles in
GOmin. The other day the “Flier” rolled
into Geelong with three minutes to spare,
and regular travellers who have formed the
habit of sitting with their watches in their
hands for the whole distance got as hys-
terical as kookaburras going to roost. One
affluent Geelongoose vows that w’hen the
“Flier” takes the shine out of the “Scotch-
man” by doing the trip in 50min. lie will
give the engine crew a stop-watch apiece.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : To the Sydney Divorce
Court the other day came a petitioner whose
wife deserted him 21 years ago after a mere
four months of matrimony. He failed to
secure his legal freedom because he couldn’t
satisfy his Honor that he had waited all
that time merely to give the missing lady a
chance to return. As a contrast to such
leisurely methods the Court Avas subsequently
treated to something that looks like a record
in precipitancy. The respondent in this case
was a man who had been married only a
few Avoeks when a quarrel occurred and the'
bride went tearfully home to mother. A
peremptory order for her return in 24 hours
had its effect. Unfortunately she waited a
feAV hours after the time had expired before
reappearing in the domestic dove-cot, and
when she arrived, fully expecting a reconcilia-
tion. she found another woman cooking the
dinner. The man refused to dispense with
the trespasser, and that wound up the
venture.
* * » *
“Hamer”: Macleay House (Sydney) has
gone under the hammer Avith the remnant of
land still surrounding it —three acres only of
the 54 forming the original grounds of _ a
mansion which, even in the days of convict
workmen, cost over £lO,OOO to build. What
Avas left brought £42,000 the other day. When
Alexander Macleay received his grant of the
Elizabeth Bay land from Governor Darling
close on a century ago, he set about making
a garden there, riding out from Bridge-street
before breakfast, and again in the evening,
for the purpose. The house was built in
1828. Adjacent was Henrietta Town, a
blacks’ reservation, now part of the ’Loo.
Maeleay’s garden was the admiration of
Sydney in those days ; now masses of flats
will go up on the last green oasis in the
Darlinghurst wilderness of bricks.
“Oxmead": The Commonwealth Bank, I
note from its .latest artistic brochure, has
assets of £139,000,000. Andy Fisher was the
first depositor ; at any rate, when the institu-
tion was opened in 1912, it was widely pub-
lished that he had paid in £1 to start the ball.
It was about the same time that State but-
chers’ shops were opened by a Labor Govern-
ment in Westralia, and Happy Jack Scaddan.
then Labor Premier, was similarly impelled
to parade himself as the first customer; he
bought a 121 b. sirloin, the largest obtainable,
and carried it home with proper pomp and
ceremony in his.official motor-car. I sup-
pose Happy Jack and his household duly
consumed the sirloin, but I wonder what
happened to Andy’s pound.
A MODERN KNIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, I’m not much chop as a Romeo,
But I’m frightfully much in love, you know;
1 mean, as a feller gets on in life,
Well, he sort of pines for a wedded wife.
In fact, I’m in love with Felicity,
Anl she might hitch up with a chap like me.
Of course, I’m an absolute ass in ways;
But nobody minds that much these days.
Oh, my darling waits in a sealskin coat,
With all sorts of what-nots about her throat,
And a mouth of kisses the lipsticks greet.
And little red shoes on her, flighty feet.
There ain’t any Juliet balconies,
Or ladders (a feller might burst his knees!)
Felicity waits at the garden gate,
A petulant stamp if I roll up late.
Felicity cries with a pouting mien:
“Now where in the dickens, Bill, have you been?”
And Romeo might have bawled out, “To horse!”
And taken delay as a matter of course;
But / am an utter and absolute ass ;
I mutter excuses of water and gas,
And what frightful fools the garage .chaps are
For my champing steed is a motor-car !
Well, the night’s a chicken at four a.m.,
And Felicity’s somebody else’s pro tern.;
There’s a topping feed at a feller’s flat—-
IVell, a feller can’t want much more than that;
And the car is so silent and soft and snug
That Felicity gives me a good old hug....
It’s almost dawn when I lob in bed —
Who said the day of the knight was dead?
x.s.w.
GILBERT MANT.
THE DEATH OF A ROSE: A TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A magnificent new rose which has been named
after Jack Hobbs was one of the exhibits at the
fortnightly show of the British Royal Horticultural
Society. Its great merit is its wonderful scarlet
color and exquisite perfume.”— Argus.
“Oh, bright flame of fragrant beauty!”
Said the poet to the rose;
“To adore you is a duty
That the dullest clodpate owes;
No an ordinary seeding
Could have brought you to a birth,
Save a broken heart, a-bleeding,
First had stained the gracious earth.”
And “It may be as you say, sir;
Though your words are rather fey, sir,”
To the poet said the rose.
“ ’Twas the breath of lovers, sighing,”
Said the poet to the rose,
“In their ecstasy a-dying,
Fanned your cheek, till now it glows
With the blushes maidens tender
To the dear, victorious foe.
Lo, I name you Nymph’s Surrender—
Sure, the gods would have it so!”
’ “Though your fancy through me throbs, sir,
I’m already named —Jack Hobbs, sir,”
To the poet said the rose.
(Lifts the curtain, to disclose
Moaning poet, murdered rose.)
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


nation of 6,000.000 Ustral,an y° u a *e one of a
That by the year 2000 there will’be 150,000,000 of you?
"That your country is a continent?
That the annual wool dip is worth about £65,000,000?
£1 m h QQO? e Customs foj ,asr garter increased- By
"That as the head of a household your share of the public debt
is £B5, and that you’ve promised to repay a lot of it next year?"
A STUDY IN DEFLATION.
Commonwealth Statistician Wickens sheds a few tears.


d
rV, '!s 'SayWHEfi Mao!!
-- v' '
yr,
/Cv/.,
I
®s3
The TOP'NOTCH’ScotcM
k>
' '
:■ a
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Kerys”: Yes, there are lots of things the
grown-up does not know or even suspect
about the juvenile (B. 7/10/’26). A Maori-
land M.P. was on the governing board of
an ultra-exclusive college for girls a few
years ago, when the base rumor reached
him that literature of a hectic character was
in possession of the sweet young things
under his jurisdiction. To satisfy the
accusers, the board had a raid made on the
private libraries of the girls, and the result
left them mopping fevered brows. The
raiders confiscated 10 copies of “Damaged
Goods,“ at a time when that play was under
the strictest ban of the M.L, censor.
* * * *
“Mugwumpian”: Brother Huggins’s back
yard overlooks the railway station at Mug-
wump, and the Rev. W. Hosenoßzle. the
IT STARTED IN THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
THE ENGLISH VISITOR: “And where do you find the mangoes?”
BANANALAND AUSSIE: “Usually where the woman is!”
pastor of the Immersionists in our suburb,
lias erected a big blackboard there. On this
he writes, with colored chalks, in a clerkly
hand, of bazaars and tea-fights, of prayer
rallies and mothers’ petting parties; but the
piece de resistance is always the title of
next Sunday’s sermon. The Rev. Hosenozzle
has not studied Yankee methods of adver-
tising for nothing. This morning my eyes
fell on this :
11 a.m.—MARY MAGDALENE.
7 p.m.—ls it a sin to be in a hurry?
followed by:—
THE GATES OF HELL ARE OPEN WIDE.
(Come early if you want a seat.)
“The Rumpus”; When Young Mac, a born
stousher, learned that a particular friend
of his had been waylaid by three members
of a notorious push and conveyed to the
hospital, he set out to square matters. Half
an hour later he met one of the offenders,
and, after buying him a drink and worming
the names of the two accomplices, promptly
pulped his infor-
mant and rang up
for the ambulance,
obligingly staying
to help his victim
aboard. “There’ll
be two more soon,”
he told the first-aid
man, who hotly
protested against
Young Mac’s in-
considcrateness in
making messes for
other people to
clean up. The
avenger grew
thoughtful, but fol-
lowed up the hunti
He located both his
men drinking at
another hotel, and;
knowing the bar-
man, got to his ear
without either of
his prospective vic-
tims seeing him.
Presently the bar-
man delivered them
a message, purport-
ing to have come
from their bat-
tered comrade in
hospital: he was
conscious and
wanted immediate
private conversa-
tion with them.
When the pair
arrived at the hos-
pital Nemesis
stepped out from
behind a brick
wall, and fists
flashed into action.
In a few minutes Young Mac dragged both
knocked-out men into the casualty-room and
faded away. Nobody should accuse him of
giving unnecessary trouble!
* * * *
“Ruarie”: “Sidweelan’s” undertaker (B.
23/9/’26) reminds me of a Tasmanian mem-
ber of the same craft. A friend of his who
lived on the top of a steep rise (as people do
in the Speck) was seriously ill, but presently
mended. On meeting the convalescent the
undertaker expressed his intense gratifica-
tion at seeing him about again. “All the
while you were sick,” he added feelingly, "I
was wondering how we could ever bring you
down that hill.”
“Ike Hollar”: The tinkle of the thrum
will cease to be a part of the C. of E. service
if the lead of Goulburn (N.S.W.) is followed.
The parishoners are handed out envelopes in
two divisions —one
for church - main-
tenance contribu-
tions, the other for
missions - and
these are collected
weekly. A more
drastic change was
proposed in a Syd-
ney s üburban
bethel which has
for years found de-
plorable financial
apathy amongst its
supposed-to-be sup-
porters. Its war-
dens decided to re-
gister the church
under the Unions
and Friendly
Societies Act with
a fixed rate of con-
tributions; the
dues of those who
neglected to pay up
would then be re-
coverable at law.
Something, li ow-
ever, went wrong
with the scheme,
and the parson
still has to explain
to the grocer that
he will settle that
long - outstanding
account directly his congregation pays up
some of his overdue salary.
* * * *
“Runa” : Talking of the vagaries of lifts.
I was waiting on the third floor of our eight-
storey building the other morning when I
happened to glance at the passing automatic
and noticed the boss was the only passenger.
A few minutes later I observed him going
up again: when it happened a third time I
became mildly interested. At the boss’s
fourth appearance I approached the lift-
well and gazed curiously after the ascending
cage. A faint idea that he might be riding
up and down for amusement crossed my
mind, but it was entirely dispelled by
his expression as he passed me bound for
the basement. Next time up he shouted
some remark about making the dam’ thing
stop, and I furiously summoned assistance.
In about 10 minutes each floor had a sympa-
thetic crowd of onlookers, who shouted use-
less suggestions as the lift glided by, tvhile
OUR DUTIFUL DAUGHTERS.
“ Don't let me see that Chipper chap buzzing round you any more
to-night.”
“Then, duck off, old dear — he’s just gone to get me d cocktail"
’phones were violently urging electrical ex-
perts to come along and tether the insane
contrivance. They presently arrived in bat-
talions, but the lift ignored their efforts and
continued its unruffled journey up and down.
Towards midday it was still going strong,
and the boss was still inside, having passed
through all the intervening stagey of fury
and despair into a state of gentle resigna-
tion.
“Basra": “G.W.A.” asks if there is any
record of a war casualty caused by falling
anti-aircraft shrapnel (B. 30/9/’26). I saw
an Indian transport-driver killed by a nose-
cap which landed on the back of his neck
as he stooped to adjust h lieel-rope. Inci-
dentally, the only aeroplane I saw brought
down by gunfire lobbed on a petrol dump.
Five thousand cases went up in the resulting
conflagration.
“Dingo": Like “G.W.A." (B. 30/9/’26)
1 was often impressed with the comparative
harmlessness of falling Archie shrapnel. On
the north coasts of France and Belgium I
have lived, at times, under an almost con-
stant drizzle of it, yet I saw only one casu-
alty. This was a Highlander, who was dis-
embowelled by a nosecap which fell into the
tent he and 15 others were sleeping in. “Puir
Sandy’s cuttit in twa, sir," was the way the
corporal explained matters when an officer ran
down to investigate. Ten minutes after
Sandy’s remains had been placed under a
ground-sheet outside, all fifteen were snoring
as one man. That’s how the war chloro-
formed most of us.
“Flagwagger” : The falling nosecap of an
anti-aircraft shell accounted for at least
one Digger. His luck was dead out, for,
after seeing Anzac through from Landing to
Evacuation (except for a short spell at
Lemnos) and exchanging compliments with
Fritz in France, he and a battalion cobber
went on leave to England. September 3,
1916, saw them standing on a road embank-
ment near Cuffley, interested spectators of
a Zeppelin raid. One of the pair was fated
never to see our aircraft send the Zepp. to
earth, a flaming mass. A falling nosecap
landed on his head, and he fell headlong
down the embankment on to the macadamised
road. His cobber picked him up unconscious
and had him conveyed to hospital, where lie
later died. His skull was fractured by the
nosecap or the fall upon the road.
“Burralong”: One often hears that “a
man won’t starve in Australia.” Neither he
will, if his mates know about his heir? short
of tucker. In most big camps, where there
is a continual chopping and changing of jobs
and a man may be driving a team one day
and using a pick and shovel the next, the
taking of free boarders is one of the most
characteristically Australian customs. Dur-
ing a six-months’ term of hard labor at
such a camp I had two boarders at differ-
ent periods. The first, who came to my
humpy to borrow a loaf of bread, stayed a
fortnight and then got a good, steady job.
Since, of course, I wouldn’t take any pay-
ment, he formed a habit, as soon as he was in
collar again, of calling at my camp and
stealthily leaving a couple of packets of pipe-
tobacco on my bunk or sneaking them into my
petrol-case cupboard when my back was
turned. The other, after fruitlessly pursuing a
job for 10 days and eating with me in the in-
tervals of toil-hunting, disappeared one day
and I saw him no more. About six weeks later
I had a postal-note from him —no address
given—with an accompanying scrawl saying
that he’d got a job after “travelling on hand-
outs” for a week or two, and was much
obliged to me for keeping him going as long
as I had.
* » * *
“Cy Cyclone”: Two Melbourne business
men arrived late one night recently in a
small Gippsland town which owns only one
pub. They hammered at the door long and
earnestly. At last a window opened, and a
sleepy voice demanded: “Whadderyerwant?”
“We want to stop here,” the travellers ex-
plained. “Well, you can!” assented the. som-
nolent one as he closed the window again.
# * * *
“Akran”: When Fritz retreated in 1917
he left many traps in his wake. The one
that pushed the Bapaume Town Hall sky-
ward was cleverly laid. The outward sign
of it was a dead horse in front of the best
billet in the town, and when the Australians
arrived Dobbin was already beginning to
hum a bit. The pick of the resting-places
were soon divided among the heads, and an
order was issued that the decaying horse
should be shifted next morning early. He
was, and also about half of Bapaume; an
out-size in mines was attached to the carcase.
There Was a week’s digging for fatigue
parties after that explosion.
* * * *
“Crojack”: Apart from Krishnamurti, the
Messiah of the Theosophists, who was re-
cently held up by the New York Customs
officials, prophets seem fairly plentiful nowa-
days. About three years ago New Guinea,
New Hebrides and Fiji each produced one,
while in Maoriland the faith-healer Katana
was regarded almost as a Redeemer by the
Maori race. All the prophets in the islands
banked on the story of the Resurrection,
which they had garbled in their simple minds
or failed to properly grasp. They weren’t
all harmless, either. The New Hebrides
man told his disciples that all their ances-
tors were coming back to the islands, and
it would be necessary to provide money and
food for them. Every man paid him £l, and
every woman 10s., to enter the flock, and
there was a fee of ss. for children. The pro-
THERE’D BE NO CONTRA ACCOUNT.
“But why are you inviting only married
people to your wedding?”
“ Don’t you see, pet, in that way all the pre-
sents will he clear profit?”
phet said that a great rice-ship was coming
to provide the food, and under his direction
a huge storehouse was erected on the beach
to hold the rice. But unfortunately one of the
prophet’s wives died, and the people deman-
ded that he should show his miraculous pow-
ers by bringing her to life again. The old
impostor made a “sing-sing,” and used all his
hanky-panky without result. Then he de-
clared that some white man was interfering
with his magic, and till that man was killed
his wife would not return. Though the
white men in the neighborhood did not know
it, this was the death-warrant of a local
storekeeper, one Clapcott; he was butchered
the same day.
DISTANT FIELDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Mascot (Sydney) Council meeting a letter
was received from a girl who lives in North Kensing-
ton, London, asking the Mayor to find six husbands
for friends of hers—‘all fine lassies, who would like
to get in touch with some nice young men’....
Alderman Galloway said that the landing of Captain
Cobham at the Mascot aerodrome had undoubtedly put
Mascot on the map. The council received the letter,
and the matter of finding husbands for the girls was
left in the Mayor’s hands.”
Six gentle maids of Kensington,
Where London fogs enwrap,
They send a call across the seas
Tor conjugal affinities,
Six fair and inexpressive shes,
Each yearning for a chap.
Their eyes, are turned to Mascot, their hearts are fixed
on Mascot,
Since Cobham dropped at Mascot
And put it on the map.
For Komeos of tame Cockaigne
They’ve ceased to care a scrap ;
The beaux that Wormwood Scrubs supply,
Of Islington or Peekham Ryej
Exhibit and deficiency
Hi at dot, verve and, snajf.
Hht glamor lurks iri Mascot; roniance fenvelopes
, Mascot,
1-iiiiSfe Cobham lit at Mascot
Alii! piit it on the map.
Flappers, in newer, wider lands,
Their wings they fain would flap.
And here’s a sound that appertains
to opefi spaces, vast domains,
High-towering hills and sun-drenched plains,
it hits you like a strap,
Tiie euphony in Mascot, the magic thrill of Mascot,
Since Cobham sighted Mascot
And put it on the map.
From suburbs cramped, from streets and lanes
Where wastes of brick entrap,
Where muffin bells and Bow Bells sound,
A love-call flies the world around
To where bold Cobham hit the ground
And set the world a-clap.
Six soul-mates sought at Mascot, at wild, adventurous
Mascot,
Where Cobham and his mascot
Came down upon the map!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all Ind
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
IT IS NOW TIME TO CHOOSE
CHRISTMAS REMEMBRANCES
FOR FRIENDS
OVERSEAS
Send them something representative
of Australia. There is a wonderful
selection of beautiful, artistic and
typically Australian gifts that will
interest and delight folks in other
lands. A visit to our showrooms will
save much puzzling over what to
give.
Charming Royal Worcester Kooka
burra, mounted on White Algerian
Onyx, Rustic Ash Tray, 30 / -
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
EVER-READY
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones,burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
fd
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
Settled his last point of order, Mick
O’Keefe, Speaker of the Speck’s Assembly.
After being a fortnight out of hospital
following a motor smash in which he
and the Premier wrnre concerned in
July, he died suddenly at his home
in Beaconsfield. He was one of the
numerous O’Keefes of Westbury, began
life as a miner, and has been Labor member
for Wilmot since 3912. His selection by
the Caucus as Speaker was the one surprise
when Lyons’s team was being picked, but
it was a pleasant surprise, as O’Keefe was
a universal favorite. His seat will most
likely go to Osborne and the Speakership
to W. A. Woods, who has already served a
term in the chair. Sheridan is likely to
succeed Woods as Chairman of Committees.
Woods is a journalist, for many years past
The Bulletin’s chief contributor in Tas-
mania.
“Little Ernie” Farrar, who has volun-
teered a great deal of evidence concerning
the alleged attempted bribery of Labor poli-
ticians in N.S.W., was secretary of the
Saddlers’ Union and president of the Sydney
Labor Council at the time he was made an
M.L.C. The unpaid Leg. Council gives oppor-
tunity to some of its members to earn
committee fees and other emoluments, and
Farrar has not gone short of a crust since
he sat on the plush—his last job was at
Wembley. He followed the fortunes of Hol-
man in politics, and ceased to be a Labor
man when the Conscription issue split the
party.
Dr. Argyle, who has ambitions higher
than the. Chief Secretaryship he now holds
in Vic., is much in the spotlight just now.
He had charge of the Seats Bill in the
Assembly. Then came the Films Censorship
and the Mental Deficients Bills, which he
handled, and he will be pilot for the Inter-
mediate Hospitals Bill. Judging by the way
the. Nat. Feds., A.W.N.L. and the Nat.
Union keep in touch with him, he must be
regarded by those organisations as something
more than a mere unit in the Cabinet. He
is not much younger than Allan, who passed
the 60th post a few months ago, but he
would be shocked if anybody regarded him
as elderly.
Who holds the oldest Justice of the Peace
commission in Australia? W. Learie, of
Northdown, on the Speck’s North-West Coast,
has had his since March 6, 1869, and must
be well in the running for the record.
C. H. Merz, the London expert who
planned and supervised the electrification
of Vic. suburban railways, drew £221,168 up
to June 30 last for fees and out-of-pocket
exes. The amount was slightly more than
3 per cent, on the outlay of £6,424.167, and
was spread over 14 years. Had Willie Watt
been able to get a start on electrification two
years sooner than lie did, the cost would have
been much less; and then work had to be
slowed down during the war.
J. W. English, just dead in Adelaide at
68, was a son of Thomas English, a famous
South Australian of long ago, who was
M.L.C., member of one or two of the short-
lived Ministries of those days, Mayor of
Adelaide, and one of the contractors who
built the Town Hall and G.P.O. In later
years English, senior, specialised as an archi-
tect. taking into partnership George Howard
and his own son, and as English and Howard
(lie firm continues to this day.
Snowy-headed Charlie Spencer, chief clerk
in the Vic. Railways metro, super.’s office,
lias just dropped his pen after
earning a crust as a railway-
man for more than half a cen-
tury. lie started in England
in 1876, came to Queensland
in 1884, and has dwelt
amongst red tape in the heart
of .Clapp’s territory for 22
years. He still speaks warmly
of the munificence of English
companies. When a boy he
was mixed up in an ugly-
looking bolt, and managed to
drag a plunging team of horses
from the path of an oncoming
express, An open-handed
board gave him a complete five shillings.
Mother Anbert, of Maoriland, has just
come to her end. She helped Florence Night-
ingale to alleviate the worst horrors of the
Crimean War. After that, migrating to the
Shivery Isles, she found a lack of women’s
nursing that she felt called on to fill. She
worked single-handed for a while. Then
like Australia’s about-to-be-canonised Mother
Mary McKillop, she gathered a few similarly-
minded souls around her and formed the
Order of the Sisters of Our Lady of Com-
passion. As in the McKillop case, hide-
bound authority frowned. But the lady won
through and quite recently, on her 90th birtli-
day, the Catholics of Maoriland united to do
her honor. She had founded 63 nursing
sisterhoods before the light failed at 92.
Professor Wood-Jon os, the brilliant anato-
mist whom Adelaide Uni. lured from Eng-
land a few years back and who has refused
the most tempting offers while studying the
marsupial life of this continent, has at last
accepted an appointment under the Rocke-
feller Foundation of the U.S.A. He is to
inquire into the racial problems of the Paci-
fic Islands, with headquarters at the Uni-
versify at Honolulu.
Some little time ago the pakehas and the
natives decided to form a joint Anglican
diocese in Maoriland, and the Waikato duly
landed the ecclesiastical catch. A connec-
tion with the Shaky. Isles’ first bishop, Dr.
Selwyn, got the plum. He is Archdeacon
Sherrington, formerly principal of Lich-
field Theological College in the Cold Coun-
try. After serving as a padre in the Big
War, he joined up with Westralia’s old gold-
fields' bishop, Golding Bird, and they went
salvaging Black Brother’s soul in Mauritius.
“Eureka" : A man named Baird has saved
the lives of many fellow-creatures who other-
wise would have perished in the arid country
between Bourke and the S.A. boi’der. Once
he himself was lost for three days without
water. After this experience he made up
his mind that so far as he could prevent it
no future traveller on that track would be
left in that posi-
tion. In his spare
time he placed ben-
zine-tins full of
water at prominent
positions in trees
on the route. Each
tin had a small air-
hole covered with
fine wire gauze to
prevent ants from
entering it, and it
was marked “For
emergency only.”
The water thus
stored kept good
for months; and
for years Baird
replenished the
supply when neces-
sary. It was a
crude but very
effective way of
lifesaving in the
desert, and the act
was typical of the
big-hearted men
who 1i v e there-
about.
JOHN TENNANT.
well-known South
Australian
pastoralist.
Zane Grey’s boost of Maorilaud’s fishing
advantages promises to bear fruit this year.
William K. Vanderbilt is expected in his
own yacht, and another U.S. big-fish hunter.
Mr. Spaulding, is a probable visitor. A
younger brother of Governor-General Sir
James Fergusson, who is Vice-Admiral of
the North Atlantic Squadron, and has made
his home in Bermuda for the last couple of
years, is discussing a trip with a similar
purpose.
When Phil Walslie is making his £3OOO
film of Young (N.S.W.), the cocky who
should get pride of place is W. J. Hills. He
has been farming and stock-breeding there
for 54 years, and in that time has shown at
53 shows and won 5000 prizes. The just-
finished tournament at Young caught the
veteran bending a bit, so lie won only 60
prizes. About 95 per cent, of his exhibits —
horses, cattle, sheep and pigs—are always
bred on his own place. Just to show his
versatility, lie has also garnered 300 poultry
prizes.
The first dinkum Dean at St. Mary’s
Cathedral since Archbishop Folding appointed
Patrick Mahony, who died in 1892. is John
Halpin. Halpin, an Irishman, of course,
went through All Hallows and came to
Sydney in 1912. A period of war service for
two years, during which Wilhelm’s mustard-
gas played seven bells with his lungs,
followed, and with the rank of Major he
retired to St. Benedict’s old church in
Sydney. His appointment brings to mind
the old gibe, “Why was Cardinal Moran like
Brian Boru?” —“Because he wiped out the
Danes.”
That notable rolling stone, Norman Jolly,
has left his native State to gather more moss.
He was the first Rhodes Scholar South Aus.
ever had ; but lie had already a science degree
and some experience of schoolmastering in
Townsville (Q.). At Oxford he decided to
make forestry his life work, and then took
a Government appointment in Burmah. His
later record has been: Instructor of
Forestry at Adelaide Uni.; Director (for
about seven years) of Forests in Queensland:
Assistant Commissioner in N.S.W., and head
of the Federal school which Adelaide ’Varsity
keeps going till Canberra is ready to receive
it. Now, at 44, he becomes Forest Com-
missioner of N. S. Wales.
Willy Nelson, chief engineer of Brisbane
tramways, who has resigned his job to keep
an appointment with Death, was a member
of a family that helped to mould Bananaland
history. Dr. Nelson, the pioneer of Presby-
terianism in the North, was his grandfather,
and his father, Hugh Nelson, served
as Treasurer and Premier of Queensland —
one of his achievements was the establish-
ment of a State bank-note issue. Brisbane
Grammar School and Sydney Uni. trained
the dead engineer, and he picked up a lot: of
useful experience in America and Scotland
before he became assistant engineer unde
general-manager Badger in the y
days—a billet that led to the chief en o i eer-
ship in which he did his best work.
“Huffin-Guffin”: Some weeks ago Dr.
Alfred Yelland, of Fitzroy (Melb.), wrote
a note in The Bulletin in reply to a pat.
of mine concerning old tokens, coins, etc.
I replied with a letter to him, which brought
a very courteous invitation to call and see
his collection. I had hoped to avail myself
of the privilege within the next few weeks.
But Fate decided otherwise; Dr. lelland
died on September 21.
(Cabled that F. S. Jackson, Chief Conser-
vative Whip in the House of Commons and
one of the greatest all-round cricketers who
ever played for England, may shortly be
given a “colonial” or Indian Governorship.
He would find a lot of friends on this side,
for, though he could never be induced to
come to Australia, he was a lion in the path
of Australian elevens in the dozen years
from 1893 to 1905.
Duncan Dawes, dead in Adelaide at 61,
gave all his life to insurance. As an Eng-
lish youth he started in Auckland in 1885,
but within a few years moved to South Aus.,
where he got a sound training under John
Creswell. Later he was local manager for
the Standard of M.L. and various other cos.;
and consulling for Paraguay, Masonry,
cycling and other sports claimed his spare
time.
The grim humorist with the scythe took
a hand in a Sydney wedding the other night,
when one of the guests, young Noel Meagher,
a grandson of old John Meagher, of Bathurst,
and manager of the West Wyalong branch
of the family business, fell 60ft. to the rocks
on an East Sydney waterfront. Fate strove
unavailingly against his doom. He rejected
the invitation to the marriage in the first
instance, and changed his mind at the last
moment. The car he was travelling in broke
down, and had it not been for a fortuitous
lift from a friendly motorist he couldn’t
have got there in time.
Death has just robbed the Marist Brothers
of an illustrious son. Francis O’Meara was
born in Portland (Vic.) in 1878, and joined
up with the Marist School in 1892. Fol-
lowed a p'eriod in Maoriland, where he
handled the football as neatly as he did the
ferrule. He sent the Old Boys of the Auck-
land school to victory year after year in
League competitions. Then lie was sent to
establish an educational centre at New
Norcia (W.A.). Doing this successfully, he
was recalled to take over the Sydney end
of the Order at St. Joseph’s College, Hun-
ter’s Hill. Realising while there that an
educational director without a degree might
look lonely, he buckled to, though well over
40, and got his M.A. and several trimmings.
FRANK LAVENDER, Melbourne's familiar
stock-and-station agent, and a follower
of the Manfred and Whittier racing
stables.
Bowler Death has dismissed George H,
Bailey, who went to England with the first
Australian team (Dave Gregory’s) in 1878.
Bailey was included mainly to give Tasmania
a representative, but he didn’t disgrace his
side.
REVIEWED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you get the invitation for your yearly overhaul
From that flamin’ institution called Repat.,
Your ’and gets reg’lar palsied, your beer turns into
gall,
Your 'air stands up inside your blinkin’ 'at.
For when you face the doctor an’ ’e squeaks out
like a clown,
“You’re better than you was—we’ll have to cut your
pension down,”
It’s ’ot.
The other day the postman brought an H.M. envelope
From the crimson place that’s seldom understood;
The contents brought me visions of a future stony-
broke,
An’ a destiny worked out in Collingwood,
For a bloke can’t swank in Toorak an’ smoke his
Monopole
When the Repat.’s quacks put in the boot an’ thin
his pension roll—
They’re ’otl
W ith thoughts like these I went to town an’ seen
the doctor’s clerk,
An’ arst ’im ’oo was on the job that day.
’K said “Your old frien’ Chiselface, an’ Jerks, ‘the
’swinger’s nark’;
But mount the scales, Dig., let’s see wot they
say....
Why, spare me days, you’ve put on weight! You're
now just ten-stone-two!
But keep your nut, ’ope for the best!” I winced, an’
faltered, “00,
I’m shot!”
Me mime was called. I went inside an’ took me
top-gear off,
An’ threw the blanky quacks a winnin’ smile.
Jerks got to work with “Ninety-nine! Now take a
breath! Now cough!”
(An’ me pulse was doin’ a million to the mile).
Jerks dug me in the shoulder-blades, an’ punched me
flamin’ chest,
An’ pint lied me tend’rest spots until I roared right
out with zest,
“You’re ’ot!”
“And I repeat, sir, why should ire scorn the humble tram !
Why, on Eight-Hour Day it carried 72,800 pas-
sengers to Rand[?]iclc racecourse alone.”
“Yes, I know. I was on the tram that did it."
The callous cow pinched ’ardor still ; I thought ’e’d
done me in
('ls methods with us sick blokes ain’t no chuck).
At last ’e turned to ’Face and winked. Then with a
sickly grin
I sent on ’igh a silent prayer for luck,
For I seen me pension droppin’ like shares on the
Exchange
When the quacks’ ’eads came together, an’ got me
flamin’ range
All tot.
I seen ’im turn me papers up an’ scan me last
year’s weight.
Then Chiselface looked up an’ scratched ’is 'ead ;
Jerks whispered in ’is ear an’ smiled, then opened
wide ’is gate
(Struth, ’ow I ’ung on every word ’e said!)
“Me lad,” ’e roared, “don’t look so glum, put on
your things an’ go,
Your pension’s good till twelve months ’ence.” I
gasped, an’ blurted “Oh!”
An’ got.
VICTORIA,
STELLSBY.


o
V-
<c~
ii
e>
o-
o
<%>
o
o
Ct» s
**S
%
ii
CO
n
H
s
wmm
ii
3;
m
m
0
mm
M
i
WfXS
«
*
■
ii
m
i
V
m
m
m
m
m
i
$
w.'«i
§M
m
v->
1
Khl


equitable
v m
Life
Assurance Company
9f
Queensland Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy, Managing Director.
“Any Other Method Is Obsolete”
—that’s what a user says after clear-
ing his land of rabbits with Cyanogas.
Mr. R. H. Carter, of Boonari, Tomala, via Scone, N.S.W., giving his experiences
with Cyanogas, wrote on September 20, 1920: “I can honestly say it is the most
economical and most efficient way of dealing with the rabbit pest, and any other
method is obsolete and out of date.”
He is right! CYANOGAS is the only efficient method, just as it is the cheapest
and easiest. It doesn’t pick and choose—it kills the lot. Thousands have proved it,
and its popularity is increasing daily.
Get full particulars and proofs from
NEW SOUTH WALES.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA .. .. A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND .. .. Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA .. .. Davidson & French, Launceston,
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
fd
RIDE
WITH MORE
COMFORT IN
The Famous
STATION POLEY
Made of oiled kip leather
on a steel bar plated tree,
long flaps, leather points to
the panel.
Fitted up complete with 4-
bar stirrups, leathers, sur-
cingle and folded P7/Ifl/
girth for Iri/IU/'
Strong Bridle for 15/-
The Biggest Bargain in Australia.
Write for new Genuine Wieneke
saddle book, all about Jack
Wieneke, his life and work.
JOHN J. WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney,
Or 434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRAKIA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
“Pick” : Digging his 1924 potato-patch, a
Monaro (N.S.W.) settler found with one
prolific bunch the seed-potato from which
the stalk had sprouted. Apparently sound
for another seed job, it was again planted
when the crop for 1925 was set out, and its
locality marked. It sent up a second stalk
equal in growth to its first-term neighbors,
and produced a somewhat smaller but
equally numerous brood. Also it again
turned out to be healthy and undecayed.
With the planting of 1926 it went in for
the third time. The result was a much-
dwindled plant, a small family of murphies,
and the disappearance of the original tuber.
Its longevity and productivity are claimed
as records by the bluenose spud-grubbing fra-
ternity.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: A pygmy man and
woman were recently brought to see their first
white man at Linden Harbor, Gasmata, New
Britain, by a cannibal coastal tultul whose
tribe exchanges ceremonial visits with the
inland community of little people. Appa-
rently merrier than the morose coastal
people, these lilliputians had curiously weak-
ened faces intricately tattooed. Their fore-
heads bulged, and the tops of their skulls had
in infancy been trained and shaped into
the semblance of a peak—not unlike the
top of the cassowary’s head, which probably
had suggested the fashion. The large dome-
like forehead was arrestingly tattooed in
blue pigment in fair imitation of an addi-
tional pair of eyes set above the real ones,
which irresistibly compelled attention: it
was ridiculously suggestive of two pairs of
eyes looking up from a human face.
* * * #
“C. Coral” : The wife of a white official in
the islands the other day got a shock when
a calico-clad native arrived on the doorstep
with a paper parcel under his
arm, and diffidently explained
that, knowing a large party of
visitors had come in unexpectedly
by launch, he had thought she
might be short of table appoint-
ments and had brought along
some of his own on loan. She
unwrapped the paper and out
came a stainless cutlery set and
a supply of china plates ! Colored
brother is getting on.
“Wandi”: Grafton (N.S.W.)
has a Flying-fox Extermination
League, whose members have
accounted for tens of thousands
of the common grey-headed flying-
fox, the species that abounds in
millions along the coast. The
carcases are burnt in heaps or
left to rot, though the fine furred
skins have many uses. Some
people declare that the flesh
makes an excellent dish; others
say that it is totally unfit for
food. It all depends on the diet.
The blacks used to eat it only
when fox was feeding on fruits
and tea-tree blossoms. When
the flopping squeakers were ban-
queting on eucalyptus blossoms
they became too strongly impreg-
nated with the oil of the trees
even for Binghi’s palate. Queens-
land has a couple of edihle species
that are good at any time. It
was on these that Leichhardt’s
party feasted during the ex-
plorer’s first trip to Port Essing-
don.
“Pick”: Lazzy, a Murrumburrah man,
when angling in the ’Bidgee at Jugiong
(N.S.W.), tethered up two eight-pounder
cod to an oak-root by a short length of line.
When he returned for them the broken root
was still there, but the fish were not. Two
months later, at Gobarralong, 20 miles down
the trickle, on pulling out a handline, he
hooked the tether and again landed the
absentees. They were still coupled with the
much-frayed line, but the wonder was how
they had contrived not to tie themselves up
while traversing that long length of rocky
and snaggy river.
* * * *
“Ajax”: In shallow water between Port
Douglas and Cairns (Q.) rests a monster
sea-clam which so far has defied all efforts
to lift it. The shell measures sft. across,
and its combined weight and . power to hold
to the coral bottom are so great as to defy
the winches of a steam tug applied to it on
several occasions. The shell will be worth
a good many pounds to the man who is suc-
cessful in bringing it to the surface.
“Jimmy Possum” : “North Queensland is
th’ place yer wanter go ter see big punkins,”
said Joshing Joe, as we spelled in the shade
G f a spreading fig after dinner one hot day.
“I seed ’em that big there that yer had ter
use block an’ tackle ter load ’em on a waggon,
Three wus enough ter rear an’ fatten a pig,
an’ th’ seeds wus so big th’ kiddies used ter
make boats out uv ’em. Well, one day a
THE VALUE OF ARITHMETIC.
Bill : “Well, Jim, old man, ho[?] do yon manage now th’ doctor’s cut you down to two
drinks a day?"
JIM: “Oh, I’ve called in four others, ’nd each one's given me two a day; so between th'
lot ’[?] ’em I’m just about set.”
cockie named Spoons lost a cow. It wus
his best milker, an’ he nearly went balmy
erbout it. ’E couldn’t find a sign uv her any-
where, an’ after a couple uv days’ huntin’
he called in th’ police an’ got us fellers to
give a hand ter look fer her. We hunted all
day, an’ wus just erbout ter give it up when
I thought I seen a tail waggin’ down towards
th’ crick, where tli’ punkins wus extra big.
‘Struth!’ I said, ‘there’s th’ ole rogue hidin’
behind that punkin down there!’ But when
we went down ter get her we found her inside
th’ punkin stuck by th’ horns. Th’ flamin’
ole fool hadn’t tli’ sense ter back out after
eatin’ her way in, but wus tryin’ ter poke
her head through th’ other end. All th’ same,
she had savee enough ter back ter th’ openin’
every now an’ then an’ wave her tail, in case
someone lookin’ for her should pass that way.
* * * *
“Figleaf”: Has “E.A.8.” tried sulphur
soap for the barber’s rash? The skin should
be frequently washed, using warm water,
with the soap and a clean towel for every
washing. Rinse out the towel after each
wash and boil it. A diet composed of ample
green vegetables and not much meat helps.
“Wingella” : It is frequently asserted that
the climate of the N.T. weakens the system
of the white man. What about this? When
the Government launch Olga suddenly
caught fire, about 30 miles
from land, the six men on
board (five white and one
aboriginal) scrambled into a
tiny dinghy that wiis uncom-
fortably crowded with three.
They had three minutes to
do the job; had lost every-
thing ; and set themselves to
row back to the land again.
It took 10 hours of steady
rowing and continuous bail-
ing, for the dinghy was over-
loaded dangerously, before
the shipwrecked party
reached Bast Point. Then
they had to face a five-mile
walk before they could get
rest or refreshment. When
I met some of the men later
on they showed no sign of
the gruelling experience they
had gone through, and seem-
ed to regard the matter as
merely an inconvenient inci-
dent. All these men had
lived here for a good many
years. It is noticed in con-
nection with the oil-tanks
now being erected in Darwin
that men with 10, 15 or 20
years’ N.T. experience out-
work, out-last and, otten
enough, out-drink the newchums, who have
not yet had a chance to let the climate get
in its work.
* * * #
“Stumpy”: How is this for a curious
watering-place? Whilst tree-cutting for
sleepers I noticed' numerous ’possum tracks
up a trunk for about 20 feet, stopping at a
hole in a jutting knob. While I was cutting
the tree —a mountain- or red-gum—with a
saw progress was stopped by a flow of water
coming out at the saw-cut. The flow con-
tinued for two .minutes and measured about
six kerosene-tins of water. At first I
thought we had found a spring, such as was
mentioned in a par. a few months ago. Lut
on getting the tree down I found that the
water had been collected in a hollow when
rain fell. On investigation I could see that
the ’possums had used the hole as a watering-
place.
“Harry J.” : In Queensland I came across
an ant that can “put it over” any other
species I am aware of. It is yellowish,
about the size of an ordinary meat-ant, with
long, slender legs, and it possesses the gift
of being able to fold the rear portion of its
body to rest upon the forepart of the back.
While it is slowly browsing around, the
posterior section is carried horizontally; but
when pace is demanded it is folded over as
described. Then, with the one half of itself
neatly placed on top of the other half, the
quaint-looking thing shambles off on legs
that appear to have outgrown the limits of
efficiency but are in fact still capable of
getting away rapidly with their burden.
* * * *
“J.T.8.”: Would some Abo. be kind
enough to furnish me with a few suitable
aboriginal names for a mixed grazing and
farming property three miles from Gulgong
(N.S.W.) and part of the old diggings?
The country is all cleared, commanding a
fine view, and some name suggestive of
downs, plains or park-lands would be suit-
able.
* * # *
“Paul C.” : The bolter can be broken of
the habit after a couple of severe lessons
with the strangle-rope. Put the noose of a
half-inch rope round his neck at the throat-
A LA MODE.
“I see, Cuthbert, as ’ow bare knees may be the fashion
this summer.”
“Ho, ’Ector, me boy, Hi kin blinkin’ well see meself at
Guv’mint ’Ouse yet.”
strap. Tie a knot in the rope behind the
“eye” to prevent the noose becoming larger
than is wanted. Now take the end of the
rope back into the vehicle through the ring
of the saddle, so as to be handy when required.
You may now drive off as usual; but as
soon as Neddy tries to make away, drop the
reins and haul on the rope. By doing this
you cut off the runaway’s wind, arid without
wind he is helpless. The only thing I know
of that will stop a runaway quicker than the
strangle-rope is a bullet.
FEEDIN’ PODDY CALVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was cheerful, plump and charmin’, with a fad
fer dairy farmin’,
An’ she reckoned w’en we married that we’d cut
the job in ’alves.
I wus workin’ fer ’er father, an’ I’d won ’is favor
rather—-
But she kidded me ter ’elp ’er feed the blarsted
poddy calves!
Sowin’, reapin’, stockin’, tillin’, shearin’, fencin’,
milkin’, killin’,
Lumpin’ wheat or breakin’ ’orses, Axin’ injuns,
drills or drays—
Not a job but I wus ’andy till this new one
knocked me bandy;
An’ our courtship quickly ended with its dream
of golden days.
I said things that didn’t oughter ’ave been ’eard
be Starbuck’s dorter,
When those wild-eyed looney demons butted me
from ev’ry side;
There .was Aghtin’, kickin’, grapplin’, lashin’ with
a handy saplin’ ;
I was chewed an’ slimed an’ trod on, tripped an’
cuffed at ev’ry stride!
First, I gripped a bawlin’ sinner ’oo seemed angshus
fer ’is dinner;
But ’e took me fer a gallup through the smelly
mud an’ slime,
To ’is rudder tightly dingin’, cursin’, lungin’,
leapin’, springin’,
With one ’and ’arf-way down ’is throat, an’ doin’
record time!
THE LOWEST DEPTHS.
WIFE ( suspiciously ) : “What can I smell?”
H USBAND ( cheerfully ) : “Whisky.”
WIFE : “ William , have you stink so low that you
haven’t the decency now to make up a lie?”
On we rushed an’ raced an’ wrangled, till our legs
some’ow got tangled,
An’ ’e let’ me on me stummick in a trough of
stinkin’ swill;
Wot I’ll long remember after is the shriek of
scornful laughter
From the girl ’oo swore she’d honor me, an’ love
me, ’ale or ill!
Blind with rage an’ dirty water, I insulted Star-
buck’s dorter
As painfully I cleared me eyes an’ jumped up,
seein’ red ;
All the looney crowd were chasin’ where ’er pet
was blindly racin’
Koun’ the yard in maddened uproar with a bucket
on ’is ’ead!
AVith me temper torn ter tatters, through the mob
me way I batters,
Kicked ’er favorite in the belly with a boot that
made ’im bawl!
But I lorst me love fer Lizzie w’en she started ter
get busy
On me napper with a palin’—an’ she took the
second fall!
Oh, I dried ’er cups an’ sorcers, fed an’ groomed
’er father’s ’orses,
An’ never could she say that I ’ad done a job
by ’ahves;
Yet, although she swore she loved me, out upon the
road she shoved me
’Cos I didn’t ’ave the temper’ment fer feedin’
poddy calves!
VICTORIA.
OLE BLUE.


“FROLIME”
Is a 100% pure hydrate of lime in fine powder
form, and it is made from the famous Mount
Frome Limestone obtained from our Quarries
near Mudgee.
“Frolime” can be stored indefinitely without
fear of deterioration or firing. See the facts
below concerning its uses and merits.
ďf
Consistent and increasing demand means satisfied
consumers.
Production of Hydrated Lime in U.S.A. since 1906
1906 120,357 tons
1910 320,819 tons
1918 620,216 tons
1920 853,116 tons
1924 1,292,000 tons
The demand for Hydrated Lime in U.S.A. has, since
1906, _ shown a 1000% increase. 80% of the lime used
in the American Building Trade is hydrated.
THE FACTS ARE CONVINCING.
Use “Frolime”
for—
Brick Mortar,
Plastering,
Waterproofing
Concrete,
Whitewash,
Liming the Soil,
Rapid Seed
Germination,
Un sewered
Areas,
Disinfectant,
Dust Bath for
Poultry,
Preserving Eggs.
Write for
Booklet.
One of the oldest and most important industries in the world, the manufacture of Lime, has been
carried on since the days of the ancient Greeks. Structures built with lime mortars 2000 years ago
are still standing—a credit to the builders and a compliment to the quality of the mortars used.
Since these early days each succeeding year has seen improvements on old methods, and so to-day
the scientist and chemist have reached' an extremely high pinnacle of efficiency as regards the process
of manufacture and the resultant high-grade limes produced. Up till now, when taken from the kilns,
lime has been marketed in lump form, necessitating immediate use to prevent deterioration. This
deterioration represents a great loss each year to the manufacturer and consumer alike, and it was
this great national wastage of material that led chemists to the solution of the problem—THE
PRODUCTION OF HYDRATED LIME—a pure white non-deteriorating lime powder, 100% pure,
which could be packed in easily-handled bags. Always first in the field with improvements, we have
pleasure in announcing that we are now producing pure Hydrated Lime under the distinctive trade-
name of “Frolime,” 100% pure, made from the famous Mount Frome limestone, pronounced by
experts the highest quality limestone in Australia.
Use “Frolime”
for—
Brick Mortar,
Plastering,
Waterproofing
Concrete,
Whitewash,
laming the Soil,
Rapid Seed
Germination,
Unsewered
Areas,
Disinfectant,
Dust Bath for
Poultry,
Preserving Eggs.
Write for
Booklet.
sail SUM
: : : ; WwM 4
■
-
m
; 4
44mm
A One Hundred Per Cent Pure Hydrate of Lime, made from the
FAMOUS MOUNT FROME LIMESTONE
f 1 !
The Northern Face of our Mount Frome Quarries.
OVER FOUR
MILLION TONS
of the purest limestone are con-
tained in the leases held by this
Company at Mount Frome. In the
shadow of the mountain our kilns
are burning night and day, while
our Transport Service conveys the
finished lump lime to the railhead
for despatch to all parts of the
country and Sydney, where our
products hold pride of place.
Portion of the lump lime is railed
to our Hydration Plant., where up-
to-date machinery, under expert
supervision, converts it into “Fro-
lime” —the product that is revo-
lutionising the uses of lime in
Building, Chemical, Agricultural
and other fields.
BUILDERS!
li*
■
RKHi
A Modern Sydney Factory Recently Constructed. “Frolime”
was Exclusively Used in the C oncrete of this Structure,
Give Our Traveller Your Next Order for Lime, Cement and Sundries- —and Test Our Distribution Service.
COUNTRY MERCHANTS
Country Merchants desirous of handling this Non-Deteriorating
Lime Product, “FROLIME,” are invited to communicate with us.
MOUNT FROME LIME LIMITED
DEPOTS—ALEX A NDRIA, BOTANY,
BURWOOD, ROCKDALE.
4 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOTS—ALEXANDRIA, BOTANY,
BUR WOOD, ROCKDALE.
MODERN PLANT EXTENSIONS.
The capital of this Company is now being reconstituted so as to permit of the extension of our production methods, the intention being to increase our output by
four times its present figures. Those interested in the uses of lime, and those desirous of becoming fully acquainted with the facts relating to our future intentions and
particularly relative to the share issue now being made, are invited to communicate with the Company’s Brokers—
WILLIAM TILLEY & CO., 78 Pitt Street, Sydney.


KARTELLS
BRANDY
d
Hhe Essence of
Hospitality 0
cMARTELL’S
for A&e and Quality*
From the Cognac District
of France only .
•^r
EDGEWORTH
evtda uiru rDAnc
EXTRA HICH GRADE
SMOKING
TOBACCO M
«
£
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY*
“M.G.”: Returning from Kimberley in ’B7,
I was a sufferer from scurvy for some four
months, and finally reached such a bad state
as to be scarcely able to ride on horseback.
As I was about 500 miles from Darwin, and
daily getting worse, I thought my end was
near. 1 was in this crisis advised by an old
man to boil gum-leaves and drink the water
when it had cooled. He asserted that he had
cured himself and had seen others cured by
this remedy. Although sceptical, I was des-
perate, took the old man’s advice, and by
doing so was cured inside of one week. I
am , certain I owe my life to the gum-leaf
potion. Afterwards I used the remedy on a
young man at Victoria River station with
equal success. I know that the Buixetin
passes into the farthest-outback camps',
and possibly what I write may be of use
to some who, through hard living, lack of
fresh foods, and so on, may suffer as I did
from scurvy or beri-beri.
* * * *
“0. Coral": Something unique in the way
of presentation trowels was handed over to
the Archbishop of Brisbane the other day at.
Moa Island, in the Torres Strait, when he
was laying the foundation stone of a new
church. The implement was of polished
turtle-shell cut and shaped, with a big dugong
tooth polished to a creamy richness as handle.
Seme other items of island workmanship
brought out at the same function were a
polished processional cross of turtle-shell, and
carved mother-o’-pearl emblems set in
polished-wood shafts as churchwardens’
staves. At tea afterwards, the sugar-basin
was formed of a polished nautilus-shell on a
trochus-shell base; the cakestand was the
half of a fine big specimen of M.O.P. set on
dugong-tooth legs; butter knives were of
locally-worked pearl-shell; sweets-dishes were
of other polished shells, and the cake-forks
of turtle-shell.
* * * *
“Hannibal Swordfish’’: Before throwing
bricks at the Mendelian theory (B. 2/9/'2G),
wouldn't it be better to ascertain exactly
what the theory is? It is entirely in accord
with Mendel’s hypothesis that children may
possess eyes of a hue different from those
of both parents or the remaining children
of the family, if either or both parents are
"impure dominants.” This is best explained
by Mendel’s own experiments with round and
wrinkled peas. Assuming for the sake of
simplicity in calculation that each plant pro-
duces four peas, the seeds obtained from the
crossing of a round and a wrinkled pea are
all round in the first generation, and thus
roundness is said to be "dominant”’ and the
wrinkled characteristic “recessive.” These
four seeds will produce 16, and it will be
found that the second generation consists
of 12 round or “dominant” seeds and four
wrinkled or “recessive” ones. Further breed-
THE “SPOT’ MARKED XXX.
ing establishes that only four of the domi-
nant seeds breed true; these are .‘‘pure domi-
nants.” Four of the others are “pure rc-
cessives.” The remaining eight are “ipipure
dominants,” and give rise to offspring in the
proportion! of three dominant to one reces-
sive, while two-thirds of these last domi-
nants are impure. Experiments on countless
generations of plants and animals conclu-
sively prove the theory. It is equally applic-
able to the genus homo, although the modern
family is not sufficiently large for extended
observations.
X2X . Recently an unusual complaint
lias attacked stock at Moree (N.B;W.) in the
form of a peculiar skin-disease which "lias been
traced to trefoil. This plant is growing pro-
fusely there, and horses and cattle are getting
an excess of it in their diet. The toxic
proteins it contains ha\>c caused irritable
GETTING IN EARLY.
DOCTOR: 'Why are you folioicing me Ground and asking how my patients arc?”
DESPRIT :"I'm looking for a house, and the people might he moving if someone dies.”
patches to appear. At first these are not
noticeable, but as the animals' skin becomes
warmed by the sun the irritation increases
until in some cases it drives the beasts
nearly mad. In the later stages of the com-
plaint the cuticle turns white, the hair falls
off, and eventually there appear sores which,
if not cared for constantly, are liable to
suppurate. The remedy is to remove the
stock from the trefoil country. The symp-
toms then soon disappear. When this is
not possible, the best treatment is to cover
the animals with lamp-black, which prevents
irritation from the sun's rays.
“F.S.S.” : Largo
areas of arid coun-
try in California
liave been turned
into profitable pas-
tures by the pro-
pagation of Aus-
tralian saltbush,
the seed of which
was mostly obtain-
ed from western
N.S.W. During a
drought not long
ago it was report-
ed that on Paso
Robles sub-station
“t here was no
green fodder plant
to be found any-
where with the sole
exception of the
saltbush imported
from Australia. It
is in many places
cultivated as a re-
gular fodder crop.”
Of one plot it was
said “three cut-
tings were practic-
able during the
driest season
known.” Cultiva-
tion of this sort
has never been
attempted in Aus-
tralia, but plenty
of imported
grasses are propa-
gated. Nor j| has
there been ' any
thought of econo-
mising with the
valuable indigen-
ous plant. Instead,
on manv lare-e
runs it is in danger of being eaten out, as
only scattered patches get a chance to seed.
* * * #
“F.R.F. ’: I once knew a Murchison
(W.A.) boundary-rider who was a specialist
in stomach troubles. His only patients were
the abos., among whom he had a great repu-
tation. On one occasion I was present when
he performed an “operation.” A pot-bellied
old yammagi came along to the outcamp one
evening, accompanied by several gins and a
shoal of dogs, and sat down by the fire,
groaning, and massaging his middle. He was
allatime very sick fella," and lie looked it.
I imagine the gins must have done pretty
well in the way of catching kangaroos the
day before. My friend spread him out on
the ground in a business-like way and got a
heavy glass tumbler and some scraps of
newspaper from his hut. With a lot of the
usual conjuring business he stuffed the paper
into tlu* glass and then lit, it with a tirestick.
He let it burn for a while, and then, just as
the flame was flickering out. upended the
tumbler on the bloated stomach of the
frightened yammagi. Of course the fire had
caused a vacuum, and when the glass
was clapped on the abo.’s bare abdomen the
flesh was drawn into it and the utensil was
slowly filled with black epidermis. When
it was quite full the operator made a lot of
passes over the prostrate abo. and intoned
a verse of “Mary Had a Little Lamb.” Then
he quickly whipped the glass off and produced
a large round stone. “Gripes! this fella
inside make you plurr'y sick all right,"
he said. “You no gottem pain now.” And
the abo. discovered he hadn't, and went away
quite happy and satisfied. My friend told me
afterwards he had never in such cases failed
to effect a cure.
* * * *
“Celo”; “The Deacon’s” yarn (B.
2/9/ 26) that old cockies attribute their
luxurious skull coverings to pruning them
under the moonlight prompts me to ask if
the human crop is governed by the same laws
as the flowers of the field. ' For six years
1 have been forced to spend the daylight
hours in an armchair, with a window at my
right, and my barber vows that my crop is
always thicker on the right-hand side than on
the left. And he is a truthful man —for a
barber.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: “Down-and-outs” use
strange methods when attempting, as they
sometimes do. to repay their benefactors
for food and shelter. A wandering nomad
not long ago found himself stranded at the
small seaside town of Port McDonnell, adja-
cent to Cape Northumberland, on the South
Australian coast. He was well treated by
the landlord of the local pub, and by way of
return, making use of a large block'of sawn
limestone which had been left by the builders
when making additions, he carved out a bust
of the landlord that is declared to be life-
like. The exhibit has since brought many
a customer to the bar.
"Sucre”: I’m interested in “Coppertop’s”
luminous grass (B. 2/9/'26). I had a
experience in the Atherton scrub
(j\.Q.). All I found on the leaves which I
gathered for the post-mortem were a few
white spots. Probably a jfungus growth,
though possibly something else.
“Fitz”: A Yankee paper reports one of
the biggest corn crops for many years.
Several farmers state that they were lost
for days in their fields of maize. In fact,
one Randolph County man declares he will
saw his cornstalks up into firewood, and a
falling stack of cornstalks 'is. said to have
broken the backs of a team of mules. That’s
something like a record. However, Jack
Pollock, of Hardknocks, near Wingham, on
the N.S.W. North Coast, once grew a crop
of maize from the stalks- of which he built
a dog-leg fence. Also he had a field of
pumpkins growing near the house in a “droop-
ing” season, and one evening was watching
for a shot at a hare when he saw something
raising the grass in the pumpkin-bed, and
fired. He had shot a pumpkin. It was growing
so fast it could be distinctly seen enlarging.
Once when Arthur Griffith was Minister for
Works he was entertained at dinner by the
residents of Wingham and district. Dick
Price was then State member for Gloucester,
and during the evening spoke gushingly of the
potentialities of the district. Particularly
did Richard refer to the huge stalks of pas-
palum produced on the Comboyne. He
enlarged, and enlarged, till at last Griffith
dryly observed, “Wonder they don’t split posts
and rails out of the paspalum stalks on the
Comboyne.”
“Colub”: Is there any connection between
the two facts that the fauna of Maoriland
does not include snakes and that collectors
are unable to keep them alive in that
country? Many attempts have been made
to keep different reptilian varieties belonging
to other lands, and although they have stood
the journey well and been landed in first-
class condition the majority have soon died.
One private collector imported five different
specimens of the black- and tiger-snakes of
the Commonwealth, but none of them lasted
six months. It is said that the same difficulty
is experienced in Ireland.
*>.•**
“Carisbrook Junior”: I can enlighten
“Delos” as to how pheasant eggs may be
transferred from one nest to another (B.
2 6/M/'2(5). At Willis Island (Q.), where
.there are thousands of noddy terns, it is quite
a common thing to see one of the birds, if it
has been disturbed a couple of times on the
nest, interlock under the egg and fly
with it to a safer spot. Sometimes, if the
egg happens to be heavy, or the bird to have
an insecure grip, disaster results, and this
would probably account for the absence of
“Delos's” third egg.
* * * *
“ Narara ": I know a South Coast
(N.S-W.) butcher who for years wore a
silver watch and chain he had fossicked out
of the inside of a slaughtered cow. The
animal was one of three he had bought from
a passing dealer and kept for some months
to fatten before killing. The case of the
watch was badly tarnished when he found it,
but its works were in order, and upon being
wound up it ticked merrily.
“Red .Torkins”: Cattle not only mourn
their dead (B. 16/9/ 26), but I have fre-
quently seen them attend their obsequies.
When I w r ns a kid on my dad’s farm, three
of our cows died in one week. In each case
we dragged the carcase a distance of about
a mile to our crematorium. The rest of
the herd, some 40-odd, in each instance
formed a funeral procession, and the lowing
of the beasts as they slowly tramped in
single file behind us, their noses almost touch-
ing the ground, was one of the most mournful
sounds to which I have ever listened. At
the other end the arrival of the stockyard
“stork” will cause a flutter amongst horses.
When a mare gave birth to a foal, every one
of the nags on the farm dropped in to* offer
congratulations and to view the' little
stranger. The last to arrive was one Star,
a wicked two-year-old draught. He seized
the foal by the hack of the neck and gal-
THE PACIFIST.
COCKIE : “So yer put the hull in the hail,
didja!"
NEWOHUM : “Yes, Boss. But don’t sack I,
Boss. Give I good talking to!”
loped off with it. The rest of the horses,
led by the mother, immediately went to the
rescue, and after a thrilling chase of about
200 yards, they released the new arrival and
returned it to its parent. Star, however,
was a determined kidnapper, and with mouth
open he again charged at the foal. The other
horses at once circled round it and made
off as fast as the three-day-old foal was able
to travel.


15,000 Miles
around Australia
mi
Australian Made
wmmmw
TfEI
r
\
&
1
Wm
HU
0
**
m
m
m
%
' I: /
Hi i
A
i
'll i i M , /'// /
I /
#
Sill
mm
iii
m
Sfliil
fli
iiffl
Si
lit
il
mm
\
The history of motoring in Australia contains no finer achievement than that
recorded by Mr. N. R. Westwood who has just completed a motor trip
of 15,000 miles around Australia (at an average speed of 700 miles per week)
in an Essex car shod with
Leaving Sydney he chose a route through Queensland to Cairns, then across
the Gulf country to Alice Springs, Port Darwin, Broome, Perth, Adelaide,
Melbourne, and back to greater part of which consisted of roadless
country through desert, bush, and paths. The tyres used were
“Dunlops” and gave him “the greatest possible satisfaction” throughout the
whole trip. When its a question of withstanding the severest of driving over
every condition of road —the superiority of “Dunlops” is most pronounced.
The quality and dependability of these tyres, plus the service rendered,
ensures users long service with economy. Garages can supply.
All States DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd. and N.Z.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
RMS
Austral; slan Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
To H.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD. *
Australasian A grants—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
3
J
The Ideal Summer
Cafe.
A NEW
BALLROOM
of Rare Charm
Dine amidst the gor-
geous tropical foliage
of the beautiful Palm
Court.
For
New Summer Prices
for Charity Functions
Please Ring BWI 361
Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Friday,
Popular Nights.
Thursday and Satur-
day, Gala Late Nights.
Brilliant Cabaret.
<23
foe centre of Queens/onc/s
' d/sfongu/sfec/ Soc/o/ Life.
motel
Rnicn
BRISBANE
(
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, wi t h Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Pans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables ; Lennon's, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayse[?]
SILK
STOCKINGS
Sydney Race Week having duly run its
course, persistent punters are picking their
hats for the Melbourne Cup, and the exodus
®°P 1 . threatens to fill every spare room and
tolding-bed in Melbourne. Weeks ago dis-
traught women and men were complaining
that no number of telegrams had discovered
a place whereon to lay the heads and hooves
they proposed wearying at Flemington. •
The Spring meeting at Rand wick has been
a record for crushes, of both the heart- and
the instep-wounding variety. Five minutes
at gaze outside the entrance to the official
stand has proved as devastating to delicate
raiment as a typhoon on the Yang-tse to a
village of sampans. Still, everybody seems
happy and determined to do it all over again
next time.
Midway through the meeting the State
\ ice-Regals gave a luncheon, which was like
a vision of the Apocalypse in that within
its wide-flung net had been gathered birds
of every known feather. Arts and craft
( commonly called politics) were represented
by Chief-Secretary Lazzarini and Mr.
Speaker Dooley. Hugh Denison was the
high priest of Finance, and Bertram Mac-
kennal of True Form. Dion Boucicault,
Brian Alierne and Mrs. Pitt Rivers were
the mummers at the feast. There, too, were
tlie flying Hugheses, General Anderson and
his wife and the Naval Robinses. Among
others, Mrs. Pat Osborne stood for horses
and Beau Burdekin for beauty.
Dressing on the Wednesday, in spite of
the high wind, ran to capes and wide hats.
Rady de Chair supported both. Her cape
was of georgette, and floated like a flowered
banner from her frock of almond-green.
Elaine sub-sectioned her white crepe de
Chine with floral borders in cherry and
green. Mrs. Colin Stephen upheld the best
A.J.C. traditions in black and ivQry. Miss
Smartt (S’Africa) was there, and Mel-
bourne’s dress values were not lowered by
Maud Watson’s smart black satin bound in
red. Harry Budge, who really should be
nominated as our first home-grown Gover-
nor, so versed is he in the ethics and psy-
chology of the business, brought his bright-
eyed wife. Bertram Mackennal’s' lady
shrouding pink in black ninons, was a gaze
attractor. Matron Kellctt stepped in orange
and black, looking as though a Worth salon
and not Sydney Hospital were her back-
ground.
. Nothing new happened at Saturday’s meet-
ing; the attendance was smaller than on
the days that had gone before, exposing more
clearly the forest of caterpillar legs that in-
habited the stands. “Shear legs for sheer
stockings!” should be the slogan for summer
and for winter, too, if the knee-length skirl
is to persist.
Race teas are the c’rcct thing at the
moment. Of last week’s most notable, one
was held in the ballroom at Retford Hall
the Tony Horderns’ home at Darling Point!
The pretty ballroom stands in a sophisti-
cated sort of rusticity at the foot of the
garden, and gazes out on a great sweep of
the harbor. Behind this party lurked the
hand of Charity, and those who stepped over
the polished parquet to the sounds of the
jazz or imbibed refreshment from the buffet
were combining pleasure with aid for the
Crown-street Y\ omen’s Hospital. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers, black all the way down from her
spreading hat, made one of her rare social
appearances since joining the Actors’ Union,
and George Reid’s widow came in Mrs.
Crawford Robertson’s party.
Another of the gold-leaf entertainments
was the one given at the Rose Bay Golf
Club. Here there was so much money in
the decorations, the clothes and the drinks
that the ;old story about Jove turning hirn-
self into a shower of gold seemed at last
feasible. The exes, were divided by three
hostesses/ Mrs. Matthew Robinson, Mrs.
Steenie Osborne and Mrs. Jimmy Burns;
the State Exes, were among the evenings
guests, and only the very top-dressing of
Sydney society was on the shining floors
The Surgeon MacCormicks flung wide their
Joint Piper home for its annual bean-o
last week-end. Waratahs dominated the
decorations, and the Vice-Regals and the
social luminaries among the visiting Empire
Parliamentarians were the special features
of a mght filled with ever-recurring visions
of Sydney’s Who s Who.
The Union Club was awninged-in from the
vulgar gaze of passers along Bligh-street
when members, noting that the wine had put
toi th its leaf and the end of the races was
at hand, bade their lady friends to a junket-
ing. There was a band, but it was planted
m the vestibule, and not in the reception-
room as heretofore. That big room was
sacred to the Venetian glass given by a
Deloitte and to a new shade of pelargonium.
One square bowl ever three feet long was
banked with tins glory, and baskets blazing
with the cerise pinkness of it were hanging
everywhere. The dining-room burned with
blue and ye iow iris. Masses of it were in the
middle of the tables and sprays of the blue
and gold magnificence were sprinkled among
quaint menu-cards and a dazzling array of
bon-bons and foodstuffs. President of the
Club Consett Stephen went briskly about
his task of how-de-doing; and big guns of
the afternoon included the Marquis of Salis-
bury, Sir Evelyn Cecil and other visiting
1 arliamentarians.
added many shekels
to the funds of the Kambala dinner dance
was seen at the Wentworth last week. Maida
Jones, the cabaret’s little soubrette, who is
one of those very queer singers who sing
in such a way that you can understand
what they are singing about, fluttered round
the ballroom in a skirt composed of streamers
ot gaily-colored ribands. Each riband car-
ried a race tip, and these tips were sold to
punters. Soon the human maypole was
s hoi n of her dangles, and the house dis-
covered then a skirt of scarlet satin. In
addition to the sporting information one
hicky,streamer brought its buyer a prize. Mrs
Charles Bundle carried it home—a camera.’
Nor must mention be forgotten of the
interesting show of bronzes by Bertram Mac-
kennal, now on at the Macquarie Galleries.
A head which will interest every woman is
that of Lady Diana Duff-Cooper, the over-
sung beauty who was Diana Manners. A
little story which proves that great results
may spring from small action is told
about the Diana Wounded.” One day the
sculptor, at the end of a sitting, returned to
the studio quickly for some forgotten thing,
and, as the door opened, liis model, a pretty,
sum-flanked Irish girl, was swung round
in the effort to get back suspender and stock-
ing to meet. Instantly the artist in him
awoke, and the delicate bronze in the present
show is by Suspender out of Stocking Top.
Have you seen the Wanderoo? It sug-
gests a shingled emu in full gallop, and it
was one of the
star attrac-
tions of the
Nature Exhi-
bition held in
the Education
Galleries last
week. Its
creator is the
young scien-
tist alongside,
Mary Fuller,
who, to keep
it company,
fashioned from
banksia cones
and different-
seeds a whole
family of gro-
tesques—fowl-
like creatures
with wild or
m e d i t ative
eyes, and bun-
... , r , yips and other
devils. Mary, who is now doiug botany and
chemistry at the Uni., has been a member
ot the Naturalists’ Society since she was a
small schoolgirl. Beetles and butterflies are
her pet pursuit.
A feature of tire Nature Show was the
number of student exhibitors. A great case
of rocks and minerals was the proud arrange-
ment of a girl of 19, a young demonstrator
at the Uni. A small, elf-like, dark girl pre-
sided over a great display of moths and
beetles; and organiser David Stead’s young
daughters were among the presiding geniuses.
Afforestation was the big appeal of this
year’s display; bush flowers in a hundred
varieties culled from the Arthur Eedy home
at Vaucluse scented the outer gallery; and
the communal life of the aquarium was ex-
plained and demonstrated, appropriately
enough, by Mr. Wailes.
Of course, you don’t remember the Town
and Country Matrons’ balls of 15-18 years
ago. They were held in the Paddington
Town Hall, then Respectability’s most popu-
lar dancing-floor in Sydney. No Spring meet-
ing was rounded off without one of them,
and no dances were better dressed or more
quoted. The Town and Country Matrons’
Ball js still a race fixture. But now the
ballroom of some city hotel shrines the
frivols, and, although programmes are pro-
vided, the permanent partner is an adjunct
of the wise virgin. The Wentworth was the
scene of last week’s gathering, and over 30
hostesses lined up to receive the guests as
they streamed down the wide staircase. Mrs
Charles Hotham had called a tulle butterfly
of prize dimensions to the shoulder of her pink
georgettes that wore a leaf design in gold
traceries. George Fuller’s tall lady was sil-
vered o er. Mrs. Pickburn’s black georgettes
were a foil for daughter Mrs. Faviell’s gilt
and beaded radiance. The last party to-
gether for some time was enjoyed by Mrs.
.Tack Campbell and daughter Merle (Mrs.
Griffith). The latter married the next day,
and is now on her way to look at the situa-
tion in China. The only diamond tiara this
Letter picked up in the room was worn by
Miss Agnes Williamson. Mrs. Harry Drans-
tield shed the lustre of rose and silver on the
evening; Mrs. Herbert Kendall mingled
amethyst and silver with a lavish hand that
would have made a Papal delegate regret
more than ever the new dress restrictions
of the Vatican. And portrait-painter John
Longstaff, who was one among the hundreds
of magpie males, must have "been delighted
by the well-balanced faces of Doreen and
Joan Higgins.
One hundred years ago Lady Darling, the
then Governors wife, founded the Female
School of In-
dustry in ;t
rambling old
barracks o n
the site of the
present Mit-
chell Library.
The ideal of
the school was
to train little
girls into the
perfect house-
m a i d and
cook, and dur-
ing the years
that have
come and gone
a regnla r
army of cap-
able and re-
sponsible
domestic help-
ers have pass-
ed through the
school, a n d
made this continent a brighter and a
cleaner place. In its existence the school
has had two moves, one to Darlinghurst-road
and one to Petersham. Now the high cost
ot living threatens to absorb it into the
general body of the C. of E. Homes. The
school has attracted attention in its day, and
will bring a dowry of £13,000 of trust funds
to whatever institution it becomes wedded
to. Among these funds is a bequest from
the Walter and Eliza Hall Trust. The
school, which has become a real home for
the ever-changing family of 30 it protects,
has claimed 65 years of service from two de-
voted women—Miss Miles, who was matron
for 40 years, and Miss Muir (she is in the
May Moore picture above), who, as sub-
matron and matron, has worked at the home
for 25.
Sydney s trusted alienist, Dr. Chisholm
Itoss, played a leading part in a joining of
hearts and hands the other night when he
gave youngest daughter Helen in matrimony
to George Thomas, of Indooroopilly (Q.).
Ilonitou lace which had adorned her grand-
mamma’s wedding-dress enriched Helen’s
white satins, and sifted over all was a hoar-
frost of pearls and diamente. Bride’s sister,
Mrs. Peters, was matron of honor, and
dressed her part in jacaranda georgettes,
topped by a white and green crin. hat. Bettv
King and Margaret Fletcher assisted in the
pageant, all pink and white and rosebud
studded.
Another bride who turned lace of ancient
weave into her apparel was Marguerite Jean
lorsytli. Captain David Whitehead, M.C.,
made her his own, with benefit of clergy,
at, .ot. Philip’s, Church Hill; the congratu-
lations were at the Mary Elizabeth.
An English engagement with an Austra-
lian flavor is that of Baker Lacy to Phyllis
.1 hurston, daughter of Sir George and Lady
Thurston. The young man is a son of Cap-
tain G. Lacy, C. 8., R.N., who was known
in Australian waters as commander of
H.M.S. Royal Arthur. His wife was Hilda
Robertson, sister of Mrs. Charles Hotham
and daughter of the late Thomas Robertson,
of Sydney and Hay.
The marriage of Admiral Bernard and
Mrs. Churchill (cabled from London during
last week) is of interest to Sydneysiders by
reason of the fact that both times the
Admiral has chosen Sydney girls. No. 1 was
Ida Gilles, daughter of the late Alfred
Gilles, of Darling Point. The new Mrs. Ber-
nard is a daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs.
J- J. Power, of College-street, and later of
Edgecliff. She is the second daughter,
Eileen, a: dark-eyed, pink-cheeked little bru-
nette, whose first husband, the late Major
W. Churchill, an officer in the Imperial
Army, did not long survive his return from
the war, where he was badly gassed. She
revisited Sydney three or four years ago
coming with her uncle, Herbert Wardell’
tlie well-known architect, and his wife. The
first Mrs. Bernard was a Sydney belle of
25 years ago; the second Mrs. Bernard
abounds in N.S.W. relatives, amongst them
the Merewetliers.
The heads of almost every oil business m
Australia sang' hymns in Castleroagh-street
on Monday night, the occasion being a fare-
well dinner to Frank B. Smith, who fills most
of the lamps of Backblock Australia. After
sipping honey from many a flower, the busy
Frank B. has decided that his secretary is
much too valuable to ever lose; and the
marriage will have been celebrated by the
time this is in print. A wonderful case of
cutlery went with his pals’ good wishes.
On Saturday there was a procession into
the Governor’s quarters at the Common-
wealth Bank, for James Kell was saying
his farewells; nominally lie will remain the
bank’s Governor for six months longer, but
he will be on leave throughout that period.
Many of his visitors didn’t know quite how
to put it, but one of them had no doubts.
He had been a bank’s general manager him-
self, and, like Mr. Kell, retired early enough
to enjoy life. His farewells were all con-
gratulations.
A fluent lady, rather encyclopaedic, Mrs.
Tawse Jollie, whom the Empire Parliamen-
tary Delegation lias brought us, has been the
guest of every woman’s club in Sydney.
She comes from Southern Rhodesia, where
she is an M.L.C. ; and she claims the dis-
tinction of having been the second woman
Member of Parliament in the British
Empire. At the Women’s Club, in a black
and white chiffon dress, she stamped on all the
ideas of Rhodesia cherished by the National
Council of Women and their guests.- In
agony of spirit they learned that the male
population of Rhodesia is not made up of
dashing second sons of the English aristoc-
racy, who on first! and second thoughts
always decide to have “a dash of whisky
in it.” The ladies, too, she assured her
listeners were not all divorcees, or unhappy-
weds with pulse-stirring names like Desiree
and Deirdre. From what she says Rhodesia
sounds a country where even the lions obey
the wave of the traffic-policeman’s hand.
October seems the month chosen by the
prettiest, girls for the marriage venture,
judging by the bunch of beauteous about-to-
be brides that gave bouquet to a dinner
dance at the Wentworth last Friday. This
was one of the week’s big crushes, was
run in the interests of the P.A.H., and was
an aftermath of an October bride competi-
tion that the Evening News has been run-
ning. The winner, Clarice Barry, who is a
good-looking dark girl, didn’t appear in her
Mendelssohn March finery, but she did em-
blazon her pink taffetas with blue velvet
true-love knots. For some reason ordained
by the great god Publicity, the hospital’s
social organiser, Mrs. Walker, led the
Pageant of the Brides in a wedding
garment of silver-sprayed white velvets,
topped by a diamond coronet; and two
pretty creatures in the train blushed in the
foaming georgettes from which they will
murmur the great promise.
Miss Brisbane goes to a few weddings:—
Amid pink and white poppies and arum-lilies
Koss Burrell, late of the 49th, took Myra Heaslop
for better an worse in St. Michael’s, New Farm,
and Cecilia Dent carolled “A Song of Thanksgiving,”
though whether she had her mind on the bride or
the groom isn’t made public. The bride wore
white crepe romaine with a veil of broidered tulle,
and carried roses and carnations. Belle Andrew
maided in floral georgette in primrose, blue and
cerise, with a bouquet of yellow roses and del-
phiniums. Brother officers made an arch of crossed
swords as the couple left the church. Later,
at lioowoo, Mrs. Haydon hostessed in a primrose-
and-jade patterned gown.
At the Inns of Court, Adelaide-street, there is a
show of pottery, much of it made by returned dis-
abled soldiers. Mrs. Devereux taught them now
to spin the potter’s wheel, and Mrs, Cumbrae
Stewart has been a great helper.
Bertha Burdoff left the Queensland Uni. a col-
lection of valuable books, and her sister, Mrs. Stanley
Harris, has handed them over to the library.
Charles Henry Young, of Harrisville, married
Mattie Chandler., of Warwick, in St. John’s Cathedral,
ihe bride wore blue, and carried a bouquet of blue
lace-flowers and water-lilies. Her mother, in black
ergpe de Chine, gave her away. Hilda Chandler
’maided in Margot lace over eau-de-nil.
Mrs. J. J. Leahy gave a rose tea in honor of
Kathleen McDonnell. Bowls and silver and crystal
vases of multi-colored flowers and flat sprays of
roses, with rose-favors at the place of each guest,
weie the decorations. Mrs. Leahy was in black, her
hat trimmed with sapphire velvet and roses. The
guest had a bouquet of pink carnations in a silver
holder presented to her. She wore mah-jongg
georgette, and round her wide-leaved hat was a
wreath of shaded forget-me-nots.
Catherine, the clever daughter of barrister J. G.
McGregor, is our first home-grown woman lawyer.
She had previously graduated M.A. at Queensland Uni.
,Mre. T. J. Ryan had a party for Eva Lennon,
the Deputy-Governor’s daughter, who goes tripping to
China and Japan by the Tanda. Amidst howls of
Iceland poppies and swathes of maize tulle, tea
was served in the lounge at the Bellevue. Mrs.
Ryan wore dove grey, the guest of honor being in
a lioney-hued hat and a frock broidered in rose.
all d white dressed the reception-rooms for
Mis. A. G. Crawford’s dance in honor of bride-
elect Maicie McTiernan. The hostess wore opalescent
sequins over black, and the guest was in mauve.


JjARgY BRpTHER^IJB.
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Whether a ring from Hardy’s costs a few pounds
or many hundreds, the same care is taken in the
selection of the Gems and in the workmanship.
The settings are of Platinum, or Platinum and 18-
carat Gold, and none but high quality Gems are
used. The prices are strictly competitive, and will
bear the keenest comparison with other Rings of
similar quality.
A selection will be sent to any address on approval,
at the Company’s risk and expense.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will be sent post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
< die°bfoxi&& aPSzxiuswzVeweUay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JJ6-Jl5
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Books for Students,
Artists and Designers
ART IN AUSTRALIA, 3rd Series, No. 17 (Sept, 1926) 7/6 Postage-/3
SKETCHING & RENDERING IN PENCIL. H. L. Guptill 30/- „ 1/1
ADVERTISING AND BRITISH ART. W. Shaw Sparrow.. 40/- „ 1/4
THE ARTIST’S LONDON (as seen in 80 new drawings) 30/- „ 1/2
HIEROGLYPHIC, or Greek Method of Life Drawing 19/- „ -/9
STUDIES OF THE HUMAN FIGURE, by Ellwood & Yerbury 20/- „ -/9
HUMAN FORM AND ITS USE IN ART, by Ellwood and
Yerbury 22/6 „ -/10
THE HUMAN FIGURE, by J. H. Vauderpoel 20/- „ -/6
LIVING SCULPTURE, by Park, Gregory and Ellwood .... 26/- „ 1/1
DRAWING AND DESIGN FOR CRAFTSMEN, by 11. S.
Bowers 12/- „ -/ll
TECHNIQUE OF PRACTICAL DRAWING, by E. S.
Pilsworth 12/- „ -/5
HOW TO DRAW FOR THE PAPERS (A Guide for the
Young Artist) 3/6 „ -/4
ART OF DRAWING IN LEAD PENCIL, by J. Salwey .... 16/- „ -/7
ACADEMY ARCHITECTURE AND ARCHITECTURAL
REVIEW (1926) 13/6 „ -/8
PRACTICAL GRAPHIC "FIGURES, by E. G. Lutz 10/- „ -/6
PRACTICAL DRAWING, by E. G. Lutz 10/- „ -/6
PRACTICAL ART ANATOMY, by E. G. Lutz 10/- „ -/7
WAY TO SKETCH, by Vernon Blake 10/- „ -/6
DRAWING OFFICE PRACTICE. H. P. Ward 10/- „ -/6
MANUSCRIPT AND INSCRIPTION LETTERS (for Schools
and Classes and for the Use of Craftsmen) 9/- „ -/7
WILLIAM HOGARTH (Masters of Painting) 6/6 „ -/8
FRANK BRANGWYN (Modern Masters of Etching) 6/6 „ -/8
ROME, PAST AND PRESENT. Special Spring Studio
Number, 1926 10/- „ -,/9
DRAWINGS OF SIR E. J. POYNTER 7/6 „ -/10
SIX CENTURIES OF PAINTING. Randall Davies. (50
plates in color) . . 26/- „ 1/6
What to Draw and How to Draw It.
An Ideal Book for Beginners.
Price 4/6, Postage sd.
Another What to Draw and How to Draw It, 4/6, Postage 6d.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
V'i.
"Hr, //
V\ \\\
\ \
vm/Mv
7/.
f
////
, A
M
m
For Even
Tractor
'//
7 1
t f I
's
*
mijjjii iw
u
Mipmunj
«
a~2
/
IRPS
Si
I?
Kerosene is a power
fuel for tractors which
has been perfected by
Shell petroleum chemists in
co-operation with the world’s
recognised authorities on
internal combustion engines.
Being an exceptionally vola-
tile power kerosene, Cross
provides complete combus-
tion in tractor engines and
thus delivers the maximum
amount of power with low fuel
consumption and minimum
carbon deposit. Your tractor
will run better and deliver
its full power on CROSS.
CORRECT LUBRICATION
of tractors can only be provided by
an oil which holds its body under
extreme heat, and is capable of re-
sisting the diluting tendencies of
kerosene fuel.
SHELL TRACTOR OIL -B-
will successfully meet these vital
conditions in your tractor engine*
Sold by Storekeepers everywhere
POWER |
EROSEN
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO, LTD
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA £ HEW ZEALAND.


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.80, 5/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book earlv. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
The Convenience
of “ScottV*
In the heart of the city, with commanding views and convenient to
trains, trams, steamship wharves and all places of public interest,
“Scott’s” is ideal in location and ideal in the service it offers.
Hot- and cold-water service, and both direct and inter-communicating
telephones in all bedrooms.
Scott’s Lounge is Melbourne’s recognised social rendezvous.
Write for
Tariff Card.
Mtflfi
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams & Cables:
“Scott’s” Melbourne.
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
Ufie,
PATHEORAMA
7- Rested 7a Films 1.9 g<x.
Jjome Ebcneations t
388 George St, Sydney
[opp. Beard Watson's)
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne’s weather for most of last week
was what a sailor would call dirty, even if
he carried the matter no further. There
were torrents of rain and icy blasts in the
city, and snow at Buffalo. Flappers almost
tied their necks in knots endeavoring to see
whether the backs of their hose presented
the same mud-bespattered view to the world
as those of the girl just in front. Where-
fore, though the weather prophet made fail-
promises to Caulfield-goers, the timorous sex
weren’t prepared to bet on it, and in most
cases went out in raiment which had lost its
pristine bloom some months before. The
promised sun, however, shone bravely upon
green lawns and gay beds of flowers, and a
cool breeze fanned the lately foliaged elms
and oaks and wafted the perfume of lilies-
of-the-valley.
The Royal pew was empty, though a few
aides wandered on the lawn. With Mrs.
Alister Clark was the wife of Maorilaud’s
Heaton Rhodes, whose tallness effectively
displayed a black satin coat trimmed with
biscuit-hued fur and with a panelling of
Oriental fabric in front. A black liat gave
the finishing touch. The visitor had tea with
the womenfolk of the committee, Mrs. Walter
Clark and lier daughter, Mrs. J. J. Johnston,
being in the party. Mrs. Ben Cliaffey, in
frock of bois-de-rose crhpe de Chine inlet
with gunmetal-toned lace, and roses slipping
off the brim of lier hat, apprehensively
watched Manfred’s pranks at the barrier.
One of the few who defied the weather was
Mrs. Charlie Lyon, whose silk repp frock
and millinery were of the new burgundy
shade. The latest of coat-frocks of between
seasons was sported by Mrs. Harold Iliggall
—it was pearl grey of wrap-over mode with
a silk hat in shades of purple, and an am-
ethyst-colored bag to give a contrasting note.
The W. J. T. Clarkes’ daughter Wilma was
smartly tailored in a suit of pale cedarwood
cloth. Betty Trencliard wore a black brim-
less hat that was tilted at the back and
lined with cornflower-blue crin. straw; her
black gown had also a cerulean touch. Some
lovely furs gave an air of opulence to the
wintriest-clad section of the big crowd.
About 30 of the visiting British school-
boys jazzed with the younger set at the
Embassy, the affair being arranged by the
English-Speaking Union; Mrs. Richard
Gipps, in drapery of Wedgwood-blue geor-
gette and brocade sprinkled with pink rose-
buds, was the chief engineer. Marie Mac-
kinnon, daughter of tlie E.-S.U. president, in
soft black raiment, and Mrs. Clapp, who
sparkled in gold and crystal upon a dawn-
pink background, were towers of strength.
Some cadets of the British Mercantile
Marine ' were also brought along. Captain
Woolley, V.C., the slim, youthful-looking
leader of the expedition, took his charges
away half an hour before midnight. They
were due to rise early in the morning for a
trip to Ballarat. Mrs. Rogers Thomson
brought daughter Kathleen, a dainty maiden
in green; Mrs. Neil Lawrance, one of the
hostesses, had her lass wearing a gold lame
corsage blending into a full skirt of pale-
blue taffetas. Patty Smith’s dark plaits
dangled over a frock of gold lace and tissue.
•The Van Cooth couple, Dr. and Mrs. T. R.
Plante, the Richard Lintons, Lesley Mer-
rick, Valerie Purves and Elaine Linton were
also in evidence. Secretary Richard Gipps
was there casting an eye or two around.
The latest gathering of the clans at the
Windsor brought forth scores of Scots,
accompanied by their guid wives. Dr. Norman
Mac Lean and Mrs. Mac Lean were the
guests of honor. Dr. Mac Lean, who had
lived for some years at the manse at Colinton,
where R. L. Stevenson spent his childhood
days, described, with humor and pathos, the
early life of the great Scottish novelist. Dr.
Gilruth, president of the Scottish Society,
with Mrs. Gilruth, who wore a filmy frock
of dull gold lace, bade the guests come ben,
and Ella Riddell’s contralto notes were heard
in Caledonian melodies. Mrs. Mac Lean —
she must have been an awfu’ bonnie lass in
her day—is still tall and graceful and has
the freshest of pink-and-white complexions
and fluffy white hair.
The Repertory Society staged “Twelfth
Night” very effectively and pleasantly, con-
sidering the slenderness of its finances. The
scenery and costumes suited each other.
Many of the dresses were fashioned by the
producer, Irene Webb, and lxon.-secretary
Mrs. Seitz, assisted by Marjorie Service and
Laurence Krome. Olivia’s grey satin gown,
with its pearl embroidered front and Juliet
cap, worn by Ruby May, and Maria’s hooped
apparel of hyacinth mauve, sported by the
vivacious Edith Bell, were the only ones that
were professionally built outside. Judging
from the reception given by the large audi-
ence at the Playhouse on the first night,
and the persistent (but answered) calls for
the producer, there were not many dis-
appointed folk present. Flowers were handed
up in billows. The Belgian Consul and his
wife, Arthur Robinson’s lady and daughter
Nan, Carrie Haase (her flame-hued shawl
and golden bandeau gladdening the stalls),
Dr. Ramsay Webb and his wife (justly
proud of daughter Irene’s efforts as pro-
ducer), the Felix Meyers and the Norman
Simpson couple were first-nighters. For
Monday night’s performance of the play the
whole theatre was taken by the schools.
Nan McClelland, who can turn a sonnet
as deftly as sue can bake a cake, and her
brother Harry, the artist, bade a number
of kindred spirits to sup and dance at their
home at Flemington as a farewell to Clare
Scott, who sailed to Europe this week. Mrs,
McClelland helped with the entertaining. The
honored lass, a well-known black-and-white
artist, who graduated from the National
Gallery, goes for further study abroad. The
McClelland studio is a charming place, like
an old farmhouse kitchen, with rafters
swathed in bark, and a ham, a string of
dried herrings and other provender dangling
down. A big fireplace with a real log, over
which the sprats for the Bohemian supper
are heated, sends flickers over draperies,
casts and canvases.
In a soft gown of pale grey, Mrs. Rupert
de Burgli Ker, the Phyllis Lett of the
British concert stage, entertained friends old
and new at lier Brighton home the other
afternoon. She sang, and her fine contralto
voice created a deep impression. Miss
Maud Burdett, a cousin of the Baroness
Burdett Coutts, a very old friend of the
hostess, who is a visitor from England,
assisted in entertaining. Maurice Besly, the
English composer who is here as examiner
for the Associated Board of the R.C.M. and
R.A.M., was present. Elsie Fraser played
the accompaniments for the hostess admir-
ably. Mrs. Ker will probably be heard in
public early next year.
Mr. Speaker Groom’s lady and daughter,
bound for Toowoomba as a sort of stepping-
stone to exile in Canberra, had to sit down
to many a farewell cup of tea. Prof. Harrison
Moore’s wife was one of the last to spread
the cloth. She gave a luncheon at the
Lyceum that was attended by well-nigh every
handled dame in Melbourne. Social repre-
sentatives of the press were guests of the
Grooms one afternoon, and daughter Jessie
was a guest of honor at a tennis party at
the Robert McDonalds’ home at Toorak, at
which Meg McDonald was hostess.
An 0.8. E. came to this philanthropist
when George Windsor was handing out
baubles lately.
She is the
wife of John
Mills, whose
pastu r a g e,
P o wefscourt,
is the show-
place of the
Malf r a dis-
t r i c t. The
lady, who is
pictured by
the Dickinson-
Monteath
studio, puts in
a lot of time
visiting mili-
tary hospitals
and convales-
cent homes,
and it’s no
new enthusi-
a s m either.
She started
mothering the
Yic. Digger when he first marched to Broad-
meadows as a raw recruit, and followed him
through the war years with comforts and
letters. She provides many parcels for sol-
diers in hospital, and takes concert parties
along to entertain them. She is a life gov-
ernor of four hospitals.
The J. L. Carnegie home at Kew held a
ceremonial welcome-home for Mrs. David
Carnegie and her daughters, Dr. Elvie,
Muriel and Dorothy, who have been doing
the Continent and Britain. A string band,
a palmist, tea and cakes and the glory of
the garden scattered lavishly around were
features of the affair. Dr. Elvie Carnegie,
who is a graduate of Melbourne Uni., was
in the limelight, since she was wearing a
token from Captain H. D. T. Morris, of the
Royal Welsh Fusiliers.
The Bulletin’s old Melbourne law-
adviser and friend, Joe Woolf, has just had
the most reposeful few weeks of his life.
While bringing him back from Lome, his
car skidded and got into an argument with
a heap of road metal; and, the place being
remote, hours that seemed centuries passed
before Mr. Woolf was released from the over-
turned vehicle. His condition was such that
removal to Melbourne was said to be out of
the question, and he was taken into hospital
in Geelong. There he spent the reposeful
weeks above-mentioned before he was handed
back to his beloved wattles and roses at Can-
terbury ; and he is now able to wander un-
aided among them.
The Ernest Walters and small daughter
Cherry are back after a holiday in the Fog
and a trip or two to Paris to buy frocks
for the races. They’re staying at Mandalay,
St. Kilda, trying to make up their minds
about selling the ancestral halls at Brighton,
Though Carrie Haase has not been able
to discover a room above a poetry-book shop
such as that wherein London laureates read
verses to an admiring circle, Melbourne is
to have a weekly reading hour. The club-
room of the Old Collegians of the P.L.C..
in the Auditorium, will have to suffice until
the ideal place is found, and every Thursday
afternoon Miss Haase will speak poetry.
Rupert Brooke is programmed for the open-
ing gathering, and Shelley for the follow-
ing week.
From the Ruth Hollick studio comes this
picture of a clever metal-worker of the Arts
and Crafts
Society, best-
known as Kit
Turner, though
she is the wife
of Alfred
Dunstan, who
follows the
same bent.
Their com-
bined studio
was an inter-
esting spot in
the city, but
lately they
have removed
their appara-
tus to the
dwelling they
have built at
Bays water,
which bears
the title of
Craft House.
Hand-wrought
articles in copper, brass, silver and other
metals, particularly those used for ecclesias-
tical purposes, are among their chief pro-
ducts* The lady had some attractive tea-
spoons of silver, with handles inset with
wattle enamel, among her exhibits at the
latest annual show of the Arts and Crafts
Society.
Mollie Chirnside, daughter of Percy, has
got through her educational polishing abroad
and rejoined her family in London. There’s
no talk of a move home yet, for Mollie is
to be presented at the next Court.
Mrs. Jack McLaren, who is a daughter
of the late Notley Moore, P.M., lias pub-
lished a book in London —“Which Hath
Been,” which hath been favorably received.
Her husband, of course, has a long list to
his credit.
The lights of St. John’s, East Malvern,
twinkled in a flower-laden atmosphere when
Evelyn Georgina Patricia (Pat) Barker ex-
changed promises with Loris Gromann, whose
family lives at Mansfield. The bridal gown was
a cloud of white georgette strewn with chenille
designs and sprays of orange blossoms. Both
the train and the veil, confined with a
circlet, were of Limerick lace, and had a
long family history. A fairy mite in a froth
of daisy-sprinkled georgette gravely clung
to the train. She was Bernice Radford, a
niece of the bride. Nancy Sexton, in a
cyclamen georgette gown and a jewelled hair-
band, attended, and Mrs. L. L. Smith, inside
a warm shade of silken rust and a wide black
hat, was a matron of honor. A reception
was held later at Hazelmere, East St. Kilda.
There was a strong medical flavor about
the gathering at Scots’ Church when Mrs.
Anne Jane McDonald, of Fernhill, Tumut,
N.S.W., took her second plunge into matri-
mony with Dr. Basil Milne Sutherland,
Caithness, Moonee Ponds. The bride wore
a coat of chalk-white marocain with a collar
of white-fox ornamented with tiers of tiny
frills over a white satin gown edged with
fringe, and her black hair was confined with
a jewelled band. A small posy of blossom
blushed in shades of pink. The bridegroom’s
sister Jessie attended her in a beaded geor-
gette frock of flesh pink and hat to match.
Joan Millicent, Dr. and Mrs. A. N. Mc-
Arthur's eldest girl, has accepted a ring from
a young man in her own suburb, the A. S.
Austins’ youngest, Geoffrey.
Amongst the many who have succumbed
to the charm of life on the Riviera is Mrs
Mendelssohn Pickles of this city, who has
bought a fairy villa at Monte Carlo, with
the idea of spending there the major portion
of each year.
A recent visitor to the Apple Isle has re-
turned with this story, but, of course, nobody
believes it. He says he was a fellow-passen-
ger in one of Hobart’s trams with a smart
miss in very short skirts. Opposite to her
sat a male only too obviously fascinated by
the display of silk-clad knees. Quite care-
lessly and seemingly unconsciously the sKiit
was raised higher and higher, until, to the
gaze of the starer, Avas revealed the word
“Stickybeak,” ever so clearly embroidered
upon the maiden's garters* Just as leisutel.v
the curtain fell again, so to speak. It doesn t
sound like Hobart.
When the “Cottage by the Sea” of the
Ministering Children’s League sent out an
SOS for financial aid, the call was heard by
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, who organised a matinee
performance at the Playhouse and enlisted
Clive Carey of Adelaide University Con. as
her principal abettor. Lady Somers, a study
in clierry-red, smiled approval from a box-
accompanied by Brinckman, A.D.G., Mrs.
Archibald Black and Helen Wallace*
Twelve pianists, four violinists and four
songbirds from the Uni. Con. kept the air
vibrating for two and a half hours at the
Assembly Hall on a recent evening. There
was too much of it, notwithstanding that the
eighteen lassies and the two lonely youths
who constituted the company all gave _a
fairly good account of themselves. Marjorie
Schmitt, whose auburn tresses, plaited in
Dutch mode, hung upon her apple-green
frock, got the Mozart-Kreisler “Rondo” off
her fiddle with plenty of life. Leo Chase
was another violinist who did remarkably
good work, and among the pianists extra
talent was shown by Mona Nugent, Marshall
Sumner, Joyce Denniston, Thelma Marie
and Freda Mauners-Sutton. Of the warb-
lers Jessie Clarke’s light soprano was well
suited in the sparkling freshness of songs
by Grieg. Individual teachers at the Con.
are now planning special performances of
their pupils, and the first of these will be
given by Edward Goll’s pianoforte students
on October 20.
The Speck’s capital amuses itself queerly:
The “House Full” sign was hung out at the Moonah
Theatre long before the appointed time for crowning
Nurse Pitt Hammond Queen of the Ugly Women.
Mayor Rogers, who had to place the diadem oh the
royal brow, said nice things about the five noble
women who, for charity's sake, strove for the distinc-
tion of being declared Hobart’s ugliest. Nearly
£lOO went to the funds of the Child Welfare Asso-
ciation as a result of the jest.
Sister Adelaide’s recollections *—
The Governor, who can handle a brush himself,
gave his benediction to the opening of the Society
of Arts Exhibition, with a special plea for intro-
ducing the cult of the beautiful to the schools r.i.d
a hint that a first step ought to be the scrapping of
some of the pictures that now disfigure schoolroom
walls. The Melrose prize for portraiture goes to
John Wilson for a sculptured bust of an abo., and
the most noteworthy exhibits from the other States
are by Syd Long, B. E. Minns and Dora Wilson.
Marjorie Bonnin, the Eurhythmic Association’s
protegee who went Londonwards to study the methods
of Jacques Dalcroze at first hand, has annexed her
aural diploma at the Royal Academy of Music, and
hopes to have the Dalcroze certificate by the time
she returns next year.
The weather has played Show revellers some scurvy
tricks, beginning with the Amateur Turf Club’s
meeting at Cheltenham, Avhen lovely woman was
again driven to the warm shelter of hard-worn
tweeds. Mrs. Whitmore Carr, who hostessed the
committee’s luncheon and the tea, topped cinnamon
marocain with a golden hat, and one of the most
attractive frocks worn by the youngest set was of
cinnamon, too. Lady Bridges was in mauve beige
•with sables about her neck, and a younger matron
was tall and smart in rose kasha. But for the most-
part tweeds and sombre-hued coats held undisputed
sway—a dull business for October.
Thanks to the good drainage and the huge pavilions
of the new Show Ground, the crowd there has
escaped both drowning and bogging—which is more
than can be said for unoffending householders down
Lockleys way, -who’ve had 3ft. of flood waters piled
about their doorsteps. The S.P.C.A. chose Show
Week for its big appeal to the public, culminating
in a mask and fancy-dress ball at the Town Hall,
to which the mayoral Bruces lent willing and
energetic aid. Under the wand of Mrs. Harcus the
hall blossomed as a most convincing rhododendron
garden. There were lotus flowers, too, overflowing
from a huge basket in the centre of the ceiling and
masking the front of the stage, whence sprouted
a Japanese magnolia in full bloom. Mrs. Lavington
Bonython had the supper-tables all a-blow with
lilac and roses, columbines and carnations and any-
thing else that ran to purples and inauves and pinks,
and a novelty stall on the outer landing sold any-
thing from masks and false noses to toys of amazing
noise and shape. The Hunt Club arrayed itself in
pink to dance a set of lancers, and Miss Nora
Stew'art’s pupils- provided a neat-footed interlude or
two. Judges were Lady Bridges, Mrs. W. B. Carr
and Mrs. H. H. Dutton—the last-mentioned a regal
and mediaeval figure in jewelled gold tissue with
a filmy blue-green veil falling from her crown—
and their eye fell with chief approval on Nancy
Rymill and John Goodman as Gaby dolls and on
Jack Bagot as a sheik.
The Conservatorium has had a busy week—a
couple of “welcome homes” for Mr. Bevan (one run
by the Conservatorium Association and the other
by his students) and a song recital by Clive Carey’s
pupils. At the Bevan reception Mr. Reimann spoke
out of a friendship that dates back to ’9B, when Mr.
Bevan first came to Adelaide and Mr. Reimann was
his accompanist at his first concert in this village.


_
MjPjll -
■■;■■;.■■ . ■
1 MWH
» U > -‘~ V. ■: :
m 4
aiillP®*
I
mBBM
m
am ■.
■
MM
■ a
Hni M
Pearl Necklaces
of Fine Quality
The firm are specialists in
Pearls. Included in their
selection of Pearl Neck-
laces are some that can-
not adequately be de-
scribed. They must of
necessity be viewed to be
thoroughly appreciated.
Attention is especially
directed to a string of per-
fectly round, beautiful
gems, with a slightly pink
tint, particularly meriting
inspection. Others of
choice quality and grading
are equally deserving of
note, while some truly
magnificent strings will
arrive almost immediately,
to be added to the present
selection. The firm extend
an invitation to view this
singularly fine display.
A Selection of Loose Round Pearls is always maintained for
adding to customers’ own Necklaces.
W? ©rum mon6&G?
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS,
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ďf
Recording North
American Indian
message on a
buffalo shoulder
blade.
The American
Indian’s communi-
cations often consisted
of messages pains-
takingly scratched on
buffalo bones. Rath-
er irksome when com-
pared with an Ever-
sharp —particularly
irksome if one had
to carry a supply of
buffalo bones!
Eversharp is such a
convenient and beau-
tiful writing instru-
ment that every
grown person and
most children
should have one*
There is only one
mrmsHAßp
The name is on the pencil
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York, N. Y., U. S. A-
Sole Wholesale Distributors fot
Australia
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd*
Remington House, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE
m.
Silverplated Tea and Coffee Service, Handsomely Engraved,
£lO.
SENT POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS specialises in all
PRESENTATION TROPHIES, SPORTS CUPS. SHIELDS. MEDALS,
etc.
Special prices quoted for quantities to Schools, Clubs and other
Sporting Bodies on application. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Capstan Lathes, Hexagon
Turret Lathes and Combina-
tion Turret Lathes in stock.
The fastest Machines for producing work from
Bar, Blanks, Forgings or Castings.
Send your drawings or sample job to us for our
suggestions as to the best method of handling.
We give and carry out —
guaranteed times of production.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Ltd.
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
CitvToi e O9.TonO. Telegrams: LATHE.


nc
amid a changing world
for nearly 150 years —l
ESPITE the world-wide changes of the last 150 year3*
*—* there is one phase of human activity on which the
Hand of Time has touched but lightly. At the BoW Street
Distillery, Dublin, since 1 780 there has been produced under
the supervision of the one family for three generations a
product which has never varied in quality Or character.
John Jameson Whiskey is the same to-day as in the days of
Grattan s Irish Parliament, for even modern science finds it
impossible to improve on perfection. The qualities which
won the approval of generations of connoisseurs are essentially
the same as those which have earned for “J.J.” Whiskey the
high place in public favor which it occupies to-day.
“J.J”
WHISKEY is all genuine
whiskey containing no adul-
teration, its bouquet and flavor being the
natural attributes of the whiskey itself.
MiMX
1784
Firsl Baloon Ascent
P ft&L
£
rs-
'j*,.
79?
Revolution
uu
• 807
rn/ta
II
u*
aijfe
t fi
&
• 825
Fnsl Rail,
m
r:
r?
V '7^:
Mj
1833
Slavery
Abolished
\ N •• \ V 3
s:
1919
/?OJS Sm ill's
World Flitjhh'
■jdjS
W,
18-5 S
Bessemer Steel
"’em modm Jo...— ——
gipV; —H.s-Majesry Theming
Invented
JAMES
m ited
1877 \
Telephone Invented
°lO
f #Lr,
Stefan
flitl
A.D »
m
D'STm , r r-., .—=
L L£RKDUBUN
til
1920
Liaque of Nations
Assembled
/V
QAI
v/sYs'
©
: L h U
-au
/«
K 2
E-3
■>
it
m
/ns
ysst
1922
Irish Free Stale
Inaugurated^/
JOHN
JAM E SON
DUBLIN
WHISKEY
excellent and unchanged since 1780
B. SEPPETjT & SONS, LTD.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Sydney, N.S.W.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., Brisbane. Q.
MILNE & CO., Perth, W V.
MILNE & CO., Adelaide, S.A,


artanOn J
The Whisky for Connoisseurs,
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE &, STOUT
Western Australian Distributor*: BURNS, PHILP ® CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTUNG
NOTIONS
Having done well on the track since his
arrival in Melbourne, Rampion looked a racecourse
certainty for the 45th Caulfield Guineas, and the
A..J.C. Derby winner did not disappoint. A little
evens was laid, but most of the big money was
placed at 6 to 4 on, and at tho end McShortodds
wanted 6 to 4. Epilogue was second favorite at 0
to 1 against, and there were inquiries for Raron,
who looked particularly well, at 8 to 1, but few
wanted any of the other ten. The start was a good
one, and Cracknell immediately took Rampion to
the front. Galloping smoothly, the Rossendale colt
led down the railway side from Cyden, Epilogue,
Raron and Thracian; turned for home three lengths
clear of Epilogue, with Raron and Thracian handy;
and won very easily by three lengths from Heroic’s
brother Thracian (33 to 1), with Epilogue two
lengths away and Raron a fair fourth. Rampion
covered the mile in lmin. 4Of sec., and could
have improved considerably on that. Melbourne was
greatly impressed with his appearance and style
of galloping.
Manfred had only three opponents for the Caulfield
Stakes, and it was 6 to 1 The Banker, 15 to 1 Royal
Charter and Spearer. Punters who laid 7 to 2 on
Ben Chaffey’s beautiful horse had a few thrills, for
he was disinclined to go on the track and, that
obstacle overcome, was restless at the machine.
When the gate lifted he jumped a little to one side,
hut, losing no ground to speak of, was soon in
front and clear of the field. He came into the
straight three lengths in front of Royal Charter, who
momentarily looked like making a race of it;
however, Lewis shook his whip at the aristocratic
bay, who, going on, won in great style by a couple
of lengths, the Comedy King gelding being a length
and a half ahead of The Banker, who finished well,
while Spearer was a neck away. Manfred ran the
nine furlongs in lmin. 53|sec.
There were 18 starters for tho Debutant Stakes,
and most of the youngsters had backing. Lonicera,
who had run second in the fillies’ division at
Flemington, was favorite at 4 to 1, with her con-
queror, Ann of Avon, next at 5 to 1 and Bust on and
Querida at 7to 1. The race proved as good a thing
for Euston as was his sex’s division of the Mari-
brynong Trial; he led all the way and won by two
lengths from Querida, who was a neck in front of
Ann of Avon. Jones rode the winner, who, despite
his 101 b. penalty, covered the half-mile in 48sec.
By Cooltrim—Royal Fairy, the speedy fellow is owned
by A. J. Levin, a bookmaker, and trained by F.
Godby.
Practically everything was backed in the Toorak
Handicap, for which there were 17 acceptors.
Imported Gothic was favorite at 7 to 1, with Ben
Lomond, Perspective and Comus at 8 to 1, Palelight,
Ataman and Cimon at 10 to 1, and Abdera at two
points longer. Ben Lomond w'as the early leader;
at the half-mile he w r as just in front of Metellus,
Gothic and Abdera, and he still had a lead at the
home turn. In the straight, however, Gothic headed
him, only to be passed in his turn by Abdera, who
put in a dazzling run and beat Sol Green's horse by
a couple of lengths, with Ben Lomond a good third
and Homerus (12 to 1) a fast-finishing fourth.
Abdera, an aged mare by Cooltrim —Lady Abdy,
left the mile behind in lmin. 40sec. She is owned
by J. P. Cox, trained by O. R. Cox, and was ridden
by O’Sullivan. Her success was relished by McShort-
odds, who had started with a skinner, supplied by
Redshank (25 to 1, nominal) in the 1010 Welter.
Manfred (9st. 61b.) has demoralised the betting
on the Caulfield Cup, and it isn’t easy to see how
he is going to be beaten, unless he beats himself.
He is probably the best horse in the Commonwealth
to-day, and Australia has rarely seen a better. How-
ever, Royal Charter (Bst. 111 b.), The Banker (Bst
131 b.), Spearer (Bst. 71b.), Batteryman (Bst. 31b.)
and Kaos (7st.) are not to be despised. This Page
expects Manfred to win, with Royal Charter next
best, and Kaos looks a fair place bet at the price.
* * * *
The Randwiek round, which closed on
Saturday, revealed that the three-year-olds are above
the average this season. Rampion and Limerick
were the outstanding pair, but Calmest, Lady Con-
stance, Battlement, Greenhorn, Reonui, Raron, Arie-
don and Royal Tea are all good, and Tangible, a
brother to Lilypond, showed distinct promise, though
a bit green. Calmest, after winning the Shorts in
open company, ran second to Ariedon in the Chester
Handicap, also for all ages, with lOst. 41b. up —-
quite the best performance of the four days among
the six-furlong sprinters. Battlement atoned for
previous disappointments by winning the Members’
Handicap, 10 furlongs, on the third day, and the
Waverley Handicap, 14 furlongs, on the last; in the
latter race, going out at 8 to 1, he defeated Johnnie
Jones and other seasoned stayers in the excellent time
of 2min. 59sec. If his party is not too hard on
him (he has done a power of racing since he came
to Sydney) he may turn out as good as his brother
The Cypher. His two successes enabled J. F.
Buchanan to collect £l5BB at the A.J.C. office. An-
other man who scored twice with one horse was the
Sydney punter Moss, whose big Valais —Galtee Queen
chestnut, Vaals (Kensington and Pinal Handicaps),
proved himself much better at four years than he
was at three.
Weight-for-age form was in-and-out. Windbag,
after going under rather softly to Spearfelt in the
Spring Stakes, 12 furlongs, defeated Limerick, Vali-
care and Amounis in the Craven Plate, 10 furlongs.
He mightn’t have won had Limerick been a bit
better ridden; all the same, it was a sterling per-
formance. Unfortunately the champion hurt a fet-
lock joint, with the result that he is not to run in
AS ONE TO ANOTHER.
ARTIST (third lap) : “1 always back Windbag, sir, when I go to Randwick, I back
Windbag on principle, sir.”
VICTIM ( fed-up) :"Notarally.”
the Melbourne Cup; and perhaps the last has been
seen of him on the racecourse, as he will be increas-
higly difficult to train. Pantheon, who was third in
the Spring Stakes with Valamita made a one-horse
race of the Randwick Plate, Rapine (last in the
Spring Stakes) being second, Spearfelt, who dwelt
a t the barrier, third, and Valamita last. No doubt,
pike made a difference to Pantheon, who is too
much of a handful for Cracknell but was kept well
under control by the great Jimmv. The handsome
SO n of Tracery—Scotch Rose ran‘the two miles in
Smin. 23fsec., and a horse that can do that with
9st. 71b. at Randwick must have a great chance in
the Melbourne Cup with 9st. 31b.
......
Of the £52,903 distributed by the A.J.C., J. E.
and C. H. Brien, owners of Rampion and Pantheon,
gathered in £lO,OBl ; and Williams, their trainer
(he was first on the list), earned £2042 on his
own account, thanks to Beckwith’s victory in the
Breeders’ Plate. All the bookmakers were struck by
the Amounis-Star Stranger double, but they must
have shown a profit on their course operations—in
fact, they rarely lose at Randwick. Attendances
were greater than at the corresponding meeting last
year, and the totalisator returns were just on
£300,000, an increase of £24,000. The advance
would have been much greater had the club pro-
vided straightout and place machines instead of the
60-20-20 implement from which approximately 13
p.c. is deducted—the division is unsatisfactory, and
the deduction (for which, of course, the Govern-
ment is chiefly to blame) is excessive. One very
agreeable feature of Randwick is the music. For
27 years it has been provided on the grandstand
lawn by De Groen’s band, of which James A. Arcus
has been conductor since his old chief heard the
call seven years ago.
* * * *
“Rnrralong” : I have had starting-price
bets with all manner of men, bush and city, but
the quaintest of the lot—and the most honest, by
the way—was a chap who made a book on a field
where there was a scattered working population of
about 2000, camped all over the ranges in tents
and bark humpies. Smithy drove a horse and dray
on wages, for a daily eight hours, and picked up
his customers here, there and everywhere. He
usually carried with him a roll of £lOO, and
paid out on winners as he chanced to meet clients
in various parts of the bush. One night, driving
a sulky to the nearest town, six miles from the big
camp, I passed a speeding horseman. Presently
there was the sound of hoofbeats behind me. It
was Smithy, who had recognised my dial in the
starlight. He overtook me and leaned over the
side of my turnout. “’Ere’s the quid you dror on
’Eroic,” he yelled, cramming the note into my hand,
and was gone again into the darkness.
Billy Edwards, the young Newcastle
middleweight, was thoroughly tested at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night as to his ability to
stand punishment and repay it with interest. He
had plentifully demonstrated his hitting and boxing
powers; it is now clear that he can “take it” -with-
out flinching, Opposed to a stiff puncher in
Ivan Laflineur (list. 21b.), Edwards (list. 61b.)
made the fight from the first bell, and won the
opening round so w r ell that the Frenchman sat
down with a gory nose and mouth and a worried
look. Second, third and fourth were also Edwards’s,
but the visitor fought briskly in the fifth and came
out even. His right leads, though unorthodox, were
always dangerous, aiid he landed a number to the
side of the head, punches that would have made
many an older man give ground and slacken in
attack. Not so Billy, who kept slinging in terrific
left and right punches, and in the seventh knocked
his man down in the French corner. Ivan was all
but out at the bell. Edwards took a pull in the
eighth and ninth, but near the end of the latter
round weakened the French lad with a right rib-
roaster. Maguire, having noticed that punch, sent
Billy in at the start of the tenth. Laflineur endured
a tornado of blows to both sides of the head, and
retreated, but a right to the mark that could have
been heard in the park across the road doubled
the Frenchman up and dropped him gasping. He
rose drunkenly at nine seconds, but a left and right
to the jaw sent him down again and Wallis signed
for hostilities to cease. Edwards was favorite at
2 to 1 on.
Threats that Mike Yokel (12st. 9*lb.)
and Billy Afeeske (12st. 1211 b.) would make things
extra willing swelled the offertory at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night, and they certainly pro-
vided an animated act. William forced the little
American to suffer more painful holds than
usually come his way, but Mike got a lot of his own
back when he obliged Bill to surrender in the
third round per medium of a toehold. In
the fifth, Billy sent the house into ■ raptures by
equalling the score with a reverse headlock, the
enthusiasm continuing during the interval. But
while his supporters were still loudly heralding a
victory for the Australian, Mike threw him out of
the ring with such violence that he could not con-
tinue. Referee Bridges declared for Mike, who
received the decision, the hoots of the crowd and
his share of the purse with his> customary sangfroid.
Not since the war have there been so
many vacancies in the N. S. Wales XI as will have
to be filled this season. Ivelleway says he has re-
tired ; Mailey announced before leaving Sydney that
the English tour would be his farewell to repre-
sentative cricket ; and it is expected that racing
interests will claim Collins in future. Taylor,
Gregory and Bardsley are also doubtful starters.
Two men who are battling strongly for places are
Nicholls, the Cumberland fast bowler, and Scanes,
of St. George. As a raw country lad Nicholls was
given a chance against Queensland last year, and the
critics thought little of him; but for Cumberland
v. Marrickville on Saturday he took 6 for 17 on a
good wicket. And Scanes, hitherto known as a
polished batsman who gets heaps of runs in club
cricket, has suddenly come out as a bowler; for St.
George v. Balmain (who made 334 against 331), he
took 5 for 26 with tricky right-hand stuff. It is
pretty safe to wager that both men will go into
the XI.
“Wang”: For years the Melbourne
Cricket Ground sported two huge scoring-boards,
one on the Richmond Park side and the other at the
railway end. This latter board has been dismantled
to make room for a large open grandstand, and
it will be sadly missed by impecunious enthusiasts.
W henever a big match was on, hundreds of men
and lads collected in groups outside wherever a clear
view of the scoring-board at the far end could be
obtained. Though they could not see the play, they
could follow the progress of the game by watching
the board. .Now all they can see is a wilderness of
seats, and where entrancing figures were once visible
there will be other figures whose yells and actions will
convey nothing to dead-game sports on the outer.
* * * *
‘'Oxmead”: An English team of cricketers
left for India last month; another will descend on
the Argentine about Christmas time, and possibly
cross the Andes into Chile before returning. A. IC.
Gilligan captains the first, which includes some
leading professionals in Tate, Astill, Sandham and all-
rounder Brown (Hampshire) ; also Earle, the hard-hit-
ting Somerset amateur. The 52-year old Warner leads
the expedition to South America; this will be entirely
an amateur side. Mann, the Middlesex captain, G.
O. Allen, Carr, who led England in the first four
Tests, and White, the Somerset slow bowler, are
the pick of the bunch.
There is a lot of human nature in Mel-
bourne Inman’s suggestions for giving the public
relief from monotonous breaks in professional billiard
matches. Inman wants the size of the pockets
reduced, and other changes which never occurred to
him when he was champion himself and the most
tedious scorer of them all. The average billiard
player finds the pockets quite small enough as it
is, and will regard Inman’s conversion in much the
same light as that of the lady with a past who,
realising she had grown old and ugly, resolved to
live a godly life.
The Dunlop road race from Warrnambool
to Melbourne was won by I.es Einsiedel (48min.), a
20-year-old farmer from the Koo-wee-rup district,
after a great finish with D. J. Anderson (Fairfield) ;
only inches separated them, and thev had been
riding together in the lead for many miles. A.
G. Tamme (43min.) was only three lengths behind
Anderson. Opperman, the Malvern crack, who came
in tenth, plucked the fastest-time trophies, doing
the 1(55 miles in 7hr. 3Gmin. lOsec. on roads which
would have made the late Macadam weep into his
pintpot; and next in order of speed came Smith,
the Westralian, who was also on the scratch mark.
There were 154 starters, whereas IG2 turned out for
the amateur race from Colac to Melbourne. In that
event T. H. Marshall (13min.) a sturdy Queens-
lander, struck the double, first and fastest time; he
plugged over the 100 miles of highways, real or
alleged, in 4hr. 19min. 45sec.
The latest lawn-tennis grading list, the
work of English authority Wallace Myers, has pulled
down a few of the mighty. France tops the poll with
Lacoste, Borotra and Cochet; then comes the U.S.A.
with Johnston. Tilden and Richards (now a “pro.”) ;
then Japan (Harada) and Spain (Alonzo). No Aus
tralians are included, since none have shown at
Wimbledon or in the U.S.A. this year. On his pre-
sent form, it looks as if J. O. Anderson would have
been high on the list but for that. Of the women.
Lenglen is followed home bv Sirs. Godfree, of England :
the also-rans include Alvarez (Spain), Mrs. Mal-
lory and Misses Ryan and M. K. Browne (U.S.A.).
Helen Wills dropped out through illness, and no
Australian woman player receives even passing men-
tion.
* * * *
The Vic. League football season finished
on Saturday in a blaze of sunshine, and before
59,362 spectators, the “gate” being £3007 8s. —
£122 less than the record, last year. Like most
important games, it was disappointing, in that the
skill was largely on one side. The Melbourne
“Fuchsias” were faster, quicker at handling and
better markers; also, their system of exchanges
between the forwards was brilliant and productive
of many goals. Wittmann, Johnson, Duff and Moyes
were the star artists, and the Collingwood Magpies
could not stop them, though Warne-Smith, their
great centre, was beaten by ’Wood’s centre, Beve-
ridge—his first League season. At the end the
scores were: Melbourne, 17 goals 17 behinds; ’Wood,
9 goals 8 behinds. In the last quarter Gordon Coven-
try, of ’Mood, kicked his second goal for the day
and so raised his season’s tally to 83, one better
than Jack Moriarty’s record of 1924. The Red
Legs have of late played strong and bright football
and deserve their premiership, (heir first since 1900
and their second since the League was born in
1897.
“Wang”: Noticed a couple of enterprising boys
at the football final. One was stationed, with a
can of saveloys and a basket of rolls, on the outside
of one of the grandstands, where it abuts on to the
park; the other was perched on top of the rear
portion of the stand, with a long piece of stout string
in his hand. The youth below explained: “Y’see,
mister, a lot of th’ chaps* rush t’ th’ ground -without
their dinner. When they begin t’ get peckish, Bill,
up there, takes their orders an’ their money, an’ I
do my bit down here. We’re just about sold out
now.” Ho grabbed the lowered string and tied
a bundle of savs. and rolls to it, and Bill pulled
them up. “We’ll have a coupler other chaps on th’
job next, year if we ain’t stopped,” lie concluded.
, * * * *
‘'Shrewsbury” : Australian Soccer autho-
rities have outdistanced other codes in arranging
tours from overseas teams as special attractions;
in the past five years they have brought sides from
M.L., Canada, China and England. It is now pro-
posed to fetch a team from either India or Czecho-
slovakia next season. The Czechs are considered
a hot crowd in Europe, where they have done well
at Olympiads. India, much closer to Australia,
produces native Soccer players of high class ; indeed
a really good Indian team would probably show
better form than the third-rate British side* which
had an unbeaten record in Australia. Caste observ-
ances, with special foods, accommodation and the
like, may give extra trouble, but costs will probablv
be lower than those for a “Sahib” team, as was
proved in the case of the Indian hockey players
* * *
Victorian riflemen, who generally do well
at the Port Adelaide ranges, won the Commonwealth
match there -with the record score of 1775 to
Westralia’s 1767 ; Tasmania was third, and N.S.W.
fourth. The previous best aggregate was 1751
made by South Australia at Perth in 1921. Arm-’
strong, for the winners, got 189, which is also a
record; he was the team’s coach, and shot only
because of the illness of' another man. The King’s
Prize went to Care (Westralia), with Duncan (Q )
second and McEwin (S.A.) third.
NOTHING TO SAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Kelleway, who accompanied the Australian
cricketers in the capacity of reporter for a London
paper, was asked for his impressions of the tour. He
expressed the opinion that the batting was unreliable,
the fielding poor, and Mailey and Grimmett had to
take all the bowling on their shoulders. Beyond
that he would prefer to say nothing.”
Yes, they’ve climbed aboardship
And they didn’t embark
With the Ashes this trip,
As you justly remark,
But were I to tell you the reasons some people might
call me a nark.
England put on their pot,
No question she did;
And l might say a lot
But Heaven forbid
That I should ! Better wait and ask Herbie—or you
might get some pointers from Syd,
Yet it can’t be denied
By the veriest fiat
That few on the side
Could bo trusted to bat
Like some the selectors omitted for causes obscure—
and that’s that!
True, Bardsley and Mac
And Woodfull with rare
Aplomb did their whack
At the creases. But where
Were the others who might have been scoring or
keeping their ends up ? Not there.
Was the fielding as bright
Or as smart as of old ?
Not it. And I might
Bay more, but I hold
Though speech in the circs, may be silver that silence
is absolute gold.
The bowlers? But two
Were up to their jobs.
The rest, entre nous,
Were just thingumibobs,
And googlies had darned little terror for Sutcliffe or
wrong ’uns for Hobbs.
Yes, I felt quite a lot
Concerned and distressed
When their gruel they got
In that ultimate Test.
But here I’ll shut up like an oyster. I always find
reticence best.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■
CREPE.
SOLED
BOOTS
and
SHOES.
Walk in Comfort.
Crepe Rubber-Soled Boots and
Shoes are wonder wearing and
just the thing for country roads
and tramping over grass.
Write for 11!us
hated List of
Ladies' and
Gant's Crepe-
soled Footwear.
W
■ i
EP
wi/
W
r,sii3.
BBIIB. —GENT.'S BLACK BOOTS,
good quality, leather lined, wide fit,
stout crepe rubber soles, 38/(1.
Post 1/-
B9I2O.—TAN WORKING BOOT,
same • style as above, in strong elk
leather, stout crepe soles, 36/6.
Post 1/-
89115. —-
CREPE - SOLED
RIDING BOOTS,
black or tan. 35/-
Post 1/-
With Leather Soles,
22/6. Post I/-
I A
M
wm
mm
8911-5.
Walther# Stevenson, Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
Monarch
■A ROYAL
smokeH
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 25 9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
F Sampler Box
r containing two
cigars. Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forCluii
Reii Cigar Factory.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE ----3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
■Ritoetw
k Paint Ready for Use*
on Wood, Metal, Plaster, Stone
etc.
&£
TRADE^^MARK
Thirty years of scientific development
in the factory—thirty years of honest
and skilful merchandising—have estab-
lished the fame of Ripolin throughout
the civilised world. Every European
country. South America, Africa, Aus-
tralia. from Siberia to India and all of
North America as well, have approved
and accepted Ripolin.
All Leading Paint Distributors
Stock Ripolin.
FOR AM. PURPOSES.
Write for Color Card and Booklet to
L. A. CORMACK,
(FACTORY REP.).
4 Underwood St. (off 35 Pitt St.),
SYDNEY.
Telephone 83284.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD., 379
Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD., 171 Elizabeth
Street, BRISBANE.
CLARKSON, LTD., 122 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
Missing Friends,
PON NELLY, JOHN, son of the late WILLIAM
CONNELLY, of Melton and Lilydaie, Victoria,
please communicate at once with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
"TEMPLE DA Y KELL REED. Will
* Temple Da.vrell Reed, formerly of Kaim-
killenbun, near Dalby, Farmer, or any person
knowing his present: whereabouts, kindly
communicate with d. J. O'MARA &
ROBINSON, Solicitors, corner Queen and
Oeorge Streets, Brisbane.
Service
The significance of SKP Service is
more than the sale of a bearing. Not only
have SKF developed better types of Ball
and Roller Bearings through scientific re-
search, but they have further established a
laboratory and engineering organisation to
study the manufacturers’ bearing problems,
and to insure through their Consulting Sales
Service a full measure of performance from
SKF Bearings and their components. Manu-
facturers and users are invited to avail them-
selves of this freely-offered co-operation.
fd
The SKF Ball Bearing' Co., Ltd
Melbourne 595 Bourke Street
Sydney 45 King Street
Representatives in all States.
THE INKY WAY.
The Herbert River Express (N.Q.),
under the head of "Sydney Accountant's
C-ever Forgery," tells of serious defalcations
in the office of the “Master of Iniquity.’’
Apparently the Devil has got at least one
Australian on his head-office staff.
“Coot": The Industrial Herald, which
has been published as a weekly at Geelong
(Vic.) for some time, will, all going well,
appear next year as a Labor daily. A com-
pany, to be known as the Labor Press
Limited, is being floated, 25,000 shares of
£1 each being offered to unionists, mem-
bers of the Labor party and other suitable
persons.
“Schnorrer" : The Jew is a firm believer
in printer’s ink, and the new Jewish settle-
ment of Palestine has brought into being a
good crop of papers. One of the latest is
the Palestine and Near East Economic
Journal, a kind of “Wild Cat” Monthly,
and the first publication of this sort in the
Turkish-Egyptian area. Its home address
is Tel Aviv, which 15 years ago was sand-
dunes but is now a garden city of 20,000
inhabitants. Incidentally, Palestine intends
to produce its own paper from the wood of
the Australian eucalyptus which is being
grown to re-forest the desolate hills of the
country.
“Old Sub.”: “Tame” (F.. 7/10/’26) isn’t
right about Huie’s Auckland Sun being the
only newspaper office in M.L. to occupy the
site of a pub. There’s a paper in Christ-
church, the Lyttelton Times, whose edi-
torial staff works in rooms that for years
were hotel bedrooms —-until quite recently
the subs, occupied the bridal chamber. What
happened was that years ago the proprietors
put up a big new building, ahead of require-
ments, and leased two or three floors of it to
Warner’s Hotel, adjoining. The arrange-
ment produced a lawsuit that went to the
Privy Council, Warner's claiming damages
because the Times presses in the early
morning disturbed the guests. The news-
paper won, and, when the lease was up,
ejected the publican from its premises.
“John Cow”: Some of the regulations
governing the registration of newspapers in
N. S. Wales need revision. The proprietor
of a newspaper must enter into a recognis-
ance of £3OO and find two sureties of £l5O
each that he will not publish any “blas-
phemous or seditious libel.” But seeing that
anything derogatory to the monarchy or the
Christian religion is punishable by law,
equally with common or garden libel, why
the need for sureties in these cases only?
The printer (or printers), two sureties and
their solicitor all have to appear at an
appointed hour at the registrar’s office, and
the unfortunate tradesman (whose livelihood
may depend on the printing of a score of
small newspapers) must appear each time
that he undertakes to print another, and go
through the same tedious process.
“Spare Sub”: Dr. Atkinson, author of
“Hygiene Jingles” (B. 16/9/’26), is not the
first to try to fix facts in the youthful mind
by the aid of doggerel rhyme. Many will
remember the old Eton Latin Grammar with
its delightful verses dealing with exceptions
to the general rules for genders. Men who
could never memorise “How We Beat the
Favorite” can still recall such haunting
lines as:—
Many nouns in “is” we find
To the mascula assigned;
Amnis, axis, eaulis, collis,
Clunis, crinis, fascis, follis.
But the best thing I can remember of the
kind was a rhyme dealing with geology,
printed by Major Boyd, of Brisbane, for a
Queensland school he once ran. Two lines
of this must serve to give an idea of the
purposeful whole
Rocks of Jura long were hackt till
Men found there a pterodactyl.
“Hamer” : Artists who would like to know
just where they stand may feel sorry that
George Finey dropped a recent law case. It
started early in the year, when Smith’s
Newspapers secured an injunction restrain-
ing Finey from holding an exhibition of the
originals of his drawings; they claimed
ownership. Finey contended, on the other
hand, that all he had disposed of was the
publication rights of his drawings; the
drawings remained his property. Finey’s
counsel was confident of a win ; but when
the case came on again at the end of Sep-
tember costs were climbing so high that a
settlement was attractive to the artist, especi-
ally as_ he won his point; he can hold his
exhibition, and even sell his drawings, pro-
vided he acknowledges that the right to do so
is a concession by his employers.
“Lei”: Frank Fox, recently knighted in
England, began his journalistic career at
the bottom of the ladder in the office of the
Australian Workman. In 1892, when
still under 21, he was editor of , the paper,
then the organ of the Sydney trades unions
and the N.S.W. Labor party. In 1893
Harry Holland became foreman printer in
the same office. In 1894 the Workman
backed George Black and the A.W.U. ele-
ments who split from the Labor , party, with
the result that the paper lost the ; official sup-
port of the majority or “solidarity” section,
then led by Holman, with Hughes and
Beeby as second and third lieutenants. In
the same year (which saw the advent of the
ill-starred Daily Post) a co-operative com-
pany, consisting of seven of the employees of
the weekly paper, took over the Workman.
Holland became manager, with Fox still
editor. The concern was heavily mortgaged,
and in the end Uncle came in and took
charge.
THE COLOR LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Society of Artists' banquet in Sydney last
week tile press were seated at a table apart.”
Wlrenas of old the pen and brush
Had each for each a “tender crush”—
Letters and Art went hand in hand
In Greece and such like ancient land
Now in our continent, forsooth,
The artist scorns the ink-stained youth;
And when he asks him out to sup
Partakes with him no loving cup,
But at a table ’neath the salt
The writer seats. Now whose the fault
If when these twain again might dine
The penman draws the color line?
N.S. W.
F. F.


Feel at Ease
•••• and look like it
in
A
r/
fey
N'i
fa
A
mi
0
'\VW
KKRP-
fr\ 7
f-/
cici
E 5
=jMH
t tas
J
P
u>>
N=*^
Pd
I=J
/'
Hi
I
i Mm
«fi&s
r.v
<>£3
wN
scs
m
Si~F.
mm
m
>4
' I 'HE comfort of silken socks, close-fitting,
“*■ perfectly shaped, is only part of the
satisfaction in wearing Bond’s Si ken Plaids . There is a
great deal of pleasure to be derived from knowing that you
Took right about the feet”—that the socks you have chosen
for their smartness give* no cause for any feeling of
self-consciousness.
For Bond’s Silken Plaids are unquestionably smart, yet in the
very be§t of taste. The colorings, unique in Silken Socks,
are rich and distinctive, the designs correCt for present wear.
Then again, the name 'Bond’s” on the label gives cause for
satisfaction in advance, since you know it is a real guarantee
of long, flawless service.
4/6
Your mercer can show you many different
shades in a choice of two fine cjualiries.
5/6
Made it} Australia by the employees ,of GEO. A. BOND & CO., LTD.
All States, New Zealand and South Africa.


Babies
thrive on
f
' it is so "
nourishina and
easy to chyest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
You’ll like
Guaranteed
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort I
&
m
•■<They Fit"
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street. Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Criterion “They Knew What They Wanted”
Royal “Aren’t We All?”
Grand Opera House .... “The Sentimental Bloke”
Tivoli Vaudeville
I‘uller’s .. Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Katja”
Royal “Is Zat So?”
King’s “Old English”
Princess “Lady, Be Good”
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
Athenaeum “Nothing but Lies”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
New Olympia Wirths’ Circus
Assembly Hall Cahill & Brooke Concerts
Alfred Gordon’s production of “Hamlet”
resulted in crowded benches at the Sydney
Conservatorium last week. Mr. Gordon him-
self played the young Prince, and though
there was a failure sometimes to get the
rhythm of the line, and a lack of clearness
in the dramatic outbursts, which he delivered
at lightning speed, the work was at least a
tine example of language mastery; for Eng-
lish was not Gordon’s tongue till two
years ago. His was a young, sympathy-
winning Hamlet, quick-moving, impetuous,
and annoyed that his resolution should be
sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought.
He was a Hamlet that Ophelia couldn’t have
helped loving; and one sensed somewhere
in the background a pleasure-hunting young
blade that Polonius probably thought on
when lie warned his daughter to take Ham-
let’s compliments with a grain' of salt.
There was no scenery. The effects were
obtained from curtains, lightings and a few
stage properties. The groupings were effec-
tive, and the costumes beautiful in their
harmonising tints —for instance, the blues
of Ophelia’s dress, the violet of Laertes’s
cloak, and the amethyst of their father’s
robe during the Etiquette-for-young-gentle-
men-wlio-travel harangue. An amateur
cast showed Spartan drilling. The most
unimportant walker-on in a group was made
individual. By a gesture the coquette
revealed herself; by a turn of the leg you
knew this gentleman-in-waiting a coxcomb;
by his bearing this a scholar, that a soldier.
Arthur Greenaway, who was stage-manager,
and at short notice had to play the King
after the first night, when Eric Howell
hurt himself in falling in the death scene,
lias to be thanked for that. Dorothy Lowe
played Ophelia gracefully and with emo-
tion ; Miss P. Fielder relieved her on the
second night, but was less convincing. In like
manner Mary Hoskings and Keogh
divided the burden of the Queen. Both
were good: and, with some allowance for
the work of amateurs, no brickbats were
earned by the others, although the mere
fact that Polonius was a confidential adviser
was no real excuse for E. Gilbert Howell’s
tendency to keep his remarks from the hear-
ing of the audience.
“Mercenary Mary” has a new Mary since
Madge White stepped into the shoes of Mai
Bacon in Sydney on Saturday night. The
lady who did so well as the merry, sophisti-
cated wife in “No, No, Nanette” is expected
to give the show at St. James’s an extension
of life; she certainly did bring into it some
improvement. But a musical comedy which
depends almost entirely on one scene', and in
that scene forgets that it is a musical
comedy, carries heavy handicaps. The ghost
lady of “Mary Rose” will fade from the
Theatre Royal stage after to-morrow
(Friday) in order to allow the Boucicault
company to revive “Aren’t We All?” for the
last week of the Sydney season; on October
23 (Saturday week) “Abie’s Irish Rose” will
commence to bloom at that address. Mosco-
vitch gives Criterion audiences “They Knew
What They Wanted,” which is, on the evi-
dence, what they want; “Rose Marie” at
Her Majesty’s does not show a retiring dis-
position ; and “Meet the Wife” remains the
invitation to the Palace. That light-hearted
purveyor of rabbits, Ginger Mick, helps his
cobber “The Sentimental Bloke” in an ex-
position of the humors. of the Australian
slanguage at the Grand Opera House; the
only cloud on the horizon of the Australian
play is the limit to the season, which must
end to enable Ada Reeve to get into
“Spangles” on October 30.
Nellie Wallace, Sydney Tivoli’s latest
arrival to call for capital letters, remarked
in the inevitable post-act speech—our too-
polite audiences have encouraged this bad
habit —that she has made a very big noise
elsewhere, and hopes to be positive thunder
in Australia. Such blushing shyness is
common with visiting vaudevillains; but
Ellen at least does her best to earn popu-
larity. She throws herself about the stage
iu the best style of the masculine low-comedy
merchant, whose red nose and oddments she
has adopted, and she ought to cut out at
least one of her gags: but for her faults her
liveliness and her method of narrating how
her dying father summoned her with “Come
here, pretty one,’' earn forgiveness. Lee
White and Clay Smith remain on the bill
saying farewells that have no sadness about
them ; the Niagaras earn their name by pour-
ing out torrents of music; the male portion
in the Yost and Clady turn does some clever
and amusing modelling in clay, and the
dancing of Isolde and Alexis deserve a
honeyed word.
Sydney Conservatorium is to sec an
ambitious venture with a double bill of
Maritana ’ and “Cavalleria Rusticana,”
both abridged, on October 21; on October
23 and 25 the performances are to be re-
peated at the Hippodrome. The promoters
are two Sydney sisters, Mrs. Charles
Larsen and Rita Lancaster, who are to be
the conductors; and they have marshalled a
company of 60 people to assist them.
At Fullers’ New Theatre, Sydney, Clem
Dawe is trying “Camping Out” and show-
ing how, when you have got a side of
a tent fastened, you promptly pull it loose
m trying to fix an end. That and “The
Musical Disorderly Room,” in which affairs
are carried on according to the best prin-
ciples of burlesqued grand opera, are the
two brightest items in the new assortment
of Midnight Frolics.
A whimsical farce full of honest mirth
is_ “Honesty the Best Policy," part of
this week’s bill at Hoyt’s (Sydney).
A meek-looking author manages to push his
way into the sanctum of an editor, with,
apparently, much time on his hands, and a
partiality for stories of real life; and instead
of having him thrown downstairs, the editor
marshalls his typist staff to help him hear
the author read his story. It is the crudest
melodrama, a parody upon “crook” drama;
and its grotesquely exciting situations are
varied by pictures of the emotional reaction
upon the row of typists. Finally, when the
author swears his yarn to be true, a statue
of George Washington crashes from its
pedestal. Mary I’ickford makes a reappear-
ance at the Lyceum in “Sparrows,” in which
she succeeds in representing the iqost im-
portant amongst a troop of half-starved
children m a surprising fashion, considering
her maturity. “College Days” are being con-
tinued hilariously at the Prince Edward,
and the excellent “Stella Dallas” film is at
the Crystal Palace.
The Art that is Long—and an innovation:
Vigor-and Sydney Long have been associated since
he fought the battle of Impressionism in the days
when he was Sid; and it is a refreshingly vigorous
show that he has now at the Fine Art Gallery, Long
has mellowed his style; occasionally, however, he
goes back to what appear to be crude challenges
to those who might say that his later methods
mean a repudiation of his old ones. lie has revived
the flamingoes too, in “Red and Gold,” in
which the background—presumably foliage—is a
“MEET THE WIFE,"
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Robert Adams as the
effeminate Victor,
and William Mac-
aulcy as the hus-
band who wanted,
to lose his wife.
mere mass of violent smudges. The picture is im-
pressive, nevertheless, and so are others in which
the rough methods are utilised, but “On the Parra-
matta” is spoilt by a smudgy tree in the foreground.
There are several big gallery pictures; but the
Trustees of the National collection have bought two
that are not so large—“ Spring, St; Albans, Mac-
donald River,” and “In the Constable Country.”
They have not selected the best; that could not be
expected. But, what is more unfortunate, those
chosen arc not characteristic or typical. The inter-
esting show has several pictures in which Long has
soaked himself in the poetry of his subject—“Moon-
rise” (No. 33), “Evening, Mount Pleasant” (No.
»), “Departing Day” (No. 24) and “The Last Gleam,
Narara Creek.”
The Sidney Art Salon has struck a good com-
mercial idea in its “Ten Guineas Exhibition.” Over
20 artists arc concerned in supplying these wall
decorations. H. O. Hadley shows a good treatment
ot glowing evening light in “The Farm Yard”;
Allied toffev has four neat pictures, with special
allurement iu “A Grey Morning, Tuggerah L akes” ;
Muir Auld presents a breezy “Long Reef,” in which
the color scheme is monotonous; John H. Wiseman
is effective in “The Old Shed,” and Mrs. A. M.
Parsons treats “A Mountain Road” deeorativclv.
Leslie Walker’s two, “The Bridge” and “River
Bank,’ and T. Cross’s “Glimpse of Manly,” worked
on silk, beckon the visitor ; Dattilo Rubbo (who has
“ NOTUING [?]T [?]
BOURNE ATHEN EUN.
Allan Ni gh falls in love with his dad's typist,
Lorna Temple . (Ellis Irving and) Vera
Spaull) ; Edwin Lester as a Senator.
other good work) has gone to the seaside to paint
pink rocks, D. (1. Reid wastes good pasture on a
wooden cow, and W. J. Dowrnan exhibits a “Sun-
set” that was visioned in a nightmare.
The curtain fell on the last act of the
Ward-Fuller partnership on Thursday night
at the Princess Theatre in Melbourne, when,
on behalf of the companies and staffs, May
Beatty handed Hugh J. a piece of plate as
a reminder of pleasant associations. At this
house there is no need for the audiences to
murmtir “Rady, .Be Good,” because the
maiden .so admonished, who is Elsie Prince,
is as good as she can be, and better than
she has been. May Beatty and Jimmy
Godden are powerful accessories, and there
is no whisper of any pending eviction.
❖
Members of the Melbourne Repertory
were ambitious when they decided on three
performances of “Twelfth Night” to help
the fund for re-building the Shakspeare
Theatre in William’s old home town-. Not-
withstanding difficulties in its path, the. first,
night duly arrived on Friday, when • Irene*-'
Webb was producer, with Helton Daniell
directing. Though the show had blemishes,
tiie effort of the amateurs deserves a good
helping of praise-—in spots. The staging pro
blem was got over by adopting designs of
the Art Theatres of America, arranged by
Glen Riston. These consisted of various re-
adjustments of pillars, wall and terrace in
buff color at the back of the stage. Extras
in the way of trails of wistaria and group-
ings of masses of purple irises suggested a
garden. A very few stage properties were
used, always the same color as the back-
ground. Green curtains filled in the wings.
It is a big leap from the role of the modern
Bishop in “St. George and the Dragons” to
a Shakspearean Jester, but John Holman
did it really acceptably, and sang his songs
pleasantly. _ Ruby May looked very hand-
some as Olivia, and made a promising debut
in this class of work. One of the best im-
personations was Kathleen Howell’s Viola,
and Edith Bell was a breezy Maria. Nor-
man Mitchell’s Sir Toby Belch was over-
boisterous, and Robert Guthrie’s Sir Andrew
Aguecheek too modernly effeminate; and
Graham Poock was not happy as Malvolio.
John Cameron, as Orsino, was likeable, and
his voice was good. Sebastian had a pro-
mising representative in Walter Armstrong.
The rest of the long cast brought sincerity
and interest to help the creditable produc-
tion.
“Abie's Irish Rose” will have the last of
her triple alliances at Melbourne Palace
on the 16th ; then Rosie and Abie will take
their troubles to brighten some other old
town.
The departure to Adelaide of “Tell Me
More” causes Prince Carl to plan his rendez-
vous with the fascinating dancer Katja at
Melbourne Majesty's in future. This musi-
cal play, with Marie Burke, Claude Flem-
ming and Barrett Hyphen Lennard, as top-
liners, is running to a full complement at
all performances. "Katja” promises a long
tenancy of its new home.
*# * *
“Is Zat So?” will carry on from Satur-
day night at Melbourne Royal. Their slang
goes with them, and the glossary thereof
is still included in the programme. This
leaves the King's Theatre free for the Mel
bourne premiere on Caulfield Cup night of
Galsworthy’s “Old English,” which intro-
duces Gregan McMahon both as producer
and in what is said to be his very finest
characterisation, that of Old Heythorp—a
gentleman of 80 whose past was gay and
whose present humor is sardonic. Lily
Titlieradge makes a return to the boards
in the new piece, and Gerald Kay Souper’s
bonnie Eileen is also in the cast.
At the Athenaeum (Melbourne), “Nothing
hut Lies” is still proving that lovely woman
can do her bit. Harry Green leads the van-
guard of cheerful untruth-tellers at the cosy
little theatre, which should be a favorite
haunt for the unsuccessful punter of these
hectic days.
Henry Santrey's band is the big lure at
Melbourne Tivoli at present. A little less
noise, a little less Henry Santrey, and a
little more attention to the gentler and more
artistic side of syncopation would improve
even this turn. The reception given to the
brilliant harpist and other soloists is an
unmistakable indication of what the public
wants. Four fresh turns descended upon
this house this week, all of them good—a
piano and a tenor soloist; a firm of acrobats
and posers; a card specialist with a flow
of patter that you want to listen to; and a
whistler who reaches the top line.
The circus which is Wirths’ comes to
town a few days earlier than usual, for
to-morrow (Friday) night will see old favor-
ites re-welcomed and many new ones bidding
for popular favor at the New Olympia be-
hind the Green Mill Jazz Palais. Thrills
innumerable are promised, from the lady who
performs a serpentine dance upon her gal
loping charger to the man who finds the
easiest way to “walk” a tight-rope wire is
on his head. And Torell’s collection of
dogs, mules, ponies and clowns are a joy-
ous circus within a circus.
The Valentino film “Cobra,” which has
nothing to do with either boot-polish or
snakes, has passed away after a house-full
week at the Melbourne Majestic, giving
place to “The Price of Success,” in which
Alice Lake shows how to bring an erring
husband to heel. Aileen Pringle is the star
of “The Wilderness Woman,” in which a
retired miner and his lovely daughter go to
scatter dad’s accumulated wealth in the gay
and wicked city. The Australian film “The
Pioneers,” scenarioed by Mabel Forrest, is
the big attraction of next Saturday’s bill.
.Tim Gerald, the revue specialist at the
Bijou (Melb.), announces “It’s All Yours, - ’
as the title of his latest collection of songs
and laughs. Maggie Foster and her fiddle,
the Daleys l , soubrette Doreen May, and
Robert Roberts and partner satisfactorily
fill other spaces in the programme.
Melbourne looks at art in the bud
Y. M. Griffin, a young painter who tackles any
sort of subject and has not yet any distinctive man
ncrisms, is holding his second show in the New
Gallery in Elizabeth-street. Landscape, still life,
portraits in oils, black-and-white sketches and a
design for a stained-glass window—he has a hit ai
them all. Of three portraits shown two are of
the artist himself, which looks like overdoing a
good thing. His bits of scenery are weak in tone
gradations, and generally he lacks snap and crisp-
ness. “A Goblet and a Cigarette” is his most suc-
cessful venture in still life; and “A Winter Day,”
which has some velvety grass; “Bronze Gums” and
“Blackened Saplings and a Track” are his best scenic
efforts. His draughtsmanship is good, and that isn’t
as universal a virtue as it might be.
Painter George W. Neville’s little show—ls pieces
in all —-at the Fine Art Society’s Gallery, will
excite the admiration of lovers of detail. Fan
designs on silk are this artist’s delight, and he
shows a couple of decorative panels very minutely
and carefully painted. Chinese and other Oriental
subjects provide the inspiration for some of his most
effective pieces; and he has found the Australian
bush a source of graceful designs. Compositions
in which the nude female figure plays a part are
the least successful of his-efforts.
‘H. B. Herman”; The record run of “Rose
Marie” in London has caused rivals to
insinuate that “the American play” de-
grades weird claim to make in
favor of the one-time temple of lurid melo-
drama and suggestive panto, dame. Alfred
Butt, the Lane’s managing-director, counters
hard, pointing out that the success of the
play, apart from its intrinsic merits, is due
to its contrast with the many salacious Lon-
don productions, with poor box-office results.
He mentions the great success of Eden Phill-
potts’s clean and ■wholesome “Farmer’s
W ife” as another instance of the reaction.


BLACK
WHITE
yr
i«»f
mm
.V-
-:
lilttifl
iJjlfllift 1
■
iJH
■
ii
P^l" ipifM ®
*
»s ;
:
- ?, : ■
, ~r . ,.,
jgggggg
I Hi
i
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.. 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


HUNTING KNIVES
MARBLE’S “IDEAL” Hunting Knife. Splendid
skinning blade. Well balanced. Compressed
leather handle. Steel hilt. sin. finest-quality
tempered-steel blade 15/-
MARIILE’S “WOODCRAFT” Hunting Knife,
LI in. highly-tempered steel blade. Compressed
leather handle 12/fi
MARBLE’S SAFETY FOLDING HUNTING
KNIFE. The handiest, most compact, Lin. best-
quality steel blade. Stag handle .... 157-
SOLID LEATHER SHEATHS SUPPLIED
WITH ALL ABOVE KNIVES.
WADE & BUTCHER, Pocket Knife, 2§in. skin-
ning blade and 2in. cutting blade. Very strong.
Complete with shackel and chain. Price, 5/-
Solc Agents for Marble’s Knives and Arms:
GUN AND CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
ď
amESSINC
BOSTOCK'S Black Liquid Suede Dress-
ing gives a Jet Black tone and preserves
the original density of colour in the Suede
leather; also made in Brown, Nigger
Brown, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Obtainable
Everywhere
CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALI JEWELLERS
Poverty
Point
“Caesar’s Ghost”: When the Empire
Theatre is built in Railway-square (it is
timed to open in March), it will be the
largest in Sydney. It is to hold 3000 people;
the promoters expect to make low prices pay
by big attendances; and as the proposal is
to engage local performers there is a new
. hope for mummers. The front of the circle
is to have a series of “loges” ; 1300 of the
seats are to be lounge chairs; the rest, even
to the cheapest seats, are to be the usual
theatre chairs. In addition to the second
theatre in the St. James building there are
two others in prospect. Their coming will
probably put one or two of the old houses
out of commission—especially those in which
it would not be profitable to supplant the
crude bench seats in the gallery with the
modern comforts that the galleryite has been
taught to expect.
“Back Stall”: Notwithstanding the em-
phatic protest that the J.G.W. and Fuller
firms are not merging, rumor has it that
when “Rose Marie,” the J.G.W. musical
money-maker in Sydney, reaches Melbourne,
the Fullers’ Princess Theatre will flash the
electric sign of its location.
“Flaming Youth”: Alfred Gordon adds
another to the Hamlets seen in Sydney.
Walter Bentley is still remembered as “the
Scotch Hamlet,” and the Dane has been
rendered by Allan Wilkie and by an Irish-
man who gave him a delightful brogue. Gor-
don's pronunciation is alien, and his tongue
is confused in some moments. The charm
of an ultra-Yankee Hamlet was missed when
Tittell Brune’s husband failed to carry a
company he had formed any further than
Newcastle. The lady told “The Firm” that
she didn't want a place found for him ; but
Clarence, who had been a bank clerk, got
a company together to play “Hamlet,” among
other things, to his lead. He intended to
take it. to Maoriland; but Newcastle was
the finish. The mummers who recall the
performance, from which Newcastle almost
unanimously absented itself, declare it to
he one of their weirdest experiences.
“J.8.H.”: Australia is now the world’s
biggest importer of Hollywood’s staple out-
put. It was England that we displaced
from the lead, Britannia this year dropping
back to fifth place, under stress of strikes
find general financial tightness. Canada,
Argentina and Brazil come second, third
and fourth. Thus the Empire’s two greatest
“white” dominions are deepest in the
American-German ,Tew r combine’s bag, with
two highly-discolored alien countries along-
side —a not very flattering position.
“Hamfat”: “F.R.F.’s” reference to women
fainting at the climax in a Grand Guignol
show (B. 7/10/'26) recalls the pride of
ac-tors of the old school who liked to boast
that “women were carried, fainting, from
the house, my boy, when, as Bill Sikes, I
murdered Nancy.” Harry Douglas made
that transaction particularly creepy by
having a blood-sponge fixed on the end of
the club with which he bludgeoned the girl.
But he did better even than that. In the
cannibalism scene in “For the Term of His
Natural Life” he had the inside of his lips
well covered with carmine greasepaint. The
paint, leaving its blotchy mark on Veitch’s
arm as Gabbett grunted “That’s something
to munch!” added realism to the picture.
“In one town, my boy,” Douglas would say
when he got a listener, "a man jumped up
hurriedly from his chair; but before he got
out he vomited in the aisle —yes, my boy,
actually vomited!”
“Wee John”: How is this for candor on the
part of a Taranaki (M. 1.) picture-show
manager? His advertisement began:—
Managerial.—W e desire to express our regret for
inflicting' “True as Steel” upon our patrons last
evening, and respectfully call attention to the change
of programme to-night and to-morrow. The man-
agement expresses regret for the extreme feebleness
and futility of the story, which was inadvertently
screened without a pre-view.
It’s a pity some other producers are not
as honest.
“Couta” : A new industry has sprung into
being in Port Arthur (Tas.)— or should it
be called the revival of an old one? From
neighboring timber-mills the hands hasten
per bike to figure as "extras” in the filming
of “For the Term of His Natural Life” —even
visitors from Hobart take a turn in the
chain-gang. One Sunday five prominent
doctors donned the convict garb, and inquisi-
tive spectators have sometimes to be pushed
out of the picture.
TO CIRCUMVENT THE WRETCHES.
ACTOR : The-oh-critics seem to hove entered into ii conspiracy of silence about my
work”
FRIEND: “Tom should join them, my boy—then they'd have nothing to be so beastly
offensive about.”
“Csesar’s Ghost” : At the Standard Theatre
(Sydney) in a now-forgotten drama the
heroine came to an appointment with her
stage brother, to find him dead. The villain
seized the unsuspecting girl, but just as the
hero was due to dash on to the rescue he
had a real tit in the wings; and it seemed
that the heroine, struggling in the villain’s
arms, was doomed to do without a rescuer.
But the corpse, seeing the situation, sprang
to life, knocked out the villain, declaimed the
absent hero's lines, and, as the curtain
dropped, gracefully re-died. Moscovitch
couldn’t do better than that.
“Mid-Channel”: Veteran Fred Terry and
his wife, Julia Nielson, still staging “Sweet
Nell" (B. 7/10/’26), owe their respective
careers to Pinero. Terry was the original
1 >ick Phenyl in “Sweet Lavender”—which
made him. This has proved Pinero’s most
remunerative play. Julia Nielson was lead
in the original production of “The Princess
and the Butterfly,” at the St. James’s, in
March, 1897, playing Princess Pannonia to
George Alexander. This was a brilliant
satire on the struggle to escape middle age.
"M.H.H.” : Yankee film producers have a
habit of paying big sums of money for the
privilege of including celebrities in their
pictures. Jack Dempsey and “Gunboat'’
Smith are two who have profited; now word
comes that Queen Marie of Roumania is
to be paid some fabulous amount for one
day in a Hollywood studio. There were
attempts to capture even President Ooolidge,
but that coup didn’t come off; and "Boy”
Charlton was asked to join Anita Stewart’s
co. while on his way home from his Olympic
triumphs. English producers have the same
obsession; I recently endured a painful but
mercifully short classic which starred Steve
Donoghue, the crack jockey. Apparently it
is not necessary to be able to act —provided
you have won a beauty, contest or swum the
English Channel.
“Hamfat” : The useful Arthur Greenaway
had a quick-service job handed him when,
owing to an accident to Eric Howell, he had
to play the King on the second night of
Alfred Gordon’s performance of “Hamlet”
at Sydney Oonservatorium. Greenaway,
who was stage-managing the show, took up
the part at short notice; still it wasn’t new
to him—he could handle a dozen other Shaks-
pearean roles with equal facility. Green-
away's friend J. B. Atholwood, called upon
to do Monsieur Beaucaire at short notice,
had no knowledge of his lines. Julius
Knight had intimated that his doctor ordered
him a rest; he was sorry to disappoint the
public, but the doctor's orders had to be
obeyed. The Firm sniffed and determined to
carry on. if possible. Atholwood had to
keep his part in his hand; but the circum-
stances were explained to the audience, and,
in spite of the handicap, the applause and the
subsequent press notices wore so enthusiastic
that Knight forgot his illness and saw that
Jimmy got no further opportunity of wear-
ing the other’s shoes. Neither Greenaway nor
Atholwood get the appearances they deserve;
they are amongst the first considered when a
good mummer is wanted in an emergency,
but, being “merely Australian actors,” they
suffer a handicap when plum-parts are being
handed out. And fool-audiences, by getting
maudlin about imported duds, help along
the shameful imposition.
“Peter Pan" : Moscovitch certainly is cos-
mopolitan. Kicking off as the Venetian Jew
in “The Merchant” he was next succes-
sively Russian (Anton Ragatzy in “The Out-
sider”) and Frenchman (Jean Paurel in
“The Great Lover”). Now he is an Italian,
and Svengali is promised us. Before the
season ends I hope to see him as a Montene-
grin butler and an Icelandic butcher.
“Wigs”: Clever little Josie Melville had
not to wait long for a chance in England.
She is touring in a musical piece, “Betty
in Mayfair,” and a Belfast critic describes
her as being “charming in the extreme.”
“Lud”: John Kirby is steadily moving
up to the front line of London’s comedians.
He hails from Maoriland; but practically all
his stage work was done on Australian boards.
Now he is at the Winter Garden* a house
which shows the best of musical-comedy
productions. He deserves his luck—a good
artist and a good chap!
“Voice Off” : Australia’s old friend Caleb
Porter is heading the cast of “The Ghost
Train”—the biggest thriller ever—at the
Prince of Wales’s, London.
“C. Ockney”: Julia Neilson and Fred
Terry (B. 7/10/’26) were the original
Sweet Nell and King Charles in England 25
years ago. The piece, which came from
America, was the first play staged by Terry
and his wife when they started management.
A happy choice, for it had a long London
run and has been their mainstay ever since.
Paul Ivester, the author, wrote several quasi-
historical plays after that. Two of them,
“When Knighthood Was in Flower” and
“Sweet Kitty Bell airs,” were done in Aus-
tralia by Nellie Stewart, but neither had the
vogue of “Sweet Nell.”
“Nero” : Maud Williamson called her un-
authorised dramatisation of “Rodney Stone' 1
“Boy Jim” (B. 23/9/’26). Maud had a
facile pen, and pirated many books for stage
purposes, principally Hall Caine’s Manx
stories. She also dramatised Gilbert Parker’s
“The Right of Way” ; but I don’t think it
was ever played. Conan Doyle’s own ver-
sion of his novel was called “The House of
Temperley.” In this Ilarcourt Beatty made
the bare-knuckle light so willing that he
escaped the indignity of a "cauliflower” ear
only by a surgical operation. What has
become of “Ilarky”? Has anyone heard of
him of late?
“G.”: Catherine Bennett, now quartered
in Los Angeles, has, like sister Enid (Mts.
Fred Niblo) and Marjorie, gone on the
stage. The girl’s good looks and unshingled
fair locks caused a manager seeking for the
correct type to offer her the role of the Eng-
lish girl in a production of “The Green Hat.”
The only experience she had had was a wee
part in "Ivi Ki,” the Norma Talmadge film;
but she succeeded in the big speaking part.
“A.G.M.” (Lend.) : Miss Von Heinbockel,
an Austral Salon elocutionist who used to
teach Victorian Parliamentarians how to
smarten up their elocution, has been in Lon-
don for some time, after two years in War-
saw. Few people have done more interest-
ing travelling than Miss Heinbockel with
the companionship of another bright soul,
Eva Delaney, daughter of the late organist
of St. Mary’s Cathedral. Sydney. Miss
Delaney, who has done effective literary
work, is on the staff of the Cunard Shipping
Co.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.): Seldom are the diffi-
culties of young Australian musicians seek-
ing fame and fortune abroad as clearly stated
as by Madame Henri Verbrugghen, ' now
visiting London, while her husband continues
his direction of the Minneapolis orchestra
under nerve-soothing conditions: “All the
hooking is done through agents, and they
are interested only in artists who can risk
from 2000 to 10,000 dollars on publicity.
Managers' are willing to pay ; but they want
only the best, which often means the best
known. Result is that all the gqod engage-
ments are given to about 50 ‘stars,’ while
those who cannot afford the entrance fees
to stardom have a painful struggle.”
Madame was speaking particularly of the
United States; but the conditions are exactly
the same in Britain. The musician who
can spend generously on advertisements gets
the jobs.
“Huflin-Guflin”: My youngest son came
home from the “pitchers” the other evening,
breathless—“lt was the ‘Pony Express.’ You
ought to have seen it, Dad. They used to
ride ponies with the mails right across
America!” Why can’t my boy, and every
other good Australian boy, get his thrills
from his own country’s life? Take this sub-
ject of the conveyance of mails across vast
distances. What more entertaining picture
could be made than one of “The Fizzer"
across Central Australia? “The Fizzer....
five trips out of his yearly eight throwing
dice witli death along his dry stages, yet at
all times as merry as a grig. ... A thousand
miles on horseback, into the Australian in-
terior and out again.... Yet never a day
late, and rarely an hour. The Fizzer does it
eight times a year.” Mrs. iEneas Gunn de-
scribed it in “We of the Never-Never.” Cer-
tainly there are no revolvers, no wild beasts.
But there is action, plenty of it. And to
show that things may be done without re-
course to “guns” or knives would not be a
disadvantage to our imaginative youth.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The silver thatch which
Bobby Keers shows where he is not
bald is now to be seen in the St. James'
orchestra pit in Sydney, which means that
Melbourne Tivoli is missing a sight which
years had made familiar. Bobby led the
Tivoli orchestra for a long while; and his
father, another Bobby, was an orchestral
identity before him. Another notable per-
former in the same band is harpist Bertie
Torzillo. Bertie has succeeded Truda, who
is fighting a grim enemy for his life. Both
are sons of mien who in their day were the
best known of Sydney’s musical instructors.
JUDGMENT DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Judgment Day had come! There rose a roar
Of anguish from a million sinners' throats.
Their wigs and gowns the High Court judges wore
For sorting out the jumbueks and the goats.
Each soul was apprehensive of its doom ;
The Lost were swiftly drafted on their way;
It was a time of misery and gloom;
Intense anxiety marked Judgment Day.
To a grim overture of yells and sobs
The sinners were to outer darkness cast ;
The solemn High Court judges judged the mobs
Who were to everlasting tortures passed.
Then came a figure, sad and much surprised,
With old flat boots and garments in decay—
The public with amazement recognised
That Charlie had arrived for Judgment Day!
A titter ran around the crowded court
As Charlie lifted solemnly his hat;
Pathetic’lly for sympathy lie sought
And sadly shuffled feet forlornly flat.
Lpon his sorrow five grim judges blinked;
The populace to sudden mirth gave way;
And then the tipstaff to the jury winked;
A gust of laughter swept through Judgment Day.
Prim saints indulged in chortles quite profane,
As this strange tattered figure they discerned.
He left the court without the slightest stain;
The High Court, sine die, then adjourned.
Old Hell was swiftly dug up by the roots,
As into Heaven Charlie led the way:
fine touch of humor, and a pair of boots,
Had broken up the awe of Judgment Day!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


f
No. 99 SET.—Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “Valet” Shave—
the razor, strop and blade in
leatherette case as illustrated
below
3/6
Unequalled
Value for 3/6
A RAZOR that strops its blade without requiring a special
machine.
A superfine blade of highest-quality steel, the edge of which is
originally tuned up to perfection and by means of the self-stropping
device —right in the razor head —shows actual daily improvement.
The tenth shave with a “Valet” blade is as good as the first, and the
fiftieth as good as the tenth.
A combination embodying the simplest and sanest principles —
nothing to take to pieces for either stropping or cleaning—simplicity
itself I
vO
CD
SS:
BRITISH
MADE.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.. 181 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
Amusements.
gYDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:’
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY W r ANTED.
ROYAL: AREN’T WE ALL?
PULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND S.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
■“ Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE
EVERY EVENING,
The Sentimental Bloke
With BERT BAILEY as GINGER
MICK and FRED MacDONALD as
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
J
C. WI L LIAMSO N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KATJA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
IS ZAT SO?
KING’S THEATRE:
OLD ENGLISH.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
LADY, BE GOOD.
ATHENJEUM THEA T R E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
HARRY GREEN
In the Witty and Whimsical Comedy,
NOTHING BUT LIES.
By Aaron Hoffman, author of “Give and Take.”
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE GREAT COMEDY SUCCESS,
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
|y|AJESTTO THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
THE PIONEERS.
From Katherine Prichard’s Australian Story.
An all-Australian cast, produced by Australasian
Films, Ltd., at their new Bondi Studios.
Directed by Raymond Longford.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
Amusements.
(VIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
1 Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOY T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
* 1 MELBOURNE.
THE RAINMAKER,
A PARAMOUNT SPECIAL.
OLIVE BORDEN in
MALAY BLOOD.
Prices as usual.
¥l\eLand of Romance
Canada! The Eldorado of Childhood’s Fancy
'Y'EEMING -with youthful memories cowboys,
redskins, the mighty Rockies, wonderful trains,
Niagara Falls, and the heights of Quebec.
All these form the fascinating setting to a journey
via the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
Magnificent ocean mansions transport you through
the island jewels of the to lazy Honolulu,
and to beautiful Victoria, 8.C., with its famous
Gardens
You can book right through to Vancouver,
Montreal, New York, and London.
Write now for illustrated booklets to any office of the Union
S.S. Co., any Tourist Booking Agency, or to
J. Sclater, Representative
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney
ft
Amusements,
A SSEMBLY HALL, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, OCT. 16. and MONDAY, OCT. 18,
at 8.15 p.m.
Edward Caliill and George Brooke,
TWO HOME-COMING CONCERTS.
In a delightful programme.
Direction Kathleen Malone.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
THE NEW OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE,
1 M IRTHS’ PARK.
OPENING FRIDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 1,
WIRTHS’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS.
“The Greatest Show on Earth.”
New Acts specially engaged by Mr. Geo. Wirth on
his recent tour of the world.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day October 30
Cup Day November 2
Oaks Day November 4
Steeplechase Day .... November 6
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £43,000.
£lO,OOO ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP
and GOLD CUP of 200 SOYS.
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Meetings.
The Permanent Trustee
Company of New South
Wales, Limited.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
THE THIRTY-NINTH ORDINARY
I GENERAL MEETING of Members will
be held at the Company’s Office on TUES-
DAY, 26th OCTOBER, 1926, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1926.
To elect one Director in place of Thomas Buck-
land, Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the
Articles of Association and who offers himself for
re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. C. A. Le
Maistre Walker and Co., Public Accountants (who
retire under Clause 131 of the Articles of Associa-
tion and are eligible for re-election), and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
,T. W. BARNES, Manager.
By Order of the Board the Share Register will be
closed from 12th October to 26th October inclusive.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE BUILDING,
23-25 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
11th October, 1926.


d
—sign of
STURDY RELIABILITY
in Transportation!
There’s a REPUBLIC Truck for
every haulage need.
One to five tons capacity.
ďf
Let your
local agent
demonstrate
Republic
superiority
to you
there’s
no
obligation!
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rascli Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waynioutli Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
OMMERCIAL transportation calls for the
utmost in dependability ... for a degree of
efficiency not less than a hundred per cent.
That’s what “REPUBLIC” Trucks are giving!
Owners in every district in this country are
finding in “REPUBLIC” a degree of perform-
ance that is more than satisfying. No
condition seems severe enough to fully tax
“REPUBLIC’S” giant strength.
Your transportation difficulties can be solved
with “REPUBLIC” —you can always depend
on its efficiency, its performance, its utter reli-
ability. And “REPUBLIC” minimises upkeep
costs, stops the risk of breakdowns, reduces over-
hauling expenses.
You owe it to yourself, to your business, to in-
vestigate the points of superiority offered by
“REPUBLIC.”
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


B.S.A. Motor Bicycles
in the
International Six Days
The International Six Days’ Trial, held this year in England from August 16 to 21, proved
an overwhelming success for British motor cycles, a British Team, securing both the Inter-
national Trophy and the International Silver Vase* B.S.A. Motor Bicycles were particularly
successful*
The B.S.A. Team (350 c.c.), the only Team in the Trial to complete the course without
loss of marks, was awarded
Special Exhibition Medal
Manufacturers’ Team Prize (Class B)
The Team consisted of G. McLean, H. J. Willis and J. Humphries, on B.S.A. 3.49*h.p.
O.H.V. Motor Bicycles.
Manufacturers’ Team Prize (Class A)
was won by the B.S.A. Ladies’ Team —Mrs. McLean (Miss L. Ball), Miss N. Debenham
and Miss B. Debenham —on B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. Motor Bicycles.
2nd for the International Silver Vase
The Dutch “A” Team —J. Moos, W. Smit and H. M. Vintges, all riding B.S.A. 3.49-h.p.
O.H.V. Motor Bicycles—was only 9 marks behind the winners of the International Silver
Vase. In addition B.S.A. riders secured
10 Gold Medals, 1 Silver Medal
Mrs. McLean, riding a B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. Motor Bicycle, was one of the British Ladies’ Team
(Team G), gaining third place for the International Silver Vase.
Australian conditions require the consistent reliability shown by B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles in this Trial.
Lead the way
on a B*S'A
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. ( BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LAND I 234 Pitt Street, Sydney,
VICTORIA- F//VZ-/I Y BROS . MOTOR CYCLES
PTY', LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth.
T ASM ANIA - sun king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia .
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


When
the News
Comes
“A great Oil Gusher
has been tapped in
Australian T erritory ”
The Cables will flash the news to all parts of
the world. More excitement will be created than
has been caused by any gold or diamond find that
has ever been discovered.
Well! We believe, we feel surg that in Oriomo,
in Papua, Australia’s own territory—oil is there—-
billions of gallons of it wanting to be brought to
the surface, bringing with it fabulous wealth. Why
do we feel sure?
BECAUSE £30,000 worth of scientific work has
been dpne to prove that the structure of the terri-
tory is practically identical with the Bibi-Eibat
oilfields in Russia—-that has produced 1,000,000
gallons a day for 44 years.
BECAUSE Professor Sir Edgeworth David, Aus-
tralia’s greatest Geologist, who has studied all the
maps and reports of the Scientists who went to
Oriomo, wrote that Captain McLean had made what
was scientifically a discovery of importance in locat-
ing a considerable area of a geological formation
(Miocene) favorable for the occurrence of oil.
BECAUSE Sir Harry Chauvel is hopeful. He pub-
licly stated that Captain McLean and his party
had done some very valuable geological and topo-
graphical survey work on scientific lines with a
view to discovering oil there. “So far as we know,”
he said, “the results are very hopeful, and the maps
which Captain McLean very kindly furnished to us
are thought of very highly.”
The Australian Government has just increased its
Oil Subsidy by £40,000 to contribute on £1 for
£1 basis on approved work done in Papua. This
was done after the maps referred to by Sir Harry
Chauvel had been submitted to the Government.
Tub Bulletin says: “The Company starts ofl’
with considerable .detail work completed, which has
given it a knowledge of its a rea greater than that
of any recent flotation. If oil is there in payable
quantities, this crowd is going the right way to
find it.”
Are you interested? Does it strike right home
to you. what the experts, who are so guarded in
their language, say —Do you appreciate what the
words “favorable for the occurrence of oil” mean ?
One great gusher, a million gallons a day means a
net profit of £25,000, or £30,000 or more DAILY
on a Capital of £200,000.
THIS IS THE CAPITAL OF ORIOMO
OIL, LIMITED.
THE VENDOR COMPANY RECEIVES
NO CASH, ONLY SHARES.
Oriomo Oil, Limited, now offers for .. .iptiou
100,000 Ordinary shares of £1 each, payable 2/6
per share on application—2/6 per share on allot-
ment —no further calls for three (3) months, the
balance in calls of 1/- per share ut intervals of not
less than one (1) month.
Messrs. Burns, l’hilp & Co., Ltd., the great Ship-
owners, have applied for a second block of shares.
This is only one of many of the big people showing
their confidence in the territory and the manage-
ment of Oriomo Oil, Limited.
How much are you going to fill up the enclosed
form for—knowing your money will be put to the
best purpose with a good possibility of the richest
rewards ?
Full prospectus on application.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARKS.
To the Directors of ORIOMO OIL, LIMITED,
National Mutual Buildings, .
350 George Street, SYDNEY.
Gentlemen , —
l hereby apply for shares of £1 each in
the Capital of the above Company, and enclose
herewith my cheque for £ , being the
Application Money of 2/6 per share, and I agree
to pay the 2/6 per share on allotment, and the
further sums after allotment in the Calls provided
by the Prospectus dated twentieth day of September,
1926.
Name in full
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss —in block letters.)
Address
Occupation
Date
Signature
Please cross and make Cheques payable Oriomo
Oil, Ltd. Please add exchange.
FOR TRAPSHOOTERS-
The Most Colossal Event
in the History of the Cun.
Never before in tlie history of the gun has such a stupendous event
taken place. To be decided at Melbourne during the Cup Carnival
BEGINNING OCTOBER 25
At 10 a.m., and Continuing to October 29.
THE PROGRAMME INCLUDES
£5OOO HANDICAP
Ist Prize . . £3OOO. 2nd Prize . .£750. 3rd Prize . . £350.
4th Prize, £2OO. sth Prize, £lOO. 6th Prize, £lOO. 7th Prize, £lOO.
And Eight Prizes of £5O each.
£35 Two Nominations, £2O Single Nomination, £l5 Stars.
Nominations, accompanied by £5 fee (part of £35 entrance) to be forwarded to
Secretary.
ACCEPTANCE ON DAY OF EVENT.
LATE NOMINATIONS WILL BE RECEIVED UP TO END OF 2nd ROUND.
WORLD’S CHAMPIONSHIP.
Sweepstake of £lO and Cup presented by “Sporting Globe.
Conditions.—2s birds oft 30yds. Three misses retire conditionally. In the
event of ties, tieists to shoot lots of additional birds^til^championshipdccidcd.
———| Two Shooting Areas Will Be in Operation to Avoid Delays J
MELBOURNE GUN CLUB, TOTTENHAM.
J. M. ALLAN, President. F. A. TU-BH, Secretary.
I
Oats
Ac Plates for 3
Magnificent Nourishment
in delicious form
Sold Everywhere
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO., LTD, SYDNEY
Healthful
Sleep.
logs
f > M
UsZI
s—-
r.\
f is>.
Nsj ’A
./
«5^
, y .-
Baby thrives and enjoys healthful sleep upon
Benger’s Food. Prepared with fresh cows’ milk it
amply provides all the nourishment needed in just the
form to give the utmost benefit.
Besides modifying the cows’ milk to the delicate
digestion of a child, Benger’s Food enriches it, so that
it approximates in its composition and properties to
the breast milk of a healthful vigorous mother.
Food
y or Infants,
Invalids w/^Aged.
BABY BOOK FREE, —Send to the address below for our interesting Baby
Book, which contains a Baby’s History Diary, and Weight and Height Chart.
At all Chemists and Stores.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD.
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers: BENG-ER’S POOD. LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.D.H.: In “Art” there is as slender S
connection between head and tail as there was in a
mid-Victorian be11e.... Ho wis : No good here unless
it will interest alike the man at Thursday Island and
the woman at Bunbury... .T.P.S.: Does it mean
anything ?.... Rawhia: One good line, the last, in
“Disillusioned.” The rest are nowhere distinguished:
the last is'their best, t 00... .M.H.: The Grey Cloth
crook who shoots so easily is too hard to swallow.
....Myra B.: The curiosity is overdrawn.... R.L.8.:
Superficial... .Charlady: Your time’s wasted in the
search if the w.p.b. won’t yield anything more excit-
ing than that.... Alidon: The point at the end is
pietty good ; but the introduction is lame.... Arthur
W. U.: Too long for its value; condensed it would
be worth reconsidering. ... J.D.H. : Both near;
“Spring,” in fact, scraped the paint off. . . .D.J.H.:
Belated. ... A. 8.T.: Might suit a South-street com-
petition. .. .Frank G.: Too tired and slow; other-
wise pretty g00d....J. Herbert: You don't make us
believe it.. . .O.O’B.: “The Worm” re-turns....
A. : The rhyme “alone-turn” is the only thing
new in either. ... .V.A.S.: In that “Valley” the metre
has an action like a jibbing Ford. .. .C.M.: Your
ghost did nothing deserving print... .Alan N.: The
tale of how Peter welcomes the outlaw and kicks out
the pious was told by Babylonians, with somebody
else in Peter’s place, before Peter was born....
B. : You start with “Thee” and “Thou” and
then get on with remarks about “this woman’s eyes.”
.... R.C.F.N.: That’s a very dull track of yours. ...
G.P.S.: “Ah, ah, ah, ah, return to me” is obeying
y0u.... Ron G. S.: “She frowns upon my suit.”
Better get a new tailor,... G.P.S.: Is it a night-
mare?.... Roy M.: No it’s not new; only nude,...
M. J.N.: Unsuitable. .. .H.H.H.: Your story of re-
venge is a crime, too. .. .Ben L.: You’ve got the
Yankee habit. There is less of the prodigal than of
the mud he played in... .G.R.S.: “Domestic Differ-
ences” are not entertaining... .D.L.M.: If, being
sick, you can “will” yourself well, you might also
“will” that story of yours into The Bulletin. We’ll
bet you can’t, th0ugh....8.R.T.: Let the poor girl
stay in Heaven. ,To bring her back to read your
verses would be cruel... . E.M.W.: You fail to reach
the stars; it’s a mere hurtle through space....
P.M. J.: The good in it is drowned in a torrent of
words. .. .L.N.C.: Too slight. .. .S.J.lt.: The final
stanza is startling:—
Well, Romeo he to Heaven got,
- But-very soon he-fled from thence;
An angel—he had made things hot —-
Sued him for her child's maintenance.
..•. .R.W.K.: Good idea; try to improve the hand-
ling .... N.S.: Did you think you _ { \vere writing
poetry?. .. .P.R.0.: No home here for your stray cat.
. ...G.L.M.: Dreadful, dawdling stuff... .M.J.-: “The
Dustman” made us sleepy... .0.0.: “Grandfather’s
Complaint” is rheumatic verse. .. .R.M.T. : Rather
good; not good enough. .. .J. 0.: If you had given a
hint of why the jewel meant such a lot, your “Fish
and Chips” might have been eatable. .. .L.A.L.:
Atmosphere good, and we were getting interested in
your Chow when you killed hiiii without adequate
explanation. Whaffor ?.... Stan 0.: Story of corpse
“lying" unnoticed” in the next room for three weeks
impossible. Evidently you have never lived near a
corpse. ...E.G.: Out of all the elephantine gambol-
ling we got the best laugh from “Suddenly a woman
rents the air with a startled cry.” We had no idea
that ownerism had got so far. .. .Mombaka: The
encounter between Hero and Villain is graphic:—-
He grabbed the villain by the nose,
And in his eyes he landed blows,
And squashed his Adam’s apple so
It turned black and blue.
He threw him from him with a curse ;
“Next time 1 catch you, you’ll need a hearse.
This world was not made for you to sin
And take honest people in.”
.... Dunbar: Good verse: but the climax is stale
and unprofitable... .V.G.W.: One may do; but
get away from those worn phrases,.... 5.11. R.:
Your characters are always doing things “at
length”; is - it force of that example runs
your story to 4000 words?....Rastus: More ex-
planation needed to make your tragedy convincing. , ..
Guy L.: “I will not sheath my vengeful blade Till
I have proved my truth.” Egad, a bodkin is thy
blade, oh rash, word-flaunting youth !. .. .Macduff: Lay
on, Macduff! But so far the lays are not suitable.
... .W.E.E.: Your desire to be a domestic cat is*'a
tame meow. .. .M.T.M.: M.T., M Dry: Your fer-
vid appeal isn’t verse. . . .Andy: “The One Who Broke
His Heart” nearly broke the office-boy’s.... H.J\ T .:
“Stone” crashes heavily to earth... .F.D. (British
Columbia): Not of Bulletin interest... .Roy M. W.:
There seems to be a touch of thev, old fascination i>f
the aristocracy in it: — , ,
I was happy, though a poor man,
But now my life seems hell.
She has left me for the foreman
For she felt his glittering spoil.
. ...8.E.F.: Your tears turn “The Cemetery” to
mud.... Col. R.: For one wild, delightful moment we
sbelieved you had written: “They fought frenziedly for
/ the teeth.” It was disappointing to discover that the
word was “truth.”... .C.G.P.: A thorouglibilgd idea
draws a baker’s cart of words. .. .Robt. P.: Try to
iron out the ragged lines.... Ray C.: Y our news-
paper account of the drab affair is merely a gabbled
report... .A.C.M..: “Winter Woodland” leaves us cold.
C.B.H. : A hard effort to be funny.... J.J.8.: The
swagman is unreal. .. . F. 8.: Dry and dusty....
G.P.W.: Yarn lacked finish, so we finished it....
Gladys W.: “A Master of Arts told me that my
poetry was good, so I am sending the ‘Gipsy’s Warn-
ing.’ ” Do not trust him, gentle lady... .N.Y.: That
yearning for the open spaces invariably comes from
city-bred bushmen.... Eli: Can’t sift any interest out
of your ashes... .A.S.: Lilias has points, but is con-
fused and sketchy... .M.R.C.: “Here, in the shade of
the strawberry-bed, a harmless scarecrow rears his
head.” Do you use a ladder to gather your straw-
berries, or merely shake the trees?. .. .Uley: Thanks;
but the story was near enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.W.R.: Evidently both drawn the morning after.
. ...W.R.8.: We’ll have another look at it when
we get the office microscope out... .T. 8.8.: As
wooden as a ringbarked tree... .G.T.: Ladies in mid-
air should have wings... .A. 11.: The parson is wear-
ing the trousers belonging to a deep-sea diving-suit.
. ...S.M.K.: Strangle your teetotaler with a blue
ribbon G.H.IL : Joke unpleasant, drawing shock-
ing... .T.H.G.: Gross hatching careless, outlines
wobbly C.N.: There’s a kink in the perspective,
and the shadows have floated from their moorings.
. ...C.A.: The elongated porter makes the train
look like :i child’s toy... . R.M.N.: Another case of
artistic d.t's.


RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write ut and
you o u r catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 his appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
1 d . a y, use :. •' ls th ,e most scientific appliance vet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
hrmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If It is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothrng. It is suitable for
Ihe r’eaThTall P " Ce is wilLin
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
the WINSLOW co.
IC4 Queen Street, Melbourne. Vie.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘W'ild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin” 2/-
per single cony; 22/6 per annum
KF
m
LTD
Chailis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Write
to
Desk B.
The Martin Ditcher
Gives the best crop because it ditches,
cleans and sweetens the land. Does the
work of 100 men. Costs little and does
a lot.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street,
Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
S.B.
The New Method of Shaving
NO BRUSH. NO SOAP.
d
ďf
d
ď
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years man has
been scrubbing his face with soaps full of Soda and
has never reasoned that under such treatment the skin
must suffer? Nothing is more ugly than a face that
looks raw. Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with Soda.
But now we have discovered the natural method where
no bush and soaps full of soda are needed. Shavex is a
skin food. One can shave in half the time, and you
will get a smoother and closer shave than you have ever
had, and shaving will become a pleasure instead of a tor-
ture. Your skin will look and feel like satin, and your
face under this treatment will look twice as young. No
after lotions are required when using
SHAVEX
Mr. LESLIE HENSON the famoui
actor, writes: —"I use 'Shavex' every
time I shave, and think it is the quick-
est, cleanest and most delightful pre-
paration ever invented for shaving.”
1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole Australian
Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON
(Australia) Ltd., (Dept. 4” ), Eagle
& Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street,
Sydney. Zeekol Mnfg. Co., London, Eng.
FREE SAMPLE on receipt of 3d. tamp.
Missing Friends.
Henry peckover candler, at
Gym pie and Rockhampton about 1908,
then talked of going to New Guinea. Any
information as to present address, or death,
please communicate to WOOLSEY, SAYEIt
& THOROLD, Solicitors, Bank Plain,
Norwich, Norfolk, England.
pOSSETT. —Inquiries are being made for
* the present whereabouts of CHARLES
WILLIAM EOS SETT, formerly of Gun-
bower, Australia, Farmer, to his advantage.
Will any person having information please
communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Auckland, New Zealand.
MR. JOHN SMITH WELLS, formerly of
Scotland, and whose last known address
was 45 Vernon Street, Wooliahra, Sydney,
might communicate with THOMSON &
CAMPBELL, writers, 182 West Regent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland, when he will re-
ceive advantageous news.
DOLA, CHARLES WILLIAM (son of
1 Pietro Pola, deceased), your advantage
apply Messrs. Garrett, Christie & Berne,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney. Urgent.
NOEL MACDONALD, Rainbow, write
home; very anxious. Alex. Macdonald.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
raP
M 3
SR
ssrotr:
I
w
n
mm
y fv^ r
© /k
m
WHEREVER man lives electricity
is his willing servant. It brings
comfort and convenience to his home,
lightens his labor and makes rapid
transportation and communication
easy.
WHEREVER man lives, the
International General Electric
Co. serves him through convenient,
local representation.
ARGENTINA—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Rosario de Santa Fe,
Tucuman.
AUSTRALlA—Australian General Elec-
tric Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
BRAZlL—General Electric, S. A., Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo.
CENTRAL AMERICA International
General Electric Company, Inc., New
Orleans, La., U. S. A. .
CHILE —International Machinery Co.,
Santiago, Antofagasta, Valparaiso; Ni-
trate Agencies, Ltd., Iquique.
CHINA —Andersen, Meyer & Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai.
COLOMBlA— Wesselhoeft & Poor, Bar-
ranquilla, Bogota, Medellin.
CUBA —General Electric Company ol
Cuba, Havana, Santiago.
DUTCH EAST INDlES—lnternational
General Electric Co., Inc., Soerabaia,
Java.
ECUADOR—Guayaquil Agencies Co.,
Guayaquil.
EGYPT—British Thomson-Houston Co.,
Ltd., Cairo.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
International General Electric Co.,
Inc., London.
GREECE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Franyaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris, France.
HOLLAND —Mijnssen & Co., Amster-
dam.
INDlA—lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Calcutta, Bombay, Bangalore.
JAPAN —International General Electric
Co., Inc., Tokyo, Osaka..
MEXlCO—General Electric, S. A., Mex-
ico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey.
Tampico, Veracruz, El Paso, Texas:
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical. &
Engineering Co., Ltd., Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, Christchurch.
PARAGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
PERU—W. R. Grace & Co., Lima.
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS—Pacific Com-
mercial Co., Manila.
PORTO RlCO—lnternational General
Electric Co., Inc., San Juan.
PORTUGAL AND COLONlES—Socie-
dade Iberica de Construcoes Electricas,
Lda., Lisbon.
SOUTH AFRICA—South African Gen-
j eral Electric Co., Ltd., Johannesburg,
Capetown.
SPAIN AND COLONIES Sociedad
Iberica de Construcciones Electricas,
Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao.
SWITZERLAN D—Trolliet Freres,
Geneva.
URUGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Montevideo.
VENEZUELA —Wesselhoeft & Poor,
Caracas.
ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING
COMPANIES
BELGIUM AND COLONIES—Soci<?t£
d’Electricite et de Mecanique, S. A.,
Brussels.
CHlNA—China General Edison Co.,
Shanghai.
FRANCE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris.
GREAT BRITAIN' AND IRELAND—
British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd.,
Rugby, England.
ITALY AND COLONlES—Compagnia
Generale di Elettricita, Milan.
JAPAN —Shibaura Engineering Works,
Tokyo: Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd., Ka-
wasaki, Kanagawa-Ken.
Communication
Speed of communication in the days of the Mara-
thon runner depended upon human endurance.
For centuries men strove to carry messages through
the dangers of gloomy forests and across trackless
wastes.
Today electricity speeds man’s message safely and
surely across continents, over seas and deserts.
Wherever man lives electricity now serves him in
communication. Huge central stations and miles
of transmission lines make electricity available in
every part of the world for communication by tele-
phone, telegraph, cable or wireless.
This is but one of the many ways that the world-
wide organization of the International General
Electric Company, through its local engineers and
representatives, brings electricity to man as a will-
ing, dependable servant.
K
Int.-11-26
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO, INC, SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK, U. & Ai


The
Bids
for
Him
)
, on . tho , ri £ ht but they will finish
Carson’s sfle baSIS '* h ® is offered :lt Winchcombe,
the fiinis detei mi nation as stock salesmen never
lom thilt And Winehcombe. Carson
reTh if f klll a,ld experience to constantly
reach it. hor highest prices—
CONSIGN SHEEP, LAMBS AND CATTLE TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Homebusli Yards,
Sydney.
LTD.
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
[1
FIRTH’S SAWS
IN THE BIG TIMBER
Up and down, throughout the timber
lands of the world, from the logging
camps amongst the Californian Red-
woods to the dank, fever-ridden
Mahogany forests of Burmali, experi-
enced timber jacks are getting real
satisfaction from the use of Firth
Woodsaws.
The ability to cut just a shade cleaner,
a trifle faster with a bit less effort, is
the reason why the lumberman chooses
a Firth Saw.
There is something different, some-
thing finer in the balance and feel of
these saws—an indefinable quality
which represents just the difference
between “just a saw” and “the finest
saw you’ve ever used.”
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Rojml Ban Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE.
BRITISH MADE
V£J«tr
lIALITY PENCIL
I
NOW EACH
GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS.
GOLFMKS—IT PAYS TO PLAY
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The Ball that makes good golf a certainty.
Sole Wholesale Distributors •
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Perth. [2
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
TO YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 CO IVLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CRASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
Nature's Loving Proxy—
TKe
Watchful Mother
and watchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who v?on’t
take risks tfifh “His
Highness”—the baby—but
keep him health}) and bonny
by giving small doses daily
KRUSE’S
Bottled, in three sizes.
*?4
Q"his safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises die dis-
tress caused b$ teednng and
vaccination, besideschecking
die development of odier
ailments that retard the
progress of young children.
Cool •rig in Summer —Reliable Alwayi
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular {ban ever, because
it does all {bat is claimed
for it —and more.
See {bat >)ou get {he genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grimwode & Co.
Ptp. Ltd., on the label.
New Radiotrons
new performance
better radio!
fd
Here is the way to equip a storage battery
set today to make it many times better.
1. Distance! Put RCA Radiotron UX-200
in the detector socket.
2. Quality! Put all genuine RCA Radio-
trons UX-201-A in the radio frequency
sockets and the first audio stage.
3. Volume! Use either Radiotron UX-112
or Radiotron UX-171 in the last audio
stage for full, clear-toned volume.
Keep abreastof the Radiotron laboratories.
Know all the Radiotrons. For your own
protection always look for the RCA mark
on the base and inside the glass.
If your dealer does not handle Radiotrons,
communicate with:
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia), Ltd.,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Cr. Queen and Little Coilins Streets, Melbourne.
Branch Offices, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Australian General Electric Company, Cr. Went-
worth Avenue and Goulburn St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Distributors in Australia for the
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
I\CA. IVad iot ro n
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Lav”: Red and fallow deer have become
such a nuisance in the back country of
Maoriland that an open season is to be
declared next year. In the meanwhile special
permission has been given in some cases
for killing, and a Wellington man has
secured the sole right of export. Already
he has orders from America for 1000 frozen
carcases of venison a month.
* * * *
“Sucre”: The glass-eye industry has appa-
rently reached a high stage of craftsman-
ship. I sat opposite a man in a tramcar
the other day, and was covertly admiring
his lambent brown orbs. Suddenly a flv
alighted on the dome of the left one, wiped
its feet on the iris, and departed without
any recognition from the eye or its owner.
“Emer”: In the new fleets of taxi-cabs of
various colors that have descended on Aus-
tralian capitals, the doors are operated from
the outside only, a precaution, so my driver
told me, against the tendency of slippery
fares to alight unobtrusively in a traffic
jamb. This may be justifiable from the
taxi company’s point of view, but it holds
unpleasant possibilities in the case of an
accident.
*
“Aroha”: (M.L.) : The stamps on letters
posted in Wellington are cancelled with the
slogan, “Buy New Zealand-made Goods,” but
at Rotorua the Government is using Oregon
for buildings under construction. After im-
portation this lias to be railed the 200 miles •
yet 12 miles from Rotorua there is a State
sawmill turning out the finest rimu, and any
builder _ will tell you that this timber is
every bit as good as Oregon. There is also
a State factory and mill at Frankton Junc-
tion, where there are heavy stocks of timber
in the yards.
* * * *
“Avon”: About a year ago the Shivery
Islands commenced to take a census of motor
vehicles. One of those American motoring-
journals that know everything had stated
that there were 50,000 petrol-tanks wander-
ing around on wheels in the southernmost
Dominion, and most people in Maoriland
thought that was an exaggeration. But when
the first tally was taken over 100,000 of the
horseless things were discovered, and the
latest count brings the total up to 145,209.
That’s one to every nine persons, or one to
every two families, reckoning a family as a
man and wife and 24 children. Even the
Ma State can’t boast a ratio like that. But
the roads are better across the Tasman.
“Has the new boss ashed you to work bach
yet?”
“No, not yet—-he only recently got married .”
“Verri”: The unwisdom of trying to re-
tain a Government position and a sense of
humor at the same time has been expensively
demonstrated to a Maoriland official. Through
a local farmer he sold a Government bull
to another man on the land, who requested
that his purchase be equipped with a pedi-
gree. Anxious to oblige, the official compiled
a family tree of which any bull might have
been proud, adding picturesque details. But
when the purchaser found that his bargain
was just plain bull, he took his grievance
to the court, and the humorous compiler of
pedigrees to order was mulcted by the humor-
less law of £36.
* * * *
Cartot”: The Postal Department runs
what it calls a “fragile parcel post,” the idea
being that by paying double the ordinary
amount of postage the transmitter of any-
thing not warranted to stand rough treat-
ment may stave off the possibility of such.
But all that is done is to. affix a red stamp
and a direction that the parcel must be
handled with great care, and clearly this
is no infallible specific. Recently I received
a parcel on which 7s. had been paid instead
of 3s. 6d., but it came in the ordinary mail-
bag, and two out of the five breakable
articles contained in it had been smashed.
1 et I have no chance of obtaining any com-
pensation.
* * * #
“Bad Australian”: Bitten by the time-
payment bug, my friend Jones sought the
palatial showrooms of a big city firm and
stated his case. He was asked if he could
furnish a recommendation from a customer
of the firm, and having undertaken to do
so he was invited to go ahead and make a
.selection of goods. After that he was
directed to the office, to be hit with the
.lowing demands: (1) The recommenda-
tions as above; (2) a deposit of 15 p.c. and
an undertaking to pay 12s. 6d. per week
thereafter until the account was liquidated;
(o) a little matter of 10 p.c. for the time-
payment accommodation; (4) his signature
to a legal contract designed to cover the
firm in every conceivable contingency; (5)
a guarantee from his friend to be responsible
tor the account if lie should default. At this
point Jones concluded that he had better get
out while the road was clear, and did so
without further palaver. “It’s lucky I went
ter one of them decent firms,” he said, after
telling me the tale. “If some of the others
Jiada got ’old o’ me they mighta c’t me
swallered me alive I”-


BELLS
e PEALS
Australian Metals worked up by Australian Artisans are the
fine mettle of Industrial Prosperity and National Safety.
Since 1859 Danks’ have been manufacturers and invite
inquiries for:—
“Daspyl” Plumbers and Engineers’ Brassware.
Sheet Lead, Lead Pipe, Lead Products.
“Billabong” Windmills and Pumps.
“Billabong” Troughing (Cattle, Sheep, Pigs).
Bells and Bells in Peals.
Hospital Steel Furniture and Antiseptic Fittings.
Sanitary Street Fountains, etc.
Warehouses at
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
Cable Address:
“BRASS,” SYDNEY.
Factories at
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
wsm
i
WBi
lr
SIDNEY
LEADMILL
dfd
324-330 Pitt St. Sydney'
391-403JBourke St. Melbourne
PLUMBERS £
ENGINEERS
BRASS WARE
Acknowledged Supreme-
the Wonderful BECHSTEIN
No piano can give such unalloyed pleasure as the Bechstein.
Sound one note, either in the bass or treble, and the keenest
critic will be convinced that the Bechstein is indeed a superb
instrument, while a classical composition, properly played
upon it, induces a feeling akin to ecstasy. Each note is a
tone gem.
Call and try our beautiful models—both grands and
uprights. All are obtainable under our special system of Easy
Terms. Please write for catalogue and price list. Your present
piano taken in part payment.
A special feature of
the Bechstein
is the instantaneous and perfect response to pressure on the
keys. Thus every variety of volume and expression can be
produced.
In tone, touch and all the many other evidences of crafts-
manship the Bechstein is supreme; it is universally acknow-
ledged to be the peer of pianos.
Nothing is more enjoyable in a home than a Bechstein
piano. It quickly becomes the finest and best-loved feature
of any home, and after a generation of superb service as a
medium of culture and amusement, takes pride of place
amongst the family heirlooms because of its long and intimate
association with the sweetest and best scenes within the home
circle.
Quality our Keynote since 1853.”
338 George Street,
Sydney.
206-210 Pitt Street
Sydney.


The Wonderful
“LOCK-GRIP” WIRE STRAINER.
i6i(yi6
SIMPLE, POWERFUL, RAPID.
Time, Money and Energy Saved.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything in-
vented for the straining of fencing wires. It saves
hours on a job. Joins, tightens and repairs with the
utmost ease. Its enormous concentrated power makes
light of any fencing work —the hardest tensile wires
cannot slip through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can be
carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your motor-
car out of a bog.
Get one and test it —there’s no risk. Failure or
breakage impossible. Thousands sold —everyone
delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6; Interstate,
2/8 (plus exchange).
Agents for South Australia:
THE AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT AND HOUSE
FURNISHING CO., North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Controllers of World’s Rights:
S. Cohen, Sons & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
RlomU the beauty of
the Scarlet Tanager
Extra Fine
Fine
Medium
Broad
except
for aize.
Stub
7
Oblique
Paying a Little
More tor
'Parker *Duofold
Costs You a Great
Deal Less in
Almost No Time
WALKING two squares
to spend ten “bob”
for a pen that sours a man’s
disposition—that is foot-
work. But walking two
miles (if necessary) and
paying 25/- or 35/- for
a Parker Duofold with point
guaranteed for wear and
mechanical perfection for 25
years—that is head-work.
Sold by Stationers, Book-
sellers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores where
pens are stocked. Stop at the
nearest one and choose your
Point and Colour Black
and Gold or Black - tipped
Lacquer-red.
Agents
SLADE, ALLAN & COMPANY
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
If any illustration in The Buixetih takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
guote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Bsq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
free
in every
A MAM I
postcard
Z 7
'A
A
<£»
zPhampoo
picturing a
charming Amami user
We feel that the Amami story
can best be told by pictures of the
girls who use it. So we have
made a number of their photos
into attractive postcards, which
you will find peeping through
the outer tissue of all Amami
Shampoos. Showing hair of
beautiful texture, bright with
vitality, they testify to Amami
more convincingly than any
words. Prove Amami for your-
self. All the Chemists, Hair-
dressers and big Stores are selling
it, 9d. per Sachet complete with
the Special Amami Lemon Juice
Rinsing Powder.
%idcUf
Cltftaminicfkt
Amami No. 1 for DARK HAIR.
Amami No. 5 for FAIR HAIR.
>TER Bright Filament Wves
ix
ix
1
Qianls for Strength & Vitality
kESIGNED On a unique principle which secured
robust construction with highly
efficient performance. For long useful life, ample
volume and greater range ask for
MULLARD SINGLE RING VALVES
Red Ring for H.F. amplification
Green Ring for L.F. amplification •
These valves only require a 4-volt accumulator
*7 each
HF Amplification.
LF Amplification.
Power Valves.
.Detectors.
When valve is followed bf
an Intervalve Transformer
or telephones, use an LF
Amplifier or Power Valve.
When valve is followed
by a Beslstance Capacity
Intervalve system, use an
HF Amplifying Valve.
All Milliard Valves are manufactured at Mullard Works, London, England.
OBTAINABLE FROM EVERY RADIO DEALER IN AUSTRALIA.
Milliard
THE ♦ MASTER. * VALVE
Advertisement
■i (ARKS. 6)
the Mullard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., “Milliard House,” Denmark Street, London W.C.t,
Eno land.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
df
No. 1369.
“Harold Hardupp”: Oxford bags are
blamed for Sydney’s latest shooting fatality.
The partiality of a stylish young laborer for the
voluminous garments excited the derision of
the lads of the suburb, and, hurt by their
laughter, the wearer slipped a revolver into
his pocket when next he went abroad. His
story is that when three youngsters approached
for a closer inspection of the tailoring curi-
osity lie fired a shot to frighten them —or some-
thing like that. However that may be, the
youth who was shot is certainly dead.
“Erua”: It happened during a shipping
strike at Auckland, M.L. On an unim-
portant wharf in which the strikers were
not taking much interest a solitary man was
loading bricks into a small scow, when he
glanced up and saw a trio of militant strik-
ers approaching. He hastily changed his
tactics, and began replacing the bricks on
the wharf. “Stop that,” shouted the strik-
ers when they got within hailing distance;
“put those bricks back on the ship !” The
workman meekly obeyed; the trio lent a
hand, and in record time had the wharf
clear. They then gave orders for the scow
to be shifted with all speed into the stream,
This was done, and presently she went gaily
up the coast, the only full ship to leave the
port for a week.
“Hawk”: The N.S.W. Workers’ Compen-
sation Act is likely to prove the last straw
for some shire councils. Even before it came
along they were all frill and no garment,
an elaborate machinery to do work for which
there were no funds. Never have we been
so highly taxed for local road maintenance,
and never were our roads in such a deplor-
ably neglected condition. On complaint the
shire engineer arrives in his motor, admits
that the growls are justified, and pro-
mises to recommend that repairs be made —
when funds are available. He further admits
that, as far as he knows, funds are never
likely to be available after fixed charges are
paid. A lucky alderman gets an odd 50 quid
spent near his front gate now and again, and
that is all there is to show for a good many
shire councils.
“Crojack”: The reported loss of the
trawler Awarua in Cook's Strait is not the
first mysterious disappearance in those
stormy waters. In May, 1865, the wooden
paddle steamer City of Dunedin went miss-
ing when bound for Hokitika from Welling-
ton with 15 passengers. Wreckage washed
ashore at Palliser Bay, though the City of
Dunedin was last seen off Terawhiti. At the
other end of the strait on the night of May
13, 1899, the collier Ohau disappeared. The
lightliousekeeper at Cape Campbell saw her
masthead-light for hours, but in a heavy
squall it went out. After many weeks,
wreckage came ashore at Castlepoint. The
next to go was the trawler Duco, which put
to sea a few hours before a heavy southerly
came up. She was bound from Wellington
to the Chatliams, and not a sign of her has
been seen since. There was a queer coinci-
dence in these straits relative to the ship
Wellington and the steamer Penguin. When
the Wellington left Picton on the voyage in
which she hit an iceberg, the Penguin towed
her out of Queen Charlotte Sound. In the
strait, the towline broke, and the Wellington
nearly went ashore. It was the start of a
calamitous voyage. At the very same place
the Penguin herself met her doom sixteen
years later. Both ships sailed late at night
on the 12th of the month, and both met their
troubles on the 13th, though the Welling-
ton’s was a prolonged series of accidents
until the climax in the ice, while the Pen-
guin's was short and sharp..
“J.C.”: If neither the controversy nor the
dog be dead, I would like to step in and
say a few words with regard to the impact
of a dog falling from a height. Some years
ago the late Sir George Stokes, Cambridge
mathematical physicist, enunciated what is
now known as Stokes’s Law of Fall. The
conditions postulated by Stokes are practi-
cally ideal; nevertheless, they can be produced
with reasonable accuracy in the laboratory,
and the law has been experimentally confirmed.
Only one case, however, is of interest to the
layman—that of falling rain. For small
drops (l-25in. diam.) from a moderate
rain the maximum velocity attained does
not rise above about 13 feet per sec.; for
exceptionally large drops (l-sin. diam., pre-
cipitated during a cloudburst) the maxi-
mum velocity is only 25 feet per sec.; in
fact, 25 feet per sec. is the maximum velo-
city of the fall of rain, for above that
velocity large drops break up, and the
terminal velocity of the smaller drops
is less. A Zepp. was brought down
in the north of the island, and when
100 feet from the ground, according to eye-
witnesses, several of the crew jumped. All,
with a single exception, were killed, the
majority of the corpses being spreadeaglcd on
the ground, indicating that they had fallen
either flat on their faces or flat on their
backs. The single exception staggered off
the field into which he had jumped; he had
not the slightest injury other than a shak-
ing. Cases of men having fallen 100 feet
are not rare, but when they survive they
either fall on their feet or else in such a
manner that the. shock of impact is taken
up gradually. Of course, the terminal velo-
city will depend on the manner of falling.
If the long axis, either of dog or man, be
vertical, the terminal velocity will be
greatest. The ideal method of falling from
a considerable height, then, would appear
to be to start horizontally, but in such
wise as to land feet downwards; the velocity
would be less, while the shock would be
taken up by the legs. However, the chances
of judging a fall with such precision are
pretty slim, so that luck plays a big part—
sufficient, anyhow, to warrant the purchase
in a ticket in Tatt.’s if the stunt comes off.
Totally unsupported, a man will ultimately
fall head first, since his centre of gravity
is above the centre of the trunk, and, with
the consequent lessening of skin friction,
his terminal velocity will become fairly high.
Providing he is falling for some time, the
most probable thing that would happen would
be temporary unconsciousness due to suffo-
cation, for he would be unable either to
inhale or exhale. Breathing is impossible
when facing an 80-m.p.h. gale, and it is
not too comfortable at 60.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
87931 - la Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Moden™ Passenger Vessels connect with Train
Hi Byron Bay, 350 miles north oi Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
5.5, ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
5.5. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE:
f ARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail— £3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Briobane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank ol Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, '0.8.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
F.ONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World,
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,37 S
GRANTS DRAFTS Hi";
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS SLd'SO. £
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Premantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,675,000
875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&O Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA.... 18,600 tons disp. OCT. 21, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .. . 13,000 „ „ NOV. 4, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI . . 22,000 „ „ NOV. 18, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ DEC. 2. for San Francisco.
*New Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine,
■IHI
■
’ I
■m
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO / Union House ’ 247 George Street ’ Sydney -
UNION SIEAM SHIP cu -\ V Viliiam Street. Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
I S LAN D TOU R S
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
§/% I
■ %
1C
os
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A vp tniiT* tn
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” anil
m.s. “Malabar’'’ to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Eatkbliabed 1811,
WALKS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
M
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle foF Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
’Brisbane, Mack ay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLyH l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailing
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel*
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitstroy Estates, Ltd.
Blaeklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian.
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Interstate Tourist
Excursion Tickets.
NEW RE-BOOKING SYSTEM
Sydney to Melbourne and return
or Melbourne to Sydney and return
Ist Class, £B/16/-
2nd Class, £5/17/-
These tickets include a Special Re-booking
Certificate to the value of £2/2/6 on the First-
class ticket and £l/8/- on the Second-class
ticket negotiable at the Government Tourist
Bureau, in excursions to their face value,
either on short tours or in part payment
for extended tours.
Sydney to Adelaide and return or
Adelaide to Sydney and return—
-Ist Class, £l3/18/-
2nd Class, £9/3/6
(Including Certificates valued at £3/10/-
and £2/5/- respectively).
Tickets available for travel by express trains
and for return within two months.
Full Information at
Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
King William Street, Adelaide,
Victorian Government Tourist
Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
or
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


'Si
'*W/.
4i!
S' i \
&
7
AsSr,
\
J' 3k
■'•-s
/"ScX
%
fS
X\
1
m
t
Always Dependable in the
World’s Rough Places
Where motor-car dependability is most vital Dodge Brothers
Motor Cars are most highly prized, These cars maintain regular
schedules over the pathless wastes of Mesopotamia, the desert
to Bagdad and a thousand other places too severe for cars less
sturdy.
Many Dodge Brothers Motor Cars have travelled more than
200,000 miles each. One-hundred-thousand-mile records are
common. Of the 1,600,000 Dodge Cars manufactured in the
last 1 I years, over 90% are still in use.
□ ODG&BROTMERSjNC.DeTROIT
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
14/10/’2O.


va&a
-
mm
m
I
Q3^
:t
o'*
»n.
$
REXONA
SOAP.
//- per Tablet.
Be a Rexona Girl!
It Means Health and Beauty.
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin and hair. To bo
a Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona Soap and enjoy that natural beauty of
skin and hair which cannot be imitated, but can be obtained by its regular
use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain
free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even
the best of such soaps can only cleanse ; they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections
is known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day,
and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to
pimples, and leave the complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
MISS PAULINE OARON, a lovely
Movie Star, writes: —“Rexona Soap
surely has my hearty endorsement
I
Is
:: v -
$
■
7
JS
Hillier's
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices? 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
CuuiSt isil£U\
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney,
and Cr. George & King Sts.
ife
H m
itfi
liH
HHB
&
i
m
tm
, £ Si
•
■Hi
t $
' v
o.
What a lovely
Gift! ”
South Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T A TIND, wind, what-are you singing
U/t/ Over the wattle-sweet moor?
|r |r “The tune that the greenhood
tosses free
To the pricked-up ears of the scarlet pea;
Hymn of a heavenly lark, and then
Cheep of a tiny turquoise wren;
Faraway ripples of dream desires
From a harp of casuarina wires—
Such rare music I wake when winging
Over the wattle-sweet moor.”
Wind, wind, what are you hearing
Up to the moor from the sea?
“Faintest moan of remembering shells
To echo again in the fuchsia bells;
Colors of fish-scale pink and pearl
For tea-tree blooms when their buds uncurl;
A dew of spray drops cold and sunny
For a tang of salt in the white heath honey.
Ah, gifts I bring of delicate daring
Up to the moor from the sea!”
Wind, wind, what are you playing,
Teasing the moor in the sun?
“Catch-if-you-can with the flashing swallows
And lizards down in the sandy hollows.
Mulberry-bush with gnats in the air,
And hide-and-seek with a leaping hare.
Where shyest orchids are shadowy brown
I pelt them witli bobbing thistledown
Through diamond threads of gossamer
straying,
Teasing the moor in the sun.”
Wind, wind, what are you doing,
Like a young god on the moor?
‘Each wedding-bush is a starry cloud,
And the gorse in its glory laughs aloud ;
Bale-blue irises lean aslant
By the wealth of the golden-guinea plant,
Like rainbow flames in the coral-fern
Countless virginal beauties burn,
And all of these I am wooing, wooing
Like a young god on the moor!”
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Paradise Lost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LITTLE Sally Yates was lying in a
hospital bed. For all her twenty-seven
years sin l looked little and frail and
delicate, as she gazed wistfully through the
open window at the green park outside. She
was only to see that a little while longer.
She might die at any moment —certainly in
the next day or so. There was something
funny in that —the certainty of death —some-
thing that Sally wanted to laugh hysterically
over. How often had she longed for the re-
lease of death —prayed passionately for it —
and now it was inevitable, and she didn’t
want it! And Sally couldn’t laugh because
it sent red-hot stabs of pain across her side
where the mad sailor had slashed with his
knife....
And whenever Sally Yates thought of that
it set her thinking over the whole shadow-
show that had been her life; the whole
dogged, unfair tragedy and conflict of it. So
she remembered there in the hospital with the
pale afternoon sunshine splashing golden
pictures across the white walls. And each
picture seemed like a fleeting canvas to her
life- —without the gold. She remembered in
quick, vivid flashes; it was the way Life had
painted her. •
The old Italian organ-grinder had begun
it all. Little, excitable Antonio with the pert
grey monkey that frisked about comically and
begged for coppers. It was an old organ,
horribly out of tune and squeaky. Yet it
gave to Sally Yates all the first sweet madness
and sadness and passion of music; the irre-
sistible impulse of rhythm that affected her
brain .as well as her feet. She never tried
to resist it in those days. She danced in the
street of shadows and lurking uglinesses to
Antonio’s organ with all the abandon of
seven, until her mother screamed shrilly at
her from the back door. She generally
screamed, Mrs. Yates; the ugly, irritable
scream of a florid woman with a drunken
husband.
And then old Antonio died. His organ no
longer squeaked and rasped down the street.
There was a desolation in little Sally Yates’s
heart. Her mother’s scream became more
shrill and menacing; the basd temper and
abuse of her father more pronounced; the
street more full of shadows and uglinesses.
There was nothing but drabness and shadows.
Little Sally learnt to hate them all —-her
mother and father, the street, the shadows.
But the organ of old Antenio had left a
cancer that was eating into her soul. She
didn’t understand it then. She only knew
that her whole being craved for music. Any
kind of music that she might listen to
breathlessly; dance to with her feet. She
would go hungry so that she might listen in
a dark corner to a blind man playing a violin
outside the public-house. But she was found
there one night by her mother —and it never
happened again. Sally Yates was twelve
then.
She was seventeen when she drifted into
Hartington’s on the arm of a chance
acquaintance. A wisp of a thing with pas-
sionate slits of dark, restless eyes, and a
prettiness that belongs to seventeen. Seven-
teen, with a defence of slum-shrewdness and
worldly experience of a woman of forty,
and virtuous—then.
Hartington’s was a dancing-place near the
wharves. A blaze of garish lights with the
everlasting shadows outside. Into it, at all
hours of the night, came sailors and firemen
from the ships in port, to dance and to drink
the vile liquor Bill Hartington sold. And—-
this was the chief attraction—there were
Bill Hartington’s girls.
A nigger played a saxophone at Harting-
ton’s. A huge, evil-looking fellow with grin-
ning white teeth and leering eyes. But he
played the saxophone marvellously well,
swaying his body in sensual harmony the
while; and it fascinated Sally. Strange,
gurgling, wailing tunes, sometimes like chuck-
ling laughter, sometimes like sobbing—and it
set Sally’s feet jogging and jiggling and
moving rhythmically. That was jazz. She
was jazz personified, little Sally Yates. When
she danced she was somehow detached from
herself, oblivious to anything else. She was
not conscious of Life and the shadows when
she followed the saxophone. It puzzled her
that she couldn’t be as happy and detached
when the dance ended and she had to
amuse her partner. She was striving for
something she couldn’t attain, couldn’t under-
stand —drabness obtruded when the music
ceased.
That first night Bill Hartington _ watched
her deliberately ; saw her cheap prettiness, her
dancing that drew men to her. He lum-
bered his big bulk towards her.
“Want a job here, girlie?”
The blaring lure of the negro’s saxophone
was still singing and tugging at Sally Yates’s
brain. A job at Hartington’s, a job that
meant dancing and music every night of her
life! She clutched her hands together, and
her dark eyes sparkled with excitement.
It meant liberty, too. She need never go
home again to her mother and father, • who
now called her by filthy names. Unloved,
she could love now —worship unsuppressed
at the feet of that strange, compelling god,
Jazz. But it meant, also What matter?
Who cared? and yet
“Yes,” said Sally in a whisper.
So she became one of Bill Hartington’s
girls,
Little Sally Yates “fell” ! She cared no-
thing for that. It signified nothing appalling
to her. Anyhow, it was inevitable. She had
to “fall” to keep her job. And once fallen
there wasn’t any alternative. But there were
compensations in the music and the desire,
no longer thwarted, to dance and sway volup-
tuously across the smooth floor.
There were fewer shadows now; fewer
periods to wonder stumblingly why she had
been put into Life. She was happy in a
twisted kind of way.
She was nearly twenty-two when Dan
Beeves wandered into Hartington’s. But
Dan was not a sailor: he was a farmer. He
was not quite clear, he told Sally, how he
had come to Hartington’s. Too many drinks,
perhaps. Dan was a fine, upstanding man,
muscular and alert when he was sober. Ilis
eyes were blue, and his fair hair hung over
his forehead slightly. Sally was attracted by
him; he seemed to bring a different atmo-
sphere into the hall, an atmosphere of
ploughed fields and warm, wet country after
rain. Not the stench of a ship’s galley, or
the oily swell of the ocean.
Dan couldn’t dance very well. He was
clumsy, and tramped heavily sometimes on
Sally’s toes. Blit she clung to him because
he was new, and because she liked him
vaguely. And when he had taken more drinks
and become so fuddled that one of Har-
tington’s patrons considered him ripe for
plucking, it was Sally Yates who managed
to get him outside and send him home. Bill
Hartington abused her. because be generally
received a percentage of such pluckings.
Sally gave him back abuse for abuse; she
knew that her position was so secure at
Hartington’s that he dared not lose her.
And Dan Reeves, sober, was there again
on the following night. And again. And
again. Sally learnt to wait for his arrival.
Dan painted her glowing pictures of his
farm down south —-the little green hills in
rue springtime, when the flowers were unfold-
ing their petals and the sky was blue. The
golden wine of the sunlight as it spilt across
the valleys into the creeks. The liquid sing-
ing of the birds, and the murmur and low
sounds of the rivers. All sun and song and
sappy smells.
Sally felt inarticulate things stirring in
her. She wanted to be amongst it all:
to lie face down on the soft grasses and feel
the warm earth pressing against her
breasts....
Yet it came as a shock when Dan asked
her to go away with him. A greater shock
when lie suggested marriage, because he
loved her. Sally, who had never been loved,
couldn’t understand it.
She said falteringly, with her eyes nar-
rowed into dark slits; “But....what I am
... .you know'.. . . Gawd !”
Dan didn’t care. Didn’t want to care.
He wanted her as she was —because he
loved her.
Love! It was exotic to little Sally Yates;
something to laugh at. Why should anyone
love her? What she was? What she had
been.
But the green fields and the drowsy pic-
tures of it all —'and Dan was so insistent;
so filled with longing for her.
She told Bill Hartington she was going
away to be married. He cursed her and he
cursed Dan Reeves. Then he laughed uglily.
“You’ll come back,” he sneered. “Your
sort don’t marry, Sally Yates.”
“I won’t come back,” said Sally, levelly.
But something lurched and snapped inside
her as she looked back down the hall at the
negro with grinning white teeth swaying
his body as he gurgled and wailed into the
saxophone; and Bill Hartington with blas-
phemy still on his lips. . . .
But she tried to forget all that on Dan’s
farm down south. And for a while little Sally
Yates succeeded. She cried in Dan’s strong
arms at night out of sheer happiness. The
happiness hurt; it choked in her throat, and
she had to clutch at something and hold it
tightly.
The long days were sunny and slow and
silent. Only the sweet music of the birds
and the little, happy creeks that murmured
and crooned towards the big Murrumbidgee.
A different music, though. Not passionate or
emotional. Only soothing and carefree. It
gave Sally drowsy peace to think through
for the first time in her life. She lay, as
she had longed, amongst the soft, green
grasses, and watched the wonders of a
Nature she had never known or understood
before. It made her cry softly again. What
it was to be happy! The exquisite pain
of it!
For the first six months she was too much
in love with love and Dan and the farm to
think of anything much else besides them.
Then the loneliness of it all began to drag at
her heart. There was too much time to
think in; too much silence. She began
thinking of Hartington’s again, the big negro
with the saxophone, the noise. .. .
She clung to Dan hopelessly; kissed him
with the lids closing over her dark, rest-
less eyes. He asked her what was the
matter. She couldn’t tell him because she
didn’t know herself. Little Sally Yates went
through nine months of that. She heard
(Continued on next page.)


picture
<>ells a St° r S/*
T/q rrjWffii
Jiiiniii' qjiwiii'ili 1 :
'if
!:-i .
: ' I?
Si
<*r
Never neglect your kidneys!
Avoid that backache by taking Doan’s Pills.
WEAK KIDNEYS spoil your joys, making
you feel old and wretched, and unfitting
you for either work or play. Why not prevent
such trouble? Middle-aged people, in particular,
should take an occasional course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills as a precaution. This helps the
kidneys to rid the blood of impurities that cause
backache, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, dropsi-
cal swellings and urinary disorders. In many
serious cases of kidney trouble Doan’s Pills have
proved highly successful.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. H. Holder, 285 West Street, North Sydney, says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful
kidney medicine. I have proved this. For a long time
I suffered agony from backache and kidney trouble, and
only those who have been afflicted in this way have any
idea what I went through. My limbs swelled consider-
ably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. I
was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts of remedies,
but nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally
very worried about the serious state of my health, and
when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice I decided to try them. It vsias a grand thing
for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Pills
and recommend them with every confidence to other suf-
ferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder says : “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They cured me of kidney disorder eight years ago, and I
have had no return of the complaint since.”
At All Chemists and Stores, 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says : “A member of
my family suffered terribly with Pro-
truding Piles. The pain was so great
that he could not sleep at night, and
would toss about for hours. He had been
suffering for three years, and we were
always having advice and using dif-
ferent remedies, but nothing did him
any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment,
and recommend its use whenever op-
portunity offers.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Wark
says: “I am pleased to tell you that
the member of my family who was
cured of Piles by Doan’s Ointment over
eighteen years ago is still free from
this trying complaint. This remedy is
a certain cure for Piles.”
Mr. J. Mitchell, 26 Campbell Street,
Glebe, Sydney, says: “I was a sufferer
with Itching Piles for years, and I
cannot describe the agony of this ail-
ment. Scores of times I have lost
my rest, sleep being ouf of the ques-
tion. I used a great many Pile reme-
dies, and was treated by a doctor, but
got no relief. Reading of cures effected
by Doan’s Ointment, I decided to try
it. A few applications gave me ease,
and by continuing the treatment I
found, to my great satisfaction, that
all the pain and irritation had gone.
I am very grateful to Doan’s Oint-
ment for my cure, and advise sufferers
to try this remedy, and am satisfied
that if they follow the directions they
will soon be cured.”
Ten years later Mrs. Mitchell says:
“My husband has been free from Itch-
ing Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured
him, but he still uses this remedy now
and then, just as a preventive
against any return of his old com-
plaint.”
Price 2/9 per tin.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
the saxophone gurgling and wailing out in
the paddocks; she heard it inside when Dan
was away; she heard it at night in dreams.
She heard little else, and there was an ache
in her heart and her feet.
Dan couldn’t dance, and he didn’t like it.
It wasn’t his fault. But he didn’t under-
stand. He was out of sympathy with Sally
there. There was conflict between them be-
cause Dan couldn’t understand why she
cried so much, or why she couldn’t tell him
the reason. So Dan was unhappy, too.
Sally wanted a baby. She prayed for it
passionately on her knees. Dan’s baby would
make her forget everything else —the saxo-
phone and Hartington’s. But it never came.
She told herself bitterly that she didn’t
deserve one. But the things we don’t de-
serve are usually what we most desire.
Little Sally Yates was twenty-four when
she went back to Hartington’s and the
saxophone. She left a little, tear-wet note for
Dan telling him that she would never return.
She left behind the farm down south, with
the green hills, the little murmuring creeks,
the bird-songs, the honey-scent and the arch-
ing blue skies —but she kept fast her love
of Dan. She would always keep that. It
was the most wonderful love she had ever
known—except Hartington’s and the saxo-
phone. . . .
Bill Ilartington greeted her with a grin.
“So you’ve come back.”
"Yes,” said Sally, slowly. “I’ve come
back.”
Then she drew a deep breath of intoxi-
cation as the big negro lifted the saxophone
to his grinning white teeth and began to
play. The even beat and the wail and the
gurgle of the jazz-band set her feet joggling
and jiggling. She had no defence. There
were sailors shouting and laughing; other
girls shrieking; animation and crude melody.
Sally's dark eyes danced and sparkled above
the pain that almost blinded her. She
laughed recklessly and swayed her slight
figure on to the smooth floor.
Little Sally Yates was one of Bill Har-
tington’s girls again.
Then a sailor, maddened with drink, run-
ning amok. Screams and blasphemy; a
knife; a stab of pain in her side and warm
blood soaking her underclothes. Then dark-
ness and blessed oblivion....
Little Sally Yates gazed wistfully through
the open window at the green park outside.
It was so like a bit of Dan’s farm down
south; so like one of the kind hills where
the sheep fed at twilight and the sun spilt
soft splendor of gold and warmth. And Dan
would be waiting at the door of their cot-
tage with the same fair hair hanging slightly
over his forehead and the same dear love in
his eyes. Dear Dan !. .. .
But he had never tried to find her. He
had never come to Hartington’s, though he
must have known that she would be there.
No, Dan probably thought she didn’t love
him any more. And she loved him so much
that it hurt her as the happiness hurt her
on the farm.
Little Sally Yates cried softly. Then she
shivered when she realised that Death was so
near to her. She didn't want to die! Not
until Dan had come to her, and forgiven
her. But perhaps Death wasn't the gnarled
old man with the icy breath she had seen in
pictures. Perhaps he would be somebody
kind and gentle in white clothes. Perhaps
lie would take her as a little white cloud
took a star to its bosom just after sunset.
Perhaps the music of the angels on their
harps would set her dancing even more than
the saxophone. Little Sally Yates thought
she would like death like that. It would
mean freedom altogether, then....
But she didn’t want to die! Not until
Dan had come to her and taken her in
his strong arms again....
And so little Sally Yates died, whispering
the name of Dan Reeves on her lips.
She didn’t know that Dan had died of
a broken heart down on his farm in the
south nearly a year before.
GILBERT MANT.
Action and Re-acticn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tenants of Portland-lane were a
distinct little community, flourishing
on the misfortunes, the follies and
the gullibility of the people of the great
city which sprawled around the Lane. Money-
lenders, business-agents, hotel-brokers,
police-court lawyers and quack-doctors were
huddled in the terraced rows of houses,
built for residences and converted into offi-
ces. Rents were low, and the brotherly
spirit arising from a common purpose of
exploitation made all the tenants helpful
to each other. They were all reapers with-
out being spinners—a striking illustration of
the organisation of society which allows so
many to share the wealth of a community
without producing any of it.
But all were unconscious of moral oblo-
quy. Life to them was the pursuit of money.
They knew no other purpose of existence, and
maintained the pursuit with relentless vigi-
lance, believing that “keeping within the
law” was the only restriction to be observed.
And the Lane developed its own customs
and traditions. If, for instance, an old
tenant died, it was proper for the others
to attend his funeral. Louis Goldberg never
failed to observe this rule. He liked funerals,
particularly if there was a seat for him in
a mourning-coach. If relatives filled these
free vehicles, he would search the Lane for
a companion willing to halve the cost of a
cab.
When news spread through the Lane:
that Dennie Regan had just died in his office
of apoplexy, Goldberg’s first words were “I
vill not go to dat funeral!” But overnight
he thought better of it. The old villain
would not worry him any more, and it would
be interesting to see what friends he had
outside the Lane. Besides, moths had been
found in his best frock-coat, and his silk
hat would be none the worse for a day in
the fresh air. So with appropriate exag-
geration of his customary gloom, he followed
the remains of his enemy in the money-
lending business to their final resting-place.
The ceremony was meaningless to him —-
the mumbled Latin formula, the rosary, the
garish trappings of a Hibernian Lodge. And
his mind waudered, for he was getting old—
his turn would come. What would the Lane
do without him? Would they all come?
And .... outside the Lane?.... He shivered
a little, and on getting back to his room
that night sat till midnight gazing into the
fire. Who can picture the confused musings
of that vigil?
But next morning he was at his desk —
noticeably feebler and unusually taciturn.
He would miss the occasional snarl with
Regan; it had become part of the weekly
routine, and he hated any inroads on rou-
tine —they presaged the breaking-up of
things, and he could not forget that he
was sixty-eight years old. Regan was only
sixty-five when some inner channel of his
brain became choked with thickening blood.
By luncli-time he was groping in the
uttermost depths of despair, when a solicitor
who occupied the room above Regan’s office
came in and slapped him on the shoulder.
“Buck up, Louis,” he said; “Regan was a
good old sport, after all!”
“He vasn't so bad as he painted himself,
eh?”
“Did you hear about his will?”
“No, how much vas he vorth?”
“I’ve just seen a copy of it. What do
you think the old boy has done?”
“Left it all to the church, I suppose.”
“He left you £500!”
“Me!” —and Louis was on his feet.
“I just saw the will and copied this out
of it: “I bequeath £5OO to my friend Louis
Goldberg in token of the amusement he
always afforded me !’ ”
“Show me that vill!”
Ten minutes later Louis had read the
will, and with lingers in armpits was on
the doorstep again, smiling at the passers-
by.
“That old rogue Regan,” he said to a
neighbor, “was not so bad ad all.”
But the reason for the legacy puzzled and
worried him. “A token of the amusement
ho always afforded me.” What did that
old Irish mean?
There was only one man in the Lane
who delved in the inexplicable, so Louis
climbed a flight of stairs and entered Fritz
Harding’s room without regarding the notice
“Knock before entering!”
Fritz was sitting, tailor fashion on the
table, attired in a shirt, laboriously over-
hauling his only pair of trousers.
“Why the blazes didn’t you knock?” he
asked, without looking up. Then, on seeing
his visitor, “Oh, it’s you? The Hebrew
came down like a wolf on the lamb.”
Louis found a vacant chair and asked:
“You think I’m funny? Make people
laugh, eh?”
Perhaps it was the solemnity with which
the question was asked, but Fritz broke into
peals of laughter.
Offended by such a greeting, Louis rose.
“All right, you play the fool, and I go.
Never no more”....
“Sit down, Uncle. Of course you’re
funny. We all are. Look at me. Can't
I stir up a laugh?”
Louis looked and emitted a succession of
explosive little chuckles. “Gott! I not
notice before. You look so dam’ funny!”
“Keep going, Moses! You’re nearly
laughing.”
Louis was hurt again. “I did laugh. Loud.
You mak/i a cat laugh.”
“What’s bitten you, Louis?”
“Dennis Regan, he leave me £5OO because
I make him laugh.”
“What?”
“So—£soo in token of the amusement I
give him, and I only swear at him!”
“Five hundred; why, he should have left
me ten thousand! I tickled his dirty ribs
every day.”
“I suppose I make him laugh inside. Get
underneath the rib, eh?”
“I knew God and his angels were always
laughing at the people-of Portland-lane, but
I didn’t think it of old Dennis. Perhaps
he's gone to Heaven, after all!”
The mention of anything pertaining to
possibilities beyond this life always chilled
Louis to the bone. “Dere you are again.
You spoil everything with' blaspheming—
you at’eist! I give you no more jobs!” and
he hurried back to No. 26.
Perhaps it was that spark of fear kindled
at the funeral which changed Louis, after
he had received his £5OO. He gave his
clerk a ss. rise without the asking, and on
the same day actually paid over the full
balance due on a forced sale without making
any deductions for extra expenses. The
same evening he called on Regan’s widow
and eldest daughter with a proposition that
startled them. He wanted to do something
for his old friend, and would they let
him erect a tombstone over the grave?
Too astounded to refuse, they agreed, on
the condition that the inscription met with
their approval.
Louis never had a busier week than that
which was devoted to the selection of a
suitable monument. He visited all the yards,
priced every possible design, and finally got
a bedrock quotation of £5O for an ornate
column with an urn on the top, two angels
and fifty words of black lettering. There
were many conferences over the inscription,
and finally he agreed to a recital of the
deceased’s domestic virtues, with a separate
line at the bottom in larger lettering:—
ERECTED BY HIS FRIEND LOUIS GOLDBERG.
R.I.P.
He had a vague idea that any angel who
might come along to wake Regan would
notice that inscription.
Having thus finally squared the account,
Louis recovered his poise, and settled down
to the important business of securing his
fair proportion of the clients who had done
business with the man under the tombstone.
But a reaction was bound to come. Two
voluntary outlays of cash in one year, with-
out hope of return, made Louis very thought-
ful. The old fear came back. He would
die a pauper if these sentimental escapades
continued. Unfortunately, Giuseppe Manu-
elos had chosen this moment to forget
another instalment, and, when reminded of
the lapse, to defy his mortgagee. It was a
matter of £7O secured by bill-of-sale on the
furniture, fittings and stock-in-trade of the
Rising Sun Cafe, Lower George-street.
Yvitliin half an hour the cafe was stripped
bare, down to a basketful of green lobsters.
The auction-room refused to take delivery
of the lobsters, and they were dumped in
the waiting-room of the Atlas Company—
Louis Goldberg sole proprietor—with
Louis, dishevelled but triumphant, sitting
•on the basket-lid.
GEO. S. BEEBY.


ďf
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-10? Fentlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Slates, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRSDGE $ SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
SI
3
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide Arthur Glover
Ltd. Brisbane Gregory & Collins.
Sydney........ Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured ty
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
d
These high grade Match
cartridges used by win-
ners oi the following re-
cent events:—
Victorian Starling Championship
Starling Championships at:
Melbourne Gun Club
Williamstown Club
Northcote Club
Oakleigh Club
Australian Starling Championship
Australian Pigeon Championship,
Mixed Bird Championship, North-
cote.
Sparrow Championship, Williams-
town.
£lOO Match at Tamworth, N.S.W.
Remington Arms
Co. Inc.,
New York, U.S.A.
D. D. Bryant, Aust. Kept.
395 Collins St., Melb.
ď
A Pill is the best
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BEECHAM’S PILES are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecham’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
CL PICCb the thine
if m
068
jj
Whatever car you drive
for best results
fit
UDDB
SPARKING PLUGS
British-made and the test in the world.
The plug illustrated is the special Lodge model
for Buicks. Its insulator is Lodge steatite,
a material that is absolutely impervious to oil
or moisture right through.
Other Lodge plugs equally oil-resisting, for American
engines, are: —
Model CT. Model AF. Model SB. Model ST.
f" regular *§" taper £" long £" regular
(small hex)
5/6 SI- 5/6 5/6
All packed i* sealed metal boxes and sold by motor dealert
and stores everywhere,
iiimimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Model TB.
i" long
small hex)
For BUICK.
5/6
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
■ ■ill ill liliilillllllllllllllllllllllliillilliliniii mu in mi it tn> in.!
MARINE engines
All Parts Stand-
ard and Inter -
changeable.
[American Bosch
[Magnetos - hn-
\pulsc coupling.
3 to 100 H. P.,
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Karin*.
Built with the greatest care so
that only ordinary care is required to
keep them in perfect running order —
Kermath Marine Engines are first in
service, economy, and dependability.
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia.
JtERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address, Kermath
fd
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m. .
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 8/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and fid.
liUncbeon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, fid.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).


Abduli^
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
PURE MILD MATURED DELICATE
No* 70
10 Cigarettes 9d.
20 Cigarettes 1/6
No. 75
10 Cigarettes 1/-
25 Cigarettes 2/6
A^ d -^ Li -a
f 175. NFW BOND ?TRFFTw 1
I 175. NEW BOND STREET.w. f
CIGARETTE SPECIALISTS
A
« I
n
TRAM MARK RtGISTERe©
Abdulla is and always has »etN an Entirely British Firm ,
By the Makers of
THE CELEBRATED AND EXQUISITE
ABDULLA TURKISH CIGARETTES
AND
ABDULLA EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Awarded for Excellence
10 GRANDS PRIX, 21 GOLD MEDALS,
3 DIPLOMAS OF HONOUR
Sole Agents for Australasia—Dalgety & Company, Ltd.
