

ill
r
MSm
■ ' : v ■::
mm
mliilll
;
I l
It! nil
m
• > i
; ; . , ]
M i
■
in
l Pm
Hi
n ixn
lill :
I / I f I
/ Ml? I m
Hi H
l]J([UflUluiinu 1 *^<Um
i HTHTiT
" Bill I
m ih
.
W
IMS
Tit'OWiV
1
.
hats
\ Obtainable at all Leading Mercers
N
The only
Standardised
Felt Hats
made in
/lust ralia
Norte Genuine
without the
Brand on the
Leather-"" ,
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2406.
Thursday, March 25, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, -N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


VWRTTE for onr Library Catalogue and
W ]i s ts on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
BYMOCK’S BOOK A TIC ABE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
&
A SUMMER COLD
Is Often Harder to Shake
Off than a Winter Cold.
Still —Always Remember that
Any Kind of Cold or Cough,
or even Bronchitis or Influenza,
CAN BE PROMPTLY RELIEVED
BY
CHAMBERLAIN'S
COUCH REMEDY
No. no c.
Self-filling
“SWAN”
with 18 ct. Rolled
Gold Band
Smooth as
a Swan
No two people exactly
alike, hence we speak of character
in writing. But an unsuitable nib
distorts the character, makes writing
laboured and tiring. It is worth
while to take a little trouble in
choosing one’s pen for it is meant to
be a helper and pocket companion
for many years.
“SWAN” Pens are fitted with
the grandest gold nibs made —they
are pointed with hard natural osmi-
iridium from Tasmania; the best
found anywhere in the world. Each
point is ground to a delightful smooth-
ness, but some are broad, some fine,
some turned-up, some oblique.
Choose yours to be exactly
suitable.
SWAN
à
Self-filling “Swans” from 17/6.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
133/6 Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Managing Agents: Pliipson & Company, Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
mustdie:
NON rooortoc FOWDCK
THE GRWT INJECT DESTKOyBI
( Fites
Jrto*
1 Bugs.
S Mmaoiloea.
MUSTDIE'
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that Common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
'‘MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney.
The Red Page
“The New Russia”
The first authentic evidence that has come
out of the Red whirlwind since Nansen’s
“Russia and Peace” was published in 11)23 is
contained in The New Russia (Thornton
Butterworth), by L. Haden Guest, M.P.
The author is a cultured Englishman, a
Labor partisan who has been sent on many
missions to Muscovy, and a strong believer
in Socialism. Fortified by a vast array of
documents and figures lie sets out to prove
that Bolshevism has justified itself. The re-
sult is curious.
When Trotsky and Lenin first went amok
amongst the scanty bric-a-brac of the Gzafist
civilisation, Communism was their ostensible
objective. The statement of their intentions
now makes comic reading. The peasant
was to grow food and exchange it with the
proletarian of the town for manufactured
goods. Money was a symbol of capitalist
society which was vanishing and to which
the Bolsheviks were to give the final
wallop. The optimistic new bureaucrats
were prepared at that time to shoulder the
entire business of feeding, clothing, bathing,
amusing and leading to the higher life
nearly 140,000,000 people. Parents in those
happy theoretic days were to send their off-
spring to “children’s houses” managed by
the State so that the adults could devote
themselves to productive, labor without the
distraction of domestic cares. Workers were
to be paid not in money but in kind; trams,
trains and motor-'buses were to be free, and
private trading was regarded as a sin, like
pocket-picking.
“The New Russia” sets out statistically the
net amount of this pleasant dream currently
in operation. Only in Leningrad and Mos-
cow is the municipalisatiou and nationalisa-
tion of houses more than 25 p.c. of the whole,
and most of this number are relet to private
individuals. Fares arc collected in the ordi-
nary capitalistic way on the railways, but
only from one-half the travellers that used
them in 1013. There are only 101 engines,
instead of 609, to drag the 458 waggons
which are all that remain of the 20,420
existing in 1013. Goods and proletarians
carried on the magnificent river system of
the country in 1023 were less than a quarter
of those conveyed in 1013, and they had to
pay their way. The liberated worker of the
city produces only 42 p.c. of what he made
before the Revolution; the. peasant’s appe-
tite for manufactured goods has fallen to
a tenth and shows a disquieting disposition
to revert to the wooden plough of Asia from
which he was being slowly v'eaned. Trading-
in kind reduced the turnover of the famous
annual fair at Nijni Novgorod from
£20,000,000 pre-war to £3,000,000 in 1923;
and the 400,000 hawkers and middlemen
whom the Soviet proposed to replace by
Government officials! still carry on their
backs the entire enterprise of village trade.
The net result of the Bolshevik attempt to
comrminise the land is that 74 p.c. of the
peasants, although under the Czars they sel-
dom died of .surfeit, are now below the
breadline; the scientific rotation of crops,
previously practised only on the large pri-
vate estates, has disappeared; the income
per peasant hon'd has decreased from 48
roubles to 30; and the joint production of
peasants and city workers is now 6s. Gd. as
against 17s. in 1913.
It is not even true that the Revolution
restored the laud to the peasant. He already
had it. Being a semi-Asiatic he had always
held that the title to the soil should rest
with him who worked it, and by a steady
process of peaceful purchase under the
Czars lie was slowly ousting the absentee
landowner. In 1910 the man with the hoc
owned 88.1 p.c. of the black-earth land, and
when the Revolution came lie took the small
remainder, leaving the Soviet to salve its
pride with a~ bare 3 per cent.
The Bolshevik reedrd, however, is not
entirely one of frustration. A great literary
and artistic renaissance is reported from
Moscow. The literature is confined by law
to opinions that in no way reflect upon the
authority of the Soviet IJnion ; the theatre
is devoted to plays of “revolutionary satire”
and to the ballet which uses the non-con-
toversial language of the leg and foot; and
education is concerned with training “prac-
tical revolutionary Marxists.” Within these
limits Bolshevism is inculcating the elements
of scholarship into a million more children
than the Czar’s Government reached, while
31 millions remain entirely illiterate. This
improvement, however, has been gained at
the expense of higher education, there being
fewer universities and colleges to-day than
there were in 1920. And it is interesting
to note that none of this education is free,
the parents’ of the little communists being
compelled to pay by a levy on their scanty
wages.
-or the first years of crying havoc, the
Soviet set to work to frame a code of laws
suitable for a society .where the proletariat
dictates to itself. Judges are instructed to
“exercise a socialistic sense of law and a
revolutionary conscience.” Offences against
the Government, including the forging of
postage-stamps, are liable to the death pen-
alty. while wilful murder gets off with eight
years' imprisonment; but, for the rest, till)
code shows as much respect for the sacred
rights of property as those of capitalistic
countries. The author admits that the rates
of wages and general standards of fife of the
workers have deteriorated; but the prole-
tarian is happier in being free to starve, in
seeing his newspapers, all Government-con-
trolled. full of projects for his welfare, and
in feeling himself a part of a great move-
ment for making the workers of the world
as blessed as himself. Incidentally, his in-
judicious attempts to put his masters’ doc-
trines into practice by seizing the control
of the factories were put down by the Bol-
sheviks themselves, who at a Conference in
1920 recognised that “one-man management;'’
by experts was an essential requirement for
the restoration of industry. >
The frequent assertion that the decay of
Russia was an aftermath of the war. and was
not due to the attempt to fasten Communism
on a semi-barbaric horde, is disproved by
the fact that" after the Soviet was left alone
to work out its devious destiny no improve-
inent was shown. Only when it proceeded
to throw overboard every scrap of commu-
nistic practice did the country begin to catch
up the leeway it had lost. The Commissars
still preach their original doctrine of prole-
tarian dictatorship to outside countries, but
they have learnt enough not to continue to
practise it in their own. Beyond meddling
in foreign trade these chastened autocrats
allow the simple moujik to go unfettered on
his individualistic way. Nothing tangible in
the whole country remains of the vast edifice
of theory reared by the well-intentioned
Lenin. But, stay, there is an exception. The
town of Ivrin, province of Moscow, oile reads,
supplies water to its inhabitants for no-
thing. ' ,
M.G.S.
Commercial Australian Plays
Even in the earliest days there were
attempts by ambitious local playwrights to
establish reputations as dramatists. They
included the effort ot one Smith, who, return-
ing from the goldfields with a pile, wooed
fame with his own play, “Laud of Hope
and Liberty. - ' but, having got the drama
staged by undertaking to finance the concern,
in a few weeks found it necessary to go back
in search of more gold to replenish his for-
tunes. A play based on Fergus Hume's “Mys-
tery of a Hansom Cab,' 1 first staged in the
’eighties, is one of the earliest Australian
dramas which have survived, having been
“done into pictures” twice within the last
15 years. “The Kelly Gang” is also a sur-
vivor. Its first production was to have been
at the old Victoria Theatre, Sydney, with
Kate Kelly in the cyst, but the N. S. Wales
Government vetoed the performance. It was
subsequently produced, without Kate, by
Arnold Denham at the Sydney Criterion, and
in Melbourne by Dan Barry, who included
it in his country repertory with invariable
success. Dan had a habit of luring audi-
ences by “watch nights,” at which he gave
away “real gold watches” worth at least a
few shillings, and lie used to face desperate
financial emergencies with the alternative:
“It’s either a watch night or 'The Kelly
Gang.’ ” Barry introduced several home-
grown Australian plays. He produced in
Melbourne “Adam Lindsay Gordon” and a
play by Dora Mostyn, which George Ilignold
also produced in Sydney.
An outstanding early success, still living
in periodical revivals, was “Robbery Under
Arms,” a Rolf Boldrewood dramatisation,
first produced at the Alexandria (now His
Majesty’s), Melbourne. Another- Rolf Boldre-
wood' play, “The Miner’s Right," made money
for a time, but did not strike a similar suc-
cess. “Never Too Late to Mend.” based riri
Charles Reade’s story of Australian convict
days, was another Dampier production which
touring companies still find a paying pro-
position.
“The Term of His Natural Life,” drama-
tised from Marcus Clarke's novel, was also
very successful. It had two versions. The
one staged by Dampier originally at the old
Royal Standard Theatre, Sydney (demol-
ished a couple of years ago), was written by
Thomas Somerville”—Tom Walker, the
N.S.W. member of Parliament who subse-
quently went to Westralia. In the original
cast were Walter Baker as Captain Frere,
Alf Boothinan as Dawes, Dampier as the
Rev. Mr. North, Harry Leston as Meekin,
Ned Holloway as Gabbett and Lily Dampier
as Sylvia. Another version, written to star
George Leitch as the irreverend Meekin. was
taken by the MacMahons throughout Aus-
tralia Avith great success. “Thomas Somer-
ville” was responsible for another play,
“Voices of the Nicht,” notable for a tram-
car sensation. When it was taken from
Sydney to Melbourne it was staged as “Mar-
vellous Melbourne.”
George Darrell, avlio wrote his own plays,
achieved his greatest success with “The
Sunny South.” More distinctly Australian,
but less successful, were his “Double Event”
and “The Lure of Gold.”
Australian drama became almost fashion-
able for a time when, besides the periodical
excursions of Dampier and Darrell, Bland
Holt and William Anderson entered into the
business of staging it. Bland Holt’s greatest
success in that direction—it stands also as
one of the four greatest successes with Aus-
tralian plays—was “The Breaking of
the Drought." which had a phenomenal
season. It opened at the Lyceum, Sydney,
on Boxing Night. 1902. Arthur Shirley,
who died recently in England, xvas the play-
wright. another Australian play of his being
“The Human Touch.” Bland Holt staged
also “The Great Rescue,” in which the heroic
rescue of the miner Varischetti from flooded
workings .gave Bland his theme and the oppor-
tunity for some sensational effects. “Riding
to Win.” produced during the cycling boom,
and “Floodtide” were other Iloltian efforts.
William Anderson gave Ambrose. Pratt’s
“Thunderbolt” at the Theatre Royal. Sydney,
and struck with it a very considerable suc-
cess. He staged also Billy Lincoln’s “The
Bush King.” Bert Bailey and Edmund
Duggan, avlio were in both productions, began
collaborating in Australian plays, and wrote
“The Man from Outback. 1 ’ produced under
Anderson. Duggan himself had a previous
playwriting success in "1 aider the Southern
Cross,” featuring the wreck of the Dunbar
and the Eureka Stockade. Before introduc-
tion to Sydney it was staged at the Bijou,
Melbourne, as “The Eureka Stockade.” An-
other play. “The Southern Cross,” x\-ith an
entirely different theme and Rev. George
Walters as its author, had previously been
produced at the Lyceum. Sydney.
Temple Harrison wrote “The Winning
Ticket.” which enabled a sensation-loving
management to stage horses galloping, on a
moving platform so that they remained
in sight of the audience, an innovation that
paid handsome dividends. But a greater
success was “The Squatter’s Daughter.” by
Bailey and Duggan, which, produced by
Anderson at the Melbourne Royal in 1904,
(Continued on page 3.)


ace
All-Wool Stockinette Jumper Suits
Answer Every Decree of Fashion
These Suits are charming in effect, but
extremely practical, because in wear-
ing qualities they are most serviceable.
Nor do they lose their rich appearance,
even after long wear. Add to all
these qualities the fact that they
are so moderately priced, and you
have an appeal that is extraordinary.
m
W.
ii
31 h
i
0.2214
87'e
0.540 S
0.2 c 15
696
D.MOI
63
90-
I)22ls.—'This Charming New Jumper
Suit is carried out in Fine All-Wool
Stockinette. The jumper is exceedingly
smart. The collar may be worn high at
neck or turned down, and open at throat.
Embroidered Suede, in pretty tonings,
trims the front of jumper and edges the
two useful pockets. The full length cosy
sleeves have Suede trimmed cuffs. But-
tons and Silk loops are shown with charm-
ing effect on the sides. The skirt is com-
fortable fitting, having inverted pleat
down centre front. In shades of Brick,
Almond, Rose, Caramel, and
Brown. Sizes: S.W., W., O.S. 90/-
1)3403.—C05y Jumper Frock, produced
in All-Wool Stockinette, in excellent
quality. A knotted tie of Crepe de Chine
appears from under the roll collar. The
turned-back cuffs are smart on the full-
length sleeve. Pockets add a further
trimming to frock. Inverted pleats, which
are so popular this season, show on the
skirt. May be had in shades of Fawn,
Cinnamon, ' Rose, Terra and
Almond. Sizes: S.W., W., O.S.
Price
69/6
D 2214. —This Jumper Suit of Fine All-
Wool Stockinette, is designed on correct
tailoring lines. The jumper shows a wide
band of self material cleverly placed at
hem, also has two unique pockets. The
adjustable collar may be worn as turned-
down roll collar., or high at neck with
narrow tie finish. The long sleeves are
complete with cuffs. The inverted pleats,
which show on front and back, lend free-
dom to skirt. In popular shades of
Almond Brown, Brick, Leather,
Rose and Caramel. Sizes: S.W.,
W., O.S. Price
1)3401.— I This Useful Jumper Frock is
produced in All-Wool Stockinette. In-
verted tucks give good effect on the shoul-
ders. Buttons, to tone, are used to trim. The
long sleeves are inset, and the pockets are
most attractive. An inverted pleat, runs
from waist line to hem of skirt. T'ne belt
is of self material. In new shades
of Fawn, Cinnamon, Rose, Terra
and Almond. Sizes: S.W., W.,
O.S. Price
You Can
Write or ’Phone
for your require-
ments, and find
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
SERVICE
per medium of
delivery or mail
equally satisfactory
to personal shop-
ping “over the
counter.”
The Renowned
W.B. Corset
IS THE MODEL DESIGNED
FOR YOUR PARTICULAR STYLE
It is fashioned on the newest
silhouette, combining
strength, durability, style
and comfort surely the
necessary attributes of the
modern Corset.
EC735. —W.B. Model, in strong Pink
Coutil, suitable for the full figure;
medium bust, well boned, with elastic
inserts; eyelet lacings below
busk. Three sets of suspen- OO /£
dors. Sizes: 2fi to 36. Price
EC754. —A Wrap-on Model, de-
signed from Pale Pink Coutil, moder-
ately boned, with elastic sides; suit-
able' for the average figure.
Three sets of suspenders. QQ|k
Sizes: 28 to 32 inches. Price t'V
EC73B.—Special Reducing Model,
in superior Pink Coutil, extremely
low bust, heavily boned with elastic
inserts in front; suitable for fcise ftill
figure. Three sets of suspen-
ders. Sizes :27t0 36 inches. 7A I
Price cJVf"
EC63S. —-A Front Lacing Model, in
Pink Coutil ; low bust, with graduated j
back ; very well boned, giving decided |
straight lines i v 1
Three sets of
Sizes: 26 to 83.
Price
(Corset Salon—Third Floor.)
suspenders.
57/6
Fur is the Trimming
MOST APPROPRIATE
AND HANDSOME
for Winter Garments. Fur,
delightfully soft and lustrous,
made from the finest pelts, is
just adorable as a Trimming.
Prices, at Anthony Horderns’,
are distinctly economical and
qualities excellent.
Rabbit Trimmings, in shades of
Brown and Black —
Widths: 1 2 4 6 inches.
Prices: 1/11 3/11 8/6 12/6 yard
White Rabbit Trimmings look well
always—
Widths: 1 2 4, inches.
Prices: 2/11 5/11 H/« 3 artl
Mole and Beaver Coney Trimmings
—rich, thick, lustrous—
Widths: 1 2 4 6 inches.
Prices: 4/6 8/6 16/11 25/- yard
Grey Squirrel Rabbit Trimmings—
i distinctive and Smart —
Widths: 2 4 inches.
Prices: 8/6 16/6 yard
Fur Tails. Price 2/6 each
Fur Chains—
Price: Small, 1/6; Large >2/11 each
(Trimmings—First F"joor.)
We Pay the Postage on Fashion Goods and Family Drapery in N.S.W., and to the nearest Interstate Port.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
g.p.o. 80. 2712 C. BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City ~ 9440.


,jrjVTTJTITni7IWin
1
¥
66
m
m
n
[CsVw;
ft
?T/0^
$
rr*
m
•X£?
W\
j>l
%
nhiteVc
orse
at
gt°
<o^.
in
Berkshire,
r
ir
S7Ae c Wkite at
%lffington, Berkshire.
\
This famous land-
mark between
Didcot and Swin-
don marks the
approximate site of
the battle of Ash-
down, fought in
A.D. 87U in which
the Christian
Saxons , led by
Alfred the Great
and his brother
Ethelredy routed
the Danes. Tradi-
tion says that
Alf red\ to celebrate
the victory y caused
his army to carve
the White Horse
the day after the
battle.
Series No. 1.
T
in the estimation
of the connoisseur
with a reputation
as ineffaceable as
the White Horse at
Uffington
U
ScotchWHISKY
White Horse Distillers ltd., c&asgow & London
THE LARGEST INDEPENDENT WHISKY FIRM IN SCOTLAND


v.-.:'
3 ’be
Castlereaqh
Oar Service Hat
Four shapes —the shapes men want
to-day in pure Australian Fur
Felt. In light grey, and slate with
self bindings and black bands ; steel
grey with self binding and band;
belly beaver with biscuit bindings
and brown bands. This is the hat
that is guaranteed for wear. We hon-
estly believe it is the best hat value
in Sydney. All sizes 6§ to
71 ins. Price
" 21/-
DAVID JONES’
FOR SYDNEY’S BEST HAT VALUES.
was one of the big financial triumphs of his
career. . ■»
Randolph Bedford got into the theatrical
limelight with “White Australia, ’ in which
he showed what sundry Australians did in
the face of a Japanese invasion. bubso-
quently Bedford produced, on his own
account, at the Sydney Royal, The Lady
of the Pluckup” and “The Boss Cocky
rather ill-constructed plays which failed. At
the same theatre Beaumont Smith gave
“While the Billy Boils,” an adaptation of
Lawson stories, the royalties _ from which
gave poor Henry a rare period of pros-
perin'. continued to a less degree during
the play's travels. Sydney Criterion saw
Sumner Locke’s “Mum Dawson, Boss” : and
a stage version of Ethel Turner s Seven
Little Australians” had its first presentation
at the Sydney Palace.
Seventeen years ago Bailey and Grant
took charge of the King’s, Melbourne, and,
having already done well out of Australian
play-production, made that theatre its home,
from which the most notable successes were
sent out on tour. They claim, with justifi-
cation, that more Australian plays have been
staged at I In 1 King's than in any other
theatre. Besides some of the plays already
mentioned they produced there Edmund
Duggan’s “My Mate” ; “For Homestead and
Honor.” by Mullarky; and “The Native-
born,” which had its first production in
Hobart.
1 The high-water mark was reached when
“On Our Selection” was produced in 19.12.
There is an estimate that 2,200,000 people
have paid to see the play—not at all an
impossible figure when it is remembered that
the trump card has been touring Australasia
almost continuously, in revival after revival,
ffir 14 years. Two others by Steele Rudd
failed to reach any similar success; but
Kate Howard’s “Possum Paddock,” bearing
a strong resemblance to “On Our Selection,”
was produced by Kate Howard herself at
the Sydney Royal with success, and has been
a frequent money-maker since.
Edward Dyson has been another contri-
butor to commercial stage history; one of
his two plays, “Factory ’Ands,” was pro-
duced at the Sydney Palace by Richard
Stanford. A company with Maggie Moore
in the cast made success out of “Mrs. Mc-
Sweeney” at the Sydney Criterion and the
Princess in Melbourne. Fletcher’s “Dad’s
Wayback” was presented by Phillip Lyttou
at the Sydney Palace and the King’s, Mel-
bourne ; he still keeps it in the repertoire
of his touring companies.
In this summary it cannot be pretended
that all the Australian plays which have
been produced commercially have been men-
tioned ; plays of the repertory order, of
which there have been a multitude, have
been purposely omitted, together with cer-
tain crudities not worthy of mention. Most
of the commercial play-productions have been
rough; but this chronicle shows that there
really are opportunities for the local play-
wright prepared to remember that the theat-
rical manager wants to secure a return for
his money.
HAROLD MERCER.
Shakspeare, Sex and Perspective
Jack Lindsay finds one part of Frank
Harris’s work delightful. Harris, so Lind-
say says, “invented an altogether new rela-
tionship.” He discovered “the extreme sen-
suality of Shakspeare,” a “curious passion-
ate ellipse of Shakspeare’s mind through his
work,” and that he “met the action of life
with a desperate and shattering recoil of
desire.” Shakspeare a sex-monger! He did
not seem to be much shattered by it, any-
way. The work he left behind him is not
very fragmentary.
This “new instrument of vital scholarship”
fails either to charm or to convince.
The sex impulse may be one of the great
factors, of life, but it is only one of them.
The will for survival —as expressed in the
hunt for food and clothing, and in self-
defence—and the struggle for ascendancy,
begetting ambition, are no less fundamental
and potent motives, and, in actual fact, no
less beautiful. It is only the relative diffi-
culty in attainment of sex desire that gives
it a heightened persp<- five. We moderns
have made our subsistence comparatively
safe, but when this becomes not so the matter
assumes a proportion in our mental vision
which looms very large and is probably more
powerful than sex. Aphrodite herself would
nqt beguile a starving man from a square
meal, and where is he that would miss the
last boat from a sinking ship in order to
essay sexual delight—even if he could find the
partner to stay with him? Sensual enjoy-
ment nr contemplation is mainly the occu-
pation of idleness, and engrosses us merely
in the perspective of opportunity. Shaks-
peare not only knew r but taught us this fact,
as witness Caesar thus to Lepidus in the
“Antony and Cleopatra” so esteemed by
.Tack Lindsay:—
Yob are too indulgent. Let us grant it is not
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy,
give a kingdom for a mirth, to sit
And keep the turn of tippling with a slave.
.... Say this becomes him,
bis composure must be rare indeed
1) horn these things cannot blemish, yet must Antony
j) 0 way excuse his soils when we do bear
®o| gmat weight in his lightness.
For which Lepidus has no reply, and so leaves
sejc put in its right place.
Shakspeare was more concerned with the
actualities of life than its niceties, and in
regard to sex was more concerned in showing
its effects than its beguilements. Thus “An-
tony and Cleopatra” has more regard for
the disastrous consequences of passion and
the degeneration of its chief participant than
it has for any possibly-conceived beauty in
i.rn abandonment of honor to infatuation.
lYoilus and Cressida” gives little heed to
the delights of Troilus’s passion, but it
demonstrates very clearly the reaction caused
by Cressida’s falseness. It is, in fact, char-
acteristic of Shakspeare’s work that h e is
at pains to keep sex in perspective and to
emphasise the disjointedness of life which
accrues from its irrational enjoyment.
Certainly in dealing with the love-instinct
he employs the frankness and frequent
coarseness of his age. As Schlegel says, he
wounds our feelings with the open display
of moral odiousness.” But this _he often
does with the deliberate intent of discrediting
the sentiments of such of his characters as
hold sex passion in undue proportion, forsak-
ing his noble blank verse for prose, as is his
frequent practice when he has small regard
for the utterance.
He had very considerable regard for the
honorable achievements of life, but only con-
tempt for disordered sex passions. Thus I ago
nauseates, while by worlds Othello transcends
his provocator:—-
But yet the pity of it,
I ago! 0 lago, the pity of it 1
lago’s conceptions are so low that he can
only respond by further insinuation. Into
Hamlet’s mouth Shakspeare puts the
words:—
Give me that man
That is not passion’s slave, and I will wear him
In my heart’s core; ay, in my heart of heart.
And the mother of the high-souled Coriolanus
says:—
Hear me profess sincerely: had I a dozen sons,
each in my love alike, I had rather had eleven died
nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit
cut of action.
One could select a thousand such utterances;
and, though quotations are but straws on the
stream’s surface which show which way the
current flows, one must give them respect when
they are confirmed by so many of Shakspeare’s
works, their construction and their purport,
and by the nature and achievements of his
wonderful genius. He taught us to regard sex
as having only its place in the world, and it
is a wicked prostration of his genius to assert
that that genius was limited to a fool’s obses-
sion of sensuality.
GORDON TROLLOPE.
William Congreve
According to William Gosse, in his Life
of the Dramatist, published last year, there
has been “a very remarkable revival of public
interest in the plays of Congreve.” In Aus-
tralia we have not seen many signs of the
revival, but that is probably due to the fact
that repertory theatres here can’t afford to
take chances with little-known names —at
least, when they are names of people long
dead. And to most of us Congreve is only
the shadow of a name. Macaulay wrote of
him as a brilliant person who extinguished,
for a year or two, all the lesser lights around
him and then, as if tired or bored by his own
effulgence, subsided into a life of leisured
retirement. Thackeray’s rapid sketch is on
the same lines—that of a man who conquered
the literary world of his day with hardly an
effort, and was as irresistible in love as with
a pen in his hand. There is even the sug-
gestion, suitably shaded for Victorian ears,
that, he numbered among his captures that
great and high-principled actress, Mrs. Brace-
girdle. Gosse’s book shows a different sort
of being. His Congreve is no laurel- or star-
crowned freak, but a real man who had more
than his share of bad luck, allowing for the
extraordinary boom that carried him to
initial success.
Congreve has been called the English
Molicre. There is no denying the Gallic
quality of his work —its lightness and bright-
ness and sustained deftness and sureness. Yet
in his outlook on life, as well as in birth
and antecedents, he was almost aggressively
English. His grandfather was a Cavalier
who fought for Charles I. His father was
an army officer who had an estate in Stafford-
shire. The future poet was born in Eng-
land in 1670 —though he always gave it to
be understood that the year was 1672 —and
after a boyhood spent in Ireland, where his
father went as commander of a garrison
town, returned to England in 16S8. Three
years later, at the age of 21, he was entered
as a law student at the Middle Temple,
London.
Those are known facts about his early life,
and they are interesting, because they nega-
tive the idea of anything extraordinary in
the way of birth or patronage. When the
young Congreve brought his first play, “The
Old Bachelor,” to William Davenant, then
manager of the Theatre Royal, he was a law
student of 22. The play was accepted. It
must have been easier in those days to get
the ear of a theatrical manager than it is
now* Not only was it accepted ; the much-
impressed manager gave the author there and
then the run of his theatre. True, he had
heard Congreve spoken about by the great
Dryden (who took an interest in the youth
almost from the first day of his arrival in
London), and may even have read three odes
that had appeared with Congreve’s name on
them. But the manager must be given credit
for knowing a good thing when he saw it.
“The Old Bachelor,” produced in January,
1693, with Betterton and Mrs. Bracegirdle
in the chief parts, was a tremendous success.
It ran 14 nights—extraordinary for those
days—and it raised Congreve, at the age of
23, to the first rank among contemporary
poets. That was a big achievement. And
it has stood the test of time. There are
three other Congreve comedies —the last one,
“The Way of the World.” came out seven
years later—but they did not make the
author's reputation; they merely confirmed
it. The new man embodied the spirit of
the Reformation, with its light-hearted in-
consequences, as ho one else has ever em-
bodied it. In him you see the last flare be-
fore the decline, and the most brilliant flare.
Congreve was the wittiest of a witty crew.
If not quite so indecent as Wycherley and
Farquliar—and more especially Wycherley
—he was not far behind either of them.
All these Restoration stage characters have
been set down as heartless ; and there is no
getting away from that word. They talk
and intrigue and make verbal attacks ; they
arc foiled repeatedly—that makes the interest
in the game—but they never stop talking.
They cheat and get cheated; make love —if
love is the right word for it —and are made
love to; advance with a flourish and retire
with a jest; scrape and how and laugh and
deceive and intrigue, and in the end give
the impression that they never meant any-
thing, and were incapable of meaning any-
thing. Even the women are not allowed
real emotions. They can flirt and sigh and
“vow” this and “protest” that; some of
them —notably Lady Froth in “The Doubt
Dealer” and Millamant in “The Way of the
World” —are as dazzlingly witty as the men
But that is all.
The best-known play of Congreve, and tli
one recently revived with more than artist 1
success in London, is hisi last, “The Way of
tlie World.” It was his final manifesto, and
lie made it at 30, Even now there is no-
thing in English comedy (or any other
comedy) that makes brighter reading than
the scene between Mirabell and Millamant,
where each explains to the other his or her
terms of marriage. This is near enough to
reality to make the lady's triumph as con-
vincing as it is dialectically amazing. In
“Love for Ijove,” which one critic has de-
scribed as the “wittiest comedy in the lan-
guage,” the puppets work harder, but they
dance to a more labored tune. It speaks
poorly for Restoration taste that the only
one of the four Congreve comedies that was
not a commercial success—“ The Way of the
World” —was the wittiest and greatest of
them all.
Of Congreve the man you get a new im-
pression from Edmund Gosse. It is that of
one who wasn’t artificial like his plays, but
a genuine, good-hearted individual whom
even the jealous and snarling literary world
of that day grew to like. You discover that
he was genial to his friends —the published
letters show that —and had nothing nasty
to say about anybody. He drew surface char-
acters because it was the fashion to draw
them ; he would not have been considered
the clever man he was if he had drawn others.
He was portly and financially prosperous
and fussed over and flattered; but when you
know that from 25 to his death at 59' he
was never quite free from the gout, and at
34 was nearly blind, you don’t envy him.
On the contrary you feel rather sorry for
him ; and that feeling goes with lasting re-
spect and admiration for what he achieved.
A.J.B.
School Songs
Two more that should be mentioned are the
‘'Non Omnis Moriar,” of the Teachers’ Col-
lege (Melb.), and the song of the Ballarat
High School, the music of both composed by
that great artist, the late August Siede. The
latter, words by It. Bienvenu, is in the Vic.
High School Song Book, compiled by Fred
Earp, and is the most vigorous school song
I know. The words are worthy of the music.
The “Non Omnis,” written by the composer,
with its dignified movement and the glorious
harmony in the refrain, contrasts with the
Ballarat song as strikingly as our stately
National Anthem with the stirring Marsel-
laise.
Touching school singing generally, I would
add to Alex. Welsh’s list the beautiful example
of music “married to immortal verse,” Steven-
son’s “Over the Sea to Skye,” with its plain-
tive refrain in two parts:—
Sing me a song of a lad that is gone,
Say, could that lad be I ?
Merry of soul, he sailed on a day
Over the sea to Skye!
And the lost glamor of a boyhood past:—
Give me again all that was there.
Give me the sun that shone!
Give me the eyes, give me the soul—
Give me the lad that’s gone.
J.O.A.
Monckton in New Guinea
From H. Wilfrid Walker. F.R.G.S.
J. B. Higginson pours acid on Captain C. A. W.
Monckton’s “Experiences of a New Guinea Resident
Magistrate” (R.P. 18/2/’26) ; and whilst I admit
that Monckton in some cases went too far and laid
himself open to criticism, still those who knew him
will recognise that there was more humor than
bitterness in his personal remarks. Though we were
always friends, and good friends too, I myself was
severely taken to task in his bool; for actions that
he thought foolhardy. In pursuit of my hobby—
collecting rare birds, etc. —I stayed 24 years ago
with Monckton at Tufi, Cape Nelson, and accom-
panied him on expeditions into unexplored country.
I soon got to know, admire and like him for his
courage, resourcefulness, kindness and other sterling
qualities. A very great portion of my life has been
spent in the little-known regions of the earth, and
I have in consequence come in contact with resident
magistrates and officials of all kinds and nationali-
ties ; but I never came across a man more fitted for
his job. He was a strict disciplinarian, yet almost
worshipped by his police force, who absolutely
trusted him. I admit that at times he was rash
and more than once got us into dangerous situations,
notably against the Dobodura cannibals. His love
of danger and adventure was one of his worst
faults, if fault it can be called. Mr. liigginson
remarks that Sir William Macgregor, being hard
pressed for officers, offered the ex-trader a billet.
That may be; but Macgregor told a friend of my
own that he had made a wonderful find in Monck-
ton, who had far exceeded expectations. Sir George
le Hunte, in after years, when both he and Monckton
had retired from official life, told me many times
that Monckton was a wonderful man for his job and
the best he had under him in New Guinea.
It is absurd to say that Monckton had the convic-
tion that anything colonial was worthless. But
having started official life under the old regime of
the English Colonial Office he was naturally sorry
when it ended; and let me say without bias, as a
man who has seen a great deal of the management
and mismanagement of British and foreign colonies,
that the Australian administration of Papua showed
up very badly at first against the early work done by
the brave pioneers ruled by the Colonial Office. I
have no doubt that it is better now, but I say unhesi-
tatingly that it was the early officials and pioneers
who made things comparatively easy for present-day
rulers.
»
Alexander Gordon Cummins Harvey, by Francis
W. Hirst (Cobden-Sanderson). A readable memoir
of one of the shrewd, hard-working and hard-headed
manufacturers of the North of England and among
the last of the old Gladstonian Liberals.
The Other Story of Coal, by T. J. Parry Jones
(Allen and Unwin). An English working miner’s
attempt to state the miners’ view of the coal ques-
tion in the Cold Country. The existing system of
private ownership and inter-competition is, they
think, injurious alike to the State and the coalminer.
“The problem for the miners,” says the author, “is
quite a simple one. If the Government insist on
retaining the competitive system in the coal industry,
then let the onus be on them. If it is their desire
to carry matters to their logical conclusion by
attempting to perpetuate such a system, the only
course for us is to insist upon a living wage. There-
fore, only those concerns that can pay will work. . . .
The great cardinal point for us is to see that those
who are dependent upon us should receive that
standard of life which is due to them. We may
barter ourselves, but our children we cannot.”


Va
n -
vUvbitm
r
Why Motorists Speak
So Highly of Them
Because they are lightning-like in their rapidity of action.
Because they are so made that there is nothing to prevent
that lightning-like action at any time and all times.
Because they are capable of absorbing—and do absorb—
each and every shock, no matter how fast the shocks
may come.
Because they can be adjusted to suit the tension of the
springs on the particular car to which they are fitted.
Because the car-owner himself can make such adjustment.
The little red wrench provided is the only tool needed for
the job.
Because they do their work without straining and with-
out any irritating noises.
j
SHOCK ABSORBERS
When ordering state name of car and year.
Obtainable from Car Agents, Garages, Accessories Dealers, and the undermentioned Stewart Service Stations:—■
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., SYDNEY; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., MELBOURNE; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
BRISBANE; Cornell, Limited, ADELAIDE; Arthur Christian, PERTH.


VACUUM OIL CO. Pty. Ltd.
installs
Australian-made Petrol Pumps
«OFTER lengthy negotiations we have completed arrangements with
J'pO*'- Australian Kerb Pump Manufacturers to supply Australian-made
Kerb Pumps to the limit of their Factory output.
Negotiations for the manufacture in Australia of our Pumps were
opened prior to any publicity being given to the question of Imported
versus Australian Pumps.
Orders for over £50,000 worth of Pumps
were offered weeks ago to Australian Pump
Manufacturers, who were unable to accept them
owing to pressure of business.
It is expected that the arrangements just
completed will enable us to meet the demands of
Re-sellers of Petrol for their pump requirements.
The Kerb Pump serves a very important purpose
in the convenience and progress of motoring. New
Pumps are being required to take care of the
growing requirements of the motoring community.
It is very satisfactory that this new development in
petrol supply will now mean the parallel growth of
the Australian Petrol Pump industry.
This Company is glad to be able to make
this announcement, and once again to demonstrate
in a practical manner its policy of giving preference
to Australian products wherever possible.
The Plume Kerb Pump stands not
only for Convenience but also for
Guaranteed Highest Quality
This is the type of Australian-
made Kerb Pump
to be installed by
Vacuum Oil Co. Ply-, Ktd.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PH: Lm


<£20,000,000 are Concentrated
on the Production of One-
Profit Studebakers
Advantages for the
‘Duplex Body
Though retaining all the free -
dom and airiness of the open
car, the Duplex body offers
also enclosed car comfort
against inclement weather.
Side enclosures concealed in
the upper side quarters may
be lowered in 30 seconds and
with equal ease may be raised
again— out of sight. It is un-
necessary to even slow down
in order to convert the open
Duplex into a snug enclosed
car. Incidentally the steel
hood has saved numbers of
lives in unavoidable accidents,
for it is so staunchly built that
it will support the weight of
the entire car .
Quality such as the Standard Six Duplex-Phaeton offers
and at such a price is possible because Studebaker—and
Studebaker alone in the fine-car field—has eliminated the
extra profits of outside parts and body-makers. All
Studebaker bodies, engines, steering gears, clutches, dif-
ferentials, gear boxes, springs, brakes, axles, grey iron
castings and drop forgings are made in Studebaker’s own
factories.
Studebaker being designed and manufactured under one
supervision is a complete, harmonious unit and functions
as a unit. This results in years longer life, thousands cJ
miles of excess transportation, greater riding comfort 5
minimum repair costs, and finally, higher resale value.
These are major advantages which Studebaker alone, in
the fine-car field enjoys and which enable Studebaker to
offer in each car a bargain in quality.
STUDEBAKER CORPORATION
OF AMERICA, South Bend, Ind.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors :
CAYC E - pAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
CANADA rvrrf BROTHER S, 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
TN^^c^ AND:MOTOR - AGENCY -'CQ>:Ltd.,Creek & AdelaideSts.,Brisbane
DUNCAN AMD CLE AN ° MOT ° R AGENCY ’ Ha y Street, Perth
DUNCAN AND FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, Ltd., Hobart
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
M
■
d
i—
ii
Pi
Pi .
JmMi
wm
m
m
r^v <x -
r
-Q
■A
*»
*r
s
u
zd
#/
ii
1
P
ri
3
17
hf
?'*
1m
©
KB-712
STUDEBAKER
BUILDERS of quali t yvelTi cl e s for 74 yearl
Studebaker Standard Six
Duplex-Phaeton
£460


4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
m
Add Life
to Linoleum
—this Easy,
Liquid Way
Your linoleum will look more beauti-
ful—clean much easier—and last
years longer if you polish it occasion-
ally with Johnson’s Liquid Wax. it
brings out the pattern and color—
protects the linoleum from wear—
and imparts a beautiful, dry, dirt-
repellent surface which washes off
like glass.
The new Johnson “Easy, Liquid
Way” makes the waxing of linoleum
mere child’s play. Takes only a few
minutes-—requires no stooping, and
you don’t touch your hands to floor
or Wax.
9
a
All you do is pour
Johnson’s Liquid Wax
on a lamb’s-wool mop
and apply a thin, even
coat to the floor. A
few brisk strokes with
the Johnson Weighted
Brush will quickly
bring it to a beauti-
ful, durable, glass-
like lustre.
It is the new, easy,
modern way to have
beautiful waxed floors.
Takes only a few minutes and is as
simple as running a carpet-sweeper.
The Johnson Wax Mop has a removable
lamb’s-wool swab, which washes per-
fectly in hot suds.
Floor Polishing Outfit
Your dealer is authorised to sell you
This 34/- Outfit for only 28/-
A Saving of 6 -
This outfit is just the
thing for waxing all of
your floors. The outfit
consists of:—
1 Pint of Johnson’s
Liquid Wax .... 5/-
1 Johnson’s Larnh’s-
wool Wax Mop.. 8/-
1 Johnson’s weighted
Floor Polishing
Brush 20/-
1 Johnson’s Book
on Home Beauti-
fying 1/-
fO*
y/O**
iTU*
fU**
.o**®
■SONS
Value Si/-
S. C. Johnson & Son
Office and Factory:
Queen Street, Rosebery, MS.W.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
a
H you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of thi S Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO., Est . 1853<
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers.
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DENYERS’ ELASTIC TRUSS
a
Means Comfort and
Safety for the Ruptured.
No person who is ruptured is safe without
a properly fitting Truss. Denyers’ Truss
being elastic gives absolute support with
every movement of the body.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
If ruptured, write to-day for Free Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Surgical Appliances,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDXEY.
m ;v
11
&$s
ss M r-1
i
CRAIG and AITKEN
CV r\ IVS rv DISTRIBUTORS for
OT LJIMC. T CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
exrKßei
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box pnoes:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted .12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
creek's
FOR TASTY SANDWICHES
Anchovette is an appetising and nutri-
tious food particularly suitable for
quickly-prepared meals. See how the
children enjoy Sandwiches made from
delicious Anchovette.
à
JD ~ ~
aq no/C ]|iv».
'bano/C ao{l{
D B .B. Allens
A
S
m
o
“Why, she looks as young and charming as her daughter.” How
often have you heard these words Spoken about women who have retained
their girlish appearance while their family is quickly growing up around
them! Have you ever stopped to think what the real secret of their
youth is? The turning-point of youth to early middle-age comes when a
little silvery grey creeps in amongst that crowning glory of women—their
hair. No matter the youthful bloom upon the cheek, or the figure its easy
girlish form, the hair appearance is the mirror of the age.
Stop for a moment and think of the really smart women that you
know; they do not allow those tell-tale grey hairs, the unmistakable symbol
of advancing years, to creep in and spoil their beauty.
Grey hair can never be fashionable —-it is the first sign of old age. A
man may be as old as he feels—but a woman is as old as her hair.
Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain has enjoyed the confidence of women
for 25 years—it is perfectly harmless, easy to apply, immediate in action,
and, above all, undetectable. Carefully carry out the instructions and let
it restore your hair to its natural shade. Grey hairs will vanish like magic
and youth will walk in at your door.
Mother looks as
y ° Un V?4?lr!
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Opal Morning.
The opal morning comes in loveliness
Of pearly greys with points of lustre shot,
Proclaiming on the edge of soft-hued mists
The glory of a day that yet is not.
The waves are like the quivering of lips
When waking life stirs dreamers from
their sleep;
And from the grey of seas that blend with
sky
The little ripples on the wet sands creep.
Now, fragrant-cool, the scarcely-moving
breath
Of morning puts its kiss on cheeks and
eyes;
Now, softly-muted, Nature’s orchestra
Preludes the choir of voices soon to rise!
At such a time as this was Venus born,
In the white bed a purling wavelet bore;
And, breaking glorious through the mists,
the morn
Blinked at her golden beauty on the shore.
A cool delight, the sea my body laves,
The cool, wet sands my feet with joyance
press;
And my charmed spirit swims delighted in
The opal morning and its loveliness.
N.s.w.
HAMER.
From a Hotel Window.
Here through the grimy panes I see
Red bricks in stark solidity.
And yet within that barren wall
Of hard old bricks I can recall
The myriad hues that dwell for me
In bracken running to the sea—
Pale creamy gold and warm, rich tones
As roseate as sunset-cones,
Dense green, where on the hidden tracks,
The stems grow dark as beetles’ backs,
And purple deepening in the shade
To ashen mauve of fronds that fade.
For all these colorings there be
In bracken running to the sea!
So here, while in this room I lie
Hemmed in by walls, I see a sky
As blue as summer seas and fair,
With sunshine spilling everywhere.
I hear again a lone grey thrush
Flute strangely in the underbrush,
And feel a wind play hide-and-seek
Among the tresses on my cheek.
Oh, joy that I can have them all
Through staring at an old brick wall,
Can have, close-pushing round my knee,
Wild bracken running to the sea !
VICTOKTA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Mallow.
Oh, I’m mooning in the city where the cars
go by;
My heart it cries for silence when the loud
trams ply;
I can hear the noisy clatter and the busi-
ness people’s patter. . <.
And I want to be in Mallow where the tall
trees sigh.
I want to be in Mallow where the white
road goes,
Where the calling birds fly over that my own
heart knows;
I want to see the quiver of the moonlight
on the river,
And I want to smell the honey and the wild,
wild rose.
Oh, I’ve never been to Mallow —it’s a long
lone dream;
There mightn’t be a Mallow, or a grey-spun
stream
Where the dawning comes in laughter and
the red sun follows after,
And the waters move in beauty of a rich gold
gleam.
Yet I think I’ll take my chances where the
white roads run,
Where the drowsy cattle wonder in the old,
, old sun ;
I think I’ll go a-plodding where the sleepy
flowers are nodding—
And I think I’ll get to Mallow when the
warm day’s done.
n.s.w.
GILBERT MANT.
Grey Doves.
“Coo-hoo!” the grey doves say;
“Coo-lioo! Coo-hoo! Coo-hoo!”
One runs along the track in front of me,
Another answers from the laurel-tree
This rainy day.
The wind sighs in the cedars with a note
Of melancholy, and the great leaves float
Out from their twigs and fall. On every hand
Stretch the still shadows of a lonely land.
“Coo-hoo ! Coo-hoo ! Coo-hoo !
Where are you, little mate?”
“I’m coming, coming—wait!
Coo-hoo! Coo-hoo !”
The silent curlews cower in the grass
And watch bright-eyed and fearful as I pass.
While shivering in their drenched and droop-
ing bowers.
Absorbed, the doves talk on between the
showers.
“Coo-hoo ! How I love you !”
What matters rain, what matters tempest
now?
Snuggled together on a sheltered bough—
“Coo-hoo ! Coo-hoo!”
If you were here, and I could watch your
face,
Then Heaven itself were not so dear a place
As this wet wood—no song so sweet and true
As these soft-uttered notes —“Coo-hoo ! Coo-
hoo !”
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


9
MSHt
mm
m
m mm
m
m
&
MB
r*3
\\ s
o
>**’l
■
■ I
I
■
Si®
a
m
I wM ■ :
■
; \
g
'
■
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
/


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 47. —No, 240 G.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1926.
PIIICE 6d.
THE MAN WHO PAYS.
“The three important factors in commercial life are the producer, the distributor and the consumer; and the former two contribute to progress in proportion to their
efficiency. ” —Priminister Bruce to the Chambers of Commerce.
THE CONSUMER: “A very small meal that I’m getting for the money, isn’t it?”
THE DISTRIBUTOR: “Well, the cook’s on strike, and his offsider’s tired, and the boss Is away playing golf, and my boy will be waiting for me outside in
five minutes; so if you don’t like it you can lump it!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, ot
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., I.td., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
I’UBLISIIED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 45. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.: 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 13s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and'not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable) . Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
I>. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardonr_Strefj
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the_bopkstall in the Main Hall at Australia
i‘ Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Earringdon Street, London, E.C. 4.; aftd W. Daw-
eon and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1).; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and Neio Zealander,” 51 High Holborn,
London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street,
London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde ; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, Neiu York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo: Wijeratne and Co., Manning Mansions, and-
Bristol Hotel, Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Earringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 4° z -, Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
flie'fyixlleixm,.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1926.
THE IMPORTER AND THE SMASH.
The general debate on the Tariff was drag-
ging its interminable length along, and the
Bruce-Page Government sat listening to
the droning noise because its fatal politeness
made it hate to save the nation’s time and
get about the nation’s business, when the
melancholy procession of words was inter-
rupted for one second by the arrival of seven
months’ figures of the Commonwealth’s over-
seas trade (July, 1925-January, 1926). The
exports, after providing for interest on
foreign debts, were, it transpired, £20,000,000
or more short of the amount required to pay
for the imports which prevent so much White
Australian industry, and which so greatly
enrich the palatial importer wdiose head
office is in London, Paris or Pekin. In the
usual way the usual foreign loans and over-
drafts made good the shortage. It is impos-
sible to point to any particular umbrella or
motor-car or bottle of liquor as one of the
items which were charged up to posterity,
but the fact stands out that nearly one-
fourtli of the' mass of stuff which was shot
down on these shores in seven months to
make the local worker superfluous was
charged to posterity—largely the local work-
er’s posterity. The process which really set
in when Australia ceased to be a gold-using
country after the old style, and became a
land with a Government paper currency and
an almost unlimited gold debt, goes on con-
tinuously. The man who ships real produce
at this end is paid in paper through a bank,
and the gold, or gold value, which results
from the sale is paid into the bank at the
other end. The utterly non-productive im-
porter pays paper money into the bank at this
end, and instructs that his foreign goods and
gimcracks shall be paid for in gold at the
other end, and shipped here. He is the
aggressive drone who eats up the output of
the bee, and he is a permanent drone with
airs of superiority and ownership.
* * * •
Somewhere in this welter of operations
seven Governments try to find enough real
metallic money to pay seven distinct interest
bills in gold. Having practically ceased to
have any gold revenue themselves, and the
liability having*grown out of all reason, they
fail badly. They might succeed if they pur-
chased, compulsorily, out Of their paper in-
come, a sufficiency of exportable produce to
meet the case, and used the gold proceeds to
meet foreign interest bills. Then the im-
porter, being no longer a preference creditor,
would have to be told frequently that the
sale of drafts on London payable in gold was
“off” unless he could himself produce gold
to the required amount. In consequence
there would be a slump in imports and un-
speakable rage in importerdom. But as no
authority contrives, or attempts, to squash
the influx of goods into dimensions compat-
ible with solvency, the piling up of external
liabilities goes on apace. The Federal era
divides itself naturally into periods, with
this result:—
State Foreign Debts, Payable in Gold.
Annual
June, Increase. Increase.
1901 .. ..£174,810,377
1905 .. .. 188,918,820 £14.108,443 £3.527.111
1910 .. 191,972,479 3,053,659 610,732
1915 .. .. 229,212,541 37,240,062 7,448,012
1920 . . .. 263,412,174 34,199,633 6,539,927
1925 ... . .. 336,866,567 73,454,393 14,690,879
In addition to this, though it looks sufficient
in itself, there is a Federal liability which
was understandable and inevitable in war-
time, but which has grown since the peace
till it is something to marvel at. The strange
mixing and muddling of the two sets of
finance may possibly make the position look
a little worse than it is, but this is how the
latest Federal authority puts the peace-time
case:—
Federal Foreign Debts, Payable in Gold.
Increase.
June, 1921 .. .. £117,322,199
Sept., 1925 .. .. 165,920,127 £48,599,928
The internal debt is of less importance, it
being a paper burden in a country where
paper surpluses can be manufactured, and
where there are occasional traces of a paper
sinking fund. But the other affair is very
real, with no redeeming features whatsoever.
* * * *
In anything ’resembling normal times
Britain pays for its surplus imports by its
foreign income—interest on outside invest-
ments, earnings of British ships on the high
seas, and the like. A good deal of its extra-
neous estate may have been the result of
exploitation, but then the meek don’t inherit
the earth, while the enterprising do. Aus-
tralia has regular foreign outgoings instead
of foreign income, and it lumps these in with
the bill for surplus imports, and adds the
lot to the general debt, and adds the general
debt to the dismal prospects of posterity.
Through passive acceptance of a very absurd
situation this country has got into a position
which should excite the laughter of the gods.
The amount which it is pledged to pay annu-
ally abroad, in gold, as interest on seven dis-
tinct sets of debt, is a record for so small
a population. Yet no Australian Govern-
ment has an assured gold revenue. None has
a separate gold budget as Brazil has. The
importer isn’t even required to pay his cus-
toms duties in gold coin. We lack even the
sense to demand some of our taxes in kind—
in saleable wool, wheat, hides, ores and the
like, instead of in unsaleable paper money,
which is our own “chit” or lOU. Every
Australian Government has a constant
and constantly increasing liability, on the
meeting of which the national prosperity, if
not also the national existence, depends. All
it has of its own to meet this liability is
what the importer leaves. And that arrogant
and unpatriotic creature lehves nothing; in
fact, during the last five years and seven
months, he left £40,193,568 less than nothing.
In one year of the series the importer and
destroyer of Australian industry went so
mad in the purchase with paper money of
drafts payable in gold, and the Australian
banks went so mad in selling the same, that
imports exceeded exports by nearly
£82,000,000, and the stock of gold to pay
with at the other end ran short. There was
tremendous borrowing at this time to keep
the Australian accounts in credit and the
non-productive, non-financial importer afloat.
In some quarters it was even urged that the
Federal Government should ship its gold
reserve (the thing which saves the local note
issue from going the way of Russian paper)
to England in order to “restore the balance
of trade”; in other words, to meet the bills
of persons who bring in foreign goods for
the damage of local industry.
* * * •
The Australian has been defined as a
meek creature living on the verge of a preci-
pice. Certainly he submits to be bulldozed
and insulted by Communists and importers
( practical or theoretical) as no other
English-speaking citizen does. The first lot
tolls him that he is unfit to govern himself,
and needs to be put under the control and
the cane of Moscow-trained revolutionists.
The second tells him that he is incapable of
making his own boots, let alone his own
motor-car, and gets him to float huge loans
to keep the anti-Australian movement going
hard. Between the two he might be classi-
fied as a person with a record debt and
with the footmarks of petty non-Australian
tyrants all over him.
VOTES AND STABLE SECRETS.
Archdale Parkhill, secretary of the
National Federation in N. S. Wales, has
written a pamphlet condemning proportional
representation lock, stock and barrel. At
the general election in May last, he recalls,
“the National and Country party vote
totalled 456,245 and returned 42 members,
while the Labor party obtained 438,578
votes and secured 47 members,” including
Skelton, the Protestant Labor member for
Newcastle; in Goulburn, for example, owing
to the exhaustion of 1290 Country-party
votes, the Labor party w r on two of the three
seats, although its second member was 1326
behind the non-Labor total at the commence-
ment of the final count. In other words,
the system which is alleged to ensure majo-
rity rule, with representation for minorities,
has actually resulted in minority rule. Park-
hill shows, too, that the throwing-away of
preferences, the capricious selection of sur-
plus votes by returning-officers (“the number
of ballot-papers required are taken haphazard
from the elected candidate’s bundle”), and
the doubt as to whether exhausted votes
should be included in calculating the value
of transferable votes have brought about a
state of affairs in which it is quite possible
for “the majority of the candidates preferred
by the electors to be deprived of election,
either because they have not secured suffi-
cient first preferences or by the random selec-
tion of ballot-papers on transfer.” He men-
tions the Clark-D-SHford affair, which turned
on the Chief Electoral Registrar’s method of
arriving at the transfer value of surplus
votes, which method was ruled out by the
Elections and Qualifications Committee in
unseating Ashford, although the official and
the secretary of the Proportional Represen-
tation Society swore that it was right; and
particulars are given of a grotesque case in
which the preferences of a iCatliolic Federa-
tionist, having been distributed in the alpha-
betical order which appeals to numerous
electors, put the L.O.L. man in. The author
likewise affirms, unanswerably, that propor-
tional representation provides no satisfactory
method of filling casual vacancies, and in
this connection lie wonders what would
happen if the Lang Government had to select
a successor to Kay, the “Independent” mem-
ber for North Shore, who has “consistently
supported the Labor party in the House”
although he was elected (with 1997 short of
a quota) by Nationalist votes.
* * * *
To other objections, which are here sum-
marised, a certain piquancy is imparted by
the disclosure of stable secrets: —
The public was assured that proportional represen-
tation would smash the party machines. In reality,
by increasing the size of the electorates, the cost of
campaigning and of bringing voters to the poll, the
importance of the ticket and the use of how-to-vote
cards, it has enormously strengthened the machines
while making legitimate organising work “more diffi-
cult and irksome.”
Single electorates give opportunities to “men of
modesty and merit” whose means are small. In the
huge electorates which proportional representation
makes necessary, this type of candidate is at a dis-
advantage compared with “the booster, the loud-
mouthed demagogue, the opulent self-made man.” Elec-
tioneering under proportional representation is largely
a matter of effective advertising; successful candi-
dates are often rich men who have spent their money
on a boosting campaign or creatures of the machines.
“Proportional representation is the rich man’s sys-
tem.”
Candidates belonging to the same party fight like
cat and dog for the No. 1 vote. This damages the
common cause, and the feuds survive the election in
many cases. Juggling with how-to-vote cards, dishon-
orable understandings between Brown and Smith to
the detriment of Jones, and repudiation of arrange-
ments arrived at in the general interest are only
some of the tactics employed. "On polling day”—
May 31, 1925, it is presumed—“the race was to the
swiftest and the. fight to the. strongest. The men
who were defeated were, in many instances, the better
. candidates, but they would not stoop to do the
things required of them under the system.” And no
doubt there were still better men who refused to
stand at all.
Parkhill’s shattering indictment is com-
mended to the reader by George Fuller,
who was deputy leader of the Government
which foisted proportional representation
upon the N. S. Wales public in 1920.
Fuller’s words are that, “having had facili-
ties for seeing the system in operation at
three general elections,” he agrees with
Parkhill. Proportional representation,
though beautiful in theory, is “utterly un-
suitable in practice.” This naturally raises
the question why the Fuller Government
did not abolish the “utterly unsuitable” sys-
tem when it had the chance during the half
of 1922 and the whole of 1923 and 1924.
* * ■# *
Single electorates, with compulsory pre-
ferentialism, would have made a Lang
regime impossible last year; but the Fuller
crowd was too lazy or too stupid to see it.
The mob now in office brought in a bill pro-
viding for single electorates, but instead of
preferential voting it sought to restore the
first-past-the-post infamy; also it fought
strenuously, and successfully, for a redistri-
bution-of-seats commission without a
Supreme Court Judge and for the admission
of ballot-papers uninitialled by the returning-
officer. In the Leg. Council, E. H. Farrar,
who had been one of Fuller’s Ministers,
secured the passage of an amendment setting
forth that “the voter may, if he so desires”
—there was no mention of “she” —“give
contingent votes for all or any of the re-
maining candidates... .so as to indicate the
order of his preference.” “Shall” would have
been much better than “may, if he so de-
sires,” and “she” should have been included
in case of accidents; when Westralia tried
voluntary preferentialism the minority mem-
ber crept in, and the same thing has occurred
in Queensland. Still, single electorates with
even the milk-and-water Farrar variety of
contingent voting will furnish opportunities
for candidates of the sort mentioned by
Ahciidale Parkhill — the “modest, thought-
ful and patriotic men” who have no chance
in the dogfight of a contortion al misrepresen-
tation election. The N.S.W. Nationalist
party can do with at least a score of such
candidates, and the younger the better.
FORECASTING THE SEASONS.
Y\ eathek doesn't merely happen. Some-
thing produces a good season just as it pro-
duces a droughty one. What is that some-
thing?
I entered the Observatory in Brisbane
under the late Clement Wragge in 1889, and
I have been actively interested in the
subject ever since. While I was in the
bureau Mr. Unmack, then Postmaster-
General for Queensland, gave instructions
that seasonal forecasts were to be issued;
u t Wragge protested that knowledge of the
subject was not sufficiently systematised, and
that no satisfactory relations had yet been
established. At that time the late 11. C.
Russell, then Government Astronomer in
Sydney, had arrived at the conclusion, among
other things, that the weather was controlled
by a cycle of 19 years. His papers were read
before the Royal Society, and, although
severely criticised, were a fine piece of
pioneer work. Recent research has, how-
ever, failed to bear out the claims of a rela-
tion of the kind. Egeson, of the Sydney
Observatory, also developed a system founded
on the sunspot cycle and the lunar phases,
but he was discounteiiAnced by the Govern-
ment, and nothing further seems to have
come of it. Wragge worked on the lines
of the sunspot period, and issued several
seasonal forecasts which were in the main
fulfilled.
The first authentic reference to any
periodicity in the weather is found in Ac
writihg of Francis Bacon ; he mentions
what he calls the Prime, said to have been
noticed in the Low Countries, under which
the same seasons recur every 35 years or
thereabouts. Last century Bruckner, of
Vienna, in examining the levels of the Cas-
pian Sea, came upon evidence of a similar
nature, and he afterwards went through mil-
lions of weather statistics and more or less
established a cycle of about the same length
of time.
We had thus two things to go upon: the
sunspot cycle of about 11 years and a pos-
sible repetition cycle of 35 years; but in
neither could anything but confusion reward
an examination. In the first it has been
suggested since Herschel’s time that there,
is a connection between the sunspots and
the rainfall —that at times of numerous
spots there would be copious rains, with dry
weather at the minima. In practice the
sequences are not regular; for instance, 1879
was a wet year at a low sunspot period, and
at the maximum of 1881 many dry times
were recorded. It seemed necessary to give
the theory more critical attention. With
regard to the second, the ordinary returns
gave very little result, and it was not till
my own observations had exceeded the length
of the cycle that I found that it was in the
daily details that this feature stood revealed,
and not so much in the total amount of rain-
fall. The cycle period appears to be at pre-
sent 34 years.
My observations started in 1887, which
was rather an abnormal year. Comparing it
with the observations of 1921 (34 years
later), there are to be found in both: Janu-
ary, wet; February, drier; March, wet
again ; April and May, drier; very wet win-
ters ; dry springs, with a wet week at the
end of the year. In ISBB and 1922 there
were a rather dry January, a very wet Feb-
ruary, a dry March ; the winter months ran
together well, and in the middle of Septem-
ber in each year came a remarkable heavy-
storm at almost the same date, 12th and
15th; October, very dry; November, storms
at end ; December, improved rains, with great
storms 14th and 15th. In 1889 and 1923
the year opened dry in both cases, and slowly
improved to a wet April in both: June had
an identical rain-group, and both Julys were
very wet. In the spring, owing to the opera-
tion of another feature, the groups shifted:
but I was able to advise people of it in plenty
of time, and also to fix the termination of
the dry spell from another factor. In 1890
and 1924 the great rain came on January
II and 6 respectively. Since then I have
issued regular forecasts for the greater part
of Queensland with considerable success.
It will be seen from the above summary
that there are some variations to be accounted
for, and these it was next decided to attack.
The sunspots presented considerable anom-
alies : their general period is 11 years: but
(particularly in the past) there appeared to
be considerable departures from this term.
Many attempts have been made to account
for this, and if we can find the controlling
power that rules this phenomenon, we shall
have, supposing that the -weather is connected
with the spots, a very potent mode of
approach. There appears some connection
between the revolution of Jupiter and the
sunspot period, and it has been ascribed to
the tidal pull of the planet, but there are
many objections to this explanation. If.
how-ever, we reflect on the electric nature of
the spots as shown by Zeemann's experi-
ments, and also on the discovery of a means
of producing artificial sunspots on electri-
cally charged magnetised steel globes by
Birkeland, and again combine this with
Ernest Rutherford's work on radio-
activity, the whole thing seems to bear a
new complexion.
The following hypothesis arises: the spots
are vortices of gaseoqs matter expelled from
the body of the sun under the influence of
electrical and magnetic influences emanat-
ing from the other stars; whether from one
or all classes of stars it is not possible to
say. It is known that the sun moves to the
north with the whole planetary cohort, and
therefore keeps entering new regions of this
emanatory field. Recent trials give this ra„e
as 120. miles per second. Now, if any other
absorbent or neutralising body cuts off the
supply of emanation from the sun, a sunspot
minimum would take place: Jupiter is the
largest likely body, and trials show that the
minima always occur very near the passage
of that planet across the longitude of the
sun’s northern flight. The other planets have
effects proportionate to their bulk dis-
tance, and it is to the combination of Baturn,
Jupiter and Uranus that the severity ot the
1902 drought is to be ascribed. .
Another fact of great importance is the
state of the Polar ice. Fortunately it is
possible, by an analysis of the early P S
observations, to gauge the state of the Polar


ice with some accuracy and estimate its
effect on the coming season. This is the
factor which enabled me to state that the
spring of 1923 would be unsatisfactory, and
that the cycle groups would be rearranged.
The sunspot factor is also of great import-
ance. Spots on the north of the sun affect
the north of the earth, and on the south,
the south. Spots on the middle of the sun
produce heat (witness the great heat of
February, when there were central-southern
groups). On the edge, entering, clouds and
rain. The engulfing of spot-groups in the
surrounding faculse is usually attended by
violent wind-storms, whereas the emergence
of spots from the faculae is the signal for
the onset of rain after cloud-formation.
These are a few of the more prominent
connections. Recent heavy rains in North
Queensland were due to a turning spot to the
north of the normal groups, and the Febru-
ary floods in Europe were caused by an
equatorial spot inducing a rise of tempera-
ture.
Besides the Bruckner Cycle, there are
also two long cycles: one of 50 years, the
other a century in duration. But data of
long-past years are not reliable. In cases
where they affected great masses of the people
they are recorded, but very often they are
quite subsidiary to royal or monastic mat-
ters ; yet it should be possible by careful
scrutiny to ultimately get them worked out.
In this way the course of all the main events
may be determined for future guidance. The
difficulty in Australia is the insufficiency of
data; there is not a continuous record of a
century to be had for any station, and in the
Backblocks much less. This, like other faults
of youth, will become less as years go on,
but it is of the highest importance that
everything should be done to collect data
from every possible source.
Recently some experts on the other side of
the world have been predicting a very severe
winter for the coming year; but although
the short cycle promises a clear and, there-
fore, cold winter, it seems to me more likely
that any great keenness will be> reserved for
1929, the year when the planet Saturn will
pass across the sun’s northern path.
As Bruckner lias shown, the cycles are
not always of the same length, and it will
be the duty of those in charge of this study
to watch steadily all departures that may
possibly indicate the change. When this
happens, it will be an urgent matter to
identify the new grouping, and the various
other factors enumerated will help to this
end. In 1924 the year departed very much
from the model, yet it was possible not only
to see the fulfilment of the cycle through it
all, but also to give timely notice of the
possible change. Incidentally, the study of
one area will not necessarily give the clue
to the rest of the continent, but the factors
must be applied to each special case.
INIGO JONES.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Down with the Good Employer!
The Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s methods of pro-
moting industrial peace in Tasmania are
worthy of review. In the first place, the
co. has secured exemption from- Federal
awards so as to bring the industrial side
of its business under the operation of a
wages board, constituted under State law,
with a representative of the employees, one
of the company and a Government-nominated
chairman. The wages board’s award con-
tains a basic rate, fixed in accordance with
official cost-of-living figures, and there are
margins for skill and for shift work. In
1923, when there was a sharp rise in the
cost of living, the co. offered the men the
alternatives of working the award, then
recently issued, for its full term of two years,
or of varying the basic rate every three
months according to cost-of-living figures.
The employees chose the latter course; as
a result, the co. paid in wages during the
next two years over £25,000 more than if
it had observed the strict letter of the award.
When a new award was made recently, the
three-monthly variation of the basic rate was
provided for, but a condition was inserted
that it must not be reduced below a certain
level, even if the cost-of-living figure falls
below it. In addition to this liberal treat-
ment, numerous enterprises for the welfare
of employees have been promoted. There is
a works committee which includes representa-
tives of each section of employees; its func-
tions are to deal with suggestions for the im-
provement of working conditions, and to settle
individual grievances. Large sums of money
have been spent in reducing dust and fume.
Special clothing is provided free where the
work is unduly hard on apparel, and change
houses aud baths are attached to each
portion of the plant. All sections have their
special lunch-rooms and all employees are
medically examined at least once a year,
those who are finding their work too arduous
being transferred to something more suitable.
No man. is ever dismissed on account of ill
health, except in the case of unreported ven-
ereal disease, and even then the employee is
allowed to resume employment when certified
free from infection. A safety department is
continually on the job, and lost-time acci-
dents have been reduced to an exceptionally
low figure, while a first-aid service encourages
men to have even the smallest cuts or
scratches properly attended to. Then there
is the co-operative council, which is sub-
sidised by the co. in proportion to the
dividends paid. The council maintains
general stores on the works and at the near-
by village of Lutaua, subsidises football,
cricket, tennis and rifle clubs, supports a
brass band, an orchestra and a library, and
is associated with the Workers’ Educational
Association. There are also an insurance
society (contributions, Is. 3d. per fortnight,
the co. paying a like amount), a medical
union (subscription, 9d. per week) and a
dental clinic; and the Hobart Public Hos-
pital is financially supported so that a bed
and treatment are available free to any
employee or member of his family. Further,
loans on mortgage up to £SOO at 51 p.c.,
repayable over 20 years, are available to
approved employees of over three years’
service who desire to purchase or build homes
for themselves. The co. has built excellent
four- and six-roomed cottages on its own land
about half a mile from the works ; these are
rented at low rates to employees. And there
is a capital works magazine, the Electrode.
which is distributed gratis. In spite of all
these efforts to improve the relations between
employers and employed, the public was
recently regaled with the following item of
news: —
The Hobart branch of the Waterside Workers'
Federation has declared the raw materials and pro-
ducts of the Electrolytic Zinc Co. “black” until
such time as the company ceases to employ its own
permanent men on its wharves, and replaces them
with members of the Federation.
It is of the utmost importance to the co.
that cargo should be loaded and unloaded at
its wharves with the greatest despatch. Ex-
pensive cranes have been installed, and
equipped with special appliances for handling
raw materials and slab zinc, and a perma-
nent body of wharf-workers is employed-
other work is found for them when there is
no wharf work to be done. They receive
the statutory rates. The trouble resolves
into a struggle of one body of men for an-
other crowd’s jobs, and in order to force the
shipping agents’ hands the busiest time in
the whole year has been chosen for the fight.
It has become customary for overseas liners
calling for fruit to lift also a few hundred
tons of zinc in order to give stability to the
cargo. The' zinc is lightered from Risdon
to Hobart wharves, where it is handled both
on to the wharf and into the liners’
holds by members of the Waterside Work-
ers’ Federation. This work the W.W.F.
has now refused to do unless it gets
the whole of the work at Risdon as well.
If all large concerns doing shipping business
were to keep a few permanent employees
who could be made available for waterside
work, the problem of waterside labor would
be solved. Any such scheme as this is, how-
ever, opposed strenuously by the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, which would rather
injure a good employer (and. incidentally, its
fellow-workers and Australia) than allow
that any section of wharf-laborers should
have steady jobs at decent rates of pay, in-
stead of belonging to the excessive and some-
times half-starved armv of casual workers.
+
The Linseed-Oil Industry.
The work of the Tariff Board is clouded by
the obsession that the Freetrade lion must be
fed: some good Christian Australian indus-
tries have to be thrown to the hungry beast
as an offset to the mild benefits the board
recommends for others. When it was asked
to give consideration to the important linseed-
oil industry the board saw an opportunity
for the customary placation, and, almost
resentfully regarding the fact that out of
the 2,300,000 gallons of linseed-oil required
annually by Australia the local manufac-
turers supply 1,600,000, declared that it was
not a struggling industry, and, on a prin-
ciple which, if applied on our beaches, would
prevent assistance being supplied to a man
caught by the undertow until he started to
drown, declined to recommend the required
protection. Yet the linseed-oil manufac-
turers have the strongest case fon assistance
both to enable them to retain their present
trade and to extend their market to the
limit of Australian requirements. The im-
ported oil is supplied in five-gallon drums,
admitted duty free; and it is the growing
popularity of this method of supply which
gives the local producers their problem. The
drums have a value which returns to the
purchaser an equivalent of sixpence per gal-
lon ; and in order to compete successfully
with the importations and hold the market
already secured, the local suppliers have to
consider the necessity of supplying their oil
in drums also. Under Australian conditions,
however, the drums cannot be produced at
a price to compete with those imported. The
apiieal for an additional duty of sixpence
per gallon on the imiiorted containers is one
that should therefore be granted. The in-
dustry is an important one which, given this
assistance, could sux>ply the whole of the
requirements of Australia, employing more
Australians under first-class conditions in
the industry itself, and giving added employ-
ment in the manufacture of the necessary
drums. But the advantages of granting the
aid asked to the industry go beyond the ex-
tension of employment, and the retention in
Australia of money needlessly sent away;
the man on the land stands to benefit by
every ton of linseed crushed in Australia.
The linseed-cake or meal which is the by-
product'of the industry is a highly nutritive
fodder, valuable at any time but invaluable
in time of drought. For every three tons
of linseed crushed there is a resulting two
tons of linseed-cake; the 6000 tons of valu-
able stock-food which would result if the
700,000 gallons of linseed-oil now imported
were xiroduced locally would be sufficient
to maintain in good condition 4,000,000 sheep
for a month. This cheap, nutritive food for
its friends, the farmer and cattleowner,
should make even the Country party, which
supplies most of the roar of the Freetrade
lion, favorable to the encouragement of an
industry which is necessary also to a multi-
tude of trades.
More Mungana.
The mining leases held by the old Mungana
Co. were forfeited for non-payment of rent
on April 1, 1917, and were taken up by the
Reid Syndicate—which later became Mun-
gana Mines, Ltd. —on September 11, 1917.
Exemption from labor conditions was
obtained to the end of 1918. On December
16, 1920, a month’s option over the leases
was offered to the Government, and in the fol-
lowing month the Government arranged to
work the leases on a royalty basis, paying the
Reid Syndicate 4s. per ton. The agreement
contained an option to xmrcliase for £40,000,
any royalty paid to be part of the purchase
money. The sale was completed on Feb-
ruary 24, 1922. In effect, the benevolent
Government (1) granted mineral leases for
an area which produced a large proportion
(about three-fourths) of the ore required for
the about-to-be-socialised smelters; (2)
granted exemption from labor conditions
until the smelters were ready to take ore;
(3) mined large quantities of ore at its
own expense; and (4) bought the leases
back for £40,000. To find a xiarallel
for this amazing transaction, even in the
delirious history of State socialism in Aus-
tralia, is impossible; the proceeding is
akin to buying up all the sawmills in a forest
region and giving away all the timber before-
hand. It should also be remembered in con-
nection with the Chillagoe enterprise that
the same Government paid £160,409 more for
the assets than the Government valuers said
they were worth. Efforts to secure the names
of the syndicators who shared in the dis-
tribution of the £40,000 with the fortunate
Reid have so far failed. One member of
the Ministry said he did not know ; another
declared, in effect, that it was none of his
business. However, these and other perti-
nent facts may creep into the light during
the next few months, for Mungana is obvi-
ously going to be a leading issue at the
Queensland election, which has been fixed
for May S. ,
Minister Pearce’s Dead Horses.
This, wired recently from Darwin, is the
usual sort of news from Australia’s in-
nards -
Enormous losses of stock are reported from many
places in the centre of Australia as the result of
the recent drought, which is the worst since 1914.
.... Towards Alice Springs losses were caused by
the great distances between watering-places. Fam-
ished horses struggled to these watering-places,
gorged themselves with water, and died on the road
back to grass.
Consider the utterly senseless brutality of it
all! There should be many thousand horse-
ghosts and cow-ghosts waiting for some
Federal Ministers outside the gate of Heaven
to give them a well-deserved shove downhill
to the Other -Place. The xiosition is that
water and grass were both available, but the
wells were few and far apart, and when that
is the case the land for a long way round
always tends to be eaten bare. Then “the
road back to grass” must be long. The
great Federal province has no Parliamentary
vote to sell, and it seems to be generally
entrusted to the dullard or pompous ass of
the Cabinet. It can get anything except the
necessaries of life, such as water-supply and
good means of communication and common-
sense. Its artesian and sub-artesian wells
number only 167 (figures for 1924), and the
average depth is 330 ft. The aggregate depth
is 54.970 ft., and 10 years back, in the drought
year, it was 52.294 ft. So 10 years’ effort,
under seven Federal Ministers, with the old
drought as a warning, was represented by
2676 ft. of sinking. Perhaps because of the
habit of ceasing to sink when a dribble of
water is secured, the total recorded flow
(6,736.000 gallons daily) is very small. A
story told recently was to the effect that the
kec]iers of a well on the xn*incix*al stock
route sent in unavailing notices for two years
that the pumping machinery was perishing of
old age. When it really perished, breaking
up unanimously like the One-horse Shay,
and a weary mob of cattle arrived to die of
thirst within smell of water, the scene is
said not to have been edifying. The Minis-
terial formalist now in charge has a scheme
for establishing two seats of Administration,
and three Commissioners, and a Council of
sorts in the Territory, and mixing it up
somehow with bits of Queensland and West-
ralia, and sawing it in two. east and west,
like a sandwich, and possibly fitting it out
with a new name. But if he and his kind
had profited by the lesson of the 1914 drought
and earnestly tackled the question of water
on the stock routes, the big stock-raising pro-
vince would be better off.
Old Sarums in a New Setting.
Of late years population has shifted more
in Westralia than anywhere else in the Com-
monwealth ; yet the State has had no redis-
tribution of Parliamentary seats since the
late Frank Wilson left office in 1911, and
the scandal is rank. A list of 10 goldfields
seats which return Labor members was re-
cently given in The Bulletin ; the total
number of electors which the bunch (one-
fifth of the House) represent between them
is only 8636, whereas there are three metro-
politan seats —Canning, Leederville and
Subiaco—with 14,051, 11,630 and 10,470
electors respectively. Claremont follows close
with 9365. Each of these constituencies has
more names on its electoral roll than the 10
goldfields seats cited put together. And in
the Leg. Council, where there are 10 “pro-
vinces” returning three members apiece, the
disproportion is even more glaring if pos-
sible. The two goldfields provinces where
the population has receded more slowly than
elsewhere are the North-East, with 2764
electors, and the South, with 2448. These
take in Kalgoo’rlie, Boulder and the Golden
Mile, with a good deal of the country to
north and south, where mines and mining
settlements still struggle for existence. These
two provinces send six members to the Coun-
cil, a fifth of the House. Meanwhile the
Metropolitan-Suburban province, with 15,716
electors, returns only three members, making
the value of a Council vote on the goldfields
five or six times what it is between Perth and
Fremantle. The goldfields Assembly seats
are held with a single exception by the Min-
isterial (Labor) party, and some of them
look like disappearing off the map alto-
gether before they are disfranchised. As
long ago as 1913, when “Happy Jack”
Scaddan was in office with a Labor majo-
rity, the question of abolishing or amal-
gamating two or three of the goldfields seats,
which were already beginning to assume the
appearance of Old Sarums, was forced
upon the Government’s attention. Cue was
one of these which, it was freely conceded,
even by Labor, must soon go, at the rate at
which it was retrograding, and its doom
seemed so imminent and certain that Heit-
MANN, the sitting member, took the oppor-
tunity of a by-election occurring at Gerald-
ton to resign his goldfields seat on the chance
of obtaining something less insecure. That
was 13 years ago, yet Cue still returns its
M.L.A., although there are only 751 names
upon the roll. During the war years redis-
tribution was hung up, like so many other
things, although everybody was agreed there
was a crying need for it. Action was taken
at last by then-Premier Mitchell three
years ago. To escape any accusation of
gerrymandering the Government appointed
three highly-placed civil servants to run an
eye over the maxi, check the official figures of
population, and draw up a scheme for the
re-casting of boundaries and the re-allocation
of seats. The Commission recommended the
abolition of four or five goldfields seats and
the creation of as many new ones in the met-
ropolitan districts and in the thriving wheat
belt, which has been gradually filling up and
extending while the goldfields have been
eini>tying and drawing in. The Labor party,
then in Opposition, fought the proposal des-
perately, as being calculated to rob it of
any chance of getting back to office. That,
of course, was to be expected, but the unex-
pected hapxiened when some of Mitchell's
own followers and certain C.P. members
showed themselves equally hostile to the
scheme as a whole, because for the sake of
symmetry it chopped bits off their own elec-
torates which they were loath to part with
or wedged pieces in that they didn’t want.
So xironounced was this Little Pedlington
attitude taken up by some of tlie Ministerial
pettifoggers that the bill was finally dropped.
Mitchell was blamed for not trying to jam
it through at all risks, but had he done so
lie would almost certainly have sustained a
defeat that would have sent him to the coun-
try a little sooner than otherwise without
bringing redistribution any nearer. And the
Collier Government, having arrived in office
by the xierxietuation of an electoral system
that has become so egregiously inequitable
that it is never mentioned without being con-
demned, has so far shown a capacity for
shunning the subject that is really more im-
pressive than any of its legislative or admin-
istrative achievements. Whether it can be
forced or shamed by public opinion out of
its frantic eagerness to do nothing before its
term is uxi, or whether the 334 electors of
Menzies and the 571 of Cue —both towns are
within a couple of days of Perth by rail —
will retain their privilege of returning a mem-
ber apiece to an Assembly where the average
member rei>resents over 4000 constituents,
remains to be seen.
♦
No Interference with Wren.
In an unguarded moment, Willis, leader of
the N.S.W. Leg. Council, remarked that he
was grateful to the; legal members of that
House for knocking his Government’s
Workers’ Compensation Bill into shape. “It
was an exceedingly difficult bill,” he said,
“and without any reservation I thank lion,
members opposite for the assistance given
to me in trying to make that bill a very much
better bill than it was when it came to this
Chamber.” The gentleman forgot that the
measure referred to had been bludgeoned
through the Leg. Assembly after only nine
of its 69 clauses had been debated. Neither
did he mention that he himself had shut
down on an attempt from his own side of the
House to improve the Ministry’s botched
job. In N. S. Wales and Victoria, and to a
lesser extent in Queensland, many young
fellows, practically all of the working class,
make a living or add to their wages (mostly
the latter) by boxing for money. Theirs is
assuredly a hazardous occupation, as witness
the fact that three Stadium boxers — Dun-
stan in Melbourne, Soady in Brisbane and
Mendies in Sydney—were borne dying from
the ring in the space of six or seven months.
Other poor devils have been literally punched
silly, with the result that they have had to
be sent to the lunatic asylum or looked after
by their friends. And it is a rare pugilist
who hasn’t to pay a doctor’s bill for treat-
ment of an injury sustained between the
ropes or to absent himself from his job, what-
ever it may be, for weeks or months. In
the three States mentioned the majority of
boxers are hired by a syndicate headed by
John Wren, who is said to be the wealthi-
est man in Australia, and who is certainly
well able to protect them by insurance. It
is a habit with Labor Governments to kowtow
to Wren, but it was a Labor M.L.C., Simon
Hickey, sometime M.L.A. for Botany and
Speaker, who pointed out that boxers were
After the Pain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
But yesterday the trees were old ;
They di’ooped their ragged beards and
sighed,
Too weary still to count the gold
Minted of sun-bars far and wide
And thrown in heaps about the land.
They dozed and murmured in their sleep
Strange words that none could understand;
But none had any tears to weep.
There came a passionate wind that blew
Dark sails of cloud across the sky.
The sun in fearful haste withdrew;
The birds passed northward with a cry.
The elder gods to battle came —
Vast formless things that strode the air—
And on a sudden swords of flame
Above the trembling world were bare.
Great titan voices, roaring doom,
Challenge on thundering challenge spoke,
Black shoulders heaved oppressed for room,
Vast arms seemed lifted for the stroke.
Then, like a scourge, each shrieking thong
Of driving rain fell on the trees,
Their crests no longer proud and strong,
They bent and wailed before the breeze.
The great green armies of despair
Had left the hills in mad stampede
But for the roots that everywhere
Cried out against the coward deed,
And, grasping with their tortured hands
The hands of others in the dark,
Defied the despot storm’s commands
Through hours of torment blind and stark.
The great clouds sheathed their swords of
fire,
The winds fell staggering into death
And sobbing branches with desire
Of life breathed slow and ouiet breath.
The weeping forest owned its pain
And trembled still for fear gone by,
While gentler hosts of warmer rain
Drifted across a milder sky.
This morning rose the flaming sun
Triumphant, splendid in his might,
Glancing on all his jewels won
Out of the caskets of the night.
The trees in crimson, green and gold
Wei-e young as morning, laughing fair;
Scarce could the bowl of rapture hold
The wine of mirth that tilled the air.
And I, who saw the magic light
Play through the little leaves uncurled,
Wondered of storms that with affright
Shake the deep bases of the world.
Are man’s roots set as deep as these
In some eternal heart of things,
While out of sorrow, like the trees,
He lifts a golden leaf and sings?
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


I it Ml
O w W
v-<
tilt
ILL
LLLL
LILILI LLL L
lULILILLLL
UULILLL C
lililil ll L
ililililu l
ILILILI
ILL II I
ILIL lU,
LILILI !i
LILILI j
■ ■■ ■
■ ■a i
ã
T |,e /4ustralia
Paid-up Capital, £422,100 .
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
EASTER—ENTERTAIN AT “THE AUSTRALIA”
“The Australia” fills the most exacting of requirements in ideal fashion. Here is comfort,
luxury, prestige, a cuisine to your taste, attractive appointments, and the resources of a
great Hotel at your disposal. Take advantage of them during the Gala Days and Nights
of the Easter Season.
Iny special requirements communicated to the Management (86441) will receiv*
immediate attention.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney/*
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 14/-; Luncheon or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
If you anticipate coming to Sydney, write for your copy of our beautifully-illustrated
20-page booklet.
excluded from workers’ compensation benefits
which were to be extended to jockeys and
nearly every other class of employee that
could be thought of. Saying that “a number
of young men have been butchered to make
less than a Roman holiday.” and that “the
most that has been done for the dependants
of boxers who have lost their lives has been
to send round a hat, which has usually not
been loaded to any extent,” Hickey moved
the subjoined amendment:—
That the following be a new sub-clause, to follow
sub-clause (10) :—“A boxer engaged to box for fee
or reward by any person or persons, company, club
or association shall, for the purposes of this Act,
be deemed to be a worker employed by such person
or persons, company, club or association.”
The amendment was negatived after Willis
had complained that it had been “sprung
on him” and E. J. Kavanagh, a former
Labor Minister, had pronounced it “ridicu-
lous.” Willis mumbled something about
“making provision for boxers by proclama-
tion under sub-clause 5 if the Government
finds, later on, that they ought to be covered,”
to which Professor Peden replied that boxers
—who, he said, were just as much entitled
to the protection of the bill as jockeys—
could not be added under that sub-clause.
Baudeley, Minister for Labor and Industry,
who introduced the bill in the Leg. Assembly,
and in whose constituency a boxer was
slugged to death a few months ago, boasted
that the thing was so comprehensive that
it would cover all manner of workers, even
caddies. Caddies, but not boxers!
♦
Running True to Form.
In dealing with tenders for turbo-alternators
and other electrical contrivances needed for
the new power-house at Botany, the Labor
caucus which directs the municipal affairs of
Sydney, when it isn’t itself directed by the
Municipal Employees’ Union, ran true to
form. The power-house is being built with
borrowed money, on land which the Council
has leased for a whole 25 years, by 44-hour-
week workers who have already threatened
to strike. (Being compelled to live in Syd-
ney for municipal voting purposes, and the
job being several miles away, they contend
that travelling time ought to be counted as
working time and paid for accordingly.) And
the Labor caucus has decided to get the
plant constructed —also with borrowed money
and by 44-hour-week workers—at Cockatoo
Dockyard, which has never turned out any
turbo-alternators, but which has manufac-
tured other articles, including strikes.
British and foreign as well as Australian
firms were invited to submit quotations for
the plant, and “with a view to assisting
overseas tenderers and ensuring world-wide
competition,” the general manager of the
City Electricity Department was sent to
England last year. He is still abroad. In
his absence 12 sealed tenders were opened by
the Labor Lud Mayor in the presence of the
Town Clerk, although the custom in these
cases is for the whole of the aldermen to be
present. They were then passed on to the
acting-general manager, who reported that
10 of the 12 were “informal.” One
of the “informal” tenders was that of
the English Electric Co. of Australia,
which quoted £631,940 for an outfit
of which 96 p.c. was to be manufac-
tured in Australia. The acting-general
manager recommended that the contract
should be given to the Australian General
Electric Co., which quoted £628,234, and
undertook £o spend 45 p.c. in Australia and
55 p.c. in Britain ; and this recommendation
was endorsed by his chief. The Labor
Caucus, however, decided in favor of Cocka-
too Dockyard, which, having been permitted
to “amend” its tender, quoted £666,605,
which is calculated to be £164,314 dearer
than the tender recommended by the acting-
general manager and approved of by his
chief, reckoning in Customs duties. And a
Labor alderman admitted that 45 p.c. of
the material required for the job would have
to be imported. Cockatoo is a Common-
wealth Government concern, and it is for the
Commonwealth Government to say whether
the dockyard management should be per-
mitted to take contracts to the detriment of
private Australian manufacturers, especially
when such contracts may result in huge
losses to the taxpayers. In the present in-
stance, it should certainly withhold its con-
sent until it is satisfied that everything is
fair and above board, and that the argu-
ments for giving the contract to Cockatoo
are reasonable. In view of its attitude on
the woollen mills question, the Common-
wealth Government cannot consistently stand
by while an Australian firm, whose price
was considerably lower than that of the
dockyard management and who undertook to
get a great deal more work done in Australia,
and on whose profits, morever, the Govern-
ment would collect income-tax, is turned
away by a gang of socialists without a hear-
ing.
♦
“W.P.D.”: The proposal for a Federal
bounty of 4d. per gallon on power-alcohol
produced from cassava struggled through
the Senate last week after a rough passage in
the other House. The plant is indigenous
to tropical South America, and requires a
climate such as that of Java or the North
Queensland coastal belt between Lucinda
Point and Cairns, with humid heat, heavy
rainfall and absence of frosts. The average
yield estimated by the French authority
quoted (B. 11/3/’26) as nine tons per acre
is much under results in N.Q. At Cardwell
and on the Bloomfield River 801 b. to 901 b.
of roots have been obtained from a single
plant.. The general average under proper
conditions can be estimated at quite 20 tons
to the acre, and on drier areas the yield may
be 10 to 12 tons. After planting cassava
needs little attention until harvesting. The
soil must be thoroughly prepared as for
sugar-cane, but harvesting is much less ex-
pensive. Under favorable conditions the
crop should be ready to lift in eight or ten
months after planting, but some varieties
take up to 15 months to attain maturity.
Though the price per ton for roots cannot
be high, the total return per acre should give
a profit on cultivation, while the by-products
should have a value as a stock-food. G.
Brooks, of the Queensland Agricultural
Bureau, spent some time recently in Java
selecting the best varieties for aicoliol pro-
duction, and he expects that, by careful selec-
tion of sets from plants of the best
varieties, high-yielding strains will be
ENJOYING EVERY DROP OF IT.
“The drought has broken in the nick of time almost throughout the wheatgrowing areas of Australia.”
THE MISSUS: “ Come on in out of it, Dad.”
John
evolved with a greater return of the com-
mercial product per acre. It is possible
that from 800 to 1000 gallons of alcohol
per acre of cassava roots may result from
careful selection of varieties and skilful culti-
vation. But a bounty of £5OOO a year for
five years is absurdly inadequate.
-—-
Melbourne, after being concerned about the
safety of a bridge, is now worried about a
threat to the {esthetic appearance of another
and once more the divided authority of the
Glty Council and suburban Bumbledom pre-
vents proper civic action being taken. The
new bone of contention is Chapei-street
bridge, a not very handsome structure but
still more elegant than some. Malvern Coun-
cil, within whose jurisdiction it is, is nib-
bling at the offer of a business firm to erect
a factory on one of the approaches on land
previously expressly' reserved for private
residence. Most of the vacant land on both
sides of the bridge should unquestionably be
reserved for gardens. In Paris bridges are
regarded as the chief architectural feature
in their localities. In Australia they are
commonly regarded as means for getting from
one side of a stretch of water to the other.
Consequently abominations like the Spijt
Bridge, which may deface Sydney Harbor
for the next 100 years, are put up amidst
public rejoicing, and a mayor of Manly is
able to declare, without being lynched by
his hearers, that if the object had been ten
times as ugly it A’ould still be welcome. In
the case of the Melbourne bridge the public
conscience has been suitably aroused, but an
aroused conscience is an ineffective weapon
if there is no machinery to give effect to it.
A greater municipality embracing the whole
city is badly needed.
“Hop along” : Queensland, whose Workers’
Dwellings Act dates back to 1912, contained
a greatpr percentage of people who owned
or were acquiring their own homes than any
other State in the Commonwealth at the
1921 census. Considering that the Govern-
ment built nearly 1000 workers’ homes last
year, there is no reason to believe that the
northern State is not still in the lead. There
are two Acts in force there under which a
man can acquire his own home. The Work-
ers’ Dwellings Act of 1912 provides for
advances up to £BOO on the security of the
site owned by the applicant or cash to make
up 20 p.c. of the cost of erecting the dwell-
ing. Such loans are repayable over 20 years,
interest being charged at 0n1y.5 p.c. Thus
the rental (including interest and repayment
of principal) of a £5OO house is less than
weekly. The Workers’ Homes Act of
1023 makes provision for the man who is
unable to buy a block of land. On deposit
of 5 p.c. of the total cost the Government
will purchase a block selected by the appli-
cant and build on it. Payments are spread
over 25 years, and the rent (about ISs. 3d.
per week on a £5OO house) includes repay-
ment of principal, interest on balance, re-
pairs and premiums on a decreasing tem-
porary life policy covering the applicant for
the unpaid balance of the loan, so that, in
the event of his death, his wife or heirs may
receive the home free of debt. Sale or trans-
fer is provided for under both Acts, and the
loan may be paid off at any time. Any
amount paid in above the necessary instal-
ments serves as a reserve in case of sickness
or unemployment. That this provision has
been largely availed of is seen in the fact
that more than half the amount loaned since
1912 lias been repaid. One reason for the
great popularity of this system is that people
are allowed to choose their own site and have
tlieir house erected to their own design. A
house built separately may cost more than
one_ of a “Thousand Homes” scheme, but
it is the purchaser who pays, and if he
prefers it he and no one else is the loser.
4
That a sufferer may be deprived of his teeth
under the Vic. Dental Act by a gentleman
whose previous experience of the pulling art
has been confined to the drawing of beer-
corks has been disclosed in Melbourne. An
advertiser called for applications from quali-
fied dentists to act as “cover” for him, the
inference being that he proposed to operate
on the community’s molars behind a brass-
plate inscribed with the successful applicant’s
name. No means exist under the defective
Act of stopping this manoeuvre or even of
ascertaining how many of these dental pri-
vateers are operating, but there is a sus-
picion that the figure is considerable.
4
“Henry Horsecollar” ; “Der Jong’s” re-
marks (B. 4/3/’2G) about my remarks (B.
25/2/’26) concerning his remarks (B.
11/2/’26) are remarkable. He says I am
either inaccurate or irrelevant, and quotes
as an example that I suppose “the Dutch-
Labor Pact is legislating against the Kaffir’s
access to the skilled trades.” The Kaffir, he
says, has got access already, and “for many
years has monopolised many of the skilled
trades.” Well, I said it was proposed to
shut him out, which implied that he was in.
“Der Jong,” in his first screed, said the
Dopper wanted to “keep the Kaffir in his
Heaven-appointed place as a hewer of wood
and drawer of water,” which suggested that
he wasn’t in. It was “D.J.” who absurdly
implied that the Kaffir was at present wholly
an unskilled toiler. I knew better. As to
my alleged inaccuracy and irrelevance in
stating that “the Dutch-Labor Pact is legis-
lating” for Kaffir trade restriction, he is him-
self my authority, for he said (B.
11/2/’2G) that the bill had been put
twice through the Assembly, and that,
if the Senate rejected it again, Pre-
mier Hertzog would be entitled to a joint
sitting at which the Pact’s Assembly majo-
rity might prevail. He adds that the busi-
ness was “typical of the alliance between
the conservative Boer and the extreme Labor-
ite.” That looks as if “the Dutch-Labor
Pact is legislating.” “Der Jong” alleges
that I was wrong in inferring that the two
previous Boer Prime Ministers were also
in favor of the color bar. I didn’t infer any-
thing of the sort. All I infer is that “Der
Jong” doesn’t know what I wrote, and
doesn’t remember what he wrote himself.
4
“Lyn” : In December last the Vic. Chief
Secretary moved the second reading of a
Censorship of Films Bill, included in which
was a clause to the effect that every exhibi-
tion of moving-pictures in Victoria must in-
clude at least 1000 ft. of film produced in
Britain or the British Dominions. J. J. Hol-
land, the newM.L.A.for Flemington, resolved
upon an attempt to strengthen the clause
in the interest of Australian pictures, and
with this object in view he interviewed a
number of Victorian exhibitors. Some of
them expressed personal sympathies with the
Australian film-maker, but all had business
sympathies with the Americans. The bill
was hung up, and Holland was told that
the “obnoxious” clause would not be heard
of again ; and this seems very likely. Never-
theless he believes that the Australian in-
dustry can be developed despite the machina-
tions of wealthy interests. In addition to
compulsory screening of local films at every
performance he advocates a Government
bounty on production—an expedient that has
been successfully tried in Europe, and is
likely to be adopted in Britain.
4
“Botjragi” : The crude and impossible
“White Cargo” has brought to the surface
the queer belief of Suburbia that to dwell
in the outposts of Empire is to become sealed
to the service of the Strange Woman. What-
ever the general opinion of the alleged West
African vamp, every flapper, matured spin-
ster, wowser, promenade pirate and all-
round ass with access to the correspondence
columns of the Afternoon Bloodstain is
convinced that her kind is as unavoidable in
the outposts aforesaid as delirium tremens.
The truth is that the native concubine as
an institution has never been accepted by
British sentiment. Alone among the great
colonising nations, the British have turned
the cold shoulder to the idea of miscegena-
tion. The most easy-going Briton in savage
lands has a contempt for the occasional main-
tainer of a native concubine, even if he has
attained some standing in the community,
and the feeling is, happily, just as strong
among Australians in Papua and such parts.
This applies not only to the official follow-
ing the golden rule of British administration
that the avoidance of native women is the.
surest passport to native respect and to the
assertion of unquestioned superiority, but to
every other walk of life Avhere primitive
humanity impinges on civilised.


WIX & SONS
Ltd., London, Eng,
å
“The Day
. before To-morrow”
If I might make the suggestion, sir, it
is that you don’t put off till to-morrow
the Kensitas you can
enjoy to-day.
ff
Cigarettes
20
c/i x 6
Also in Boxes of
So and 100
POLITICAL
POINTS
The time-server Pearce is proving an em-
barrassment to the Bruce-Page Government
during the Tariff debates. Stewart, M.H.R.
for Wimmera, called “a dried-fruits Protec-
tionist” (which he certainly is) by Pratten,
avenged himself by digging up the Westralian
Nat.-Cocky agreement, which set forth that
“the full strength of the two parties shall
be devoted to securing a substantial reduc-
tion in the Tariff.” Pearce accepted endorse-
ment on those conditions, and improved the
shining hour by posing as a brake on the
Protectionists in the Cabinet. In a lame
attempt to excuse him, Page accused him as
follows: —
The Westralian organisations knew that Senator
Pearce was bound by the policy, of the Government,
and the Government had not made any secret of its
policy. Senator Pearce knew it would be his duty
as leader of the Government in the Senate to conduct
the tariff through the Senate, and that he would have
to adhere to the policy of the Government.
The apologist added that “Senator Pearce
stands solidly behind the Tariff schedule.”
Bruce should stand solidly behind Pearce
and run him out before he makes the Gov-
ernment altogether ridiculous.
The N.S.W. Premier is so hag-ridden by
imaginary persecutions that if anyone says
it is a fine day he is liable to reply that,
despite the unscrupulous propaganda of his
political enemies, whose conspiracies against
the welfare of their country, inspired by per-
sonal hatred of himself, would stop at
nothing, it is a tolerable day. At the same
time, if Bavin and Fuller had their way,
it wouldn’t be a tolerable day, or any
day, nor any night either, and there would
be no weather at all, whether good, bad,
dead, damned or indifferent. Even his new
£4,000,000 loan turned to dust in his mouth
because it wasn’t better or bigger. But he
didn’t complain because of his own mulisli-
ness in standing out of the borrowing com-
bine and refusing the Federal guarantee for
his State’s lOU, or because of the absurdity
of having the smallest sinking fund as a set-
off to the biggest debt.
A recent peroration by Jeremiah Gummidge
Lang was a masterpiece of misery
It is regrettable that our political opponents, who
indulge in so much lip-patriotism, should allow their
bitterness against the Labor Government to make
them forget the simple obligation of every citizen
to endeavor to uphold the credit of his State.
In fact, no matter how much the Lang Gov-
ernment borrows, and no matter for what
hopelessly unproductive purpose it borrows,
it is “the simple obligation” of every good
citizen to say that it isn’t borrowing too
much, and every really superior citizen
would swear that it ought to borrow a great
deal more. A case in point may be quoted
from Lang’s ancestral land. The City of
Glasgow Bank had been drifting towards an
enormous bankruptcy for over 20 years, but
the directors recognised their simple obliga-
tion to uphold the credit of the institution.
The shares (£lOO paid and with unlimited
liability) were selling at £236, and the last
dividend was 12 per cent. Then the great
bank closed for want of a little small change,
and the shortage proved to be £6,783,000. It
was a case of fidelity which should warm
Lang’s heart.
Having an appointment with the electors on
May 8, the Queensland Labor Government is
neglecting no chances. It has magnani-
mously offered to increase the guarantee
price of cotton by Id. a pound if the Federal
Government does the same. As the fixed
rate was the result of agreement between the
Commonwealth, N. S. Wales, Westralia and
Queensland, the northern State’s attempt to
raise the rates off its own bat is too clearly
a cheap electioneering stunt. When informed
to that effect, however, the Brisbane Govern-
ment’s pained indignation was heart-rending,
and its tears beat all crocodile records.
With an autocrat in Macquarie-street and
a majority of nominee legislators, N. S.
Wales seems to be getting back to the Crown
Colony business. The recent manoeuvres of
Lang brought the number of Leg. Council-
lors up to 99, and now that J. B. Shand,
who was a major in the A.1.F., has suc-
ceeded the late W. R. Fitzsimons as one of
the Opposition members for Cumberland,
four of the 90 Assemblymen are nominees.
Shand can claim that he got a higher propor-
tion of effective No. 1 votes than any of the
other accidental M’s.L.A. He polled 4010 out
of 31,537, whereas Bagnall got 3979 out of
63,639 in St. George, Minahan 2403 out of
35,107 in Sydney, and Bate 1815 out of 25,956
in Goulburn. But a system which admits
of members being thrust on constituencies
which have overwhelmingly rejected them is
an abomination.
It is reported that the N.S.W. Nationalist
party “proposes to
prepare a scheme
for the reform of
the Leg. Council,”
and has appointed
a committee to
draft the same. If
it is only beginning
now it is a slow
party, barely fit to
enter for the Fos-
sils’ Handicap. In
any case it is diffi-
cult to see that any
elaborate “draft-
ing” is required,
unless for the pur-
pose of being long-
winded. The State
doesn’t want a
hereditary Cham-
ber nor a nominee
one (it has tried
that and is tired).
It doesn’t want an
elective class Cham-
ber, though a House
representing the
educated class with
an educational test
for electors and
members might not
be wholly objection-
able. There isn’t
much left save a
universal suffrage
Chamber, and there
are mighty few
ways of making it
different from the
other half of the
Legislature save by
treating the whole
State for this par-
ticular purpose as
one constituency.
There are some
Upper Hou s*e s
which have the
same good points
as a drink which
is half-tea and half-
coffee. but the pre-
sent demand is for
a simple, workable,
durable article, not
a freak to attract
visitors.
Copy of a notice sent out to the parents
of children at the Mirriwinni (Q.) State
School by the head teacher: —
A meeting of parents to elect members for a
school committee will be held at the school on Satur-
day, March 6, at 8 p.m. If the male parent is unable
to attend, the female parent may attend. Those
unable to speak English may bring an interpreter
with them.
Mirriwinni is 30 miles south of Cairns. The
circular shows how far the Italian invasion
has gone in these parts.
Arthur Robinson, of Victoria, who is now
out of Ministry and Parliament, has been
making remarks about the inefficiency of the
jury system. If he had made the remarks
and acted on them during his six and a
quarter years as Law Minister he would
have been a more useful Robinson. The
habit of getting 12 men in a box and requir-
ing the dozen to be unanimous before there
can be a conviction, while one suffices to
prevent a conviction, gives crime too huge
an advantage. It is only necessary to buy
or terrorise one juror each time to tire out
the prosecution, and terrorism is easy, where
the Law is as weak as a slop diet. With an
ofld number of jurors and a majority ver-
dict, the jury being large enough to make
the majority difficult of manipulation, Vic-
toria’s gaols would begin to wear an in-
habited look again and lose their melancholy
resemblance to Tadmor in the Wilderness.
According to an article in the Nineteenth
Century, Italy wants colonies. (Compare
Germany of a few years ago). She has some,
but they are not much good ( cf. Germany).
She thinks all the good colonies belong to
other people (cf. Germany again). She
thinks that morally she should, and physically
she could, take them (Germany thought so,
too). A Dr. Barzini (cf. Bernhardi) makes
some interesting remarks on the subject:—
Why should a country like Australia, which is
manifestly unequal to the task of developing its
vast vacant spaces, bar out the immigrants of a
European country who possess strong arms, resolute
wills and intelligence?.... Think what a million
industrious Italians would have made of the vast,
fertile but empty spaces of Queensland.... What of
Papua and New Guinea? Why have we not been
granted the mandate for those islands ?
But we do not monopolise the limelight; the
gentleman would also appreciate Nova Scotia
or German South-West Africa, or even the
Cameroons. If Mussolini is thinking like
that, something will happen to him (cf.
Philip 11., William 11. and Lang I.).
The most important thing that has hap-
pened to the South Island (M.L.) since the
Otira Tunnel was opened is the decision of
the Government to electrify the railway be-
tween Christchurch and its port—a six-mile
line including a tunnel over a mile long. The
THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW.
“The Melbourne Seamen’s Union is seeking re-registration in the Arbitra-
tion Court in order to further its fight with the Sydney faction.”
MELBOURNE SEAMAN : “You the Arbitration Court, Boss?”
HIS HONOR : “Yes, what do you want f”
M.S.: “I want you to come around the corner an’ ’elp me do
a bloke in.”
section is the busiest in Maoriland, and the
atmosphere in the tunnel is noxious one hour
after traffic starts and poisonous at the end
of the day. Thirteen years ago general-
manager Hiley recommended duplication of
the tunnel, and Parliament authorised the
work. It wasn’t done, of course, being a
South Island allocation and politically un-
popular. Even the later idea of electrifica-
tion is accepted very lukewarmly by Primin-
ister Coates; but because Christchurch has
been squealing about the tunnel for 40 years
he will do it at an annual loss. That, of
course, is the cue for the big political batta-
lions of the North to make a loud cry and
refuse to hear of any such damfoolishness.
Among the many brilliant ideas in the
agenda paper of the coming A.L.P. confer-
ence in Sydney is one which should strike a
responsive chord in the hearts of the mul-
titude. It is that the State take over the
manufacture of all alcoholic liquors, and
that the municipalities should have the sole
right to sell them. Then, when the aldermen
and shire councillors have all been elected
on Lang’s universal adult franchise, the Mil-
lennium will begin to dawn for quite a num-
ber of citizens.
When pressed by ex-Minister Crockett to
explain to the Cockies in conference at Bal-
larat why he was at first irres-ponsive in
Cabinet to the proposal for freight reduction
on dried fruits, Premier Allan said he would
observe his oath of secrecy. As a fact, he
took no such oath. He swore only to hold
his tongue regarding matters which came
within his knowledge as an executive coun-
cillor when the Governor or Acting-Governor
directed they should be kept secret. All that
the oath of office of a salaried Minister
prescribes is that he shall discharge his
duties according to law, without fear or
favor and bo the best of his ability. There
is, of course, an unwritten Cabinet rule that
Ministers shall not give the show away. But
the “oath of secrecy” has no existence outside
Farmer John’s imagination.
Gem of stupidity from Sydney Tele-
graph :
To withstand the flood of new competitors for work
which will result from the operation of the new
Arbitration Act, the Stovemakers’ Union has decided
to raise its initiation fee from Is. to £5. The Act
provides that, where ordered by an Industrial Court,
all workers must join their respective unions.
The idea isn’t to withstand any “flood of
competitors,” for there will be none. Com-
pelling a stovemaker to join the union won’t
make him two stovemakers. But there is a
very obvious intention to be as disagreeable
and exclusive as possible. A great, deal is
said about cheap passages for “migrants”
into Australia, but if there is no limit to
the possible cost of the “migrant’s” passage
into his union after he reaches Australia,
what good is it?
By way of making a start, but not the best
of starts, with the Greater Melbourne scheme,
the City Council accepted the terms de-
manded by Fitzroy as the price of amalgama-
tion. The crowded suburb’s building by-
laws are to remain unreformed for five years,
the rating is to be the same as for Melbourne,
and eight Fitzroy bumbles are to sit on the
unified council. About half this number
would be equitable on a population and
wealth basis. If the thing becomes a prece-
dent the one big council is going to be un-
wieldy.
The N.S.W. Premier is such a shouting
mass of inconsequence that no one can guess
what trifle will raise his bile next. A harm-
less report got abroad that Minister Mclvell
would become Solicitor-General, so that he
might attend to matters while Attorney-
General McTiernan was wandering. Lang
did a bellow to the effect that this was “an
abominable lie,” and declared that even the
stipendiary house-cleaning lady should know
that a member of the Assembly can’t hold
that portfolio. Assembly members who have
held it include Darvall, Dailey, Hargrave,
Faucett, limes and Reid. The last-named
had it four times. Lang’s instinct for being
wrong sticks closer than a brother.
Centralisation can produce situations more
ridiculous than Gilbert ever thought of.
Thus Modbury and . Hope Valley, in the
outer suburban district of Adelaide, which
have applied to the S.A. Government for a
water-supply, have for half a century nestled
below the Hope Valley reservoir—so close
that they would be drowned if it burst —
yet the water all goes off to the city, and
the local people have to rely on wells.
The N.S.W. State Government’s decision
to build a 15,000-ton floating dock at New-
castle will revive the disputes roused when
the Commonwealth Government first mooted
the idea. The Defence Department then
wanted a dock which could be towed out of
Newcastle, on emergency, and as the Federal
Treasury is heavily subsidising the State
scheme, it would be interesting to know if
this proviso still stands. It was pointed out
by experts at the time that Newcastle Har-
bor would not permit the egress of such -a
dock, while if the dock was kept up Walsh
Island way a channel would have to be
dredged to permit the deep-drauglit cruisers
to utilise it.
N.S.W. Attorney-General McTiernan has'
gone to London for six months or there-
abouts to see Downing-street about the aboli-
tion of the Leg. Council, which, as Downing-
street has already explained, is none of its
business. Dunn, the Minister of Agricul-
ture, has also gone to London for six months
or thereabouts “to attend to various matters
connected with the marketing of Australian
produce,” which matters are already attended
to by the expensive Federal Ministry orMar-
kets. Meantime Cann, “the Minister for
Health and Local Government,” is to be
Health Minister only, and Fitzgerald, “the
Assistant Minister for Health and Local Gov-
ernment,” is to be Minister for Local Gov-
ernment. A good man could easily run both
departments, but good men are scarce in the
Lang crowd, though there are obviously two
l superfluous Ministers, if not three.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF PEACOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“State Treasurer Peacock, replying to the toast
of Parliament at a Geelong municipal luncheon,
said there was a time when the incessant criticism
directed at Ministers worried him, but he had adopted
the slogan ‘Laugh and Grow Fat’ and found it an
excellent antidote.”
Bruce, are you listening? Page, a prescrip, for you
Free of all charge—and a slogan to hang
Over your Treasury desk 1 What a tip for you,
Badgered McCormack and soreheaded Lang!
Ponder it, Lyons and Gunn and the pack of you;
Collier the testy, paste this in your hat:
Careless of aught at the front or the back of you,
Laugh and grow fat, chaps—laugh and grow fat!
Mud of the stickiest sort they will hurl at you,
Charges of vile and deliberate sin,
Insinuations and insults will whirl at you—
Best prophylactic is simply a grin.
Think of George Beid when maligned, and the mirth
of him
Flooring detractors with jests that were pat;
Think of the steadily widening girth of him ;
Laugh and grow fat, then —laugh and grow fat! ■
When men assail you vindictively, spitefully,
Dub you a Nero and howl for your gore,
Chuckle as if it amused you delightfully,
More than you’ve ever been tickled before.
Guffaw like Peacock, whose peals are Homerical,
Or, if your lungs are unequal to that,
Snicker as loud as you can, and be spherical.
Laugh and grow fat, chaps—laugh and grow fat!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


fA
ft ,
J/ 4 8CISH10'V
THis Trade-mark Stands for
Belting* Quality
Nearly three-quarters of a century of manufacturing quality belting
and practical experience in belting engineering stand behind the
Pioneer trade-mark.
Our service to belting users is twofold ; the supplying of a belt that
measures up to the highest standards of quality, and the technical
advice necessary for the selection of the correct size and type of
belt for every drive.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
will serve you well on every drive.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (Si SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd.. 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Timpson Street. Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
, SYDNEY:
| Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH;
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The heads of the National and the Aus-
tralian Bank of Commerce have been dis-
cussing amalgamation; and if the talk comes
to anything it will lift the progressive
National to second place among the great
banks of Australasia in point of paid capital.
At the close of its last year the National’s
own little lot wa s £4,000,000; that of the
A.B.C. £1,840,000. Combined that would
make £5,840,000 compared with £6,000,000
of the Bank of N. S. Wales and £5,029,988
of the Bank of New Zealand. Capital of
the _ A.B.C. is in £1 shares; that of the
National is 150,000 shares fully paid to £lO
and 500,000 £8 shares paid to £5. The A.B.C.
at June 30 had £794,560 of reserves; those
of the National at March 31 amounted to
£2,414,704. The National in recent years
has been one of the most progressive in the
Commonwealth. In 1918 it absorbed the
Colonial, and a few years later the Bank of
Queensland (itself an amalgamation of the
Bank of North Queensland and the Royal
of Queensland). So rapid has been its ex-
pansion that each of the past four years has
seen an increase in capital. Since 1922 it
has paid 10 p.c. divs. and, with premiums
on new shares, increased its reserves by
£874,915. Over the same period the A.B.C.
has paid 7 p.c. with 8 p.c. p.a. for the last
half of 1925, and expanded reserves from
£280,391 to £794,560, but that includes
£319,876 resulting from the exchange of
shares for the bank’s inscribed deposits. On
the last published figures the combined de-
posits of the two banks totalled £43,210,977
and advances £32,988,510. The Bank of
N.S.W. alone shows greater figures. The
A.B.C. has its largest connection in N. S.
Wales, where outside Sydney the National is
comparatively weak; this fact no doubt en-
courages the National to pursue negotiations
very seriously.
* * * *
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.:—
, Dividends.—-— >
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ v
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12p.c.- 443,495 5953 30,451
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 „ ~ 447,175 715 31,166
1918.. 539,543 89,084 12 „ „ 449,562 897 32,063
1919.. 541,951 89,084 12 „ „ 451,762 1105 33,168
1920. . 544,773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 1102 34,270
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 ~ ~ 491,987 1908 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries, £628,591,
distributed as bonus shares.
1922.. It! 1 ’ 373 8 9,084 12 p.c.= 661,067 1222 37,400
1923.. 773,202 89,084 12 „ ~ 682,400 1718 39 118
1924.. 776,535 89,084 12 „ „ 685.844 1607 40’,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ „ 689,034 1334 42,059
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 ~ „ 692,684 1685 43,744
The directors’ reports say nothing and the
balance-sheet says only what it must. But
as prefs. get their 6 p.c. regularly and ordi-
naries their 12 p.c. in four portions, share-
holders wouldn’t break the spell for worlds.
“Direct net profits and dividends” were a
thousand or so in excess of requirements, as
usual; and the undistributed balance —the
reserves of the table—grew to £43,744. Last
year authorised capital was increased to
£7,350,000 by the creation of 100,000 ordi-
naries ; but at the end of January 84,451
were still unissued. Lack of information
does not discourage the market—hasn’t dis-
turbed it, in fact, since outsiders were
allowed in 12 years ago. In 1922 there was
a one-in-eiglit bonus-share distribution, and
the market lias awaited the last two bal-
ances hoping for the very best. It seems
quite a reasonable anticipation, but only
those inside really know—and perhaps not
all of them. On the last occasion a “special
div.” from the subsidiary cos. allowed of the
gift: the Trust is always at pains to inform
shareholders that its figures “do not include
the co.’s interest in the undivided profits of
the subsidiaries,” so there is no telling what
is banked up. The recent and present free
spending throughout Australasia must have
benefited tobacco manufacturers largely; and
it is hard to believe that if the profit in
1923 was £773,202 it was no more than
£783,453 in 1926. On that point it may be
of value to reflect that the divulged profits,
after. keeping almost stationary for years,
sprang no less than 30 p.c. immediately after
the last distribution of bonus shares. The
market, at any rate, is very earnest about
the scrip: it ranks the prefs. equal to some
gilt-edged stocks and puts such a price on
the ordinaries that the investment yields
only 5 p.c.
Creditors and credit balances were down
at £72,455 on January 31, 1925; at latest
they were £55,335. “Debtors and debit bal-
ances” were £1,854,952 compared ' with
£1,938,970 of the previous year. These
changes are balanced by the appearance of
£lOO,OOO of Government stock. This may be
a hint that there is more loose money lyirffe
around than the co. and its subsidiaries
know what to do with. Shareholders could
no doubt help them out of this trouble, if it
exists; and if a few thousands more were
spent on the development of the tobacco-
growing industry Australia wouldn’t take it
amiss.
* * * *
Howard Smith, Ltd., proprietors of coal
and shipping and other interests :
r Dividends ~
Prof. To Re-
Dec., Profits, 0 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £/ £,
1915.. 155,178 30,000 8 p.c.= 111,200 .K,
Prelim, exes, written off, At 425 )
1916.. 449 30.000 10 p.c.= 147,169 44,280 57,833
1917.. 195 30,000 10 „ „ 148,597 18,598 76,431
1918.. 794 30,000 10 „ „ 149,790 17,004 93,435
1919.. 30,000 10 ~ „ 150,000 21,823 115,258
Dropped into reserves, £523,456 ..638,714
1920.. 30,000 15 p.c.= 225,000 10,880 649.594
1921.. 784 30,000 15 „ ~ 225,000 8,784 658,378
Prof, capital ( £500,000) returned.
1922.. 24,534 15 p.c.= 225,000 6,738 665,116
Profits. Ordinaries.
1923.. 189.410 15 p.e.=: 225,000 629,526
Reserves capitalised ..£500,000 129,526
1924.. 12 p.c.= 240,000 25,464 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries 91,976 246,966
1925.. 041 10 p.c.= 200,000 21,041 268,007
Howard-Smith’s chief holding is Australian
Steamships, Ltd., and profits from that
source have been affected by shipping strikes
and a fire on the Canberra which has thrown
that favorite passenger-carrier out of com-
mission since June. As all its shares are
held by the parent, Australian Steamships
now publishes no balance-sheet, and it is,
therefore, impossible to put the misfortune
to the Canberra and the seamen’s hold-ups
into figures. There is outside money in the
Caledonian Collieries, so that offshoot pub-
lishes a balance-sheet, but gives no more
information than it can help. It paid G
p.c. last year. Invincible Colliery, another
holding, did not do so well: it passed the
parent a smaller return, but that would not
count much in the total. As far as can
be ascertained, the remainder of the sub-
sidiaries and interests gave a good account
of themselves. During the year £91,976 was
received by way of return of capital from
some smaller subsidiaries which were liquid-
ated ; and as this amount is added to the
reserves it is clear that the co. had under-
valued its investments by that amount. It
isn’t at all likely that the only undervalued
investments were the ones that chanced to
be sold.
Although Howard-Smith’s is a holding co.,
it has a distinguishing difference: it acts
as manager and agent—for a consideration,
of course. Just how much this adds to
earnings each year isn’t visible. All that is
shown -is the total of net receipts, and at
£221,041 these were £44,423 less than the
previous year. Shares in other cos. were
£2.463,734 compared with de-
spite the liquidations. The return from
shareholdings was probably something like
2 p.c. less than in 1924, assuming that the
receipts from the co.’s agency and other
activities were about the same.
The liquid position improved again
1923. 1924. 1925.
1 liquid assets .. £343,568 £347,716 £331 432
Liabilities . . 686,084 674,002 583’526
Excess liabilities £342,516 £326,286 £252,094
The co.’s assets, apart from the shares in
other cos., and the “debtors”—the latter
may include some reserves—consist of free-
holds £85.865, leaseholds £12,693, plant
£67.811, stocks £70.344, public securities and
cash £4O 738. The diminution in the dividend
hasn’t discouraged the market, which appa-
rently visions another rift distribution some
day in the not distant future. Almost any-
thing seems possible with Australian ship-
ping cos., but it must be remembered that the
last bonus distribution was a war-time relic,
and those conditions are not likely to be
duplicated in a hurry. Moreover, the sea-
men have steadily improved their wages and
grown steadily worse in their industrial
behavior, and the cost of those features
cannot indefinitely be passed on to the
public—at any rate, without very emphatic
protests; you can already feel them coming
in some of the daily papers. On the other
hand, the control of the co. is very capable,
and the market is quite justified in throwing
in something for that.
* * * *
Caledonian Collieries. Ltd.:—
r— Dividends. Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1915.. 25,769 17,675 7 p.c.=42,000 60,014
(6 p.c.)
1916.. 17,192 15,150 Nil 2,042 62,056
1917.. 59.1.31 16,224 6 p.c.=38.148 4.759 66.815
1918.. 77,666 21,935 6 „„ 49,570 6,161 72,976
1919.. 71,631 21,935 6 „ ~49,570 126 73,102
(8 p..c.)
1920. .133,218 29,247 10 „ ..82,617 21,354 94,456
Total Div.
1921. .147,790 8 p.c. 12 p.c.=l 46.250 1,540 95.996
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „ ~ 129,268 99-3 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 ~ 6 „ „ 89,274 4,568102.064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 102,032
Like Howard Smith, Ltd., which holds the
bulk of its shares, this co. says just the" little
that it must. All that is disclosed of the
year’s operations is a terse balance for the
year—on this occasion £89,242. What was
provided for depreciation and amortisation is
not divulged, although the co. —it is the biggest
colliery-owner in Australia—operates some
of the largest pits on the Newcastle and
Maitland fields: the Aberdares (Aberdare,
Central, Extended and South) and Ivilling-
worth, West Wallsend and Waratah. With
coal reserves being depleted by the million
tons and enormous sums sunk in mine plant
and machinery, rolling-stock, etc., adequate
provision for amortisation and depreciation
is of vital importance. In these matters,
however, the Howard-Smitli control (the
boards are the same) is more likely to pro-
vide too much than too little. Certainly the
“freeholds, leaseholds, railways, locomotives,
coal-waggons, machinery, buildings, horses,
residences, plant and improvements at cost,
less depreciation on same and less amortisa-
tion of mineral leases and coal contents,” do
not appear lavishly valued at £1,660,000.
The Aberdares are amongst the best-equipped
mines in the world, and they are working
thick seams of the world-famous Maitland
coal which can be torn out rapidly and at
relatively low costs. The older collieries,
working the Borehole and Burwood seams,
have still a fair productive life in front of
them.
This is as much as the balance-sheets
show:—
1913. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Pref. capital.. £252,510 £464.295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital. . 600,007 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors . , 39,710 188,930 227,257 208,399
Overdraft . . 16,671 2,129 39,021
Collieries, etc. 904,904 1,645,298 1,678,408 1,660,600
Stores . . 14,734 103,724 73,404 58,032
Coal stocks . . 8,868 6,306 1,138 10,470
Book debts . . 41,108 48,662 58,642 86,069
Shares . . 51,302 51,302 51,302
Cash i&.War Loan 1,801 809 1,087 632
Despite enormous tonnages which the co. has
produced since it took over in 1913, on the
surface there has been nothing wonderful in
it to date: an average to ordinaries of 7 p.c,
(prefs. are 6 p.c. cum. but participate with
ords. to S p.c.). But in these matters things
are not always what they seem. The capital
of the old Caledonian was £350,000, When
the Howard Smith Co. took over the pro-
position capital was fixed at £852,507 in
(500.007 ordinaries and 252,500 prefs. ; it
pocketed all the ords. and 152,000 prefs., the
remainder going to H.-S. shareholders, half
at par, half at a premium. The large capi-
talisation gilds the divs. so far as the parent
is concerned: but individual shareholders
have had nothing fat. It is pretty certain,
however, that in addition to new money sub-
scribed by shareholders—-£211,795 in prefs.
and £423,592 in ordinaries—profits have been
drawn on for development and equipment,
though that drain should by now be ended,
or nearly so; installation of electrical wind-
ing gear at Aberdare Central and Aberdare
South and a power-house to serve the four
mines are the last of the big works. Now
that the chief outlay has been completed the
co. is in a position to show what it is made
of. It has the coal in quality and quantity:
and it has a powerful parent to attend to its
marketing. Given peace in the turbulent in-
dustry, a run of richer returns is not only
possible, but might reasonably be expected.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which
began with a deficit of £2930, representing
preliminary expenses:—
To Reduce
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1915.. 5 p.c. = £1750/ £1326 £99
Loss.
1916.. 1092 _ 1191
Profit- Reserves.
1917.. 2072 2072 881
To Reserves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. = 2450 349 1230
1919.. 3561 8 ~ ■,, 2800 761 1991
1920.. 4538 10 „ „ 3500 1038 3029
1921.. 4174 8 „ „ 2800 1374 4403
1922.. 4305 8 2800 1505 5908
1923.. 6618 10 „ „ 3500 3118 9026
1924.. 5892 10 „ „ 3500 2392 11,418'
1925.. 6901 10 „ „ 3500 3401 14,819
Additions and improvements were made in
1924, but too late to influence that year's
accounts. Last year, however, reaped the
full benefit, and the result makes the future
look very cheerful, for the 10 p.c. div. called
for little more than half the net profits. The
debenture debt was unchanged at £20,000,
and movements in other figures merely re-
flected the general expansion :
1918. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities . . £24,771 £26,075 £27,170 £27,846
Liquid assets . . 6,240 11,718 10,401 11,474
Excess liabilities .. £18,531 £14,357 £16,769 £16,372
Buildings, etc. .. 56,161 60,133 64,937 67,941
Excluding the debenture debt, the position
was comfortable, more or less liquid assets
being £3628 in excess of liabilities, including
provision for taxation. The co. bought the site
and erected the hotel when land was cheap
and building costs were low, and although
a number of factors played havoc with pros-
pectus anticipations, the conservative treat-
ment of profits when they did arrive has re-
suited in quite respectable strength. Good
seasons out back have helped, and the co. is
now better placed to meet any unfavorable
period—and such a period is sure to come,
since a slump at the seaside invariably
accompanies a drought in the country.
* * ♦ *
Automobile Finance Co. of Australia,
Ltd. (Melb.). —This is the co.’s second year.
It did not start active financing until August,
1924, but promises to move rapidly to a div.-
paying position. In the beginning it was
proposed that tile promoters should receive
10,000 fully-paid £1 shares, but, share-sales
flagging, there was a re-arrangement, and the
loading was cut to 1500. On December 31,
187.275 shares had been allotted (£78,360
paid up), compared with 42,800 shares and
£13,838 paid at November 29, 1924. It is
the i intention of the Board to issue the re-
maining 62,725 shares at a premium. That
decision appears to be based on the fact that
in the first six weeks of the current year
“unprecedented business’* was gathered iii,
and the directors foretell an interim div. on
June 30. If the confidence is well based,
the issue of the balance of shares at a pre-
mium may be warranted, This has to be
said for the Board : it has used all profits thus
far available to reduce establishment and
goodwill—£2923 was written off last year.
Furthermore, it intends to use the antici-
pated share premium to wipe out the balance
(£9879) and, presumably, also the broker-
age on the new shares ana any further estab-
lishment During the term the eo,
began operations in Tasmania and Westralia,
and it is negotiating to extend its interests
to other States. In ordinary circumstances
this spread of activities is undesirable ; but
the co. has experience to guide it, and evi-
dently is satisfied with the return to be won.
That every penny subscribed by shareholders,
plus the accommodation • obtained from the
bank, has been placed promptly occasions no
surprise, pars have been reduced in pride,
and there is a veritable mania for purchas-
ing them on time-payment—a mania which
fs highly profitable to the motor-houses and
financing cos, Automobile Finance, in com-
mon with other cos. in the same. iine. will
make good so long as the boom lasts
—and the end is nowhere in sight-pro-
vided management is all it should be.
Expenses (apart from the substantial sum
of £7593, establishment and promotion ex-
penditure for the 13 months) were £3220,
while £l5OO was set aside for provision
for income-tax, directors’ fees and bad debts,
Although some of the latter amount may not
be called for, the grand total is heavy. Bad
debts to date have been “negligible.” but
now is the time to provide against them. The
co. is getting the business ; the future depends
on management, and particularly on its suc-
cess in curbing expenditure. At December
31 liabilities totalled £10,927, against which
were hire agreements, bills and open accounts
to the amount of £89,133, with a further
£956 in odds and ends.
* * # *
Green Taxicabs, Ltd., is the latest arrival
on the rank in Sydney. Capital is £150,000
in £1 ordinaries, but the present issue is 55,000
shares, 47.500 being offered to the public, the
other 7500 being subscribed by directors and
officials. Of the balance the promoter has a
three-years’ option on 10,000. The pro-
moter’s primary consideration is the commis-
sion on the 100 cars and five service vehicles
with which the co. will start off. The taxi to
be used is the Citroen; running and mainten-
ance costs are claimed to be so light that
the co. will be able to still operate profitably
should competition force charges down. The
vehicle proposed is the landaulette type; the
prospectus states that one Paris co. has 3000
plying for hire while 1000 are in use in
London. A city depot and garage are pro-
posed, and the usual claims made as to
organisation. Yellow Taxicabs have given
the people the taxi habit, and the Black and
White and the Blue cos. will soon have their
fleets on the street. Sydney has over a mil-
lion inhabitants, and there should be room
for all four; but there isn’t room for one
whose business is not thoroughly well organ-
ised. The old rates can’t be figured on;
already, to meet competition which isn’t so
very keen yet, the Yellows have made a cut,
and that isn’t likely to be the last. The posi-
tion is a good deal like that in the job-print-
ing trade. A concern like W. E. Smith’s can
set up a big establishment and put in a great
deal of machinery, only to find itself sur-
rounded by a host of little competitors who
can do scraps of the work on an outlay of
a few hundreds, and who don’t aim at much
more than a Pare living. The well-run taxi
concern ought to yield handsome profits, but
the man who gives nearly 60s. for 20s. shares
takes a large risk.
* * <■ *
Castle Cottonwear Co., Ltd., is being
formed to make men’s and boys’ underwear
and take over the business of Brooks
Watson. _ Capital is £50,000 in shares of £1
each —15,000 10 p.c. prefs., participating
with ordinaries to 15 p.c.; 25,000 ordinaries
of £1 each; 5000 fully-paid ordinaries to the
vendors; 5000 in reserve. The co. intends
to concentrate on the lines mentioned, the
incentive being a “prohibitive protection”


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’*
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc-., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane. — Advt.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from ffm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
A noted engineer was recently heard to remark
that Pioneer Wood Pipe reaches the high-water mark
of efficiency. This apt metaphor correctly illustrates
the excellent service rendered by this splendid con-
duit, for it is unaffected by electrolysis or frost, its
smooth interior bore cannot rust nor tuberculate,
and it offers absolutely no foothold for foreign
growths of any kind. Light to handle, cheap to
transport and easily installed, it is an economical
solution of the limited appropriation problem.
Write for a booklet of comprehensive data. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
The marked appreciation shown by country folk
for Wizard Lighting Systems stamps these “made-in-
Australia” products as playing no small part in
bringing the comforts and conveniences of a city
right into the heart of the great Outback. The
bright white light is so restfully diffused that it
imitates natural daylight most remarkably. Running
costs are small, and a further boon is the reliable
cooking-stove or gas-ring that can be connected to
the plant. To obtain the genuine article, write
direct to the sole manufacturers: Wizard Lighting
Systems. New address, 283 George Street, opp.
Hunter Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have . you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers, hundreds of satisfied users, Concrete Placing
Plant, Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrum Garbage Destructors, “Leplastrier”
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers. “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Ptv., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane: 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Collins
House, Melbourne; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Svvanston Streets.
Evervbodv •who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe. - '
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Everlasting Never-leak Blow-off Valve.
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth.
Made only by—
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
against the imported article of 45 P.c. and
2s. per garment.” Capital expenditure will
not be excessive, and the claims ot the
prospectus as to costs and production aie
confirmed by F. Armstrong, h A.l -A-. a™!
machinery cos. On the basis of the ma
factoring costs stated, and turnover of
50,000 doz. garments, a net profit ot 24 .6 p.c.
on paid capital is estimated, but prospectus
estimates don’t always accord with results,
and the aspect of local competition is not
mentioned. Practically everything depends
on management. The loading is fairly heavy,
seeing that the co. buys nothing but a trading
connection, but the vendors disclose their
confidence by taking up 2000 shares for
cash. #
Broken Hill has had its rain; Stephens
Creek ran a banker and Umberumberka holds
enough water to supply town and mines for
a year. Nothing more will now be heard ot
the Darling River scheme—until the next
drought. It might have been better had that
scheme been carried out in the first place,
but cost was and always has been against it.
The present reservoirs would hold quite
enough water if evaporation would let it
stay there: the loss is vastly greater than
the consumption. Can’t the engineers do
something to reduce it? _ That would be
worth spending a good, solid lump on.
* * * *
Alluvial Gold and Platinum, Fifield
(N.S.W.), is on the stocks in 200,000 ss.
shares, of which 80,000 paids go to the ven-
dors and 120,000 contribs. will be fully paid
on allotment. The lease contains 80 acres,
and has 20 years to run. The prospectus
states that from 600 to 700 bores have been
put down on the area, and that “in each and
every one” gold and platinum have been
found. “The platinum is found from the
grass roots on the surface to the rock bot-
tom.” W. H. Trewennack, consulting engi-
neer estimates 700,000 yards thus tested to
a depth of 12ft. The product, on his analysis,
should be 12gr. platinum and lOgr. gold to
the yard, the platinum being valued at 265.
and the gold at Is. Bd. But platinum prices
will come down when the big S’African pro-
position starts in earnest. This yardage
value of 275. Bd. should, says Trewennack,
be recovered at a cost of 3s. 6d., giving a
working profit of £842,000 over the 80 acres.
The N.S.W. Mines Department quotes the
platinum yield heretofore from Fifield at
16,0000 z., valued at £416,000. A bucket
dredge is spoken of, but no details are given.
Water supply is somewhat airily disposed of,
but storage dams and wells as successful
dredge-feeders are not over-convincing.
High antimony rates, backed by an opti-
mistic report from H. I. Jensen, enabled Clive
Cooper and Fred Oertel to make quick work
of the Queensland Antimony float. The co.,
which is in 120,000 4s. shares, takes over
112 acres of leases, 20 miles west of
Mareeba and three miles south-west of the
Minnie Moxham, the last of the workable
gold shows on the old Northcote field. The
vendors get 40,000 paids and £l5OO in cash,
60,000 contribs. paid to Is. are issued, and
20,000 held in reserve. Jensen states that
there are two lodes, the Emily and the Black
Bess. The former has only been scratched,
and is antimony-bearing for upwards of
three miles. As the ore comes in at from
15ft. to 20ft., only a few new shafts are
required to produce at shallow depths. On
the Bess the lode can be traced for 700 yards,
and in the bottom of Robinson’s shaft at
17ft. there is 2ft. 4in. of rich antimony ore.
A sample assayed 48 p.c. antimony and 12dwt.
gold. Believing that the lode will widen
with depth, Jensen, who will supervise opera-
tions, estimates that after a month of de-
velopment work 500 tons should be broken
by 12 men in 10 weeks, giving £5OOO profit
at present prices. The crude ore shipped
should realise from £lB to £22 a ton, accord-
ting to assay. It is usual for antimony shows
to become gold-mines at depth, and such ore
would be treated at the Minnie Moxham
battery. Timber and water are plentiful.
• •••$*
On the antimony position in China an old
Wild Catter writes from the spot:—
China is the world’s greatest producer of antimony,
normally about 15,000 tons being exported per
annum. Most of the metal is won in Hunan. The
deposits are numerous, and the chief one at present
worked is some 250 miles from Changsha. The “mines”
are really a honeycomb of shallow native workings
which interfere with each other to such an extent
that work will soon be at a standstill. There are
no appliances for hauling the ore, and only bamboo
pumps worked by hand and capable of lifting about
150 gallons hourly from 10ft. deep. Yet there is
ample ore provided improved methods are used. That,
however, seems unlikely at present. Under existing
chaotic conditions in China there is small hope of
the foreigner—not excepting the German or Japanese
—being foolish enough to invest money in equipping
these mines on a modern scale. This applies not
only to the antimony deposits but also to all the
so-called “mines” of China (most are what we
would call “prospects”). The reason is that the
titles are worthless. A foreigner may acquire half
of any Chinese mine by purchase outright and own
the other half by men of straw, and he may spend
as much money as he likes on machinery and
development. But as soon as he begins to export
the products lie is met with several claimants for
the mines, possessing equally as good title deeds
as his own. Next he will be sauvely advised by
the nearest General that the local troops are getting
restive for their pay and a loan of a few thousand
dollars would be appreciated—otherwise the General
wquld regret to hear of any outrages his men had
committed, etc., etc. This much can be said with
certainty: China will never be a factor-to rely
upon in the production of metals until it has stable
government; meantime foreign capital will find
safer outlet in other countries.
• * * *
From the old Cherry property at Ard-
lethau (N.S.W.), Vegetable Creek scraped
up during February 9153 tons of crushing
stuff for 12 tons concentrates, and until the
battery closed for want of water another 308
tons yielded four tons concentrates to March
15. The February yield was worth £1872,
and costs ran into £1132, leaving a mine
profit of 15s. 3d. per ton. A rise on a spur
off the western pipe gives the sweetener with-
out which the low-grade stuff in the open cut:
and elsewhere would not break even.
# * * *
Carpathia, Ardletlian (N.S.W.), con-
tinues on good ore, the last four weeks giv-
ing 14 tons concentrates from 230 tons. For
the half year to January 31 the co. recovered
62 tons concentrates from 1373 tons ore;
the first half of the year gave 41 tons. Net
profit for the six months was £2700, com-
pared with a loss of £607 during the. pre-
vious half and a profit of £5082 for the
corresponding six months of the previous
year. Tin ore and stocks stand at £?916,
deposits £6OBl, and cash £1872. There is a
mortgage of £lOOO, and creditors claim
£1478. Although the show is not noted for
hustle, it has often looked much worse.
* * * *
Edna May Consolidated (W.A.) has been
taken over by a crowd that knows the busi-
ness. Sufficient stone in the shallow levels
above water to pay exes, is assured, but
that is not what this crowd is after. The
extension of an east drive alqng the junction
of the footwall of greenstone gneissic rock
is likely to disclose another high-grade ore-
deposit of fish-hook shape similar to the
Edna May formation, and it is this chance
that has induced the present crowd to give
the mine another go.
* * * *-
Adelaide having thrown up the Radio
option (W.A.), the show has reverted to
the owners, who are again raising and mill-
ing small parcels of ore. The mine’s weak-
ness is the slimness of its quartz veins. Still
one ton of £l2 ore won under Radio condi-
tions shows a greater profit than £l2 worth
of 40s. stuff won under ordinary conditions.
About £20,000 profit is in sight, and pro-
bably there will be more. The owners, how-
ever, were giving nothing away when they
asked Adelaide £40,000. As things turned
out, the option provided a little flutter on
the market with profits both ways for in-
siders; now the end of the business is a
liquidation dividend of Is. sd. per share,
which no doubt accounts for the heavy buy-
ing that occurred when the stock dropped
to a shilling.
* * * *
Numerous lease-peggers and option-hunters
have been struck with the idea that Bull-
finch (W.A.) has been rediscovered, but this
is not so. Prospector Ewen Macdonald has
raised a quantity of ounce surface ore, near
the lode where prospector Charlie Jones first
struck gold, the Bullfinch bonanza being
found later some distance off. The public
should bear in mind that Macdonald is work-
ing above old mine workings from which
practically all ore has been extracted. He
is merely gleaning stuff the Bullfinch Co.
overlooked.
So far the Perth crowd that followed
“Edna May” Williams into Borneo Oil
Options has drawn a blank. Williams
secured an 1$ months’ option over various
coal and oil concessions in East Borneo, the
purchase price being £lOO,OOO payable by
instalments. Three payments of £2OOO were
made and another instalment of £5OOO was
due on March 16. This was not paid, and,
unless vendors agree to wait awhile, the co.
will abandon its option and look for some-
thing nearer home. A number of Melbourne
and Sydney punters were drawn into the
proposition, and these, with luck, may get a
run for their money—but, on present pros-
pects. not in Borneo.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie’s North End is about to be
tested by a State drill. Many rich patches
and occasional payable deposits have been
found there, but no large mines. The big-
gest at present worked is the Hannan’s North-
Golden Zone, owned by Gt. Boulder Prop.
The chance of something big being struck
thereabouts warrants substantial State ex-
penditure. As The Bulletin has said be-
fore, it should have been provided long ago.
* * * *
Burbanks Oversight (W.A.) has been re-
commended for forfeiture, on • the usual
charge of dodging labor conditions. For a
time the Perth-Adelaide crowd working this
show reported good assays and prospects
were declared bright. As a result scrip soared
from a few shillings to a pound. Then the
battery started and proved these good
opinions to be unjustified. Later on another
batch of glowing reports was broadcasted
and an attempt was made to raise fresh
capital on the strength of this boost, biit rtr
failed.
• * * *
Twice-reconstructed and now Government-
assisted North White Feather (W.A.) has
just raked in a little more cash from the-
sale of shares. Last year the directors issuecL:
a statement regarding prospects. The mine
officials were mum, but the local inspector
of mines reckoned that the co. would do.well.
Work done since then has proved him to have
been an optimist. At one time North White
Feather and its neighbor, White, Feather
Main Reef, were regular gold producers and
turned out between them about a million
sterling. The former is now working at a
loss, the latter has long since passed away.
* * * *
Westralia also wants a bonus on copper.
At one time several mines were profitably
worked, but production has now practically
ceased, the reason being the low price for
the metal and the high cost of smelting m
the Eastern States. Both the down-and-out
Whim Creek and Phillips River mines have
produced large quantities in the past. These
properties are developed and partly or wholly
equipped, and a bonus is claimed to be the
one thing needful to put them on their feet
again. It tvill need to be a very substantial
one to enable them to compete against pre-
sent producers. * *
After contributing £43,478 for drills and
drilling, South Aus. Oil Wells has £l5OO in
the till—but no oil. Hope animates the
board, but the 13,000 forfeited shares on the
register show a weakening among some or
the proprietors. H. Charlton Dod is still the
man at the drill. When things were
going swimmingly he kept picking up
land until a solid 10,000 acres on the
Glenelg River is held by the co. No. 1 bore
got down to 1226 ft., and many attempts were
made to squeeze oil from the silty sands
lying between 800 and 1200 feet, but the
gusher wouldn’t spurt. So a shift has been
made 600 ft. to the south, where No. 2 bore
has entered quartzite at 1554 ft. Dod has
sent off in hot haste to New York for a
Hughes bit to get through the tough stuff.
He still tells of “good indications of oil and
gas,” and declares that “our faith is un-
diminished.” This is a lot to say after
chasing elusive oil from Robe to Point Lons-
dale and back to Summer Hill. Alec Campbell
tells also that Dod thinks the quartzite
is the “cap of an oil-pool.” Mliat buoys the
crowd is that geologist H. S. Lyne, before
leaving to join the Standard Oil crowd in
Venezuela, declared that a quantity of oil
showed freely in the sludge. Dr. Wade s ray
of hope about Australian oil also extended
to the Glenelg River.
* * * *
Things look so blue at United Gleesons
(Vic.) that even George Dickenson admits
that the show has not responded to the cash
and is a fading hope. Manager Hays caps
that reflection: lie thinks the Hungarian
shoot is petering into short lenses of gold
which cost too much to open up. Anyway,
with 9850 shares forfeit and another 13,500
to fall in, the only thing to do is to let the
tributors have a go underground. Then, it
funds are sufficient, to use the diamond drill
to definitely trace out the course of the
shoots and their value.
* * * *
West Coast Silver-Lead Syndicate, reported
bv W. H. Cundy, has gone into Fred Tricks’s
office in Melbourne. At present the syndicate
is acquiring options over 140 acres at Zeehan
(Tas.). The lode is about 3ft. wide, and
140 tons from it have been treated and sold
for a net £23 10s. a ton. The advent of
Electrolytic Zinc in the district as a buyer
of high-grade ores has stimulated inquiry for
silver-lead and zinc lodes. The co. has stated
that it also will arrange to treat low-grade
ores, and this will be most helpful.
* * * «
“Adamascus”: The gem-field at Sapphire
(C.Q.) is being gradually extended; recently
a number of miners, including some old
timers, started at the old Brown Snake work-
ings, a cobple of miles north-east of the
present field. This was worked years ago
and petered out, but now a fresh find has
caused a small rush. The old Sapphire field
is by no means exhausted, and recently a
fine yellow stone, weighing 19dwt., w r as un-
earthed by an old prospector, who had
previously found three other large yellow
sapphires at the same place. The latest dis-
covery is ope of the most valuable stones yet
found on the field —wmrth about £250.
* * # *
Burma-Malay Tin, a somewdiat mysterious
“holding” concern, has issued a progress re-
port from the F.M.S. It consists merely, of
a statement of a number of prospecting
licenses and options, and the fact that the
shares have reached a 200 p.c. premium is
convincing proof of the acuteness of the tin-
fever in Pitt-street.
* * * *
High hopes have been aroused in the
Thames-Ooromandel district (M.L.) by the
assertion that a German metallurgical firm
is going to extract silver-lead and base metals
from the ores of the district. The ores are
rich, but very refractory. More than one
Australian firm has had a go at them in
the last 30 or 40 years, but without success.
As soon as gold began to peter out the notion
of winning the various other metals presented,
itself, but Nature has locked them up in a
way that so far has defied disentanglement.
Like the iron sands of Taranaki and else-
where they provide lovely samples—in the
laboratory—but otherwise have been useful
only to company promoters. Still, tremen-
dous progress has been made in lead-zinc
metallurgy during the last 15 years, and the
high prices of the moment are a great help.


ST. JOHN AND THE DRAGON.
Premier Allan affects to see no reason for the universal demand for a special session of Parliament to put an end to his Government’s penchant for idleness,”
PREMIER ALLAN: “Stand back there, stand back! —can’t you see I’m a-defendin’ you from the dragon!”
VIC. ELECTOR: “Defending the dragon from me, more like it.”


It's the pure golden
Virginia leaf that
appeals in
CIGARETTES
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO LTD
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nikko" : It is dangerous to ask a Sydney
lawyer where he spent a recent Sunday. He
was watering his garden on Saturday when
a neighbor rushed in to say his wife was ill
at mother’s, 20 miles away; would Costs,
like a good chap, go over on Sunday and teed
the fowls and the bulldog, the latter a dan-
MANAGING THE BRUTE.
HE ( consoling her): "You know, it s always hotter to
laugh than to cry.”
SHE: “ Not when you hare a husband to manage."
gerous brute, but safely chained? The lawyer
said he would. Next morning, having de-
spatched his wdfe and family to the beach
and promised to follow later, he went across
the paddock on his mission. He had just
finished with the chooks when a noise behind
made him turn. A ferocious-looking bulldog
dragging a short length of rope was regard-
ing him hungrily. He broke all known re-
cords in shinning up the nearest shelter,
which happened to be a flagpole. The dog.
with an air of having nothing better to do,
took up a commanding position at the foot.
The mercury climbed steadily, and the
time sped on. Nobody came. Midday
passed, broiling hot, the afternoon wore
away, but there was no relaxation in the
vigilance of the sentry. Just about sundowm
a small bare-legged , youth came whistling
down the drive with a can of milk, glanced
with some curiosity at the flagpole, and
sauntered over to take a nearer view.
the bulldog!” yelled the treed lawyer. Hej U
bite you!” The youth paused. Im!
said, with scorn, “d’ye mean ole Bonzer.
’asn’t a tooth fit ter bite with. Look ere.
and taking ole Bonzer’s head he put Ins
hand into the cavernous mouth. lne d<>e
wot bites is round the corner, mister; es
chained up. ’E’s a fair terror, e is.
* * * #
“A.H.IC.”: I first met W. W. Gay, Vic.’s
new Forest Commissioner, when he was run-
ning a small country -school. I had been
yarning to his kiddies on a natural-history
topic and he seemed to discern a chance
for pointing a moral. So he invited the mass
to declare what was it inside them that indi-
cated thev had done wrong, the desired an-
swer being, of course, conscience. The kid-
dies attacked the problem bravely. One voted
for the brain, another for the mind, a third
for the heart. “No,” said the dominie. \on
are nearly right, but not quite. 111 help
you. It begins with a hard C —as in cat.
A small girl’s arm shot up. “I know, she
shrilled. “It’s yer kidneys!”
* * * *
“Sir”: Young Australia gets to the great
national industries early these days. The
parents of a 13-year-old scholar at the estab-
lishment where I ply chalk and duster in
Melbourne were much alarmed when their
young hopeful failed to return home one
recent night. Further inquiries disclosed
that he had not been at school for a couple,
of days. The mystery was cleared up r xt
morning, when a communication from
Russell-street watch-house told the parents
that their son had been taken in a raid or a
two-up school in another suburb on the pro-
vious night. On the first day of his absence
from, school the lad had earned 80s. by carry-
ing iuggage at a wharf. The next after-
noon he had spent at the races, and in the
evening he was trying liis hand at heading
’em.”
* * * *
“Guy Fane”: Fate played a grim trick on
a Kogarali (N.S.W.) sinner who; helped him-
self to a bag of tools belonging to a carpen-
ter in the neighborhood and presently jour-
neyed with his spoil to the abode of a
Bathurst-street (Sydney) pawnbroker. V\ hen
he entered the shop two men were talking
to the proprietor, who excused bimselt and
turned to his customer. The thief spread
the tools on the counter, and T T ncle was just
starting to compute their worth when one
of the other men suddenly cried: “By crikey,
Ikon smy tools!” He was the carpenter, his
companion was a detective; they were visit-
ing the pawnshops to make inquiries about
the stolen property. The Law did the rest.
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : My clad still tells of a queer
haunening lie once witnessed on the 1 uron
diggings. A bucket slipped
on an adjoining claim and
crashed on the man working
below. A crowd at once
gathered round, and the in-
jured miner was brought to
the top: He seemed to real-
ise that he was done for, and
besought his mates to get
him a priest. There was
.none nearer than Bathurst,
and it was obvious that life
was only a question of an
hour or two at most. Sud-
denly a man renowned
throughout the whole field as
a "diard doer', pushed his
way through the crowd and
knelt down alongside the
dying man. “I am the
anointed of God," he said.
“I am silenced, but my
sacred office leaves me only
when I die. I will give you
the last consolations of the
Church.” And, surrounded
by a bareheaded crowd of
men, as rough a one, pro
bahly, as ever attended any
religious service, he fulfilled
his promise. The ex-priest’s
claim was an extra-good one.
but next morning Dad
noticed it was not being
worked ; the owner had gone,
and no Turon digger ever saw him again.
* * *
“Schnorrer” : Or> a recent melting Sjdnej
evening my Hebrew friend Isaacs called a
meeting of his creditors at his own comfort-
able house, and moved them almost to tears
bv the tale of his misfortunes —also by the
apparently childlike innocence of Ins business
dealings. Under the spell of his eloquence
the well-clothed, fat figure before their eyes
seemed to be changing to a' poor fellow m
rags, penniless and begging for bread ihe
house and furniture wasn’t his, but belonged
to liis wife’s mother, who hadn’t so tar
troubled him about unpaid rent-, but would
put in a big claim if he was made bankrupt;
in fact, everything he had, including the
motor-car in which he drove to town daily,
belonged to someone else. It seemed that
it was useless to do anything but grant him
the absm'dly easy terms he suggested, and
trust to the honesty of his asseverated in-
tentions. “But surely you have some liquid
assets!” put in one of the creditors despair-
ingly. Isaacs smiled blandly upon him. “Oh,
yes, I haf,” he said. A sigh of relief went
through the meeting as Isaacs moved to-
wards the door. “Rachel!” he called. “Pring
in der lager.”
CARRY ON.
“Who is that awful ass in the corner?”
“My husband.”
“I'm so sorry!”
“So am I”
“Dor Joii'g”: A naval sentry at Sydney
Admiralty House who, being overcome with
strong waters, defied the world with rifle and
bayonet and rolled an A.D.C. in the mod
before he was overpowered, recalls a bird
of the same, feather in South Africa. An
ancient in "a no\v 1 y-arri\ed Bushman legi
ment, he was put on liis first sentry-go at
the Springs, near Pretoria, and celebrated
the occasion by getting as full as a tick.
When the adjutant—now a brass-hat ot great
tonnage on the C.M.F. staff—came to inspect
him in the darkness, lie declared that t»u
countersign given him was the wrong one.
and dared the indignant officer to move
under pain of being shot. He declined to
call the guard, and when the cold anti
hungry adjutant began to yell for it he gave
the bolt of his rifle an ominous shove home
and blasphemously commanded silence. A
corporal and relief, arriving later, were held
up in the same way, and for the same rea-
son and if the stalwart hadn’t dropped his
rifle and fallen helplessly on top of it while
having a refresher from his dop-filled water-
bottle. lie might eventually have had the
whole regiment lined up. As inquiries showed
that he had spent two periods in an asylum
for the insane, it was decided to send him
home to Australia. The adjutant -was parti-
cularly careful in seeing that there was no
hitch about his departure.
“S 0” • Owing to a quaint error Bom-
bala ’ ( N.S.W. I public hospital has been
favored with no less than 63 galvamsed-iron
tanks each with a capacity of SOO gallons,
The requisition sent in to the Government
was for one tank measuring. 6ft. x 3ft.; what
happened to the person wffio misread it has
not transpired. The arrival of the long
procession created the village s sensation ot
the century. # #
i Demolishers working on Mcll-
rath’s gutted seven-storeyed building in Pitt-
street. Sydney, provided as much entertain-
ment for'sightseers as the fire itself. One of
them, evidently a seaman, sat astride, a
crumbling wall 80ft. above the Smouldering
debris and calmly hitched a wire rope to a
tottering pinnacle. A group of people stood
enjovinf the thrill. “Remarkable control,
said one —“iron nerves, unspoilt by drink and
tobacco!” The rope fixed, the demolisher
walked about 30 yards along the crazy wall,
clambered over the parapet amlreceived con-
gratulations from the party. Eh f he said,
lighting a cigarette. “I vas snittin sixpences,
and now’’— looking at the Railway clock
I yust got time for a couple of pints.
‘Thil Anthus”: The story of the West-
ralian Governor who was refused “strap” by
a bush publican reminds me of an occasion
when I was stuck for the price of a feed
by a Queensland figurehead. His Ex. was
journeying in his rail motor-car from South-
port to Beaudesert. His private sec. dropped
off en route, and till he could pick up Ins
A.D.C. at Beaudesert I, a newspaper rep.,
was the only com-
pany offering out-
side the car-driver.
Atßeth a n i a
Junction the
Governor suggested
a cup of tea.
“But.” he confided
in a whisper,
“you’ll have to
pay; I haven’t got
any money.” That
was all right, but
word went round
of the presence of
the big man, and
presently the secre-
tary of the local
tennis club
streamed in with a
ittle black book.
‘We’d be ve r y
much obliged, sir,”
quoth he. “if you’d
take a ticket.” I
shivered, and felt
convulsively for my
last note. His Ex.
temporised with a
few questions,
eliciting from the
enterprising youth
that the fee was
“only a bob.”
Vastly relieved, I
nevertheless sat
tight as his Ex.
wrote in the little
black book; I
wanted to see how
he was going to get
that bob. lie took
his hurdle better
th a n the Prince
does. “Have you
got this gentleman's
shilling?” quoth he
with some severity ;
and the collector
ambled off, happy
with his bob and
the knowledge that
he had seen the
Governor’s A.D.C.
rapped over tli e
knuckles for not being' quick on the draw.
* * *
“Miro”: In a' recent breach-of-promise
suit in M.L., brought by a lady of Maori
origin, the defendant’s lawyer proceeded to
heckle her on events of the past. “Didn't
you tell people that So and So looked at you
lovingly when he was here?” inquired the
lawyer! “No, I didn’t,” said the girl indig-
HEAVENLY.
CLARA: “Why did Nora insist on being mar-
ried in an aeroplane?
CORA: “ Well, she's so conceited that she
thought no man on earth was good
enough for her.”
nantly. “Well, tell us how he did look at
vou,” requested the inquisitor. Just as you
looked at me when I came into the court,
was the calm reply. Counsel resumed his
seat.
(Continued on page 19.)
A BALLADE OF APRIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each month has a typical girl, ail i ts ovvn ’
Say the seasonal poets (and poets should know) ;
Thus, March is a “lady of forty”—full-blown,
And June a coy damsel, suggestive of snow;
And thus through the calendar gaily they go.
Let us enter the lists, while the numbers we scan,
To steady this gush, or pro-feminine flow,
With the question of “Why not a month for a
man?”
The flaming-haired sisters of Rummer have passed ,
In the horror of nightmare we yet see the glow
Where the red blazing brands of destruction they cast.
From the blackened tree-branches the evil-eyed
crow
Chants minor-keyed misery, sinister, slow.
Now we shoulder our burden as only men can,
With courage and hope born of stout hearts; and so
We ask “Isn’t April the month for a man?
So much tb set going 1 So much to repair .
To the saddle and paddock! Speed plough, axe
and hoe!
Nature’s visage will some day again appear fair ;
Already with ‘healing the Autumn winds blow,
Moist-laden, to nourish the seeds that we sow.
Hope, faintly and far-off, hears . Spring-pipes of
Pan,
When the fruits of our labor toward harvest shall
grow;
But it’s work now in April, the month for a man.
Envoy.
Brave boys! While the axe and the stockwhip ye
swing,
The softer emotions will come in your plan !
Other seeds may be sown that will blossom in
Spring.
In every way April’s the month for a man.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


MAKING MATTERS HOT FOR HIS EX
“It has been suggested to the N.S.W. Labor Government that if it is not successful in its efforts to ‘bring the Governor to reason ,' it should make
his Excellency's position as uncomfortable as possible, in the hope of forcing his resignation.”
Govebmheht noufce
fHAY BE BOYCOTTED BY
The Domestic Servants OiHIQHi
His Exceluencys sleep may be Disturbed By a. strange
Increase in the cat nuisance
£\no Therefore Be Declared Black
By the Milk- carters
The Vice-rec,alls Motor-car be suboecteo
To Strong SURVEILLANCE
ahnoyance w\ay be met
Each t>iyve ms Eyceluehcy
Uses tue promt c,ate
And Leaving by The back gate Tt> Avoie it
flAt BE. OANGBROU*>
P'liDNtoHTs WWTS Would Be the last £>t»saw.


°o.
m
%
°o
m
•°Otv
Watch the man who understands GOOD whisky—note the smile of anticipation as he pours himself
a nip of “Mountain Dew”; see the satisfaction that lights his face as he empties the glass. He recognises
age and appreciates purity; that is why he calls for and insists on getting
Young’s
MOUNTAIN DEW
Old Scotch Whisky
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Jass”: The long arm worked overtime
recently at Nikenbah (Q.). A resident
bought a second-hand motor-car, and, the
upholstery requiring a bit of attention, part
of the leather was taken out. On the reverse
side was distinctly visible a brand which
the astonished cocky immediately recognised
as that of his neighbor. The latter, when
shown the exhibit, claimed that he remem-
bered the bullock’s hide, sold some years be-
fore, from which the upholstery was made.
* * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: If woollen clothes let. out
the heat of the body, it should be obvious,
even to “Ibn el Issar” (B. 11/3/'2C>), that
they let in the outside heat equally well. Con-
sequently, as the normal temperature of the
body is 98.6 deg., when the outside tempera-
ture is, say, 110, it is better tactics to wear
a material that will not let the heat pass
THE DISAPPOINTMENT.
“Her marriage was a tremendous
disappointment to her friends."
“In what, way, dearest?"
“Oh, they all predicted it would he a failure, and it wasn’t.
through. Actually, a highly-starched white
linen is a cooler garment than any other,
because the white polished surface reflects
the light and heat. I don’t know why “Ibn”
regards it as necessary to wear woollen or
silk under-garments. I have been in North
Queensland, Darwin and Singapore, where we
wore patrol-suits of white linen next to our
bare hides, and changed three times a day.
The wool-next-tlie-skin superstition is long
exploded. We know nowadays that the
effect of heat and body-sweat is to turn it'
into an insanitary felt. Cellular cotton or
silk is the best underwear in a warm
climate —if you wear any. Of course there
are people like the English Tommy who
wore his flannel undershirt in the Jordan
Valley, and the Australian bushman, who
wears his at all times. I have talked to
both, and they assured me that they would
“catch cold” if they discarded the dreadful
garment. However, it takes all sorts to do
the world’s work.
* * • * * ,
“Namoi”: Over a cup of tea our old
parson became loquacious on the subject of
dengue-fever. “We called it ‘breakbone’ in
the early days,” he said, “and breakbone it
is. I’ve been through a number of outbreaks
up north, and I still have lively recollections
of my own last attack. It came on just as
I was starting out on a 130-mile drive, into
the back o’ beyond, to perform the marriage
ceremony for a young couple at an old mining
settlement. It was Thursday when I arrived,
and on Sunday I got up somehow, managed
to totter up to the bride’s residence, and
accosted her father, or tried to. I was a
complete wreck —voice gone; legs gone.
‘Pretty bad, ain’t yer?’ he said. ‘Guess yer’d
better have some rum.’ When I assented he
poured me a big half-glass of the spirit, and
I drank the lot. The effect was magical. I
was another man. I married the pair, and
would have christened or buried them with
the same glowing enthusiasm. I discovered
before I left that the bride’s father had ‘a
bit of a still,’ and this overproof was the
pride of his heart.”
* * * *
“Desist” : I don’t know much about “Hero-
dot’s” skin loops and whorls (B. 11/3/’26),
but I can assure him that I have made my
finger-prints unrecordable per medium of a
brick, and that without reaching the bleed-
ing stage. In June, 1921, I was taken into
the finger-print department at. police head-
quarters, Sydney. A subordinate tried to
take my prints, but all he got were blots, and
the sergeant could do no better. Their, method
was to place a thin film of ink on a marble
slab, and, after rolling each finger on the
ink, impress the marks on paper. Although
they seemed anxious to obtain my prints, they
admitted their inability, assumed I was an
exceptional case and merely recorded my
blots. I took it they thought bricks were
only used for building.
* * * *
“The Deacon” : The shooting by the police
of that nimble rogue Desire La Court at
Richmond (N.S.W.) brings back memories
of the last police shooting in the district, at
Penrith 35 years ago. There one quiet
Saturday morning Sergeant Beatty ordered
a big American negro to move on; but later,
coming on the un-
desirable seated on
the kerb in front of
the local convent,
he sought to em-
phasise the order
with his boot. A
moment later he
was stabbed to the
heart. With the
sergeant dead on
the convent veran-
dah (where local
legend has it that
his wraith reap-
pears annually)
another citizen took
a hand; he, too,
received a savage
knife-thrust. The
murderous - looking
weapon kept others
at bay, but pre-
sently the black, a
stranger in the
locality, moved
down the street to-
wards the police
station, followed by
the crowd at a safe
distance. There
Constable Moseley,
after unsuccessfully
calling on the mur-
derer to surrender,
brought him down
with a bullet in
the stomach. He
died that night in
Parramatta Hospi-
tal. The wounded
citizen was an in-
valid on a Govern-
ment pension until
he died; the con-
stable presently resigned, and took over a
hotel with his share of a Government reward.
“Sixenate”: Recently a prisoner undergo-
ing sentence at Parramatta (N.S.W.) told
a hair-raising yarn of a man shot dead and
buried in concrete under the foundations of
a building erected for the Commonwealth
Arms Factory at Lithgow. The fact that
the alleged slain and slayer and the teller
of the yarn had all been employed upon
that building, and that about the date
assigned for the murder a mysterious shot
had been reported by residents, induced the
police to investigate the story. Since they
could hardly go digging for the bones under
the £40,000 building which has since been
erected there, obviously their only way of ex-
ploding the story was to find the alleged corpse
still alive. Finally they managed to do this
and to produce the supposed murderer also,
both being surprised to hear of the crime.
Confronted with the pair, the romancer “had
TIER DRAWBACK.
“Vera can’t get a thing to do .”
“But I thought she was pretty enough to land any job?”
“So she is. But she's much too pretty to keep it”
nothing to say.” This is the second occasion
on which the yarn-spinner has told a thrill-
ing story of dark deeds; and the question
is whether he is a safe man to set at large.
His pretty talent may get somebody hanged
some day.
* * * *
“Tokelau”: A chimney of the St. Leonards
(Sydney) brickworks plays a romantic role
in the lives of an overseas captain and his
wife. It is visible well out at sea, and also
from the skipper’s home on the North Shore
line. When he nears the Heads he gazes at
it sentimentally, knowing that his wife is
also regarding it yearningly from the other
side. And when he leaves port tlie old chim-
ney gets a hot spot somewhere near its sky-
line where their burning glances meet.
Through that pillar of bricks the two are
kept in touch till the ship is hull down.
* * * *
“Israel”: The Jewish Sabbath has been
the cause of a couple of curious hitches in
connection with the new Synagogue which is
going up in St. Ivilda (Vic.). The first
trouble arose amongst the Chosen themselves
because the site for the new place of worship
was bought at a land-sale held on Saturday;
it will be some time before the orthodox get
over the shock. The other row has been made
by the workmen, who, not being allowed to
work on Saturday morning, want to be paid
for the time lost, but refuse to work the
extra time that would compensate for it on
the five ordinary week-days., A way out of
the difficulty was ultimately found by the
contractor, who decided to place the men
on other jobs on Saturday morning. It is
a solution with an element of danger in it,
as the other men on these jobs,, with the
prospect of having the term of their employ-
ment shortened thereby, are inclined to be
resentful. But the “Synagoguers” will doubt-
less try to improve matters by doing as little
work as possible.
* * * *
“Wollard”: Settlement Island, Macquarie
Harbor, an oft-mentioned, place in the Speck’s
early convict history, has been declared a
reserve by the Government. For years tour-
ists have been in the habit of taking away
bricks from the dilapidated buildings as
souvenirs, and only a few weeks ago it was
found that a quantity of iron from the old
ruins was stacked ready for removal by some
acquisitive person. A special value was
attached to bricks showing the maker’s sig-
nature, so to speak, it being the custom for
the convict to mark every tenth brick by
pressing the thumb into the soft mud.
Settlement Island is a fertile spot, for all
its grim associations: mint and raspberries
thrive there, said to have been sown originally
by the pioneers. A less-known place with
similar associations is Circular Head (Stan-
ley). The old barracks built by the convicts
are in ruins, but the little blue-stone church
is in no way damaged; albeit it is now used
as a stable.
“Stellsby”: The egregious by-law passed
by Williamstown (Yic.) Council to prevent
loitering on the beach by bathers resulted
in a humorous bur-
lesque on the fore-
shore the other
Sunday morning.
Led by a huge Scot
with skirling pipes,
the demonstrators
gathered in a large
variety of fancy
costumes, such as
dress-suits and bow-
yan g s, moleskins
and spats, cricket-
ing flannels and
bluchers, oilskins
and dancing pumps,
bustle skirts and
underhanging red
flannel petticoats,
with ankle-length
unmentionables to
match, and suits of
petrol-tin arm o r
with belltoppers
for helmets. There
were nearly 500
bathers in the
parade, and the
arrival of the police
was the signal for
a general move to-
war d s the surf
what time an army
of onlookei's sent
thunderous cheers
across the placid
waters of Port
Phillip. The police
could take no
action against the
fantastically-attired
bathers, but a few
small boys in abbre-
viated costumes
who had been un-
wise enough to take
up sun-bath posi-
tions were duly
claimed by Robert.
“Wang”: The “surprise party” is a highly
popular bush institution. The first con-
sideration for the organisers is the equable
temper of the party to be “surprised” ; the
second is the darncing accommodation likely
to be found there. Each of the invaders
brings along a quantity of provisions, and the
rendezvous is usually some neighboring
cocky’s place. There the signal is given for
the hop-over, the last hundred yards to the
objective being covered in record time to
effect the “surprise” before the dogs give the
alarm. If the darnce is to be held in the
barn the tired hired laborers, who usually
have their sleeping quarters there, are routed
out of their bunks by the boys, while the
girls wait outside affecting not to hear any
adjectival objections that may come from
chaps aroused from their first beauty sleep.
When the hired man is susceptible to female
charms and has a decent suit of clothes, he
generally makes the best of it. But I have
noticed exceptions; I remember one person
of saturnine disposition who went off cursing
horribly, kicked the calves out of their camp
on the lee side of the straw stack and bunked
down there. In the morning he gave the
boss notice.
* * * #
“Erua”: Mention of the innocent-looking
contrivances that were used to induce Brit-
ishers to explode German mines (P>.
IS/3/’26) recalls the case of a Maorilander
who, doing a bit of exploring in a village
from which Fritz had retreated, came upon
a good fountain-pen going to waste. He
annexed it—to the accompaniment of sub-
terranean thunder and a hurtling flight
through mid-air. When he regained con-
sciousness he was still clutching the pen, and
to this day cherishes it as a warning against
curiosity.
* * * *
“Sulieman”: Nearly every happening in
the New Testament has a site in Palestine
assigned to it by Biblical scholars, often on
the slenderest of evidence or none at all.
Thus Jebel Ivuruntul, a vast bluff at the
back of Jericho, which looks out over the
Jordan Valley and the Dead Sea to the sun-
scorched rocks of the Mountains of Moab, if
accepted as the Mount of Temptation, where
Safari is represented as having offered the
Savi-our all the kingdoms of the earth it.
return for an act of homage. On our firsc
occupation of the mountain the padre im-
proved the occasion by reading the chapter.
A trooper looked out over the dreary pros-
i pect and commented, not irreverently: “No
wonder He turned it down.”
FAST —AND FASTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Jollv, the German ‘hunger champion,’ who re-
cently began an attempt to beat the l rench cham-
pion! fasting record of 43 days, has received over
500 marriage proposals.”
With undisguised “view mat.” intent they gather in
relays,
They come, a very regiment, all rapturous to gaze
And feast their gladdened eyes upon this quite
unheard-of paragon,
A-fast for forty days.
No light and ill-considered love is that each maid
displays,
No sick desire gives them a shove on paths where
passions blaze.
This fact they have beyond refute —they'll only
need to feed the brute
But once in forty days.
A fair but firm five hundred, they refuse the siege
to raise;
By fat and fay, by grave and gay, beset five hundred
ways,
How fortunate it must appear, his siren-clouded
wits to clear,
He’s fasted forty days.
Hard-pressed, withal resourceful still, he issues this
ukase:
The maiden who would fill the bill and share the
champion’s bays,
Must be a back-to-nature miss, that dinner-less
and dress-less bliss
May fill their common days.
It well may prove the sort of test to rid them of
their craze.
And if, perchance, the hardiest, not even this dismays,
I seem to see ’neath moons and suns a champion
who runs and runs....
Oh, fast! for forty days!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Id
©
11111 l
o
o
o
*
nt
Von ojyured in every bottle
rtandard
excellence which, haf made
FAMOUS THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded byconnoyjeurj* to be
JCOTLAND)rJbUND£fTjTIMULANT
m
I'H i
H
m
O
33
30
n
30
X
>
m
1
Ut
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
ą
Look for the Trademark! Afeata Everywhere.
Write for TJlmtrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT ETRACT
GLOBE BRAND
W. K. Hancock, the new and boyish-look-
ing Professor of
History at Adel-
ai d e Uni., has
arrived to fill the
chair, vacant since
G. C. Henderson
retired. He is a
Victorian (Mel-
bourne Grammar
and Uni.) who had
a lectureship in
Westralia till 1922,
when he got the
“special” Rhodes
scholarship offered
to all Australia. He
has since taken
first-class honors in
history at Oxford,
and was made a
Fellow of All Souls.
His Ex. SIR
DUDLEY DE
CHAIR, the
centre of N.S.W.’s
political willy-willy.
Victoria is to have as its next Governor
an author, a good sport and tlio possessor
of a handsome Avife who was a beauty of
many London seasons, if the choice of Lord
Somers in succession to Strndbroke is con-
firmed. The neAV nominee will also be one
of the youngest Governors the State has had
—he is 39. His book-writing extends to a
history of the 6th Light Tank Battalion—he
learnt all about it at the Front—his wife
was Daisy Finola Meeking, daughter of the
late Captain Bertram Meeking, and his
favorite pastimes are following the hounds
and watching the horses. The tall, gaunt
peer is the sixth holder of the barony, which
came into being in 1784.
There is an impression in Westralia that
Labor-Premier Phil Collier will let someone
else lead his party to defeat at the next elec-
tion. The Agency-General is a softer snap,
and Colebatch’s term will be up this year.
Billy Angwin, Minister of Lands, lias the
best right to the Premiership should Collier
go to London, but the Little Cornishman will
very likely be jostled out of the way by
Alick McCallum, the pushful Works Min-
ister. Collier is clever, but indolent. MoCal-
lum lacks brilliancy, but there’s no doubt
about his energy.
There are 11 survivors of the 50 delegates
to the Federal Convention which met at
Adelaide 29 years ago this month: Car-
ruthers and McMillan (N.S.W.), Higgins,
Isaacs, Peacock aiid Quick (Vic.), Dr. Cock-
burn, Glynn and Symon (S.A.), Lewis
( Tas.), and Walter James (W.A.).
Hun down by a car as he was stepping
from a tram at Hunter-street, Sydney, W. R.
litzsimons, M.L.A., died last week after
lingering for many days; and the dentists
who fancied him as the prospective chairman
of the Dental Board will have to look for a
new candidate. Originally a bank clerk, Fitz-
simons graduated into dentistry, and had
been for years the official spokesman of Syd-
ney toothsmiths before he entered Parliament
3s of the members for Cumberland in
1922. In the House he gained no distinc-
tion, although members remember with joy
the occasion on which he asserted gravely:
“Matters are now at their worst, but unless
something is done they will be worse still.”
As an assiduous nurse of his electors he had
a high reputation ; with a good-natured wish
to be useful he had motored 30,000 miles to
look after the needs of his constituency.
The passing of George Winter deprived the
N.S.W. Labor movement of one of its keenest
intellects. As director-secretary of the Labor
research and information bureau, he did
valuable work for the unions, chiefly in
furtherance of their Arbitration Court
claims, and the little man was an interest-
ing W.E.A. lecturer. One of his hobbies was
Polynesian research, and he contributed much
on the subject to scientific magazines. Born
at Tekaka (M.L.), Winter rose from farm-
boy to qualified accountant. The end came
at 38.
Henry Braddon, N. S. Wales M.L.C., who,
with his wife, is tripping to Europe, is most
considered nowadays for his commercial ton-
nage ; in his stripling days it was as an
athlete that he won cheers —he played in
representative football for Tasmania (1881),
for Maoriland (1884) and for N. S. Wales
(ISBS-92) ; in 1892 he was the N.S.W.
captain. He played cricket, too, for Tas-
mania and rowed as skipper oFthe N.S.W.
crew in the inter-colonial eights of 1892.
Son of Tasmanian Premier Braddon, who
helped to frame the Commonwealth’s Consti-
tution, he was born in Calcutta 63 years ago,
and has made his way from a junior clerk-
ship in the Bank of Australasia in M.L. to
the superintendent’s chair of the great Dal-
gety company.
Harry E. White, the architect who has
magically evolved the new St. James’s
Theatre (Sydney) from what was only a few
weeks ago a mass of scaffolding and raw con-
crete, has built or rebuilt over a hundred
theatres in the less than 20 years he has
practised his profession. Born in Dunedin
(M.L.)-, he was brought to Australia in
1912 by the F'ullers. He remodelled the
Sydney Royal and the Melbourne Palace,
and juggled with inches in making the com-
fortable Melbourne Athenaeum, whilst he has
dotted Queensland with theatres for the Car-
rolls. St. James’s, which will seat 1700
people without pinching the room of any one
of them, is his biggest job, and there is a roof
theatre yet to come before it is finished. He
has never been outside Australasia; and
although he adopts the latest American and
English ideas in theatre-construction, his aim
is to give his edifices a distinctively Austra-
lian tojiich.
“Old Boy”: Three general managers of
Australian banks —Oscar Lines, E. H. Wre-
ford and R. Scott Young—got their early
training in figures at the now defunct North
Adelaide Grammar School, known in its later
years as Whinham College. Arithmetic was
always a leading feature at “Whinham’s,”
and, in my time, was the only subject taught
in the afternoon school.
In 1854 Thomas James Parker, who had
the money, and Captain Thomas Webb, who
had the experience, combined to form the
Express Steamer Agency, which ran a service
between Melbourne and Geelong; and
soon the 29-year-old John Traill, fresh from
Scotland, took a hand. The firm grew, and
on August 1, 1876, James Huddart helped
it to form the Huddart-Parker co., which
this year therefore celebrates its jubilee. A
grandson of Parker, a son of Webb and a
grandson of Traill are nowadays on the
board.
The N.S.W. Highland Society is mourn-
ing the death of Captain Charles McKinnon,
one of its founders. The old salt started life
on a Scottish fishing smack, and was a hard-
ened sailorman when, 64 years ago, he made
his first voyage to Australia in the Bungaree.
He graduated to skipper and owner of the
barque Melrose, the first iron vessel on the
Australian register, in which he had a whole
bookful of adventures. During the Franco-
Prussian War he ran the blockade at Mauri-
tius with a cargo of coal, shipped yellow-
fever with a return cargo of sugar, and, with
a crew depleted by sickness —four members
died —had to figlit for 48 hours one of
the worst typhoons in nautical history. He
and a Plighlander seaman were lashed to
the wheel; and the Highlander died of ex-
haustion. In 1882 he took a shore job with
the N.S.W. Government, but had been pros-
perous enough in his various venturings to
retire 25 years ago.
One of the jobs lately laid down by Robert
Stout was the chairmanship of the M.L.
Prisons Board. He continues as a member,
but the chairman has to be a Judge, so
Stringer, J., takes up the gavel. Stringer
is comparatively a newcomer to the S. C.
Bench, having sat on it only 13 years, and
he is a youngster compared with most of
his associates, being only 70. He served his
ANDY WATT, the hard-fighting
Sydney K.C.
first years at the Arbitration Court. Before
that he was Crown Prosecutor in Christ-
church. He has cultivated the art of win-
nowing the essential from the unessential,
and as a counsel the fewness of his points,
the brevity of his speeches and the paucity
of cases adduced in support gained him aii
undeserved reputation for laziness among his
associates. He never worried about that,
but went on winning cases and earning the
thanks of harassed Judges. He will be a
better Prisons Board chairman than Stout
because less likely to be imposed upon by
plausible rogues who knew they only had
to tell Stout a tale about the Demon Rum
in order to make that rigidly teetotal old
gentleman thrill with sympathy.
Dr. Baeot, who recently died at Horsham
(Bag.), was known in every town and bush
settlement in Queensland 30 years back. He
arrived in Australia in the late ’eighties, and
first visited N.Q. as an insurance medical
officer. In IS9O he was appointed surgeon
to the Townsville Hospital, and his skill
earned him a reputation throughout the
State. Fifteen years back he returned to
England where he had inherited a fortune.
He was twice married; his second wife died
a month before the Reaper claimed her hus-
band.
Mcllraths, whose central store at the
Corner of Pitt and Goulburn streets provided
Sydney’s biggest blaze for five years, started
in Sydney by buying Kidman’s business and
building in Oxford-street, at the Darling-
hurst junction. Kidman’s was the first really
big grocery in Sydney, and its cheap prices
drew customers to Darlinghurst from all
parts of the city and suburbs. When the
founder died the whole thing fell into the
hands of an heir who had no taste for
groceries, and Mcllraths bought in very
cheaply. _ They extended the original plan
by opening branches in the suburbs, using
the Oxford-street building as a depot, and
so began the system upon which most big
groceries are conducted to-day.
Allan Cobham, the English aviator who
has just flown from London to the Cape
and back, is to leave on a quick flight to
Melbourne, returning almost immediately.
The whole business is to be completed in 'a
month, which does not give much margin
for casualties. However, Cobham has such
a formidable record of long-distance flights
that his wife describes him as a sparrow
who occasionally comes down to the ground
for crumbs.
Mrs. Mary Ann Pickering, burned to death
at her home, Oatley (N.S.W.), the other day,
was, like her husband, a remarkably fine
physical specimen, and she was the mother
of some famous athletes. Of these the best
remembered is Emmie, who came into promi-
nence as a sculler about 15 years ago. Nearly
six feet in height, this girl defeated every
other sculler of her sex. including the almost
equally famous North Sydney champion, Miss
Lewis. She held the title of lady champion
sculler of Australian against all-comers, and
probably still holds it, since that sort of
contest has gone out of fashion.
A candidate for the long-service out-back
station record was Jack McDermott, of Yan-
dama (N.S.W.), who had been working on
the place for 45 years when death cut in.
ihe last year was one of twilight, the old
chap—-83 at the end—being unable to digest
anything but schnapps, on which he lived for
1- months. He carried his swag up to Yan-
dama in 1881, but they took him to his last
resting-place in a motor-car.
Laid down the crozier, Owen Thomas
Lloyd Crossley, who had bished in Auckland
(M.L.) for a couple of years (1911-13) with-
out making many ripples on the ecclesiastical
tide. A severe nervous breakdown sent him
back to the Cold Country, where from 1914
till 1921 he was assistant-bishop of Llandaff.
Before moving to Maoriland he was arch-
deacon of Geelong and vicar of All Saints'.
St. Kilda (Vic.). He was 60 when a Lon-
don motor-car killed him.
Manilla (N.S.W.) has buried its patriarch,
Charles Henry Sing, for whom the bell had
to toll 104 strokes. Apart from his tally
°| years, Sing had a remarkable family;
of his 22 children, 11 were still living at the
time of his death.
Stanley, Barwell’s old South Aus. Assem-
bly seat, is a safe one for the Liberals, and
the only contest was in a plebiscite of the
party. The top place there, and a walk-over
in the by-election, went to J. A. Lyons,
grazier and farmer. He was on the Murray,
at Loxton, before the war, saw service in
Egypt and Palestine, and has since been
prominent in municipal work in the George-
town district.
There was a remarkable festivity in Syd-
ney last week —a luncheon of the Gospel
Union, at which only adherents over 70 years
old were entitled to be present. One Baptist
layman, J. Ricketts (96), was the doyen, and
another Baptist, Dr. Thomas Porter (88),
was third on the age list. The Methodists
mustered D. Doust (89), Thomas Cummins
(86), Rev. A. Parsons (82), Rev. W. G.
Taylor (82) —the Centenary Hall preacher
of 30 years ago—Rev. J. A. Waddell (81),
and J. B. Youdale (80), as widely known in
Sydney as the A.M.P. In the higher ages
the Plymouth Brethren were represented by
J. Horne (88), the Anglicans by Archdeacon
Boyce (81) —-he married for the second time
six years ago—and the Congregationalists by
Rev. B. Rhodes (81). There were present
also a number of mere boys in the seventies,
but the ages of those present worked out to
an average of 81, and they counted up 2800
years among them. •
Just dead, at 78, Arthur Francis, father
of M.L. swimming clubs. As a young man
he captained the Birchfield Swimming Club
in the Cold. Country, and he made his bid
for “colonial” fame in October, 1880, when he
started the first swimming club in M.L., at
Christchurch, and became its captain.
Patrick Hayes, of the Vincentian Order,
ticked off his 87th year in Victoria recently.
Arriving from Limerick in the days of con-
victs and bushrangers, he battled along till
he became a suc-
cessful contractor
and builder in a
big way. When
lie was 57, with
success in life
achieved, he grati-
fied an early ambi-
tion to be a lay
brother in the
Order of St. Vin-
cent—whose biggest
buildings in Vic-
toria he had erected.
BAYLEY, M.H.R.
for Oxley, Chair-
man of Committees,
who has had a
strenuous time
while the Tariff
has been under
discussion in
Committee.
C. H. Holmes, Commissioner Clapp’s 34-
year-old confidential secretary, takes over the
job of chairman of the Vic. Railways Better-
ment Board, vacated by the energetic A. E.
Hyland. Holmes first scrawled his signature
on a railway paysheet in 1910, and has acted
as Commissioners’ representative before the
Railway Classification Board and the De-
partmental Board of Discipline. His appoint-
ment is another illustration of Clapp’s pre-
dilection for the pushful young man as
against the pottering “experienced officer.”
THE HEROES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hubert Jukes, on the Laris tan, went down whilst
still operating the wireless which brought assistance
responsible for saving all but 24 of the crew.”
“Reginald Blackall, X-ray operator at London
Hospital, has died. In 1903 he lost a finger-nail;
before he died he lost both hands. Quite early
one of his fellow-workers lost his life, and the
other both arms ; but Blackall carried on.”
“Professor Barcroft (Cambridge) lived for six
days in a hermetically-sealed glass box to settle
a 30-years’ physiological discussion concerning the
amount of oxygen in a man’s blood.”
They pass into the vaulted Hall of Fame.
The shades of warriors stare to see them come
Unmailed, unsworded. Then a hush of shame
Makes suddenly the martial braggings dumb.
Proud Hector bows; Achilles hides his spear,
Knowing his boasts are but of butcher’s deeds ;
In Alexander’s eye there starts a tear,
For worlds these conquered he had never known,
Nor, knowing, would have dared assail, where lone
High courage, noble purpose, conquest wrought
In winning which mailed legions were as nought.
And “Lo!” breathes one, “we boasted in our pride
The race of heroes lived no more on earth,
That the heroic ages with us died.
Now conies a race of gallants in whose worth
Our glory pales as moonlight in the day.
AVe fought with thousands, and we thousands slew,
Who were but men; to save and not to slay
These flung defiance in the face of Death
In calmest courage, bating not a breath,
And wisdom from the void to knowledge drew,
Or at the post of duty never failed,
Wrestling with unleashed Power at which we quailed IF
The> stained sword now seems but a child-man’s toy;
The conqueror’s sceptre but a beadle’s mace;
More deadly foes man’s courage now employ
Than met mailed warriors. AA r ith steady face,
Plain Jukes out-faces Death and taps' his keys;
Or Blackall, cheerful, sees his duty through
With doom upon him, a Barcroft, too, will seize
Knowledge from jousts with Death. Serenely they
For life’s dear sake their own lives cast away,
As dauntlesslv their purpose they pursue.
In new-found glory, greater than all fear,
Men of the new heroic age appear 1
N.S.AV.
HAMER.


f/f
r mm
n -rn
1 i if l '
i ' i
'"limit
I i
i
'll' I
i i
i i
:,u
wBP3
i
c
V
I
% Ft
1/ • »»3
HAROLD
NELSON*
m
X
Z!
A
tyfy&War’S
THE SPIRIT OF POWER
Power is the very life’s blood of progress. For behind its sure shield happiness,
science and art can alone develop. Power gives mankind a chance to show its
best and so does
DEWAR’S


QjptjuU need
Guaranteed
Shirts. Collars.Pyjamas
"rfAeu Jit" i
What Insurance Do You Carry?
Fire? Flood? Burglars? Accident?
Death? But have you insured the Comfort
of your Home and the Health of your
Family?
SEWAGE
OXIDATION
Is Best Policy.
Water-Flush Your House. Remove Pan, Cesspit, Filth, Smell,
Blowflies and Danger. Place Your Suburban, Seaside or
Country Home on the level of the Water-sewered City Residence.
USED IN 7100 AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Send to Nearest Address for Free Booklet describing Sewage Oxidation Plan.
Your Name *
Your Address
DESK
Bn.
ś
Price Complete
from £BO up.
SYDNEY: Hoskins Buildings, 3 Spring Street. MELBOURNE: 187 a Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Queen Street. ADELAIDE: Bennett’s Buildings, Currie Street,
PERTH: Economic Chambers, William Street. (S.B.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bluefix” : For pluck and resourcefulness
the Australian bushwoman takes a lot of beating
(B. 25/2/’26). My heroine lives on the bank of a
creek in the Cairns (N. 0.) district. One night,
after tucking the kids in, she was on the point of
retiring for the night when she heard one of the
youngsters say, “Mum, come quick!” Returning to
the bedroom, she was horrified to see, by the light
of the moon, the business end of a huge wriggler
waving about within 2ft. of the eldest boy’s head.
She grabbed the first thing handy and waded in,
the result being 10ft. of dead snake, found subse-
quently to have a full-grown cat tucked inside, it
was a carpet-snake, but she didn’t know that fact
until after the combat.
* * * *
“Lee Oke" : The goats described by “An-
gora” (B. 4/3/’26) must be voracious feeders. I
can show him a dozen acres in South Gippsland
(.Vic.) that 50 dinosaurs couldn't clean up. The
blackberry is exceedingly difficult to get rid of. I
once experimented with a small patch, cutting it
as close to the ground as possible and letting the
vines lie till thej’ were dead and dry before burn-
ing them. Then each time the tender shoots
appeared, I would go over the patch with a mallee
slasher and cut them level with the surface. Each
cutting appeared to weaken them till, finally, only
a sickly shoot appeared here and there. Of course,
with big areas in rough country, this method, like
many others propounded, would be impracticable.
* * * *
“Borom”: “Eau-de” is quite wrou? in his
statement that aboriginal “message-sticks” are only
reminders and cannot be read by either senders or
recipients (B. 25/2/’26). The average native can de-
cipher one of these
sticks with the
greatest ease, not only
when it has been writ-
ten by one of his own
people, but when the
sender of the stick
belongs to an entirely
different tribe. The
signs and symbols used
apparently constitute a
means of universal
intercourse. I have
seen an old abo., to
whom a stick from
another district, miles
away, had been shown,
translate the strange
markings with fluency,
and when some time
afterwards the same
stick was again shown
to another native, the
second one’s transla-
tion agreed with that
of the first. Numbers
pf white men have
learned to puzzle out
the conventional mark-
ings and, symbols on
these media of inter-
course. For instance,
it is plain that six
dots placed alongside
the wavy lines used
to indicate the smoke
of a camp-fire can be
taken to mean that six
men are camped some-
where. The real in-
genuity which is ex-
hibited in making
these sticks consists
of “ringing the chan-
ges” on the limited
number of signs at the
writer s disposal, and in varying and combining
them in order to get the most meanings possible.
* * * *
“Bokeen”: Touching the argument as to
who first introduced rabbits into Australia, can any
Abo. explain this? Bunny has existed in Geraldton
(W.A.) to my knowledge for the last 40 years; and
he was a tradition 40 years ago. Yet he had never
travelled to any point of the compass beyond the
radius of a few miles. The Eastern States rabbits have
travelled right across the continent, and have now
so bred-in with the Western tribe that all distinc-
tion is lost.
“.Tora Jora” : There is more luck than
knowledge in guessing the weight of a bullock. My
flapper daughter came to me on the day of our
annual show and asked me to give her a guess at
the weight) of the bullock. I said: “How is it pos-
sible for me to guess the weight, as I have not seen
the beast?” However, a week previously I had re-
ACCIDENTS WILL HAPTEN.
ABIE: “Vat, doin' der Council’s vork, Jacob?”
JACOB: “No; just coverin’ der fireplug over in case of acciden’s.”
ceived a Tattersall’s ticket No. 1686. As this num-
ber was running through my mind at the time I told
her to put it in, and she did so. The bullock
weighed 168641 b. She got first prize—a sewing-
machine.
“Selma”: When I went teaching in the wilds of
Waikarenikau (M.L.) I was driven 20 miles one
Saturday to a famous country show, and essayed to
guess the weight of a fat pig. I won, too, being
only a half-pound off the correct weight and three
pounds nearer to it than the next-best guesser, who
was the pig’s owner. After my first glance at the
animal I hesitated between 1001 b. and 2001 b., and
finally compromised on 155. My accuracy in weight-
guessing made a great sensation in the district; in
fact I always attribute to it the formal and
laboriously-written proposal of a local farmer, who
evidently thought that a missus who could so cor-
rectly gauge the weight of a pig would be quite an
asset.
* * * *
“Dingo” : When Mrs. Ryan kept the pub
at Dry Creek a passing surveyor remarked sym-
pathetically one morning on the damaged condi-
tion of her son and heir’s classic features. “Yes,
there was a bit o’ throuble in the house last night,”
answered the lady, “an’ I had to call Cornelius in
to clear th’ bar. Shure! he laid sivin o’ tliim out,
an’ th’ bhoy had nothing in hjs hand but th’
coulther o’ a plough.”
* * * *
“Lucifer”: Only the skilled “ringer” can
indulge in any freak business when shearing. The
“long blow,” that is, when the sheep is on its right
side and the shearer sweeps the shears up the back
from the tail to the neck, is the favorite position
for demonstration. I have seen a shearer hold the
sheep with his legs, shear with his right hand, and
with his left take a cigarette from his pocket and
light it. Another had a habit, when visitors were
about, of dropping his handpiece, pulling on the
machine and then catching the handpiece before it
hit the floor. Had he missed he would have spoilt
the comb, and combs are rather expensive.
* * * *
“Mirridong”: Aidan de Brune inquires
(B. 11/2/’26) how Newcastle Waters got its
name. Explorer John McDouall Stuart discovered
the “moisture” in question in 1861, and this is
what he wrote about it: “Thursday, May 23, Lawson
Creek. Started 7.45 a.m., course 315 deg., with
Thring, Woodforde and seven fresh horses. At 14
miles came across a splendid reach of water, about
150 yards wide, but how long I do not know, as
we could not see the end of it. It is certainly the gem
of Sturt Plains.... On approaching it I saw a large
flock of pelicans, which leads me to think there
may be a lake in its vicinity. There are mussels and
periwinkles in it, and, judging from the shells on
the banks, the natives must consume a large quan-
Hty- This I have named ‘Newcastle Water’ [not
“waters,” be it noted], after the Duke of Newcastle,
Secretary for the Colonies. Duck, native-companion,
white crane and sacred ibis abound here.” Stuart
ascertained the depth of the water to be six feet
ten yards from the bank, and in the middle 17 feet.
He followed the water for nine miles, after which it
became a chain of ponds. Four fish were caught,
about lOin. long, something resembling the whiting,
the skin of which on cooking was found to be as tough
as leather, “but the inside was really good, as fine
a fish as I have ever eaten.”
* * * *
“Astern”: The remarks of “Ex-Dig.” re
cats and gas do not coincide with mi' experiences
and experiments. During the war I had at one
period a home from home near Lens, and for weeks
on end we received no shelling. During this period
we had a beautiful black cat as a mascot. One
evening we decided to give Fritz a little poisoned
air out of huge cylinders conveyed to No Man’s
Land. Immediately there was' the faintest suspi-
NOT WORTH HIS WHILE.
S.M.: “Why haven’t you a lawyer to defend
you?”
PRISONER: “I spoke to one, hut wen ’e found
out I didn’t pinch the money ’e wouldn’t
have anythin’ t’ do with the case.”
cion of gas in the atmosphere the cat could be
seen streaking for the horizon. He never came
hack. Since my return I have tried the effect of
gas on a slumber-disturber. One whiff was suffi-
cient to cause her death. Her mate advanced to
within about a yard of the corpse and then sud-
denly remembered an important engagement, which
he kept with alacrity.
(Continued on page 24.)
WHISKY JOHNNY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, whisky is the life of man l
Oh, whisky for my Johnny!
We’ll all be dead in a hundred years,
But wipe your eyes and dry your tears,
And away for Eldorado.
We’re born at sea in a coffin-boat,
And we try so hard to keep afloat
Though life’s but a moving shadow.
A shadow upon the wall, my lads—
No, life is nothing at all, nil’ lads;
But whisky for my Johnny!
So fill your glasses and pass it round,
We’ve all signed on for the Homeward Bound.
Oh, whisky for my Johnny!
Now, Bill and I were messmates in
A damned old scow called the Gates of Sin.
Some whisky for my Johnny!
And we sailed away from. Sunderland,
C'ap’ll Joseph Josephs in command.
Hey, whisky for my Johnny !
And Hell-fire Jackson he was our first,
A man with fists and a man of thirst.
Now, whisky for my Johnny!
We sailed away on that purple scow,
And he dogged and devilled us anyhow—
Oh, whisky for my Johnny !
’Twas whisky killed my poor old dad,
’Twas whisky drove my mother mad —
Oh, whisky for my Johnny!
And when we came to Trineomali—
That’s somewhere down by the Indian Sea—
I said to Bill and, he said to me
(Oh, whisky for my Johnny) :
“We’ll kill that mate if we hang so high
AVe look like stars in the blinking sky.”
Some whisky for my Johnny !
We followed him up when he went ashore,
Him the blankard an’ him th’a sore-
Whisky for my Johnny!
AVe followed him up and we followed him down
The queer old streets of a queer old town.
Some whisky for my Johnny!
ONLY A COPY.
“Do you always bring this milk in the original containah?”
“Not quite, missus. I’d ’ave to fetch the core for that.”
(Oh, fill ’em up! Let the bullgine run!
We’ll pay Paddy Doyle and I’m near done—
An’ whisky for my Johnny!
Come, fill ’em up! Oh, your eyes are blue
An’ I like ’em brown —but that will do,
With whisky for my Johnny.)
We follows him down the blankv hill.
Bill said to me and I said to Bill:
“We’ll slice his liver, by God we will.”
Oh, whisky for my Johnny!
And just as we comes around the square
He ducks an’ goes through a doorway there!
Whisky for rqy Johnny!
Now what d’ye think—-all’s said and done—
The son of a girl, the son of a gun
(Oh, whisky for my Johnny!),
He’d found a temple and come to pray,
Ole Hell-fire Jackson ! I say ! I say !
Oh, whisky for my Johnny!
(Oh, whisky made me pawn my clothes.
Oh, whisky for my Johnny!
Oh, whisky gave me a broken nose.
Oh, whisky for my Johnny j
I our eyes are blue and I like ’em brown ;
We’ll call ’em up and we’ll call ’em down
With whisky for my Johnny.)
If Bill an’ me had done our do
I never had sung this song to you—
Ah, whisky for my Johnny !
A.nd that was Pate—or God —1 suppose !. .,,
When I am dead you *0311 have my clothes
And any old thing that comes or goes.
Oh, whisky for my Johnny !
Oh, whisky killed my poor old dad,
Oh, whisky drove my mother mad:
J Tis whisky , whisky Johnny!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


UDSON
With the Patented and Exclusive
SUPER-SIX
Advantages.
Q
-ESSEX
mz
c
X
World’s Greatest Values
and Largest Selling “Sixes
Their overwhelming public acceptance confirms
by actual sales supremacy the outstanding leader-
ship of Hudson-Essex values.
Quality has made them for years the largest-
selling “Sixes.” Without such volume these prices
would be impossible. And without increasing
quality such volume would never be reached.
. Hudson advantages in price, performance and
quality are everywhere acknowledged. That
leadership is the result of ten years’ concentration
in refining a great car around the exclusive Super-
Six principle.
And Essex shares Hudson advantages. In quality,
materials and workmanship they are the same.
At little more than low-priced “Fours” the Essex
Coach gives all closed-car comforts with reliability
and performance of the most wanted Six type
in the world.
HUDSON
COACH,
£499
Hudson
Brougham,
£565
Hudson
7-Pass. Sedan,
£625
ESSEX
COACH,
£370
Essex
Phaeton,
£315
HUDSON
7-Pass.
PHAETON,
£4BO
■/)
Jr
*AI
A »
im
m
m]2&
<\l/X
kJ
/f
s£>
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, US A.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston,


c
YAN OGAS
(Calcium Cyanide)
SURE DEATH TO RABBITS.
MEANS
&
FUMO
BRAND
Rabbit destruction with Cyanogas is safe, but absolutely sure
Blown into the warren by means of the Furno Oust Blower it
•hw f v W V fu .™ es fr< ? m which not a single rabbit can escape;
aftei it has done its work, it entirely loses its poisonous effects,
leaving a residue of lime, carbon, and a trace of common salt.
Mr. ,T. M. Graham, of Baan Baa, writes, 17th November 1925-
“I have just completed five days' work with the ; Fumo : which
a friend lent me to try,' for mvself. 1 used
C tins in 6 days. The first tin I used too
freely, but found that one 51b. tin lasted me
a full day. The result was most satisfactory.”
Mr. H. McKay, Isle of Pines, Boree Creek
writes, 19th September, 1925
“I find the Fumigator and Dust one of the
best ideas I have used for destroying rabbits.”
Full particulars promptly on request.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co.. Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
ŝ
a
edg ORTH
CVTO A ».«i /■* i i rn AHe I
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING n
TOBACCO M
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Billy Billycan” : “Wandi” (B. 11/2/’26)
wants to know the highest, price paid for a red
cedar-tree. Bob and Hughie Duncan, of Gilston,
Nerang district, South Coast (Q.), have just com-
pleted hauling one of 27,000 super-feet, and re-
ceived £7OO for it. This tree had grown in the
rock cleavages at the head of a Nerang river tribu-
tary near the N.S.ML border. It received a
fair number of fractures in the felling. The logs
had to be burst for hauling purposes, and two cross-
cut saws were welded for cutting it up.
* * * *
“Soda”: Apropos “Jimmy Possum” (B.
11/2/’26) and powdered charcoal as an antidote to
strychnine poisoning. It is the animal variety which
should be used, as vegetable charcoal is very ineffec-
tive in comparison. The antidotal action of the
charcoal is not, however, as remarkable as “J.P.”
seems to think. No more is done by it than to
absorb the poison, and if the patient is left without
further treatment the strychnine will eventually take
its toll. Charcoal will absorb almost every alka-
loid, whether poisonous or not, but the absorption
only retards action for a little while; it does not
prevent it. In practice bone-charcoal is adminis-
tered to gain time by slowing the drug’s action; ■
emetics are then given to throw off this charcoal,
and the natural antagonistic remedies follow.
“Jim Carew”: I remember a case on the far
South Coast (N.S.ML), about 15 years ago, when a
three-year-old daughter of a small dairy-farmer ate
some strychnine which was kept for poisoning crows.
Her father immediately powdered a big lump of
charcoal and shoved it down her throat. The remedy
saved the child’s life.
“Porky Pyne”: During the last five years the
whole of the Tableland country from Einasleigh to
Wongalee station, near Hughenden (Q.), has been
sprinkled with strychnine baits consequent on the
bonus offered for dingo scalps. Many of these baits
are a combination of strychnine and some other
chemical, such as soda, in order to accelerate the
action of the poison. I lost six good cattle-dogs
before I woke up to carrying a pepper-tin full of
charcoal ready for use when Towser poked his nose
into the warrigal’s business. Latterly I have been
using a c»mbination of salt and charcoal, which I
find acts quicker.
■* * *
“J.H.C.G.”; “Kriz” (B. 25/2/’26) attri-
butes the origin of the term “cockeye-bob” to the
native word “kikobor.” Old North-M’estralians relate
that it originated on a pearling lugger whose cap-
tain and owner was named “Bob.” His sight, was
not of the best, and his blackboy diver, on seeing
a miniature cyclone on the skyline approaching,
used to warn his skipper bv singing out “Cock eye,
Bob 1”
NOT STRUNG AT ALL.
“ Poor- little fellow's pot neuralgia. Case of nerves, I daresay.
Perhaps his father teas highly strung
“’E wasn't anythin' of the sort. They let ’im off with ten years."
“Koolamarra”: “FY7” (B. 25/2/’26) re-
fers to pineapple wine. 1 recently sampled a glass
of pineapple beer brewed bv a Digger grower in
Queensland. It was nice to taste, but I would
not care to drink much of it. Judging by the glassful
I had, it has a decided “kick." It was of a beautiful
amber color, with plenty of fizz and sparkle. Some
years ago on Magnetic Island (N.Q.) I tasted some
mango wine. The old chap who made it said it
was “pretty strong,” and he spoke the truth, because
although I drank but one wineglassful I had a
head next morning to remind me of its potency.
“Cuna” : The size and ferocity of the Aus-
tralian eagle was exemplified a short time ago
when the home of a group settler at Manjimup
(MLA.) was invaded by one. The wife had left
her six-months-old infant on a bed under an + open
window. A violent sweeping of wings and the
THE UNWELCOME APPOINTMENT.
PAT: “I was thinkin’. Moike, it would be a foine thing if a man could know the toime
an’ place he was going to doi."
MIKE: “An? phwat good would that do yes?"
PAT: “Faith, Oi wouldn’t tur-r-n up.”
cries of the baby caused her to rush to the room,
where she was amazed and terrified to see a mon-
strous eagle attacking the child. The bird had
Its talons entangled in the bedclothes, but snapped
viciously as the mother rescued her baby. Fortu-
nately" a man, who had observed the bird’s entrance,
appeared on the scene, and after a violent struggle
succeeded in stunning it. The child was unharmed.
“A. de B.” : Bush-fires may be due to many
causes (B. 25/2/’26), but I suggest that one of the
worst is tlie übiquitous motor-car, which has opened
the country to thousands of city people who have not
the most elementary knowledge of bush-lore. Fires
are started by pic-
nickers and week-end
campers, “to boil the
billy,” in the most
dangerous places; 1
have come across them
smouldering und o r
large, dry, fallen trees,
and in the* midst of
thick patches of
bracken and bush.
There is no one to
exercise supervision
over these city bush-
men; every State has
strict laws against
camp-fires, but infre-
quent police officers
from the towns find it
impossible to enforce
them. Thousands of
bush-fires would be
preventable if - rangers
we r e appointed in
timbered and other
dangerous areas and
campers were required
to take out and pay
for' licenses to make
fires for cooking pur-
poses. The fees need
not be heavy, but the
licenses should contain
explicit instructions
for damping out fires,
and carry heavy penal-
ties for neglect of in-
structions. W h i 1 e
carrying the swag be-
tween Adelaide an d
Sydney during the
summer of 1923-24 I
came across hundreds
of these camp-fires still
smouldering and wait-
ing but a gust of
wind to start a confla-
gration. Fires are very
seldom lit by squatters
or settlers carelessly ;
they have too much to
lose. Of course there
are occasions when “burn-offs” get out of hand, but
for one of such a hundred are attributable to the
carelessness and ignorance of city motorists out for
a holiday.
Mephisto : "Coolabah's” picture of the
piepaiation of bush honey is in striking contrast
with modern methods. Without destroying a bee and
With little smoke, the clean, regular, honey-laden combs
aie taken from the hive. They are run in on a trolley
to the extraetihg-room, where a hot uncapping-
knife is in readiness. One way of heating the
knife is by dipping it in hot water, but as it soon
cools, those who are fortunately situated use one
electrically heated. The knife is quickly run up
the comb, and the white cappings curl off into a
dish. Later they are drained, the honey is strained
and the wax melted down, to be made into that
remarkable invention which saves the bees half the
trouble of building their combs, thus increasing tlie
season’s crop. Meanwhile, the combs are let down
into the baskets of the extractor, and the electric
current is switched on. The whirling baskets cause
the honey to fly out by centrifugal*force, the drops
striking the walls of the extractor and running to
the bottom. When the combs are quite dry, they
are taken out—intact, and replaced in the hive.
The tap at the bottom of the extractor is turned
on, and the honey is strained through a cloth into
the bottles or tins. There is no waste or dirt, and
everything is done neatly and speedily. By the
way, when “Coolabah’’ refers to • garden honey, I.
don’t quite know what he means, for. all the honey
gathered from the gardens of Australia would
hardly bog a centipede.
* * * *
“Gigadibs": We were fighting the fires
on the road when up came an excited-looking indi-
vidual on a motor-bike. “Can I get through to Yea?”
he demanded. “I must get through—have to be
there to-night. It’s most urgent.” We looked grave,
sympathetic. It w r as d hazardous business attempt-
ing* to ride 30 miles' through the flame-swept forest
with the risk of falling timber, apart from the
danger of the smouldering fires. We had just battled
through for eight miles ourselves, leaving goods and
chattels to burn. But this was evidently a matter of
life-and-death importance. As an afterthought we
inquired what was the matter. The answer came
in agitated 1 jerks. “Must get there at all costs —-
duck seasoji starts to-morrow.”
‘‘Nymboida”: “Der Jong” (B. IS/2/’26)
is hardly correct in his assertion that plain wire
constitutes 95 per cent, or more of Australian fences,
for in most dairying districts barbed "wire is almost
universal, chiefly because of the roving instincts of
the poddy and' the bull. On the Tweed and Richmond
rivers (N.S.W.) especially, where the older fences
are in a chronic state of disrepair, the occu-
piers having stapled the wires to posts of poor
quality instead of straining them through bored
holes, their sagging is a menace to both cattle and
horses. The average cocky rarely effects' his repairs
immediately. Consequently it is a common sight
to see cows with lacerated udders and milk stream-
ing from injured teats. This, naturally, means a
big reduction in the productive value of the animals,
in these districts a horse quite free from barbed-wire
blemishes is somew’hat of a rarity.
* * * *
“Arileurra”: At J.ake Harry, a few
miles north of Hergott Springs (now Maree), on
the Birdsville track from S.A. to N.Q., there used
to be a date-plantation run by the S.A. Government.
The plantation comprised 400 date-palms ; some of
them were over 30ft. high and bore fruit regularly.
I have sent samples* of the dates to Melbourne to
friends, who pronounced them better than the im-
ported. The Lake Harry plantation was irrigated
from an artesian boro, and the palms seemed to
thrive on the water. At 'Coward Springs and at
Anna Creek station, there were also date-palms.
The latter bore fruit that averaged* about llin.
in length, with a sharp spike at the bottom end.
The flavor was excellent, but the skin was a trifle
coarse. All these palms were different from those at
Ethuca (Vic.), which are of the ornamental and not
the fruit-bearing variety.
Sea air, according to “Sucre” (B.
4/2/’26), is fatal to l the date-palm. There is at
Cleveland (Q.), on the shore of Moreton Bay, not
50 yards from high-water mark, a date-palm be-
tween 20 to '3O feet high, and as near a.s I can ascer-
tain 22 years old. It is not only flourishing, but
bears fruit practically the year round. There are
at present only a few dates on the tree, this being
the off season. The owner assures me that were it.
not for insect pests he would have more than
enough for his own use. The dates are large and
of excellent flavor. Though there is no other date-
palm in the district that flowers, this one at cer-
tain times of the year bears large bunches of blos-
soms, every one of which sets a fruit, though only
some contain mature seeds.
“Hod Amara”: A date-grower has queried the
method of collecting ripe dates by the bunch We
used, during the war, to trade a camel-load of
watermelons for another of dates, with a section
near Hod Hassaniyih, where the best local products
grew. Two or three bunches of the fruit made a
camel-load. We hung these in the sun from a
tripod or other convenient support, the bottom of
the bunch being a few inches above a piece of sack-
ing spread on the ground. As the dates ripened
they fell off, and were collected from the sacking
as our commissariat required them. This method
was quite satisfactory to us, and I expect that the
inquuer will find it equally so. In Palestine the
date-flv attacked only ripe dates, and did so very
rapidly. Matured fruit left move than a few hours
ungathered would be completely spoilt by it. I
have never seen any trace of tlie insect in locally-
grown dates, but would expect to find plentv in the
Palestine-grown ones. If the date-fly becomes a pest
in Australia, growers can save themselves the trouble
of planting, as there would be no sale for their
crops.
* * * *
“Dingo” : “Prizeloser’s” remarks concern-
ing condemnation for tuberculosis in M.L. (B.
18/2/’26) are not enlightening. No meat inspector
worth his salt would give an undertaking that
“not a speck of the disease named could get
through,” and the better his qualifications the
less likely would he be to give it. The reason is
simple: tuberculous lesions are often found in deep-
seated lymphatic glands which are not exposed
during slaughter or preparation for the market.
The main consideration involved, however, is that
of cost of production, and were every carcase
totally condemned for small tubercular lesions this
would be prohibitive. Consequently, as I originally
asserted., ...such . a course is not. adopted in any
abattoirs in the world, M.L. not excepted. To
hazard a guess, I would say that at least one of
“Prizeloser’s” cows was condemned for a disease
entirely different from tuberculosis.
* * * *
“ON.L.”: Last: January I was fortunate
enough to journey from Camooweal to Burketown (Q„).
The road skirts the bank of the Gregory River for
about 30 miles. I never dreamed that such a splen-
did sporting ground existed in Australia, let alone
in the belittled Gulf country. The Gregory rises
in the Nicholson Range from a cluster of springs,
and leaving the mountains runs, wet season or
dry, a beautiful, thickly-wooded, translucent stream
about 20 to SO yards wideband two to four feet
deep, over a sandy bottom. Occasionally it breaks
into deep pools, sometimes miles in length, fringed
by the prickly pandanus, which grows so closely that
one can only enter the stream at certain places.
In these ■ depths swim fish up to 18 and 20
inches in length and of several varieties. On
AN OLD GAG REVERSED.
THE VICTIM: "Steady on, mother. Remem-
ber this is going to hurt me as much as
it'll hurt you!"
the banks of other branches palms rise above the
dense foliage. Such pools are the homes of croco-
diles, happily not maneaters. Here, also, are wild
pigs of all sizes. At the lower end of the road
we encountered more scrub wallabies than I had
ever before seen. Add to these the plain turkeys
and other birds, and think what a wealth of game
there is for sportsmen enterprising enough to take
the trip. And they would have the best motor roads
in Australia to travel on.


THE BEST MOTOR TRUCK
IN THE WORLD
ş
mm
-;
v T-\
EARNING
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
| Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
George Mason & Rasch, Ltd.,
69 Wayniouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
POWER!
Republic Trucks are the best value of any
recognised make of commercial vehicle.
They are built by an organisation that is the largest
of its kind in the world, and which manufactures
trucks ©nly, and which, therefore, is able to con-
centrate on quality and efficiency in Republic
construction.
From the Rigid I-Beam Oil-enclosed Rear Axle
and the long wide springs of Special alloy steel, to
the unusual size and arrangement of the trans-
mission gears, the Republic is built for Service.
The Republic is, therefore, better able to do your
work, and do it well and quickly, than any other
truck.
Let the Republic Ag'ent in
your State prove this to you.
There is a REPUBLIC Truck for Every Haulage Need ! 1 to 5 Tons Capacity.
EPUBLI C
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintiiße 1914.
CHAMPAGNE
lEIMI IS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
>
■ -or
X cjn
£2 8
CHAMPAGNf
Q^rlesHeidsietK
REIMS
55553 C?
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS old.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
&\entworts^
A FEAST OF EASTER ATTRACTIONS.
SPECIAL DINNERS of unexcelled French cuisine will be served from 7.30
each evening during Easter season.
SPECIAL SUPPERS from 8.30, followed by an evening of uneclipsed
gaiety till 1 a.m.
New Cabaret Numbers. Wonderful Novelties and Special Souvenirs at
Race-Night Dinners.
Every Afternoon and Evening:
The Elea Twins. Zelda and John Juan. The Famous Ballet.
'Phone: BWIB6I.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING;
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30. 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/*.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order aif Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
The new G.-G. and his lady had hardly
taken off their official manners and got into
their slippers at Admiralty House when
sounds of battle were wafted from portcullis
and drawbridge—or, at any rate, from the
gates which are the fashion of 1926. Now,
these gates are in a neighborhood beyond
taint of bolshie blood. (Why, the editor of
the S. M. Herald has a flat on the opposite
corner!) The idea of a common fracas was,
therefore, unbelievable, and Captain Curtis,
chief bodyguard of the Exes., turned pale, as,
dismissing the second footman in a diplomatic
manner, he buttoned on his shako and hastily
sleuthed the noise. Could it be Red Revolu-
tion? Or merely maddened press photo-
graphers come to demand the vice-reggl
smiles which is their cameras’ due, and
which were not on tap when the Stonehavens
stepped ashore in a grey day from the tardy
Melbourne express? But no! Something
that looked like a rehearsal for a Mackennal
group met his fevered eye. A young man,
wild as an untamed colt, bloodied and bare
to the waist, rather like some magnificent
bronze, was challenging not only the guard
but the world. But it’s an anrnmic age, and
whatever windmill the young sailor was tilt-
ing at in the glory of his cups will have to
stand till another day. For after holding
the world off for about 30 minutes, the young
giant succumbed to the blandishments of the
local p.c. and his accompanying handcuffs.
The drawing-room of the Australia bloomed
like the Valley of Sharon one afternoon last
week in honor of the wives of the Chamber
of Commerce Conferences who were holding
their war council in Sydney this year. The
hostess of the afternoon was Mrs. Margaret
Dunlop, mother of James M., president of
the Sydney Chamber and newly-elected pre-
sident of the Associated Chambers, and the
radio-activity from the masses of pink and
crimson dahlias and deep red roses about the
room caught up the assemblage in such a
wave of warm enjoyment that the cup that
cheers circulated with unusual abandon. Mrs.
Dunlop, in black frocking, had for supports
daughter Mrs. E. O. Anderson, in mellow
browns, and Miss Frost, in that shade of
purple popular in Tyre when Hiram traded
his cloths in Solomon’s Court.
The hospital planned, staffed and run by
Sydney women doctors is taking hold of the
imagination of their lay sisters, if the roll-up
at the Women’s Club the other day meant
anything. Over 200 dropped in to listen to
the annual report of the Rachel Forster, by
which name the haven has been known
since it moved to Redfern. The original
camp had been at Lansdowne House in Surry
Hills, but that has been sold at a profit of
£<2s, and this amount is swelling the hos-
pital’s credit balance. The facts that 13,892
patients had been treated during 1925 and
that the treasurer had £1429 in hand were
not overlooked when the banner to woman’s
economic ability was being blazoned by
various speakers. The Constance D’Arcy
smile (it’s a million-dollar smile, at current
film rates) filled the room with cheerfulness
while its happy owner discoursed both
earnestly and whimsically on the growth of
the hospital and its ideal of better health for
women and children. Ruby Board and Dr.
Lucy Gullett were other notables who dropped
words of wisdom and encouragement.
The Wentworth put on a pair of emerald
slippers in honor of St. Pat, and after it
had handed a shamrock to each of the boys
and a green cap to each of the colleens, the
Church Hill hotel would have struck terror
to a whole army of boa-constrictors. The
night was jazzed through to the songs of old
Ireland, and the Elsa sisters, who are both
pretty and graceful, and come from Denmark
by way of London, were the cabaret attrac-
tion of the evening. The most knutty dresser
in the assemblage was the nice little Prince
de Broglie. His shirts have opened the eyes
of the few beaux left in Sydney to what
can be done in the way of chest-decoration.
Another striking-looker of the evening was
Mrs. Jenner, very slim in a silver dress with
the new longer side-draperies in malachite-
blue mnons.
With bowls of red roses, a flutter of flags
and artillery colors, softly-shaded lights,
Chinese lanterns swinging over baby ecualyp-
tus-trees in the sitting-out verandah, and the
mess dining-room cleared for action, Satur-
day night’s hop in Victoria Barracks was a
joyous affair. General Bruche brought his
tall lady, who was clad, like the night, in
black and silver. Mrs. Bruggy, in a gleam
of golden tissue, chaperoned daughter Amy,
in prawn-pink. Big Major Selby came with
his small wife, in opalescent glitter; Major
Berryman’s fair-haired bride was gowned in
a dream of oyster and silver, like the polished
side of mother-o’-pearl; and Colonel and Mrs.
Cox Taylor; the Alderman girls under the
wing of Dad; Rita Buckland, in wedgwood
blue; little Mrs. Ernest Walker, in shimmer-
ing silver lace over apricot; Major and Mrs.
Roy Thomson—these and a whole contingent
of subs, put their best feet foremost.
George Lambert presented a different facet
of his many-sided nature to the young art
students at the Atelier Club the other night.
Simply and sincerely he talked to them of
the Muse they were all serving. Macin-
toshed and rubbered, or wet-b6oted, the
students crowded into the room 100 strong,
for the name of Lambert is to the young
Australian artist what David McKee
Wright’s is to the young verse-maker. The
thrill of the night came when a six-months
student was awarded by the R.A. a prize
for her still-life study some beautifully
worked up apples on a metal platter. The
great George, after the pile of
entries submitted to his judgment, declared
Miss Walton Smith the winner. Then he
finished off his job handsomely by pointing
out the weakness and strength of each study.
W. Follen Bishop, who has a show at
Farmer's, talked of the gallery he hoped
would be opened in London for the works
of Australian artists; and President Dattilo
Rubbo made everybody welcome and gave
them all the freedom of the club for 1926.
If Hamlet had been at the Ambassadors
on Monday afternoon he would not have
made the remark that got him into the cables
—about wishing his too, too solid flesh would
melt. The humans there present—and there
were hundreds and hundreds—felt more like
wriggling protoplasm than blood-and-bone
structures; for Sydney was folded in a swel-
tering grey blanket. Still, the jazz fiend
danced to the tune called by Marie Burke
in the interests of St. Margaret’s. Marie
herself, in one of those straight hanging
dresses fashioned in chiffon, beflowered with
red-and-black roses of the bed-quilt variety,
kept moving. When she wasn’t singing she
was dancing or looking to the progress made
by her “Wildflower” doll, which she had
dressed out of the few whole pieces left in
her own “Wildflower” costume. Mrs. Stewart
Dawson, who said good-bye to her sister-
workers for St. Margaret, softened it with
the accompaniment of £5O for the babies.
Here’s a picture of the Maggie Mdore who
in 1874 won the heart and the imagination of
Australian audiences: it was taken in the
dress she wore to the Melbourne Cup in that
year. For more than half a century she had
kept the early enthusiasm alive, and when
the cables brought news of her death last
week in San Francisco, her home town, all
Australia felt the loss. She was easily the
most homely
soul about a
theatre, and
often on tour
would break
off a gossip
with “Well, I
must run away
and do my bit
of washing!”
She may not
have been the
only actress in
the company
to do her own
washing, but
she certainly
was the only
one who ad-
mitted it. Mag-
gie, born O’Sul-
-liv a n, was
one of six sis-
ters, who all
. married at
under 18. \\ e were all Romans,” she would
say, “and A'e all married Protestants!” It
was to visit one of them, Mrs. Francesca
d’Alma, that Maggie returned to ’Frisco last
year. During the whole of her 52 years in
Australia these two sisters had written to
each other once a month. Her greatest hero
was Kitchener, her favorite author Dickens.
She was a great artist, a good friend, and
her kindnesses were innumerable.
Elsa Stralia, clad in raiment like a sun-
set back o’ Bourke and with her voice in
magnificent form, has been taking Lyceum
audiences to heroic heights. The voice, true,
resonant and flexible against the orchestral
background, shows absolutely no sign of
the terrific amount of work it has done since
its owner s arrival in Australia. She will do
the Lyceum circuit, and then America claims
her.
Soprano Ethel Osborn turned on a varied
selection of songs to the great pleasure of her
Saturday night’s audience at the Town Hall.
In June the Queensland girl will be facing an
Albert Hall audience, when she will, by the
grace of Clara Butt, make her first appear-
ance in London in conjunction with the
good-natured contralto and Kennerley Rum-
ford. After that she will tour America with
the Minneapolis Orchestra under old Conser-
vatorium chief Verbrugghen. So that’s that,
and If you think that some people aren’t
born lucky as well as gifted, remember this
singing girl. She, by the way, winged into
matrimony a few w r eeks ago, and is now Mrs.
John Gilmour. Medicine is her bride-
groom’s job in life. Essie Ackland, another
Sydney singer, kept a date with Hymen about
the same time, but she did it in London.
Her cards will now be engraved “Mrs. Reg-
inald Morphew.”
The girls of the North Sydney High School
are giving cheers for Roma Meyers, the
17-year-old student who has scooped the pool
in the University matric exams.; she won
the Bowman Cameron Scholarship, the John
West medal, and two prizes for general pro-
ficiency—the Fairfax and the Queen Victoria
schiolai'ship. It is rather a habit of this
young lady; for the last two years she has
held the Joe Gardiner scholarship awarded
at the Intermediate for the highest aggregate
in seven subjects.
May Moore presents Matron Stella Colless,
in charge of Canonbury under its new regime
as a Convales-
cent Home for
Children. This
beautiful old
house at Dar-
ling Point was
one of the
countless gen-
erosities of the
A.J.C. to sick
and wounded
Diggers. Now
that the need
for it as a sol-
dier home no
longer exists,
the A.J.C. has
devoted it to
the use of
children no
longer ill
enough to be
kept in hospi-
tal, but not
strong enough to get a clean bill of health.
The house is surrounded by beautifully-kept
lawns and gardens, and has its own swim-
ming-pool and one of the finest harbor views
in Sydney. There are five wards, and 40
kiddies will find joy in them. The beds are
fascinating, fairy-story sort of beds—all shin-
ing aluminium, and beside each one hangs
a gay animal or flower dressing-gown. There
are baby-chairs and tables in the dining-
room, every cushion tells a nursery rhyme,
and Felix the Cat capers at the bottom of
the porridge plates and around the rim of
the cups. Matron Colless, who is queen of
this domain, was trained at Prince Alfred,
which she left to join the hospital ship Gran-
tala in 1914. Later she saw service with
the A.I.F. in England and France until the
Armistice.
On Saturday Elaine de Chair will be god-
mother at the formal christening of the
nurses’ quarters at Tressillian Mothercraft
Training School at Petersham. There is
room for 12 nurses in this picturesque bun-
galow designed by architect W. M. Nixon,
and the Royal Welfare Society is so proud
of it that da luxe invitations to the opening
have been scattered broadcast.
From an old Australian in London: —
The death of Captain Henry Grant Bushby, of
Wormley Bury, Hertfordshire, occurred lately at the
age of 62. His widow is Annie Esther Ford,
daughter of D. T. Ford, of Sydney. The estate
of Wormley Bury has been “in the family” since
the time of Henry VIII. Captain Bushby was called
to the Bar, but never practised, devoting himself
mainly to the family estates in England, Ireland and
Wales.
„ jsiting Sydney is Mrs. Kell, who was
Kathleen Lett. A granddaughter of that
Robert Towns after whom Townsville was
named, she was born at Cranbrook, which
was then grau’dad’s home. Her mother was
one of the three Towns sisters, belles of old-
time Sydney, and her father was “Handsome
Charlie. She stays at the Australia when
not busy renewing old friendships, and will
return to her home in Paris about the end of
the year.
Another home-winger is George Reid’s
widow. This now very slim and elegant lady
is staying with her son at Darling Point.
The Oswald Cheeke household, which was
to have up-sticks and away this month to
Europe, will now stay at the Woollahra
Point cottage till September owing to Mrs.
Cheekh’s meeting with an accident.
William Macleod, to whom The Bulletin
tribe looks with the affection due to a large-
hearted patriarch, went off by the Houtman
with his tall wife and a little family party.
They will take in Java, China, Japan and
the Philippines, and be away about four
months. ■ The cheery foursome includes the
Ronald Macleods—Ronald is the only remain-
ing son and the manager of the Melbourne
office; he will have the incidental job of
looking up The Bulletin’s numerous
“Eastern” agencies.
Colonel James, D. 5.0., is just back after
two years of exchange officering with the
Royal Artillery in England and Gibraltar.
He found the Rock far more leafy and plea-
sant than it looks on a map, and had joyous
interludes of fox-hunting on the mainland
with R.A. gunners—by amicable arrangement
with Alfonso’s subjects. The eucalypt shakes
its feathery branches on the steep shoulder
of the Gib., but the top is almost as sharp
as the summit of a wishbone. Colonel Jimmy,
who is too genial to ever get his baptismal
name of Tristram, has “taken over” at
George’s Heights.
Colonel “Bill” Lucas, formerly of the
N.S.W. militia artillery, is just home from
England, and means to ride one of his show
hacks on the opening day of the Easter hoof-
and-horn parade. The tall Windsor man used
to be master of the Sydney Hunt .Club, now
long defunct, and had some recent hard riding
to hounds in Leicestershire.
Still another Queen of the May has been
nominated in the interests of the Hospital
Saturday Fund. She is Eileen Doyle, of
Coogee, sponsored by the Lady Mayoress, and
will joust for the crown to the glory of St.
Joseph’s Hospital at Auburn. Incidentally,
Mother Clare Joseph, who has just come over
from Melbourne St. Vincent’s to take charge
of St. Joseph’s, will be remembered by hun-
dreds as Madame Christian’s offsider in
training songbirds at St. Vincent’s College in
the days before the Sisters of Charity decided
to revert to working for the poor and sick
alone. Other queens likely to be in the first
flight are Mrs. Tom Watson (Petersham)
and Mrs. Edith Wallace (Railway Em-
ployees). The royalties are expected to lure
£12,000 at least to the fund.
One hundred thousand shares at ss. each
will be on the market next Monday, and any-
one interested in the Outback will drop into
Adyar Hall and secure a parcel. The flota-
tion is an enterprise of the Health and
Happiness Promotion Co., and is one of the
means by which the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation hopes to do greater things for the
women and kiddies of out beyond.
Miss Brisbane’s serried memories:—
St. Patrick’s Day races were rained upon this
year, but there was a big roll-up and the gaudy
crotons on the lawn waved their flags for the patron
saint of good Hibernians. The Q.T.C. band played
and the Isaac Moore and Stuart Henderson matrons
and Miss O’Shea had tea parties on the committee’s
verandah. Mrs. Canning Downs Barnes was in
black and white with splashes of red. Mrs. Malvern
Downs Evans was in black. Mrs. Cecil Palmer wore
grey and blue. Mrs. Otto Hirschfeld, a recent
bride, had jade and ivory; and Nora Halford sported
verdant green in honor of the day.
Very quietly the marriage of Ted Stewart, of the
Hunter’s Hill Stewarts, to Beryl Dinsdale, of the
Sandgate Dinsdales, took place in the Sandgace
Anglican Church. Beryl was in a pretty neutral-
tinted frock, her small hat wreathed in pansies.
Her father gave her away and a few relations were
afterwards feted at the Dinsdale home. The honey-
moon pair go on to Sydney for the Easter Carnival.
The prevalence of d°ngue fever has made the City
Council arise in its wrath and vote £3500 for an
extensive campaign against the mosquito -within
two miles of the G.P.O. A highly trained man of
science as investigator, four men for survey, a clerk,
workers and laboratory equipment are some of the
items scheduled.
Miss Bebe Buleock hostessed a tea at Lennon’s in
honor of Eileen Barry, who is to marry Owen
Woodbine. Crimson roses and bridal kewpies beauti-
fied the tables.
A successful musical afternoon was organised by
Mrs. E. G. Theodore at Lennon’s to provide funds
for a children’s entertainment at Stuartholme
Convent. Through the courtesy of the management
of the Tivoli and Empire Theatres, Marie Nyman,
Nell Rolle, Marshall Crosbie and George Wallace con-
tributed music, -while Lee White and Clay Smith also
took part in the entertaining.
Kathleen Lyons tea-ed her friends at the Lyceum
Club to say good-bye to Miss D’Arcy, matron in
charge of the Port Moresby Hospital, who will
return to New Guinea by the Morinda.
Mrs. J. Henry Hancock, who with her daughter
leaves shortly for the Cold Country, was the guest
of honor at an afternoon given by Mrs. A. Buchanan
Steel at her home at East Brisbane. Roses, gaillar-
dias and gerberas decked the reception rooms, and
Mrs. Steel received the guests in a frock of floral
ninon in autumn and French-grey tones, and a
small grey crinoline hat banded in gold.
When Daphne Gaukrodger stood up with E. C.
Gallagher at St. Andrew’s Church she wore a
wedding gown of coral pink ninon over crepe de
Chine with a beautiful Limerick lace veil. After
the ceremony a reception was held at her parents’
Ascot home.
Mrs. Alfred Needham invited a few friends to
her flat at Toowong in honor of Clare O’Sullivan,
who will be married to F. ,1. Needham shortly.
The news of the death of Dr. S. G. Campbell, of
Durban, S’Africa, will be read with regret by the
thousands of Aussies to whom he gave the
hand as they went to and from the Front during
the war. Ethel Campbell, the “Angel of Durban,’’
was a daughter.


HAR.DY B R_o S LTD.
J EWELLEHS
Hardy s collection of Pearl Necklets and loose Pearls
is the most extensive in Australia, and includes several
perfectly matched and graded strings of these
beautiful gems.
The Company’s London Representatives recently
forwarded a selection, secured on the most favorable
terms, enabling Hardy’s to offer values hitherto un-
approached in Australia for such high quality Pearls.
Whole Pearl Necklaces from £2O to £4OOO.
Loose Pearls for improving and enlarging existing
necklaces are always a special feature at Hardy’s, and
an expert restringing service is at the service of Cus-
tomers for improving and enlarging existing necklaces.
Five pei' cent, discount allowed for cask.
Hardy's Catalogue will he sent, post free, on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3tie c Hoxis& oP Qrciastoc Uew&lUsy
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
U 6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
Delightful Meals in Hottest Weather.
Good Food keeps fresh and comes to the table in the pink
of condition.
“ISKO,” the Electric Refrigerator,
Keeps all eatables in a state of perfection and provides ice for
the table or tlie sick room, and frozen desserts at all times, maintaining a
desired low temperature at a fraction of the cost of ice, even were
it procurable.
“ISKO” is attached to the house current; uses very little power;
switches itself off when the right degree of cold is reached and on
again when necessary; you can leave it for days without attention,
and it works perfectly.
“ISKO” is the simplest and most efficient of cold-manufacturing
plants, having only tw r o moving parts. It is safe and “foolproof,”
using no ammonia nor other dangerous substance.
When in town, call and see it, or send for full particulars to
THE ISKO DISTRIBUTING DEPOT
(H. HARRY),
412 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
54 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland Distributors:
CHAMBERS, DUNNE & CO., 82 Turbot Street, Brisbane.
We are also manufacturers of Refrigerator Cabinets.
AT THE R.A.S. SHOW, STAND 130 SUTTOR AVENUE.
See “ISKO" AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR.
MATTHEWS’ LIGHT AND POWER PLANT.
DURO HIGH-PRESSURE WATER SYSTEMS.
š
Announcing—
A Vital
Process
developed by our laboratories
after 37 years’ experience in
the Photographic Business.
A
Duplex - Permanence Process
A New and Exclusive Feature of
Harringtons
Famous
DEVELOPING and PRINTING
SAME-DAY SERVICE
Being a Special Process we cannot divulge its nature, but w T e can
explain what it does: As implied by the name, the process is one by
which Harringtons’ Prints are made absolutely permanent, and under
reasonable conditions will keep first-day brilliance indefinitely. Regard-
less of the vital importance and extra cost of this process, we make
no extra charge. It costs you no more to have your films Developed
and Printed at Harringtons, and you know that you are
Getting the Best Results from Your Snaps.
Ask yotir Dealer for the “HARRINGTON” Service, and
see that your prints bear this impress
8 ,
AnGS
e?
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
KA.TOOMBA: Ivatoomba Street. MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street. ADELAIDE: 10 Rumlle Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street. AUCKLAND. N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
m
gMsIK
II
■
:
Lounge, R.M.S. “Otranto.”
ORIENT LINE
TO ENGLAND
via
Ceylon, Egypt, Italy, France and Gibraltar.
The shortest and most interesting route.
Fares, Sydney to London:
First Saloon: Single, from £9B; Return, from £172.
Third Class: Single, from £3B; Return, from £6B.
Holiday Excursions to Colombo.
Available for 100 days and interchangeable with
P. & O. Company.
First Saloon Return Fare from Sydney, £65.
Write for Illustrated Literature.
ORIENT S. N. CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
Agencies throughout Australia and Netc Zealand.


mm
m
%
ft
■
assssss
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious-
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with*-
out waste,
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
The “Vanishing Cream de luxe
Of all " vanishing ” creams Pomeroy Day Cream is the most
protective. When applied it vanishes instantly, but only to
become an invisible but none the less potent protector of
the youthfulness and charm of your complexion. And if
you “ powder,” it holds the powder too.
ſ
r:
Use Pomeroy Day Cream just before going out. Use it, as
the completing touch, just before the dance. Use it when
your face feels flushed. Use it whenever your skin feels
tired and needs toning up. Use it freely and you will
always look your best,
POMEROY
DAY CREAM
Obtainable from all Australian Stores and Chemists, or from the
POMEROY DEPOT (Ripley & Simpson), Macdonell House, SYDNEY
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1532, 1533.
Pavlova’s new programme at His Majesty’s
brought the “Full-house” sign out again,
and an overflowing audience was quite en-
thralled by the art of the dancer and her
supporting company. The star made her first
bow in a land of snowclad mountains, popu-
lated with human flakes, moving more grace-
fully than the uneven showers of silver-
flecked stage-snow falling from on high. The
snowflake maidens were in white tulle with
glistening head-adornments, and Pavlova was
in similar, though more glittering, attire. Her
Samson-like partner contrasted a silver jer-
kin against the dead-white apparel of the
rest of his sex. In “The. Magic Flute” (not
Mozart's), suggesting a Court pastoral after
Watteau, Thursa Rogers, dark-haired and
pretty, who reached the Russian ballet from
London via Maoriland, had the leading role
of Lise, skimming airily round in a puffed
flowered-silk frock. Later she wore the
abbreviated wired white tulle skirts of the
ballet, ribboned and embroidered in powder
blue. Pavlova made the prettiest picture ever
seen on His Majesty’s stage in the Beethoven-
lvreisler “Rondino,” holding a huge white
feather fan against billows of mauve and
pink tulle attached to same-hued lame. The
coiffure was of the pompadour type, with a
glint of mauve. For the gavotte “In the
Shadows,” the lady was a study in lemon
hue, wearing a trained gown and much-poked
bonnet, her feet shod in gold boots. For
“Christmas,” danced with five male support-
ers in the gay attire of the early-Victorian
period, rhe star’s rose-pink pelerine, bonnet
and muff were decked with swansdown, and
her crinoline white muslin gown was
wreathed with roses.
“Quality Street,” which opened the sea-
son of Barrie plays at the King’s Theatre,
brought memories of the days of Waterloo,
when manners were “genteel.” The limelight
played upon some fine Chippendale furni-
ture and covetable china in the White and
Blue Room of the first act, and excellent
stagecraft was exhibited in the green-cur-
tained tent pavilion at the officers’ ball of
the third act, with its garlands and group-
ings of lighted candles. Military uniforms
of the period made effective color harmony
with satin fi’ocks of high-waisted mode, with
wee puffed sleeves and flower-wreathed coif-
fures. Most charming was the wedding-gown-
that-should-liave-been, of white satin lace,
flounced, worn by Plicebe. Coalscuttle bon-
nets, tall hats and gay caped cloaks were all
nicely in the picture, which included Kate
Greenaway-clad school-children. The first
night attracted a packed and enthusiastic
audience. Lady Stradbroke accompanied by
the Daryl Lindsays was in one of the boxes.
On Monday evening there was vice-regal
patronage again, the Governor and his lady
attending with the Chauvel dame. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers, who is to appear in “The Admirable
Crichton,” was at the premiere; also Knight
Arthur Robinson, his lady and daughter
Nan, and the Frank Taits. Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Clarke were at the second perform-
ance. Likely to be very popular are Angela
Baddeley, the pretty leading lady, Mary Jer-
rold, and the tall, not to say Kosciuskan,
juvenile lead, Brian Aherne.
Dion Boncicault, who, ever since he arrived
to find Pavlova the chief item of import-
ance, has been hurling press interviewers out
on to the pavement with a decision which
left no doubt in the minds of the victims that
they weren’t wanted, came out of his seclu-
sion after the curtain went down on “Quality
Street” on Saturday night to tell the audience
that the eyes of the whole world had been
upon this Australian first night and read a
batch of cables to emphasise the point. Milne,
Pinero and, of course, Barrie were amongst
those who wished the season success. The
last wire was a pretty little message to him-
self and the Australian public which Dion
read with a little catch in his voice. The
signature “Irene” awoke pleasant memories
amongst the audience.
Cool weather added much to the pleasure
of patrons at beautiful Moonee Valley on
Saturday, and as favorites were treated
kindly by the fates, most people found the
outing more than just pheasant. Dressing
was mostly a matter of tine last georgette of
summer linked to the first (felt hat of autumn
—a combination we all find wearying. A
few of those possessing ,new winter coats
suffered some discomfort in order to give
them an outing.
Ermyntrude Avery gave the third of her
story-concerts for children at the Malvern
Town Hall on Saturday. Rather a feather
in the clever young woman’s cap is the fact
that there were about as many grown-ups
as young folk to hear her interesting little
chat on Bach, which she illustrated on the
piano. Leaving the heavier works of the
composer alone, she chose for the entertain-
ment such things as the dances of French
origin which Bach wrote for his wife and
the famous prelude upon which Gounod
superimposed liis “Ave Maria.”
Friends of Clarke scholarship-pianist Roy
Shepherd mobilised in full strength for his
farewell concert at the Auditorium. The
unaffected youth, who possesses lots of talent
and has acquired a neat technique and a
nice tone, played the “Waldstein” Sonata
and Mendelssohn’s Prelude and Fugue in
E Minor, as well as less strenuous composi-
tions. St. Paul’s Cathedral Choir gave sup-
port. Extremely well done was a motet,
“The Surrender of the Soul to the Ever-
lasting Love,” by Peter Cornelius. Con-
tralto Isabel Biddell and soprano Muriel
Cheek sang, and Constance Ziebel’s fiddle
was heard. Archbishop Harrington Lees and
Mrs. Lees smiled from the front row of the
dress-circle, for Roy Shepherd not so very
long ago wore the cassock and surplice of
a cathedral chorister.
That good-looking young soprano Con-
stance Burt had no reason to be disappointed
with her farewell concert. In raiment of
silver lace with a dash of pale green about
the low w’aistline she sang excerpts from the
florid operas of Mozart, a highly ornamented
aria of Nicolo Isonard and groups of French
and English songs, two of the latter being
by F. Bennicke Hart, of the Albert-street
Con. That is where Mary Campbell trained
the young singer, who leaves her home in
Sydney in July for Italy. Gertrude Healy
and her violin, always welcome, figured in
the programme. Sheaves of tiger-lilies and
carnations were handed to both artists.
There was quite a pastoral atmosphere
about the programme furnished at the first
concert of the British Music Society last
week. Save for the fascinating arrangement
by Kennedy Fraser of the part-song—from
his “Songs of the Hebrides” —called “An
Eriskay Love Lilt,” no composition was
dated later than about 17S0. Pianist Wil-
liam James, who is to tour with Toti dal
Monte, besides playing several short pieces
by early English composers, joined Ber-
nard Heinze in a couple of sonatas, and the
society’s quartette, headed by Alberto Zel-
man, was heard in two fantasias by Orlando
Gibbons. Under its talented conductor,
W. C. Frazier, the Oriana Madrigal Society
gave some beautiful lays, none more charm-
ing than the Hebridean folk-song before re-
ferred to, which moved the large audience to
ask for more. Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, who guides
the destiny of the B.M.S. here, wore apparel
of an Oriental nature; knight Robert Garran
and his lady, Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Stewart
and Margaret Chalmers, who is lion, accom-
panist of the B.M.S. in the Harbor City,
were there.
One of the original members of the Arts
and Crafts Society is pictured here by Ruth
Hollick. She
is Miss Lilian
Dunn, who for
some time has
worn Victoria’s
blue ribbon for
tooling and
[tainting
leather. Speci-
mens of her
craft have
been taken
away from
Melbourne by
many vice-
regal and
other folk in
present a t i o n
albums and
addresses: the
cover of the
farewell ad-
dress from the
citizens to
Lady Strad-
broke is lier most recent work. (The illumin-
ated lettering in this was done by Miss Alsop,
another member of the Arts and Crafts.)
Miss Dunn received her art training in Paris
and Brussels. She commenced as a painter,
and it was as a teacher of brush technique
that she opened her Australian career.
There has been plenty of music in Mel-
bourne this week, but none so melodious as
the steady drumming of rain upon the roof
on Sunday morning. The city woke to a
new-created world, in which grass and leaf,
green once more, arose from their exhaustion
and gave thanks. The early churchgoer
splashed his way along quite happily, and
trusted his macintosh had not sprung leaks
during a long holiday.
Lady Stradbroko snatched a few minutes
from a very busy day to pronounce the open-
ing benediction for the colorful little exhibi-
tion of Margaret McLean’s canvases and
Mrs. Bess Golding’s miniatures in the writ-
ing-room of the Oriental. Society was well
represented at the ceremony, for many of
Melbourne’s elect and their offspring have
been pictured on ivory by the miniaturist.
Miss McLean handed the vice-regal visitor
some pink carnations and delphiniums, and
Mrs. Golding added her thanks. John Long-
staff headed a bevy of talent who came to
view their fellow-artists’ work, and of mere
patrons were Mrs. Norman Brookes, Mrs.
Jimmy Dyer, Mrs. James Alston, Mrs. James
I urves and daughter Valerie.
Since her return at the end of last year
lrom a two-and-a-half-years’ stay on the
other side of
the world, Rita
Coon an has
had no time
to show the
polish her
light notes
acquired over
there. Very
welcome, there-
fore, will be
the lyric
soprano’s ap-
pearance at
the Music
Club meeting
to - night
(25th), when
she will warble
several modern
British songs
and French
chansons.
The lass hails
from Adelaide,
where her father is on the staff of the Mail.
Her own talent was godmothered by Nellie
Melba and guided by Mary Campbell, much
of her training being carried out in Switzer-
land and Paris during Miss Campbell’s re-
cent holiday abroad; the French actress
Suzanne Avril added lessons in diction and
gesture. Miss Coon an, who is now on the
teaching staff of the Albert-street Con., made
many appearances at London at-homes,
Lady Weigall, wife of a former S.A. Govern-
or, and Melba lending tlieir aid; and Prince
Obolenski, who came this way as supporting
artist to the Diva, sang with her at a Lon-
don concert. Hay Wrightson (Lond.Y made
this little picture of her.
Women members of the Australian Jour-
nalists’ Association, representing the social
chroniclers, commandeered the committee-
room of the Lyceum Club on St. Pat’s Day
to drink a farewell bumper with the State
Governor’s popular lady. The party was the
first of its kind ever offered by the press ladies
to a vice-regal representative, and was the
only opportunity given her Ex. to see how
well the professional women of Melbourne
do themselves at their club. Maisie Max-
well, who represents the women journalists
on the District Committee, formed an
advance-guard, and presented the guest with
a boomerang dolled up with crimson dahlias
and bound round with the Governor’s racing
colors. Later, after telling the Countess how
much she is esteemed by her entertainers,
Miss Maxwell produced another gift from
her fellow-scribes, a little bit of Australian
bush as seen by the camera of a woman
photographer.
Menzies’ was the scene of another theatrical
good-bye tea-drinking when Beatrice Day
presided over a number of small tables with
willow-patterned tablecloths, and lilies, and
a wee posy for each guest. The popular
actress, who theatregoers of a few years past
regret has not been selected for the cast
of the Barrie plays, wore an ensemble suit
of beige tones brightened by figured red-
and-white georgette. Of the entertained
were Mary Hinton Pitt Rivers, in a coat-
frock of fawn and brown check; the Best
lady and daughter Phyllis ; Madame Vander-
kelen; Sylvia Vanderkelen, in smart apparel
of red-pleated georgette, with large mother-
o’-pearl buttons; Cassie Connolly, from
Westralia; several of the “Daddy Longlegs”
company and many non-professionals.
Four maidens in frocks of delphinium blue
and silver lace, very long of sleeve, with
swathed headpieces in the same color scheme,
attended Merylin Stephens, eldest daughter
of Mrs. Temple Stephens, when she became
Mrs. Arthur Manton on the 17th. The lead-
ing lady’s gown of ivory satin had embroidery
of silver, and from the back of her coiffure
fell a trail of orange-buds over a veil of beau-
tiful Limerick lace. At the feasting at No.
0 Darling-street, Mrs. Stephens, in a glisten-
ing beaded black gown topped by a black
velvet toque, entertained a couple of hundred
guests. Mrs. A. H. Manton, of Mindah,
Armadale, mother of the ’groom, was a study
in black and gold.
Artist Stella Lewis Marks, with her hus-
band and small daughter, has set sail for
’Murca, the home of her adoption. As ex-
pected, the portrait-painter left behind her
miniature of the famous dancer Maud Allan
—the National Gallery in Melbourne signed
the cheque for it.
The Staughton clan, which has been rather
out of luck lately, owing to accidents and
such-like, gathered at the Alexandra Club
to welcome back Mrs. Eric Byron-Moore,
whose years of marriage have been spent for
the most part in distant lands. Mrs. Arthur
Staughton hostessed the luncheon in bois-du-
rose.
The committee of the District Nursing
Society is making a big effort to furnish its
recently-completed nursing home. When it
has raised £lOOO to put things in order, 70
patients will be accommodated. To help the
finances there will be bridge and dancing on
the afternoon and evening of April 16 in the
new building.
Girl Guiders are rejoicing in at last pos-
sessing their own headquarters. Thanks to
the cafe chantant at Federal Government
House in October, secretary Sybil Irving and
her assistant are now installed in offices on
the fourth floor of the Equitable Buildings in
Collins-street. On the morning of the 17th
Lady Stradbroke, as Chief Commissioner of
the Guides, met there several of the chief
workers of that recent effort, which brought
in £2700, and recited her thanks at being
able to leave the movement fully established.
As a gentle reminder that the country is
“what the city growed on,” last week the
tillers of the soil placed in shop windows
alongside Paris gowns and millinery the aston-
ishing results of their work. Heat and
drought merely spurred these farmers on to
make this Country Promotion Week an eye-
arrester to the man who grizzles because he
lias to carry the watering-can a few yards.
The passers-by gazed in admiration, and
raised their hats to the man on the land-
before wondering, possibly, how they could
dip a hand deeper into his pocket.
Harriet Bonnet, the bright leading lady of
“Lilac Time,” dressed herself in brown and
autumn-toned floral chiffon with harmonising
felt millinery, and went to a four-o’clock feast
at the Austral Salon. Her mother was also
of the guests bidden that day by Mrs. W. C.
Burne and Mrs. G. S. Taylor. Bertha Collin,
a popular Salon member, who has her pass-
port in order for a trip to England, had a
share of farewell wishes. Ivy Wilmot, Jessie
Clarke and Gladys McDowell cheered the
gathering with song, and Kingsley Parkes
brought his fiddle. Roy Shepherd, whose eyes
are turned Londonwards, was at the piano.
Sister Adelaide’s potpourri:—
Minda and the Queen’s Home are to benefit by
the three-nights’ run of “Yvonne” at the Norwood
Town Hall. Edith Aird, who was in the cast, was
responsible for the libretto, and Tom King and Jack
Fewster for lyrics and music. Ballets were arranged
by Norah Stewart ; and Herbert Walsh, as producer,
had some well-known Repertory players to work with.
On the last night there was supper and a dance for
the company at the Liberal Club rooms.
Angaston was all agog for the wedding of Jean,
only daughter of the Walter Smiths, of Yalumba, to
Colin, second son of the late R. J. Matheson. The
wedding was at St. Faith’s, on the Angas estate at
Collingrove, with toasts and speech-making at Yal-
umba afterwards. Lesley Hill, in delphinium-blue,
attended the siiver-and-lace-eiad bride, and the
going-away frock was bois-du-rose crepe de Chine.
The wedding-day, by the way, was the bride’s birth-
day, and she was born on the anniversary of the
birth of her grandfather, John Hill, now 79.
The engagement is announced of Mary, daughter
of H. P. Ives, to Malcolm, one of the Frank Joyner
sons.
That useful institution the School for Mothers
has opened a branch at Colonel Light Gardens, bring-
ing the tally of its centres up to 41. Few local
public services are less discussed, and few have
done more solid work.
The younger generation doesn’t let much grass
grow under its feet. Two of it, Gwen Walker and
one of the Alan MacFarlane daughters, flew to Mel-
bourne and back for a dance, and were away not
much longer than it would take to do the single
journey by train.
Few things of late have shocked this community
more than the death of Mrs. Whyte, who was fatally
attacked by a shark at Brighton. A daughter of the
late Alexander Macully, Anglican priest and platform
entertainer, she had taught mast of the rising genera-
tion of the district to swim, and many of them to
ride. Her own two children and their nurse were
on the jetty, not 50 feet away, when she was attacked.
Her husband was at their homestead, 35 miles from
Port Augusta. Mrs. Whyte’s mother was one of
the Campbells of Sydney—Mrs. Cecil Darley is a
sister.
South Aus. has undertaken to board and lodge
a visitor for the next six months for using another
man’s money to meet a pressing debt of his own.
No need to mention the poor devil’s name; but he
produced high references from distinguished people
in England, and he handed over to the man he had
defrauded, as a first instalment of restitution, a gold
cigarette-case, a gift he had received when he was
secretary to Lord Dudley.
The Presbyterian Assembly has followed the Metho-
dists in denouncing dancing as dangerous; and this
although the headmasters of both Scotch and Prince
Alfred colleges have said that they think it better
to give the boys opportunity for a pastime which
they would be sure to indulge in somehow, and per-
haps in less healthy surroundings. One elder cited
the case of David, but a minister tartly remarked
that this monarch did ma-ny things he should not
have done. In the midst of the discussion, a
practical Scotchman asked whether the ban would
apply to a, Highland fling. Tht Moderator promptly
ruled that it would not.


'A .
CVDWEV 4
B
A.. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Square Cushion-
shape Lever Watch, £2. Extra-jewelled, £2/10/-.
Silver, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5. 9ct- Gold,
£5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-. Iscl. Gold,
£B/10/-, £lO. iSct. Gold, £l2/10/-, £l5.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Pearl
Circle Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Links, set
Diamond, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s 10-Year Gold-filled
Hunting Keyless Lever, £2/10/-
Higher grades, £3, £3/10/-. 20-Year
Case, £5. 25-Year Case, £6/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’
EASTER GIFTS of HIGH QUALITY
A. Saunders’
Diamond Octagon-
shape Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5,
Larger Diamond,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Six I>iamond-set 18ct. White Gold
Ladv’s Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wrist Band,
£l7/10/-
Eight Diamonds, £2O, £25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamond
Platinum-set 18ct.
Gold Ring, £l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Single-
Diamond
Platinum-set lBet.
Gold Ring, £2o.
Smaller Diamond,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Scroll and Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, Iset. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cluster
Platinum-set 18ct.
Gold Ring, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Single-Diamond
Platinum-set 18ct.
Gold Ring, £2O.
Larger Diamond,
£3O, £5O.
/St
A. Saunders’ Ladv’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wiist Band, £B/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamond
Platinum-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £3. Heavier, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5,
£5/10/- to £12/10/-. loct. Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £8/10/- to £20.
SEND FOR EASTER GIFT BOOK.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDEDRS.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER - - JEWELLER - - OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE ST. (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Lever AVatch,
30/-
Extra-jewelled, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-.
9ct. Gold, £6/10/*, £7/10/-, £lO.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Links, en-
graved design,
15/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl-
set Scarf Pin,
ft
/
£=4
A. Saunders" Gent.’s Nickel Open-face
High-grade, Lever Watch, 23/“, 30/-.
Imperial Lever, Extra Jewelled, £2,
£2/10/-, £3. Guaranteed.
u
--U
A 1
/ >
4
■;/
- Fill
in,
/£c c treed old Sjoori
IF
11 worn
Wc
Think what a jammed shell means when the game is
flying low and fast. No better time for shooting than
in rain and drizzle. But a soft or swollen shell—and
your sport goes winging by—while your numb fingers
tug at the shell.
Can a shell be waterproof? Put a Black shell into water
for half an hour. That Black shell—any Black shell
every Black shell—will still chamber fire and eject as
though never touched by water. That proof holds good
in any weather.
CLIMAX SMOKELESS
BLACK SHELLS
e LOADED wru DUPONT POWDE/2 %
Sole Australian Distributors:—
N.S.W.: JOHN KEEP & SONS, LIMITED,
Sussex Street, Sydney.
Victoria: J. Mues, Latrobe Street, Melbourne
and Tasmania.
South Aus.: Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide.
West Aus.: Harris, Scarfe and Sandovers, Ltd.,
Perth.
Queensland —
Southern: E. Rich & Co., Ltd., and
T. Me William & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Central: Denham Bros. (Rockhampton).
Northern: Cummins & Campbell Ltd.,
Townsville and Cairns.
Manufacturers’ Representatives: Gollin & Co, Pty., Ltd.
O'
80
9^
*P


Coming to Sydney? Call at Murdoch’s
and view, among other things, the
finest Hat Displays in Australia
SVCH a magnificent assemblage is indeed an inspiration to the Man
Jvho seeks to be versed in all things pertaining to Modern attire.
These displays, excelling anything of the kind in Australia, em-
brace products from the Master Craftsmen of the World, and form a
striking tribute to the astounding value resulting from Murdoch's “Mill
to Wearer” organisation.
“Kookaburra" holds pride of place —
as the Finest Guinea Value in Australia .
A High-class All-Australian Model, wade from Pure Fur Felt,
“Prince” style, as illustrated ; also in “Nail Curl” and
“Lounge” shapes. Color tones of Light, Mid and Hark
Grey and Black. Also New Fawn shade, with Brown
Band. All sizes. Direct from the Mill to Your Door
The illustration here depicits one of the style in
Murdoch’s Famous “Star Quality” Ilats. Genuine
Pure Fur Felt. Attractive Colorings. Latest Shapes
EVERY HAT GUARANTEED.
21
You are cordially invited to step in and taTce advantage of the many facilities which
Murdoch's provide for Country Visitors at Eastertide.
POSTAGE
PAID TO
YOUR DOOR,
M
t
InPark S!l!* Sidney
•' THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS WEAR STORE.’
If ordering by Pont
kindly address your
letter to DESK R.
■
SHOOT
TO KILL!
Any of these cartridges may be used with
perfect confidence by game shots. For
killing power and keeping qualities they
have no equals.
They are made throughout by British work-people at the Eley and
Kynoch factories, and are guaranteed to be perfect in manufacture
and to contain accurate standard loads.
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Entirely British Made.
Obtainable from All Gunsmiths and Dealers
m
m
m
H
1
I
■
B
iNOBIEA
Wholesale Only:-
Scottish House,
90 William Street, Melbourne,
Ammunition House,
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NEW ZEALAND: L. H. Labone, 17 Resolution Street, Lyall Bay, Wellington.
NOBEL:


C,H£
■v
GL
»«
mr
T 9C
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
NOT FOR ONE
PARTICULAR MAN
BUT FOR ALL
PARTICULAR MEN
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO„ LTD., Perth and O.eraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sale Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
REENER
Wm
wm
S
m
m
m
WM
Wm
V
W. W, GREENfcfif*
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PT”
LTD.,
405*7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The form at Rosehill (N.S.W.) on Satur-
day effected considerable and, in some cases, immedi-
ate changes in the betting on the big Easter events
at Randwiek. Lausanne’s price for the Doncaster
Handicap shortened at once as a result of his hand-
some win in the Railway Handicap, seven furlongs,
for which he was equal favorite with Valiant at 5
to 1. The Valais—Courante chestnut had been
gelded since his last appearance in Sydney, and
Kelso had got him into beautiful condition. After
indulging Valais Queen with the lead, he ran past
her at the distance and, finishing true as steel for
Munro, won by half a length from Valdoona, who
was the same distance in front of Irish Prince, the
time being lmin. 25sec. Valdoona, who passed
half a dozen horses in the straight, also firmed a bit
for the Doncaster, and Irish Prince held his place
in the betting. Wootton’s horse was ridden by an
apprentice, and might have done better for a stronger
boy; as it was, he travelled very well over the last
two furlongs after being badly placed in the first
five. King Cyllene was fourth, but his finishing
effort was not impressive, nor did Valiant, Valiard,
Leslie Wallace, Honan, Red Gauntlet or Runnymede
show up in the straight. There was an excuse,
however, for Runnymede, who limped back to the
bird-cage, and the fretful Leslie Wallace was sweat-
ing profusely on going out.
The Rawson Stakes was Valicare’s fifth race, and
though she was meeting Windbag, Pantheon and the
Maorilander Te Monanui at w.f.a. over a journey
she had never previously traversed, she registered her
fifth and easiest win. The betting was 5 to 4 on
Windbag, 7 to 4 Valicare, 9 to 2 Pantheon and 33
to 1 Te Monanui. Toohey piloted Lausanne’s little
sister, and, taking her to the front straightway, soon
established a lead of TO lengths. Windbag’s backers
had visions of her coming back to the field, but
she didn’t come back; on the contrary, she turned
for home with her advantage undiminished and the
race in hand. Windbag made up a bit of ground
in the straight, but the filly was seven or eight
lengths ahead when Toohey dropped his hands, the
others following at intervals of three or four lengths.
The time was lmin. 50Jsec.—only -Jsec. outside the
Australian record for nine furlongs. Windbag hadn’t
galloped well on the track that morning, and
Munro did not improve his chances by taking things
easy for the first couple of furlongs what time Toohey
was riding Valicare for all he was worth; but,
when all is said and donq, Pat Osborne’s filly proved
herself a wonderfully good bit of stuff* The
bookmakers speedily had her at dynamite odds for
the Doncaster, in which she has Bst. 91b.—a big
burden for a three-year-old mare, however brilliant,
who is on the small side—and mugs took a murderous
price on the course about Valicare for the mile
and Manfred for the Cup, only to read in the
afternoon papers that Manfred was to be withdrawn
from the Cup, though it has since been decided to
send him over for the St. Leger. What with piratical
bookmakers and big-betting owners who have no
consideration for the public, ante-post speculation is
the maddest of follies for the punter who is not in
the know.
Johnnie Jones (10 to 1), who was not considered
worthy of being nominated for the Sydney Cup, made
hacks of a lot of Cup horses in the Rosehill Autumn
Handicap. A leggy bay, rather awkward in a field,
the Beragoon—Lady Bon Ami gelding can put them in
to some purpose when he has plenty of room, and,
getting a clear run on the outside, he cut down the
leaders in great style; time, 2min. 32fsec. The un-
lucky Confusion was second, two lengths or so behind
Johnnie Jones, who was ridden by the apprentice
Roberts (he iff owned and trained by George Carr),
and Featherncst was doing well in third place.
Virgin Gold, who was favorite again, gave one of
his bad performances, and Samoan failed to come
on, but Player will do better presently. Had the
jockey been more patient he would have at least
got a place.
The divided Juvenile Stakes provided two very
exciting finishes. In the first the Victorian gelding
Menander (7 to 2), who is by Limond —Farce, beat
Royal Tea (5 to 2), who was not thrown in on
this occasion, by a short head; in the other, the
Greenstead —Airify filly Calmest (4 to 1), after
looking hopelessly blocked, forced a passage through
the centre of the field and pipped the favorite, Troi-
sieme, on the post. She has now won three races
in succession for the Newcastle solicitor who owns
her, and may turn out as good as her sire—she
is assuredly as honest and game.
Wedding Eve (6 to 4) gave Tooliey another win-
ning fee in the second division of the Three-year-old
Handicap, six furlongs. The daughter of Linacre —
Wedding Day came right away from two smart
sprinters in Lile Queen (5 to 4) and Don Moon, and
her Doncaster chanfce is not to be despised. She was
second to Valicare at level weights in the Adrian
Knox Stakes, and was running away at the finish from
Cajole and Tibbie, who have both won with sub-
stantial burdens since. Cajole, after three wins in
fair company, had to strike her colors to Loquat
(5 to 2) in the Parramatta Mile, but considering
that she carried lOst. 2lb. and conceded 7lb. and a
year to a really good miler, she was by no means
disgraced.
The A.J.,C.’s meeting at Warwick Farm
next Saturday is in the nature of a curtain-raiser to
Randwiek. There is a 10-furlongs w.f.a, race in
which Windbag is engaged, while the Liverpool
Handicap, six furlongs, and the Autumn Cup, 12
furlongs, have been richly endowed. Leslie Wallace
or Irish Prince may -win the Liverpool Handicap and
Prince Minimbah or Murray King the Autumn Cup.
“Cron.”: Dick Wootton was telling Eric
Connolly that his £5O race-glasses had been pinched
from him at Moorefield (N.S.W.). “Talking about
pinching,” Connolly said, “the sneak-thieves of dear
old England are on their own. At Epsom they
cleared my car of everything, from my hamper to
my rugs.” “That’s nothing,” returned Dick. “Why,
going to Doncaster one day I had 53 articles stolen
from the suit I was wearing.” “You must have
been asleep!” replied Connolly incredulously. “No
chance!” Dick came back. “They fanned me for
my pack of cards and a corkscrew!”
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: Seeing Frank Han-
cock, of Stroud (N.S.W.), backing one of his string
at Newcastle the other day, I was reminded of a
difficulty from which. Frank extricated himself at
Wauchope 15 years ago. Frank had a nag, Kearsarge,
in the last race. Handicapped on the course, Kear-
sarge was asked to carry 12st. 101 b. The heaviest
jockey available weighed only 7st. 101 b., and as there
wasn’t enough lead in sight to make up the five
THE SPEED KIND.
PORNO: “I ’ear you goiter motor-bike, Stinker, an’ goin’ in fer the competitions at
Maroubra.”
SLINKER: “Got a motor-bike all right, Pong., but no competitions fer me. Got it so’s
Pd always be in time fer the first race at the ponies.”
stone dead-Weight, some other expedient had to be
sought. Frank and the boy dug up an old bluegum
post, sawed it off about 2ft. from the butt, wrapped
the thick end up in wet cornsacks and tied it on the
pommel. Kearsarge romped in with his load.
Most of Victoria’s best horses have gone
to Sydney, but there w r ere a few decent, prads at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Punters were smil-
ing contentedly at the end of the day, as three
first favorites and a strong second favorite were
successful. On the strength of his good fourth in the
St. Kilda Cup, Spearer was a hot favorite for the
Moonee Ponds Handicap, 12 furlongs, 6 to 4 being
the best price obtainable when operations ceased.
He gave his backers a good run for their money, but
the useful Lady Warwick (10 to 1) finished too
strongly, and beat him home by half a length, with
Anan Louise (10) two lengths away. Lady Warwick,
a daughter of Kenilworth—Ceria, is trained and
partly owned by Dick Bradfield; she established a
course record by covering the distance in 2min. 32see.
Waranton (2 to 1) put up another great perform-
ance in humping lOst.. 131 b. to easy victory in the
Plenty Handicap, six furlongs. He conceded 571 b. to
Garrula and 451 b. to Lady Thrill, who were second
and third respectively, and had 101 b. or more
in hand. The old gelding and Cairns, who again
rode him, got a splendid reception from the crowd;
he has been a good friend to punters this season.
The time was lmin. 13isec. That good filly Mar-
gaux (3 to 1) won the Calliope Handicap for two-
year-olds by a neck from the fast-finishing Killara
(12 to 1), with Rusty Bill third; and Sir Dighlock
(5 to 2), after dead-heating with Amontillado (71 to
1) in the seven-furlong Highweight Handicap, easily
won the run-off, MeShortodds demanding 3 to 1.
Sir Dighlock will be remembered at Randwiek for
his effort to get a break on the field in Heroic’s
A.J.C. Derby. He exhibited fine pace that day, but
has done very little since.
* * * *
“Ascot” : Jockeys are notoriously bad tip-
sters, even when they pass out the dinkum oil. One
day at Ascot (Perth), I got the straight tip from a
jockey friend who was riding Mural King. “Put
your shirt on Romulus (the favorite) ; I’ve got no
chance.” I put my shirt on, likewise my boots and
socks, and then watched my jockey friend stroll home
in front of the field, with the favorite third. Mural
King was such a rank outsider that not a single
ticket was taken on him on the s.o. tote; so the
tote, in accordance with its honest practice when it
gets a skinner, refunded all investments, less the
usual 10 p.c. commission. (Imagine MeShortodds
doing that!) One 10s. ticket on my jockey’s mount
would have scooped the pool—but he didn’t know.
“Bris.”: The Q.T.C. will have to offer a
prize for record-breakers in order to relieve the
strain on the book. The Queensland six-furlong
record (1.13) is now jointly held by ten horses, the
latest to equal the time being Fair Exchange. As
local sprinters, after countless attempts, are unable
to “break 13,” it will be necessary to induce some
of the southern cracks to come up and clip a
second or two off the time. The five-furlong record
(1.1), jointly held by four two-year-old fillies, is
also in need of attention.
* * * *
“Hasen” : I was poring, rather hopelessly,
over the field for the Welter at Ascot (Q.) when he
grabbed my arm. Though obviously (and alcoholic-
ally) excited, he was a respectable enough old
gentleman; he had the look of the man who visits
the racecourse possibly once in a year. You can
usually tell the regulars. “I say,” he asked eagerly,
“is Wee Glen in this race?” I pointed out gentiy
that a poor-class welter was hardly the place for a
colt that had won the last Queensland Derby and
Cup. He looked at. me doubtfully, and a little
suspiciously. “Oh, I dunno,” he muttered mysteri-
ously. “You never know what they’re likely to get
up to, these days.”
* * * *
“FY7”: It used to be a favorite trick to
put a penny on a billiard-ball in a small chalked
circle and bet the mug he could not knock the coin
out of the ring with the cue-ball. The thing is
being exploited at country shows, with minor Varia-
tions but the same old profit. A professor of it was
acquitted of playing an unlawful game on Glen
Inncs (N.S.W.) showground. His method, as ex-
pounded to the magistrate, was to put a florin on
the ball and charge Sixpence a shot at it, there
being no betting. The client took all the money he
could knock out of the ring for his reward. The
beak had a try at it in court and landed a bob after
five tries. Though this gave the professor a profit
of 150 per cent., his Worship called it a game of
skill, and the professor resumed practice at the show-
ground.
* * * *
The crowd at the Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night voted each of the four preliminaries
more thrilling than the 20-rounder between the
Manchester negro, Len Johnson list. l|lb.), and
the Californian coon, “Sunny” Jim Williams (list.
4jlb.). Johnson seemed scared of the shorter but
much broader Williams; at all events, the flatly
refused to make a fight of it. “When are you going
to start fighting, Johnson?” was a frequent cry.
Len won the first two rounds by a narrow margin
of points; then Williams scored four in a row. The
eighth was equal, and Johnson took the ninth and the
tenth. In the eleventh, however, he was dropped
heavily by a swing to the jaw and was flat
on his back when the bell came to his rescue, Wallis
having counted three. After that Johnson had no
stomach for fighting, and Williams, though dog-tired,
never gave him a moment’s rest. Williams the
Winner. Johnson i$ a beautiful boxer, but after his
showing on Saturday night it is easy to understand
how the welterweight Hood whipped him.
Marquis of Queensberry rules were for-
gotten when Billy Samuels (lOst. 41b.) and Jack Dale
(10st. 6flb.) did battle at Melbourne Stadium.
Samuels opened hostilities with annihilating but in-
accurate right swings, while Dale prodded with his left
and held his heavy artillery for a favorable opening.
Dale took nine seconds in the fourth round, and after
that the fight became rougher. Samuels landed
several low punches, and Dale retaliated by placing
his head under the abo.’s chin and straightening
suddenly, a graceful manoeuvre which he repeated.
The end came in the 16th. Dale ducked two wild
rights, and, after manhandling the abo. in a clinch,
emerged to land a terrific right-hand wallop flush on
the face. This convinced William that he’d had
enough.
* * * *
Motor-boating confirmed its reputation as
being the unsafest sport in the world to bet upon
when Century Tire (Sydney) met Tortoise 11. and
Lady Sid (Adelaide) for the Australian champion-
ship on the Port Adelaide River. Century Tire, an
importation from U.S., consists of a 450-h.p. Liberty
motor and very little else. When she feels happy
in herself, which isn’t very often, she walks the
waters at a bat of about 80 m.p.h. At Adelaide
she w 7 as unable to overhaul Tortoise 11., doing under
50 m.p.h., and in the third round smacked into
some floating obstacle, blew out two plugs, and barked
her way home a quarter of a lap behind. Lady Sid
ran on the beach at the first turn, and was too
badly damaged to continue, and Century Tire’s hull
was found to be hopelessly smashed by her accident.
So the 15,000' Adelaideans who assembled for the
contest didn’t see one. Tortoise 11. had a walk-over in
the second round, and retains the title and the
Griffith Cup.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The distinguishing colors
worn by the first English team to visit Australia
(B. 18/3/’26) were in their caps, and not their
sashes, as London Daily Chronicle asserts. These
were each of a single color—yellow 7 , pink, maroon
and so forth—and were certainly a dashed good idea.
The English custom of wearing a pet cap often
enables spectators to pick out an individual. “Plum”
Earner’s ancient Rugby School XI cap, which he
w T ore in all sorts of matches, was a ease in point, as
also was “W.G.’s” M.C.C. roofing. Australian practice
nowadays runs to uniformity. Even suburban cap-
tains insist on the abandonment of sentiment or
superstition in the matter of headgear and the don-
ning of the regulation club cap.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Much stranger things have
happened in country cricket, but this occurred on
an Adelaide suburban oval in a match of the class
that gets reported in full in next day’s papers.
Total score 45, of which Sundries made 12. Of the
33 from the bat. the first man in made 25, and the
last 5 n.o. This left three for one batsman, and
none for the other eight. The star bowler took seven
wickets for 10.
* * * *
Scotland clinched its hold on the Euro-
pean Rugby championship by trouncing England,
17—9; it had already beaten Wales, Ireland and
France. England seems to have struck a bad streak
this year, and with the Maoris and an Australian visit
in the offing would do well to hold a post-mortem
or two. There was a vast crowd at Twickenham
when the Scots won. It was headed by George V.,
who seems to have developed into one of the regu-
lars at the barracking game.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: Duncan Thompson, the
Rugby League half-back, who shook the dust of
Sydney off his shoes and returned to his native
Queensland after the N.S.W. League had suspended
him on a hotly-disputed charge of rough
play, has retired from football, for a season,
at any rate, on medical advice. A fine
attacking player, Duncan was easily the best man
in his scrum-half position that the League game in
Australia has produced, for though lie learned to
play footer in the Union game it was with the pro-
fessional code that he caught the limelight. He was
not so sound in defence against odds, and in this
respect must rank second to his Rugby Union contem-
porary “Wakka” Walker. As a coach he has worked
wonders with the game in Queensland, and he will
carry on in this capacity.
S * * * *
“Hamer”: The Sydney Rugby League is
wondering how it can revive the 13-a-side game,
which has slumped heavily the last year or two.
It has cornered practically all the desirable grounds,
but cornering grounds is a costly business when you
are not getting the crowds. The Rugby Union is
regaining its punch; the Soccer game is growing
in popularity, and even the little bite of Australian
Rules hurts. Meantime the League is finding no
new r stars to take the places of those who have
faded out of the game or gone to parts where the
money is better. If the League had made an
effort to maintain its popularity in its palmy days
its hopes might be brighter; but it is popular
neither with the public nor the players. It used
to have a strong political “pull,” but nowadays
it sees politicians rushing to take positions on
Soccer executives, and it moodily wunders what’s in
the wind.
* * * *
The North Adelaide Football iClub has
had the weird experience of being declared “black”
by the S.A. League. The ruling body had decided
upon an increased subscription, and all the other
senior clubs accepted it, with or without grumbles.
N.A. declined to vote accordingly at the annual
meeting, and w r as met with prompt disqualification
w T hen the League next sat. Its delegates appealed
for another chance, and were given a fortnight for
the club to amend its ways. Next evening, when
the B grade clubs met, the North Adelaide B was
told that the sins of the fathers must be visited on
the children, and that it also did not exist, in the
eyes of the League. So it obtained a fortnight to
appeal to the seniors not to be obstinate.
* • * *
Maoriland has found another notable
athlete in Stanley Lay, of Hawera. Last week he
threw the javelin 181 ft. 7in., which is easily the best
Australian performance of the kind, although the
Finns have done better. Lay, who is only 19 years
of age, is also a Taranaki rep. cricketer and a good
Rugby footballer.
THE WORLD’S TEACHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The new totalisators which are being installed at
Longchamps (France) by a Sydney firm will be oper-
ated by Australians till a French staff can be edu-
cated up to the work.”
I’ll tell the world we teach the world —
And shall until' it burst—
Whole stacks and strings of useful things
That we’ve discovered first.
The tracks we blaze they tread ; the plays
They stage that we rehearsed.
The ballot and the Torrens Act
Were ours, ’tis not denied ;
What Hargrave wrought, what Brennan thought,
Have opened portals wide •
Theirs were the brains the knowledge brought
That other men applied.
Melba we sent, her row to hoe
On Song’s sublimest peak,
And Asche in theatres to show
The way to be a Sheik,
And Murray for a Regius Pro.
To teach Oxonians Greek.
Though cricket with our fathers came,
’Tis true, from England’s shore,
As pupils apt we well may claim
We’ve taught our mentors more,
And showed them points about the game
They never glimpsed before.
And now to France Australians go
From this blest isle remote.
To study art or science? No.
Their talents they’ll devote
To showing poor old Jean Crapaud
The w:ay to run a tote.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


4010
3
031"
Irfft!
«!
1
W
Carry a spare
Quart Can
Should a shortage of oil occur
in the engine—when, as often
happens, miles from a garage—
the spare 1-qt. or 1-gal. tin of Shell
Motor Oil may save you a burnt-
out bearing or scored cylinder.
These handy tins and the usual
4-gal. tins of Shell Motor Oil,
together with the 1-lb. and 5-lb.
tins of Shell Motor Grease, are
obtainable at all leading garages.
As Superior as Shell Motor Spirit
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.
li'
lII** 1
11111 l
linn
SELF-ALIGNING
□ALL BEARINGS
Over 3,000,000 SKP Line shaft-
ing bearings now in use and giving
entire satisfaction,
THE skp BALL BEARING CO, LTD.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street
SYDNEY: 45 King Street
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: W. H. Knight and
Peter Bros., Ltd.
HOBAItT: Charles Davis, Ltd,
THE INKY WAY.
“Arthur It”: The Melbourne Morning
Post is a penny, and the other dailies are
three-ha’pence; hence this slogan which
decorates the portals of the office: “That
extra ha’penny could buy three extra Posts
a week.” “ ’Strutli,” somebody scrawled be-
low ; “a whole fence in a month.”
“Northerner”: There are enough journ-
alists and near-journalists in the Queensland
Ministry to run a paper of their own. Tom
Dnnstan (Lands), an old newspaper man,
is the boss of Gympie Truth. Alf Jones
(Mines) writes signed articles for the Daily
Mail, and occasionally hurls himself into
. jingle. Jimmy Larcombe (Railways) pro-
duced a series of articles for the Daily
Standard recently. Forgan Smith (Deputy-
Premier) also contributes to the official
organ.
Novelist Beatrice Grimshaw lately made a
journey of over 300 miles up the Fly and
Strickland rivers, New Guinea, visiting
Lake Murray, which was discovered in 1913
by Messrs. Burrows and Massy-Baker, and
has been seen by few white people. It is
beautiful lake country, inhabited by head-
hunters who live on picturesque islands. As
the only white woman ever seen there, she
had a rousing reception from the natives.
Miss Grimshaw accompanied the party of
tie Lieut.-Governor. The Pearson and
Newnes magazines will no doubt get the
venturesome lady’s account of her latest
wanderings: she is under contract to them
so far as this class of matter is concerned.
“Seebee”: Victoria Coffee Palace, Col-
lins-street, Melbourne, now T being demolished
to make way for an enlarged Town Hall,
has some vivid memories for old Inky Way-
farers. Thirty years ago or more it was the
custom for the night city roundsmen of the
dailies to muster there. Billy Salter, then of
the Argus and now of the Perth Daily
News, was then a star roundsman. Arthur
Woodhouse and Alf Wilson, his partner, of
the Central (Country) Press Agency, took
turns in calling. Alf let nothing surprise
him. “Just a few little things,” he told a
comrade who (without leave) took a night
off to go to the theatre. “There was a fire at
a timber-yard; damage, £40,000. Then a
fellow knocked his wife on the head and she
died ; and a coot was arrested for burgling
a bank. Nothing to speak of. Take a note
if you think the incidents are worth it!”
“R.C.”: Ever since I read the vivid de-
scription of a South African diamond-mine
in the opening pages of Leonard Merrick’s
“The Worldlings,” I have wondered how he
could put it before his readers in so few
words and with such telling effect. While
Merrick was in Sydney on his brief visit, he
gave me the answer ; for a couple of years
he was a foreman in a diamond-mine. Later
on he was employed in a solicitor’s office at
the Cape; afterwards he w T ent to London
to become an actor, and later an actor-
manager. Merrick’s family had visions of
him in a barrister’s wig and gown, but sud-
den reversals in the family fortunes put the
lid on that scheme. The novelist, who has
yet to come into his own, is one of the
quietest men I’ve met; in his kindliness and
his faculty of seeing everybody’s point of
view 7 he recalls Mark Sabre, the hero of
“If Winter Comes.”
“Bill Bowyang”: After my experience
with short stories and articles on the Ameri-
can literary market, I am convinced that
the Australian writer can do better in the
land of his birth than by carrying his suit-
case and portable typewriter to Uncle Sam’s
country. 1c wms a visiting Yankee editor
who convinced me that my pearling and Bau
rier Reef yarns and articles would “go big”
in U.S.A.; he instanced the success of James
Francis Dw'yer and Albert Dorrington, who
occupy a good deal of space in the 20-cent
fiction magazines. Both Dwyer and Dorring-
ton are fortunate in having secured the ser-
vices of honest, hustling literary agents who
manage to syndicate their work in U.S.A.
and England. I had to rely on a small book-
let entitled “The Writer’s Market” to find
likely homes for my MSS. During the past
three years. I have sold 51 short stories and
80-odd articles in U.S.A., and only in one
instance did I receive more than £2 per 1000
words. . A Brooklyn daily paid me £1 for a
2500-word article. Four different magazines
held my stories for a year and then wrote
stating their publications were defunct. Six
magazines did not return my offerings, and
two others published articles -with photo-
graphs supplied by me, but after 18 months
waiting I have lost all hope of receiving pay-
ment for them. I have received several let-
ters from editors of fiction magazines asking
for South Sea yarns with a strong sex in-
terest. Quite possibly the Australian writer
who is prepared to go to U.S.A. and write
this type of story will do well; it’s not m
my line.
A SOCIAL CHANTEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne social reporters were recently notified
that they must not arrive till three-quarters of an
hour after the guests at a reception given by th‘e
Governor-General, and that day-dress was to be worn.”
The gold-emblazoned chamberlain, his eye upon the
clock,
Was measuring with caution due its steady tiek-a-
tock,
When on his meditations there broke a timid tap,
And he arose and oped the door, that super-gorgeous
chap.
W hen, shrinking on the threshold, a female he espied,
W’ho cringed before his splendor as appealingly she
cried:
“1 am only a reporter, but that and nothing more.
Will you hide me in the wainscot or some worm-hole
in the floor?
My paquins are in tissue, and I’ve left my pearls
in pawn,
And I’ve brought my bite of supper—a biscuit and
a prawn.
I show- no patch of naked flesh, my dress is poor
though neat;
I’m cased in woollen stockings, and I’ve brogues upon
my feet.
My hat is almost English in its lack of line and
grace,
And I’m wearing of a gossamer to hide my dazzled
face.
My undies are red flannel, so all the world can see
I am merely a reporter—not a guest of the G.-G.”
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


llllllPfll
Hi
wm
*
mt
* '
f HI I!
ii hi!
vs0mmejm&s»nw&' » w * s
, v .a
*
W ,
,K
•'■■: mtw
---
'■\v:
S ;. ■ . ' B If
Hn saw
Hi
s* Wm’W
«|
Of
M
*
V
Ifiv
THE
ALL-BRITISH
PLANT.
EFFICIENT ELECTRIC LIGHTING
FOR THE HOMESTEAD.
tseer-
ZBJTISH built
e.
IS a well-balanced Electric Light Plant which is built up of units, each of which i 3
present in its most efficient as well as in its most reliable form.
The “Lister-Lite” Plant requires less attention than any other, and at the same
time has no complicated electrical apparatus to get out of order.
Under ordinary circumstances, it will be necessary to run the Engine only for a
few hours once a week to keep the battery charged. The rest of the time the
current is drawn from the battery.
Taken altogether, the “Lister-Lite” is a plant to settle your lighting problems
satisfactorily for all time, and that at a very low running cost.
In addition, you have an Engine that will give you its full power for other work,
should you at any time need it.
Practically speaking, therefore, with a “Lister-Lite” the first cost is the last. And
the initial outlay is not very great, considering the benefits you get in return.
Let us quote you for a plant suitable for the number of lights you wish to use.
Send for Catalogue “B” and full particulars from the Agents:-
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street,
BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
A. P. Sutherland,
2 Maffra Street (Queen's
Bridge),
SOUTH MELBOURNE,
VIC.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
ADELAIDE, S. AUS.
Malloch Brothers,
William Street,
PERTH, W. AUS.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
HOBART, TAS.
Levin & Co., Ltd.,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
■ ■
r
.
mi
11111
Sitlil
HI
M
*
m
m
am
SSsSI&v
w£
,
s °> .
A Complete “JLister-Lite” Belt-driven
Plant.
The Royal
Sydney Show.
Visitors to the Eastex
Show should not miss the
opportunity of seeing vari-
ous types of “Lister-Lite”
plant in operation on the
stand of Messrs. Dangar,
Gedye & Co., Ltd., No.
54 Park Road, straight in
from the main entrance.
“Seeing is believing,” and
one glance at the solid
construction and high fin-
ish of the components of
a “Lister-Lite” will con-
vince any discriminating
buyer thal r.~ \x a plant is
not a spec lation, but a
solid INVESTMENT.
(u
EB
JCuAtO'S
s
R A.LISTEIUC? IT?
ś


ti£6ed
CAVANDERS L T ? LONDON,
The rlCLjof
JO for &
anfnrDW
'Army Club Cigarettes''
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Ivatja”
Criterion “Give and Take”
Royal “White Cargo”
Palace “Kangaroo Flat”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fullers' Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's Pavlova
Royal 1 “Lilac Time”
King's “Quality Street”
Athenaeum “The Sport of Kings”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
The river of molasses on which the trim
bark of J. M. Barrie’s fragile art drifts gently
to the unknown sea—without running any
risk of ever getting there —commenced to
flow at Melbourne King’s with “Quality
Street.” The whole action of the play, with the
exception of an excursion to a ball, is laid
in the Blue and White Room of those prim
Early Victorians, the Misses Throssel. The
backcloth seen through large bow windows
when the curtains are not discreetly drawn
reveals Quality-street in the grip of winter
and later in the spring. The table-legs of
the chaste ladies’ furniture are not politely
draped, which argues a certain degree of
emancipation from the spirit of the times,
but the ladies themselves belong to the period
when fainting at the mention of Man was an
accomplishment of every well-nurtured
female, and when girls may quite conceivably
have died of broken hearts. Her sweetheart
having gone to the wmrs without confessing
his passion, Phoebe proceeds to die of un-
requited love, keeping the wolf from the door
the while by running a kindergarten, which
gives Barrie an opportunity to pull some of
the more obvious strings of human senti-
ment. Some highly-amusing comedy is here
intruded, together with much tedious over-
drawing of the prim social conventions of
the period—a period which, incidentally,
opened with the Napoleonic wars and closed
with the bloody business of 1914-18. The
soldier returns from the wars minus an arm,
and finds the timid creature, whom propriety
“QUALITY STREET ,” AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Mary Jerrold as Susan Throssel hears of the
horrors (and delights) of war from
Recruiting-sergeant Hubert Harben.
had forbidden to declare her love, a grey
woman of 30. In order to anchor his affec-
tion she assumes with some improbability
the disguise of a mythical niece to awake in
him the memory of her as a young and blushing
girl. It is, however, the grey woman of 30
whom the soldier loves, and the piece closes
with the lady abandoning her deception in
time to fall into her lover’s arms.
* * * *
One of the few technical deficiencies this
Page observed in a highly-polished show was
the habit of Brian Aherne, as the guardsman,
of indulging in monologues whose natural-
ness would be acclaimed in a 12 by 20 draw-
ing-room, but whose finer inflections occasion-
ally failed to reach a home in the vasty
spaces of the playhouse. This gentleman,
although his Ha’s and shoulder-shruggings
sometimes infringe the copyright of the re-
doubtable Dion himself, combined a refresh-
ingly simple air of romantic sentiment with
a pair of the longest legs which have ever
been seen upon the Australian stage, and
which were sometimes a heavy burden to
him. Angela Baddeley, as Phoebe Throssel,
acted the r6le of a simple and pathetic crea-
ture from about the level of her lanky friend's
third waistcoat button. She will be well
able to sustain the load of sentiment that will
presently be laid upon her as heroine of other
of the Scotch author’s plays. Mary Jerrold
provided a study of Phoebe’s timid but
roguish sister, at the memory of which this
Showman will continue for a long time to
enthusiastically applaud. Ronald Ward was
Ensign Blades, Mary Macgregor was a brisk
Irish slavey, Hubert Harben was a large
recruiting-sergeant, and the Misses Violet
Sterne, Betty Schuster, Joan Radford and
Sara Dartrey were a suitably acid chorus of
Early-Victorian spinsters. The sentiment
and humor of the last act was done in the
manner of Thackeray’s early contributions
to London Punch and the poetry of Felicia
Dorothea Hemans.
** * *
From the first week’s programme, which
was to Australian eyes rather on the sombre
side, Pavlova and her corps changed on
Saturday at Melbourne Majesty’s to one
which positively oozed the joy of the dance.
Even the “Snowflakes” ballet, in a setting
of snow-capped mountains and trees, amid
which pirouetted white-clad maidens and
men, beneath a silvery light and showers of
artificial snow, struck no chilling note. Music
from Tschaikowsky’s “Nutcracker Suite” in-
troduced steps varied and intricate, Pavlova
herself, all sparkling, rotating at intervals
with her stalwart partner, Laurent Novikoff.
From the Beethoven “Egmont” Overture the
curtain lifted firstly upon “The Magic Flute”
ballet, arranged to the music by Drigo.
Thursa Rogers had a real star part as Lise,
the maiden who adds to a pretty face a neat
accomplishment in a particularly high kick.
The lass danced her way into the highest
approval of everyone. Pianowski gained
fresh honors as Luc, and the ballet bristled
with comedy—a very colorful finale was the
dance of the peasants holding aloft small
sheaves of wheat. The offerings of the third
part were exceedingly diversified, beginning
with the Gopack, a Russian dance by a
sextette of males, which suggested Bolshies
gone brilliantly mad. With the first bars of
the Beethoven-Rreisler “Rondino” Pavlova
floated out, a tantalising vision whose white-
plumed fan played just as big a part in the
measure as her twinkling toes. Later the
star tripped it adorably in a gavotte with
Varzinski, and yet again to the Christmas
music of Tschaikowsky she was discovered,
evidently Christmas shopping, in a delight-
ful situation with five cavaliers. Mdlle.
D’Arcy raised echoes of Maud Allan in a
vivid portrayal of Anitra’s Dance (Greig) ;
Mdlle. Stuart and Dolinoff, as shepherdess
and shepherd, w T ere seen in an attractive Pas-
torale (Strauss) ; and Laurent Novikoff, a
sturdy archer, did come more clever stepping.
** * *
Joseph Cunningham’s stage presentation
of “The Sport of Kings,” at Melbourne
Athenaeum, is attracting almost as much
whole-souled attention as the list of starting-
prices in the dailies.
❖* * *
At Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday night
good-bye was said to the excellent Will Whit-
burn and his black-faced friends; and Jackie,
a sea-lion, made his species’ equivalent for a
bow. This comedian has a genuine sense of
humor, a spontaneous manner of delivering
it and a complete absence of self-conscious-
ness which would all be assets to many of his
two-legged colleagues. The three Swifts, the
aerial Benos and Harnston’s cockatoos are
s6me of the other ingredients which make
up an acceptably compounded cocktail.
** * *
Strabo refused to believe in the existence
of pygmies, but Melbourne Bijou’s audience
on Saturday will have no doubt about it
when Irving’s Imperial Midgets, 25 of tnem,
defile upon the stage and engage in many
accomplishments of normal races, such as
wrestling, boxing and walking to jazz. Mean-
time the same theatre’s communicants are
to the last conjoint orisons of
Gayle Wyer, his hard-working corps of revue
artists and the nigger minstrels.
iV -v - * * * *
At Melbourne Majestic Marie Prevost is
inviting various not over-reluctant males to
“Kiss Me Again.” Rex Beach’s “The Goose
Woman” forms the groundwork for the sup-
porting film. A celebrated prima donna is
the heroine, and in a series of dramatic inci-
dents everything about her is reproduced ex-
cept her voice. At Hoyt’s Tom Mix is
providing standardised goods in “The Best
Bad Man,” and Bebe Daniels, who displays
real talent for light and rippling comedy, is
demanding “Wages for Wives.”
❖ H: sfc
Melbourne has an epidemic of spots:—
No less than five art-shows invited the inspired
criticism of this Page in Melbourne last week. S.
G. Wells exposes nearly 400 cartoons and caricatures
in black-and-white at the New Gallery. This artist,
who brightens the columns of the Herald, recalls
the famous Chinese painter Wong Fu, who acquired
from the very first correspondence-school (circa 2000
8.c.) facility in drawing six types of contemporary
persons, all going the same way, and was thus able
to illustrate books in, which processions, funerals,
citizens pursuing thieves, and like subjects were
prominent features, but was compelled to reject con-
tracts for stories concerning lovers’ meetings or
prodigal sons returning to their fathers. The Wells
habit of depicting people in profile, all bound in the
same direction, is doubtless due to the exigencies
of daily journalism; apart from this idiosyncrasy,
the artist shows considerable humor and a free and
clean line.
Little need be said of the display of water-colors
by Miss G. M. Horne at the Decoration Galleries.
Two landscapes are well done —so well done that they
MELBOURNE MAJESTY’S.
Anna Pavlova and Laurent Novikoff.
throw into relief the immature quality of the rest.
The lady has an elementary feeling for color, but her
pictures are untroubled by any sense of form.
Margaret F. McLean and Bess Golding are showing
water-colors, oils and miniatures at the Oriental
Hotel. Opened by the Countess of Stradbroke, the
exhibition revealed itself as more a social event
than an artistic one. Miss McLean operates in oils
with something of the hearty lavishness of a plas-
terer’s laborer working on a suburban bungalow in
the absence of the boss. A rugged sense of com-
position here and there struggles out of the overplus
of paint, only to be promptly smothered before
it can express itself. Mrs. Golding has a pleasing
fancy in No. 36, “First Wattle,” but her traffickings
out-of-doors have for the most part only revealed
to her the fact that light and color are two of the
ingredients of nature without letting her into the
secret of their right proportions. With two excep-
tions, her miniatures art undistinguished ; and to the
possibly mistaken eye of this critic the two exceptions
look like tinted photographs.
At the Athenaeum Cumbrae Stewart is displaying,
among other things, a large assortment of backs.
This expatriated Australian knows more about the
geography of the human dorsal regions than any
other living artist, and other parts of the anatomy
have such little interest for her that she seldom
troubles about finishing a subject’s face. A famous
Spaniard exploited this device so successfully that
the British public cheerfully paid £20,006 for the
privilege of gazing on a lady’s spine; but the back
of Velasquez’s Venus inspires a curiosity which the
cold shoulders of Miss Cumbrae’s nudes fail to excite.
Her pastel landscapes, however, give unalloyed de-
light. Here she is prepared to consider all sides
of her subject without reserve. There is sufficient
movement in the streets of her French cities to
suggest that the local gendarmerie has a serious
traffic problem to deal with, and she achieves her
effects with great economy of chalk. The National
Gallery has wisely purchased under the Felton be-
quest two landscapes, richly suffused with lights and
one nude which has the advantage of containing a
deliciously-painted bottle.
A score of Sydney artists are inviting Melbourne
connoisseurs to unloose their purse-strings with a
rather unequal collection at the Sedon Galleries.
Long is represented by “The Blue Lagoon,” a picture
of tangled tree-branches and romantic water which
is at once decorative and curiously realistic. A
Hilder study does not satisfy. The middle-distance
and the horizon are of the same degree of hardness,
and the foreground is sentimental. Fullwood has
some little fragments that are eminently pleasing,
and John Banks has given a Decameron-like richness
and suggestion to his seascapes by introducing
ornate groups of people. F. Meade Norton, who has
just departed for the Great Smoke to imbibe inspira-
tion, has seen three aspects of N. S. Wales scenery
very sincerely; and a small study of a gate by H.
R. Gallop is warm enough to be worth laying by for
the approaching winter. Some recent etchings by
Norman Lindsay overshadow everything. This
wizard’s technique defies analysis, and he still dis-
regards suburban prejudices in his choice of subjects.
The critic of the Argus dismissed, the pictures with
the remark tjiat they are not the sort of thing one
could display in one’s drawing-room. But the same
devastating charge can be brought against Rubens’s
“Rape of the Daughters of Leukippos” and Michael
Angelo’s “Leda.”
** * *
Tlie factory whistle will cease to sound at
the Sydney Criterion next week. “Polly
with a Past” is anxious to face her Sydney
future, and Renee Kelly will introduce the
lady on April 3; so “Give and Take” will
have to go.
St. James’s, Sydney's newest theatre,
opens on March 26:
Dazzle of lights and the rush of cars skurrying,
Chattering freights in the vortex to fling
M here rustle of gowns intermixed with the flurrying
\\ hisper of footsteps as gay crowds come hurrying—
AH a glad chorus of festival sing.
Tis a rich feast that hails the night of your birth,
Latest of shrines to the Goddess of Mirth!
Hijshes the laughter, the babel of chattering;
Fades now the lignts that on rich colors glow;
Peace falls, expectant, on movement and clattering
Hark ! there is music! The orchestra scattering
Jewels of sound, with a lilt in its flow,
Leaps to crescendo. The stage is all set —
Rises the curtain on “No, No, Nanette.”
The sweat of West Africa is wiped from
“White Cargo” nightly and at two matinees
a week at Sydney Royal. The absorption of
stage whisky and the size of the audiences
both keep up well.
* * sf:
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” is to be re-created at
Sydney Grand Opera House on Saturday
night. Nellie Bramley will make Eliza tune-
ful as well as tearful.
Granyille-Barker's “Madras House” was
the first Sydney Repertory offering of the
year. The shutters of the establishment were
fiune- wide to a Saturday-niglit audience that
almost filled the Conservatorium. The play
is a four-acter, long winded and without much
movement. It concerns Woman and her
'economic independence, and cleverly shows
the string, whether silken, as in the case of
Jessica Madras (the wife of the young part-
ner of the firm), or cord-like, that hampers
her flight into freedom. For that matter, it
shovys that man is bound, too, and, the play
being of the perfect Repertory breed, the
final curtain falls like the gesture of one who
says : “Wriggle out of that the best way you
can!” Written 15 years ago when England
was crying out against the living-in system
that prevailed in the big stores, the play
revolves more or less around this theme; and
the strongest act (the second) deals solely
with this question. Here its vicious effect is
shown by four of the characters —Marion
Yates, admirably played by Doris ‘ Fitton;
the too-bitter Miss Chancellor, the house-
keeper ; and the hopeless, muddled Brig-
stock couple. Mary Pickard’s Mrs. Brig-
stock was too shrewish. The recurring
personality of Philip Madras w r as an out-
SYDNEY REPERTORY
THEATRE SOCIETY IN
“MADRAS HOUSE."
Harold Watch as the draper Huxtable, and
Albert Collins as Mr. State from America.
standing bit of work by R. E. Dickinson ;
Harold Watch as Henry Huxtable, the once
forceful, bigoted old man, shaken by illness
ipto a state of unsureness, was quite impres-
sive: and Albert Collins as the American,
Eustace P. State, plucked another laurel-
leaf.
** * *
The intrepid Vagabonds have the honor of
introducing Noel Coward to Sydney audi-
ences. Not Noel at his naughtiest, but in
his thistledown madness of “Hay Fever.”
The comedy of bad manners was given on the
tiny stage of St. James’s, and Ruby Coxhead
played the part in which Marie Tempest
has retaken London. With no directions to
go on and only their sense of the drama
to guide them, the Vagabonds dived into
this sea of the ridiculous, and succeeded in
blowing an iridescent bubble of fun up stage
and down for three acts and left it still float-
ing and dancing gaily at the final curtain.
Miss Coxhead was Judith Bliss, the just-
retired and just-about-to-emerge-again act-
ress-mother whose exaggerated sense of the
drama has her whole family in thrall. She
(Continued on page 36.)


A
m
ar
-J
EH
V
/p
iW
%
Get Ready
For EASTER
Packing-up time will soon be here, and the enjoyment of
your holiday will largely depend on what you wear.
Comfortable, well-fitting Shirts and Collars, that give you
that smartly-turned-out appearance, you must have; and, of
course, roomy but well-cut Pviamas are essential.
In a word:
You’!! need
Guaranteed
Shirts, Collars, Pyjamas
Fit
a
They
*
S
IPs
uj
70
o
>
Ip


W
S
■Z
/
/(
i
KS?
sss
: .'V
| HERE arc no better lamps for your car than CONDOR
AUTOMOBILE LAMPS. They throw a powerful, brilliant
light they are designed to resist vibration and jolts and are
economical in first cost and maintenance.
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street - Sydney
16 Chesser Street • Adelaide
493 Collins Street - Melbourne
Exton House, Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willi* Street
Wellington, N.Z.
iwas particularly good at the end of the
Isecond act, where an unconscious cue given
by one of her week-end guests sets her charg-
ing (even as the bugle is said to set the war-
-horse going) into the thick of her favorite
role. The flapper son and daughter, too, hyp-
notised by the cue, automatically swing into
ithe parts of lover and cowardly husband in
,support of their mother. The parts fitted the
players happily, and each slipped a gay little
pattern into the mad mosaic. :
* * #
Amongst three one-aqt plays staged at the
Sydney Railway Institute last Saturday
night by the Drama League of the Workers’
Educational Association was “To-morrow,”
by Professor J. le Gay Brereton —-it was
sandwiched between W. B. Yeats’s “The
Land of Heart’s Desire” and “The Jubilee,”
by Tcliekhov. Brercton’s effort, which suf-
fered from the stiltedness of some of the
performers, is an episode in the life of the
Elizabethan Robert Greene. The theme is
; rather sordid, but the atmosphere of the
period is well created by the meaty lines of
‘the author. *
❖* * *
The contortionist “dancing” of the sailoi’’s
'hornpipe by the male half of the Cavano
Duo on a slack wire provides one of the
most hilarious items on the programme at
.''Pullers’ (Sydney). New arrivals include
Southwood and Lady, moderately successful
in a much-tlie-same-as-usual dual-entertainer
act; and one of the pair of Murfaynes—the
new acts appear to be coming in pairs—plays
the xylophone uncommonly well. Jim Gerald
is in good form in “A Millionaire for a
Night,” in which Reg Hawthorne provides
‘good work as the catastrophic hotel engineer.
** * *
It would not seem like Easter in Sydney
without Wirths’ Circus; and the spangled
show has returned to its old address at the
Hippodrome. It was billed to make its open-
ing last night (Wednesday), too late for
any detailed review; but this Showman is
prepared to accept the managerial assevera-
tion that the show is better than ever. Yet
“as good as ever” would be good enough.
** * *
If there is a Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Songs it should send its inspector
to Sydney Tivoli, where “Katarina” is being
wickedly overworked. Nearly everyone drags
in the overdone lady at some time or other.
Two unstarred acts add very good weight
and variety to the programme—Pulvio, a
man who balances himself nearer the flies
than the stage on articles which give him
merely a pinpoint to balance upon; and
Walter Nilsson, the unicyclist, who does
"hazardous tricks with ease and good, honest
knockabout comedy. It is rather bad stage
direction that these two- turns, which might
be shuffled into the pack of-talky vaudeville,
fall together. Gautier’s clothed dogs are
a well-trained lot; the star dies very
realistically, and the distracted manner in
which another dog, dressed in widow’s weeds,
and the tiniest of all' stage pups, dressed as
a child, throw themselves in a tornado of
grief on the corpse, is very amusing.
❖ Hs * *
_ A preliminary trip of three nights has been
given in Adelaide to a locally produced
opera, “Yvonne.” The music, by Jack Few-
ster, is light but haunting, and Tom King,
who conducted, got the most out of it; also
the amateur ballets were the best part of
the show, and more could be seen of them
with advantage. The book, by Edith Aird,
a local presswoman and author of several
comedies (Nellie Bramley lias just bought
one of them), has great possibilities, but is
at present too much of a good thing. Three
Englishmen in Colombo get the gift of magic
transportation to any other clime desired,
and they elect for Venice, Japan and Egypt,
from which last’ scene they unaccountably
return to Ceylon in mummy-cases. Thomas
Nave as producer battled manfully with all
these' changes; scenery and setting were
charming. But for practical purposes^— these
performances were for Charity—the book will
have to be heavily cut. There were eight
intervals! The whole Egypt business could
best be spared; and the bewildered Professor
might be written up into a strong comedy
part. Douglas Walsh and Enid Bosanko
sang the leading lovers’ parts pleasantly, and
some sound comedy was furnished, low by
the author, light by Charles Langley.
* * t-
“Not So Long Ago,” screened at Hoyt’s
Sydney house this week, is the best work of
Sidney Alcott since “Monsieur Beaucaire,”
in which he showed what he could do in the
way of truly artistic production. Here lie
captures the atmosphere of 60 years ago, and
handles his people well. A crowd gathers
round the first “horseless carriage” ; and the
scoffer who is ready to race the new contrap-
tion on foot, the old man whose life is wrapt
up in his invention, and all the rest are
people of an age not grown blase, but greet-
ing the newcomer with incredulity. The pic-
ture compensates for the triteness of “The
Gilded Butterfly.”
Poverty
Point
“Hamfat” waves a last farewell:—
“Dear old Maggie! The best pal a man ever
had! ” I heard Harry Roberts say that one day
when a remark had been passed upon some good-
natured act of the lady whose death in America
was announced last week. The curiously-assorted
marriage between the elderly actress and young
Roberts was then several years old, and the fact
that Roberts always referred to Maggie Moore in
I’LL SING THEE SONGS.”
IMPATIENT CHAIRMAN (to vocalist on Ms tenth verse): “Hey, wake up — ye're talkin'
in yer sleep!”
terms of the wannest affection is commendation as
great as could be giver, to the disposition of any
woman. That it was thought necessary to lock up
the proceeds of her benefit in Melbourne last year
to save her old age from the consequences of her
habit of giving money away is another circumstance
throwing light on Maggie’s lovable character.
Maggie Moore (born Sullivan) sang “Just Before
the Battle, Mother,” at a benefit performance in
San Francisco when she was eight years old. A
manager gave her a contract at six dollars a week.
It was as a singer that she was put into a sketch
by a certain young J. C. Williamson, who had for
partner Clay Greene. The innovation was so suc-
cessful that Williamson turned the thing into the
play “Struck Oil”; then he married the interpo-
lated Lizzie Stofei, and, at George Coppin’s invitation,
brought the show to Australia. The first appearance
was at the Melbourne Royal, on August 1, 1874 ;
the company in March of the next year shifted to
the old Sydney Queen’s, in York-street. It went
on in 1875 to London; but after four years Wil-
liamson came under his own management, and
Maggie Moore’s history since then has been Austra-
lian. She played everything, from Shakspeare to
panto, and burlesque, and “nothing common did or
mean” in any memorable scene—or immemorable
either. Her final appearance was made last year
at the Melbourne Athenaeum, when she appeared as
a fussy housekeeping Martha in “Thank U” with
John D. O’Hara.
“Goldilocks”: More than once in its early
years the J. C. Williamson firm found the
going rough. When matters were at the
worst James Cassius was informed, through
an intermediary, that Maggie Moore had
£6OO in cash and two cottages she could
mortgage, and that he was welcome to the
lot to tide him over his difficulties. ‘“God
bless Maggie,” Williamson said; ‘‘but, of
course, I can’t accept.”
“Hamfat”: Alf Frith, who is leaving f-or
the U.S.A., was in the British Army before
he took to the stage. Coming to Australia,
he discovered a gold-mine—liis salary went
up by bounds from £2O to £126 per week.
But very little of the money he made stayed
with him ; and disagreements with J. C. Wil-
liamson, Ltd., led to the conclusion of his
contract, although there is no ill-feeling on
either side. Frith, with a dial which earns
a laugh even before he speaks, is likely to
do well in Yankeeland. If Hollywood dis-
covers that he has a film face, he will take
the shine out of a lot of home-grown com-
edians.
“Blum” : Dame Clara Butt returns from
the Vibratory Dominion with the observation
that music there hasn’t advanced for many
years. She thinks the conservatism of the
people is to blame or their lack of means of
musical training. But it isn’t that. It’s a
too-equable division of wealth and the almost
total lack of an idle-rich class. Climate also
enters into it; barring Auckland Province,
Maoriland may be regarded as the Scotland
of Australasia. It will spend its bawbees
lavishly on what it regards as a sound com-
mercial education, but has precious few ha’-
pennies for art. Almost every first-rate musi-
cian or painter who has visited the country
has deplored its inability to give its own
geniuses any sort of a start. I know, be-
cause I interviewed most of ’em on the
subject.
“A.G.M.” (London) : Allan Prior, de-
scribed as “Australia’s greatest tenor,” made
a pronounced success in “The Student
Prince,” a musical version of “Old Heidel-
berg,” the Shuberts’ first production at His
Majesty’s since they took over control
of that fine London theatre. His voice
is. very good, but a little restraint, which
will probably be at his command after the
anxiety of a first London appearance is over,
would have greatly added to the merit of his
performance. It was almost rapturously re-
ceived by the audience, nevertheless. The
young man comes from Sydney, where his
name was spelt with a final a.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Irene Vanbrugh has
again warned her fellow-workers that an
Australian tour must not be regarded as a
rest cure. The audiences, in her opinion, are
very well informed and excessively critical.
In joining up with those who deplore the
dearth of good plays in England, Miss Van-
brugh makes the interesting addition that
the same dearth exists everywhere, includ-
ing Paris, where she recently made a vain
hunt for suitable material. Openshaw’s play,
“All the King’s Horses,” in which she has
lately come back to the London stage, is a
pleasant trifle which makes no heavy de-
mand on her talent and is not likely to hold
the public for a long run.
“Flaming Youth”: Two members of the
company with which Maggie Moore opened
in “Struck Oil” at the old Queen’s Theatre,
Sydney, in 1875, are still alive. They are
Jimmy Martin, who played Peter Rowley—
he was a sexton in a Sydney church when
last I saw him in the flesh, though I have
since seen his shadow-shape in Australian
films—and Bobby Watson, who played Billy
Patterson. The other members of the cast
were J. 0. Williamson (John Stofel), M. W.
Andrews (Deacon Skinner), Bill Holloway
(Sergeant Flynn), E. B. Russell (Dr.
Brown), T. Lewis (Corporal Sharp), J.
Edouin (Sheriff), J. Dunn (Officer of the
Day), and Mrs. Woolrige (Katrina). Dunn
was father of that Rosa Dunn who played
Juliet at the age of 14, and married one
of the Lewises. Russeli died only a few
years ago. When the first actors’ union
was formed in Sydney all the survivors of
this cast, except one, were members; yet the
argument was raised that the union was not
composed of representative mummers.
"John's Wood” (Lond.) : There has been
considerable discussion in London as to the
desirability of suppressing all stage recalls
in the theatres until after the final curtain,
as the Irish Players and others appealing
strictly to the intelligentsia do. Marie Tem-
pest in a witty letter defends the old cus-
tom, since it is obviously the wish of the
audience to signify their approval. Irene
Vanbrugh, while admitting that applause and
recalls often destroy the illusion created by
intense scenes, contends that the “stupid
English custom” should be retained out of
respect for the audience. Sybil Thorndike
admits that applause is often stage-managed
by the producer so that the play may receive
the reward he considers it deserves, and at
the moment he thinks right; and she points
out that it is often difficult to prevent it at
points of danger. Margaret Bannerman, the
Canadian actress, approves of recalls as a
useful link between audience and artist. On
the whole it looks as though the ban pro-
posed will have to be reserved for the Old
Vic. Incidentally, Bernard Shaw has joined
in with a few cryptic remarks on the ques-
tion of theatre manners. “As far as the seri-
ous work of the theatre is concerned, I should
put applause during the performance on the
same footing as brawling in church.... The
only entertainments at which loud laughter
and applause should be countenanced are
those which have laughter and applause for
their object. Therefore what I have said
does not apply to clowning or to political
oratory. You pay a clown to make you
laugh. At political meetings no man would
dare to talk as political orators are expected
to do unless the audience encouraged him
and intoxicated themselves by dervishlike
uproar and antics.”
“M.G.S.” : Presumably the G. B. Post who
is reported (B. 11/3/’2G) as saying that
Sliakspeare is finished as far as the stage
is concerned is the American Guy Bates
Post who brought three specimens of modern
rubbish to Australia last year. If so, let
us compare his plays with three of the
Bard’s, leaving poetry out of the argument,
and considering only stagecraft. Bates’s
“Green Goddess” is a shambling thing along-
side the slashing melodrama of “Macbeth.”
The transformations of Bates’s “Mas-
querader” are feeble jugglery alongside the
mechanical perfection of Shakspeare’s
“Comedy of Errors.” Bates’s miscegenation
drama, “The Nigger,” though written re-
cently to deal with a present problem, is
already out of date, while Desdemona’s un-
fortunate infatuation with Othello and the
fruits thereof were made the subject of
special legislation by the Executive Council
of Papua only the other day. What Post
means is that the depressed modern theatre-
goer refuses to be elevated except by opium,
and that a wise actor-manager will turn
druggist. But even there Allan Wilkie has
been giving him the lie these many years.
An octave in art:—
Eight painters who have learnt to produce sale-
able pictures, but who, with one exception, suggest
no great desire to pursue that study of drawing
and color which might produce excellent paintings,
have let themselves loose in the Grosvenor Gallery,
Sydney. H. R. Gallop’s poster-art methods are
rather interesting; his “Heat, Haze and Smoke” is
a curious enterprise, in which he succeeds very
well; and “The Dry West” is almost a melodrama
of aridity. The styles of the artists vary from the
too-thin painting of Gordon Esling, which leaves
his well-drawn pictures lacking in depth, to the
paint ridges employed by Lloyd Rees. In “Winter
Morning” these ridges are apparently used to catch
light reflections which give, an impression of frost,
by which quaint trickery and some good painting
otherwise an attractive picture is evolved. H. 0.
Gibbons has tried in “Evening” weird experiments
with the legs of three girls who, forgetting their
clothes, have climbed to a hilltop to watch the
sunset. The evening lights on the hills show 1 higher
artistic aim wedded to some success; but when one
of to-day’s artists tries to paint the nude (which is
seldom) he usually makes it rude—it is distinctly
rude to suggest that our lady friends look like this
when they have on slightly less clothes than they
wear now as a regular thing. “Morning Haze” shows
Eric Langker at his best, or thereabout; there is an
assertiveness in his eight pictures, and he handles
oils with greater freedom than the others. Robert
Johnson’s eight are all of even, careful work, not
greatly inspired ; Norman Lloyd’s “Harvest Morning”
is a cleverish adventure, but unconvincing because it
is too staccato; and Robert Wadcn has splashed
paint on canvases with a cheerful disregard for exact
drawing and witn results more startling than
picturesque. Yet there is verve in his work, and his
failure is made in an obvious effort to paint something
more than merely pretty pictures.
MAGGIE MOORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those who have laughed with her and felt her tears
Envy her not the Peace that Time bestows,
The sleet that follows on the well-filled years,
Yet feel her loss as of one dear who goes
For ever from the hearth which, welcomed guest,
She gladdened with a moving tale or jest.
She stirred the tears that softened care-worn lives ;
She waked the laughter that makes glad the heart;
And still the harvest that was sown survives,
Though she who did the sowing may depart.
Hers are the tributes at a full life’s end
Of a broad land well pleased to call her friend.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


o o
1
I
&S>
v'-
m
m
.mm
m
/
m
k
0
CITROEN
AGENTS:
Marquette Motors, Ltd.,
121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
134 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co.,
453 Ann Street, Brisbane.
Janies Tombs & Co., Ltd.,
37 Albert Street, Auckland, N.Z.
N.Z. Motor & Engineering
Co., Ltd.,
19 Dowling Street, Dunedin.
Leadership!
Leadership in anything comes from the
possession of qualities of superior merit.
In the field of efficient, economical trans-
portation, Citroen is the undisputed
leader, and its suitability is as definite
for the commercial man who needs
dependable, economical transport for
his salesmen as its desirability is obvious
to the ordinary man who must have
economy to bring motoring within his
reach.
The Citroen record of achievement is an
impressive one, and —it s achievement
that counts. The number of Citroens
operated by leading commercial houses
is increasing rapidly, and the business
man is a keen buyer. The number of
Citroens privately owned is of such pro-
portion that people say of Citroens, that
“You see them
Everywhere.”
The World’s Economy Car
On account of its economy of operation the Citroen Taxicab has been selected by the Green Taxicabs, Limited, of
Sydney, as their standard cab, thereby following London and Paris, and duplicating their decision.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W


Get a B.S.A. for Raster
GET your new Motor Bicycle now and spend Easter on the
open road-visiting new places and new people. For
really enjoyable motor cycling a high-class motor bicycle is
essential. See that your mount is a B.S.A.- the machine
that has a world-wide reputation for reliability and value.
5120 miles on a B.S.A. 2.49-h.p.
Mr. Westwood, a veteran of 64, travelled
5120 miles over Australia on a standard
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. two-speed Motor Bicycle.
Part of the country he traversd in Northern
Queensland and Western New South Wales
was almost impassable, and he travelled by
compass over unmade and undefined roads.
Mr. Westwood says: “The machine proved
itself thoroughly reliable.... I can recom-
mend it to anyone requiring a light, service-
able one. It averaged 100 m.p.g.”
The B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. machine will give YOU
equally good service.
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial Motor Bicycle
B.S.A. Countershaft Three-speed Gear, Clutch, Kick-
starter, All-Chain Drive, Mechanical Oil Pump and
Grease Gun Lubrication, extra ground clearance
(sfin. minimum), 28in. x 3in. Dunlop Cord Heavy
Tyres, quickly detachable and interchangeable
Wheels, etc.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. Motor Bicycle
B.S.A. Countershaft Two-speed Gear Box, Clutch,
Kick-starter, All-Chain Drive, Mechanical Lubrica-
tion, Adjustable Handlebars and Footrests, Shock
Absorbers, etc. Weldless Steel Tubing and Forged
Steel Lugs throughout.
The B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial Model
The B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial Model is an
ideal machine for use over rough and unmade
roads and in hilly districts. Fitted with a side-
car it will prove a thoroughly economical and
reliable passenger outfit.
In the recent London-Exeter-London 24-hour
Trial, two B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. machines were
entered and both obtained gold medals,
premier awards. B.S.A. successes in this Trial
were ten Gold Medals and three Silver Medals
—further testimony to the consistent reli-
ability of B.S.A. Motor Bicycles.
PRICES FROM £57/10/-
i
Motor Bicycles
Send for copy of the B.S.A. Catalogue. Also for particulars of easy Payment System—you will
find it worth studying,
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
N.S.W.
Q’LAND
VICTORIA
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
FINLAY BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-i/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS.-MO/?7XOC#r BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA-®"** king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Austratia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
MARKS


Amusements.
g TDNE Y'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: KATJA.
CRITERION: GIVE AND TAKE.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
PALACE THEATRE. BIDKEI
Lessees: J. & N. Tait.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.15.
KANGAROO FLAT.
A Laughable 3-act Comedy by TAL ORDELL.
Tal Ordell, the original Ginger Mick in
“The Sentimental Bloke.”
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
QIC HARD S’ TIVOLI THEATRES
** Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pCLLEBS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S REST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre.
IRTHS’ HIPPODROME,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
Matin6es—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays
at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JC. WIIXIAMSON LTD., MF’”OURNJ
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS-MAJESTY’S:
PAVLOVA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE.
MELBOURNE.
THE STREET OF FORGOTTEN MEN,
with PERCY MARMONT as “Easy-Money Charlie.”
TOM MIX in
THE BEST BADMAN.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
K
ING’S THEATKE, JIELBOBBNE
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
“QUALITY STREET.”
T HE N M U M THEATKE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J* Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
Joseph Cunningham’s
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO.
IN
THE SPORT OF KINGS.
Laughable Farce Comedy—Not Drama.
Plans at Allan’s.
New bijou theatre, Melbourne.
Twice Daily, 2.80 and 8.
IRVING’S IMPERIAL MARVELLOUS
MIDGETS.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
VI
A J ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BAREE, SON OF KAZAN.
featuring ANITA STEWART.
AND
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
a Selznick Picture.
Matin&es daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
?ox Plans at Allan’s or Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
Legal Notice.
jOUTH AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME COURT.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 85 of 1926.
To CLIFFORD PAUL CONLY late of Adelaide iri
the State of South Australia Dyer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
tenth day of February one thousand nine hundred
and twenty-six hasi been issued in the Supreme Court
of South Australia citing you to appear and answer
the petition of MAY LESLIE ALEXANDER CONIA
>f Oval Terrace Kensington Park in the said State,
Married Woman praying for a dissolution of her
marriage with you IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said charge
proved and pronounce sentence in respect thereto
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within twenty-one days from the
date of the publication of this advertisement to
attend in person or by your, Solicitor at the office
>f the Master of the Supreme Court Victoria Square
Adelaide and thereto enter an appearance in accord-
ance with the Rules in that
»■ Deputy Master.
Gordon A. Pavy, Mutual Life Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide, Proctor for the Petitioner.
“Ireland and Her Three English-made Gods.”
Price 1/- post free.
ALL BOOKSELLERS and
1 DARLEY PLACE, DARLINGHURST,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
ŝ
A STIFF
with-THE PLUM RAZOR,-'"
CRAIG & fIITKEN,
654 b GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
ş
r-
i.
x
HOLDS 50# MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fills and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK —Best for all Pens.
fflK-
m
Yi
TpjeLand of Romance
Canada! The Eldorado of Childhood’s Fancy
" \ }
"yEEMING with youthful memories cowboys,
redskins, the mighty Rockies, wonderful trains,
Niagara Falls, and the heights of Quebec.
All these form the fascinating setting to a journey
via the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
Magnificent ocean mansions transport you through
the island jewels of the Pacific, to lazy Honolulu,
and to beautiful Victoria, 8.C., with its famous
Gardens
You can book right through to Vancouver,
Montreal, New York, and London.
Writ* now for illustrated booklets to any office of the Union
S.S. Co., any Tourist Booking Agency, or to
J. Sclarer, Representative
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
Union House, 247 George Street. Sydney
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAV
n
j
Sydney
Royal
Show.
Visit Stand
No. 2,
Chelmsford
Avenue.
WARBURTON,
FRANKI, LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, MELBOURNE. LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Jgt Electricity do
die Ham work
Every day and everywhere we see machinery doing the
work which until a few years ago was done by manual labor.
In the factory, workshop, farm and shearing-shed, the
most modern machinery saves times, labor and money. Should
not electricity assist in your country home?
There was a time when the city folk had the advantage,
but to-day this cannot be said, because hundreds of country
homes are now experiencing all the joys of comfort and
convenience made possible by Delco-Light.
Just think what a wonderful difference it would’ make
m YOUR home—brilliant Electric Light—Fans—Electric
Irons Vacuum Cleaners Pumps Separators Washing
Machines —Dish Washers—“ Frigidaire,” etc., all can be used
with Delco-Light, and the cost of running them is negligible.
—the Electric Refrigerator—is
tionising country life. Not only is fo
« .V C.
revolu-
i food made
more appetising and the range of dishes available greatly
increased, but the saving in meat and other perishable foods
makes it a decided economy as well as a col ™ort.
“FRIGIDAIRE” can be run in conjunction with Delco-Lignt,
or from any electric supply of sufficient quantity.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tas.
DELCO-LIGHT


100 COPIES IN A PEW MINUTES.
Clean, Certain, Simple, Climate-proof.
R E X-——The Duplicator
For Pen or Type, Letters, Music, Drawings.
Satisfaction
1216
Guaranteed,
or Money
Returned. Foolscap Size.
Write DIBBS & CO., Station House, Sydnr.i
Postage 1/9.
Kot N.S.W., 2/8.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m
■il!"
BE
Hi
BRITBSH
MADE
Perfection
pitsk: rubber
Children
enjoy
c
it makes them
Well and strona
In4>sizes
of all Chemists 4 Stores
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Why China Sees Red. By PUTNAM
WEALE, author of “The Re-shaping
of the Far East,” etc. With Illustra-
tions and Maps. 12s. net.
The Spectator: “It is a pleasure to have
such a capable, well illustrated and clearly-
written narrative of events in the Far East at
this time.”
Evolution. By J. GRAHAM KERR,
F.R.S., Regius Professor of Zoology
in the University of Glasgow. With
2 Plates in Color and 53 Illustrations
in the text. 12s. net.
This is a book for beginners. Its object is
to provide a sketch in outline, approximately
correct in its proportions and not overburdened
with detail, of the evolutionary science of
to-day.
The Novels of Hugh Walpole.
Pocket Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. net.
Leather, ss. net each.
THE DUCHESS OF WREXE.
THE DARK FOREST.
THE CAPTIVES.
THE YOUNG ENCHANTED.
The Works of Shakespeare. Chrono-
logically arranged. In three volumes.
With Introductions by CHARLES
WHIBLEY, and with 40 Illustra-
tions. Cloth, 7s. 6d. net. Half
Morocco, 10s. 6d. net each. Vol I
COMEDIES ; Vol. 11, HISTORIES ;
Vol. 111, TRAGEDIES.
To bo Obtained from aii
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne & London, W.C.2.
Missing Friends.
J. E. IVERS (last heard of at Orange,
formerly of Ryde) or any person aware of his
address kindly communicate with Pigott, Stinson,
Matgregor and Palmer, Solicitors, 2 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
\S/ILL MR. MARTIN JOSEPH RYAN, who usually
stays at 351 Spencer-street, Melbourne, communi-
cate with Olarke and Co. Pty.. Ltd., 281 Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne, when he will hear of something
to his advantage in connection with property at
Lima.
JP RUBY MAY ADELINE ROBINSON, widow of the
late David Robinson, of Cronulla. railway employee,
will please call at Messrs. Stephen, jaques and
Stephen, Solicitors, of 12 and 11 O’Connnll-street,
Sydney, she will hear of something to her advan-
tage.
. ■
as
QjmlriWlK
FOR
COMFORTABLE
SIDSCAR&INO
i
Are you as Careful choosing a Sidecar
as you are
ç
c
your Motorcycle?
HTOO much depends on the
sidecar for you to be careless
as to what sidecar you use.
Every Goulding Sidecar, Chassis
Special or Standard, in-
corporates the patented
Goulding floating axle
and scroll spring shown on
the left —the feature which insul-
ates the motorcycle from the
movement of the sidecar wheel
over the roughest road.
In most cases a Qoulding' costs less than an ordinary Sidecar
GOUL DI KG SI DEC AB. S
Sold by Most Motorcycle Dealers throughout Australasia
G. HEALING & CO. PTY. LTD., 354 Post Office Place, Melbourne, 27 Hyde St., Adelaida
v ' Manufadurers and Wholesale Distributors
JHmt
A
! Rohe^
‘ Mexican ’
29/6 p - ir
REGISTERED DESIGN No. 55 9 8
S— S
Built to our exclusive Registered design
OIJUO tyold” strapped tops. Fits
any be strapped, tightly ox
loosely widi comfort. GTie new Gusset-
ted sides will not allow sand or grass seed
to enter. Made in black or tan calf. You
can depend on die wear. cAll Sizes
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd
In £)ueen Street, Brisbane
MAIL TO DESK “S/R
STATE SIZ
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Innisfailure: The fact that rabbiters now
travel in their own motor-cars no more proves that
the introduction of rabbits was a blessing than
the fact that doctors ride in their cars proves that
the introduction of disease is a blessing. .. .A. A.P.:
You eat too much precious space.... Burr B.: We
can’t undertake to return MS. of unaccepted para-
graphs. Pretty often a sub-editor’s pencil nas
struggled to make them acceptable before throwing up
the job... .T.D.A.M.: Too wordy. If you would
come to the point in simple language, it would make
quite a good par Lenker: “Touch” will do when
it has been pretty heavily pruned.. . .Mayne S.: You
haven’t made “Old Days” very picturesque... .Civis
A. : Don’t care for the method; and you generalise
too heroically.... Mollie Me: Well enough done, but
you throw no fresh light on a very familiar subject.
....P. Shipton: Not enough meat in your hash....
IV .B.; “The Ridge” is too hard to swallow. That
court scene seems very unreal. .. .J.H. (Syd.):
The verse is tolerably metrical, and the prose
is undoubtedly patriotic, but neither says
anything fresh.... J.R.L.: Too stiff in the
joints. .. .Albert J. R.: Not very helpful, is
it ?.. .. Blanc; Better wait till you get the text of his
remarks Cecil W.: Doesn’t quite fit the case
B. : He was discussed recently ; and your open-
ing sentence is terrifying A.P.M.: It hung awhile
in the balance. But it is overdone... .Whyte L.: A bit
thm. .. .G.L.: Written in a fist that gladdened the
copy-reader’s heart; but that’s'the best that can be
said of it.,. .R.P.H. (Tas.) : Both forms are used col-
loquially, but the second is correct. . .E.M.: It sounds
like one of the prophecies of Yardumble the son
of Yam, translated from the original Pushtoo:—
Out of earth the swarm shall come in glittering
robes and mirth,
And play before his Majesty the origin of birth.
The shell of clay is left behind to vanish with the
rock,
And all the jewels in earth’s hide will flv in smoke
and shock.
The knaves shall see what fools they be who barter
glory for smoke,
New' are the birth of heaven and earth, old marion-
ettes cloaked.
The earth is gone and all therein, the heavens van-
ished too,
Eternal life for man and wife who live as they
should do.
....John E.: The dreary autumn doesn’t say much.
. ...E.M.J.: Don’t remember the songs you mention.
The present verse falls short 8.8. (Bowen); That
idea is not new....Aragun: A bit too raw. .. .M.G.
(Bendigo) : Two initials are not enough for identifi-
cation—in fact, even three initials arc duplicated
time after time by correspondents. The verse is
horrible... .E.D.C.: You fail to make a printable
story of it... .H.C.K.: Must be better than that to
win a place. .. . W.J.T.: Doesn’t quite carry its idea.
B.W.C.: Clumsy verse, and, after all, it only
strives to repeat commonplaces. . . .R.D.Y.: Wild
stuff even for a picture-show... .A.G.M.: One start-
ling stanza:—-
Dream not, 0 mortal of the Dust
But lift thy weary bones,
For life is given that we must
Regard all dreams as stones.
... C.C.M.: Misses, but it went near....D.K. (North
Fitzrov) : All too weak.... Yellow jacket: The chief
fault is that it says nothing fresh; and there is a
clumsiness in every fourth line. .. .Caisar: Nothing
that cries for print B.F. (East Melb.)-: The
drunk story of the scoop is very mild. . .‘.J.H. (Haw-
thorn) : No use to us... .M.8.P.: Not quite....
T.M.W.: We have seen many worse first attempts,
but it is far 0ff....A.8. (Waverley): Planting a
moan of that kind in central Asia takes it too far
from reality Feste: No thrill in it... .8.W.C.:
The romping water-lily is too wild a beast....
Pisces: We don’t long for blank verse; and yours
is not a workmanlike sample... .A.D. (South
Yarra) : Not the goods for this market... .L.A.S.:
The grass on the ridges has too many awkwardnesses.
. ...R.M. (Flinders): Not well enough done....
W.E.8.: It seems a shade worse for the improve-
ments Mike M.: They are all too thin. Find
something to write about....El Cee: Shockingly
weak stuff. .. .Syd B.: Both verse and prose fail. ...
F.0.M.: The sketches have little freshness of matter
or treatment. .. .L.H.R.: We don’t like it
Ripponlea: The sonnet is of the hardwood variety
with a true stringybark scansion:—
The uncommissioned telegraph-pole has no necessary
Import. Its bare and sadly useless appearance,
When denuded of every usual accessory,
Merely creates a feeling of aesthetic 'weariness.
But when the wires are adjusted in orderly sequence
Its uses are diverse and most ideally utter;
And the pole then assumes a pleasing significance
Albeit its being generally associated with the
gutt’r.
Yet, in such close proximity are, for convenience
sake,
Those endless wires, where silently speeding words,
With agitated haste, their particular ways take
Beneath the claws of occasional perching birds.
The wires appear interminable and never dislocated,
The joints being very neatly executed.
. ...G.E.11.: Small incident poorly t01d....J.C.
(Double Bay): Not for us J.M.R.: Weak and
pious-commonplace... .M. (Newport): Must go back.
. ...J.D. (Hong Kong) : The lady doesn’t appeal to
us E.W.T.0.: Not enough in it J.A.H.: The
dream man is too plainly of the manufactured sort.
A.M.8.8.: Murphy hasn’t enough interest....
K.S.C.: Picture-show stuff that bears no real re-
lationship to the life it pretends to depict....
W.J.W.: Not nearly good enough Alone: The
verse doesn’t move us Royee H.: Too long and
tedious in the telling for the rough-and-tumble
thing it is C.C.M.: Not for us John M.: The
monkey affair is not particularly exciting..,.
A.W.R.: The verse is as rough as bags. .. .M.T.Iv.:
If you mean to write verse write it. That sort of
thing is sheer waste of time. .. .N.R.W.: Weak com-
monplaces in poor verse A.W.D.: It has some
pleasant lines; see if you can’t improve the rocky
ones.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.A.: Mutilated bystanders in a mangled setting.
W.H.D.; Will manage to carry on G.T.: The
lady’s legs are tangled L.L.: Doesn’t strike us.
D.S. : Figures toppling within a maze of super-
fluous lines E.T.: Declined R.8.C.: The re-
cumbent plumber is an eyesore D.L.R.; Spare us
from fashion-plates F.K.; The child on the pedes-
tal had an inglorious fall A.W.L.: Very poor.
... . D. 8.: Surely that forbidding aperture is not the
front entrance? C.N.W. : Those at the top can
take liberties; you can’t A.D.: Don’t scratch.
R.G.: White gaps in a lake of black .A.H.T.:
“Golf Bug” attacked and fatally injured... .V.P.:
Only an unwise cat would remain on such a ram-
shackle. .. .W.K.: Take the smouldering heap of
ruins away... .F.S.: We want jokes, but don't
make them as long as leading articles.


A
1
fM
MISS JACQUELINE LOGAN
ssys:—“Recently some friends in-
duced me to use Rexona Soap. The
first trial converted me to it. Rexona
Soap seems to stimulate the scalp and
the hair and gives a beautiful lustre.”
MISS ANITA STEWART says:—
“I have teen using Rexona Soap regu-
larly for my hair, and because of the
beneficial results I have obtained I use
it exclusively
MISS RUTH CLIFFORD says
—“Rexona Soap is the best ever.”
Noted Hollywood Stars are
Rexona Girls!
MISS VIRGINIA VALLI says:—
“As a shampoo for the hair I find there
is nothing to equal Rexona Soap; 1
use it constantly
All the world over Rexona Girls hold the
palm for Health and Beauty.
In far-away Hollywood, the
home of the Movie Picture Stars,
health and beauty are a necessary
asset to success. ’
Hollywood has its Rexona Girls as well
as Australia, for the Movie Stais must have
beauty—-that natural beauty which only
Rexona and. Rexona Soap give to skin and hair.
Rexona and Rexona Soap are the Rexona
Girl’s aids to beauty. With their assistance
she rids her skin of blemishes and pimples,
keeps her hair and scalp in such perfect con-
dition that she is the envy of all her friends.
But the Rexona Girl is not selfish—she does
not keep the secret to herself, but wishes all
the world to rejoice with her. Over 5000 girls
have written to the Company the glad news
that they are Rexona Girls and find the Rexona
Products the most wonderful aids to health
and beauty.
They say that Rexona Soap keeps their
skin and hair healthy and beautiful and should
be used by every girl who values her good
looks. They say they are always finding new
uses for Rexona the Rapid Healer, and many
of their letters contain a photograph which
chows by its beauty that these users are getting
the best results in health and happiness. Are
you satisfied with your looks? Why not be-
come a Rexona Girl, and use only Rexona and
Rexona Soap, too?
MISS
—“I use
skin and
MADGE BELLAMY says:
only Rexona Soap jor my
hair”
MISS PATSY RUTH MILLER
says:—“l am. sure I owe much of my
beauty of skin and hair to Rexona
Soap. It is superb.”
Rexona soap
Health
“td J^eauly
c
16
%
'A
mm
I
m
SOAP
medicated
m
sags
AaVmuV.
' ;
\A'W
sg?


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
broli
V*.
WSM
By building your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROEITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Kooflng with "I'IBKO-
X.ITE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
"Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
lllllimmimiMlHmimimmiiimiim
'
One Sheep
may follow another. Mankind has frequently
been criticised for taking the same action.
But the man who grows wool and follows
this advice takes a sound step which gains
general approval.
Send the Clip to
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD .
Sydney or Brisbane,
L 3
RUPTURE ;
A FREE TRIAL.
“ I** * l * troubled with the complaint, write us and
Wa will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Thty appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
prtt day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold • rvptuie
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price ia within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street, Melbourne
The Public Trustee
Established Ist January, 1914
(Under State Guarantee),
ACTS AS
Executor - - Trustee,
Administrator,
Attorney or Agent,
Trust Funds Available for
Loans on City or Suburban
Freeholds.
Full Particulars Furnished
on Application.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
(C. mro
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
“Now, good digestion wait on appetite,
And health on both!”
Shakespeare knew the value of a good digestion —
knew that it y s not what you eat , but what you digest
that lays the foundation of health ______
Biit of ail the distressing complaints that attack human beings,
Indigestion is by far the most commonplace. This depressing,
devitalising ailment is the deadly enemy of health and happiness,
for you can’t feel well when the digestive organs fail to function,
denying your body the necessary nourishment from the food you
eat. In this condition lassitude overcomes you, a morose, irritable
disposition sets in, your breath becomes offensive, the skin dry,
hard and withered: That’s Indigestion. But you can get
well—and quickly too —by the use of that Medical Gem
KRUSE’S .
FgdJjgpsifl
One or two doses will convince you that you are taking the right
medicine. You will feel the difference as the stagnant secretions
are expelled, as they must be if you take the genuine Kruse’s
IMS'S
FUfIDWHattSW
This searching, though non-irritating aperient, more like a si rkling mineral
water than a medicine, ts healthful to people of all ages s and so pure that
it can safely be given to young infants
DO IT NOW. Put your digestive system in good trim by taking
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Bottled in 3 sizes (the half-crown family size will
be found relatively cheaper), and Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co. Prop. Ltd., Melb .
“Maxa”
Manganese
Steel.
mf,
Jaques
Gyratory
Stone Breakers
Capacities
from 1 to 400
Tons per hour.
PORTABLE ROAD PLANTS, ELEVATORS, Etc.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured by
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented by:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., 218 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Messrs. FRANK R. PERROT, 883 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Alpha Beta”: C. J. Miller, of Brighton
(Vic.), is the proud owner of a guinea-pig
farm. The output has a ready sale among
the hospitals and universities throughout
Australia.
* * * «
“Petrie” : Queensland jurymen may be the
next to go on strike. Following a record roll-
call of 120 jurors at Brisbane Supreme
Court, a deputation waited on Attorney-
General Mullan an.d asked for an increase in
fees from 13s. 6d. to fl Is. a day, or at least
to the basic wage equivalent (175.). Mullan
was sympathetic, but would not promise any-
thing definite.
* * * «
“Sucre”: “Wandi” (B. 11/2/26) mentions
a red cedar-tree in the Atherton scrub fetch-
ing £250. That is just £ll5 behind the
vahie of the giant 1 saw at Weerimbali
(Atherton Tableland). The expert estimate
of its measurement was 33,000 super, feet.
The lucky selector-owner refused £365 for
the cedar “pencil.” What it brought after
being shaved and dressed and taken out to
the cabinetmakers would probably buy half
a dozen Randwick racehorses.
*** i •
“T.D.”: “That wool be paid for on the
weighing-out” weight was a short resolution
passed quickly and unanimously by the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Conference. Buyers are not likely
to accede without a grumble. Hitherto wool
has been sold on the “weighing-in” poundage
—the weight of each bale when taken into
store. Yet the buyer has had the exclusive
right to demand a “weighing-out” if he
thought his purchase was lighter than
branded. Wool-weight generally increases
in store, a 101 b. rise in a 3001 b. bale being
by no means rare.
* * * *
South Aus. has just received the first con-
signment of 30 big railway locomotives which
Commissioner Webb insisted on when he
came from the U.S.A. to take charge. They
vary from the Mikado type, 172 tons, to the
Pacific of 200, and the Mountain of 218. The
last, built by Armstrong, Whitworth and Co.,
of Newcastle-on-Tyne, are the heaviest yet
constructed in Britain. These will be used
through the hills behind Adelaide. At pre-
sent three engines pull a heavy Melbourne
express up to Mount Lofty, and two take it
on to Murray Bridge; total time, about three
houps. Webb reckons that one of the new
engines will do the whole job in two hours.
The Pacific type will do some fast running
from the Murray to the Victorian border.
The lighter type will be used on less heavily-
laid rails elsewhere.
* * * *
“Petrie”: Queensland commercial travel-
lers now enjoy the benefits to be derived from
arbitration laws. The Commercial Travel-
lers’ Union (a registered industrial union,
distinct from the C.T.A.) began by making
an industrial agreement with the Associated
Softgoods Warehousemen, the Brisbane Mer-
chants’ Association and the Chamber of
Manufactures, and registering it in the Arbi-
tration Court. The union next applied to
the Board of Trade and Arbitration to make
the agreement an award of the Court, and
declare it a common rule, and the board com-
plied. Hence the wages, hours and condi-
tions set forth in the agreement are now
binding on all persons employed as commer-
cial travellers in Queensland, whether mem-
bers of the union or not, and on all em-
ployers.
* * # *
“Bio”: Motor-car excursionists of all
classes seem unable to resist orchard-
robbing, and repeated fines and prosecutions
have no apparent effect. But ingenuity has
turned this curse into a blessing for the
struggling fruitgrower. A telephoto snap-
camera is now part of the orchardist’s outfit,
and it is liable to click at any moment from
ambush when raiders are about. The idea
is that the culprit, learning from the indig-
nant photographer that his picture is “took,”
will be ready to pay a fancy price for the
film, and he generally is. Certain appa-
rently lonely and unprotected orchards near
a motor-road are now proving highly produc-
tive. It is a poor Sunday or holiday that
doesn’t see some orchard-pillager, caught in
flagrante, paying up to destroy the evidence
against him.
* * * •
Awstruth”: Some quaint swindles were
worked at border Customs houses in pre-
Commonwcalth days. A hawker sent a load
of boots by road to Wodonga (Vic.), making
no secret of his intention to dodge the Cus-
toms. When he was stopped at Albury and
informed of the amount of duty payable, he
told the Customs officer in a pained voice
that they would get no duty out of him; he’d
sooner lose the boots than pay it. The stock
was seized and put up for auction. In the
auction-room it was discovered that the boots
were all left-footed, but an optimistic gent,
made a modest bid, saying there must be
a lot of one-legged blokes in the country.
After a reasonable interval another load of
boots was brazenly consigned to Wodonga
rail > ai , ld ’ °f course, was stopped at
Albury for duty. That not being forthcoming,
another auction sale was held, aiid again a
retiring but enthusiastic believer in the one-
legged theory made a small bid and clicked,
ihen the hawker arrived and sorted his
duty-free footwear into pairs.
* * *
“Ces”: The Amalgamated Wireless Co.’s
beam station at Ballah (Vic.) is now very
near completion. Six masts, 250 ft. high and
each a netAvork of steel girders, have been
erected on concrete foundations tested to
stand a strain of 100 tons. Three of the
masts have been fixed to transmit messages
to England ; the other three to Canada. Most
i th j e m T ain buildi . n g s have also been com-
pleted. In the chief powerhouse there are
three 150-h.p. Diesel oil-engines which are
to be coupled to a 90-kilowatt generator.
Elaborate precautions have been taken to
prevent A’ibration of these engines interfering
with the transmitting appliances: the engine-
beds rest on concrete rafts, which are sepa-
rated from the ground by cork plates and
malthoid. When the plant is installed the
station will, it is expected, transmit messages
at the rate of 15Qu..wor'ds a minute.


sss*
O.V&' 4 ’
9?£
CVS*
*£S*e
sJc.V'
&\>C*
«*"
xo»
sSS®
B jNJSCN*K»N*S'S | S , 33N3«!>*S*e***««**»acaMN«»lNi&«Ni>NNe'NCBMaM
r
V
o
V
i^
y
I j
.
a
X
&
ft
\
First Lady:
I wonder how it is I can’t
get a shine on my shoes
like these they show in
shops?
Second Lady:
Oh, there’s no secret about
that, my dear* They use
“Nugget.” I’ve always
used it, because I find it
gives a brighter and more
lasting shine than any
other-
Made in
Black, Tan, Light
Tan, Dark Tan ,
Red Stain, Nigger
Brotvn, Patent and
White .
NUGGET boot POLISH
pqmds aiLL
'His Master's Voice’
of Supremacy
Do You Appreciate Good Music?
There are few people indeed who do not appreciate music of
some kind, whether vocal, solo instrument or orchestra, classics
or the latest dance melody.
“His Master’s Voice” Records and “His Master’s Voice”
Instruments have opened to every music lover the whole of the
vast realm of music—the art of the world’s musical leaders,
reproduced with perfect fidelity to the originals.
The keener your appreciation of good music, the fuller will be
your enjoyment of “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and "His
Master’s Voice” Records.
Finest Instruments—Finest. Recording.
STUDIO
GRAND
The Studio Grand.
The Studio Grand is a very popular
model. It is designed on lines of classic
elegance. Height width 18£in.,
depth 21 ; 1 double-spring
spiral-drive motor, 12 in. turntable,
speed regulator and automatic speed
indicator. The Studio Grand has a
large-size tapering tone-arm, with
“gooseneck,” “His Master’s Voice”
soundbox of new and
improved design,
horizontal shelves for
120 records, auto-
matic brake.
Mis k sio r „. £39/15/-
Maple or Mahogany
finish, £43.
“His
Master’s
Voice”
The Bungalow Model.
The Bungalow Model is another popu-
lar favorite. The simple dignity of its
aspect makes an instant appeal which is
ably reinforced by its perfection of re-
production and beauty of tone. Height
39iin., width 1 7in., depth 20in. In-
ternal floating horn. The Bungalow
Model has a 1 £in. double-spring motor,
1 Oin. turntable, speed regulator, “His
Master’s Voice” “Ex-
hibition” soundbox,
automatic brake.
Horizontal shelves.
Mbsion. £29/10/-
Maple or Mahogany
finish, £32/10/-
MODE!
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-marJc.
MANY MODELS AT MANY PRICES.
Terms Arranged.
Illustrated catalogues of instruments and records and name of nearest
dealer on request.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
THE, GRAMOPHONE COMPANY, LIMITED
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Five Ktw Patented Features
:
\<&°
* «XV° r
Protect*
Perfectly
€
Writes
Wonderfully
SECURITY
Cheque Protector
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Priees—including tube acid-proof ink—
Gent.’s, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ladies’, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Kegistered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib preferred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
a *==
fe-
v
Have You Pimples Or
AClearSmoothSkin?
If you wish a skin clear of pim-
ples, blackheads and other an-
noying eruptions begin today
the regular use of Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura
Ointment. No other method
is so agreeable, so often effec-
tive and so economical.
Soap la.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
MT* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
t)
3rf
n
ITr'
for Aged Persons .
When, by weight of years, diges-
tive powers become enfeebled, and
the vital elements are not absorbed
from ordinary food, Benger’s is an
abundant and agreeable source of
nutrition.
■No Food is so acceptable and so
entirely suitable in old age as
Benger’s, nor so complete in strength-
giving and sustaining nourishment
A Z~JCTor writes :—
*' 1 have much pleasure in testifying to
the value of your Food in the diet of old
age. and in dyspepsia and convalescence,
1 could not do without it in my practice.’
ç
Food
is always made with fresh new milk,
vjjiich it enriches and converts into
a nutritious food cream.
ftnintv Recipes for light dishes in
Benger's Food Booklet. Post free fr/*m
BENGER'S FOOD. Ltd., 117. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors nnd Manufacturers :
BENGER'S POOD. Ltd.. MANCHESTER. England.
A.IM ■■■
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors — A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
DIGNITY and QUALITY
are outstanding features of
“THE FAIRFAX”
Table Service
The 3-piece Tea Set, illustrated, bears an extra heavy
deposit of silver on the best hard, white, metal base.
The Teapot holds 1 i pints. Price .... £7/7/-
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRFAX&ROBERTS Uf
Z5&25 Hunter Street Sydney
THIS IS BAD LUCK
/A
I
o
1/
o
0
ss
7\
w
BUT YOUR
LUCK WILL
CHANGE
IF YOU TAKE A TICKET
IN THE
N.S W. Fire Brigades
Art Union
FOR THE HOSPITALS, AM-
BULANCES, AND CHARI
TIES OF THE STATE.
(By permission of the Attor-
ney-General.)
£lO,OOO IN PRIZES
SIXTEEN MOTOR CARS AND MOTOR CYCLES
AND 143 OTHER PRIZES
TICKETS ONE SHILLING
24 TICKETS FOR £1
Two or more Tickets, Result Slip forwarded. Apply to Hon. Sec-
retary, N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union, Circular Quay, Sydney,
N.S.W. Write plainly. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss.
The Drawing takes place in the Sydney Town
Hall, on May 13, 1926.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
“Ller” : The trowel that was presented to
the late J. T. MeGowen (then Premier)
when he laid the stone at Medlow Bath in
1013 to commemorate the centenary of the
first crossing of the Blue Mountains is now
in a pawnshop in George-street, Sydney.
N.S.W.’s most inveterate bridge-builder
attended bis last official function when work
on the Mascot Bridge over Cook's River was
begun. Percy Allen, who has been 48 years
in the Government service, is retiring from
the post of chief engineer for State and Local
Government works. The Cook's River is the
583rd bridge he has designed.
Queensland limbless ex-soldiers, after a
long fight, have secured the right to travel
free on the Brisbane trams. In all other
capitals the concession was granted years
ago, but the Brisbane Tram Trust turned it
down as "not business.” Then the City
Council took over the trams and granted free
passes to all the able-bodied aldermen, and
there was such an outcry that the limbless
men received their due.
Charlie Keefer, caretaker of the Beau-
maris baths (Vic.) and the best-known
figure on the foreshore, is shy of an arm, and
he lost it in a strange way. When the baths
were being built a marauding shag was cap-
tured. Keefer, then a youthful dare-devil,
accepted a wager of a pound that he would
not be game to hold the bird under the pile-
driver-. At the critical moment, the bird
made a desperate plunge forward, and
Keefer’s forearm was squashed to jelly.
P. M. Carew-Smyth, Vic. Education De-
partment's art director, just retired under
the age-limit regulation, is to superintend a
big art concern outside. Twenty years ago
he set out to show that the teaching of draw-
ing, modelling and painting ought to involve
more than the making of copies. He stirred
up multitudes of storms in teacups, but
eventually made good. His place will be
hard to fill, which emphasises the absurdity
of the rule under which the State loses his
services.
“L’Fou” : In my morning paper a drapery
establishment advertises stockings for sale
"in tones of blonde, nude, champagne, sand,
coating, vieux rose, beige, old gold, salmon
cream” and several |Other hues. Small
wonder that shopping eats up so much of a
woman’s time. I think it was the philo-
sopher Herbert Spencer who (having pro-
bably been conscripted to match ribbons)
suggested a scientific nomenclature of color.
I suggest some scale on the analogy of the
points of the compass; it might run like
this: Blue, blue by green, blue-blue green,
blue-green by blue, blue-green, and so on.
"Sturt”: An Adelaide Court has had an
odd “forgery” charge before it, the alleged
offence being that of putting a figure 1 before
the 7 on a totalisator ticket to make it
look like 17,. a dividend-earning figure on
that race. The man and woman concerned
both swore that they were visitors to the city,
and picked up the ticket on the grass exactly
as they found it; they admitted that on being
questioned by the tote officials they had at
first declared that they bought it at the tote
window in the usual way, but this was be-
cause they had a nervous idea that they
might be charged with having stolen it. Be-
yond this untruth there was, they claimed, no
wrong-doing or intention of it on the part
of either of them, as they had no idea that
the ticket had been tampered with. And the
jury agreed with them.
“ J.K.” : I read that Michael Terry, “the
explorer,” intends to deliver a number of
lectures in England, and possibly the U.S.,
on his experiences in this country. Accord-
ing to his own statements he intended to
travel 3000 miles of country. 500 of which
Was presumed to be unknown, but was forced
to modify his scheme through lack of water
supplies. Bushmen, like John Forrest, Frank
Ilann, Giles and Harry Iledford, might well
turn in their graves at the announcement
that “pommy” tourists are exploring what
others travelled over 50 or 60 years ago look-
ing for grazing and mining country. Even
old Frank Scrutton, who is alive to-day at
the age of 87 on the Macarthur River
(N.T.) and who travelled across country
from Rockhampton to Cape York with Jar-
dine 60-odd years ago, is entitled to be sur-
prised when he hears of the present-day ex-
plorers such as Birtles and Michael Terry
putting “unknown trackless Australia” on
the map. I myself first went over the coun-
try traversed by these self-styled explorers
50 years ago.
“Bill o’ Costs”: Recent pars, about mem-
bers of Parliament who have mysteriously
disappeared when most wanted remind me of
a talk I once had with an old S.A. Premier
—he died a year or two ago in London —
about a fellow-member called, say, Jack
Sprat, who had made a bad break and
dropped out of public life. “Sprat had his
uses,” said the old politician reminiscently.
“He had a casual acquaintance with every
bar and an intimate one with every bar-
maid in the metropolian area, and that
knowledge once saved my Ministry.” He
went on to tell how the Government had
been carrying on with a bare majority when
“Old Mac,” a staunch supporter, became
hostile towards a Ministerial bill and an-
nounced that he would vote against it.
As the old man wouldn’t be cajoled and
couldn’t be squared, the problem was how to
prevent him voting, so Sprat’s services were
requisitioned. He artfully lured Mac to
make a tour with him round some of his
favorite bars and be introduced to some of
the special goddesses in charge. The tour
extended, as such travels do, and Mac began
to have misgivings about the coming division,
but Sprat lulled him with the assqrance,
“There’s my vote, too, you know.” At night,
when Mac was noted missing, the Opposition
began sending out scouts for him, but they
toiled until the pubs closed and caught no-
thing, for by that time the roysterers were
somewhere in the outer suburbs and dis-
posed to be recklessly indifferent to politics
and such trifles. The Government won by a
casting vote in the small hours when the
Labor stonewallers, who had tried to hold
the fort until the missing man should return,
gave up in exhaustion. When Mac ruefully
came back to find the division long past,
he inquired of a Laborite how he personally
had voted. “Oh,” said the latter, “I paired
with Sprat before the division.” “Did you?”
said the suddenly enlightened old man. “I
thought I had.”


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
H o nolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra- —Ventura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday, 7 p.m. ; passengers
due Brisbane, Mondav, 6.-15 p.m.
S.S. WOtLONGBAR Every Tuesday, 7 p.m.;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau. Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925. . £15.395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaqht, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.IV.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manaccr: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. Manager: A. C. Dibpin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
CHANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
£7 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. £55,800,000
Annual Income .. .. •• .. £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every <!lass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Hotel Kosciusko
Winter
Snow Season.
Ski-running - - - Tobogganing
Ice-skating - - - Ice Carnivals
Luxurious Accommodation
Open Log Fires
Nightly Entertainments
Dancing
Season Opens Ist June.
Bookings direct with Manager.
Full information and rail concession
certificates at
Government T ourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping:, &C.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and Sail Francisco.
MAKURA 13,000 tons disp. MAR. 25, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 „ „ APRIL 8, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ APRIL 22, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ MAY 6, for Vancouver.
’"Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
I' 1
**S
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOB RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO
fUnioi
"1 Willi
nion House, 247 George Street, Sydney,
illiam Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 32 to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
ć
JC
assise
m.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES. NATIVE BAZAARS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres otrau,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOK .. 14,50*0 I ANCIIISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES .. 14,500 j ASCANIUS .. 10,000
/ENEAS .. 10,000 |
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & /Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co„ Ltd., Adelaide.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD
BARRABOOL
BALLARAT
BARADINE
BENDIGO
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Gpo. Wills & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OP THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tonB
RUNIC 13,500 tons
SUE VIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 13,000 tons
PERSIC 13,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals,
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service between Australia and
Southampton, London and Hull,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,350 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,350 tons
♦SOPHOCEES 13,500 tons
*DIOGENES 13,500 tons
♦New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 181 V.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Pliability
ĉ
ċ
čc
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Directors
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.G.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts dratvn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Ctiii’ns.
Huddart ParkerL!^
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vefsa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THOS. COOK & SON
Beg to Announce
A SELECT ESCORTED TOUR
IN JAVA.
Leave Sydney June 23.
14 DAYS’ MOTOR TOUR IN
BEAUTIFUL JAVA.
Hotels, Sightseeing, Couriers and
All Fees Included.
Faro £l5O First-class Throughout.
Programme on Application.
THOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation C0.,1,td.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Klaeklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Ganadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club unit Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cai’ds of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
c c
fHINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C uo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Kri4{c Street. Sydney.


WILLARD
INVENTED THIS
Vi
(l' v
- TTTT' H'\ m (TTi nTnrn-T
To Make Batteries
Give Better Service
This is a piece of Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation. It goes between the plates
of the Willard Threaded Rubber Battery.
When you have this insulation, you
never have to pay a bill for having your
battery reinsulated. If for any reason it
does not last as long as the plates them-
selves, any Willard Service Station will
replace it without charge.
These passenger cars and trucks
are equipped by their makers with
genuine Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Cole
Cunningham
Daniels
Davis
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Export)
Duesenberg
Elcar
Franklin
Delling
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
McFarlan
Oakland
Ogren
Oldsmobile
Packard (Export)
Peerless
Pierce-Arrow
Reo
Steams
Studebaker
Stutz
Westcott
Wills St. Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All-American
American-
La France
Atterbury
Bridgeport
Case
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dodge
Dorris
Fifth Ave.
Coach
Fremont
F. W. D.
Fulton
Garford
Giant
G. M. C.
Graham Bros.
Hahn
Highway
Holt
Independent
Indiana
Kankakee
Kissel
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Meteor
Miller
Nelson 8s
Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Riddle
Ruggles
Sandow
Sayers %
Scovill
Seagrave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
Velie
Vim
Ward-
La France
White
Wilson
H
;
i i
STORAGE
BATTERIES
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A


Rexona Soap for
ç
Health
and
Beauty
MISSES OLGA, GWEN and RONNIE
EARNSHAW, beautiful Rexona Girls,
write: “We are constant users of
Rexona Soap, and find it unsurpassed
for the skin and hair.”
Girls! Imagine Your Complexion
Clear, Rosy and Velvety.
When your complexion worries you and you feel that your skin is unattractive, instead
of fresh and smooth, look to the soap you are using. Many soaps are more harmful to the
skin than actual neglect, for they contain alkali, which makes the skin harsh and dry.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is a specially-prepared skin soap, free from alkali, and
contains just the right amount of the gentle, healing medicafioh of
Rexona, the Rapid Healing Ointment, which is so widely used in
the treatment of skin and scalp troubles.
Rexona Soap relieves the clogged pores and
tendency to redness, clears away the blotches
and oiliness, and brings back that
natural beauty to the skin
which is the heritage of every
girl. Rexona Soap makes the
best shampoo for the hair. It
cleanses the scalp from dan-
druff and leaves the hair rich
and glossy.
It’s Medicated!
a
V/‘
V/,
m
m
'o;, a**
j, MU
fh
w
m
s^S
usts
CtE*
9U«!' f
Wt
'///'/.
Z/m
1
Hillier’s
Chocolates
by mail!
Carefully packed in strong
RED METAL BOXES.
No matter where you live in Aus-
tralia you may be sure of them
reaching you in a perfect condition.
Manufactured, Packed and
Mailed on the same day
your order is received.
« per lb.
Red Metal Box
lib
21b.
31b.
41b
51b.
4/-
8/-
12/-
16/-
20/-
N.S.W.
Postage, extra 9d.
1/-
„ 1/3
1/6
„ 1/9
Other States, t
1/2
1/S
2/2
2/S
3/2
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
C&H&dt s4tlhoJi
162-1 GO Pitt Street anfrt cr. George
and King Streets, fSYPNEY.
The Pilgrimage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GREEN and gracious song -was mine
Of rosemary and eglantine,
Of close-branched hazel and green
grass
Where great-eyed cattle slowly pass,
And through the blowing thistle seeds
Seek the cool shallows in the reeds,
Of sun-shot elm and star-proof pine,
Smooth beechen boles and leaves that shine,
The laughter of white clouds that run
Above their shadows in the sun
And that small sound the rivulet
Sings where the dipping ferns are wet.
All this was in my morning heart.
I saw the blue bird soar and dart.
The brown bird in the branches green
Pause his enamelled plumes to preen;
And the grey bird in sunshine bright
Made easy gliding loops of light.
All these were kin. The airs were strong
With perfume mellowing into song—
The scent of dust and pollen blown,
Odors of grass and weeds unknown,
And that great sweetness of the sun
The yellow-lichoned rocks had won.
A gracious song was mine to sing
When that small bell began to ring
From agfed lips of smitten brass
A menace to the woods and grass.
Clang on hard clang the warning came;
There breathed a spirit of no name,
Chill as the wind that comes from snow
And wailing goes where none may know.
“Peace, peace, peace! It is well!
Let the world repent,” said the brazen bell.
“Shut out the light that ye lose the sin,
For the air of Heaven is hard and thin.
And the narrow walls of a cold stone cell
Are a means of grace,” said the warning bell.
“Nay, but I walk with my kin,” I said,
“Into the halls of the sunset red ;
Under the columns of shining beech
I shall know what the winds and stars can
teach.
For the wider space where the airs are
strong
Is large for the prayer that comes of song.”
Hard at my heel, with its still, cold spell,
Came the brazen voice of the clanging bell.
“ Seek Heaven! Seek Heaven! Seek
Heaven !” it cried ;
But I said “The doors of Heaven are wide;
And wider ever for joy and rest
On the golden hinges of east and west
Shall the gates of the Holiest Place be
thrown
When the kin of the song shall claim their
own.”
And like slow tears the far strokes fell
Behind my heart of the fading bell.
Evening came and the morning light
And they held in their hands the cloak of
night
That had fallen down from the starry steep,
Dusted grey with the sweets of sleep.
Evening and morning! And both were fair.
But time was lost in that richer air ;
And the kin of old unresting song
Walked with my heart the great day long.
* * * *
Near a little lonely wood
Four bare walls in quiet stood;
Over them a broken bell
Had no word to sing or tell.
“Surely,” said T to my heart.
“Faint remembered echoes start
From that green and broken brass.
This way did I singing pass;
And, the circle made complete,
Forward paths and backward meet.
These great trees are kin of mine—
Sun-shot elm and star-proof pine—
And the grey bird and the blue
Come to greet me here anew,”
A gracious song was on my lip
When that great music seemed to slip
Like some clear water of delight
Down crystal walls from Heaven’s height—
A surge of song, triumphant, free,
That seemed to touch infinity,
let went beside me as a friend
Through greenest paths without an end.
;;P e ace. peace, peace!” the music cried.
The heart of God is wonder-wide;
And the kindred of dreams walk long and long
In the great airs that are full of song.
Past the falling stone and the broken bell
All is well, all is well!”
N - B 'W.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.
Thirst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the deepening darkness Alf Nesbit
made his way back to the camp by the
river. A long day in the maize-stalks
wearied him now. Once such a day’s work
would have meant 40 bags, but now his
wrists w r ere stiff, and he could barely manage
30. But the fact did not trouble him much.
He looked at it in the manner—something
akin to fatalism—born of a life spent on
the roads.
The autumn air was chill, and already
the white mist from the river was issuing
between the trees and drifting out over the
flats. Along the road, in paddocks where
the maize-stalks lay bent and trampled by
the onslaught of the pickers, the pigs, turned
ir ! ,*■? fatten on the cobs overlooked in the
picking, were rooting among the tangle and
filling the night air with grunting and
squealing.
Passing the half-filled bins on Johnston’s
place, next to where he was working, a
sudden thought occurred to the old picker,
and, leaving his billy at the sliprails, he went
down the paddock to the men’s hut. In
front of the hut, against the blaze of the
nre_, he could see Johnston’s German picker
trying something.
“Evenin’,” he said. “Tony back?”
He is in der hut,” replied the German.
i the doorway of the hut. whence
loud snores were issuing from the darkness.
Striking a match, he could see Tony lying on
some bags in the far corner in a drunken
o • him trailed his torn overcoat,
and his hat jambed over the side of his
head, partially hid his unshaven face.
At present the young man was not very
attractive. For some minutes the old picker
gazed at him intently, and then a flicker
of a smile crossed his weather-beaten face.
Two days he had been away. Two days
only! When Tony went on a “bender he
w r as usually absent a week. It was the
thought of this —and other things -that
caused the smile on the face of Alf Nesbit.
The match burnt out, and the old picker
plodded back over the paddock and crossed
the road to his bag humpy on the bank of the
river. He lit the slush-lamp hanging from
the ridge-pole, and, w’hile preparing his meal,
he thought of Tony who had just come back
from another bender.
For many years now Alf Nesbit had worked
during the autumn and early winter on the
maize-fields along the Snowy River. It
was one of several seasonable jobs that kept
him in tucker. Three years ago Tony and
he had worked alongside each other. Although
a lightning picker now Tony was a novice
then, and Alf had taught him the fine points
of the game. The next season they had
worked together again ; but this year Alf was
picking for another farmer further up the
river. But they were still cobbers. In fact,
they had met earlier in the year potato-
digging on the Koo-Wee-Kup Swamp, and
had tramped to Orbost together.
The weather-beaten old sundowner had
taken a fancy to Tony from the first. The
lad reminded the old man of his own early
life, when the world was wide and the lure
of the open roads had gripped his young
imagination. He was old now, and worn
out; but the roads still held him fast, and
presently they wmuld see him die. But he
knew theirs to be a false glamor. He knew
the loneliness and disappointment of the life
they offered, and he thought it sad that a
splendid young fellow like Tony should go
the way he had gone.
He had tried to warn Tony the first season
they met, but youth, with its invincible opti-
mism, had laughed at his fears. But when
they met again the second season the _ old
picker found that the thing that had chained
him to the roving life when he was young
had gripped the younger man. Every little
wayside bar attracted him, and once inside
he never knew when to come out. Alf had
tried to warn him, without success. “Yer
never starve on the roads, anyway,” Tony
had said. “They’ll do me.” And no argu-
ment the old man could advance would stir
him.
This year, on the potato-fields of Koo-Woo-
Rup, Tony had greeted him with a wonder-
ful tale —a tale of a girl in the* city.
“She’s a bonser shiela,” he told the old
man. “Got lovely yeller kinder ’air.”
They had started a joint account in the
savings bank, this girl and Tony, and to
make big money he had taken the roads for
the last time. Yes, as soon as he had made
£lOO he would return to the city and take up
his old trade. From daylight to dark he
had toiled with a song on his sun-blistered
lips, and the vision of a girl and a home in
his eyes.
The young man’s tale had stirred memo-
ries in the breast of Alf Nesbit. He, too,
had had a dream like that once; but it
faded. Nevertheless, he had done his best
to ensure that Tony’s dream should not fade.
So that the younger man might have more
time to work he had done all their cooking,
and at great sacrifice to his own thirst had
shepherded him past many enticing doors.
Tony’s enthusiasm had known no bounds,
and he had worked himself to a standstill.
In the first few weeks he had posted £2O
to the city, but the end of the season, in
spite of the older man’s vigilance, had seen
most of his earnings disappear in a bender.
Undismayed, he had shouldered his swag and
taken the road for Orbost with prospects
of making big money, and now, after three
weeks of hard work in the maize, he had
broken out again. Though he was still hope-
ful. the old man glimpsed defeat.
For a long time the old sundowner sat
gazing into the fire, thinking, as he had
thought before countless camp-fires, of his
wandering life and the meaning of it all.
If often occurred to him that the great
things of his life, the things that he used
to relate on special occasions, could have all
happened in six months, and the rest was
mere aimless wandering. He made up his
mind that Tony should not waste his life in.
such a way.
At last he knocked the ashes out of his
pipe; but before he rolled himself up for the
night he rummaged about in a kerosene-tin
standing inside his tx?nt. The tin was filled
with green tomatoes, and during the day he
used to stand them in the sun to ripen. From
beneath the top layer he drew a flat tobacco-
tin which he opened, and with infinite labor
of his thick fingers .counted a wad of notes.
The following morning, Sunday, broke
bright and warm, and after breakfast the
old picker busied liimself with odd jobs about
his camp. Later in the morning, hands
deep in his pockets and many days’ growth
on his face, Tony slouched across the road
and threw himself down in the sun on the
sloping bank of the river.
“Eaten anythin’ *yet?” inquired the old
man.
“No, an’ I don’t wmnt nothin’ either,”
Tony replied irritably.
Alf continued to work, and there was a
long period of silenice.
Tony, though plainly suffering from the
effects of his spree, .seemed to have something
on his mind, and iln the presence of Alf was
rather shamefaced. From time to time he
looked furtively at. the old man as if he were
about to say something, but whenever he en-
countered the dim eyes gazing at him from
beneath their shaggy brows he looked away
uneasily.
“A man’s a fool,” he groaned, rolling rest-
lessly on the bank-.
“Yer ain’t been, away long this time,” re-
marked Alf.
“No. Didn’t wantter stay away from
work,” replied Toniy, gjazing across the river
to avoid the glance* of the dim grey eyes.
The old man allowed" the remark to pass,
but after a while bte saifcl casually: “Did you
post the money to ’town, Tony?”
This was the -question Tony had been
dreading. He started to his feet with blazing
eyes. “It was he shouted. “Some
dirty cow in the ptib at Bairnsdale ratted me
(Continued on next page.)


A
-i
&
%>
Keep
•^r
When Accidents Happen
Avoid Complications by
Promptly Using ZAM-BUK
Any break in the skin, as in scrapes,
cuts, scratches and abrasions, makes
an open door to the hordes of disease
germs present everywhere—which
are waiting to invade the tissues.
But no longer need skin injuries
cause infection, resulting in long suffer-
ing or sometimes even the loss of
limb or life.
When an accident happens don’t lose
a moment in cleansing the injured part
thoroughly, and promptly applying a
little antiseptic
am
u
By taking the pain and peril out of
daily mishaps and by killing danger-
ous germs Zam-Buk checks blood-
poison, and after medicinally cleansing
the tissues it finally heals with a
growth of new, healthy skin.
c-
Keep a box of this famous healing
balm always on hand. It provides you
with a safe and reliable “home doctor’’
for a hundred emergencies. Zam-Buk
is without equal for Eczema, Pimples,
Boils, Ulcers, Piles, Ringworm and
Sore Hands; also for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Scalds and all minor troubles.
All chemists and storekeepers sell Zam-Buk at
1/6 and 3/6 per box, or you can obtain a FREE
SAMPLE of this healer on application to C. E.
Fulford (Aust.), Ltd., Sydney, by mentioning “The
Bulletin” of 2s/3/ , 26.
&
*
Instantly Soothing
and Highly Antiseptic
poekets an’ took the lot. I only wish I
coulder got hold on him,” he added, waving
his arms threateningly. “I woulder”
“Ratted your pockets?” Alf interrupted
him. “Sure yer didn’t bust it up?”
“Course I didn’t bust it up,” said Tony
glaring at him fiercely. “It was pinched, I
tell yer. Twenty-five quid in two days? Cut
it out! I had a few drinks out of some loose
money in me pockets,” he explained, “an’
muster gone to sleep. While I was asleep
the cow muster ratted me, ’cause Avlxen I
wakes up an’ puts me hand in me inside
pocket the lot was gone. The greasy cow!
But I didn’t bust it up; fair dinkum I
didn’t,” he added earnestly.
There was another long period of silence
during which Tony looked dejectedly across
the river and the old man worked stolidly.
Suddenly Tony burst out passionately, “A
man’s a fool. I’m goin’ to cut it out. A
man’s a fool to booze, isn’t he?” The old
man, wdio had tried to tell him the same
thing many times before, nodded his head
in agreement.
“Sixty quid !” continued Tony dolorously.
“Sixty quid the booze has cost me, countin’
what was pinched, an’ I promised her I’d
send a hundred the first, six month,” he added
with a little break in his voice. “A man’s
a fool! I’m goin’ to cut it out an’ work like
hell. I’ve sent her twenty quid, an’ I’ll send
the rest pretty quick. You see if I don’t.”
The old picker kept his eyes on the trousers
lie was mending. “I took the money outer
yer pocket the nigh't before yer went away,”
he said quietly.
For a moment Tony looked at him in
amazement. “You took it outer me pocket!”
he echoed. “What did yer take it outer me
pocket for?”
“Well, I thought the Dutchman mighter
pinched it orf yer,” he said lamely.
For some moments Tony tried to piece
it out in his mind. Then lie began to laugh.
“Thought Hans mighter pinched it. did yer?”
he said. “No, yer didn’t. Yer thought I
was goin’ to booze it up. That’s w T hat yer
thought, and yer was wrong, see? I wms
goin’ to post it all right. Spare me days,
yer an old character,” he said with a relieved
laugh. “Sling the money over an’ I’ll go
and send it in the mornin’.”
Stubbornly the old picker shook his head.
“No, I’ve got it safe, Tony, an’ I reckon I’ll
hang outer it until we go inter the town
Friday night.”
Tony looked at him like a spoilt child.
“Can’t yer trust a man with his own money?”
he said. But Alf was not in a trusting
mood.
As he was late in leaving his camp on Mon-
day morning, the old picker went along to
see if Tony had started. As he walked dowm
the rows he caught a glimpse of the young
man working furiously.
“Goin’ ter break the record to-day!”
shouted Tony as he caught sight of Alf.
“Goin’ ter get sixty to-day!”
“Don’t start trying to get too many,” said
Alf. “Take ’er steady.”
Tony was bent on his work, and had no
time for conversation, hut the old picker
lingered for some time. The winter sun
was barely risen, and it was very cold,
but already Tony had discarded his coat, and
in a short-sleeved flannel and loosely-hitched
blueys wms in danger of raising a sweat.
Alf took a pride in watching the speed
and efficiency with which he worked. A stab
of the picker, a couple of lightning move-
ments of his lithe wrists to remove the husk
and break the stem, and the long yellow
cobs were whirling into the centre as if pro-
pelled by a machine. Although the dew was
still on the. stalks, Alf noted that already
Tony had picked four bags.
Presently the old picker turned and
squelched his wmy back through the dew-
sodden weeds to the road. Watching Tony
had inspired him, and the crisp morning
tilled his old veins with the joy of living.
He was enjoying the first smoke of the day,
and as he walked along the road he wished
wistfully that he might be young again like
Tony and have another chance of plunging
into the stalks for the girl he had lost. He
felt that ho, too, in such circumstances,
could smash records on such a morning as
this. But he realised that in helping this
splendid young fellow he was doing some-
thing worth while. He had taught Tony
the job, and now he was helping him to
happiness. They would get married, Tony
anjd this girl, and have a house ; and perhaps,
when he went into the great city, they would
ask him to stay with them. Alf became
almost excited, thinking of it. It was a
long time now since he had stayed with
people in a house, and for years he had
avoided the city, which had no friendly hand
for the likes of him, nor offered any prospect
of work. The thought occurred to him that
if .someone had helped him in the same way
things ,-might have worked out differently.
But lie had no regrets. It occurred to him,
musing over the matter, that an all-wise
Providence had decreed that he should make a
mess of his own life in order to prevent
Tony making a similar mess of his.
On Thursday Tony had a good day, and
when he came down to talk with Alf after
tea, as he had a habit of doing, he was in a
happy frame of mind. They arranged to
go into Orbost together on the following
night to post Tony’s money to the city and
buy stores.
“Yer know,” confessed Tony as they sat
together by the fire, “it was a good job you
took that money outer me pocket the other
day, because I woulder only boozed it up. I
said I was goin’ ter post it, but I woulder
boozed it up all right. Yer a good cobber
to a man, Alf,” he added gazing into the fire.
A queer mist came over the old man’s eyes.
It was the first time Tony had recognised
that he was trying to help him.
On Friday when he called in Tony was
not about.
“Tony still working?” he inquired of the
German who was sitting at the door of the
hut, making up his tally for the day.
“Dony knock off dinner-time.”
“What for?” said Alf anxiously.
“I don’t know what for,” said the German
while he laboriously entered figures into a
greasy notebook.
As he trudged up the paddock, pondering
upon the disappearance of Tony, Alf was
overtaken by Johnston, driving the last load
for the day to the bins.
“Has Tony drawn his cheque?” shouted
Alf as the team jingled past.
“Haven’t seen him all day,” replied John-
ston.
The absence of Tony was worrying the
old man. In spite of Johnston’s reply he
felt uneasy. He knew there were plenty of
places in the district where the young man
might be. But he also remembered that
through lack of money Tony had not been
able to satisfy his thirst last week, and he
was afraid the lad had gone on another
bender. “Any rate, he hasn’t drawn any-
thin’, so lie’s got no money,” he tried to rea-
son to himself.
It was almost dark when he came in sight
of his humpy. But even in the distance he
could see that something was amiss. Quick-
ening his pace he arrived to find everything
in a chaos. “What th’ hell!” he exclaimed
wrathfully as he surveyed the ruins of his
once tidy camp. Several pegs had been
pulled out of the ground and the tent was
sagging in the middle. The log against which
he built his fire had been rolled away. The
kerosene tin he had left standing in
front of his tent had been overturned, and
the tomatoes lay scattered in all directions.
His first thought was that some wandering
cow had blundered into his tent. He knew
that nobody in the district 'would deliberately
damage his camp. But.when he lit the slusli-
lamp and looked inside he found a similar
state of affairs. This was the work of no
animal. His clothing and blankets had been
tossed in all directions, and even the wooden
box where he kept the frying-pan and billy
was lying broken in the middle of the humpy.
A dull anger took possession of him. It
looked as if someone had broken up his camp
to find something.
Tony! The revelation came to him in a
flash. Tony had come searching for the
hidden, money to go on a bender.
Hurriedly returning outside, he got down
on his knees and searched in the dirt until
he found the tobacco tin. With trembling
fingers he opened it. Tony had found his
hiding-place. The money was gone.
A flood of bitterness engulfed the old man.
He knew this was the end of Tony’s great
endeavor. The roving life would hold him
always. For a time, the yellow-haired girl
in the city would wait, and then she would
find another young man.
He felt about for his accustomed log and
sat down heavily. The mist rising from the
river stole past the huddled figure on the
log and out over the flats, bringing a chill
with it. Over the road the pigs rootiiig
among the trampled maize stalks filled the
night with grunting and squealing.
The old picker bent down wearily and be-
gan to light the fire.
H.M.W.
The Green Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strange lore I tear the green land!
In it I teas lorn
In the time of the yellowing leaf
And the ripening corn;
Here have I journeyed with you
Through this Hue August morn,
I Then the spray of the hawthorn lies white
On the tcaves of the corn.
Beyond the slopes of Tamaki
Unruffled lay the slumbering sea,
While lazily the crystal tide
Lapped on the beaches lone and wide.
It was the dim, mysterious hour
When yet the dew clung to the flower
And the dark, silvered wings of night
Were mingled with the waking light,
Ere yet the east above the hill
Glowed yellow as a daffodil.
Dawn ! And the waking winds were stirred
By the blithe clarion of a bird ;
Far in the fields the grasses spoke,
Whisperingly, as the breezes woke.
And where the high, storm-beaten pines
Kept sentinel in serried lines
There passed the sound of a long sigh
As the fresh dawn-wind hurried by.
II hy leaps my heart swift to the voice
Of the murmuring pines,
To the moan of the wind in the boughs,
To the black, swaying lines?
Secret and fine is the bond
That round us entwines —
I was born in the dark of the night
In the place of the pines.
Here the looped river, deeply blue.
Runs by its banks besprent with dew,
Where from the meadow’s sloping floor
The larks fly straight to Heaven's door
And in a burst of ecstasy
Tell to the blackbirds in the tree
The wonder of that far, pure air,
Lit with a sunlight warm and fair.
Silent, with effortless slow grace,
The brown swans cleave the river's face,
And snowy gulls, in patient ranks.
Watch motionless from sandy banks,
While hy its marge of growing things
The river winds and softly sings.
Why wakens my heart to the sound
Of the old river-song,
So plaintive at dawn and at eve,
When the silence is long?
I was born where the river-tides flow
Brown rushes among —
The first sound I knew upon earth
Was the dark river’s song!
This is the green land of dear dreams,
Of bending trees and eager streams •
Of bird-mirth through the kowhai’s gold
By berried hedges tall and old ;
Here, in the quickening year, unseen,
A gentle spirit in the green
Will whisper, whisper, “I am Spring,
Come to behold my burgeoning!”
Then one, who with a sparkling face
Scatters gay blooms in every place.
Will slowly pass, while on the plain
The west wind bends the golden grain
And tawny leaves drift on the rills
In this still land beyond the hills.
Strange love I bear the green land,
For here was I born
In the time of the reddening leaf
And the yclloicing corn;
In sunlight and shadow and shower,
In the dusk and the morn,
I have striven and suffered and loved
In the land of the corn.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


c
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— *
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet tSM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathers ton Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Qnfeen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
v
THE ATCO
BSBBOt
, MOWER
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.c., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling dubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members ot
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2j-li.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient powei
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Sold in two sizes—l6-inch cutters, £7l; 22-inch cutters, £lO5 complete.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
17 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
©ns.
Seven
F»**lxe Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England!
ç
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
Soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for all
assorted Sample Box.
Remington
Repeating Shotguns
m MODEL 10
12 bore 6 shots
T% /TOVE the slidingforearm back
IVI to eject, forward to load —
simply and quickly operated.
Hammerless well balanced with beautiful
lines. Easily taken apart for cleaning and
carrying.
MODEL 17 20 bore 5 shots
E 6
This latest Remington Repeater is built on
similar lines. Weight but 5% lbs. Splendid for
all small game.
Remington products sold
by leading dealers.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victpria
c
WISE REASONS
■For taking
THE RELIABLE MEDICINE
Easy to swallow
Handy to use
NOTHING BETTER
If you suffer from
Disordered liver
Sick headaches
Biliousness
Indigestion
Constipation
In Beecham’s Pills
You’ll find relief
A dose at night
Will keep you right.
/"V
91
Send to Robinson & Cleaver for
your HOUSEHOLD LINENS
ROBINSON & CLEAVER of Belfast, noted for
their Irish Linen,, will be pleased to send
the readers of this paper their new Illustrated
Catalogue No. 584 of Household Linens. Com-
pare their prices and quality and you will find it more
satisfactory to buy direct from the manufacturers.
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Irish linen double
damask by the yard. Any length
cut. A very fin?, heavy make which
will give good dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/xi
54 .. . - - 8 / 6
72 n 3
SHEETING BY THE YARD _
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 10/6
80 ~ ~ ~ 11/6
LINEN FACE TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all
linen huck towelling. By the
yard. Will give endless wear.
17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 i. i/ 8
LINEN PILLOW CASING
Bleached linen pillow casing.
Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4 6
45 .. » •• •• 5/3
54 .. .. ••
66
' Trice list ““**
IRISHLINEN
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
linen Manufacturers
BELFAST
WRITE FOR
OUR CATA-
LOGUE WITH
SAMPLES
POST FREE
We guarantee
delivery -of all
goods and carry
out yourorders
intelligently
and promptly.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER L™
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND
A-2
ISAUCE
Host Holbrook
s~
“ I assemble my ingredients from
distant climes. I blend, I stir
and I brew the sauce of the House
of Holbrook. Aye, and then it
is matured like an old wine.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Froni Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and (id
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
at 3 l>.m. Steamer from Fort Macquarie,
Adults. 1/e. . Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).


■
■
m
m
wm,
m
m
mm
m
m
mm
■
■
*4
m
mm.
m
I
m
mmy/X
e>
MS
■
-
m.
M
mm
m
m
t 1
y>,r»
a F
MR
s*B
They hold their
name in Wind
and I Vealher
MALTEfE CROSS
WAX VESTAS
The Handiest of all matches are Maltese Cross Wax Vestas. They come
o you m a neat, easily-pocketed box. They strike anywhere, hold
then- flame in the wind and burn longer than their wooden rivals.
Be sure to ask for Maltese Cross Wax Vestas.
MADE BY
BRYANT & MAY
