

TO EUROPE IN 1927
Make Your Travel Arrangements with
THOS. COOK & SON
ESTABLISHED
1841.
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents, Foreign Bankers, etc.
A WORLD-WIDE SERVICE
165
OFFICES
Passages by
All Routes
Travellers 9
Cheques
In Note® of
£5, £lO, £2O.
$lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
Baggage
Insurance
Inclusive
Independent
Tours
Pleasure
Cruises
Egypt and
Palestine
the Nile
Tours
Motor-coach
Tours in
Great Britain
The Derby and
Royal Ascot
IT COSTS
NO MORE
TO BOOK
BY COOK
: £
Like the Magic Carpet
m
m
m
»
Visit the
Battlefields
Gallipoli
En Route to
Europe.
Exclusive Arrangements.
Escorted Tours
in Europe
Escorted Tour de
Luxe by Automobile
First-Class
Escorted Tours
Popular
Escorted Tours
Low-Rate
Escorted Tours
Departures from Australia
in
February, March, April.
Inclusive Fares.
Detailed Programmes
on Application.
Travellers Who Have
Already Arranged Their
Passages Can Be Booked
to Join These Tours.
FOR SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR EUROPE ASK FOR PROGRAMME No. B.
ANY office OF
INFORMATION, RESERVATIONS AND TICKETS
FROM
ĵ
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Challis House (opp. G.P.0.)
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
Correspondents in Brisbane, Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong, Hobart, Launceston, Fremantle, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND OFFICES;
Street.
Queen
WELLINGTON:
G.P.0.)
Correspondents in Christchurch, Dunedin, Gisborne,
Napier, New Plymouth, Rotorua, Wanganui.
HEAD OFFICE:
STREET, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W 1
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2436
Thursday, October 21, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue for 1926
* is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ĵ
m m
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream —put up in collapsible
tubes—is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers*
In all shades.
Price 6<f. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere »
en.
j
HU
ifWHffrfii
y ; V
GBD
70 years of
Pipe -making
THE experience of generations of pipe makers is em-
bodied in the latest GBD pipe. From among the
faultless briars which bear the GBD Brand, the
GBD at 12/6 is the best pipe value obtainable. To dis-
tinguish it from the standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears
a small GBD disc, inlaid in the mouthpiece.
The real point of difference however in addition to the
flush silver mount lies in the specially selected grains ;
year by year fewer of them are available.
Ask your tobacconist to show you a few and convince
yourself of the beauty of the briar. The quality which
dates from 1855 is unsurpassed.
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney .
df
Shape No.
2/4453
j
2- an<,
POWDER l-
*
V..
&
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/6 or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Zangwill
If Israel Zangwill lives (he died a month
or two ago at the orthodox Biblical age of
three score and ten years) it will be on the
strength of his “Children of the Ghetto,
the only novel in the language that gives
an intimate and accurate picture of the Jews
in England.
One way and another, Zangwill had a busy
life. He turned out a fair number of novels,
short stories, plays, essays, polemical .writ-
ings and poetry; he was an unremitting
journalist; he did a great deal of work for
the 1.T.0. (the “Jewish Territorial Organisa-
tion” his pet scheme for providing a
national home for the Jews anywhere ) ;
towards the end of his life he ran a theatre;
and he delivered an enormous number of
lectures in his time. As he grew older he
became more and more embittered, and the
artist in him was swamped by the propa-
gandist; but he never lost his capacity for
throwing off swift and witty sallies—in the
’nineties he, Shaw, Beerbolim and Wilde were
classed as the four wittiest men in London.
He came of “foreign" parents, and received
his early education at the Jews’ Free School
in London, whence he proceeded to London
University, took a degree, and went back to
teach at his old school. Here he collaborated
with a colleague, Louis Cowan, in his first
novel, “The Premier and the Painter,” a
long, involved, and almost unbelievably
witty book, the complicated plot of which
depends upon the fact that the Premier of
England and a liouse-painter are “doubles”
and change roles intermittently, with
extremely farcical results. “The Premier and
tbe Painter” “dates” rather badly for the
reader of to-day, but no one could fail to
appreciate the wealth of wit with which the
book is loaded; there is enough in this
volume alone to make three modern repu-
tations ; every page is dotted with such
descriptions as that of a cleric who was “not
a luminary of the church, but rather a dim
religious light.”
Wit, in fact, is the outstanding charac-
teristic of Zangwill’s writing, even at his
most impassioned; and a passionate sincerity
is implicit in his every sentence. His politi-
cal novel (“The Mantle of Elijah”), his study
of “genius” (“The Master”), his brilliant
detective story (“The Big Bow Mystery”),
his consciously humorous studies (“The King
of Schnorrers,” “The Old Maids’ Club,”
“The Bachelors’ Club”), his “novelettes”
(“Merely Mary Ann,” “The Serio-Comic
Governess,” “The Grey Wig,” and so on), his
studies of Jews (“Dreamers of the Ghetto,”
“Ghetto Comedies,” “Ghetto Tragedies”),
his polemical writings (“The War for the
World,” “The New Jerusalem”), his essays
and sketches (“Without Prejudice,” “Italian
Fantasies”) —in every one of these books
there is vitality, sparkle, the lustre of a
quick, eager, polished intelligence.
And yet, except possibly in “The Children
of the Ghetto,” Zangwill never quite “got
there” —he failed to attain to the front rank
of literary artists, sometimes by a hair’s
breadth. It is worth noting that, with the
exception of Benjamin Disraeli, no Jews
writing in English have “got there.” This
may be due to the fact that they were
excluded from the country for many centuries
(though similar causes did not produce
similar effects in other European countries),
or it may be that English is the one language
the Jew has failed to conquer (he is an
almost notoriously facile linguist) ; whatever
the reason, the fact remains that Disraeli
alone has gained front rank. In Zangwill’s
case his failure was almost certainly due to
the very facility with which he wrote, the
floridity of liis imagination, the over-brilliance
of his style. There is too much of the jour-
nalist in him (as in G. Iv. Chesterton, with
whom, as a “stylist,” he bas much in com-
mon, though he will probably turn in his
grave at the suggestion!), too strong a ten-
dency to say the brilliant thing because it
in brilliant and because he could not help
thinking it, rather than because it is apt and
fitting to the occasion. He failed as a
literary artist because he was too clever.
He could never understand why his plays
were not more successful. “The Melting
Pot” gave a phrase to the language, it is true,
but it is not a good play, and, clever, thought-
ful, skilful though they are, it is clear that
“Plaster Saints,” “The War God,” “The
Cockpit,” “We Moderns” and the rest have
not the dramatic vigor to hold the interest
of intelligent audiences, and they are too
“highbrow” for popular consumption. Their
literary (apart from dramatic) quality is
not great. As for his poetry (collected in
“Blind Children”), Zangwill was a fair
craftsman, but no more.
“The Children of the Ghetto” may, when
all ’Vs said and done, carry Zangwill into the
literary Zion. The subject lent itself admir-
ably to his manner, and it is almost ideally
suited to his qualities as a writer. He wrote
of a life lie knew intimately, and he “let
himself go” over it. He did not shirk the
task; lie naught extenuated nor aught set
down in malice. He did try conscientiously
to give a rounded and complete picture of
the Jews of the East End of London ; their
squalor and their nobility, tlieir meanness
and their tragedy. He succeeded in painting
his picture, but he also got something of that
dual quality of the Jew into his pages—
the Jew as buffoon and the Jew as a histori-
cal anomaly, almost an anachronism.
WARREN GRAVES.
Who “Discovered” the Pacific?
In worshipping Vasco Nunez de Balboa
as the discoverer of the Pacific, the Austra-
lian Balboa Society is doing a grave injus-
tice to a large number of deserving people.
Keats’s error in fathering the deed on Cortez
was less reprehensible, since he could plead
poetic license. Far from Being the first
Westerner to gaze upon our pond, it is doubt-
ful if the Spanish conquistador who began
his voyage of discovery in a rum barrel and
ended it on the headsman’s block was even
the 1001st. No inventory has been kept of
the men of the West who previous to 1543
both looked on and sailed about the ocean
that washes Coogee sands and the Gulf of
Pechili ; but the figure must be large.
Passing over the migration of the Child-
pen of the Sun, who are believed to have
emerged from Egypt and spread themselves
across the Pacific in search of magical sub-
stances, there is an ancient Chinese record
of envoys from Egypt or Chaldea arriving
at the court of Yao in 2356 B.c. There are
similar records of Roman embassies in a.d.
166, 284 and 643. The philosophic emperor
Marcus Aurelius appears to have sent one
which had its presents stolen or ship-
wrecked on the voyage, and which, with com-
mendable ingenuity, substituted rhinoceros
horns, ivory and tortoise-shell, bought from
a port m route. There are Greek and
Roman references to a busy trade with the
farthest Orient, and there are Chinese and
Indian indications that while the West was
discovering the East, the E9st was recipro-
cating with equal enterprise. Chinese annals
carefully recount the route to be taken by
vessels from Canton in navigating the
Euphrates. In 75S the Arab colony at Can-
ton felt itself strong enough to loot and pil-
lage the city where British goods are at
present being boycotted; and in 878 the
great port of Hangchau Fu, which when I
visited it last harbored some American
evangelists and a few employees of the
8.A.T., must have possessed an Occidental
population of at least 126,060, since .that
number of Jews, Mohammedans and Chris-
tians perished in a local war. When Nes-
torius executed his famous schism he re-
leased a stream of misplaced missionary
effort on the long-suffering Asiatic pagan;
by 720 there were so many Christians in
China that archbishops had to be appointed,
and by 845 they had made such nuisances of
themselves that a sacred edict was Issued
ordering the hordes of priests to return to
civil life and to “cease corrupting the insti-
tutions of the Central Flowery Kingdom.” It
is impossible to suppose that none of these
friars, monks and metropolitans ever gazed
upon the Pacific.
The claims of the Arabs, being men from
the West, should also be considered. In the
middle of the ninth century appeared the
"Topography of the Voyage from Arabia to
China,” second edition, revised by Abu Zaid.
It gives full particulars of many Pacific
ports for the guidance of the Arab trader,
who, incidentally, had to pay a protective
tariff of 30 p.c. on all his goods to preserve
home industries. The “Route Book of Ibn
Khurdfidhbah’s” (820) gives more news of
the Pacific, and Masudi (“Meadows of Gold”)
relates in purple patches how he sailed upon
its bosom. The great conquests of the
Khans in the thirteenth century broke down
the land barriers between East and West
and released a fresh flood of missionary
friars; and so swiftly did trade follow the
Faith that in 1471 Francis Baklncci Pego-
lotti was moved to publish a commercial
handbook which begins with the adjuration,
“In the Name of the Lord, Amen!” and
goes on to an elaborate description of the
tariff barriers to be met with on the journey
to Cathay and advises buying a woman en
route to keep the traveller out of mischief.
But of all the voyagers who anticipated
Balboa none captures the imagination so com-
pletely as Marco Polo, of Venice, and Ibn
Batuta, of Tangier. When Marco, about
1290, was asked by Kublai Khan to act as
escort for a royal princess consigned to the
Persian king, he had just returned from a
voyage to the East Indian islands, and his
knowledge of the Pacific was already exten-
sive. It was as envoy for an Indian monarch
to the Emperor of China that Ibn set sail
in the spring of 1342, leaving behind, as
usual, a galaxy of wives, and accompanied,
among other things, by “100 high-bred horses
caparisoned, 100 male slaves, 100 Hindu
girls accomplished in song and dance, 100
pieces of Greek linen and 15 eunuchs.” He
had better fortune than Cobham, and was
wafted swiftly to his destination on the
wings of the favorable monsoon and with
the assistance of his sweating oarsmen. He
has little to say about the ocean to be dis-
covered 179 years later by Balboa. It was
of a reddish tint and in' spite of its great
extent was never disturbed by waves or
wind—he must have had an unusual pas-
sage. U 1 Bahr-ul Kahil, he calls it, which
simply means “the Pacific Sea.” His inter-
ests all lay landward, where were grateful
potentates eager to load him with soft jobs,
palaces and wives, in return for spicy after-
dinner stories.
After the middle of the fourteenth cen-
tury the great peace established by the
Khans vanished in a welter of dynastic wars.
The Pacific world became a romantic myth
in Europe, Marco Polo was regarded as a
liar, and when China was rediscovered by
the Portuguese it was not recognised as the
Cathay with which Europe had been on inti-
mate terms for many centuries. The belief
In another ocean and another world per-
sisted, and on October 31, 1602, Benedict
Gogs, a Jesuit, set out from Agra, India, to
restore ebmmunieation with the Christian
king who was believed to rule there. His
story is one of the most poignant in the his-
tory of exploration.
The notion that the history off the Pacific
began with Balboa is on all' fours with the
popular , belief that Captain Cook discovered
Australia. Both these places were in exist-
ence before these gentlemen made their in-
vestigations. II is even possible that men
from the East discovered the Atlantic before
the men from the West discovered the
Pacific. The inhabitants of Madagascar
are, as their language shows, of Malayan
origin. The Malays are great seamen who
discovered Australia before Captain Cook.
They may easily have slipped around the
Cape and considered the circumstance not
worth noting in their log.
FENG-SHUI.
The Book of Australia (II)
The second volume of The Australian
Encyclopaedia has just been published by
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., and completes
this great undertaking—one which, it is not
an exaggeration to say, is epoch-making in
the story of Australian book production. In
its beginning one learns that “Macadamia”
is a genus of the family Proteacece, which is
(Continued on page S.)


Jl
XLOC
m
Summer Comfort at a Low Cost
If you purchase the necessary conveniences
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
To endure another Summer without these
aids in the Home is sure to be an occasion of
discomfort and inconvenience. Study these
examples, or pay a visit to Anthony
Horderns’, and discover how well economy is
combined with quality.
Iceless
Cooling Safe
m
£V-,V?»
«*4SM!
The “Icoolit” leeless Cooling
Sale. —Ideal for country use. An
Ice Chest and Water Bag com-
bined. The body is built of strong
galvanised iron, covered with
waterproof canvas, which can be
detached for cleaning purposes.
This safe opens at either
end, and has a movable
shelf. Complete
I-
Meat Dish
Covers
■
Perforated Zinc Dish Covers. —
34 16 18 20 in.
Price . . 2/6 3/- 4/- 4/9
Wire Dish Covers, double stayed,
first quality.
Price . . 3/9 4/9 6/9 9/6
Second Quality, single stayed.
Price . . 2/9, 3/6 6/9 7/6
Gilt Dish Covers —
Price . , p/A 6/3 8/3 11/6
The Ideal Steam Cooker
and Baker
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
The Ideal Steam Cooker and
Baker. Cooks all kinds of food
by the boat of steam under pres-
sure or by coal or oil gas. Its dis-
tinctive feature is that it
retains all the essences ol
food. It.cooks a whole meal
on one burner on gasoline,
oil, gas, or common cook
stove.
No. 20, made o f solid
copper. Ilf in. square,
214 in. high, has two doors,
four compartments, will cook
for 3 to
15 persons.
price ..
f6|lo/<
No. 9., made of tin and
copper. Ilf in. square.
1 Filin, high, has two
compartments, wi 1 j
(\pok for 3
persons. CC
Price ,VU m
The "Trafalgar”
Cold Safe
Solves the problem of
cold storage without ice.
COLD SAff
-
<2X??=\
The Trafalgar Cold Safe is
made of Galvanised Iron
throughout. It is absolutely
flyproof, and can be used as a
Refrigerator, water only be-
ing required, which is put in
receiving tank daily.
There is no upkeep —only the
first cost. Unlike the ice chest,
it can be used the whole year
round. When the hot weather is
over the patent gauze screens
can be scrubbed and put away
until the following summer,
leaving it a well-ventilatpcl gafp
for Winter use.
The Trafalgar, in Three
Sizes—
No. 3 —lnside Storage Space.
£5/17/6
No. 4—lnside Storage Space,
29J x 20x21 in.
Price xO;l//y
No, s—-Inside5 —-Inside Storage Space,
321 x 28 x 22 in. P O I*7l£.
Price lojl/0
Net on Rail Sydney.
Buy the Materials for
Fly-Proof Doors
and Windows
at Anthony Horderns’
Make your own Fly Doors
and Window Screens this
Summer. All the materials
can be purchased ready for
assembling. These consist of
Set of Dressed Timber and
Heading; Set of Six Corner
and Centre Brackets, pair of
Spring Hinges, Door Handle,
Brads and Tacks, and suffici-
ent Galvanised Woven Wire
to complete. For doors up to
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. 10in., and
7ft. x 3ft.
With Bronze Wire and Oregon Timber—
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 7ft. x 3ft.
Prices 19/6 21/6
With Bronze Wire and Redwood Timber—
Oft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 7ft. x 3ft.
Prices. ... 21/3 23/3
With Galvanised Wire and Oregon Timber:
Oft. lOin. x 2ft. 10iu, 7ft. x 3ft.
Prices. . . 13/3 14/3
With Galvanised Wire and Redwood Tim-
ber—
Oft. 1 Oin. x 2ft. lOin, 7ft. x 3ft.
Prices. .. . 15/■» 16/-
Fiy-Door Accessories
Sets of Oregon Timber Only, to make doors
up to 7ft. x 3ft. £ I
Price, set U|"
Sets of Redwood Timber Only, to make
doors up to 7ft. x 3ft, 7IQ
Price, set *Jr
Jananned Door Handles.
Prices 3d., 4d., fid.. O'”, .
’ 1 1. each,
Half-round Redwood Beadin'"
i Ln , in at.
lengths. '*
Price ... ........
Corner and Centre. _
of Six. Price. , v ,. « kets - 2/3
1/10
ANTHONY HORDERN & Son's Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDMey.
G.P.O. Box 2712 G
Telephone: City 9440,


u vM'mrn
The Super-Six Principle Is Exclusive
and Time Proved in the Hands of 800,000 Owners
THE COACH
£4BO
c
'0
0
ft
For More Than 10 Years the
Supreme Mechanical Type
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan . . . £595
Hudson Brougham £545
7-Pass. Phaeton
£450
K
mm,
•s*
I
I /
5K
MA
UK
<n
/t\y
Because no other type or car shares its position the coach is the
world s largest selling closed car.
But despite the fact that it exclusively gives closed-car comforts at
open-car cost its greatest appeal is in the brilliant performance and
quality of the Super-Six chassis. For more than I 0 years it has been
the supreme mechanical type of motordom. Its smooth, vibration-
less motor gives performance distinction and enduring service that
are famous everywhere.
That must always be the uppermost factor in the
service, satisfaction and economy of any car. And
Hudson economy includes the most important of
all savings—-long life, freedom from repair need,
and exceptionally high resale value.
In nearly a million cars now in use, and in con-
tinued world leadership of 6-cylinder sales, the
Super-Six principle gives its greatest proof of the
satisfaction of owners.
World’s Greatest Values and Largest Selling “Sixes
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
OTLBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
1147.


Men's Service Shoe./
Ten Styles O o ne rtce
For Walking, Golfing or Evening Wear.
Made from selected'Black Box Calf or Tan Wil-
low Calf, Glace Kid or Patent Leather. The
material used in the manufacture of these shoes is
the best procurable and the workmanship is un-
excelled. They have David Jones’ guarantee for
the utmost service.
1. Linings are Linen and Leather.
2. Eyelets are Celluloid covered.
3. Soles are made from solid Butt Leather.
4. Thread used to sew uppers is silk Egyptian
Four-cord Cotton ensuring greater strength.
All sizes. Price, pair .. .. •• 26/9
DAVID JONES’
for Service —SYDNEY
endemic in Eastern Australia, and 1
finishes with “zoophytes. ? etwe “ th ,f
limits there is hardly a thing about the
continent, from two-up to the manners and
customs of the stingaree, that you
find explained as fully as possible by those
most competent to do it. As was tin
case in the first volume (A to LYb), tne
historical references are very complete In
some instances new light is shed upon the
subiect of memoirs, as, for example, in the
case of John Macarthur: “Strong and able
—probably the ablest man, except Macquarie,
among the founders of Australia—lie left
among his contemporaries the impression ot
a hard and sometimes vindictive spirit; but
his worst faults, whatever they may have
been, are atoned for by his genius as a
slicepbreeder and his gift of the merino
sheep to his country.. One among his virtues
deserves special notice. In an age ana a
community notorious for its licentiousness,
when it was considered proper to include
a list of concubines in an official return,
Macarthur’s life was irreproachable, and Ins
affection for his family sincere, lasting and
n °ln e this volume each of the States of the
Commonwealth, together with Papua, is
dealt with in its alphabetical order, and
every essay is a condensed history and geo-
graphy of the province it lias to do with,
which misses nothing of importance or
interest, and on particular points always
gives a cross-reference; the story ot
Maoriland up to its separation froni N. S.
Wales and the appointment of Captain
William Hobson, 11. N., as Lieutenant-
Governor on May 3, 1841, is also told. The
account given of Papua is particularly com-
prehensive —as much as regards geography,
geology, climate and government as its native
inhabitants. . ...
In its scientific aspect, Vol. II is rich in
detailed description of such of the fauna and
flora and fishes of the continent as are not
dealt with in the first volume. For the most
part the plates are devoted to such subjects,
and are very fine examples of the best sort
of color-printing. Nothing could be better
than the colored representations of flowers,
fish, birds and eggs, and the work of Neville
Cayley and F. S. Rodriguez is beautifully
done and excellently reproduced. The photo-
graphic plates, also, leave nothing to be
desired, and throughout the text are hundreds
of illustrative line-drawings and diagrams.
Fifteen excellent maps cover the geographic
scope of the volume.
It is impossible here to give many
instances of the thoroughness with which
the work has been carried out.. In the
article on “Music” there is an interesting
section on “Aboriginal Music,” in which the
native instruments of the mainland and
Papua are described and illustrated and the
‘score of a song used at a corroboree of the
: Narrinyeri tribe (1860) is set out, with the
words, in conventional musical notation. And
here is a gem of information : “Voice produc-
tion of a novel kind is described by a native
of Cairns, Queensland. A certain kind of
small brown frog, carefully selected, is placed
in a vessel containing a small amount of
water, and is left until it dies and the liquid
becomes discolored with age. The black
Caruso then drinks the liquid, eats the
frog, and thereby gains the mucli-desired
clear, strong voice.”
Perhaps the completeness of the volume
is best illustrated by the fact that it contains
a long, illustrated article on two-up —“a
game of chance which appears to be so far
an Australian institution that it is referred
to by the jocular as Australia’s ‘national
game,’ and by the serious-minded as a
‘national evil.’ ” It is the work of an expert
—or a policeman —and is so up-to-date that
it gives the record number of arrests made
during police raids on “schools” as the 156
which took place at Port Melbourne in July
of this year. Every variant of the game is
mentioned, as well as the methods by which,
often at the risk of life and limb, “crook’
players seek to beat the “school.” “Wide-
spread pi-ominence was given to two-up
through its zealous practice by many of
Australia’s soldiers during the war of 1914-
18. It was played by them at any odd
moment, even in the trenches; and, on
Armistice Day a group of Australians
amazed London and the representatives, of
half the nations of the world by playing
their ‘national game’ in Trafalgar-square.
iThere was then current a jest to the effect
jthat Australian soldiers were very devout —
they often gathered in groups and raised
their faces to heaven (watching the flight
of the coins), lowered them again in devo-
tional contemplation (when the pennies
reached the earth) and uttered pious ejacu-
lations.”
No words of praise could be too high for
the enterprise and courage which has pro-
duced “The Book of Australia.” It is
simply invaluable to the student of every
aspect of this country, and is one of the
best advertisements that Australia has ever
had. It is satisfactory to know that the
first edition of Vol. I (8000 copies) has
been disposed of.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Conduct of War
“I do not believe,” says Major-General Sir
F. Maurice in Government and War (Heine-
mann), “that we are at all likely to be •
involved in another great war for many
years to come.” But there is always the
possibility. Even the covenant of the
League of Nations contemplates it, and until
civilisation has reached a point where war
becomes unthinkable —if such a consumma-
tion can be conceived —it is essential to pro-
vide against it. The British people never
have given any serious thought to devising
a system for the conduct of war before it
arose. They have waited till the day arrived,
and then knocked together a machine that
had to be eternally tinkered; only a merciful
Providence has always pulled them through.
“One of the reasons,” says the Major-General,
“why almost every war upon which we have
entered for the last 150 years has begun
disastrously for us is that we have never
understood the difference between government
in peace and in war. We have tried slowly
and painfully to adapt the peace machinery
to purposes for which it was never intended.”
Germany, on the other hand, had over
half a century ago recognised the necessity
for creating a system for the conduct of
war. The one defect in Von Moltke’s scheme
was that, whilst it assigned duties to the
civil government on the one hand and to tne
military authority on the other, it put
questions of national policy m the hands or
the latter, whereas they should properly have
been left to the discretion of the ruling
Power. “So that when the system was
directed by second-rate men in 1914 the imme-
diate military advantage to be gained Dy
violating the frontier of Belgium was seized,
and the consequences of tearing up a treaty
in the eyes of the world were overlooked.
What the author conceives to be necessary
is a system which will clearly demarcate
the functions of Ministers and military duets,
with a supreme directing authority upon ai
cuestions of national policy, controlling an
the forces of the Empire in time ot war.
That supreme authority upon questions or
national policy, and directing to these cuds
all the armed forces of the nation, should be
the Prime Minister. But the carrying out
of the policy, expressing the will ot tne
people, should be handed over to the militaiy
authorities without any interference or inter-
meddling with the war machine. There
should be no suggestion of military domina-
tion, on the one hand, nor of civilian soldier-
ing on the other. In the Great War England,
up to December, 1915, muddled along m its
characteristic way. Then came the appoint-
ment of Sir William Robertson to the post
of Chief of General Staff, and lie immediately
formulated proposals, the effect of which was
to define clearly the functions of Ministers
and the war machine. This system, further
improved by Lloyd George, “was, save in one
respect,” says the author, “very similar to
that established by Abraham Lincoln in
18(54,” a critical period in the American Civil
War. „
Under the Robertson scheme a War Coun-
cil was constituted as a supreme direct-
ing authority, whose function was to formu-
late policy, decide on the theatres m which
military operations were to be conducted, and
determine the relative importance of those
theatres; also to exercise a general super-
vision over the conduct of the war and select
the. men who were to execute the policy
decided on. In Lincoln’s case he was ms
own War Cabinet, the Constitution of the
United States permitting him to be so —and
this Major-General Maurice regards as tlm
ideal condition. “The whole history of war,
lie says, “shows us plainly that a committee
is not a suitable body to direct military opera-
tions. .. . The supreme directing authority
over all the forces of the Empire in time ot
war should bo one man, and that man the
Prime Minister, just as in the United States
of America the supreme authority is the
President.” Absolute authority in matters
of public policy and the general direction of
war should be lodged in one person, and the
handling of the military and naval forces
to execute the will of the people as expressed
by its constitutional head should be left
wholly in the hands of experts. By doing
this a direct responsibility is established
which does away with the delay that hampers
action in moments of crisis.
The author takes the two outstanding figures
in the Civil War to illustrate his conten-
tion. In the case of Jefferson Davis, the
President of the Confederate States under-
took the dual task of the administration and
the direction of the war. That is to say,
he not only determined the war policy of
the South, but endeavored also to determine
the actual military movements, the strategy
and tactics to be adopted, the points of
attack, the placing of troops, and so on. He
failed to distinguish between two distinct
functions, and his repeated interference with
the army had much to do with the defeat of
the South, which at the opening of the war
had the odds in its favor. Lincoln also, in
the early days of the conflict, endeavored to
be both President and general; but, as the
author points out, soon came to see the
disasters that must accompany this confusion
of offices. However great as a statesman, he
was undoubtedly no soldier, and. before the
war had advanced too far to bring disaster
to the Federal army he wisely and frankly
reviewed the position and worked out “a
definite formula for the relations between
statesmen and soldiers in a democracy. at
war, and that formula has not since been irn-
proved.”
T. B. C.
The Novel of To-day
Any bookseller will tell you that the
style of novel most in demand is for ever
changing. Which, in passing, serves to show
that there is no set style or topic for best-
sellers. Scott, Dickens, Thackeray, George
Eliot presented pictures of their era and
reflected its taste. The pictures given are
touched with romanticism, humor, satire or
philosophy. But they have this in common,
that they are all healthy. Then came a
series of sentimental productions like Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.” “Little Lord Fauntleroy” and
their kind. From this arose a natural revul-
sion to Rider Haggard, Conan Doyle, Joseph
Conrad, Gertrude Atherton, who gave us
books full of vigor, adventure, color and
activity. Then the war. Now what have
weA For the most part, forced studies of
sex' Good, straight sex stuff is sound and
healthy, a natural expression of the greatest
thing 'in life, the thing without which life
could not be. But could anyone claim that
the sort of stuff that has been produced—
in England particularly—since the war is
healthy sex expression? Far from it. It
is written, apparently, with a view to stir
up all that is least desirable in the relation-
ship between man and woman. The cynical
contempt which it displays for those things
that have been considered fine and fit for
reverence in women is a terrible indictment
of the women of to-day. The stuff that is
written is not in itself such a severe com-
mentary on our womenkind. That might bo
done by any pervert. It is the demand for
the books that shows us where we are; for
it is generally acknowledged that it is the
women who make the demand. W hen they
place such an estimate on themselves, what
can they expect from novelists, poor crea-
tures who have to make' money—if they
can?
Take books like “If Winter Comes,” “The
Sheik ” “The Green Hat” and others that
have been amongst the best-sellers. What
are they? Mental Spanish-fly. Yet this
is the stuff that our wives read, that our
daughters are being “educated” upon. At
the moment the demand for lewd productions
is said to be dwindling. Booksellers will tell
you that there is a noticeable swing towards
the historical or semi-historical novel. There
would seem to be two good reasons for this.
The first is that readers are getting tired of
this constant stimulus of unnatural desires
and impulses. The other is that the his-
torical novel is usually written in cleaner
language. We have none of the “Damn
yous,” the “bloodys,” the “God strike yous”
so freely used in the preseut-day English
productions.
Sex was and is and always will be the
chief thing in novel-writing. And . since it
is the chief thing in life, that is as it should
be. It is sound sex-instinct that makes most
good books finish with the winning of the
desirable heroine by the mucli-desiring hero.
That is good. It is the poisonous sugges-
tion that good, plain, honest sex satisfaction
is not as refined, nor as stimulating, as hot-
house lechery that must be scotched if we
are ever again to have good novels. The
swing-back to the historical, or semi-histori-
cal, gives us some hope; for until the pre-
sent taste is altered there cannot be any
inducement for the production of novels that
are worth while. Even a novelist must be
fed. And it has been proved beyond all
manner of doubt that to induce the multi-
tude to feed you you must give the multitude
what it is asking for. To write for posterity
is no doubt very uplifting; but it is the
present-day public that foots the food-bill —
or leaves it a blank sheet.
W. M. FLEMING.
Robert Michael Ballantyne
“Most Australian teachers,” “A.W.H.”
wrote (It.P. 80/9/’26), “would deem their
school library incomplete without Ballan-
tyne being represented.” There lies before
me a battered book entitled “Ungava, a Tale
of Esquimauland,” by Robert Michael
Rallantyne, with illustrations (and not at
all bad ones) by the author. On the front
blank sheet of the green cloth-covered volume
is an inscription stating it to be a prize
awarded in 1868. I was a youngster then :
now I am—58 years later —by way of being
an old man, yet between that date and this
present one stands this link of a mutual
friend. I have dipped into many boys’ books
since those early days, and must confess that
my boyhood’s great romancer is not, from
the point of view of literary values, much
higher than amongst the “also-rans.” What,
then, is this quality in Ballantyne’s writings
that have kept them alive through genera-
tion after generation of lads and even lasses?
They arc certainly not meticulously accurate
in historical and geographical detail, and
have no purple patches of imaginative flight;
their humor is somewhat pointless, and they
are occasionally tediously didactic, yet seem-
ingly they have some abiding charm for
youth. For my own part I believe it to lie.
in an unadorned simplicity of style and an
obvious sincerity of purpose.
A few years before Ballantyne’s death I
was in London, and, having a sort of senti-
mental affection for the writer of the book
which was my first school prize, I wrote to
the old gentleman, who replied to me under
date of June 23, 1888, from his home at
Harrow-on-the-Hill. This note and another
I received were written in an exceedingly
neat and perfectly lucid handwriting. “It
gratifies me much to know, he wrote, that
my books are so well known in Australia,
and that you have derived P leasa F® fr °“
them, and I thank God who has given me
the power to write so as to interest you „
people.” Later on he refers to his purpose
of “advancing the cause of l-ighteousness.
Perhaps the attraction about Ballantyne,
for parents, at least, lies in the fact that
his boys are good lads-maybe ratiierover-
good, judged by our modern standards—but
they are not prigs: just clean and whole-
some, and accepting with unquestioning laitn
the religious teaching of their mothers and
holding fast to their fathers' code of honor.
And the books were simple and direct in
style, and had that open-air atmosphere
about them which their writer had absorbed
from the days of his own adventurous youth,
for he had visited most of the places —such
as the Hudson’s Bay territory—from which
lie drew the material of his stories.
T. 0.
A Satchel of Books
The Adventures of a Coquette by Gaston Leroux
(Werner Lawric). Hannaford Bennett, the ti ans
lator of this French novel of no consequence h
made a successful effort to capture some ot the
bubble of the champagne before it breaks.
The Lunatic in Charge, by J. Storev Cdouston
(John Lane). Peradventure Mr. Clouston could
write of some person other than his evergreen lunatic,
but he never does. He has created a figure of fun
with the gift of renewing its life. The present book
is written with the sprightliness that characterised
its predecessors.
Dangerous Bonds, by Lady Troubridge (Methuen).
A novel of the ham-sandwich order with just sufh
cient mustard in it to excite the appetite. It is
one of the exhausting efforts of the dying spmt of
an old age to flutter for a moment in the gay
garments of modernity, while yet preserving the
old willow-pattern virtues.
Clarisse, or the Old Cook (Methuen). A new kind
of cookery book; the author does not disclose hi.
name, but A. B.’Walkley, of the T.mksclaim« to.
him that “he is more than a culinary, he is a bterary,
artist.” It purports to have been written bj a
old-fashioned cook, the faithful servant of a comfort-
loving and certainly well-nourished old bachelor.
Apparently Clarisse had some spare time on hei
hands for reading, and she garnishes her recipes with
a wealth of literary references. Quite a ehaim-
ing little book in its style.
The Key Above the Door, by Maurice Walsh
(Angus and Robertson). An Australian edition of a
first novel which has attained popularity in England.
It, is cast in the form of a personal narrative fiom
the lips of one Tom King, a crofter in the moorlands
of Scotland as to his outward presentment, but beneath
the surface a philosopher, poet and humorist. Into
the story of this “tall, lean, youngish man m the
careless tweeds, with the masked face and the live
eyes” is woven the thread of a moving love
romance. A quite worth-while novel.
The Tattooed Countess, by Carl Van Vechten
(Knopf). Main street of the American small town
has on exploitation, yielded many strange person-
alities, but few stranger than the Countess EHa
Nattatorrini, one time of Maple taller, lowa Mel
rid of her ancient Count, and well dowered w ith
his liras, she returns to Maple Valley, its Main
street its scandalmongers and its teacup societj,
to filch, at the mature age of 50, “that dangerous
and fascinating age just before decay sets in, the
youthful Apollo of the town. The hussy.
Some Dickens Women, by Edwin Charles (Merner
Laurie) Scattered through Charles Dickens novel,
are more than 500 studies of womenkmd, some merely
flicked in, others elaborated into full-bodied chaiac
ters. Out of this number the writer has selected the
more representative and gives the story of each w 1
such connecting descriptive mattei as may be
necessarv to weave it into a fabric. In a foreword
G K. Chesterton salutes the compiler as one of the
fellowship who keep alive the one really living tradi-
tion of a literary personality that exists in
time and which shows no sign of failing.


INTRODUCING
The Improved Packard-Six
m ■
m
m
ACKARD SINGLE.SIX SEVEN-PASSENGER SEDAN IS ILLUSTRATED
A Car of Unsurpassed Performance
The improved Packard-Six will out-perform in traffic and in speed any
Packard ever built, with one exception the Packard-Eight. It has
no rival anywhere in performance, beauty of appearance, or in the com-
fort and luxury of its riding qualities.
Improvements in engine design and manu-
facture have resulted in enormously increas-
ed power, developing more than 80 horse
power and a speed far in exce s of ordinary
requirements, but giving the assurance of
thorough reliability.
We believe that the best test of the per-
formance and comfort of a car is by actual
experience. You are cordially invited to ride
in and drive the improved Packard-Six
whether you intend to buy a new car
or not.
Ring FLijjy for a demonstration*
•£925
Improved Packard=Six
Five-Passenger Sedan
Improved Packard-Six
Seven-Passenger Sedan
•*995
IRA
L. Sc A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: Berk House, 72-76 William Street, Sydney.
Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Falkmer Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell St., Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
5. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd.,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Lta„
Hobart, Tasmania.
Denny Bros,,
rj.3g-j.47 Murray St., Perth
PACKARD
s k C? h e CM a n 01) ho Owns One


oil can depend on
BATTERIES
/ or .
Un failing)
Service
—And You Will Never
Be Let Down.
"THOUSANDS of people and
1 scores of national institutions have
depended on Exide Batteries for years.
The Telephone Systems of the world,
the large Broadcasting Companies, the
largest Transport Companies, and
many others all pin their faith on the
dependability of Exides.
On your car, or for your wireless
set, you can bank on Exide dependa-
bility.
Australian Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.,
Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2
Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand
Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington,
Auckland and Christchurch.
£xii>e
BATTERIES
SERVICE STATION


w
*
~VN
&
-~£s(
'■-S'
To pay less
is false economy
To pay more
is extravagance
IS it wise to buy a car that costs a little less
simply because of the saving in first cost?
Studebaker cars may cost a little more in the
outset—because they contain the finest materials
and workmanship. But their slight additional
first cost is offset many times over by the longer,
more dependable and more economical service
they give after the purchase. No better proof
that Studebaker costs less in the long run than
the scores of Studebakers—still in service—with
100,000 miles or more to their credit. Because of
the excess mileage built into Studebaker cars,
their resale value is high.
/
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER. LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
STUDEBAKER


•a
Cuticura Soap
Is Refreshing After
Outdoor Exercise
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap,
after outdoor exercise, cleanse, cool
and freshen the skin. Assisted by
Cuticura Ointment they do much to
allay irritation, redness and rough-
ness of the face and hands and
keep the skin soft and clear under
all conditions of exposure.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
CASH
WASHABLE
GIBBONS
For the Finishing
Touches to Your Lingerie
JWTADE in Plain or Bro-
A caded Styles in Pretty
Pastel Shades up to 1-i-n.
widths no need to re-
move CASH’S RIBBONS
from garment before
washing as they retain
Colour and Freshness in-
definitely.
oAsk Your Draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD
Cubitt St.. Richmond
MELBOURNE
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of tliis Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO,, Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-pagc
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
j
Relief from Rupture
Any sufferer will find
Denyers’ Elastic Truss
gives complete relief and support and
is conducive to curii-g.
It is perfect fitting, safe and sure. Why go another day without it?
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage extra.
If unable to call, a Pamphlet will be sent in a plain envelope closed, giving full
particulars.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
You can check teething diarrhoea with
DIARRHOEA
SemedV
jj/.
It is absolutely the best and safest
medicine for diarrhoea and other
bowel complaints in teething children.
First Aid in Stomach Ache .
THE
The Standard All British Fountain Pen
SELF-FILLING. CANNOT LEAK.
You can regulate the flow of ink
to suit your handwriting.
When you have finished writing,
a twist with the finger and thumb
seals the reservoir so that the
ink CANNOT escape until you
yourself release it.
Obtainable everywhere.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
SHAVEX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVEX” is a production of modern civilisation whereby men
can shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda.
With “Shavex" you can shave in half the time and get a
perfect and smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin
like satin and keeps one young, and no after lotion is required.
“Shavex" is a skin food. It makes shaving a pleasure instead
of a torture. Safety Razor blades last twice as long and no
hot water is required. !/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON
(fDept 4 ), Eagle & Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Zeekol Manufacturing Co., London, Eng.
(Australia) Ltd.
Manufactured by
x.
\
* A
A
FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 3d. stamp-
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NO-
VELLO, writes: —"It is a great pleasure to be able
to say sincerely that ‘Shavex* is a really splendid
invention. 1 am so often asked to recommend pre-
parations, and can so seldom do so, but in this case
my appreciation of your ‘Shavex is genuine. I shall
always use it.*'
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
eub'Reil
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. I
■
S 8
p
Si
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS
CLUB REIL CIGAR
FOR
FACTORY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lyre-bird.
There's a sheen on the back of the swallow,
The morning is fair;
And down in the hazy green hollow
’Mid stems high and bare
A lyre-bird is mocking and calling,
Unseen in the slant sunlight falling
On cushions of air.
A king of the deep rocky places
Most fearless is he.
Though hiding his form and his graces,
His voice wanders free,
Thrown high and thrown low, till I wonder
Which fringed ledge of bloom he speaks
under,
The roots of which tree.
But thrice in the years have I seen him,
Far running afield
From the tangled strange places that screen
him —
His throne and his shield.
And there in the happy blue weather
With gloss of the sun on each feather,
His pride was revealed.
He wears the smooth sheen of the swallow;
And high on the day
From his place in the hazy green hollow
I hear him still say,
In accents now rising, now falling.
“Come hither; the whole world is calling.
Come hither and play!”
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Rosa Rubiginosa.
Beneath a slender apple-gum,
Amid the heath’s abundant spires,
There waits me, as I go or come,
The most importunate of briers,
And with wee talons sharply sly
Catches my skirt as I go by.
Sometimes it stays me thus to show
How ruddily upon the spray
Its smoothly handsome berries glow
And, ostentatious, seems to say,
With gestures eloquent though mute:
“Where see you, Madam, finer fruit?”
Again, I must behold the tints
That dying autumn’s artistry
Upon the fragrant leafage prints:
And yet again must stop to see
How lavish spring each branch emplumes
With fragile, golden-hearted blooms.
And all the while the tree above
Leans lightly down as if to greet—
Half in amusement, half in love —
The little alien at its feet,
And, watching that persistence, heaves
With gentle laughter all its leaves.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
The Forsaken.
They say that I should weep to know him
dead,
But tears are not for me;
Who through long years has bowed the
conquered head
Knows not grief's luxury.
He has been gone so long, Death’s no new
thing;
And wherefore should I weep, I’m won-
dering?
He has been gone so long. Years matter not
Save that they leave us old,
And memories grow grey, decay and rot
That once we thought were gold.
Old sorrows only ask that they should sleep,
And wherefore, then, I wonder, should I
weep?
They say that I should weep; but I have
grown
Too old in bonded chains.
And the indignities that I have known
Have left their rusting stains,
lie has been gone so long—nay, let me rest
And ask no tears of one so long unblest.
TASMANIA.
VERA HOLTHAM.
Helen.
Here as I wait to wave good-bye to you,
With smiling lips and eyes that bravely
shine,
And aching throat —for grief is choking me,
Held firmly down lest it should hurt your
heart —
Still I am blessed! Your little hat of blue
Bobs through the leaves, as following the
line
Of she-oak boles you reach the messmate
tree,
And stop your horse —where branches fall
apart.
You wave and call, a dear voice grave and
sweet.
I wave and call; my voice does not betray
The pain. And then —and then the empty
glade
Only is left where but a moment past
You sadly stood! Oh, lam strong and fleet
To overtake you on the sandy way
Deep in the scrub, within its odorous shade,
Kiss you again, and let you go at last.
But no! I cannot find you, and the breeze
Cries softly in the palm fronds by the track,
And whispers in the sand about my feet.
Sharp lioof-prints stretch away until my eyes
Can see no further. Leaves and grass and
trees
There are, and nothing more. But echoing
back
Comes faint and far the ever lessening beat
Of hoofs on turf—l listen till it dies.
The house is empty, and the clock, unwound,
Looks like a vacant face. Is there no sound V
Breathless I stand; for surely on the stair
I hear your step and see your shining hair!
CJIJEEN SLAN D.
BLACK BONNET.


ĵ
j
< ....
m
m
m . *
V *
* „*■'
; .. -• .
in-1 ,;,.n '
Ti^T«tw3Si
tZP®mx ss>Bi~
B -SEI»P>EtT * SONS tfMltl
>*. SOUTH AUBTRAIIA t!
■■in
:
ĵ
j


The Bulletin
Vbi. 47—A'o. 2436.
October 21, 1926.
THE HUNGRY ELEPHANT.
“London financial authorities are very uneasy at discovering that for some time past Australia has been paying much of the interest on old loans out of new loans."
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “Magnificent animal, isn’t he?”
JOHN BULL: “Yes, sonny; but suppose you come down to earth and feed him yourself.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
I‘2 months, £1 Jfs.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; S
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
M anager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
0.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tuo columns in length, or, say,
3000 are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. 'The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in I,onclon is
L. St. C. Groiidona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
—Lil!-—‘ ll ” <an he obtained from him or
Hie bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from, Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
■!> Faningdon Street, London, E.C.Ji.; and IF. Daw-
on and Sous, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.).; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, )6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander.” .) if-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Ichodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde ; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and .)2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West ) Ist Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
5)1 h South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
ICoYPT. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China,
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Cor, 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising- Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Earringdon Street. London, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered■ as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
jffie'Z&xzlZelvji.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1926.
AN EXPERT ON OUR HARBORS.
George Buchanan, the distinguished engi-
neer, has presented his report on the harbors
of the Commonwealth. In his turn, Acting-
Prime Minister Earle Page has passed on
to each Premier the bit which concerns that
Premier’s particular area, retaining for his
own study the part which deals with Darwin
and the Northern Territory. An early im-
pression created by the document is that the
writer passed his time here in mild astonish-
ment at things lie saw, and wrote out his
views in the only way a polite man could
write them —that is to say, on the assump-
tion that the persons concerned really desire
to do the best for the country, and would
gladly follow the straight, honest track if it
was pointed out to them. The fact that
many of them have the worst intentions in-
stead of the best may have been in his mind,
but he didn’t mention it. Each dominant
city of Australia is afflicted with a mental
kink to the effect that it will somehow be
robbed and insulted if any part of the State
of which it is the boss should break away,
and remarkable things are done to prevent a
section which is likely to feel that way
acquiring enough population and votes to
assert itself. This corporate vested interest,
and a swarm of minor vested interests equally
short-sighted, have produced wonderful
effects in the way of retarding the country’s
progress, and any stipendiary expert was
bound to draw attention to them.
* * * *
The visitor naturally noted that Australia
is moderately supplied with good harbors
for big craft; but their had luck is remark-
able. In Queensland, Port Denison (Bowen)
was known in the happy infancy of the land,
and has been officially described as “one of
the finest of the State’s harbors.” It has,
however, accumulated only 2115 inhabitants;
hut, then, the northern railway strikes in-
land, not from Bowen, but from the vastly
inferior and closely adjacent Townsville,
which had an early pull. Gladstone, on
Tort Curtis, dates so far back that the man
after whom it was named tried to found a
penal settlement there about 1815. In 1921
this place, where a big busy town ought to
stand, owned 2128 inhabitants: but, then
again, the great central railway avoids it, and
strikes inland from Rockhampton, which is
38 miles up a river, and a very inferior river
at that. The greatest shipping outlets of
Queensland are Brisbane, 17 miles up a river
which opens into a bay full of sandbanks,
and the artificially-created Townsville. The
only good natural Queensland port which
gets a fair scrap of trade is Cairns; apart
from that the three big population centres
on the coast are the three bad ports whence
the three big railways start. In N. S. Wales
Twofold Bay, Jervis Bay and Port Stephens
are included by experts among the great sea
outlets of the continent, and Buchanan
mentions the Clarence as another. Twofold
Bay was “settled” 92 years ago, and the
settlers in the town (Eden) and district
number 1050. The railway stops 60 miles
away, and loses the chance of paying traffic
by doing so, which explains. Jervis Bay
was familiar in the century before last, and
it has raised a townlet of 200 inhabitants or
so. The railway comes to a dead end 16
miles away, which also explains. Port
Stephens, the natural outlet for the Hunter
Talley coalfields, after being well and favor-
ably known for 130 years, has only enough
population to make y figure of speech. It.
too, is carefully avoided by a railway; and
that explains likewise.
South Australia and Tasmania tried
harder than the average to avoid the conges-
tion habit, but circumstances were against
them. Victoria is in a different category.
Its western districts, where the great wheat
output is located, require an exit, and Port-
land is handy. Settlement there is older
than at Melbourne, and a crooked railway
was built to bring trade there, and then
crooked railway freight and other wicked
devices were, set at work to keep trade away
from there. The population of Victoria’s
oldest town and oldest seaport is 2554.
Albany, in Westralia, has had much the
same experience. It was known from about
the beginning of things; it is greatly blessed
by Nature; and it lias a railway which isn’t
allowed to bring it any more business' than
can be avoided, because the artificial crea-
tion at Fremantle and, in a less degree, Bun-
bury, have to be considered. Albany had
3976 inhabitants in 1921, having gained 374
new people in 20 years.
The Australian custom is for a State to
have one commercial outlet of overwhelming
importance which, in the extreme case of
Sydney, does 96 per cent, of the oversea
trade, measured by value, and a small second-
ary outlet for the sake of appearances. By
the latest available figures, things were
divided in this fashion, the British item being
thrown in by way of comparison :
\\ here Even £lOO or a State’s Oversea Trade
Is Done.
Two Other
.. Main Ports. Ports.
New South \\ales .. £99 17 2 £0 210
Victoria 98 17 1 l 2 11
Tasmania .. .. .. 91 19 9 5 0 ‘1
Queensland .. .. 91 16 10 8 3 2
Westralia 90 18 8 9 1 4
South Australia 89 9 3 10 10 9
United Kingdom.. .. 56 15 9 43 4 3
Among the “Other Ports” are Cairns, Bowen
and Gladstone, the only three in Queensland
described as first-class; Grafton, Port
Stephens. Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay in
N ; S. Wales: Western Port and Portland in
Victoria; Port Lincoln, in South Australia,
and Albany and Derby in Westralia. Aus-
tralia spends a lot of money and prevents
a lot of business by hauling goods needless
distances to the sea, and often hauling them
past good harbors to inferior ones. It
deprives itself of much unearned increment
by not allowing cities to grow where they
are willing to grow. It loses many willing
immigrants by not advertising its new cities,
and it loses a great deal of pleasurable ex-
citement. It may some day lose itself. What
it gains, save the pleasure of satisfying the
hunger of some people in the big cities for
unearned increment and limelight, is a
mystery.
GOOD DAYS FOR CRIMINALS.
A tendency is observable to ease up on
the pampering of the criminal, especially
the tough specimen. More notice begins to
be taken of the possibility that, with all
his drawbacks, he may not be so much better
than the ordinary citizen, after all. Com-
placent people have got into the easy way
of boasting that the gaol population is smail
as a result of the average goodness of the
community. But it often means that, owing
to the badness or casualness of the com-
munity, the criminal element has the upper
hand, and the disorganised forces of the
Law much too often fail to trace an offender,
or to capture him when traced, or to con-
vict him when, captured, or to secure him
a sufficient sentence afterwards, or to make
sure that he will serve more than a fraction
of his sentence when he has been provided
with one. In Queensland, where copvicts
have formed, unions and gone on strike, it
has been said that a hardened party may
earn 50 years’ seclusion for an accumula-
tion of crimes, and may serve the lot in
five years, and get busy with more crimes.
JLliis is partly through sheer laxity, partly
through a hazy idea of curing criminals by
kindness, music and good feeding, and
partly because of a desire to get as many
pffenders out as possible in time to vote
for the party in office. In Melbourne the
doings of the push frequently look more
like the attempt of savages to loot a suburb
than a mere effervescence of spirits. Four-
teen days for a leading savage is considered
severe. And in Westralia the Federal
authority has found it impossible to keep its
own prisoners locked up for even a short
term, because a sympathetic State authority
pardons them out. The U.S., and par-
ticularly the two biggest cities, have become
celebrated of recent times as places where
the person who goes about with anything
really worth stealing goes in armor like a
knight of old, or at least in an armored
car or military tank stocked with weapons.
Also important banks maintain a gunman
on a coign of vantage, ready to open lire
on brigand hordes disguised as depositors.
Report comes at last, though, of a revulsion
of feeling, especially in the most populous
State, which is also the most disreputable.
Among other reforms it has been decided to
lengthen sentences, to give justice a
chance to move on less leaden hoofs by
reducing the defendant’s right of challenging
jurors, to reduce appeals to a minimum, to
shut up the financial institutions which sell
bail to affluent offenders, to refuse bail to
individuals with previous convictions, and to
knock the easy commutation of sentences on
the head. By these and other devices New
York hopes to fill its gaols, largely with a
well-dressed and highly intelligent class of
prisoners who have been too much neglected,
and to some extent with a commoner and
more slouchy variety of malefactor.
* * * *
The penal system of a century ago (more
or less) was a coarse animal, and when the
humanitarian looks at the legendary hind-
quarters thereof as they fade into the mists
he naturally shudders. Still, it is possible to
shudder superfluously and in the wrong spot.
The old British prison, where gaol fever
and other epidemics and insects raged, and
where brutal governors sometimes raged
even worse than the insects, was a
deplorable and insanitary place. Still, all
Europe was insanitary then, and the interior
of a prison is always expected to be a shade
worse than the exterior. Despite the eccen-
tricities and excesses of the penal code of
the day, it is probable that the majority
of the confinees got no longer sentences
than they deserved. Even Titus Oates
was only sent in for life, which didn’t seem
long in his case, especially as his sentence
was soon commuted to a pension of £BOO
a year for life. The persons, apart from
those exported on political grounds, who
were ordered healthful agriculture on “His
Majesty’s Plantations” very often got no
more agriculture than similar individuals
would richly deserve to-day. The fact that
they were sold or given away for their term
as slaves to individuals with a “pull,” and
that they were resold on arrival at the
Plantations to absolutely irresponsible
masters, wasn’t so much a legal punishment
as a clumsy attempt to shift responsibility
off the Government’s hands. The Australian
transportation system was an attempt at im-
provement, but it had drawbacks enough.
Still, if shipping accommodation had been
better (and no good shipping accommoda-
tion existed then) there would have been
nothing more to be said against the export,
viewed simply as export, of criminals from
London to Port Arthur than from Lon-
don to Dartmoor. The climate of Port
Arthur is really the better of the
two. Any special unpleasantness which
happened to Gabbett, there or else-
where, wasn't in that toothy gentle-
man's sentence, and things as bad might have
befallen him if he had joined the army or
the navy. The most flogged person in Aus-
tralia is said to have been a soldier.
* * * *
Even if the old ways were strict, insani-
tary and brutal, that is no reason why the
new ones should not be strict and orderly.
Humanitarianism, in its revolt against the
old ways, became illogical. The fact that
people now dead did spells in dark and
pestilential -prisons is no reason why any
present-day criminal should not do a fully
adequate sentence in a clean and wholesome
gaol, with enough work and restriction to
make him aware that it is a gaol and a
place to be very carefully avoided. Some
philosopher of sorts made the statement that
it is better that 1)0 guilty men should escape
punishment than that one innocent man
should suffer. But considering the suffering
which 99 or a much less number of guilty
characters who have escaped are certain to
cause, not to one but to a great number
of innocent persons, this aspect of the matter
should not be stressed unduly. In addition
to other considerations there is always tin;
possibility that the innocent man who is
used as an argument isn't innocent at all. but
merely contrives to look as if he was.
THE COMMONS PROM INSIDE.
[Dr. W. A. On apple, the writer of this article,
is a Maorilander, born in Otago, who, after a bril-
liant University career and early professional life
in Wellington, went to Europe and was M.P. for
Stirlingshire (1910-18) and for Dumfries (1922-24).
He has written largely, especially on the subject of
physical fitness and development.]
A FEATURE of tlio House of Commons is
Hie number and the variety of the questions
asked of Ministers for an hour each day.
From IbO to 200 and even more adorn the
Order Paper, and the Chamber is always
crowded during this diverting hour. Very
rarely are there two or more questions on
the same subject, so that it can be seen how
wide is the range dealt with. Good ques-
tions effectively followed up by two or three
“supplementaries” are often more telling
than an hour’s speech. Almost always dur-
ing question time, vim and wit and laughter
and high feeling pervade the House.
A Scottish member asked the Minister
of Transport about what he called the extor-
tionate railway freight rates on carrots.
The freight the farmer had to pay, he said,
yielded him no profit. Another member asked
as a “supplementary” whether the Minister
could give the House the price of thistles,
whereupon the Scottish member asked
whether, if the Minister could not give his
honorable friend the information he desired
about the price of thistles, he would let
his honorable friend know that there were
districts in Scotland where lie could browse
for nothing.
A member often puts down a question
which looks innocent enough, but which gives
opportunity for effective scoring against a
Government through supplementary ques-
tions ; he may even, and often does, write
out a number of such questions and hand
them to his friends, in order that it may
appear that a large number of members are
profoundly interested.
A speech is often completely at the mercy
of a skilful interrupter. Col. Craig, now
Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, a man
of large proportions, with a very red face
which becomes blue and turgid when he
speaks excitedly, was making a speech
against Home Rule on the occasion of its
third passage through the House. He is
a great Orangeman and he was very violent
in his denunciation of the Asquith Govern-
ment and the measure. “I warn the Govern-
ment,” he said, his face blue and bursting
—“I warn the Government that if they
force this bill through, blood will flow in
every street in Ulster; blood will bespatter
every home; blood will” —— “But you’re
Orange!” cried a Nationalist. “Yes, but
evidently a blood-orange!” added another,
and the speech concluded in a roar of
laughter.
1 iuring the war a member was unexpectedly
given a knighthood. He was a wealthy gas-
meter manufacturer. On his first speech
after his decoration he said: “There are
many untapped resources from which taxa-
tion for war purposes may be derived —
members’ salaries, for instance,” and he
glowered at the Labor benches. “And gas-
meter manufacturers !” interrupted a member
from that quarter. This disconcerted the
newly-ennobled knight to such an extent
that lie lost his thread, and in fumbling with
his notes dropped some and could not get
another start. The House waited patiently;
then Will Crooks chipped in: “Put another
penny in the slot!” The orator, in great
discomfiture and amidst cruel laughter,
resumed his seat.
The House is an organism. It is sus-
ceptible to every emotion, and suddenly re-
sponds, often with more spontaneity than
an individual. I torn the most peaceful calm
will sometimes spring the most violent storm.
The House, moreover, can be profoundly
moved. Thus, the speech of Mr. Asquith
on the death of Alfred Lyttelton touched
every heart, and tapped many a tear.
Nearly every member has his own dis-
tinctive mannerisms. Mr. Asquith (to
House of Commons men he will always
be Mr. Asquith) has two. With his
left hand outstretched, palm downwards,
he will apply to it' the back of the
other hand. Thus will he drive home a point.
A rapid stroke of the chin is his second
habit. Lord Grey, when speaking, keeps
touching the right side of his neck just be-
hind the ear with the finger-nails of the
right hand. Lord Banbury touches the tip
of his pointed nose with the tip of his right
little finger.
Cord Balfour is the most refined and
polished speaker in Parliament. All his
mannerisms are artistic and elegant, and his
whole pose is graceful and pleasing. He
toys with his pince-nez, which hang from
his neck by a black cord. He throws them
over his left coat-lapel, and when they drop
to the perpendicular he toys affectionately
and playfully with them again. He strokes
one hand with its neighbor. Long, thin,
white, smooth-skinned hands, like those •of
a lady, they are. He might be putting on
a neat, tight-fitting glove, or smoothing out
its wrinkles, or washing his hands with in-
visible soap in imperceptible water. He
deliberates while he is speaking, lie hesi-
tates, stops, then goes in search of a word,
discards it with a toss, is off again, and
finally rejoices in the discovery of the word
that tried to elude him. All this to the eye
and ear and aesthetic sense is fascinating,
and makes Lord Balfour the most delight-
ful and attractive speaker in Parliament.
Asquith is the most effective speaker.
No one ever fails to follow and understand
him. He never looks for effect. He unfolds
an unvarnished tale. His transparent
honesty, his abiding fidelity to all that is
true and patriotic and unselfish, and the
logical power of his mind, make all members
eager to know what he thinks on every great
subject under discussion, and the message
through the lobbies, “Asquith’s up,” fills
the Chamber.
During the women’s franchise agitation
assaults were made on the House. On one
occasion, when Asquith was speaking as
Prime Minister at the Despatch Box, a round
body the size of a grape-fruit whizzed with
great violence from the Strangers’ Gallery
opposite the Speaker’s chair, just past the
back of Mr. Asquith’s neck, and struck the
floor beyond him with a loud thud. The
whole House was plunged into noisy agita-
tion, the man in the gallery who threw it
was seized and violently ejected, and the
“bomb” was quickly thrown out of the
Chamber. During all this time Asquith
went on with his speech as if nothing what-
ever was happening. He never turned his
head, he did not look round at the “bomb,”
he took no notice of the scuffle in the gallery.
A more perfect indifference to the scene, and
a more complete concentration upon his sub-
ject. it is not possible to imagine.
It cannot be shown that women in the
House have made any difference in the
policy of the country, or in the manners of the
members. Women speakers in the House
enjoy no immunity from rude interjections
—Lady Astor, who is often provocative, is
especially subject to interjection. Her Chris-
tian idealism and her self-absorbing sincerity
art' her dominant characteristics.
There are in the Chamber about 450 seats
for 615 members. The rule is that the mem-
ber who gets a card bearing his name on a
seat first, and is in that seat at prayers,
possesses it for 24 hours. At the beginning
of each new session, therefore, each member
tries to establish a right to place his card
on the site of his choice, and a crowd of
about 20 or more may be found round the
locked door of the Chamber every morning,
waiting for the attendant to unlock at 8 a.m.
W. A. CHAPPLE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia’s Borrowings.
Instead of entering on a defence of Aus-
tralian finance against recent aspersions in
London Federal Treasurer Page would have
done wisely to pretend that he wasn’t aware
of the attack, or hadn’t heard of London, or
cultivate oblivion in some shape or other.
It is possible to say a trifle on behalf of
Commonwealth finance, insomuch as the war
debt was to a great extent inevitable, though
the peace policy of pampering State Govern-
ments with Federal works, and Federal loans,
and Federal credit, while the Common-
wealth’s own province is left in rust and
neglect, would be regarded as insanity else-
where than in Australia. But when Aus-
tralia’s Treasurer set out to whitewash State
happenings the result was abject:—
While I am the last person to object to economy in
public borrowing and expenditure, the apparently
excessive figures of the State debts must be examined
in the light of the purposes for which the money was
raised, and the special needs and circumstances of
this immense undeveloped continent. Nearly half the
State public debt has been floated in Australia.
More than two-thirds have been expended on railways,
tramways, water supply, harbors, rivers and similar
works. You cannot compare this continent, which
is as large as the United States and is still only
partially developed, with smaller settled countries.
We are building for the future, deliberately incurring
liabilities for the benefit of the whole empire.
The closing sentence in that mass of
sophistry clearly implies that the States may
“deliberately” incur much more debt with
the Treasurer’s full approval. That being
the case the medical and surgical gentleman
looms forth as a public danger, and his red
lamp should be attached to him at night as
a warning. To take his statements in their
order, only 44 per cent, of the State debts
have been raised in Australia, and the 5.6
per cent, payable in gold outside Australia
runs to over £340,000,000. It is no satis-
faction to be told that two-thirds of the
money is represented by “railways, tram-
ways," water supply, harbors, rivers and
similar works,” and the other third by works
which haven’t even the grace to be similar
to rivers viewing them as reproductive
assets. The railways fail badly to pay their
way, and the expenditure on harbors doesn’t
seem to create any new harbors which attract
oversea commerce. Perhaps they are the
wrong kind of harbors; certainly over 96
per cent, of N.S.W.’s trade sticks to old
Sydney, and over 95 per cent, of Victoria’s
to old Melbourne. Then there is too much
guff about “this immense undeveloped conti-
nent.” It is smaller than Europe, Asia,
Africa, North America, South America or
Antarctica. It is even smaller than some
places which are not continents, such as
Soviet Russia, China, Canada and Brazil.
Then too much unmanly self-pity is wasted
by the community on itself because it is
also “young” and “undeveloped.” In the
matter of railways and tramways, and
to a less extent in the matter of
waterworks, every country was as un-
developed as Australia when the latter w T as
in its raw state; but Australia had the
advantage that public land was a cheap sur-
face to build railways on, and public land
revenue was easy money to build them with
if short-sighted * and slothful rulers hadn’t
preferred to use loan funds instead. Even
now the public lands yield nearly £5,000,000
a year to the State Treasuries, which ought
to be a helpful amount. As regards Aus-
tralia’s youth, which runs a dead heat
with its undeveloped condition as an excuse
for riot and extravagance, 438 years isn’t
absolute infancy. The infant is at least
old enough to drink and go to the races.
Unfortunately the older he grows and the
more he is developed the more loan money
he seems to need to prevent growth stopping
and shrinkage setting in. In the four years
to 1905, when there was a tremendous
amount of work to be done, development
cost £27,000,000 and a trifle. In the four
years to 1917, when a lot of the work was
done, the development bill was £76.000,000.
In the four years to 1925, when an immense
number of heavy and expensive undertakings .
were finished and out of hand, the loan
expenditure was £129,000,000. Even though
some of the money may be represented, by
“rivers and similar works” this species of
geometrical progression will ‘lead to unholy
smash.
The Narrowing Financial Margin.
Although he is admittedly a persuasive
man, Prime Minister Bruce’s reply to finan-
cial criticism in London was not much better
than the Treasurer’s reply here. One of
his points was that a great feature of the
security for Australia’s big indebtedness lies
in “the character of the debtor.” That is
certainly a point, as the most populous and
also the most indebted State has a Govern-
ment which takes its instructions from an
outside body., and the outside body takes a
lot of its instructions from a foreign repudia-
tion crowd at Moscow. The Prime Minister’s
next argument was the familiar one that
“the bulk of the capital borrowed by Aus-
tralia is spent on developmental works which
stimulate migration within the Empire, in-
crease the productive wealth of our country,
and make not merely Australia but also the
Empire safe.” Unfortunately these develop-
mental works have occasionally a suspicious
look about them. The Federal quarterly
statistics condense the State loan assets
under a few headings, which may be further
condensed in this way
1916-17. 1924-25.
Railways and tramways.. £221,734,000 £286,046,000
Telegraphs, telephones . . 3,893,000 3,893,000
Water, sewerage, rivers,
harbors, roads, bridges 85,788,000 140,403,000
Schools and other buildings 15,701,000 19,533,000
Defence 2,389,000 2,389,000
Repurchase of land . . 8,311,000 74,440,000
Nameless oddments . . 33,341,000 69,760,000
£371,157,000 £596,464,000
The list says “All Other” instead of “Name-
less Oddments,” but they are nameless so
far as the volume is concerned, and if they
won’t fit into any of the defined categories
they must be pretty odd. The “repurchase of
land” item means that the States borrowed
mongy and lent it to themselves on the
security of their own soil. These two very
sketchy assets stood for 11 per cent, of the
State liabilities at June, 1917, and for 24
per cent, at June, 1925, and that wasn’t
an improvement. Railways and tramways
represented over 59 per cent, of the debt in
1917 and under 48 per cent, in 1925, which
wasn’t an improvement either. It was inevi-
table, of course, that the Prime Minister,
like the Treasurer, should declare with pride
that the private wealth of Australia is
£2,425,000,000. That means that it is esti-
mated to have increased by £259,000,000 in
the five years 1921-26. But in the five years
between 1920 and 1925 the State debts grew
by £173,000,000, which is very close up, and
there is no “estimate” about that. It is
definite reality, and though wealth may
vanish in time of crisis debts don’t. Neither
Bruce nor his financial lieutenant is respon-
sible for State finances except in the sense
that a more enterprising pair might use the
Federal powers to much better purpose in
the way of bringing pressure to bear in
the interests of economy, and a less fool-
ishly enterprising pair would not egg the
profligates on to silly road-making schemes
which will head to more loans.
♦-
Curbing the Railway Commissioners.
Mr. Lang’s proposals for reforming and im-
proving the railway and tramway services
of N. S. Wales would command more respect
if they were more thorough-going. Appa-
rently the underlying notion is that the Com-
missioners have foo much responsibility and
the Ministry ought to share the burden with
them. So the Commissioners are to be relieved
in various ways. The Chief Commissioner is
no longer to have the ultimate responsibility
of preserving discipline. His right to veto
the decisions of the Appeal Board is to
vanish; the constitution of the board is to
be altered by the admission of a member
who is to represent the workers. By this
means it may be .possible to retain in the
service people who, in the opinion of James
Fraser, would be better out of it. In
the opinion of the Labor Daily the result
will be to “remove much of the rankling dis-
content in the railway service which is itself
the greatest hindrance to efficiency and
economy.” But whry remove only “much” of
the discontent? The right of Commissioners to
exist being granted, the best procedure from
the Lang-Garden point of view would be to
allow railway servants to appoint the Com-
missioners, by a ballot, and with or without
the use of sliding panels, according to taste.
How can the proletariat make sure of get-
ting justice at the hands of an . Appeal
Board when it hais only one member of the
board in the bag*? The idea is absurd—
almost as absurd as it would be to play
two-up without naaking sure by providing
yourself with a two-headed penny in
advance. Then there is the matter of
railway construction. The Commissioners —
men who. though doubtless well-intentioned,
do not always place the convenience and
emolument of tie workers under their con-
trol before all other considerations—have
hitherto been allowed to take charge of
such extensions and alterations as have been
thought necessary. Mr. Lang thinks it
would be much better that this work should
be removed from their control and adminis-
tered by somebody else. ..There is plenty of
precedent for such a separation, of course.
In more than one State and in Maoriland
the Public Wofiks Department builds the
railways and hands them over to the Rail-
way Department} to run and maintain. But
unbiased administrative opinion has always
been in favpr of making the Railway Depart-
ment responsible for the whole job. Its engi-
neers, in meet places where the dual arrange-
ment is in foiree, have to pass the job, done by
the Public Wocrks engineers. If the railway
engineers aren't satisfied, then the P.W. men
must have another go; and that of course
is a bother. Also the right to hire and fire
large numbers of casual manual workers —to
send them here* and there, from one electorate
to another —is a very useful power to have.
It is, in fact, almost a corollary to the single-
electorates scheme which the Government has
also in hand.
♦
Maoril and’s Revenue Tariff.
In Maoriland, hvliere the local manufacturer
suffers from ar< inferiority complex so strong
that the wholesalers have for more than
half a century 1 managed to prevent him dis-
closing that hie makes a whole lot of stuff
that is supposed to be imported, one of the
most sacred afnd highly respected of insti-
tutions is the of British Manu-
facturers and Agents. The president of this
concern, one Cl. H. Scott, went to England
lately, and wh en the importing clan gathered
round to weheome him on his return he
found it necessary to issue words of warn-
ing. His words were vague—presidents of
important institutions seem to make a habit
of avoiding bitass tacks—but they sounded
horribly sinister. Boiled down, what he
said amounted -to the following:—
(1) It would be suicidal folly to do anything with
the Maoriland fiscal policy which would involve an
increase either in the “cost of living” or the “price
of production.”
(2) His reason for this conviction was that “Maori-
land had to compete with the world’s producers,
both in regard to quality and price.”
(3) He Had found in England a strong pre-
judice against Maoriland on the ground that it
didn’t admit English goods free, while England
admitted the Dominion’s foodstuffs free.
Mr. Scott said he thought it ought to be
made quite clear to the manufacturers of
the Old Country that the Maoriland tariff
is only intended to bring in revenue, and
that there is a very substantial preference
to Britain all along the line. Scott is right
in some respects. The tariff of the Shivery
Isle is still primarily, and as far as the poli-
tical principles of those who framed it go,
a tariff for revenue. «Any hint of a Pro-
tective flavor has been soft-pedalled by both
the Liberals and their opponents because
the cockies, whose party is financed mostly
by the descendants of fine old pioneers who
made the country what it is and now own
most of it, are regimented into the most effi-
cient political machine in the colony. Even
John Ballance, who gave the Liberals
principles that kept them in power for more
than 20 years, had no clear notions about
a tariff. The net result of a political con-
spiracy of silence about protection of indus-
tries and a steady affection on the part of
both the Liberals and their opponents for
the Customs House as a means of raking in
revenue is that to-day Maoriland gets a
bigger proportion of its tax-revenue from
Customs, and a bigger sum per capita, than
any other self-respecting country. For 1924-
25 it got a shade over half of its taxes that
way, the impost amounting to £5 11s. Id.
per head. Australia, in the financial year
ended June last, paid for a genuine Pro-
tective tariff —not a “revenue-only” subter-
fuge—at the rate of £4 16s. 6d. per head.
In the United States of America, where the
latest tariff is so stiff that Freetraders all
the world over give one glance at the schedule
and then have hysterics, the cost of Pro-
tection per head is well under £l, and the
Customs House provides less than a quarter
of the Federal revenue. The only clear moral
that seems to emerge from the facts is that
Maoriland might as well get the benefits of
an efficient Protective tariff, designed to give
open encouragement to its manufacturers
and to wean them from a habit of excessive
modesty that prevents them from trade-
marking or advertising their goods. It
couldn’t pay much more per capita what-
ever was done to the tariff, and if the local
manufacturer once got his tail up the Cus-
toms House revenue would drop. The Gov-
ernment would get the tax-revenue necessary
by some other channel possibly, but it
mightn’t even have to seek other channels
if population had been accruing in the rapid
way it can accrue when there is a fair
balance between primary and secondary in-
dustries.
♦—
A Poor Second-best to the Tote.
Following the example of Winston
Churchill, Vic. Treasurer Peacock pro-
poses to make the bookmakers in that State
pay a tax on their turnover. They already
contribute stamp duties on their betting-
tickets and club licenses, and pass them on
to their customers in the form of shortened
odds; Peacock’s idea is a p.c. tax on
turnover and a £1 fee for a permit. “The
turnover tax,” he said in his Budget speech,
“is estimated to yield £525,000 p.a., and the
new system should ultimately increase the
revenue by £417,000 p.a.” Last year betting-
tickets yielded £95,000 and licenses £14,000.
But McShortodds has so many friends in
the Vic. Parliament that “the new system”
may never materialise. If it does, many
bookmakers will assuredly hand in their
licenses and join the army of club, shop
and street operators, who pay no stamp
duties, and would laugh at the turnover tax,
so the prospect of actual revenue reaching
the Treasurer’s estimate is extremely remote,
even if he is pretty right in his guess (one
is as good as another) as to what the total
turnover on ATc. racecourses now is. So
far the campaign against the club, shop and
street gentry has ludicrously failed, and if
Peacock has anything fresh to propose in
the way of suppression he hasn’t mentioned
it. His “new system” is really a poor alter-
native to the introduction of the total-
isator. N. S. Wales gets from £250,000
to £300,000 p.a. from the tote, though
it" drives custom to the bookmakers, who
are allowed to compete with it, by ex-
tortionate deductions —9 p.c. for the Govern-
ment and 3| p.c. plus fractions and unclaimed
dividends for the racing clubs. A Vic. tote
from which the Government took 5 p.c. and
the clubs 3 p.c. (fractions and unclaimed
divs. might go to charity, as in South Aus.)
would unquestionably give the State a steady
£250,000 p.a., even if a limited number of
bookmakers Avere allowed to field. If it Avas
made the only legal medium of horse-gambling,
Avitli proper provision for speculators in doubles
and place bets, the Government might get from
£750,000 to £1,000,000 p.a., and the breeding
industry would benefit as it has done in
South Aus. and Maoriland. McShortodds
could be beaten by an embargo on publica-
tion of the weights except inside the race-
course gates; then, as was said by a Maori-
land racehorse-owner who recently visited
Sydney, McSiiortodds would “have to swing
a pick for a living,” or do some other useful
work. Unfortunately the Vic. Parliament
has a fatheaded prejudice against the
machine which always pays fair odds, and
never welshes or stiffens horses, and doesn’t
keep thousands of men (a large proportion
of them capable of better things) in economic
parasitism. McShortodds can no doubt
afford to pay 14 p.c. on liis turnover —the
illicit brotherhood give their agents 2 p.c.
—but the Government Avould do a great
deal more good for itself and Victoria by
dropping the tax, and McShortodds with
it, and legalising the tote.
♦
The Australian-made Motor-car.
The Tariff Board didn’t have as hard a task
as it might have expected when it Avas asked
to adjudicate on the question of whether
motor-cars ought or ought not to be
made in Australia. It had been asked to
give a bonus to any manufacturer or collec-
tion of manufacturers who would have the
hardihood to imagine that any Australian
would feel himself safe in a petrol-waggon
that wasn’t imported, and it probably ex-
pected a whole lot of weird propositions. It
didn’t get them. If anybody wants to make
a lot of easy money,. there are many ways
more promising than the manufacture of
automobiles in a country that has been
accustomed to admire the products of
America, Britain, France, Italy, Germany
and Belgium. As a general rule, the more
foreign the product the better its reception
amongst Australians, who feel that they have
to strike a high note in their motorware.
Rolls-Royces one meets on every corner. A
Lanchester (which bears the cachet of
Henry Ford —he bought one because he Avas
told it was the world’s best) has been
wearing out its tyres in Sydney recently, and
there are Lancias, Pierce-Arrows, F.N.’s,
Mercedes and Panhard-Levassors all over
the place. They are all mechanically beauti-
ful. but are little more than the toys of
the insolently rich. What Australia needs is
a locally-made car that will give Bill Blue-
gum and his family and Jim Redpern and
his olive-branches all the transportation they
need at a price they can afford. The reason
why motor-cars are becoming so popular is
that they afford one of the few known means
of amusement that, in itself, has never had
a down-nose glance cast at it even by arch-
bishops and cardinals. There are people
who live for 70 years in one vicinity and
never want to see anything better, but they
are scarce. The craze for gadding about
is deeply rooted in human nature —especially
in Australian human nature —and these fun-
damental impulses are quite the best sort of
thing on which to build manufactures.
Other countries that build motor-cars have
got a big start, and that, perhaps, is the
reason why only two Australian concerns —
one large and the other comparatively small
—confessed to the Tariff Board that they
had an ambition to build engines and chassis.
The big concern—a combine of several manu-
facturers —wanted a big subsidy. The
smaller one said it would be content with
much less assistance. The exact amount
of aid they needed doesn’t seem to The
Bulletin to matter very much. To estab-
lish within these borders the manufacturing
industry that is likely to appeal most to the
imagination of Australians; to acclimatise
the craft that chimes best with the national
temperament—that is the thing that matters.
Beyond it and above it, in more senses than
one, is the business of getting ready to
make aircraft, so as to supply the material
that will be needed if ever this continent has
to repel an invader. Importing is a com-
fortable process so long as one doesn’t have
to defend one’s country, or so long as one
doesn’t feel it a duty, for any other reason,
to cultivate love of one’s own country. But
for a nation to expect to get strong by im-
porting is like an individual trying to culti-
vate muscles by watching a cinema record
of a boxing match.
*
Too Much White-Collar Education.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Peter Airey rightly
attacks (B. 16/8/’26) the white-collar edu-
cation of the present generation. There are,
nevertheless, arguments in favor of longer
schooling age, but in the direction of voca-
tional education. The idea behind the system
now in vogue in the most advanced American
States has much to recommend it. There
juveniles, both sexes, begin to draft out at
about 12 years of age, their predilections
being noted as they develop under manual
training and Sloyd work. To some extent
their course is self-determinative, the in-
structor being expected to note in what direc-
tion the twig is inclined to shoot. From 12
to 14 children go to the junior high school,
and differentiation becomes more pronounced.
All go through elementary trade work of
some description. By the time the 14th year
is reached it is expected that definite signs
will have appeared as to whether the student
wishes to and should take up a trade or
have an academic schooling. At 14 he goes
either to an academic high school or to a
vocational high school. The former leads
to the University ; the latter implies a trade.
Four years of high school are the rule, which
takes the student to 18. In the vocational
school the student passes half of each day
in shop work, under tradesmen who have been
trained to teach, and half the day in related
work, which includes trade English, trade
science, trade drawing, trade arithmetic,
trade history, social and economic. These
subjects are inculcated by instructors trained
to that job. The boy or girl who goes out
of a vocational school at 18 goes as an
advanced apprentice, and frequently em-
ployers give an extra year’s preferment over
a wholly shop-trained youth. Some trades —
the automobile business, for instance —-are
taking steps to carry on the grades of in-
struction in series from the school schedule,
advancing rates of pay with the accomplish-
ment of each grade, and finishing the journey-
man course at 21 years of age. Other trades
are co-operating with school authorities in
the preparation of courses of study, and
where there is an alive body of employers,
oversight of the training by practical experts
is continuous. —Yours, etc., Benjamin N.
Fryer.
+
Rejuvenation.
Improvements in sanitary and economic
conditions and better methods of combating
disease have, within the last 50 years, appre-
ciably increased the expectation of life. This
is especially the case in Australia, where
relatively high standards have been reached.
Medical science is looking forward to the
time when the human being who dies from
anything but old age will be regarded as un-
fortunate ; and a film now being shown in
the Commonwealth suggests that means will
be discovered —have already, in a measure,
been discovered —which will postpone the
oncoming of old age for periods whose limits
it is impossible to guess. The film in ques-
tion illustrates the theories and researches
of Professor Eugen Steinacii. Taking sex
as his starting-point, Steinach was struck
with the remarkable physical conditions pro-
duced in gelded animals and existing in inter-
mediate sexual types. He made experiments
with rats, whose average period of existence
is 27 months, wherefore results could be
quickly observed. Sexual organs were suc-
cessfully transferred from male to female,
and from female to male, with in every case
an immediate change in characteristics and
general appearance, according to the sex
transplanted. Being now convinced that the
sexual organs produce a secretion capable
of restoring vigor, Steinacii carried his ex-
periments in that direction. Portion of the
sexual apparatus of a young rat was con-
veyed to a rat in the last stage of decrepi-
tude, with results which were astonishing.
Directly he recovered from the operation the
old rat began to show a revived interest in
life, and this was not transient. He re-
newed his battles with other bucks, became
the father of a family (previously he had lost
interest in does), and lived to be 86 months,
equivalent to 120 years in a human being.
A female rat taken in a condition of senility
at 26 months was so rejuvenated as to pro-
duce a litter. Other scientists have followed
on the lines of Steinacii’s adventures. Dr.
Kund Saud, a Dane, turned a 12-year-old
dog, dying of senility, into a vigorous animal:
Wilhelm and Lengeman, the Germans,
were successful in similar experiments on
bulls and stallions; and Serge Voronoff
converted an aged goat into an aggressive
billy which, six years after the operation
(liis years being then equivalent to 135 in a
man), had been thrice a father. These
experiments, and many others, have been
recorded in a book by an Australian, Dr.
Norman Hatre. For obvious reasons there
are not yet human parallels, but 'Steinach


For perfect, soft light without
glare ask for a Condor tr Opalite”
lamp and safeguard your eyesight
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street • Sydney 493 Collins Street, Melbourne
16 Chesser Street - Adelaide Exton Hse., Queen St., Brisbane
King’* Chambers, Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
ĵ
n The little lamp
with the big light"
j
ĵ
j
j
ĵ
has invented an operation, called vasoliga-
ture, by means of which, it is asserted, he
has revived energy in the old and caused
marks of decay to disappear—the restoration
of youth is not claimed. And the operation,
from his description, is milder than appen-
dicectomy. Other experiments have been
carried on in America and Europe: Klika
refers to an old man of 80 whose rheuma-
tism vanished and whose hair lost its grey-
ness ; Sakiri claims success for 70 opera-
tions ; and Dr. Haire mentions the case of a
novelist who, apparently on his last legs be-
fore the rejuvenator laid him on the table,
has written a book, some one-act plays and
many short stories since. Sceptics there still
ore, but if animal energy can be restored and
animal life prolonged, why not human energy
and human life?
Leprosy.
The bacterial nature of leprosy was settled
by the discovery of the bacillus by Hansen,
of Bergen, in 1871. Hansen’s work pro-
vided a means for determining definitely
whether a person has the disease or not. As a
result of this doctors now are loath to diag-
nose the condition of a suspected person as
leprosy unless they have been able to recover
the bacterium from his blood or body tissues.
During recent years much further work has
been done, and some new facts of consider-
able importance have been discovered. Dr.
Ernest Muir has adduced evidence tending
to show that leprosy is what he calls a self-
healing condition; similar tendencies have
been described in connection with the foci
of tuberculosis. In the second place, it has
been shown that there exist leprous infec-
tions of so mild a nature that they will not
be discovered unless the doctor attending
the patient is specially watching for signs
of the disease. The credit for this know-
ledge belongs to an Australian, Dr. G. H.
Taylor, of Sydney. At the time he did this
work, Dr. Taylor was medical superinten-
dent at the Coast Hospital; and, inciden-
tally, all he got when he announced his find-
ings was a departmental censure on account
of some alleged irregularity in his procedure.
Even when suspicions are aroused, it may
be a matter of extreme difficulty to isolate
Hansen’s bacillus and clinch the diag-
nosis. These facts have been used recently
to support a strong plea for the humane
treatment of lepers in Australia by Dr. E. 11.
Molesworth in a paper read by him before
the Yic. branch of the B.M.A. and published
in a recent Medical Journal of Aus-
tralia ; it was referred to in a recent
Bulletin. Dr. Molesworth points out.
first of all, that, although leprosy was a plague
in Europe in the Middle Ages, its occur-
rence on the Continent at the present time
is rare, except in Scandinavia and Spain.
Dr. Muir and Sir Leonard Rogers give
credit for this decline to measures of segre-
gation and control. Dr. Molesworth, on
the other hand, draws an analogy between
leprosy and other infective diseases, and
quotes authorities to _ justify his conclusion
that leprosy is rare in Europe because the
susceptible stock has become eliminated. The
development of a racial immunity by the
white man may be explained by the well-
known law of the survival of the fittest.
At the present time there are in Australia
(J 6 revealed white lepers in a population of
six millions. Thirteen of these, six males
and seven females, are in the lazaret at the
Sydney Coast Hospital. They are not the
loathsome objects that popular belief would
have us imagine. They are, according to Dr.
Moleswortii’s description, “ordinary-look
ing whites, languishing in company with
some Asiatics, employing their time in gar-
dening, fishing and biting their nails.”
Modern methods of treatment hold out to
them a distinct hope of cure, and while
they are under treatment the absence of
active signs of the disease renders them
relatively free from danger of infecting
others. A person suffering from syphilis or
from tuberculosis is much more likely to in-
fect those in immediate contact with him
than is the leper undergoing treatment, and
nothing is done to prevent syphilitics and
the tuberculous from wandering about and
spreading their infection. Dr. Molesworth
gives details of cases within his own experi-
ence which are very similar to those re-
ported some years ago by Dr. Taylor. One
patient, obviously a leper, is not interned
because the bacillus of Hansen has not been
isolated. Is a patient more dangerous than
this individual ? Isolation of lepers in a
community like our own may indeed be
harmful in that it leads to concealment with
no treatment for the infected person. Dr.
Molesworth concludes that the only places
where internment of lepers might be useful
are those in which it is impracticable on
account of the huge numbers of natives
affected, and that the only places where it
is practicable are those, like Australia, in
which it is at the very least quite unnecessary.
After discussing the paper the profession in
Victoria has expressed its opinion in a
resolution which, it must be owned, is little
more than a pious hope. It is to be expected,
however, that the matter will be pressed
further. In any case, the public must be
made t<j> understand that leprosy is not a
disease accompanied by such risk of infec-
tion as w associated with syphilis or tuber-
culosis ; and, for a start, it might familiarise
itself with the fact that segregation is not
practised in Britain, France or the United
States.
♦
“T.P.”: Is there any deadlier weapon than
a beer-bottle? A recent street row in Sale
(Vic.) resulted in a smashed-up man lying
unconscious for days in the Gippsland Hos-
pital. According to the surgeon who subse-
quently gave evidence in court, the victim’s
injuries included: “Nose broken and reduced
to a pulp, whole of face knocked in and
both jaws fractured”—all the results of a
single blow. Judge Williams sent the
wielder of the bottle up for 18 months.
Isn’t it about time that booze should cease to
circulate in so deadly a weapon? An altera-
tion in shape is all that is necessary.
♦—
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : “Morob” cites the dis-
turbance on board H.M.A.S. Una as the
only instance of mutiny on an Australian
warship (B. 23/9/’26). I can supply him
with a more serious one; it occurred when
H.M.A.S. Encounter was at Port Darwin in
1919. It was at thp time when a thousand red-
raggers signified their disapproval of the Gil-
ruth regime by taking possession of Govern-
ment House and the quarters of the over-
awed police force. After their appetite had
MAN HAS HIS USES.
MRS. MAGGS : “And what’s your husban’ doin’ on the roof, Mrs. Daggs?"
MRS. DAGGS: “It looks like rain, Mrs. Maggs, so I’ve sent him up to shop the leak.”
been whetted by some wanton damaging of
the Administrator’s residence, they confis-
cated the Government arsenal, and, together
with an effigy of Gilruth, burnt the rifles
an( i other weapons outside Government
House. In answer to an urgent summons
by radio, the Encounter came on the scene
early next morning and order was restored by
a force of marines who landed with business-
like machine-guns and patrolled the town,
That night, however, a mass meeting was
held in the Town Hall, and a letter was
received from some sort of Soviet on the
Encounter, saying that, as long as the town-
people didn’t interfere with the sailors, they
could do as they liked. The bona fides of
the letter was put to the test after the
meeting, when the half-burnt effigy of the
Administrator was stolen under the eyes of
four marines on guard over it. The mob
immediately tooK possession of the town
again, and next morning the Encounter de-
parted with Dr. Gilruth aboard. From
that stirring period there has not been a
shadow of doubt in my mind that Australia
can never be safe till an effective railway
brings this territory into quick reach from
the South.
That den partially filled with thieves, the
Sydney City Council, had a refreshing sur-
prise when a Labor alderman joined the
Reform party in denouncing the proposal
to lease the Queen Victoria Building to Pri-
vate Enterprise for 50 years. The things
which have been said against the proposed
deal come under six principal heads :
(1) That the rents are kept low so that the pro-
perty may continue to be a losing proposition, and
so explain its disposal at a cheap rate.
(2) That the cheap tenants are kept on a weekly
tenancy, so that their rents may be promptly raised
for the benefit of Private Enterprise instead of for
the benefit of the city.
(3) That the proposal to call for tenders is mere
camouflage, the winning tender being drawn up
already.
(4) That the business is a grotesque affair for a
party which wants to buy a coalmine in order to
get quit of Private Enterprise.
(5) That the whole scheme smells of boodle. And
(6) Is illegal.
If the Lang Government creates a Greater
Sydney, with a lodger franchise and a sliding
panel in the ballot-box, what a city it will
be to plunder!
With the rashness of a very young dynasty,
King Fizzle of Mesopotamia has been on a
visit to England, where Geo. V. made him
a knight. If his subjects upset his throne in
his absence it will be a disappointment to
the Allies, whose hope is that he may develop
into a capable barrier against the Turk. The
fortunes of the family have been a
romance. When the Turk was hoofed out of
most of Arabia in 1916, the Pope or Grand
Sheriff at Mecca seemed the only possible
man to hold the fort, so he was recognised
as King of Hejaz, and admitted to the
League of Nations. His eldest son stayed
at home to inherit the crown, hut second son
Abdulla was made monarch of the land
east of Jordan, with a railway, an aero-
drome, a Dead Sea and an Arab army of
1500 men among his asseta Third son
Fizzle was elected King of Mesopotamia
by a majority which comprised 96 per
cent., so the returning-officer certified, of
the adult male population. Thus there were
three kingdoms in the Husein family, as
used to be the case with the Bourbons when
they held France, Spain and Naples. Then
the old man lost his throne to an older and
more distinguished Arab potentate, the Sul-
tan of Nejd, just as the father Bourbon at
Paris did. The other two lluseins hang
on, as the Bourbons of Naples and Spain
did for a while ; but the star of the family
has dimmed since the old man lost control
of the Holy Places, and the Nejd man has
13 sons of his own to provide for. And the
Arab is a changeful cuss.
4
“Oxmead” : N. S. Wales Judge Curlewis’s
ex cathedra objections to words used in ordi-
nary speech look like becoming an obsession.
Last week his Honor tartly told a barrister
who had spoken of his client as having been
“fleeced by a crook” to “speak English.” Yet
anyone who is not familiar with both words
lias surely a very limited acquaintance with
the English language. “Fleece” is defined
by Webster as “to strip of money or other
property unjustly, especially by trickery or
fraud.” “Crook,” which his Honor possibly
condemns as mere slang, and Australian
slang at that, is defined by the same autho-
rity as “a person given to fraudulent prac-
tices, an accomplice of thieves.” Certainly
it is indicated in brackets that this is “Cant,
U.S.”; but the word is really an old one
revived. There was once, it is clear, a verb
“to crook”- — i.e., turn from the path of recti-
tude. Modern dictionaries list it as archaic
or obsolete; but Roger Asciiam, who was
tutor to Queen Elizabeth, has left it on
record that “there is no thing that crooks
youth more than unlawful games.” If the
verb was good enough for Asciiam, there
seems no reason for Curlewis to snort at
the noun.
“Burralong” : Nature lovers have been
fussing a good deal lately about the over-
free picking of wild flowers, and there has
been some cheering over a proposal to legis-
late for the protection of the poor, dumb
flannel-flower and the helpless waratah. The
solicitude for ravaged plants is no doubt
creditable, but at the Sydney municipal mar-
kets last Friday, among all the jumble of
green peas and cheap stockings, poultry and
patent medicines, I saw a solitary and piti-
ful figure whose plight stirred me far more.
It was a partially-fledged rosella, in a soiled
and battered cage, lonesomely eyeing the
crowd that surged by. A pencilled ticket
announced that the little prisoner’s price
was 2s. 9d. What about a law prohibiting
the plucking of wild birds from their nests,
and condemning them to life-long imprison-
ment, to provide a profit of a bob or two
for somebody? The matter of the wild
flowers could rest until this obviously more
urgent reform had been instituted.
4
“Amity” : The effect of the American film
on the youth of the Dominion is so agitating
Maoriland that recently the Auckland Cham-
ber of Commerce called for reports with a
view of assisting Prime Minister Coates
to speak forcibly on the subject at the Im-
perial Conference. According to the remarks
of the big Hayward corporation, the propor-
tion of British films shown in Britain
and her dependencies is about 4 p.c.; Maori-
land, more patriotic than the rest, shows on
an average 12 p.c. ; in two big picture-halls
in Auckland and Wellington the ratio is
as high as 27 p.c. As an encouragement to
British pictures the tax on Yankee produc-
tions is held to have effected little, and the
only solution seems to lie in the improve-
ment of British films. The British Gov-
ernment might help by subsidising this form
of enterprise. Certainly if a portion of the
taxation now levied on foreign films were
applied to the encouragement of our own
Valentinos and Talmadges and story-
writers, there seems no reason why Britain
and her overseas children should not turn
out films to set Uncle Sam “razzin’ his
voice” in protests.
4
“Crust” : Discouraged at the prospect of
obtaining early employment at my own trade, I
decided the other day to see what the chances
were of getting a job with pick and shovel
through the kind offices of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Labor Exchange. I inquired at one
office and was sent on to another, where the
officials packed me off to a third. Over the
door of this section there was a notice, stat-
ing that registration took place there daily
between 9 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. After waiting,
with others, for more than an hour, I in-
quired elsewhere, and found that registra-
tion took place in another room. Why the
notice hadn’t been altered wasn’t explained.
I was given a ticket —No. 23,000-odd. Then
I asked when I might be likely to get a job
—six days, six weeks or six months? The
official shook his sagacious head gravely, and
told me he had “no idea at all.” Pressed fur-
ther, he said, “Well, I can tell you one thing
—the last job went to No. 18,000-odd.” So
I have to wait for a basic-wage billet, if I
rely on the Government, until 5000 other
men have been placed! I note, by the way,
that the Labor Exchange is excellently
staffed, numerically, and I can’t help won-
dering what the lads do for their money.


h
r THE
► AUSTRALIA]
Sydney for
a real holiday.
You will wonder why you stayed away so long
from so delightful a city, and so satisfying an
Hotel. “ The Australia ” expresses luxury, com-
fort, convenience and service in a particularly
happy way: no detail is overlooked which can
add to the pleasure of the traveller.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic Addressl
“ Austraotel, Sydney.”
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 14/6
T |c /3ustralia
Capital paid-up, £422.100,
The Hotel of the Commonwealth,
SYDNEY.
ROBINSON & BOTT, LTD.
(DIRECTORS: J. T. ROBINSON and GEOFFREY WARD.)
Well-known Customs Agents and Carriers of
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND,
announce that they have opened a BRANCH at 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY (’Phone, 8W7204), undertaking all forms of Customs, Forwarding and
Carrying work.
Sydney
relating
merchants and manufacturers are invited to ask advice on matters
to STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION OF MERCHANDISE IN
BRISBANE and Northern Ports.
BRISBANE: 459 Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY: 9 Macquarie Place.
Telegrams “ROBWARD,” both ports
POLITIAL
POINTS
Queensland Premier McCormack is shap-
ing better than his, brother in N. S. Wales.
He has intimated in a hard voice that the
financial situation is pretty awful, and that
“he must put on new taxes in every direc-
tion possible”—and this in a State which
is already the most taxed of the six. tie
added that it was necessary to close up
money-losing State enterprises, and that lie
proposed in future to demand efficient ana
faithful work from the slack and run-down
railway service. Lang, on the other hand,
is handing over a bigger share m the control
of the N.S.W. lines to the # employees.
Jcurneying to the husks and swine, he may
meet McCormack coming back, unless Mc-
Cormack is killed by the way.
The recent position of the Governor of the
Commonwealth Bank has been entirely unsat-
isfactory, and of course the position of the
acting-Governor is worse. Though there is a
Board of Directors, it doesn’t appoint the Gov-
ernor, who is also ex officio a director. The r ecl-
eral Government does that. When Denison
Miller was about to be appointed, Andrew
Fisher asked him “Now, what else can, i
do to make this bank entirely free of politi-
cal control?” Miller replied that it could
only be done by giving control to a governor
and appointing him for a long period. Lately,
however, on the pretext that Kell was an
unproved man, he has been, appointed only
from year to year; and his retirement is
more or less due to disagreements with the
Treasurer about the bank’s policy-—m rela-
tion, amongst other things, to the Common-
wealth Government’s housing scheme.
Asquith having resigned from, or oozed
out of, the leadership of the Liberal party, it
might be fitting if that institution wound up.
It is 98 years of age and has been in poor
health for a long time, while the Conserva-
tive party, reputedly aged 90, is going strong.
Asquith himself is 74. When he took the
Premiership in 1908 the Liberal party in
the Commons numbered over 500. When he
moved to file House of Lords in 1925 it
amounted to rather less than 40 and Lloyd
George was disputing the leadership. In
Asquith’s later days the old Liberals had
carried most of the measures they were
particular about and they wanted to sit
down and admire Freetrade. Unfortunately
for them the country began to have doubts
about Freetrade, which was quite unequal to
post-war conditions.
With tears in his voice, Vic. Treasurer
Peacock deplored the addition of £314,827 to
the revenue deficit of £662,678 when unfold-
ing his budget tale to the Assembly. The
£977,505 thus made up would, he said,
entail interest at the rate of £50,000 a year,
and he frankly admitted that this was “detri-
mental to the credit of the State.” Vic. has
not overtaken its deficits since Duncan
Gillies had one in 1899-90, when the boom
was bursting. The additions just after Fed-
eration, in the first year of the war and
now have more than set off surpluses. Curi-
ously enough Peacock has had the ill-luck
or bad judgment to be Finance Minister on
three occasions in this century when deficits
have had to be explained.
After three and a half months’ effort the
Allancocks got their Assembly Seats Redis-
tribution Bill through both Vic. Houses last
week. First the Address-in-Reply had to be
got out of the way; then the guillotine
standing order had to be bludgeoned through.
A track having thus been made, a Minis-
terial compromise providing for three-fifths
of 65 seats for the country and two-fifths for
the metropolis was carried. Supported by
four Laborites in the Uppah Chambah,
Cohen, K.C., made the last stand for more
city representation. Cohen posed as a peni-
tent for having, as a Minister, tolerated the
Peacock Ministry’s Seats Bill in 1924, and
RUINED.
“Victorian bookmakers are bemoaning the ruination and iniquity involved in the Government’s
proposal to tax them 1½ p.c. on turnover. "
LEADING ODDS-ON MERCHANT: “ Evangeline, we are undone. No more diamonds by the
quart —in future you’ll have to be satisfied to get ’em by the pint.”
registered his regret at not having resigned
from the Cabinet. Gilder, Molloy and Pev-
erill will now allot new boundaries which
the Assembly may accept, refer back to the
triumvirate for revision, or reject.
The Federal Arbitration Judges have been
jotting down startling evidence as to wliat
the 44-liour week is costing the N. S. Wales
taxpayer. Chief-Commissioner Fraser said
that the increased cost for six months on the
Government railways and tramways was
£191,300, the estimated cost for 12 months
was £557,000. and 9 p.c. more labor would
be required before his department adapted
itself to the new order, which would “take a
long time.” Chief-Accountant Hartigan esti-
mated that the 9 p.c. more labor would run
into £BOO,OOO p.a. Engineer Bradfield said
that the 44-hour week would add “between
£60,000 and £65,000” to the outlay on the Syd-
ney Harbor bridge. But a director of Dor-
man, Dong and Co. testified that his firm
would have to ask for a six or eight months’
extension of contract time. Contract price is
£4,217,000, to which all increases due to wage-
raising and work-reducing bodies have to be
added ; so even a six months’ extension will
involve over £lOO,OOO in interest alone. And
there are swarms of other Government under-
takings which the Judges haven’t time to
investigate.
At the beginning of the week McShortodds
was confident that the Peacock tax on his
turnover wouldn’t go through. He based his
optimism on the fact that a similar proposal
(except that the rate was then 1 p.c.) was
rejected on the voices in Vic. Assembly on
Dec. 19, 1924. Since then there have been
only two changes in the personnel, Laborites
Blackburn and Holland having succeeded
former fellow-workers Billson and Warde;
and Hogan, who then worked the machine gun
that riddled the bill, is now Opposition-
leader. In ’24 Peacock estimated that the
turnover was £15,000,000 p.a. He must
now think that the amount handled is
£35,000,000. Churchill’s amended estimate of
the turnover in Britain was £275,000,000.
Since 1920 Sydney and suburbs have had
40 members in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly
and the rest of the State 50. Under the
new redistribution scheme it will be 45-45.
At the rate Sydney is growing at the expense
of Rest-of-State, the next redistribution will
make it something like 50-40. Either one-
vote-one-value must go or the City State
must come.
The N. S. Wales Lang Government has
revived its measure compelling municipal
and shire councils to give a first preference
to Australian, and a second preference to
British, goods ; the swaggie-franchise which led
to the bill’s rejection last year has beeii
dropped. There is warrant for the bill in its
curtailed form, inasmuch as loan-debauched
local bodies are responsible in no small degree
for the flood of foreign imports. But the
most brazen offender has been left out, with
the half-hearted promise that its case will
be dealt with in a Greater Sydney bill,
which is unlikely to go through. So the
Sydney Labor aldermen immediately bought
another Italian motor-car.
Like Earle Page, Bruce has mentioned the
thousands of millions of Australia’s “private
wealth” as ample security for the thousand
millions it owes. This sort of dope is all
right for London, but it is no good for Aus-
tralia —in fact, is worse than no good if it
encourages us to go on borrowing. For what
is this “private capital? Brown has £5OOO.
He lends it to Smith, who buys flats with it.
On the strength of his loan to Smith Brown
borrows £4OOO from a bank and buys a taim
from Jones, who invests the £4OOO along with
£6OOO he borrows in an implement factory.
And so the “private wealth” goes on piling
up. At the height of the borrowing boom of
the ’nineties the “private wealth” of some
Melbourne people was enormous. When the
hot air was out there was enough lelt to
pay creditors a farthing in the pound.
Politics have become to Australia what
King .Charles’s head was to Mr. Dick, so
they were inevitably dragged into the question
of whether the murderers of the two West-
ralian detectives should hang. It was argued
that a State Labor Conference had declared
against capital punishment; that lreffene
and Coulter lived in the section where the
Labor party is strongest; that nearly all
the witnesses for the defence were consti-
tuents, and some very prominent supporters,
of Premier Collier himself; ami that the
Government could not afford to reject a poti-
tion w r hich bore 9000 names.. Rising above
all these considerations, Ministers have de-
cided that the law shall take its course. lor
this they have been bitterly denounced by
leather-lunged pacifists, but ordinary citizens
applaud the decision and respect the men
who arrived at it.
The British Chamber of Shipping has
prepared a very proper protest with which
to disturb the Imperial Conference concern-
ing the hold-up of British shipping in Aus-
tralian ports while foreign low-wage vessels
were undisturbed. But then it developed
into an ungrateful hound with its further
* *The benefits [of emigration] to Britain will always
be seriously in doubt while the Dominions cling to
the policy of selling us food and raw material
without freely accepting our manufactures.... The
great difficulty in empire trade is the Dominions
belief that it is possible to be sellers only.
A nice way to talk to a country which
lavishes preference on J. Bull, and which,
with its mere handful of population, is
classed in Whitaker as fourth among the
old man’s 15 best customers!
An agitation is afoot for the construc-
tion of a thoroughly good road from Can-
berra to the State port, such as it is, of
Bateman’s Bay. The Commonwealth has a
first dass port at Jervis Bay, with the right
to make a connecting railway and presum-
ably a road, but nothing has been done.
And actually the Bateman’s Bay project
may come off. The whole Canberra busi-
ness is silly enough for anything.
Admirable as is the scheme, of Dr. Argyle,
Vic. Chief Sec., for controlling, classifying
and training mental defectives, it is doubt-
ful if lie will get the measure passed this
session. Former Chief Sec. Tunnecliffe, one
of Labor’s stalwarts, complimented Argyle
upon his “comprehensive and masterly
speech,” and indicated that his party would
judge the measure on its merits; but the
necessary outside backing has not yet been
secured. There will be a general election
before long, and the politicians can think
of little else.
Tom Mutch, N.S.W. Minister for Educa-
tion, startled the Leg. Assembly by pitching
into the Auditor-General on the score ot
the latter’s plain speaking about the admin-
istration of the Child Welfare Department.
Or. rather, he would have startled the
Assembly if that body hadn’t understood
that the protesting Minister, while osten-
sibly aiming at the A.G., was really shower-
ing verbal blows on his revered Premier.
In short, the outbreak was only another
round of the Loughlin-Lang fight. So the
House listened to Mutch almost in silence,
and waited for the next round.
Unless this young land contrives to pro-
duce a lot more for sale abroad, or unless
it purchases a great deal less, there is going
to be a staggering lack of real money in
London to meet bills with. During the first
two months of the financial year Australia
has exported merchandise at the rate of
£5,740,000 a month, and bought merchan-
dise abroad at the rate of £13,825,000 per
month. Realisation of what this means will
come when the importer with a big bank
balance puts down a million in paper on an
Australian bank counter, and says, “Just
pay that in gold on my account in London,
will you?” and the bank says, “We have no
gold ‘left in London. The last of it went
to pay for a Dago motor-car for an aider-
man.” Whereupon, though reputedly rich,
the millionaire will be broke, unless he can
pay with potatoes or something like that.
Before assenting to the Seats Redivision
Bill, Vic. Governor Somers required special
assurance from Attorney-General Eggleston
that it was in order. Labor had talked about
a petition to his Ex. to withhold his assent
on the ground that the bill was passed un-
constitutionally, as it did not obtain an
absolute majority on the second and third
readings in the Assembly, but apparently
thought better of “using the Crown against
Parliament.” In any case the bill did not
require an absolute majority, despite Labor’s
tongue-in-the-cheek arguments to the con-
trary.
LANG’S BALAAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Alam, one of the 25 ‘wreckers’ appointed to
the Legislative Council by the Lang Government,
stated in the Chamber on Tuesday that his experi-
ence there had been an education to him. He
was convinced that there was no Parliament in the
British Empire whicli reached a higher standard; the
country was fortunate in having such able and con-
scientious men devoting their time without reward
to revising hills. It would be wrong to abolish the
Upper House, although he had been appointed to
it under a pledge of abolition.” — 8. M. Herald. ,
“And Balak’s anger was kindled, and he smote his
hands together and said unto Balaam, ‘I called thee
to curse mine enemies, and behold thou hast alto-
gether blessed them three times. Therefore now
flee thou to thy place: I thought to promote thee
unto great honor, but, lo! the Lord hath kept thee
back from honor.’ ” —Numbers xxiv, 10, 11.
“Come, curse these people for me,” Balak said,
The son of Zippor, Moab’s warrior head,
To Balaam, son of Peor. “They abide
Over against me upon every side.
Curse them for me until they wilt and quail
And peradventure then I shall prevail.
He upon whom thy blessings fall is blest;
He whom thou eursest is”—you know the rest.
Clearly he ranked the prophet as a fine
Performer in the commination line.
For sake of brevity one needs must pass
Over the episode about the ass;
But Balak said: “Curse me these people, pray.”
Now let us see what Balaam had to say.
“How can I curse,” he asked, “and how defy?
Let my last end be theirs and let me die
Like them”.... “I see a lion in the way
He shall not rest until he eat his prey”....
“The Lord has oped my eyes that I may tell
How goodly are the tents of Israel.”
And other eulogies, a goodly store,
Will meet your eye in Numbers twenty-four,
With all the imagery infinite
That decks such passages in Holy Writ.
So worthy Balaam —may his tribe increase!—■
His ass remounted, having spoke his piece,
Richer in conscious merit. Balak, too,
Fades, an explosive Moabite, from view,
Poorer in sheep and kine and things like these,
Burnt-offerings to Syrian deities
(Without computing master-cursers’ fees).
And whatsoever language he employed
’Tis surely natural he felt annoyed,
As one for bricks to be propelled who pays
And finds a-flying, ’stead of them, bouquets 1
Three thousand years agone, in Eastern lands,
Balak on Balaam glared and smote his hands.
I wonder if it’s less intense, the pang
Alam occasions in the mind of Lang?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


V,
8
a
ISHIO
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (El SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Iloey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Fillip & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Tinipson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards «
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurcii.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW -
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, STEEL FOUNDERS, FORGERS,
Works &
Foundries
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch \
Offices i
312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
T'. & G. B’l’g, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Myer Emporium, Ltd., the latest
form of the Myer enterprises in Melbourne
(goodwill appears in the accounts at.
£250,000, but is not reckoned as an asset
hereunder) :
t Dividends N
Prefs. Ords.f Towards
July, Profits. 9 p.e. 20 p.e. Reserves. Deficit.
1926*. . £436,099 £290,715 £145,384 £104,616
*lB months, flncluding employees’ shares; and see
hereunder.
The reorganised co. commenced operations
as from May 15, 1925, with profits accruing
as from February 1. Ordinary shares re-
ceived 20 p.e. for the period, 174 p.e. being
counted as the div. for the closing 12 months.
Prefs. got their 9 p.e., and £145,384 was left
as an initial contribution to reserves to
offset the quarter-million of goodwill. It
is a robust beginning. The new co. discloses
to shareholders—a fair number of ords.
have been released and another 345,000 are
being issued—what there is to represent
capital. In its previous shape-—it is little
more than four years since Myer’s (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., was formed as a holding co.—
accounts showed the usual taciturnity. The
subsidiaries then were Myer’s (Melbourne),
the Myer Woollen and Myer Knitting (these
textile activities were later combined), and
the holding co.’s record was as follows:
r- Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. (8 p.e.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 96,034 11,789 10 p.e. = 59,000 1„ n , rr ~
Preliminary exes, written off, £4789 } -‘ u ’ 4jo -0,400
Premiums on new pref. issue . . 2,500 22,956
(9 p.e.)
1923 128,285 34,914 12J p.c.= 77,295 16.0'6 39,032
1924 156,597 45,000 124 „„ 81,173 30,424 69,456
1925 205,738 45,000 15 „ „ 110,416 50,322 119,778
That was rich enough to create a demand
from a hungry public to be allowed to get
in on a good thing; and so far there have
been no regrets.
Early in the period covered by the latest
accounts, the business of Stephens and Sons
Pty., Ltd., was taken over—that co.’s pro-
perty adjoined the Bourke-street frontage
of Myer’s—and a contract was let for the
erection of a new 11-storeyed building in
Lonsdale-street to provide additional space.
To complete the Stephens purchase, 50,000
additional 9 p.e. prefs. ranking equally with
the old half-million were issued. The new
premises, which will be connected with the
Bourke-street block by a subway, are rising
skyward; portion already is occupied. The
shares now being issued are going out at
a premium of ss. to present holders—one for
every three held. Paid up on allotment, they
rank for full div. with existing ords. as from
the beginning of the current term. As ords.
are quoted at 455. the small premium will
pass unnoticed, and the issue be accepted
as a generous addition to the harvest from a
brilliant first term.
Liabilities at July 31 were substantial:
deposits, £233.256; sundry creditors and
bank overdraft, £355,194; mortgages and
advances against properties, £531,014 ; total,
£1,119,464. Against them were more or less
liquid assets (chiefly stocks) totalling
£1,203,684; shares in other cos (chiefly the
textile mills). £180,997; and the properties,
plant and fittings in at £1,438,461. Nearly
all the co.’s property is freehold, and much
of it should be worth more than the figure at
which it stands in the books. When it is
considered that last year’s profit was made
in the face of a certain amount of disorgan-
isation, and that figures for the first two
inonths of the current financial year showed
improvement, the outlook seems rosy. But
the market is piling up a tremendous good-
will on its own account. Excluding the staff
partnership shares there were on July 31
1,035,000 ordinaries, each being represented
by 18s.. worth of tangible assets. A market
valuation of 455. thus gives the co. a good-
will of £1,397,000. It is all right, of course,
so long as a 174 P-c. div. can be paid ; but
that will throw a heavy burden on a co.
with so large an amount of capital invested
in city freehold, including premises built
at modern high costs. And the possibility
of keener competition has to be kept in
mind. The Myer business at the outset was
a brilliant inspiration. Melbourne’s popular
business premises were outside the city.
Sydney Myer supplied something better in
the heart of the city. For some years he
had it all his own way there; but, of course,
that could not last. Others are following
him ; and whether that is going to be to the
Myer Emporium’s advantage remains to be
seen. It is quite possible that it may be: a
store doesn’t by any means necessarily suffer
by having other stores of the same nature in
the neighborhood. It is all a question then
of management, including the command of
capital.
David Jones, Ltd., which has been cloth-
ing Sydney from great-great-grandpa’s day:
Dividends.
1st 2nd
Net Prefs. Prefs.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
„ £175,765
1920.. £101,249 £9000 — 10 p.c.--£40,980 227,034
Surplus from sale of property, £9000 . . 236,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000 £8573 72 p.c. = 37,090 125,355
1922.. 85,262 9000 8485 10 „ „ 49,453 143,679
1923.. 90,107 9000 8573 10 „ „ 49,453 166,760
1924.. 95,776 9000 8573 10 „ „ 49,453 1951510
1925.. 97,989 9000 8573 10 ,, ,, 49,876 226,050
1926.. 104,789 9000 9911 10 „ ,, 60,000 261,928
Authorised capital has been increased to
£1,500,000. In order to provide additional
funds for the new premises, £200,000 —
£100,000 in 7i p.c. second prefs. and £100,000
in ords. —is being sought from shareholders.
Issued capital will then be £600,000 in ords.
and £400,000 in prefs.—the latter 150,000
6 p.c. firsts and 250,000 7-1 p.c. seconds.
During the year 35,696 second prefs. were
sold in the open market at a premium. The
premium did not amount to very much, for
prices over the 12 months were under 22s.
most of the time. The total, whatever it
was, was whisked away and added to inner
reserves. Net profits touched a point greater
than that of the peak year, and, after the
increased capital was attended to, £35,878
was available for reserves. There is no-
thing wrong with that showing, although
big figures must be expected in rich times
such as these. The growth of reserves is a
good feature, but the increase in issued capi-
tal to £1,000,000, and the fact that a lot of
money will be unproductive for the whole
of the current year because of the big build-
ing programme now in progress, call for
something solid in, the way of support to
capital. There was a biggish increase in lia-
bilities, but the position at July 31 was
quite comfortable:—
1920. 1925. 1926.
Deposits .. .. £14,369 £8,290 £9,410
Overdraft . . ... 287,259 —
Sundry creditors . . 121,620 95,174 169,034
Mortgages, etc. . . 203,585 97,132 106,292
Total liabilities .. £626,833 £200,596 £284,736
Fixed assets .. 520,250 416,149 629,026
Stocks . . . . 669,308 474,991 444,032
Book debts . . . . 199,632 231,753 228,731
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 101,933 80,000
Of the outside debt £96,815 was by way of
mortgage, but against the total of £284,736
were more or less liquid assets aggregating
£752,763. The new money should see the
structure, which is now towering above
Hyde I’nrk. to completion.
• ••« , ,
The public is interested in all three
classes of shares. Both lots of prefs are
strongly secured as to both capital and divi-
dend. After the issue of the new 100,000
seconds there still will be ample protection.
At July 31, after allowing bare cover for
prefs., there were net assets visible amount-
ing to £1 10s. 6d. for each ordinary. The
shares have grown steadily in the esteem of
the market, and the new share issue has, of
course, assisted. A year ago buyers of ords.
quoted 28s. with sellers asking 29s. This
week, sellers’ response to buyers’ 33s. was
33s. 6d., and sales have been made at the
latter figure. The move to the new premises
is the uncertain factor in the near future;
the market apparently regards it favorably if
it considers i.t of any consequence at all
* * * *
IIume ITpe Co. (Australia), Ltd. (the
deficit of £110,827 with which the co. be°an
was made up of patent rights £100,000. pre-
liminary exes. £3327, and underwriters’ com-
mission £7500) :—
t „ - „. .. Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ 110 827
Surplus assets transferred £11,978 98^849
Profit prior to incorporation 1,362 97 487
1921. . £19,986 5 p.c. = £12,094 7,892 89 595
Additional goodwill items, £1214 .. 9o'809
Vendors’ adjustment, £814 .. 9l’623
1922.. 4S.788 8 p.c. = 28,800 19,988 ‘ 71,*635
Additional goodwill items, £3681 .. 75 316
New share costs, £9471 84 787
Flotation consideration (Singa-
Pore Co.) 10,000 74 787
1923.. 53,9/7 10 p.c. = 4.3,375 10,602 64 1«5
Loss on Cobdogla plant, £23,583 . . 87’768
N.Z. establishment exes., £2038 . . 89’806
m4 "., 1 . 7 .« Nil 17,556 72^250
Additional goodwill, £390 . . 72 64-0
1925.. 42,961 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,961 64,’679
Additional goodwill, £257 .. 64 936
1926.. 40,209 8 p.c. = 40,000 209 64*727
The sixth year finds Hume Pipe still busy
establishing itself in the big world. Profit’s
claimed by the accounts for the 12 months
were £49,741, but that included £7532 pro-
vided'for taxation, and the tax-man will no
doubt chase it as soon as he finds his run-
ning-shoes. In 1925 two establishment items
totalling £8261 were written off out of pro-
fits, but last year the only visible change
was an addition of £257. The intangible
‘Patents,” which still decks the books.
amounts to £85.720—hefty enough to call
for reduction rather than addition. Indeed,
until big pieces have been bitten out of that
item, there will be little justification for
cheers in the board-room. After all, the
actual worth of the goodwill and of plant
depends on the profits won, and these, thus
far, have averaged little more than 6 p.c.
p.a. On the other hand, dividends have been
so modest that out of undivided profits intan-
gibles have been reduced by £.32,760. And
that is not so bad : it means that one-third
of the hot air has been replaced by solid
assets, though certainly the latter still con-
sist chiefly of plant.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures from the first year:—
1021. 1924. 1926.
Paid capita] .. £322,515 £466,840 £500,000
Liabilities . . . . 117,395 108,101 98,500
Freeholds . . . . 38,838 47,579 48,847
Buildings, plant, etc. 92,478 205,868 217,250
Stocks . . .. 80,187 77,507 69,178
Uncompleted work.. 39,132 22,887 22,967
Book debts . . 47,771 80,401 122,334
Cash, etc 17,178 27,499 21,120
Shares in other cos. 46,825 57,170 54,077
All the shares are of one denomination, and
are fully paid to £l. According to the
directors, preliminaries and expenses con-
nected with the old co.’s contracts have
eaten up £52,500 —£5500 went out last year
in repairs to old jobs. They declare that the
end of this expenditure is in sight. The
Maoriland business was bought back in 1923 ;
and a new arrangement was made in 1925
with the English co. which had acquired the
rights for countries other than Australia,
Maoriland, S’Africa and India whereby the
Australian co. handles matters in America
and other unhypotliecated territories. Last
year “important sales of licenses on a cash
payment plus royalty basis” were effected,
covering Hawaii, Philippines, British Colum-
bia and three U.S. areas. Hume rights for
Japan were sold during 1925, and royalty
payments have started to come in. The co.’s
share of the cash from the various sales
has more than covered exes., and the
balance has been partly applied to meet exes,
in connection with Java and India. No-
thing has been actually done in Java,
although the co. is ready as soon as business
offers. The re-purchase of the Indian rights
was abandoned in 1925 owing to the “poli-
tical atmosphere”; that territory appears to
be lying fallow for the time being. Singa-
pore Hume, Pipe assisted last year with a
10 p.c. div. Its prospects for the present
term are considered satisfactory. Australian
Hume holds 15,000 £1 shares in the English
co., and shares with it in an annual guaran-
teed royalty from the Japanese co. Hume
Steel, Ltd., is another subsidiary. It is re-
ported to have made “very important pro-
gress,” and to have obtained valuable con-
tracts; one with the S. Aus. Government
amounting to £189,000 is mentioned. The
parent’s holding in this concern is 165,000
fully-paid ords. These are included in
“shares in other cos.” at £4l6—the actual
cost. In all, the book value of the share-
holdings is £54.077—£4478 less than last
year. An improvement in jointing and trade
in side-lines are expected to win improved
profits.
i c • t • •
Although turnover last year was of record
dimensions, margins were narrower, but the
management considers the outlook satisfac-
tory. The market, however, is not impressed,
although quotes have improved, and are now
above 16s. —at which last sales were made.
Assets, exclusive of goodwill, work out at 17s.
6d. per share; but little notice can be taken
of that, because the physical assets include
(1) shareholdings which may be worth thou-
sands more or less, than book value, and (2)
plant whose value depends largely on good-
will also. So the goodwill loading of one
kind and another is heavy; but that doesn't
matter if profits can be made, and consider-
ing the limited area so far worked, they
have been very remarkable.
* * * *
H. M. Leggo and Co., Ltd., manufacturers
of foodstuffs, etc., from the time the business
was taken over by a '.public co. The deficit
of £22,219 to begin with was made up of
goodwill £20,000, and preliminary exes.
£2219
, Dividends ~ Towards
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£22,219
1919.. £9,892 £825 10 p.c. = £7585 £1482 20.737
1920.. 10,710 1690 10 „ „ 7585 1435 19 302
1921.. 1,890 2116 Nil 19,528
Loss.
1922.. 12,836 Nil Nil 32 364
Profit.
1923.. 6,911 Nil Nil 6911 25 453
1924.. 8,146 2400 Nil 5746 19,’707
1925.. 3,867 2400 Nil 1467 18,240
10 p.c.
1926.. 3,968 3000 Nil 968 17,272
Leggos have established works' in Melbourne
now. In nearly every case the bloated city
wins. With few exceptions those businesses
which try to stay out in the country centres
stand still or fade away. Queensland is
different, but even in the northern State the
tendency is towards the s.-e corner. For
almost 40 years Leggos did well as a pro-
prietary, and business moved ahead so
encouragingly that, in order to finance expan-
sion, the public was invited in. An issue of
30,000 <3 p.c. cum. profs.—underwritten by
the Dyason Pty.—was subscribed, and the
old proprietors took 10s. ords. for their
assets, £20,000 being included for goodwill.
Two years after formation came the slump
and the end of the war contracts for canned
goods ; and the long run of good years was
broken by a loss of £12,836 in 1022. Recon-
struction had been decided on, but brighter
trading prospects made the board hold its
hand. The threatened improvement was a
thing of little substance; not only, has
the drought for ords. continued unbroken,
but prof. divs. are in arrears to the extent
of 14 p.c., the latest payment being the first
chip off the 1922-23 accumulations. These
figures indicate one source of trouble :
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1919 .. £26,119 £16,228
1920 .. 34,581 23,871
1921 .. 27,318 25,428
1922 .. 13,157 25.993
1923 .. 34,702 27,791
1924 . . 39,232 31,086
1925 .. 37,336 33,470
1926 . . 39,340 34,672
Expenses have more than doubled since for-
mation, whereas manufacturing profits have
increased only 50 p.c. The sturdy growth of
outgo and the thin manufacturing return
both call for examination by the manage-
ment; also by Arbitration Courts, poli-
ticians, labor-union bosses and others.
• •••*»
These figures show the picture from
another angle : ,
1919. 1922. 1924. 1926.
Paid capital .. £93,570 £105,845.£105,845 £105,845
Liabilities . . 37,076 52,270 55,124 60,494
Properties . . 7,980 • 7,418 10,149 21,352
Plant,' etc. . . 8,461 11,585 17,181 21,160
Stocks.. .. 65,613 67,344 73,333 63„044
Book debts . . 31,733 37,869 42,314 45,548
Other assets . . 614 1,536 1,685 2,402
Creditors at June 30 were quite comfortable.
As for the prefs., each share was protected by
net tangible assets valued at £2 19s.
The earning capacity of paid capital, less
goodwill, was not quite 5 p.c. last year, and
that is not encouraging for ord. shareholders.
The 8 p.c. prefs., however, are considered by
the market to be worth a trifle above par
and, in view of the 14 p.c. (2s lOd.) still
owing, they have an attraction for specu-
lators at the price.
* * * *
Abeumain Seaiiam Collieries, Ltd.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1923. . £94,283 74 p.c. = £90,000 £4283 £4283
1924.. 150,416 12| ~ ~ 150,000 416 4699
1925.. 120,256 10 ~ „ 120,000 256 4955
1926.. 121,677 10 „ ~ 120,000 1677 6632
The co. is an amalgamation of Abermain and
Seaham cos., shareholders in the old Aber-
main being given four new for three old, and
Seaham shareholders two new for three old.
Accounts of most coalmining cos. have
become mere skeletons of recent years ; neither
report nor balance-sheet of Abermain-Sea-
ham is informative. “Collieries and plant
are in good working order” is the only item
in the report apart from formal announce-
ments ; and this is so much of the inside
as is shown in the balance-sheet:—
1923. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities.. .. £122,189 £97,500 £110,048
Book debts. . . . 101,153 90,339 126,629
Cash . . . . 467 25,240 5,228
Stocks and stores.. 30,176]
Investments .. 79,746 ] 1,216,877 1,214,823
Mine, property, etc. 1,144,930 J
Holders of the 1,200,000 £1 shares are not
told much, but an average 10 p.c. excuses
a lot. Visible profits in excess of the div.
are very small; but, judging by the way the
mine account is moving, apparently some-
thing is written off for wastage. On this
Point, however, nothing very definite can
be said. The less important of the co.’s
collieries are old, but the rich pits on the
Maitland field have long lives ahead of them,
and the very solid board (Colin Stephen is
chairman) is not likely to forget the elemen-
tary principles of mining finance. The co.
finds ready markets for its products, and the
continued industrial quiet should result in
another prosperous term at least—one hesi-
tates to forecast beyond that in the coal indus-
try. There are sellers at 275. 6d.
* * * *
North Broken Hill, Ltd., from the time
assets were written up and all reserves were
capitalised, capital being increased from
£200,000 to £000,000:
. . To-Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914.. 336,441 45 p.c. = 270,000 ) ~o 9fiQ
Written off, £1925 J 64, ° 16 143,269
1915.. 131,940 5 p.c. = 30,000 101,940 245,209
1916.. 311,293 40 „ „ 240,000 71,293 316,502
1917.. 354,741 40 „ „ 240,000 114,741 431,243
1918.. 392,244 40 „ „ 240,000 i Q 7,
Written off. £10,512 ( 141,1 572,975
1919.. 297,668 30p.c.= 180,000 117,668 690,643
1920. . 42,626 Nil ) _ *
Written off, £16,898 ) 25,728 <16,371
1921.. 21,430 Nil /
Written off, £13,300 ) 8,130 724,501
1922.. 53,504 Nil 53,504 778,005
1923.. 304,980 30 p.c. = 180,000 124,980 902,985
1924.. 736,066 40 „ „ 340,000 396,066 1.299.051
1925.. 939,262 75 „„ 525,000 414,262 1,713,313
1926. . 782,106 95 665 000 1
Written off [ 100,613 1,813,926
That 95 p.c. is general-manager Weir’s swan


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane. Adelaide and Perth.- — Advt. [1
* * * *
Besides adequately fulfilling all the common essen-
tials of modern conduit requirements, Pioneer Wood
Pipe relieves all anxiety in regions of extreme tern
peratures—and under conditions where the chemical
contents of fluids would be most injurious to metal
pipes. The smooth inner bore of Pioneer Wood
Pipe affords absolutely no foothold for fungus or
encrustations, it cannot rust or corrode, and is im-
mune from frosts and electrolysis. Of great econo-
mical advantage also is the fact that it can be verv
quickly and cheaply transported and installed
Maintenance costs are practically nil during its long
life of full delivery service. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Hoad, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
Pa hints. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.tson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty j’eais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 • Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1S88), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
EXPERIENCE IN EXECUTORSHIP
FOR THIRTY - EIGHT YEARS.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
is specially qualified by 38 years’ experience to act as your executor and trustee. It offers
definite advantages over a private executor; it cannot die, disappear or travel, and its
whole capital and assets are liable, by Act of Parliament, for the protection of. its
clients’ interests.
Estates under control exceed £11,000,000.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
O. E. FRIEND.
DIRECTORS:
F, N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
NFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards or
Health.
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip.
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
song; he settles down now into a very com-
fortably padded armchair. A less modest
man might have done a little finessing and
handed out 100 p.c.; but as the amount
actually paid for the mine by the present co.
in its earlier form was under £50,000, the
year’s figures are just as gilded as any body
of original shareholders can reasonably ask.
Several factors conspired to make profits
less than they were a year ago. Less ore
was treated: 410,600 tons producing 73,470
tons of lead concentrate and 67,230 tons of
zincs, as against 421,980 tons producing
77,395 tons of leadies and 69,900 zincs.
This was due to the slow-down culminating
in the stoppage in March caused by the
water shortage. And metal prices were not
quite so good: lead averaged £33 17s. sd.
compared with £35 45., and silver was I.Bd.
per ounce lower; but zinc was £1 7s. lid.
higher—£3s 17s. Values are still highly
profitable, and so long as lead and spelter
continue at anywhere near present levels, the
North will show big figures—till well on to-
wards the middle of the century, at any
rate. This Column will not, it is true, swear
that either the profit claimed by the accounts
or the amount in the introductory table is
true profit. The difference between those
two, by the way, is accounted for by in-
cluding in the table the net additions to
reserves over the period. Movements in
these accumulations were as follow:
1923. 1925. 1926.
Depreciation . . £162,000 £262,000 £312,000
Equalisation . . 394,961 ]
Contingency .. 75,000 1 729,815 782,235
Fire and Accident 6,941 J
Debenture Sinking Fund 9,861 10,965 10,267
New plant account.. 184,775 98,120 104,329
Unappropriated . . 69,447 612,413 605,095
Total .. £962,985 £1,713,313 £1,813,926
On the one hand 410,600 tons were taken
out, and that represents a definite and heavy
mine-wastage. As against that, ore reserves
at _ June 30 were 4,000,000 tons —a “safe
estimate,” according to the general manager
—exactly the same as were calculated 12
months earlier. And since the close of the
accounts the diamond drill in the 1700 ft.
level has been punched into a big body of
ore—s7ft. disclosed, according to the an-
nouncement of October 14, and boring con-
tinued in lode formation. Three years ago
ore reserves were , placed at 3,324,000 tons.
If the new ore body develops into anything
like the wonderful body in the 1550 ft. level,
ore reserves will prove even more elastic
than they have done in past reports. There
is approximately 10 years’ feed for the plant
at last year’s rate of extraction, and it is
obvious that little or nothing below 1550 ft.
has yet been included in the reckoning.
On the financial side this comparison can
be made: —
1925. 1926.
Assets other than mine and
plant £1,792,613 £1,945,226
Liabilities 266,900 368,237
Net liquid assets . . £1,525,713 £1,576,989
Only £51,276 was added to the heap during
the year, but £665,000 w r as handed out in
dividends—£l4o,ooo more than in the pre-
vious term —and large sums were spent on
plant, including a flotation plant to handle
dump slimes. Net liquid assets as stated in
the table include £520,220 shares and deben-
tures in other cos. at cost. Here are details
of the holdings :
B. H. Associated Smelters . . . . £300,000
Electrolytic Zinc . . . . . . . . 150,000
British-Australian Lead Manufactures .. 20,000
Globe Proprietary Timber. . . . .. 15,000
New Metallurgy . . . . . . .. 6,250
Zinc Producers’ Association .. .. 1,470
B. H. Co-operative Coal .. .. .. 1,000
Australian Ore and Metal . . . . .. 500
British-Australian Lead, debentures .. 26,000
Total ~ £520,220
Most of those are good profit-earners, but
obviously they would not prove very liquid
in the case of a severe setback to the indus-
try. Electrolytic Zinc holding, at present
market prices, is, on the other hand, worth
almost twice the book value. Excluding the
shares from the liquid assets for the reason
stated, and the debenture debt from the
liabilities, a liquid surplus of £1,114,169 is
shown. That is remarkable strength; it
represents £1 11s. lOd. for each one of the
700,000 £1 shares. And no one would rule
out the rest of the assets as worth nothing.
North’s tremendous production is winning
it wonderful profits, and the market, which
is prepared to pay £7 2s. for the scrip, is
apparently quite convinced that last year's
metal prices and production are set for some
time. While there is no discernible break
in the strength of the world position of lead
and spelter, the prices are very high. Only
an incurable optimist sees a cloud-free
future. At the present time lead is £2 10s.
or more lower than the average obtained by
the co. last year ; spelter is 275. lower. To
offset possible retrogression in prices the
co. may increase production, reduce costs,
improve extraction. “During the current
year it is expected that metal recoveries
will be higher, due to finer grinding, some
improvements in milling practice generally
and to the treatment of British section ore
to finality.” And a flotation plant for the
treatment of dump slime will “shortly be
brought into operation.” The bright lights
in the position are obvious. The present
price of the scrip suggests that the market
is allowing for all the favorable factors
and letting it go at that.
The Hoskinses, of Litligow and elsewhere,
have become interested in Yampi Sound
iron deposits in Norwestralia. These deposits
were described by a visiting expert as “one
of the greatest in the world” and by another
as “cliffs of unusually pure iron ore rising
from the sea to a height of several hundred
feet, and to contain nearly 100,000,000 tons
above high-water mark. Originally Jock
Thomson, ex-M.L.A., owned the lot, but he
sold a portion to the Queensland Government
for £30,000 long-dated without-interest £1
debentures, and let George Miles, M.L.C.,
have the rest. The latter tried and failed
to induce London to come in, and in June
last he allowed the Government to resume
some of the area which he held. The Hos-
kinses are said to have paid £5OOO for an
option.
* * * *
Ivalgoorlie is downhearted at the possi-
bility of the Great Boulder reducing hands
or giving up business altogether. The pay-
able ore visible in this once great mine
now amounts to very little, and on present
appearances the chances of opening up
additional big tonnages are slender. Already
the co.’s North End leases have been let on
tribute, and probably the Boulder itself will
be in the hands of parties before long.
Brown’s Reward, Yalgoo (W.A.), handled
404 tons for 3200 z., a return that should
show a profit. Owner Loftus Connor has
granted the co. 12 months’ extension of
option for £250. During past years Brown’s
Reward has had a chequered career. Some-
times appearances and results have been
good, and sometimes bad. Loftus Connor
lias long negotiated for its sale, but he has
found that it was easier to acquire than
to sell. Recently the show" has been shap-
ing well enough to justify the hope that
Brown’s Reward Co. will buy outright.
South Ivalgurli consistently maintains an
annual profit of about £30,000 on a paid-up
capital of £250,000, and the show practically
represents all that remains of the Golden
Mile which is workable by a co. Persever-
ance makes a profit occasionally, but this,
in the main, is due to tributors. A com-
mittee, with instructions to resuscitate the
Mile, has been appointed, but it is difficult
to imagine what good it can do. The
simple fact is that nearly all the pay ore is
in the residue dumps. You can't work your
ore and have it too.
* * * *
Langi Logan United, Ararat (Vic.), has
thrown in the towel. Lower gold values and
higher working costs have led to 52,000 out
of 100,000 shares being forfeited. To keep
water down and permit tributing would cost
£5OO a month, which shareholders will not
provide. Since 1916 wages have doubled,
and cost of mining stores and material has
more than doubled. If costs had remained
on the lower scale the mine would have
been payable. But the bank overdraft has
reached its limit: so exit Langi Logan.
* * * *
Something mysterious is down the Glenelg
River bore of the S.A. Oil Wells, and Alec
Campbell wears a joyful smile. “Favorable
sands” is the whisper down Queen-street
and scrip has been lifted Bs. In the distant
past there were not only “sands” but “gas”
at Robe, but to-day it is a deserted bore.
Then the inspiration hit someone that a
happy float could be pulled off if under-
writers could be got to prop up. a new co. to
deepen the 1100 ft. bore of the Mersey Valley
Co. near.to the Glenelg River. Apart from
what the S.A. Oil has up its sleeve there,
Dr. Wade didn’t scorn the locality as he did
Robe. Mclntosh Reid, the Speck’s geologist,
waves the place a blessing, and Baragwanath,
Victoria’s geology director, goes so far as to
write : “Thus, while it is not possible to say
an oilfield will be indicated, there is no evi-
dence at present on which to say that further
boring is not warranted.” On these stepping-
stones brokers Wallace Smith and A. L. Long
underwrote 35,000 shares in Glenelg Oil,
which is a £25,000 10s. share co. They get
no cash, but 5000 paids go to them plus a
12 months' option over 10,000 contribs. of 10s.
each “at the issued price.” As application
and allotment money is Is., is that the
issued price? There is great difference, be-
tween a modest bob and the par price of 10s.
if that is to be “the issued price.” Mersey
Valley Oil Co., as vendors, get £5OO cash,
which can't be grumbled at. But if oil is
got out of its bore or from any other bore
on the 640 acres it transfers, 10 p.c. of the
profits are to go into the Mersey till.
A well-backed show. Catamaran Collieries,
stands away down D’Entrecasteaux Channel,
Southern Tasmania. Henry Jones fills the
chair, and directors are Jas. Arbuckle (Mel-
bourne), John Jolly (the accountant), W. J.
Hill (Adelaide) and lesser Hobart lights.
Monty Cohen’s firm comes in as solicitors,
but W. L. Baillieu and Riley haven’t shown
up so far, although, because of the cuts they
have had out of Electrolytic Zinc, they
should be in the show somewhere. The co.
has a capital of £.100,000, of which £50,000
went as paids to the vendors. Of the balance,
£38,182 is paid up, and as the co. owes over
£12,600, nearly £51,000 has gone into the
property. Of that £33,000 has been used for
plant and tramway, £3362 in development,
and there is £3600 in the till. Equipment
is on a bigger scale than first intended, as
a deep-sea port has been found at Evorall’s
Point, so trade can go beyond Hobart. A
tunnel is in 600 ft. to the dip, and 3500 ft.
of headings and cross headings are laid out
to give an output of 700 tons a week from
this one pit. Coal is said to be anthracite,
3ft. Bin. being first-grade, and 18in. second-
grade. D. C. Mackenzie is the mine man-
ager, and considers that the colliery has a
unique chance of becoming a good div.-payer.
If it does it will be about the first of the
Speck’s coalmines to flatter its followers.
But Henry Jones is pretty good at picking
winners. Mackenzie says the coal has been
proved to be tiptop on the railways and by
shipping and industrial concerns.
* * * *
London has come solidly into Federation
tin, Heemskirk (Tas.). R. W. Stringer in
1920 floated the show on J. B. Lewis’s tip.
Having had a long call at the low-grade
Anchor, Blue Tier, Lewis knew lode-tin
work with the best, and he gauged the Feder-
ation as a certain winner. Cash fell off when
the tin market fell flat, and although the
Tasmania mine battery was bought and paid
for it was left stranded at Beaconsfield till
someone could finance the show. Through
Stringer that is now done. Those who have
stuck to the co. get £16,000 in cash and
about share for share for their 69,000 live
scrip. John Bull provides a £200,000 co. in
£1 shares. After setting aside 66,500 paids
for Stringer’s co. he had first to raise £76,000
—£16,000 cash to the vendors and £60,000
working capital. He is floating off 110,000
shares at 20s. each. That leaves £34,000 in
cash and 23,500 shares, or a total of £57,500.
Of course, lode-tin mining with tin at £3OO
is very different from working at £2OO.
The grade of Federation ore is about 11 p.c.
and with tin at 60s. a unit and stoping easy,
London ought not to be running big risks at
the Federation.
Queensland Tin, Koorboora and Gurrum-
bali (N.Q.), is developing a make of high-
grade silver-lead ore in the Tennyson at
Koorboora, samples shown in Sydney being
almost metallic lead. The lode is said to
be 12ft. wide, and to carry payable tin in
one section. At the Gurrumbali end the mill
was given a run for 10 shifts for a recovery
of 2 tons 13cwt. tin concentrates valued at
£4BO. Holders, however, would welcome
more regular production.
The Orallo (Q.) No. 3 bore is not likely
to go further down. Geologist Ball, after
having examined the latest bit of core,
advises against further boring, but has re-
commended a new site three-quarters of a
mile distant. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is now considering the question of
subsidising this hole.
Development on the Mount Isa leases con-
tinues healthy. Chief-Geologist Dunstan
has been on the field again, running his tape
over ore bodies, blocked out or opened up
since his last visit. The market is aware
that there are enormous bodies of medium-
grade ore, but a certain timidity can be
attributed to the conditions attaching to the
Isa Railway Bill and also to the prospect
of the long wait before the railway is through
and concentrating plant is erected. It is
understood that the Queensland Govern-
ment is prepared, if necessary, to modify
some of the conditions imposed on the com-
pany in regard to the railway guarantee.
Those things always are modified.
* * * *
Work is practically completed on the build-
ings for the Mackay electro-chemical plant
at Cloncurry, and the machinery will be
in by January. A first unit only is being
installed, capable of treating 60 tons per
day, but if it is successful on Mount Elliott
ore the capacity will be increased.
* * * *
There is talk on the Burrum coalfield (Q.)
of another State Colliery on an area where
a Government boring plant located a 3ft.
seam of excellent quality. If it comes off
it will only mean shifting production from
privately owned mines to one “operated for
use and not profit,” unless further markets
loom up unexpectedly on the blue horizon.
* * * *
Malim Nawar and Malim Nawar South
dredges made a weak reply in latest returns
to The Bulletin’s mining engineer,
who expressed the opinion that most
Malayan shares stand at an excessive
premium. Nawar got seven tons from
38,000yd5., or less than 70z.; and South’s
six tons from 40,000yds. was under
sioz„ though the dredge dug to a depth
of 68ft. Takuapa had a setback, having to
work through poor ground, 12 tons from
59,000yd5. going below Boz. Asam Kum-
bang got well off the rich patches with
nine tons from 52,000yd5., while Kota, Larut
and Tupai only managed 19 tons among
them from 104,000yds. From 34,000 yds.
Tupai got but four tons —a 4|oz. result.
Marshall-Longton have despatched T. P.
Colvin to New Guinea in the interests of the
half-fledged New Guinea (Colvin’s) Osmiri-
dium and Goldmining Co. Before Colvin
sailed, the office sent out a hurry-up circular
warning holders of Marshall-Longton’s Luck-
now fiasco that they must be up and doing
or they would miss the 100,000 shares re-
served for their benefit at Is. down. T. P.
Colvin, fresh from the Adams River (Tas.)
osmiridium field, goes north because he be-
lieves he can discover an osmiridium-field
in the region of the newly-found goldfield in
New Guinea. Frankly, it doesn’t seem a
very solid foundation to float a co. on. If
Sydney was told that somebody “believed”
the metal could be found at Surry Hills,
Sydney would smile and pass on. But New
Guinea is different. Distant fields can
always run about 10 sheep to the acre.
* * * *
The damming of the Kawarau River (M.L.)
has resulted in a lot of damning arid blasting
by disappointed shareholders. The gates
were closed for a week, and although they
withstood the increased pressure from Lake
Wakatipu, they appeared to have little effect
in lowering the depth of water in the river.
At Cromwell, 30 miles down the Kawarau
from the gates, the level was lowered only
about nine inches. Nature has done that
before without the aid of man. Seepage has
been ruled out as a likely cause of the dis-
appointment, and there is now only the
Sliotover, a tributary, left to carry the blame.


ALL LI.
Negotiations to heal the breach in the N.S.W. Labor party were recently in progress when, according to the report of the A.W.U., “the shadow of Jock Garden
falling ominously across the threshold,” the proceedings were nervously broken off, and the Premier and Mr. Baddeley fled in a panic.
“Welly wood, Missa Garden- —welly good. Makem dance alia same Russian-man, alia same Chinaman. Hi yah!”


VVI° NS
20 forl'6
State Express
533
CIGARETTES
were sold upon their
introduction
to English
dmoliers.
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Starboard Light” : It all happened quite
recently, when H.M.A.S. Ladykiller put in
a S. Australian outport. There were the
usual addresses of welcome, motor trips and
picnics, but the piece de resistance of the
hospitality committee was a ball, to which
everybody was invited, including Billy
Slatherem and his beautiful young bride,
Maudie, the belle of the district.
Bill, however, was absurdly jealous of
Maudie and suspicious of all sailormen, so
on the night of the ball he developed a sore
throat, and Maudie, with tender solicitude,
insisted on his going to bed. When Bill was
snoring peacefully, Maudie slipped on her
finery and slipped off to the ball. Some
hours later, when she was dancing the Char-
leston with a hefty sailorman, Bill arrived.
THE BAD BOY’S BANK.
“If I give you sixpence, will you promise never to repeat that
naughty word?”
“Righto, Auntie. But I know another one that’s worth a shilling.”
He was minus his collar and tie, his hair
was dishevelled, and there was a savage
gnnt in his eye when he ordered her to come
home. But Maudie’s blood was up; she
called him a fool and told him to go back to
bed. Bill threatened to drag her from the
room. This was too much for Dick Deadeye,
and he interfered, but Bill hit him on the
point and put him to sleep. Thereupon
another sailor dealt vigorously with Bill and
put him to sleep. Then Maudie screamed,
and the Mayor sent for the police, who
arrested a couple of sailors who weren’t
interested in the dispute. This annoyed
their comrades, who rescued them at the
point of the fist; and then a picquet arrived
from the ship.... When Bill opened his eyes,
Maudie was bathing his forehead with her
tears and a dainty lace hanky; she has
promised him never, never to dance with
sailormen again.
“Marco” : Cable from London :
Lord Sholto Douglas has been married,. at the Staines
registry office, to Mrs. Mendelssohn Pickles, widow
of the late Joseph Pickles, of Sydney, and mother
of two sons, one of whom is a well-known airman.
The lady’s marriage into the curiously-mixed
Queensberry family recalls a yarn that
Pickles —“Mendy” to his friends —used to
tell. Putting up at a big hotel in New York,
he and his wife signed the visitors book.
A young couple were next. Glancing at the
open page a little later, Mendy saw beneath
the signatures of Mr. and Mrs. Mendelssohn
Pickles those of Mr. and Mrs. Beethoven
Chutney.
* * * *
“Simon Simple”: A doctor was bringing
into hospital a woman patient and an elderly
lady from a small mining village in the
mountains in Victoria. The road ran along-
side a river and about 30ft. above it. In
the dim light of early morning the car failed
to take a sharp bend, and went over the
side, turning over twice before finishing
wrong side up in about sft. of water. All
the side curtains were up, but the doctor
managed to scramble out and rescue his
patient—just in time, for she was entirely
submerged. The other passenger, who had
managed to keep her head above w r ater, was
extricated after several minutes’ hard work.
The three had to walk a mile to reach a
house, and about an hour later a lusty young
Australian put in an appearance. And none
of the three —or four —was any the worse
for their experience.
“Chancery Lane”: In a Probate matter
where I required evidence of identity of
certain next-of-kin, a lady produced a photo-
graph of her niece. “Ah,” she remarked, as
she gazed meditatively upon the features
of her relative, “that girl was my favorite.
She had three beautiful children and a float-
ing kidney.”
* * * *
“Wang” : A freestone obelisk has just been
erected for a war memorial on Green Point,
Brighton Beach (Vic.). The place has some
battle memories of its own. In the days
of the pushes it was a recognised arena of
combat for rival
regiments from the
city. Here the fly-
ing angels from
South Melbourne
would meet the
Bouveroos of Carl-
ton, and the
Crutcliy push from
North Melbourne
join battle with the
Reilly-street Drain
lads from ’Wood.
But the gladiators
have taken them-
selves and their
feuds to farther-off
fields this many a
year. The Point
was a picnic-ground
from Melbourne’s
earliest days, and
during the past few
weeks workmen
employed in pre-
paring the land
around the monu-
ment for lawns
have earned some-
thing more than
their wages, the
ploughs and har-
rows turning up a
number of coins of
all values, from a
sovereign down-
wards, besides
rings, brooches and
bangles. There are
many respectable
residents of Mel-
bourne to-day who,
had they known
such work was
going, on, might
have thought it
worth while to
take a run out to
the point, on the
off chance of re-
covering a bit of
jewellery dropped by themselves or their
companions in the days of their frivolous
youth.
* * * »
“Nat Lew”: Quaint notices in hotel
dining-rooms? This brightened the outlook
of some of us M.L. Diggers returning home
via Panama. It was on a restaurant wall:
“Sugar is short. Take one lump and stir
like hell—we don’t mind the noise.”
* * * *
“A.8.C.”: Re queer signatures. I once
knew a man who found when checking his
passbook that he had been victimised by a
forgery for a small amount. He did not
prosecute, but, by way of precaution against
recurrence, wrote and informed the bank
that in future he would always smudge the
second and third letters of his signature, and
asked them to dishonor any cheques which
came along unsmudged. I was in the branch
w r here his account was kept for some years,
and we always looked for the smudge as an
integral part of the signature. While on the
same subject it is worth mentioning that
a bibulous solicitor in a N.S.W. country
town has two signatures registered at his
bank. One is his ordinary fist and the other
A GOOD SPORT.
MAY: “Mabel’s going to divorce her husband.”
JUNE: “ Really' What grounds?”
MAY: “Oh, the usual, my dear. Recreation .”
a boozey hieroglyphic; the bank has instruc-
tions to pay out on either. The reason for
the duplication is that some years ago when
the solicitor was on a prolonged spree the
bank dishonored his cheques on the grounds
that his signature was unlike the one regis-
tered, and he refuses to take the risk of
having any future jag interrupted for such a
reason.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: A recent Melbourne wedding
ceremony was in full swing. “Now repeat
after me,” the clergyman said to the bride-
groom : “‘I James Cuthbert Brown’ ”
The bridegroom only looked up vacantly and
grunted “Eh?” “Say this after me,” re-
peated the parson: . “ T James Cuthbert
Brown’ ” There was another pause, an-
other vacant look and another grunt. Then
the bride took a hand. “You’ll have to
excuse him,” she said; “ ’e’s deaf, and” —
with a' knowing look and many shakes of
the head —“he ain’t all there!”
“K.C.N.”: It isn’t only the beche-de-mer
man who finds the cockroach a pest (B.
7/10/’26). A few years ago the ’roach in-
fested the kitchen of one of Adelaide’s big
boarding-schools, and, lay efforts having
failed to destroy the pest, the science master
was called upon to prescribe. After lunch
on a Saturday “Stinks” tightly closed the
windows and blocked up the kitchen chim-
ney. Then he placed cyanide in a row of
receptacles requisitioned from the dormitories,
and, after ordering all hands to leave, the
ship, he poured in the sulphuric-acid and
hastily withdrew. The cook was like a lost
soul shut out of Hades on being locked out
of his beloved kitchen, and early on the
Sunday morning could stand it no longer—
he pinched the key and went in to investi-
gate. Luckily for him “Stinks” arrived on
his heels and dragged him into the fresh
air, or he, too, would have been “at rest”
with some thousands of ’roaches, his erst-
while companions.
* . * * *
“Larval”: A chap blew into Townsville
(Q.) lately for a holiday with a fair-sized
cheque in addition to sufficient cash to meet
his immediate needs. To find a safe place
for the cheque, he opened that part of his
shirt where the makers are most liberal with
material, put the folded cheque neatly into
the square, and sewed it up again. Unfor-
tunately, he forget all about his safe-deposit
next day when he sent the garment to the
laundry. But his luck was in; the shirt
returned w 7 itli its precious freight, a trifle
pulpy, but still presentable, after going
through the whole washing process.
“N.Iv.C.” : The Yankee movies have much
to answer for in ways we little think of.
Last week I had to go to court to secure
legal custody of my little son—the Vic.
matrimonial law hits a woman hard. I had
never been in a court of law before, and my
ideas thereof were mainly based on what I
had seen on the screen. I expected rows
of stern police, aggressive, brow-beating
lawyers and cynical magistrates, with my
private domestic tragedy seryed up as a
piquant dish to rows of grinning onlookers.
I had seen it so often on the movies, and
I mentally cast myself for the part of the
weeping female bullied by the opposing attor-
ney, etc. Little son and I went in timidly,
hand in hand, and although the case was
contested, we found ourselves treated with
scrupulous courtesy by lawyers and Bench
alike. The “gallery” consisted of one pimply
youth, and he was pointedly asked what busi-
ness he had there. And I had put off bring-
ing my case to court for the last 18 months
mainly through the subconscious fear of
being star-performer in one of those “gripping
court scenes” !
* * * *
“Downanout” : The bell was answered by a
determined-looking lady in an Eton crop and
clothes of masculine tendency. “Any needles,
cottons, pins, soap, tapes, stationery, moth-
balls, lady?” moaned the hawker. “Me wife’s
in ’ospital, lady, an’ I’ve got six children
an’ ” “How many?” interrupted the lady.
“Six, mum, an’ “But why have you
six?” said the lady, fixing him with a search-
ing eye. The sallow complexion of the caller
freshened slightly, and he shifted unhappily
from one foot to the other. After conducting
an intimate cross-examination and delivering
herself of some advice that suggested a pro-
QUICK SERVICE.
“Yes, darling, and we'll tell the parson to
get through with the service as fast as
he can. I’d hate to lose you through
changing my mind half-way to the end.”
found acquaintance with the works of Dr.
Marie Stopes, the lady withdrew, shutting
the door firmly behind her. A shattered
hawker clove his way through the gate, his
face the color of a well-boiled beetroot.
“Struth!” he muttered brokenly to his
offsider.
THE MOON AND THE CLOUD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We saw the regal summer moon
Rise slowly from the sea,
A golden orb of grace divine,
Enormous, radiant, benign—
Like the sovereign used to be.
And near it was a cloudy scrap
That melted fast away;
For thirsty Nature’s needs too scant—.
Poor, paltry, insignificant—
The pound-note of to-day!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


THE UNWILLING GHOST-LAYER.
The Victorian Government having discovered a deficit of £3l4, 527 for the year, a tax of 14 p.c. on the turnover of every bookmaker will be imposed to wipe it out.”


«
'■•■■■".
warn
■A'ShCm
m
- V : ...
m* " •
m
mm
M
ft ,
«0' '^H^wtumni
THE STUDIO MODEL
WuRuIZEI?
PLAYER PIANO
The smallest cottage or flat—the most unpretentious week-end bungalow is not too small to include a
Wurlitzer Studio Model Player Piano. The development of this perfect little instrument by Wurlitzer
has proved a boon to thousands for it will fit in anywhere, and produce as great a volume of rich resonant tone as the
larger Wurlitzer models.
Ihe Studio is only 4ft. iin. high, 4ft. Bin. in length, has full 88 note keyboard, and will play any standard music roll.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
New South Wales : Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney, J. Goldstein, 137 Bathurst St., Sydney,
Jas. Loneragen Ltd., Gulgong, The Australian Stores, Yass. South Australia : The Australian Implement and
House Furnishing Co., Adelaide, James Marshall &C Co. Ltd., Adelaide. Victoria : Myers Emporium Ltd., Mel-
bourne. West Australia : Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives :
PARKER, BLAU & CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
HE KNEW WHAT HE WANTED.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
“Young man, very well educated, refined appear-
ance, is in financial difficulties, wishes meet wealthy
woman, view above.” —Age matrimonial advt.
No lack of beauty in his eyes will fault her,
No difference in years repel. In short,
His neck inside a matrimonial halter
He offers —for financial support.
Better to waltz a partner to the altar
Than to be dragged alone into the court
Where badgered bankrupts get their jolts and jars
From frowning Registrars.
Youth and a visage with refinement branded
And ’Varsity degrees, for all we know,
Over the bargain counter to be handed,
As they might chiffon be or calico,
To anyone —he couldn’t be more candid-
Who likes the look of him and holds the dough!
Wanted, his shattered fortunes to restore,
A wife with oof—no more !
N.s.w. IFORD.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: The defendant in a South
Melbourne court case the other day had been
charged, amongst other delinquencies, with
resisting arrest. The John Hop who had
lumbered him testified feelingly on this sub-
ject. “He refused to come quiet, y'r Wor-
ship.” This roused the defendant, whose
vehemence almost suggested that he was the
aggrieved person. “Blime!” he cried indig-
nantly, “an’ why should I? Ain’t yer paid
t’ do some work?”
* * * *
“Bondi”: Who would recognise Bondi of
50 years ago-—all the old landmarks gone,
even the cliffs going under the surging tide
of bricks? Demolished is O’Brien’s home-
stead, built by Francis O’Brien back in the
’thirties and held by the farpily up to the
end. Francis, who was born at Gliazipur,
India, arrived here in early life, and during
his 83 years contrived to make and lose
three considerable fortunes, finding time in
between to give the matrimonial lottery three
flutters. This scribe well remembers the old
grey-stone mausoleum built on the estate but
long since demolished. Many years it stood
bolted and barred, opening its time-blackened
massive oak doors only when one of the
family returned home. Naturally the local
inventors used to weave some of their most
interesting taradiddles around the old build-
ing, and even Bulletin contributors have
in this respect not been free from reproach.
Oddly enough the men-folk of the first gen-
eration divided their occupations fairly
evenly between chasing costs and more
elusive metals. Kirk O’Brien, well-known
mining-engineer, who pulled out on his last
prospecting trip a year ago, was one of the
clan.
* * * *
“Cuchulain”: Here’s another black-bor-
dered entry for the list of queer accidents.
At the Oudal (N.S.W.) Show, the presi-
dent, Cecil Smith,
was helping to pen
bullocks, when one
of them charged
the rail of the
fence. It broke,
hitting the presi-
dent on the point
of the chin. He
died within a few
minutes.
THE HE-CAT.
ROMANTIC YOUNG WOMAN ( intensely): “No, the man I
marry must be a hero.”
UNROMANTIC MALE ( tiredly ): “Oh, buck up—you are
not so bad-looking as that.”
“McDuff”: The other week I went over
to my friend Brown’s place to offer my con-
gratulations on his recovery from an opera-
tion for appendicitis. Brown invited me
into the drawing-room, and going to the
mantelpiece lifted a glass jar that was stand-
ing amongst the ornaments there, and with
a sort of mournful pride handed it to me
for _ inspection. Floating about in the
liquid in the jar was something that looked
like a bit of squid fish-bait. I looked at the
object speculatively. “It’s my appendix,”
said Brown; then, noting my involuntary
shudder, he explained in an apologetic sort
of way, “Everybody keeps ’em.” If so, it’s
a strange fad. Still, the pride in these
grisly relics is a widespread emotion. 1
can still remember that in my boyhood one
of the first things that was shown a visitor
to a certain cocky’s place were two fingers
and several bits of sinew and gristle pre-
served in spirits, the remnants of a hand
the cocky had lost years before. And a
doctor friend tells me of an ear lost in a
motor accident to which he was introduced
MAKING A PLEASURE OF IT.
“Who’s the girl you were out with last night?”
“Oh, that was my wife’s private detective.”
while locum-tenens-ing lately, not far from
Bendigo. But this had been dried and
mounted inside a plush frame!
* * * *
“Centurion”: The German’s passion for
a uniform apparently glows as brightly under
a Republican Government as any other. The
Reich started out bravely enough to follow
the trail of older Republics, and dressed its
diplomatic staff in evening clothes; but it
has just changed its mind, and lias ordered
that in future the dress of its diplomats at
official functions shall comprise a saucy rig
with plenty of gold lace and buttons and a
cocked hat. They will thus be able to
mingle unabashed with even the representa-
tives of the South American minor repub-
lics, easily the most gorgeously-plumaged
birds in the diplomatic aviary. The U.S.A.
and France will be left to carry on with
merely the waiter’s garb. Wasn’t it Mark
Twain who wrote of the American ambas-
sador at a Court function that lie looked
amid the blaze of uniforms like a lost Pres-
byterian in Hell?
* * # *
“Kayeff”: Some time ago, having been
“tipped off” concerning the operations of a
fast launch, the Customs offi-
cials in the Far North made
repeated attempts to catch
the runners with smuggled
opium. But when they caught
and boarded the launch no-
thing incriminating could ever
be found, though the pursuers
were convinced that the Chi-
nese had taken the stuff aboard.
The modus operandi leaked
out afterwards. When pur-
sued the launch crew threAV
tins of opium overboard, each
weighted with a lump of rock-
salt, and with a small colored
buoy attached. The rocksalt
acted as a sinker until it dis-
solved. Harmless-looking
Chinese fishermen would be
out early next morning collect-
ing all the buoys they could
see, while their confederates
in the launch drew off the
Customs officers on a false scent in another
direction.
* * * *
“Emer”: The only opium-smuggler I
number among my acquaintances was a purser
on one of the coastal boats. His charge for
merely taking the stuff on board at Cairns
and dropping it over the side to a waiting
sampan at Townsville was a pound a tin,
and he would sometimes carry 200 on a
trip. His pet aversion was naturally Cus-
toms officers. Once, he told me, the tins
were nailed under the deck-rail while a
Customs man, leaning on the same, was
amiably chatting to him. Another time one
of flic sleuths entered his cabin just as he
had pulled a trunk from under his bunk.
The purser asked the visitor to have a drink,
and, the bunks being littered with personal
gear, urged him to sit down anywhere he
could. He sat on the trunk while his host
apologised for the disorder. “That’s all
right,” he said affably. “I’m quite comfort-
able, old chap. “But I’m damned if I was,”
said my friend. “He was sitting on 200 tins
of opium.” That purser has another job
now.
“Mangatere” : In a Scandinavian settlement
tucked under the lee of the Ruahines (M.L.),
a certain religious sect were wont to conduct
baptismal immersions at a secluded hole in a
mountain stream. The priest did the duck-
ing and the initiates, nude and shivering,
were prayed for by the rest of the congrega-
tion. But the rite has fallen out of vogue
of late years. Some say it was because one
or two of the subjects contracted pneumonia;
but the real reason was that some mis-
guided infidels further upstream were in the
habit of running sheep-dip into the water on
christening days. They said they wanted to
make the service more practical.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Sydney solicitor is preserv-
ing amongst his treasures the indignant
letter of an angry female upon whom he had
caused divorce papers to be served on behalf
of her husband. The lady’s language broke
into bitterness as she described the husband
as a Lothario whose “carry onses with
women of all sorts and sexes are notabili-
ties”; but her final splurge was the gem.
“After being an infidel with so many women,”
she wrote in handwriting that leaped the
line in its wrath, “he becomes accusative
to me because I have a purely patriotic
friendship with a gentleman of my acquain-
tance, and appeals for the dissoluteness of
his marriage!”
* * * *
MONKEY-SHOW.
[For The Bulletin.]
“ ‘The ape is descended from man, not man from
the ape,’ says Professor Westenhoeffer, Custodian of
the Pathological Museum, Berlin University,”
I used to wonder, years ago,
At all that makes a monkey-show—
The long and little-meaning strife
That fills each fretting, futile life
From day to dark; the feverish play,
Ever involving hurt dismay
To sick or weak; the scurrying haste
That lapses soon to languid waste
Of sunlit hours in gloom profound;
The sudden and the sharp rebound
To joy as senseless and complete;
The greed that never owns defeat
By sane satiety ; the lust
That tortures still the all-but-dust
Of those who, life-light flickering low,
Seem loath to stay, afraid to go—
I used to wonder at the show,
But now I know, yes, now I know.
For as I took the meaning in
Of this pronouncement from Berlin
I seemed to hear, as in a spell,
A voice that murmured “Blood will tell!’’
victoria. HASEN.
“Hasen”: This important cable jostles for
space with such trivial matters as the Coal
Strike, War in China, and the like: “For the
first time a wedding was conducted in Espe-
ranto at St. George’s, Bloomsbury. The
clergyman, an Esperantist, read the service
from a translated prayer-book. The re-
sponses were given in Esperanto. Many
Esperantists attended wearing the Esperanto
green-star badge. The best man was an
English Esperanto president.”
The Esperanto chairs that fill their Esperanto house,
Their Esperanto cats that kill each Esperanto mouse,
Mean little in my life of sin, as little will, God wot,
Their Esperanto baby in its Esperanto cot;
And yet, by curiosity cursed, one thing I must allow—
I’d surely like to hear their first real Esperanto row!
* * * *
“A.8.W.”: There are two Chinese in busi-
ness at the rear of Wesley Church, Mel-
bourne, who have probably to thank that
excellent (and humorous) divine, S. J.
Hoban, of the Wesley Central Mission, for
felicitous names bestowed on them at the
baptismal font. Their sign reads: —
FRANK & ERNEST,
Cabinet Makers.
Without European help, the Chinese are,
however, pastmasters in the art of inventing
slogans and coining business names. The
biggest venture in which any ex-Australian
Chinese is engaged is to be seen up and
down the China iCoast —“The Sincere
Stores.” I’ve never ceased to admire that
adjective.
* * * *
“Exul”: As one who has patched up a
few gashed throats for their inconsiderate
owners, I should like to say that I know
no more precarious and uncertain method of
suicide or intended suicide. The reason is
that few are able to keep their chins down
while they do it; and throwing the head
back makes the big blood vessels retreat
into safety. The only result then is a nasty
gash in the neck and a severed windpipe,
which, although not fatal, may cause a good
deal of distress to the operators and trouble
to others.
* * * *
“Duanrats”: An officer on the relieving
staff of the Vic. Education Department ren-
dered an account for expenses, one item
being, “Porter, Is.” “We do not pay for
refreshments,” was the clerk’s chilling com-
ment. The worm who was claiming explained
that it was a railway porter’s charge for
carrying her luggage. “Then kindly debit it
as ‘porterage’ ” was the reply. But the other
had the last word. “I note,” she wrote,
“your instructions re porterage and cabbage.”
* * * *
“L.G.”: Alexander Grant, the “retired
tutor” who recently put in an unsuccessful
claim to the Seafield earldom, was a well-
known character in Dunedin (M.L.) 30
years ago. For a time he was a master at
the Otago Boys’ High School, but his
scholarly attainments were outweighed by
his erratic movements, and he did not stay
long there. I recall him next as a kind of
street philosopher, modelled on the Socratic
pattern, who would gather a group at any
corner and discourse for hours on any of
the contentious subjects of the day—spiritu-
alism, freethought, Darwinism and so on.
A little man of immense energy, he next
turned his attention to pamphleteering, and
BUILT TO SUIT HIS REQUIREMENTS.
“A man must he master in his house; I shall
certainly expect obedience as well as
devotion from the woman I marry.”
“I can’t just think of a girl to suit you,
old top, hut you can always buy a dog.”
for a time earned a precarious living b.y
hawking the printed output of his disputa-
tious brain. One day he disappeared, and
was heard of no more until his recent
appearance in the English law courts.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
You’ll like
ĵ
Guaranteed
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort 1
G)
&
‘‘(They Fit”
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
e V S FfCIAL
APPOINTMENT TO j
MIS EXCELLENCV'
£sia6Cisdcd JBSS
THE RT HON LORD KNMAH
GOV. GEN. OP THE •
CDUMXMIACIH*AUSmuA
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
t TAILOR-MADES. _
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
A member of a fine old Western Yic.
family was Alice Mary Edgar, who died a
few days ago.
“Miss Alice,” as
she was always
called to distin-
guish her from
an elder sister,
was a daughter
of David Edgar,
of Pine Hills
station, Ha r-
r o w. “A u 1 d
Dawvid” set-
tled there in
the ’f orti e s,
after a year or
two at Lara,
near Geelong.
The Edgar boys
were members
of the famous
Harrow Cricket
Club, of the
’seventies and
’eighties, an d
the sisters did a
lot tow r a r d s
making those
days happy.
J. FOOT, of
Bagot, Shakes
and Lewis, one
of South
Australia’s lead-
ing wool
experts.
Survivors of Seddon’s first Ministry are
now a tiny band. The latest to go is James
Carroll, affectionately known up and down
the Shivery Isles, to pakehas and Maoris
alike, as Timi Ivari. Son of an Irish father
and a Maori mother, he combined some of the
best traits of both races. As a youngster of
13 lie saw fighting iii the Urawera, and old
Donald McLean then took the bright young
fellow under his wing. Nearly 50 years ago
Timi entered Parliament—not as a member,
but as interpreter (Maori members still have
the right to speak in their native tongue).
He had been interpreting in the land courts,
and the experience there and in Parlia-
ment brought him into confidential relations
with the Maori leaders. He became a Maori
representative in Parliament in 1884, stand-
ing as a Liberal, and when Seddon had to
form a Cabinet in 1893 one of his first
selections was big, handsome Timi, who
could be depended upon to keep the new
Administration clear of native troubles.
Carroll served on under Hall-Jones and
Ward, and went out of office with Ward in
1912. Carroll was a mellifluous and beau-
tiful speaker—one of the few Maoriland
politicians of his day who didn’t set one’s
teeth on edge—and he was loyal to his party
and to his mother’s race.
South Aus. has lost a good citizen in
Judge Mitchell. Born in 1853, he was a Port
Augusta auctioneer and mayor of the town
at 30, then took up law, articled himself to
the Downers and later practised in Adelaide.
From 1901 onwardsi he represented the N.T.
in the Parliament of S.A.; his colleague was
the present Judge Herbert of Papua. He
had a short term as Attorney-General under
Peake, at the end of 1909 was sent to
Darwin as Government Resident and Judge,
and held office till the Commonwealth took
over the N.T. Back south again, he was
S.M., and finally Commissioner of Insolvency
and Taxation in succession to J. G. Russell.
Pneumonia carried him off in a week. One
son was killed in France. The other. Gar-
nett, lives at Goulburn (N.S.W.).
The swanky atmosphere of the inter-
parliamentary gathering at Canberra was
rudely disturbed by Jack West, who wanted
the mixed gathering to carry a resolution con-
demning the British Government for its
handling of the coal strike situation. Years
of Parliamentary experience have failed to
rub off the ex-plumber’s rough edges, but in
spite of his bluntness he is well liked by fel-
low members. West tackled George Reid
twice in his East Sydney stronghold, and
there are those who believe that the fat
humorist handed himself the High Commis-
sionership mainly to avoid a third encounter.
West is credited with doing all his sleeping
in the House. He seldom speaks, which,
seeing that he seldom opens his mouth with-
out putting his foot in it, is fortunate.
Four years after Seddon died the Liberal
party in Maoriland got a recruit who made
.Toe Ward feel a little less lonely. Arthur
Myers was a Hebrew of the sort that com-
bines an instinctive financial sense with a
capacity for public service. He made a com-
mercial success of the Campbell and Eliren-
fried brewery concern, anjl sat on the boards
of New Zealand Insurance and Auckland
Gas before he went into politics. He was
well enough liked in his own town to be
made Mayor of Auckland; and when Tam
Mackenzie made up his short-lived Cabinet
in 1912 he gave Myers the portfolios of
Finance, Railways and Defence. Later,
when the Liberals and Reformers joined
forces in war-time, Myers was brought in
to be Minister of Munitions and Supplies
despite the fact that he was born of German
fathers. He became very rich and made
many fine gifts to the city he lived in and
loved; the best of them was the wiping
out of a slum area and its presentation to
Auskland as a park. His end came the
other day in London.
The Last Post has sounded at Leura
(N.S.W.) for Captain W. F. Wootten, a
retired staff-officer. He served with dis-
tinction in South Africa, where a bullet
through a lung finished his active mili-
tary csreer: he thereafter developed t.b.
Notwithstanding his incapacity he volun-
teered at the outbreak of the Great War, and
gave his brains and organising ability to the
Commonwealth all through. A more cheer-
ful victim of the white plague it would have
been difficult to find, notwithstanding that
on top of his other trouble he developed
neuritis, which presently cost him the use
of his right arm. He was an authority on
defence matters, and a frequent and valued
writer in The Bulletin. For some
years he was its chief contributor on
military matters. A good soldier and a
sterling man ; and though his sword-arm was
lost too soon, he did great work for Aus-
tralia with his pen.
Les Smith has taken a well-trodden path
in giving up the secretaryship of the Clerical
Workers to become organiser for the
Master Builders in Sydney. There is not
likely to be any ill-feeling about it. When
Bob Dickie, secretary of the Working
Jewellers, took a similar job with the Master
Jewellers he did it amid the cheers of his
cobbers; but in that trade bosses and union-
ists are like brothers. H. A. Mitchell earned
harsh words when, after trying vainly to
get an increased salary from a union lie had
created and firmly established —-the Shore-
drivers and Firemen —he became industrial
officer for the Broken Hill Prop.; and David-
son, of the Musicians (he was Melbourne
secretary), also created bitterness when he
became the Firm’s industrial expert. One
secretary became a pub-keeper shortly after
a strike amongst his members had collapsed
unexpectedly—mostly on his sudden urgent
advice that the strike should be called off.
But the suspect was forgiven. Labor’s heart
is soft towards anybody who runs a pub or
carries a bag at the races.
Sydney courts are still resounding with
the echoes of the Hodgson divorce case. One
was heard in the Bankruptcy Court the other
day when a creditor put in his petition for
the sequestration of the estate of Christie,
one of the co-res., who, although he for-
merly inhabited an office as a solicitor in
Martin-place, is described in the petition as
associated with the Sydney Trades Hall
broadcasting station. Another echo has been
heard in the Court, where a petition
has been filed by the wife of Hammond, the
other co-re. Much was made of the lady’s
belief in her husband’s innocence during the
Hodgson hearing. But evidently the faith
was not as strong as it looked, or it petered
out afterwards.
“Avon”: Maoriland’s James Carroll, just
gone to his last account, was one of the
shrewdest politicians of his party. I remem-
ber riding in the train with him from Tirn-
aru to Christchurch on the morning of the
1912 election that virtually settled the hash
of the Liberals. Nobody expected what was
to ensue, not even the Reformers. But Timi
knew. He said to me on the journey down :
BOSS (to applicant for foreman’s job):
“ ’Fraid you won’t fill the bill. We
want someone who can handle men.”
DOWNTROKKEN ONE: “Well, what about
givin ’ my missus a trial?”
“This is the day of reckoning. The Liberal
party will go down to-day, and it won’t
get up again for many a long year.” That
was 14 years ago, and the Liberal party in
Maoriland hasn’t got up yet.
A Maori was being reproved by a clergy-
man for his bibulous habits. “If you go on
like this, Henare,” said the moralist, “God
will take your land from you.” “Py Gorry,
no!” said Henare, “I’ll see Timi Kari
[James .Carroll] about that!”
Grandmaster Snowball, whose recovery
from serious illness has upset all medical
and surgical theories, is much in evidence
these days in Vic. Assembly. One day he
is trouncing the Ministry for its slowness
in giving effect to the recommendations made
by the Outports Commission, of which he is
chairman. Another day he is freely criticis-
ing a Government measure or the Labor
Opposition’s attitude towards it. He will
have a big innings soon with his Divorce
Bill, which seeks to make separation a
ground for divorce. There are scores of ill-
matched pairs living apart who have
no hope of living together again. “Snowy”
would empower the Court to sever the wed-
lock tie and let them have freedom or an-
other try for the happiness they have missed.
John Gordon, of Waranga, who has re-
tired from the executive of the Vic. Muni-
cipal Association after 25 years’ service, in-
cluding four years as president, is one of
the exemplary members of the Assembly.
He was Minister for Agriculture under Law-
son and Peacock in 1924, but had only a
short innings in office. Pretty comfortable
in circumstances, and a bachelor slightly
more than 60, he finds life pretty pleasant.
If he has made a pillow of the Local Govern-
ment Act he has nothing to be ashamed of
despite the recent gibe of the President of
the Plush Chamber about the “shire-council
type” of member of Parliament.
Alf Farthing, the new chairman of com-
mittees of Vic. Assembly, has been a long
time waiting. Fifteen years in the House,
he has never been higher than Whip for the
Bowser Government—that was for four
months in 1917-18. He began as a school-
master, but finding the pay poor and promo-
tion slow, he resigned and tided pub-keeping.
One of his ventures was an inn of the old-
fashioned “family” type in Elizabeth-street,
on part of the site now occupied by Craig’s.
After election to Parliament he turned to
other business concerns. As chairman he
gets £740 a year, but is not paid as an M.P.
When Lord Hopetoun, first G.-G. of the
Commonwealth, was Governor of Vic., he had
a “night-in” with two splitters in the Ararat
district which he assured his intimates was
“glorious.” His Ex. was sojourning at
Woodlands 34 years ago, just before the
birth of his second son (Charles Melbourne
Hope), and he and an aide of sporting pro-
clivities used to ride about in jackeroo rai-
ment. One day they struck a splitter’s
camp and accepted billy tea an.d a bite of
what was going. One of the splitters said
he knew them as “Gov’ment House flunkeys,”
and jocularly suggested that if lie andhismate
dropped in one night they should be enter-
tained at a champagne and chicken supper.
Hopetoun played up to the part assigned
him, said he’d do it,, and fixed a date.
The Woodlands homestead kitchen was made
the banquet hall, and everybody who might
disturb the quartette was shooed off. Ilope-
toun offered to put up the splitters and
wake them up early in the morning, but the
merry pair said they didn’t want to earn him
and his pal the sack, and they got back some-
how to their camp after the feast.
A kind of athletic Ulysses, E. G. Suther-
land has returned to the Rickety Islands of
his birth. The wandering started when
Sutherland represented M.L. in the Austral-
asian championships at Adelaide in 1921.
Then he went to S. Africa, and having quali-
fied was sent to represent that country at
the Olympic games in 1924. Remaining in
Britain, he qualified next to represent Scot-
land at the International Triangular Athletic
contests this year.
Bottles —emptied by others —laid the foun-
dation of the fortune of “Honest John” Col-
quhoun, one of the aldermen of Granville,
who has given his district a nine-acre park.
When he arrived from Scotland Colquhoun
buckled to as a bottle-oli, with a side-line in
sacks, and built up a prosperous business.
Later he went into the jute trade, and be-
came one of the biggest men in the Com-
monwealth in that line.
The second man in the world to loop the
loop on a bicycle was John Ruel, who now
manages the Britannia Theatre (Melb.).
John was a frequenter of a big loop in
Coney Island, New York, where amateurs
were invited to try their luck. They were
invariably killed or wounded, and John used
to pick up the remains of their iron steeds —
solid contraptions weighing as much as 851 b.
After a lot of salvaging he acquired parts
enough to build a whole bicycle. He knew’
a lot about what. not to do, and when he
tried his luck on the loop he went round
safely the first time. Then he did the same
thing professionally 20 times a day for
many years without mishap.
Compton Mackenzie, the English novelist,
denies in the Adelaide papers a published
suggestion that lie is “negotiating for the
purchase of an island in the group off South
Australia.” But he admits that he has
“several times expressed a hope of acquiring
one day an island off the Queensland coast.”
He adds that he has an association with
Adelaide, in that he gets from there all the
seeds of the acacias lie is growring at his
English Channel island-home in Sark.
“Schnorrer” : Does anyone recall a Leopold
Weisberger who
died in Austra-
lia 38 years ago,
leaving some
piled -up mil-
lions? Ameri-
can papers are
declaring that
Milton Kraus,
of Brooklyn, is
inheriting th e
Australian for-
tune, and that,
with 125 mil-
lion dollars to
play with, he
will be the rich-
est youngster in
the world. The
boy’s father,
now dead, called
Leopold Weis-
berger uncle
when he met
him, and be-
came the heir
to the wealth:
but lie has died
also, and appa-
rently the for-
tu n e has re-
mained tied-up
until now.
Alderman S. J.
MORELL,
Melbourne's
new Lord
Mayor.
Cliiof Justice Irvine, of Victoria, has many
associations with the Ould Sod. As a lad he
attended the Royal School, Armagh, which
turned out two other Australian Chief Jus-
tices —Frederick Darley (N.S.W.) and
George Higinbotham (Vic.). Darley and
Higinbotham were schoolmates, but Irvine
was there at a different period, and in 1875
he transferred to Trinity College, Dublin,
where ho had Oscar Wilde as a fellow stu-
dent. One of the professors at the College
then was J. K. Ingram, the author of “Who
Fears to Speak of ’98?” In 1879 Irvine
graduated and almost immediately migrated
to Australia without waiting to be called to
the Bar. He applied to the Vic. Supreme
Court to be credited with the honors he
earned whilst at King's Inns, but was re-
fused, and in consequence had to go right
through the whole of the Vic. law course be-
fore he was admitted to the Bar.
PASS ON!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let your boy see, Spinning Jenny, that you are
getting tired of waiting for dreams that may never
come true, and if he does not try to hold you,
pass on.” —Lady Editor’s advice to a correspondent.
Let him gather, Spinning Jenny,
That with dalliance you are through,
That he’s one, maybe, of many
Who are weaving dreams for you—
Other moons in magic fold you,
Other suns on you have shone;
If he does not try to hold you,
Pass on!
As a butterfly, alighting
On a bud serenely sealed,
To a blossom more inviting
Will adventure far afield;
As a drunk goes helter-skelter
From a bar, his welcome gone,
To some other beery shelter,
Pass on!
As a burglar whose endeavors
On a safe have met defeat,
His attachment to it severs
For another down the street;
As a pedlar, trinket-selling,
Whom the door is slammed upon,
Turns toward a kindlier dwelling,
Pass on!
So be firm, O gentle maiden!
On some safer seas or streams
May you set your barque, all laden
With its precious freight of dreams;
More enduring ties and stronger
You shall surely form anon.
If he wants you, dear, no longer.
Pass on !
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


L
m
:
I
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE
Enterprise plays the principal part in the dramatic
glory of achievement. So many good things con-
tribute to its make-up; courage and chivalry, resolution
and fortitude; vigour and that unfailing spring of
healthy optimism
DEWAR’S


A
Handsome Gift
that would suitably
commemorate the
Silver Wedding
Day.
Sterling Silver Coffee
Set of beautiful design
and good, heavy weight,
finished with Rosewood
Handles, Complete in
presentation
ease
£2l
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in
Sydney, '
23 & 25 Hunter Street,
Plain Figures Cash Only.
m
This is the Fumo
Dust Blower.
What a Puff of Dust
Will Do.
We have just seen a photograph of 38
rabbits lying dead. A puff of dust killed
them. Of course, it was not ordinary dust.
It was
CYANOGAS
—the most efficient rabbit exterminator
known. It was puffed into the warren and
the holes were sealed. An hour later the
ground was dug, revealing the dead rabbits.
Not one was alive.
Use Cyanogas and get clear of the pest.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA .. .. A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND .. .. Bu?.acott’s (Q'land), Ltd., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA .. .. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Longo”: I have seen a good deal of
red beanwood worked up, and the statement
by “Sylvester” (B. 23/9/’26) about thfe>
disagreeable effects upon the cabinetmaker
when working in this timber is news to me.
Some years ago a mate and I on the Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.) felled and cut into
logs a giant of the species which had long
bluffed timber-getters because of the difficulty
of access and a surrounding blanket of
Moreton Bay fig enveloping the whole length
of the trunk. The 55ft. of faultless barrel
contained just over 5000 ft. of mill timber.
The broad counters of a bank and the cabin
fittings of a top-notch river-steamer were
cut from this tree. The timber much
resembles red cedar in appearance, but
is as heavy as ironbark. With most of the
beautiful and valuable softwoods, it is well
on the road to extinction, the bulk of it
having been wasted in the clearing of our
scrub-lands.
* * * *
“Ivio”: This may interest “Ller” (B.
16/9/’26). An old crony of mine from the
Wallaroo Mines (S.A.) told me the other
day that he had had his briar pipe in con-
stant use for 40 years. He is very attached
to it, as it was given to him on his wedding
day. He held it up lovingly for me to
admire, and said, “And in all that time it’s
only had six new bowls and eight new
stems.” How about that for a record?
“Eureka”: The 31-year-old pipe mentioned
by “Ller” is a mere pup compared with
one I’ve got. A man named Lawless, of
Bombala (N.S.W.), always smoked an old
clay dab, and each Sunday night would bury
it in the hot ashes. Next morning it would
be as white and clean as when it was new.
He smoked it for 45 years, and when he died
I claimed the heirloom.
* * * *
“Namoi”: A farmer in our district will
agree emphatically with the lion, members
of the Abo. Council who say that cattle
“keen” their dead. Returning after a few
holiday, he went rounding up “dry
stock” in the back paddock for tick inspec-
tion. On passing a certain spot he noticed
the cattle becoming very excited. They
began to bellow and paw to such an extent
that his curiosity was excited, and he inves-
tigated. Finding unmistakable signs of a
heavy body having been dragged along the
ground, he followed the trail, and finally
saw the carcases of two yearling heifers
flung over a cliff. The malefactor had killed
the beasts for the sake of the skins, though
at the time skins were worth not many shil-
lings each. And the heifers were “stud-book
stuff” !
* * * *
“Tamornie”: I have entered the “ghost
houses” of the New Guinea natives very
often and have never been objected to; but
in the country at the back of Dugumur, in
the Madang district, though passing freely
through the fence
which in this dis-
t ric t separates
these houses from
the other part of
the village, I could
not discover the
origin of the
squeaking noises
that came from be-
hind it. One day,
however, I sur-
prised an old man
with a blade of
grass between his
thumbs, squeaking
away for dear life.
I had been told
that the noise was
the voice of a
spirit and had
noticed the women
become agitated
when it was heard.
The old chap gave
a grin as much as
to say, “Well,
you’ve seen it now,
so it does not
matter.” The old
chaps used to
gather in these en-
closures to smoke
and talk in peace.
An occasional
squeak caused the
women to think
that the spirits
were there, too,' and kept them away, so the
old fellow said.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Tarago” wishes to know (B.
30/9/’26) how long a tyke can live on air.
At a church, only used monthly, on Mount
Cooper station (N.S.W.) a terrier was once
inadvertently locked in when the edifice was
closed. Three weeks afterwards his winn-
ings attracted a passer-by, who let him out.
Unless the window frames and door archi-
traves which he chewed to ruin in his
endeavor to gnaw a way out could be counted
as sustenance, the poor fellow did that
stretch without either solid or liquid pro-
vender, yet he still had enough strength to
shamble home when liberated.
* * * *
“Lily-Beale”: What is the record age of
at sheep? Mrs. Bradley, of Walgett
(N.S.W.), owns a ewe that she procured
as a lamb from a travelling mob 24 years
ago. Although she has given birth to 16
Jambs, including four lots of twins, she is
quite active, and each shearing yields a good
fleece. Despite some of her family having
crossed the divide under the butcher’s knife,
her living descendants now comprise a flock
of over 50 sheep.
THEIR DAY FOR
COMPLIMENTS.
MRS. SIROCCO: “ When
your old man’s at
home you don’t have
far to go to find a
thief!”
MRS. ZEPHYR: “No, I’ve
heard there’s one next
door.”
“Ess”: Some cranks
still inflict cruelty on
horses by “banging” their
tails. In summer time
Australian horses are
esteemed by each other
according to the length
of their tails. They stand
together head to heels,
and patiently brush flies off each other
The bobtail is a miserable outcast that
scrapes its lonesome carcase ineffectively
against a tree. Sometimes Bobtail imposes
upon another horse, and I have seen the
latter, on discovering how it had been duped,
turn round and land two hoofs against the
other’s ribs.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Is not “M.G.” (B.
16/9/’26) too optimistic about what a
solution of arsenic and soda will do
to trees? I personally conducted experi-
ments on timber ranging from saplings
to the giant paper-barked “ti-tree” with
varying strengths of the solution. Its
action was erratic, and the kill was
a long way short of 100 per cent. Con-
sidering the cost of arsenic and soda, the
extra labor and the difficulty of inducing
men to boil and apply so dangerous a mix-
ture —most of them declined to handle the
arsenic in any form—and the careful frill-
ing the trees require for an uncertain re-
sult, it was a costlier process of killing scrub
than the conventional method. Obviously,
while frilling for arsenic application the
laborer, at a little extra expenditure of time,
might effectively ringbark the tree. An ever-
present danger when trees are treated w r ith
arsenic is the risk of poisoning stock, as they
avidly consume the fallen arsenic-saturated
leaves.
* * * *
“Spadger”: A pair of spurwing plovers
had a nest in our liorse-paddock. Just about
the time the eggs
were due to hatch,
the old draught-
mare happened to
walk that way and
splodged one of her
inelegant number-
twenties fair on
the nest. The plo-
vers were loud in
their lamentations
for days. Now,
however, they have
found another pos-
sie; and have two
eggs inside a post-
and-rail fence built
round a bog. Only
a coincidence, I
suppose, but it
looks as though
they had reasoning
powers. Oddly
enough, that bog
was fenced in be-
cause the old mare
got stuck in it last summer.
* * * *
“Innisfailure” : A few years ago I was cut-
ting cane with a man who hailed from
Switzerland. The scene of our labors was
the side of a steep hill, and the farmer had
much trouble in carting the cane down to
the flat below, the steep grade being respon-
sible for many mishaps. It was after we
had re-made the first load for the third time
that Fritz remarked: “It is a wonder they
don’t use the Australian invention here.”
I didn’t take much notice at the time, but
as he mentioned “the Australian invention”
on subsequent occasions, I asked him what
it was. He explained that where he came
from—on the Swiss-German border —the
country was very hilly, and, though wheat
grew well right to the tops of the hills, the
trouble was getting it down when cut. Drays
were used, but the load had to be small, as
in the descent the whole weight was thrown
upon the horse in the shafts. Accidents
were frequent, and horses were sometimes
killed. But there came a time when a
man who had emigrated to Australia re-
turned home with liis pockets empty, but
with his head full of an invention he had
seen in his travels. It was a ratchet appli-
ance fixed to the front of the dray, and so
arranged that, by turning a handle when
coming downhill, the front of the vehicle was
elevated so as to keep its body on a level.
This kept the weight off the horse’s back,
and also eifabled the man on the dray to
build up a good load of sheaves. Among
Swiss farmers it is known as “the Austra-
lian invention.” Has anyone seen it used
in Australia?
* * * *
“Jimsey”: Can anyone tell me how to
stop a horse’s teeth from falling out? The
prad is just four years old and in the best
of condition, but three of his teeth have, for
no apparent reason, fallen out, and every
remaining tooth is loose. Our local vet.
says straight out that he doesn’t know the
cause. Can this be anything akin to
pyorrhoea in the human grinders?
* * * *
“Yarri”: I came upon Mulga Jack on a
western plain, on which many big white roly-
polies were scattered. Into each he dropped
a lighted match, now and again remarking,
FORTUNE’S FAVORITE.
MRS. QUEEPIL: Nine years looking for work and haven’t found
it yet? Good gracious, how do you account for that?”
HONEST AUBREY: Jus' luck, Missus—sheer blinkin’ good luck!”
That will put the kybosh on yer.” He
cantered busily from one collection to an-
other. “Hulloa, Jack,” I said. “Burning
off- Ain’t it time?” he cried, fiercely.
‘When a man comes miles out of his way
to muster the damn things, thinkin’ they’re
sheep, ain’t it time? They’re always foolin’
me; an’ they never let up that they’re nothing
but blasted weeds rolling about in the wind
till you’re right on top of ’em. I’ll stop
the gallop of some of ’em.”
THE BAD OLD MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we tied up in the Invertank, at the port of
Wallaroo
(We were loaded down to our Plimsoll-mark with
phosphates from Nauru),
It was eight bells Sunday morning, and the Old Man
left his perch,
And, after he’d swallowed three of Scotch,
He passed the word for the Starboard Watch
And gave them leave for “church.”
Yo-ho! Wot-oh!
Ho yuss ! Exactly, so!
They were off like a shot, the whole pot-lot,
And of course they went to church!
The mate put a brand-new collar on and a suit of
reach-me-downs;
We’d all been told that “Number One” was a hellofa
lad in towns !
The bo’s’n shaved, and blacked his boots, and winked
at his port-watch pals;
And the Chinese quartermaster laughed
And said “Oh cli,” as they all walked aft,
“Wot plice the ’Stlalian gals!”
Yo-ho! Wot-oh!
Hai-yah ; Exactly so!
No time to waste, so they all made haste
To see the Australian gals!
They disappeared by the Custom House, as we kicked
our heels on deck.
“I’d like, richt weel,” says the engineer, “tae wring
the Auld Man’s neck.”
The purser growled as he sucked his pipe, “It’s
damned hard luck on us,
All cooped up here on the Invertank,
While they get all the pick o’ the bank,
We miss the blanky ’bus!”
Hai-yah! Heigh-ho!
We know the way they go!
There’s nary a kiss from a lively miss
For the likes of poor damned us!
CULINARY.
THE CHEF: "How would you like them cooked, your Majesty?”
HIS MAJESTY: “Aw —just boil them in their jackets.”
But when four bells in the dog-watch rang, we saw
a wondrous sight—
Two score of maidens from the town, In green and
gold and white,
With shingled hair and silken hose, who hopped on
board so free,
And gave a smile to ev’ry lad,
And told us that the captain had
Invited them to tea !
Yo-ho! Wot-oh !
Not much that he don’t know !
That dear Old Man had done ’em brown
And rung up ev’ry girl in town,
And asked the lot to tea !
S.A.
C. H. S.


s
Ullll ft - 1 X <■ v/ X x
c >
IftMfllMll
f T %
itiifSiif
;•::* *, » <*\* /* "amM?'-. ""vX'XX *AV->jk%
•>*** X * // /tyy /// ' '• '' •
l»“*. S* :; s ::
| * |> %>'' J* v . ' fUw
\
x
rv, '^ / y / ; //// xx ~mm
.a
p*"m , •:" *%;* '# *« i
V- -■#*'' 1 1* I
§s» if! ItFX 1/
Uii
{/' " ;; . » i . "'wnw
# :! i ! I **««
■*%
MA i ■
:'. 'V/////y///sss'-
„„..... „j ** « i
,-i
lllJlllllllllWUlllliPj
Hu
X
C
»*«
:■ B
fy"
*a£2s*
at
V X x
w
x
» m -v \
X
\ s.
V X
. X X
s
X X, X
mt
#ll
, X X
x\
X
W<M«&
X
\
x
x X x X 'x XvXX \ x
x \ \ \. X x \ \ \ •
X X
X
X
XXIX
v X X
m
% s i
ffl
It Mil
■><■;*.. ■ .:. -'i
W KU^t;
X
X
X
1
1. xx x«
shs
/• F*; ■’■■:**s
X
38?
ft
f
stfew
\
X
X
X
X
(v fll
, Nttm
X X
X
X
X X
x x
X*2
ikeV6tero)f aDuck'sßack
/,
*1
The destructive attacks of the elements are
deflected from surfaces protected by
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL, “like water off a
duck’s back.”
The first essential of durable, resistant paint-
work is good Linseed Oil, for it is the elastic,
preserving film formed by the Linseed Oil
which affords protection from sun. rain and
wind.
MEGGTITS LINSEED OIL
is manufactured from the finest Linseed procurable, which is
specially cleaned in order to remove all trace of foreign seeds.
This, together with the fact that no other oil-bearing seeds are
crushed in Meggitt’s factories, is a guarantee of 100 per cent,
purity.
The care exercised in filtering, refining and maturing Meggitt’s
Linseed Oil, together with its 100 per cent, purity, combine in
making it an Australian product superior to most imported oils
and equal to the best of the world’s manufacture.
Whilst guaranteed for purity, durability,
maturity, covering power and clarity, it is
cheaper than imported Linseed Oil.
Users of Linseed Oil should,
therefore, insist on
‘Meggitt’s” and be assured
of permanent satisfaction.
MEGGITT LIMITED
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510,
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Sicggitt Limited, P.O. Box 380. Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. Fty., Ltd..
Hobart and Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
fj
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
SMOKE
cpGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dim er from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10,30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
“Feather”: In Morgans (W.A.) about 15
years ago, when the place was booming, the
local hospital had two “racehorse” goaunas,
one 3ft. and the other 4ft. long, that wan-
dered round the wards and were very tame
and friendly. They were kept with the idea
of reducing the flies and other insects which
abounded in the goldfields, and they were
found better than wire doors for the pur-
pose. The patients became quite used to
them, though alcoholic cases found them a bit
trying at first.
* * * *
“Bill”: I owned a stud ram that adopted
a herd of cows and became their lord and
master. He wouldn’t allow any suitors to
approach the harem if he could help it, and
HIS ONLY CHANCE.
BOSS COCKY: “What were yer doin’ — dreaming?”
NEW HAND: “Ye-e-es, sir: I don’t get any time to do it at night.”
in his reign defeated all-comers. His tactics
sorely puzzled the deposed bull. He would
slowly back for about 30 yards, and then
come at his enemy with a rush. After the first
crash he would back out again, and his
opponent, thinking, prematurely, that he had
won the day, would turn to attend to Other
business, only to receive a bump on the rear.
Being unarmed to meet these attacks, he
threw in the towel after receiving several
severe bumps of that kind. The ram never
bothered about the sheep, and moped about
when away from the cattle.
“Narara”: Re the superstition that pine-
trees will die if used in place of poles for
wireless aerials (B. 16/9/’26). A neighbor
of mine has a big Norfolk Island growing in
his back yard with three aerials —mine, his
own and another —-fastened to it. Instead
of dying, the old
tree looks greener
and healthier now
than it has done
for years. Two of
the aerials have
been attached to it
since broadcasting
was first started in
N. S. Wales.
“Jesmond”: My
observations o n
Phillip Island
(Vic.) are very
different from those
o f “A. Borig.”
About 12 months
ago a pine-tree at
the isle of Wight
Hotel was lopped to
within a few feet
of its tip. It was
not long before a
few green shoots
appeared, but since
an aerial was fixed
direct to the tree, a
few months ago,
numerous shoots
have sprouted from
the trunk up to the
aerial, but none
above it. In another
case a newly-dead
gum was used to
support a pole;
now it is as healthy
as one could wish.
But the most re-
markable case is
right under our
own aerial here.
The lead-in wire
comes down near a
Virginia - creeper-
covered chimney.
All through the
winter about 2ft.
of creeper next the
wire has had green
leaves, and, start-
ing on the wire
side of the chimney, the whole plant came into
leaf about six weeks before its usual time.
A peach-tree under the centre of the aerial
shows every sign of giving us a bumper crop,
thanks, perhaps, to Marconi.
* * * *
“The Hook”: A farmer in the Ballarat
district killed a sheep which was found to
have a gold ring set with stones embedded
in its tongue. It is thought the ring was
licked up while the sheep was feeding, and,
clipping- over the animal’s tongue, stuck
there and was overgrown by the flesh.
* • * * *
“Wang”: A newchum employed digging
out rabbit-burrows recently got the fright
of his life in our district (Western Vic.).
He arrived home
one day with a
hair-raising yarn
that he had seen a
ghost in a burrow.
His story was that
he was on hands
and knees, peering
into the orifice,
when he was con-
fronted by a human
skull which raised
itself and made
towards him. The
cocky forced the
choom to accom-
pany him and one
of his sons to the
burrow. The cocky’s
son got into the
trench, and after
groping about
pulled out a rabbit
which kicked franti-
cally. The skull was
there, all right. It
was on bunny’s
shoulders. lie had
in some way forced
his head inside it,
and couldn’t pull it
out. Further exca-
vation brought to
light a human
skeleton, which
subsequently proved to be an aboriginal’s.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : Just what does ambergris look
and smell like? > Some island natives picked
up pieces of floating stuff the other day
which, after examination, was judged to be
spermacetti. It looked like wax and was
whitish in color. I have been told that the
difference between that and ambergris is in
tint, the latter being a greyish-yellow. Know-
ing that it is used in perfumery, too, I
assumed that it would not be disagreeable
in odor. Recently another man brought
along a chunk of something that looked
like the solidified contents of a slush-can
and smelt like the unburied carcase of a
week-dead goat; he said he’d found it float-
ing down the coast, and thought it might be
“that whaler stuff.” I told him to dig a
HIS MODESTY FORBADE.
MISS HUFFY: “Come down at once, you young monkey!”
NIPPER CHIPPER: “I can’t till yer go, Miss. I’ve tore me pants
somefing awful.”
hole and bury it right off —ambergris was
surely never like that! But now a friend
who has travelled a bit tells me that the
stuff has a perfume that puts a bone-mill
out of the running, and that what I„had
advised the destruction of was probably
ambergris, after all! Anyway, before some-
one brings along any further choice speci-
mens for an expression of opinion, will an
Abo. expert tell me just what are the out-
standing points of the stuff? I read in a
yarn the other day that if a match is
applied to it, the stuff will flare up like
celluloid; and in another yarn that a lump
left on a rock in the sun’s rays melted away
to grease. I don’t want to encourage any
false ambergris “rushes” up this way, so
ask for authentic information.
* * *
“Jim Carew”: Tell “ E.A.B. ” (B.
16/9/’26) that limewater will probably fix
up the barber’s itch. I suffered from the
complaint for over 12 months, and limewater
cured me in about five weeks. My method
was to drink a wineglassful first thing every
morning.
“Wee John”: Has “E.A.8.” (B. 16/9/’26)
tried physical jerks as a cure for his barber’s
rash? In the days before the war a brother
of mine—he stayed in France —had a really
awful countenance that not all the medicines,
patent and otherwise, dieting or other treat-
ment could cure. He then got on to Muller’s
“My System,” and the jerks, combined with
the massage, which is an integral part of
the scheme, cleaned him up so well that in
a few weeks he had a skin as clear as any
girl’s. I won’t swear that he had barber’s
rash, but if it wasn’t that it was a full
cousin to it.
“Manawatu” : The seven lions that were
lately killed in M.L. (B. 2/9/’26)
slaughtered at Palmerston North. The
animals ranged from two to nine years of
age, and were valued at £6OO. They belonged
to a Mrs. Baker, and were being exhibited
by a side-show troupe at the annual cockies’
outing. The troupe went broke, and left the
lions on the showgrounds, where their roar-
ing disturbed the neighbors at night. Mrs.
Baker’s hand was forced by the local A. and
P. Association, and as she was unable to
sell the animals they had to be poisoned.
Heroin in meat did the trick. The skins
were tanned and the carcases sent to the
destructor.
* * * *
“J.D.C.”: Is there any recognised length
for a bullock-yoke? A short time back
there was much discussion on this point
in S’Africa, and popular opinion favored the
view that, up to a certain point, the longer
the yoke the more power developed by the
span. One employee of the Union Depart-
ment of Agriculture went so far as to apply
for a patent for a new type of yoke. “° w ;
ever, the only “new” part seemed to be that
it was about 15 inches longer than those in
general use. Aussie drivers use a yoke of
about the one length —just long enough to
permit the bulls to “get down to it without
jostling. The Hoppers claim also that a
team yoked four abreast can lift a much
greater weight than one strung out in twos.
The four-abreast formation, they declare, has
the advantage of permitting the driver to
reach any shirker in the team with the whip
from the one position. I am interested in
the long-yoke theory, and would like the
opinion of local punchers. * #
“Privateer” : I have my doubts about the
methods prescribed by “Larrapinta and
“Billball” (B. 9/9/’26) for making skis that
will stay curved. My experience is that
they will not stay so unless proper care is
taken of them when not in use. There
should be no trouble if they are bound
together properly. With bottoms facing
each other they should be strapped
tightly at either end, with a piece of wood
about three-quarters of an inch square and
about four inches long—their own width
separating them in the middle. Then a
piece of wood long enough to exert a gentle
strain should be placed between the toes.
I have never had any trouble with skis
treated this way, but they want to get the
treatment before the toes start to straighten.
“M.L.C.”: In reply to “(Centre’s” inquiry
(B. 2/9/’26), I can name one timber never
known to have been attacked by any insect.
It is the Huon pine, which contains an
essential oil deadly to insect life, and at the
same time acting as a preservative. Logs
of this pine cut by the convicts in the early
days of settlement in Macquarie Harbor
(Tas.), and left lying in the bush in that
district, noted for its heavy rainfall, have
been recently collected and found when cut
to be absolutely sound. This is a valuable
native timber, pleasing in appearance and
easy to work, and should be better known
and more generally used, especially where
destructive pests are rife.
-X- * * #
“Paul C.” : I knew a bushman who could
handle all kinds of venomous snakes. It
was his habit to carry home any he hap-
pened to catch while returning from work.
These he used to sell to showmen and per-
sons interested in extracting venom from
them. The story of this man’s snake-catch-
ing activities reached the ears of the editor
of the local news-sheet, who treated the
snake-charmer to a par. in which he alluded
to the snakes as rainbow-hued ones that live
in bush rum-bottles. A day or two later
the charmer stepped into the editorial sanc-
tum on his way from work. Thrusting two
snakes under the editor’s nose, lie asked,
“Are them rum-bottle snakes?” The editor
reared over backwards and called for help.
The comps, rushed in from the rear to see
what ailed the boss. The snake-man met
them at the door and poked two snakes into
their faces. They fled, and it took half a
column of commendation in the next issue
to keep the snake-man from visiting the
office again.
EXCUSED.
THE PIONER : “In all my experience I’ve
never seen a buck nigger kiss a lubra.”
THE PROFESSOR: “Well, I ask you, would
you like to do it yourself?”
“P.A.G.”: Can any Abo. tell me (1)
What is the average jump of a kangaroo.
(2) What is the largest jump it has been
known to make? And (3) can the springbok
of South Africa bound a longer distance
than the Australian hopper?
THE MYSTERY MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Going home in the dusk from the township
We passed an old man with his dog.
“Good evening',” said we, and “Good evening,” said
he, •
Then tinned down a track bj' a log,
A quiet old track by a log.
And somebody said, “Well, who’d think it?”
And “What would you think then?” 1 said.
“.Why, that man going home with his dog,
Going down on the track by the log,
He’s no one but Kelly, the Kelly,
Dan Kelly, the brother of Ned!”
“But how can you know that ?” I asked him.
He said, “It’s as plain as your nose.
From nowhere he came, with a vague sort of name,
And a beard that nobody grows,
No, nowadays nobody grows.
And kiddies won’t pass him at twilight
And he talks to his dog, so it’s said,
And it’s all about watches and gold
And things that shouldn’t be told.
So he’s no one but Kelly, the Kelly,
Dan Kelly, the brother of Ned.”
Now that was in one little township,
But many such townships there be
From Mansfield to Sale or the Acheron Vale,
And one point in common you’ll see,
They’ve all the one bogey to see.
For someone’s said, “Well, he’s a caution!”
“That little old man there?” I’ve said.
“Yes, there’s loot in his hut,
So he keeps the door shut,
For he’s no one but Kelly, the Kelly,
Dan Kelly, the brother of Ned.”
So bogeys will never be dead
While men get dreams in their head,
And an old chap ready for bed
And tired with the life he’s led,
Shearing in shed after shed
Or mining or farming instead,
Has got to be Kelly, the Kelly,
Dan Kelly, the brother of Ned!
QUEENSLAND.
N. Q.


r
z*7/>
W
Supreme Value and
Incomparable Quality
in
Men’s Summer Clothing
Needs at
Blazers
Navy All-Wool Flannel Blazers, braided White, Gold,
Red, Sky
Navy All-Wool Flannel Blazers, corded White, Gold,
Red, Sky
Sports Shirts
Winceyette Sports Shirt . 6/11
Tussora Sports Shirt 8/11
Fuji de Luxe Sports Shirt. Of first-quality material
with splendid wearable qualities; this is the ideal
shirt for every Sport. Reasonably priced at. . 10/6
Pure Fuji Silk Sports Shirt 21 /•
Surf Costumes
All-Wool One-Piece Surf Costumes, with latest stripe
color bars 10 6
Navy Cotton Surf Costumes, supreme quality.
34in. 36in. 38in.
4/11 5/3 5/6
Summer Pyjamas
Cotton Twill Pyjamas, latest stripes and colorings. . 11/6
Twillinta Pyjamas. A material that guarantees lasting
wear; remarkably low-priced at . . . 11/6
Cream Pure Fuji Silk Pyjamas. First-quality material
splendidly made and finished && 6
The “Paris” Sports Belt
Latest Club Stripe Designs 3/ ll
Cream Trousers
Cream Cotton Gabardine Trousers, good weight twill
of reliable quality; excellently cut and finished. . 15/“
Cream All-Wool Gabardine Trousers, first-quality
material, perfectly tailored and finished, they
stand out as the finest value offering. . 27/6, 35/-
Cream All-Wool Serge Trousers. Excellent quality
and guaranteed absolutely unshrinkable 27/6
Tennis Shoes
The Perfect Tennis Shoe. White Canvas, toecap,
heavy crepe rubber soles. Made expressly to
our own order, this is exceptional value. Pair. . 16/11
Cricket Caps
Navy Flannel Cricket Caps 4/0
Quality Shirts
Zephyr Golf Shirt, woven
stripe, reinforced neck,
fast colors, collar to
match. This is truly the
pinnacle of value in Golf
Shirts . 7/8
Fuji de Luxe Golf Shirt.
First-quality material;
reinforced necks, collar
to match, etc. . . 12/6
Pure Fuji Silk Shirt. A
Mick Simmons Special. . 21/-
j
£
A Razor Special
The “Silva Bel.”
Superfine German Hollow-
ground Razor. Hand-
forged and guaranteed of
the finest Silver Steel. Un-
equalled for private
as well as barber’s
use
A Tennis Special
The “Haymarket”
Racket.
The perfect Racket for the
Schoolgirl. Beautifully
finished and dependable in
every way, it represents
the utmost value
in Tennis Rackets
30/-
r/s
V
(WE PAY CARRIAGE.)
>imm
m
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.’’
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ĵ
ToH.M.
Kina
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
j
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
REI
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ENTERTAIN AT
DINNER - - SUPPER,
AFTERNOON TEA or
BUSINESS MEN’S
LUNCHEON.
SYDNEY’S
COOLEST
RENDEZVOUS.
The Wentworth’s Won-
derful Band plays en-
trancing Dance Music
Every Afternoon and
till 1 a.m. on Late
Nights.
Beautiful New
Ballroom and
World-famed
Palm Court.
Sparkling Cabaret
Afternoon and Evening
Telephone 8W1361.
Order all Wince before 6.
f
7/yp centre o/ C/ueens/anc/s
' d/s/ingu/shec/ Soc/cr/ Life.
Wotel
RDTCTI
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
ĵ
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane ,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
“Terrible!” sighed the lady, as the swords
of Hamlet and Laertes clashed. “In those
days when your brother didn’t come home all
night you never knew when to expect his
punctured corpse.” “Now,” replied her com-
panion, “when wild brother doesn’t get home
with the milk, all you do is to wonder
whether he will get bail.” If your
imagination was a bird of wide enough
wing, then there was a feast of enter-
tainment at the Shakspeare ball in
aid of the Allan Wilkie fund, but if you
regarded the affair from the sordid box-office
angle, then it was a wash-out. So few of
the literary and artistic had responded to
the call to keep the greatest playwright of
all walking the Australian stage that, at the
last minute, several women’s clubs had rallied
to the aid of the party. 'die vice-reine
watched the revels from the dais at the
head of the room, and her silver tissues were
supported by the cyclamen and gold apparel
of Commander Lowther’s w T ife, and the black
and silver worn by the president of the
Lyceum Club, Mrs. A. G. Thomas. Secre-
tary Beatrice Tildesley weighted pink geor-
gettes with opalescence. The largest party
in the room was under the wing of those
enthusiastic followers of Will of Stratford,
the Arthur Eedys.
And bishops in their shovel hats
Were plentiful as tabby cats.
But bishops are changed. Some of them
now look like Jack Dempsey. Others of them
suggest the hounds or panthers of the Lord
rather than the meek fishers of men. Gil-
bert would have had to change his tune if
he had been at the garden party at Cran-
brook on Saturday afternoon. This was the
wild dissipation that flung off, even as
thistledown, the worries of the General
Synod, to which these men had travelled
from the corners of this continent. Down
from the Mount once more, Moses probably
became a nice fatherly old gentleman, and
the. cloudy peaks of theological discussion
behind them, the bishops gambolled in the
sunshine with their flock. A nicely-coated
flock it was, too; chiffons and good tailor-
ing struck just the correct note for the old
house and its grassy terraces. There were
56 hostesses and 20 bishops at the gathering
—a party in themselves. One pair of legs
was trying to pretend that they were used
to gaiters. They belong to Dr. Davies, the
Bishop of Carpentaria, whose cathedral is
on Thursday Island. He spends much of
his days and nights travelling by bush tracks
and in open cutters; and gaiters don’t fit
well into either of those pictures—especially
when the tropic sun is showing what it can
do at its best. But the fine fellows up
there wear something a thousand times more
precious than millinery.
Not only an aerodrome but a gold cupola
as well should the Aero Club be able to
afford as a result of the first Flying ball in
Sydney. Only the Palais could hold the
fun and the flying feet that mixed in one of
the jolliest affairs of the season. Tom
Hughes’s lady had been president of the
committee from its first flutter, and on the
great night she stood a pillar of strength
and good management amid aeroplanes of
red roses (these over the Government House
box), real aeroplanes—Moths and Myths
(the latter are lady Moths) —and an atmo-
sphere charged with balloons. Even the
model aeroplanes that whizzed down the
length of the Palais and threatened to clip
your ear or barber your locks in passing
failed to disturb a bead on the president’s
bronze raiment that shone like a new penny.
A. feather, long, plump and curled, that was
violet at the roots and dripped into pale
lilac at its tips was a regal addendum not
to be overlooked. Daughter-in-law Mrs.
Geoffrey Hughes, who had been the lady’s
first lieutenant, purveyed novelties in the
shape of caps and balloons, her green geor-
gettes. enwrapped in a lushly-fringed scarf
in which pinks, blues and silver shimmered;
and another daughter-in-law, Mrs. Roger*
Hughes, added petal pink chiffons to the
night’s array. The State Exes, put in an
early appearance, Lady de Chair’s georgettes
glowing foxglove red, shot through with the
gold of its pollen. Rubies and diamonds were
accessories.
Agnes Murphy’s line from London:—
Sir Gerald Strickland’s marriage to Margaret
Hulton, sister of the late Sir Edward Hulton, news-
paper millionaire, was quietly celebrated on August
31. The bride, who is of suitable age for the
bridegroom’s years, wore a rosewood-colored gown
with coat and hat to match, while Sir Gerald donned
the levee dress of the Civil Service (First Class), so
well known in Australia as the regulation gala garb
of Governors. Miss Violet Grabham, niece of the
bride, was the maid of honor, and Mr. Wellesley
Colley was best man. The immediate relatives of
the principals were not conspicuous at the ceremony.
James Kell, the retiring Governor of the
Commonwealth Bank, ate two dinners last
week in a larger company than usual. At
one, served in the Union Club, he was the
guest of the directors, who handed him a
silver salver well loaded with compliments;
the other at the Australia, a more public
affair, with 150 people to applaud the
speeches of Oscar Lines —the best after-
dinner speaker in the bankers’ ranks —
A. Shannon and others.
The benzine business in Australia lost a
popular head this week when McDonald
Smith went back to the U.S.A. He has left,
the Texas Oil Co. and goes to take charge
of family interests in a big box factory in
New Jersey. A Nova Scotian by birth and
a Science graduate of the. McGill Univer-
sity, he had been many years in the Texaco
service, coming here from Stockholm, where
he had been the co.’s manager for Scandinavia
and Denmark. For Mrs. McDonald Smith,
one of the leading members of the American
colony in Sydney, the past fortnight has
been one long, tea- and dinner-party.
Warde Morgan, the “Katja” co. tenor who
after the accident at Aberdeen was regarded
as never likely to walk again, was in a box
at the Royal on Saturday night to see
“Aren’t We All?” When a few nights
earlier he was present at “Mary Rose” the
audience cheered him. He has one leg sup-
ported by straps, and has to use crutches.
Marie Burke, who is a devotee of Christian
Science, like so many other theatricals, con-
siders that her hard thinking has had some-
thing to do with her colleague’s recovery ; and
modern surgery, which has pieced together
men more mangled than Warde Morgan was,
will probably not object to the lady imagin-
ing whatever she likes.
The Jobson family lost its grey mother
last week. Mrs. Jobson, who left her native
Argyllshire at the age of seven, was 81 when
death called. She had three brilliant daugh-
ters. One died in Italy not many weeks
ago; Nancy, the second, is principal of the
B. at Pymble; Belle conducts the Vimy
House Private Hospital in Melbourne. Alex.
Jobson, the son, is the Sydney accountant
and actuary who is likewise a director of
the A.M.P.
Victoria Leaguers are planning a luncheon
for November 4 in honor of Lady Cecil,
C-B.E. This daughter of the peerage is vice-
chairman of the society for the Overseas
Settlement of British Women and a member
of the Central Council of the Victoria
League. The League, which embraces the
22-button white-kid-glove sisterhood of Syd-
ney, isn’t being recklessly extravagant.
Farmer’s is the eating-house, and five shil-
lings the price of the soup ticket.
This is Katharine McGregor, using the
look she intends to unloose upon witnesses
of doubtful
c r e d i bility
when she gets
them before a
jury. The fair-
headed lass,
who is not
much over
20, was, as
this Letter’s
P.S. mentioned
last week, ad-
mitted to the
Bar of the
Supreme
Court of
Queensland a
few days pre-
viously. She’s
a daughter of
J. G. McGre-
gor, of an old-
e s t a blislied
Brisbane law
firm, and will
start her legal career under the pater-
nal eye. She went through her arts course
at Queensland Uni., and is the first of her
sex to follow Portia’s example in Banana-
land.
Left by the Maloja for India, Mrs. Eric
Reynolds, whom Sydney playgoers pleasantly
remember as Maie Peach, of “The Arca-
dians.” With the still good-looking little
Sydney singer went her two no less beauti-
ful daughters, Yda and Pat. Captain Rey-
nolds is stationed in India.
Rita Kirkpatrick, a daughter of the late
Commonwealth Bank architect, made one of
last week’s most striking brides. She is tall
and good-looking, and pledged herself to
Keith Nelson King at St. Stephen’s, mur-
muring her vows from a classical-looking
outfit fashioned of silver lame and sea-
green georgette. To this she added a foam
of tulle veiling and a great cluster of lilies-
of-the-valley. One bepetalled, pink-chiffoned
’maid aided the picturesque effect. The
wedding breakfast was eaten at the Aus-
tralia, bride’s mother officiating in blacks of
good design and sumptuous material.
Commander Billyard-Leake, R.N., whose
engagement has just been mentioned in the
cables, is a grandson of one of Sydney’s
sturdy mid-Victorian lawyers, Charles Bill-
yard, who made his home for years at his-
toric Elizabeth Farm, on the Parramatta
River. The naval grandson made a splash
in sea-story as lieut.-commander of the
Iphigcnia on the night of April 23, in 1918,
before the Zeebrugge Mole. After running his
craft’s nose into the soft east bank, he sank
her, and so helped to block the canal.
The flash of steel outside St. James’s one
sunny afternoon last week heralded the
appearance of Paymaster-Lieut.-Commander
Kedge, of 11.M.A.5. Brisbane, and his new
bride, who was Gladys Knowles, of Lismore.
Under the arching swords of his quarter-
deck brethren, the bridegroom and his snowy
bride stepped, followed by a small middy
of stalwart bearing and a pretty ’maid in
powder-blue georgettes. Bride’s mother pre-
sided over the subsequent gathering at the
Cavalier.
Herewith Mrs. Hugh Ward, who, follow-
ing her husband's retirement from the Fuller
firm, will be
aw a y from
Sydney for
about two
years. Hugh
,T., who has
had more to
do with the
Legs of Na-
tions than any
other man in
Australia, is,
for the pre-
sent, at any
rate, retiring
from the song-
and - dance
business ; s o
he and his
lady intend to
take a gentle
mean d e r
thro u g h
Europe an d
America and
then return to Potts Point, where lives the
most wonderful grandchild in the world.
Before her marriage Mrs. Ward was a
grand-opera star, and during her years in
Sydney has trained many stage successes.
Adam and Eve (with marcelled hair), who
“hadn’t a thing to wear,” in a comic Gar-
den of Eden, and who wisely took counsel of
the snake, was the prologue of a film, “Fig
Leaves,” that should delight Everywife. It
was privately screened at the Prince Edward
on Tuesday. The scene shifts to modern
times, hut Eve is still at her old games; and
the rest of the show is mostly inside the
gorgeous rooms of a man-milliner. The
thing is sheer comedy, and occasionally clever
comedy; and the display of frocks is pre-
sented most artistically in natural colors.
Not so long ago the staff of David Jones’s
made up its mind to drop a mite into the
Cancer Research collection-plate. The other
day the mite, a cheque for £1250, was
handed to knight Mungo MacCallum, Vice-
Chancellor of the Uni.
A piece that will attract attention at the
Arts and Crafts show next week will be
Vi Eyre’s dragon bowl. This is low and
squat and deeply blue. All around it sprawls
a dragon whose scales flash buff and blue,
and in whose two heads are set sapphire
eyes. This dragon and its eyes are inlaid
and burned into the porcelain under the
glaze. Mrs. Eyre, claims that this is the
first piece made in Australia to have the
gems fired with the clay.
Warranilla, the home of surgeon Dan
Kelly, echoed to the beat of the Charleston
on Saturday night, when an outsize party
in honor of “Rose Marie” Harriet Bennet
was in full swing. Mrs. Kelly, clothed in
opalescence and a multitude of pearls, had
gathered in leading people from almost every
show in town, and, of course, these descended
on Kirribilli after theatre-closing time.
Harriet, who had been preceded by her
mother, in an old-fashioned parted-in-the-
middle hair-dressing, came to the party look-
ing like Princess Snow-White in a wrap of
ermine and ivory satin. Curtis, K.C., came
with his child-like betrothed, Lalla Moss,
A clever Adelaide woman who is visiting
Sydney is Flora Back, known among the
medical brotherhood of Adelaide, Sydney and
Melbourne as a builder of surgical appli-
ances. Her useful career started in a desire
to help herself when suffering the after-
effects of a severe operation. At that time,
when she invented her special corset, she was
a teacher at St. Peter’s School in Adelaide ;
but soon the news of her success was noised
among friends and the S. Aus. doctors, and
the capable woman left teaching and devoted
herself to relieving pain. No less a person
than Sir William Mac Ewan, King Georges
late surgeon, congratulated her on her woik
when at the Medical Congress in Melbourne
in 1923 Miss Back gave a demonstration ot
her inventions.
Three hundred and twenty-odd years ago,
a young playwright named Thomas Dekker
knocked about the taverns and coffee-houses
of London. He looked upon his world
with a discerning eye and loved human
nature as he found it. The shadow show o.
his times has been so faithfully reproduced
by him that an audience at St. James s last
week saw that men and women are viewing
the same domestic and economic problems
from much the same angle in these post-war
days. The S.U.D.S. has to be thanked for
the production of “The Shoemaker s Holi-
day,” an alive and vigorous picture of Eliza-
bethan town life. The story nominally centres'
about the love of a nobleman, Howland
Lacey, for Rose Oteley, the daughter of the
Lord Mayor of London, but the real love
drama lies in the story of Rafe, who lias been
pressed to the wars, and Jane, his wife. The
comedy part of Simon Eyre was played with
the right boisterous good-fellowship by John
Dingle, and others who particularly pleased in
a pleasant evening were the Rafe of Thomas
Esplin, the Firk of George Cassidy and the
Jane of Thelma Sundstrom.
Josephine Marks, who has filled hundreds
of charity-entertainment programmes with
advertising won by her persuasive powers,
had a testimonial concert thrust on her the
other afternoon. This was a combustion of
the gratitude of hundreds of Sydney citizens
for the lady’s labors, and the resulting
cheque is to go to further her career as a
singer. Living pictures and Miss Marks her-
self were the striking features of the
matinee. The silky sheath that enfolded
the singer glistened like a diamond shower;
and a train that swept from the shoulders
and an armful of lilies were impressive parts
of the whole. Organist Lilian Frost arranged
the musical programme, and Daphne Deane’s
pupils were responsible for some neat foot
work. The ultimate takings, it is expected,
will slip into four figures.
Miss Brisbane’s tale of weddings has
charred edges:
We have made our own smoke-box this week.
Even in city buildings the smoke from bush-fires
has clouded the austere corridors, and at night the
world is rimmed with orange light ; a curious
apricot tint invades even the sifted sunlight. At
Upper Brookfield the gums were flaming torches
and telephone lines and fences collapsed. The care-
taker at Gold Creek had a fight to save his home.
Mount Coot-tha was among the sufferers, and even
the State Forest has been damaged.
Renee Kelly departs, with “Daddy Longlegs,”
from His Majesty’s, which theatre, rumor hath it,
will shortly be reconstructed, in keeping with Bris-
bane’s policy of becoming bigger and brighter. By
the same token there is tremendous growling over
the way rates have leapt up under the Greater
Brisbane scheme. Some properties have been sud-
denly discovered to be worth three or four times
more than they were at the beginning of the year
and rates have ascended to correspond.
Two well-known families got related this week
when Clavill Montague, elder son of the S. H. Beres,
Southport, married Evelyn, elder daughter of the
Harold Saltmarshes of the same place. It was a
night affair, and the bride wore an evening frock of
ivory satin beaute, with flared flounces of Brussels
piled over palest pink. Her veil of Limerick lace
was caught with posies of orange bloom and she
carried white water-lilies and agapanthus. Yvonne
Saltmarsh ’maided in coral pink and silver, with
a posy of pink and yellow roses.
The Queensland Rhodes Scholar for 1920, Victor
Grenning, has taken to wife Helen McMillan Gaff-
ney, of Bonny-brae, Eagle Junction. A wedding bell
of pink and white roses hung over the couple in
St. Andrew’s, Creek-street, and the pews were done
up in white blossomry. E. A. Gaffney warbled
“Song of Thanksgiving” with the friendliest of inten-
tions. The bride was in an evening gown of ivory
mariette and satin, the flared skirt veiled in Chantilly.
Her hand-broidered veil of tulle was worn with
silver and orange buds. She carried a shower
bouquet of cream roses. Mavis King, in powder-
blue shot with silver, with a bouquet of pink rose-
buds and carnations, and Judith Gaffney, in powder-
blue over silver and a Victorian posy of pink rose-
buds, ’maided.
St. Patrick’s Valley Church saw the marriage of
Macie McTiernan with George Watson. Palms,
roses and lilies and a silver wedding-bell were
features, the decorating being done by the Children
of Mary. The bride wore the blue cloak and
insignia with her wedding gown of white mariette.
Her veil was handworked by the Ahern girls and
she carried a sheaf of lilies and wore several ropes
of pearls lent by Mrs. Tom Ryan. The five brides-
maids wore pink. Archbishop Duhig was foreman of
the welding job. At the Hotel Carlton, afterwards,
a pink wedding-bell released a flood of rose petals
over the bride and ’groom. Mrs. McTiernan hostessed
in black silk charmante.
A benefit tea to help the seaside home of the
Country Women’s Association was arranged at
Lennon’s in a setting of apricot-hued gerberas and
bowls of pink carnations. Edith Barry organised,
and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Iluxham hostessed the party.
The Harbor Lights Guild fixed up a dance at
All Saints’ Hall to buy the Seamen’s Institute a
player-piano. Palms and pink blossomry dressed
the ball and there was a good orchestra and a satis-
factory supper.


I K b JIARgY BROTHER^JLTD,.^-
Modern Jewellery
mm
mm m
h I
w ■ ■
MM
: ; V. . ■
■■■■
linii
■ f *
The three Gem-set Brooches illustrated are repre-
sentative of the extensive displays of Modern
Jewellery featured in Hardy’s showrooms.
Hardy’s facilities for reproducing the latest London
and Continental Jewellery are unrivalled in Aus-
tralia. Ihe Company’s London representatives
regularly forward the newest ideas in fashionable
Jewellery, enabling Hardy’s workshops to produce
ornaments which equal the highest European
standards.
A selection will be sent to any address on approval.
Five per cent. Viscount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will he sent post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
S&T/ouse oP SxUusivc&ewelUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
IJ6-H8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION CUTLERY CANTEEN AND SET OF
STAINLESS KNIVES IN OAK CASE.
Saunders’ Half-dozen 'fable or Dessert Knives,.
Stainless Steel, Xylonite Handles, in Oak Case,
20/-, 25/-
Larger Case, with Half-dozen each Table and
Dessert Knives, £2, £2/10/-
liSii
i
§£
.
m
A. Saunders’ “Cutlery Canteen,” containing 5-piece Carvers; Half-dozen
each Table and Dessert Knives, Stainless Steel, Xylonite Handles;
Half-dozen each Tea, Dessert and Table Spoons; Half-dozen each Table and
Dessert Forks. In Oak case, £l5/10 /-. Others, £lO/10/-, £l2/10/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ECZEMA—RASHES—PIMPLES
And All Spring 1 Skin Eruptions.
ON’T disregard the earliest signs of skin trouble—<
unpleasant irritation or itching, or any little rough
patch or tiny sore! Fiery eczema, blood-poison and even
flesh-eating ulcers may be the eventual result of neglect
or wrong treatment.
Anoint any troublesome place at once with Zam-Buk.
This rich herbal balm is so refined that it soaks into the
tiny pores (or breathing holes) of the skin and thus
attacks and defeats disease at its very roots.
Daily dressings of Zam-Buk will purify and heal the
whole tissue, draw out all poisonous and offensive matter
and grow new healthy skin.
The regular use of ZAM-BUK and ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL
SOAP is the surest way to eradicate skin trouble, both in
children and adults. Try this combined treatment to-day.
Don’t experiment with worthless dressings.
1/6 & S/6 per box. Of all Chemists & Stores.
am-
u
SUCCESSFUL FOR A GENERATION
BE SURE THAT YOU
GET ZAM-BUK!
No ointment containing rancid fats
and cheap drugs can possibly do the same
good as Zam-Buk, which is a super-balm
containing extracts of exceptional curative
power.
Thousands of cases of Eczema, Itch,
Ringworm, Ulcers, Abscesses, Boils, Bad
Legs, Poisoned Wounds, Piles, Scalp
Disease, etc., have been successfully
treated by Zam-Buk, whilst its swift anti-
septic healing of Cuts, Burns and Scalds
averts Festering and Blood-poison.


Si
■ m
m
■
$
'2> :
vw m m m
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious-
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
Jotd VmcUot
For those who wish quiet,
select and convenient hotel
accommodation, the arrow
points in one direction—
to the Hotel Windsor,
Spring Street, Melbourne,
With its charming garden surroundings and interior comfort, it
is indeed ideal in the service it offers.
Close to leading theatres and shopping centres. ’Phones and
hot- and cold-water service in all bedrooms.
Minimum Tariff from 22/6
(inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from
15/-
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
Manager: B. C. Jones.
'Phone: Cent 9260.
A
8605
m
iiiijj!!
nrm
Li t
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 700for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, R[?]
[?] [?] M[?]
.Caulfield Cup day was a disappointing one
for those who had new frocks and hats ready
for the outing. The weather was ideal about
the time of the running of the big race, but
the morning was threatening, so dressing
was chiefly dull and uninteresting, the prin-
cipal festive note being the coat posy of
lily-of-the-valley. The record attendance
(about 64,000, so it was said afterwards)
meant a crush that made fair punters hesi-
tate before risking their lives and their
money in the human maelstrom of the bet-
ting area.
Both Government Houses had representa-
tion. The committee lunched the G.-G. and
Lord Somers and members of the Empire
Parliamentary Delegation. Lady Stone-
haven, wearing a beige-lined gown beneath a
golden-brown fur-collared coat and hat of
bois-de-rose hue,, fed a number of guests
in her suite, and Lady Somers, a study in
sapphire-blue and brown fur, also scut invi-
tations around for a mid-day snack.
Mrs. Beau Fairbairu was in a suit aud hat
of mushroom-pink tone. Mrs. Alec Russell
added distinction to the scene in a black
gown and a hat like that -adopted by the
Latin Quarter art student of the films. Mrs.
Otway Falkiner was in the members’ stand,
wearing a wide-leafed powder-blue taffeta hat
topping a navy ensemble suit. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, who was deluged with congratu-
lations over Manfred’s win of the coveted
gold cup, wore blue raiment. Mrs. Clive
Baillieu was in a smart black crepe satin
caped gown brightened with a big crimson
rose. Iler hat was of the higli-crowned order.
Mrs. Munnik, whose husband is one of the
South African Parliamentarians, was coated
in soft pink tones with a wide-brimmed hat
to blend. Mrs. H. I. Cohen displayed an
ultra-smart coat of wrap mode in the new
lime shade.
The Somerses’ first big evening party was
held as part of the welcome to the Empire
Parliamentary delegates. A seemingly un-
ending line of cars rolled up to State Gov-
ernment House, and the occupants found
arrangements had been altered a little by
the new tenants. Firstly the fair visitors
found, instead of depositing their wraps and
popping on the last dab of powder in a
cubby-hole below stairs, they were ushered
up to one of the best boudoirs. Secondly,
there was no receiving in the hall. Masses
of white watsonia and arum-lilies decorated
the entrance, where a big fire blazed cheer-
fully (for the night was very cold), and
greetings were exchanged in the drawing-
room. The host and hostess stood behind
a screen, and bewildered expressions chased
themselves' across the guests’ faces when
they disco vered that the G.-G. and his lady
and the quizzical Lord Salisbury were also
lined up utnder cover to extend a friendly
hand. Lajdy Stonehaven’s mole georgette
gown was . patterned with big gold beads
about the skirt hem, and diamonds and
emeralds figured in necklet and hair adorn-
ment. Lady Somers was in black, gleam-
ing with drystal embroidery, and diamonds
rippled upon her pink-and-blue bandeau.
Flowers ansd hothouse plants glorified all the
reception-rooms, and pink-and-red roses were
reflected in the family gold and silver-plate
and branelned candlesticks on the supper-
table. Tire Indian delegate, a branch of the
great Chetty tree, wore a wliite-and-gold
stole over Ids black coat and a turban to
match the stole.
Mrs. Bertie Alston led the way in strik-
ing toilettes —mostly glistening white crystal
broken by black beads. Feather fans were
numerous. Mrs. Russell Clarke carried an
armful of pink and mauve plumage partially
eclipsing a pale-pink frock prinked with pink
pearls. Mrs. E. Tawse Jollie, of Rhodesia,
the only visiting woman delegate, gleamed
in black and crystal-beaded raiment and
sparkling fringe. Mrs. J. 11. Munnik, also
from South Africa, attracted the eye through
her tippet and fan of white ostrich feathers,
contrasted with a black robe. The Brunton
lady, who was with her husband, and
escorted the Mayoress-elect, Mrs. S. J.
Morell, wore a gown of lilac satin and geor-
gette.
The stage of St. Kilda Town Hall sported
a drop-scene bearing a battleship, draped
flags aud other deep-sea devices when the
Navy League held its ball, and there were
strings of pennons dangling from the gallery,
The G.G. and Lady Stonehaven showed then-
approval by their presence, and her Ex.
leavened the committee’s color scheme (mostly
black and white) by wearing cherry-red
georgette with lines of brilliants and a dia-
mond necklet. There was a big feather fan
to match the bright gown. A boatswain’s
whistle heralded the arrival of the vice-regal
pair, so everybody was ready. The service
for which sarcastic sergeant-majors daily
thank their God was represented by Rear-
Admiral Napier, with General Chauvel as
headpiece of the Army and Mayor Brunton
as the leading civil authority. As wife of
the League president, Frank Clarke’s lady
was at the head of affairs, dressing the role
in soft white raiment with a top-dressing of
sparkles. The A. M. Treacy and Reginald
Egerton matrons, who checked tickets, arrayed
themselves in black robes brightened by crys-
tal beads. Mrs. Norman Brookes, just back
from a Californian tour, had a stellar blaze
of glory on her silver-embossed lame. Com-
mander Baillie Grohman’s willowy wife sug-
gested a purple iris sprinkled with dew and
Mrs. Napier’s robe recalled a Turner sunset.
Something new in coiffures —a swathe of pink
tulle which bore a tuft of small feathers
of the same hue —was worn by a guest in a
silver lace gown. Among the unhandled were
various Grimwade couples, the John Fiskens,
the Russell Clarkes and Mr. and Mrs. Rupert
Greene. Marie Mackinnon secretaried with
the assistance of Patricia Clarke, whose dress
was of apricot hue.
The hop given by the Clive Baillieus and
the Edward Sliackells at the latter’s Toorak
home is still being talked about reverentially.
The jollo was to introduce June Baillieu and
Addie Shackell (who is her cousin) to
society. Risking the weather, the dancing-
floor was set in the open, and arranged so
that the dancers flitted betw-een rose and
azalea bushes in full bloom. A huge open
marquee spanned the lot, golden draperies
and colored lights helping to make the scene
decorative. Mrs. Shackell wore a black
gown relieved with gold and rose lame, and
daughter Addie was in coral-pink taffetas
embroidered in self-colored beads. The co-
hostess wore gold lace and petunia georgette,
and her lass, who lately returned from a
burnishing abroad, came in soft pink satin
with additions of quillings of ribbon and gold
beads.
The art of handweaving in this part of
the world has been vastly uplifted by Bertha
Bates and her
partner, Miss
L o r rimer,
whose show of
woven line n
and silk
articles is one
of the big fea-
tures of the
Arts and
Crafts So-
ciety’s Exhi-
bition. Arrived
from London
about eight
months ago,
the enterpris-
ing pair set
up their looms
i n Adelaide,
where they
discovered they
had the field
to themselves.
They co m-
menced to teach their craft, and their school,
the Balor Studio, is now r quite well known.
Miss Bates, pictured here by Broothorn, was
trained at the London School of Weaving,
and was retained as an instructress on com-
pleting her course. But distant fields looked
greener, and she and her co-worker now are
the proud possessors of a cottage in Magill,
among the hills that background the Holy
City. Their most expert pupil at the moment
is a girl of 14, who in a few months has
learned how to manage the most intricate
patterns.
The pink and rose-petalled flounces of Mel-
bourne’s most accomplished amateur baller-
inas were fluttered again at the Embassy on
a recent evening, when there was jazzing to
help Queen Victoria Hospital. The dancing
misses made a big hit when they repeated
the capers that had already earned them
plaudits at a charity matinee. The jollo was
organised by Charlie Tait’s wife, who had
gold lace lighting up flame-liued raiment,
Mrs. Fred Nicholson, who was in apricot
georgette that glistened with crystal, and
Mrs. Hugh Wallace, who was softly clad in
coffee-hued lace and ninon. Their efforts were
seconded by Mrs. Charles Wenman, Mrs.
Harry Green and others. After the theatre
along came Marie Burke, in gold and green
metal lace upholstery, Claude Flemming and
other stars, who helped to entertain the
crowd. The Tallis lady, wearing a wonder-
ful wrap of gold and pink, fur-collared, was
hailed with pleasure after her overseas
jaunt 'with daughter Biddy, whose amber
frock had clingings of brown georgette. Mrs.
Charlie. Lyon was among the most strikingly-
dressed of the throng, wearing petunia-pink
cr£pe de Chine that had additions of very
deep fringe of the same shade. Mavis Car-
negie was among the daintiest frocked of the
girls, her cerulean blue being all a-sparkle
with crystal.
Pictured by Broothorn is Ray Carey,
whose silvery tenor was heard at a combined
recital with
basso J. How-
ard King re-
cen 11 y. I n
1918, at the
age of 18, he
put out with
the 58th Bat-
talion for the
Big Scrap, but
ran into the
Armistice re-
joicings. Seek-
ing adventure,
his promising
voice got him
into the chorus
of the Bee-
cham Grand
Opera Co. in
the first after-
the - war sea-
son at Covent
Garden, Boro-
din’s “Prince
Igor” and “Nail,” by Isidore do Lara, being
staged by the English producer. Aylmer
Buesst, of these parts, trained the choristers.
For some years A. C. Bartleman has been
coaching the young singer, whose thoughts
naturally are turned towards grand opera.
Ilis cousin, Francesca Duret, of Melbourne,
is at the present time figuring as star at
Palermo, in “Lucia” and “La Traviata.”
Roses climbed out of gilded baskets,
trailed along the damask and cast perfume
and petals over the vittles when retiring
Mayor Brunton gave a luncheon at the
Windsor to his successor, Alderman Morel].
It was an awful waste of good roses, only
men being present, and we all know what
men are. The Morells have just returned
after a trip abroad with their family, and
Mrs. Morell and her daughter Sheila are
shaking out of their tissue-paper wrappings
purchases made in Paris and London for the
Cup festivities and the frivols of dad’s reign
as first city father.
Lady Somers opened the half-yearly sale-
of-work of the Gentlewomen’s Aid Society.
This organisation was formed in a very
small way 32 years ago to find a market
for the wares that could be produced by
gentlewomen whose health or age did not
permit of their earning a living in a steady
job. The work of the society lias slowly
increased, until now £lOOO or more is dis-
tributed each year among the workers. Much
beautiful needlework —lingerie and house-
hold linen—was exhibited, also knitted
articles, and the preserves and cakes were
a show in themselves. Prizes were given
in many sections. Miss Ethel Flower still
secretaries the society, of which Mrs. Tre-
mearne is president.
Marjorie McLaurin, daughter of the H.
11. Caldwells, of the Medoc vineyards, Wali-
gunyah, went to Scots’ Church one evening
last week and said “I will” when asked a
question about George Ferguson, son and
heir of the G. F. Simpsons, of Yooroobla,
Jerilderie (N.S.W.). There was a good
roll up of the soil-owning classes of both dis-
tricts, and No. 9 was crowded. The bride’s
array was white-and-gold brocade with yards
of gold lame train, softened with a lace veil
that her grandmother had worn. The quar-
tette of attendant maids, among whom was
Evelyn Wade, of Sydney, made a delicate
rainbow effect in their varied taffeta frocks
of old-world mode with crinoline-straw poke-
bonnets.
Dorothy Hamilton, who made heaps of
friends when playing here with Marie
Tempest, was married lately at St. Mar-
garet’s, Westminster, to an Australian. He
is Frank, only son of the George Gatehouses
of Toorak, who took to the stage and is
forging ahead in London under the name of
Allenby. Lately he has been a member of
Huntly Wright’s team of players. The bride
is still with Marie and is now her under-
study.
Nearly all Nora Coalstad’s friends must,
have said their congratulations with flowers
on the occasion of her first pianoforte reci-
tal, for a large car-load was delivered at
the Assembly Hall that evening. The young
Westralian, who wore the simplest of shot-
pink taffeta frocks, smiled her thanks to
a full house. Her star turn was the Saint
Saens Concerto, arranged for two pianos,
in which she showed herself a pianist of
brilliant technique and rare intelligence. Her
teacher, Benno Sclierek, played at the second
board. James Hill assisted with songs.
Mrs. H. Hills, in a gown and hat which
blended all the tones of winter foliage, and
her daughter Millicent, in sweet-pea shades
of mauve topped by bois-de-rose crinoline
straw, officiated at the Austral Sa on
weekly getting-together. Music with tea an
chat was the programme.
Aroona, the Landale mansion at looiak,
is on the market. Old Alex. Landale swi ow
has decided to make her home in Lnglan ,
where her daughter Jessie (Mrs. Kona
Murray) is educating her family, bo tne
old home, once a centre of social gaiety,
to pass to the highest bidder.
Miss Austin, the Sydney woman who went
to Amsterdam as a delegate to the Inter-
national Conference of University Women,
had the bad luck to fall ill on the day o
arrival, and it was a nursing home that re-
ceived the visitor. News lias been received
that she is treading the path of recovery, and
other delegates are keeping a sympathetic eye
on the stricken one.
The Russell Grim wades are packing suit-
cases preparatory to peering into odd corners
of the world. Buenos Aires, Venezuela and
Africa will be investigated. The travellers are
timed to be in Holland at tulip-time, and
may be the famous garden at Frankston will
get some more treasures.
The blind and disabled soldiers, sailors and
nurses of Victoria and N.S.W. found a
practical friend in lately-dead Emily Claugh-
ton of this city. Her will leaves over
£lOO,OOO for war victims. She owned Yeadon
station in the Riverina, and an estate at
Wagga.
Among this spring’s successful wooers is
John Drake, elder son of the A. Tyrwhitt
Drakes, of Crendle Court, Dorset. His prize
is Florence Una, only daughter of the late
Jim Russell, who lives with her mother at
Barunah Plains.
An engagement of local interest lias been
reported from overseas. Squadron-leader b.
Fitzgerald Moore, R.A.F., Iraq, so 1! 01
the late Walter Fitzgerald Moore, of Mone-
geeta, has offered himself to Dorothy, elder
daughter of the R. S. N. Faros, of Old Forge
House, Canterbury, and has been accepted.
A show that drew packed houses of women
at four matinees and one evening perform-
ance was “Radiant Woman,” produced by
the Berlei company at His Majesty s. Hand-
somely-costumed ballets were part of the
show, which ended with demonstrations of
the uses of the finished product, so to speak
-—Berlcis make corsets, and make them here
in Australia.
There is rejoicing at the Albert-street
Con., for the Firm has engaged Lilian Crisp,
most promising of students, to raise her
soprano voice in Gilbert and Sullivan operas.
She is off to Maoriland at once.
Sister Adelaide has had a varied week:
Racing still continues in a setting of autumn
skies and tweeds, and the few who braved the flimsy
finery of summer for the S.A.J.C. Races made haste
to cover it with coats and furs. For coats black,
navy blue and putty were favorites; frocks, where
they showed, gave a hint of something gayer, and
hats ran to vivid greens and blues and pinks. Lady
Bridges topped autumn brown velvet with a snug
hat of gold and black velours, and one smart matron
added color and cuffs and hat of white to a slim-
cut coat of navy blue.
There has been dancing at Glenelg—its objective
cash for the Returned Army Sisters’ Relief Fund
and there has been dancing, with golf as a prelude,
at Victor Harbor. The latter, on Labor Day, was
run by an Adelaide committee headed by Mrs.
Dudley Hayward and Mrs. Kenneth Duffield. Golf
trophies were presented in the intervals of dancing,
and the frivol closed to an eruption of fireworks.
For the rest, it has been a placid week. There
is an exhibition of pictures by Herbert Gallop at
the Dunster Galleries; the Repertory Theatre has
given “The Dover Road,” with Clive Carey equally
successful as producer and in the lead, and Beryl
Kook at her best as Eustasia; and there has been a
wild-flower show at the Town Hall. This show was
started eight years ago and made its first appear-
ances in the Society of Arts rooms, but it long
ago overflowed to the larger space, and every year
adds to the loveliness that comes from the country-
side. Lady Bridges and her daughter were tw'o of
the most interested visitors on the opening day.
There will be a great repolishing of old memo-
ries when Royalty gets to Adelaide, for Lady Cavan
is sister-in-law to the Captain John Mulholland who
came with the Galways in 1914. His time here was
brief; the war called him overseas again, but even
so he managed to lay the foundations of a good
many friendships.
Backhaus has been the thrill of the week, and
so definitely has public appreciation of him been
demonstrated that his season of three concerts has
been extended to four —the last in the vastness of
the Exhibition.
Adelaide Zoo has bad luck with giraffes. Keith
Mjnchin, son of the curator, recently secured a pair
in Africa. One put its head out of the train, with
deplorable results, on the way to the coast; the
other bumped itself fatally while at sea.
The Coronor’s Court has made a new departure by
committing a girl motorist for trial on a man-
slaughter charge. On the Bay-road she swung out
to pass another car, and collided with a ’bus coming
the other way. There was an ugly injured-list, but
the only fatality was a friend who had been given
a lift on the back seat of the ear. Its pace at the
time was variously stated, and that’s what the
Coroner seems unsure about.


m
355
A
j, )m/u
h:
S 3
*s r
%
4sjk
m,
'?4m
\m
U
/'
wn
\rl '
A
V:
L2V
tj
%//}
mF
id
Mt
VW4
m
3S
*v
=M - \
f-if:
y?
iH
c=->
Z/s
>W
'/>w
m
m
{diiid^i
f><~)
wr/m
m.
Cy
LITCHFIELD
-sy - ■ '
// ; ,c /
. • i\ a
• . //
WWi
~<d
W l ‘i
/ // //
In the Spring
A wise man’s fancy rightly
turns to thoughts of health.
Spring... Season of change ...
the world awakening from its
winter sleep... Sap rising in the
trees... All nature assuming
its brightest raiment.
The human system is in tune
with the rest of nature. Spring-
time brings its changes and
the body signifies its need for
some such assistance as that
rendered by a potent diuretic
like Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The wise man, cognisant of Na-
ture’s needs, therefore rigorously
maintains through the Spring of
the year the sensible practice of
One Wolfe's Schnapps a day
for his health's sake .
Whether you are in the Spring or
the Autumn of life you will find
immeasurable benefit from the
moderate use of Wolfe’s Schnapps
—the beverage with the unique
medicinal virtues.
Obtainable in quarter size
bottles as well as the more
familiar half and large sizes
HA##! i te pV
Tt %pF 111 Ellil
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
iyt • BUssiny to Humanity


j
Pair |
' Dress
l Beiier* w j
ML
k 4
m
: M
\ l
I*.* ......... .....}
&
■
u.
1
■
TIME to Order Your
Murdoch-tailored Suit
ĵ
Y ordering now you ensure careful, unhurried workmanship
so essential to that degree of perfection ever associated with
the “Murdoch-made.” And by filling in and sending the
Pattern coupon below you may leisurely select your material
in the quietness of your own home. These Patterns will be
posted to you FREE- —this incurs no obligation whatever.
Murdoch’s remarkable
Mill-to- Wearer Suit Value!
Excels any other Made-to-Measure” offer in Australia to-day. Murdoch’s
have now received the New Season’s weaves. Pure Wool Australian Tweeds
of excellent quality; latest Striped Suitings feature popular tones of Mid or
Dark Grey, Brown, Fawn or Blue. Also Fancy Fieather
mixtures or Light Grey Flomespun. Select your pattern
and order a Smart Murdoch-tailored Sac Suit, fashion-
ably tailored—
To Your Measure for - -- -- -- -- -
84
A Hand-finished Suit-
‘“'Measure £g|J QI-
For a hand-finished Suit-to-measure, produced by master craftsmen,
this value defies comparison. Expert buying enables Murdoch’s to
offer these £B/8/- value Suitings, comprising High-grade Pure Wool
Worsteds, at this remarkably low price. Plain or fancy Greys, new
Dove Grey, Powder Blue, Nigger Brown, also Blue Checks and fancy
Blue stripes, so popular with young men. In Serges there are fine
Twill or Herringbone weaves, pure Wool
and Indigo dye, guaranteed. Also Light, Mid
or Oxford Grey All-Wool Flannels. A fault-
lessly-tailored Sac Suit to your measure and
HAND FINISHED for
-£6llOl-
DESK R,
77 MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET, LTD., SYDNEY
Dear sirs, —
Please send me, free of all cost, a complete range of your
New Season’s Suitings, including the B.'//'- and £6/10/- Special
V allies; also simple Measurement Outfit.
Name
Address
Oct. 21, ’2B.
Other Prices: £4/18/9, £5/13/9 and Super-Quality
Hand-Finished Suits to Measure at £7/10/-, £B/10/-
and £9/10/-
SEND THIS COUPON FOR FREE PATTERNS.
xMURDOCH’S Specially-prepared Mail Order Pattern Folder—is
yours for the asking. It contains a comprehensive selection of the
very latest Suitings, all “Mill-to-Wearer” priced. This entails
absolutely no obligation whatever. Fill in the Coupon NOW!
To Crown the Christmas Outfit
%
y/Cwiaocstd m m
mDKABim&I?
HAT If
A “Kookaburra”
THE SMARTEST OF HATS are featured in this famous Murdoch
Australian “Kookaburra” Quality. Attractively-shaped Models,
including the new “snap brim” that may be worn turned up or
down; also ‘Nail Curl” or “Prince” shape (as illus-
trated). Color tones to harmonise with the new Suitings
are: Light, Mid or Dark Grey, Black, Myrtle Green
or New Fawn shade with Brown band. All regular
sizes
21/
WSMBBBHmk
:
WHEN
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR. / *
ORDERING BY MAIL KINDLY STATE SIZE AND ADDRESS YOUJR? LETTER TO DESK R.
COPYRIGHT.
j
WorlcJ& Larges? Inters euncf Soys Wei3,*r> S
tore


wmm
a
jimr
s
b
lit
1
S*
wmm
TORCHES
ĵ
Uok fee the Trademark I Agents Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP St CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Manfred’s performance in the Caulfield
Cup was the finest in the history of that race.
Carrying 9st. 61b., the greatest burden ever borne
by a winner (and he only a four-year-old), and
going out the shortest-priced favorite on record, he
never gave his army of backers a moment’s anxiety
and came home on the bit. From 2to 1 the night
before he firmed to 5 to 4, and McShortodds got
tired of laying him. The Banker, -whose victory over
Royal Charter in the Herbert Power Stakes on the
Wednesday had impressed many, was a steady second
favorite at 5 to 1, and Naas, the Goongy Handicap
winner, was well backed at 8 to 1, but Royal
Charter drifted to 14 to 1. Spearer (15), Beedos
(20) and Stralia (25) were the most fancied of the
others.
The 23 runners gave little trouble at the post,
Manfred, who had No. 9 position, being as quiet as
an old steeplechaser. He was one of the first away,
but Lewis steadied him, and as the field turned out
of the straight he was going easily behind Bard
of Avon, David Garrick, Bravado, Raron, Ben
l.omond and Snowflre. Bard of Avon, still in front
at the mile post was headed at the end of another
furlong by Raron, Manfred, going at his ease, being
third. Chaffey’s champion went to the front about
three furlongs from home, and there the race was
over, for although The Banker came with a gallant
run which might have meant victory in any ordinary
Cup race, Lewis did not have to supply the whip or
even shake the reins to any extent. Manfred reached
the finishing point half a length in front of Falkiner’s
Maoriland purchase; Royal Charter was third, two
lengths away, Spearer (among the last lot early) a
close fourth, Beedos fifth, and then Mountain Prince,
Batteryman and Naos, who was last at the mile poet.
The crowd gave Manfred a wonderful reception,
and he deserved it, for Melbourne has rarely seen a
greater feat or a greater horse. He ran the 12
furlongs in 2min. 32 4sec., and had there been
anything capable of making him travel at his top
he could have “broken two-thirty” with all his
weight. Ben Chaffey, who owns the magnificent son
of Valais—Otford, has now won three Caulfield Cups
in five years—Whittier was successful for him in
1922 and 1925. McCalman, the painstaking trainer,
is fairly entitled to a great deal of the credit, and
47-year-old Bob Lewis proved what horsemanship
can do with a hitherto wayward champion. All
going well, it is intended to start Manfred in the
Melbourne Cup with lOst. lib., a 101 b. penalty in-
cluded. This Page would rather see him reserved
for the weight-for-age races this year and tackling the
1927 Cup, if he is still above ground. Certainly
Carbine ran second as a four-year-old with TOst., but
Carbine was a horse and a half. Lord Cardigan
was runner-up with 9st. 61b., and the effort killed
him. Poseidon was eighth with lost. 31b., but was
useless for racing afterwards. Also he failed at the
•stud. As a matter of fact, no four-year-old who has
tried to win the Cup with a big weight (Carbine
always excepted) has ever succeeded at the stud.
• • • • • .
A Lucknow —Old Glory gelding in Querida (4 to 1)
was successful in the Gwyn Nursery after a good
tussle with Field Artillery (9 to 2) and Sacedon
(8 to 1), promising youngsters both. Heroic’s
brother, Thracian, on his second to Rampion in the
Guineas, was all the rage for the Burwood Handicap
for three-year-olds, but King’s Consort (7 to 1), a
filly by Comedy King—Amoureuse, was far too good
for him at the weights; in fact, Henare beat the
favorite into third place. Thus far, punters had had
a fair day, but they got a nasty jolt when a 25-to-l
shot, A. T. Creswick’s Olola (Woorak —Perdita),
downed the much-better-backed Palelight and Tommy
Dodd and a host of others in the Windsor Handicap.
Woorak’s progeny are winning heaps of races.
Wedding Eve (Linacre —Wedding Day) is
recognised as a good little mare when right, though
not quite as good as her dam was, but she has
failed so repeatedly this spring that the public grew
tired of backing her. However, a fourth in the
A.J.C. Final Handicap suggested that she was re-
turning to her autumn form, and her party backed
her down from 12 to 1 to 8 to 1 for City Tatter-
sail’s Handicap, 10 furlongs, at Randwick on Satur-
day, Johnnie Jones being favorite at 9 to 2. The
mare won nicely in fast time (2min. ssec.), and
though she blew out at nine furlongs a few months
ago she is probably now capable of running a good
mile and a half, as Wedding Day was. Bacchus
(10 to 1) finished fast in second place, after being
badly placed at the three-furlong post, and Strong-
bow’s third was an earnest of better things to come
—perhaps in the Christmas cups. And Kalloni, who
led the field home, would have given trouble if he
hadn't left his rider at the post. Another of Dick
Wootton’s, in Zuleika (6 to 1), was beaten by
Bunting Wallace (8 to 1) in the Novice Handicap
owing to Richard’s good-natured but ill-justified
habit of putting apprentices on his steeds. That
horsemanship is half the battle was exemplified not
only by Munro in the Novice, but by Pike in the
Club Welter. In other hands Braehead (12 to 1)
had never won at a mile, but, ridden a perfectly-
judged race by the Old Master among Australian
jockeys, the Linacre stallion accomplished this feat
in capital time (lmin. S7fsee.), just beating Eger-
ton (10 to 1), who in other circumstances would have
been a good thing. Randwick has rarely seen a
more superb exhibition of riding.
“The Gaffer” : That little joke worked in
France by tote hands, who hung on to tickets and
cleaned up big money before they were caught, re-
calls old N.Q. days. The totes in our district were
open-fronted sheds, with a 4ft. counter enclosing
the open side. From the back wall hung blocks of num-
bered tickets, like the “tear downi” calendars. After
a race, the blocks showed the number of tickets taken
on each prad, and these had then to be added to get a
total and strike a div. Divs. were small. The boys be-
hind the counter were generally sports, and if they
knew' a cove it wasn’t hard to get a ticket or two
on the nod. If the nag W'on, you paid up out of the
div.; if it lost, no matter. It w r as pretty t 6 see the
lads while a close finish was in progress. When
Bonzo got his nose in front the lads ’d hook tickets
off his pad as fast as they could get to them. Then
Bungo ’d come with a fast run on the outside, and
the hands w'ould fall over each other getting on.
Some of the clubs got the pip, and put the totes
where no one could see the racing, but that was no
good to the heads outside, either. Then the first
closed-in machine came along, and a good game was
blown to a bubble.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Cesarewiteh, won last
week by a horrible outsider, Myra Gray, has lived
up to its reputation of being the hardest race
in the world in which to pick ’em. A stake handi-
cap, run over 2] miles at Newmarket, it has been
the vehicle of more coups, good things upset, and
dead birds miraculously brought to life than any
of the classics. In the days when the old nobility
really betted, the amount of the Cesarewiteh settling
was something to talk about. Australia supplied
a winner in 1897, when Merman. Grand Flaneur’s
best son, landed a big stake for Mrs. Langtry
at ICO to 7. The handicapper let him in at 7st.
51b.—a luxurious weight for a horse that was
destined to take out the Ascot Gold Cup with 9st.
41b. Some day, perhaps, we shall send more Mer-
mans, Newhavens and The Grafters to Britain, but
not until our studmasters and buyers of yearlings
abandon their irrational prejudice (how silly it
is the success of the Greeusteads shows) against
Australian-bred sires and dams.
* * * *
Pedro Campo, the latest coon from Manila
Bay, was to have met Raymond Jansen, of Gaul, at
the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, but his
manager (or proprietor) cancelled the match on the
THE DIFFERENCE.
TED : “The wife wants two or three new
gowns for the Cup meeting, and I can’t
afford to get them.”
NED: “What happens in a case like that?”
TDD: “She gets them.”
ground that the French welter was some ounces too
heavy. The owner must have kicked himself after-
wards, for Raymond proved a gift for another
Manilaman, Pelkey. In the first round Jensen pro-
mised well, being quick on his feet and hitting fast
and cleanly. Pelkey was not slow, either, and they
sat down leaving the impression that there was going
to be a fight. But the colored citizen decided
otherwise. In the second round, after slinging left
swings to the body and a couple of rights to tie
head, he banged a crashing right to the chin. Wallis
did the rest.
* * * *
“Lily-Boale” : Billy Edwards, hailed as a
second Darcy, was once whipped by George Tosh, of
Gilgandra (N.S.W.). A bowl of soup swamped by
Edwards half an hour before the fight was blamed
for the catastrophe. Tosh, who has had about 60
scraps and has rarely met his master, is thinking
of returning to the ring.
* * * *
King’s won the athletic championship of
the Sydney secondary schools for the third year in
succession. Showing quality in all departments and
good teamwork, it finished 104 points ahead of
“Shore,” its nearest rival. Individual honors went
to the St. Joseph’s sprinter, T. Carlton, who took
the 100, 220, and 440, running the 220 in the excel-
lent time of 22 3-ssec. A performance which sug-
gests that this youngster will have to be reckoned
THE CLUE.
JINKS: “I think they expect you in the bridge-
room.”
SPINKS: “What makes you think sot ”
JINKS: “ They've locked the door.”
with when the time for choosing the next Olympic
team comes round.
* * * #
“Amateur Pro.”: Suzanne Lenglen, in a
passionate apology for professional sport, declares
that half the stars in big tennis are practically
pros, under the rose. But her only real defence for
asking to be paid is the moth-eaten one that the
individual who draws the crowd is entitled to a
whack of the gate. The curse of professionalism is
that it invariably leaves ample openings for corrup-
tion to creep in. There are some games where it is
impossible, or nearly so, to run stiff—cricket is an
outstanding example; but even there the crook crops
up sometimes. Exhibition tennis offers peculiar
opportunities. The public won’t flock to see one
combination of stars continually victorious over their
opponents. It is inevitable that managements with
an eye on gates will sometimes request the planets
to suffer a temporary eclipse. Thus the old cycle
will start again, till the professionalised game dies
by its own hand.
* * * *
The N.S.W. King’s Prize was won at
Anzac Range by J. 0. Stanton, who has been chasing
the rifleman’s will-o’-the-wisp for 30 consecutive
years. He didn’t seem to have a chance when the
final shoot began on Friday morning, but 49 out of
50 in the last stage left his remaining opponent,
F. G. Harrison, a possible to get if he was to win.
Harrison’s nerves were not equal to the strain, and
he dropped three points, to lose even second place.
The winner owns up to 52. He is a signaller in the
tramways, and saw active service in the S’African
War.
* * * #
“Shrewsbury”: A recent cable message
contained a broad hint that the Australian cricket
public is going to have its ear bitten harder than
ever, if well-paid heroes of the game can bring
it about. It was the general opinion, said the
message, that the Australians should not be expected
to abandon their work, lose money, and be separated
from their wives for the bonus now paid them
while the Board of' Control draws some £lB,OOO
from the tour. That has a real soap-box flavor
about it which recalls the famous “strike” against
the Board of Control in days which no genuine
cricketer desires to see return. In cold fact, the
great majority of the team have never been paid
so well in their lives as on this tour, or some of
the preceding ones, to say nothing of free accommo-
dation and transport on lines to which few of them
have been accustomed outside their experience of big
cricket. The members of the 1921 side realised
£BOO or so for, say, nine months’ “work.” The
only “contras” were pocket-money and clothing,
which have to be found even by the public which
provides the money for the gladiators. As to the
other items, there is not an employer in Australia
who would not keep his job for an Australian XI
player “on duty,” while those in business for
themselves are no more forced to go than the
hirelings, if they could not find someone to look
after affairs for them. As for the absence from
the missus, at least half the team are bachelors.
Anyway, a lot of the Australian reps, of the 1914-
18 vintage were parted from their better halves,
not for months but years—many of them longer
than that.
* * * *
“O. McKay M.” (Lond.) : Herbie Collins’s
brother, who captained the Civil Service team
against the Australians, works at Cornwall House, in
the “optimists’ corner” —the Enemy Debts branch.
A colleague recently performed the remarkable feat
of doubling the hat-trick in the course of one
innings; his name is S. G. Bennett, and he plays
for Gloucester City. Is there a double hat-trick in
the first-class records?
* * * *
“Exul”: George H. Bailey, whose death
(at 73) leaves Tom Garrett, Charlie Bannerman
and Jack Blackham the only survivors of the
1878 Australian eleven, lasted longer than most
batsmen. When over 60 he headed the averages
for Southern Tasmania. Later he captained and
coached a junior team, and was smarter than any
of the boys in running between the wickets. George
was a particularly hard hitter, and excelled in the
drive. In his prime he seldom used pads, even
against the fastest bowling. Three of his four sons
became representative cricketers or footballers, and
the fourth plays first-grade cricket. One, Dr. Guy
Bailey, who was killed at the war, got a double
blue for cricket and tennis at Melbourne Uni.
* * * #
An unannounced rise in the
price of some of the seats, and an
unannounced condition that the ex-
champion could not regain his title
on points alone, were features (and
very rotten features) of the return
match between Ted Thye (12st.
6jlb.) and Sam Olapham (12st.
6|lb.) at the Melbourne Stadium. Had
these arrangements been divulged the
“gate” would have been a lot less
than £2648, nor would a lot of people
have laid 6 to 4 on Thye, only to do
their money in cold blood. As in the
first match, as these particular sup-
porters had calculated, Thye was much
the better man on points, but Sam’s
great strength made Ted’s best wrist-
locks and arm-scissors of no avail. In
the fourth round Ted rolled on to his
shoulders in attempting to throw Sam
clear, the result being that the tena-
cious Yorkshireman stayed on top and
gained a fall. The man from Oregon
now opened wide his bag of tricks,
and in the ninth he succeeded in en-
gaging Sam’s feet in such a wicked
hold 'that surrender was inevitable.
But he failed to pin Samuel in the
succeeding four rounds, though a hat-
ful of points to the good, and Clap-
ham received a verdict he didn’t de-
serve. In the worst days of boxing
the crowd was apt to be told, at the
conclusion of a languid bout, “Genel-
men, I can’t separate 'em —the articles
pervided for a draw if both lads wuz
on their feet at the end o’ twenny
roun’s.” Melbourne wouldn’t stand
that nowadays, but seemingly it will
stand anything in the way of wrestling
while the craze lasts.
“Adelaide”: There was a distinct cricket
flavor about the district football finals in Adelaide.
The Sturt club started its summer season without
Vic Richardson, the Test-match century-maker, who
had returned to the football field to help his old
club win the premiership. And in the ranks of
Norwood was Schneider, the lightweight who lately
came over from Melbourne, and who is a local tip
for the State Xl—at least —as batsman and bowler
both.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The Maori footballers suffered
their first defeat in France when a Paris team (prac-
tically France) beat them by 11 to 9. It was a
narrow margin, but Henare has taken it horribly to
heart. Next day manager Parata, who is no mug at
publicity, issued a bulletin laying the blame on
French cooking; deprived of their accustomed kai,
he suggested, his men had wasted away to dusky
shadows. The crossover to England, where eating is
planned on more carnivorous lines, has evidently
suited the descendants of the old-time long-pig eaters
better; they beat Somerset, one of the strongest
West of England sides, by 21 to 8. The next
Maori side likely, to be exposed to French menus will
no doubt take its own peculiar Maori comestibles
with it. Then a diet interspersed with dried shark,
pipis, mutton-birds in fat, kumaras and other odd-
ments will bring results to give the foemen pause.
* * * *
“Groper”: Gordon Coventry’s 83 goals (B.
14/10/’26) is a record for Melbourne onlv. “Bonny”
Campbell kicked 89 goals for East Perth, Westralian
premiers for 1926. He added to this remarkable
achievement by putting it through seven times in one
of his State’s matches against South Aus.
“Pigskin”: Though football is more popu-
lar than ever in England, football manufacturers are
complaining that their goods are a drug in the
market, demand having dropped 75 per cent, in
the last few years. A growing preference for watch-
ing the game instead of playing it is blamed; this
is especially true of Soccer, and may be caused, in
its turn, by the difficulty in getting grounds within
reasonable distance of the bigger towns. The tre-
mendous vogue of street betting on Soccer events is
another factor.
* * * •
“Past Grammar”: A section of the Eng-
lish press is growling because the International
Rugby Union Board is not going to share the profits
of the N. S. Welshmen’s tour with the visiting Union.
It points out that the Board netted £21,000 from
the last All Blacks’ tour, and can reckon on getting
£30,000 with the Australians. There is something
to be said for giving N.S.W. a cut, for the Sydney
Union, though financial, could do with a bigger
balance, while M.L. is wealthy enough to be satisfied
with the glory. Britain should certainly reciprocate
by sending a strong side to Australia, and will no
doubt do so. As a visit from France is now prac-
tically settled, however, nothing can be done in
that direction for some time, especially as South
Africa will have the All Blacks over at the Cape
next season.
THE GENTILE GETS A BIT BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a conservative estimate, Manfred’s victory
took £300,000 out of the ring. Never in Australian
turf history were the bookmakers so hardly hit over
a big event.” —Sydney Sun.
The punter came down like a fox on the yard.
Is that riding hyperbole rather too hard?
Well, say ’twas the bookie, that prosperous gent.,
For once like a lamb to the slaughterhouse went.
For they backed Manfred down from a hundred to
three,
With chaps whose far forebears knew deep Galilee
(And were deeper themselves), till he’d touched five
to four
When “They’re off” floated up to the sky with a roar.
What a tempest of oaths there’d have been, what a
blast,
Had he jibbed at the barrier and started the last,
From blasphemous backers! What infinite glee
From the layers of odds! But it wasn’t to be.
Well-mannered and docile he stood at the gate;
He led them triumphantly into the straight;
And the penciller, after one moment of chill
In his midriff, grew unprecedentedly still.
And there stood McShortodds, his bag open wide,
With more going out than was coming insider
So many had tickets on Manfred to show
It made quite a hole in the Israelite dough.
The “Two to One Bar Ones” are loud in their wail,
And some imprecations in Yiddish exhale;
But the wiser, I’ll wager, reflect with content
That their boodle’s been merely judiciously lent.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Meetings,
The Permanent Trustee
Company of New South
Wales, Limited.
Incorporated ly Act of Parliament.
the thirty-ninth ordinary
1 GENERAL MEETING of Members will
be held at the Company's Office on TUES-
DAY, 26th OCTOBER, 1926, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1926.
To elect one Director in place of Thomas Buck-
land, Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of the
Articles of Association and who offers himself foi
re-election. T
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. C. A. Le
Maistre Walker and Co.. Public Accountants (who
retire under Clause 131 of the Articles of Associa-
tion and are eligible for .re-election), and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due notice
.shall have been given in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Bv Order of the Board the Share Register will be
closed from 12th October to 26th October inclusive.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE BUILDING,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
11th October, 1926.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
1 Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 333 of 1926.
The Chief Justice Mr. Justice Macnaughton.
BETWEEN EVA AILEEN BEAUCHAMP CARTER
Plaintiff
and WALTER HENRY CARTER Defendant.
To the Defendant Walter Henry Carter.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane No. 333 of 1926 by your wife Eva Ailcen
Beauchamp Carter in which the Plaintiff’s claim is
for a dissolution of her marriage with you and by
the Petition filed in the matter on the thirty-first, day
of July 1926 (amended by the order of the Honorable
Mr. Justice Macnaughton dated the Thirtieth day of
September 1926) the Plaintiff alleges that in or about
the month of June 1915 you deserted her without
cause and have continually so deserted her for a
period of five years and upwards to the present
time AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has by
an order dated the thirtieth day of September 1926
authorised the service of the said Writ and amended
Petition on you by sticking up an office copy of the
said amended Petition and a copy of the Writ of
Summons on the board provided for that puipose in
the Registry of this Honorable Court. And by
sending notice of these proceedings in a prepaid
registered letter addressed to Henry William Noon
at Evert on Park Enoggera Brisbane to W. L. Darter
at Mossman via Port Douglas and to the Secretary
Mossman Central Mill Mossman aforesaid and by
the publication of this advertisement once in the
Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published in the
State of New South Wales.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required, within
thirty days from the last act done in pursuance of
this said order to cause appearance to be entered for
you at the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane and that in default of your
so doing the Plaintiff may proceed in this action and
Judgment may be given against you in your absence.
Dated this sixth day of October 1926.
(1.5.) F. S. KENNEDY,
Actipg Registrar.
McNab & Dowling, 398-400 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the above-named Plaintiff.
j
BOSCH
SPARKING PLUGS
are manufactured from the finest
materials obtainable, and long experi-
ence in all spheres of work has proven
them
THE WORLD’S BEST PLUG
You cannot make a mistake if you
specify BOSCH,
Standard sizes 5/- each.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., I<td.,
23(5-258 Eatrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etd.,
249 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart... D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Etd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand... J. J. Niven & Co.. Etd., Wakefield Street.
Wellington.
's.
i
m%
m
&
m
7 5
m
&
w
gg
m
*vk
m
n
f;
%
m
wm
(Ml
Ss^>
\f
r'//iH»i!Wili.i/diwy«
>SmjHi&t
w
S2r
Ik '*‘"\/lJ
s 0) /
SHEL
a
Look for the Pure
Shell Disc. It is
our guarantee
and your protection.
The Call of the
Out of Doors
TJOW quickly and comfortably the car takes
you to the open spaces. That easy, confident
rhythm which comes from power well founded and
perfectly directed is one of the greatest factors
in motoring pleasure. Be good to your engine
use Pure Shell Motor Spirit and Shell Motor Oils.
Go where you will,
Shell service awaits you .
$0
Motor Spirit
& Motor Oils
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD,
6 194
THE INKY WAY.
“Soda” • Pressmen who have inscribed
their names deeply in the timbers of Sydney
police-court tables are being firmly invited
by Mr. Lang to defray the cost of new ones
Many of the inscribers are naturally beyond
the reach of accounts rftidered, but such as
are accessible are receiving bills propor-
tioned to the damage they have done with
their pocket-knives. A once-cut name is
assessed at five bob; and one assiduous
carver has received ail account roi xZ los.
“Hu°h Stone” : I received my first Bul-
letin cheque (B. 7/10/’26) in May, 1885,
for a contribution called “ Lhe Dying Stock-
man.” Sometime later a story _ appeared,
and, after “collecting,’ up the stairs I went
to interview the editor. To an inquiry as to
the prospects of earning a crust on the statt,
Archibald observed that if lie had a son
who was developing journalistic inclinations
he would take him out to South Head and
shove him over the Gap_. But, thanks very
largely to Archibald himself, lie might not
feel that way about it now. Not so long
before he started The Bulletin lie was get-
ting a salary of 30s. a week on a Sydney
evening paper. He could easily win 10 to
12 times that much for similar work to-day.
“Derwentside”: W. A. M oods (“John
Drayman”), who succeeds the late M.
O’Keefe as Speaker in the Speck Assembly
(this is his second term), was the first .Tas-
manian journalist to rise to such eminence
in politics. While farmers, ex-school-
teacliers, ex-miners, lawyers, doctors, an ex-
grocer and even an ex-parson have been Min-
isters and Speakers, no previous inkshnger
has got above the ruck, for the late J. L.
Davies (part proprietor of the Mercury)
can hardly be classified as a journalist. J. D.
Balfe (Mercury and Tribune) could have
been a Minister but would not; and Aiken-
head (Examiner), Ronald (Mercury) and
J. W. McWilliams (News) were mere mem-
bers. One ex-reporter has reached the
Bench, retired Justice Mclntyre, who served
on the Mercury over half a century ago.
“Hamer” : Some of the witnesses who testi-
fied before the N.S.W. Assembly’s “Bribery”
Committee hinted darkly that there were press-
men who were not above listening at keyholes
to secure copy about “secret” Labor meetings.
There is no need for any such eavesdropping.
At one time I occupied the invidious position
of being in charge of Labor news on a Syd-
ney daily and a delegate on the Labor Con-
ference —as a matter of fact, I was a member
of the executive. The conference had my
assurance that no confidences would be
violated by me, and the paper understood
that it could not expect the news of secret
sittings; but the leakage into the press was
so bad that after the first few r sessions I
withdrew from the conference. I might have
been able to treat with contempt suspicions
that I was divulging Labor secrets, but I
felt it was unfair to handicap my paper by
letting it miss the news that was being
poured out to the others.
“Beenbi” : Charlie Taylor, now controlling
Adam and Eve, Melbourne’s newest flutter
in monthly journals, had a good deal to do
with the fortunes of Melbourne Evening
Sun, and was for a time chief of staff of
that mismanaged journal. He helped to keep
it on an even keel at one of the most upset-
ting periods of its existence. That was
when Fred Whitehead, now (and formerly)
of Melbourne Herald, took umbrage at
what he considered to be the undue inter-
ference of the management, shot up out of
his chair, put on his hat, his office,
walked twice round the reporters’ room and
then removed himself from the premises for
keeps. As far a.s printing goes, Adam and
Eve is the best Melbourne monthly published
since the Southern Sphere was launched
by Osboldstone and Co. more than a decade
ago. That well-produced journal didn’t last
long, however, at Is. a time.
The Sun’s chairman and managing-direc-
tor Denison having left for N’York to be
the Commonwealth’s Commissioner there,
vice-chairman Russell, a Sydney lawyer—he
used to be reckoned one of the law-school’s most
brilliant students —becomes chairman ; and
Campbell Jones follows him as vice-chairman.
Campbell Jones was one of the extraordinary
team that Monty Grover brought over from
the Argus when the Star was turned into
the Sun. The team is scattered now; but
Campbell Jones, a large, masterful man with
a knack of finding the right string to pull
and pulling it hard, has steadily increased
his hold on the office. If a managing direc-
tor is presently appointed it will probably
be he—on his return from Europe. Syd Snow
takes the vacant place on the board; and two
staff-men, the mechanical superintendent and
the secretary (Hugh R. Denison’s son), are
added to it for advisory and consultative
purposes.
In the early days of the Kalgooiiie
(W.A.) Sun, when the paper was perpetu-
ally being advertised by libel actions, the
Crown Prosecutor once found himself in the
curious predicament of being unable to
prove who was the editor. There was no
question about who were the proprietors, but
each of them positively refused to admit
occupancy of the editorial chair. Hugh
Mahon (subsequently M.H.R.) was gener-
ally credited with directing the journal’s acti-
vities, but Mahon had been a good deal
away. Several attempts to fix the onus
definitely on him having failed, the prose-
cution called the foreman printer and de-
manded of him who the editor was. The
witness stoutly professed to be in the same
state of ignorance as everyone else on the
paper. From whom, then, did he take his
instructions? From nobody; lie found the
copy on the “stone” in the morning and there
lie presently left the proofs and there he pre-
sently came for the revises. The make-up
was entirely left to him, and he neither knew
nor cared who called himself editor. The
magistrate looked incredulous, but the fore-
man loyally stuck to his amazing story, and
there seemed every prospect of a deadlock
until somebody remembered that requisitions
for press concessions on the railways re-
quired an editorial signature. There was
no difficulty in procuring a few of these,
and Mahon’s responsibility was not con-
tested further.


v
/
Aa«
&
/
/
4
4
modem ICE MAN calls once
the Ice stops always /
FRIGI DAI RE comes to your home just once. It is permanent
refrigeration —automatic, dependable, economical electric
refrigeration.
Frigidaire will bring with it a new and delightful convenience.
All foods are kept colder, better and longer, enabling you to buy
provisions to last for many days without perishing. It provides
an ample and constant supply of sparkling ice cubes, or you
may use the Frigidaire Freezing Trays to make many new and
A
rv
delicious desserts.
You are invited to inspect Frigidaire
complete in our Showrooms, also the
Frigidaire Mechanical Unit with
which your present Ice Box can be
converted into an electric Refrigerator.
Write for Booklet H.
j
Cjhe. ELECTRIC
REFRIGERATOR
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON FRANKI (MELBOURNE), LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTI)., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tasmania.


TPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9°
Army CSub
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
&
tt*s
a
m
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Fake”
Royae . “Abie’s Irish Rose”
Grand Opera House “The Sentimental Bloke”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Katja”
Royal “Is'Zat So?”
King’s “Aren’t We All”
Princess “Lady, Be Good’:
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
AtheNjEUM “Nothing but Lies”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bi j oii Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt s ; Moving Pictures
New Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦
The attendance of a large number of
people well acquainted with “Aren’t We
All?” but glad to see it again was a com-
pliment paid to Frederick Lonsdale’s comedy
by Saturday night’s audience at the Sydney
Royal; but the compliment was equally
directed to Dion Boucicault, who in this
revival makes his only personal appearance
for the season. Boucicault revels in the
part of the cynical man-of-the-World who
preserves a great joy in living despite his
cynicism ; his own joy in the subtlety of his
polished light comedy obtrudes itself, but not
sufficiently to spoil a brilliant job. In spite
of Boucicault’s presence and of even work
by Ronald Ward, who has improved vastly
under Boucicault’s tutelage, especially in the
suppression of his old fidgetty mannerisms,
the first act threatened a performance which
would not reach the standard of previous
representations ; it moved slowly, and Betty
Schuster was colorless as the lady whose
lips land Willie Tatham (Ronald Ward)
into trouble with his wife. Angela Baddeley,
who was the wife, was not at her best in
this act either; but subsequently she woke
up to the full spirit of the occasion, and her
voice freshened. One of the brightest cor-
uscators was Mary Jerrold (Lady Frinton),
who sparkled in her dialogue with Bouci-
cault ; Brian Aherne made the Australian,
Willocks, a more agreeable character than
he seemed previously; and a notable im-
provement was the Rev. Ernest Lynton—the
parson who would have been a bishop if he
had been able to deceive others as well as
he deceived himself. Hubert Harben used
no exaggerations to portray the pompous
hypocrite. Mrs. Brough had a very warm
reception when she appeared once more in
the character of Mrs. Lynton; she did her
full share in making the performance a fine
one. On Saturday “Abie’s Irish Rose” takes
possession of the Royal.
* * * * '
Moscovitch will change his bill at the
Sydney Criterion on Saturday to “The Fake”
—incidentally another Frederick Lonsdale
play. Although there are whispers of other
changes, “Rose Marie” goes its spectacular
way at Her Majesty’s, and “Meet the Wife”
has flourished the “House-full” sign on the
ramparts of the Palace. “The Sentimental
Bloke” has only another week to run at the
G.O.H.; on October 30 that theatre, mostly
concerned with more serious things, will put
on “Spangles,” with Ada Reeve as a whole
cluster of them.
$ $
Jean Barrios makes an appearance in
some amazing robes at Sydney Tivoli, but
the act is rather tiring until Jean reveals
that she is a masquerading male —the handy
name helps the disguise up to that point.
Alter that Barrios becomes popular, although
outside the remarkable deception of the
make-up there is nothing exceptional in the
act. Nellie Wallace, though she has dropped
that portion of her turn which was offensive,
continues to show herself the sort of lady
who would somersault into the orchestra to
amuse her public. Lee White and Clay
Smith make their definite farewell this week.
On Monday they will be showing in Mel-
bourne ; and S’Africa and other parts of the
globe will intervene before they are here
again.
* * * *
Cobham’s flight to Australia seasons the
interest of the pictures of his air journey to
Capetown and back; but the pictures are so
brimful of fascination that they need no
fillip. Cobham shows the journalistic flair
in his selection of the scenes he depicts and
in his knowledge of what to leave out; his
narrative, set out in captions, flows into a com-
plete story of his flight. At Sydney Lyceum
the absorbing film, which for a couple of
bob enables the stay-at-homes to go to Egypt,
Central Africa, the Zambesi Falls and other
places, is shown in conjunction with “The
Tower of Lies.” Hoyt’s indulges in swift
thrills with the Richard Dix picture, “Say
It Again,” and “The Snowshoe Trail.” The
week’s crop includes a very fair Australian
picture, with Phyllis du Barry as the chief
Performer, in “Sunrise,” shown at the Lyric
and Empress.
lii the life of froth and bubble which pre-
vails at Fullers’ New Theatre (Sydney) the
usual cleanness of the humor provided by
the Midnight Frolics can be accounted unto
Clem Dawe for righteousness. Into the
latest batch he has, however, allowed a
few gags which would be better cut. Apart
from that, the show keeps up to sample, and
loud laughter attests that the audience
reckons it is getting its full money’s worth.
❖X $ %
“Old English,” founded on John Gals-
worthy’s story “A Stoic,” which began its
six-nights season at the King’s (Melb.) on
Saturday, proved dull, and merely crept
through Act iii. Gregan McMahon, who
produced the offering, was the man in the
limelight, Sylvan us Hey thorp, known to his
friends as “Old English,” an elderly gentleman
of the mid-Victorian period, whose life had
been long and gay, in spite of a hard wife
and a difficult daughter—especially difficult
in connection with Dad’s old monetary obli-
gations to Mrs. Rosamund Larne and her
family. Mr. McMahon was a dignified gentle-
man of the right school; Rosamund Larne,
always hard up and not above borrowing
from any stray male acquaintance, was the
lot of Lily Titheradge, who rather missed
in the beginning but was quite likeable and
amusing later. Lucille Lyle was Cinderella-
like daughter Phyllis, of the Mary Pickford-
Marguerita Clark order. She was shrill in
voice and manner at first, but in Acts ii
and iii showed promise of better things.
Beatrice Macdonald was Heythorp’s legal
daughter, and at the meeting of the share-
holders of the Island Navigation Company—
a bright spot in the piece—Thomas Skewes
as Mr. Budgen was conspicuous for a few
minutes in a cast that wasn’t very memor-
able.
Most Melbourne theatres are either mak-
ing changes or talking about it. “Abie’s
Irish Rose” ceased blooming at the Palace
on Saturday night. 'The Frank Neil
company is due next Saturday week.
His Majesty’s is different —“Katja” has
settled down there to a steadily-growing
popularity. The days of “Is Zat So?” are
numbered at the Royal, which must house
Renee Kelly and “Brown Sugar” from
the 30th. At the King’s Dion Boucicault’s
company returns on Saturday with “Aren't
We All?” and the title seems just to fit a
racing season. Elsie Prince, at the Prin-
cess, is making things so cheerful that if
she should ever capitulate to Jim Godden’s
lilting plea of “Oh, Dady, Be Good,” it will
become a dull show indeed, though May
Beatty does lend a hand in keeping things
up in the final act. There is still “Nothing
but Lies” at the Athenmum, and the busi-
ness is so good that the truth-teller begins
to have doubts about his own policy.
** * *
Though Cahill and Brooke have been home
for some months and have improved the
shining hour with music-hall engagements,
their first concert only arrived at the Assem-
bly Hall on Saturday. The house was
“THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE;’ AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Fred Macdonald as the Bloke , and Bei t
Bailey as Ginger Mick.
thronged. The Brahms Rhapsodie was one
of Mr. Cahill's best offerings, which also
included the Mozart-Palmgren Minuet, with
some Schumann and Chopin. George Brooke,
who sang in Italian, French, English and
German, was particularly happy in the Ger-
man numbers. A modern song group in-
cluded compositions by Roger Quilter and
Edith Harrhy’s “Young Rose”; and there
were Negro Spirituals to tickle the popular
palate.
All going well, Melbourne will see a mid-
night show at the Tivoli on Thursday, the
2Sth. Conductor Santrey and his orchestra
will head the ’cession, which will be mostly
band. This week the public is being treated
to new numbers by these instrumentalists,
and the popularity of jazz is not on the
wane. Brodi and Dech and Three Equals
are excellent turns of a good bill.
Jim Gerald has discovered another revue
in “The Naughty Husband” to attract
patrons to Melbourne Bijou—you can’t beat
the domestic problem as a draw. Linn
Smith and Albert Hanlon, with two pianos,
present some new stunts, and Leo Stirling
is also popular.
JIM GERALD
REVUE CO, AT
MELBOURNE
BLJOU.
Jim Gerald and Essie Jennings—the Fuller
circuit’s highest-priced and most popular
revue artists.
The roar of the wild animal now mixes
with the crash of the jazz band at the Green
Mill, for Wirtlis’ Circus has located itself
just behind the dancing Palais. Friday night
found lots of old patrons renewing acquaint-
ance with old turns and making acquaintance
with new ones. One of the oldest remains
still on top—that furnished by the six beauti-
ful Arab horses. Three baby elenhants, guided
by Eileen May, are put through their
Charleston; and there is Hillary Long, who
has found that the quick way to negotiate a
slope is to roller-skate down on his head.
When there is riding to be done Alfred
Clarke still leads the way; the three Flying
Nelsons do marvels on the trapeze; and in
the new quarters the menagerie has the
advantage of being almost in the open air.
The Melbourne Majestic this week intro-
duces the all-Australian “Pioneers,” a pic-
ture which covers phases of both bush and
industrial life, with a throbbing heart-story
interwoven. The Eucharistic Congress re-
cently held at iChicago, and “The Great Jewel
Robbery,” starring Grace Darmond and
Chester Conklin, form the support. Next
Saturday’s big attraction wall be “The
Danger Signal,” with Jane Novak in the
lead.
Percy Grainger has put back to Melbourne
for a couple of weeks to present some of his
own compositions for orchestra and chorus.
The Uni. Symphony Orchestra (conductor
Bernard Pleinze) and the Choral Association
have joined forces for the feast, which hap-
pens on 26th and 80th at the Auditorium.
Repertory Society players gave Milne's
“To Have the Honor” for a four-nights
season last week at the Melbourne Play-
house. A quite likeable Britisher who lives
by his wits becomes Prince Michael of
Neo-Slovakia merely by cultivating a mous-
tache, an accent and a lively imagination.
Meanwhile, his charming wdfe —they are
living apart—-is doing her bit as the rich
widow of a supposed Colonel Bulger. The
climax comes with the meeting of the two
“inventors” at a dinner-party given in honor
of the bogus prince. Mrs. Apperly, who pro-
duced the piece, was the wdfe Jennifer, and
she had splendid support from Russell Gour-
lay. Frank Lonie and Maisie Bennett and
Edith Appleton were other good material
that skilled hands had turned to first-rate
uses.
** * *
Melbourne still considers art:—
W. H. Edgar, M.L.C., gave the opening word., to
the creditable show of water-color drawings by H.
L. Fern and C. Orme at the Athenaeum Gallery.
Both these week-end painters show progress. Mr.
Orme, who is an architect, is the better craftsman;
he has gone to Walhalla (the Victorian, not the
Wagnerian) for inspiration, and has found a little
village, hidden at the foot of hills, that seems all
roofs. He has a strong color sense; as formerly,
a number of his subjects are painted on silk Mr.
Fern leans towards the babbling brook and the
lisping gum. Among his best are “The Back Boor
(5) and “Spring Blossoms” (16). He also supplies
a peep or two of Walhalla, rather the Mecca of the
Melbourne artist-world, and a little bit of, early
Tasmania appears in the “Old Prison at Ross, now
almost a ruin.
At the Decoration Galleries, Ida Rentoul Outh-
waite pours forth her talents to the extent of nearly
a gross of blaek-and-wliites and water-colors. The
show, which arrives neck and neck with her book
“Fairyland,” serves to introduce it to the general
public—the public that can admire but can’t spend
live guineas on the beautifully-got-up volume. Most
of the originals of the illustrations are hung, and
once again the beautiful blendings of color raises
the critic’s hat. But though the fancies are mainly
slim fairies with floating hair and butterfly wings,
there are grave moods, too. The black and white,
“The First Sorrow” (86), has grief written in
every line of the recumbent figure. More than 100
copies of the book were purchased the first week,
mostly for mailing abroad.
The New Gallery houses a show of canvases of
Charles Wheeler, which will be on view until the
30th, when Rupert Bunny, just back again, will chal-
lenge the critics once more with his daring decora-
tive work.
“The Dover Road,” which has been given
three joyous renderings by the Repertory
Theatre in Adelaide, suffers, like some other
plays, from a superfluous last act. When the
benevolent despot has broken up the two
elopements, has satisfied the errant husband
that his wife is his best mate, the play is
over; and this is at the end of Act ii. The
other, showing how he soon tired of her again,
and how the two men finally eloped together,
leaving the ladies they had maltreated to
the charity of a stranger, is cynical, and
untrue in spirit. As the whimsical fairy
godfather Clive Carey was delightful, making
the impossible seem almost reasonable. Basil
Harford was the butler who abetted—
always human, and with no stage-butler
tricks. The four elopers who had to
be* put on the rails again were Downey and
Langley, Beryl Kook and Ivy Stacey, all
good, with Downey the best of them.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has been running along
contentedly with a moderate variety show
till the coming of “Tell Me More.”
Agricultural Show Week brought delighted
and uncritical audiences for anything any-
where that undertook to amuse, and George
Wallace, at the Majestic, has been the chief
star in another lightly entertaining crowd.
The spoken drama has been left to the Prince
of Wales, where Guy Hastings and his
Anderson co. gave good old “Robbery Under
Arms.”
* * *
From an Adelaide critic:—
Curiously mixed is the Spring Exhibition of the
Society of Arts in Adelaide. The hangers have been
overkind in some cases, yet there is a lot of good
work. The McNamara and Gum ladies have both
sought inspiration at Narrabeen (N.S.AV.), and the
former takes the landscape prize annually awarded;
veteran James Ashton wins the seascape prize. The
Eastern States are fairly represented. B. E. Minns
has two of his red-blue landscapes, Salvana a dim
but attractive Burragorang Valley, and Syd Long
a striking but less attractive George’s River. Dora
Wilson shows some smooth, facile, graceful figures
that make the sheer hardness of the Adelaide product
more notable than ever. Still, one must walk before
one can run ; and the Melrose figure-prize is bringing
out a lot of effort. It goes this year, unexpectedly
but worthily, to the sculptured bust of a native, by
John Wilson.
“Buttinski”: Isn't it time that gaol for
someone, instead of a fine, should be the
penalty for overcrowding theatres? In the
last six months I haven’t been to one show
that hasn’t crowded late-comers into the
aisles or left them standing at the back. It
may be pleasant for the management to con-
template the gallery without an inch of vacant
space; but surely anyone wishing to leave
the show at any time should have no
difficulty in doing so. With the num-
bering and separating of all seats it
should be an easy matter to know when
all accommodation is taken; and the sell-
ing of tickets after that should be at least a
seven-day offence. Fining the management
£lO when it has probably taken £5O savors
more of graft than of care for the safety of
the public.
“Close Up”: J. D. Williams, the weird
genius of the picture business in Australia,
now a big man in the same line in England,
made his start this way. Two chaps had a
lease of Uawler’s Music Hall on Brickfield
Hill, Sydney. Advertising meant little to
them; and their conversation was one con-
tinual croak over the poorness of the game.
One day they were electrified into sudden
activity, and next thing they were telling
trusted friends how they had roped in a
mug to buy them out at a good price. The
mug was J. D. Williams. He advertised
largely, improved the hall, christened it the
Crystal Palace, and speedily made something
that sounded at the time like a fortune.


It pays
WAKEFIELD
ĵ
MOTOR OIL
It pays a big divi-
dend not only in
improved per-
formance, but, in
use, actually shows
a big cash saving.
The cost of the lubricant used is comparatively small, a
far larger item being the cost of periodical decarbonising and
overhaul. But this last item is vitally dependent upon the
first, for the quality of the lubricant is later reflected in the
repair bill.
Only by the use of Wakefield “Castrol” can these costs
be cut to the minimum. Its maintenance of viscosity under
working conditions renders it economical in use, and minimises
carbonisation, while the frictionless film it insinuates between
all moving parts reduces petrol consumption and prevents
wear.
And, with this economy, comes improved performance.
The same friction-reducing qualities that spell economy in
ordinary use account for the overwhelming success of
“CASTROL” in all tests of speed and reliability.
There is a Wakefield grade for every need. TRY
“CASTROL” NOW, and compare results with previous per-
formance.
ANOTHER “CASTROL” TRIUMPH
200 Miles’ Race Brooklands—September 27 every
place in every event won on “CASTROL.”
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm,
Head Office for Australasia: Atlas Building, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
j
ROLL FILM CAMERAS
which are simple in
operation, yet are
good picture-makers.
Both are British Made.
The
BOX ENSIGN
The most popular Box Camera on the
market, because of its thorough design
and attractive appearance.
Fitted with a direct vision finder that
facilitates picture-making.
No. 2JB.
For pictures
21 x 3J, 13/9
No. 2\.
For pictures
2|. x 4:f, 19/3
The
ENSIGN
CUPID
A unique little Camera with which 12
artistic-shaped pictures 2J x 11 inches
are obtainable on the six exposures.
No. 120 spool is used. Supplied in
solid leather case.
With direct
vision finder,
18 /6.
With direct
vision finder
and reflex view
finder, 21/-
Our New Season’s Pocket Edition Price List in
eight-color cover is now ready—a copy free on
request.
'Name
Address
■ B. 21/10/’26.
'4 L™
“The House for
Good Cameras/'
Established 188!).
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.); SYDNEY.
KATOO3IBA: Katoomba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WE El. IN (.TON. N.Z : 42 Willis Street.
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Rundle Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: HO Queen Street.
Oossley Motors Ltd
ms
-km
Vy APPOINTMENT TO,
HM THE KING
Let a British Car c ßgflect Tour Pride oj Ownership
Setting New Standards
of Motor - Car Value
Crossley Motors Ltd.
By APPOINTMENT TO
t K.U THE PRINCE OP WALES
ĵ
15 30-H.P.
£399
TOP-GEAR CAR.
Low price, in itself, is small recommendation of a product—least of all, a motor-car. It has never been the policy of
Crossley Motors, Ltd., to build cars to a price standard.
The savings which made possible the exceptionally low price of the Crossley 15/30-h.p. “Top-Gear” Car are accounted for
by the highly-organised manufacturing facilities of one of Britain’s oldest and largest builders of quality cars, by a favor-
able British preferential tariff, and by special exporting arrangements. v , "
At the new low price, £399, the Crossley 15-30 “Top Gear” Car sets new standards of value in Australia. Built in every
detail with British thoroughness—designed for Australian conditions—powerful and flexible, yet economical in running costs.
A demonstration can be arranged at your convenience, or illustrated literature and full information sent promptly on request.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD.
87 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
. , State Agents :
N.S.W.: CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD. 87 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY. LTD. 128-130 Russell Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : BRITISH DOMINION MOTORS L TD. Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SQUTH.AUSTRALIA : ADELAIDE MOTORS LTD. 175 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.


Efts
' c "f\
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
iss
Motorists’ —
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
Sf.llSt J. KITCHEN ft SONS PTY. LTD,
j
ĵ
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch
vt "StyWRE* m«o//
- •>/.
i
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
“Goldilocks”: One thing is leading to
another in the re-shuffle of big managerial
affairs in Australia. The Fullers are pass-
ing on most of their play engagements—
in which Hugh Ward, with a strong parti-
ality for importing everything, was the
leading spirit—to the Firm. They will con-
line themselves mainly to vaudeville, on
which their affluence has been builded up,
with Christmas-time ventures into panto-
mime. It nearly broke the Fullers’ hearts
when Ward wanted to drag from overseas
again a number of pantomime artists —and
in that the Australian public sympathy will
be with them. There is a chance for
locally formed companies to get into the St.
James Theatre in Sydney and the Melbourne
houses of the Fullers; but the Firm is
A MECHANICAL AGE.
THE PROUD ACTOR: “I have handled ma ny
parts in my day."
THE INGENUOUS MAID : “Yes, daddy said the
only thing you could never assemble was
an audience.”
likely to be a frequent occupant—it is already
in possession of the Princess in Melbourne.
Between times, pictures will earn the house-
rent. The upset probably accounts for the
lack of anxiety to complete the upper theatre
in the St. James building, and the coming
of other theatres projected by the Firm
may be delayed. The theatre to replace the
Criterion, for instance, will not be required
with St. James’s available,
i “9-Odmey”: London Times will have a
hard job to replace Arthur Bingham Walk-
ley, its dramatic critic for a quarter of a
century. Walkley, then holding a job in
the G.P.0., started on the radical Star, and
his theatrical notices soon got the young
man talked about. Sane and scholarly
always, his knowledge of play requirements
was masterly. He it was who told his
friend Bernard Shaw that his (Sliaw’s)
plays were not plays, but discussions ; Shaw
retaliated by including him as “Mr. Trotter”
among the burlesque dramatic critics in his
“Fanny’s First Play.” Walkley published
several books on the drama, but, unlike most
of his confreres, never attempted play writing.
“E.K.D.N.”: Looks as though we are not
to see Oscar Asche, after all. He and the
Williamsons are not bosom friends, to judge
by the big mummer’s statements in his bank-
ruptcy proceedings, and as the Firm is to
furnish theatrical attractions for the Fuller
theatres, no way in seems to be left for
Oscar. He is still touring in England with
the play, Big Business.” with Diana Wilson
once again his leading lady.
John’s W ood” (Lond.) : The young Aus-
tralian Eve Grey has been very fortunate
since her success in the beauty contest which
directed her steps towards the English stage.
She is hardly ever out of an engagement:
and if the plays in which she appears fail
she is no sooner out of one than she gets an
opportunity in another—and always in
London, which is a very important matter,
in this way she has become so well known
that, her name and picture are now used in
fashion advertisements. Managers can’t
long refuse her a leading role after that!
“Stage Wait”: Greenaway jumping oil at
a moments notice for the King in “Hamlet”
at Sydney Conservatorium (B. 14/10/’26)
has probably established a record. As a
youngster he did that sort of thing con-
stantly—the understudy was an unknown
quantity in Australia in those days. Years
ago Osmond Tearle’s sudden illness in Edin-
burgh compelled Greenaway to appear as
Hamlet at four hours’ notice; and he played
the Shakspearean repertoire for seven weeks,
changing the bill every night, until the chief’s
return. With Mansfield in America three
understudies were tried for Antony in
Julius Caesar ’ —and Greenaway carried on.
On another occasion in the provinces he sat
UP a “ night to study a new version of
"David Garrick”; and recently in Sydney,
with the Taits. lie went on for the Yogi in
Eyes of Youth” at half-an-hour’s notice.
Hamfat”: Ernest Bowles, producer oi
many light musical comedies in London, and
Producer also of the Williamson panto, in
Melbourne last year, is the man the Empire
Iheatres people have had looking out for
attractions and people overseas. He has to have
them here for the opening of the new Sydney
show-house on March 1. The new co. intends
to have another theatre in Melbourne soon.
1 hough there will be imported leads and
specialty acts, the rest of the players will
be Australians.
Ctesar’s Ghost”: The Boucicault co.,
after giving Melbourne a look in for a brief
return season, skips to England, leaving only
Ronald Ward and Peggy Willoughby to
work out their contracts with the Firm.
Even Mary Hinton (Mrs. Pitt Rivers) will
depart although not in the same boat as the
rest of the co. Boucicault has a London
date calling him: Alfred Sutro’s “The Des-
perate Lovers” is to be staged at the Kings-
way. But he will return, with Irene Van-
brug’h, in September of next year.
*'‘Caesar’s Ghost” : The most recent fact of
theatrical interest about the Royal Hotel,
Sydney, now being demolished, is that
ihomas .Asche, father of Oscar, became the
licensee m 1893—the year that Oscar, a slim
youth of 21, made his first appearance in
London—though lio ran the place only for a
year. The old Royal Hotel, which was
burned down in 1840, contained Barnet
Levy s original theatre. It was built in 1826.
ear ly sales of the property was
took to buy it in 1857;
IbO’OOO was the price paid for it in 1910 by
the Savings Bank Commissioners; and
Dymock’s had to find £150,000 for it in
, The Stage .Cat”: With all deference to
Hamfat s intimate knowledge of the Austra-
lian stage, I don’t think Jimmy Atholwood
ever deputised for Julius Knight as Beau-
caire. When Julius went down with typhoid
in 1905 the piece being played was “If I
Were King.” and Knight was taken ill on
the first night. Harry Plimmer was the
understudy, and although the parts had not
been given out, Harry managed to memorise
the first act by Monday and read the re-
mainder, and by Wednesday he was letter
perfect in the whole part.
“Hamfat”: Poor Jack Heller, after a long
struggle with the consumption that gripped
linn, has died at 45 at the Waterfall Sana-
torium. Heller, as a boy, tumbled about in
I addy s Market, Sydney, when it was full of
sideshows ; he was with Fitzgerald’s and
Wirths Circus for years, but his last engage-
ments were with the Tivoli and Fullers’. He
would do anything possible in the way of
tumbling and acrobatics, risking his life con-
tinually for the thrilling of his audiences;
but he always reckoned that the nearest he
came to death was when he was hanging by
his teeth in the middle of some aerial con-
tortions, and a childish voice from the audi-
ence piped shrilly, “Grandma, can you do
that?” Heller nearly lost his grip in the
desire to laugh.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Universal Films have
secured a good advt. by their engagement of
General Percy Fitz Gerald as technical direc-
tor of “Butterflies in the Rain,” an English
film story. The general is a son of the
late Nicholas Fitz Gerald, M.L.C., the brewer,
of Castlemaine (Vic.), and the grandson of
John O’Shanassy, one-time Premier of Vic-
toria. A member of the Cavalry Club, he
lias shone in many sports, including polo,
hunting and cricket. He put a social halo
on his family in 1914 by marrying a real
live duchess, Millicent, the beautiful Dow-
ager-Duchess of Sutherland, sister of the
still more lovely Countess of Warwick. Part
of the halo was removed when this marriage
was annulled soon after its celebration for
reasons never featured in the press. His
qualifications for film-direction have not been
disclosed.
MISUNDERSTOOD AGAIN.
“Doing any better lately?”
“Well, I’m not getting into debt any more."
“Ah, it’s a cow when your credit stops, isn’t it?”
John’s” (Lond.) : It was generally
thought that Gertrude Elliott could have
been on to associate herself with
the ‘‘Old Vic.” for the year which opened
at that historic house on September 4. Sybil
Thorndike and Edith Evans had already
given a year’s service on terms involving
heavy monetary sacrifice. Domestic con-
siderations debarred Miss Elliott from enter-
ing on this mission of “art for art’s sake”
despite its strong personal appeal. The
health of her husband, Sir Forbes Robert-
son, is not good. But the “Old Vic.” opened
most auspiciously. Early in the afternoon
a long queue formed in the approved West
End fashion, showing what enormous strides
in recovery this theatre has made.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Amy Sherwin’s young
protegee, Joan Kerr, the 17-year-old soprano
from whom great things are expected, got
her first engagement with the British Broad-
casting co. on September 9, when her singing
°f “Lo, Here the Gentle Lark” evoked such
enthusiasm that her contract was at once
extended.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.): Robert (Cun-
ningham, brother of the editor of the Argus,
who has long since given up singing in favor
of straight drama, will be with Sybil Thorn-
dike’s new co. that will present “Saint Joan”
apd “Henry VIII.” in the big provincial
cities. Talking of singers, the “Three
Choirs” festival is a famous annual in the
West Country: this year it was held at
Worcester Cathedral on September 7.
Horace Stevens, another Melbourne man,
had his first engagement at this great gather-
ing, and after he had got used to the acous-
tics of the building used his fine voice with
admirable effect. As Elijah his dramatic
rendering of the declamatory parts was as
convincing as ever. For all that, and
although Dorothy Silk, that great purist, was
the soprano, the performance of Mendels-
sohn’s work seemed weighted by the weari-
ness due to too much oratorio. John Coates,
in “The Messiah,” showed once more that in
interpretation he has no superior in Britain.
A strange thing about John Coates is that
now that his voice is no longer at its best,
he is able to command the interest of press
and public in both England and America to
a remarkable degree, and to a much greater
extent than was possible 20 years ago.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Australia’s old friend
Houdini, the handcuff king, is making him-
self a nuisance to the spookists of the Yew
nited States; he issues challenges to tests,
proclaiming that he is able to do every-
thing that the spiritualists’ pet spooks are
doing—and more. Houdini, besides being a
remarkable escapee from ropes and irons,
is a master magician ; and the spookists
have learnt to dodge his challenges. But at
one town recently a crowd of believers,
angry at his interference with their beliefs,
caused him to think that there was more
magic in his feet than in his hands. The
versatile chap probably found his escape
quite easy; 30 years ago he was a notable
athlete, supposed to be invincible over any
distance between three and ten miles. .His
record time for a run round New York s
Central Park still stands. He's the son of
a Jewish Rabbi.
“Flaming Youth”; Perth Repertory
Society suffered a loss when J. B. Rowe
Was grabbed by M. J. Carroll to strengthen
“The" Best fettyle” co„ now play-
ing “Meet tile Wife’ 3 in .Sydney,
itowfe had a youthful experience On
the stage whilst dn a visit td
America; and subsequently he be-
came an engineer in tile. Northern
Transvaal. Next he joined ill!
with Gertrude Elliott in a S’Affi-
can tour. War service .in S’Afri-
can forces intervened between that
and another engagement with the
same lady, with whom he came to
Australia and M.L. on her last
visit.
“E.T.”: “Mid-Channel” is badly
astray when he says (B.
14/10/’26) that Fred Terry was
the original Dick Phenyl in Pin-
ero’s “Sweet Lavender.” The cast
printed in the book of the play
would have shown him that not
Fred, but comedian Edward, played
the part, which, indeed, was writ-
ten for him. Edward Terry was
one of the famous burlesque quar-
tette at the Gaiety, the other three
being Nellie Fatten, Kate VaUglidii
and Teddy Royce. Aftet leaving
the song-and-dance business Terry
went into management on his own;
and Pinero supplied him with “Tlie
Rocket” and “In Chancery” as
starring vehicles. Later he built
his own theatre —Terry’s, “105 and
106 Strand,” as the programmes
quaintly put it and “Sweet
Lavender” was the opening produc-
tion in March, 1888. Interesting
to note that the Clement Hale
of the play was Bernard Gould —
Sir Bernard Partridge, the cartoon-
ist of London Punch. I doubt
whether Fred Terry ever played
in a piece by Pinero.
“Hamfat”: Looking back to the Austra-
lian Poverty Point of 25 years ago, it is
interesting to notice k*w many of its in-
habitants then regarded as promising per-
formers have left, whilst others regarded as
duds have advanced through merely hanging
on. Of men I knew who deserved the old
Thespian compliment, “He’s a nice chap—it’s
a pity he thinks he can act,” two are now
prominent directors of film work in America;
a third was recently announced as the lead-
ing man of a big American co.; a fourth —
still as stiff and gawky as ever—is promi-
nently on the bills of many productions in
Australia; another one has struck a safe
niche as stage manager; and another
is the head of an elocutionary school. This
last one was not exactly on the stage 25
years ago; but he was haunting the stage
doors of Sydney theatres. Well dressed,
affluent and educated, he was not wanted,
even as a super, except on rare occasions.
Years later I was amazed to see him
featured as lead with a dramatic co. play-
ing in Sydney.
“Sixenate” : The Lord Chamberlain, who is
the censor of the morals of the British stage,
has nowadays a job like that of Horatius
on the bridge. His latest intervention was
directed to a play by Anita Loos, who has
tried to add to her notoriety with a piece
called “The Fall of Eve.” The tasty plot
she hoped to serve concerned the tribulations
of a lady who, in a state of booze, mistook
another man for her husband, and thereby
mislaid her embraces. Anita is slightly old-
fashioned. She might have made a more
up-to-date story by depicting the lady, in her
intoxication, mistaking her husband for the
other man.
“Caul Boy” : While we are busy imitating
the negro in music and art. the negro is
straining every nerve to imitate the white
man. He is most ashamed of his character-
istically crinkly hair. The straight locks
of the colored ladies and genTmen of the
Southern Plantations revue at present saltat-
ing at Melbourne Tivoli recall the fact that
a negress in N’York cleared 1,000,000 dollars
amongst the African population of that city
with a recipe for taking out the kinks.
THE PICTURES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the picture show,
Through all the earth dispensing mirth
And making tears to flow.
I have one simple theme ;
My “fade-out” tells of wedding bells—■
I am the Flappers’ Dream !
I make all things come true;
My sole intent is sentiment—
The heroine is You!
Upon my endless screen
I lightly fling you everything
That has been done or seen.
Upon my turning page
Each week-day night I clearly write
Of this and every age.
I am the Make-Believe.
Into our lives that Fate contrives
Romance I swiftly weave.
For you I must pretend.
When I unroll my fleeting scroll
I give a happy end.
I build your life anew.
Out from the dark there leaps a spark;
I make your dreams come true !
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


Legal Notice,
JO WILLIAM FRANCIS CLEMENS,
formei’ly of Albany, Victoria, in Aus-
tralia, son of Edward Williams Clemens, and
to all the children (if any) of the said
William Francis Clemens, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
Ist October, 1926, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist January, 1927, your claims to
the estate of Edward Williams Clemens, who
died on 17th November, 1905, failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington this first day of
October, 1926.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„
214 George Street, Sydney.
Write, for a Brooks Catalogue.
R. y. BRISTOL & CO. (Pty.), Ltd.,
i’enchurch Buildings, Pitt St., Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
Into the
Saddle
as oft as you can
during the season —but
take care it is one to
suit you, one that will
last for many years.
BROOKS
SADDLES
For Easy Wheeling.
BALANCE SHEET of
The Royal Bank of Australia
Limited.
For the Half-Year ended 30th September, 1926.
Dr. Including London Branch figures to 31st July, 1926. Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 Shares
of £4 each.. £2,400,000 0 0
„ Capital Subscribed —
390,000 Shares
of £4 each. . £1,660,000 0 0
„ Capital Paid-up—
-270,000 Shares
paid up to £1 £270,000 0 0
120,000 Shares
paid up to £4 480,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 650,000 0 0
„ Profit and
Loss Account 81,867 18 8
-£1,481,867 18 8
„ Notes in • Circulation . . . . 688 0 0
„ Bills in Circulation .. . . 345,363 15 4
„ Government Deposits—
Not bearing
interest .. £43,904 18 1
Bearing inter-
est .. 160,115 4 1
204,020 2 2
„ Other Deposits—Rebate and Interest accrued —
Not bearing
interest . . £1,847,317 19 8
Bearing inter-
est .. .. 3,106,447 17 1
— 4,953,765 16 9
£6,985,705 12 11
Contingent Liabilities as per
Contra .. .. .. .. 338,855 10 0
£7,324,501 2 11
ASSETS.
..£1,290,696 17 2
at
By Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r a lian
Notes and
Cash at
Bankers
~ M o n e y
Call and
Short Notice
~ Notes and
Bills of other
Banks
~ Balances due
from other
Banks
~ Bills and
Remittances in
transit, and
payable in
London
~ G o v ernment,
Municipal, and
other Public
Stocks, Deben-
tures and Funds
~ Stamps
45,602 13 5
36,221 5 2
18,148 10 9
246,487 1 11
700,802 10 0
1,683 4 7
~ Real Estate, consisting of —-
Bank Premises . . . .
„ Bills Discounted and other
advances, exclusive of provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts . .
~ Bank Furniture, Fittings, Sta-
tionery, etc.
£2,339,642
157,000
4,488,663
400
3 0
0 0
9 11
0 0
£6,985,705 12 11
„ Liabilities and Securities of Cus-
tomers and others in respect of
Contingent Liabilities, as per
contra 338,855 10 0
£7,324,561 2 11
Profit and Loss Account.
To Salaries, Rent, Income and Land
Taxes and other Charges .. .. £48,697 12 11
„ Balance .. .. .. .. 81,867 18 8
£130,565 11 7
By Balance at 31st March, 1926.. £85,535 13 0
Less Dividend De-
clared 28th April,
1926 .. ..£37,500 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund .. .. 20,000 0 0
57,500 0 0
~ Balance carried down .. .. £28,035 13 0
Profits for the Half-year after
deducting Interest accrued on
Deposits and Rebate on Bills
Current, less Reserves for Bad and
Doubtful Debts .. .. .. 102,529 18 7
£130,565 11 7
Reserve Fund* Account.
To Balance
£650,000 0 0
£650,000 0 0
By Balance at 31st March, 1926. . £630,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account .. .. .. . . 20,000 0 0
£650,000 0 0
The
State Savings Bank of Victoria
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1841.
COMMISSIONERS:
Sir W. G. McBEATH, K.8.E., Chairman.
Major-General Sir ,J. W. McCAY, K.C.M.G., K.8.E., C. 8., Dep. Chairman.
G. ANGUS YOUNG, Esq. CHARLES FORRESTER, Esq.
W. WARREN KERR, Esq., C.M.G., C.B.E.
General Manager: GEORGE E. EMERY, C.M.G,
Assistant General Manager: ALEX. COOCH, J.P.
Summary of Annual Report for Year Ended 30th June, 1926.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Total amount at credit of depositors ..
(Increase for year, £8,351,961.)
Reserve Fund, Savings Bank Department
Other Funds and Accounts
Balance of unallotted profit carried forward
Total
ASSETS are invested as follows:
Cash in hand and deposits Avitli eight other .Banks..
Commonwealth War and Peace Loans
Victorian Government Loans
Credit Foncier 1 debentures
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works Loans
Other Municipal Loans
Mortgage Securities
Credit Foncier Department
Bank Premises Account
Total
.. £57,340,615
1,500,000
333,258
189,894
£59,363,767
. £13,860,360
1,846,934
26,898,726
11,276,193
1,385,393
2,122,197
1,320,261
3,700
650,000
£59,363,767
Interest credited depositors for the year .. .. .. .. •• £2,032,0!.6
Net Profit for the year in Savings Bank Department .. .. .. 278,065
PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT FOR TEN YEARS.
Tear ended
30th June,
r-Number of
Branches. Agencies.
Total of
Total Number Depositors’ Balances,
of Accounts. Including Deposit Stock.
Credit Foncier Department.
This department issues debentures and stock (Government guaranteed), the proceeds
being used for advances on farm and house properties, and for erection of houses under
the Housing and Reclamation Act, and for advances to assist country industries.
The amount of debentures and stock current at 30th June, 1926, was as follows (face
value) :
Held by Savings Bank Department
Held by general public
£11,205,300
5,634,550
Total .. • • • • • • • • • • • • £16,839,850
The number and amount of loans current at 30th June, 1925, and 1926, were as
follows: —
The Net Profit for the year in the Credit Foncier Department was .. . . £29.913
Reserve Fund of Credit Foncier Department . . .. . . .. . . 359,001
Reserve Fund of Savings Bank Department .. .. .. .. .. 1,500,000
Safe Deposit Department.
The Bank now holds £6,630,810 of .Commonwealth and State Government Deben-
tures for depositors, on which interest is collected and placed to credit of their accounts.
Other parcels and boxes are held for safe, custody for 7740 depositors.
Fire Insurance Trust Account.
The Commissioners are authorised by Act of Parliament to insure all buildings held
as security in the Credit Foncier Department, crediting the premium to an Insurance
Trust Account.
The funds accumulated from the premiums received, less all costs and claims,
accounted at 30th June, 1926, to £148,936.
War Service Homes.
Under agreement with the War Service Homes Department, the Commissioners are
building dwellings for soldiers and others who are eligible under the War Service
Plomes Acts, the funds being provided by the Commonwealth Government.
At 30th June, 1926, the Commissioners had entered into contracts for 2663 dwellings,
of which 2454 have been completed.
Head Office,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
GEO. E. EMERY,
General Manage]


n
r
t£i
a
tifl
«
iy
i
Sixty-four separate welds are re-
quired to connect the plates of a
six-volt battery. Every weld must
be perfect. Costly automatic
machines, which eliminate human
uncertainty, is the Willard way
of doing this job.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND,
OHIO, U
S. A.


Ibappv> 6ifts
YOUR Christmas Greeting and a
“ SWAN ” Pen are the practical
means for binding friendship You
cannot think of any gift which will be
more appreciated. Its first use will be
a message of thanks—and ever aftei
that it will be a happy reminder o/
your thoughtfulness.
“ SWANS ” may be had in simple
form from 17/6, or in rich design at
prices up to 15 guineas.
Special mountings with Jewels
made to order,
“Swan” Self-filling Pens from I//6 upwards.
“Swan” Pens “Blackbird” Pens “Swan” Ink
Of Stationers and Jewellers
fcWAPf
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Factory: Swan Works, London, N.W.
Manufacturers ’ Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 18 1, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
N't
a*
fj
ir
rS'?
<i>
M
fcroDD
|& cs
I 2 J
wan
A® -
iodo
S.CO
j


MICOTINE-PROOF PIPES, Guaranteed.
* ’ The sweetest on earth. In Prime Briars,
6/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free. Smokers
delighted; write now for copy testimonials.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, 330
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Amusements.
gYDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: THE FAKE.
ROYAL: ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
p ULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND «.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE! EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVIDLE.
The World's Best.
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE
EVERY EVENING,
The Sentimental Bloke
With BERT BAILEY as GINGER
MICK and FRED MacDONALD as
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
J
c. W ILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
KATJA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
IS ZAT SO?
KING’S THEATRE:
AREN’T WE ALL?
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
LADY, BE GOOD.
A THEN MU M THE ATR E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
HARRY GREEN
In the Witty and Whimsical Comedy,
NOTHING BUT LIE&
By Aaron Hoffman, author of “Give and Take.”
IVJ AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JANE NOVAK and ROBERT EDESON in
THE DANGER SIGNAL.
Stirring drama of love and railroad thrills.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7700.
(VIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* * MELBOURNE.
ADOLPHE MENJOU in
A SOCIAL CELEBRITY.
BUCK JONES in
THE GENTLE CYCLONE.
Prices as usual.
THE NEW OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE,
1 WIRTHS’ PARK. .
WIDTHS’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS.
“The Greatest Show on Earth.”
New Acts specially engaged by Mr. Geo. Wirth on
his recent tour of the world.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington,
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day October 30
Cup Day November 2
Oaks Day November 4
Steeplechase Day .... November 6
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £43,000.
£lO,OOO ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP
and GOLD CUP of 200 SOVS.
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
WILL ROY FREDERICK MACK AY, formerly of
Brisbane, but last heard of two years ago when
employed as Commercial Traveller in Western Aus-
tralia, or anyone knowing his whereabouts, kindly
communicate with J. H. FEATHER, Solicitor, Bris-
bane Arcade, Brisbane. Mackay beneficiary in
deceased estate.
THE BIRTH OF AN ISLAND, by T. Iredale and G. P. Whitley, in
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE. Oct.-Dec. No. Now Ready.
A CHAPTER FROM THE LIFE STORY OF A CICADA, Recounted bv Anthony Musgrave; INSECT
FOODS OF THE ABORIGINES, Discussed by T. G. Campbell; CAUSE OF PHOSPHORESCENT LIGHT
IN SEA WATER, Probed by A. A. Livingstone; THE CAMEO SHELL (The Ait of the Cameo Maker),
Related by Tom 11-edale; ABORIGINAL MESSAGE-STICKS, Described by W. W. Thorpe.
LEGLESS LIZARDS. LIFE OF THE TIDAL FLATS.
Editorial—A MARINE BIOLOGICAL STATION—A Plea by Dr. Chas. Anderson.
BRIGHT ARTICLES. NEWS AND NOTES. PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED:
A MAGAZINE FOR THE LAY READER AND NATURE LOVER.
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS AND THE MUSEUM. Per Copy, 1/-. Per Annum, 4/4 posted.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
Perfection
ROBBER.
Missing Friends.
IMPORTANT NOTICeT
FOR IRISH NEXT-OF-KIN.
THOMAS GIBNEY.
Present -Address of Thomas Gibney,
brother of Patrick Gibney of Rochfortbridg'e,
Westmeath, Ireland, deceased.
Thomas Gibney went to Australia about 40 years
ago and was last heard of near Brisbane. He or
his next-of-kin are requested to communicate with
DOWNES & 00., Solicitors, Mullingar, Ireland.
Missing Friends.
Y'ONNELLY, JOHN, son of the late WILLIAM
CONNELLY, of Melton and Lilydale, Victoria,
please communicate at once with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HAYES.— Anyone knowing the present
address of, or any information concern-
ing, THOMAS JOSEPH HAYES or
EDWARD JOSEPH HAYES, sons of the
late Mr. James Hayes and Mrs. Ann Hayes
and formerly of Bradbury Street, Ballarat
East, is requested to communicate with
T. A. KENNEDY, LL.B.,
470 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TEMPLE DAYRELL REED. Will
.1 Temple Dayrell Reed, formerly of Kaim-
killenbun, near Dalby, Farmer, or any person
knowing his present whereabouts, kindly
communicate with D. J. O’MARA &
ROBINSON, Solicitors, corner Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
Li ENRY PECKOVER CANDLER, at
rl Gympie and' Rockhampton about 1908,
then talked of going to New Guinea. Any
information as to present address, or deatlu
please communicate to AVOOLSEY, SAYER
& THOROLD, Solicitors, Bank Plain,
Norwich, Norfolk, England.
u
THE WOMAN'S MIRROR
tT
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
Your finest asset
is good health
When ycu are well, both work and play
are tackled with zest and vigour. So it
is very much worth while to safeguard
your health —and the way that has the
approval of fifty-odd years behind it is
the morning ‘ dash ’ of Eno s “ Fruit
Salt” in a glass of water. ENO succeeds
because it prevents inner sluggishness,
the root cause of so many health
disturbances.
NO
FRUIT SALT
Prepared only by J. C. Eno. Ltd., London, England
Sales Agents :—
The British Harold F. Ritchie & Co. Ltd..
Sydney. N.S. W.
The words “ fruit Salt
and JENO, and the label
shown on the package art
registered trade mark J.
si
'45
I
&
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Horton 3.: If you made the ending clearer
“Date Block” should pass... .G.W.P.: We like the
ripple of it: —
Gone is she, my sweetest pet,
Laid low in her coffin.
By her graveside fine or wet,
I am weeping often,
.... Matt G.: The cheap pretentiousness of those
French phrases reminds us of a man using a tooth-
pick outside the Australia... .G.H.R.: “Let the poor
darling die in your arms.” Oh, do please excuse
us F.L.M.: If it’s meant to be pathetic, it’s a
joke; if a joke, it’s pathetic... .Gar. T.: Merely
beastly. .. .N.E.R.: Fulfils the distasteful promise
of the first line: “Ruby was his biological neces-
sity.” ... .N.L.S.: Not badly told, but not worth
telling... .E.C.: Sonnet gets as badly tangled as an
ill-tied bootlace. >, .G.P.S.: The yam hadn’t a full-
stop-to its name until we gave it one... .D.F.P.:
Pleased to hear from you again. Story is merely a
whiff, but may do elsewhere... .8.M.: The yarn
about Heaven is simply -— —. ...L.O’N.: Nearly
got in. .. . A.8.C.D.: Spoilt by roughnesses. . . .Nil:
You keep to safe prophecy:—-
The most changeable time of the year
Is with us just now, it is clear,
When winter and summer are mingled,
And high hopes in minds are kindled.
. ...R.F.W.: Story finishes with James going out
to buy a pair of slippers for his bad-tempered wife.
Why a pair? O.S. (St. Hilda): It’s very nearly
verse.... 0.J.0.: Your struggle to call a spade
something 20 words long kills it....R.R.: That
jog-trot method will get you nowhere. .. .D.E.: The
“Shepherd” herds too many syllables. .. .Peter I.:
Very forced. .. .J.D. : Commonplace.... T.M.: “The
Last Straw” is too heavy. And don’t write on both
sides of your paper. ...E.8.: Sorry if it hurt. You
write well-rhymed verse; but tauten your thought,
and don’t let sentiment run to sloppiness... .M.S.:
The one redeeming feature of an official dinner is
the dinner. .. .E.D.: Humor overstrained.... C. Kar :
Little melodrama hissed off. ... J.L.N.: Can believe
that you “dashed this thing off.” It looks like any
dashed thing H.H.H.: Your fervent wish to “rest
within the silent grave” shall be respected so far
as we are concerned.... V.M.: “Fogged” just missed.
. ...E.W.M.: “This song that I sing has been sung
before,- and it shall be sung again,” Not, we hope,
in The Bulletin .... Hal S.: Very rough; but you
may do better.... Mary G.: There seems a genuine
heart-wail in “Oh, he might get drunk every night
did he but live again.”... .G.A.P.: “To Dora in
Heaven” certainly hasn’t an earthly chance... .
F.G.W.: Your artist is no work of art. .. . Z.V.W.:
Merely a trite temperance tract.... Syd S.: Fell
downstairs. ..-1.1v.: Unsophisticated and a long way,
off publication standard. .. .E.J.H.: All right in it's
way, but that’s not the story way. . . .G.M.K.: Un-
fortunately it was common (and is always common)
for one man to wear the medals another has won. . . .
Dunb: Character sketch not convincingly done....
Coreen N.: You should be able to make that verse
acceptable. .. .J.B. (St. Hilda): Crude and trite.
.... Bushbird: You do your singing on a very dead
tree. . . .M. 8.: Mere ghosts of unborn ideas... .
A.N.W.: Your color catalogue is crude... .W.E.8.:
A mere sketchy outline; a story might be made of
it. . . .R.1.G.: Tearful lady may do elsewhere. “Point
of View” not sharp enough... .Curlew: “Ding,
ding” is donged. .. .G.R.S.: “Her eye fell on the
curious rock 600 ft. below.” And no doubt burst into
tears. .. .0.P.L.: Ah, well! In matrimony, man is
the mat if he doesn’t always provide the money... .
5.0. M.: Tidy little cemetery you must be running.
That’s about your fiftieth corpse this year. . . .WAV.:
The “Skin for Skin” sketch is a rambling incon-
sequence ; the way in which it was sent is a curi-
osity. .. .S.A.S.: “Capeweed” runs wild. . . .T.B. :
Always hungry for pars.; but they have to hold
their own in a pretty fierce competition. As to
the verses, consider this: —
Better,■ oh, Christas.'...
Or that, instead of Calvary,
And rivers of blood outlet,
Thy voice went howling through the land
“Experientia docet.”
Bit ludicrous, isn’t it? E.L.L.: Exactly... .E.F.R.;
You knock a few poetic fences in the course of that
canter... .A.E.W.: Mere statement that the Sultan’s
two wives have lovers is not interesting. .. .H.H.:
Your request for your verse to be “inserted in the
Answers to Correspondence Column” is too ambi-
tious.,. .Ernest L.: It’s merely the, thousandth por-
trait of the bushman who loves the bush. . . .T.A.H.:
We’ve seen worse, but not much worse... .E.M.W.:
If the flowers you gave the lady said no more than
your verse, your love-suit is hopeless. .. .1.D.: Forced
rhymes make false notes.... J.C.: Too technical....
Oot: Our dictionary says Yiddish- is “a German
dialect spoken by the Jews, containing a large
number of Germanised Hebrew words, and using
Hebrew characters for' its literature”... .Rousie:
Whether red-back will do serious damage depends
on (1) the quantity of poison injected (they don’t
all carry the same quantity at all times) and (2)
the state of health of the person bitten Stoker:
We’ll buy anything we can use. We are hungry
for jokes. But you have offered us only the dry
bones of a joke... .P.G.L.: Could, and should, be
done in four lines.... Paul V.: Oh no, thousands of
contributions are not mentioned, if, for instance,
a set of verses is on the border-line, it is rarely
referred to, because if published the fact that it
■was declined here might prejudice its acceptance
elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
.J.M.R.: Merely elaborated ink blots... -P..J.J.: The
horse is too feebly drawn to carry the joke.... A.C,:
Child monstrosity leading the doormat by a string
says nothing bright to the curious female in the
lopsided chair F.P.: Not bad; might do elsewhere.
Try to make the hands look more like hands...'.
N.E.H.: You tripped over (1) an old joke, and (2)
a shutter suspended upon nothing. Both drawings
are humorous 8.C.: Merely a caricature of a
caricature K.D.: The finicky decoration only
accentuates the wooden figures. .. .R.C.: It isn’t a
joke, and the drawing’s worse than a toothache....
T.H.: Sculpture joke a chip off a very old b10ck....
E.D.C.: Great deal of drawing for feeble word-play.
. ...W.W.W.: The thing intended to be a horse
would puzzle the Museum authorities Wats:
We’re not at home to the lady with the abnormal
arms and, the face like a Sydney post-office carving.
. ...D.K.: Crude work. C.W.: Corpse would have
to blow a bubble to give point to that remark; and
we hate picture-bubbles with writing on them
J.A.P.: You will only draw a cheque when you
learn to draw a cow... .W.F.N.: You’ve got some
atmosphere; but the drawing looks seasick.


Hexena
Soap
Health
*nD j^ecmtj
m
H
m
m
■
mu
m a
■
1
MISS VI. PITT, a charmin') Rexona Girl, writes—
“l have been using Rexona Soap for a number of
years, and I find nothing to equal it for keeping
the skin and hair in perfect condition.”
Girls!
Beautify
Your
Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes
you can double the beauty of your hair?
It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant,
and appears as soft, lustrous and charm-
ing as anyone could desire after a simple
wash with Rexona Soap.
A delightful surprise awaits those whose
hair has been neglected, or is scraggy,
dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap clfeanses the hair of all dust,
dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments
you have doubled the beauty of your
hair.
Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigor-
ates the scalp, forever stopping itching
and falling hair.
If you care to have pretty hair and lots
of it, get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
It’s
Medicated !
;V
■
MRS. MOLLY PURVIS, an attractive Rexona Girl
and winner of the Launceston Weekly Courier
Rob and Shingle Competition, writes —“l have
always used Rexona Soap as a shampoo for the hair
—-I think there is nothing like it.”
MISS HILDA WASH BOURNE, winner of a Queens-
land Beauty Competition, writes —“1 have used
Rexona Soap to my entire satisfaction, and find it
unequalled for keeping the sldn and hair in per-
fect condition”
MISS SWANIE McCARTHY, a dainty Rexona Girl,
writes —“I use only Rexona Soap. and. find it
superior to all others for the skin and hair.”
"Re xona l7 >
§eap
o 7or Health
an?
o ~for Health
anl> seauty
H&xcma
Soap
ĵ
MISS KATHLEEN PICKETT, a beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes—'‘l use only Rexona Soap for my skin
and hair, which gives the best results.”
Why Not
Enjoy a
Good
Complexion?
You cannot if you do not care for the
delicate skin of the face. When you wash
your face do you realise that it is not
enough to simply remove the dirt, but
that your skin needs a soothing, healing
influence to keep your complexion fresh
and free from blemish? Scented toilet
soaps are often very pleasant, but do not
assert this influence, as you are well aware.
Many of them contain free alkali, which
tends to dry up the skin and destroy its
delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do
not in any way help to improve the skin,
but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not
only an absolutely pure soap, but is medi-
cated on the same principle as the famous
Rexona Ointment, which is known
throughout Australasia as the Rapid
Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap really does for
the skin and face what cosmetics are sup-
posed to do, by ensuring not only a clean
face, but a pure and healthy skin, and
thus gives you a clear complexion.
It’s
Medicated !


Roof With
Ihibrolifd
CORRUGATED
ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
The Ideal Roofing for
Industrial Works.
Bust Proof
Acid Proof
Sea Air Proof
Fire Betardant
Non-conductive
Cool in Summer
Eliminates
condensation
Unaffected by
smoke and steam
The First Cost is
the East Cost.
Write for Free Catalogue.
JAMES HARDIE & COY., LTD.
SYDNEY: Cr. York and Wynyard Sts,
BRISBANE: A.M.P. Buildings, Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
A Clip Well Grown
may be half sold. But work half done does not hit
the mark. You want full value for the clip. And
the work of a competent salesman is essential to
produce it. That is where the advantage arises in
accepting this advice—
SEND THE WOOL TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, or Brisbane.
Success constantly attends the firm’s efforts in
obtaining top figures for owners at the sales.
[2
BRITISH MADE
QUALITY PENCIL
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
NOW £> EACH
BLACKLEAD -17 GRADATIONS
SOLO BY ALL STATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ĵ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
jie mt/Js Greatest
Jime-fieeper- R9LHX
%
WORLDS
BEST BY TEST
- SIXTEEN
WORLD’S RECORDS.
5V
1
te"//.
3:
WRIST AND POCKET
WATCHES
For Both Men and Women
AT ALL GOOD JEWELLERS.
I&PLUM
R
a
SI
K
H
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stellsby”: Ballarat’s oldest, or near-
oldest, pub, the Cosmopolitan, in Lydiard-
street, recently surrendered its license,
honored name and all, to make room for a
150,000-dahler pitcher-palace. The first
foamy pot was shoved across the Cosmo-
politan’s counter in 1861.
* * * »
“ Wan chi” : The other day I saw Califor-
nian grapes being sold at 6d. per lb. by a
Caulfield (Vic.) fruiterer. They were landed
in casks, and were packed in what looked
like sawdust. The fruit was in fair condi-
tion and palatable enough. What puzzles
me is how our Californian rivals can pay
handling, packing and freight charges, and
yet sell here at such a price.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane” : The recent decision of
Justice Shutt in the Vic. Supreme Court
that the Mildura Council had no power to
pass a by-law directing that bees within cer-
tain horticultural boundaries should not be
liberated during February, March and
April, has been upset by the Full Court.
Some 60,000,000 bees are affected, and will
now presumably be confined to barracks
during those three months.
* * * *
“Thirsty”: All this talk of developing
the shark industry in North Queensland
makes me wonder why nobody has realised
the possibilities of the clam. The giant clam
abounds in Northern Australian waters, and
the shell ought surely to be of commercial
value. The natives are keen on the meat
(which is something like tripe when it is
cooked up), but probably that would not
appeal to European palates.
* * * *
, “Clerk”: Australia gets its first railway
loop with the construction of the Kyogle-
South Brisbane line. This freakish twist in
the track is,between Kyogle and Richmond
Grap, and lias been rendered necessary by
very steep gradients. The line comes up
Logan Creek, tunnels through a watershed
into the Little Logan, and crosses back into
the creek valley again by another tunnel on
the side opposite to its initial entrance.
Continuing, it passes right over itself, 65ft.
higher up, and then runs on in orthodox
fashion to the Gap.
GETTING ONE HOME ON HUBBY.
HUBBY : “Everybody is staring at you —-
why, the price-ticket is still on your
coat!”
WIFEY: “That will show you, darling, how
unsafe it would be to ever make your
wife buy a mean, cheap one.”
“Avon” : When, after 15 years of toil, the
big tunnel under Maoriland’s Alps was com-
pleted and traffic between the east and west
coasts of the South Island was commenced,
pessimists repeated what had been said when
the work was started —that it would never
pay for axle-grease. That was three years
ago, and it looks as though the pessimists
are going to be confuted. The tunnel was
opened on August 4, 1923. In the first year
258,877 tons of merchandise was carried
from west to east, in the second year 343,899
tons, in the third 380,365 tons. There was
an increase, too, in the tonnage from east to
west.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Harold W. Clapp’s last word on
the vexed 40 : ton truck question should re-
assure the Vic. cocky. He says definitely:
“As each 11-ton truck is retired, a 16-ton
truck will be. marked available for use if
required as an 11-ton truck at the rate
and under the conditions applicable to
an 11-ton truck. Any loading over the
minimum prescribed for the 11-ton truck
will be charged pro rata.” A lot of excite-
ment and pints of printers’ ink would have
been saved had the Slogan King made this
clear, before his impetuous critics began to
rear themselves on their hind legs and get
hot around the collar.
*** ' *
“C. Coral”: Now that trochus-shell has
dropped down to £5O or so (it was over £lOO
a few months back), there isn’t so much
loose cash flying round amongst the Thurs-
day Islanders; pearl-shell is low in price,
too, although beche-de-mer is inclined to show
a rise, especially the best blackfish. Copra
is a poor figure, and there isn’t much profit
in the making of cocoanut oil for sale. But
the native is a great optimist. Hearing
the other day that a company was starting
in the canned-shark industry somewhere in
North Queensland, one man came along and
wanted to know how dead shark was to be
forwarded to the canneries. “Must we boil
it first, or send it down altogether in the
steamer after we catch it?”
MAN WANTS BUT LITTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man wants but little here below,
And somehow gets along on less.
Not many gifts the gods bestow ;
Man wants but little here below,
He gaily laughs and sings, although
His troubles thick around him press.
Man wants but little here below,
And somehow gets along on less.
S.A.
G. H.


FROM ACTUAL PHOTO
*«*S
u
7! «
;*r *
L\*
‘v* Vi
v*v
Only
raw 'materials-.
The top illustration reproduces one of three pens of
first-prize cattle at the recent Queensland Bsoyal
National Show We bought the three pens, and the
fine beasts are now in human service—as REX-PYE.
They typify our high sta dard of raw materials, and
add to our reputation already firmly est blished at the
sale-'ards, as buyers of only choicest quality beasts.
Visitors from abroad inspecting our works, have said
that the meats are superior to those used at any other
factory in their experience.
This policy of using only highest grade raw materials
is the fundamental reason for the consiste tly high
quality of KEX-PYE and the other REX Canned
G; ods. On it, together with our method of prepar-
ation and spicing according to a recipe in our sole
possession, and cooking en casserole, we base our
claim that REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world.
Thus, too, we account for the delicate aroma as you
open the tin, and the delicious flavour a« you eat the
dainty.
REX-PYE, packed in lib and Jib cans is cooked
ready for eating, and may be served cold or hot It
is also delicious for sandwiches.
JELLY
FOODS
PURE
[ cnrO
L
Other REX Pure Foods
lib and TINS
Rex Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Rex Pork Sausage
Rex Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
Rex K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans, and
Bacon)
Rex Devilled Kidneys
Rex Ox Tongue
lib TINS ONLY
Rex Pork Brawn
Rex Pig Feet
Rex Fry and Bacon
Rex Beef Sausages
Rex Red-y-mele, choice beef and
vegetables—a ready meal
ALWAYS SAY REX
REX-PYE
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon.


A wonderful
body builder
j
is always
fresh & pure
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
AMAMI
SHAMPOOS
Instead of a soapy
shampoo odour, Amami
leaves a perfume, like
flowers, in the hair. You
can buy your Amami
at any Chemist’s, Hair-
dresser’s or big Stores.
No.l for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fair Hair
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
• I!
ti
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
* y°u our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
lhu appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from ihe
nrst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
hrmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it. and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere. ’
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
COSSETT. —Inquiries are being made for
1 the present whereabouts of CHARLES
WILLIAM FOSSETT, formerly of Gun-
bower, Australia, Farmer, to his advantage.
Will any person having information please
communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Auckland, New Zealand.
MR. JOHN SMITH WELLS, formerly of
Scotland, and whose last known address
was 45 Vernon Street, Woollahra, Sydney,
might communicate with THOMSON &
CAMPBELL, writers, 132 West Regent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland, when he will re-
ceive advantageous news.
p OLA. CHARLES WILLIAM (son of
' Pietro Pola, deceased), your advantage
apply Messrs. Garrett, Christie & Berne,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney. Urgent.
NOEL MACDONALD, Rainbow, write
home ; very ansitnie, Ale*. Macdonald.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.: W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
Have non Tried Andioveße This ioay ?
Sggs
Shell and cut in halves as many hard boiled eggs
as required. Remove the yolks and beat them
up with Anchovette, butter, pepper and salt Fill the eggs
and serve. You will find this a delightful dish for light
peck's suppers -
ANCHOVETTE
M delicious ish c £aste
ĵ
jy.
j
ĵ
MAIL FOR NEW GENERAL CATALOGUE
\
Buy This Work
Shirt To-day^
Tke “Santwill ” <-v. a Big Quality sturdy
Work Skirt for outside workers. Strongly
made~cut
Sand in in Quality. Has
t\\?o breast pockets. All sizes, rj I
3 for 22/6. //y ,!A '
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Slueen Street,
MAIL TO DESK “S.B.’
=>3ft
is*
&
m
is
(svLi.
5S
38
n
•rrr
5*
vVJ ’<3
\
$
id£
rtf'
V\2i-£
dheZure
of the
Golden
Be ac/t
■c
The lure of the golden beach
with its curling waves that
break into a smother of foam and
spray, is too enticing to resist. Why
shouldn’t you have a picnic there
to-day ?
Of course you will take your Decca.
It is so compact, so light, that it is no
trouble to carry, and its rich, pure tone
is just as sweet as the cabinet model you
perforce have to leave behind.
If you haven’t got a Decca you really
must get one to-day.
r S)ECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOBRAPH
The Decca plays every
make and size of
record. There are 4
models and 2 sizes at
prices from £4 10s. to
£l2.
Sold by all Music
Dealers and Stores
throughout the
Commonwealth.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS;
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 321 Pitt
St., Sydney.
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 290
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth.
Savery Pianos Ltd., 29
Rundle St., Adelaide.
King & King Ltd., Queer
St., Brisbane.
Wills & Co., 7 The Quad
rant, Launceston.
CLOSED
open
Bill Crane and his brother Charlie, who
lately crossed the border within a couple of
days of each other, hit Castle Hill (N.S.W.)
as infants, 90 years ago, and saw many an
abo. corroboree at Parramatta. They were
orchardists, and carted their fruit twice a
week to the city till the end. They boasted
that they never had occasion to fee a doctor.
Both were born in Sydney.
Akaroa, in Canterbury (M.L.), has just
been celebrating its 50th birthday as a muni-
cipality. Its fateful year was 1840, when
Captain Stanley, of 11.M.5. Britomart, ran
up the Union Jack, thus forestalling the
French ships U’Aube and Comte de Paris,
who Avere bringing colonists to plant at
Akaroa. These French people, however, de-
cided to remain, and the district is stiff with
French names unto this day, and good and
loyal citizens they have proved themselves.
“Tenakolie”: Considerateness in the
matter of suicide (B. 16/9/'26), as well as a
certain regard for the fitness of things, can be
claimed for a Balmain (Sydney) operator of
some years ago. He was the contractor for
the erection of a morgue at the back
of the Town Hall. Maybe he lost on the
job ; Avliatever the reason, after handing the
building over to the authorities he strolled
around the same evening, sat on the step
of his creation, and christened it, by sending
a revolver-bullet through his brain.
W. M. Robins, the new deputy-master of
Melbourne Mint, is a dapper, polite, punctili-
ous, correctly-dressed official-looking person
verging on 60. He has grown up in the
service in the William-street establishment,
having been accountant and superintendent
in turn. He draws £lOOO a year or there-
abouts as an Imperial officer, and has a
comfortable shack alongside the factory. By
the way, the Vic. Government, which finances
the Mint, made a profit of £7268 in 1925-26
-—it provided £25,000 and received £32,268.
“Biz” : The struggle among the offices to
insure Merely Mary is growing fiercer. Our
maid having fled in the middle of the night,
my wife advertised for another. The Com-
munity General Co. promptly buttecf in with
a letter: “Following your advt. relative to
appointment of a domestic employee, we
desire to advise you that it will be com-
pulsory to insure the successful applicant
under the Workers’ Compensation Act.” We
are already insured ; so are 95 p.c. of other
advertisers. But probably the odd person
that hasn’t hitherto had a domestic may
make this form of pursuit worth while.
“Stellsby”: Captain Bidwell, of the Barra-
bool, who recently retired from the P. and O.
branch service, was not “the last skipper
of Lund’s Blue Anchor line” (B. 30/9/’26).
Captain J. Slieepwash, of the Benalla,
remains. Slieepwash, a much younger man
than Bidwell, was second mate of the Com-
monwealth when Bidwell was mate of the
Geelong under Captain J. E. Ilbery, who dis-
appeared with the Waratah later. Inci-
dentally, Bidwell was rising 50 when he got
his first command; but, then, his uncle was
Lund’s marine superintendent in London,
and the old boy hated to think that others
might suspect him of nepotism.
There are middle-aged people in Melbourne
who are sanguine enough to believe that they
will live to see a bridge erected over the
Yurra in a line with Spencer-street. It has
been advocated for 60 years or more. By
combining, the municipalities could hav T e had
a swing bridge or a fixed span long ago, but
they jibbed at paying. Now a bill is in sight
to give the Board of Works power to con-
struct, and to levy a rate to cover interest
and sinking fund on the loan. The Harbor
Trust, which will lose a good deal of berthage
between Spencer-street and Queen’s bridge,
has been offering passive resistance. It
will Avant three years’ notice, in any case.
An ancient legal dilemma has been echoing
in the . Supreme Court of South Aus. One
Vosz died young but wealthy in 1883, direc-
ing his trustees to set aside enough capital
to give his widow £2OOO a year, the fund
to go to charities afterwards. They allo-
cated £40,000. After sundry changes of
trustees, the earning-power somehow shrank,
and the Court Avas at last asked to decide
who Avas to suffer. It decided after due con-
sideration that the widoAv was testator’s first
care, and must have her £2OOO for each
and every year, made up out of capital, if
necessary—which it was. In fact, by the
time she died, there was only £BOOO-odd left
of the fund. A large Bar has now been dis-
cussing which charities are to get it.
“Nakhoda”: If 30,000,000 of the neAA r lid.
Canberra stamp are issued, as proposed, the
Commonwealth should make close on a
million pounds out of the venture. No
less than 3,000,000 philatelists are stated
to be anxious to acquire a specimen. The
figure looks large, but it is probably not
overstated. There is a case of a Government
(of sorts) whose financial bacon was saved
by the stamps it printed. This was the
British North Borneo Co., which couldn’t
balance its budget for many years until it
hit on the idea of issuing a new stamp about
once a fortnight. Tapirs, elephants and
rhinoceroses followed each other in beAvilder-
ing succession until the supply of local fauna
was nearly exhausted, and the artists began
to invent animals; but by that time the
stamp-collectors were exhausted also, and
the enterprise collapsed under its own weight.
“Canar”: The Avholesale dosing of Diggers
serving in tropical lands with quinine as a
malarial prophylactic was quite as unpopu-
lar as anti-typhoid inoculation (B. 23/9/’26).
In the early part of the German New Guinea
occupation quinine sulphate solution was
served out daily in 10-grain doses, but not
even the issue of rum as a chaser reconciled
the men to it. The stuff was handed out by
A.M.C. orderlies at morning parade, and
many were the devices employed to dodge
the medicine. Each man had to bring his
own cup with him, and one resourceful
warrior hit upon the idea of boring a small
hole in the bottom of his tin pannikin.
This he would hold out, keeping his finger
loosely over the hole while the liquid trickled
unobtrusively down his arm. But he closed
the leak tight, enough when he held out the
pannikin for the rum.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
8 ' 931 - 12. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Fast Moden, Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 360 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.16 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class—- £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—-£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, CTO.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., I.td.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: O. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S. IF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: .L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: U. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. DinniN.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Donns Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE anti WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £629,988
Preference Shares ~ .. .. 1,875|000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 3,760|000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS Ne^;
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THIS
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances effected on all classes ut
• Buildings. Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks T ° T U „ W °°!> Merchandise,
-—■■■■■ Hulls of \ essels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Aooident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society |
The Largest, and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .*. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and droaiar
Quay,
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
meats may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
ana all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA. .. . 18,600 tons disp. OCT. 22, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .. . 13,000 „ ~ NOV 7 . 4, for San Francisco.
AORANGI . . 22,000 „ „ NOV 7 . 18, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 ~ ~ DEC. 2, for San Francisco.
*New Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
’MM?;
\ * I'
:, mm
isa
‘it
li u-jrseac:
C S
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION F AKES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
OUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips , occupying about Jf Weds.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
\T„ w Rritain- S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
ll“W Dllldllla Sails Nov. 1 6 and Dec. 28.
Solomon Islands:
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
j
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
&S.
mgm HP
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, .TAYA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT' JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ni.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tCeramic . . . 18,500 tons October 23
* Nestor 14,547 „ October 26.
yThemistoeles 11,500 ~ November 22
*Ulysses. .. . 14,626 „ December 7.
jSuevic 12,500 „ December 11.
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
i:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. I
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. |
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton fH Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co,, Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. &O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker*
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1813.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq.. President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Charles Binnie, I-'sq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faitbfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W.
Head Office— George Street, Sj
4X4 Branches and Agencies
Agents and Correspondents througl
Cable remittances made to, anc
and collected. I.etters of Credit
H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager : OSCAR LINES,
dney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street, E.C.2.
* an &tates ’ J ' ew Zca land, Fiji, Papua and London.
I drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiM
t Magnificent
' Fast Passenger
- Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
lor full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney*
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE, CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BAURABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
[ BELTANA
I BENALLA
808 DA
BE BRIM A
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Winns, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
A I,L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
-rV should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—-an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
A^%\\
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Ltd
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offico: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


TO**
m
m
m
m
m
m
Kt"iv
m
WBrnlm
m
gjg
I
Wf,
mSmm
mi
cSSyt
fflf/m
m
mm
CJO
m
kvic
sss
V
m
m
■r\
■
K
I
as
lI.V
Svui
m
-|+|->V
t>ui
to
livffiS
SR®
S 3
it:::::;:
c ? W '
feg CQS *"
\ ><?.** o *
fe?p«
I r- % •
®> Q Z
in tn
N p /
\ o
+ v>
<5
if
S*
v 2?.
/ . AN.
V
til
L_=
HI
Cleans where Dust c
Dirt Collect Most /
%
ITH the complete set of attachments
vv there is no necessity to take down
and shake curtains, climb up and dust
mouldings, beat your mattresses, and
end the day in a state of exhaustion,
(^premier—first among cleaners —with
attachments, enables you to effectively
clean curtains, picture rails, book shelves,
walls, etc. CjVemicr is light and powerful,
it moves swiftly over rugs, cleans every
atom of dirt from surfaces and from depths
—sucks it right up. It cleans CLEAN.
’Phone your nearest office for a free
demonstration in your own home, or call
when convenient at any of our Show-
rooms. This will not place you under
any obligation.
Price: £lO 0 0 Cash.
£lO 14 0 Terms.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL
Australian General
B
T-H
ELECTRIC
Electric Company Ltd
Cr. Goulburn Street and Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Also at
Newcastle, Brisbane and Adelaide.
AGENTS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
Oliver and Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, Tm.


j
ĵ
Hungry as a Bear
and Can’t Elat!
A great many people get angry when you tell them they’ve got dyspepsia, but ’way down
deep in their stomachs they know they’ve got it. “I’d love to eat it, but I can’t,” is one
kind of dyspepsia. “I hate to think of it,” is another kind. There are thousands of people
to-day who hate their meals and love them at the same time. They haven’t that fine, empty,
hungry, eat-everytbing-in-sight kind of feeling which goes with every good, healthy stomach.
And then there are others whose mouths don’t water at mealtime or at any other
time. They sit at the table and go through the motions only because it’s time to eat.
These people, too, are dyspeptics. Poor appetite, loss of strength, nervousness, headache,
offensive breath, heartburn, indigestion and dyspepsia are among the results of a disordered
stomach.
Every possible kind of stomach-trouble can be remedied by taking something which
digests what you eat and will just take right hold of all the food in your stomach and
digest it alone, without the help of the stomach, and let the stomach take a rest. DR.
SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES do this very thing. They are composed of the best
digestives known to science, and are absolutely safe. They do exactly the work that a good,
strong, healthy stomach does. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules relieve all cases of dyspepsia,
indigestion, burning or irritation, loss of appetite, bloat, brash, belching, aversion to food,
fermentation and gas in the stomach. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules will make you feel
“good” before and after each meal, and make your stomach strong and healthy again.
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive
Tabules
Small Size, 1/9;
Large Size, 2/9.
O H*
t\y
S"
ear
%
ou
<S*
n
W
*Y
f iM
n s .
C°
e s
eV
U 9
d n
m
0"
S'i
qN
lO
5
Chocolates
l 'l do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
GeneSt tfiiCUA
162-166 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
Sydney.
Send Tor- Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our Con -
fer*:~nery in colors■
wJjfr j
ii
;v."
K. ' I
m
Pi vsi
/
' -ggj *
■ VyS*' i
A
m
»
:• : •'
/ ;■'!
/
I
WM' ■
ii
;-::: 83$
E%
mmm
:r
Grass Town.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HARK, the little wind that passes
O’er the grasses, o’er the grasses,
Blowing through each stem-walled
street,
Made for tiny, fairy-feet,
Where the seeds are falling down
O’er the walks of green Grass Town!
We alone, just you and I,
Could not find it, strolling by—
Only with the wind that p sses,
Rippling all the long thin grasses.
Little streets that one supposes
Hold the breaths of faded roses
Run in little latticed ways,
Where the trap-door spider plays.
Little forests, little bowers,
Lifting up to slender towers,
Where the blazoned butterflies
Hide their wings from rainy skies.
Little roofs and stairs of wonder.
Round about your feet,- and under.
Here are mimic garden-places,
Where the sunlight interlaces;
Raindrop rivers bright like gems,
Flowing past the leaning stems,
Flowing past the leaf-brown slips,
Starred with tiny petal ships.
Never yet were streets so fair.
When the bells are sounding there—
Bells from grassy spire and steeple,
Ringing out for little people.
Hark, the little wind that passes
O’er the grasses, o’er the grasses,
Blowing through the green and brown
Tangled ways of wee Grass Town,
Wavering with light and gloom
Through each narrow porch and room!
Yve alone, just you and I,
Could not find it, strolling by—
Only with the wind that passes,
Rippling all the long thin grasses.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Soul Saver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEPTHS below hidden depths disclose
themselves in the descent of the
social ladder. As to what lies at
the bottom, or whether there is any definitely
ascertainable bottom, opinions differ. Bnt
Johnny Ilickmott, waking 50 years old and
unshaven in the back bedroom that he called
home in the dawning of a . summer’s Satur-
day morning, was so near the end of the jour-
ney that he knew better than to let his mind
dwell upon the present or the future. In-
stead he thought about one of the few
selected spots in his past that didn’t bring
with them a crop of vain regrets.
Just an early morning out in the country
—a glorious morning with a dapple of
mackerel-backed clouds in a sapphire sky.
He had lived that morning with a coat of
hunting pink upon his back, a good horse
between his knees, and no troubles that
couldn’t be banished by the twinkling of a
roguish eye or the tilting of a glass. A heat-
haze trembled over the distant hills, precur-
sor of a hot and thirsty day. By his side
were good fellows who, like himself, had no-
thing better to do than to assist him to
quench the thirst that a couple of hours of
hard riding was sure to engender. The
horse’s name was Paddy, and it was named
after his best friend.... but at that stage
that dream had to be cut short. It was a
great many years since Johnny’s friends of
the hunting days could be remembered by
him without pain. With a lialf-humorous
groan his hand slid under his bed and closed,
with the facility of long practice, over the
half-empty bottle that stood there. The
cure for a sore head and an importunate
memory having been taken, Johnny lay for
a while motionless, on the border be-
tween sleep and wakefulness which is the
best approach to forgetfulness that King
Barleycorn can afford his subjects at such
an awkward period of the day. Johnny in-
terested himself a while in the trembling of
the yellow sunbeam on his dirty wall. It
oscillated so surprisingly that Johnny won-
dered if anyone had ever tried to explain
such vibrations. There wasn’t a breath of
wind in the air; the sun was steady; the
window-pane with its rippled cheap glass
couldn’t shift —Johnny had wedged it tight
with wads of paper. Inexplicable, like so many
of those things in life that no text-book
undertakes to explain.
And then, obtruding itself like a shadow
that soon must occlude the sun, came the
dawning consciousness of something that
must be done —that very day. Those who
climb down the road Johnny Ilickmott was
taking learn to dread the compulsion to do
things. Their life holds only one great
necessity—the need for appeasing the demon
in. control —and other requirements of life
bring nausea in their train. What was
this distasteful thing he had to go? Did he
have to pay the rent? No....the rent had
been paid a month ago, and he had not yet
handled the remittance out of which the next
advance payment had been made. He would
call for it on Monday morning and grin
good-naturedly at the haughty repugnance of
the old lawyer who grudgingly would hand
out the precious pink slip—the gate to an-
other four weeks of the only sort of life
Johnny could contemplate without blank
horror. Had he promised to do something
for somebody? Sometimes he did —one could
not always restrain generous impulses—but
this didn’t seem to be a promise. He had
broken so many that he didn’t care—strange
though this may seem—to break any more.
When you get so that nobody is shocked no
matter what you do you can—if you have a
whimsical twist like Johnny had—cultivate
a little fastidiousness in things that don’t
matter.
The thing leaped suddenly to the fore-
front as a picture—a girl’s face. The sort
that hurt. Johnny’s brain held many such
pictures, but this was the sort of coinciden-
tal picture that raked up a past buried deep
under acres of mud.
Very young—not more than sixteen by the
look of her —dark-eyed, with a way of lift-
ing her chin when she spoke ; something wild
and free in the toss of her head. Not the
features ; not an identifiable item, but over-
poweringly bringing back the tangible form
and presence of a little ten-year-old girl that
used to call Johnny father in another life
removed five liell’s-breadtlis from his present
existence.
It was almost like something read in a
book—but Johnny hadn’t been able to read
for quite a while. He laughed bitterly. He
with a daughter! All that lay twenty years
behind.
“Aunty Kate” Sloan had the kid in hand.
Just now she was safe enough, blacking
Aunty Kate’s grate and scrubbing her floors,
but she had a sort of prettiness, and she was
young; and Aunty Kate’s business was to
turn prettiness and youth into cash. No-
body knew that better than Johnny did, and
nobody knew better what was going to
happen to that kid in a few days or weeks —
just as soon as she understood where she
had been living and how she had damned
her future.
Johnny wasn’t very squeamish about that
sort of thing, but he didn’t like to think of
it in connection with a child who had the
eyes and the tilt of the chin that belonged
to little lola of the long ago. And the night
before, when in the prime of his mental
powers—a prime induced by powers greater
than him and productive of many fine plans
that only required energy and sobriety to
carry them into effect —he had most clearly
seen a way out.
There was still one soul on earth whose
affection he had not wilted. Dear old Tom
—preserved from sponging by his poverty —
would never forget they were boys together.
Tom’s wife and farm and numerous progeny
weren’t a paradise, but they would be a
better setting for this youngster than the
one she had stumbled into.
She was a Pommy orphan, so Aunty Kate
had said. How Aunty got hold of her
Johnny didn’t know. She got hold of many
such.
And nobody knew better than Johnny that
there is a place in any young thing’s life
where the necessity for going on living out-
weighs the sort of considerations that are
impressed upon the respectable young female
person. Girls jump over bridges after, and
not before, they have sold what they have
to offer. And then only because there isn’t
another man in sight. That was the way
Johnny saw it; and lie had paid for what he
knew in tears of blood. That he believed
they always sold and never gave was his
worst misfortune.
Johnny reflected that if he were only re-
spectable himself fie could turn the whole
business over to some of those agencies that
were so strong on rescuing the fallen. But
this wasn’t a case of the fallen—only of the
fall that was bound to happen. And he
couldn’t tell any respectable agency why it
was bound to happen, because the respectable
agencies would want to know too much and
would tell so much of that much to the
police that Johnny’s life would be Uprooted.
“Damn the girl!” said Johnny at this
stage, and sought fresh inspiration from
under the bed. Ilis original scheme outlined
itself clearly enough now. He would have
to give the child a letter to Tom and his
wife, put her on a train and pay her rail-
way fare. And lie had just enough money to
see him over till Monday morning.
Johnny’s tongue sought the corners of his
mouth as he thought of what he would have
to go through if he gave way to this fantas-
tic notion. What the devil had it got to do
with him? A thousand of them Went that
way every year, and why should he worry?
But the picture wouldn’t go. lola’s eyes,
lola’s chin. . . .and the damned pity of it all !
He sought the bottle again, but it was
empty. With a trembling hand he brought
a key from its hiding-place beneath the skirt-
ing and unlocked a drawer. It was there—
a ten-shilling note—hoarded for this week-
end, and with it was the letter, written the
night before, when he was reckless. A letter
to Tom asking him to take this waif into his
house and give her a chance to make some-
thing worth while of her life. Johnny smiled
crookedly. He knew where that ten-shilling
note could buy a bottle of whisky. Aunty’s
place was three doors along.
The girl was standing in the doorway en-
joying the sunshine that was so opulent in
this new land that was still so strange.
Johnny had seen many a girl standing in
that doorway, powdered whiter, rouged
redder than any save that sort of girl. And
this child with lola’s chin and lola’s eyes
would stand there—unless
There are depths below hidden depths, and
who knows what lies at the bottom? Poor
Johnny, swept so often off his feet by im-
pulse, let himself go once again. He spoke
to the girl in low tones, rapidly, but very
clearly. At first, she didn’t understand, but
then her eyes widened. She went upstairs
very quickly, and Johnny kept saying to him-
self “Little 10la —little Iola” until she came
down again with her bag. And then he gave
her the letter and the bank-note, and told her
where to go.
She had not turned the corner when he
had to check himself from rushing after her
and tearing the money out of her hand. But
there came across his vision a picture of a
little girl who tripped off to school and
waved a hand to a debonair father.
It hurt like hell, that vision, but for the
first time he was thankful for it. He waited
till she was out of sight. Then with a sob
of self-pity he turned to climb the dirty stairs
to his den and sample the extra-special tor-
ments that must be endured for the next
forty-eight hours.
CHARLES BLAKE.
Total Immersion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE came a day when onr town-
ship was roused from a condition of
religious sloth to a state of ferment.
This was due to the erection of a gospel
tent —a citadel of the “Only True Prophets."
We had never before heard of these prophets,
who, it transpired, preached and believed
total immersion to be the Only Gate. This
(Continued on next page.)


Greatest
oArtists
new
'His .
Masters
Voice"
Instruments
Finest
Recording
SUPREMACY
UNCHALLENGED!
The latest invention of “His Master’s Voice’’ is supreme in the
field of musical reproduction. Entirely different from any-
thing previously made—these new Instruments give 50 per
cent, greater volume of sound without distortion of tone.
The only instruments that give equal prominence to highest
treble and lowest bass. A wide range of models from which
to choose. Ask your dealer to demonstrate.
Mahogany
Model 103.
TABLE GRAND
A fine model fitted with now-
type Internal Amplifying
Horn and Tone Arm, with
Ball-bearing Socket and "His
Master's Y r oice” No. 4 Sound
box, which is also entirely
new in design. Attractive
cabinet, single-spring motor,
10-inch turntable playing
10-inch or 12-inch records,
graduated speed regulator.
Needle-bowls for new and
used needles.
Model 461.
TABLE GRAND.
This popular model is fitted
with new-type Internal
Amplifying Horn and Tone
Arm, with Ball-bearing Soc-
ket and "His Master's Voice"
No. 4 Sound-box, which is
also entirely new in design.
Neatly finished Cabinet with
lid lock and key. Needle-
bowls for new and used
poodles. Double-spring motor,
12-inch turntable,
automatic brake,
speed regulator and
indicator.
Oak £27
Mahogany, £3l
a
His Masters Voice
Complete lists of Instruments and Records with
name of nearest dealer sent free on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Hh Master's Voice," Rcgd. Trade-mark. “Gramophone,’' Pugd. Trade-mark.
was their creed, and a hard and fast creed
it was, permitting of no subtleties or side-
steppings. It was distressing to us, for, in
our easy-going way, we had been travellers
along various roads of faith and were now
told that Hell was our terminus. It was
no joke, and great was the havoc this dis-
covery made of our old beliefs, tearing them
indeed to tatters and leaving us spiritually
bare and insolvent. After one week of
Prophet Ezra’s teaching we were nervous
wrecks.
Yet, apart from this, it had been pleasant
enough to sit in the Gospel Tent and listen.
So large it was, yet so snug, with its rows
of comfortably hollowed folding seats, its
carpeting of tan so soft to the foot. Pleasant
to hear the flopping of its canvas roof in
the. wind, with Evangelist Ezra’s voice
whipping our sleepy senses.
The tent was a swell affair. It blazed
with electric light. It floated bannerets.
There was a raised platform with a choir,
piano, pot plants and, where trod the feet
of the priestly, an area of red carpet. At
the rear end of the platform was an alcove.
Heavy blue curtains screened this. Be-
hind that lay mystery.
The Prophets were sombre men, with
strange mesmeric eyes and hair back-flung
from pallid brows. Brother Ezra, the leader,
paddling up and down the red carpet or
descending to the gangway for more personal
touch, had told us many tales of the un-
repentant—those brands who, well alight,
had yet, in their blindness, rejected Total
Immersion. He had a confusing way of
mingling allegory and fact; but there lingers
in the memory the perfectly definite glory
of the one who had let Total Immersion
wait until he had broken in a. horse. Un-
fortunately for that procrastinator, lie had
been kicked into the next world without:
credentials “and then, friends, it was too
late, too late!”
Thus intoned Ezra, in manner so dramatic
that even women became hysterical, men
uneasy. Lads and girls, herding in the back-
seats, became victims of “nerves,” as their
splutters of mirth at these tragic tales proved.
“Scoffers!” the preacher would then
declaim. “Scoffers! I abjure ye, forsake
laughter. Such laughter is a device of the
Devil, a sign of modern depravity. Usher”
—-with a disconcerting drop to the common
vernacular —“put them out!”
But the younger set went out without
being put. The men, through cowardice, lin-
gered outside, leaving their womenfolk to
a realisation of sin and danger. And women
love danger—of a spiritual nature. It is
divinely thrilling to loiter upon the brink of
Hades; to lie palpitating there and then
be snatched back to the Only True Disciples
by such a soul-snatcher as this. To meet
his darkling eye and hear him say so ten-
derly, “Sister!” —who would not hop over
the religious traces?
The first sowing of seed had been on a
Saturday. The following Friday was set
apart for the reaping of the harvest. The
interval had been an orgy of sulphuric exhor-
tation, of prophecy and denunciation, each
night closing -with its catch of converts. It
seemed as though the whole of Outback was
going to lead a better life. Ezra had toiled
hard amongst us, spending his energy like
a prodigal. When he had paused for breath
Brother Eli had leaped into the breach with
his baton and his choruses —rousing or sickly-
sweet.
We had all become familiar with “Up, ye
victors,” and “Now is the ti-i-me, the ha-a-ppy
time.” “Again, friends, again,” Eli the
ecstatic would urge; “Softly! Softly!”
“Now is the ti-i-me,” we would croon, while
Ezra, standing silent, would comb the con-
gregation for more victims.
These strange mesmeric eyes of his, with
a reddish tinge in their depths like smoking
metal, seemed capable of drawing one bodily
from one’s seat.
Even at a distance, Ezra’s awful eye was
dangerous, as the wary among us quickly
learned, and to escape capture we buried our
combined nose in the hymnal or snuffled per-
petually.
Oh, it was great, this stealthy sport of
seeing others make fools of themselves! For
this was how the rank and file described the
line frenzy that, working on the emotions
like yeast, sent matrons weeping, girls blush-
ing, anaemic men self-accusing, towards the
Confession Seat of the Only Disciples.
Our singing, vigorous at the start, would
waver, fall away to nothing, as we stared.
No wonder that it was left to Brother Eli
and his choir to put vitamines into the
chorus and stamina into the verse. And
when Ezra announced that tin; great cere-
mony would take place at nine o’clock on the
last night, the glad news spread like a bush-
fire, tripping glibly from tongue to tongue.
It even percolated among the young
heathen who attended our school, and pre-
sently that seat of learning rang with such
questions as “Who’s dippin’ your mother —
the prophet with th" hair or ’im with th’
gogglin’ eyes?” Tales were told of whole
families who had “gone in fer Total ’Mer-
sion,” and it was finally established as the
cult when the great and glorious news came
through that “Stinker” McCabe, school hero,
was a candidate.
The last night of the mission arrived and
those who had embraced the tenets of Total
Immersion were pledged publicly to demon-
strate their faith. The Gospel Tent, need-
less to say, was crowded except away to
eastward, where, as usual, was an area of
vacant seats. There was a feeling of ten-
sion. Everyone, everything, even to the
flowers decorating the piano, wore an air of
being keyed up. The choir’s choice of hymns
was more personal than before; the
Prophets were more intense.
The victims of their eloquence—a small
phalanx of souls —were banded together at
the Prophets’ feet, in front of the platform.
Considering the many who had taken the
vow. these were few. But ’twas ever thus,
as the Prophets knew from experience. The
sowing had been thorough, but much seed was
blown away by hostile winds at harvest
time. Always, when it came to actually
plunging into a tub in public, there were
defaulters.
Far inland, to the east, so to speak, lay
the usual acreage of empty seats, always
reckoned unsafe by the non-elect, as being
too near the magnetic eye of Prophet Ezra.
In the centre of this space sat one who
should have been among the Christian band
near the platform. Yet he, an undersized
boy of thirteen, sat apart from the anointed,
looking like a small ship marooned within
an ocean of canvas chairs. Why had he
chosen to be solitary—cut off from fellow-
converts? Perhaps it was that he feared
collapse of nerve at the critical moment.
None knew-.
Indifferent to the eyes of his mates sitting
away in the safety of crowds, he w r aited,
sleek and well-washed, ghoulishly expectant
of the star part he would presently play.
His eyes were upon the mysterious curtains
of blue that veiled the hinterland of the
platform. The lad w-as Stinker McCabe.
With Stinker was his dog, which possibly
accounted for the lad’s voluntary occupation
of so isolated a spot. This dog was a
peculiar animal, covered apparently with
long black wool, and whose eyes viewed the
world imperfectly through a long fringe of
the same. Besides wearing this heavy veil
across his vision, he stank —he scratched —
he harried fleas which harried him in return.
Stinker McCabe may have, before the curtain
rose upon the piece, sat w r ell forward among
the elect. If so, it was probably the sharp
pungency of Towser that had caused his
detachment. The elect, saints in the making,
had probably felt that it would need more
than Total immersion—more indeed than an
everlasting bath —to rid them of the Towser
taint, were he allowed to lie among their feet.
And they had not, one supposed, hesitated to
say ao. For it was a fact, accepted locally
without dispute, that where Towser was,
humans could not long exist. Except Stinker.
He was proof, and it spoke volumes for the
lad that he should be so much sought, every-
one knowing that where he was, there would
Towser be also.
The service wound on. in an atmosphere
that was electrical. Many worshippers were
in hysteria, or bordering on it. They moaned.
They wept. Some strangled laughter in their
throats. Evangelist Ezra, standing statu-
esqucly, with white face and eyes a-smoulder,
had the situation well in hand. Too well he
knew that hysterical laughter would cruel
any ceremony. Laughter was an emotion
dangerous to his calling. So, with that
sudden drop to the commonplace which was
a trait of his, he said harshly. “Any attempt
at interruption will be punished. Any per-
son, any person” —he raked us over—“talking
or giggling during the ceremony will be put
out, and handed over to the police. Now
let us sing.”
Awed by authority, we did our best to
help the choir: but, though subservience was
strong, curiosity was stronger, and there
were sounds behind the blue curtains at
the rear of the platform. By the end of the
hymn it was the choir chiefly who wailed :
“Wa-asli me whi-ter than ther snow!”
Every eye was glued to those curtains and
when the Prophet, having to shift his power-
ful gaze from us to his batch of converts,
left us free for a moment, a small man in
the back row promptly stood upon his seat.
It only needed this one defiant soul. In a
trice there was a solid phalanx mounted on
the chairs determined to see fellow citizens
cleansed of all sin. Whether Ezra regarded
this as interruption or not was hard to say.
We were not ejected. There were too many
of us and Ezra had gone behind the scene
with his converts.
“Sing, friends, sing,” commanded Eli then.
“Let us all sing the hymn of gladness-
‘Wash-a-me-e. wash-a-me-c, whiter than ther
snow !’ ” Suddenly, while we sang, those
veiling curtains of mystery drew back magic-
ally.
Ezra, robed in purple, was revealed stand-
ing beside a long, plum-colored tub. Quickly
a woman robed in the same royal shade was
•passed to him backward, by unseen hands in
the wings. Quickly he had received her—
drawn her over the foot of the tub. He
chanted something. The choir shouted tri-
umphantly. The woman gave herself up to
Total Immersion —in sections. First, her
head went down, leaving her heels aloft —her
body following. Like a fish on a line she
was drawn swiftly beneath the wave, and,
with a slither, her feet disappeared at one
end, her head reappearing at the other. She
gasped. Water ran from her garment in
rivulets. Only a flash, and her cleansing
was finished.
The curtains dropped. Behind them some-
one presumably flung her a towel.
The Only True Prophets organised well.
Everything' was done so swiftly and neatly
that, had not our fascinated eyes presently
noted shy little puddles encroaching upon
the platform from behind, we might have
doubted our own senses.
Meanwhile we sang lustily, while at the
back horrified boys asked of each other,
“Gosh ! Did ye see who that woman was—
Mrs. Martin!” They glanced sympatheti-
cally at Danny Martin, who. in his shame,
felt like speeding to the nearest quarry-hole
and there immersing himself for ever. He
hung his head.
But already Danny Martin’s mother as a
spectacular display was a disgrace of the
past. There were others. For with a flash-
light effect the curtains had lifted again.
Again, in swift succession, converts were
totally immersed—lowered head first, heels
following; going in sinners, coming out saints
•—all to the tuneful frenzy of the choir.
Then asked Evangelist Ezra, with a com-
manding stare: “Our youngest brother—
where is he?” and looked from his list to
where a smallish boy sat, eastward. The
boy, followed by the grins of his admirers,
rose and went behind stage. Thereupon the
choir, for the last time, burst into “Wash-a-
-me-e”
For the last time the purple curtains
were lifted. The boy, his meagre form lost
in the trailing robe, was handed out. He
reeled and was deftly caught into the
Prophet’s embrace. Lowered, swished; im-
mersed again—and then a diversion.
“Oh ! pree-c-ious gift, tli’ shower divine,”
we were singing when there entered an un-
scheduled candidate for baptism—a candi-
date, black, woolly and evil-smelling, who
sprang from cover and with a glad bark-
ing and a great splash, leapt with his
master into Total Immersion.
TWEEROONA.


* 5?
•■, .-•J
Til
r ,JMI
1, •■ •'• K-.
f M ' mffPwm MiM
¥ -■» Jr . * >.
14:1 m mm pH
I a." ' :
’ ,' ; "j
*$MO-
-
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in- order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2f-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture. ,
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Send for our new season’s prices.- Considerably Reduced.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
Box 16, King Street P. 0., Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
oof
ARROW Weip.
’
tn
PKELESS PaWDF.RS
These high grade Match
.
cartridges used toy vvin-
I
ners of the following re-
■
cent events: —
Victorian Starling Championship
Starling Championships at:
Melbourne Gun Club
Williamstown Club
Northeote Club
Oakleigh Club
Australian Starling Championship
Australian Pigeon Championship,
Mixed Bird Championship, North-
cote.
Sparrow Championship, Williams-
town.
£lOO Match at Tamworth, N.S.W.
Remington Arms
Co. Inc.,
New York, U.S.A.
1). D. Bryant, Aust. Kept.
395 Oollins St., Melb.
BIS
5*4.
Sold
in 9
, :
boxes
lh
end
2/6.
g§ tom,
Sick Headache
Indigestion
Constipation
Biliousness
Torpid Liver
and to secure
Sound Health
IRISH LINEN
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS
Robinson & .Cleaver have produced the finest linen on the
market for over 50 years, by purchasing from them you
ensure a STANDARD QUALITY AT LOWEST PRICES
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over £lO
Carriage Paid py
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
m
item.
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSI .
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the very finest.
Table Cloths 2 yards square from 11/3 each
with Napkins to match, 12/6 per dozen.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Damask,
by the yard. Width 56 inches 3/6 per yard.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Heavy Plain Cream Linen Sheeting, by the
yard. Width 72 inches, 4/4 per yard.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling. Width 24 inches, 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, 1/1 per yard.
IRISH LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen; Men’s size from 8/3 per dozen.
SHIRTS AND COLLARS.
Cut, made and 'laundered in our own work-
rooms. Best quality materials used throughout.
Soft Fronted Shirts, Mercerised Twill, 5/11.
Zephyr and Oxford from 9/6; Linen from 12/6;
Poplin 15/- each.
Linen faced “Castle” Collars 12/- per dozen.
WRITE FOR LIST OF MEN’S WEAR.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
The Home of
Irish Linen
«. \
SAUCE
Host Holbrook Says -
"Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper —Ah! What a
delightful bouquet; what
an appetising zest."
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie-at 10.15 aan. and 3.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and fid.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 p m . iron, No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels,: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


I#!
:
iH
FOR AUSTRALIAN R
ule jt>to<&£<zec6 -cw <ct£
THE NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY C* L T - D
' Head Office: 422 Little Collins St, Melbourne
LAST YEAR THE PRODUCTION of RAILS, SHAPES etc.
TOTALLED OVER 300,000 TONS.
