

df
Developing’* 1
printing
Holidays come and go, but their happy times last if
they are turned into Kodak pictures. We know how
proud you are of these snapshots, so we put at your
disposal the largest and most efficient developing,
printing and enlarging establishment in the State.
Look for the words “Kodak Print” on the back of
your photographs. They are your guarantee that the
work has been executed by the Kodak Company,
and therefore by experts.
Nothing but the best material is good enough to go
into the making of a Kodak Print. The world-wide
Kodak organisation stands behind every detail.
LEAVE FILMS BEFORE 10 a.m.
FINISHED PRINTS READY 5 p.m.
p >
w
Radio
Photographic
Competition
Value £5O in Prizes—
Listen in to Station
2FC on Wednesday
nights for details.
Of All Kodak Dealers and—
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton*
Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. *
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2419.
Thursday, June 24, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


"THE New Library Catalogue for 1926
1 is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LV3AGHT7
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
WHOOPING COUGH.
Nothing gives such relief in whooping
cough as Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It liquifies the tough mucus,
makes expectoration easy, lessens the
straining of the cough and counteracts
any tendency towards pneumonia.
Contains Nothing Injurious.
d
*
■V-
C<7
a
m,
mMfw.
'fS.Z,.
yrt
r
C *-OSED
°pen
The Decca plays every
make and size of
record. There are 4
models and 2 sizes at
prices from £4 10s. to
£l2.
Sold by all Music
Dealers and Stores
throughout the
Commonwealth.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 321 Pitt
St., Sydney.
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 290
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth.
Savery Pianos Ltd., 29
Bundle St., Adelaide.
King & King Ltd., Queen
St., Brisbane,
Wills & Co., 7 The Quad-
rant, Launceston.
with
>9
The Decca provides a wonder-
ful link with the old Country.
Far away in lonely, “Outback”
Station Homesteads or in
populous cities it is just the
same—-the Decca will bring
the music O’London to you.
The Decca is so compact and
so light, that it can be carried
easily from room to room, into
the garden for an impromptu
dance, or even further afield
for picnics or parties, while its pure
tone is as clear and sweet as that of
the highest price cabinet phonograph.
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
\
u
< I
I RO O KS
UCE
I
Bosi BoßrooASaus ~
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
like an old wine.”
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. I —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. ‘This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney,
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
a
A. The Larynx of
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a. dis-
sected lung.
A Lobe of one
of the Lung*.
D.
The Red Page
The Moulin Rouge.
Brilliant electric signs flash their messages
in the sky above the obscure streets which
arc as the theatre-wings to the fairy-like
Place Pigalle, ringed with disreputable
night-cafes for universal bohemianism. All
Europe is around us upon this lively, gesticu-
lating, laughing, chattering Place, so dear
to the heart and pocket of the , Australian
Digger on Paris leave during la guerre mon-
diale.
The approaches to the old Butte de' Mont-
martre from the south are many. Looking
out by day from the platform of that mon-
strosity in steel, the Eiffel Tower, you will
see the avenues and streets running like
white ditches up to the bulbous dome of the
church of Sacre Coeur, and the new Ameri-
canised blocks of flats which have replaced
the picturesque jumble of rotting mavsons de-
rapport on the slopes and summit of the
Butte. You may go up by the great boule-
vards, constructed by the order of Napoleon
111., of Strasbourg and Magenta until you
find yourself among the crowd of nymphs
and satyrs, flaunting- their dissipation along
the pavements and in the cafes of the Boule-
varde de Rocheehouart; then you know
yourself to be in the Parisian Arcadia of
Satyrdom. To avoid disappointment you
ivill be well advised to make the ascent by
night, and not by day; it is a cruel dis-
illusionment to see the daylight upon the
tinsel of the stage.
In the days before the cataclysm the south-
ern boundary of the spiritual realm of the
Moulin Rouge used to be the great Boule-
vard Montmartre. Its glories have departed
along with its literary and artistic cafes.
To walk between the banal facades of its
palatial banks is to feel oneself in the city
of London or even in a wider Pitt-street
in the stagnation of a Sunday evening. You
meet only cold-faced business men or stran-
gers not yet familiar with the changes in
Parisian life. The banks and offices which
have usurped the cafes and shops are closed
at six o’clock, and make great caverns of
shadow and gloom into which one does not
venture for pleasure.
The faubourg of Montmartre has itself suf-
fered many changes in spirit and appearance.
Rodolphe Salis and Aristide Bruant are rap-
idly fading memories. The latter, dear to the
heart of Arthur Symons, combined the diverse
metiers of poet, journalist and patron of a
little cafe where he chanted his own verses
written in the brutal, odoriferous slang of
the quarter. He was also editor of a little
magazine called the m4rliton, which ex-
isted for the publication of the blasphemous
doggerel of the poetic school of Montmartre.
In it the emancipated flung their jeers at
the bourgeoisie. The old habitue who returns
after the lapse of years will no longer find
the cabarets, restaurants and cafes of other
days. Le Cafe Anglais has been trans-
formed into a bank; “to what base coinage
may we come!” The famous Maison Doree,
beloved of Catulle Mendfes and Georges
Courteline, has become a post-office, whilst
the Madrid, the Napolitain and the Grand
Cafe have entirely disappeared along with
La Belle Gabrielle, where Maurice Utrillo
composed his best pictures, and that most
delicious of all such rendezvous, the little
Coueou on the Place de Calvaire, whence
the. loiterer could look down upon the metro-
polis, until a huge cinema studio blocked
out the panorama. Yankee cubism in con-
crete and steel is a more serious menace to
the beauty of the ancient capitals of Europe
than was the frightfulness of Wilhelm.
The Moulin Rouge still exists in the Place
Blanche, where it has stood for many years
as the light at which the moths of pleasure
burn their wings. It is now a Music Hall
and a Palace of La Grand Revue, where
many colored lights flash upon the nude Phry-
nes of Montmartre, and clothe them in
glistening beams of vermilion, violet, gold,
silver, scarlet and jade. The rhythm of
their supple limbs is dominated by the in-
evitable jazz band, conducted by a semi-naked
buck nigger, wno leers like a rich and privi-
leged uncle upon the corps de ballet of 18
“Gertrtide Hoffman GirlsL”. The Moulin
has its chanteuse realiste in the person of
the impudent but intriguing Luisa Mon6ro,
who sings the ballads of the streets and the
bathos of married life with a Zolaesque-
realism and a Rabelaisian humor. She is
of the school of Yvette Guilbert, but does-
not possess that nun-like purity of eyes and
face which Yvette preserved even when utter-
ing the worst impudicities of- the popular
chanson. Twenty-five years .ago, Yvette at
the was at the very pinnacle
of her achievement. She has survived her
art, and still appears at the Empire in the
Avenue Wagram. The loss of her powers-
is more pathetic than the decadence of Melba.
Once she was the greatest chanteuse rSaliste
in the world. She combined a strange, mali-
cious humor with the true pathos in her
interpretation of the ballads of the boule-
vards and the faubourgs of the poor. To
listen to her was to suffer with the humble
and unfortunate, and with the creatures of
the slums and the pavements of Paris.
The mantie of Yvette has fallen upon
Mile. Mistinguett, “eette petite fille d’Aix,”
as . Maurice Barrbs calls her, whose subcon-
scious soul is so infinitely tragic, and whose-
songs evoke patlietic pictures of the street.
I here is a laughing melancholy in her eyes,
lialf-closed by drooping lids. She, too, is:
a great artist, expressing in her clear voice
the popular melancholy of Paris. You can-
not hear her sing “J’en ai marre,” “Toute
Petite” or “En Douce” without a thrill at
the miseries and joys’ of the little existences:
of the mean streets and faubourgs. Even the-
ladies of the pavement find a place for their
sordid loves and sufferings in this literature
of the music-hall. Mile. Mistinguett mingles
her cunning smile with vague whimperings
and plaints in a ballet which she alone can
interpret so as to stimulate tile emotion of
the audience. Her work is French, not cosmo-
poll tan. She is of the line of La Belle
Heaulmiere m inspiration, and of the Parish
of Villon and Baudelaire.
There are night clubs, cabarets artistinues,
cates, concerts and casinos galore in Mont-
martre. Most of them are the Frenchman’s
revenge upon the Anglo-Saxon and Teutonic
worlds for the depreciation of the franc on
the exchanges of London, New York and
Berlin. Le Chat Noir, with its feline decor-
ations by Steinlen ; Le Neant, with its skulls,
thigh bones and coffins; Le Oiel and L’Enfer,
with their humorous and vulgar blasphemies
descended from the underworld of the Middle
Ages, still continue to furnish the Babbits
of Cincinnati, Detroit, Birmingham, Berlin
and Moscow with the mild thrills of plunging
into the whirlpools of Bohemian vice. They
exist to exploit the foreigner, and the only
people, as a rule, who speak French in these
“Boites” are the guides and entertainers,
who utter the worst indecencies in the argot
of Montmartre to an audience that can only
pretend to understand.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
The Drama of Discussion
In the April Fortnightly G. B. Shaw
and his Boswell, Archibald Henderson,
achieve some useful publicity for the one
and cash for the other by discoursing on
the drama of discussion in a proprietorial
tone. Shaw lays it down that the difference
between the old-fashioned and the modern
play is the introduction of discussion, some-
times at the end as in Ibsen’s “Doll’s House”
and Shaw’s “Candida,” the action produc-
ing discussion; sometimes earlier, as in “The
Doctor’s Dilemma,” where discussion pro-
duces action; sometimes “all over the
shop.” Later on, however, he admits that
“Hamlet” and “The Misanthrope” survive
because they discuss everything. Having
got as far from himself as the times of W.'S.
( why should he not have this modern im-
mortality of initials?), it is surprising that
G.B.S. did not hit upon the truth? .Com-
pare his remark that “ ‘Hamlet’ discusses
everything” with this statement: “Sometimes
whole scenes are devoted to disquisitions of
this kind, and the actors, for the time being,
convert themselves into a sort of debating
society, and discuss such questions as the
relative advantages of monarchy and demo-
cracy, or of light and heavy infantry.'” This
sounds exactly like Shaw on himself; it
is in reality A. E. Haigh, an Oxford don,
giving an opinion of Euripides. He says
that among the Greeks “the love of debate
was a second nature,” and that Euripides
had acquired that love of dexterous argu-
mentation and verbal sophistry which was
becoming fashionable in the Athens of the
fifth century.” But Haigh does not think
this kind of thing a virtue. Elsewhere he
says: “Like Shakspeare, and most of the
modern dramatists, he is content, at any
rate in the majority of his plays, to paint
some great scene of human passion and
suffering, and to leave it to produce its own
effect upon the audience.
It would be easy to draw a parallel be-
tween Euripides and Ibsen. The Greek was
an innovator quite as much as the modern,
and. was subject to the same unintelligent
criticism—from Aristophanes and other
Tories. He delighted in taking the side of
the under-dog, whose views had never been
given voice; hence he painted heroines with
ideas and independence, which shocked ortho-
dox Athens as much as Ibsen shocked Vic-
torian .England. But, in fact, all Greek
drama was more or less a drama of discus-
sion. It certainly was not a drama of
action, for stage conditions and artistic con-
ventions prevented anything but talk. The
actors scarcely even acted. The Chorus,
whose presence arose from the religious
origin, of the drama, sang odes in which they
moralised, generalised, platitudinised and
attitudinised; there was nothing else for
them to do. Shaw would love a Chorus;
he should certainly write a play in Greek
form. Another feature common to all Greek
tragedy was the line-for-line debating called
stichomythia. This was often very subtle
and acute, so much so that Shaw would
never dream of introducing it into a modern
play; yet it was only the apotheosis of dis-
cussion. It should be noticed that these
Greek plays are tragedies; they are quite
unrelieved by the jesting with which Shaw
finds it necessary to lighten his plays, and
which he sometimes finds useful as a means
■of escape from a constructional cul-de-sac.
In the way of realism, Euripides certainly
led up to Menander and other writers of the
New Comedy ; but that very popular form
-of play was precisely the “old-fashioned
play,” without any discussion, which Shaw
detests. And if we look into English litera-
ture we see that the weighty play, the play
with thought in it (whether in “discussion”
or not), comes before the “well-made play.”
“Hamlet” and “Lear” are over-weighted with
reflection, and Shakspeare himself in his
later plays turns to the lighter form of
“romance,” which apparently Beaumont and
Fletcher made popular. In French, too, the
-classical tragedy of Corneille, Racine and
Voltaire was, in spite of its artificiality of
form, not lacking in reflection. It had a
theme and gave a verdict. The “old-fashioned
play” came later in the nineteenth century.
In fact, the drama of discussion is the
natural product of the stage when it takes
itself seriously. The “yell-made play” is
the product of the commercialised theatre,
which aims its appeal at the maximum of
money, not at the maximum of intelli-
gence. The idea, apparently held by
Shaw, that the former is modern, is quite
false. When H. G. Wells pleads for more
freedom in the novel, for less rigidity in
form, he says he wants to go back to the
looser style employed and enjoyed by
Dickens. He does not write review articles
claiming that “The New Machiavelli” is a
new form of novel. It is a pity that Shaw
is not equally frank.
Finally, it may be pointed out that what
is perhaps the oldest drama in the world is
the purest type of the drama of discussion.
It has a minimum of action, serving as
framework for a series of cleverly arranged
debates, with clear characterisation, fine
(Continued on page S.)


nae
Appealing Values in Household Furnishings
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Household Furnishings of Quality are more than
important —they are absolutely necessary to
comfort and convenience. Anthony Horderns
have the kind you want —at the price you want
to pay. Consider these representative examples:
> >\
ill
■TO
•• - -
•V
The Barcarolle Bedroom Suite
The Barcarolle Bedroom
Suite is made in figured
Maple with antique brass
handles. The Wardrobe
is 5 ft. x 1 ft. 9in. with two-
thirds hanging space, hat
shelf, brass rods and
hook, full length bevelled
mirror. Dressing Table is
3ft. 6in. x 1 ft. 9in. with
two short, two long
drawers and bevelled
mirror. Bedside Cup-
board is 2 ft. x Ift. 5 in.
with shelf.
Price £45110,
(Furniture —First Floor.)
Sundour Fadeless Poplin for
casement curtains; mercerised
finish, 50 inches wide. In
such delightful tones as Blue,
Rose, Brown and
Orange.
Price, yd,
In Fawn and Cream. Price, 4/9.
Heavy Swndour Fadeless Pop-
lins for window drapings; well
mercerised with brilliant lustre;
50 inches wide. Shades of
Blue, Orange, Brown, Rose,
Jade, Straw, Wine,
Black.
Price, yd
In Fawn and Cream. Price 5/9.
Fadeless Curtain Fabrics
Sundour Mercerised Damask,
guaranteed fadeless, is most
effective for window curtains,
50 inches wide. In effective
Rose, Blue and Cream
shades.
Price, yd,
81-
Satin Striped Sundmir Poplin,
50 inches wide, for curtains,
bedspreads and loose covers.
Shades of Blue, Apple Green,
Brown, Black, Rose,
Purple.
Price, yd
8/6
ďf
(Furnishing Drapery—Third Floor.)
•“nun "fifth'tiiliMuni
rrrr&H&rmi
%***
v*l Wt|4y<Vl \ \*t <r»T V l'»i i•> . . \
Wmk
' -■- c
Will/!
White Blankets, single bed, 72 x 54
inches. Prices 25/6, 28/6 pair
White Blankets, three-quarter, 81 x 63
inches. Prices .... 34/6, 38/6 pair
White Blankets, double bed, 90 x 72
inches.
Prices
42/6, 47/6, 50/- pair
Blankets
All-Wool Australian Blankets, ex-
ceptionally heavy quality, thick and
cosy, superior in weave and de-
pendable wearing. Either White,
Silver and Dark Grey, in sizes for
all beds.
White Blankets, for extra large double
bed, 99 x 81 inches.
Prices 52/6, 58/6, 60/- pair
Silver and Dark Grey Blankets—
-72 x 54 inches .... Price, 22/6 pair
81 x 63 inches .... Price, 29/6 pair
90 x 72 inches .... Price, 37/6 pair
99 x 84 inches .... Price, 45/6 pair
(Blankets —First Floor.)
Splendid Value in
Flannels and
Flannelettes
Striped Crimean Flannel, in Cot-
ton and Wool. Designs are woven
in broad and narrow stripes on
Fawn and Grey grounds. For
shirts and pyjamas; 29in. wide.
Prices . . 2/6, 2/9, 3/3, 3/6 yd.
Striped Winceyette, in a wide
range pf excellent woven designs.
This most useful fabric will make
splendid shirts and pyjamas; 36in.
wide.
Prices 1/6, 1/8 yd.
All-Wool Striped “Doctor” Flan-
nel, in warm, cosy weave and neat
designs, on light grounds; 29in.
wide. m i£%
Price, yard “r/O
Ceylon Flannel, woven in Wool
and Cotton. Splendid for shirts
and pyjamas. Shown in a wide
range of stripes; 29 and 30 inches
wide.
Prices . . 2/2, 2/6, 2/11, 3/3 yd.
FLANNELETTES
White and Cream Flannelette, for
underwear and night attire; 26
and 28 inches wide.
Prices 10 2 d., 1/- yd.
29 and 30 inches wide—
Prices . . lid., 1/1, 1/2, 1/6 yd.
Striped Flannelette, in leading
qualities and warm Winter
weights; 30 and 32 inches wide.
Prices—
9*d., 1/1, 1/2, 1/3, 1/4 yd.
33 inches wide—
Prices . . 1/2, l/6, 1/8 yd.
36 inches wide—
Prices: 1/6, 1/7, 1/8, 1/10,
1/11, 2/- yd.
(Manchester —First Floor.)
HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440,


w
/
w.
(I'/li
. g
~ r.
1
/
-i-
-vkiv
c- •
»M
-
TO/
tcr
- *V--C
Cs.u
I
w
& 4.
Kw.T;
The Change of Season
Sounds a Warning Note
WINTER with its chill winds
and icy blasts finds flower
and tree, bird and beast
prepared. For Nature, in a myriad
ways, provides for her own against
the rigors of the wintry season.
To mankind the warning is clear
-—the system must be on guard
against any ills and ailments that
seasonal changes may provoke.
“One Wolfe’s Schnapps a clay
for your Health’s Sake”
is a cardinal rule at any time of the
year, which assumes a still greater
significance just now. Wolfe’s
Schnapps is a potent diuretic that
aids the system to function freely
by cleansing the blood-stream of
impurities. So, when Winter is
making excessive demands on
health and energy, when a general
toning up is necessary, you will
find Wolfe’s Schnapps in modera-
tion an unquestionable benefit.
Try it with hot water and a
squeeze of lemon, last thing
at night.
wolf e *s is obtainable in
Quarter Bottles as well as the
more familiar Half and Large
Sizes.
V
X
t y
VO -
Q Blessing to ffumanrfij ”
/ O'
V;
\\,y
V . v V",
X » * v.
(/.


P/IRIS GARTERS
No metal can touch you
are made for you
Men of Australia
u^^P^R/S'\
mmm
ft
!
Imitations:
You know that imitation
is the sincerest flattery.
PARIS GARTERS are
crudely and widely imi-
tated—more so, perhaps,
than even our human
desire for praiseworthy
approval invites.
At no time could a man better afford to insist u]
getting the genuine PARIS GARTER than to-day.
substitute is too costly at any price.
Sold by Men’s Stores Everywhere.
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
50 York Street, Sydney.
326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
This is the PARIS
trade mark
d
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you
It’s your guarantee
ot garter quality
COPY RiG iT
climaxes (purely intellectual) and also
(what is generally missing in Shaw) clear
progression to a decided pronouncement upon
the problem set at the beginning. It is the
Book of Job.
R. G. HENDERSON.
Harry Foster
I suppose we all know that tickling m
the soles of the feet, the tickling that gener-
ally comes in. the spring; those of us who
have been on the trail know it, I am sure.
Cadenced names like Valparaiso, Singapore,
Valladolid take a kind of whispering, haunt-
ing glow ; the walls of the office vanish, and a
sleepy port shines red in the morning. Music
aud wine and light-hearted murder hide down
narrow, palm-dark streets with rhythmic fans
in the balconies; a singing boatman hails
us, and we slip down the rope-ladder or the
gangway into his boat. You know —come on
out, and damn the butcher and the landlord.
Defoe, Kipling, Ilenty, Hudson, Conrad.
Belloc, Melville —scores of artists have got
the glory of this tickling on to their paper;
but to me their expression of the complex
has always had a hint of the solemnity,
almost the portentousness, of glory. No one
has quite put the proper measure of laughter
into the idea, I think —or, rather, I thought,
until I got a book of Harry Foster’s a couple
of years ago. If the other authors laughed,
they did nothing but laugh ; more generally
they watched themselves thinking these
thoughts with a too-obvious appreciation;
most generally they wrote too well to get
out the rough, quite unliterary picture of a
good long wag from school.
Foster doesn’t write well : he doesn't
bother with frills like that; but he shoots
you out into the authentic vagabondage in
half a page, and carries on most vividly
until you are ready to go back to work. In
“The Adventures of a Tropical Tramp,” liis
first book, he buzzes round South America,
dragging you with him and shoving first-
hand information and sound sociological
opinion into you all the time that he is, so
to say, standing you drinks in a cool Spanish
cafe. There is no nonsense about him; he
never takes full-centre about the senoritas or
the wanderlust or the pity these fine men
drink so much ; but he rips along from an
Andean mining-camp to a pub in Brazil, half
the time hooting with laughter and the other
half telling you something worth hearing and
remembering, split infinitives, bad syntax
and all. After “playing thewag' you come back
with a useful impression of South America.
Foster does the trip on an empty pocket, but
that is the only artificial structure he allows
himself; and it is a fair thing—the ever-
emptying pocket keeps him shifting from job
to job and place to place. Thus he never
stands back to look at the outside of the
place, but works there, and writes from the
inside.
His second book, “A Beachcomber in the
Orient,” is firmer and more confident. He
discards the empty-pocket formula, and lets
bad lack miss him a boat at Saigon and
force him to go overland to Bangkok, trail-
ing Ins baggage and cash in the mis"" d boat.
That takes him through Siam, whence a
freight-car carries him to the Malay States.
Singapore, the Philippines, Japan, Shanghai,
Canton, Hongkong—-the man with Foster's
dunnage had always left the day or the week
before. He corners him in Hongkong, and
the picture vanishes. But you have seem
heard and smelled that little-known belt of
“the East” —healthily, with laughter and
truth instead of the perfumed legends.
“A Gringo in Mananaland,” the third
“scoot,” is not so satisfactory. The preface
confesses that half the trip preceded “The
Adventures of a Tropical Tramp,” which
may supply the cause of the slight pre-
tentiousness and the more than slight con-
sciousness of the book. The first two books
had made a reputation, one guesses, and the
publishers wanted a third while tire going
was good. So Foster dug out his own re-
jects. Still, here are Mexico, Guatemala,
Salvador. Honduras. Nicaragua and Costa
Pica, all sufficiently lifelike and all very
interesting.
But the fourth, this year’s book, is really
triumphant. In A Tropical Tramp with the
Tourists lie discards all structure : his pocket
is not empty; he doesn’t get into any rows
with presidents or beachcombers; no one
pinches his money or his clothes; and he
knows every day exactly where his next meal
is coming from. That is clearly a very dull
state of affairs, and no true environment for
a “wag” ; only a heroic artist could handle
that stodge with success. Foster does it.
lie ships as “literary man” with a sumptu-
ous U.S.-organised tour of South America —
motors to meet , the gilt-edged ship at every
port, gorgeous lunches, personally-conducted
trips into the interior, everything bang-up
and a real bed every night. The result is
splendid. He laughs at the tourists, the
ship, his bosses, the sun, the moon ; he does
Ids job on a tide of laughter; and yet all
the time you are sitting with him in that
Spanish cafe, listening between drinks to
his inexhaustible flow of real information.
He still writes roughly, like a man talking
over his wine; but he tells me twice as much
as those other artists who demand half my
attention for admiration of the way they
do it.
HILARY LOFTING.
Aids to Immortality
One half of Australia writes, and the
other half is busy trying to write. This is
a sign of national intellectuality, but it is
bad for the writer. There is no one left
to buy his products because no one has any
time to read. Thus it is more profitable to
produce lucerne than literature, peaches than
poems, wool than words.
Still the fact remains that all Australia
is interested in the art of writing, and any
hints on the subject should be widely wel-
comed.
A prominent critic once assured me that
the true, and indeed only, test of vital
quality in literature is its power to live in
the memory. There seems to he no sound
argument against this, and an application of
it to my own experience is not merely in-
structive. It is a revelation. It demonstrates
clearly that during my early childhood I
encountered three masterpieces: and an
analysis of these, in turn, shows that there
are three main essentials to immortality,
namely, loftiness of theme, mystery and high
moral' purpose. Apparently any work, to
endure, must contain at least one of these
qualities. This I arrive at after a journey
to the remotest frontiers of my memory.
Unfortunately I have no clear recollection of
anything prior to my birth. A or can 1 recall
anything for some time after that regrettable
incident. But to go back as far as possible.
First there bubbles up in my mind, eleai
as champagne, a poem almost Miltonic in
its loftiness of theme. It appeared illus-
trated, in an early Bulletin, the illustration
showing the pearly gates, Peter, and a lady
approaching. She was dressed in the newly-
designed cycling knickers for females, and
cut such a 'figure that there was every excuse
for Peter’s hair to stand on end, as it did,
notwithstanding the weight of Ins halo, t
forget the title, maybe it was Paradis.
Lost,” but the poem was as follows:
When Peter saw her coming near
His hair rose perpendicular. „
“Skirts are not worn like that in here,
He said, in her auricular.
“You’d better go below, my dear !
Down there they’re not particular.
There are two possible reasons for this en-
during in my memory: Loftiness of theme,
or measles. I will adduce the argument
against the latter in due course.
The second poem which bubbles up, also
clear as Veuve Cliquot, appeared in the same
paper about the same time. It did not
lend itself to illustration: —
Oh, yes, 1 always love to hear
The snufflebuster sing:
“1 love a naughty word, but I
Abhor a naughty thing.”
How account for the longevity of this, if it
be not the element of mystery ? I did not
know what a snufflebuster was, nor do 1
even now. It is a mystery life has never
solved for me, and therein must lie the
secret. Or was it measles?
When I encountered these two master-
pieces I was a very small, or rather very
young, boy in a mining township called
Dundas, in Tasmania. It is now a patch
of jungle, like many other past civilisations,
but at that time it possessed seven pubs. I he
architectural mode of the settlement favored
huts rather than bungalows, and the mural
decoration of ours was in correct form
according to the period and place. It con-
sisted of sheets of The Bulletin pasted
on scrim lining, a plan much appreciated by
small boys told to go and stand with their
face to the wall. Llowever, it was really
while convalescing from measles that I read
the two poems under review. My bunk was
alongside the wall, of course, and they were
jnst above it. But why do I remember noth-
ing of all the other mural reading matter
within my range of vision? It is evident
that measles alone cannot account tor tne
survival of these two. .
Besides, there is the third piece of high
immortal verse which also bubbles up. if not
like champagne at least like sodawater, from
the same remote era of memory. I heard
it only once, at about 2 a,m. on New Year s
Night, sung by the vocal genius of the first-
footing party to a concertina accompaniment.
It was a true Australian song. Owing to
the memory being aural instead of visual
I cannot give it in all its magnificent and
tragic entirety, but certain poignant lines
remain. It was addressed to someone.s
son. and seems to hint that he had his
fniilts. The lines I recall : —
You got run in for goin’ with
The Monty push, me lnfl!
And after we had bailed you out
You thumped your pore old Dad.
Your father lived to curse the day
That you had e’er been horn.
You made your pore old mother weep
From night till early morn.
You played fan-tan in Goulburn-street. . . .
and that is all I remember. But that is
quite enough. Even mental measles would
not account for its survival, whereas there
is definite evidence that it has endured
owing to its high moral influence, an in-
fluence which I have never forgotten. Its
effect, was immediate. I conquered a bud-
ding tendency to go after me pore old dad
with axes, crosscut saws and packets ot gelig-
nite. I resigned my captaincy of the Dundas
Desperadoes and likewise my membership
of a couple of other pushes, the Crimson
Comets and the Terrors of the Tunnel. And
even to this day I resist the temptation to
play fan-tan in Goulburn-street. I always
go to Campbell-street.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
George Black's Book
. George Black writes: —
I am grateful to the Red Page (20/5/’26) for its
long and kindly review of the First Period of my
“History of the N.S.W. Labor Party” and to the
writer, Harold Mercer, for an interesting summary of
its contents. Let me say, however, that I was driven
to adopt “the irritating method of issuing the story
in 12 monthly parts” by these facts: (a) I could
not afford to spend £1000 or so in the publication
of an illustrated volume of 200,000 words or more;
(b) I hoped that the gross returns from the First
and Second Periods would pay for the publication
of the Third; (c) serial publication permitted a
prolonged revision impossible with book form; and
(d) it allowed me so to test the market that, whereas
I published 5000 copies of the First Period, only
2000 at most will be published of the Second. Might
I add that I did not accept the generous offer. of
the late Timothy Coghlan to pilot my book through
the British press because such an edition would of
necessity chronicle but notable events, and only tlia
names of the principal actors would appear therein ?
I write for Australia and, I believe, Posterity.
Mr. Mercer says that to me “an alteration of
outlook has come with age.” But “The Origin
and Growth of the Labor Movement in New South
Wales” was written, when I was in my 62nd year,
at the request of the Labor Executive—in November,
1915 n ot only to celebrate the 25th anniversary of
the Labor Party’s formation, but also for propaganda
purposes. So I then wrote as an advocate, now I
divest myself wholly of party feeling and write
solely as a historian. In any case the Labor Party
of to-day is not in want of a missionary; what it
needs is a reformer.
Mr. Mercer, of course, was not in earnest when he
professed regret that personal anecdotes did not
accompany the many names mentioned in my First
Period. One looks for such reminiscences in memoirs
and biographies, or in “Uncensored Recollections.”
I have hoarded a vast collection of such stories for
many years, awaiting an opportunity for publication
which never arrived.
By the way, if Mr. Mercer will refer to page -2-1
of my First Period, he will find that he blundered
when lie named 0. L. Garland, W. E. Johnson and
A. G. Huie as prominent members of the Land
Nationalisation Society. They were prominent only
in the Single-tax League, which was mainly recruited
with deserters from the older society, who saw that its
objective was impossible save by revolutionary dis-
possession. John Farrell belonged to the same group.
I may be pardoned for saying that this book has
hung round my neck like a millstone for many years;
that f began to write it animated solely by a desire
to chronicle the early struggles of a great humani-
tarian movement; and that I grew so weary of the
task, it would never have been finished but for the
constant spur of a death-bed promise. I have never
expected any pecuniary profit nor any immediate
thanks for the continuous labors of 35 years. Per-
haps Posterity will set some value on my work.
A Satchel of Books
Town and Country Homes (Cassell). The fii'st
number of anew and enlarged series will appeal
to home-lovers and home-makers. It is excellently
illustrated in black and white and in color.
The Wrony Letter, by Walter S. Masterman
(Methuen). The author shows exceptional skill in
the concealment of his secret till he reaches the
climax. What his story lacks in length it gains in
concentration of interest.
Antony in Love, by Chas. E. Rose (Duckworth).
Tlie author of “Winifred and the Stockbroker” goes
■ on' tilling' the same prolific soil. Comedy and the
domestic virtues and vices, the tale of Brenda
Fielden’s love affair with the fickle Antony and her
eventual marriage to the lovable Toby—all done in
the familiar babbling fashion.
I)r. Priestley’s Quest, by John Rhode (Geoffrey
Bles). Given a murder, a professor and a system
of “scientific deduction,” and the multitude of in-
ferences the mind skilled in this sort of hanky-
panky can draw from a seemingly inconsiderable
trifle is amazing. Quite equal to its exciting pre-
decessor, “The Paddington Mystery.”
French Studies and Reviews, by Richmond Alding-
ton (Allen and Unwin). Contributions reprinted
from the Times Literary Supplement and the
Criterion, and covering a wide range, from the
days of that divine vagabond Francois Villon, to
those of Maurice du Plessys—apart as the poles,
these two, in style, but sharing a heritage of
poverty. Aldington’s work is always thorough.
The Clock Tower, by Victoria T. Coats (Methuen)..
“You haven’t got electric light yet,” said the minis-
ter. “No, nor ever will,” said his friend violently,
and the two old men agreed that “candlelight’s the
thing.” How in the end the old and departing lives
find that, after all, there may be something of value
in the nevy-age of .youth so alien to their old man-
ners and their bid concepts is told in a very
pleasant story.
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, by Dudley Carew
(John Lane). A well-written book in which the
dialogue flows easily and naturally. The story de-
velops a conflict between the modern trend towards
unrestrained sex-liberty and the old-time inhibitions
of conscience, and closes on the grey note of love
•devoid of spiritual value—“there was no comfort
and no softness anywhere; everything in the lamp-
light was very solid, very hard and very silent.”
Ollier Ryes Than Ours, hy Ronald A. Knox
(Methuen). The author may be remembered by his
clever detective story, “The Viaduct Murder,” and
an ingenious social satire, “Memories of the Future.”
The present novel is written in much the same vein
as the latter, but deals particularly with the cult
Of- spiritualism. One of the characters announces a
scientific discovery making it possible fo oidm
ary wireless installation to inteicept the messages
which are being- broadcasted in the spirit world.
Amusing, though at times tedious.
The Goat without Horns, by Beale Davis (Stanley
Paul). The author—a retired member of t ie Diplo-
matic service— was the representative of the U.S.A.
in Haiti. A beautiful white girl of that island is
his heroine. In her infancy she was branded t>3 a
native nurse with the mystic voodoo, indi-
cating her as a future sacrificial offering. In latei
years she discovers the significance oi this marking
and the interest then turns on the cffoits ot h
lover and herself to avoid the doom to which she
has been condemned. Fresh in setting and rapid in
movement.
The Lamentations of a New Jeremiah, by Herbert
Vivian (Allen and Unwin). Having «
compass and journeyed in the spirit unto Ui (1 the
Chaldees” the author of this quaint and,
jeremiad describes how he came upon ceitain pot-
sherds and tablets from which he transcribed it
text. The lamentations are in fact a satiie on the
politics, institutions and social customs of the day,
on which the prophet empties his vial to the last
drop. It is a very comprehensive comminution,
ranging from the Divorce Court and the automobile
to tlu” Great War, all equally accursed and jou
don’t want over-much of it at a draught.
Recollected in Tranquillity, by Janet E. Courtney
(Heinemann). From Lady Margaret Hall, in tne
precincts of Oxford University, the writer passed
to a Government office and then to work in the
City of London. For 12 years Miss Hogarth, as she
then was. held a post in the Bank of Lug-land and
subsequently was librarian of the Times Book Club.
During the war she was appointed Welfare Advisei
to the Ministry of Munitions. These years of varied
interests have furnished her with ample material
for a pleasantly discursive review of the great
changes which have been effected in the status ot
women in business life over a period of 60 years.
Red Soil, by L. E. Gielgud (Heinemann). A
highly dramatic story of elemental passions in the
Russian revolution. Under the guise of a tale it
pictures the conditions which prevailed from the
formation of the soldiers’ committees and the days
of the short-lived Kerensky Government to the
arrival of • Soviet rule under Bolshevism. “The
Revolutionaries were poor stuff enough,” says one
of the characters. “Half of them were idealistic
chatterers, packed so full of human brotherhood
that the thought of assassination made them sick,
and the mere word Terrorism set them shaking in
their patent-leather shoes. Half the rest were
spies in the pay of the police. But there "’ere
enough veal men and women among us to make the
■ Revolution; and we made it. It was a spineless,
bloodless thing at first, for all the froth came to
the top. Now we are blowing it off and the real
Revolution is coming to birth.” Worth reading for
its color.
4
“Ballantine Temple”: I don’t want Australian
authors to leave home; but if they stay I do want
them to write better stuff. A tariff may help to
rope in the local public that prefers trash; but
does the Australian author want its patronage and
applause? To comment on two only of Mr. Kaleski’s
dicta. (1) There does exist, even now, an Aus-
tralian sentiment in the matter of Australian litera-
ture. But it won’t make people buy books that are
unreadable or, at best, caricatures. And (2) did
high, low or no rates of pay influence in any way
the work of Boldrewood or Lawson? Or could the
serial writers in, let us say, the Herald do any
better if they knew in advance that their produc-
tions were destined to become “best sellers” ?


ď
Be guided by those
who KNOW
A WORD OF ADVICE TO
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS
We know what’s what in motor accessories. It’s our job to know. We
can hope to stay in business only by knowing—just as you have to know
your job to keep it.
We have long since realised that it pays us to tell the motoring public
when we have something good to sell. Experience has taught us that the
best advertisement is the satisfied user.
So when we have something good, we make a noise for motorists to
hear; when—as sometimes happens—we strike something bad, we make
a noise that the fellow who sold the line to us can’t fail to hear.
We’ve all done some travelling, and we all drive cars. We know the
joys and we know the disappointments, and the inconveniences of life on.
the road.”
We know what it is to plug on mile after mile over a road that is so
rotten that it appears to fling back into your very teeth the curses you hurl at it.
BUT WE KNOW, ALSO, that there’s just one way, and one way only,
to get some measure of comfort when driving on such a road, and that is
to have your car equipped with a good shock-absorbing device.
This, also, we know—that nothing better in the way of shock absorbers
has come under our notice than the Stewart; nothing that quite equals it in
efficiency, nor that gives better results on our roads, so many of which seem
to be little more than a series of ruts and potholes.
A set of these unusually efficient “snubbers” would make your car ever
so much more comfortable to ride in, and we feel it hardly necessary to
remind you that good shock absorbers protect a car as no other item of
equipment can do.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., 347 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Arthur Christian, 862 Hay Street, Perth.
Ml m
mvJmm
b
SHOCK
ABSORBERS
Set (4) for medium-weight cars, £lO/10/-
Set (4) for Chevrolet, Rugby, Overland 4 (and
other light cars), £B/10/-
Set (2) for Ford, £5/10/-
When Ordering State Name of Car and Year.


o o
/ '> fTr
Wl /rtf
M 'hPffj '/%/>
fflL
11 i
7h
I
ATEP
7 3,KP 3
2SELATE.P
7 3 *vp
r<»
.SALOON
L ANDAULCTTt
H4K P A-SLA T t.9
t
IMt,,3SEATEP
7 5 Sp S.OUPF
Buy a Gar which has stood up to
Australian Road Conditions
f
Citroen continues year
after year in smooth,
dependable, economical
duty, because it has the
ability to stand up to
Australian conditions in
any weather —any place
—day or night. This has
been proved in the severe
tests it has been subjected
to. Citroen is a car you
will take pride in owning.
CITROEN
AGENTS:
Marquette Motors, Ltd.,
121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
134 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co.,
453 Ann Street, Brisbane.
James Tombs & Co., Ltd.,
37 Albert Street, Auckland, N.Z.
N.Z. Motor & Engineering
Co., Ltd.,
19 Dowling Street, Dunedin.
“The World’s Economy Car/’
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W


i
0
Ci
%
to
■
m
S'
aoiiiaiing
4iianH
m
»
C-* 7 "
1
’m
ipSKJ
w
u
■
t
f >
V->
7* ”<*WVf
a:
v
J V
yi
i
«
ii
Let Electricity do the Work
the electric
RANGE
The ofarifengig Electric Range in your
kitchen, only then you will know the
joy and convenience of electric cook-
ery, its certainty, economy and cleanli-
ness. Imagine roasting and baking
without overheating your kitchen.
Imagine never having to scour pots
and pans.
ELECTRIC IRONER
The new Thor saves for you six hours on an ironing day You
merely sit before the new Thor-30 in a comfortable chair and
guide the pieces through. Electricity operates the motor and heats
the shoe, does all the work economically and quickly The new
Thor-30 easily irons four times as rapidly as you do by hand
The speed of the roller is automatically regulated by the thickness
of the garments being ironed. There are no
pedals, everything is automatic.
CLOTHES WASHER.
The Hurley Superior Clothes Washer will
do the family washing in from 1 \ to 2 hours,
it will do the hard work of washing and
wringing, will work all day without com-
plaint, will not injure the clothes, will save
you money.
11l 11.
piiili
*S
p«il
Wljli
fpiH ll
09111111 i
W
Australian General Electric 0 ltd.
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
a! Grenfell Street, Adelaide. Hunter Street West, Newcastle. Cr. Queen and Edward Streets, Brisbane.
ADENTS: OLIVER A OLIVER PTY., LTD., Hobart and Launceston Tasmania
ATKINS (W A ). LTD., Hay Street. Perth


Why Bald So Young!
—en.
Cuticura Will Help You
To prevent loss of hair. Dandruff,
usually the cause of premature
baldness, may be easily removed
by regular shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, preceded by touches of Cuti-
cura Ointment. This treatment
keeps the scalp clean and healthy
and promotes hair growth.
Soap la.,' Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
MT* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W.
Winter Garden. Palm Court.
Louis Seize Drawing-room.
Lounge. Dining Saloons.
Billiards and Dancing.
Central Heating. Gas Fires.
Single Rooms from 41 guineas.
Double from 8 guineas.
New Extension now ready.
Telephone, Park 2765.
Also
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, LONDON, W.
Thoroughly up to date. Newly decorated.
Extension now ready. Double 5J guineas
Single 3 guineas.
Telephone, Paddington 1800.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, tid. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agencv, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
ef
ll
l.
Start using this
wonderful Skin
Cream to - night
There are hundreds of Face Creams,
but there’s only one Pomeroy Skin
Cream. For twenty-five years it has
been beautifying complexions, clearing
the skin of impurities and keeping
wrinkles and blemishes away. To-day
it does its work quicker and better
than ever, for while the ingredients
remain the same, the compounding of
them has improved.
Your skin needs nourishment; other-
wise it becomes wrinkled and sallow.
Pomeroy Skin Cream is the nourish-
ment it needs. A little rubbed into
the skin at night works wonders.
POMEROY
SKIN CREAM
(Formerly Pomeroy Skin Food)
Obtainable from all Australian Stores and
Chemists, or from the
POMEROY DEPOT
(Ripley & Simpson), Macdonell House,
SYDNEY.
Westclox
fir Quality
10
10
war
'Pocket^ 0
America
. 9 /6
Blgßen
x 21 '-
Sleep-Meter
12/6
Pocket Ben
sB/ 6
Baby Ben
21/.
'rr&s, 1
si
All Westclox are good
REMEMBER this, please: —Any clock or watch with the
name Westclox on the dial and tag will render
satisfactory service.
The cases vary in appearance, some of the clocks ring a
steady alarm while others sound both a steady and an inter-
mittent call, but none of them vary in timekeeping service.
Big Ben and Baby Ben in their handsomely finished cases,
ring either a steady signal or a series of short, intermittent
calls as one prefers. America, Blue Bird and Sleep-metei
sound a steady signal.
Pocket Ben and Glo-Ben are real good pocket timepieces
Westclox Big Ben, 21/-; Baby Ben, 21\Sleep-Meter, 12/6, America, 916;
Blue Bird, 10/6; Pocket Ben, 8/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 18/-,
Big Ben Luminous, 27/6, Baby Ben Luminous, 27,6; Glo-Ben, 12/6;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
7
For
the
Aged
BENGER’S Food is
entirely delicious,
and always enjoyable.
Delicate and aged
persons find in it the
one Food which never
disagrees.
You prepare Benger s
Food with fresh new
milk, with which it
forms a dainty cream
of delightful biscuit
flavour.
Bengers Food contains
in a most easily digested
form almost ready for
absorption —all the essen~
tial food elements to
sustain life in health and
vigour.
Prescribed by Doctors
for over 40 years. ✓
d
Food
for
Infants,
Invalids ana .... Aged.
Send for Booklet to-day.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., - 117, Pitt Street, - SYDNEY.
BE Manufacturers: BENG-BR’S FOOD, I®, MANCHESTER, Bn,.
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
126
.POST FREE
sou pro Pflie Tons
CRAIG li AITK£ N
Lg ceo«u
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hunger.
For the sake of the far unattainable things
Our kindred around us are dying;
And prayers for sympathy, friendship or love
Go ceaselessly up to the heavens above
But the stars have no heed of our crying.
In the weary ways of cities
There is hunger printed deep
On the white and weary faces
For the green of wind-swept spaces
And the sound of falling waters on the
For the pulses throb and quicken
As a dream of freedom thrills;
And the spirits starve and sicken
For the splendor of the lulls.
Darkness knows the deep heart-hunger
When the first stars glimmer m te,
When the hot tears spring unbidden,
As the dreams that day has hidden
Wake and walk with every coming ot the
night.
Ah, the sudden wave of sadness
Is not memory alone,
But a hunger for the gladness
That was glimpsed, yet never known .
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Fidelity.
Your soul is friendly with the bees
That murmur through my garden-place.
Your voice is flute-like in the trees ,
In that white rose I see your face.
They tell me you are miles away ;
I cannot heed one word they say.
My fingers never pluck a flower
But that I feel your lingering hand;
And in our honeysuckle bower
The blossoms seem to understand
That in the pathways we have known
I never can walk quite alone.
The shadows of the bamboo reeds,
Where the gold sunlight trickles through,
Write on the turf their summer screeds,
And everyone has word of you ;
This morn on grasses dewy sweet
I saiv the imprint of your feet!
The wind, weighed down wfitli fragrant
things, '
Upon my cheek was like your kiss,
A bird that rose wfitli shining wings
And eager eyes took note of this,
As, on a purple-fruited fig,
He watched ns from a rocking twig.
The neighbors shake their heads and say;
“No garden can for life atone.
It is not wise to dream all day;
It is not good to live alone.”
I laugh. I clasp a hand unseen
Dowm all the ways where we have been.
Oh, if another I should bring
To wander in my garden place,
Do they believe my birds wmuld sing,
My rose unveil her silken face,
The Wind make music in the tree
With you forever lost to me?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Plane-tree.
Her slender trunk of mottled green and brown
Is drenched w T itli sleet.
Green sepia-edged serrated leaves drift down
About her feet.
Though summer days are done, erect she
stands,
Her head held high,
Implores no pity, spreads no suppliant hands
Towards the sky.
She voices no regrets, nor questions fate,
But, sweetly stern,
In silent dignity content to wait
The spring’s return,
Maintains through life's vicissitudes a still
And noble mien,
A spirit undismayed through good or ill,
Unmoved, serene.
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
Books.
The little books come chattering,
And gossiping they go.
They ask no place in memory,
But withered leaves are left with me
Where they have passed; and there’s a.sting
Sometimes in the remembering
What little books may know.
And bigger books go prosing by.
Their stolid feet are set
Sedately in a level way;
And from their balanced wisdom grey
The fragments of a truth may lie
Unfolded to the open sky
Till one may not forget.
I have loved books until the pain
Has sunk into my soul;
And some have washed me clean in tears
And some through all my hungry years
Have only touched me with a stain
That scarce can be effaced again,
But all have taken toll !
I have loved books for borrowed dreams
And sudden gold revealed.
For every secret I have found
And every plot of holy ground,
For misty magic of the gleams
That lie along the sheltered streams
Of sweetness half concealed.
I have loved books for gifts and gain
And for my loss no less.
Since I have learned of love and hate
And of the mean and of the great
Have taken pleasure, paid in pain,
I count no lesson mine in vain,
No wisdom weariness.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


fd
c %£ir£liwjsvm
-HTf
I
) i
!
G
£ jure
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine Label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, HAW., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Kewspape^
Voi. 47.—N0. 2419.
THURSDAY, JUNE 24, 1926.
Pkice 6d.
STOPPING A NUISANCE.
"Objection being raised to the extension of Federal powers in industrial .natters on ground that the proposed povers represent an interference with purely State disputes.'"
THE STATE FRIGHTERS: “Here! you don’t want to interfere. This is our dog-fight-not yours."
PRIMINISTER BRUCE: “Well, it’s on my doorstep, anyway.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melboubne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Vosted to any address in Austkalasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J t s-.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; S
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
Bulletin's” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
can be obtained from him or
tßc_hookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. .4 u 0 ] rom Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
70 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.J/.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.J).; E. T. Hole, Holertli Satire Ser-
vice, .)6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; ■'The British
Australian and New Zealander.” £ll,-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. AI gar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada.- — G. S. Forsyth and Co., )) / Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.-— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th. Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and, I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West ) Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70.) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby,
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C 4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N, Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional J)oz., Id. All Sea Route: 16~0z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: !,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
%r%xdidM,.
THURSDAY, JUNE 24, 1926.
FEDERAL DISAPPOINTMENTS.
Certain Federal members, including the
eentle humorist Wfst of Fast «svdnev U.tnlTT
gentle humorist WEST, ot . Last Sydney, lately
entered a protest that the Government de-
manded too many sitting days per week, and
was trying to rush business—in fact, that
the tortoise was getting up a perspiration
and its shell was steaming. The idea seems
to be that three days’ work per week for
half the year, in consideration of a wage of
£l9 4s. 6d. per week, paid all the year round,
is as much as can be expected from a poli-
tician, even if he calls himself Labor, wliich
seems to mean Work. The latest grievance
arose in connection with the bill authorising
a referendum re the enlargement of the Com-
monwealth’s powers to pass industrial legis-
lation of a kind which might keep the wheels
of industry moving. The Labor party in
Parliament, or some of it, took the view that,
on the whole, the measure would serve its
ends sufficiently to make it worth support-
jug. This staggered many people, and made
them suspect that the idea aimed at must be
essentially bad. bo Labor authorities out-
side interfered, and, putting oa the .customary
mantle of the Eternal Nark, decided that the
men inside should become and remain con-
scientiously hostile; also that Labor should
vote “No” at the referendum, if there is one,
and do so with all its might. And all the
heavy political artillery of the party is get-
ting together to make the referendum cam-
paign, if there is one, a rousing spectacle.
* * * *
As no one knows what powers the Gov-
ernment would ask Parliament for if the
referendum was a success and it thus
secured the right to ask Parliament for them,
the position is misty. The Bruce-Page isn’t
naturally a swift Administration, though it
did introduce Monday sittings, and aroused
the alarm of West and Go. lest it should
exceed the speed-limit. It rather tends to
spasms and pauses. Even if the Federal
Parliament secured authority to legislate with
a view to “protecting the interests of the
public in case of actual or probable inter-
ruption of any essential service,” it very
likely wouldn't legislate much under the pre-
sent Ministry. As for the powers which are
sought for the general Federal supervision
of industry, there seems a possibility that
the gentle Cabinet might go out without put-
ting them to any special use, and might be
followed by one with a tendency to employ
them for the general suppression of industry.
One thing certain is that Federal Ministries
have had very poor luck in the referendum
line. A typical example was that of 1913.
when five propositions for the enlargement
of the Federal authority were put to the
vote, and all were turned down by irritat-
ingly narrow margins. That dealing with
trusts was lost by 975,943 votes against
967,331 a hostile majority of 8612 out of
close on two million suffrages.
* * -if *
~, Before the present people took office, nearly
•>d years ago, there were four successive
Hughes Ministries (two Labor Hugheses
find two Nationalist ones), all galvanic and
irritable and quite .unfit for large construc-
tive work. Before that were two Fishers
and a Cook. Three more ordinary men than
two Fishers and a Cook would be hard to
find in high places. In the time of these
seven the mana of the Central authority
dwindled, and it lost the knack of command-
ing success. If some Ministers with large
Federal ideals and ambitions had aimed at
using to the utmost the powers which the
Commonwealth possesses, and had made even
a reasonable success in the process, there
Would have been a better chance of getting
more power for the asking. Probably, through
the diminution of State authority, there
would be much less need to ask. The Com-
monwealth has the right to legislate re mar-
riage. divorce, banking and insurance, except
State banking and insurance, and it can take
control of these also if their activities are
carried one inch beyond the State boundaries.
The multiplication of very dubious life-
assurance concerns has proceeded at a pace
which should have moved a Cabinet of stone
images to heat and action, but the images
remained calm. There should be a large and
unexplored field of activity in the establish-
ment of minor Federal courts, both civil and
criminal, instead of sub-letting the Com-
monwealth authority to State-appointed func-
tionaries. - Federal gaols and police and an
enlarged army would also be in order, and a
vigorous railway-building and settlement
policy in the Northern Territory would have
brought about a great accession of influence
The Commonwealth is an institution which
might be great if it only had the courage to
be great, though the task would have been
easier if started earlier. Fifteen successive
Ministries have lacked even the aggressive-
ness to take charge of the big telescope at
Sydney Observatory, though the stars are
under Federal supervision by the terms of
the Constitution. In short, the Central
authority could have taught the people to
obey it on so many matters that obedience
would now be a habit, or, at any rate, much
more of a habit than it is; and one reason
which will militate against the success of the
Bruce-Page referendum, if there is one, is
that the community is really not much
acquainted with the great national concern
which is about to trek to Canberra and re-
tire into deeper obscurity.
SHOULD WOMEN KNOW?
A hundred or more people want to say
something or other about Winifred Hamil-
ton and her article on birth-control (B.
10/6/’26). Room can be found only for
extracts from the remarks of a representative
few: —
“Speculum” (who is a doctor): The advancement
of this country depends on industrial and military
peace and on capital, brains and workmen. This
last requisite gives the capitalist an excuse to preach
a doctrine of procreation to his employees. He
does s 0 almost regardless of the condition of those
who must supply the man power for future factories.
The shortsighted and selfish policy is met by a
doctrine of contraception. Evil begets evil. The
unions are as bad. When not merely bickering they
give some attention to the man and his needs,
practically none to his wife’s. Properly cared for, the
Aussie mother will rear as many youngsters as is
good for herself, them and the country. She has
little desire t 0 become either a mere baby-factory or
a love-machine. Nagging at the lady, either by
capitalist or by super-socialist, can only exasperate her.
Any question of when and how to limit her family
may be safely left to herself and her medical adviser.
I can assure Winifred Hamilton that the doctors
of this country have very just, even liberal, ideas
of when their women patients should be relieved of
the strains of maternity; nor is obstetrics so nice
or profitable a branch of medicine that doctors will
advocate large families in order to gain for them-
selves more working-class accouchements. Destructive
criticism, very popular these days, will not get us
anywhere, either as individuals or as a nation. If
there is a solution to this our greatest social and
economic problem, it would appear to lie in writing
and speaking of children as natural corollaries of life
and matrimony, not as handicaps;' in giving all
mothers the best possible treatment and instruction
before, during and after confinement; and in tipping
the economic balance rather more definitely in favor
of married folk. Too long have the “unencumbered”
enjoyed the chief benefits of unionism and directed
its affairs.
“M.L.” (who is a clergyman) : The drunkard, the
the loafer and the scoundrel are not cured
by the “ethics of suppression” as preached by Miss
Hamilton; and if they are not, how can the masses,
the wage-eai ncrs, find in contraceptives the “greatest
weapon for their own betterment”? AVages and social
conditions generally depend not on any sort of
birth-control, but on good government, the creation
and proper control of industries and equality of
opportunity. On the contrary, birth-control and
the use of contraceptives lead to degeneracy, physical
and mental, and to wholesale immorality. Dr. J. J.
Walsh, in “Religion and Health,” adduces a wealth
of medical testimony and statistics to show the
“moral and mental decay” caused by the use of
contraceptives. Unmarried women, knowing they can
escape the bearing of children, indulge their sexual in-
stincts, and the result very often is moral degradation;
whilst the use of contraceptives, according to medical
testimony, is to “weaken the nerves, lower mentality
and bring about incurable sterility.” Married women,
too, even the richest, use these diabolical methods to
escape bearing children, and by so doing injure
their health and escape what should be an inescap-
able duty—bearing and educating the future citizens
of a nation. An effete, immoral, degraded type of
woman is produced by birth-control and contraceptive
methods, which cany no cure for the social ills of
life, but tend slowly but surely to a moral decay
and physical degeneracy that has wrecked every great
nation down the centuries, and will inevitably
blight Australia, unless such methods are swept from
our shores as a pestilential blast from Hell.
“T.L.A.” (an ex-Digger on the land) : They
quote Holland as a country where birth-con-
trol is practised. Why pick on Holland ? A
couple of decent-sized families would swamp that
dairy-farm ! What they do in Holland does not
concern us. We have a big, empty continent that
is at this moment crying out for population, and
the best immigrant is the wee Aussie. Anyone who
advocates birth-control at this period of our national
growth is not playing the game. AVe have heard
altogether too much about the race deteriorating
because “the masses” are rearing the babies. What
is wrong with the babies of the masses, anyway ?
Going through the Tropics on a troopship our boys
were almost naked. I never saw a finer lot of
men. It was a joy to gaze on such magnificent speci-
mens of manhood. A very big percentage of them
came from “the masses.” These birth-control enthu-
siasts want to stop us rearing more of these
splendid Aussies. I declare as the result of my
life’s experience’ that parents of large families
more generally have a pleasant voyage across the
ocean of life than the parents of small families.
I have the greatest admiration for our girls. It
is true they are more independent than the girls of
yesteiday, but I believe that most of them cherish
the hope of presiding over a home. For Heaven’s
sake don’t let us poison their minds with this
birth-control nonsense!
Peter Airey (an ex-Treasurer of Queensland, who
can talk for the political students) : The march of
hungry myriads in other lands sounds ever nearer,
and this continent’s first line of defence is the
cradle —not the contraceptive theory. It is idle to
quote the case of Holland or of England. These
lands are already fully populated or over-populated,
and common prudence dictates restriction in these
cases. The prudence of one land is the folly of
another. “AAe have a grand country and a great
opportunity of building up a race,” we are told,
“equally grand and great. Is it to be imagined that
profligate procreation is going to give us the best?”
"as it “profligate procreation,” then, that raised
the strapping bands of young Australians who died
for us in France and on Gallipoli? Would it be
‘profligate procreation” if we could in the next 10
years raise a few millions more like them? If so,
then the sooner this land puts a premium on that
brand of profligacy the better. Turn to the obverse
of the medal. France is a country that has success-
fully limited her population for the last 40 years.
AVhat happens when France is invaded by an ancient
enemy? Half Europe must come to her assistance
01 she perishes. Not only is this so, but she must
import black troops by the hundred thousand or
she is doomed. But all history shows that the
country that imports its defenders must in the long
lun go down, as Rome did when her auxiliary
Goths turned and rent her asunder. The empty
tiench cradle and the defence of FrancebySenegale.se
and other dark races are the complement one of
the other. The next step is the occupation of
France by other than Frenchmen—an operation that
is steadily going on year by year under the insidious
processes of peaceful penetration.
James Edmond: The trouble is the tendency to
teach birth-control to the classes which need it
least, instead of teaching it, punctually and by
compulsion, to those which need it most. Birth
control may be all right, for some parts of the world
certainly show signs of overcrowding, but it should
begin with the sterilisation of degenerates on a
large scale. If that didn’t sufficiently diminish
the pressure, assuming there is pressure, the position
might be further considered. In this connection,
inteiest attaches to a case quoted by a Committee of
Inquiry which operated in Maoriland. That Dominion
is a recent sort of place with a remarkably small
death rate and no slummy reputation, but it
apparently has a supply of sub-normals all the same.
The published record covered three generations as
follows:
No. 1. Grandfather and grandmother. The first
appears to have nothing worse to his discredit than
being a painfully ordinary individual, but the second
brought a streak of imbecility and weak morality
into the household. J
No. 2. Six daughters, of whom four are followers
of Rahab’s profession. The fifth is a solid con-
siLinaei of tight. drinks, and the sixth is in prison.
Two are mentioned as having married drunkards
and two as having married criminals. A fifth had
seemingly omitted to marry her criminal.
No. 3. This generation consists of eight sons and
12 daughters, so the family grows. The whole
20 are reported to have been a charge on the
State for some part of their lives. They include
11 illegitimates and half a dozen tubercular cases.
The humanitarian craze to keep the degenerate
intact for reproductive purposes, instead of firmly
introducing birth-control, is only paralleled by the
tendency to encourage the multiplication of colored
races which wouldn’t be missed. I have no very
definite ideas about the teaching of voluntary control
but about the compulsory article, properly applied’
I have no doubts whatever.
SEEN FROM THE FOOTBOARD.
The tramway system of Sydney and its
faults are continually being attacked by the
newspapers, and the oft-reiterated attempts
of headquarters to prove that the whole thing
is perfect don’t seem to be carrying much
conviction. Why should a system which up
till lately has been fairly profitable change
into a chronic money loser? Perhaps one
who sees it from the footboard can supply
an answer more readily than either the dis-
gruntled passenger or the high and mighty
administrator.
It is an axiom that industrial efficiency
cannot be achieved where continual friction
exists between employer and employee. To
the man on the footboard friction isi so much
a part of his shift as to elicit only the
contempt bred by familiarity. The trouble
between the Commissioners and tlie men
dates back to the union’s fight for a Federal
award. When a State award governed work-
ing conditions the Commissioners could
generally be relied on to interpret its pro-
visions with a fair degree of broadminded-
ness, but with the advent of a Federal award
which the Commissioners opposed and re-
sented, the harshest possible interpretation
(from the mens standpoint) seems to have
become the rule of the department. One of
the effects of that is that the employee no
longer regards “the boss” as a friend, and
consequently does not give as good service
as he did formerly. Hundreds of pounds of
revenue are lost to-day simply because in
a crowded, tramcar the conductor will not
collect beyond a steady pace. Ilis view of
the matter is that, while lie would get no
thanks for collecting all the fares, he would
get into serious trouble if, through hurrying
lie actually passed a passenger without col-
lecting a fare. A miss-fare is just as serious
in the eye of the department whether there
are 10 or 110 persons on a tramcar. The
conductor knows he will not be troubled by
an examiner while he is working, but if he
has gone through a car, and collected 109
out. of 110 fares, and an examiner then
detects that the 110th passenger has not paid
the conductor has a "Please explain” paper
to answer.
Both department and union take an un-
Australian view. Piu-pricking tactics are
resorted to by the department, and the
employee replies by “sniping” and taking
every advantage of loopholes. lie feels that
the legulations are framed with an eye to
the protection of the administrative heads;
no intelligent tramway man thinks they are
there to be observed —he knows they couldn’t
all be observed. But let anything go wrong
and headquarters immediately asks why Regu-
lation a I or c was not obeyed, though
everyone knows that it would be impossible
to obey that regulation without breaking
another. To take one case out of many, regu-
lations 107 and 1081 are distinctly contradic-
tory- One insists on drivers keeping to
time-table schedule, and the other prohibits
him driving an empty tram fast —often the
only way he can keep to time-table. The
department can, and does, penalise a driver
on either one of these regulations. Then
there are regulations about the giving of
change which, if faithfully observed, would
mean the loss of a large percentage
of the fares in George-street; yet a
conductor is tripped up over that regu-
lation every tune a complaint is received
from a passenger. To obey the regulation
would mean that the conductor would be
charged with dilatory collection of fares
under another regulation.
How the department has tlie impudence
to make “Safety First” a slogan passes the
comprehension of the man on the footboard.
For years the union has been fighting for
corridor cars, and the reply from the depart-
ment has always been that such cars are
‘unsuitable” ; so the old-style, footboard re-
mains, though other cities find corridor cars
quite suitable. If ever dead tramway con-
ductors revisit the scene of their labors the
bones of the men killed on the footboard
must rattle with mirth at those “Safety-
First notices on the cars. Statistics con-
cerning footboard accidents are only avail-
able for the period from March 1, 1916, to
February 28, 1921. The department places
obstacles in the way of those who seek later
figures—possibly for good reasons. The total
number of accidents for the period cited
was 1292, and four men were killed. The aver-
age of casualties per month was 21A As
the city goes on bloating the number must
be increased.
But faults, of course, are not all on one
side. For instance, the union should demand
cleanliness and a high standard of duty from
its members. The average tramway em-
ployee gets looked down upon simply because
he does not set a high standard for himself.
Respect for a man’s job does not chime well
with a dirty collar and an unshaven face.
The remedy for these things? Well, for a
start, and most important, the corridor car
should be introduced, and if there were at
the same time an overhauling of the regula-
tions by experienced men, determined to
make the rules worthy of respect, the tone of
the service would soon improve. At pre-
sent it isn’t a good service to be in. A
learned Judge once told the men that they
could always leave. That is quite true, but
one expects something a little more helpful
in the way of suggestions from even a
learned Judge.
K.G.E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Jim Crow Party.
Matthew Charlton, who has had so much
to contend with since he was named leader of
the Federal Labor party, must have felt un-
liappier than ever when he read in the Sydney
Worker that the N. S. Wales executive of
the A.L.P. had passed a resolution inform-
ing “Federal Labor members representing
N. S. Wales constituencies,” of whom
Charlton is one, that they “must cease sup-
porting the referendum proposals, and must
vote against them.” Nor can liis gloom have
been lightened by a paragraph in the sub-
leader :
The Labor movement has made up its mind to
fight the referendum proposals tooth and nail. It will
not have them, or any portion of them. From the
first syllable to the last they are anathema.
Yet Charlton could make things sultry for
these imperious mutineers against his leader-
ship if he were minded to put up a fight.
For one thing he could show that the Labor
platform declares for “unlimited legislative
powers for the Commonwealth Parliament
and such delegated powers for the States and
provinces as the Commonwealth may deter-
mine,” and lays no interdict on obtaining
the unlimited powers by instalments as
opportunities occur. Then he might point
out that one of the suggested amendments,
now declared to be “anathema from the first
syllable to the last,” was twice referred to
the people by a Federal Labor Government—
-/.c., in 1911 and 1912. Andrew Fisher pro-
posed, as Stanley Bruce now proposes, to
amend Section 51 of the Constitution, para-


graph XX, by striking out the words “foreign
corporations and trading or financial cor-
porations formed within the limits of the
Commonwealth,” and substituting a more
comprehensive paragraph. The text of each
amendment is subjoined :
Fisher’s Proposal.
Corporations, includ-
ing- (a) the creation, dis-
solution, regulation and
control of corporations;
(b) corporations formed
under the law of a State,
including- their dissolu-
tion, regulation and con-
trol, but not including
municipal or Govern-
mental corporations or
any corporation formed
solely for religious, chari-
table, scientific or artistic
purposes, and not for the
acquisition of gain by the
corporation or its mem-
bers ; and (c) foreign
corporations, including
their regulation and con-
trol.
Bruce’s Proposal.
Corporations, including
—(a) the creation, regu-
lation, control and dis-
solution of corporations;
(b) the regulation, con-
trol and dissolution of
corporations formed under
the law of a State; and
(c) the regulation and
control of foreign corpora-
tions, but not including
municipal or governmental
corporations, or any cor-
poration formed solely for
religious, char i table,
scientific or artistic pur-
poses, or any corporation
not formed for the acqui-
sition of gain by the cor-
poration or its members.
Charlton could truly say that the Fisher
Government was warmly supported by the
paper which now, in effect, denounces that
Government’s corporations amendment; in-
deed, the Fisher Government was largely
the creation of the A.W.U., which owns the
Worker. And while maintaining that his
own attitude is consistent with Labor policy,
he might draw attention to the ludicrous
change that has come over N. S. Wales
Premier Lang. Before he went electioneer-
ing in Queensland that bellowing person de-
clared himself an out-and-out unificationist.
His own Labor Daily of April 17 reported
him as follows :
As an abolitionist the Premier does not Confine
his attention to Leg. Councils. He believes that
State Parliaments should go altogether, also State
Governors. Speaking yesterday, Mr. Lang said that
he did not believe in State Legislatures nor State
Governors. One central Parliament presided over by
a Governor-General should suffice to rule Australia.
It would be assisted in details by a much improved
system of shire or provincial councils, and the big
cities would still have their local-government
machinery.
The same gentleman now shouts that
Bruce’s very mild financial proposals are
“insulting .... revolutionary .... intolerable
tyranny....a blow at the stability of the
States and at their credit abroad.” And the
Constitutional amendments are “fraught with
tremendous danger....a mischievous inter-
ference with powers at present exercised
effectively and wisely by the States” ; those
States would never have federated had the
intention been “to set up a kind of legisla-
tive and administrative ogre,” and “the time
has clearly arrived for the States to tell
Mr. Bruce that he must stick to the job
he was elected to perform and leave, the
States to do theirs.” In short, the unifica-
tionist of April has become a fanatical State
Frighter in June. Of course, the A.L.P.
executives and Labor Governments are now
over-run with State Frighters, but Charl-
ton would not lack support if he took his
stand on the Labor platform and told the
bosses of the Sydney organisation to do their
worst.
♦
The Tariff in the Senate.
In considering the Pratten duties, the pre-
sent lot of Senators showed a much warmer
regard for Australian industries than those
who dealt with the Greene tariff in 1921.
On that occasion, partly owing .to weak
leadership, ten-per-cent. “Protectionists” took
charge of the proceedings, and the Tariff was
returned to the House of Reps, with requests
for reduced duties on wire-netting, fencing-
wire, electrical machines and appliances,
chaffcutters, horse-gear, caneloaders and
numerous other things. This time the
ten-per-cent. Protectionists were consistently
out-voted, although they buzzed around a lot.
Ex-S.A. Premier BaewEll was concerned in
an attempt to get the duties on locomotives
reduced, the motion leading to a discussion
on his Government’s action in going out of
the Commonwealth for engines and trucks
and asking for the return of customs duties
which now amount to £347,818. The voting
against Barwell was 18 to 9. An. effort
was also made to have the 1921 duties on
road-rollers restored. This enabled Senator
Elliott to show that the addition of 12%
p.c. on British rollers and 15 p.c.
on the foreign article had enabled . a
Victorian manufacturer to dispose of . 32
super-Diesel rollers to local bodies in various
parts of the Commonwealth, and because of
this increased turnover to effect a substantial
reduction in prices, while obliging his over-
seas competitors to quote £l9O less per
machine than before the new schedule was
introduced, although they are paying another
£lOO to the Customs Department. Yet the
Foreign-trader persists in arguing that the
raising of duties to tire Protective point in-
fallibly sends prices up, and the lowering of
duties below that point infallibly brings
prices down. The 1926 Senators also made
some amends for the folly of the 1921 crowd
by recommending a duty of 2|d. per foot on
foreign films, instead of the old farcical rate
of lid. In 1921 the House of Reps, voted
in the first place for 3d. per foot, but the
Senate substituted the ridiculous three-
ha’pence. and the House did not argue the
point when the tariff was sent back, being
in a hurry to get into recess. On the pre-
sent occasion, even Jack Grant, of N. S.
Wales, the one Labor Cobdenite in the
Senate now Gardiner has gone, came out
of his Foreign-trade rut and spoke in good
Australian terms on the necessity for com-
bating the Americanisation of our picture-
theatres. now almost complete, and fostering
a film industry of our own. After the cus-
tomary outbreak of unmanly squealing it
has been suggested by the foreign interest
that the House of Reps, will undo the
Senate’s good work, even as the Senate undid
that of the House five years ago. It is diffi-
cult to believe that tbe present House is
capable of such a crime against Australian
nationalism.
4
McWhaes and Other Johnnies.
John McWhae, of Victoria, has served
his country long and earnestly in many
capacities, and lately returned from a spell
as Agent-General. He came back with the
usual shapeless warning about Empty Aus-
tralia and the dangers thereof
Australians do not realise the immense growth in
population all over, the ««M “
»L>» Evw 1 ox«pf“ ”nS tm
millions to-aaj. y League of Nations will
not'move “ end 'of' Australia as regards migration.
The League will have to take into account the views
of the niaiority of its members, which wiU naturally
f 1 vor e the* populating of sparsely inhabited countries
without restriction* . . ~ *
In other words, the League, it this nation »
casualness gives it an excuse to interfere,
w7ll want to ffll up Empty Australia with
Mediterranean folk and sundries. Yet ther
nn reason why it should have an excuse to
interfere. SOl States muitipUed its
population by hve since 1850 (not 1863).
Canada’s inhabitants multiplied by four in
the same time. Australia’s multiplied by nearly
15 So this land really has something to »aj
for itself; and it didn’t import mixed crimi-
nals at the United States rate either. The
Commonwealth is more densely peopled than
Newfoundland and Labrador, a very old com-
posite British possession. It isn t so much
behind Canada, having 199 persons on the
area where Canada pastures 247, and Can
adian settlement dates back 29 8 years. There
are two countries bordering on the very, v y
ancient Mediterranean winch don t measure
up to Australia’s standard. They have 197
people where the Commonwealth has IJJ.
South-West Africa (lately German) and the
Bechuanaland Protectorate are vacant by
comparison with our bit of soil. A gain ot
120,753 new inhabitants per annum (the last
four years’ average) would be quite enough
to wipe out the name of “Empty Australia,
to make our claim upon the whole continent
good beyond dispute, and to put us m t le
position to bid any meddling League of
Nations betake itself to the bottomless pit
when it tried to talk about settlement
provided the new inhabitants had facilities
and inducements to make for the blank spaces
and stay there. If railways (Federal, State,
private, land-grant or any old sort) were
built from south to north, and if land in
sufficient quantities were thrown at desirable
settlers 120,753 fresh inhabitants per annum
would make a lightning change on the map.
At present they go into overgrown cities,
down in a corner, and make no change. In
the same conditions 241,506 fresh inhabitants
would do as much—and as little. It is dread-
ful to hear the dirge of McWhaeS and other
Johnnies to the effect that Australia must
get population or perish. Australia does get
population, and still it is more and more in
danger of perishing,, all by reason of the
stodgy incapacity of its Governments.
Australian Motor-cars.
The deputation that waited on Customs Minis-
ter Pkatten to ask for a Federal bounty on
Yustralian-made motor-cars not only put up
some sound arguments in favor of domesti-
cating the industry, but disclosed that
arrangements are being made on quite an
impressive scale for the mass-production ot a
standardised six-cylinder car suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Four well-known manu-
facturing firms are prepared to pool then
resources and raise capital, and the pro-
moters believe that they can commence pro-
duction on a sufficiently large scale to enable
them to meet the competition of overseas
manufacturers. That that competition will
be fierce at the outset goes without saying.
Australia is a very valuable market—the
annual purchases of imported motor vehicles
and parts reach nearly 15 millions. Ihe
amount of this subsidy to foreign industry
would have been greater but for the tact
that protection has been afforded to the body-
building industry, with the result that over
80 per cent, of last y'ear’s motor imports
came in bodyless. Although it has been the
fashion for the Australian representatives
of overseas motor-manufacturing firms to
refer to proposals for local manufacture as
fantastic and absurd, there has nevertheless
been an undercurrent of anxiety, and a good
deal of trouble has been take to impress upon
Australians their unfitness for such a ven-
ture No workshop in this Commonwealth,
it has been declared, could undertake work
of the accuracy necessary in automobile
engineering. In Australian workshops it
has been gravely stated, the utmost limit of
accuracy is one ten-thousandth of an inch,
whereas in England manufacturers work
to within one two-hundred-thousandtli ot an
inch Yet one of the largest American
makers of high-quality six-cylinder cars
announces with pride that its inspectors test
dimensions of engineering parts to one two-
thousandth of an inch! There can be no
doubt of the technical ability of Australian
workmen to make every part of a modern
automobile, from radiator-cap to differential
and from sparking-plugs to tyres. The whole
hog won’t be attempted at the outset, pos-
sibly ; but even the initial cars ought to be
well over 90 per cent. Australian. It is on
the engines and certain other parts that have
not hitherto been made in this country that
the prospective manufacturers want assist-
ance in the way of the Federal bounty. The
Tariff Board is going to investigate and
pass judgment on that request, and if the
manufacturing scheme is as soundly based as
it appears to be the Board should have little
difficulting in recommending all the help the
young industry may need. As to the ques-
tion of a bounty or subsidy, the results ot
applying such a stimulus to the steel indus-
try and the manufacture of electrical equip-
ment have been encouraging, and if that is
the sort of help most desired by those who
are prepared to pioneer the industry there is
no good reason why they should not get it.
—
A Hungry Beast.
Next year, on the triennia.l investigation, it
is anticipated that the value of property
within the City of Sydney will show a bigger
rise than it did even during the previous
three vears. when the unimproved capital
value leapt from £35,887,412 to £44 663,151,
and the improved from £103,590,880 to
£141629.260; 15 vears ago the figures were
£23,940,030 and £58.891,800. This year 70
new buildings are being piled up towards
the sky, many of them as high as they are
allowed to go, and their estimated cost —
without counting any more new buildings
that may be added within the next six months
—is £2,750,000. Approximately another
million will this year be spent on the city
railway also. Last year the expenditure
upon buildings in the city was £2,593,452,
and for the whole metropolitan area
£11,587,149; and if the figures keep any-
thing like their proportion nearly another
million will be added to the last total this
year, while the various public works (within
a few years £6,500,000 is to go on the harbor
bridge and £6,000,000 on railway electrifica-
tion) increase the dizzy height of the massed
figures. In the midst of the mad frenzy the
voice of exultation is heard that Sydney lias
become the second white city of the Empire
■—exultation mixed with the wail that the
cost of living is still going up. A bloated
city is a hungry beast, and one of the things
it lives on is rent; and that rent is charge-
able not only on the cost of the labor ex-
pended in “improving” the city, but upon
the fictitious values created by every addi-
tion to the multitude that huddles about the
knees of the animal. Apart from the places
we live in, we pay rent on everything we
want, or, not wanting, buy. Matters are
bad enough now; decentralisation is the only
thing that will prevent them from becoming
much worse.
+
Scrip Peddlers.
Some time ago The Bulletin chronicled
the invasion of Britain by an organised gang
of “white-collar bandits,” as their American
compatriots style them. Their business was
the selling from door to door of shares in
alleged oil companies, a game which the
gang had played with great success in that
land of “suckers,” the U.S.A. Scotland Yard
quickly shooed these gentry off the premises,
but they have been succeeded by similar
pests, who differ only in the fact that the
“bonds” they sell are those of actually exist-
ing corporations. Now comes news that the
British Home Office has decided to stop the
house-to-house hawking of this very dubious
scrip. The “bond”-selling craze is one of
the most recent Yankee inventions for earn-
ing one’s bread by the sweat of one's jaw.
It has cast “insurance writing” into the
shade, and the selling of the pretty bits of
paper on commission has become a national
industry. Unhappily, the craze has spread
to Australia, and, thanks to our various and
conflicting Companies Acts, each a law unto
itself in its own State, is flourishing. In
N. S. Wales, whose company legislation has
been held up to contumely in The Bulle-
tin year in and year out, the fungus is flour-
ishing rankly. Company promotion, at its
best a reputable and legitimate business, has
a long train of insanitary camp-followers.
Anyone who can hire a room with a table
and two chairs, and persuade a couple of glib
individuals to stump the community selling
shares, is in a fair way to become a com-
pany promoter in the Ma State. There are
a few trifling preliminaries in the way of
registration, etc., and the pack is then free
to get into the flock —which is the public.
The fluent young man at the front door will
sell you £1 shares in the smallest of parcels
for 2s. in the £1 deposit. His tale varies,
but his immediate interest is to get the
deposit, of which his commission varies
from Is. to Is. 6d., usually the latter. This
leaves 6d. on the first deposit to pay the
company’s exes., so it is natural that the
confiding buyer’s next experience is a demand
for further payments, and, as a rule, the
interval between calls is not long. The merry
business is going on briskly, in town and
country, until the time has become more than
ripe for putting an end to it. Prosecutions
for conspiracy and misrepresentation are
usually futile. Failing a Commonwealth
Companies Act to supersede the conflicting
State legislation, the States, and particularly
N. S. Wales, should take a prompt hand in
dealing with the situation. Many expedients
have been suggested to cut the hawking of
shares out. One of these is the banning of
any higher commission to salesmen than that
permitted to registered brokers under the
rules of the Stock Exchange. Whatever the
remedy, there is urgent need for one, and its
application lies particularly within the pro-
vince of a Labor Government, for the majo-
rity of those who pay deposits to share-
peddlers, and have good reason to regret it
later, belong to the section which votes for
Lang and his friends.
The Maligned Tin House.
“Bushwoman” : In the article by “Dengue
Dan” (B. 29/4/’26) I was glad to see the
figures and facts he quoted to prove, the tin
house was not unhealthy. But he missed its
two outstanding virtues. It is by far th»
best house to sleep in, and a good nights
rest insures vigor for the coming day. With-
in a few minutes after sundown the roof
and wall are cool. Not so with wood; and
the better the wooden house is lined and
ceiled the longer it takes to cool. Concrete,
brick or stone, once really warmed up in the
beginning of summer, radiates heat even after
days and weeks of cooler weather, and it is
in these so-called good houses that people
toss and turn through the tropic nights
bathed in perspiration, and after a bad night s
rest start the new day weary and fagged.
The second great virtue of the “humpy” is
that it can easily be kept free from every
kind of insect pest, and what that means
for health and comfort every, dweller in the
tropics can testify. I have 36 years’ experience
of tropical Queensland, and can bear witness
that an iron house is, taking the whole
24 hours into consideration, both the cooler
and the cleaner. For some time I lived in a
big stone house that radiated heat like an
oven from its walls from October till April.
I have also lived in a double-walled
and ceiled wooden house with plenty
of ventilation between walls and roof.
It was a comfortable house, but took nearly
all night to cool down. And the pests!
In spite of all I could do, they thrived
between the double walls ; “they” ranged from
an occasional ’possum and squirrel to snakes,
lizards and mice, cockroaches, silverfish, grey
crickets and other evils that cause endless
work and worry to dwellers in the Tropics.
I came to North Queensland with all the
Southern woman’s love of a well-built, good-
looking home, and when it became my fate to
live in an iron “barn” I felt properly aggrieved.
A big drought prevented materials for ceiling
and lining reaching us, but paint was avail-
able, so I had the walls, which were
lofty and shaded by a wide verandah, well
painted —roof, outer walls and all—and 10.
the barn became a presentable dwelling, and
I lived in it long enough to appreciate its good
qualities! People should concentrate not on
how to get rid of the clean, cheap and durable'
iron house, but on how to convert it from-
the ugly tin humpy into a
ing by better designing and plenty or good
paint There is no doubt of the healthfulness
of the tablelands of N.Q. We are in the
midst of a dreadful drought and an acute
shortage of grass and water for the animals,
but the days and nights are perfect. And
an evening spent right out under the glorious
procession of the stars in a clear tropic night
sky compares well with sitting in a crowded
theatre or picture-house reeking with mixed
odors.
4
The Big Little Brother Movement.
“M.G.S.” : The Big Brother movement, which
had its genesis in Richard Linton’s terror
at the spectacle of Britain’s unemployed in
1923, now keeps a paid clerk or two and a.
couple of honorary workers busy in the top*
storey of a building in Elizabetli-street, Mel-
bourne. A trip up there is more humanly
illuminating than all the immigration offices,
in the land. One of the principal exhibits;
is a large map of Victoria stuck over with
small flags like a war chart. There are 178
of them. They denote where a Little Brother
is located. There is an overflowing card
index of Big Brothers. The function of a
8.8. is to subscribe ss. yearly to the funds,,
to meet liis corresponding Little Brother, to>
keep him safe from the snares of the great,
city until he can be packed off to the farmer
to whom he is addressed, to save him from;
brooding on his homeland by monthly letters,
papers and the exhibition of a human interest
in his career, and to be morally responsible
for him till he reaches 21. The
function of the cocky recipient of a
Little B. is to house and feed him
reasonably well, pay him 15s. a week
to start with, see that he opens a savings-
bank account, and give him a thorough train-
ing in his future career as well as taking;
present service for value received. The boys
are assigned to farmers of their own denomi-
nation. Individual files hold the record of
gach lad’s struggles with his new environ-
ment, and are open to inspection. In fact,
since the affair belongs to the public, the
public is invited to come up and browse. The.
farmers are periodically asked to pass an
opinion on their acquisitions, and the acqui-
sition is asked to fill in a questionnaire of
his own. One L.B. announces a bank account
of £3B saved out of a weekly wage of 17s. 6d.,
plus a side-line in rabbit- and fox-skins, since
December; needless to say he came from
Scotland. Another reports a rise to 255. con-
sequent on his display of vigor in the field.
Another strikes a note of disillusionment. It
is a mild note. His farmer isn’t a real
farmer. He has made his pile and is only
pottering at the game. The L.B. wants to
go to a place where there are ploughs to be
driven. He gets his wish within a fortnight.
Parents have followed their boys and found
jobs for themselves, and one L.B. says Ins
mother is working in another part of the
State and he would like to be near her. There
is a shifting of pins on ,the map, and two
L.B.’s change owners, and everybody is satis-
fied. People have called the business molly-
coddling. But some of the kids are only 14
and. mollycoddled or not, they have to work
hard, and up to date nobody has discovered
a Little Brother, once placed, holding up a
lamp-post in Swanston-street. The verdict
of the files is that about 98 p.c. of the boys
have been successful. Twenty-five are being
accommodated per month in Victoria; 100 in
N. S. Wales. “Festina very lente” is the
founder’s motto. His shrewd round Scotch
f ace —he is a Maorilander who crossed to
Sydney many years ago—is full of energy
and enthusiasm, but he does not talk of
“million farms” or mammoth loans. The,
other Staff's will come into line presently.
Meantime the movement progresses nicely
and has just had an inter-State conference
in Sydney to consider further ways and
means. One proof of its soundness is the
fact that the yellow press hasn’t been able
to smell out a single scandal. Lastly, as to
the quality of the raw material. It comes
from the State, secondary and even the great
public schools of Britain. It has to undergo
the usual medical examination, but thereupon
succeeds a process of personal selection. 1
saw a group a few weeks ago. The difference
between it and a section of the influx which
the ordinary immigration channels are pour-
ing into this country suggested that the in-
troduction of the human touch can work
■wonders.
Vic. Traffic Problems.
“Tiie Traveller” : The Vic. Railway Com-
missioners recently told a Geelong deputa-
tion that it was not proposed to build any
more 10-ton trucks. They are gradually to
be superseded by 20- and 40-ton ‘vehicles;
similarly, the older and lighter types of
engines are being replaced by locos of bigger
power. This policy needs much more con-
sideration than it seems to have had. It
mav be all right in a country where the
railway traffic is heavy and regular all the
year round. In Victoria, however, wheat
constitutes most of the heavy goods carried
by rail, and the traffic lasts for only three or
four months of the year. Consequently the
heavy rolling stock will not be fully em-
ployed for most of the time. And there is
another aspect of the matter. On branch
lines in sparsely-populated districts it is
the growing policy to cut down the trains to
only so many as will provide a “full load”
for the heavier locomotives. An engine
capable of hauling, say, 300 tons is put on in
place of one only half as powerful. The Com-
missioners claim that this means a great
saving in trains; what they ignore is that
out-back settlers have thereby to wait twice
as long for their goods. Many country dis-
tricts have a worse railway service than
they had 40 years ago. Again, the new 20-
and 40-ton trucks cater only for the man in
a big way of business. There are thousands
of railway customers who require only from
5 to 10 tons of goods brought to them, or
produce sent away, at one time. There is
already a difficulty in sunnlying these people
with the smaller trucks. If a man wants
to load, say, 5 tons of potatoes, and there
are only 15-ton trucks available, freight is
charged on the full capacity. If he decides
to wait till a small truck arrives, he must
pay for storage, besides perhaps losing a good
market.


Tlie Federal Mutual
r
\ ) .
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney,
R. RAiVNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE*, Manager and Secretary
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
11. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
HOW MUCH MONEY DO YOU SPEND EVERY WEEK?
THAT IS YOUR BUSINESS.
HOW MUCH DO YOU SAVE?
THAT IS OUR BUSINESS.
WE ARE ORGANISED TO HELP YOU DO THE SAVING.
No Amount is tob small —Money Boxes may be purchased for 6d.
Savings Accounts started with One Shilling—and the Bank is
represented throughout the Commonwealth, every Post Office being a
Savings Bank Agency.
This widespread and effective Banking Service provides your opportunity.
Commonwealtb .Rmli of Hastralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
The shooting-galleries that are allowed to
linger in Sydney’s main streets, untidy places
at best, are potential danger-spots as well.
Recently one of these "joints” in George-
street was the scene of a shooting affair, a
boozed patron having lired wildly into the
stomach of a good Samaritan who was trying
to protect him against other assailants. This
isn’t the first casualty by any means, and
the wonder is that fatalities are not more
numerous. Drunks are frequently found
testing their marksmanship in these gal-
leries, and the crooks who shepherd drunks
are equally in evidence, and there is always
the possibility of a shot going into the
crowded street. If these alleged places of
entertainment must exist they should at
least be moved from the main arteries of a
crowded city, and cut off by walls to pre-
vent them from being a danger and an
annoyance to passengers absolutely unin-
terested in the doubtful sport. The police
are expected to take action against any-
body carrying a firearm without a license,
yet they are expected to smile upon a busi-
ness in which all sorts of drunks and irre-
sponsibles are allowed freely to handle
deadly weapons.
Dear Bulletin, — The attack by “Cleve-
land” (B. 27/5/’26) on the Queensland
Department of Agriculture is unfair.
Those who have to refer to the officers
for information find them courteous and
reliable, and it is unjust to say that
they are at the beck and call of
the Government. Two varieties of cassava,
bitter (Manihot utilissima) and sweet (M.
(dpi), were introduced to Queensland many
years ago to provide tapioca to feed Kanaka
workers; but these have long since been dug
out except a small patch here and there, and
the plant has been allowed to run wild, of
course deteriorating all the time. These
varieties are not the best suited for produc-
tion of power-alcohol, and neither is included
in the cuttings brought from Java by Mr.
Brooks. Bulletin No. 20, issued by the In-
stitute of Science and Industry, says a fairly
good crop will be 15 tons to the acre, and
I know of cases where 20 tons have been
obtained. Mr. Brooks selected eight kinds
suited for power-alcohol nroduction to distri-
bute to farmers in the Sarina area. The tested
average of these ranged from 18 tons to the
acre (37 p.c. starch contents) to 22.4 tons
(•12.7 p.c. starch contents). The variety best
suited for Queensland will probably be Red
Singapore, averaging 21.3 tons and 34 p.c.
starch contents. LPese were grown (so Mr.
Brooks says) by native labor and some of
them under very primitive conditions, and
he is sure that with better cultivation in
Queensland _ by white labor, which he
maintains is no dearer than black, heavier
crops will be obtained.—Yours, W. P. D.
♦
The Maoriland quinquennial census makes it
plain that Henare is increasing; excluding
half-castes, lie is 11 per cent, more numerous
than he was in 1921. The rising curve has
been maintained for years, and there seems
little doubt that the Maori is now secure
against the curse of civilisation which has
obliterated so many kindred races. Nearly
everywhere else the Polynesian stock has
Proved unable to stand the strain of the
white man s advent, and even tin' once war-
like Hawaiian, whom the Maori claims as
an ancestor, has degenerated. Maybe the
comparatively rigorous climate and the
harder conditions of life in his new home
helped largely in toughening the immigrant
after his tropic languors and a food-supply
that was always ready to hand. The fruits
of the earth had to be won by hard work
in Maoi’iland, and the business of running
down and eating the original inhabitants in
such difficult country no doubt sharpened the
wits, as well as toughened the muscles. The
contrast is more than ever apparent to-
day. W hile the original tropical ■ Hawaiian
has contented himself with producing the
ukulele, his southward-faring cousins have
evolved great football teams.
The result of the first Commonwealth sale
of ex-enemy plantations in the Mandated
territories has heartened the Returned Sol-
diers’ League. The latter fought a great
battle for tin 1 alteration of Pearce’s original
regulations for the sales, which placed diffi-
culties in the way of R.S. applicants. It
is stated that 75 per cent, of the properties
have been acquired by returned men, which
is as it should be, not only for the reason
that the applicants had a right to prefer-
ence, but because the new tenants will repre-
sent a well-dug-in line of defence when the
ITun sets about his attack on the Australian
mandate in the_ attempt to recover liis
“stolen colonies.” His cry, already voiced,
that Australia was handing over his quondam
property to the exploitation of greedy com-
mercial interests, has been effectively
silenced. The settlement of so many men
who have deserved well of their country
should be an effective barrier to any claim
for re-instatement that the former owners
may try to bring forward.
“Aus. Div.” : Speaking as a chemist, I con-
sider it is Pot the form in which prescrip-
tions are couched (B. 3/0/’2H) that
leads to errors, but the atrocious writ-
ing of so many of the doctors. The
adoption of the metric system would not
affect that. Some medical men appear to
have never been taught handwriting at
school. L know one Melbourne doctor who
uses a typewriter, but even he alters a dose
sometimes with a scrawl of the pen. I have
had metric scripts which have been a night-
mare, due to a misplaced decimal point.
Teach the medical students to write,. I say;
we shall have occasional tragedies otherwise
no matter what system we use.
*
This is the familiar story now of the street
row in Sydney or Melbourne, and on a smaller
scale in less populous resorts. Constables
Smith and Jones, if Smith is lucky enough
to have Jones with him, endeavor to dis-
perse a group which is using language and
hustling passers-by. Being met with a fresh
blast of vocabulary they are driven to arrest
Brown and Thompson, the chief blasters.
They are furiously assailed by the group,
and reinforcements pour in till the attacking
party numbers 40 or so. A crowd of 100
gathers. These are reckoned respectable
citizens because they don’t join in the at-
tempted murder, but they neither render
assistance to the Law nor make themselves
useful by getting to a telephone and noti-
fying bobby headquarters. With good luck
the ultimate arrests average two, and the
SHE KNEW A BIT ABOUT THAT HERSELF.
“Lord Stradbroke, the retiring Governor of Victoria, says he has returned full of faith in Australia
and admiration for its people.”— Cable.
DAD: “There’s a hit here about Lord Stradbroke what shows he didn’t live in Australia
for nothing.”
MUM: “No, and that he didn't, and neither can nobody else, with your strikes and
everything.”
fines don’t average much. The whole public—
including the official —attitude calls for revi-
sion. A Queensland Minister recently made
the alarming statement that the policy of his
Government was to reform the criminal by
kindness and forbearance, and it has for-
beared so much that the individual with 25
years of well-earned sentences unserved is
liable to. be out committing new outrages
inside 12 months. One of Bruce’s joint
committees would probably find that there
is practically no record of any adult crimi-
nal being improved by forgiveness—after
his second offence, anyhow. A number of
New Testament maxims have been misread,
or only half-read. For instance, men are
bidden to love their enemies. If the pushites
won’t love the police with even a passive
affection, scriptural law leaves the penalty
open, so secular law might as well make the
minimum three months’ hard, with more
next time.
“Carysfort” : It would be folly to ignore
that there is a real scare in Britain about
the danger of arsenic in imported apples.
At a meeting of the Society of Public Ana-
lysts, it was stated that 34 out of 39 samples
of Jonathan, King David and Newtown
apples showed the presence of arsenic, and
that 11 of these contained more than the statu-
tory limit. This arsenic was not only incap-
able of being removed by rain, but remained
after scrubbing, partly because it had formed
insoluble compounds with the protein of the
skin, and partly because it was capable of
penetrating the skin and contaminating the
flesh of the fruit. The country of origin,
although not mentioned, was probably Amer-
ica in every instance, but the fact that the
Ministry of Health in December last issued
a circular to local authorities urging exami-
nation of samples and the withdrawal from
sale of those considered injurious is likely
to adversely affect our export trade in apples.
The fear of poisoning, once established, takes
much living down. Arsenate of lead is not
the only poison capable of killing the various
parasites of apples; it is used because it is
economical and adheres to the fruit for a
sufficient time. Research on scientific lines
would certainly reveal substitutes with which
fruit might be sprayed with no danger, or
even suspicion of it.
_ 4
“Feng-Shui” : One of the major ambitions
of the League of Nations is to become, per
medium of its Labor Bureau, an Arbitra-
tion Court for the entire world, with the
object of standardising wages, hours and
conditions of toil. As a beginning it started
on China as the most horrible example, and
its achievement there is of interest. The
Chinese Government, with several hundred
years’ experience of pulling Western legs,
lent itself to the scheme with cheerful zeal,
and promulgated a set of regulations. These
were received with due solemnity at the
League headquarters, the Chinese characters
were translated into English and French,
and when their purport was learned were
hailed with laudatory speeches. “Employ-
ers,” the regulations read, “should not en-
gage boys under 10, girls under 12 or young
persons in heavy work; they should provide
facilities and defray the cost of further edu-
cation for young persons and adults who
have not completed their education ; should
lighten or discontinue employment of the
sick or injured, pay all medical expenses
and full wages to disabled workers, and
grant a rest-period of live weeks on suitable
wages to every woman-worker before and
after child-birth, and should endeavor to pre-
vent industrial accidents and protect the
health of workers. Labor should not exceed
eight hours a day for young persons and
ten for adults, and two days’ rest a month
and overtime should be provided.” The
cream of the jest or tragedy consisted in the
fact that the character translated “should
be” merely implied a pious hope or wish.
The last thing the Celestial compilers of these
“regulations” expected was that they would
be put in operation. They simply thought
that it would be nice if such things could
be, and writing them down made the com-
posers feel good while they were doing it,
and moreover would keep the foreigner quiet
for a day or two. In the meantime, wherever
there are factories in China, babies of five
continue to turn up for work at four in the
morning and carry on till nine or ten at
night; mothers continue to eat their meals
and deliver their offspring while standing at
cotton-ginning machinery for 19 hours a day ;
and a weekly day of rest and educational
facilities remain as strange to the social
economy of the toiler as the doctrines of the
Rev. Thomas Malthus.
“Cocoanut” : Only now have the remarks
of “Bouragi” (B. 25/3/’26) concerning
British colonisers and the colored ladies of
the land reached me. I should like to be-
lieve that the Britisher when he gets away
from home doesn’t care a hang for the native
girl's charms, and considers it loss of pres-
tige to ally himself with her more or less
temporarily; but facts will assert themselves.
Meeting a colored girl the other day with a
four-year-old child, I made a discreet in-
quiry. There was no reserve about the
mother: “Oh, this one belongs to So-and-So.
I have two more, you know, out in the
islands. One is ’s, and the,other little
girl’s father is ——, who had 'me as his
wife after that!” Both officials were named.
There are some aboriginal stations in the
Gulf where the youngsters brought in from
round about are chiefly half-caste, and an-
other in the Territory where practically
every inmate is half-caste (or Euralian, as
they are termed). Recently I was visiting
a newly-formed settlement on the mainland,
and of the couple of dozen children lined up
for inspection there was the usual percentage
of creamy-tinted, whose mothers displayed
no reticence as to how they happened to come
there. The half-caste problem is becoming
one of increasing difficulty each year. It
was not so long back that a group of intelli-
gent natives put some very pertinent ques-
tions to me, and desired to know if similar
concessions would be granted them if they
visited the land of the dominant race. No,
I am sorry it is not true that “the most
easy-going Briton in savage lands has a con-
tempt for the occasional maintainer of a
native concubine.” The contempt is for the
unfortunate who comes along as a result of
the alliance.
“SoKiBUs” : About five years ago the Living-
stone and Fitzroy Shires (Central Queens-
land) were spending large sums in dealing
ineffectively with typhoid and other fly-borne
diseases, and the more prevalent and fatal
diphtheria, the result of disgraceful drain-
age. Faced with parsimony and prejudice—
one shire chairman boasted that a cesspit on
his place had not been attended to for 24
years—a newly-appointed medical officer
pleaded for a chance. Giving up a lot of
time, he went through the shires, conversing
with farmers and pointing out the benefits
of proper nightsoil disposal and drainage.
The farmers were awakened and so were
the councils, and, backed by the Health De-
partment of Queensland, that medical officer
introduced simple but effective plans. The
result? In the last two years both coun-
cils’ payments to hospitals for the treatment
of infectious cases could be covered by a
ten-pound note. One Kanaka settlement,
where the hookworm percentage touched 90.
all through disgraceful practices born of
ignorance, now has a health record com-
parable with adjoining white settlements. In
these shires prejudice has gone, councils
are eager in health matters, and ratepayers
are getting the benefit of money spent on
roads that in other days went in dealing with
epidemics. Further, Rockhampton town is
practically free from infectious diseases
through the high standard of sanitation to
which adjoining shires have been raised —all
by a little earnest education.
“S Aimxa ’: “Gregor” errs in stating that
native women are debarred from domestic
work in the Mandated Territory (P>.
25/2/’26. _ My recruiting license says: (1)
The recruiting of single women is prohibited
except under the provisions of Section 27.
(2) The recruiting of married women is
prohibited, except with their consent and the
consent of tlieir husbands, and unless their
husbands are recruited at the same time for
work at the same place. Section 27 of the
Native Labor Ordinance reads : “European
women, or women having the status of Euro-
peans, may engaged unmarried native girls
or women for domestic work.” Touching the
employment of “boys” as personal servants
by white women, most men who have knocked
around the islands among all classes of
natives are convinced that a white woman
who allows a “boy” to see the details of her
intimate life is looking for trouble. The
Kanaka is a human being, and he would
want a lot more self-control than most white
men possess to come cleanly through some
of the ordeals to which white women are
ready to subject him.


i
im
!• ' .
m
'Army Club'
The flajop
IO for 9° 20fori'6. 50 for 3'9
CAVANDERS 1™
LONDON.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Paterson, Cocky M.11.R. for Gippsland
has become Minister for Markets and Migra
tion in place of Wilson, the defeated S. Aus.
Senator, and the Home and Territories port-
folio goes to Senator Tom Glasgow, of
Queensland, Pearce succeeding Atkinson as
Vice-President of the Executive Council.
The M.11.R, for Wilmot (Tas.) hasn’t been
provided for in the shuffle, but a seat on one
of the numerous Commissions may be found
for him presently. Glasgow is one of the
silent Senators, and the introducing and
defending of bills will be a burden to him,
but if he runs his department as well as he
commanded the First Division lie will do,
Paterson showed some constructive ability
in the drawing-up of his butter-stabilisa-
tion scheme. His Scotch shrewdness will
be an asset to the Ministry if he can pro-
ject his vision beyond the cow-paddock fence.
After being an impassioned portfolio-holder
in six consecutive Ministries and in two de-
tached ones before- that, Senator Pearce has
gone into semi-obscurity as that indefinite
tiling the Vice-President of the Executive
Council. His last effort was 4| years in
charge principally of the Northern Territory,
and in that capacity he produced a loud, com-
plete and confused absence of results which
was a masterpiece. General Glasgow, who
takes up the load, inherits from his pre-
decessor three schemes, one for building a
uew scrap of narrow-gauge line from tiie
wrong end; one for appointing a drove of
officials; and one for reluctantly selling a
few absurdly small farms under enough con-
ditions to suggest that the agriculturist is a
dangerous animal.
Workers’ compensation is sound policy;
of course, every industry ought to be obliged
to support its victims. But Baddeley’s stupid
N. S. Wales measure throws far more than
that on industry. A workman is now covered
not merely when he is doing a job under the
control of the employer, but when lie is his
own boss and quite out of the boss’s time.
Not the least bad feature of the new law is
that nobody knows where the employer’s lia-
bility ends, so that where a man is not earn-
ing much, if anything, for his boss, and can
he done without, he is liable to he sacked
at any moment-—hundreds have been sacked
already.
The substitution of Glasgow and Pater-
son for Wilson and Atkinson has left South
Aus. and the Speck without a mouthpiece in
the Commonwealth Ministry. Each State
has had the experience before to-day—for
instance, Fisher had no Tasmanian in his
first Administration, nor did Hughes include
a South Australian in his first crowd —but
it never previously happened to both at the
same time. In that first Fisher Government
there were three South Australians (Bat-
chelor. McGregor and Hutchison), together
with two N. S. Welshmen, two Westralians,
a Queenslander and a Victorian. Now there
are five Victorians, four N. S. Welshmen,
two Queenslanders and a Westralian. It is
expected that a South Australian will go
into the Cabinet when Howse or Pearce
drops out, but Wheat Staters and Tas-
manians are not alone in thinking that there
is a fantastic over-representation of the Vic.
Cocky group. It is one of the peculiar re-
sults of the 1924 Bruce-Page pact.
Jack Barnes, Senator and president of the
A.W.U., made things very awkward for the
little crowd that was keen on another heresy
hunt in which Matthew Charlton, among
others, was to be sacrificed. Barnes said the
extension of the powers of the Commonwealth
in industrial and other matters was well
established Labor policy, and that’s all there
was about it. Barnes has a very strong
following in the A.W.U., and it is a follow-
ing that is sick of being asked to sacrifice
principle for alleged expediency; so the
heresy hunt was called off for the time being.
N S.W. Premier Lang seems as ignorant
of Federal history as his offsider McKell.
Denouncing the proposed extension of led-
eral powers, lie praised “the original Con-
stitution Alteration Acts of 1912,” and re-
peated the 1912 so that there might be no
mistake about it. The laws in question
were passed in 1910 and referred to the
people on April 20, 1911. Actually Bruce
is reviving one of the amendments submitted
by a Labor Government then and in 1913;
WATER, WATER EVERYWHERE, BUT NOT A DROP TO DRINK.
“The Referendum issue, which started out as a simple proposition, is daily becoming more cothed
owing to the complications which are being added to it."
but his proposals are nevertheless “a mis-
chievous interference with, powers at present
exercised wisely.’’
“When the people agreed to grant the power
to collect customs and excise receipts to the
Commonwealth, it was never once suggested
that the Commonwealth should claim the
whole,” Lang says. The fact is that tlm
Commonwealth Parliament was authorised
to keep “the whole” at the expiration of
ten years; moreover, the Fisher Gov-
ernment’s Surplus Revenue Act, passed in
1910, was limited to ten years. But it is
perhaps unreasonable to expect accuracy of
a Premier who said two months ago that
“one central Parliament should suffice to rule
Australia,” and who is now raving against a
proposal to add even a trifle to the central
Parliament’s powers.
The Westralian Workers’ Compensation
Act is stirring up trouble of the kind that
threatens the N.S.W. measure. McCallum,
Groperland Minister for Labor, has notified
employers that the insurance cos, are no
longer authorised to issue policies under the
Act, and that employers must now insure
with the State. The companies have come
back with legal opinion to the effect that
insurances made or renewed by them are as
legal as ever, that the Minister has no power
to invalidate them, and that the Government
is not an incorporated insurance co. as pro-
vided by the Act. Their reply closes with
the statement that insurance with the Gov-
ernment would be an infraction of the Gov-
ernment’s own law, which rounds off the
comedy neatly.
The sudden resignation of returned-soldier
Hurst from Tas. Assembly has left the Lyons
Government with the same number of sup-
porters as their opponents. But Parliament
is not in session, and it is probable, though
by no means certain, that Hurst’s place as
oiie of the six for Darwin will be filled by
another Government supporter at the by-
election —which is a re-examination of last
election ballot-papers to find the candidate who
would have won if Hurst had not been in the
field. Harry Lane was the Labor runner-up at
last election, and apparently has the best
chance; but he is in such ill-health that
he may not contest the re-count. The next
Labor candidate on the list (W. Trainor)
is also said to be a likely non-starter. This
leaves only the woman candidate (Mrs. Bur-
nell, Premier Lyons’s ma-indaw), but her
tally was so low as to raise grave doubts
of her ability to win the re-count. A re-
examination of Hurst’s papers might actually
give, the Nationalist runner-up the seat. In
that event parties in the Assembly would be
even, which would offer a good chance for
Tasmania to experiment with an elective
Ministry.
One Broach, an English banker, has
dropped in on Melbourne and spoken to
more purpose than some globe-trotters do .
In America there is the splendid spectacle of what
high wages mean when the worker assists the
employer in producing more goods. When an
American workman has a grievance against his em-
ployer he doesn't go on strike. He buys in
the concern, and at the next shareholders meeting
lie talks to his employer on terms not of equality,
but as one of the employer's bosses.
In short, the Yankee prefers to be one ot
the bosses rather than a striker carrying a
banner; the workers are even getting a big
bold on Standard Oil in this way. Coal-mining,
shipping and industrial companies lend them-
selves to this form of peaceful penetration.
Of course the professional strike-maker hates
it. It greatly limits his field; wherefore he
implores the worker not tp be part of the
business and look after his awn interests
but to be class-conscious outside and tiu»
his affairs to Thomas and Jacob.
After a recess of 28 weeks Vic. Parlia
ment will re-assemble op June a
new Gov. will invoke the “blessing ot Divine
Providence” on its labors. It needs inspira-
tion some kii.v*, oiuco its election t
years ago it has done little to win a niche
in history. Allan is at this moment unfold-
ing a programme, but he is really more co
cerned now about till-money to carry on
with than about the rural bank, £o,OUO,U<X
saleyards, the redistribution of seats ami-
other large matters.
Several Queensland Labor members aie
hungry for an increase of salary, and a big.
push is likely to be made when I arliament.
meets next month. The example ot N.S.Y\„
is quoted with approval. Queensland mem-
bers now receive £5OO p. a., and an extra.
£250 is reckoned a fair thing. Iheodore;
had the pluck to apply the 5 p.c. cut m
salaries all round, docking even Ministers,
bv £5O p.a., but McCormack isn t Theodore.
The salary grab will, if possible, be brought,
off early in the session, so that the electors
may have three years to forget it.
As the Parliamentary move to Canberra
comes nearer, and the scattered city takes
a bit of shape, traces of public interest can
be noticed. Thus it is recorded with some
show of surprise that the temperature las„
winter got down to 14 degrees—lB degrees be-
low freezing-point. The Commissioner recently
decided to invite tenders for 500 more houses
at an estimated cost of £l5OO each ; and com
plaints are already being made that the con
structors have not realised that they are
building for the coldest city in Australia-
one which, by Federal records, can be l.>
degrees more bleak than Hobart at its worst,
or at the worst it has managed in 42 years—
and that the houses have not been made to
fit. the situation.
The dream of the late Tommy Bent was:
realised the other day when a deputation
from South Melbourne came to Peacock,,
Minister for Education, “with some money
in its clothes.” The deputation notified that
South Melbourne Council had set. aside £2OOl
to earn interest for scholarships in high
and technical schools for local kiddies, and
it asked him if he would help to the same
extent. Peacock clinched straight away
further, he promised that tuition of the
selected scholars would be made free, so
that the municipal contribution could be
used for books, travelling and other exes..
which are a strain on struggling parents who
want to give bright youngsters a chance.
When McPherson, Greenwood and Cohen
blew their trumpets on suburban platforms,
and the stunt press of Melbourne tried to
make the public believe the three were
oracles, Allan and Peacock called their
parties together, and each appointed a com-
mittee of six to a conference to discuss mat-
ters of general policy. Some people thought
the dozen would become a sort of super-
Cabinet and break things, notwithstanding
the presence of four Ministers. Old-hand
Peacock knew better. From the first the
conference began to feed out of the nosebags
prepared by Ministers. But it was so oppor-
tune to have the conference to condemn the
Federal per capita abolition proposals, and
it was made use of to call upon ic. Federal
members in both Houses to oppose the Bruce-
Page bill. Farmer John Allan is picking
up wrinkles from his partner.
N.S.W. Attorney-General McTicrnan lias
expressed a boyish delight at his reception
in Uowniug-street. which reception, he says,
was “the most cordial possible.” He evi-
dently half expected to be thrown down the
steps'. In his exultation lie anticipates suc-
cess for his mission, which is to enlist Down-
ing-street’s aid in abolishing the Legislative
Council. The young man will live to learn
that the Englishman is never more affable
than when he is about to put in the boot.
The cable accounts of the surrender of
the Riffs to the Spanish-French allies tell
how a tribe which had been held in subjec-
tion by Abd el Krim took advantage of his
fall to decapitate all officers appointed by
him. The story is strangely reminiscent of
the happenings in N. S. Wales last year,
when the oppressed tribes of Labor returned
to the promised land, and Sultan Jakub el
Lang got busy with bowstring and scimitar.
An obscure cocky down south lias attracted
public attention by answering a charge ot
not recording liis vote at the last I ederal
election. He defended himself vigorously;
but the magistrate, while expressing sympathy
with his viewpoint, had to fine him. lie
might have saved himself all the trouble
by lodging an informal ballot-paper, as hun-
dreds of others did. But he chose the more
honest course, and so ran against the law.
The Federal Act. cannot force electors to
record a valid vote. It merely compels them
to visit the polling-booth and accept a
ballot-paper, upon which they can write any-
thing they choose. More, Farliament can t
ever make sure of getting a valid vote without
making open voting compulsory.
ONE AND ANOTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I do not mind criticism a bit. It lets us know
we are politicians.” —Veteran Vic. Minister for Edu-
cation Alec Peacock.
Unheeding all, he went his way
On ancient, wearied feet,
This figure battered, bruised and grey;
But his laugh was loud and his voice was gay.
And blithe the burden of his lay
That filled the listening street:
“How do I know I’m a politician?”
He sang oh merrily!
“Not by the light of a stern ambition
To serve democracy ;
Not by the fight to fulfil a mission
On quite unequal fee;
Plain evidences of my erudition
In sowing of laws and their sane fruition
Could never have proven my proud position;
Oh, dearie —no!” said he.
“My strongest acts,, my smartest ruses,
Mankind, the foolish, but abuses.
Thus do I know I’m a politician—
By the kicks that come to me.”
But in his shadow, strange to say,
There stepped on dainty feet
Another figure, bruised and grey,
And its ears were long, and -its mighty bray
And words (its first since Balaam’s day)
Now filled the listening street:
“How do I know I’m an ass undoubted?”
It hawed in a Jack-high key.
“Not by the commonsense rules I’ve flouted
In splendid 'obstinacy;
Not by the reas’nableness I’ve routed
With heels a-kicking free J
Nor yet by the beautiful noise I’ve spouted,
Till even the meekest of men have clouted
My positive stern, their patience outed—
Ah, not by that!” said he.
“ ’Tis clear enough, to an outlook mulish,
An ass is wise, a man is foolish.
Thus do I know I’m a donk undoubted—-
By the kicks that come to me!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
ďf
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
n
!PSW«
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY, SECURITY.
It is your Duty to appoint an Experienced Executor.
The Trustees, Executors & Agency Company,
Limited.
Its 48 years’ experience in administering Estates of every description is ample
assurance that the Company can manage yours to the best advantage.
Trust Funds administered EXCEED FORTY-ONE MILLIONS.
JAS. BORROWMAN, CJHAS. R. SMI BERT
General Manager. Manager.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Call or Write for Booklet.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co.. Limited, the
wool people:—
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1915 £178,127 £71,422 10 p.c. = £70,274 £637,880
1916 188,449 70,418 121 „ ~ 87,842 508,069
1917 222,067 69,686 15 „ „ 105,411 615,039
1918 249,987 68,985 15 „ „ 105,411 690,630
Transferred to Capital, £70,273 . . 620,357
1919 222,950 68,338 15 p.c. = 115,951 659,018
1920 161,039 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 1 fil „
Drought exes, written off, £25,000 J
Premiums on new shares, £35,960 648,106
1921 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. = 84,493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 „ „ 137,527 651,297
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares .. £37,500 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £186,113 976,055
Additions to reserves, £280,947.. 1,257,002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212,592 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500 .. 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
The purchase of the Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis business in 1925 added S. Aus. and
Westralia to the co.’s territory, and the
opportunities arising out of that deal, plus
normal progress in its old fields, were be-
hind the issue of the quarter-million of new
shares —“profitable and safe business” was
offering in every State. Latest accounts sup-
port the first adjective, and the G.-M. man-
agement, with the past as a warning, is not
likely to move far out of the safety-zone.
There is a strong strain of conservatism in
the co.’s enterprise, and the absorption of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin (N.S.W.) and
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis (S.A. and W.A.I
lias added notably to its strength. In each
instance the purchase was made in G.-M.
shares at a heavy premium, and that method
lias made big additions to reserves. A
further £187,500 came from the 15s. premium
on each of the quarter-million issued last
term. Visible accumulations at March 31
amounted to £1,605,969, and inner reserves
would fill a few bales. Freehold and lease-
hold properties and stock, for instance, are
in at valuations which, apart from deprecia-
tion, have not been materially altered since
1900. That, of course, is as it should be in
a pastoral-finance business, for our greatest
industry is subject to factors which make for
violent fluctuations. As against that G.-M.
is in the unique position that its risks are
now spread over the whole continent —the
Westralian business is small, and the man-
agement is moving slowly there—and recent
years have been marked by amazingly good
wool prices. The phenomenal rates obtained
for two-thirds of the 1924 clip could not
hold. But present prices are highly profit-
able to growers, and the wool houses reflect
the prosperity. The period covered by the
latest accounts was abnormally dry, but
widespread rain in November ended most of
the anxiety, and later falls—except for a
belt in Queensland —completely changed the
gloomy prospects: this winter is expected to
be “one of the best experienced for some
time.” Only two of the co.’s properties—
both in central-west Queensland —were
affected by the drought to any extent. Live-
stock sales were smaller, but wool handled
was easily a record: 281,771 bales compared
with 163,884 in the previous term; carry-
over 33,187 bales compared with 59,654 bales.
These figures are influenced, of course, by
the business brought in by Bagot, Shakes
and Lewis, and they raise G.-M. to the pre-
mium position among the wool-sellers of the
Commonwealth. Dalgety’s alone, and then
largely because of its more varied activities,
shows greater balance-sheet figures.
Earnings climbed still higher:—
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit
1918. . £366,644 £116,657 £68,985 £181,002
1919.. 359,317 134,367 68,338 £2OOO 154,612
1920.. 299,901 161,862* 66,960 2000 69,079
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498,039 205,280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., purchased.
1925.. 806,413 429,100 63,346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 * 63,233 5000 315,092
♦lncluding £25,000 drought exes.
Profits of the introductory table are shown
prior to the payment of debenture interest.
The increase in exes, was general, but most
of the £33,625 was accounted for by salaries
and wages, although land- and income-taxes
called for £803!) more than in 1925. There
is little prospect of reduction in either item ;
and the new N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act will certainly increase the load.
•••••»
Balance-sheet figures showed the influence
of the new capital:—
Liabilities.
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. 773,010 966,849 1,500,000 1,750,000
Debentures 1,504,648 1,460,998 1,435,678 1,434,658
Other liabili-
ties . . 118,411 298,782 824,223 813,211
Liquid assets 647,455 712,835 638,906 1,023,287
Advances .. 1,967,430 2,105,676 3,631,158 3,087,113
Prop erties
and stock 220,723 334,360 316,544 345,500
P r e m ises,
etc. .. 212,803 418,034 592,492 634,049
Other assets 64,105 44,852 89,177 93,889
Tlie net movement in liabilities was a slight
reduction. Deposits were £85,910 less, but a
mortgage of £30,000 almost counterbalanced
that. The liquid position was strengthened,
cash and deposits going from £267,273 to
£610,906 and public securities from £266,996
to £366,441. The gilt-edged stock are in at
cost or under, and in those detailed (the
“primary reserve” investments) the face
value is £29,180 greater than the book value.
That reserve, by the way, is a guarantee that
the interest on the debentures will be paid
and a “secondary reserve” of £75,000 is a
buttress. Holders are not likely to lose any
sleep about their 4 p.c. or 5 p.c. The deben-
ture stock —£850,855 of 4 p.c. and £583,803
of o p.c.—has been cheap capital for a
number of years, and the fact that it is fixed
is very helpful. During the year a small
parcel of 5 p.c. was bought up by the co.
and cancelled. The new capital has been
given the usual 15 p.c., notwithstanding
that at March 31 the quarter million —and
almost as much more—was in cash and pub-
lic securities. The prosperity in the pastoral in-
dustry and the sale of the carry-over wool and
most of the current handlings probably re-
sulted in heavy liquidations of clients’ advances
just before the balancing date. More
prontable use will doubtless be found for the
money by next balance. The 15 p.c. divs. —
they represent little more than half that to
many holders—are not likely to be in doubt
so long as average seasons or better continue,
and the co’s. wide field will spread the risks
which nobody in the pastoral business can
wholly escape.
* * * *
Garkatts, Ltd., importers of motor-cars,
body-builders, etc. The co. began in 190 S,
but the shares were not listed on ’Change
until 1919: .
, Dividends. N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. (6 p.c.). Ordinary.. serves, serves.
-£ 2’ o3 » £6 ° 26 P-c. = £4837 £1,136 £6,906
1918.. 7,027 60 10 „ „ 2711 4,256 11,162
1919.. 7,039 60 10 „ „ 3990 2,989 14,151
1920.. 9,623 60 10 „ „ 6363 3,200 17,351
Written oil reserves, £5849 . . . . 11 502
1921.. 9,070 60 Nil 9,010 20’512
Loss. Dpficit.
1922.. 46,224 30 2£p.c.= 2069 27,811
Written off capital, £21,296.. .. 6,515
Profit- Reserves.
1923.. 11,800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
Goodwill (£4622) disappears.. .. 9,817
1924.. 25,186 60 10 p.c. = 8518 16,608 2G,425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO . . 18,425
(10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written off, £3587 .. .. .. 35,912
1926.. 36,014 10,100 124 p.c.=10,648 15,266 51,178
Price reductions in the motor trade have
widened the market and increased the de-
mand. Further reductions will continue the
process. Record figures were put up by many
houses last year and the end is not in sight.
Garratt’s got more than its share of the big
business, for it handles the Fiat, Overland
and Willys-Iynight cars, all good-sellers. Of
course the tide will run out some day, and
the good manager is the one who can tell
in advance when it will happen. Garratt’s
knows a little of what a bump means, the
1921 set-back leaving it with a loss of
£46.224 for the term. On that occasion a
declining market and heavy stocks were the
trouble. That combination always will spell
trouble. However, Fred Marks is at the
wheel and he and his fellow-directors are
making all the provision they can against
the next bit of bad road: Last year £l5 266
was added to reserves, and for the previous term
a net £17,487; and though the div. was lifted
24 p.c., the 124 p.c. called for only £10,648
of the £25,914 which was available after
prefs. had been given their 10 p.c. Never-
theless, considering the heavy stocks that
have to be carried, reserves of £51,178 are
not remarkable. It is understood that an-
other £24,000-odd is hidden in the under-
valuation of the Camperdown property: but
that wouldn’t help very much in a bad trade
slump. However, the slump isn’t here yet,
nor, frankly, is there any sign of it. Sales
for the year were well in advance of the
figures for the preceding period, and since
the close of the. accounts the movement has
continued, notwithstanding that competition
from makes new to Australia is very keen.
Last year’s profit (after providing for
prefs.) was equal to 30 p.c. on ordinaries:
and shareholders are assured that “very full
provision” was made “for contingencies, de-
preciation, etc., and a conservative A'alua-
tion made of stocks, etc.”
A fixed mortgage was given over the
Camperdown freehold during the year in
order to obtain funds for use in financing
t.-p. car sales, the management deciding that
the profit from the hire-purchase business
on its own cars might as well be kept in
the family. As a result of that operation
the Camperdown item in the balance-sheet
was reduced from £76,679 to £30,909. With
£50,000 available at first-mortgage rate of
interest for use in financing t.-p. car sales,
the co. should show a comfortable margin
of profit. Balance-sheet movements were:—
1922. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital ..£107,045 £86,182 £186,007 £186,152
Liabilities . . 161,082 257,491 223,123 224,302*
Freeh.olds and
leaseholds. . 87,756 79,993 88,402 43,614*
Plant, etc... 9,333 10.349 9,718 18,600
Stocks . . 106,757 202,189 104,641 116,898
Book debts.. 34,903 86,052 259,540 264,270
Cash, etc. . . 2,708 1,412 1,604 1,150
Shares in other
os. ... 5,622 5,622 44,622
‘*To the liabilities must be added the Camperdown
mortgage; but the amount of the mortgage has been
deducted from the total of the freeholds.
T.-p. is written in large letters across those
figures. Given first-class management that
class of business is sound, and the risk
small. Outside liabilities (£66,139 is bank
overdraft) are heavy; still the figure repre-
sents little more than two months’ sales.
Against the £224,302 of debt was £382,318
in sundry debtors, stocks and cash. “Shares
in other cos., £44,622,” was £39,000 greater.
These holdings consist of £4622 in Over-
land Sydney. Ltd., and £40,000 in F.I.A.T.
Sales Agency, Ltd., of Queensland. The
increase represents additional capital for
the Queensland subsidiary; previously it
had been working on a loan from the parent
co. As this loan was included in 1925
accounts with book debts the expansion in
the volume of t.-p. business handled is much
greater than the increase in the figures
(1925, £259,540; 1926, £264,270) suggests.
While present conditions last. Garratt’s and
a lot of other concerns are on a fine wicket
for scoring; and a continuance of the policy
of paying attention to reserves will put the
co. in a position to face worse times with a
good deal of confidence.
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (West-
ralia) :
Dividends and
, Dividend Tax v Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. , Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., ’lB.. 20,743 1500 16 p.c.= 16,232 329 233,358
Sept.,’lB.. 19,060 1500 16 „ „ 16,232 1,680 233,005
Mar.,’l9.. 32,019 1500 16 „,, 16,232 278 247,014
Sept.,’l9.. 23,650 1500 20 „ „ 20.290 51 248,823
Mar., ’20.. 35,824 1500 20 „,, 20,290 309 262,548
Sept.,’2o.. 28,515 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 50 269,223
Mar., ’21.. 29,074 1500 20 „ ~ 20,290 2,737 273,770
Sept.,’2l.. 20.855 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 4,172 268,693
Mar., ’22.. 29,073 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 3,061 272,914
Sept.,’22.. 19,400 1500 16 ~ „ 16,232 4,630 269,962
Mar., ’23.. 33,618 1500 20 „ ~ 20,290 6,159 275,621
Sept.,’23.. 22,608 1500 16 „ ~16,232 166 280,331
Premiums on new shares, £21,035. . 301,366
Mar.,’24.. 43,252 1500 16 p.c.= 20.527 10,161 312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 5,223 308,167
Mar., ’25.. 44,736 1500 16 ~,,24,655 326,748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 425 323,528
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
The gold industry of the West may be
dying, but the thirst retains its old vigor if
one may judge by this co.’s recent profits.
Those for last half-year were the largest
absolutely, although on a capital basis better
were shown back in 1914 and at other times.
The March half is the thirsty period, and a
truer view is got by amalgamating the figures
for the two fragments. Notwithstanding that
a sympathy strike of the co.’s employees
put the bung in brewing operations for a
few early weeks of the year, the profit shown
in excess of the div. and the amounts written
off was £6834 for the year. It isn’t as good
a figure as it used to be, but it is still a
fair margin. The average lay-by for the
past nine years has been £9164, with a
further £21,035 obtained from share pre-
miums in 1924. Visible accumulations arc
now almost equal to paid capital, and there
are inner reserves, probably substantial, but
dependent largely upon property values; and
property values are too much dependent upon
the continuance of public loan spending to
be trusted far. The co. does, however, seem
to have made itself snug wherever it could.
For instance, plant and machinery appear at
£274,154 less £156,573 written off; rolling
stock and casks at £44,134 less £35,484; and
hotel properties at £425,815 less £62,500.
The hotel properties are at the moment
worth much more than that, although de-
preciation is always operating and modernisa-
tion called for. Montague Cohen, of the
Carlton and United, Melbourne, is chairman
—the Swan’s head office is in Melbourne—
and the beer-foundry has been kept up-to-
date : part of the new capital raised in ’24
was for plant to make lager and bitter.
There is the wisdom of the serpent in this
general turning of Australian breweries to
light brews, accompanied by a wide adver-
tising campaign to popularise them. The
Australian working-man hasn’t hitherto been
able to drink as much beer as was good for
the breweries because the beer was too heavy.
With that defect remedied it is hoped that
he will be able to call for much more.
Liabilities are moderate. During the term
mortgages were reduced from £53,500 to
£51,500 (plus £172 interest accrued) ; trade
debts amounted to £29,780; while “accounts
in credit, including goodwills accruing,” was
£13,160 greater at £60,371. More or less liquid
assets totalled £205,570, chief items being
book debts, loans on mortgage, etc., £140,561.
and stocks, £54,759. Profits are well beyond
the requirements of the 16 p.c. divs., and as
the writing off has been liberal the future
is promising. In fact, considering the vol-
ume of visible reserves and the suspected in-
ternal strength the 16 p.c. isn’t remarkable:
on average visible funds, last year’s distribu-
tion to ordinaries was equal to little more
than 7 p.c. The last bonus issue was in
1912.
* * * *
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten off. DeficP
£ £ £ £
1916 . . 21,151 8 p.c. = 11,953 7,500 10,559
1917 . . 25,306 8 „ „ 14,007 9,209 8,469
1918 .. 31,202 8 „ „ 17,088 10,200 4,555
Reserves.
1919 .. 38,598 8 „ „ 19,868 7,610 6,565
1920 .. 42,987 8 ~ .. 20,488 8,454 20,610
1921 .. 37,403 104 ~ ~ 27,259 10,000 20,754
1922 .. 45,597 10 ~ „ 32,473 12,500 21,378
1923 . . 58,655 10 ~ „ 39,207 13,000 27,826
1924 . . 55,303 10 „ „ 43,704 16,000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 .. 23 537
1925 . . 72,413 10 p.c. = 53,513 18,000 24A37
1926 . . 89,526 10 „ „ 57,937 26,150 29,876
Electric Light and Power may now be looked
upon as a 10 p.c. proposition. In 1909 it
was given the right, under a special Act, to
supply current in Balmain, in return for
its service as a garbage destructor. Con-
tracts with other municipal areas were made
later, but the co. is now hemmed in by
Sydney City Council cables. Still, it has
only half-exploited its territory, and there
is normal growth of population and industry
within the area to keep the co. occupied.
(Its franchises have from 16 to 41 years to
run.) Charges are controlled by law. In
the 1925 term, for instance, Justice Camp-
bell, as a Royal Commissioner, investigated
the co.’s affairs, but found that there had not
been a reduction of at least one-tenth of a
penny per unit in cost, so the price stood.
Later in the year the co. took action itself;
on August 1 it clipped the price three-
twentieths of a penny; and so satis-
fied are the directors that a further
reduction of one-tenth is to operate as
from August 1 next. The industry is
controlled; if not a public utility, it at 'least
is concerned with public service. Those two
facts alone justify this Column’s opinion
that 10 p.c. divs. may be looked uuon as a
maximum, with, perhaps, an infrequent par
issue as a sweetener. Even 10 p.c. is not
viewed kindly by political experimentalists,
as the 8 p.c. of the Gas Act shows. In the
case of the E. L. and P., however, • fficient
management has kept expenditure well in
hand, and interference doesn’t seem likely.
The co. is under bond to give the municipali-
ties Which it serves treatment cm, ml to that
given by the City Council to its customers.
That should keep the co. up to the mark,
inasmuch as the Council’s und. rtaking hasn’t
to pay divs.; on the other hand it should
not be difficult to show a favorable compari-
son so long as the extravagant and inefficient
Labor machine meddles with matters at the
Town Hall. The provision, at any rate,
makes it difficult for the Legislature or any
authority under it to interfere with the
div., so long as it doesn’t pass 10 p.c.
The next figures further proclaim the
quality of the co.’s management:—
Working
Consumers. Revenue. Expenses.
1912 .. 1,203 £20,564 £9,463
1916 .. 3,648 47,844 23,139
1920 . . 7,596 80,496 31,456
1922 . . 10,824 115,111 59,568
1923 .. 12,754 133,067 63,661
1924 . . 15,032 147,086 78,533
1925 .. 17,311 167,592 84,950
1926 . . 19,310 187,719 83,693
The increase in new T consumers was almost
as great as in the previous year—and that
was a record. An increase in working ex-
penses would have passed without comment,
but there was actually a cut of £1257.
During the year a further ss. per share
was called on the 150,000 contribs., making
them 13s. 6d. paid (there arc half a million
fully-naid £1 shares). The next call will
be made in December and the balance ivith-
m six months from that date. The new
money—and considerably more—went in new
plant and extensions :
„ „ , 1911. 1921. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. £50,000 £262,426 £563,750 £601,250
Debentures . . 25,000 50,000
Other liabilities 9,450 59,873 42,069 50,390
Fixed assets .. 72,011 413,875 749,456 518.196
stocks, etc. . . 1,784 24,952 21,616 19,129
Book debts . . 921 15,403 13,956 13.088
Cash, etc. . . 17 15,868 1,810 3,563
Of the increase of £68,740 in the fixed assets,
new mains and meters accounted for £40,000
and plant for £20,000-odd. The amount
written of was £Bl5O more than in the pre-
vious term, and twice as much as the recent
average. The provision seems lavish, and it
is plain that the £142,710 “provision for
depreciation of plant and machinery” is


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
To be certain of securing the most modern type
of equipment for laboratories of all kinds, write,
stating your needs, to Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney, or Taylors and Elliotts, Ltd., Char-
lotte Street, Brisbane. Full particulars about the
most suitable apparatus for your purpose will be
forwarded at once. The requirements of sugar and
mining companies are provided for especially. All
classes of chemical and scientific apparatus, reagents,
etc., are carried in stock. — Advt. [3
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. —Advt. t 2
* * * *
The manifold advantages to be gained by install-
ing Pioneer Wood Pipe are fully recognised by lead-
ing engineers all over Australia. For ensuring the
purity of a water supply, for instance, it is without
a peer Pioneer Wood Pipe never rusts, fouls nor
corrodes and the ratio of comparison between its
capacity and that of metal pipe (originally 20 p c.
in favor of Pioneer) actually increases with the
vears. Cheap to buy in the first instance its light-
ness and simplicity cut down transport and installa-
tion expenses to a minimum, whilst its durability is
unquestioned. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. —Advt.
* * * *
Inventoks. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * . * *
“National” British Vertical Suction Gas and Crude-
oil Engines! Cheapest and most reliable power.
Recent installations for Electric Lighting include:
Bathurst, 675b.h.p.; Parkes, 310b;h.p.; Dubbo,
540b.h.p. ; Armidale, 270b.h.p.; Penrith, 220b.h.p.;
Toowoomba, 800b.h.p.; Winton (Q.), 100b.h.p.; Bris-
bane Water and Sewerage Board (for pumping),
630bh.p. Technical information, etc., from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquarie Place,
Sydney 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; 21 Morphett
Street, Adelaide; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
THIS INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course wliich is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Li\ r e Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
&
L
0 O ORp„feS ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine. Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
rt \ fiYfH promptly and equitably settled.
CLAIMS PRO.I AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
ample; a little profit may indeed be stowed
away in it. Consumers are receiving goon
treatment, and so long as the management
sees to that, shareholders are not likely to
be disturbed.
* * * *
W. H. Riechers, a Broken Hill business
man who has been a plucky supporter ol
outside shows for'3o years past, is the ven-
dor of the 456 acres of leases in the B. it.
Southern Lode Continuation, a n.l. co.
placed on the stocks this week by Clive
Cooper. The capital is £75,000 in 200,000
7s. 6d. shares; 65,000 paids go to
Riechers, ,100,000 contribs. at 2s. on
allotment have been subscribed, and 30,000
held in reserve. The leases adjoin the Har-
rier South to their full width, and the B.S.
is adjacent to the Zinc Corp., but keeps
under a cloud despite its aristocratic neigh-
bor. The new co., among other plans, speaks
of a boring campaign; and something may
come out of that. The Broken Ilill lode
ends somewhere, of course; and there is no
certainty that it ends in the Zinc Corpus
ground—there was a time when that wasn t
given much if any chance. If the new co.
strikes anything it will be at a great depth
(for Broken Hill), and the capital will only
be enough for prospecting. The vendor is to
get £6OOO in cash, of which £2OOO is re-
quired three weeks after registration, and
the balance in 12 monthly payments. Dr. H.
I. Jensen is consulting engineer.
* * * *
Adeloug Gold Estates remains the only
gold producer worth the name in N.S.W.;
and it is Victorian owned and administered.
After overhaul, the plant lias got busy again
and picked up 216|0z. in 227 hours, as
against the previous lOloz. 17dwt. m 118
hours—that was in the last week of April.
The 75,000 255. shares are called to 235. 6d.,
and the show has returned 255. in divs.
Having exceeded the original date fixed
for tin production by six months, the direc-
tors of Flagstone (N.S.W.) _ issued a cir-
cular last week. “Given rain,” say chair-
man Aucher and director Colin Caird, "it
can be definitely stated that the property
will be producing tin by the end of July.’
The rain proviso is inserted because, while
the plant was slowly erected, the swamp
from which the battery water is to be drawn
became almost dry, and now the co. has to
await rain. Bank balances having been de-
pleted, a call is threatened for July to
appease the demands of the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act and do some excavating in
the swamp bed to improve the water posi-
tion when the weather breaks. If pros-
pects as set out in the circular are corro-
borated by the 10-head mill, the show reads
like a resurrected Bischoff.
* * * *
New White Crystal, Ardlethan (N.S.W.),
ran 308 tons through the battery last week,
getting just over a ton and a half of con-
centrates. Although the register contains
little more than 50,000 “live” shares, of
which not more than 10,000 are reckoned to
be “loose,” the market slid back a shilling
from the half-crown of three weeks back.
Mining costs are supposed to be offset by
the high price of tin, but -} p.c. stuff doesn’t
see enough of the high price, and costs as
much to mine and treat as 5 p.c. ore.
* * * *
The first clean up of the Golden Lily
(Vic.), after all, was a fair test, as a second
crushing from 430 tons gives only 1270 z.
Adding gold in concentrates, the return is
lOJdwt. a ton, but of course the plates have
taken some gold. The first yield was 1370 z.
from 400 tons, not including minerals,
although gold from plates was then weighed
in. So the Golden Lily looks rather be-
draggled. and its loyalists are a bit out of
heart. Outside mines at Walhalla have all
been inglorious, and it looks as if the Golden
Lily isn’t going to be any different.
* * * *
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado, near Beech-
worth (Vic.), has shut down—-whether per-
manently or not is uncertain. Capital is
£150,000, of which £lOO,OOO has been issued.
The ground had been worked off and on
since 1854, gold won by alluvial mining and
sluicing amounting to £500,000. When it
was worked as a mine by shafts and drives
there was an inrush of water, and several
miners were drowned. A different method
of working was necessary, and the old Eldo-
rado Co. became the Cock’s Pioneer, and it
has operated for many years as a sluicing
proposition. The co. employs over 100 men,
so the stoppage is serious for the district.
* « * «
If the security is good enough the Alien-
Peacock crowd may have good grounds for
voting the United Langi Logan £l5OO
as a grant-in-aid. This derelict represents
the old New Langi and the Langi South.
They have had money poured and dribbled
into them since the Cathcart boom days and
have never been worth a tinker’s dam. But
they are the last of the old deep-lead alluvial
shows of the Ballarat division, and Alex.
Peadock’s love for that type of mine is
abounding. Thus the old show gets another
chance to test the country down the gutter
in the Langi South area. To do well there
will be to disprove all experience of the
past that with depth gold peters out in the
deep leads. » * #
At Southern Cross (W.A.), where mining
is at its last kick, permission has been given
prospectors to dig in the streets, recreation
ground, cemetery or anywhere else. Between
ISD2 and 1899 the Cross nourished, and it
livened up again for a time during the Bull-
finch boom in 1910-11. Then it wilted, and
all that now remain arc some dilapidated
buildings and a few people. . Most of the
latter remain because they can't get away.
Tired of trying for new finds in the out-
back, prospectors are giving old Westralian
fields a look-over to some purpose. A notable
case is at Holden Valley, 33 miles north ot
Southern Cross, near where Class, Anstey
and Colreavy made the first discoveries ot
gold in, the eastern goldfields 39 years ago.
At this centre prospectors Glendinning and
Hackett have just raised 32 tons for 440z5.,
and they will break out more yet.
*' * * *
Government Mineralogist Simpson's reply
to C. J. de Garis's positive statement that
there are oceans of oil under Kendenup
(W.A.) is that samples submitted to the
Mines Department show no trace of petro-
leum or any indication that it is likely to
be found there. Simpson adds that De Gar is
may have referred to eucalyptus-oil, olive-
oil or even fusel-oil, but lie is mistaken if
he thinks oceans or even a trickle of mineral
oil is beneath Kendenup.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Oil Co. (W.A.) is pre-
paring to spend its share of the Common-
wealth boring subsidy, but an unprecedented
wet season and boggy roads are delaying trans-
port of plant to Poole Range, the chosen site.
That there is oil on the property is certain,
but no infallible indication of a commercial
oil pool has yet been struck.
* * * *
Westralian Government has got itself into
an awful tangle in its efforts to handle the
mining position at Ivalgoorlie. It started the
mischief by making cash advances up to
£50,000 to Golden Horseshoe Co. In lending
this money, Mines Minister Troy had in
mind the keeping of 300 mine-hands em-
ployed ; Cabinet did not reckon on Condon
directors continuing to draw their usual fees
from the Minister’s beneficence. At present
the Opposition is hating itself for being in
recess: a rhetorical volcano will belch
scorching criticism on the Horseshoe busi-
ness and Miners’ Phthisis Compensation Bill
as soon as Parliament meets. Meanwhile,
the ’Shoe has suspended operations, and will
not resume unless further Government cash
is forthcoming, so a Labor Government has
the unpleasant choice of throwing more cash
into the pit or 300 men out of jobs. The
Phthisis Bill will, if passed, load the
cos. about £ll per miner annually. The
ability of the Ivalgoorlie mine-owners to
stand that strain may be judged from the
fact that Associated, Boulder, Lake View
and Star, Oroya Links and Horseshoe are
losing money or just about paying expenses.
Only South Kalgurli is doing w r ell; Persever-
ance is making a small profit, if the Gov-
ernment persists with the bill, all cos.
excepting South Kalgurli and “Percy” will
shut down by Christmas, and 1000 men will
be out of work. The position has caused
such a mix-up in Cabinet that it may decide
to pay the premiums for the poorer cos.;
but the other cos. would not take that sort
of thing quietly. Twenty-five years ago,
when numerous cos. were on the div. list and
only a few miners had contracted t.b., the
bill would have been all right. The cos.
could have paid then, and should have been
made to. Now it is simply a measure to
relieve the State of phthisis cases.
I «*> * t
The Speck has a good advertising man in
Mclntosh Reid, its Mines Director and Geo-
logist. Round Zeehan big formations carry
tin in situ. Reid’s enthusiastic declaration that
tin may again jog up to £4OO a ton surely will
turn to them the crowd awaiting a gamble
in tin mining, but inclined towards a local
venture rather than Malaya. Bowes Kelly’s
tin area on King Island has had plenty of
puff-paste made for it in Hobart, but the
mainland is coy. He has had a lot of pros-
pecting done, but until he launches his little
boat no one can gauge its staunchness.
Interest has lately been revived in Mount
Morgan shares; some people are trying to
believe that the old mine may come back to
something like the status of a dozen years or
so ago, under the urge of reorganisation,
with a single driving power behind a definite
policy. Unity of purpose has been lacking
in the past; had it not been for the war
and its influence on copper prices, the bump
might have come much earlier, in spite of
Government subsidies. In this respect Mt.
Lyell, with its undivided control and definite
policy, has shown to greater advantage in
all respects. It is possible that the inquiry
for Mount Morgans has been prompted by
the influences suspected to lie behind a simi-
lar move in Hampdens. There is an impres-
sion that .Collins House is interested, and
the two movements are inter-related.
Queensland Antimony has settled down to
about 7s. on ’Change. Meanwhile Jensen
lias been in Sydney, conferred with the
board and departed north again to erect
a smelting plant. This is expected to take
three months. Ore worth 45 p.c. or over
will be forwarded for shipment in 20-ton lots.
The mix-up in China has carved back pro-
duction in Hunan, and prices should hold
at good levels.
* * * #
A crosscut at 300 ft. in the Doherty deep shaft
on the Black liock lode at ML Isa lias
exposed carbonate ore with a little sulphide.
Values from 39ft. to 55ft. average 17 p.c.
lead and Boz. silver. Work in the 200 ft.
crosscut of the Lawlor shaft has proved
the Rio Grande main lode at that level to
be 12ft. wide, ore averaging 18 p.c. lead,
T7oz. silver and 4 p.c. zinc the full width.
Shares in the Settlements Dredge, Ltd.,
capital £60,000, are equally owned by Tupai
and Kota cos. The dredge started digging-
last month —nearly 12 months behind
schedule time. It was originally designed
for saving tin with boxes, but during con-
struction the co. changed its mind, and sub-
stituted jigs and classifiers. Alleged to be
modern in design, the buckets have a capa-
city of only six cubic feet, so a monthly
turnover exceeding 100,000yds. is unlikely.
Presumably the co. has its own reasons why
larger-capacity buckets were not installed.
The Settlements’ area contains approxi-
mately six million cubic yards of Jib. ground
within a stone’s-throw of Tupai and Larut,
and reaches well into the town of Tapping.
The Larut dredge has struck some lean
patches. For the first five months of this
year it produced an average of only 15 tons
per month. Nevertheless the co. has paid
two modest sixpennies. Larut began opera-
tions in 1916, and has so far produced 3888
tons of tin oxide worth £521,322. The origi-
nal capital of £50,000 was increased to
£lOO,OOO by the issue of 50,000 bonus shares.
This capital was later reduced to £66,667
by paying £33,333 in cash to shareholders.
The co. has paid £223,750 in divs., and the
scrip is still saleable round about 265.
Larut is said to provide the cash which
enables Minister for Customs Pratten (the
largest shareholder and chairman of direc-
tors) to devote his whole time to politics.
* * * *
On its £lOO,OOO of capital, Tupai
(F.M.S.) earned £47,008 net for 1925, a
drop of £11,657 on the 1924 figure. With
£7083 brought in, the available amount was
£54,091, from which four 2s. divs. ab-
stracted £40,000, £7500 was earmarked to
start an amortisation and depreciation re-
serve, and £6591 was carried forward.
General reserve stands at £30,000 and £3OOO
represents creditors’ claims. Liquid assets
include £64,960 invested, £1261 in cash, and
£2683 of book debts; other assets: mine,
£32,420; dredge, £35,000; stores, £3993;
loan to Settlements Dredge, £5716. Yardage
for the year ran to 1,013,000, from which
recoveries were 4344 tons oxide, falling just
uhder the pound. Working costs at 4:jd.
were a fraction below 1924.
# # * «
A sea-lawyer couldn't unravel the tangle
over the New Salak South and its offshoot,
the Nakon Tin Mines. Nakon was to have
taken over an area of 680 acres. The co.
was invested with a capital of £175,000 in
£1 shares, of which 52,500 paids were to
drop into the lap of the New Salak South
for the option it was to hand over, while
70,000 Were to be offered for subscription.
There was also an outside Sikon float on
tap. The first surprise was the cancellation
of this Sikon deal and the news that the
land, for some reason not yet disclosed, was
to go to the New Salak South, instead of to
an outside syndicate. Next came a lightning
change whereby the New Salak South curec-
tors were to retire, being without a broad
Eastern organisation,” thus allowing
Ambrose Pratt, J. R. Meagher, J. Hume
Cook and E. Flack into office. These are
big guns of the Melbourne Tongkah group.
A day later, at the preliminary pow-wow of
the Nakon, they were nominated to the
board with a neat £256 fee per man p.a. At
that time Nakon was assumed to have its
680-acre option, with its 41b. bores, m its
pocket. In these days, when a ilb. samp-
ling is a sweet thing, such boring put things
at fever-heat; hut things actually cooled
down upon a 441 b. bore being reported by
prospector Anderson. The Pratt-Meagher
people have been too long at the tin game
to build on such ground, so they set their
Chinese colleague, Ivhaw Joo Tok, of omga-
pore, to check up things. Then came the
penultimate biff. Anderson reported the
tin drift on the Nakon’s block too small and
that he had abandoned the option. So Nakon,
without any little patch of earth, stands as
bare as when it was born, and having only
got to the registration stage has no cash to
find a new home. As the prospectus says
it was formed to acquire the option on the
680 acres, its board may call upon the New
Salak South to part up, though what good
that would do when the area has been turned
down bv Anderson no one knows. However,
Pratt Meagher and co., sticking to Nakon
control, have told the New Salak South they
don’t intend to go on its board. So why
they butted in, where the Nakon stands and
why Pratt hangs on to it are mysteries.
Kota, Taiping (F.M.S.), had a good year
to December 31, 1,039,000yd5. giving 27b
tons oxide, or about a 10oz. average no-
thing in the get-ricli-quick line, but enough
to show £20,790 net against £12,273 in the
lean period of 1924. The co. paid three
divs of Is. each on its £lOO,OOO of capital,
gave £4500 to establish an amortisation and
depreciation reserve, and carried toi-
ward against £122 brought in. Working-
costs were 4.36 d. a yd., against an even
4d in 1924. Cash liabilities are restricted
to the £1279 owed to creditors. The pro-
perty is in at £27,663, dredge £40,000, in-
vestments £30,000, cash £3503, and book
debts £4357.
* * * *
“Quidam” reports the latest miners’ strike :
Cricket was introduced recently to the colored
population of Misima—the small gold-bearing island
off Papua. The natives took to the pastime so
fervently that everybody played it for a fortnight,
the dusky laborers at the Misima gold-mine refusing
to take on their usual duties. When two native
policemen were sent to command cessation of the
perennial test match, the tribe chased the Johns
into the bush and resumed playing. Eventually
stringent .measures had to be adopted to induce the
enthusiastic amateurs to return to work.


BANNING THE CHARL(ES)TON.
Mr. Charlton supports the Government’s referendum proposals. A section of the Australian Labor party accuses him of dancing while his opponents call the tune.”
THE A.L.P. LADY: “Matthew, desist! I don’t mind hindulging in a ’esitation waltz, hut these new-fangled exhibitions I can’t a-bear!”


Smokers who
appreciate
quality buy
ďf
d
LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO LTD
MADE IN
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.1.D.”: A novel interpretation of the
phrase' “getting a leg in” was handed to a
Sydney detective the other day. A young
woman of good appearance was charged with
an offence requiring her urgent attendance
at Quarter Sessions. She had been there
before, and, talking things over with the
’tec., she was estimating her chances this
time. Asking about the Judge, she was^ told
he was a mild-mannered man who didn .t put
it over” too hard. “Then it’s all right, she
said. “But what about the jury? the d.
asked. “Oh !”■ —find she shrugged her sluml-
PASSING THE CENSOR.
“Do yon ever tell your wife your funny stories?”
“Of course I do. Those she refuses to laugh at I remember."
ders. “Do you think 12 men would send up a
leg like that if they could help it? And she
pulled up still further a scant dress to dis-
play a very shapely member. Aot tney .
“Sixenate” : Sydney Divorce Court struck
something unusual in a recent application
for a decree of nullity from a woman who
had married her step-father. The petitioner
was the illegitimate daughter of the mans
first spouse, and, left on his hands when liei
mother died, she grew up to marry him, be-
lieving in a vague sort of way that that was
what she was there for. She remained mar-
ried for 12 years before she learnt better.
Her married name was Luck, and the law
had no difficulty in deciding that it didn t
belong to her.
“Hamer’': A Roman father was included
amongst the citizens or late citizens to
whom the dailies thought it worth while to
give a recent notice. His eldest son was
pushed out of doors at the age of 16, found
a humble job in a warehouse, and told that,
with a little parental help until lie was 20,
lie would have to look after himself; lus
offence was illicitly obtaining credit at a
tuck shop The second son got into a scrape
at the University (he was intended to be a
parson) at the age of 19 and was also cut
off and bidden to go and tend for himself.
No. 3 lasted until he was 22, when a tlirta-
tion witli a typist sent him out into the
world The fourth managed to escape the
paternal wrath, but the fifth, declining to
become a lawyer, ran away to sea and was
warned never to darken the family door
■lo-ain One of the two daughters was dis-
qualified for marrying a young “commercial,
deemed undesirable. On the instructions ot
the unbending old man his death notices
announced that he left “one son and one
daughter.”
* * * *
“Solomon M.”: “Can a Christian smoke?”
is a newspaper heading over the diatribe ot
a recently-arrived Yankee ‘‘evangelist. 1 ei-
haps the best idea would be for him to be-
come a Christian and find out.
* * ’ * *
“Dick Deadwood”: Two lads under 10
recently came before a Children s Court in
N. S. Wales charged with having.broken and
entered a dwelling-house and stolen certain
articles. For •once in a way their precocity
isn’t to be charged to the'movies'; they seem
to have got their inspiration from the police
news in the daily papers. What adult crimi-
nals could do they decided that they could
do, too. So they laid their plans. l>y
inquiry they found that a certain cottage was
left in sole charge of the wife wdiile her hus-
band was at work. One of the lads called
at the home, and told the wife that he had
been sent from a hospital to say taut
her husband was lying there in a bad condi-
tion after an-,.accident, and that she was
to come at oifce. The distressed woman sent
the boy off for a taxi, locked up her home
and hurried off, with dread in her heart.
Arriving at the hospital, she found the whole
story a fabrication, .-and returned to her
home to find it ransacked.' She is now suffer-
ing the effect of the shock, and two young
rascals, who didn’t have a million-to-one
chance of escape, are in a reformatory.
■X- * -x- -x-
-“X D” • A calm citizen, going one tem-
pestuous night to enjoy the storm breezes
at Sydney’s South Head, discovered a man
standing on the cliff-edge. “Going to commit
suicide?” the calm citizen asked casually.
When the other admitted moodily that he
was considering such a step, the calm citizen
went on: “Well, don’t go over in that spot.
There are rocks jutting out there, and you
might get badly hurt before you reach the
bottom, without falling into the water! 1 11
show you the ideal spot, if you 11 come along
this way. You fall right into a pool of
water here, and the waves carry you out.
lie went on to display such a helpful interest
in the projected enterprise that the man who
had been contemplating self-destruction, now
thoroughly scared, made a dive to the sale
side of the fence and fled. Later the ''ar-
gon’s Bay police were looking for a lunatic
who, according to the excited report of a
terrified visitor, had attempted to push him
over the Gap. The search only ceased when
the man responsible ’phoned the police-
station to explain his method of frightening
a fool from suicide.
“Leamington” : Central Administration has
decided to close the A.I.F. Medals Sections at
Brisbane and Sydney ; the branches in the
other States have put up their shutters
already. The casual Australian again ! The
production of discharge for identification pur-
poses was all that was required to procure
the medals, a set of which were engraved
for each soldier entitled to them, but ap-
proximately 45,000 —N.S.W. owns 22,000 —
remain unclaimed. Sentiment ensured the
submission of claims by next-of-kin for most
A VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY.
FOND MAMMA: “Willie, yon shouldn't fight that. Smith hoy."
DARLING WILLIE: “'No, mother; hut 1 didn't find out till after I'd hit him."
of the medals belonging to soldiers who were
killed, blit of the returned men a great host
were satisfied, when the trouble finished, to
leave the Army far behind them. It is not.
a new characteristic either. There are still
200 of the Khedive Stars, which were struck
for the Soudan Contingent, lying at Yic'cor.a
Barracks, Sydney. Also, nearly 8000 of the
S’Afriean Medals were not called for, and
later returned to the War Office, and the
same fate awaits the unclaimed tokens of the
Great War. The authorities have them melted
down, but retain the dies, from which the
claims of laggards are satisfied once a year.
» • » *
“Tail Light” : About 140 miles of ti-tree
scrub provide covert around the romantic
shores of Port. Phillip ; and that these natural
facilities are fully appreciated came out in
an amusing way the other day. Three young
men saw tit to borrow a car from St. Kilda-
parade in the absence of its owner, and when
they were pursued by the police took refuge in
the scrub. The detectives rushed after them,
promptly finding them many times and be-
hind every bush. After the agitated cops
had pounced on half a dozen protesting
couples and apologised for the mistake, they
decided that the matter was not an occupa-
tion for officers and gentlemen.
“Ex-Morse”: A romance of wireless was
told me by a local Melbourne amateur last
week. An M.L. experimenter took a trip
abroad and left his station in charge of a
lady. When he reached Australia he was
greeted by her dulcet accents —or as much of
them as the Morse code can transmit—and
everywhere he went in England her Morse
voice followed him. W hat a pity his eth-
ereal vis-a-vis was his sister instead of his
sweetheart! It would have made a much
better story. She is Miss Bell, of Otago,
and she chattered about it over the air to my
friend the Melbourne amateur the other
llia ' ht - *
“Sturt”: Three prisoners worked their
way out of the Stockade, Adelaide’s princi-
pal gaol, the other day. They were skilled
mechanics, and in the workshops were given
a certain amount of trust, of which they
took advantage. Their known skill in the
matter of motor-cars was their undoing.
When a locked car disappeared from a city
street the same night, they were confidently
credited with being in it. And when next
morning a car was found in the National
Park, a dozen constables were combing the
district within an hour, and the three were
"caught—picnicking ! It seems to suggest
that if Bert Edwards or somebody could
arrange ro give the State’s prisoners a week-
end in the Hills or at the seaside once a
month, a lot of them would be quite satisfied
not to look for any better ’ole.
“D.A.H.”: The awe an officer’s uniform
inspired in the breast of the average Tommy
was occasionally utilised by Diggers for put
ting up a bluff. During the Passchendaele
mud-scramble Gus, signalling corporal, re-
turned from Blighty leave wearing, to the
mild disapproval of the officers, a light water-
proof overcoat very much the cut of an
officer’s long cape. To the accompaniment
of helpful sanguinary comment, Gus and two
companions were painfully slogging up the
Wilshi-road with a drum of wire for a bat-
tery observation post: Suddenly round a
corner came a “Tommy” G.S. waggon with
the driver speeding up for home as quickly
as liis long-faced friends could hoof it on the
muddy road. The vehicle was hailed. i
want you,” said Gus, “to run this drum ol
wire to the cross roads.” “Cawn’t be done,
sir. I gotter git right back to the waggon
lines” “Waggon liues he damned. This is
a matter of life and death. This wire must
go up the road.” Woodbine hesitated, but
tlie officer’s overcoat did the trick, and rouijtj
he wheeled his vehicle. Gus softened. You H
lose nothing by this,” he confided to the per-
turbed driver. “What is your name, number
and unit?” These were solemnly pitted down
in a notebook. “I shall recommend you tor
a decoration,” said Gus, and Woodbine s eyes
brightened up as he urged his steeds back to
the waggon lines.
* * * *
“Green Tape”: Darwin’s version of .Tarn-
dyce v. .Jarndyee has again reared its head.
Some years ago a carter sued the 1 larwin
municipality for overtime of one hour a day
for three years, at 2s. 9d. an hour, with time
and a half on Saturdays and double time
for the Sabbath. The jury disagreed m the
first trial, the plaintiff got a verdict by de-
fault in the second (the Council having over-
slept itself, or otherwise failed to appear),
and, finally, a new trial was ordered, lhe
overtime, as set out in the statement ot
claim, was for putting on the Council neddy s
nosebag before starting work in the morning,
in the lunch-hour and after knock-oil. at
night. If plaintiff should win his case, and
the lawyers leave him enough to get aw ay
from Darwin, there should be a brilliant
future for him in the South as a union
official.
“S.C.”: London Daily Mail (May 24)
forecasting a busy social season, remarked
casually that “fashionable debutantes will
require 17 pairs of shoes and innumerable
pairs of silk stockings between now and the
race meeting at Goodwood on June 27.
Not for all her summer frockings,
But just merely shoes and stockings
For the span of May to June—
What proud man will pay the piper
For this pretty little tune?
Broach not bread and cheese and kisses
To these fashionable misses,
Space will force them to refuse;
Love might squeeze into a cottage,
But where would they park their shoes?
* * * *
“Adamascus”: Yarrol station, 65 miles
or so from Mt. Perry, and owned in the
early days by the Ridlers, had the queerest
homestead in Queensland. The building was
200yds. long and no more than 20tt. wide.
It was entirely of slabs, and the rooms were
in one long row. First came the office, then
a bedroom, after that a bathroom, a fernery,
a visitor’s room, a dining-room, the blue
room” (belonging to Robert Ridler), but-
cher’s shop, storeroom, kitchen, marneu-
couples’ quarters and maids’ rooms. Apart
from the main building were the station-
hands’ quarters and the shearing-shed. In
the old days the run’s 100 square miles car-
ried 30,000 sheep. Afterwards the holding
fell upon evil times and for a while carried
only a few goats. Nowadays it has been
subdivided, and neither goats nor glory
remain.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE DECORATIVE SAUSAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The window-dresser’s art has extended to the
display of meat in butchers’ shops, which are last
becoming attractive to even those ultra-sensitive
people who previously avoided looking at them.
True Art has swept • away the rude display
Of corpses, unadorned, impaled on hooks,
And at the windows "where she’d turned away
Fair Phyllis, with a taste for Art, now looks.
No crude, dismembered limbs offend her eyes;
Naught there condemns the “meat purveyor’s’
trade p
Now all may gaze with pleasure and surprise
At chaste designs on marble slabs displayed.
A noble “Porterhouse” reclines in state,
Its color scheme artistically mingled
With minced meat on a willow-patterned plate.
Enshrined with cutlets neatly trimmed and shingled.
A piglet with a lemon ’tween its jaws
Is posed beneath the spotlight’s glow upstage,
And every passing gourmand needs must pause
To sniff, in fancy, onions, thyme and sage.
Pink sausages that used to blush unseen,
Veiling their myst’ries from the sceptic’s eye,
Now hang in festoons, draped with parsley green,
And boldly seek applause from passers-by.
Gone are the days of trotters piled on high,
And “bluggy” livers looking over-ripe.
Soft floodlights gleam now on the chaste pig’s fry,
And add new lustre to the hallowed tripe.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


A HUNG.RY dog, found a fowl house,
And discovered
THAT £&<*& WERE GOOD,
One day a cunning, pox met hini
And said"why do ydu go to the troubue
of EATING eggs ?"
w
PLAINLY, as THE fowl lays THE EGGiS ;
IF you EAT the FOWL YOU get the EGG,S too".
I / II
Thats A GOOD idea, E>AID THE DOG
SO HE KtULED THE FOWL,
And # helped By the ATE it.
Next day, being,
HE called at thh nest,
And FOUHO THERE WERE
no Eg<as im n }
MORAI,
(for Unions and labor Ministers J
If YOU WANT YVAC,ES / DONT KILL THE INDUSTRIES
THAT PRODUCE THS.Y) .
THE DOG AND THE EGGS.


i ' «
ananbn
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
'sx/*
\
V/
m
ASr'
PALATO
The New Orange Drink
If you want an Orange Drink, made
from Pure Orange Juice, without
artificial essences, insist on getting
PALATO.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Bill O’C.”: Touching the responsibility
of innkeepers, swagger and humble, to pro-
vide accommodation for horse as well as
man guest (B. 10/6/’26). Most of them m
older days, though under no obligation, kept
horses and vehicles for the use of, or hire
by, patrons. Whereby hangs a. quaint ex-
perience of my own in comparatively recent
years. I was stage-managing a wedding tor
a friend whose bride’s people, being old-
fashioned, stipulated for the time-honored
carriages and white horses. Not knowing my
way very well about Sydney, and utterly at
a dead-end, I appealed to the late Daddy
Smith, of the Australia. He promptly sup-
plied what was wanted, with livened, bell-
toppered coachmen and all complete. Though
it isn’t so long ago, so overwhelming has
been the onrush of the motor that I have no
doubt the whole enterprise, from stables to
cockaded hats, has gone.
* * * *
“Macduff”: Re christening with Jordan
water (B. 10/6/’26). Thirty years ago I
was handy-boy on a station, to which the
boss and his missus, both good church people,
had just returned, after a tour of the Holy
Land, bringing with them a bottle of the real
stuff in anticipation of an impending domes-
tic event. When the baby arrived it was
arranged that lie should be baptised in the
little bush church, and on the appointed
Sunday morning I was despatched to the
parson’s place with the bottle of precious
fluid. Curiosity to see if it was really dif-
ferent from other water overcame me, and in
a secluded spot I pulled out the cork and
gave it a thorough examination. It tasted
about as bad as it smelled, and it was this
that brought about the disaster. As I
YES, WHY?
AUNTIE ( reading ): “ ‘Satan trembles when he sees the feeblest
sain t upon his knees’”
ROY: “But, Auntie, why does Satan let the saint sit on his knees
if it makes him tremble?”
spluttered and shuddered to get rid of the
evil flavor the bottle fell from my hands and
its contents went to consecrate a square
foot or so of Australia. Fortunately there
was plentv of water in the creek near by, and
the christening went off with great pomp
and frill. The substitute was probably as
good as the original; anyway, the young man
returned from the war 20-odd years after-
wards with a number of decorations and a
record that couldn’t have been improved on.
“Wang”: Speaking of “Hell’s Holes”
iR 10/6/’26), there is one in the upper
reaches of the King River, beyond
Cheshunt in north-east Victoria, which
fecal tradition credits with having been
the first headquarters of the Kelly
gang. I was camped there
on a job, and the locals took
a pensive pride in pointing
out the exact spot where Ned
started his nefarious career.
The King River at the spot
makes a horseshoe bend and
a marsh which I was told it
was almost certain death tor
the uninitiated to try to
cross. To this refuge Ned
and his gang would retreat
when hard pressed by the
police. I spent one Sunday,
in company with the oldest
inhabitant, inspecting the
historic spot; but somehow
it failed to thrill me. The
swamp seemed to have been
replaced by masses of black-
berry bushes and thistles,
and several sticks and stumps
which had formed, so my
guide asserted, the dwelling-
place of the bushrangers,
might just as easily have
been the remains of a cow-
shed. My refusal to be im-
pressed with Hell’s Hole
obviously disappointed the
ancient, and he remembered
that he could have shown me
a tree on which Ned had
carved his name, only it had
got burnt in a bush-fire some
years before. However, he
showed me the _ charred
stump, and his voice sank
to an awed whisper as he
told an anecdote about it and
Edward.
* * *
“Trevdee” : A burglar who
reckons he had rotten luck
was caught by the Melbourne
police tlie other day. He
wanted only a yard start,
and he believed his feet would
have carried him _ out of
danger; and he didn’t get the
yard. It turned out that he
had been doing a six-mile
run every morning as part
of his burglary training!
“Macess” : At a high-school council meet-
ing in Ballarat one of the members com-
plained that teachers were paid “less than
barbers”: —
Consider, though, with calm and equal mind,
What information ’tis for which you thirst,
And, after all, what pedant will you And
Can whisper you a “moral” for “the first ?
* * * *
“Ellae” • Whether pre-natal influences can
leave a bodily mark or not, I know one case
of a peculiar mental one. The mother,
after a run of mis-
fortunes, was carry-
ing carefulness to
excess. Diet, per-
sonal comfort and
abhorrence of any-
thing that held the
least chance of
over - exertion be-
came an obsession
with her, and this
time a healthy
baby-boy came to
stay. She died be-
fore lie was seven,
but up to my last
sight of him at 1G
one guardian after
another had given
him up in despair.
Though he was
strong and well-
grown, no amount
of derision would
bring any other
reason than “be-
cause I might get
hurt” for refusing
to join in any
games or to asso-
ciate with boys of
his own size. Nor
was it possible to
knock out of him
the idea that he
had an absolute
right to be waited
on by everybody
about him, like a
sick sultan.
“H. d’Arduppe”: Putting a polish on their
names seems to be a growing' habit of people
who become members of the House of Com-
mons. There are on the Government benches
no less than four members who would be
Smith if they had stuck to the old family
moniker; they are now Carington, Pauuce-
fote, De Heris and Vernon. Also, there is
a Smithson-that-was who is a. Percy, the
name of Hunt has been changed to De Vere,
Robinson to De Grey, Wilkes to De Win ton
and Morres to De Montmorency. The man
who appears in Australia with a name like
Fitzmarlborough Vere de Vere, M.P., may
not be of Norman blood. He may be merely
Bill Green. (Old-timers will recall Emilie
OFTENEST IN DOCK.
“Yes, he's started in business on his own —manufacturing
spare parts.”
“For motors?”
“No. —for pedestrians.”
Melville’s singing partner, Guglielmo Verdi.
He, of course, was Bill Green.) The Aus-
tralian has rather a tendency to go the other
way. A Digger Smijtli dropped the j; and
there was that practical Scots friend who
found possible customers stumbling over ms
“Colqulioun” and turned it to “Column tor
the sake of the bawbees.
* * * *
“Sign Please”: Retailers have found, or
borrowed from the banks, a remedy for a
blackmailing trick mentioned in The Bul-
letin a couple of months ago. The trick
was to be caught shoplifting some ordinary
article and, after arrest, producing a sale
docket for a similar article —procured either
before or afterwards on a genuine purchase.
On more than one occasion this resulted in
the payment of a solatium for illegal arrest.
Now, however, the time of the sale goes down
on the sale docket, and the last woman to
try the game laid herself open to a charge
of perjury, Taking her claim for damages
to court, she swore that the docket she pro-
duced had been handed to her when she paid
for the goods; as she was arrested at 2 p.m.
and the docket was branded “5 p.m.,” she
was bowled out.
* * * *
“Hiawatha” : I can supply one authentic
case of triplets reaching maturity and re-
sembling one another (B. _3/6/'26). The
three in this instance are girls, residents of
Daunceston (Tas.), and rather happily
christened Faith, Hope and Charity. They
resemble one another closely.
* * * *
“Really”: The Eureka Stockade flag
(B. 10/6/’26) is fittingly preserved in the
Ballarat Art Gallery, although it is not
owned bv that institution. After the historic
scrap the flag was pulled down from the
Stockade by a trooper named King. His
sons in later years lent it to the Gallery,
which they occasionally visit. Near the
flag is a sword reputed to have, been wrested
by a digger from Captain Wise. In later
years the old chap who did the wresting got
the idea that he might be gaoled for keeping-
stolen property; so he gave the sword to
a neighbor, from whom it passed to the
Art Gallery. With the giving of the sword
the old digger’s life passed out. The same
day he fell into his kitchen lire and was
burned to death.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Melbourne man who,
instead of attending in person to answer a
charge of parking his car in a prohibited
area, sent along a cheque for £5 —the fine
turned out to be ten shillings—anticipated
a reform that will arrive in time. In U.S.A.
a liaudy method of dealing with small offend-
ers has been evolved. The traffic cop is
armed with a booklet containing schedules
covering the various offences and then* penal-
ties When he catches anybody he tills m
the'blanks, obtains the motorist s signature,
gives him a carbon copy of the document and
lets him go. If the transgressor is satisfied
with the indictment he posts the value ot
the fine in stamps or money-order to tlv
proper court and forgets all about it. 1 ■
helps to make motor-massacre easy. Hast
year 22,500 people—63oo of them children
Were killed in’ motor accidents in Henry
Ford’s land. It looks appalling, but reallj
isn’t when you remember that you don t
have to pass any test before you are allowed
out there with the lethal vehicle.
* * *
“Flagwagger” : At Anzac during October,
1915, each man in our unit, the 23rd Foot-
sloggers, Nvas paid a cpiid in the form of
10s. British Treasury notes, overprinted with
Arabic, or some such language. The small
Y. Emma canteen hadn’t sufficient stock to
meet this rush of wealth, so, instead of risk-
ing my notes at two-up, I decided to send
them to two girls in Australia as souvenirs.
Envelopes being unobtainable just then,, l
folded each note, blank side out, and, join-
ing the open end with an Australian postage-
stamp, some of which had been m my wallet
since Broadmeadows days, I scribbled the
addresses on the notes and passed them to
my officer. Anyone who handled the paper
could hardly have failed to know what they
were. Yet the notes reached then-destina-
tions, a tribute to the honesty of the many
postal officials, army and civil, who handled
them.
* » * *
“Really” : Each employee starting in the
Vic. railway service is presented with two
weighty volumes, “The Rules and Regula-
tions” and “General Appendix.” These he is
instructed to study diligently, keep up to
date by adding the innumerable amendments,
and finally hand the whole thing back m
good order on leaving the department. One
ganger, who recently retired, complied with
the last injunction faithfully. But when
his books were handed in, after 35 years
service, the leaves were found still uncut.
* * * *
“Sierra”: War-time camouflage seems to
have been less ingenious at sea than on shore ;
indeed, much marine camouflage was merely
expensive humbug. One ship I remember
had painted on her side a huge black disc
with radiating bars. The disc made a capi-
tal bull’s-eye right over her vitals, and in
failing daylight the target was clearly visible
when the other ships of the convoy had
faded into shadowy phantoms. I saw an-
other odd device for hoodwinking submarines
on an Italian steamer which was entering
A COMPLETE CHANGE.
AWKWARD DANCER : “The Charleston be-
comes rather monotonous, don’t you
think?”
THE UNLUCKY GIRL : “Well, try jumping on
my other foot.”
Table Bav. Her bow was painted to represent
a stern, with cabin, portholes and rudder, and
a tip of propeller-blade peeping above her
false water-line. Aft, on her quarter, was
depicted <1 clipper bow cleaving a blue bow-
wave ridged with foam. As her masts and
funnel and deck structures retained then-
original rake the grotesque design could de-
ceive no one; but it sent a wave of hilarity
rippling through the crews in port who had
nothing else just then to be hilarious about.
MUSCULAR PERSUASION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Sumner estate, Northcote, is a popular con-
vincing ground of the Melbourne pushes that nave
differences of opinion.’’
English is but adulterated air,
French and the rest mere complicated gabble;
Impatient youth, too fiery far to beai
The vague prolixities of windy babble,
Relapses to the curt, instinctive tongue
That, right or wrong, out-argues every other
Since that historic day when Cain was stung
To controversy and convinced his brother.
This is the one great universal speech
Instantly understood by every nation—
What Esperantist ever hopes to reach
Such facile glibness of communication?
The medium by which most men elect
To parley with the tribes of fur and feather,
And used, so Milton says, with great effect
When the angelic pushes get together!
There’s a significance about a kick
So obvious that nobody can miss it;
A message in the impact of a brick
At once concise, emphatic and explicit;
A hefty right’s not easy to refute,
Choking’s persuasive, and the veriest noddy
Can recognise, whatever the dispute,
The eloquence of an instructive waddy.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
SHIRTS
are guaranleedb
to give sulXsfaction
“They Fit”
d
ďf
Made In Australia
BH
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
Clfie.
PATHEORAMA
7 r R>sted 7e Films la eei.
Jjome Recreations R
368 George St, Sydney
[opp. Beard M&fsort’s)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
GILBERT M. WALLACE, who now has
the job of editing the various Victorian
school papers.
Harry Moses, for many years “father” of
the N.S.W. Leg. Council, had a three years’
holiday from all work before finally weigh-
ing in last Saturday. Born at Windsor, he
absorbed the spirit of the new country, and
as prospector and traveller saw most of Aus-
tralia. He had his full share of adventures,
including a couple of wrecks and half a
dozen railway smashes, and the fortune which
carried him safely through these smiled on
most of his business ventures, so that he
was able to settle down to a life of affluence
in middle age. He passed on his straight
sporting tendencies to his numerous child-
ren : two of his sons' became the well-known
studowners who bred, amongst other win-
ners, Poitrel; another, Harry, was the inter-
state player who made 298 against the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club.
“Jupp” Gardiner goes out of politics at
the end of the month, when bis term as a
Senator expires. He has had a long in-
nings ; and he probably never would have
started it if he hadn’t been a crack foot-
baller. Mainly on his popularity as an
athlete he captured the Forbes seat in 1891,
and represented Ashburnham and Orange
subsequently, with short periods of wander-
ing in the wilderness. When, on the Labor
wave of 1910. Allan McDougall topped the
score, Gardiner went in, too; and he has
kept his place ever since—for a period as
the only Labor Senator, and for another
period as Assistant-Minister for Defence.
A strict teetotaller without being narrow-
minded about liquor, “Jupp” is a likeable
man ; the worst that can be said of him is
that lie thinks he is still a Freetrader.
Adelaide Criminal Court has just staged
the last act of a tragedy, when Benjamin
Benny, solicitor, was given three years for
converting to his own use sundry large sums
belonging to clients. In an address from
the dock he pleaded that his services in the
Federal Senate took him away from his busi-
ness ; then he was in hospitals and nursing-
homes, and did not know how things went.
Clients interested explained in the witness-
box that they had given him ample rope, til!
at last he admitted that, the moneys were gone
and could not be replaced. It seems to have
been another case where the refreshment-
room was very largely to blainc.
A fairly complete bankruptcy is that of
the only son and heir of Field-Marshal Lord
Plumer, the liabilities being £1346 and the
sole assets a pair of cuff-links, which isn’t
much in a cold climate, especially for a mar-
ried captain with two daughters. It is his
second insolvency in a lifetime of 36 years;
and as the first one swallowed up his rever-
sionary interest in the £30,000 which the
nation settled on his father, the prospects
are bleak. Lord Plumer is in his 70th year,
and by recent advices was still battling for
a crust at Government House, Jerusalem.
When .T. Keegan lost an arm recently,
the limbless contingent in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment was added to. Both W. Ely (Parra-
matta) and W. O’Hearn (Maitland) are
similarly handicapped, lake Lieut. Harold
Jaques, the National member for Eastern
Suburbs, O’Hearn is also short of a leg, lost,
with his arm, in a railway accident when a
lad. Another casualty in the Council where
Keegan sits is Joynton Smith, who has only
one eye.
Copland Lethbridge was a boy of 17 when
he signed on with the newly-created Per-
petual Trustee Co. in 1887 as its first clerk;
after acting as manager to the now big
concern since 1915 he has been made man-
aging director. He is the son of the John
King Lethbridge who was a sort of Pooh
Bah in the Nepean district, and is a descen-
dant of Governor King.
A chemist before he decided that his voca-
tion in life was to dispense spiritual medi-
cine, just-dead Harold Wheen joined the
Methodist ministry 35 years ago (he was
then 23), and last year was president of the
Conference. His brother, John G. Wheen,
is this year’s president, and the same chair
was occupied also by his brother-in-law,
Joseph Woodhouse. The trio, who were born
in Sheffield, where they went to school to-
gether, came to Australia at different times,
and at one and the same period they were
secretaries of three Methodist organisations.
Harold Wheen’s was the Young People’s de-
partment ; he had 11 of his own, and one
of them, Arthur, was Rhodes scholar for
1919.
Few men have been so well known round
the world south of the Equator as Dan
Kingsland, who died lately at sea on his way
from Adelaide to England. He owned only
to 75 years, which makes him a precocious
kid to have been on a steamer blockade-
running during the American Civil War. He
turned up at Invercargill (M.L.) in 1868,
and drove a coach on the road between the
Dunstan and Tuapeka. In the ’seventies he
was driving for Cobb and Co. between Tam-
worth and Armidale, from Brisbane to Oxley
Creek, and all over the Goulburn and Yass
district. Next he was horsebreaker at Kirk’s
bazaar in Melbourne, then driving for Hill
and Co. in South Aus., with mail contracts
on his own account from Nairne to Murray
Bridge just before the railway days. He
made money, lost it in a bank smash, and
had to go back to droving in Queensland.
Then this remarkable man moved across to
South America and built up one of the big-
gest horse-and-cattle export businesses in the
Argentine. He retired at the end of 1907 to
South Aus. Incidentally, he married again
there, and so leaves children younger than
his own great-grandchildren-—which he used
to claim confidently as a world’s record.
Willie Watt is becoming as restive under
Bruce’s leadership in the Reps, as he was
under Irvine and Bent in the Vic. Assembly.
While supporting the Irvine Government it
went against his grain to vote for separate
representation for civil servants. He ex-
pressed sympathy for the public officers,
whereupon John Gavan Duffy said that the
service felt inclined to exclaim with Sir Peter
Teazle, “Dam’ your sentiments, Sir.” Bruce
got as near to that as politeness permitted the
other night when Watt’s amendment on the
Essential Services (Constitution Alteration)
Bill was mainly responsible for an all-night
sitting. But it didn’t worry Watt that lie
was in a minority any more than it worried
him when he was castigated for holding up
Bent 20 years ago.
Norman Nairn, a Maorilander who was in
Palestine with the
N.Z.E.F., stayed on
after being de-
mobbed, and organ-
ised a motor ser-
vice from Pales-
tine to Bagdad. lie
was doing well
when the Syrians
had their row with
the French and the
Damascus route be-
•c am e impossible.
Now he has worked
out a new route
across the desert,
and at latest
advices was pros-
perous again.
LEO B. CUBSEN,
of the Victorian
Bar.
Although he looked on himself as a sailor
—he joined the R.N, as a 10-year-old
Thomas Vaughan will be remembered in
Australia for two land jobs. He helped to
lay the telegraph line from Adelaide to
Port Darwin, and looked after the time-ball
and tide-gauge at Williamstown (Vic.) for
37 years. The black camel has just found
him in, aged 76.
Another post-war act of forgivenness is
the Commonwealth Government’s decision to
allow Dr. E. Hirschfeld to re-enter Australia.
ITirschfeld, who was German Consul in Bris-
bane before the war, left Australia in 1920
after rousing the anger of the R.S.L. and
many other patriotic citizens by his sore-
lieaded remarks. The R.S.L. objected to his
return, and he has remained shut out in
spite of numerous applications for his re-
admission. An Australian-born wife and
family have weighted the scales in his favor;
but lie is to give a bond to keep his tongue
under control.
It’s a wrong turning that has no Lane in
Orange, to which William of the ilk brought
his wife and family 100 years ago. He
grazed his herds where the town of Orange
now stands. The last of the pioneers died
the other day, when Edwin Hurst Lane,
William’s youngest son, ended an 81-years’
innings.
Thousands of middle-aged folk who used
to know Jim Holland when he was inspector
of State schools had a moment of sorrow
last week when they heard he had passed
on. With the exception, perhaps, of Charlie
Tynan, he was the best-liked auditor of
teaching work Vic. has known. He ap-
proached teachers and kiddies in the friendli-
est way and got fine results. In his spare
time he rode steeplechasers, shot quail,
caught trout and was tip-top company in
the evening. Had he been more pushing, he
might have been Inspector-General under the
old system, but he wasn’t one to jostle for
place. He extracted much from a life that
ended in its 79th year.
The death of Dr. Leith Napier in Adel-
aide, at 72, recalls the old “hospital trouble”
there in 1896, which sent so many medical
students to complete their course at Mel-
bourne University. With Dr. Ramsay
Smith (now tlie Adelaide city coroner)
Napier was imported, after a distinguished
medical career at Aberdeen and in London,
and the two were surprised on finding that
they had to live down the disapproval of
nearly the whole profession in S.A. Napier
held all kinds of Government appointments,
and took a keen interest besides in military,
racing and literary affairs. The latest arri-
val on the Supreme Court Bench in South
Aus. is a son.
Vic. Railways now have a Commercial
Agent, whose job is to keep a watchful eye
on road competition, maintain friendly rela-
tions between the department and its cus-
tomers, and generally secure and conserve
business for Clapp’s vehicles. W. L. Middle-
ton, a 44-year-old stationmaster who has im-
pressed the heads with his alertness at the
different stations where he has been located,
takes over the job, and will be given an
assistant if necessary. Westralia. South
Aus. and Maoriland have similar officers.
Sam Mauger, at present in Hobart attend-
ing a temperance pow-wow, the other night
gave the local W.E.A. a talk and picture-
show entitled “The First Ten Years of
Federation.” Sam (he was a member of
the Deakin Government) is interesting on
this subject, mainly because he can clothe
his characters in the garb of personal in-
timacy. But he grows a little querulous
with the years :
Tlie people of Australia were far too ready to pass
with scant recognition the intellectual giants re-
sponsible for the early struggles of Federation, and
to impute to them motives of self-interest. Had
Great Britain or America possessed these men they
would haie idolised them as statesmen of the
highest order!
Possibly it was Deakin the loyal Sam had in
mind, not Mauger. But the audience grinned
just the same.
John Frederick ,Crook lias said good-bye
to N.S.W. and returned to England. As
he was sentenced to death only 17 years ago,
lie can regard himself as lucky. Whilst com-
mitting a burglary he shot at and wounded
Russell Sinclair at North Sydney. His
youth (he was 28) and the fact that the shot
was not fatal helped the jury to add a
strong recommendation to mercy to its ver-
dict of guilty. He earned good-conduct
marks during his imprisonment, and they
were powerful backing to a petition for
release, based on his desire to get back to
England to see his 76-year-old mother.
The Bulletin praised some plans by
Albert Edward Barnard shown at the recent
Architects’ Exhibition in Sydney. The young
man, who was 1925 honors winner at the
Sydney Tech., has since been awarded one
of the two architectural travelling scholarships
which are worth £4OO. The other scholar-
ship goes to Frederick Manderson, who
graduated Bachelor of Architecture at the
Sydney Uni. this year.
When Pearce left the Home and Terri-
tories Department to make room for Glas-
gow, one Melbourne paper gravely announced
that lie had been “promoted” by being made
Vice-President of the Executive Council.
Actually the Vice-President of the Executive
Council, being unsalaried, is dependent upon
the generosity of salaried colleagues even for
his pay.
An extraordinary book upon “German
Colonisation, Past and Present,” in which
Dr. Heinrich Schnee, who had been Resident
Magistrate and Deputy-Governor in New
Guinea and Samoa, weeps tears for the mis-
fortunes of niggers who have been deprived
of the benefit of paternal German govern-
ment, has brought praise to Colonel Strang-
man and Lt.-Colonel Fitzherbert from Eng-
lish critics annoyed at the German propa-
ganda. The two Australians in charge of
the medical services in the mandated terri-
tories have practically cleared Rabaul,
Madang and Kaeweing of malaria, which was
once considered quite a matter of course in
those places.
Leslie G. Smith, who became secretary
of the Clerical Workers’ Association when
Percy Coleman found his way into the House
of Reps., is to be given a testimonial by
the clerks of N. S. Wales. The cuff-and-
collar brigade, the most sweated of employees
of old days, when sometimes they could be had
for 255. per week and were expected to work
overtime without pay, can well afford a few
shillings’ worth of
gratitude to their
representative on
wages tribunals—
Smith watches the
working of 25
awards and agree-
ments. The gen-
eral award puts
clerks’ wages well
above the basic
level for manual
workers (they used
to be considerably
below), besides giv-
ing payment for
overtime and holi-
days. Incidentally,
the male clerk has
been enabled to
avoid extinction by
the association’s
insistence on de-
cent wages for
Gladys and Pearl.
LLEWELYN
ATKINSON,
M.H.R. for Wil[?]ot
( Tas .), the out-
going Vice-
President of the
Executive Council.
Three former Agents-General foregathered
in the Mayor’s parlor at the Brisbane Town
Hall the other day. James Connolly (ex-
A.-G. for W.A.) was paying a courtesy call
on vice-Mayor Russell, when along came
J. A. Fihelly (ex-A.-G. for Queensland)
with John McWhae (ex-A.-G. for Victoria)
in tow.
THE SHOW THAT NEVER PALLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Earl ot' Stradbroke, late Governor of Victoria,
told a London interviewer that no visitor to Aus-
tralia could fail to be struck by the smartness of
the girls as they poured out of shops, offices and
factories, their taste in dress and the careful attention,
paid to hair and footwear.”
When a Gov. finds rubber-stamping somewhat irksome
work and cramping,
When he tires of opening flower-shows and the
like;
Whew the round of social beanos with the same old
pure merinos
Tends to give him something very like the spike ;
There’s a simple, cheap diversion, one involving no
exertion,
He can share with taxi-drivers and with cops:
With an artist’s rye he browses on the stream of
skirts and blouses
As it ripples from the factories and the shops.
When the squabbles of intriguing politicians grow
fatiguing
And their frantic greed of office narks your soul ;
When the turf becomes a burden, ’spite the glory
and the guerdon
From an equine wonder like the Night Patrol:
There’s a pleasure, sweet and ample, twice a day a
chap can sample,
Be he languid a.d.c. or blase earl;
His eye will glow, i warrant, as it lights upon the
torrent
Of the off-to-lunch or home-to-dinner girl.
When the cares of State distress you and the fuss
and frill oppress you,
And you wonder if the worry’s worth the pay ;
When one man, even your brother, bores as much as
any other
And to-day seems just as flat as yesterday,
Never mind the open spaces, health resorts or beauty
places,
There are fairer sights at fifty tramway stops,
Better physic for the liver in the rushing, swirling
river
Of the clyners loosed from offices and shops.
When the role you have to follow seems a dreary
farce and hollow
And the job of being y’r Excellency palls ;
When the rank and wealth and fashion have a taste
that’s dry and ashen
And the novelty is off vice-regal halls,
Take a spin about the city when it’s knock-off time
for pretty
Girls from top to toe with artless smartness clad.
’Tis a pleasing scene symphonic, appetising as a
tonic
Or an ante-prandial cocktail (ain’t it Straff?).
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


\
s
m
m
□
n
n
n
d
<m>
h
OVAL - HEAVYWEIGHTS
j&nJ of 25 & 50.
«w
H3B
J?
Tins of 25 /£
Tins of 50 2'9


CIK
equitable
i
cm
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Dd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, liable Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy, Managing Director.
k
r p*
IheTOP-NOTCH’ScotcK
r
Say WHEN Man!!
I
POLO NEWS
1N
o
Every polo player
in Australia should
write for a free
copy of the NEW
BOOK ON POLO,
containing the Rules
and Photographs of
Polo Teams; also
full description of
all gear required.
WRITE TO-DAY.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Sydney Polo Specialist,
371 George Street, Sydney.
And at 434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“rick’ : Our G.P.0., if slow, is pains-
taking. I was yakkering on Brooklyn station, Win-
dellama Greek (N.S.W.). when a friend wrote me
a letter; he addressed it to Brooklyn in a large,
round hand, but neglected to indicate the postal
town with similar plainness. The missive con-
sequently started off on a world’s tour. It journeyed
to Brooklyn, New York; visited half a dozen other
Brooklyns in the U.S.A. ; then came back to Aus
tralia. Someone there discovered the small “Windel-
lama” in the corner of the envelope and headed tlie
wanderer aright. I had eloped with Matilda in
the meantime, but after 18 months of pursuit the
tattered epistle caught me up at Jugiong, on the
’Bidgee. It asked the loan of a quid bv return
mail.
*’* * #
“Max”: I don’t see how “Buttenderry”
(B. 3/6/’26) can advance the reduced size of pad-
docks as a reason for the decline of the horse in
this country. Maoriland produces very good horses,
which do remarkably
well on the Australian
turf, and paddocks in
that country are much
smaller than in N. S.
Wales. Some of the
stud-farms there are
tiny things in Austra-
lian eyes, yet have been
in continuous use for
many years without ill-
effect on the animals.
In England the pad-
docks are still smaller,
one of six acres being
considered fairly large,
and this is a common
size in which to run
mares and foals in the
summer months—they
are stabled in winter—
apd no one denies the
excellence of English
horses. British horse-
breeders do not admit
that paddocks become
“horse sick,” and with
their climate and small
areas that condition
would manifest itself, if
there were anything in
the assertion. Manure
in the fields is spread
regularly by a man
with a fork, who re-
ceives much assistance
from crows; it is not
left to foul the ground
in the slovenly fashion
so noticeable in Aus
tralia.
“L.C.M.” : Some parents in country dis-
tricts have curious ideas about naming their child-
ren. Conducting the medical examination of a
school recently, I was confronted by a smiling young
person of 10 or thereabouts who said her name was
Venus. But on the card her mother had written :
“Venice Matilda O’Reilly.” And whether it’s really
Venus or Venice nobody knows: mother says “It’s
‘V-e-n-i-e-e, the beautiful lady.’ ” Another freckle-
faced urchin was called Chlorine. “After the war,”
was her terse explanation. Out back it is generally
a lady of irreproachable reputation who writes
“spinster” in the space left for “Mother’s occupa-
tion” on the medical-inspection card. Probably the
last time she signed her name was when she penned
her signature on the marriage register, and “spinster”
is a dimly-remembered word from that far-off day.
Most parents know the cards which are distributed
from the school prior to the medical inspection.
They are often great stumbling-blocks to the many-
folk who are not too sure about their grandparents.
For statistical purposes, the cards ask for the
nationality of both parents and grandparents. Among
the recently examined children were two small girls
with the curious combination of coppery, fuzzy hair
A. GOOD BARG ATE, YOU!
“Do ’ee guarantee these ’are pants?”
"Not the pants, Mr. Tredinnick, But I tell you what—
I’ll guarantee the price.”
“Will ’ee? Well, now, if thee’st do that, I’ll ’are couple
pair av ’em.”
and the wide mouth, flat nose and general appear-
ance of the aboriginal. In a tarry scrawl on the card
their maternal and paternal grandparents were named
“Jacky Tribe” and “Mary Tribe.” '
* * #
“Ulnlah”: Mrs. J. Goodwin, who died
recently at Maryborough (Q.) in her 88th year, went
through an experience which would have ended
tragically but for her beautiful head of hair. As
she was sitting on her verandah, an abo. with up-
raised tomahawk crept towards her. When he was
within a couple of yards of striking distance, the
white woman started, with the result that her hair—-
it reached to her knees—became unfastened and
descended from her head. The black, on seeing such
a magical thing, let out a wild scream and ran. (The
whole story was told later by friendly abos.) I've
often seen gins go into ecstasies over a white woman’s
locks.
“Up North”: The northern abo. draws a
well-defined color line against John Chinaman. In
the Palmer days hun-
dreds of yellow diggers
simmered on Binghi’s
cooking-stones. The
Palmer tribe thought
the white man had
brought these droves of
Mongols into the coun-
try as a propitiation
for his own people hav-
ing driven away so
much game. Black
Brother is quick to re-
flect • White Brother’s
attitude. At the Laura
store a Binghi violently
ejected a Chinese cus-
tomer because the
yellow man in his due
turn was served first.
A Chinaman who en-
deavored to drive past
a mob of Binghis
travelling on the lonely
Byerstown road had his
cart overturned by way
of putting him in his
place. But wily John
more than got even.
For every hundred
Chinamen eaten in the
early days, a whole
tribe of Binghis bit the
dust through opium
charcoal, and Binghi, once the lord, soon became an
abject slave under tragic circumstances,
“Yacko”: Sturt did not name the river
Murray after the Port Phillip discoverer (B.
27/5/’26), but in honor of Sir George Murray,
British Colonial Secretary. Lieut. John Murray, as
commander of the Lady Nelson, entered Port Phillip
Heads on February 15, 1802, forestalling Flinders
in the discovery of the bay—which he called Port
King .in respect to Governor King—by 10 weeks.
Victoria is indebted to Murray for much valuable
charting, but has forgotten his services. The passage
between the principal islands of the Kent Group,
entered by Flinders several years before Murray,
bears the latter’s name.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: How far can a tyke fall with-
out sustaining serious injury? Ai
High Rock, on the N. S. Wales
south coast, an unvalued mong. be-
longing to a Central Tilba fisher
slipped over the cliffs and landed
upon a ledge of the rock face just
above the waves 80ft. below. He
had not the courage to tackle the
sea and a long swim ashore, and
as no one troubled to rescue him
from above the poor fellow waited
till starvation finished him. At
Numeralla, on the Southern Table-
land (N.S.W.), two greyhounds
chased a kangaroo over a precipice
with an almost sheer drop of 300
feet. The ’roo was smashed to
pulp on the jagged rocks at the
foot, but one leg broken out of
eight was all the harm suffered by
the pursuers. A little dog owned
and valued by a Lindfield (N.S.W.)
tourist recently jumped over the
cliffs at Sublime Point, Belli
(N.S.W.). It finished its semifall
2000 ft. below. Immediately it made
frantic endeavors to climb back,
and continued its scrambles till re-
gained by its owner from beneath.
* # *
“W.L.W.”: I’ve lived in
the bush for 30 years, but only
once have I seen a bird die in
mid-air from an apparently
natural cause. On that occasion
I was observing a crow fly in an
unusual way. All at once his legs
dangled and he came a thud into
my neighbor’s potato patch. A
post-mortem disclosed that he had
died from starvation due to the
upper part of the beak having
rotted away, making it impossible
for the bird to pick up food.
“G.S.M.”: Old-wives’ tales die hard in
the bush. The other day I was out with a boun-
dary-rider. We saw a blue-tongue lizard, and im-
mediately he killed the little innocent. I asked him
why, and he informed me that they mated with
death-adders, and then when mated with their own
kind always threw one or two adders in the litter.
For a weird story I think this licks all.
“H. 8. ”: An old reprobate of a cook on
Koonamore station (S.A.) “grubbed us up’’ one
shearing, when eight of us students were! on a wool-
classing stunt. On the morning of the cut-out I
was packing my duds, the other students having
already mounted the coach, when he came to me with
a moist gleam in his eye. “Now look here, young
feller,” he began, “I like you and I’m sorry you’re
going away; you must admit I’ve looked after you
like a mother. Now, what about giving the eoachy
a flask of whisky when you get to Yunta ? Never
mind about a bottle —-a flask will be any amount.
SOMETHING LIKE A REFORM.
MRS. FLANAGAN: "Ow docs th’ 44-hour week suit yer old man?”
MRS. McTAVISII: “ No good! 'E reckons if they ’ad knocked off
th’ forty instead of mailin’ such a song over th’ four, it’d
’are worked a lot better.”
I just want it by me in case of sickness. Coachy
will know who it is for and will bring it back safe.”
Then he became confidential. “You needn’t mention
ibis t 0 any of those blankards on the coach. There
isn t a man among the lot of ’em.” In a weak
moment I promised and thought no more of the
matter until coming into Yunta, after a 50-mile
run. Then I blabbed it. I was struck dumb by
the howl of laughter that went up from the other
seven—the old sinner had been round to each of us
with the same yarn.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE GHOSTS OF BLUEGUM SHIPS.
[These are the last verses written by Captain
Snadden; they readied The Bulletin' only a few
days before his death in Sydney in the last davs of
May.]
Here is a tale that waxes stale, though it is ever
new;
A tale ot ships and patent slips that on the Derwent
grew—
The Derwent water clean and wide and beautiful
and deep—
While weary politicians bide their time and fall
asleep.
There was no need for class or creed when sailors
native-born
From Hobart Town went out to drown or brave the
deathly Horn.
On ships full good of native wood, from forests grim
and old,
They made long trips, these Hobart ships, where
curling greybeards rolled.
Staunch ships were made, and bluegum played its
part on many seas.
McGregor’s yard was working hard and so was
Kennedy’s.
The days of steel were yet to be; but Hobart paved
the way,
And every boy must go to sea, and no one said
them nay.
The busy “ways” of other days are now a memory,
And no one hears in softer years of Hobart lads at
sea;
While Tassie sleeps and Hobart keeps a watch on
idle slips,
The Derwent sees within the breeze the ghosts of
bluegum ships |
Those days awhirl, when many a girl on Dunn-
street pier waved long
A farewell sad to many a lad who sang a capstan-
song,
As cheerily they put to sea, pride in their sailor
blood—
Those days are gone. It seems to me that they
are gone for good.
ALL WASTED.
"Dammit, my man, that’s not the way to stand when addressing
an officah! I’m afraid the Great War was fought in vain
so far as you are concerned.”
With eyes a-wet, the topsails set, they watched her
from the bay,
The Tassie craft, trim fore-and-aft, pride of an
olden day.
Just pride was theirs, for Hobart wares their blue-
gum holds well filled;
Past tempests’ shocks, on London docks in time
their goods were spilled.
They gave a hand to Maoriland and sailed the
waters dark
Well-rigged and stout -inside and out, all gum and
stringy-bavk.
They battled past, with straining mast, the
Solanders, ’way south,
While in its lair the Trap and Snare waited with
foaming mouth.
They struggled through to Oamaru and ran the
breakers down ;
They leaped afar o’er Greymouth bar with pine for
Melbourne town.
And calm or rough, full tight and tough, they
tallied countless trips
Pilled with the wood that made thorn good, the little
blucgum ships.
That olden day has passed away like some long-
treasured dream.
We’ve slumbered deep to wake from sleep and gaze
on days of steam.
Now giant craft, steel fore-and-aft, these southern
waters roam,
With screws astern that whirl and churn the Der-
went into foam.
And Tassie sighs and rubs her eyes. Asleep she is
indeed—-
For iron ore she has galore; but still she does not
heed.
She knew the way in that old day staunch wooden
ships to make....
If she can feel the power of steel— some clay she
may awake /
The Iron Pot it careth not. Its lazy light rooms
free;
Put 'in the night, when stars are bright, come sailing
in from sea
Ghost-ships of old, with hulls of gold , and sails like
clouds unfurled —
Pull green and red, like eyes long dead, their side-
lights search the world.
The tracks they knew hare vanished too. They
wander a iunlessly,
While, hammers ring and forges sing in works and
factory.
Put in the night, when stars are bright, and time
far-backward slips,
And winds are still, they roam at will —the ghosts
of bluegum ships !
AUSTRALIA.
ALBATROSS.


ďf
H OSPITAL
BRANDY
iSAizAjIS a.
et , "» /)
Mo ia t truL
cuA. \to'dcuj
gggffE
is? 4 '
%
■
I
!V
I
: ;
m
mm
M
m''y-'/tMk
H IHi . ~ ■■ I
IlillE:
%
m
m


DON’T WORRY ABOUT THE RABBITS
Exterminate them with AN O A s*l (Calcium Cyanide)
FUMO
BRAND
m
&
p/§)
Perhaps you have tried other methods of rabbit destruc-
tion —or even other fumigators—-and been disappointed
in results. ’ ■■■■ ; &
If Cyanogas is used according to instructions, blown into
the burrows with the Fumo*Dust Blower, it is guaranteed
to kill every rabbit. It is the quickest, surest %ifld
most economical method of ''rabbit de-
struction known. >
Mr. W. M. Hammond, of “Gawsworth,” Hare
field, writes, Ist February, 1926: ....“I hare
from time to time used your cyanide prepara-
tion in odd deep burrows that are too'’extensive
to dig out, and if properly used the results
are always sure, and I do not think that a
rabbit ever escapes.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzaeott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Lcjjgo & Co., Melbourne. —-
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Queensland.- Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd,, .Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
m
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Solentes”: My kid, aged seven and a
fraction, brought home the other evening a school
magazine, “issued by the Government Printer of
N. S. Wales,” and clamored loudly to have it read
to him. The first chapter dealt with the doings
of “Brer Rabbit” and “Brer Fox” —purely Yankee
in tone and setting. I cut that lot short and turned
over two or three pages, only to find that the next
lesson described the efforts of a frigid personage
named Cupeekak and some of his pals to build a
snow house in Iceland. Why can’t we get some
simple Australian stuff in our school books? A
description of a dance of the brolga, for instance,
would be interesting to the kids, besides teaching
something about the fauna of this continent, unique
and interesting even to world scientists.
“Broome” : A dramatic accident happened
recently to one of the Broome divers. While he was
being lowered from the deck a line became entangled
in the flanged of his face-glass and partly turned it,
causing a leakage. The diver at once gave the
signal “Come up.” The sea, however, was very
choppy, and the tender failed to catch the message,
the result being that the diver was lowered to 12
fathoms. In the excitement he tried to screw up
the glass again, with the result that he screwed it
off. He doesn’t know how long he was on the
bottom of the Indian Ocean, but when he came to
on the deck he was short of two front teeth which
the engineer had extracted with his pliers, following
the antiquated idea of drawing blood and creating
shock in order to effect a revival. The man was
working again two days later.
* * * *
“Canar”: Twenty years or so ago tlm
suburbs of Sydney were swarmed at certain seasons
of the year by small red and green parrakeets
passing over the city on their annual migration from
south to north. Nowadays, the birds are a fairly
rare sight, most of them having been driven away
by trapping. At one time there was a sale for them
at Paddy’s Market at about a penny or twopence a-
head. I don’t know what, was done with the nmlti-
tiifle trapped, but have heard it said they were passed
off as pigeons in cheap restaurants, it being difficult
to distinguish between the two when made into pies;
“Delos”: In spite of all the leagues and societies
for their protection and the Acts of Parliament pro-
hibiting their destruction, numerous species -of birds
are becoming scarcer, and haunts that in days gone
by were filled with feathered dwellers know-them no
NOT HIS MEASURE.
HURRIED LADY (Saturday, 5.50 pM.) : “’As
me 'usband been in fer to-morrer's beer?”
Publican : "Yes, ’e 'ad a small shandy and
took a bottle ’ome.”
THE LADY: “ Wasn’t ’im.”
more. One of the vanishing beauties is the regent-
biicl, which for gloss, sheen and brilliant coloring
would be hard to beat. A pair regularly come to
feed on a large fig tree near our house on the
N.S.W. Aorth Coast, and:as they flit and hop among
the branches they make a charming sight.
“I;. It. Napier”: Even the sceptical
pakeha vouches for the healing qualities of the
mero-tree gum of Maori land. A contractor in the
Seventy Mile Bush was supervising a big" drive from
a 20ft. scaffolding built round a giant totara. One
PROBLEM OF THE MODERN WIFE.
“I’m sorry you and your wife are always quarrelling. Pome now, whose fault is it?”
It ain I mine. I gives her a 'iding every time, but she keeps on.”
of the falling trees, swinging ...out of line, struck
it-loose board on the stage. This’acted like a mighty
catapult, hurling tile biisbman into the air. He fell
from a height of about 28ft. ■ on to the edge of his
a.ve, which, cut right through the .fleshy part of his
thigh. The wound was plugged s and smeared with
ffi'd* mom-gum, bandaged 'with' a strip of sugarbag
•and tied with some twine. It was 27 hours before
tlie cut was dressed bv a doctor, who was amazed to
find no trace of festering or blood poisoning. Eight
weeks later the patient was on-his feet again.
** ■ *
“Hiawatha” : A neighbor of ours lias a
novel way of branding poultry." He keeps white
leghorns, and brands them by clipping their tail
feathers in dye. At different times his fowls ha re
gbiu' about with blue, red, yellow, purple or black
tails. At present green is in favor. It has a. peculiar
effect to see about 100 white fowls going about
with green tails. I don't know what dye is used
nor how it is applied, but it sticks till moulting
time. During the war, in a burst of patriotism,
the owner"*dyed the tails of his fowls blue,.'and' their
wings red. He assures me that tail-dying is the
easiest of all ways by which to recognise one’s
chooks when in another person’s fowlyard.
“867”: We of the bush have seen swags
carried in many ways, but a drover taking cattle
to Moree (N.S.W.) struck a new idea. He had
his camping outfit strapped over the neck of, a
quiet cow he could catch anywhere. The only horse
was the one he rode. ..
“Dead Finish”: Can any Abo.-liar fell me
the age a horse may live to? . Recently I helped
at the obsequies of a pony on Gracedale station
(N.Q.), a mere youth of 40 summers when the last
whip cracked for him. 1 have heard of a mare on
the Valley of Lagoons (N.Q.) that tallied over 50
years, but disbelievers reckon she carried her dam’s
years in the horse-book as well as her own.
* * * *
“•T.’s Ass” : Maori land possesses most of
the world’s weeds already, but is seeking to complete
the list with the importation of water-hyacinth and
prickly-pear. The former has for some time been
sold as a. plant that can be grown by old maids in
a parlor, but the inevitable result of getting sick of
it, and chucking it out. at the back door is made
apparent by its appearance in the Waikato River.
Now an agricultural journal is busy’boosting another
pest in the shape of Burbank’s .spineless cactus. ’ This
weed is being held out to Strawberry’s owner as
the best of fodder for cows, pigs and hens, while
quite a lot of space is devoted to lauding its merits
as a food for humans. Remembering the pSfesibility
of a reversion to the porcupine class, the introduction
of the fruit would be nothing short of criminal.
‘‘L.M.”: Our Irish terrier, Pat, brought
home the other day a small blaek-and-tan pup, halt-
kelpie, but very reminiscent of Pat himself about
the head. W'e turned the pup out several times,
telling it to run home ; but Pat always brought it
back, carrying it between his teeth, and finally -we kept
it. Pat would play with it for hours, and even
looked on placidly while the family caressed it,
though usually we have only to touch another animal
to make Pat quiver with jealousy and rage. When
someone inadvertently trod on the pup’s toe Pat
barked wildly at the offender and licked the injured
toe with tender solicitude. He is very emphatic
about accepting- his responsibilities. No double
standard for Pat 1 .
* * * #
“Oanar": In reply to “Dingo” (B.
27/6/’26) I would like to say it is a fact that stock
are passing from Queensland into N.S.W. without
examination or quarantine. Not. in large numbers,
certainly, but, then, one beast may be responsible
lor the infection of a whole district. I know of
one instance about live months ago in which a number
bf cattle were shipped from the West to one of the
border districts; they remained there for several
months, and then crossed into N.S.W. without
being examined or quarantined. In some places the
administration of the regulations is a good deal
slacker than might be thought.
“Two Seas” : Horses’ fear of certain places
may be accounted for by their marvellous memories.
One day my riding horse shied violently from a clump
of bushes and tried to bolt. Thinking he
had seen a snake I tied him, up at a little distance
and, armed with a stick, went to investigate. I
could not see anything to alarm him, and, knowing
that his eyesight was normal (near-sightedness is
often the cause of a horse shying), I was puzzled to
account for his fright. Then, as I was about to
remount arid resume my ride, I noticed the bones
of a kangaroo, a little distance from the bushes, and
in a flash I knew why my moke feared that particu-
lar spot' Fully a year before , I had shot that ’roo,
and when skinning it a paper-nest hornet had darted
from those 1 bushes where 1 had hung up my horse
and stung him. He had not forgotten it any more
than X had forgotten my walk home. But there is also
unaccountable fear. Years ago, when I was jackeroo-
ing, I was put in charge of a tank on the back of
the run during a drought. My camp was known
as “The Chinaman’s Hut.” It was in the middle of
a small natural clearing and had been occupied by
a Chinese shepherd in the old times. The Chink
had been found by a ration-carrier with his skull,
neatly perforated by a' prospecting pick, and his
ghost was supposed to haunt the little clearing.
The station-hands believed in the ghost and wouldn’t
camp there. I had no belief in spooks—that’s why
the job was pushed on trie. Needless to say I never
saw anything-that resembled an apparition; but one
night, or father sit two in the morning, when I was
riding home from a, bush dance, my horse suddenly
propped oh the 'edge of the clearing that surrounded
my abode. I nearly shot over his head, and indignantly
drove my spurs in. But neither whip nor spurs
could make him budge. The moon was setting- over
the tops of the trees on the far side of the clearing
and gave enough light to see the hut and the plain
quite clearly. I could not see anything that I
hadn’t seen for weeks; but my horse was staring
at something with his head outstretched, giving
curious little snorts of fear and trembling all over.
His neck was dripping with sweat, and his ears were
twitching and straining forward in such a manner
that 1 knew he saw something that I couldn’t see
and, by the movement of his head, I knew that his
eyes followed it until it disappeared into the scrub
opposite. But what was it? . Not kangaroo, wallaby,
emu or dingo. He was familiar with the scent and
sight of them all. As I have said, I do not believe
in spooks ; but 1 do think that horses and dogs can
see or sense things that we are not conscious of.
I know that my dog would never willingly enter
that old slab hut, and if I dragged him inside for
company he would whine and scratch at the door
until I let him out.
"Veronal”: Tlie aquatic herb known as
flakeweed, which abounds in most rivers, lakes and
large swamps, is the chief item in the black swan’s
n? cnu. But this and other aquatic herbage is also
relished by cattle', and is a standby in drought.
Black swans have, therefore, become unpopular in
some quarters. In one large swamp on the N.S.W.
South Coast, they breed in great numbers, and the
neighboring dairy-farmers have sought departmental
permission to shoot them and destroy their eggs
and cygnets. This license was very properly refused.
So distinctively an Australian bird,’ first discovered
by William de Vlaming at Swan River in the six-
teenth century, has a right to its natural food.
“Sylvester”: Anyone who lias had tlie
misfortune to be camped near pigs running, loose
knows what they are. A big navvy, returning to his
tent in the evening, discovered that a sow had not
only eaten everything eatable and upset everything
upsetable, but was then actually camped in his bunk.
Alter ejecting the lodger with violence he followed
her home. Her owner, an eccentric cocky, was talk-
ing to a visitor. After cursing everything in general
and pigs in particular, the aggrieved navvy finished
up “and tiie ruddy cow was camped in my bunk.”
“Sorl right,” said cocky; “I’ll wash her with kero
sene.”
“Cuclinlain” : The death of William Fred-
erick Hay, part-owner of Nulla-Nulla station (W.A.),
who was speared by blacks, may make dwellers in
the more civilised sections of Australia realise that
there are remote parts where Black Brother is still
a daily menace. After constant attacks by the blacks,
cattle become so wild and Mighty that they cannot
be approached. The blacks, who usually mount a
tree with their spears in hand, maim a great many
more beasts than they kill, as their heavy weapons
require great force behind them to penetrate tlie
hide. Nulla-Nulla had suffered heavily from the
depredations, and it was while trying to protect the
stock that Hay was speared to death.
* * # #
“Vraidex”: “Lost, a pet goanna, answers
to name Fido.” This ad. appeared in Rockhamp-
ton’s Morning Bulletin- a while ago. It looked
like a joke, but was signed by a responsible person
ami was duly inserted. It turned out to be genuine,
too, for the goanna was found and returned to its
owner. Has he that field all to himself?
BREAD IN THE BONE.
FIRST QUEENSLANDER: “Heard that the
baker’s missus ’as got a new baby?”
SECOND DITTO: “No! Brown or white?”
“Eau-de” : Can any member of the Coun-
cil toll me what use the Japanese make of the
termites’ nests ? When any Jap steamer is in
Thursday Island officers and crew alike can be seen
making their way back to the ship under a full
burden of this queer honeycomb.
HOW DOES IT STRIKE YOU?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How does it feel when, on the track,
Stepping out grimly mile by mile,
“Port” in your hand or swag at your hack,
A car goes past you in splendid style,
And a hairy head from the cushions thrust
Stares at you footing it in the dust ?
Prospects maybe are none too bright
(The boss at the job has a rotten name),
Spirits heavy and tucker light,
Weather ahead and a foot gone lame;
Does it tickle you then or does it jar
When a dog goes by in a motor-car?
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


i
■
: .
■■■
,
a
1
a
Mm
wm
.
.■ ••
■
Hi
Wm. i
STjm
l '
P;
IkSIKMI
I
"• '■ ."
:
ammm.
t> 4>
' is •
SHI
■
r
ti '
& ,5$
y >■ >?/%&%** ;1
1
* -■■- l-si
W V/.'*
i
;
■H
■1
1%
ff f ' V"
- :: :
asafe p a - iiiw&^
■! '
lUr •-- v > s *-s®?--.- -v- r-1
I
HHBI
IHHh
S,lo”
I
i-1-
CRS.« I
!«hi
■H
M
11
HI
./ , m
.
>, f ■■
:+ * |
L,' » -v
i
a
i —=i=
i
ill 1
fJL \ 4
m
Is
L
i
■
■
mmsamm
semmumMßSm
m
3f f
u
fltif, JH
/
■lll
1
2ii
■
«■* x
m
m
pi§i
#' 8*
M
1
■Hi
SB
m
m
wHm
mm
m
« "*■***' ' *;
I
HI
r.. ;
■
Hi
SHI
ai
IWiMIM
*
u.• a m
hmdL.,
■Mi
m
k
4
. »
18 ...... V......
■Hi
! ! 3/
Wi/* vf
■
Sttj
■I
i
m
»
■ ■
H
■l*;
■
a
iiUSS!
- ,
■
:
m
a
M
■
a
mmsis
i^ygif. ,s&n
hI mwIIIWh
mu
' ■ : iJ
WHHI
:
L
gCs<*6sK<«««
off Home!
Ever watch a long string of cars pull up—one
by one—after a big social function or a tneatre
“first-night” to pick up the happy groups and
carry them “off home”? It’s a vividly ani-
mated scene* As car after car draws into
the curb, you note with interest the different
makes of automobiles, the varied types of
bodies, then a striking fact obtrudes itself,
and that is, that nearly every car features the
well-known _ Australian made
Their popularity is unmistakable, they out-
number all the other brands put together*
Why such dominance? Are they cheaper
or better than other makes? The answer
is_“Dunlops,” owing to their service, mile-
age, and economical running, have won the
confidence and patronage of the majority
of motorists. For value and dependability
they have no equal, and motorists
know and appreciate the fact. When you
want real tyre satisfaction you can obtain
it in “Dunlops” at the nearest garage.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
ALL STATES AND NZ.


tinder
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1914.
ToH.M
Kins
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Oitefleifecfc
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
IYiPS-
CHAMPACN t
Reims
* t 'h» £7 s) f *Biw**
PELU3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Make your reservations, 8W1361.
MMi §|gSs
'he Hotel
d
name stands for Perfection
ENTER THE REALM OF ROMANCE.
Where social Sydney meets on every occasion of importance.
Dinners i 2/6, from 7.30. Suppers 7/'6, from 8.30.
Afternoon Teas are a feature at this popular rendezvous.
Without extra cost patrons are entertained by a Cabaret
of charm and originality.
Thursdays and Saturdays are Gala Nights with Dinner
21/-, and Supper 12/6.
The Glorious Wentworth Dance Band plays till 1 a.m.
The Cafe
m*
Order all xvines before 6 p.m.
Ifennom
Worn
RDTCr»
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball*
room, Palm
7hp cen/ne of Queens/anc/s
'd/sZ/ngu/shec/ Soc/a/ L//e.
ďf
Court, and Lounges at the dis-
posal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe—double and
single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, and
every modern convenience for
the comfort of guests.
TCLCCRAMS A CAB l ES -ISA/A/OHS ‘BAi/SBA /v£l
ret- E&HO/VE CE/V T S7BO /O i //VES \
A WOMAN'S
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
It’s just as well that neither man nor
woman knows what a few hours may bring
forth. The jazz girl and boy who care-free
and pump-soled gambolled out to St. An-
drew’s within the Uni. early last week little
recked of the groping, crawling, fog-ridden
homeward journey ahead of them. Many of
them who live on the north side didn’t 'risk
crossing by the punt, but motored at a
snail’s pace round by the bridges, arriving
home between three and four next morning.
For all that, the dance was just as good
as, if not better than, all previous jollos with-
in the walls. Electrics, flowers, greenery
and blue and white streamers were at every
turn, and the principal, Dr. Anderson, in
doing the honors, was aided by Mrs. Ander-
son in blue georgettes and silver lace. The
Governor’s daughter Elaine, who came under
the wing of the principal of the Women’s
College, was the night’s guest of honor.
At the end of the opening night of “The
Second Mrs. Cheyney” Renee Kelly had to
say the thanks of the company for the
enthusiasm of the audience. It was a ner-
vous but nice little speech, made after mem-
bers of the co. had gone off-stage to capture
the elusive Dion Boucicault, who was
brought over from Melbourne to produce the
play, but showed the usual producer’s
modesty. The impression given was that
lie had been chased without success. Renee
Kelly, declaring that the speech was rightly
his job, paid tribute to liis great work as
a drill-sergeant.
There was an intimate little affair at the
Conservatorium of Music last week, when
donors of scholarships were invited by direc-
tor Orchard to come and hear the holders of
the scholarships, of which there are 13. Each
winner after having played or sung joined
the listeners. Some were a bit nervous:
others looked as though they were giving
the audience the treat of their lives. A
little dot of 10 bowi'd and sat down at tlio
piano and rattled off MacDowell’s “Shadow
Dance without a hitch ; another violinist of
about 12 put plenty of pep into a cadenza
from a concerto by Vieuxtemps. Heather
Ivinnaird s line contralto was heard in two
modern songs, and a youthful basso robusto
sang It Is Enough,” from “Elijah,” in a
-JH a threatened rather than suppli-
cated Jehovah. Tea was served in the direc-
tor s room, once Verbrugghen’s sanctum, and
o a i S exc ‘ :llon tly stage-managed
by legistrar Salmon. Among the visitors
YT f, iIG Denison’s, Sam Hordern’s
lady, the Ernest A underlichs, Ruth Beale
and Captain Charvin-Leverrier.
M-! 1 Alliance dinner-dance happened
on a niJit that Sydney went blotto—on fog,
not champagne. However, dancing in the
gailv d nl C f ° f t - he Ambassadors flowed
fill t, V- lts i l l»P° int ed course. Just as did
nation "* subterranean Paris when a
mb- hi ti <,( tM - c, . car ollt its Old Stock—
idea for ( -{ l ol ' oby a “ewer country the
whfoi, L i <! /treat basement sacrifices for
urolifio / Ls tamous - The dance,
rlefiLi ( r’ ,s .'j ls ' W(!Ut well. There for
of FranL k a" 1 .' vel '?. ‘J 10 Consul-General
4m m an . (l llls little wife. Czeclio-
wa7n 1 o a J ie A t '‘" U ' s * ary aud bis lady (she
Jorim,« m whose records still are
Jorious m Women s College annals). Eater
in the night Toti dal Monte arrived—like a
Penf P U ! n !) Cl r ( : aia ' fi lling between Augusto
l»(.uf and the Italian Consul.
St lS PnS e n e anything in the epistles of
ward liln nf enU " ff caal - fires being the out-
wfthin thi r f i -"'ward grace? St. Paul’s
h?ih n ! Ulll ‘ certainly builds its fires
high in common room and study, and at tlm
( ar y dance the only time the girls are cold
3 w uai they take the dancing floor. There
is always a special marquee on the lawn
- mz p / irt °, f t he Party, and the wise
\"> m wraps herself about in shawls or the
nmsic° f Wnr l bC p tS while slle ste P s to the
music. Warden Garnsey and Mrs Gat-ntw
toeiufc M era ‘ d gr “° silk * P*c-
A pleasant little cheque should drop into
he cashbox of the Institute for the Deaf and
S ThJfoS r K\S £ th ? -"Wery StS
failed howpvev i UrS ? ay ’ - The matinee
•ts &
vide it had been seized by the grippe! The
r,:Sl te( i’ 7? ich W£ f s , of the healthfully
wealthy, had for president Elaine de Chair.
Ihe programme was provided by more or
less gifted amateurs from homes in those
S ave A suburbs Where only the motalied
dwell. A playlet, Tilda’s New Hat” the
°f Iy a Michailovska and the sweet
eotes of tenor Brian Lawrence were the
outstanding turns of the afternoon.
Henry Moses, former M.L.G., may have
wandered irom the Hebrew fold, but the
special request, no flowers” at-
tached to the announcements of liis death
showed an adherence still to Jewish custom,
h lowers at a Jewish funeral are not per-
mitted, yet there is hardly an interment of
one ot the race but some misguided Christian
’ 4 nx T S « t 0 - do tlie right thing, sends
along floral ottenngs,” which have to be
carefully hidden away and forgotten. Jewish
mourning customs still preserved by the ob-
servant include the “rending of garments”
often mentioned m the Scriptures. With men
a tear is made in every garment except the
shirt; but ot course it is made where it will
not be seen. And after a period, the length
of winch depends upon the relationship, the
tears may be repaired.
through pleasure-loving Sydney drifted
almost unnoticed the other day an example of
tjie tragic but beautiful martyrdom which
the condition of the less happy world makes
necessary The French steamer Ville
d Amiens had on board a party of nuns and
tlnce priests who arc on their way to volun-
tary immurement for life at Makogai, the
leper island of the Fijis, where 400 patients
m various stages of the disease are segregated.
British authority sends lepers there from
India and its Chinese possessions. One of
the heroes of the settlement is Father Nicou-
leau, who went to the island in 1014 and
now has the disease himself. When it showed
itself he simply thanked God that nothing
now could ever take him from his life work.
Last week Goulburn pinned a favor in its
lapel and hasted to the wedding of Constance
\ alone 1< aithtull—the Lucian Faithfulls are
to Goulburn almost what the Loyal family
is to England. The bridegroom, who is a
lieutenant from St. Andrew’s in Scotland, is
named Henderson, surname, preceded by
Graham Straton; so one bride, at
least, has a pretty choice of names for her
young man. Ivory and gold were combined
in the brides glad raiment, and a tulle train
and a lace veil lent by Adrian Knox’s lady
were notable addenda. Jessie Harris, Eliz-
abeJh Knox, Joyce Mcares and Barbara Cir-
cuitt maided in the golds and browns of
autumn, and a small cousin of the bride,
looking like some personage from a nursery
rhyme, attended to the serious matter of the
train. An archbishop, Dr. Radford and an
archdeacon tied the knot at St. Saviour’s.
Bex 4 aithtull best-manned, and with three
groomsmen balanced the bridesmaids in a
truly impressive exit. The Royal Hotel
carved the fatted calf and sundries for 200
guests, the bride’s parents doing the thing in
almost feudal style.
The Australian Composers’ Society is be-
ginning to stand on its own legs; and very
pretty leg- s
some of them
are. The other
n i g h t, a t
Beale’s, an
evening of
music all
home - made
was listened to
with the criti-
cism that is
a c c ompanied
with under-
standing, and
out of the.
group of song
and piano
script not one.
work descend-
ed to the
lower - middle-
class, while
some bore
marks of being
a ~,,,, • nobly born.
Arnold Mote s piano piece, “Chorale of the
teea, the song “Old Men of the Fields,” by
.Tames Brash (he’s choirmaster of the High-
land Society), and two’ songs—a lullaby and
Sunset, by Hilda Keith—got near high-
water-mark. Hilda, inspired by Toti dal
Monte, wrote a cradle song—composed, more
or less, during the tram-ride home after a
concert. Toti has written accepting dedica-
tion of the sweetness, and will probably sing
it before she leaves Australia. She cer-
tainly can do with a few additions to her
repertoire. It is Miss Keith who smiles
from the picture alongside.
Jean Drummond, of Randwick, slipped into
a foam of silver-splashed georgettes topped by
a cascade ot tulle and called around at St.
htephens to marry Harry Marcus Lemon,
ot Goulburn. Her father handed her up the
aisle just as the clock struck 2.15, and Marie
Reward, the bridesmaid, in georgettes be-
strewn with pink and ivory blossoms, her pic-
ture hat like a mushroom’s lining, and Sheila
Morgan, the flower girl, took their places in
the procession with the ease that comes from
fervent rehearsal. Padre Hugh Patou put
tne leading questions, also with the air of
one not quite new to the game; and the con-
gratulations were cooed round the corner, at
Burdekm House.
St. James’s glowed rosily in spite of the fog
the night "Pete” Russell Jones drove in from
i oint Piper to St. Stephen’s to exchange
vows with Robert Nelson, of Bellevue Hill.
Pink flowers and favors frivolled up the aisle
and smiled about the altar. Ivory satins
fashioned with the long waist bestrewn with
pearls and glistening with diamente formed
the bride’s raiment. The front and back of
the skirt were adorned with streamers of
satin, in varying widths, but all woven in
pearls and diamente—this secured the glitter
without the solidity of the usual embroideries
on a wedding garment. Four bridesmaids
m the silky pink of the water-melon, their
heads veiled in pink tulle and with pink
posies in their hands, added to the beauty
of the landscape. The bride’s mother, Mrs.
Russell Jones, later beckoned the guests to
the \\ entwortli, mingling Parma-violet rich-
es 8 with a dash of sable very hard to resist.
Pete” is the short-cut through ‘“Peter-
sham, with which the Russell Joneses were
connected, politically, municipally, socially
and every other way, from almost the
moment the sober old suburb was thought of.
Put Flight-Lieutenant Max Coote’s photo
n>. your gallery, not because of his good looks,
though they
are indisput-
able, but be-
cause of his
good manners
and helpful-
u e s s, which
have made him
the star aide
in the mem-
ory of Syd-
ney's new s-
paper women.
Captain Coote,
who 1 e a v e s
Australia in
September to
take up his
flying job in
the Royal Air
Force once
more, is an en-
thusiastic ama-
teur artist,
and nearly all
In's sp.are hours are devoted to sketching and
painting. lie is a wit, though so quiet about
it that only his intimates get the flavor of
his fun-making; to say he is a son of Ireland
seems unnecessary. May Moore made the
picture.
Still another bride was Elizabeth Elax-
hpid, of Hunter's Hill, who became Mrs.
h rederick Syme at St. Philip's. 'Groom is
a son of the late Dr. Syme, of Lindtield ; the
lady is a descendant- of one of the three
hardy pioneers who first went week-ending
on the Blue Mountains.
Another bride whose frock attracted at-
tention during the week was Nancy Gleddon,
only daughter of the Woollalira medicine-
man. St. James’s linked her for life to Leslie
I lnhps. heir of the S. W. Philipses, of Edge-
cliff. Toasts at the Ambassadors.
The Congregational Church at Strathfield
saw to the linking up of Edna Lloyd Jones
(a daughter of Edward Lloyd Jones of the
old-established fluff house) and Edward
Windsor, not of Buckingham Palace, but of
Surrey, where the meadows arc green and the
berries very red.
Norfolk Island has still another link with
Sydney. The other night Reuben Lcane,
son of the Colonel who is the little island's
Administrator, married a well-known Strath-
field girl, Olive Mills.
A recent we dding of interest to Sydney and
Melbourne was that of attractive and super-
clad singer Evelyn Scotney to R. II. Rus-
sell one of the chiefs of the Cunard Co.
\\ ithout doubt the nightingales were heard
m old St. Clement Dane’s on this occasion,
tor there were present Melba, Clara Butt
Gertrude Johnson, Gladys Moncrieff and Ada
Crossley.
Actress Jill Manners, too, who was th"
original heroine in “The Cousin from No-
where, walked into another part last week
at St. James s, where she became the wife of
Cecil S. Roberts, of Brisbane.
An engagement of interest on the Moun-
tain tops is Avice Watson Harvey's (her
doctor-father was as well known' as the
Three Sisters), of Leura, to Charles Mars-
den Stuart, of Johannesburg.
There are no principals of any school in
Sydney, more popular than the two ladies at
the helm of Ivambala. The two Misses
Roseby are rich not only in scholastic
achievements, but in kindlv understandin°- ■
which is why the dance in aid oT the School
Purchase Lund (it is to become a Church
ot England foundation school) promises to
be a success of enthusiasm as well as of
numbers. The ball will take place at the
Ambassadors on July 2; and both the G.-O’
Stoneliavens and the State Exes, will be
present.
The young Brisbane artist, Roy Parkin-
son, whose water-colors made the opening
exhibition at the Sydney Art Salon in Ful-
lers’ Buildings, received encouragement
enough to bring him here often. Of 33
water-colors 25 were sold even before the
exhibition closed.
The Sydney branch of the League of
Nations is going to cause a stir at Geneva
when echoes of its International ball reach
that diplomats’ domain. The Viking’s
daughter Elaine is taking the affair under
her supervision, and is heading a youthful
committee whose principal job is to arrange
sets. Every country but Germany will flaunt
its national bunting and raiment at the
Palais on July G, and each set will have a
flapper for leader and a matron of social
tonnage for—well, some say ballast; some
say pilotage.
The play-writing Mrs. Kearney and her
solicitor-husband, who have been as closely
associated with Orange the town as the pip
is with the juicy fruit, have pulled sticks
and are on their way up the North Shore
line. Mrs. Kearney, who has been one of
the most consistent charity and war workers
of the western village, has been sustaining
a series of farewell parties that a popular
actress might have bragged about, but of
which old Canoblas has heartily approved.
There wasn’t a member absent the other
day when the Manly branch of the Country
Women met to the glory of Mrs. Osbourne
England. Mrs. England was a foundation
member of the association, and for a time
president of the Manly branch. It was as
a testimonial to her work and popularity
that the party assembled, and, before the
final three cheers, her friends thrust upon
her, in addition to the stock-in-trade of a
fair-sized flower shop, a magnificent croco-
dile skin handbag.
The near-to-Hollywood Movie Ball refuses
to change its last year’s address. So on the-
29th the Palais will house more beauty and
magnificence than any other show in town.
Elsa tetralia will appear as the White
Sister; and other costumes are to be bizarre
and splendid. Over £250 is offered in prize-
money, and vice-regal patronage, though not
presence, has been promised. Boxes can be
reserved at the Palais or the Film House.
Captain Patrick, of the shipping co. that
carries his name, left by the Tahiti to visit
his mother in Scotland —she is now 84. He
plans to return before the end of the year.
Miss Brisbane’s cornucopia :
Dr. F. W. Robinson opened the exhibition of
pictures, bookbindings and caskets in leather at
Montpelier. The show this year includes etchings,
water-colors, woodcuts and pen-drawings by Aus-
tralian and overseas artists. In the throng who
came to admire were Captain and Mrs. Brennan
(India), Harveys, W. G. Grants, Devereux, the Otto
Hirschfelds, Mrs. M. Forrest, Mrs. J. H. McConnell,
Dr. Duhig and the Gordon Galls. A large number
of the exhibits have been sold, and George Saunders
goes smiling over the results.
Amongst the Brisbane people injured in the Aber-
deen railway crash was Walter Smith, manager of
the Telegraph, who had been attending a Melbourne
press conference. He is now on the mend.
The Anglican Synod has been drinking tea with
determination and punctuality all over the city.
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart is overseeing the parties.
Poinsettia, roses and gerberas decked the tables in
St. Luke’s Hall for the first quaffing, and the air
was filled with the scent of winter wattle and gum
tips. Archgaiters Sharp had a party in a setting of
bignonia, gum tips, sweet-pea and narcissi at Bishops
bourne. His sister, Mrs. J. G. Price, in pearl-grey,
helped to entertain the Chief Justice, the Gordon
Galls, Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart and a vast concourse of
reverends.
Mavis Walker, to whom her friends had meant to
give a “Ivatja” theatre party, was entertained at
the Women’s College instead, by Freda Bage’s per-
mission. Orange-colored streamers over the bridge
tables each ended there in a yellow butterfly bonbon
—and roses and wedding-bell cards were the decora-
tions. ' The guest was in flame color and gold. Her
mother, Mrs. Hugh Walker, came -with her.
Those who went to Albion Park on Saturday took
their furs with them. Mrs. Cryle and her husband
(who is chairman of the Brisbane Amateur Turfites)
had a number of friends to tea. Mrs. Glyn-Connelly
was in navy and henna; Mrs. Stanley Chapman
had caramel brown, with a jacket of brown and gold,
faced in fur ; Mrs. E. G. Blurne wore brown and bois-
de-rose with fawn furs, Mrs. O. Bond mauve and
Mrs. W. Brown (Kingaroy) sapphire blue.
News comes from Java of the death of Nell Reid,
daughter of Mrs. John Reid, Clayfield. With Mrs.
A, M. Leslie, Dulcie Reid and Lorna and Vivienne
Ruddle, she left by the Houtman on May 24 on a trip
to Singapore and Batavia. After a happy voyage she
was taken suddenly ill at Batavia. The rest of the
party are coming back to Australia by the Houtman.
Judge Blair opened the Academy Exhibition of the
Authors and Artists’ Society in the Hibernian Build-
ing and made a hefty appeal in the interests of Art
in Queensland. “Where can one obtain better
material for pictures than in Australia?” he asked,
and burst into quite unjudicial rapture over our
hills and vales and skies.


HARwDY BILOS LTD.
J EWELLE K.S
Inexpensive Wedding Presents
at HARDY’S
8A7496. Silver-plated
Muffin or Chop Dish, with re-
movable lining, which forms hot-
water compartment. Diameter,
7 inclips. Price 48/-
BA 7540. Silver-plated
Sauc e-bottle Holder.
Height, inches. Dia-
meter, 2} inches. T akes
standard bottle of Wor-
cester Sauce. Price 20/-
8A7489. Silver-plated Oval Entree Dish,
with end "handles. Lid forms separate dish
Length, 10 inches. Price £3/10/-
11A7472. Silver-plated Cake or Sandwich
Dish, oval' shape, pierced design. Length 10
inches; width, 6| inches. Price 35/"
8A7470.-
wicli Dish,
Diameter
—Silver-plated Cake or Sand
attractive pierced de.sign
9f inches. Price 44/-
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
hardy
BROTHERS LTD.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
sm
Audels
Masons
Buhlkbs-
Guide :
1
Audels Audels j
Nasons masons*
Builders Builders
Guide Guide
2 ! 3
Quick
-
.<&ick
Laving f
BONDING
QESIGNSi
.-ep.^
iSSS&m CONCRETE
K§§S9®t|; MIXING:;
AgCHES . .PLACING
„ TILE
SETTING
Estimating
forms
RtINFOBCEE
STUCCO
<> *4 o
PRICE
301-
POST FREE
the
Complete Set
of
FOUR
VOLUMES
ABDEL’S MASONS 8 BUILDERS’ GUIDE
Give information in handy form, easy to use, showing
2067 illustrations, plans and working methods of the
best, approved outlines of work and materials, including
instructions how to lay out and figure various jobs-
1 100 pages of inside practical information which will
increase your range of knowledge.
THEY TELL Y OU
How to mix concrete.
How to operate the mixers.
How to place concrete.
How to make concrete forms.
How concrete is reinforced.
How to build stucco.
How to build with concrete
blocks and tile.
How concrete is made water-
proof.
How to estimate.
How to figure brickwork.
How to handle hollow tile.
How to set tile.
How to read blue prints.
How to lay out foundations.
How to plaster.
How to do stone-masonry work.
How to use structural steel.
How to .distinguish clays.
How bricks are made.
How to fix mortar.
How to use bricklayer’s tools.
How to handle the materials.
How to lay brick.
How bricks are bonded.
How thick brick walls should be.
How to brick around openings.
How to lay out arches.
How to place anchors.
How to build foundations.
How to brick up boiler settings.
How to build chimneys.
How to do ornamental brick-
work.
How to repair old brickwork.
N.S.W BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
WORK WELL AND LAST LONG.
Prices are Lowest but Value Highest.
“SUNDERCUT ”
10 disc, cuts 5 ft. 14 disc, cuts 7ft.
For summer fallowing in hard soil.
For ploughing stubble, and killing and burying the heaviest weed growths.
More “Sundercuts” are at work in Australia than any other Stump-Jump Disc,
because they shift more soil per horse-power than any other.
111 m
\
m
y
«
“SUNTYNE”
Sizes 8 12 14 16 20 rows
With ..... 1 7 25 29 33 41 tynes
Width 5 7i 8i 9-1 12 feet
Combines the best Tyne Cultivator with the best Grain and
Fertiliser Drill. Two implements in one. Saves capital. Saves
labor. Sows scientifically and pays for itself by conserving the
moisture and increasing the yield.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Write to any of the following addresses for Catalogue and Price List.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
102 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
Comer MURRAY & KING STREETS, PERTH.
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
Bpring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nfghta, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30. 10/0.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
“I Always Stay at Scott’s”
[V.
ll#
A
1
sho
There’s a heap of sound
recommendation in those
words, “I always stay at
Scott’s,” for they mean
comfort and satisfaction
has been enjoyed in the
past.
ďfďf
is not only Melbourne’s most central hotel, but
the most modern in the comfort and service-
giving innovations that go to mean real satisfac-
tion.
Inclusive Tariff by the Day or Bed
and Breakfast Rate.
Write for Tariff Card.
Telegrams “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
ďf
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
m
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1532, 1533.
The elect have put their best dresses
amongst the mothballs against the arrival of
the Governor-designate, so Caulfield on
Saturday was dull to dowdy. One couple,
strayed off a magazine cover, brightened the
landscape in triple flared skirts, the one of
talkative cerise and the other of a blue this
Page has never heard named —Cocos Island
ultramarine might fill the bill. Mrs. Barry
Thompson’s upturned yellow hat displayed
her face of never-failing cheer; Mrs. George
Monahan, whose husband is clerk of the
Senate, was in warm green defying the chilly
breeze that blew round the corner where
the bookies congregate; Mrs. Richard Linton
was in ultra-smart black upholstery, while a
Sydney niece was a tall, grey exclamation
mark in the best-cut coat and skirt that
walked the spongy lawn.
Quite a lot of seats were cold at His
Majesty’s on Saturday when H.M.S. Pina-
fore set sail, although there were no other
first nights abroad. The absence of a femi-
nine star of winsome mien is felt when so
poor a draw as “Pinafore” is the bill. Strella
Wilson (Josephine) won’t be forgiven by
the purists for dressing herself in modern
girl’s habiliments in the first act, although
in the second she made up. for it by wooing
her topmast hand in mid-Victorian blue
taffeta punctuated with pink posies.
It was a night of gorgeous shawls at St.
Kilda Town Hall when the Automobility
slid up in their myriad chariots for their
second annual jazz. Parked on the stage
was a baby auto, picked out in saffron and
amber gleams, and the same club colors
also hung in streamers from the roof and
repeated themselves in the toy balloons which
rose like sighs of satisfaction from the upper
tables. Divertissements provided would have
gladdened the heart of any child that owns
a scooter, and the guests looked as solid and
luxurious as their cars. Mrs. Ernest. Cox,
in bridal white; Mrs. Maurice Patkin, in
rose with cabochons of blue beads; Mrs.
H. J. Robertson, in silver over green ; and
Mrs. Jimmie Dyer, with her girlecn, in
orange, were some of the committee ladies
carrying pretty posies. Norman Brindley’s
bride, from Sydney, was there, too, looking
as if Midas had touched her.
Alice M. Behrens, a tall English Guider
with a patrician nose and a capacity for
delivering sermons long enough to make the
(iourest of Presbyterian elders restless, has
arrived. Deputy-chief of the Girl Guide
movement is she, and 1000 Melbourne guid-
ers, guides, brown owls and brownies, brooded
over by district commissioners and other of
the hierarchy, poured into St. Kilda Town
Hall on Saturday to do her honor. The big
room looked like one of the mosques of the
Prophet when the youngsters squatted on
the polished floor and bowed to the lady
from the Mecca of the Faitli. Deputy-State-
Commissioner Chauvel introduced the visitor,
whose belted blue was hung with the yellow
cord of a field-marshal. Then the thousand
shrilly sang their repertoire at her and she
retaliated with a moral dissertation.
All the girls had new dresses and some of
the youths wore their first dress-suits at the
St. Kilda Town Hall for the Trinity Ball.
The ’Varsity colors —red for danger, green
for go-slow, white for purity and gold for
what it buys—streamed over everything.
When the young hopes started to mix grape-
vine and Charleston the place looked like a
glimpse through a kaleidoscope in a fit. When
they sat down to struggle for the trifle and
grab the Friday fish sandwich the row could
be heard seven miles away. The Warden, Dr.
Behan, and his wife and a covey of sedate
young men with their collars buttoned behind
beamed on the scuffle.
The Austral Salon’s musical afternoon for
the American mummers appearing in the
“Best People” vras quite a success. Florence
Roberts made a hit with her quaint little
speech of thanks, smiling demurely under a
flower-trimmed hat. Members wearing felt
pull-ons gazed attentively at the attractive
millinery exhibited by the visitors. Marion
Shirley’s headwear of gold tissue was much
beribboned, and Helen Audiffred dangled a
rose over her left ear to match a pink silk
lining. Buttoned inside a velvet coat, Vivian
Moore had an extra-special creation perched
aloft.
The founders are crowing because the
annual stocktaking of the English-Speaking
Union discloses that this link between Uncle
Sam and Father Bull has increased its Vic.
membership from 716 to 1125. One hundred
of the thousand rolled up to hear about it
at Scott’s one night last week, and, after
electing the old office-holders for a fresh
term, sat back and listened while Prof. Scott
meliifluously flowed on about Egypt’s grasp-
ing ways.
That alluring jungle of delights, where
monkeys unknown to zoology climb after
cocoanuts of unusual architecture in an
atmosphere of scent, sighs and winking lights
-—in short, the Palais de Danse at St. Kilda —
was quite literally crammed the other night
when the six surviving couples danced the
final heat—heat is right—of the Charleston
competition. The dance, or whatever it is,
is already bringing frowns on the brows of
dance-hall proprietors. It ploughs up even
hardwood floors like a steam-tractor, and
reinforced concrete will have to be used in
future if the fashion persists. .J. L. Cough-
lin and Miss Beeton got the £lOO prize for
the most strenuous outburst. By the way,
the liftman tells this Chatterer that his life
has been made a burden to him since this
new dance arrived. The way half a dozen
flappers, all surreptitiously practising the
in-out movement with their feet, rock his
conveyance makes him glad lie used to be a
sailor.
Old Collegians of the M.L.C. strained the
family, wardrobes to put on Bennet and
Ivnoblock’s exceedingly dressy “Milestones”
at the Playhouse; but they got the spirit of
the various periods wonderfully well, all
things considered. Norman Simpson drilled
the big corps, whose efforts will buy some
bricks for the central rooms that the Old
Collegians are dreaming about.
To the amateur exponents of the more or
less elevated —but not always elevating—
drama a society with the gay title of the
Chameleons has just been added. It led off
at the Playhouse with a good performance
of “Nothing but the Truth,” a farcical con-
fection by Montgomery, followed by a humor-
ous liqueur by Gordon Lennox. Frances
Barkman was the producer. The new syna-
gogue at St. Kilda benefited.
At about the time this Bulletin reddens
the bookstalls Federal politicians will be
trooping to witness a moving picture which
the rest of Australia is to be denied the
displeasure of seeing. “The Big Parade”
is fhe censored masterpiece, but wives of
Parliamentarians need not fear the corrup-
tion of their spouses’ morals. The ban is
on the thing, not because it is morally de-
plorable, but because it is a war picture
which shows Uncle Sam driving the Hun
home without assistance even from Portugal.
The harmless delusion that they won the
war single-handed is prevalent in the States,
but Mr. Pratten sees no reason why this
country should help to foster it.
Allan Wilkie and his friend Sliakspeare
are impending—lately Geelong has been con-
templating Caesar’s assassination; but the
season was cut short by a fire in which
Wilkie lost many props. Since the co.
was here last Irene Webb has come into
her own. The talented Melbourne girl was
a delightful giggling Nerissa, and played
other parts with individuality. Now she is
starring as Rosalind, a lady she portrayed
very briskly once before, when Hunter-Watts
was ill.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Mrs. Finlay,
professionally Elizabeth Pinsehof, who will
take the leading role of Marietta in Mona
Mcßurney’s opera “The Dalmatian,” to be
heard for the
first time to-
morrow night
at the Play-
house. The
Queen Vic-
toria Hospital
will reap the
box-office har-
vest. T h e
handsome
singer is a
daughter of the
late Madame
Wie dermann,
who put
young Austra-
lia through its
vocal paces at
the Albert-
street Con. in
the days of
Marshall Hall.
Like her sister
Carmen (Mrs.
Harris), Mrs. Finlay has had tuition and
concert-platform experience abroad. Only
the other day they lost their father, who
passed out in S ? Africa when accompanying
Mrs. Harris on a trip to England.
The sun of the elocutionist, the gentleman
(or lady) who mouthed very de-lib-er-ate-ly
15 words to the minute, is setting fast. In
place comes the comfortable person speaking
literary pieces naturally. Carrie Haase,
lately back from Europe, who has thrown
overboard the old tricks, will give her first
recital since her return at the Playhouse on
Moifday. She was praised by some of the
critics of the Big Smoke for her treatment
of modern poets, and her programme for
next week includes works by Rupert Brooke,
James Elroy Flecker and Laurence Hous-
man.
Artist Walter Withers, who died 11 years
ago, left a son whose promise in paint is
so great that his mother is anxious lie should
follow in his dad’s footsteps to the Paris
salons. Wherefore she sits these days on the
fifth floor of Collins-place surrounded by the
works of husband and son, which are to be
raffled—the drawing in September. An in-
teresting canvas is the handsome study by
Withers, sen., of the old gold-escort station
on the lower Plenty. There is another pic-
ture on the other side. The artist had sold
a work cherished by his wife, who wanted a
replica of it, and no other canvas was avail-
able. So the winner of the first prize will
get a double-sider, one aspect of which is
valued at £3OO.
Freda Bage, principal of the Women’s
College in Brisbane, is to accompany four
mere males to the League of Nations’ meet-
ing in September. Few women have served
at so many international corroborees. As
long ago as 1911 she found herself in Stock-
holm as this country’s rep. at a meeting
of feminists, and since then she has unpacked
a well-stored mind at Geneva, Copenhagen
and London on similar missions. Melbourne
Uni. drew out her remarkable talents for
pedagogy and impressing mixed assemblies.
Art patrons are getting themselves warm
in the frostiest June since ISG4 by contern-
plating the
painted sun-
light of Louis
McCubbin at
the New Gal-
lery. Louis, a
son of the late
Fred, has been
guiding the
War Museum
since he got
out of khaki.
As an official
artist he has
had to deal in
large almost
stage—effects,
and the influ-
ence of that
work, rather
than t h e
dreamy ideal-
is m of his
father, shows
in his outdoor
pictures. A'. L. Bowles, one of his asso-
ciates at the War Museum, made the bust
from which the accompanying little picture
of Louis is taken.
Frances Cave, one of the amative widower’s
daughters in “The Farmer’s Wife,” is to
become Mrs. Simon Bear at the St. Ivilda
Synagogue to-day (Thursday). It is a good
job that there is no idea of hyphenating the
family names in a frequent English style—
Cave-Bear would make a curious surname.
Marie Clymer, a pretty American visitor,
teaches dramatic dancing at home in Chicago,
and on the eve of her return she gave a
little show at Scott’s, with the assistance of
a couple of smart girl pupils. Her best
stunt was called “Crescent Moon,” in which
the delicate pink draperies of the dance
melted into the outline of a scarf that
completed the crescent. In “Life,” one of
Leslie Bowles’s masks was introduced, Sheila
McDougall and Helen a’Beckett daintily trip-
ped it with their teacher, and Lilian Hamil-
ton’s contralto voice was lifted up in song.
Oliver Bainbridge, who was a matinee idol
with the G. B. Post co., and Beth Darvell
are having an unusual honeymoon in Mel-
bourne. They are to be seen at spots not
usually frequented by the newly-wed, being
led by the hand by Stan Henry ; and shadow-
ing them is a moving-picture man. As they
gaze down on the city from the top of its
tallest building or stroll hand in hand
through the Fitzroy Gardens, Henry
expatiates upon the scenery, while the movie
hound slowly turns the crank. Then they
adjourn to the printing-room of a newspaper
office or inspect a power-station or a jam
factory. As an English bride and bride-
groom chaperoned by their Australian uncle
they are providing the human interest in a
7000-foot reel which aims at depicting Mel-
bourne’s scenic and industrial splendors.
America and England, as well as this coun-
try, are to be shown the celluloid result.
T. Rutherford, of the Indian civil service,
married Audrey, eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. Dickenson, of Brighton, at the Brit-
ish Embassy Church in Paris last month.
Major Charles Cunningham, a family friend,
gave away the Titian-haired bride, who had
a trio of girl friends, —providentially on the
spot —to act as ’maids. These handy dam-
sels were Jennie Falkiner, who is abroad
buying her trousseau, Margaret Thomas and
Nancy Deely. The honeymoon is being spent
in a European ramble, but the young couple
will pay a flying visit here in September
before going to India.
Major R. G. Casey, Commonwealth liaison
officer at the Foreign Office, is to be married
in London to-day (24th). His bride, Maie
Ryan, is the only daughter of Charles, the
medical knight of this city who is on the
spot to see his daughter through the great
event. Major Dick is the son of the late
R. G. Casey and Mrs. Casey, of South Yarra,
The Thornton Grimwades have left for
Sydney to take shin for the Islands. Tin-
blue Pacific and sun-kissed lagoons seem to
provide more congenial settings for a honey-
moon than cold, wind-swept spaces nearer
home. At least, so think many of our newly-
weds. for they’re either going or gone Island-
wards.
Margery Ilicklin, Dorothy Lena, Athol
Tier of the long-drawn-out appearance, and
Leyland Hodgson—all of the "Leave It to
Jane” company—added their notes to the
general outpouring at the community sing-
song one day last week. The Auditorium
was filled, and a good round sum flowed into
the Mayor’s Fund in consequence.
The three Melbourne University tourists
to be carried to the Cold Land at the ship-
ping companies' expense this year are .1. 11.
Vickery, a student of frozen beef; K. It.
Mackenzie, who has lately coruscated in
modern languages; and H. W. Strong, who
is in the Commonwealth .Munitions lab.
and is a Master of Science.
If you are fond of watching the male crea-
ture devouring his bun and coffee, don’t
patronise the self-serving cafeterias that are
coming into vogue in Melbourne. These
eateries have several advantages that should
appeal to busy men. You seize your tray
and select your plate of scones or cake while
the tea-urn is frothing at the mouth to serve
you. And it is cheap. Tea and sandwiches
cost fivepence. Yet the wearer of the bifur-
cated garment is conspicuous by his absence.
He still likes to wait his turn at orthodox
cafes, apparently for the privilege of ex-
changing pleasantries with a girl in eap and
apron. A tea-urn won't blush and drop its
eyelids.
Time was, in the memory of old inhabi-
tants, when human thatch' was shorn for
threepence. The other day hairdressers in
conference decided to raise the price from
Is. 6d. to 2s. Men said grumpily that this
was because the shingling craze has caused
the demand for hairdressers to exceed the
supply. The new exaction didn’t last long,
however. Several shops budded notices an-
nouncing prices as usual, and now the rest
are having second thoughts about it.
The color-scheme of city traffic has been
further complicated by the arrival of a new
armada. Red is the hue of the newcomers.
The people who are loosing them on Mel-
bourne—there will be 200 of them finally
own also the blue cars of Sydney. Feminine
users will be relieved to know that married
men with families are to be given preference
as drivers, because married men with families,
the proprietors announce, are much more
regardful of their own (and other people’s)
bones.
Sister Adelaide on this and that: —
The sun shone and the birds carolled for the
Barker-Lucas wedding—she the daughter of this
State’s ex-Agent-General, he the son of the late; A.
J. Barker. The bride, in white maroeain, crystal
beaded, had for bridesmaids Roma Wadey and F.
Battye, one in blue and silver and the other: in
cyclamen pink. There were two tiny train-bearers.
The toast-drinking was at the Lucas home at
Medindie, where guests included many Bowmans —
the ’groom’s elan on mother’s side.
The marriage of the F. S. Hones’ son to Alison,
daughter of the W. P. Harts, was at Strathalbyn
the next day.
Vera Thrush and Harold Gard celebrated their
return from Europe at a concert in the Town Hall,
with Harold Parsons and Irene Kemp to help them,
and a big audience to applaud. Another returned
exile is Kitty Spehr, who has put in a year’s hard
work in Vienna polishing her voice.
Anglicans are absorbed in a mission exhibition
and fair in the big barn on North-terrace. Mission
exhibits include everything from plays and cinemas to
odds and ends collected from wherever missions have
penetrated. It was duly opened by the Governor, back,
with Lady Bridges and their daughter, from a trip
to Broken Hill that included some kangaroo minting
with the Keith Broughams at Yalcowinna station.
The week’s visitors include Mrs. Andrew Glencross,
here to make the Housewives’ Association as vigorous
as it is in Victoria. She was the guest of Mrs.
T. R. Bowman at East-terrace.
School of Mines’ students bedecked the Brookman
Hall with scarlet poppies and Japanese lanterns for
their annual ball and produced a supper that amply
justified the domestic-economy classes. A committee
a dozen strong ran the show, and the honors were
done by Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Reid.
Nearly 40,000 people were at the Oval for Satur-
day’s charity carnival, and the concert arranged by
Mr. Cawthorne at the Town Hall in the evening
deserved a far bigger attendance than it got. A
refreshment committee packed staggering numbers of
lunch parcels for sale on the grounds and poured out
countless cups of tea, thereby adding substantially
to the takings.
Phyllis Crompton, just back from three years abroad
that have been partly spent at the Sorbonne Uni-
versity,- Paris, is to be this State’s organising
secretary for the Junior Red Cross. She has seen
something of the same kind of work in Paris.
The Hunt Club has lost a popular member and
a former Master in R. A. Sanders. He was in the
field from boyhood, did some good riding in the
days of Blackmore and Tom AVigley, and won a
Hunt Cup with Whitefoot.


A. SAUNDERS’
SELECTED WEDDING GIFTS.
STAINLESS
KNIVES.
Xylonite Handles, Table ov
Dessert size, in Oak Cose,
20/-
Others, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
sss?
8.251.
?r*m
m
8.248.
CARVING
SET
OF THREE PIECES.
40/-, 50/-, 60/-
SPOONS AND
FORKS
CANTEEN.
Half-dozen each Tea, Dessert
and Table Spoons; Half-dozen
each Table and Dessert Forks.
Silverplated, A 1 Quality, £B,
Silverplated, A Quality
£6/10/-
Silverplated, B Quality—
£6/2/6
Silverplated, C Quality—
£s/15/-
Complete in Case.
.a. 0n... . m, igasi
H
8.252.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS. WRITE FOR CATALOGUI
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Ltd.
We can supply everything for
the Manufacturer in Metal
from Hangers, Shafting, Pulleys, Coal
Pulverisers for Furnaces, to the latest
types of Lathes, Drills, Mills and
Automatics.
Also all Repair Shop
requirements.
Large stocks of all types of Drills,
Reamers, Taps, Chucks, Saws, etc.,
on hand.
We also advise on the best method of
handling work. Send your drawings
and requirements to
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Telegrams: LATHE
Telephones:
City 10109. 101 10.
HHli
\ „
- 1
Z2SSSM
I
»_
K;
m
i ■
: ;
1
tea
■
1
i
m
iMpHMraE
1 WHwiWfe
!■■■!
S
il
■O .
1L,,.
= —”———
ills
II
-THESE Rings, fashioned in the most beautiful designs and set with carefully
i selected gems of perfectly choice quality, represent but a few of a Wide
selection, equally munificent, that is always available for inspection at the
firm’s showrooms. The exceptional facilities at the firm’s disposal enable
them to select their gems from the world’s finest oh enngs. while the
experience gained by more than fifty years’ experience of specialising permits
them to offer quality and workmanship that is not ootamaHe elsewhere.
.... . v
SPECIALISTS IN FINE DIAMOND*GEM RINGS
344-346 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
ilastertauch
Player Rolls,
Latest and Best
ATTRACTIVE LIST OF JUNE RELEASES.
Fox Trots.
D. 1306 Mercenary Mary (from “Merce-
nary Marv”).
0.1373 Want a Little Lovin’.
D. 1374 I Wonder where My Baby Is To-
night ?
0.1376 The Tin-can Fusiliers.
D. 1380 Twilight Love.
D. 1382 Kentucky’s Way of Sayiu’ Good
Mornin’.
D. 1383 You Must Have Something on
Your Feet.
0.1387 Ukulele Blues.
D. 1388 Tell Me More (from “Tell Me
More”).
D. 1391 Let’s Talk About My Sweetie.
0.1392 In Your Green Hat.
Ballads.
D. 1377 Lolita.
D. 1378 Down in the Forest.
D. 1884 Bedouin Love Song. Key D Minor
A to F Sharp.
D 1385 Who Knows? Key D Flat Major
D Flat to E Flat.
D. 1386 The Keys of Heaven. Key of O
Major D to D.
0.1389 Home Isn’t Home without You.
D. 1390 Little Grey Home in the West.
Waltzes.
D. 1379 Dreamy Hawaii.
D. 1381 Always.
Operatic (with Words).
D. 1187 The Lilac Domino. (Selection.)
D. 1375 Katja. (Selection.)
Classics.
0.743 Hearts and Flowers. (Descriptive.)
(Tobani.)
C 778 Dornroschen (The Sleeping Beauty).
(Descriptive.) (Bendel.)
0.789 Moonlight Trip to the Isle of Love.
(Bendel.)
0.790 Les Hirondelles. (Streich.)
0.791 Liebesleid (Love’s Sorrow). Old
Vienna Waltz. (Kriesler and Rach-
maninoff.)
C. 793 —Two Chopin Studies —
1. Etude Op. 25, No. 8.
2. Etude Op. 25, No. 12. (Chopin.)
The Above Titles are also Obtainable in “Expression” Rolls.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
(Ask for Latest General Catalogue, also Bulletin of
new releases issued on the first of each month.)
AIASTERTOUCH
Hand
Played
A\
Rolls
ic
th
are
BEST
EST
AT
50
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.


DASPYL
AUSTRALIAN MADE
BRASS WORK
Plumbers’
Supplies
Daspyl Brasswork lias stood the test of 50 long years and is still on the
summit of Fame. All goods of the Daspyl Brand hold a high reputation
throughout the Commonwealth and elsewhere —they fully comply with the
various Board of Works requirements.
A 200-page Catalogue Illustrating Daspyl Plumbers’ Brasswork and Supplies
is Post Free.
Super
Daspyl
d
Steam
Valve
Engineers’ Brasswork
Our Catalogue of Engineers’ Brasswork deals with Steam Cocks, Steam
Valves, Boiler Gauge Mountings, Petrol and Air Coe’ , Steam Whistles,
Water, Steam and Petrol Gauges, Sluice Valves, Steam j .aps, Safety Valves,
Injectors and Ejectors, Pipes and Pipe Fittings for rll purposes, Packings,
Power Transmission Goods, etc., etc.
J
J
6
/VA /.
909
/(?
n
/4-
15 /6
use.
Pipes and Fittings
Wrought and Cast-iron Pipes for Gas, Water, Steam and Hydraulic
All Pipe Fittings in Wrought, Cast and Malleable Iron.
Brass and Copper Tubes and Fittings in all sizes.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
M
n
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
s
m
m
m
B
“I Swear By —
‘Smokeless Diamond’ as being the powdei
ABSOLUTELY : especially for trap shooting. I’ve
tried all and sundry, but this “fills the bill' ” —these
are the authentic words of a user.
“Smokeless Diamond’’ is one of the famous
British brand powders used in loading
ELEY 8 KYNOCH
All-British
Cartridges
and so consistent is tlie powder that for many years it
has been directly associated with the phrase’ ‘“Marvel-
lously Quick.”
Not only the powder, but the cases and wads and —most
important of all —the caps are exhaustively tested; these
tests, combined with accuracy of scientific loading, are
an absolute guarantee of every Nobel Cartridge.
Obtainable at
All Gunsmiths & Dealers
Wholesale Only:
AMMUNITION (NOBEL) PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
380 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
OB
New Zealand:
L. H. Labone,
17 Resolution Street,
Lyall Bay, Wellington.
Dodge that
Pot Hole!
and show up the bumps in the read with
a clear beam from your headlights.
Now that the long winter nights are here you
will appreciate the brilliant illumination made
possible by your Westinghouse Battery. Every
ridge, every bad patch in your path, is vividly
distinct, and easv to avoid.
BATTERY
s
There’s no chance of
a failure at the wrong
moment. Westing-
house thoroughness
has seen that every
detail of its battery
construction is worthy
of your service and
its good name.
So for your comfort’s
sake insist.on a Westing-
house Battery at the next
renewal.
WESTINGHOUSE
BATTE RIE S
ďf
d
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street , Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd & Co,, 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Geo.Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston, and Robt. Nettlefold, Pty. Ltd, Hobart
NEW ZEALAND : North Island: Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
Canterbury etc., Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore. Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dunedin.


CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
RESCHS
lager, filsener
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP * CO.. LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special li i sky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIIVUTED, Redfern, Sydney
HAVE YOU GOT A
WINCHESTER FOCUSING TORCH?
THROWS A BEAM 100 YARDS.
IDEAL FOR NIGHT SHOOTING.
These torches, which are the most efficient yet
produced, are fitted with the famous Winchester
Seamless Cell Batteries, noted for their long life.
Made in Two Sizes.
FIBRE CASE, 6* INCHES LONG. Handy for
carrying. Takes the 2-cell battery .... 15/*
NICKEL CASE, 9 INCHES LONG. Takes the
3-cell battery, gives a wonderful light, 18,/C
Spare Batteries: 2-cell, 1/9; 3-cell, 2/(5.
These torches are suitable for all purposes, par-
ticularly motorists and nightwatchmen. Most
of our Police Force have adopted them as part
of their kit. The Trade Supplied.
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
As a dress-rehearsal for the Grand
Nationals, Caulfield on Saturday provided some inter-
esting performances, as well as some of the prettiest
jumping- seen for a long time. Guifnedah (6 to Ij,
who has 9st. 41b. in the G. N. Hurdle, beat a big
field with a stone more on his back in the Toolam-
bool Hurdle; but Deacon, who finished strongly in
third place, is likely to turn the tables on him at
Fkmington, for Gunnedah is not renowned for
stamina. Namera (6, to 1), Fortasse and Missing
Link fought out a great finish in the Wanda Steeple-
chase ; there were only half-heads between them.
First and second are engaged in the Flemington
event, and Namera, who has 9st. 61b. —Hb. less
than on Saturdaj^-—is now third on the list of
fancied horses, McShortodds being impressed with
the way he struggled on when apparently beaten.
Holt’s stable landed a double with Smoke Bomb (6
to 4), who is beginning to show some staying power
as a descendant of Carbine should, and Beau Fils.
The latter -was allowed to run loose, 25 to 1 being
his nominal quote. Rather surprisingly, the public
neglected Trillo (10 to 1), who showed great pace
at Randwick last year and has been galloping well,
but a shrewd party collected a pile at long odds —
20 to 1 at the outset.
* * * *
There were many gloomy faces at Roseliill
(N.S,W.) on Saturday, results being once more heavily
in favor of the man behind the bag, who has had a
glorious time since Murray King’s Sydney Cup. Apart
from a farcical Trial Steeple, for which there were
only foui- starters, and the concluding Rydalmere
Mile, double-figure odds were available about all the
winners, two of them closing at 20 to 1 and another
at 25’s. And the betting on the Rydalmere Mile
was 4 to 1 Cave Dweller, 9 to 2 Gaelic Maid and
Midlothian, and 5 to 1 Aorangi, who won in hand-
some style. One of the 20-to-l shots was Hermealdo
(Don Reynaldo—Hermiosa), who, with a strong boy
(Johnstone) in the saddle, finished too stoutly for
the heavily-backed Newcastle candidate Paterika and
the English horse Star Rocket in the Rosehill
Handicap, 10 furlongs. Star Rocket may, however,
be expected to improve, and Luddenham, burly as
he looked, was doing well in fourth place when they
flashed past the judge.
* * * •
“S.G.” : A Bulletin contributor men-
tioned last week that the S. Aus. stewards were
“looking for the owner of a discarded battery that
was found on the Victoria Park course just after the
A.R.C. Birthday Cup had been run.” They didn’t
find the gentleman, who was too modest to come
forward, but before the last race at Cheltenham on
Saturday they invited a youth named Malwone,
rider of an “also-ran” neddy, to a heart-to-heart
talk in their room. On the way thither the young
man shed an impediment which, on being picked up,
proved to be a hand battery of the same make as
the Birthday Cup article, and after compliments had
been exchanged the stewards said “Disqualified for
life.” Malwone, who has been riding in Westralia,
whence he recently returned, didn’t have a mount
in the Birthday Cup or in any race that day, so the
stewards are continuing their investigations, in which
the Westralian “stipes” will no doubt assist. The
battery is an ingenious little implement with three
prongs, each with a button on top; press a button
and Sternchaser gets a shock. Who fabricated the
thing has yet to be told, but there used to be a
story that practically all the batteries in use on
Australian courses were the work of a Sydney elec-
trician who had a flourishing connection in every
capital.
* *
“Bris”: Persse’s Double, winner of the
Albion Cup for the second year in succession, is,
like most of the Bachelor’s Persse tribe, a natural
sand-oroper In tne last 20 months, besides the
two cups (worth £7OO each to the winner), he has
won the Albion “Thousand” (also worth £700) and
a plate ( £210), all on the sand track at Breakfast
Creek • on the grass at Ascot he has picked up only
a little place-mone} r . Still, as he cost only 76
o-uineas as a yearling, the colt has shown a good
profit to his owner-trainer, Noud.
“Bulimba” : Trotting “ethics” are a ’ joke
in Brisbane. Even hardened stewards had to wear
nose-masks while investigating a recent case. A
mare much in the boom at Kedron was
often nominated, seldom started, and never backed,
as the bookmakers would not open out. Finally,
her lessee told a bookmaker to “go on with hei
and handed him £lO to field against the lady on
a share basis. The bookie passed the good news
on to a brother of the bag, and the pair proceeded
to drive a brisk trade in the dead meat. But
it suddenly came to life; money poured in, and
the price shortened to evens. Needless to say the
mare won. The bookmaker went to the stewards
with his story. He was let off with a fine ot £lO
in consideration of his confession and his losses,
the lessee-rider was warned off all Associated Clubs
(pony) courses for 12 months.
* * * *
A Sydney pressman lias written a booklet
entitled “How Eric Connolly Bets and Wins,” and
Gordon and Gotcli are
ADAM SKIRVING,
veteran Vic-
torian trainer.
selling it for a shilling.
Connolly’s methods of
backing ’em are ex-
plained, and the small
speculator will find
some useful wrinkles,
though not the sound-
est advice, which is
that he should leave
betting alone. Very
few Australians have
made a punch at punt-
ing. Eric Connolly
and his Westralian
namesake, of Blue Spec
celebrity (they are
not related), are among
the very few. Both
are superlatively good
judges of horseflesh,
and in that respect the
man who puts his
pound or ten bob cn
cannot hope to rival
them. And each, of
course, has had his
lean years.
Most Sydney judges of boxing expected
Ignacio Fernandez (Bst. 6Jib.) to beat “Midget ’
Kilburn (9st. lib.), but they were hardly prepared to
see the thing go 18 bitter rounds. Kilburn had
seemed rather lucky to get a decision over Gavino
Deleon, who was at him all the time, while the
American Jew fought only in spasms. But “Midget”
was a different man on Saturday night, granting
that he had so much the better of the weights that
it was really a case of a “fedder” fighting a bantam.
The affair had the crowd roaring all the time. Kilburn
won all hearts by his gameness under the severest
punishment, but he had no chance after the eleventh
round, though he wanted to go on when battered
to the floor in the eighteenth. Wallis did not count,
but humanely said “That’s enough,” and palmed
Ignacio’s shining black poll.
“Veteran”: When “Snowy” Baker ran the Sydney
Stadium referees from several States met at the
Hotel Australia and resolved that the blow on the
back of the neck, euphemistically called the
“rabbiter,” was dangerous and should be ruled out.
Fred Baker even submitted himself to the punch, and
deposed to its injurious effects. Yet, in spite of
it being nominally barred, we constantly see it
used at Rushcutters Bay without expostulation or
action from referees. One of the management’s colored
importations is a persistent offender. Stadiums, Ltd.,
ought to reimpose the ban in its own interest. It
will excite comment if Labor politicians take round
the hat for the dependants of another dead boxer,
as happened after George Mendies was killed. Pugs,
are not protected under the Labor Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, though jockeys and caddies are.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The amateur status has
come into the iimelight again with the advent in
Sydney of the Marquis of Clydesdale. The Markis
wants to box for charity, and the organisation
arranging the affair has announced that the young
man can only meet amateurs. Persons who should
know better, including pressmen, are tilting at the
decision. An evening journal which has the hide to
suggest that the Marquis should fight Collins
asserts that Clydesdale and his companions would
not lose their amateur status in England by meet-
ing professionals where gate-money is taken. But
they would lose that status, and not in Britain
only, but in all countries concerned in the Inter-
national Federation. Federation rules have been
in existence for years, and are widely known. X.
S. Wales has witnessed a previous application of
them in the case of an amateur boxer as renowned
as “Snowy” Baker.
* * * *
Martin Ludecke (12st. 71b.), billed as
light-heavyweight champion wrestler of Europe, met
his master at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night
in Sammy Clapham (13st.), a newly-arrived York-
shireman' who has done a lot of grappling in the
U.S. Sammy got a fall lmin. 45sec. from the start,
and thereafter Martin was unable to break even or
break Clapham, though he was always a trier. The
Yorkv’s condition bothered him long before the end,
but lie was clever enough to retain his early advantage.
Matters that had been in doubt since
Maroubra (N.S.W.) speedway was opened were decided
on Saturday. R. G. Garlick, driving his super-charged
Alvis, proved that it is possible to do 100 m.p.h.
on the track and live to tell the tale. His almost
miraculous escape from disaster showed the attain-
ment of such a speed to be a darned dangerous business.
However, he straightened out after a bad skid and
won the All-Powered Car Handicap from scratch;
he conceded starts to Don Harkness and Hope Bartlett.
For the first time in the history of the track a
car made fastest lap of the day—Garlick’s 31sec. is
the record to date. H. Peel, holder of the motor-
cycling Gold Helmet, did not defend his title. The
scratch event, which is now barred to the big twins
and open only to machines of 500c.c. and under, was
won by Ken Carmody, who takes first rank now that
Brown and Spencer Stratton are out of the way.
Carmody lost the Silver Cup, the trophy going to
Norman Gilbert after a ding-dong go.
# * * *
From Trent Bridge to Bramall Lane rain
went with the Australians and left yet another match
so far from furnishing any clear indication of the
respective capabilities of the sides that it might
almost as well never have been begun. The champion
county fielded its best team for the return match,
and may perhaps be credited with a trifle the better
of what play there was, for the board showed six
Australian wickets down for 148 when the game was
abandoned. Still, with Gregory, Ponsford and
Hendry absentees, and Andrews and Taylor foolishly
running themselves out for ducks, there might l ave
been a worse collapse. Macartney (54) and Richard-
son (35 n. 0.) did most to save the situation. Bardsley
got 21; the veteran, though he rarely fails to make a
few, hardly ever succeeds in making more than a
few, and the return of Hendry and Ponsford is
going to make it hard for him to hold his place in
big matches, despite the pull there is in having a
left-hander to open the innings. Taylor has perhaps
been even more disappointing, and Woodfull, after his
brilliancy in the early games, has struck a barren
patch. The main feature of the Yorkshire bowling
was - the failure of Macaulay to get a wicket—
Macaulay, who was bracketed with Tate when the
season opened as the bowler likely to give the
Australians most trouble, and who was alleged to
be something of a rod deliberately kept in reserve
for the visitors. Of the five bowlers tried he did
least, and the evergreen Rhodes, now in his 50th
year, did most.
The weather brightened up for the Lancashire
match at Old Trafford, and our men, though still
below strength, responded with their most exhilarating
display since they went north. To Mailey (7 for
47) belongs nearly all the credit for dismissing a
side containing four or five mostly reliable run-getters
for 149; Oldfield, stumping three, was an invaluable
collaborator. Hallows, the left-hander, who played
for England in one of the 1921 Tests, batted
finely for 85, but the next best score was
only 11. Australia opened shakily enough,
half the side being out for 119. Then
came a dashing recovery and a fruitful sixth-wicket
stand —the pick-up at about this stage has happened
with curious regularity. Macartney and Richardson
were the tide-turners, and their partnership had nearly
doubled the score when the South Australian was
caught off Macdonald, Lancashire’s reinforcement
from this side of the world, for a sound and vigorous
63. Macartney found another useful partner in
Ryder, and when he was taken at the wicket it was
after an innings reminiscent of his best days for
freedom and confidence, a sparkling 160, with 15
fours, compiled in 225 minutes. Ryder’s 35 and a
crisp 26 not out from Oldfield helped to raise the
total to 374. Macdonald, Parker and Watson took
3 wickets apiece, the ex-Australian being the most
MUCH BETTER OFF.
SPORTING GENT. (to city derelict): “Don’t
talk to me about being wet and cold!
How would you like to be with our poor
cricketers in England?”
expensive. Faced with a deficit of 225, the county
made a bad start, half the side being dismissed for
116 (Hallows 46). Macartney took 3 wickets for 10.
“Shrewsbury”: A barrier of granite snobbishness
which survived even the alleged democracy of the
Great War has been shattered by the M.C.C.’s deci-
sion that amateurs and professionals are to use the
same dressing-room at Lords during the second Test.
and walk on to the ground through the same gate.
This last distinction has been abolished on every other
ground. The status of the English pro. has changed
a lot in the last generation. Most of them are now
indistinguishable from their official superiors in
looks, speech and bearing. The old-timer, however,
and especially the North Countryman, was often as
“rough as bags,” and I question whether the honor
of changing shirts alongside an amateur would have
appealed to him. He was as keen on his private
room, where he received friends and worshippers, as
the amateur, and, possibly, as particular in his
choice of social acquaintance. A pity old Tom
Emmett died before the change was made. There
might have been a few more excellent —and un-
printable—anecdotes to add to the anthology of
cricket.
“S.T.S.”: Talking of Spofforth, I don’t remember
ever seeing it admitted in print that the rise of
Australia to the front place in cricket is due to
batting. Not till Hill and Darling came along
together in the mid-’nineties, with Trumper and
Noble immediately afterwards, did we begin to expect
to win Test matches. For 15 years before that
Australian batting had depended on two or three
great men, with the rest “possibles.” The usual
position in a big match was a horrible deficit on
the first innings, a plucky recovery—it was at this
time that Australia earned its reputation for being-
most dangerous when in difficulties —and a defeat
that was sporting and highly creditable, but a defeat
all the same. Even making all allowance for the
improvement in preparation of a pitch, the run-
getting power almost any time in the last 30 years
has far exceeded anything that went before. The
best proof is in the results. Surely nobody will
maintain that we have ever again had in action,
together, such an absolutely devastating pair as
Spofforth and Boyle about 1880, or Turner and
Ferris 10 years later; but the improved batting has
more than made up for the lack.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby Leaguers turned again to
the premiership competition last Saturday, happy in
the thought of* having taken the rubber from Queens-
land, and,the game between Glebe and University
at the Cricket Ground satisfied the crowd of close
on 20,000. University won by 5 points—a try and a
penalty goal to nil —but there was little in it.
Frank Burge, the great Glebe forward, was carried
off with a broken leg. Balmain, always hard to
beat at Birchgrove, gave South Sydney a shock, the
premiers scratching home by 7 points to 6 after
being behind most of the game. Eastern Suburbs
stopped their downward trot by beating West, 28
to 21, and Newtown also enjoyed a victory at the
expense of North Sydney, 15 to 7. The Rugby Union
games gained added interest from the imminence of
the All Blacks’ visit. University defeated Western
Suburbs by the staggering Score of 50 points to 9.
West fielded a much -weakened team and was helpless
against the students, who have now played themselves
into a capital side. Wallace showed great brilliancy
for Glebe-Balmain, who beat Eastern Suburbs, 18 to
3, and Randwick’s backs gave a dashing display in
defeating Y.M.C.A., 24 to 14, Crossman making a
welcome reappearance. Among the Soccer players,
Annandale qualified for the third round of the
Gardiner Cup competition by dishing St. George,
4 goals to 1, and Balgowme beat Woonona by 4
goals to 1 in the premiership tourney. South Sydney
surprised the Australian-rules cognoscenti by outing
the successful Western Suburbs team, 64 to 45.
“Past Grammar” : The N.S.W. Rugby Union is very
keen on beating the All Blacks next month, for the
kudos gained would be a great asset for the Aus-
tralian tour of Britain in 1927. The visitors are a
terribly tough side on paper, but if the selectors
do their work wisely the story of 1922 and 3 924
may be repeated, especially if attention is concentrated
on the first match before the visitors fairly shake
together. A surprising feature of our form this
season is the all-round weakness in the tackling,
usually a feature of Union football. There is a
foolish craze for beating the other fellow by greater
pace and dash. The All Blacks are not to be licked
bj r such tactics, and the selectors must make their
minds up to leave out backs and forwards who hesi-
tate to drop their man in orthodox fashion. The
first game in 1925 was lost by ineffective defence,
and the heavy defeat had a bad effect on subse-
quent gates. Maoriland won both the other Tests
against a reorganised side, but by 4—o (a dropped
goal) and 11 to 3 only, while they were beaten
by a Metropolitan XV. We must have the hard men
in again, this time, and the open -work experts on.
the line- —their proper place.
• •••».
“Past Grammar”: The decision of the Scottish
Rugby Union to join with the English, Welsh and
Irish bodies in the invitation to an Australian team
to visit Britain marks the passing of an ancient feud.
When the Wallabies went to England in 1908
Scotland sourly refused to meet them or permit
Scottish clubs to do so. The ostensible reason was
tiie “amateur allowance” of ss. per day paid to the
visitors, Caledonia insisting that this savored of pro-
fessionalism. Southron calumny had it that the
Scots were sore because the All Blacks in 1905 had
made a handsome profit, from their games in Scotland,
which might have been the latter’s had she so
desired. Ireland followed Scotland’s lead, and the
Wallabies had to be content with games against
England and Wales only.
# * • «
Melbourne’s chief League game on Satur-
day—-Essendon and Melbourne were the opposing
teams—was a joyous circumstance, the participants
playing fast, open and willing football. As they
were level for third place, no points could be given
away, and when the ’Dons finished the first quarter
with 30 to Melb.’s 9, they felt comfortable. But
the Red Legs got into their stride then and steadily
overhauled their opponents, till at lemon-time they
were 10 ahead. The last quarter was a rousing-
struggle, with the respective backs —Donaldson,
Hunter and Stockdale for ’Don and Streeter, Coy and
Corbett for Melb. —doing their darnedest. At the bell
Melbourne was still a goal to the good—7s points
to ’Don’s 69 —and there was gnashing of teeth on
lCeilor-road. The Richmond-St. Kilda imbroglio was
not nearly so interesting; Richmond, 85 points; St. :
Kilda, 66. Fitzroy, which has struck the same
internal trouble that hit St. Kilda and Carlton a
while back, went down as usual, this time to South
Melbourne —93 points to ’Roy’s 59. Carlton, again
the Carlton of old, outed North Melbourne with 109
points to North’s 52 ; Geelong smashed Hawthorn with
118 points to 72; and Collingwood, having no mind to
be fooling with percentages as it did last year, piled
up 28 goals 17 behinds against Footscray’s 8 goals
10 behinds, Gordon Coventry getting 11 of the 2S.
THE MODERN KNIGHT'S GUERDON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Do women attend football matches?’ was asked by
a member of the Commission of Public Health now
sitting at Melbourne. The secretary of the Commis-
sion, Mr. Dimelow, assured the inquirer that one-third
of the patrons at North Melbourne were women,
and another member added that at Footscray lie
recently heard remarks like ‘Cut the blighter over,
Bill, and I’ll meet you to-night.’ ”
The knights of old are mouldering cadavers.
They set themselves to deeds of high emprise
And asked no guerdon save fair ladies’ favors
And promise of the same in smiling eyes.
Gone are the dames who sent them con amove
Rampaging forth to knock opponents flat.
Or, if they live, you think ’tis only in story?
I wouldn’t be too blooming sure of that.
Still dulcet accents spur the doughty fighter
To gallant feats, as in King Arthur’s day.
“Ho, Snork.v, if you’ll crumple up the blighter,
I’ll be your girl to-night” I heard at ’Scray.
The knights of old were all accoutred brightly
In gleaming mail and armor of the best;
But deem not hearts less chivalrous and knightly
Beat in the ’bailer’s woollen-jerseyed breast.
Deem not a donah’s call is less a slogan
To send a warrior leaping on the foe
When he for -whom ’tis meant is Barney Hogan
Than when ’twas Lancelot or Ivanhoe.
At Camelot, where lily waved and willow,
Were loving looks for those who faced the fray
And whispered words of cheer. It’s “Bash him, Billo,
And be my mash to-night” that’s yelled at ’Scray.
The knights of old, to win the love of ladies
Would tackle any odds, heroic souls!
There’s chivalry as glowing yet, by Hades!
Among the muddied oafs that hoof the goals.
To have a bit of dragons, aye and giants,
Time was blokes sallied forth, by sweethearts bid,
They vowed to conquer, in complete reliance
On what was waiting for them if they did.
And when they came not back, cheeks blanched to
pallor
And laughing lips grew grave or turned to pray.
But “Spread him out?’ ! is Beauty’s call to Valor,
“And you may take me out to-night” at ’Scray.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Dependable
GUNS
and
RIFLES
from
Mick Simmons’
No. 31A.
No. 31 A.—Continental Combination
Gun and Rifle, 12-gauge Gun, 32-
calibre Rifle, 30in. barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, cross-bolt, fitted with leaf
sight to 300 yards;
weight about Sib.
£l5/15/-
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 4.
No. 4—Continental D.8.8.L. Gun,
410-gauge, top lever action, Greener
cross-bolt, bar locks, 30in. barrels, left
choke ; weight about 411 b. , £5/2/6
(Carriage Paid).
No. 24.
No. 24.—American D.8.8.L. Ham-
merless Gun, 12-gauge, 82in. barrels,
bar locks, both choke, top lever, con-
cealed cross-bolt; tested for nitro pow-
ders; weight about 7:!lb. £g/]Q/.
(Carriage Paid).
No. 22.
No, 22—Riverside Arms Co.
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 -gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued steel
barrels, right modified, left full choke,
matted rib, rebounding locks, low ham-
mers, pistol grip, vulcanite butt-plate,
snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders ;
weight 74 to 81b. /E /
HOin. Barrels "
32in. Barrels . .. £5/10/-
(Carriage Paid).
No. 1.
No. I.—The “Maine” Rifle, 22-
cal. fitted with plain V-sight, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cart-
ridges, rim fire. The barrel is round.
18in. long, bored and rifled with the
same care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate. Weight op/
about 31b -
(Postage: N.S.W. 1/6; Other States
2/8.)
No. 26—Remington Hanimerless
Repeating Rifle, Model 12a, 22-cal.,
solid breech, side ejector, straight grip!
22in. round barrel; handles 15 short
12 long, or 11 long-rifle cartridges!
adjustable rear and open front sights •
weight 411 b £5/5/ '
(Carriage Paid.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches:
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane
f
The Original
BOSCH HORN
Is the World’s Finest Warning Signal.
Deep, Mel 1 o w and extremely
Penetrating. Universally used on
High-class Automobiles, Omnibuses
and Motor-boats.
Price £5/19/6
Melbourne Robert Eoscli Supply & Service Co, Pty., Ltd.,
25G-258 Latrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply &. Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
249 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert .Tones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Ltd., 2G Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand J. J. Niven & Co., Ltd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
ď
Do ipp.'Realise that
within i]our means?
yms wondrous trip of over 3,600 miles—
via some of the loveliest scenery in the
world is now easily within the reach of most
Australians, for the fares are really most
moderate.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
has a service that is unequalled. Trains that
are havens of comfort hotels that are the
latest in luxury steamships that combine
speediness in transport with every modern
convenience that you could desire. And you
can book all accommodation prior to your
departure.
You can obtain through tickets in connection with
the Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, whose
New Quadruple-screw Motor Passenger Liner
"Aorangi” (23,000 tons displacement) and the
favorite s.s. “Niagara” afford an unequalled service
to and from Vancouver, B.C.
WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLETS.
Apply to any office o! the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., any Tourist
Booking Agency, or J. Sclnter, Representative, Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, Union House,
21>7 George Street, Sydney.
Si—
a
iXM
ic/f:
C/ravel
via
Vhe
G
o
c
f
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
KOKMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
d
No. 1369.
THE INKY WAY.
“M-oreton”: If Gympie (Q.) ever runs off
the rails of veracity it isn't; the fault of the
press. The old-established Gympie Truth
has been supplemented by a Baptist monthly
called Plain Truth ; and Ezra Norton’s
Truth supplies the color which is missing
from the other two gospels.
“Alastor": The Queensland Authors and
Artists’ Association intends publishing an
annual magazine; the first issue is to appear
next Christmas. The association, under Pro-
fessor Stable, the Queensland University
teacher of English, is doing its bit for Aus-
tralian art and literature. Kenna, one-time
M.P. for Bowen (N.Q.) and a well-known
verse-writer, will edit No. 1.
“Sa Bo” : Just dead Henry Tate, composer
and musical critic of the Age, didn’t believe
only in Australian music. He believed in the
adequacy of the English language. Since his
departure to the Elysian fields this is what
we read: “Grainger's finger dexterity pro-
duces fieramente tone that lights up his
pungent staccato with electric brilliancy.
Then, while dazzled with this, the ear will
almost immediately be rested with a sooth-
ing dolcessimo of exceptional tenderness. '
The last phrase is good. It means something
like “an exceptional tenderness of exceptional
tenderness.”
Another funeral on the Inky Way—that
of the Australian Jewish Herald] v, deli
has been the organ of Melbourne Jewry for
45 years. The fortnightly, after a never very
prosperous existence, fell into the hands of
the firm which formerly owned Punch, and
was only saved from extinction by a com-
mittee of Melbourne Jews, who got together
a subsidy. Two other Jewish papers, both in
Sydney, supply the Chosen with news of ex-
clusive interest to themselves; the Hebrew
Standard did not hit the Melbourne organ
much, but the vigorous arrival of the Aus-
tralian Jewish Chronicle, five years ago,
did.
“Cosmo” : Michael R. Mooney, of the Yass
Tribune, who died in St. John of God’s Hos-
pital, Goulburn, this month, aged 77. was
probably the oldest editor in active service
in the State-lie stayed in harness almost to
the last. His first job in Australia was oil
the Age under David Syme; crossing into
N. S. Wales, for a while he edited the
Southern Argus, Goulburn (long since de-
funct), and lie owned the Southern Cross,
Junee. A Dublin University man, he studied
law at the Middle Temple before journalism
claimed him. For half a lifetime he had been
a sturdy battler for the man and woman on
the land.
Wallace Nelson, journalist, lecturer and
politician, returning to Brisbane after 20
years, found himself a stranger in a rebuilt
city. He wasn’t a stranger for long, for,
after telling some of the local manufacturers
about his experiences on the Great White
Train, he found himself booked up for more
lectures and speeches than lie can find time
to deliver. He is the only poet in Australia
who can fix a busy business man with his
glittering eye, recite poetry to him, and get
thanks for doing it. Nelson is on a mission
from the Made-in-Australia League mf
N.S.W. to write up Queensland manufac-
tures, and the local Preference League is
co-operating with him.
“Strict Veg.” : An attempt to fill the gap
Melbourne Punch didn’t leave is being made
with Adam and Eve. The price is sixpence
and the editor Charles E. Taylor, who ran
the publicity camnaien for the National
party at the last Federal elections. The new'
monthly is attractively got up and its cover
is as nice a bit of color-work as has yet been
done in Melbourne. But what is the use
of a criticism in daily newspaper style of
the stale Dal Monte season, or soft-pedal,
stuff about shows that have been running for
months and are now' in their last days? If
the thing had come out as a radical -oasis in
the vast desert of Melbourne’s flapper-
inspired journalism, it might at least have
attracted the interest of the discerning few'.
“Milton B. McTTaggis”: I note that
“Martin Tupper, jun.,” writes (B. 3/6/’26) :
When writing verse
Remember there is no rhyme for window.
Have at him :
I lo’ed a sonsie Scottish lass.
She wasn't what you might call bonny.
Cabhorses shied whene’er she’d pass,
But. losh, eh, she had heaps o’ mbney. .
Her Dad, a fiery Iliclan’ brute,
And chieftain o’ the clan Macindoe,
Not only spurned my humble suit
But threw me through the blanky window.
THE WINTER BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world is wan with winter;
No hint that Spring' the sprinter
Has left his mark to splinter
The gloomy season’s sway;
No sign Of bloodhounds vernal
Upon the tracks hibernal.
In fact, the cold’s infernal
And looks like lasting—eh?
The bards of Spring and Summer
Grow drearier and glummer
Than orphaned calves, and dumber
Than badly punctured drums.
Conveyed no magic spell is
To shivering backs or bellies
By afterthoughts like Shelley’s
Tacked to “If Winter Comes.”
Bread, wine and a fiancee
(Some tuneful Gwen or Nancy)
Appealed to Omar's fancy,
And that “beneath the bough.”
Some sizzling pie—a plateful—
And steaming rum—a slateful—
I'll lay he’d find more grateful
Were he in Sydney now.
Beshrew this radiator!
Was ever mockery greater?
Or for some glowing crater
With good pit-coal heaped high!
Keep me, with warmth a-tingle,
A nook beside the ingle,
I’ll weave some winter jingle
That editors will buy.
If.s.w.
T. THE R.


The River T ransport Company of Australia, Ltd.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
Registered at the Supreme Court, Brisbane*
REGISTERED CAPITAL, £250,000.
In one million shares of 5/- each.
500,000 shares are now being offered for public subscription, payable 2/- on
application, 1/- on allotment, 1 not less than three months after allot-
ment, 1/- not less than six months after allotment.
40,000 Fully-paid Shares to be issued to Vendor (by way of consideration for
transfer of rights under agreement with the Brisbane City Council).
460,000 shares to be held in reserve for future issue if required.
DIRECTORS:
COMMANDER W. HARMER BROWN, R.N.R., Marine Surveyor, Rothwell Chambers, Brisbane.
LIEUT.-COL. DANIEL E. EVANS, D. 5.0., M.1.E.5., M.1.M.E., M.1.E., Australia, Director Evans, Deakin and
Co., Ltd., Engineers, Brisbane.
ARTHUR SPENCER, Esq., Retired Bank Inspector, Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
B PERCY BROWN, Esq., Managing Director Electrical Installations, Ltd., Director Brown and Broad Newstead
Homes, Ltd., Brisbane.
83/iikd*s *
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, Dr'D.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Auditors:
Messrs. KENNEDY, BOWLY AND MANSON,
Parbury House, Eagle Street.
Solicitors:
Messrs. MORRIS, FLETCHER AND CROSS,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Consulting Engineers:
A. E. HARDING FREW, 8.E., etc,,
Brisbane and Sydney.
Secretary:
SCOTT MULLIN, F.F.1.A., F.A.1.5., Public Accountant,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Company’s Registered Office:
Rothwell Chambers, Edward Street, Brisbane.
Selling Brokers:
THE METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS,
Rothwell Chambers, Edward Street, Brisbane.
16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chancery House, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Objects of the Company.
The principal objects of the Company are, inter alia:
To equip maintain, work, conduct, make, and carry on a Ferry Service on the Brisbane River.
To acquire and use where considered advisable motor ’buses in connection therewith or as a separate
undertaking, and to carry on the business of Ferry Proprietors and Carriers of Passengers and Roods
by 'and and water. The Company may include operations on other Australian rivers from time tune
if deemed advisable, . . .. , . . . . .-. ~ „
The objects include any other business which can conveniently be carried on m conjunction w*th the
business specified, or calculated directly or indirectly to enhance the value or render profitable any *f the
Company’s properties or rights.
Company’s Franchise.
An indenture entered into with the Greater Brisbane Council provides that the Company will have
running rights for 20 years from Victoria Bridge to a line crossing the river at Goodna, and ■as this
portion of the Brisbane River is not at present regularly served by ’.'any River Transport Service the
Company will be opening up an entirely new Field for business. The Company may also operate down
stream under license, and to further make the Company’s operations income earning from the very
inception pending the organisation of the Up-river Service; an arrangement has been entered mn with
Mr. Edward Battle, whereby the Company takes over the Norman Creek-Customs House Service complete,
together with Boats, Equipment and Go;dwill.
Management.
. The Management of the Business of the Company is entirely in the hands of the. Director, who
are not handicapped bv anv onerous agreements! The Directors are keen, well-known business wen of
strictest - integrity, whose? 'individual qualifications make a very strong combination to control ar under-
taking of this nature.
Ferry Services.
The Company proposes to institute ferry services on the Brisbane River, using comfortable and fast
tndard design ‘motor vessels capable of a speed of from 16 miles per hour. These vessels Avdl have
capa-lv of 150 passengers each, being entirely open and cool m summer and closed with internal
sta
a capacity of 150 passeng-,..,
heating in the winter. These vessels will be most economical to run, as they are piopelled .tv
engines using crude oil fuel, and are manned by a small crew. A regular time-table
tK lU TIME*'TAKEN—The times taken from a given suburb to the heart of the city will be tl*»
as, and in several instances considerably less, than the Train, Tram or Motor ’Bus -- •
FARES. —The fares will be the same, and in some cases the Train. Irani 01 iMoto*
Regular passenger
PROPOSED li
motor ’bus feeder- - -----
trips. Hawthorne, Bulimba, New Farm and East Brisbane to .City.
Additional services will be inaugurated as traffic conditions justify the extensions,
Diesel
will bt -igidly
Bus.
:rs, children and students will have the privileges of concession fares . '
ROUTES —1. Un-river section (under Franchise), North Quay to Oxley Freer using 1
as at the latter terminal. 2. An auxiliary service to Fig Tree Pocket for i^aswiess
Cheap Excursions and Pleasure Trips.
The Company proposes to immediately institute a regular service of .boats, to selected picm» spots
on Saturday afternoons! Sundays and Holidays, and at night time. Comfortable and speedy or vessels
■will be run to a regular and frequent time-table. The various trips will take from 30 to oO mmws each
wav at fares ranging approximately from 6d. to Is. per passenger. . ,
’The Company proposes to acquire Picnic Grounds, properly fitted up with recreation grounds, jhelte
sheds children’s playgrounds, refreshment kiosks, bathing ete., - both on the upper eaches
of the river and down the Bay, which will be provided for the use of the Company excursion pasw«>ngers
There are no other properly appointed facilities for picnickers or club outings handy to Bnsba .. and
the Bay pleasure resorts and beaches are costly and inconvenient to reach. ,
SPECIAL EXCURSIONS for Clubs, Institutions, Lodges, Trade Unions, etc., will be cateied W, and
vessels suitable for this purpose will be obtainable from, the company. oFoviri?
IMMEDIATE AND LARGE PROFITS SHOULD BE MADE I ROM THIS SERA ICE,
Additional Sources of Income.
Other sources of Income open to the Company are:— ,
Earnings from the Company’s Pleasure Grounds to be acquired on the Brisbane River. From sales
of property held by the Company and enhanced in value from the Company s Gai rtage of
waterside workers by special arrangement to overseas wharves and of employees to rived side o k-.
Special excursion trips to tourists from Interstate and overseas boats. Special excuisions foi c ,
clubs, institutions, trade unions, etc.
Prospectuses, additional Application Forms, and any further information may be
had from the Metropolitan Underwriters, also a series of aerial photos inspected showing
area over which the Company will operate and heavily populated territory extending on
both banks of the river.
Apply
THE METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS,
Rothwell Chambers, Edward Street, Brisbane.
1G limiter Street,
Sydney.
N.S.W,
Chancery House,
Little Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Similar Companies’ Shares.
•Are shares in water transport companies a sound investment?
The figures given below should convince intending investors that excellent profits are being made
by other Companies' of a similar nature to the River Transport Company of Australia.
Compat., ,
third) is made up of BONUS distributions.
PORT .JACKSON AND MANLY STEAMSHIP CO., LTD., SYDNEY.-
financial column, October 3, 1925, states
-Sydney Bulletin “Wild Cat”
This means that a shareholder who originally
value of £1992, and for which in the year 1925 alone he received in dividends the handsome sum
of £129.
Company’s Prospects.
In estimating the Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts the most conservative basis possible has
been taken. Only the profits on the working of five boats have been brought into the accounts, but
the Overhead and Management. charges should be sufficient to provide for the basis of a fleet of nine
boats Calculations have been based not on southern companies’ returns, but on figures of a service
at present operating on part of the river which River Transport Co. will take over and on facts and
figures amply warranted by the present population of the city of Brisbane.
Registration on Stock Exchanges.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association have been drawn up in accordance with the require-
ments of the Stock Exchanges and it is proposed to apply for registration on the principal- Stock
Exchanges of the Commonwealth. A copy of the Memorandum and Articles may be obtained tiom
the Secretary of the Company.
Brokerage.
The Company will pay brokerage on all Shares applied for and allotted on applications identified
as coming through any member of any recognised Stock Exchange m the Commonwealth or through
the duly authorised agents of the Directors.
THE RIVER TRANSPORT COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
' Nominal Capital, £250,000.
Divided into 1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each, of which Five Hundred
Thousand are now being offered for subscription.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
TO THE SECRETARY, No
THE RIVER TRANSPORT COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Rothwell Chambers, Edward Street, Brisbane.
,1/We herebv mate application for Shares in the capital of The River Transport
Company of Australia, Limited, in terms of the Company’s prospectus, and authorise you to have
my/our name placed on the Register of the Company for the number of Shares mentioned (or any less
number that may be allotted to me/us).
Enclosed herewith please find cheque for £ , being application money of 2/- per share,
and I/we agree to pay a further 1/- per share upon allotment, and 1/- per share at 3 months, and ll-
per share at 6 month's after allotment, and I/we agree to be bound by the Memorandum of Articles of
Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 192 G.
NAME IN FULL (Mr. Mrs. or Miss)
OCCUPATION •
ADDRESS
SIGNATURE
All cheques to be made • payable to “THE RIVER TRANSPORT COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED,” and crossed “Not Negotiable.” Please add exchange. The Company will not be responsible
for the loss, misapplication, or misappropriation of any cheque unless drawn as here stated. Any
number of shares may be taken up.
Fill in, sign, and post this Application Form to the Metropolitan Underwriters, Rothwell Chambers,
Edward Street, Brisbane. Complete Prospectus, further Application Forms, and any particulars required
rr t| lo Company’s operations can be obtained from the Metropolitan Underwriters at any of their offices
either personally or by letter.


Protect Your Dependants Against Probate Duty.
TO the man on the land preparation for Probate Duty
is of utmost importance. The tax itself is unusu-
ally heavy. The period required for its
assessment is long. The estate with its income is not
available to dependants until the tax is paid. P. & 0.
Probate Assurance meets both contingencies. It pro-
vides dependants with an immediate income, and thereby
protects them against hardships during the waiting
period; it also pays the tax, and thus avoids the frequent
and disastrous necessity of sacrificing part of the Estate
in order to raise the large sum required, and thereby
forfeiting for always the income derived from it.
Probate is a matter that is inevitable —one that must be
faced. Send for folder dealing fully with this important
subject, post free, of course.
The Producers & Citizens’
of Australia, Limited,
a
Co-operative Assurance Co.
Head Office: 114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Branches: Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart.
General Secretary; H. FELL.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Royal “The Silver king”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s .... “Pinafore” and “Trial by Jury”
Royal “Leave It to Jane”
Princess “Betty Lee”
King’s “White Cargo”
AthenvEUM “The Best People”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Cijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
ttorr’s Moving Pictures
♦
Frederic Lonsdale has thrown into “The
Last of Mrs. Cheyney” a' quantity of bril-
liant but artificial dialogue, decorated with
high explosives and a bedroom scene; and
the audience at the Sydney Criterion on
Saturday liked the mixture well enough to
demand the lifting of the curtain many times
at the end of the show. Mrs. Cheyney, a
reputed Australian widow, is welcomed as
an acquisition by members of an English
social set whose lack of solid virtues is epi-
grammatically catalogued by Charles, her
butler; not until the end of the first act,
when the guests have departed, is it revealed
that the talkative servants are a band of
crooks who have given the pseudo Mrs.
Cheyney an opportunity to mix with the
Upper Ten in order that the Upper Ten may
he relieved of their light valuables. They
are an extraordinary gang of crooks who
go to extraordinary trouble to supply the
author with a plot, and stay behind (without
any compulsion) to face their punishment
so as not to spoil it. The lady they expect
to help them has qualms about robbing-
people who have become her friends and
whom she likes, but, being induced to go on,
is trapped in Mrs. Ebley’s bedroom by the
rakish Lord Arthur Hilling, who has
acquired information which has induced him
to get Mrs. Ebley to exchange, bedrooms.
Fascinated into the illusion that Mrs. Chey-
ney is a woman in a million, Hilling has
jettisoned all his lack of principles and pro-
posed marriage; but, finding her a crook,
he believes that even her sex-virtue is a
sham. His price for silence is that she shall
remain with him. She throws champagne
over the bold fellow, and, by rousing the
house, brings upon herself the exposure
with which he has merely threatened her.
Subsequent developments suggest that the
play’s moral may lie hereabout: in effect, a
woman who wants to convince a man of her
virtue should throw champagne over him.
There is a washing-up, of course, and a
happy ending to a situation which never
gave any really serious alarm.
* * * *
Leslie Victor has, in the blundering, pom-
pous Lord Elton, a part on which the suc-
cess of the play depends, and he handled it
well, without using any broad methods.
Although George Barraud, as the cynical,
good-natured lover of life, Lord Arthur Dil-
ling, was easy and convincing, and although
Hylton Allen made Charles, the Oxford man
who becomes a crook for adventure’s sake,
an almost believable character, the highest
honors were with Victor. Renee Kelly made
it quite understandable why everybody suc-
cumbed to the charm of the immature crook;
"SEVENTH HEAVEN ,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Frank Harvey as that remarkable fellow
Chico, and John Bedouin as Pere Chevillion.
still her Mrs. Cheyney was more pleasing
than convincing. Emma Temple gave the
usual satisfaction as Mrs. Ebley ; and Anthony
Holler, who has a stage asset in his uncertain
smile, put it to good use as the fat-headed
young Willie Wynton, who describes himself
as “too mean to be unfaithful.” Dion Bouci-
cault was producer, and the evidence of an
artist in stage finish was visible in the work
of all the minor characters. Lonsdale, toying
with the belief that virtue can only be
afforded to heroines and women who, like
one of his characters, “are either very good
or else very nervous,” produces people who
are mainly unpleasant; but the play scintil-
lates with epigram.
* * * *
Toti dal Monte, more economical in her
repertoire than her wardrobe, sang her last
at Sydney Town Hall on Tuesday afternoon.
Lucia, imagining herself the flute at the
feast, got still another airing. As for “The
Cuckoo Clock,” if Dal Monte goes on work-
ing that timepiece so hard, the bird will
surely have a relaxed throat.
* * * *
Sydney theatres will : ee two changes next
Saturday: at the Royal, “Seventh Heaven”
will vanish in favor of “The Silver' King,”
“Are You a Mason?”
at Melbourne Palace.
Lily Molloy as Lottie.
and Frank Harvey,
as Wilfred Denver,
will invite the
Deity to put back
the universe and
give him yesterday:
Nellie Bramley, at
the Palace, will
cease being “The
Misleading Lady”
and revive “Sun-
day,” which was
one of the favorites
when Tittell Brune
gave delight to the
gallery-girls. “No,
No, Nanette,” goes
on cheerfully, after
making an event of
its 100th perfor-
mance in Sydney
last Monday, at
the St. James ; and
“Rose Marie,” at
Her Majesty’s, is
shaping for a simi-
1a r performance.
“Our Liz” con-
tinues to make
hilarity at the Grand Opera House.
:j: %
The ill winds upon which the ’flu has
come blew some good to that bright little
Australian, Gladys Hermes, who found her-
self invited to trip in the shoes of Elsie
Prince when the visual Nanette went down
with a touch of the popular sniffles. It was
a brief opportunity, but Gladys made a good
deal of it, and “No, No Nanette” ran on
brightly. The same competent little lady
had just previously taken the place of Polly
Power, injured in an accident.
** * *
Jim Gerald, who has the assistance of an
audience which greets his appearance with
a loud noise, is “The Naughty Husband” this
week at Fullers’ (Sydney). Little things
make great fun when Gerald is on the stage
nowadays. Leslie Pearce, who gathered
laurels in “Little Jessie James,” is giving
the vaudeville house the benefit of a melodi-
ous voice, and the Keith Connolly “synco-
pating jesters” do their fair best.
❖ ❖ ❖
Frankie Heath, who came to Sydney
Tivoli on Monday, is not quite what Wish
Wynne was at her best, but very near it.
Another newcomer, George Lee, produced
songs which, for what they are worth, were
well sung. But why does the programme
call him a comedian? Niobe eats, writes,
sings and otherwise carries out the acts of
a normal existence in her glass water-tank;
her abnormal chest expansion (6jjin.) seems
to be the secret of a mystifying act. Harms-
ton’s Educated Birds—Australian natives,
cockatoos, and parrots—make another in-
teresting turn; the non-Australians, the
macaws, seem to be in the show merely for
decorative effect.
❖ ❖ :J:
At Hoyt’s Thomas Meiglian appears this
week _as a bould blioy who returns from
America and discovers Ireland; anti,
although the management guarantees
"romance, heart-tugs and pathos,” it is the
scenery that makes the picture most worth
while. Buck Jones puts, excitement into
the other half of the programme in “The
Fighting Buckaroo.” At the Lyceum Rene
Maxwell is filling the interval with her
pleasant voice; here also is “The American
Venus,” written round the girl who won
an American beautiful-figure competition.
The prevalence of girls posing foolishly in
scanty “bathing”-costumes makes most
picture-shows duller than usual at present.
❖ ❖ ❖
Chefalo, who proposes to-day (Thursday)
to release himself from a packing-case sus-
pended from a crane in David Jones’s new
building, is still practising magic and mys-
tery at the Sydney Hippodrome; his act is
punctuated nightly by surprised yells. Mag-
dalena Palermo presents some attractive illu-
sions ; and the Midgets run through a mixed
vaudeville programme briskly.
Another wood-chopper’s show :
A skill in the bold use of decorative light effects
is shown by Roy Davies, whose woodcuts (25 of
them) are on exhibition at the Sydney Art Salon.
There is competent craftsmanship in most of the
work, though one head is set upon a telescopic neck
—the portraits generally are the least pleasing of the
exhibits. “The Union Club” (No. 2) is strongly
done, “Rankin’s Homestead - ’ (No. 11) is good tom-
position with the background foliage delightfully
treated; and something on the way to wizardry is
shown in the atmosphere of “Coolness” (No. 5).
Even a Soviet envoy could temporarily
succumb to the jingoism of “Pinafore”
without permanent damage to his ideals. Un-
fortunately the exposition at Melbourne
Majesty's on Saturday was not as consistent
or as pleasing as previous enterprises of
the co., nor were the spectators as numer-
ous or as loud in their applause. James Hay,
as Ralph Rackstraw, was a romantic-looking
able seaman who suffered occasionally from
sea fog in the throat; and a really musical
board of the Admiralty would have con-
demned Captain Sydney Granville to be
keel hauled. Nor was Winifred Williamson
as winsome a Little Buttercup as past sea-
sons have seen bloom, and the Josephine of
Strella Wilson relied mainly on a
efficient voice. Charles Walenn imbued the
office of First Lord with picturesqueness,
and Lance Fairfax, as the boatswain’s mate,
deserved promotion for his singing of “An
Englishman.” which drew a triple demand
for more. The physical deformity and vocal
shapeliness of Bernard Manning as Dick
Deadeye remains a bright memory of the
show.
# * * *
“Trial by Jury,” which served as a curtain-
raiser, was disappointing, both as a play
and as a performance. To set a breach-of-
promise case to music was a bright inspira-
tion, but although Sullivan rose to the
occasion, Gilbert doesn’t seem to have more
than sketched his notion out. Charles
Walenn, as the Judge, usher Bernard Man-
ning and the choruses, full-throated as
usual, held the thing together.
A cat with musical ambitions was an im-
portant feature of Percy Grainger's final
Melbourne recitals at the Auditorium.
Accepting a minor part on Saturday week,
by Thursday it had gained so much confi-
dence that it was able to take a major share
in Chopin’s difficult Sonata in B Minor, Op.
58, and it was quite frequently on the note.
Efforts to locate the talented animal failed,
but on Saturday it voluntarily went off to
accept an engagement elsewhere. During its
stay the pianist in rather trying circum-
stances displayed vast powers of self-com-
posure. Large and enthusiastic audiences
have continued to attend on this master
entertainer, who knows how to spice Bach
and Brahms with jazz elaborately disguised
in borrowed vestments. The season closed
with a plebiscite matihee concert on Tues-
day. The first Sydney concert will follow-
to-night (Thursday).
$$ & $
Melbourne King’s will change on Satur-
day from the light froth of Barrie to the
dark depths of the
“W hi t e Cargo.”
“Leave It to Jane”
i s still at the
Royal, and “Betty
Lee” at the Prin-
cess. Frank Neil
will continue to
ask “Are You a
Mason ?” at the
Palace until “Abie’s
Irish Rose,” whose
Yankee gardeners
are speeding hither-
ward by mailboat,
commences to
bloom, July 3.
“The Best People”
are still at the
Athensum and
can’t complain of
lack of callers.
The Kendall
String Quartet —
four ladies who
have fiddled their
way through Java,
Malaya and Maori-
land—are expected
on Saturday at the
Assembly Hall,
Melbourne, under
Gravestock's direc-
“Are You a Mason?”
at Melbourne Palace.
Field Fisher as
Amos Bloodgood.
tion. London critics have said fair things
of them.
At a recital of first performances of Brit-
ish compositions directed last week at the
Melbourne Assembly Hall by Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, Minnie Bull’s Cecilia Choir gave
commendable utterance to the melodious
Songs of Innocence by Walford Davies,
North Country Folk lays arranged by W.
G. Whittaker, and the elaborately weird har-
monies of some of Gustav Holst’s choral
Hymns from the Rig Veda. Fresh notes and
understandable words made Lilian Crisp's
offering the star turn ; her songs were by
Norman Peterkin, with the accompaniment
only of a viola’s “plinking.” Eugene Goos-
sens was represented by various “Ships” and
some tinkling trifles that made a cheery
"Kaleidoscope.” Of the sentimental saccha-
rine type were Ernest Walker's vocal quar-
tets, the interpretation by the two ladies
better than that of their male supports.
At Melbourne Tivoli Bluett will be the
cuspidor for Mo’s wit for only a few nights
longer. Coram is a ventriloquist of merit;
“PINAFORE," AT MELBOURNE
MAJESTY’S.
The carpenter’s mate (Dallas Murton) is
introduced to a First Lord ( Chas. R.
Walenn).
Decima and Eddie Maclean, assisted by Eric
Masters, mix grace with gymnastics in an
elaborate dancing act, and the Ghezzis are
unusual acrobats.
** * *
Hector St. Clair continues to unsheath his
fiddle and impale the enraptured attention
of his audiences at Melbourne Bijou. The
Moon and Morris revue company’s season is
on its last legs—the legs, incidentally, are
worth perusing.
** * *
At the Majestic (Melb.) this week Monte
Blue, disowned by opulent parents, tramps
along a railroad and discovers a landslide,
which he removes. A train collision follows,
for which he is blamed. The authorities,
however, obligingly place another train in
a dangerous situation and he saves it from
destruction, being forgiven by his parents
and rewarded in the usual manner with the
hand of Vera Reynolds. “The Limited Mail”
is the misadventure’s moniker. This theatre
is also offering a demonstration of the
Charleston. Laughter is exchanged for
thrills at Hoyt’s, where Adolphe Menjou, in
“The King on Main-street,” is the ruler of
a chronically hard-up kingdom, who hums
Wall-street for a loan. The management is
emphatic that no slighting reference to any
Australian State is intended.
A midwinter picture-show :
W. D. Knox doesn’t belong to the painting school
which goes for its inspiration to popular resorts and
sells the results to that numerous class of patron
which likes to be reminded of the place where it
spent last Easter. Knox has discovered the beauty
that lies in Princes Bridge, and, although he has
not made a Whistler nocturne of his sensations, he
has aroused interest in the structure which is not
entirely based on its traffic value. A humble cottage
is seen by him in the luminous pearly mood of
a David Davies evening. Working with a well-loaded
brush he gets lightness into his forms and a rosy
smile into his landscapes. The inchoate daub of
No. 22 resolves itself on assimilation into a warm
little incident on a river. Weak drawing is a lion
in the path of his largest expanse of pasture, No.
1, but there is no forcing of values; one plane
glides into the other in a manner which would be
fully endorsed by any 1 surveyor’s theodolite. The
show is at the Fine Arts, Melbourne.
** * *
Harold Lloyd is riotously funny in “Hot
Water” at the York, in Adelaide, and has
some really new stunts. At West’s is that
fine fake, the storming of Zeebrugge, and at
Wondergraph the jolly old “Seven Keys to
Baldpate” goes as well as ever in Douglas
McLean’s handling; also there is Somerset
Maugham’s “Circle,” as represented by
Americans who think an English peer says
“Hell!” constantly. That poor sort of
American, too, is the talk on the actual
stage at the Royal, where “White Cargo”
was received with a shudder at first, but
afterwards became such a success that its
season is extended. Leon Gordon takes chief
honors in the part of the plucky cynic, Wal-
lis Clark does a lot of sound work and Helen
Stransky—toned down to meet the assumed
taste of Adelaide —makes her dubious char-
acter really inoffensive.


As a basis —all lines
Merchandise
of
throughout the
Great Store (except
a lew Proprietary
lines). have been
reduced
RED
0
ffi
jiSMR
a i-
r.
SzfiHJ 3 *.-'K? I ?!■? 2* V?^ a*'si sfSZ
M a * *? - v v** fcAV- *-
\
jjl ovei'Stocked
lines, however, im-
mense stocks have
been sacrificed, to
ensure quick de-
spatch, many lines
clearing: as low as
Half
Price
Sale Ends July 10
Sale Ends July 10
The Biggest Money-Saving
Event of the Year —
Now in Full Swing!
Still the opportunity to send for Patterns and select your choice in
DISTINCTIVELY-TAILORED SUITS (To Measure)
■
... ■
II
ill
:K'Sv:
H
I®
*§s
888 '
*■' *
m
at Greatly Reduced Prices.
THE first week of the famous Red Spot Bargain Event has
proved again the intense public interest in a Murdoch
Clearance Sale. There is still time yet to send for patterns
and select from either of these—
KEEN Worsted and Serge Purchases at
the Mills now arranged under the
Sale Discount bring a double sav-
ing. Suitings comprise Genuine All-Wool
Worsteds of Superb Quality, in new-
est Plain and Fancy Weaves, including
Overchecks, Pinheads and Sergettes. Also
Guaranteed Indigo All-Wool Serges in
Fine Twill or Herringbone effects. Select
your cloth and have it Murdoch-tailored
to your measure.
Two Examples of Remarkable Value!
Usually
Red Spot
Price. ... r«
£6/6/-
£4/1916
The full significance of the Murdoch
Buying Power is shown to splendid
advantage in the quality of these
All-Wool Indigo Serges, now reduced
to Bargain Prices. Fine Twill or Fine
or Medium Herringbone Weaves. A
faultlessly tailored three-garment Sac Suit
from either of the above to your measure
and Hand Finished.
Usually
Red Spot
Price. . .r.
£7/15/-
£5/18/9
A Splendid Array of other Suit Bargains from £3/15/6 to £7/10/
Send for Free Patterns
There is no time like the present.
By so doing you gain the advantage of
the finest selection of patterns, winch
will come by immediate mail, b ree,
and without obligation.
Sale Catalogue—Free
Write to DESK R.
DLhK MURDOCH'S IN PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, . . n ... ~ ... ,
Please send me free of all cost a complete range of Suiting Patterns at
Red Spot Bargain Prices, including the £/f/19/6 and £5/18/9 Specials; also
free simple measure outfit.
Name ... •
Address
June 24, 1926.
A Few from the Thousands of Bargains!
RED SPOT
PRICE.
USUALLY.
95/-
10/6
5/11
27/6
All-Wool Worsted Sac Suits for Men, Grey
shades; Coat, Vest and Trousers, ready to
wear
Men’s Strong Wearing Cotton Tweed Work-
ing Trousers. Side or Cross pockets, plain
bottoms. Sizes 4 to 8
Extra strong wearing Blue Pinhead Working
Shirts for Men. Double Sewn and Gusseted,
turnover collar, button wristbands. Sizes
1 4 to 17 only . .
Murdoch’s Special Fine-grade Black Box
Calf Balmoral or Derby Boots. Square toe,
extended last, welted soles • • •
80/6
8/11
4/6
19/4
RED SPOT
PRICE.
USUALLY.
53/9
30/-
45/-
18/11
Youths’ Woollen Tweed Sac Suits, two-
button Front, Medium Roll Lapels; Trousers
have side pockets and turn-ups at bottom.
Sizes 12 to 2-2-
Boys’ Australian Tweed Cotswold Suits, Mid
and Dark Grey Shades. Knickers have plain
knees. Sizes 4to 12 •
Genuine Spalding “Victory” Tennis Rac-
quets, Rent Ash Hexagon Frame, oval
throat. Double centre strung with reliable
t (.Supplied with Free Press or Waterproof Half Cover
& 1 and Rubber Grip.)
Australian-made All-Wool Travelling Rugs
—attractive colored check designs. Sizes
60 x 72 • • •
44/9
23/8
30/-
16/8
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing be sure and address your letter
ALL SALE GOODS GUARANTEED.
to DESK R.
COPYRIGHT.
MURDOCH
“gfzQ World's iar^e5 1 Mo,ns ’and Boy's


For perfect, soft light without
glare ask for a Condor '' Opalite”
lamp and safeguard your eyesight
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street - Sydney 493 Collins Street, Melbourne
16 Chesser Street - Adelaide Exton Hse., Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z-
w
Va
'"The little lamp
with the big light *
I
fM
m
(QndPT
m
Poverty
Point
“Hamer”: When time Carrolls staged
“Cappy Ricks” at the Athenaeum, in Mel-
bourne, Phillip Lytton, who was concerned
in the venture —he had secured the Austra-
lian rights of the play, not anticipating at
the time that it would be given a metropoli-
tan showing—was able to put his hand on
an actor in one of his touring cos. who was
just the man for the irascible old Cappy.
The part fitted Ward Lyons so exactly that
it will remain in memory as a notable stage
characterisation* and time old actor who, until
he got that chance, was; practically unknown,
found himself famous in his own country.
The success of the play and the character
led to the idea of giving it a London show-
ing, and Lyons: was to have gone to Fogland
to star in the part; but death has put a
check on tlioste plans. The old mummer,
who was born in Ballarat, died in a Perth
hospital last week.
“Caesar’s Ghoist”: Frank Harvey, who
has been here long enough to be considered
Australian, is going back to England. His
first appearance in thes;e regions was in the
early months of 1914, when “Joseph and
His Brethren” was introduced—he made a hit
as the Captain of the Guard. The Firm has
found him a useful man in dramatic leads.
As Denver in “The Silver King” and as
Monsieur Beaucaire lie fell somewhat below
the standards established by his predecessors,
but as the adventurer in “Madame X” he
was very good indeed.
“Nakhoda”: Having been handled like a
gentleman in Moslem lands for years, I pro-
test against the treatment accorded to the
name of Allah in the present production of
“Betty Lee” at Melbourne Princess. It may
interest Christians who rocked with laughter
at Bertie Wright’s address to “Old Al” to
know that Allah is the Arabic name of their
own Jehovah; also that hallowed characters
of the Christians’ Bible are given full honor
in Mohammedan ritual.
“Cosmo”: “Centurion” (B. 10/6/’26)
may be interested to learn that Brunton
Stephens’s opera “Fayette” was once pro-
duced in Goulburn by an amateur body with
professional assistants, the latter including
a son and daughter of Howard Vernon. I
saw the performance. It was a good show,
and, in my opinion, if “Fayette” were given
a chance in Australia and the Cold Country
the box receipts would be good, provided a
little of the lavishness associated with
Amurrican importations accompanied it.
“Hamfat”: The retired Walter Bentley,
widely known amongst Australian Thespians
as the “Scotch Hamlet,” -was probably sur-
prised to see his name boomed in the Sydney
papers again. But this time it is owned by
an arrival from America, Walter E. Bentley.
D.D. Australia’s Walter was very nearly be-
coming a parson, too, but went on the stage;
the American Walter was originally a
Shakspearean actor, but joined the church.
He formed the Actors’ Church Alliance, and
it is to interest Australian parsons in that
organisation that he is here.
“Lud”: Died in London the other day,
Frederick Harrison, lessee and manager for
many years of the Haymarket Theatre. For-
merly an actor, and by no means a bad one,
Harrison started his managerial career by
running a season with Forbes Robertson
(his old boss) at the Lyceum. Soon after
that he joined forces with Cyril Maude, and
the two took over the Haymarket from
Beerbohm Tree. The Maude-Harrison com-
bination was one of the most successful,
artistically and financially, London has ever
known. But a split occurred and Maude
-sece_ded. After that Harrison carried on
solus, and a good job he made of it, keep-
ing up the old playhouse’s reputation as the
best comedy theatre in the metropolis. His
loss, coming at a time when most London
shows are being run by “city” men and New
York shindykits, is incalculable.
“Caul-boy”: Now I know where Chaliapin
got the biggest bass voice in history. He
confesses in his memoirs that he began life
as a bookie’s clerk.
“Up Stage”: Extraordinary the number
of old-time plays that have been lately refur-
bished witli jungle-jazz and legs and served
up as musical comedy. The list includes
“Tiger Rose,” “If I Were King,” “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury,” “Prisoner of Zenda”
and “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” “The Sign of the
Cross” and “The Silver King” have hitherto
escaped, but I suppose we are fated to see
Marcus and Mercia in a Graeco-Roman clinch
in the den of lions, with a corps de ballet of
Christian slaves, or Wilfred and Nellie
Denver with chorus, an acrobatic dance by
little Cissy and Jaikes as Father Christmas.
“Goldilocks”: The nimble toes of Rita
Nugent are taking the track which leads to
Fogland. The little lady made her first
appearance with Williamson shows as an
infant in a Christmas pantomime, and she
has been more or less a “regular” ever since;
her main qualification is her dancing ability,
but she has played small parts capably
enough, most recently with “Leave It to
Jane.” Rita has a three months’ engage-
ment which will take her to Berlin, but
that is only a stepping-stone to England.
Dear Bulletin, —You comment upon the
number of English actors and actresses who
have been given jobs in your droughty coun-
try. Look at the number of Australians who
have come to England. Those I am mention-
ing are actually in London ; there are many
not good enough to work in this city who
are on tour in bush towns, like Manchester,
Glasgow, Nottingham, etc.: Gladys Mon-
crieff, Clarice Hardwicke, Syd Culver,
Maggie Dickinson, Kitty Reidy, Madge
Elliott, Joe Cook. Marie Lolir, Cyril
Ritchards, Toots Pounds, Lorna Pounds,
Vera Pearce, Oscar Asche, Daphne Pollard. Is
if any wonder artists from here are forced
to go and get a job in Australia? —Yours,
Pentland.
ART TRIUMPHANT.
“So you knew me in the ’ nineties, sir-r-rt
What did you consider my most brilliant
success?”
“How yer got away owing me missus two
months’ board.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : A frail connecting-
link between Puccini’s last. opera, just bril-
liantly produced at Milan, and Australia, is
that the _title-r6le, Turandot, was taken by
Rosa Raisa, the dramatic soprano who, but
for the collapse of the Frederic Shipman
enterprises, would have made a concert tour
of the Commonwealth four years ago. The
plot of “Turandot” is founded on a Chinese
fable from the pen of Charles Gozzi, the
eighteenth-century Venetian playwright. Dur-
ing an April visit to Italy I was privileged
to attend one of the rehearsals, under a
solemn bond that no public reference of any
kind would be made to the work until after
the first public performance. It was at La
Scala 22 years ago that Puccini’s “Madame
Butterfly” was received with hoots and
hisses and every token of public contempt.
The first performance of “Turandot,” on the
other hand, was treated as an occasion of
supreme national importance. Unquestion-
ably, it was the great musical event of the
year, and was received with the most fervent
enthusiasm.
“S.G.”: A curious feature of the Senate
debate on American films was that the pro-
posal for doubling
the duty was moved
by Senator Jack
Grant, hitherto
conspicuous for
Freetrade and
single-tax views.
“If the committee
agrees to the in-
crease,” said Sena-
tor Jack, “the re-
venue will benefit
substantially; but
I am not interested
in that so much as
I am in the en-
couragement of a
Great Australian
industry.” Again:
“Let us develop an
Australian senti-
ment that will in-
sist upon Austra-
lian films dealing
with Australian subjects. I am sick and
tired of seeing skyscrapers on the screen.”
Well, aren’t we all?
“Goldilocks” : The dog in “The Misleading
Lady,” at Sydney Palace, was a bit bored
with the proceedings on the opening night.
Its stage owner had to give it a shove along
from behind as he sent it off on the scent.
Dogs are usually indifferent actors, although
the type Guy Bates Post used in “The Mas
querader” and Charles Arnold’s Newfound-
land employed in “Hans the Boatman”
were regarded as embellishments to the pieces
in which they appeared. I remember a dog,
borrowed for a play staged first in Auck-
land, which made a hit. An angry stage
father placed the hound in the garden to
separate an enamored juvenile from the im-
prisoned gyurl. Contrary to the author’s
intentions, which were that the dog should
recognise the juvenile as an old friend,
Towser growled biliously at the form which
appeared on the top of the stage wall at
the opening night’s performance. There was
a significant delay, which caused the house
to titter, and the impassioned youth decided
to chance his luck. The next few minutes
were the most exciting in his theatrical his-
tory. The curtain descended amidst the
appreciative roars tif the audience as the
juvenile dashed off at the o.p. entrance, with
Towser cleaving to the seat of his pants.
“Caul-boy”: Old theatregoers in Mel-
bourne are comparing “Pinafore” as now
staged at His Majesty’s with classic pre-
sentations of the past. There was an occa-
sion when they could see half of “Pinafore”
on one side of the street and the remaining
half on the other side. That was in 1878,
when Nellie Stewart’s father put the thing
on at St. George's Hall at the same time as
the Lingards were doing it at the Bijou.
“Schnorrer”: Cantor Rosenblatt, who
chants the services in the Ohab Zedek Temple
in New York before a congregation which is
never without a sprinkling of millionaires,
has reconsidered his refusal to sing at secu-
lar entertainments on the ground that his
voice was “dedicated to the Deity.” He is
to appear in vaudeville, but he has hedged
his contract with conditions. His work is
to consist of Hebrew and Yiddish songs, and
is not to'interfere with his.synagogue duties :
nor wall he sing on Friday nights or on
Saturdays before sundown. The salary is
not mentioned, but the vaudeville people are
making the most of “the miracle voice of the
ages.”
"Blum” : In anticipation of the arrival of
“Rose Marie” Sydney’s music emporiums
broke out in window displays entirely made
up of the vocal score of the piece. I suppose
it is good business, but these shops never
seem to give an inkling that they are not
entirely devoted to the sale of vaudeville
ditties _ and those pretty little things one
hears in the latest musical comedy. Time
and time again I have seen about £50,000
worth of street frontage devoted to a display
of suoo copies of “Why Susie’s Skirts Grow
Shorter” or “Lallapaloosa Lucy,” as if that
was the only thing in the whole realm of
musical literature anyone could possibly want
to buy. I have never seen any really first-
class music by a contemporary composer dis-
played. Sometimes Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Chopin and Co. get a look in—done in nice
bindings for Christmas gifts; but between
them and the tune to which shapely legs
twinkle on some local stage there is a hiatus.
“Macko” : Spectators of animal acts in both
circus and vaudeville scarcely realise what
the training and showing of these unfortu-
nate performers mean. Rarely is an animal
taught a difficult trick without many punish-
ments. With a bird it is, of course, impos-
sible to use a whip, or even starvation, so
another method of punishment is adopted.
For an omission or act of disobedience a
feather is torn from its tender flesh. I have
seen the spot of blood on a little wing as
poignant evidence of the fact. Dogs from
overseas must comply with the Quarantine
regulations. As this in the ordinary course
DESPERATE.
THE BORE: “ That’s an awfully decent one, y’know. What is it?”
THE VISOIN: “ ‘Show Me the Way to Go Home.’ I had hoped it
would appeal to you.”
would involve serious loss of time, the animals
are chained up in the cellars of vaudeville
houses, and under heavy penalties must not
be released. Bird and monkey performers
are also kept in the vaults in cages, which
is a menace to health. A few years ago
the S.P.G.A. at Adelaide prosecuted the dog-
trainer in a circus for housing a couple of
fox-terriers in a candle-box on the train
from that city to Melbourne. He was fined
£5, but with what effect I cannot say. Where
the trainer is not on the stage, and a whip is
us-dess. and monkeys are directed from
the wings by a pea-rifle. Spectators of these
shows may remark that “the dogs love their
master as they wag their tails and fawn on
him.” Let them watch how they cringe at a
muttered order or threat. Animal acts have
been cut out of all Moss- Stoll performances;
hence the influx of these acts to Australia.
“Hamfat” : Jack Waller, who takes a half-
responsibility (without apology to the com-
posers of “Rule Britannia,” “Knocked ’Em in
the Old Kent-road,” “Oh, Eliza!” and other
well-known ditties) for the music in “Our
Liz,” is the same Jack who came to Australia
as boss of “The Butterflies,” and afterwards
joined forces with Sydney James in “Look
Who’s Here.” He and his associate in musi-
cal crime, Herbert Clayton, have collected
some money from “Our Liz,” but it must be
a trifle compared with what they are making
out of “No, No, Nanette.” The partners’
first venture in London management was
“It Pays to Advertise.” That put them on
their feet, and they took a long lease at a
low rent of the Palace Theatre, which as
a vaudeville house had proved a failure.
Then, on the suggestion of Hugh Ward, they
secured “No, No, Nanette,” to open their
new premises. The piece has run for 18
months, and looks like continuing. After
11 weeks —so it was revealed in a libel
action, wherein Clayton and Waller recovered
£5OO damages from a theatrical paper—
people who risked £14,500 on the production
got it all back. At the end of 11 months
£79,750 had been paid in dividends, and
there was £20,000 more to be distributed.
A chip off his own block: —
Louis McCubbin, who is showing 32 oils at the
New Gallery, Melbourne, is no plagiarist of his
distinguished father. He sees Nature almost with
the forthrightness of a poster artist. He intrudes
no mystic or poetic temperament between the viewer
and. his subjects. His trees are solid enough to put
the teeth of a crosscut-saw on edge or fill the soul
of a timber-hewer with the lust of slaughter. This
honesty of outlook achieves a handsome result when
the forms (as in No. 12, a study of heavy timber
bathing itself complacently in morning light) are
intrinsically beautiful; when, as in No. 14, they
are gross, the effect is most unpleasing. The latter
picture, incidentally, owing to wrong values, presents
a little puzzle in the right-hand corner. The artist
knows how to draw. When he learns to let light
into his somewhat heavy foliage and variety into his
edges, he should produce some very worthy pictures.
From an Adelaide critic: —
The Dunster Gallery houses a large collection of
etchings by (mostly) Englishmen. There are some
arresting things. One expects the severely plain
people Lee Hankey depicts, the solid architecture
and heavy shadows of Brangwyn and the almost
brutal realism of William Strang. Variety comes
with the delicate dry-point touch of William Walcot
and the heavy storm clouds of Gaskell —though his
“Enchanted Castle” is delicate too, and among the
charming things of the show. Robert Spence specialises
in history, showing the preacher Robert Fox (gen-
erally being thrown out of church or in some such
trouble) and Pepys and Cromwell. Anders Zorn
has one conscientious nude, and J. 11. Dowd, with
studies of dogs and children, shows that an etcher
may indulge a sense of humor. Elyse Lord, strongly
under Japanese influence, and Stanley Wilson bring
an unexpected note of bright color into the show.
OLD JOYS.
[FOR BULLETIN.]
“At a recent gilded Thespian festivity in Sydney
a-n old actor recalled over the champagne the days
when he enjoyed his after-show beer bought in a
‘squareface.’ ‘A squareface,’ now a forgotten utensil,
was the ‘empty’ of a quart of gin, much prized
amcngst Thespians as the biggest beer-holder a
publican would fill for’sixpence.”
Back in the days when beer was beer,
From honest malt and hops distilled,
For sixpence, and with smiles of cheer,
The publican our “squareface” filled ;
How gay the night’s concluding feast
Spread in the candle-light its joys!
Drab life was leavened with a yeast
Of beer and cheese and saveloys.
We read perhaps the paits to be;
Rehearsed stray actions here and there;
Retold old jests with artless glee
Within that brother’s lodging where
Our mutual feast at night waa spread.
We filled the place with mirthful noise,
What time, with eager zest, we fed
On beer and cheese and saveloys.
We see those days through golden mists.
We might perhaps not care to know
Again the blows from Fortune’s fists
That often smote us long ago;
Yet oft we wish again thr> stage,
Where modern gilded dv.lness cloys,
Held some good actors of the age
Of beer and cheese and saveloys.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


'T' HIS handsome new Set
contains a Model C
self-stropping Razor, Strop
and three Blades in nickelled
blade-holder. The case is
highly-polished nickel, lined
purple velvet, and fitted with
hinged strop-holder as be-
low.
m
m
T
c **t
Si
10
Prices to Suit All Pockets.
3/6, 7/6, 25/-
No other razor has this
unique stropping device
Cl) ECAUSE of the ingenious stropping action
possessed by the VALET you can renew the
edge of the blade every morning. Week in, week out,
a few short, sharp strokes on the strop say ten or so
ensures a smooth, easy shave even for the strongest beard.
No need to take the blade from the frame-just slip the
strop through the slot provided in the razor-head. Any
dealer will be pleased to show you how.
BRITISH
MADE.
“'VALET”
.AwtO
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS.
A.UTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO., LTD,,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., ISI CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
f
mm
mmt
m
■M-
m.
SI
M |
sucfJl
d
Here is a description of one of the famous
Edison tone tests in which the New
Edison is directly compared with the liv-
ing artist. These tests have been publicly
made in New York, Chicago, Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Perth and other great cities. They
are being continued almost every night in
some part of the world.
hul -Jnna Case had gone
Scene—a crowded hall. A New Edison in the centre of the stage,
pleasantly introduced by the concert manager and standing through
the ordeal without a sign of self-consciousness.
Then comes Anna Case, America’s foremost soprano, beloved of a
thousand concert halls. One of her own recordings is put on the
New Edison and Miss Case and the instrument start to sing together.
Then she stops and her other self continues —then together again.
You can see her stop singing—but you cannot hear her stop singing.
At the close—the big scene. Miss Case again begins singing with
the phonograph. At a certain stanza the house is suddenly plunged
in darkness. The song goes on. Everyone in the hall is listening to
detect the second when Anna Case will stop singing and leave the
stage. First they are sure she has gone; then not so sure; she seems
to be back again. All are completely deceived. When the lights
come on there is no Anna—the New Edison is standing and
singing alone.
The audience laughs and applauds one of the most charming and
astonishing recitals they have ever heard.
isn’t a phonograph capable of sustaining a test like this the one
you want for your home? Will you ever be satisfied with anything
less than realism? Of course not! —for such a phonograph would
be one you would never tire of hearing. Then go to the nearest
Edison dealer —he will let you hear an Official Laboratory Mode)
capable of sustaining just that test described above.
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE: The Edison Shop, 238 Collins Street.
Or your nearest Edison dealer.
T&NEW EDISON
ADELAIDE : S.A. Phonograph Co., Gilbert B’ld’gs, Gilbert Place.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen Street.
PERTH : Phonogrnpns, Rtci., H 53 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON : Wills & Co. Pty., 7 Quadrant.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Australian
Rubber Company, Limited
be Registered under the Companies Act, 1899, New South Wales.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
Nominal Capital: £250,000.
72,000 Shares of £1 each are now offered to the public for sub-
scription, payable 2/6 per Share on application, 2/6 per
Share on allotment, and the balance in Calls of not more
than 2/6 per Share at intervals of not less than one month.
Divided into 250,000 Shares of £1 each.
28,000 Shares are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendors or their
nominees, together with £2OOO cash, as consideration for
the transfer of certain options and patent rights set out in the
body of the Prospectus.
150,000 Shares are to be held in reserve, and to be issued as and when and on what terms the Directors think advisable.
Holders of Shares in the original issue will have the following rights when the whole or portion of the 150,000 Shares to be held in reserve are
offered for subscription.
1. Holders of the first 25,000 Shares applied for and allotted in the original issue will have the special right of taking up, at par, two
Shares for each Share held.
2. Holders of the remaining 75,000 Shares will have the right of taking up, at par, their quota of any further issue or issues.
DIRECTORS:
J. MILLICAN, Bellevue Road, Woollahra.
P. H. MORTON, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney.
BANKERS.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD., Head Office, Sydn
AUDITORS:
SWAIN & HERRING, 10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
P. K. CLARKE, 47 Cowles Road, Mosman.
E. A. BUTTENSHAW, M.L.A., Concord Road, Strathfield.
SOLICITORS:
MARSLAND & CO., 26 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
ARTHUR D. BRIDGES, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S. 19 Bligh Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS
The objects (inter alia) for which the Company is
being formed are to purchase inventions and compositions
based on the mixing of cork sawdust or similar raw
materials with rubber used for the purpose of vulcanisa-
tion to produce:
(1) DISC MOTOR WHEELS.—The disc, the only
solution of the puncture trouble, is a wheel and a non-
puncturable tyre combined, for which no further fittings
are required. It can be readily fixed on the hub by any-
one. Its main feature is that it has the same resiliency
as the pneumatic tyre. It can be produced and sold to the
public at less than the price of a pneumatic tyre and tube.
For motor-’bus work it should be in great demand,
owing to the high cost of pneumatic tyres and tubes.
When available for other countries, particularly for the
United States of America, where the use of motor-cars
is almost universal, it can confidently be anticipated that
the wheel will readily be adopted, and that the resultant
profit to the original Shareholders in the proposed Com-
pany should be very great.
(2) STREET BLOCKS.—These blocks, which can
be manufactui’ed at a moderate cost, have a life much
longer than those of wood. The upkeep is practically
nil, and noise is almost eliminated, the heaviest of traffic
making little or no sound in transit. In motor traffic,
skidding would be unknown, and, with vehicular traffic,
it would be a very rare occasion for a horse to slip or to
lose its foothold on these blocks.
Blocks, the size of ordinary wood blocks, were sent
to the City Council, Adelaide, and laid in the streets
three years ago. A report from the City Engineer said
that they were quite satisfactory, and a quotation for a
further supply has been asked for.
The Adelaide Tramway Trust laid three sets of
blocks between the tramway lines in January, 1925. A
Report from the Trust, dated Ist April, 1926, says that
they have proved satisfactory.
(3) FLOOR COVERING.—Rubber floor covering
has proven in every way satisfactory for the cold and
hard concrete floors which must be constructed in all
large buildings, and for ordinary house floors must come
into more popular use. It is light, strong and tough,
not liable to creep or blister, is insular and non-inflam-
mable, and can be made and laid down in any color or
design.
The ready market offering for any type of rubber
composition floor covering which will be infinitely superior
to any ordinary linoleum or rubber composition, and can
be sold at a lower price than the crudest composition at
present being offered to the public throughout the world,
will ensure quick and easy disposal of the Australian
Rubber Company’s Patent Cork-Rubber Floor Covering.
(4) TILES AND SHINGLES for roofs, gables,
etc., in house building.
(5) SOLES AND HEELS for boots and shoes,
which can be supplied at a third of the existing wholesale
rates for leather soles and heels.
(6) BALLS for cricket and other games, all of the
regulation size and weight, which can be supplied at a
third of the existing wholesale rates for such sporting-
goods.
(7) MATERIAL, having a hard polished surface,
which can be used in the place of wood or metal in the
making of bodies, mudguards and lining of roofs of
motor-cars, silent gears for machinery and motor-cars,
handles, steering wheels and steering columns of motor-
cars and the like, table tops, chair and closet seats,
gramophone and clock cases, furniture, shelves, battery
boxes, general electrical insulating materials, tiles for
walls, architects’, surveyors’ and office instruments,
engineers’ supplies, etc.
The requirements of the electrical trade for reliable
insulating material that will stand a heavy breaking
strain are increasing enormously and ensure a wide
and ready market for this product, which can be made
and sold at a lower price than such lines at present made
from marble and similar materials, in the use of which
there is so much waste inseparable from the cutting,
drilling and dressing.
(8) MATERIAL which can be substituted for
‘fibrous cement as now used in buildings.
(9) MATERIAL made from rubber and prickly-
pear fibre, suitable for taking the place of marble slabs,
steps and tiles, and other like commercial and manufac-
turing requirements.
(10) To take over Agreement for Service, dated the
First day of April, 1926, between Harold Hill Duke,
the inventor of the abovenamed inventions, and the
vendors.
(11) To purchase 44 acres of land at Sydenham.
(12) To purchase the remainder of the term of the
lease of a factory at Erskineville, together with the use
of the machinery and plant therein, and containing an
option to purchase the said machinery and plant.
(13) To manufacture all kinds of ordinary trade
rubber goods.
PLANT TO BE INSTALLED. —The plant will be built in units, complete in
every respect, and capable of expansion as the productions become established on the market.
The one-unit plant, which it is intended to install, will be capable, by working
three shifts per day for five days per week, of producing 153,600 pounds of mixed rubber
stock per week.
Each unit to be added to the first will cost considerably less than the original,
seeing that a certain portion of the plant will be capable of handling two, three and in
some instances four units. These extra units will be added as soon as business demands.
PROFIT FROM MANUFACTURING. —The products, the result of such of
the above inventions, for which Letters Patent have been actually granted as hereinbefore,
set out, as already turned out with the most primitive machines and by crude methods
in the small Sydney factory, have actually shown an average profit of sixpence per pound
on manufactured weight.
By installing up-to-date machinery, a considerable increase on the rate of profit
may be expected.
By working on proved figures, it is estimated that, from the first full year’s
working operations, based on working ONLY ONE SHIFT of 44 hours per week, the
resultant profit would be £32,571.
IF MORE THAN ONE SHIFT PER DAY were worked, there would be corres-
ponding increase of output and profits.
SALE OF PATENT RIGHTS AND ROYALTIES.—In addition to the
profit that it is anticipated will accrue by the manufacture and sale of rubber and rubber
composition goods in Australia and New Zealand, there must be added what will be
received by the sale of patent rights or from royalties on the manufacture of wheels and
other goods in other countries.
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT.
Messrs. 11. B. Allard, Way & Hardie, Public Accountants, of 28 and 30 O'Connell Street, Sydney, report as follows
The Australian Rubber Syndicate,
■City Mutual Chambers,
Bligh Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —
PROPOSED COMPANY TO MANUFACTURE
AND SETA, RUBBER COMPOSITION GOODS.
In accordance with your instructions, we beg to
report as follows upon the estimates of capital expendi-
ture and the costs of production and distribution as sub-
mitted by you in connection with the proposed Company
to be called the Australian Rubber Company, Limited.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
It is estimated that a Subscribed Capital of £72,000
will be required, made up as follows:
Land .. .. .. •. .. ■. . . £3,000
Buildings .. .. . • • • •. .. 4,500
Plant and Machinery and Installation .. .. 37,000
Underwriting, Formation and Flotation Costs .. 7,700
Expenses Prk>r to Production .. .. .. 2,000
Cash to Vendors .. .. .. .. .. 2,000
Working Capital .. .. .. .. .. 15,800
LAND.
£72,000
An Optional Agreement for a block of Land near
Sydenham, which, we are informed, will be a suitable
site for the Company, has been exhibited to us, disclosing
that the land can be obtained at a price of £3OOO.
BUILDINGS.
It has been estimated by Mr. W. E. Roberts, in con-
sultation with a leading firm of building contractors, that
to erect suitable buildings for the Company’s factory
will cost £4500.
PLANT AND MACHINERY INSTALLATION.
Mr. W. F. Roberts, Consulting Engineer, who is
the Australian Technical Representative of Messrs. David
Bridge & Co., Ltd., of Manchester, has prepared an
approximate specification and estimate of suitable modern
and heavy machinery which, in his opinion, will enable the
Company to turn out a mixed production of compounded
rubber for the output referred to later in the Estimates of
Sales and Production. The cost of the plant installed, with
the necessary general equipment, will, according to Mr.
Roberts’ estimate, amount to £37,000.
EXPENSES INCIDENTAL TO FLOTATION.
The cost of underwriting expenses of formation,
dotation and incorporation will, it has been estimated,
require £7700.
EXPENSES PRIOR TO PRODUCTION.
It is apparent that some time will elapse between
the formation of. the Company and the actual production.
The unproductive expenses during this period are esti-
mated at £2OOO.
CASH TO VENDORS.
In terms of the Prospectus, this will require £2OOO.
WORKING CAPITAL.
There will thus be left from the subscribed capital
of £72,000 a sum for working capital of £15,800.
SALES.
The estimate of sales of £120,821 submitted to us
was prepared by a Sales Manager who has had over
twenty years’ experience in the selling of manufactured
rubber goods in Australasia. He bases his figures on
the classes of goods proposed to be manufacture by the
Company.
PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION.
Mr. Roberts, who has given the matter of production
costs his most careful consideration in order to arrive at
conservative figures, has based his estimates of the cost
of" production and distribution on the estimated output
required to produce the various items referred to under
the heading of Sales.
He states that the cost of raw materials has been
based on current prices for the particular requirements
for manufacture, and that the wages estimate has been
based on a forty-four hours week, working one shift, on
current rates.
His estimate of production and distribution, covering
costs of material, wages, Directors’ and Auditors’ fees,
Managers’, Secretary’s and Office salaries, and of over-
head expenses (including publicity and travelling expenses)
and providing for depreciation and contingencies, is £88,250.
ESTIMATED PROFITS.
It will thus be seen that, taking the sales at .. £120,821
and deducting therefrom the cost of produc-
tion and distribution . . .. . . .. 88,250
would result in an estimated annual profit of. . £32,571
This, on a capital of £lOO,OOO, would show a return
of a little over per cent., subject to taxation.
GENERAL.
In the course of our inquiries and investigations, it
has been deemed advisable from time to time to make
recommendations to your representatives, involving provi-
sion for additional capital and revenue expenditure. We
have pleasure in stating that these recommendations have
been given effect to in the foregoing estimates, the Syndi-
cate thereby evincing its desire to arrive at only fair
and reasonable figures in connection with the flotation
of the Company, and we are of opinion that they are so.
We are, gentlemen, yours faithfully,
H. B. ALLARD, WAY & HARDIE.
24th April, 1926.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION AND CONTRACTS.
The draft copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and all Contracts may be inspected at the office of Marsland and Co., above mentioned.
APPLICATION TO SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
Will be made for registration at an early date after incorporation of the Company.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES AND BROKERAGE.
Preliminary expenses, stamp duty, legal costs, brokerage and all expenses of flotation will be borne by the Company.
ALLOTMENT OF SHARES.
The Directors may proceed to the allotment of Shares when 20,000 have been applied for.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
Should be made, on the form attached to the Prospectus, to the Secretary of the Company.
SAMPLES OF GOODS.
Motor Wheel and Section of same; Street Blocks; Rubber Floor-covering; Cricket and Other Balls; Steps; Material for Motor Bodies, Switchboards, Furniture, etc.,
for substitution for Fibrous Cement, etc., all made in Sydney by the inventor from compositions, which are subject to the options held, can be seen at the office of the Company.
SEND FOR UNDERWRITING CONTRACT AND PROSPECTUS TO
METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS, LTD.,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
CHANCERY HOUSE, LITTLE COLONS STREET, MELBOURNE.


Have You got a Revolver,
f
Rifle or
Shotgun in
need of REPAIR
NOTE OUR ADDRESS:
COWLES & DUNN,
the oldest established gunmakers in the
Commonwealth, are specialists in repairs
of all descriptions.
Our well-equipped workshops are in
the hands of highly-skilled ENGLISH
GUNSMITHS, and their work is of the
highest order. We GUARANTEE all
■work done, and furnish a DEFINITE
ESTIMATE of the cost before proceeding
with the job.
Every member of the firm of COWLES
and DUNN is an expert in some particular
branch of GUNCRAFT, and our Repair
Department is under our personal super-
vision.
SEND YOIJR REPAIRS TO US.
COWLES
(Spicer’s Building-
& DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney
—corner of Kent and Druitt Streets —near the Town Hall).
'Phone: M33SB.
The perfect fit of
ft
L-WOOL UNSHRINKABtS
UNDERWEAR
You can buy "JASON” underwear
in many sizes, and if you ask for the
correct one, perfection of fit is assured
you. You want your under-garments to
cling trimly to your body. The luxury
of “Jason” Underwear lies in its inability
to bulge, sag or crinkle, and in the lasting
delicacy of its silky Finish.
Your store has “Jason” Underwear in all sizes,
and Winter and Summer weights, for Men,
Women and Children.
Sole Manufacturers :
<|>D JASON UNDERWEAR CO . LEICESTER* ENGLAND.
d
“ Olympic ”
Brand is a
lower priced
unde rwe ar
with the
same guar-
antees of
value and
satisfaction
as "Jason.”
Locality Representatives Required
£2 to £2O PER WEEK.
Become your own boss. You can make good money by intelligent application in proportion
to the time devoted to your effort. ~ .
Become Locality Representative for quick-selling motor-car accessory selling at li b A
new invention. Every motor-car owner has wanted it since he learned to duve. * to
compete with it or like it. Low priced, quick sales. Practically sells itself on piese tat o .
Easy to fit. Handsome, durable, solid value, and indispensable to driving conitoit.
Netts you £l/3/6 on each half-dozen. Practically 50 per cent, profit on turnover. All
forwarding charges prepaid. No former experience necessary.
It will pay you handsomely to fully investigate this proposition.
Full particulars by return post upon request (only if you send 1-Jd. stamp). Write legibly.
Give name and address in full.
For Initial Inquiry Address—C.A.W., 139 King Street, Sydney.
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
n
Old Way: Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
into skin
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way ha* come to stay
ShaveX
Jk
New Way:
Smear lightly
oyer face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of
years man has been scrubbing his face
with soaps containing soda, and has never
reasoned that under such treatment the
skin may suffer? Nothing is more ugly
than a face that looks raw. Shaving
soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered SHAVEX,
the natural method, where no brush and
soaps containing soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE!
One can shave with Shavex in half the
time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had,
and shaving will become a pleasure. Your
skin will look and feel like satin, and
yOur face under this treatment will look
twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a
skin food as well.
1/9 large tube. obtainable Everywhere.
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
New Publication.
“YOUR HOME.” Advice to Australian Property
Buyers. An Architect’s views. How to carry
out House Inspections, location of weak spots, white
ants, borers, etc. Valuable Legal Advice from buyers’
standpoint. A unique publication. Posted 2/2. Box
2818 G.P.0., Sydney.
Professional.
Broken Hill South Limited.
Chief Engineer for South Mine.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
Resident Chief Engineer
at the South Mine, Broken Hill.
Applicants should forward full particulars of thei r
technical training and. practical experience, also
state age and whether married or .single. Photo-
graph and health certificate required.
Information as to duties and salary may be ob-
tained on application to the undersigned.
W. E. WAINffRIGHT, General Manager,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH WADE
ims
IUALITY PENCIL
fd
NOW?) EACH
BLACKLEAD -17 GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’’
price 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
***
“K
s£mi
g-js®
as
v | m-
* 1 f t
I II
hi%x
f-'H-t 3**
H-) ifi-i
I !.': I <.%j
KTi
; k
5
.
Hs*
wm
w
aw
/
W
<-«33
WHEREVER man lives electricity
is his willing servant. It brings
comfort and convenience to his home,
lightens his labor and makes rapid.
transportation and communication'
easy.
WHEREVER man lives, the
International General Electric
Co. serves him through convenient,
local representation.
ARGENTINA—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Rosario de Santa Fe,
Tucuman. ,
AUSTRALlA—Australian General Elec-
tric Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
BRAZII General Electric, S. A., Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo.
CENTRAL AMERICA International
General Electric Company ( Inc., New
Orleans, La., U. S. A.
CHlLE—lnternational Machinery Co.,
Santiago, Antofagasta, Valparaiso; Ni-
trate Agencies, Ltd., Iquique.
CHINA —Andersen, Meyer & Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai.
COLOMBlA—Wesselhoeft & Poor, Bar-
rapquilla, Bogota, Medellin.
CUBA—General Electric Company of
Cuba, Havana, Santiago.
DUTCH EAST INDlES—lnternational
General Electric Co., Inc., Soerabaia,
Java. .
ECUADOR—Guayaquil Agencies Co.,
Guayaquil.
EGYPT—British Thomson-Houston Co.,
Ltd., Cairo.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
International General Electric Co.,
Inc., London.
GREECE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris, France.
HOLLAND—Mijnssen & Co., Amster-
dam.
INDIA —International General Electric
Co., Inc., Calcutta, Bombay, Bangalore.
JAPAN—lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Tokyo, Osaka..
MEXlCO—General Electric, S. A., Mex-
ico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey.
Tampico, Veracruz, El Paso, Texas;
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical &
Engineering Co., Ltd.,. Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, Christchurch.
PARAGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
PERU—W. R. Grace & Co., Lima.
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS—Pacific Com-
mercial Co., Manila.
PORTO RlCO—lnternational General
Electric Co., Inc., San Juan.
PORTUGAL AND COLONlES—Socie-
dadc lberica de Construcoes Electricas,
Lda., Lisbon.
SOUTH AFRICA—South African Gen-
eral Electric Co., Ltd., Johannesburg,
Capetown.
SPAIN AND COLONIES —Sociedad
lberica de Construcciones Electricas,
Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao.
S W I T Z E R L A N D—Trolliet Freres,
Geneva.
URUGUAY —General Electric, S. A.,
Montevideo.
\ ENEZUELA Wesselhoeft & Poor,
Caracas.
ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING
COMPANIES
BELGIUM AND COLONIES—Socidte
d’Electricite et de Mecanique, S. A.,
Brussels.
CHlNA—China General Edison Co.,
Shanghai.
FRANCE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston.
Paris
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
British Thomson-Houston Co.. Ltd.,
Rilgby, England.
ITALY AND COLONlES—Compagnia
Generate di F.lettricita. Milan
JAPAN —Shibaura Engineering Works,
Tokyo- Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd., Ka-
wasaki. Kanagawa-Ken.
Material Handling
The exhausting labor of handling and
carrying heavy materials is no longer
necessary. In the busy ports of the world
electric material handling machinery now
speedily and easily does the grueling work
formerly done by man.
Electric cranes, hoists, cars and trucks load
and unload vessels quickly and economically.
In harbors, in railroad shops, in industry
wherever heavy loads are to be moved elec-
tric equipment can do the work.
The local representatives of the International
General Electric Company are prepared to
plan and install the necessary electric ma-
terial handling equipment properly to meet
specific requirements and conditions. Their
services are yours to command
X
Im.—7-2*
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO* INC* SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK. U. S. A.


□
Paint uour
door—
and all outside
woodwork with)
RIPOUN
PAINT
WHITE FOR COLOR CARD AND
ALL PARTICULARS TO
L. A. CORMACK
(Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney,
or
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY. LTD.
379 Flinders Street,
Melbourne Agency.
Amusements.
*1“ OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. Gravestock.
“A KING AMONG PIANISTS”
—lrish R. Times.
SATURDAY, JULY 3, at 8.
Also JULY 6,8, 10, 13.
VISIT OF THE
WORLD’S GREATEST PIANIST,
BACKHAUS
BACKHAUS
BACKHAUS
, . Backhaus proved and beyond cavil or question
his light to be considered as the faultless pianist of
our time. — London Dailv Telegraph.
PRELIMINARY BOOKING:
Applications are now being received at Nicholson’s,
beats allotted according to order of application.
Reserved Chairs and Balcony, 11/6 and
8/3, including- tax.
Plans open for general booking Nicholson’s June 26.
YI) N E Y’S CIII IS E TIIEAT II E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY'S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY.
ROYAL: THE SILVER KING.
pULL E R S’ THEAXKE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
Rick akds’ tivoli theatres.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CE LE Bit IT Y VAU DE VILLE,
The World’s Best.
J C. YVILLIA si SON LTD., MELBOURNE
w * ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PINAFORE & TRIAL BY JURY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LEAVE IT TO JANE.
piUNCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEW YORK’S BRIGHTEST MUSICAL COMEDY,
BETTY LEE.
K ,N(iS THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON and HELEN STRANSKY in
WHITE CARGO.
II ENLE u M THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee .. E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
The Merriest Play of the Day,
THE BEST PEOPLE.
Three Acts of Joyous Comedy , Interpreted by an
Entirely NEW AMERICAN COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s.
I\|EW BI.JOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Twice Daily. 2.30 and 8.
HECTOR ST. CLAIR and the
MACKINNON BOYS.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
MASTER PICTURES PRESENT
IRENE RICH in
in
A LOST LADY.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phoije 7076 & 7790.
Of T’S D E LUXE THEATRE.
MELBOURNE.
, ADOLPH MENJOU in
THE KING OF MAIN STREET.
ALSO
TOM MIX in
MY OWN PAL.
Prices as usual.
To Let.
To Let, Burraneer Bay, Cronulla.
ENT.’S furnished water-front residence,
garage, boatshed, grounds LI acres.
Terms £3 10s. per week.
JAMES WILSON & Co.,
Tel. Kog. 53. Rockdale.
THE
WINTON
The “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE
Designed for Comfort
and Security.
This saddle never fails to give
satisfaction and has several fea-
tures not usually contained m
stock saddles. Note how the
flap is sewn direct on to the
seat, doing away with the usual
skirt and thus giving a narrower
non-chafing grip. The pads are
set well up the rider’s thighs,
giving greater security, and the
saddle is high-grade throughout.
Fitted with folded girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel d-bar
stirrups.
£l6/10/-
N.S.W. Railway Stations.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY AND HARNESS.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ROAD-MAKING MADE EASY.
For Road-building, Repairing and Maintenance, the
Martin Ditcher is the best instrument devised. It
grades, terraces and cleans with ease. The
moderate cost, adaptability, strength, and service
with horses or tractor make it the close friend of
every municipal and shire engineer.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
Write to Desk B.
CH ALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
519 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
T.T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
ď
u 1
Does the Work
of 100 Men.
A Most Exceptional Offer
in Stainless Steel Cutlery
Wade and Butcher Manufacture.
For a limited period only Stewart Dawson’s are offering this
Special Bargain in Stainless Steel Cutlery, Each knife is Guar-
anteed Firth’s Stainless Steel throughout, with White Zyloniie
balanced square Handles. The name of the manufacturers (Wade
and Butcher) is a “household word” for dependability.
This is a most exceptional offer—the Value is unapproachable '
anywhere for Quality.
BOXED IN HALF-DOZENS, AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE
KNIVES
fd
DESSEftT
KNIVES
Higher Grades in Wade and Butcher Stainless Cutleiy, Mirror
finish, both square and round handles. Prices:—-
Table Knives, 25/- Half Dozen.
Dessert Knives, 24/- Half Dozen.
Wade and Butcher Real Knife Sharpeners,
2/- to 4/6 each.
Call and inspect these wonderful offers without delay.
Catalogue of Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, etc.. Post Free to.
Country Residents.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS* WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION, (N.S.W.), LTD.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
185-187 Pitt Streets near King Street.
Two Sydney
Establishments:
Mcle To 6
Oats
.4 Plates for 3
Magnificent Nourishment
in delicious form
Sold Everywhere
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO.. LTD. SYDNEY
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
M.E.T.: Not badly clone, and there’s a
good thought in it; but we don’t know where we
could fit it in... . Glen A.: The drunk’s cray that
had paid his fare and had the ticket in his claws
has travelled on every tramline in Australia....
Gidgi: Sorry, but you didn’t expect us to hang
on to that unusable par., did you. ... Aus-seher:
Subjects poorly chosen, as a rule; and language too
stilted for our u5e....T.C.: No doubt you are right
about David:—.
King David was a wowser;
In a mood, one day, to wowse
He perceived a woman bathing
From the high roof of his house.
He thought such shameless conduct
Was a thing that earned reproof;
But, each day, at bathing-hour,
You might find him on the roof.
He wrote to all the papers
In the best shocked tones of wowse.
But he killed the lady’s husband,
And he made the girl his spouse.
.. . .R.M.N.: Your sharps fall flat. . . .C.F.: Can’t feel
any conviction about a man who is as careless of
his sight as a woman is of her handkerchiefs....
Alan B.: “‘The morning new is born!’ I cried. But
no one answered from the hills.” No doubt the
early milkman was still engaged on his valley
deliveries. .. .E. Grellier: Well, if you can see any
harm in five at least of those seven drawings you’ve
got a mind that needs deodorising. .. .Sayso: Just
as you’ve got the stage set you kill everybody in a
railway accident. That avoids a lot of difficulties,
but it also avoids the story... .R.G.: It must be
quite entertaining to travel on ships where “Sturdy
sailors turn to weep whene’er they think of those
at home”... .S.Y.: “Eftsoons the dalliant she.”
Don’t know what it means, but eftsoor.s your poem
will get back to y0u....L.5.: Your own work, eh?
Glad to meet you, Mr. Longfellow.... K.T. : Third
verse in a week on the Silent Tomb and the Dear,
Dead Love. Do you want to break our tender hearts?
....Ola: First time we have met a corpse which
“died approximately at the crossroad”.... Sol: .“Hear-
ing that The Bulletin is eager for original stories”
you send us a yarn written by Methuselah in his
youth... .A.S.: “Gas” has something wrong with the
metre C.H.: “Brodie’s Dog” can’t wag his tale
here. . . .M.T.: “A tale well told is worth its gold.”
Regret that we can't pay you even in copper.
. . . .Ripponlea: Your tragic pursuit of bush mutton is
given a show: —
On a hill at twilight a rabbit sat accentuated.
From some near-by bushes a fervent huntsman eventu-
ated. t
With his feet the rough ground he discriminately
patronised ;
Control over superfluous movements he rigidly exer-
cised.
“I will,” he exclaimed, “practise caution and suppress
hurry ;
And yonder silhouette I’ll transubstantiate into a
curry.”
The rabbit arose and trotted behind some evergreens,
A potential collection of subsequent smithereens.
Then, notwithstanding its animal faculty of tele-
pathy,
The quadruped remained seated in obvious apathy.
With his hunting-knife' in liis hand, up a hill he did
scrape,
To, if he possibly could, cut off the animal’s escape..
. . . .Overlander: No good. . . .Juliet: The advice about
silence would be pretty good if it could be made
to extend to some kinds of verse.... C,M.: “Chance”
doesn’t quite carry itself... .F.H. (Neutral Bay): A
poor rhyme. .. .B. It. (Wellington): The Maori lady
isn’t a probable dame. . . .George C.: We did not find
Brown at all interesting. .. .Betty >l.: The lines are
awkward and the matter is slight. ~ .William F.:
Sorry we don’t share your enthusiasm. The verse is
commonplace and without boyish freshness of observa-
tion. .. .C.F. (Atherton) : Can’t make much of the
chop yarn. . . .E.M.8.: Variations of thai story turn
up with the regularity of the winter snuffles
A.H. (Ivirribilli) : You wasted good effort on an
‘ incredible horror.... Guelda: Dismal sort of tale.
And rather pointless K.M.S.: You don’t seem to
have much idea what vei-se is G.0.W.: Poor,
thin yarn with bushels of wasted words.... G. 5.0.:
Both prose and verse fail R.M. (Garden Vale):
Doesn’t strike us... .N.E.R.: Built on an old pattern
and rather mechanical. . . .H.E.0.: We don't reprint.
. ...M.E.G.: The calamity is too confused and
puzzling.... Julian: You don’t contrive to give it
much interest.... Eric F.: The yarn must go back....
W.H.R.: They both miss. .. . S.R. : Even in verse
about booze it is not permissible for the muse to have
hiccups.... Solly: “Wet, wet, wet, the rain pours
down.” And alas, the earth isn’t the only thing
that won’t dry up... .D.C.: Your-river flows too
monotonously through the banks of the same old
regret.... R.M.: Boils down to .the point that Mac.
wouldn’t give a way anything but whisky.... Chick:.
When your hero gets his cheque for, a short story
the trouble with the landlord ends, the bailiff goes
out, the gas comes in and the grocer is obliging
everything is all right again. Dear child, selling
a short story isn’t a bit like winning the Golden
Casket. .. .0.T.: “What the Horse Said.” Neigh,
neigh, we guess 0.P.: Light verse should be able
to stir you with its point F.R.: You have our
sympathy—your lines are hard. Hard to read, any-
way W.H. (Potts Point): You try to cram a
novel into a short story AVairua: Well enough
done, but far too slight D.F.L.: The philosophy
of the yarn is unsatisfying. .. .M.P. (South Yarra) :
We don’t like parodies; and the ending is weak.'
M.J.N.: The dreary introduction is not very
much worse than the commonplace verse which follows
it. ...Edwin AADoesn’t amount to anything....
John R.: Both must go back..B.l. (Geelong):
Some good phrases, but misses by a little. .. .8.M.;
(Liverpool) : Not quite enough there... .H.H.H.: The
emotion doesn’t sound convincing. . . .Tasman: The
ideas are not very fresh and the verse falls short.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.H.: Certainly Dad is sometimes• pictured with a
tight belt, but it never rises to a peak above his
chin... .H.W.T.: The John Hop is more like a
telegraph messenger J.S.: Why inflict a local
sailor with a “Gob’s” cap?. .. .W.A.: By the look of
him, irrepressible Tommy would make a fit subject
for a lecture on juvenile idiocy... .N.R.: Pay more
attention to proportion.... 5.11.: The “Popular Girl”
didn’t live up to her name at 214 George-street. .. .
A.C.: The flapper’s arm has been copied from a
Jacobean table-leg. .. .M.AV.T.: Joke would feel more
at home in a motor paper. . . .A.C.G.: Get a job
teaching ladies to swim. You’ll learn more about
the female form that way....F.M.: What have you
done with the poor fellow’s arm?. . . .F.S.C.: The
joke in which the approach of a season is confused
with a feminine garment is stale.


Sr""':-. S,
y.&+, -t 3
to mH f
N
»Y Ut
r?£*rzr-
~3pr:
3BP4J^‘p^w- i asy^^
/ - -f
<sN.
S-V
irf&M t
SafiK
Chrysler Six Roadster
Chrysler Six Owners
Get More for Their Money
The trend throughout the Em-
pire today is toward the Chry-
sler Six because the Chrysler
Six is in line with the Empire’s
trend toward genuine economy.
It satisfies the growing desire
to make the pound go farther
—to make it buy more comfort
and enjoyment.
The plain fact is that the Chry-
sler Six affords all the roadabil-
ity, speed, and riding ease of
bigger, heavier and to
these adds its own inherent
advantages.
It is far less costly to buy and
to keep. It gives twice the gaso-
line and oil mileage of many
cars which it equals and
surpasses in speed.
But Chrysler superiority goes
further than phenomenal per-
formance.
It goes deep into materials and
manufacturing. No car is built
of finer materials; no car is
built to finer standards.
The result is that Chrysler Six
stands up in a way that arouses
the highest praise of men and
women who are used to the
very costliest cars.
Any of the distributors listed
below will be delighted to put
the Chrysler Six through its
paces for you.
CHRYSLER SIX
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
vcw. T arke Neave & Carter Ltd.. Grenville House William Street, Sydney.
VitYcollins Motors Pty. Ltd. Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne ~
Qld : Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane-
Sth Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Stree , Peith.
N Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington ,


Sell Your Skins
In the best market under the
best possible circumstances.
Those two factors are
decided influences on the
prices secured.
On a market where
buyers are plentiful and
with your consignments
in the hands of a strong,
capable salesman your
returns are certain to
be on top levels.
ď
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
[l
FIRTH S SAWS
IN THE BIG TIMBER
Up and down, throughout the timber
lands of the world, from the logging
camps amongst the Californian Red-
woods to the dank, fever-ridden
Mahogany forests of Burmali, experi-
enced timber jacks are getting real
satisfaction from the use of Firth
Woodsaws. •
The ability to cut just a shade cleaner,
a trifle faster with a bit less effort, is
the reason why the lumberman chooses
a Firth Saw.
There is something different, some-
thing hier in the balance and feel of
these saws—an indefinable quality
which represents just the difference
between “just a saw” and “the finest
saw you’ve ever used.”
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKEH
&
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d
each.
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciuh
Reil Cigar Factory.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
W&W26.
■K
T,ondon Office;
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.3.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
f
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association LTD.,
Contractors with ' th-e_ Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(
YeS, he’s a bright
boy — intelligent, alert,
full of youthful vigor,
a real picture of
health .
And your own chil-
dren would be just as
sturdy—just as full of
the joy of living — if
you’ll but help them
with
The Vitamins in HYPOL are what growing children need.
They feed the system, enrich the blood, induce growth, prevent
rickets.
HYPOL is indeed an outstanding Emulsion—a healer and
tonic in one, rich in nutriment, delightfully palatable.
Try HYPOL for the following complaints-— IT NEVER FAILS:
COUGHS ANAEMIA MALNUTRITION
COLDS RICKETS UPSET NERVES
BRONCHITIS WEAK LUNGS LOSS OF WEIGHT
Guard Against Substitutes- lIYPOL is just HYPOL—-—No Other Name.
Made by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop . Ltd., Melbourne
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
hydrochloric acid, c.p.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
Ir\ 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jonathan”: The apple-farmers in the
Speck this year broke all former records,
shipping to London 2,100,000 cases —more
than all the other Australian States could
muster. The total weight of apples and
eases was over 46,000 tons; the nails alone
ran to 116 tons.
* * * *
“Really”: The latest get-rich-quick stunt
is nautilus-hunting. Every seven years these
shells visit the Portland (Vic.) beaches, and
at night-time torches, hurricane-lamps and
electric spotlights are requisitioned in the
hunt. There is no fortune in it, but decent
sums are earned by the lucky.
* * * *
“Mako” : The first “community hotel” in
Maoriland will be erected shortly in the go-
ahead King Country township of Te Kuiti.
It is to be on the American plan, and the
control and ownership will be mainly in the
hands of local shareholders. As the King
Country is a prohibition area the question of
beer does not come into the matter at all.
* * # -X
“Riwaka”: Vic. barbers’ shops could do
with some attention from the authorities.
Health-Department regulations provide that
all barbers’ tools must be kept in a closed
cabinet, along with a receptacle containing
formalin. Recently I found the receptacle
all right, but the only tool of trade it con-
tained was the proprietor’s s-p. book. In
another I found the cabinet used for the
cash. In a third place a customer ordered
a shampoo, but protested when he noticed
two dead flies in the mixture. “Cripes!”
said Snips. “Wait a jiff!” But the custo-
mer refused to wait.
* # * *
“Eliza”: The vast quantity of cheap, well-
made German goods in the shops makes one
wonder who won the war. Recently I com-
missioned a man-relative to buy me an inex-
pensive sitting-room clock. To my disgust
he brought back a German article from one
of Sydney’s biggest shops, explaining that
there was nothing else to be had except a few
English clocks at double the price and not
half so attractive. It is a handsome wooden
clock, with luminous dial and an alarm. The
price was 15s. 6d., and it is guaranteed for
a year. All the directions and signs on the
brass back are in English, so evidently it has
been made for us. And this is only one item
out of hundreds.
“Bris”: Fixation of prices for bobs and
shingles has caused a lot of fun in Brisbane,
but is no saving to customers. When the
regulations were evaded by charging for
“dressing” (a sprinkle of scented water) or
other extras, the board sternly announced
that all such incidental services were in-
cluded in the fixed charges, and that any
hairdresser collecting for “extras” would be
prosecuted. But the hairdressers had an-
other card to play. A flapper can have a
trim and a neck-shave for 2s. 6d., or a trim
and a singe, or a trim and “friction” (mas-
sage) for the same price, but she can’t
always have a trim alone for Is. 6d., as de-
creed" by the Board of Trade. “It doesn’t
pay,” say the fashionable beautifiers. The
harassed board is scratching its head de-
jectedly.
* * * »
“Linklater”: In the present disastrous
drought in parts of Queensland the
value of hand-feeding is being shown;
for the past three months the rail-
ways have been rushed with consign-
ments of scientifically-prepared stock-
foods, awaiting transport to the Central-
West and West Queensland. As the out-
let for the large sheep district of the Central
and far West, Townsville is receiving bi-
weekly shipments of hundreds of tons of
such fodder. On the Burdekin thousands
of sheep are being kept alive on “chop-
chop”—sugar-cane tops put through the
cliaffcutter —and this at £4 a ton is highly
satisfactory to both sheep-owner and cane-
grower. The only outstanding misfortune
in the matter is that, owing to the absence
of a good-enough duty, large quantities of
linseed oil are imported, which means that
the sheep-meal left after the oil is extracted
isn’t available in Australia.
* * * *
“H.C.”: A big buzz is going on in the
beekeeping world. Australia is waking up
to the fact that more honey is being pro-
duced than its people can consume, and an
export trade will not organise itself. Maori-
land every year sends honey to the value
of over £50,000 to England; Australia’s con-
tribution is worth about £5O. A strong
effort is being made by the various Aussie
beekeepers’ associations to equalise these
figures by creating one export channel having
proper control over ouality. A snag in the
path has been the fact that much Australian
honey is strongly flavored with eucalyptus—-
a flavor not appreciated in the homeland.
Whether blending will overcome this trouble
time only can show. Unless the commercial
beekeeper can get 6d. per lb. for his product
there is not much in the game for him. At
present the cocky, who lets his bees keep
themselves and parts with his honey for
anything lie can get, is a stumbling block to
progress in this direction.
* * -Y #
“Premium”: Guileful tricks are part of
the stock-in-trade of some smart insurance
salesmen. One man used to tell “prospects”
whom lie had discovered were Irish and R.C.
that they ought to be ashamed of insuring
with a company which, whatever its can-
vassers said th(> name stood for, was really
the Australian Methodist Protestants, where-
as the company he represented was really
the Pope’s People. • The yarn, spun in good
Irish brogue, switched many proposals to
liis company. It was told of the same buc-
caneer that, when acting as district super,
for another co., lie got a woman to half
strip, and, posing as a doctor, used an in-
strument made for “tapping” telephone wires
as a stethoscope. He had heard from one
of his agents that the woman was prepared
to insure provided she was given a medical
examination; and, although the “table” she
was taking didn’t call for an examination,
lie wasn’t going to let a little thing like that
interfere with business. The insurer still
believes she passed a doctor’s examination.


ď
f
d
ďf
There’s a REX for every meal in this list of
Rex Pure Foods
Made In Australia for
Australians
Breakfast
Rex Bacon
Pork Sausage, lib and tins
Beef Sausages, lib tins
Fry and Bacon, lib tins
Lorraine Smoked Sausages, lib
and tins
Devilled Kidneys, lib & tins
Luncheon Cheese, 4oz. tins and
porcelain jars
Lunch, etc.
Rex Ham
REX-PYE, lib and jib tins
Red-y-mele, lib tins —Choice
beef and vegetables—a
ready meal
Pork Brawn, lib tins
Pig Feet, lib tins
Pork and Beans, llb& jib tins
Baked Beans, lib & jib tins
Ox Tongue, lib and jib tins
Rex K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans
and Bac n) lib and jib tins
Luncheon Cheese
Sandwiches
Rex Ham
Ham Pate, tins
Veal and Bacon, tins
Devilled Ham, and l \oz.
tins
Ham and Tongue, tins
Veal and Tongue, 3\oz. and
l|oz. tins
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste
1 l joz. tins and
) 3joz glassjars
Rex Luncheon Cheese
These delicious REX Foods are of the finest quality; for
they are made of the choicest raw materials, whilst nothing
is lacking in skill and experience in their preparation.
They are the finest canned meats in the world. A special
feature about REX Canned Goods is the perfectly hygienic
solderless can.
Cut this out to keep for reference and
— —ALWAYS SAY REX
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


A TIME- AND MONEY-SAVER.
7?f£ /.OCX GX/P W/f?£ t ST/?A//V£K
/ise 7?e/ez> Ttse/tf
Tt/e /LOCAt
r srs £~°r-
O/cr /) v\//A/C.fS
c '
f Cs* AS do
S/V G
ovfilt
(T/is€ M(i
jr&z'/t /S <&»
<G&€A77ZSr
r-//e
X 6 7~ s g**s
A/y> /?o<z*£-p
\ z>styr
SS\f
o/= #<?</#$
,0/V 70 7AS fc
st€££- uS/y?€
o/rs
,'V o 7~sS*te-
r-,c* rcr o
A t>o7G*S
/S€y/eX SZ/SS
vss* s're o. /st
r p-//e y tee Vo/ve-
• r'Gosvces' 7~
U///Z€S
7&0, SV&
£-/ 7-7-l-C- OS.
s/stsvTu.ey
err
s\s€
* /tforo/% csis?
P 6*0(7
V US'At- *\/i
of?
I we'ife W6 oix>
■ s ■ nre 3 &oeS ff£.
30/- each. Postage in Victoria, 1/6; Interstate, 2/8.
Every Strainer guaranteed. Money refunded if
proved unsatisfactory. Obtainable everywhere.
Wholesale Distributors for Australia:
S. COHEN SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
262 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
South Australian Agents: The Australasian Implement
and House Furnishing Co., North Terrace, Adelaide.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Supreme
where quality
counts . X
THEPERf^]dr}^lmL
fif
L. & C. HARDTMUTH,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Agent: J. Af ACVmiIQALI/, G.P.0.1G5. SYDNEY.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Rcgd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
floods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing licts and yarn,
and prices on application.
Samples
THE
GOUROCK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
yOU „ are * r . ol, bled with the complaint, write us and
we wil. send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 his appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Children
enjoy
d
it makes them
ulell and strona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
fd
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELL&OLtd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863, Established 1872.
Directors — A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. \V. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. IIAVMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. IVales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
Wear
WOLS EY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Also SPORTSMAN Knitted Outerwear
and RAMESES Underwear and Hosiery e
Agent: WOLSEY LTD.
316 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER, ENGLAND
stock
&
C® 317
<VhC N
BOSTOCKS
B~ Shoe Paste ~
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY
Preserves the Leather and imparts a
brilliant and lasting shine to distinctive
footwear. In Black, Light Brown,
Dark Brown and Nigger Brown.
Price 6d, per tin. Obtainable everywhere.
air*^s
BttitllMHi
ESIGNED for power amplification with large loud speakers.
When inserted in last L.F. stage of receiver gives pure anti
abundant volume.
MULLARD D.F.A. POWER VALVES.
Type D.F.A. 0 (.35 amp.) for 4 volt accumulator 18/6
Type D.F.A. 1 (.2 amp.) for 6 volt accumulator 13/6
Type D.F.A. 3 (.06 amp.) for 4 dry cells or 6 volt accumulator. U/6
Type D.F.A. 4 (.2 amp.) for resistance capacity circuits (6 volts). 13/6
GET ONE FROM YOUR RADIO DEALER.
Milliard
THE » MASTER . - VALVE
ARKS E 4.
MULLARD VALVES CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL
RADIO AND ELECTRICAL DEALERS.
Advertisement of the Mullard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., Balham, London, S.H 7 . 12, England .
“Quack" : Another body-in-a-bag sensation
might have been made out of a Darlinghurst
(Sydney) happening had not the detective
begun his investigations with the fragments
of humanity by inquiring whether any medi-
cal students had ever lived on the premises,
a lodging-house in course of demolition, lie-
found that three had, which of course amply
explained the “remains.” The carelessness
and, upon occasion, ghastly ideas of humor
of medical students don’t seem to have altered
much since Bob Sawyer’s days.
The story of Dudley Tregent, the blind
soldier, who, after winning B.A. and LL.B.
degrees at Melbourne Uni., was admitted as
a solicitor by the Victorian Court the other
day, was referred to in a Central Queens-
land newspaper. The paragraph brought
immediately an excited letter from a farm a
few miles from the town. “Why,” wrote
the canegrower, “I was the stretcher-bearer
that carried out young Tregent when he was
shot through both eyes. I wondered what
had become of him. He was only a boy!”
“Oran” : A new road industry has arrived
in Maoriland. It consists in scooping out
potholes for motorists; the enterprising syn-
dicate runs in conjunction a team of horses
for hauling the unfortunate car out of the
slough. The famous Mamaku Hill on the
Auckland-Rotorua road has long been the
terror of the motorist, who now has added
to naturally bad conditions the unpleasant
prospect of suddenly disappearing into a
carefully-prepared lake of mud, to ejnerge
from which will cost him just what the
“rescuers” demand.
“21027”: I have known queerer things
raffled than a Zoo elephant (B. 27/5/’26).
Only the other week a resident of Canberra
was peddling tickets among his workmates
for a “single-barrelled gun, good as new.”
The drawing, it was announced, would take
place at Molonglo Settlement (a workmen’s
suburb) on Saturday. After the week-end
a subscriber was told that he had won the
prize, and he could pick it up as he passed
Molonglo on the way home. The directions
added enabled him to identify the weapon.
It was the big 12in. German railway gun,
captured by Aussies at Harbonnieres, and
now standing at Molonglo siding. The joker
imshied with about a hundred of our deeners.
“Up Top”: What is the source of the pre-
monition that warns man when on the brink
of disaster V One night I paused with out-
stretched hand, controlled by an impulse so
strong that I lit a match to see if anything
was there, and saw a black snake coiled
around the kindling wood. A mate of mine
on coming to a bush bridge was held back
by a sense of danger he could not withstand.
A light was made and showed that tire had
smouldered through the bridge. Three
mates of mine on different occasions were
working in mining tunnels. A quite un-
accountable feeling pulled them away from
the face just in time to witness the roof
cave in.
“Kir” : Melbourne welcomed its first Gov-
ernor, La Trobe, in October, 1839. He
alighted from a landing-stage at the foot
of William-street. Heavy rains had fallen,
and a yellow, torrent was flowing into the
Aarra, rendering the approaches a quagmire,
through which the official party waded, to
be received by a crowd of men in long boots,
jumpers and oilskins. The swearing-in cere-
mony took place at the old auction-rooms in
Collins-street, and there was a reception
afterwards at Fawkner’s pub, where an
address —“tediously long and aggressively
bumptious”—was presented to the new
figurehead. The celebration (mainly liquid)
was carried into the night; and there was
a corroboree, in which 50 or 60 Binghis took
part.
It would not greatly surprise John Bow-
ser s political friends if he relinquished the
Vic. Speakership shortly after the next ses-
sion begins. His health is not robust, and
the strain of another session such as the
last, or of the closing weeks of that of 1924,
would be too severe for him. Bowser has
been 31i years in the House, and was Pre-
mier for four months in 1917-18, besides being
a member of the Bent Government (1908)
and of the Lawson Administration (1918-
19) —all without being knighted, although
it is expected that the omission will be re-
paired on George V.’s birthday, June 3. If
Bowser stands down an effort will be made
to induce Lawson, who was beaten two years
ago, to have another try. If he will not
offer himself, Peacock, now Treasurer, may
be induced to submit himself.
“ILK.”: Who was Sydney’s first peda-
gogue (B. 27/5/'26) ? In the early days
of settlement, the Rev. Richard Johnson
pressed two female prisoners into the ser-
vice as temporary teachers, and they gathered
a few children to their huts and gave them
instruction. The reverend’s clerk, Stephen
Barnes, was a pro tem. dominie, too, but
his teaching was subjected to interruption
whenever church or burial duties required
his services. At Christmas, 1793, an expiree
named William Richardson, who received
payment of £lO per annum from the Society
for the Propagation of the Gospel, was
appointed. He subsequently married one of
the earlier schoolmistresses, and returned to
England in 1810. His knowledge of the
colony must have been limited," for he
admitted that he had never been as far as
Parramatta.
“H.1.M.”: Touching those equestrian
®PAues by Bayes which are to go in front
of Sydney Art Gallery, I don’t know whether
‘Bio (B. 27/5/’2O) is a farmer criticising
art or an artist criticising farm-horses. But
when he says that the Suffolk Punch is too
short in the leg for the plough I join issue
with him. The requirement for quickness in
a horse or any other animal (including a
human being) is shortness below the knee
in comparison with the total length of the
leg. Barton, a recognised authority, praises
the Punch’s “quick, active movements” and
states that they are “specially useful for
quick draught and heavy loads.” I have
used pure-bred Suffolks for ploughing, and
found them quicker, stauncher, better ’doers
and less trouble than any of the other breeds.
The prejudice against them in N. S. Wales
is mostly due to the fact that the Dangar
Suffolks, when bred on the Hunter River
pastures, developed flat feet and a tendency
to sidebone from that fact; bred on suitable
country their feet are as sound as any other
breed s.


Shipping,
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
,9SI - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
I'iisc Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
PARES.— First-class
First-class
BRISBANE;
£3/5/-.
Steamer, Second Rail—£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
. Passengers’ Booking Office:
tourist Bureau. Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking: Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., I.td.
NORTH TO BALMY WEATHER.
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
A complete change in a paradise where
temperature is 55deg. to Ssdeg. the year
round. Golfing, motoring, surfing, outrigger
and surf-board riding, canoeing, new fruits,
flowers, sun-kissed Waikiki Beach, lunar rain-
bows gleaming through tall palms. Total cost,
eight weeks’ trip, with three or four weeks in
Hawaii and a day in Suva or Pago Pago each
way, about £125 to £l6O. Free “stop-over”
privileges, if en route to America or Europe.
Good hotels, 12/- to £2, with meals, per day.
Ask nearest steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. H, Box 241 D
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.'W.
A BIT OF THE ORIENT:
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
Ll
Two Select Escorted Tours.
Organised by Thos. Cook and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Fees included.
JAPAN. —Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Maru, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Fare, £227/14/-
INDIA and CEYLON. Leaving
Sydney per s.s. Mooltan 15th
December; 45 days in Romantic
India and Ceylon.. Fare, £348.
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application.
THOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
ISa liking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925. . £15.395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace),
Manager; A. O. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle. W.A.
Melbourne Office:
Sydney Office:
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital ..
Reserve Fund ..
267 Collins Street.
105 Pitt Street.
£2,000,000
875,000
.. .. £875,000
.. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 575.000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies. in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted, All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, fte.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,000 tons disp. JULY 1, for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI .... 11,350 „ „ JULY 15, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 ~ „ JULY 29, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ AUG. 12, for San Francisco.
♦Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usiii”
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Fnriv a 1 1 e d
Cuisine.
m -" -
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THIS UNITED KINGDOM INTIS KCJI AN (i ISA 151. E IOIt JiETUIIN
BV OTHEK LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
(Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
(William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
I SLAND TOUR S
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
f
d
m
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH
KBtablUlied IUI3.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors- A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected, Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1534.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,830,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,830,000 0 0
Directors:
r FORGE J COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
GJiU C lah-man; 6. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at' Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Oairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney lo Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Tighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Eit/roy Estates, Lid.
HlaeUlieutli Collieries, Lt<l., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Lid.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. 1\ & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Ganadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messagevies Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., i.td.
BRANCHES at Perth. Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Be wen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
Tlie Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,425.000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds . . . . . . £00,000,000
Annual Income nearly ... .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Aflass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPI*RLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/«
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Don’t forget to ask your dealer for
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The very much better Golf Ball.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [3


7
; i
II
// //
fi
n
r //
nifH 1 !
fti I
<1
M
\
cmh.
wii/muffin
I'liHtsaiiitiiit
m
Dodge Cars Preferred by
Great Commercial Houses
One of the best proofs of what
the world thinks of Dodge Brothers
Motor Car is its widespread use —in
large fleets—by great International
Commercial Houses.
For instance, the Standard Oil
Company of U.S.A. uses 456;
N.S.W. Ambulance Transport, 23;
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty., Ltd., 26;
“Evening Jjews,” 22; Sargents,
Ltd., 21. It would require many
pages to print them all.
And remember, that these companies
select their automobile equipment
after thorough competitive tests
Long life, economy and dependability
in hard service are the qualities
demanded qualities in which
Dodge Brothers vehicles are ad-
mittedly without peer anywhere in
the world,
Australian Standard Touring - -- -- -- -- - £325
Sedan (All Steel) - -- -- - - - - £420
Type “B” Coupe (All Steel) £405
FIVE BALLOON TYRES.
DaoBEBROTHERsjNc: Detroit
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymoutb Street,
Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville,
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.*
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne,
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s terrace,
Perth,
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
64/6/’2«.


PIUS
PILLS
PULS
PIUS
P'LLS
PIUS
PILLS
PILI3
PIUS
PILL*
PHIS
C»N
PIUS
PILLS
PI IS
Pius
m.
PILLS
PHIS
PIUS
pills
PILLS
Plus
PIUS
PIUS
PILLS
«l
PI V
ELDONS
t
i BANISHES \
BACKACHE,KI[DNEY, BLADDER
AND URINA/RYTROUBLES
Backache! Why?
Do you rise in the morning with a groan? Do you feel
that you are getting old? Having made up your mind that
you are a martyr, do you vent your ill-liumor on the family?
After a while the pain and stiffness leave you and you forget
your troubles until the next morning, when the same dull pain
in the small of your back, the difficulty of bracing your nerves,
brings back all the dire forebodings of the day before.
This is the way Kidney Trouble creeps on its victim and
you are starting on a long journey towards ill-health and
infirmity. The kidneys are overtaxed with the work of cleans-
ing out the impurities from your blood. Each day there is an
accumulation of waste which must upset the body. It forms
Uric Acid and Uric Acid is the most insidious form of poison-
ing that can take place in your body. The number of ills
to which it leads is almost limitless and though middle age is
the most favorable season for their activity, even the youngest
child often suffers and sometimes dies from the different mani-
festations of Kidney Trouble.
A change of diet is an advisable precaution, but a reliable,
specially-prepared remedy, such as Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, is
the safeguard for your health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills stimulate your sluggish kidneys to
re-action and assist the work of removing impurities from
your blood, which the kidneys have been unable to accomplish
unassisted. Then their tonic action so revives the kidneys that
are filtering the blood that the work is done automatically as
by a perfect machine. Your back straightens up, the pulling,
dragging feeling gradually leaves you; in the morning you can
leap from bed, feeling a glow of health and vigor and meet
life with a smiling face.
It is the duty of every man, not only to himself but to
the world at large, to keep his health in the proper condition
for his daily task; and for the victim of Kidney Trouble Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills give just the little boost his organs no.el to
make them his slave, instead of his being a slave to ill-lio dth.
-V,v
mm
mmm
a
\
e-b
®m*mm
.mass**
mm
Chocolates
I do like my Daddy — see
what he's brought me home!
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
dmuttMlLa
162-166 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
Sydney.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated with
reproductions of our Confectionery in
color.
The Mutineer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SERVED with Captain Ellis.
I laid a larboard gun
With Nelson at Aboukir,
But that is past and done.
I swing to-inorrow morning,
At eight-bells in the morning.
At eight-bells in the morning,
O God, I shall be gone!
More water, messmate; water!
My choking throat is dry.
I feel the rope around it—
To-morrow morn I die!
At eight-bells in the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning—
How fast: the moments fly!
My mother lives in Dover,
’Twill break her heart for shame;
And I was but a stripling
The night the press-gang came.
And yet I did my duty ;
Told the Court-martial all—
They heard with hearts of iron
My words beyond recall ;
My puling cry for justice,
For justice to the Fleet.
Ah ! that was my undoing;
I watched their shifting feet.
My foolish hopes undid me.
At eight-bells in the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning,
’Tis bitter fruit I'll eat.
Oh. Bessie, when the springtime,
Our wedding-time to be,
Shall pulse through all the living,
Will you remember me?
At eight-bells in the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning,
I bid good-bye to thee.
I shall not shrink or tremble,
I swear I shall not shrink....
More light, my quaking sentry,
More light and more to drink!
God bless you for the kindness
That you have shown to one
Who, eight-bells hi the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning,
With living will be done.
A green road goes a-winding,
A-winding o’er the downs,
A thread that ties together
The pleasant country towns.
Oh. Bessie, will you mind it
This time the coming year?
At eight-bells in the morning
They hang a mutineer!
At eight-bells in the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning,
Upon the yardarm I
Who loved the ground you tread on
In sore disgrace must die.
At eight-bells in the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning—
How fast the moments fly!
They bid me pray forgiveness
Instead of raving thus.
For what must God forgive me
Who fashioned all of us?
Before the press-gang took me,
A widow’s only son,
By good and honest labor
My daily crust was won.
Their ears were deaf who tried me.
“Discipline” w T as the word—
By God, my Judge to-morrow,
The only word I heard.
At eight-bells in the morning,
At eight-bells in the morning—■
The one and only word !
Is that the light of morning
So cold across the sea?
Is that the light of morning
The last I’ll ever see?
It is the light of morning,
And, Jesus, pity me!
’Tis six-bells in the morning,
Yes, six-bells in the morning—
One hour of Life to fly.
At eight-bells in the morning.
At eiglit-bells in the morning,
My God, I have to die!
VICTOKIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Low Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHN BREMNER didn’t know whether
he was going to marry Mrs. Minifie
or not. It was quite within the possi-
bilities, of course—he liked to play with the
idea —but he wasn’t committed, and very care-
fully steered clear of committal. Mrs.
Minifie, for her part, had no doubt what-
ever about it, but in the plans of mice and
men and Mrs. Minifie important factors
sometimes are neglected.
This is not Mrs. Minifie’s story, save in an
indirect and backhanded fashion, and it will
be sufficient to state that she was 35, a widow
and not bad-looking. Bremner, twenty years
older and a widower of a year’s standing,
felt drawn towards her very strongly. She
was so sympathetic and so obviously and
flatteringly interested in Bremner. Probably
lie thought the interest was simulated. He
wasn’t exactly poor, and he knew, no one
better, that to most women his bank balance
would be his chief attraction; but. after
all, was it wisdom to pry too deeply into
other people’s motives? Even Ann—Ann
was his dead wife —loyal and true as she
had been, staunch comrade through the thicks
and thins of life, may not really have loved
him in the story-book meaning of the term.
It was one of liis odd convictions that no-
body ever really knows that sort of thing
lor certain. He didn’t even know whether
he had really loved her, tliough her passing
had seemed to wrench the inside out of his
life leaving only a shell of bitter-sweet mem-
ories. He had come' back to Tarua to live
among the most cherished of those_ memories
.—it was the little township in which he had
courted Ann ; in which they had set up their
little house together—the house in which
their children were born.
The children were grown up now and had
no need of Bremner. They had shown not
only complete ability but a very definite
desire to paddle their own canoes, and in
any case he had always had a strong distaste
of the role of the oldster “vampiring upon
the young,” as he put it to himself. If they
wanted him —warm-hearted, impulsive twink-
ling-eyed Molly, with her slow-speaking
wooden Scot of a husband, and almost-bril-
liant, utterly humorless Ernest, who took his
profession and his rich wife and his "place
in society” so seriously—he would be on
hand.
He rose very early that morning, inspired
by the clean fresh air from the snows of the
distant mountain-range, and all the strange
affection of an exile for the land of his youth.
He told himself as he stepped off the broad
verandah of the hotel —whence last evening
lie and Mrs. Minifie had pondered the moon
together-—that the homecoming had clipped
ten years off his age. But the credit for
that had to be shared by his homeland with
something more prosaic—a motor-cycle.
He had returned to revisit the scenes and
renew tin l sensations of his youth, but youth
was gone. Thirty years before he had ex-
plored every highway and byway of the
plains and most of the hill country on a
bicycle. Hence, though he would have been
more at home and very much safer in a car,
the motor-cycle had its place in what ha
termed, in his own mind, his “second child-
hood.” lie had never got over a certain
stark terror inspired by that motor-cycle,
though lie admitted himself to be fascinated
by a new charm. He called his mount Felix
to himself, because it kept on walking even
on country where its driver felt scared
almost into paralysis. He had driven big
cars and had never been reckoned a timor-
ous driver, but mounted on Felix he felt that
he held in intimate leash terrifying possi-
bilities in the way of power and speed. He
confessed to himself that he liked the thing
because it kept him so busy saving his life
that he had precious little time to think of
anything else. He did not need to ask him-
self why that should be a result to be
desired.
Molly and Ernest didn't know of this
folly. They were twelve hundred miles away
across the Tasman Sea, and he had concealed
this from them like a child guilty of a for-
bidden prank. Molly would understand. She
would insist upon him buying a side-car
and taking her, too, if she were with him:
but Ernest and Ernest's smart wife, with
her expressive eyebrows, and, Molly's dour
Scotchman would shake their heads very
disapprovingly. “I wonder,” thought Brem-
ner as he headed his heavy machine up the
slope of the hill, “whether I shall ever be
as old as those youngsters seem ?”
Felix was going well that morning. Brem-
ner would have been a mechanical engineer
had the fates not decreed a different and
much more lucrative career, and he had never
had difficulty in keeping his cars in good
tune. But this thing was different. To a
greater extent than any car it had its moods
and prejudices, and the crankier these seemed
to the mechanical mind the more important
it was to humor them. Not only did the act
of driving call for extremely close attention
to every detail of the simple mechanism, but
on such indifferent hill-roads as that which
he was now ascending it was quite a strenu-
ous physical task to keep Felix on his legs.
Bremner looked down with almost a shud
der at the old lower road. He was taking
the upper road, constructed during his long
exile —a nicely-graded clay highway, though
rutty and bumpy in comparison with the
smooth gravel and asphalt-surfaced roads of
the plain beneath. The old road looked as
if it had not been used for many a year.
It was overgrown with tufts of gorse, and
young gum-trees had sprouted here and there,
while boulders shaken loose in earthquakes
or dislodged by wind and rain had been
allowed to lie where they had come to rest,
caught in the little scar cut by men upon
the broad bosom of the hill.
At the summit of the hill, the goal of this
early-morning ramble, was a little tea-house.
It was there, in a snug nook in the big sun
porch, sheltered from the icy, boisterous
breeze that almost always swept the hilltop,
that Ann had promised to joifi her fortune
with his—and the two fortunes, he reflected,
wouldn’t have made a church-mouse rich. Ho
climbed the steps to the porch and sat down.
The tea-house wouldn’t wake to life for a
long while, for it was only half-past five by
the watch on Felix’s handle-bar. He sought
and found, nearly obliterated by the blades
of a hundred amorous pocket-knives, the neat
little heart enclosing their intertwined ini
tials. “A pair of children,” thought Brem-
ner wistfully, “and I doubt if we were ever
anything else.” Suddenly the ache that was
all that was left of Ann in his life seemed
too excruciating to be borne.
He had come up there to think about Mrs.
Minifie, but Ann wouldn’t let him. That,
was like Ann, he thought. She always
thought she knew what was best for him—
and she was usually right, too. Certainly
she wouldn’t have approved of Mrs. Minifie. :
Bremner grinned ruefully. Even now she :
was dead he couldn’t —now he had to face
the thing—be bothered with other women. .
It wasn’t their fault, of course, that he was'
he and Ann was Ann, and he felt very sorry
for Mrs. Minifie —the pity that is akin to ,
love, lie reflected, his mind being, like most
minds, a bag of set phrases.
Looking over the sprawling blue inlet be-
low, out to the headlands beyond which the
mighty bow of the Pacific divided sea from
sky. it struck him for the first time that, he
had rested a great deal upon Ann’s strength,
and she had but seldom, so it seemed in retro-
spect, made any call on his. Of course, theiv
were times.... he remembered when Molly
was born, his first-born, and the young, frail
mother cried so bitterly for him. And he
wasn’t there. Couldn’t get there. He
grudged those few days of absence yet.
though in them he had laid the foundation of
no small worldly success.
(Continued on uext page.)


f £very picture
Cells a Story
feu
CTD
'‘■".in'Mllll
re
\
%
m
p
Look to Your Kidneys
Stop That Wearying Backache!
MAKE life a pleasure again. That pain in the small of
the back; that urinary disorder; that tired, nervous,
old and worn-out feeling; those headaches and dizzy
sensations; all may be due to kidney weakness, which can be over-
come. Worrying will not help you. Get fit and well by taking
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This medicine gives the kidneys
the strengthening help they need, and so prevents rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, dropsy, stone in the kidney, or inflammation of
the bladder. Although Doan’s Pills relieve even these serious
symptoms, PREVENTION is by far the wiser plan. An occasional
course of Doan’s will keep you in good health.
CONVINCING PROOF FROM
SYDNEY.
A MAN’S CASE
Mr. Frederick Bradd, Crump Street.
Mortdale, Sydney, says: “I caught a
severe cold, which settled in my kid-
neys and caused severe backache. I
suffered intense pain, and could not
stoop or move about freely. I did not
know what to do to get ease, for the
remedies I used did me no good. See-
ing an advertisement for Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills led me to try them.
They gave me relief right from the
first dose, and in a short time I was
cured. I have no sign of backache
now, and attribute my cure solely to
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Bradd says:
“I have been free from backache since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me sixteen years ago. I am still a
great believer in this medicine, and
often take a few doses, as I think the
kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
A WOMAN’S CASE
Mrs. F. Osmond, No. 8 Gilbert
Street, Manly, Sydney, says: “I was
a martyr to backache, and the pain at
times was almost unbearable. I also
had several other distressing symptoms
of kidney disorder, such as headaches,
dizzy feelings and sleepless nights. I
was always trying one remedy or
another, but derived no benefit from
any of them. One day a friend urged
me to take a course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and this medicine
proved to be the very thing I wanted.
There was a marked improvement after
taking the first bottle, and by the time
I had finished three bottles of the pills
I was quite cured, all sign of backache
having disappeared entirely.”
Nine years later Mrs. Osmond says:
“I am still free of backache and kidney
trouble, and have been since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me over
nine years ago.”
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S, REMEMBER.
All Chemists, 2/9 per bottle; or from Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D CAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills,
SYDNEY MAN CURED OF PILES BY
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. W. Solomon, Wentworth Street, Parramatta, Sydney, says: “About
20 years ago I had a very severe attack of Itching and Bleeding Piles, and
underwent an operation. I was right for abouDeight years, and then the
complaint returned. The agony was terrible. Not wanting to undergo
another operation, I started using Pile remedies. The number I used would
astonish you, but they gave me no benefit whatever. I read of Doan’s
Ointment curing others, and decided to give it a trial. After a few applica-
tions I obtained relief and one pot cured me. I always keep Doan’s Ointment
in the house, and shall never be without it, for I know what a thoroughly
good remedy it is.”
Ten years later Mr. Solomon says: “I have still the same good opinion
of Doan’s Ointment. It cured me of the Piles many years ago, and I never
suffer with this complaint now.”
KEEP A TIN ON HAND. IT’S MIGHTY USEFUL WHEN
NEEDED, AND IT’S NEEDED MIGHTY OFTEN. Price 2/9 per tin
Men had reckoned him strong and able,
but beyond a capacity of making up his
mind quickly, irrevocably, he knew his repu-
tation to be a misfit. He had had health
and no worry, and more than his share
of luck, and to Ann was the glory. Not
that she interfered in liis business. As he
used to tell her, she didn’t know jute from
a Jew. But she was his compass and his
harbor and the keeper of his conscience, and
she had given him a peace of mind no one
else, he felt sure, could have given to a man
of his irritable, sceptical, too-emotional
temperament. “The peace of God that pass-
eth all understanding” was the phrase that
turned up in his mind at that moment. He
rose and shook himself. He would go back
to the hotel with a good appetite for its
porridge and toast and ham an’ eggs, and a
mind the quieter because the matter of Mrs.
Minifie had been irrevocably settled.
Yet there was an after-glow, half of re-
gret, half of resentment, to that decision.
Mrs. Minifie had such dark, appealing eyes
and such graceful, eloquent hands. He might
have been very happy with Mrs. Minifie, but
for Ann. “You damned old fool!” he burst
out at himself at this stage. “You always
wanted to have your cake and eat it too.
And you know you can’t”.... The thought
trailed into subtleties beyond the resources
of Bremner’s box of phrases.
When he came out of the shelter of the
tea-house he found the wind, always rough
at that altitude, had increased to a gale. He
could not remember ever experiencing such
a wind. The noise of its roaring filled the
world. The young pines planted round the
tea-house were bending desperately under
that howling blast, and needles, twigs and
cones were hurtling down the hillside. Even
as his eyes followed these winnowings of
the gale his ear caught an ominous cracking
and tearing drowning all other sounds. The
little plantation on the brow of the hill sud-
denly bowed itself, fell flat, and started
to slither down the hill side. It was
exactly like one of those absurd scenes
on the cinema-screen where cardboard castles
and little tin trains are overwhelmed in
disaster. It looked no more real, Bremner
decided. The landslide ended in a thud that
shook the whole hill, and when the dust
cleared a stark cliff-face of yellow clay was
revealed at a spot where a moment ago the
new road had so primly held its place.
He could either walk down, leaving Felix
at tlie tea-house, or and here his pulse
quickened just as it used to when he robbed
an orchard at fifteen or embarked upon one
of his share-market piracies at forty-five—lie
could take the lower road, a road he hadn’t
set foot upon for close on forty years. Could
Felix take it? The doubt was the essence
of what appeared at once a most glorious
and desirable adventure. Of course, if 'the
road were really impassable he could end
the journey on foot at any stage.
The old road and the new joined a few,
yards-_dpwn the hill, below the tea-house, and
he prepared for a very deliberate and cautious
descent. “Like Agag,” he said to Felix,
“you must walk delicately, old cat.” and was
pleased at recollecting the Biblical reference.
His original idea was to coast down with
petrol cut off and the compression acting as
an automatic brake, but Felix was too heavy,
and the compression too good. Even with
the clutch out and the wheels running free
he could not get way on. There being no-
thing else for it, lie kicked the engine into
life—Felix never started more willingly—-
and let the big machine lumber down with
both brakes squeaking shrilly. The road
was awful. Bad as it had looked from
above, the reality was far worse. It seemed
to Bremner that he had missed death only
by a miracle several times in the first two
hundred yards. And then the worst hap-
pened. A stone, whizzing up from Felix’s
drum-tight front tyre, wedged itself for a
fraction of a second between rear brake-rod
and back wheel. There was a little crack,
and the back brake ceased to squeak. The
front brake, as Bremner knew, was a broken
reed to lean on. Even as the thought formed
itself, the thing relinquished its hold, and
Felix bounded forward like a panther,
though Bremner had shut off air and petrol
at the first warning of disaster. Luckily
at this part the old road was clear of trees and
boulders, though the gorse was fairly thick.
He could hold Felix to the track, he decided,
until the next corner—quite a sharp corner,
he remembered- —and after that, well, what
was to be was to be. He realised with a
little rush of surprise that he wasn’t a
coward. “I always thought I was,” he said
to himself. And then there came into his
mind a snatch of an old song—a song Ann
used to sing years ago—“ You’ll take the high
road and I’ll take the low road, but I’ll be
in Scotland before ye.” A Jacobite song,
meaning something or the other that he
couldn’t remember. But he was taking the
low road now, and Ann, if there were any
truth in talcs of Heaven and Hell, had
taken the high one. If death lay around
the corner he might see Ann again.
* * * *
What did lie round the corner was a
block of granite that filled the whole road-
way. Felix dashed into it, head-on, with
throttle wide open, and incontinently became
a collection of rather badly-damaged spare
parts.
Bremner leaped to his .feet without an
ache or a pain, a scratch or a bruise, and
feeling strangely happy. “I must tell Ann
about my narrow escape” was his first
thought. Her voice struck on his ear at
the instant. Even before she spoke, and
before he turned and saw her, he had the
feeling that she was there. But this was
not the Ann he had laid to rest in a far-
away cemetery under six tons of marble,
but the Ann he had courted—was it yester-
day? She was sitting comfortably on a
little outcrop of rock wearing a cheap print
frock and adorable little hat that were
locked away amongst liis best-loved memories,
“pome and sit down,” she said in that lazy,
rich voice that never lost its power to thrill
him, “and tell me, have you been very lonely
too?” He climbed up and sat beside her.
Below he could see, but saw without con-
necting it with anything, the smoking ruin of
what had been Felix, and the crumpled form
that lay at the foot of the great rock —a
form under which a red pool was sluggishly
spreading. “I have been dreadfully lonely,
Ann,” he said earnestly, and then, quickly,
having made another of his irrevocable de-
cisions : “I wanted to tell you, Ann. The
only thing that ever happened to me that
mattered was loving you.” “Yes,” she said
with the slow smile that he knew now had
been his sunshine, “I knew you would come.
I have wanted you so much.”
* * * *
Mrs. Minifie was terribly shocked when she
heard of Bremner’s tragic end. Possibly
the woman really cared. But the world is
not kind to its Mrs. Minifies.
CHARLES BLAKE.
Thirteen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the last race of the day, and
James Aloysius Grubbins was feeling
extremely bad. Like many another
punter before him be had been working a
system—a quite infallible one; one that by
all mathematical calculations and intricate
newspaper researches should long ere now
have lifted him well out of the slough of
financial depression into which he had fallen,
but which instead had inexplicably pushed
him further in. In fact, to-day, although
for many years he had held a position of
trust in the firm for which he worked, he
had been betting with money borrowed—-
stolen—from his employers, his own “bank"
haying most unfo-funately run out on the
previous race day. Now, with only one more
race to go, he was £57 down, and in a state
of panic at the thought of what would hap-
pen on Monday morning if he could not pick
up his losses on the next race.
On the “as well for a sheep as a lamb"
principle he had made up his book as care-
fully as lie could, putting every penny left
out of his borrowed bank on one horse or
another. On Twilight, Bumble Bee, Sum
Tart and Sweet Lavender he had laid
enough, at the straight-out odds obtainable,
to set him more or less square if any one of
them won. At the end of these operations
he had found himself left with a single five-
pound note, and realising that, if the others
lost, the fiver would not help him much with
the firm on Monday, he had taken a pin out
of the lapel of his coat and stuck it at
random through his race-book. Then pulling
it out with fingers that had seemed 'numb
with anxiety, he had rushed to the totalisa-
tor window and taken the five pounds out in
tickets on Stick Pliast, No. 111, just as the
bell stopped ringing and the windows shut.
But Last Hope won—Last Hope, that
was paying a 100 to 1 dividend —and as Mr.
Grubbins joined the gloomy crowd making
for the exits, he felt that the world had
•come to an end.
As he passed the stands he saw a lot of
bookmakers laughing and cheering with
happiness—evidently very few of them had
written Last Hope’s name. “Last Hope
some skinner for me!’’ he heard one of them
say. “Puts me right for the day.”
On the tram lie sat thinking dully what
a fool he had been. Perhaps if he confessed
before they found out at the office they
might treat him leniently; but he knew he
could never confess—it would be too hard
to'face the music like that at his time of life.
He wondered if he could fake the books, but
he knew.lie could never do that either.
When lie got home he found the family
was out, and sitting on the verandah he
tried to think out a solution. But it was
impossible for him to find the money he had
taken —impossible, anyhow, to do it by Mon-
day—and if it was not back in the office by
then it would be too late. Even if he sold
his furniture, and supposing he could get the
money he needed for it. lie could not get it
in cash so soon. Besides, that would mean
that his wife and family would find out, and
he could not face them as a thief either.
Some of it was on time-payment, anywjay.
There was nothing else for it —lief was
useless, and a silly old fool, and his family
would get on better without him. Get on
much better without him. Swiftly he turned
over in his mind the easiest , ways of dying,
but on the spur of the moment he could think
of nothing except hanging. They said that
even if you could not get enough drop hang-
ing did not hurt very much after the first
moment.
In the wash-house at the back he found
a rope, and, standing on a box which he
placed on a chair, he tied it firmly to a beam
overhead. Then with the rope round his
neck he prepared to swing into eternity.
But as he hesitated, thinking of the irre-
trievability, the dreadful finality, of his pur-
pose, he remembered the racebook and use-
less betting-tickets in his pockets. He would
not like them to be produced at the inquest
-—they would make him seem such a fool.
Taking them out of his pocket he tore; them
to pieces, carefully, one by one—Twilight,
Sum Tart, Bumble Bee, Sweet Lavender. In
the next pocket he found his racebook; and,
thinking how curious it was that once he
stepped off the box he would never be able
to read again, he opened it. Race by race
he went over the happenings of the day—
especially over the downfall of the system
that he had thought so certain. The pin-
hole that he had made through the book just
before the last race had marked two winners
in the first five races, he noticed; then,
turning over the leaves, he came to where
it had marked Stick Pliast, his last bet. The
totalisator tickets, lie could feel, were still
in his waistcoat pocket. He took them out
to tear them up.
But there was something wrong, he,saw,
looking at his book again. He had put no-
thing on the tote in the seventh race : —all
day he had only one tote bet, and he was
sure that it was in the last race, the eighth.
And yet here it was plainly marked in the
book—Race No. 7; Stick Phast, No. 13. He
remembered plainly it was thirteen, because
he thought it might be unlucky.
Was it possible?.... iCould it be?....
The horse that had come so fast at the end
—there must have been a number on its
saddle-cloth, but he could not remember.
They had all called out Last Hope. It was
Last Hope that had won, not Stick Phast.
With shaking hands, his heart beating fast
with excitement, a suffocating feeling of
nausea coming over him at the thought of
his narrow escape, the rope still round his
neck, Mr. Grubbins turned over the page
of his book. And there it was all right—
Race No. 8; Last Hope, No. 13. In his
hands were the tickets, and looking at them
stupidly, as though he could not believe his
eyes, swaying on his feet, he saw, even as he
fell from the box, that they were marked,
“Randwick, Race No. 8. No. 13.”
MORRIS HAY.


ď
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—-90 Queen Street, Melbourne. a A
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
BITUMASTIC
(REGISTERED TRADE-MARK)
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
Rust Insurance
The use of “Bitumastic’' is an effective insurance against
the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than preservation.
Use “Bitumastic 51 only.
Sold in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
590-592 Elizabeth Street, .Melbourne. 239-241 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Fanshawe Street, Auckland.
BEST FOR THE HAIR ON
ALL OCCASIONS
1
Anzora will master the most un-
ruly hair and keep it in place all
day. Anzora Cream for greasy
scalps, Anzora Viola for dry
scalps. Sold by chemists, hair-
dressers, stores or from our agents
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne & Slattery
Pty., Ltd.
Sydney—Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide—Arthur Glover. .
Brisbane —Gregory & Collins.
Perth—L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZORA PERFUMERY Co., Ltd.
IPillesden Lane, London, England.
I
CREAM
MASTERS THE HAIR
uiiuuiiimuiiumuMmuuiiiKuit
fotiora Otrfumery Co Vd
LONDON NW.6
fd
Pen and Pocket Knives
»
IN choosing a penknife, the important
thing to know is how good it is,
not how little it costs.
Scientific heat treatment, hardening
and tempering produce the fine blades
in all Remington penknives.
ď
To be certain it’s
a Remington, look
for the mark of
quality stamped on
every blade.
Stocked by first
class dealers.
fit
GL
9‘A
No. Rl5
Ballet
Knife
r No. R 6713
Stag Handle
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Refiresentative-G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
f
OTHER REASONS
for taking
Beecham’s Pills.
Make you
Eat well
Sleep well
Feel well
Work well
GIVE YOU
Clear Eyes
Clear Complexion
You’ll tingle with life
And action
Feel glad to be alive
A dose at night
Will keep you right.
9
d
Sold In boxes j
1/- and 2/6. 1
Whatever car you drive
for best results
fit
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
British- made and the best in the world .
The plug illustrated is the special Lodge model
for Buicks- Its insulator is Lodge steatite,
a material that is absolutely impervious to oil
or moisture right through.
Other Lodge plugs equally oil-resisting, for American
engines, are
Model CT. Model AF. Model SB. Model ST.
regular taper 1” long l" regular
(small hex)
5/6 SI- 5/6 5/6
All packed in sealed metal boxes and sold by motor dealert
and stores everywhere.
iiiimiiiiimmiiiiiiiiii
Model TB.
i" l°ng
small hex)
For BUICK.
iffi
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H, Pi
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
ďf
Reduces
Prices
$135.00
to
$1,050.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U. S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling:
Kermath Maiinc Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representatives!
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia), Ltd.
25-SI Clarence Street, Sydney.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich.,U.SJL
Cable Address-KERMATH
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-Hay, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and fid.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tcls. : 86276 (4 lines).
Afternoon Tea on Board.
».m. Steamer from Tort Macquarie.
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd,


BOTTLED HISTORY
One thing that
never varies—
the standard
quality of
□
a
If the mellow flavour of
good old wholesome Scjotch
Whisky appeals to you, then
ask for Johnnie Walker. If
you’ve never had Johnnie
Walker you’ve never had
Whisky at its best. It is guar-
anteed pure and mature.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
s m
A
~ „ ... Tsr, v?
%
ii
& \
I:-::
■
9m
m
m
111
Pi
H
m
S§§
vBBBBB:
V..,. 'K
Bom 1820 -
Still
Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
