

Be
93
ready for the days out-of-doors i
t
GET A
KODAK
For the coming months, out-of-
doors will claim every spare
moment. You will enjoy yourself
in many ways —but most of all if
you take a Kodak and bring home
your happiness in snapshots.
As a happy choice, we suggest one of the Kodak Juniors popular
models that represent Kodak reliability at a moderate price. No. iis for
pictures x3J inches. Price 63/6. Other Kodaks from 36/-.
Ask for Catalogue.
tu
m
Hj
V te.
See
NEW
CINE
KODAK
MODELB
Kodak first made photography simple.
It has now made Motion Pictures equally
simple by the introduction of the Cine-
Kodak, which is a motion-picture camera
that in the hands of a novice will give
screen pictures equal to those of profes-
sionals.
Demonstrations at all Branches. Ask for Folder
Of all Dealers selling Kodak Supplies, and
KODAK
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2427.
Thursday, August 19, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"HE New Library Catalogue for 192«
is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
>vith full particulars, on application to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE,
, 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ltd.,
t-YSAGHT
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly frojn Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported
SHAVEX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVEX” is a production of modern civilisation whereby men
can shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda.
With Shavex you can shave in half the time and get. a
perfect and smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin
like satin and keeps one young, and no after lotion is required.
Shavex is a skin food. It makes shaving a pleasure instead
of a torture. Safety Razor blades last twice as long and no /
hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
v
A
chemists or from solei Australian Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Australia) Ltd.
(Dept 4 ), Eagle & Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney. Manufactured by
The Zeekol Manufacturing Co., London, r '-
Eng.
FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 3d. stamp.
The , celebrated author and composer, IVOR NO-
VELLO, writes:—“lt is a great pleasure to be able
to say sincerely that 'Shaves' is a really splendid
invention. I am so often asked to recommend pre-
parations, and can so seldom do so, but in this case
my appreciation of your ‘Shaves’ is genuine. I shall
always use it."
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY. ____
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z,
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
No. 1369.
a
can now give their
hair the benefits of
AMAMI
An outstanding success wherever
it is introduced, Atnami will
very soon be the most popular
*• JLT
Shampoo in Australia.
No. 5
for Fair Hair
Let Amami reveal
hidden loveliness
in your hair .
Amami cleanses. Amami stimu-
lates. Amami leaves a delicate
fragrance. All the Chemists, Hair-
dressers and big Stores have
supplies, 9d. each, complete with
Lemon Juice Rinsing Powder. Make
your hair lovelier for this week-
end Shampoo with Amami.
%
No. I
for Dark Hair*
• •
/
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
ZjfXß
m
wnrn’uys
rotfi-
DSOU
Wxsr
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Boys’ Books
A N.S.W. school-inspector, Mr. A. W.
Hicks, of Armidale, asked the teachers of his
district to help him in the compilation of
lists of the bjaoks that they find children
love most. Doubtless he means from the
many lists to ftame one which will include,
say, 100 children’s favorites. The method
employed is a good one, as it is an appeal to
the choice of the children themselves instead
of an adult attempt to estimate their likes
and dislikes; if Mr. Hicks can secure a
standard list he will have done N.S.W.
kiddies a good turn. Many of the expensive
children’s libraries to be found in schools
and other public institutions are sad commen-
taries on the intelligence of the grown-ups
who purchased them. As a boy I remember
having cherished an unholy hatred of books
which sought to eradicate my juvenile share
of original sin by holding up a most in-
humanly good little boy or girl to the admi-
ration of my youthful mind, and I have since
found, especially with boys, that this atti-
tude is typical. Such books are produced
by the ton, but children will’ only read
them under compulsion or in desperation
when there is nothing else offering. Never-
theless how often do we find such books be-
stowed as prizes and presents by well-
meaning oldsters whor have forgotten their
own youthful literary loves ! The appearance
of /Esop’s Fables in the list which follows
may seem to be a contradiction of this state-
ment, but children love /Esop, not for the
lessons his Fables teach, but for the stories
they tell and the way he makes his animals
talk, just as they love Gulliver’s Tales for
their wonder and their adventure—not for
the satire w'hich ought not to be intruded on
children except, of course, in the case of the
unusual child who will inquire about it.
What ought to be the attitude of the'
adult towards a child whose reading tastes
run to Buffalo Bills, Deadwoods, Turpins
and the splash-dash humor of the shrewd
psychologists who run our “Comics”? Un-
questionably he ought to be allowed to feast
on the diet he likes. Probably he will evolve
from that phase—how many of us have! Is
there not a story of a learned legal luminary
of Australia who laid up a store of Nick
Carters and Robin Hoods to which he could
turn when Blackstone palled? Chesterton
points out that the primary feeling that the
world is strange and yet attractive is best
expressed in fairy tales, and goes on to enter
a plea for that “bellicose and even jingo
literature which commonly comes next in the
history of a boy” on the plea that we all
“learn much sound morality from penny-
dreadfuls.” The surest way to make a child
hate reading is to force him to read what we
may think he ought to like. At any rate,
the time will come when he can choose for
himself; and if later on he confines his diet
to lushy love stories and the red-blooded billy-
goat romances apparently so well-beloved of
our American cousins, he will find a richly
spread table of such in our libraries and on
the bookstalls. However, let me return to
my share in carrying out Mr. Hicks’s experi-
ment.
Fifty boys between the ages of 12 and 15
were asked to write down the titles of the
boobs they had liked best, placing them as
far as possible in the order of preference.
They were allowed ample time to think it
over, but discussion was not allowed—this
to exclude the possibility of suggestion. They
were instructed to include any book, no
matter how humble, provided they had read
it and liked it, and their lists showed they
implicitly obeyed the inst uctions. The boys
had access to a very fair school library, but
it was noteworthy that many of the books
in the library were not mentioned. I have,
as far as possible, grouped the books under
the authors’ names. Here is the list of 20
authors in order of preference:—
(1) Stevenson: Treasure Island, The Black Arrow,
Kidnapped.
(2) Mrs. /Eneas Gunn: The Little Black Princess,
We of the Never-Never.
(3) Ballantyne: Coral Island, Peter the Whaler,
Martin Rattler, Young Fur Traders.
(4) Twain: Huckleberry Finn.
(5) Defoe: Robinson Crusoe.
(6) Andersen and Grimm: Fairy Tales.
(7) Lamb: Tales from Shakspeare. (One youth
wrote down “Lambtails from Sharkspear.”)
(8) Herbert Strang’s Annual, Chums, Boys’ Annual,
and a long list of other annuals.
(9) Kingsley: Westward Ho!. The Water Babies,
Geoffrey Hamlyn in Australia, The Heroes.
(10) Dickens: Oliver Twist, David Copperfield,
Christmas Carol, Bai-naby Rudge (adaptations).
(11) Swift: Gulliver’s Travels.
(12) Assop: Fables.
(13 1 ) Hughes: Tom Brown's Schooldays.
(14) Cooper: Deerslaver, Last of the Mohicans.
(15) Carroll: Alice in Wonderland.
(16) Stowe: Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
(17) Kipling: Jungle Books, Stalky and Co.
(18) Thayer: From Log Cabin to'White House.
(19) Scott: Ivanhoe, The Talisman,
(20) Tarkington: Penrod.
Then came the following which received
practically an equal number of votes: “The
Call of the Wild,” “White Fang,” “Voice
of the Pack” (London), Turpins, Buffalo
Bills, Robin Hoods, Nelson Lees, “Stories
About King Arthur,” “Swiss Family Robin-
son,” “Arabian Nights,” “Around the World
m Eighty Days,” “Dot and the Kangaroo,”
“Seven Litt-le Australians,” “The King of
the Golden River” (Ruskin), “Fifth Form
at St. Dominic’s” and a number of stories
by E. S. Ellis, whose “Red Feather” seemed
to be a favorite.
Of course, the boys voted only on what
they had read; nevertheless, the list is sur-
prisingly comprehensive-. Kingsley’s high
place is largely due to the favor extended to
‘ Geoffrey Hamlyn.” Amongst omissions
may be noted Henty, Captain Mayno
Reid, W. H. G. Kingston, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne and Washington Irving, who, I think,
ought to be represented in a boy’s library.
Standish O’Grady has written some magni-
ficent historical tales for Irish boys, and I
have found that when those are placed on
the library shelves they are as eagerly de-
voured by Australian lads as by Irish’ gos-
soons. I wonder why someone—J. H. M
Abbott, for example—does not perform a
similar office for young Australians’ It is
not surprising that: the mystic W. B Yeats
the high priest of the faery-folk who ’
Ride on the crest of the dishevelled tide
And dance upon the mountains like a flame,
receives not a vote, while Grimm and Ander-
sen are enthusiastically applauded, for it is
too early for Yeats to enthrall those young
readers with his moonlit magic. Does it not
give one an odd thrill that the beloved Tusi-
tala, the creator of that grand old scoundrel
John Silver, is, too, for Australian boys as
well as for Samoan children, the Tale-
teller? Surely did he know he would smile
in his sleep.
P. O’FARRELL.
Why Authors Leave Home
After reading a number of articles on the
above subject, I am almost moved to wonder
if too much of Australia wasn’t born with
a sense of injury, an idea that it is the most
disgusting!;' unappreciated dog in creation
(as one Dickens character said of another
who was in drink at the time and at most
other times), and the feeling that it Ims
been done out of something. Certainly Aus-
tralia is marvellously rich in people who
believe that they are heirs to vast and
mysterious fortunes, mostly in England, and
have been cruelly done out of the same
I have met some such myself, and when J
was a boy in England I was shown an
early specimen, just arrived from here. He
weighed 2G stone and got 14 years 'for
perjury. Of course there is a great dea
to be said about the poor rewards of Aus-
tralian authors in their own land, the diffi-
culty of liviqg here by the manufacture oJ
books alone, the consequent poverty and the
necessity to wander abroad in search oJ
reward and appreciation. There is always
a good deal to be said.
Our commerce in writers is not wholly
one-sided. Wandering literary people from
outside have come to Australasia seeking
a change or a career, or they have come
by chance.. Sometimes they have remained
and sometimes they have passed on. B. L
Farjeon, Fergus Hume, Adam Lindsay Gor-
don, Marcus Clarke, Victor Daley, Brunton
Stephens, Rolf Boldrewood, John Farrell anc
Ada Cambridge are a few of the importations
which counterbalance the-exports—ror pos-
sibly aggravate the position.
The habit which authors who belong to
small communities have of moving to larger
and richer ones in search of profit or ex-
perience is not Australia’s private woe. The
wandering tendency isn’t even restricted to
authors belonging to small communities.
T. C. Halibnrton (“Sam Slick”), after
rising to be a Supreme Court Judge in his
native Nova Scotia, moved his camp to
England and died there. Grant Allen, the
voluminous and capable Canadian novelist,
did all his work in England and died there.
Bret liarte, Artemus Ward and Harolc
Frederic were three more who left the
United States for England and died there.
Another to arouse the question “Why Do
Authors Leave Home?” was Gilbert Par-
ker, also a Canadian novelist, who edited
the S. M. Herald for a while and then took
the Bullward track. Parker and “Sam
Slick” aggravated their offence by becoming
members of the, British Parliament, yet
their country didn’t announce that it felt
itself wronged. As for Australian authors
being poor, most people are. Everybody
should have £lOOO per annum, but few get
it. The U.S. Bankers’ Association pro-
fesses to have traced the careers of 100
bright and healthy men from age 25 to age
75. .At the latter date 60 had died worth
nothing and 34 were alive and worth nothing.
And the 100 weren’t all authors by any
means. Among literary people, even among
those with prominent names, the habit of
poverty is no Australian specialty. Charles
Reade, “Ouida” and Walt Whitman were
three among many who died in low circum-
stances, two of them in submerged or cellar
circumstances. Among those who still live
impecuniosity is common. Fergus Hume
was recently reported to be in straits in
London, and a recent derelict found in an
attic was said to be identical with James
Greenwood, the “Amateur Casual,” com-
monly supposed to be dead. Coulson Kerna-
han is on the roll of Civil List pensioners
for a small amount. As for the grievance
that Australian fictionists find it next to
impossible to live by plots and villains alone,
that is no local trouble either, nor is it
due to sinful doings of any sort. The ad-
visability of having some steady job besides
book-writing occurred to people as widely
apart as James Payn (author of about 100
fair sellers) and Walter Scott, to say nothing
of Thackeray, Dean Swift, Josh Billings,
Trollope and “Carmen Sylva.”
Australia isn’t well situated geographically
to retain its book-writing sons and daugh-
ters. The community is still a small one,
which lucid and carefully-selected remark
may also be applied more or less to Canada,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales and the Isle of
Man (Hall Caine was half Manx). But
writers from any of these five places can
personally hump their literary wares to the
biggest or second biggest city on earth and
be home for tea, or at least for the week
end. They are not driven to settle in London
or New York to watch their interests,
though many do.
The scarcity of local material for the Aus-
tralian novel almost amounts to a famine,
and that is a serious drawback. The Pilgrim
Fathers hereabouts weren’t scalped, at least
not seriously, for 150 years by multitudes
of organised savages. There is no War of
Independence in the background, no civil
wars or insurrections, no invasions by land
or sea (gallantly repulsed, of course), no
naval scraps in local waters, no Mormons,
and no burning of Canberra or of witches
What United States fiction would be like
minus these assets it is dreadful to think.
Romances of the great Australian mountains
forests, lakes and rivers are difficult because
t(ie Blue Mountains are not high enough, the
timber is scarce, Lake Eyre is uninspiring
and the Murray wouldn’t float a Mississippi
pilot. It isn’t even trusted to float Cobham.
Dear, wolf, buffalo and slave stories are
hampered by lack of proper fauna. There
are not enough slums in all Australia for a
single Dickens book, and Dickens was prac-
tically lost without slums and fogs. Old
cathedrals, ruins, legends and battlefields are
rare here, nor are there even some Boer and
(Continued on page 8.)


A
xtae
Everything for the Man on the Land
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
XTBS.
“WIARD”
MOULDING OR HILLING
PLOUGH.
Middlebreaker Wood Beam
Plough, made with chilled mould-
board and cast point, Bin. cut.
Specially adapted for cultivating
crops, and is used in the cultivation
of p
ing;
otatoes and tor corn piougn-
also for ditching pur- 4? EC
i. PRICE
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low
Prices cannot fail to interest the
Man on the Land desirous of
economising on Farming
Implements. On comparison, the
savings will be found to be con-
siderable.
EMPIRE
STUMP JUMP HARROW.
i HQJJUDo]
jsm;
§
tlj
pb
OP
4
XTI9.
EMPIRE STUMP JUMP HARROW.
XT67
“WIARD”
ROAD
CON-
TRACTOR’S
PLOUGH.
This Plough has great strength and is adapted to
contractor’s work and for tearing up cobblestone or
macadam pavements. Four- or six-
horse. PRICE
£ll/15/-
Extra Points. Price 30/ >
Similar in construction to
the ordinary U-bar Lever
Harrow, with the addition
of the guards that pro-
tect the end of the tooth-
bars. By throwing the
levers forward, the teeth
are thrown back for trans-
porting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash. Two
sections, with bar, 50
teeth. ■P7/10/.
PRICE
60 Teeth, including
long bar
£8
XTI2O.
Write for
Illustrated Price
List of
Agricultural
Implements. A
copy will be
posted free.
“WIARD” PATENT STEEL BEAM PLOUGH.
Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with coulter and adjustable clevis.
Ploughs 5 to 8 inches deep, 8 to 12 inches wide. X?Q/1 K/ m
PEICE
Extra Cast Shares, 4/3. Extra Forged Steel Shares, 46/6.
XTIB2A.
13 ent a 1 l’s Chaffcutter,
C.D.Z. — Rising mouth, 81
inches wide ; cuts four lengths
—l. and
f inch.
PRICJbI
£l3/10/-
Buffalo Forges
XTIOG.
Buffalo Standard Blacksmith’s
Forge, equipped with Buffalo No. 200
silent blower and Vulcan Tuyere. Size
af fan, 14in.; blast pressure, 3in.; speed
of fan, 2200 R.P.M.; size of hearth,
28 x 40 in.; weight, 3321 b., without
K& £l5/15/-
XTIO4.
Buffalo Portable Forge, with
geared hand blowers. Size of firepan,
18in.; height to top of firepan, 32in. ;
44in. overall; diameter of fan-case,
Price , . . £lO/15/-
a
WINCHES, CHAIN BLOCKS, etc.
15cwt. Winch, with cast sides.
Price
With steel sides. Price
75/-
926
Grab Winches, to lift one ton;
single purchase. Price
£B/5/-
To lift If ton. single pur-
chase, steel sides. Price ...
To lift 3 tons, double pur-
chase ; steel sides. Price . .
£B/17/6
£l3/10/-
Chain Blocks, Weston’s Differential, with
40ft. chains, to lift 10 feet.
i ton. \ ton. 1 ton. li ton. 2 tons.
34/6 45/6 55/- 70/- £5
“WIARD” PATENTED STEEL BEAM
PLOUGH.
a
Steel Beam Two-
horse Plough,
fitted with' fron
handles and ordi-
nary Colonial
coulter. Ploughs
6 to 9 inches deep.
10 to 14 inches
w T ide.
PRICE—
£7/17/
Extra Shares. Price 4/6 each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


Abdulls
New Virginia
m
0'
/
i
70
VIRGINIA
75
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
10 for 1/-
25 for 2/6
Bo the Makers of
THE CELEBRATED AND EXQUISITE
ABDULLA TURKISH AND EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
Awarded for Excellence
10 GRAND PRIX, 21 GOLD MEDALS, 3 DIPLOMAS OF HONOR.
DALGETY AND COMPANY LTD.,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
fk


2S
in
-
m
mm
m
m
m
1
m
' ' ’
Obtainable Men’s
Stores Everywhere
COPY RIGHT
à
PARIS
GARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
Easy on your legs and
easy on your pocketbook
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney.
326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Kaffir wars and the Victoria Falls with the
adjacent baboon colonies for scenery. I hope
a great future exists for people who crave
to write fiction about Australia, to do so in
Australia, and to sell their books to Aus-
tralians at a profit, but I have doubts. In
truth I haven’t much else. Apart from the
dingo and an occasional snake, vivid topics
are hard to find, and inspiration is hard to
find also. The circumstances being incapable
of repair, for the present at all events, why
weep over our hard literary lot? Soaking
it will make it no softer.
J. E.
A Door Opened in the East
Wlien type was first smeared with ink
in Wurtemburg, long ago, there began a
trickle down the centuries, a black and
meagre stream that soon flowed fast and
deep until it became a wide river and then
a flood, uncontrollable and overwhelming.
To-day none but the greatest names escape
submergence, and the world, inundated with
turbulent ink, has lost something of its
sense of literary proportion, magnifying
absurd things, belittling and disregarding
great things. The mock-Olympian figure of
D. H. Lawrence, astride his stallion, does
not lack worshippers; Jack Lindsay, who
occasionally ascends a step-ladder to strike
chips off the adamantine statues of Ruskin
and Milton, is a more or less conspicuous
figure in our little Australian world of
letters; and now who cares a damn for
Rabindranath Tagore?
When Tagore, a few years ago, com-
pletely translated his' works into English,
an event had occurred which, in the entire
history of literature, was altogether soli-
tary and unprecedented. For the first time
a poet had reclothed his own thoughts with
an alien language. Style, according to an
inevitable truism, is untranslatable; thought
is only a few degrees less so. The qualities
of personality are too subtly permeative to
be controlled by will; in even the best of
translations, even in Constance Garnett’s
translations from the Russian, the original
thought is colored and bleached, vitiated and
intensified. Briefly it had now become pos-
sible for English readers to apprehend the
undistorted thoughts, and to examine, all
distorting mediums gone, the viewpoints and
intimate workings of the ideal type of Hindu
mind.
Tagore the poet, from the English stand-
point, is less important than Tagore the
Hindu. His poetry is always exquisitely
subtle. Here, taken at random, is a passage
of Shelleyan delicacy :
My love, do not grieve it I keep this flimsy
mist of distance round me. This frail reserve of
mine is no mere women’s coyness, but a slender
stem on which the flower of my self-surrender
bends towards you with reticent grace.
His thoughts are clear-cut and have the
stark sincerity and spontaneous rhythm of
great poetry. He never slips when travers-
ing the razor-ridge of sublimity. In his
lifetime liis fellow-countrymen have placed
him amongst their immortals, saying of him,
“There have been great poets in India in
previous centuries, but none as great as
Tagore, from whom our age, in its literary
facet, has taken its character and will take
its name.” Tagore is not only a greater
poet than any that has written in English
during the last 25 years ; his thought-matter
is that of. the world-poets, and he may yet
sustain the corroding test of time to become
of their company. But, apart from all this,
Tagore’s greatest deed for the world is his
transplanting of the Hindu mind from its
native Bengali to English prose of shadow-
less lucidity.
Someone, Ruskin perhaps, once said of
architecture what is true in a greater degree
of poetry, that “a nation’s soul takes on
material form in its architecture.” Poetry
is an elixir and a corrosive. By the age’s
poetry you shall judge it. In every age
there stands out one man who is at once
the ideal and the consummation of his time.
Shakspeare was such in Elizabethan Eng-
land ; such is Tagore in India to-day.
It is, reported of Tagore that for three
hours in each day he meditates on mystic
philosophy and the obscure relationships of
the things of the earth. That is symboli-
cal of the one colossal virtue of the Hindu
mind. The nations of the West have become
great through the powers of will and reason.
The East has stagnated because it lacked
those qualities in a dominant degree; and
yet, beneath the surface scum, it has
raised a glory of its own from its peculiar
power of passionate contemplation. In imagi-
nation- —the greatest, yet, in the business of
the world, least essential, of the three pri-
mary functions of the mind —the East has
always surpassed the West. The ascetic,
alone in the forest, has comprehended the
mystery of Nirvana in his endless medi-
tations; his thoughts have gone to the
edge of the universe. And the ascetic, in
this characteristic, from the days, of asceti-
cism to modern times, has been no solitary
figure. Men of all classes and all occupa-
tions, kings, viziers and beggars, have found
time for meditation in the intervals of their
labors. The speculations of some follow
the rigid paths of the ancient creeds, others
have shaken off the trammelling bonds of
dogma; but, rigid or fluid, the broad result
of this immense agitation of thought is the
same. Penetrating the veil, which is multi-
plicity, their mental vision has seen the
soul of the universe, which is unity, and
some have given to this intangible abstrac-
tion an eternally beautiful name, “The
Great Lover.” A Baul poet (the Bauls
are a casteless sect of Bengal) sings of him:
“For he is the sea, he is the river that leads
to the sea and he is the landing-place. . . .If
you are only the haven, as they say, then
what is the sea?” Divested of the mysti-
cism which is the habitual form of Hindu
thought, their belief is this: that all the
tilings of the world and of the universe
are animated in varying degrees by a single
pervading element; that this scheme is a
scheme of love, tending towards perfection ;
and that the true fulfilment of life con-
sists in the attuning of one’s individuality
to the rhythm of the universe. According
to their sages this rhythm is beauty and
love and finds manifold expression in “the
voice of the hollow wind,” in the inexpres-
sible beauty of the sky. in the light of the
great sun and in all other beautiful things.
East is East and West is West! Wliat
folly! Not until those two realise that they
are complementary, that West must teach
East the means of living and East teach
West the aim of living, will East awake
from its mouldering stupor and West cast
off its dreary materialism.
LIONEL LUXTON.
Reconnaissance
The spurs of enthusiasm still search my
suffering faith in modern art. Unnumbered
ludicrous disappointments notwithstanding,
I am still to be seen on all fours peering for
the Phoenix between the leaves of every latest
book. Pricked on by merciless hope, I have
been forced to unravel Ravel, to listen with-
out bliss to Bliss, to coax my protesting
ears through more than one Immortal Hour
in contemporary music. Panting up the
slopes of Parnassus, I have descried (or
was that a delusion?) the Muse of Edith
Sitwell —a wraith most haggard, knee-deep
in a pool of prussic acid, chanting for ever
in tones of shrillest exacerbation the odes
of J. C. Squire. Finally I have been, like
poor dear Tom o’ Bedlam, spirited away to
a world “beyond the wide world’s end,
where your only proper mould of form is
Distortion, and in the glass of fashion one s
head appears elongated and preposterously
cylindrical, like an inverted gin bottle; or it
will perhaps alarmingly become the perfect.
Cube, though still, they say, retaining the
brains; or dwindle to the modest vanishing
point; or emerge with one unique eye, Cyclo-
pean ; or present a countenance devoid
utterly of any features —the nescient man,
in fact, somewhat less than an embryo be-
gotten a month since.
These gibes affront my conscience, never-
theless. There are those that I admire
(Robert Graves is one) who doff in un-
abashed homage to Miss Sitwell; and others
who have not baulked at the tallest
in criticising the paintings of Stanley
Spencer. Lawrence Atkinson was awarded
a Grand Prix at Milan for “L’Oiseau,” one
of his characteristic essays in abstract or
“non-representational” sculpture —a slab of
marble eloquent of nothing, one would have
thought, but the splintering touch of an
earthquake. And so on. The subtler the
critic the more profound his obeisance. Never
was the tribe of Ruskin so alert in interpre-
tation, so verbose in apology; nor ever was
reverence so cheap and willing.
Mary E. Fullerton, in her inconclusive re-
marks about the Sitwells (R.P. 17/6/’26),
acknowledges the risk, the positive menace
even, that haunts the path of any critic these
days. He must watch his step. A little
too fast, a little too slow, and the hounds
of posterity will rend him like a rabbit. It
was bad enough a century ago indeed, when
the members of the Vienna orchestra laughed
outright at the strepitant opening plunge of
the Fifth Symphony. And in the ’eighties
it wasn’t really so grotesquely stupid as
we think it to stigmatise Whistler’s devilishly
intelligent work as “a pot of paint flung in
the face of the public.” Besides, the . task
of hurling Turner into the same public’s in-
apprehensive visage had rather tired Ruskin
out. Hypnotised by this one aspect of
Eternity, lie seems to have felt that it lay
within his power to transmute the flux of
the world into a golden immobility by ejacu-
lating “Stay! Thou art so fair.” All Eng-
land would listen, at any riite.
But the world goes on. History cannot re-
peat itself. There is no return in the action
of life. Richard Wilson derives from Claude ;
Crome from Hobbema. Each loved his
master, and both masters were worthy the
love of such disciples. But Wilson leaves
the world precisely where Claude left it;
whereas Crome, digging into his own spirit
for the substance of his definition —and of
course he had no right to dig anywhere else
for it —has given his landscape a significance
that cannot be denied even to-day. A poet
who writes “like Sliakspeare” or, as Sir
William Watson does, “like Milton,” is a
thoroughly bad poet. Samuel Butler’s com-
positions in the manner of Handel are
worthless; and I, who have never heard
them, may say so with as much authority
as anyone.
The world goes on, and the arts are an
ever-living record of the human spirit con-
tinually re-creating that world. Thus the
artists that matter most are those that
define most successfully each hitherto uu-
emerged and unsuspected rhythm in the con-
tinuity of the universe. Doubtless, the public
(“the gross body of the people,” in Burke’s
delightful phrase) is often very slow in the
uptake. But your perfect artist —Praxi-
teles, Keats, Corot —he who captures Eter-
nity with every completed gesture of expres-
sion, can well afford to wait. To-day
Sliakspeare, Leonardo da Vinci and Sebastian
Bach are as much our contemporaries
as Einstein and Epstein are. Two centuries
ago they belonged definitely to the past.
Beethoven was a great gun to the Victorians,
and he is in consequence decidedly old-
fashioned to-day; but when we are old-
fashioned the bright young men will be tell-
ing each other about him.
And so this sinewy and derisive Nemesis
slinks for ever by the side of the innocent
critic. Let him pronounce but once in terms
of temporal relativity upon a thing of eter-
nal beauty, and for a decade he must die to
the sound of inextinguishable laughter.
Horace Shipp, an apologist for Lawrence
Atkinson, has already swept the Cubists into
limbo with his assertion that they failed
because they eliminated the curve. One had
thought, by the way, that this arbitrary
taboo of all curves was their special claim
to truth of vision. It seems, however, that
another of their little weaknesses was an in-
escapable “representationalism” in statement.
The Cubist portrait was thus doubly dam-
nable: first in consisting of angles only;
secondly in looking, no matter how weirdly,
like a man. And it follows that your proper
artist —Lawrence Atkinson, in fact —is not
insensitive either to the lure of curves or
the formidable opacity of angles, embodying
both in his work as the necessity of the mood
(plus, I suppose, that of the seen object)
moves him. That the result is entirely
meaningless without its label is an objection
easily enough evaded by declaring that the
Abstractionist artist is endowed with a
sense, or super-sense, that penetrates the
visualised surface and reveals the essential
rhuthmos, or “movement,” of the object in
contemplation. The assumption here is that
Praxiteles and Rodin are contemporaries
with only a trivial variation in the surface:
of their work; and that Atkinson, who appa-
rently has never been guilty of mistaking
contour for content, represents in himself
the first renascence of mind since men began
to shape marble into symbols of beauty.
One would like to ask the omniscient Mr.
Shipp a few questions. Why should a
thing seen be delineated otherwise than as
seen? Atkinson takes this idea of a bird,
for instance, and builds it into an abstrac-
tional arrangement of angles, an arrange-
ment that is admittedly more suggestive of
a bird than the piece that he calls “Earth-
bound,” since the latter is more squat and
lumpish (though even that might pass,
labelled “Egg-bound” or “Fowl brooding”) ;
but of the bird as you and I see it there is
no hint at definition. Does he know more
about Bird than the God that made it? And,
then, on what grounds was the piece awarded
a gold medal at Milan? As a representa-
tion of its subject? If not, how could any
judge make the award? And if so, isn’t the
whole theory of “non-representational art”
thereby blown out? Beauty being eternal,
the artist can afford to wait, I said just
now; but by what process of the spirit is
the spectator ever to become amenable to an
art that “dodges conception”—a picture or
a poem or a symphony that is not sufficient
to the soul, as the sky and stars and the
familiar lovely world are? By what autho-
rity, in short, does the modern artist discard
the obligations, hot to say the courtesies,
that are implied in the very act of his inter-
preting the universe for us, his inarticulate
fellows? We have a right to know; and I
for one shall be grateful enough, I trust, to
the man that can scatter my darkness.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Captain Cook
Professor G. A. Wood, of the University
of Sydney, did a great service to the study of
Australian history when he published his
“Discovery of Australia” two or three years
ago, and those who have read it will remem-
ber with delight liis chapter on Captain Cook.
Now the Melbourne branch of Macmillan’s
has brought out a small volume which may
be regarded, perhaps, as supplementary to
the larger work. The Voyage of the Endeavour
is admittedly written for the boys and girls
of Australia and Maoriland, but its author
expresses a hope that it may be “not unin-
teresting for men and women.” It will be
more than that. Few historians have ever
written with greater charm than Professor
Wood, and none with a more intimate know-
ledge of this present subject. . The little book
is a careful study of the Endeavour’s famous
voyage of 1768-71, prefaced by a brief
and lucid account of the earlier navigators
—Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch, English and
French —who went looking for a problemati-
cal southern continent. But it is also an
entirely fascinating account of the ship her-
self, and of the 94 people who sailed in her,
from commanding officer to ship’s boy. Where
have we ever read before, for instance, of
John Thomson, the cook? Captain Francis
Bayldon takes the Professor over the craft
he has studied so minutely and with such
valuable results, and we get this delightful
passage, so typical of all the rest of the
work:—
But how provisions taste depends a good deal on
the cook. “Climb up this ladder to the lower deck,”
says our friend. “You’ll find things pretty comfortable
again. At all events you’ll be able to stand upright,
for on the Endeavour there are seven feet between
lower and upper decks, whereas in a warship there
are only five or six. Now walk forward, and you 11
find John Thomson in his galley or kitchen—when
we go on the upper deck, we’ll see his kitchen
chimney coming out abaft the foremast. As tor
John Thomson, the fact is, we seamen would like
to know a little more about him and his cookery •• • •
John Thomson proved a thoroughly good cook.
No complaints about his dishes are made in the
journals, and I’m sure complaints would have been
made had his cookery been bad. The captain, says
one who travelled with him in his last voyage,
“always kept a good table.” He expected a cook, as
well as other men, to do his duty, and he would
have said something strong had John Thomson failed
to do this. Mr. Joseph Banks, who had eaten the
best dinners in London and thoroughly enjoyed Thom-
son’s porridge at breakfast, says that a shark cooked
by Thomson was so good that everyone, from the
captain to the swabber, dined heartily upon it,
and describes a soup made by Thomson out of a
cuttlefish as “one of the best soups I ever ate.
Who would not be delighted to get a cook who could
show such a testimonial from Mr. Joseph Banks !
I’m sure that John Thomson’s cookery had a great
deal to do with the success of the voyage. And it
is with regret that I read in the captains journal
that among four men who died in one day in the
dreadful voyage from Batavia to the Cape was
‘‘John Thomson, ship’s cook.” I think that the captain
might have found time, even on that sad day, to
write one sentence in praise of the thousand good
dinners John Thomson had,cooked on the Endeavour.
A charming and valuable contribution to
Australian history and literature.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A Satchel of Books
Jiie Perennial Bachelor , by Anne Parrish (Heine-
mann). An American story of milestones dating'
back to the days when Stopesian literature found no
place even on the top shelf, and dear mamma in the
eleventh year of her marriage “had had seven babies
and was expecting another.” The author, with quiet
humor, gives us a family history up to our own mad
days, leaving stranded in them the lonely figure
of the “hardy perennial bachelor” making a Sunday
afternoon call at what used to be his home. He
and three old-maid sisters used to live here. One
of them went dippy from sex repression ” remarks
Dorothy the modern girl. “Too bad they dmnt
have her psyched. There’s only one left, and she
certainly is the hole in the doughnut.” This story
of changing days and ways provides reflective reading.
.4 History of Cricket, by H. S. Altham (Allen
and Unwin). Some of the worst books written
about cricket have been perpetrated by the greatest
players; they sell, if they sell at all, because of
the authors’ names. Altham, a good but by no means
distinguished cricketer —he captained Repton,
struggled into the Oxford XI as a senior and is
now a master at Winchester —has produced an infi-
nitely better book than most of the writers whose
names are household words in pavilions. It deals
with the history of the game from a couple of
centuries back, and pays special attention to the
developments of the past 50 years; it eschews
stodgy statistics and dreary advice. Altogether as
comprehensive and readable a book on cricket as
was ever published. There is a foreword by Lord
Harris.
A Short History of Christianity, by Albert Houtin
(Fisher Unwin). This translation by Lady Frazer
from the French provides a useful record of
Christian development from its origins—once
described by Voltaire as “the impenetrable darkness
which shrouds the cradle of the new-born church’
—to times when, in the words of the author,
“Christians, consciously or unconsciously, are more
or less persuaded to view this universe in a new
light cast by the historical and natural sciences,
which, the world over, are gradually displacing
ancient mythological ideas.” M. Houtin has kept
faithfully to the principles enunciated by Pope Leo
XIII. that “the first rule of history is not to lie;
the second is not to fear speaking the truth ; finally,
the historian should be above lending himself either
to flattery or animosity.”


M
You adjust the Stewart to suit
yourself. A little red wrench is
provided, and the turning of a nut
is all that is needed.
Let Them All Come!
Big bumps and little—ruts, potholes or
cobblestones —as many as you like, and
as fast as you like
wltSmifn
—the all-efficient Absorber
will take every one
It works so rapidly that it is ready for action at any time and at all times.
This is one great feature that has helped to make Stewart the most
successful of shock-absorbing devices.
Passengers and car alike benefit, for the Stewart takes the shocks of
ruts and potholes on the roughest roads and converts them from
harassing, damaging bumps to a succession of gentle rolling motions.
Set (4) for medium-weight cars, £lO/10/-
Set (4) for Chevrolet, Rugby , Overland 4 and
other light cars, £B/101-
Set (2) for Ford, £5 10/-
WHEN ORDERING STATE NAME OF CAR AND YEAR.
Obtainable from Garages, Car Agents, Accessories Dealers, and
from Stewart Service Stations as under:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., SYDNEY; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., MELBOURNE;
Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., BRISBANE; Cornell, Limited, ADELAIDE;
Arthur Christian, PERTH.
Distributors of
sMewmb-Wwmen 7
Accessories
There’s nothing to go wrong in
the Stewart.
No strap breaking and no binding.


á
The Best
Known Motor
Truck in
the World
m
*
If
Vl~
»
\ 11 _
v«\rri
Li
Republic Trucks waste no time. They start earning
from the moment they are placed in service until
the end of their remarkably long lives. Remem-
bering that Republic has more trucks in action
to-day than any other exclusive
truck manufacturer in the world,
that over 70,000 owners have
proved the supremacy of Repub-
lic, you cannot question the real
economy of this famous range.
economical
performance
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
George Mason & Rasch, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowie House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


K
SKF
High Efficiency Transmission Units
The very complete range of SKF Equipment for line-shafting and
power transmission includes Self-aligning Ball-bearing Hangers,
Plummer Blocks, Angle Plummer Blocks, Rigid Housings and every
description of Transmission Accessory.
SKF
the
means
ight hearin
the
right
an
place
THE SKF BALL BEARING CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE - 595 BOURKE STREET.
SYDNEY - 45 KING STREET.
REPRESENTATIVES IN ALL STATES.
â
VIRTUE IN VARIETY.
have just the right kind of musical instrument you are
requiring.
No matter what particular type you might fancy, you can
obtain it from this famous firm.
The world s best products, either of violins, mandolins,
banjos, cellos, guitars, autoharps, “Topnotcher” accordeons
and mouth-organs, flutes, band instruments, H.M.V. gramo-
phones, Maxim phonographs, Columbia grafonolas, etc., are
always stocked for your immediate possession and pleasure.
i ' • s
Any one of these instruments will give you a lifetime of joy.
Inquire about them to-day, or write for price list and catalogues of the particular
instrument you are interested in.
♦ J ««i
If
V,
CATALOGUES FREE.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
ã
EASY TERMS.
206-210 Pitt Street,
Sydney.


u
Cuticura Talcum
Is The Ideal Powder
Its purity, smoothness and fra-
grance, combined with antiseptic
and prophylactic properties which
help to overcome disagreeable
odors, make it an essential toilet
requisite.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment la. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: '"R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Supreme
where quality
counts . ><
THE PERpgCg&NCIL
/
& C. HARDTMUTH,
LONDON. ENGLAND
Agent : J. Mackottqah,,g.P.o. IGs. Sydney.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
"'GOOROCKKKLTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-for a good
/ night's rest
lake
3
it will ensure
a good day 's
In 4 sizes "Wife
of all Chemists
and Stores
Quality Durability Economy.
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
Is the best golf ball you can play.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:—
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [1
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed —
ä
I THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuc
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Jcnow.
A Most Exceptional Offer
in Stainless Steel Cutlery
Wade and Butcher Manufacture.
For a limited period only Stewart Dawson’s are offering this
Special Bargain in Stainless Steel Cutlery. Each knife is Guar-
anteed Firth’s Stainless Steel throughout, with White Zylonite
balanced square Handles. The name of the manufacturers (Wade
and Butcher) is a “household word” for dependability.
This is a most exceptional offer —the Value is unapproachable
anywhere for Quality.
BOXED IN HALF-DOZENS, AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE
KNIVES
16/6
Half Do i.
å
DESSERT
KNIVES
Higher Grades in Wade and Butcher Stainless Cutlery, Mirror
finish, both square and round handles. Prices: —•
Table Knives, 25/- Half Dozen.
Dessert Knives, 24/- Half Dozen.
Wade and Butcher Real Knife Sharpeners,
2/- to 4/6 each.
Call and inspect these wonderful offers without delay.
Catalogue of Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, etc., Post Free to
Country Residents.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N SW ), I.TIX
412 George Street Strand Corner.
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
Two Sydney
Establishments:
ROAD-MAKING MADE EASY.
For Road-builcling. Repairing and Maintenance, the
Martin Ditcher is the best instrument devised. It
grades, terraces and cleans with ease. The
moderate cost, adaptability, strength, and service
with horses or tractor make it the close friend ot
every municipal and shire engineer.
ă
| AVrite to Desk B. |
GHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
519 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
T.T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
Does the Work
of 100 Men.
I-lOV YOUNG
, ' V
YOU BE AT
FIFTY ?
What does
your Mirror.
THov ?
I/S uour Mair its natural color or showing a
threads o? silver grew? <y°ur fri.en.ds
will not discriminate these days \grey Man* to
4-1 „ sr v.uoni worn nr\ chnil n Tin Kfi Cl
D'Allens W
CAN
VAL.NUT STAIN
With.this harmless, clean and simple liquid .grey
or faded hair can be tinted to rts natural girlish
color in. any reguired sKad© .It is Loist-mg, sate
ana easily applied.
Obtainable at ail ©Kerrasts and Stores*
WHOLESALE ONLY
DUZRDIN AND SAINSBURY LV*
MELBOURNE.
4
a
▼
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
WEP
m
POST FREE
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Signs.
If I loved you, long ago
I could never tell.
When you came to hurt me so
Then I knew full well.
While I sighed and wore the rue
Still my heart was shared.
When I turned to laugh at you,
Dear, how much I cared!
N.S.W.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
A-strolling.
Though through lonesome busliland wends
This the track that we are taking,
On it we shall meet with friends —
Friends a-many, music making.
When most solemn seems the hush
Of the trees that we walk under,
Suddenly we’ll hear a thrush
Filling all the morn with wonder.
Then, as morning grows more ripe,
Grows enrobed in fuller splendor,
We shall hear the magpie pipe,
Hear the reed-bird, shy and tender.
Hear the honeyeater, too,
Singing in green glades and sunny,
Bidding us, as we pass through,
Seek and eat life’s sweetest honey.
Then, to finish off the day,
When the sun goes down and after,
Kookaburras, maying gay,
Shall lift peal on peal of laughter.
* * * *
Wherefore, since the skies are blue,
And the mist far off is rolling,
Having nought to-day to do,
Let us up and go a-strolling.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Green Way.
I walked a green way
When the year was Spring;
I saw a red tree,
And a blue bird’s wing.
I saw buttercups
Down a winding lane;
They shone goldenly
Through the Spring's white rain.
I saw a tall youth
As he sauntered by;
He tossed a glad song
To a larkspur sky.
I gave him a smile,
For the year was Spring,
When trees oft are lit
By a blue bird’s wing.
N.S.W.
IVY GIBBS.
Great Composers.
Wliat noble qualities of soul were theirs
Who, listening within the heart, could hear
These sounding harmonies, these melting airs
And moving cadences that swell and grow
And dying fall upon the tingling ear
In matchless beauty from the long ago.
In loftiness and majesty of mind
They wrote in lyric or in tragic mood,
Bequeathed their inspirations thus enshrined
In loveliness immortal, grave and gay,
Interpreted by string and vibrant wood,
Emotions swaying as the blown buds sway.
A thread of gold among the colored strands,
Through the sweet maze of music glides
the theme,
The while the artist weaves with loving
hands
The web of which the patterned whole is
wrought.
In melody the dreamer tells his dream,
In tones celestial his inmost thought.
Voice answers voice, and still the beauties
grow.
The air is filled with raptured harmonies,
Blending and echoing through ebb and flow
Of liquid melody, a golden tide
Of music sweeping onward to a sea
Of sound that surges limitless and wide.
How reverend were these who held within
Themselves perennial founts of sacred
sound,
Who sang to harp and horn and violin
Inspiring strains for after-years! They trod
The mountain-tops upon the holy ground,
And in the spirit spake and walked with God.
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
Morning.
When o’er the skyline dim
The lights of morning rise,
Soft as a murmured hymn
Whose scarce-borne cadence dies,
1 see new visions swim,
Deep-shadowed in your eyes.
When forest singers greet
The day with quickening note,
And in the air. all sweet,
Their trembling measures float,
I hear your low voice beat
Slow pulses in your throat.
Warm-leafed against the dawn
The tender gumtops sway,
Like jewels on the lawn
The lighted dcwdrops play....
Oli ! if your hand had drawn
Your curtain, I would say:
“Here is Dawn’s self, arrayed
In dreams and visions white,
By spirit hands portrayed,
Her wakening eyes alight
With new-born stars that strayed
Outside the gates of night.”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


ą
&
\i
/W : '
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine Label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
IM£LI


THE LITTLE MAN WHO HAS TO DO THE WORK
“Australia shows an increasing inclination to government by boards and commissions, appointments to which are flavored by political friendships and party considerations.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William MaclEod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosmari, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia,
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street,
London Office : No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISIIED~ONCE A WEEK.
'PE It MS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to Any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 mouths, £1 l t s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ; 3 months, 7,5.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.j 6
months, 15s , Gd.; 3 months, Bs,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
ail business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknoivledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he. obtained from him or
the__l>ookstaH in the Alain Hail at Australia
House. 4 i so f rom M ess rs, Gordon and Gotch. 75-
?!i Earring don Street, London, E.C.J/.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, It r dams Buildings,
London, E.C.h.; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” hlh-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.- — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and, .'find Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West h Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7 01/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, I.a.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon.— lt. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.h.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional hoz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 19, 1926.
SHALL THE PART BE GREATER
THAN THE WHOLE?
“The interests of a developing nation-State,”
said a great English authority, “need the
continual re-adjustment of the powers
allotted to its Constitution.” There is no-
thing inherently static m even a written
Constitution. Its needs change with the pro-
gress of the nation. We have only to look
at the USA to see this- 19 -amendment*
uie u.0.-a.. to see mis, IS amendments
have been made in the Great Charter of the
Republic. When therefore an amendment
of tie Australian’ Constitution is called for,
it is not a vital thrust at any essential prin-
ciple, but a normal development of national
life. It is well to clear this ground, for in
the coming referendum many well-meaning
ncnnlc mnv vco-ictoi. n “Me” A, s
legister a £0 on the questions
submitted 111 the belief that they are thereby
° f Constitution.
” e egregious. error could he made. A
4nstralil 10 vi-nL a P lece of machinery, and as
Ti csvivnnt- ni maclline . r Y n } ll / S t S r . ow -
Hrm cA ’ , original.Constitu-
p s. ibly be formulated with a fore-
sight that would meet all future contin-
gencies.
What was found in the U.S.A. has been
found here. With the growth of national
industries it becomes at some point essen-
tial to lift the control—very frequently the
conflicting controls—out of the hands of the
►States and put it into those of the Federa-
tion. If this is not done economic pro-
blems arise that set State against State and
create antagonisms where, in the interests of
the Commonwea’th, there should be harmony.
It has not bee' for want of urging on the
part of The R' --eetin if there are Austra-
lians who have < yet begun to think in
terms of a eontin., but if ever there was
an occasion on whici. the broad view should
be taken it is at this time, with Referendum
Day close at hand. On all large issues touch-
ing the financial, commercial, industrial and
social life of Australia the ultimate power
must, if We are to succeed as a nation, rest
in the hands of the national Government.
More than half the trouble of the European
situation to-day arises out of the fact that
26 barriers of State against State are set
up in an area, excluding Russia, of 2,100,000
square miles—without any central harmonis-
ing authority. The U.S.A. Constitution —
and it is a very useful object-lesson to us—
was framed in the pre-industrial epoch of
that country, and was found inadequate
to meet the conditions of the complex indus-
trial era that later succeeded. Labor legis-
lation could be carried by the States up to
a point where only internal demands had
to be met, but it was found wholly ineffec-
tual, and vicious to the Commonwealth, when
industry reached a point of conflict in hours,
wages and conditions between State and
State. At such a point it was found essen-
tial for the welfare of the Republic to en-
large the powers of the Constitution to cover
the new and difficult position. That is just
the stage now reached by Australia. We
have set up a uniform Customs barrier
against the outer world. But that unifor-
mity is an illusion if the same authority
which sets up the tariff does not control in-
dustrial conditions. The Protection that a
country needs is governed very largely by its
industrial conditions. The tariff that is
adequate for a State with a 48-hour week
would be. quite inadequate for one, otherwise
equal, with a 30-hour week. Is it desired
to . maintain the Australian Customs—to
maintain inter-State Frcetrade and a com-
mon tariff on the outer borders? If it is,
the situation demands Federal control also
over industrial conditions; and we cannot
have that without the amendment of the
Constitution now asked for.
* * * *
At the close of last year N. S. Wales wit-
nessed industrial strife whose effects were
not limited to its own shores and shipping,
but struck at the industrial and commercial
life of the whole continent. The Federal
Government attempted in the interests of
all Australia to intervene and hold up the
mischief-makers. The facts in the matter
are so recent that they need not be recounted.
The result was that it found itself impotent
to exercise any effectual control. The Gov-
ernment went to the country for a mandate
from the electors to introduce legislation
which would enable it to meet such a con-
tingency. With the facts fresh in the public
mind it was returned at the polls by an
overwhelming majority. It has now drafted
submissions to the people embodying pro-
posals for carrying out the wishes of the
Commonwealth as expressed at that poll. In
one important respect only have the amend-
ments outlined by the Prime Minister when
before the people been added to, and that is
in the power asked to legislate in respect of
corporations. Uniformity in companies law
has long been called for. At present each
State has its own law with varying dates of
enactment and varying provisions. It was
thought when the Federal Constitution was
passed that this power was conferred, but
judicial decision has determined otherwise.
In all other respects the Constitutional amend-
ments asked for —providing that power shall
be given to the Commonwealth to regulate
industry and secure the continuance of
essential services in industrial crises, to re-
move the causes of conflict between State and
State and between Commonwealth and
States in Arbitration awards and to secure
a degree of uniformity in industrial con-
ditions and rewards —were before the electors
last December, and the only answer they
can give on Referendum Day consis-
tent with the support they gave to
the Bruce-Pages in December 'is Yes-
Yes. Fear that in giving such an
answer the effect may recoil on the com-
munity at some future time when, perhaps,
power may have passed into the hands of
Labor is not only contemptible but foolish.
Extremists in office, should such a calamity
happen, will pay scant respect to any Con-
stitution. It is man-made and can be man-
destroyed. In the last resort tyrannical gov-
ernment will govern despite any Constitution.
Nor is there any real basis for the fear that
Labor in office in the Federal Government,
elected as the Federal Parliament is, will fall
to the low point of respect or reach the de-
gree of unintelligence now shown in some of
the State Legislatures. At all events, the
risks, if any, must be taken, and fears for
the future must not be allowed to stand in
the way of necessary reforms in the present.
A VISIONARY IN ENGLAND.
H e was a fantastic visionary, his name was
( and is) Beard, and this (by cable) was
} df , vision:
Mr. John Beard, in his presidential address at
the triennial conference of the General Workers’
TJn, ° n - admitted that there must be a limit to the
continual demands for a shorter working week The
greatest social advance should be in the direction of
hoiidays on pay. Tf every working man and woman
i 5 r B th?re”*“d be’no S™KS!
doubt, be classed as a mad proposition, but so were
compulsory education, old-age pensions, and un-
employment and health insurance schemes. Towards
th .e cost , of the holidays the nation would save
millions in unemployment and sick pay, and above
all the present awful demoralisation of the urn
employed would be avoided.
The idea is so characteristic that it will
most probably catch on. A very little per-
sistence should suffice to make it a feature
in Labor programmes. Still, a great differ-
ence exists and a great gulf yawns between
compulsory education, old-age pensions and
health insurance on one hand, and on the
other the present-day mania for chopping
one-twelfth or more off the working day and
then, in addition, one-twelfth off the working
year, and demanding one-sixth more wages,
without thinking out any plan for making up
the loss by extra efficiency. The first set of
ideas didn’t tend to reduce production, while
hardly any of the present-day propositions
tend to anything else. The condensed tale of
Britain’s misfortunes is that the country
does some £336,000,000 worth pet annum
too little worki That of Australia is that
the country does about £33,000,000 per
annum too little work. These amounts re-
present the surplus of imports over the ex-
ports which ought to pay for them. Britain
fills the gap by the interest on foreign in*
vestments or by selling foreign investments
and eating up capital. Australia, which isn’t
blessed with foreign investments, floats new
loans to fill the gap. Meanwhile the men
who ought to earn good wages by filling the
gap are unemployed. The eternal specific
of hidebound Labor-leaders is always the
same—to do less work and make the jobs go
round. And the eternal result is that pro-
duction is less, which leaves room for more
imports, and the cost of production is greater,
which makes it more difficult to compete
against imports. So unemployment is aggra-
vated both ways. Then, as a remedy
disease, some more of the disease is pre-
scribed.
*' * * *
The problem of sufficient production stands
by itself. It doesn’t mix up with the griev-
ance of a hereditary peerage, or a landed
aristocracy, or an Established Church, or
militarism, or a narrow franchise, or the lack
of republican institutions, or with anything
except itself. Australia has no hereditary
peerage, or Established Church, or militar-
ism. It has wide franchises, free education,
old-age pensions, invalid pensions, short
working hours, the basic wage, workmen’s
compensation devices, trial by jury, stacks
of republican institutions and public owner-
ship of railways: and 91 per cent, of the
soil belongs wholly to the various Govern-
ments, which are the public in the fullest
sense. Yet Australia is up against exactly
the same problem as Britain, which is, by
comparison, full of antiquated devices and
medieval survivals. The problem is that the
community doesn’t produce enough to employ
its people, so that there are too many idle
and unproductive folk, and that it consumes
too much in proportion, so that it is con-
stantly giving away work to foreigners and
is constantly poor through the struggle to
find the means to pay them. In a land
where the nation governs itself, as it does
in Australia, and knows how to do it, as it
apparently doesn’t in Australia, legislation
can deal fairly well with every other habitual
evil, the term “habitual” being used to ex-
clude invasion, unavoidable pestilence and
wild and inexcusable performances of
Nature. Legislation can put on tariffs, and
put off popes and kings, and put in Ministries
and put out undesirable immigrants. But to
remedy the national evil of keeping a staff
of superfluous servants, who have to be paid
in part either out of capital or out of loans,
requires some sort of spiritual awakening.
* * * ♦
Improved machinery and increased effici-
ency, the result of better education, have
made it possible to pay higher wages for
a fair eight hours’ work than last generation
could pay for 12 hours. Eurther improve-
ment might make seven hours per day pos-
sible, or five days per week, and even 11 months
per annum in addition. But hidebound Labor
leaders take little interest in machinery. They
rigidly discourage efficiency by enacting that
good work shall get no more reward than
bad, and hinder production by cast-iron limi-
tation of output. Recently an Australian
Labor Premier of the suburban office breed
declared that his Government would take
care—lots of care —that employers didn’t dis-
criminate between the fit and the unfit, and
as the fit are paid no more than the unfit, and
are also liable to get into trouble on sus-
picion of “speeding up,” the unfit are apt to
multiply. Trade unions don’t undertake to
supply good workmen, though they can raise
no end of disturbance about the non-employ-
ment of bad workmen or rotary workmen.
The idea of those in charge is to maintain
the union movement by ,a system of compul-
sory military service as rigid as the systems
of Prussia and Sparta, to keep the industrial
army always on a war footing, and to prefer
strife to either peace or arbitration because
it exercises the fighting-machine and keeps
the leaders in evidence. And as all the
war discipline and this Balkan type of scrap-
ping obstruct work, the ideal of the Beards
and their kind recedes rather than ap-
proaches. If it continues to recede it will
fall backward over a precipice into savagery
and break its insane neck.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unions’ Changed Position.
In the early days the situation of the trades
unions was comparatively simple. All they
had to do was to close their ranks as com-
pactly as possible and battle with Capital-
ism for a reduction in hours or an increase
in wages. To-day the case is far otherwise.
Organised Labor has other and higher aspira-
tions. It desires Labor Governments. It is
driving more or less unsteadily towards a
socialistic goal, yet at the same time is riven
by a fierce conflict with its Communist
faction. It has to face the problem of Im-
perialistic duties and obligations whenever
it gets to the Treasury benches. It has
preached the general strike as a] grand
manoeuvre against its foes and has discovered
it to be a futility. It demands to-day that, at
the call of the unions, men must break with-
out scruple or hesitation the most binding
agreements with their employers and recog-
nise one obligation only—that towards the
labor organisation of which they are mem-
bers. The old purely “defence organisation”
idea has departed. A century ago the em-
ployer held a position of overwhelming
advantage. The law was on his side. Par-
liament was filled with his fellows and pro-
perty buttressed him. Labor representation
was unknown, and the ruling and middle
classes were with the employer all the time.
The unions defended themselves by the strike
and by the introduction of restrictions on
the power of the boss. The leaders of the
unions were often men of great tenacity and
courage, for weak men could not stand the
strain. Bit by bit they broke down the
despotic power of the employers and com-
pelled society to revise its ancient narrow
view that economic law required the toilers
to remain for ever in a state of semi-servi-
tude. To-day the law is largely with the
worker. Parliament listens daily to his voice
and heeds it. The trade unions are, in
some respects, a more formidable power than
e 7 ei ‘‘ But, Unfortunately, they retain
the old narrow Outlook, and it cramps them.
They ate still prone to act on the
tion that organised Labor is a rebel body.
That phase is past. The rebellion has
been won; the job ahead is industrial re-
construction. But industrial reconstruction
planned and carried out by employees with-
out the co-operation of employers is not a
possibility, as Russia has demonstrated. If
industry is to flourish there must be an
understanding between employers and em-
ployees, in the creating of which the unions
might be all powerful. Take, for instance,
the matter of agreements. Suppose the
union leaders commenced by preaching that
these for the time of their duration should
be held sacred, what a changed atmosphere
would be apparent! Suppose the unions
recognised that to make a levy on a man for
the support of a political journal of w r hose
views he disapproved was an iniquitous pro
ceeding, what a source of bitterness would be
removed from the arena! If union leaders
again would study the reasons for America’s
industrial progress and stability, as com-
pared with our local chaos, and truthfully
tell the men how things really stand, instead
of pandering eternally to class prejudice, what
a revolution might soon be effected! Had
the union leaders in England stood out
against the general strike and exposed its
blatant foolishness, how much higher would
they stand in public esteem to-day!
What the unionist needs to realise for a
start is that he is no longer a rebel or an
outlaw, He is a citizen with recognised
rights and responsibilities, and, as such, re-
construction and not mere kicking against
the pricks is his function,
♦
Sentimental Soldier-settlementi
According to evidence given before the
Speck’s commission of inquiry into soldier-
settlement, the department responsible for
administering the Act has run the show on a
basis of one part business and three parts
sentiment. The result shows about the
same proportion in success and failure. Some
800 of the original 2000 soldier-settlers still
hold on to their farms; the other 1200 func-
tioned as farmers, etc., for varying periods
and gradually faded off their holdings, Some
of them probably wandered away in search
of live-stock and implements which had gone
missing in the night, and they may be still fol-
lowing the tracks. Others discovered, with
their first crop, such a serious disparity be-
tween the fertility of their land and the fer-
tility of their land-agent that they promptly
started off in pursuit of the latter, armed with
the axe which the Government had supplied
on the instalment system. It is feared that
the gent, who sold the pup to the soldier has
not yet been overtaken, though dinkum pur-
suers, still grasping the time-payment weap-
ons, have been reported from places far apart.
Digger settlers of the calmer variety— i.e. the
sort that under the quiet of their lonely
selections soonest recovered from the excite-
ment of the frantic rush for farms —sized up
the situation more philosophically. They
reflected that, as the land-owners who had
been paid two millions of money for some
68,000 acres of alleged farms, stock and equip-
ment had probably promptly and patriotically
invested the loot in Commonwealth tax-free
loans, there was no chance of getting any of
the purchase money back; so there was no-
thing for it but acceptance by the community
(including the repat. soldiers) of the interest
burden. But as it was realised that only
those Diggers who were born farmers, and
exceptionally favored ones at that, could
possibly contribute to that general interest
burden in addition to making a living on their
own interest-burdened farms, the squarest
thing to do was to forfeit the holdings
and get to work at some occupation in which
they might be a help and not a hindrance to
their country. Hundreds of Tasmanian sol-
dier-settlers followed this plan, and many of
them are now earning a living and a little
towards the keep of the patriotic tax-free
bondholders in their own or some other State.
As to the deserted holdings left on the hands
of the present Tas. Government (which had
no part in the demented farm-purchase orgy,
but which finds itself compelled to accept the
legacy from its Nationalist predecessors)
well, some of them will be sold cheap, as
farms of sorts, and others will be sold cheaper
to become absorbed once again into the big
estates. Tasmania, in common with the other
sentimental States, not only bought the land
for soldiers at an impossible price (average,
£7 9s. 6d. per acre) and suffered something
like a million pounds loss on soldier settle-
ment ; it lost the land-tax formerly collected
on the 69,000 acres, as soldier-settlers are
exempt from land-tax for some five years. It
also lost the income-tax it would have re-
ceived if the money paid for the farms had
been re-invested in the State, instead of find-
ing a secure home in Commonwealth tax-free
loans. After all, the State rulers who were
so sentimentally silly as to attempt to settle
soldiers on the land without the slightest
effort to ascertain their qualifications as
farmers deserved nothing better than failure,
and those particularly fervid sentimentalists
who permitted land-jobbers to exploit a patri-
otic repatriation for unpatriotic profits would
be none the worse for a searching shower-
bath of public contumely. Perhaps, when the
full strength of the repat. swindles is sensed
by the taxpayers of the Commonwealth, there
will be something doing in the way of insis-
tent demands for reparations or disgorge-
ments or something. Or have we grown too
sentimental to dislodge the birds who have
fouled the nests of the repatriated heroes?
Commissioner Fraser’s Millions.
The Ma State’s Chief Railway Commis-
sioner, James Fraser, delights upon occa-
sion to rise up and talk about millions.
Lately he talked about millions to the
Institution of Engineers, which heard, with-
out any outward signs of dismay, or even
of amazement, that railway works in hand in
and around Sydney are going to cost nearly
£26,000,000 —and that is reckoning in only


two-thirds of the cost of the Big Bridge. Yet
there was some reason for dismay on the
part of any good citizen who heard the
recital, for after mentioning all the econo-
mies that are expected to flow from electri-
fication and the huge extra traffic that is
anticipated when the subterranean lines are
m use i the Commissioner could promise a
surplus, after interest had been paid, of
only £200,000 a. year. If past experience
is any guide neither that nor anything like it
W * 5P a terialise. But even if it does it won’t
put the railways on a business basis. They
AA??rv/ date approximately a round
±100,000,000, and it would require an earn-
ing capacity of at least per cent, on capi-
tal to pay interest and provide a sinking
fund. In the five years ended 1024 the
earning capacity was just a shade under 4f
per cent, on capital, and since then, under the
influence of the thoughtful and statesman-
like Mr. Lang, it hasn’t improved. But Mr.
Iraser doesn’t even admit that some day
the railways will have to be paid for. That
day may not come until railways have been
finally superseded by flying-machines or
motor-’buses or wireless electric contrap-
tions, but it looms somewhere in the future,
and if the railways are not made to pay
for themselves while they are a going con-
cern they won’t ever be paid for and pos-
terity will have another large, heavy mill-
stone tethered to its neck. The necessity
for paying borrowed money remains even when
it is admitted, as most politicians and some
statesmen admit, that transport charges
ought to be kept at below cost in order to
"develop the resources of the country.” There
is no ascertainable way—except repudiation
—of _ permanently evading debt redemption.
Admiration for Mr. Fraser’s millions would
be keener, then, if ultimate repudiation didn’t
seem to be bound up in the financial system
he administers.
. ♦
Justice for Sale.
The devil’s brigade banquet over the Hodg-
son _v. Hodgson divorce suit has left the
parties concerned in a general state of finan-
cial squash, and the Costs imps have lost
interest in it. Mrs. Hodgson, objecting to
the verdict, wanted to go further; but, her
barrister having withdrawn, her appeal was
struck out by the N.S.W. Full Court. Captain
Hammond also appealed, but the Full Court
decided against him. The petitioner, Hodg-
son, hit for his own and his wife’s costs,
was given the right to recover £l6OO from
the co-res.—when and if he can. Ham-
mond’s appeal held off the day of settlement
regarding that amount; but Hodgson will
probably be a surprised man if he ever plucks
much from that gooseberry-bush. A last
effort to see if there was any juice left was
made when Mrs. Hodgson’s solicitors asked
the Court to order Hodgson to find security
for his wife’s costs on her appeal; but a
clerk testified that when he called upon
Hodgson to see about the still unpaid
amount, that party remarked that all he had
was fourpence-ha’penny and was Long Bay
comfortable? It was after this failure that
the lady’s legal advisers threw in the sponge,
they cannot be blamed, of course; but the
financial ruin of all these people, with the
ultimate inability of Mrs. Hodgson to secure
a further hearing, which she could have
obtained easily enough had there been any
further money extractable from the action,
is a commentary upon the scandalous costs
allowed to be piled upon proceedings in our
eaai 'ts- If complete justice is only obtain-
able. by those who have unlimited money,
justice is sold as surely as if money was paid
directly to the judiciary. The basis of the
scandal lies in the way in which the pro-
longation of the case was allowed when
Hodgson appeared as a well-feathered
pigeon, offering good plucking. The case
then dragged out for weeks; the several cases
concerning it which cropped up last week
were despatched with remarkable rapidity,
now that all the available, pockets have been
well rifled. One would like to think that
no share of the blame lies with the Judges;
but it is impossible to come to any such
conclusion.
The Quack.
L.C.M.”; Every intelligent person must
„ endorse the views expressed by
M L.is. in “Witch Doctors, Ancient and
Modern” (B. 22/7/’26). There are few of
as, young or old, who have not seen the
tragic results of the handiwork of quacks.
Uith Ah Why, the Chinese herbalist, and
HIRAM K., the spondylotherapist, I’d like to
class the chemist who practises medicine.
Luckily for us all, the chemist (or druggist,
as lie should be called) is mostly a decent’
conscientious chap who realises his limita-
tions, and doesn’t try to turn his shop into
an amateur consulting-room. But here and
there a chemist, on the strength of two years’
instruction in botany, chemistry and the
nature of drugs, attempts to treat all the ills
that flesh is heir to, with disastrous results.
1 -i; lve , seen a young girl, hopelessly crippled
With rheumatoid arthritis, carried into a
public hospital. For 18 months she had been
treated by a chemist, who had charged her
~ss. a week for his_ mixtures. Now, a mix-
tara is the last thing that has any appre-
ciable effect on rheumatoid arthritis. In its
early stages this baffling disease is more or
less successfully treated by the removal of
septic foci, by various applications of heat
and electricity and by radical hygienic mea-
sures ; but drugs have little effect other than
a palliative one. I know of another chemist
whose daughter died of diphtheria a few
hours after a medical man had been sum-
moned. Her father had been treating her
sore throat with a mixture until she was
moribund. Then there is the type of chemist
commonly met with in the more -disreputable
parts of the cities, who, • in spite of V.D.
Acts, treats the commoner form of venereai
disease with mixtures, without attempting
to. administer or recommend the thorough-
going local treatment which alone makes a
cure possible. However, it is futile to rail at
Air Why, Hiram K. or the prescribing chem-
ist, because at its present stage of educa-
tion the public loves them and will have
them, in spite of the obvious facts that these
persons venture to diagnose disease with
little or no knowledge of human anatomy, or
of scientific reasoning, and to treat it with-
out such great modern aids to treatment as
bacteriology and surgery. The more absurd
the statements of a quack the more highly
does the public esteem him. A well-educated
woman, headmistress in one of our schools,
consulted a grubby little herbalist about her
throat. She came away quite happy. ‘He
put a mirror down my throat,” she said,
“and had a good look at my heart, stomach
and liver. He said that the former two
organs were normal, but that he could see
some spots on the liver. He gave me some
medicine for these spots, as he says they
are the cause of the throat trouble.” The
public is still extremely credulous, and, as
Rose Macaulay regretfully observes, there
are more female fools than male fools. Like
most other modern problems, this question
of eliminating quackery boils down to the
matter of education. Such education is the
aim of Sir Arbutiinot Lane’s New Health
Society, which hopes to disseminate clear
and modern ideas on health, physiology and
hygiene. One wonders at the freezing dis-
approval his crusade is encountering at the
hands of the a body which should
welcome any attempt to lighten that dark-
ness in which Ah Why, Hiram K. and
others of that ilk continue to flourish.
4 —
Wanted—-a Map of Australia.
General Gellibrand, in the House of
Representatives on August 10, said that it
would take 3000 years at the present rate
of progress to complete the Defence Survey
of the Commonwealth. It is time Australia
realised the danger that lies in the fact. The
mapping of only very small areas, and those
mostly in the vicinity of the capitals, has
been attempted. Ordinary road and tourist
guides are of very little use militarily, as
they lack the tactical and topographical in-
formation which is of supreme importance.
Accurate military maps are essential; with-
out them it is difficult to have that co-opera-
tion between air and land forces, and be-
tween the different arms, formations and
units of a land force, which is so essential;
further, the co-ordination of the operations of
the units of a military force, upon which
success so much depends, is greatly facili-
tated by the use of maps on which every
known move of the game can quickly and
easily be followed out, and the proper rela-
tion of events to one another and to the
topography of the battlefield be appreciated.
In war it is, moreover, most important to
get tactical information through quickly. By
the use of aeroplanes, captive balloons and
other forms of reconnaissance and observa-
tion, we should be successful in obtaining
information; but unless we have good maps
with a proper grid or other system of giving
quick, brief and accurate map references as
to locality, longer descriptions will be en-
tailed, necessitating more work in wireless-
ing, telegraphing or telephoning, with con-
sequent delay. This might easily result in
the missing of opportunities for successful
or even decisive action, or, conversely, might
preclude the taking of urgent action in time
to counter some move on the part of our
adversaries. Australian officers know well
how the bad maps issued to them for Gal-
lipoli handicapped the A.1.F., and it was
not until an accurate Turkish map was cap-
tured some time after the landing that mat-
ters improved in this respect. Australia be-
ing a big country, very few know in detail
any part where fighting is liable to take
place. Most commanders, staffs and regi-
niental officers would therefore be fighting
in country which they have never seen, and
the only way they can hope to get a know-
ledge of the lay of the ground will be by
studying an accurate contoured map. Army
Headquarters Staff are in no way to blame
for the inadequate area so far dealt with.
On the contrary, they are doing all possible
to make bricks without straw, and maps
without money. Certainly money cannot be
obtained from any other part of the Army
vote, as that is already too ridiculously
inadequate.
4
Concerning an Island of Manure.
The inquiry by Arthur Robinson, ex-
Attorney-Generai of Victoria, into the
domestic affairs of the British Phosphates
Commission which administers ex-German
Nauru and Ocean Island revealed that the
triumvirate was an unhappy family, which
fact was known before, but disclosed little
else that was of importance. Harold Pope,
the Australian representative, was declared
to be a conscientious if somewhat undip-
lomatic official, who nevertheless had the
interests of Australia at heart. Dickenson,
the English representative, appears to be an
extremely undiplomatic if not overbearing
bureaucrat, with no particular solicitude for
this country; and the Maoriland represen-
tative, Ellis, seems to be a cipher in attend-
ance on the British nominee. The trouble
seems to have started when Pope insisted on
obtaining as much as possible of the phos-
phate for this country before selling any
surplus to foreign countries. The English
member opposed this policy ; the Maoriland
member first supported Pope and then went
over to the other side. Pope considered
that this change of front was influenced by
the fact that Kllis had received heavy com-
pensation for loss of office from the Pacific
Phosphate Company, of which Dickenson
was liquidator. Whether or not Pope’s
“extraordinary suspicions” were well founded
could hardly be disclosed at an inquiry which
the gentlemen who have been called in ques-
tion did not attend. On May 26, 1926, the
British Government cabled to Bruce that
Dickenson had met to its complete satis-
faction the imputations put on him by Pope •
but this does not imply that a judicial in-
quiry has been held. In the upshot Pope has
been given three months’ salary and dis-
missed. The unsettled question as to whether
I ope was right in believing that Australia’s
interests in the phosphates are being out-
voted by a hostile majority is sufficiently im-
portant to call for a thorough investigation.
4
Australian Wines.
“Hotham”: I read lately that eight leading
British importers were featuring a “sweet
red wine” from Australia. Years ago the
name, of Australian wine was injured in
Britain by some importer who flooded the
country with a coarse, heavy red wine, which
was more like plum brandy than grape mice
Lnder a smart trade-name, well labelled ami
bottled it was advertised on every hoarding
in England. Many of those who tried it
once swore to never again buv a glass of
Australian, wine. No doubt the “sweet red”
of to-day is of better quality than the old-
time “pinky” with the pretty name, but it
is very unlikely to enhance the reputation
of Australian vintages. Of all the fine wines
which this country produces, the white, still
wines of the chablis, sauterne and hock type
are the best, though some of the clarets run
them close. We hear nothing of these typical
Australian vintages on the English market,
though French wines of a like type, but of
inferior quality, have a ready sale. Aus-
tralia is even more obsessed with the heavy
red wine fetich than Britain. Nine-tenths
of all that is sold over the counter in the big
cities is of this type. Some day Australia
will wake up to the fact that there are
many delightful wines which can be drunk
as beverages, and not taken as “wads.” Mean-
time I suppose it is no good blaming the
British merchant for pushing the sale, not
of our excellent hock, chablis, sauterne,
claret, “dry” sherry and burgundy, but of
the “sweet red” stuff, since it is that which
the average Australian himself prefers above
all others.
♦
Our People are Always Wrong.
“Sol. Malapkop” answers “Feng-Shui” :
It is just possible for a writer like “Feng-Shui”
to be led into too many side tracks, even though he
only set out with the harmless idea of justifying the
murder of air-meehanic Elliott on the general
and familiar principle that the colored man, and
especially the colored homicide, is always right, and
the white man, especially the British one, always
wrong. One scream leads to another. France doesn’t
want Syria as “another recruiting ground for black
troops,” partly because black troops don’t grow
there. The Arab army from Arabia which “turned
the Turkish eastern flank in the final shove of 1918”
had no earthly connection with Mesopotamia. These
people got the independence which was promised—-
that is to say, the Allies rescued them from the Turk
and set up the independent kingdom of Hedjaz. The
kingdom went to pieces in 1925, through internal
dissensions, for the Arab is mostly shooting some-
body. The British rescued Mesopotamia from the
Turk, and the people elected an Arab king in 1921
—one of the Hedjaz crowd. A British force is still
on hand to keep off the Turk, but it is being reduced
as the native army is organised. It is hoped that
the expense of defending Iraq will be saved by
shoving the responsibility on the League of Nations,
and Iraq has undertaken to apply for membership.
It is held by some that Belshazzar, or, rather, his
father, was the last king of a separate and recognised
State down that way till the British made room for
the new monarch.
It is held by some that if Britain had wanted
Mespot so badly for oil or flying purposes as
“Feng-Shui” says, it would have prevented the
Arab king, and the native army, and the Parliament,
and the rest. There is much loose talk about the.
oily wealth of Mesopotamia, but oil isn’t mentioned
among its exports unless the article has just arrived.
As late as 1924 a list of 20 petroleum-raising coun-
tries was published. It began with the great sup-
pliers—United States, Mexico, Russia, Persia, Dutch
Indies, Roumania, Venezuela, Peru and at last got
down to poor little Czecho-Slovakia. Mesopotamia
wasn’t mentioned, nor was the Roma bore; but
great possibilities are taken for granted.
I am unable to quite grasp why “Feng-Shui”
says that “Asia Minor presents the customary spec-
tacle of rival European imperialisms covertly at
war.” None of the events he complains about
happened anywhere near Asia Minor, and the only
imperialisms left now in Europe are those of
Britain and Bulgaria. The alleged selling of British
arms to the Turk is dragged in by Mr. Shui as
evidence of his contention that the white nation most
actively engaged in the scramble for the colored
man’s property “usually gets stabbed in the back
by its fellow Caucasians.” Was Britain trying to
stab itself in the back by selling weapons to the
Turk, or what ? The positive assurance that the
Mesopotamian business will land Britain and us in
war with the Turk will prove correct if there is
a war, and if the Turkish republic sends a fleet here,
or we send an army to Turkey. There being doubts
all round, that kind of prophecy is a boyish business.
And I am rather interested in “Feng-Shui’s” defi-
nition of a “mad-dog imperialist,” who is apparently
any person who won’t, without hesitation, give a
clean moral bill of health to any invisible marksman
who shoots an unoffending British subject, provided
the slayer is supposed to be colored, and isn’t a
white person from Surry Hills. In defence he says
that the .bombing of villages in Iraq was a matter
of “common knowledge.” Some knowledge is dread-
fully common. An orator hereabouts declared the
other day that it is a matter of common knowledge -
that white Australian workmen will be “shot down
by thousands” if the proposed amendments of the
Federal Constitution are carried. Incidentally, I
regard Mr. Shui as a gratuitous person. No one
was saying anything extra bad about his pet Arab
when he rushed in with an agitated whitewash bucket
and a panting brush.
❖
Three Missionaries Go Out to Mish.
Prime Minister Bruce lias announced the
names of the three Commissioners who are
to “control” the northern section of the
Northern Territory if the unions and the
Federal Parliament will let them, and also
to manage adjacent bits of Westralia and
Queensland if the State Government and the
unions and the Federal Parliament will let
them. These substitutes for direct railway
communication and cheap freights consist of
a mining man from Mount Morgan, the chair-
man of the local Land Board, which never
appears to be allowed to supply land to any-
body, and a Federal railway-construction
engineer. The billets are fixed for five years,
though fixtures are uncertain things, and the
wages are to be £2500, £l5OO and £l5OO per
annum respectively. It is presumed that these
three intrepid souis, or some of them, will be
deposited a reasonable distance from the
coast, so that they won’t be so handy for
assault and deportation as Administrator
Gilrutii was. There being no railway com-
munication with any southern city, they will
depend for their food (except bullock), drink
(except water) and clothes (except bark and
leaves and hides) on the long sea route, the
precarious steamer which is sometimes not
permitted to unload at Darwin, and the
little local train which won’t be allowed to
start from Darwin if a strike should happen.
Thus the Commission will occupy a weak
strategic position, its best (one might almost
say its only) line of retreat being in the
hands of a Power which has proved itself
hostile in the past and is more than likely
to do so again. The situation will resemble
in some respects that of the missionary who
went out among the heathen in days' when
the world was wide and also wild. The mis-
sionary man trusted likewise to moral
suasion as the means for achieving anything,
and was heard from occasionally as potter-
ing about in the interior—till his letters
ceased. The idea of appointing the
Three Missionaries to “control” the
pet province which Peakce built, or is
building, is marred by the fact that they
won’t control anything. It is assumed that
they will submit bigger schemes and ask
Parliament for more money than their pre-
decessors, but it doesn’t follow that they will
do either, nor does it follow that they will
get more. They may get less. They have no
specific instructions save to be influences
for good in a general and pervading sort of
way. In fact, they are gospellers, going out
to convert the wilderness instead of the un-
believer.
4
The Progress of Australian-made Goods.
“Babarantiko” : I view virtually all new
goods placed on the largest Australian market,
that of Sydney, whence they go through
N.S.W. and other States. One large dis-
tributing house has for years exclusively
offered tool and implement handles made
from Australian woods. Another hardware
house has for many years in its own factory
turned out tool handles and handles for hoes,
rakes, hayforks, shovels, picks, etc., in stan-
dard circumferences and lengths, using
mountain-ash grown at a height of 3500
feet on Mount Kosciusko. From selected
ash grown in the same locality this firm
manufactures boat-oars, and stocks an aver-
age of 4000 oars in assorted sizes, and
makes any length to order. The makers’
claim that these products equal the best
imported is borne out by so steadily increas-
ing a trade that their manufacture now
exceeds in quantity' the importations into
Australia, and their oars are exported to
and are largely in use throughout the Islands.
New Guinea and elsewhere in the Southern
Hemisphere. Nowadays wholesale houses
generally stock both Australian-made and
imported handles impartially, and retailers
buy the former quite freely. One large
Sydney firm dealing principally in plumbers’
and builders’ supplies specialises in bossing
and bending sticks, bobbing and turn pins
and lead dressers made of Australian box-
wood. Until recently such wood-tools were
all imported. So confident of the excellence
of these Australian tools is the firm that
they are sold with a guarantee to replace
each one which fails when in use. Austra-
lians generally don’t yet realise the extent
to which Australian-made goods fill ware-
house-shelves, going thence to retailers, and
the public purchases the goods without a
thought as to whether they are made in
Australia or abroad. I see Australian-made
goods cheek-by-jowl with imported, in
appearance equal and even superior to the
imported. Those who insist upon Australian-
made goods find no difficulty in having their
preference gratified. The vast majority of
buyers do not care where the goods are made;
it is merely a question of appearance and
price. On the whole, too, the retailer’s
profit on Australian-made goods is now a
shade higher than on imported even though
the manufacturer is apt to base-his whole-
sale price upon that of the imported article.
The notion that the world is all mapped out
arid nothing remains to pique man’s curi-
osity isn’t borne out by the facts. Approxi-
mately 200 expeditions have set out, or are
preparing to set out this year, on voyages
of exploration. They include seven inquiries
by air and water into Polar affairs; three
Egyptian expeditions, one to the Gobi desert
to discover more dinosaur eggs, one to find
out how the snow mountains of Greenland
affect the climate of the British Isles; one
to Central Asia to study the influence of elec-
tronic streams on the world’s weather; two
to chart the skies of Chile and S’Africa; one
to Queen Dido's buried capital; and a joint
enterprise of Chicago and Oxford Universi-
ties to locate the Garden of Eden. Unknown
Alaska will also be investigated for gold and
silver by Canadian tourists; a joint Dutch
and American body is flying about Dutch
Papua; and a Yankee ship is proceeding to
the Antarctic to settle once for all whether
the whale is a polygamist or is faithful to
one .spouse. Some of the objectives seem
fantastic, but their sponsors assert that they
all have a sound scientific basis. Most of
them emanate from the U.S.A., whose mil-
lionaires have all the gold and are at their
wits’ end how to spend it. Some of the
caravans are unbelievably luxurious, and
there is little likelihood of picturesque hero-
isms coming out of them. Nevertheless it is
good to know that if the Leichhardts, the
Sturts and the Forrests are gone for ever,
the day of the romantic scientist is only just
begun, and that even when the world is one
vast suburban area there will still be the
stars and the electrons.
G. S. Waddell, president of the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association, has been giving the
public a few interesting facts about dead
meat. He says that prices as far as growers
are concerned are very low. Mutton has
dropped 50 per cent, in the last four months,
and N.S.W., particularly Sydney, should
be enjoying a feast of cheap meat. It cer-
tainly isn’t; retail prices have gone on
climbing. Freight charges, shorter hours and
higher wages have, no doubt, the usual bear-
ing on the matter, but about the only other
excuses offered by the retailers are “the
superfluity of shops” and the “fastidious
tastes of customers.” People are alleged
to demand only choice cuts, such as
rump steak, sirloin and loin chops. The un-
happy butcher, it seems, has to carry the
rest of the carcase at a dead loss. But, as
no one has heard of a retailer giving away
such alleged discards as legs or shoulders of
mutton, the story is unconvincing. Any
householder frequenting the average butcher’s
shop, if he has a practical knowledge of
“cutting up,” will insist that extortionate
profits are being made by retailers. And
these profits don’t come from the choice cuts,
which not 90 per cent, of the average butcher’s
customers can afford to buy, but from infer-
ior cuts sold as superior at ultra-superior
prices. That in its turn explains the
trade’s other excuse of a “superfluity of
shops”—everyone who can is rushing to get
on to the good thing.
4
“Sixenate” : The N.S.W. citizen can
command the services of his publicans
for 72 hours a week, his grocers on
5| days, his doctors whenever he needs
them, and his civil servants whenever
he can attract their attention; but if he


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926
AGENTS WANTED.
_ Head Office: 129 I‘iit Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE, Manager and Secretary.
\ lctorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager. ‘
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
Is Your Ship Coming Home?
Most of us are deriving anticipatory pleasure from dreams of what we are
going to do when our ship comes home,” which is only, another way of saying
rliat we would do great things if Fortune came to us unexpectedly.
Unfortunately it is a hard fact that fortunes rarely come that way, and our
future well-being mostly depends upon our own efforts and wise plannings.
What are you doing for yours V
A Savings Account is your best insurance against the future. One shilling
starts an account and regular deposits and accumulating interest will do the rest.
Open an account now with the
Commonwealth lank of flnstralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
wants to transact some business in his law
courts there are periods of the year when
he finds the doors closed upon him for weeks
together. There is the nearly two months’
long vacation at the end and the beginning of
the year, as well as other gaps in business
activity during which the wronged or de-
frauded citizen regards Magna Cliarta, which
says that justice shall not be delayed, as a
liar. The vacation habit is an old one, and
the Law believes in the maintenance of old
habits; but the Judges of the N.S.W. Sup-
reme Court are so impressed with the
public inconvenience caused by this one that
they invited the opinion of the Incorporated
Law Institute as to the advisability of a
change. As usual, the Institute was not pre-
pared to go far; so apparently the public will
have to apply pressure. The courts should be
and might easily be open all the year round
except on public holidays. A system of re-
lieving Judges and other officers would make
it possible for the staff to receive their holi-
days in rotation instead of cn masse. A
few barristers might object; the steady flow
of business might rob them of a few fees if
they wanted rest or relaxation; but the
junior Bar would be jubilant at the intro-
duction of a new system, and it would be an
immense public convenience. That, after all,
is the main consideration.
♦
When airman Gorham arrived at Essen-
don, outside Melbourne, he was greeted by
14,000 well-meaning savages and 1000 ili-
meaning ones, and there were great doings.
The barriers and the official reception
arrangements were swept away; the aero-
plane was damaged; the broadcasting
machine went down like a bit of fluff in a
heavy sea; somebody got away with a micro-
phone; and some dozens of human beings
had to be removed for medical treatment.
The Mayor of Melbourne was swept far out
on the human surf, but was happily rescued
before the sharks ate him. But for luck
and skill the machine’s propeller might have
made a Roman holiday. The fact was that
the Allancock Government had only 40
police, without batons, to keep order, aul
they were swamped with the rest. It was
marvellous that it found 40, for the ill-paid
and ill-chosen Victorian force is so small
as to be almost invisible. The papers fill
columns with hold-up stories, generally add-
ing that most of the looted keep quiet about
their losses, regarding police protection as
non-existent, and knowing the push to be
vindictive. A recent tale concerned a land-
agent whose Collins-street office was raided
about three in the afternoon by four armed
men. He was an agent of no great luck, for
next afternoon at five the same crowd robbed
him again in Collins-street itself, and
knocked him about for being an unprofitable
subject. Collins-street looks like one of the
Empire’s great thoroughfares, but the dis-
pirited policeman is so scarce there that the
only way to find him is to ring him up,
which takes time, even if the criminals
haven’t cut the telephone. One of the mat-
ters which make the policeman dispirited is
the difficulty of getting a conviction when
lie captures anybody, even if the captive
doesn’t abscond after being bailed out by a
fellow-criminal whose name on the bail-
bond is Smith.
“The Traveller”; At this season of the
year there is an exodus of shearers and wool-
shed . hands from Victoria to the northern
districts of N. S. Wales. On a recent Monday
there were 200 such men on the train from
Maryborough to Mildura. For many of them
standing-room only could be found on the
long night journey. Surely better arrange-
ments could be made. Either the shearers
should have pre-arranged days to travel, with
a special train assigned to them, or the
ordinary trains should be strengthened to
meet the rush. During the same week a
• Reso” train was run over the line to Mil-
dura. Its luxurious accommodation was in
marked contrast to the provision made for
file workers. Such contrasts in treatment
lead to nasty remarks.
♦
Doric’ : Inhabitants of the Speck are also
raising their objections to the filming of
"His Natural Life.” They might demonstrate
their sincerity by advertising their own early-
“jjy history less assiduously themselves.
Whenever the tourist goes around Hobart lie
has convicts thrust upon him——he is shown
the old prisons and invited to buy curios
of the grimmest sort. A day at Port Arthur is
always reckoned an attraction, with the guide
pouring forth all the horrors that were per-
petrated in that settlement in the bad old
days—and many that were not.
*
Victoria’s Council of Education has been
making inquiries as to opportunities for
young Australians to enter the British Dip-
lomatic and Colonial Services. The reply
received has been quite in keeping with the
traditions of the Stiltstalkings and Tite
Barnacles ; they don’t think the bally
notion would work at all. The main diffi-
culty, it is feared, would be the—ah “main-
tenance of a standard of selection sufficiently
close to that applied in London,” a delicate
hint as to possible hereditary deficiencies,
———————
perhaps. It is feared also that a thorough
knowledge of European languages could not
be acquired in Australia, and examiners in
these subjects would obviously be difficult to
find in this benighted outpost. The com-
munique closes with the intimation that
vacancies in the Colonial Office service which
could be filled by Australians would be very
small. Yet it is not so long ago that the
Colonial Office was glad to levy on Australia
for most of its New Guinea officials, and a
pretty fair job of it most of them made.
One need go no further than the opening up
and development of Papua under Australian
officials and the conditions in the Solomons
under the C.O. to get an apt comparison in
relative efficiency.
4
An Adelaide hotelkeeper has had impressed
on him the importance not only of getting
a receipt for money paid but of keeping it.
Owing his doctor £2O, Bung took the oppor-
tunity of a chance visit from the medico to
discharge his liability. About six months
later he received an account for the amount
he had already paid, and hunted vainly for
his receipt. Presently he w r as served with
a summons, and, wrathful though he was. he
paid up sooner than go to court. Some time
later lie found his first receipt, and repaired
with both documents to his lawyer to recover
the amount he had paid the second time.
THE LOVE TOKEN.
But the Court decided against Bung, hold-
ing that money paid under compulsion of
legal process cannot be recovered.
*
Now that several Australian Governments
are badly in need of more railway revenue
the managers might get together and con-
sider rates in a general way. As the Oeei-
ctal Year Book summarises them, they are
a weird collection. The charges are given
for- 50, 100, 200, 300, 400 and 500 miles,
except in Tasmania, which stops at 300—
anything beyond that would send the train
overboard. Some goods are charged more
than others to such an extent that the high-
est rate for carrying a ton weight 100 miles
is 80s. 4d. (Queensland), while the lowest
is 4s. Id. (Westralia). For high-priced
freight, Queensland is always above the
average; for every distance except 500 miles
it demands more than any other State. For
the low-priced freight it always demands less
than the average, but it never contrives to be
the lowest —Westralia takes that place for
this class of goods at every distance. For
carrying one ton of high-freight cargo 100
miles the prices range from 80s. 4d. (Q.)
down to 635. 3d. (Vic.) ; average, 765. 2d.
For dragging a ton of low-priced freight
100 miles, Westralia asks 4s. Id., Queens-
land 4s. 2d., N.S.W, 6s. Dd., and Tasmania
10s. lOd. The average is 6s. 6d. The prin-
ciple adopted is chiefly that of helping the
“primary producer.” For instance, in
N.S.W., carpets and ironmongery are in the
highest class (up to 765. Bd. for 100 miles),
and farm produce, manures, wire-netting and
posts and rails in the lowest (down to 6s. 9d.
for 100 miles). In passenger fares the dis-
crepancies are not so great; Tasmania levies
the highest fare every time, while Westraiia
has the lowest charges at some distances
and is almost always below the average.
Probably to get square, it consistently col-
lects from the Commonwealth the highest
subsidy under the per capita arrangement,
and is, as a rule, also the person most
aggrieved about other things.
* __
It is Australian mutton exporters who have
now struck a bad patch on the road. Bri-
tain lias placed restrictions on the importa-
tion of carcases from which the lymphatic
glands have been removed. This removal fol-
lows a disease of the glands which has often
been discussed in The Bulletin
as “yolk boil”; it occurs all over
the body, and is so common that
the news of the British restrictions
dropped the price of “freezers” at
Ilomebush. Hitherto it has not
been looked on as likely to cause
injury to health, and only very bad
cases have been rejected here or in
Britain; it is much more common
in Argentine carcases than in Aus-
tralian. Nevertheless, the new
restrictions ban any carcase show-
ing signs of the disease, or minus
the lymphatic glands. Getting rid
of the causative bacillus, which is
supposed to enter the sheep’s sys-
tem by grass-seed perforations, is
the problem which growers will
now have to tackle.
*
Dear Bulletin, —Professor Daw-
son, of the Sydney Uni., has made
the latest appeal for the more ex-
tensive use of native shrubs and
trees in our streets, parks and gar-
dens. He points out that Austra-
lian gums are appreciated in other
parts of the world, which is the
usual excuse given for demand-
ing a more practical love of them
here; but it must be remembered
that our gums are foreign there,
so precisely tlxe same human weakness for
the exotic is being repeated in those lands.
But there is behind this planting of imported
trees and shrubs a very practical side that
is generally lost sight of. The various species
of eucalypts are exported from Australia
as seeds which carry no pests, and so they
are planted under conditions that free them
from the borers, ring-barkers, gall-makers
and foliage-eaters that they would otherwise be
subjected to. That this gives them an advan-
tage over the locally-grown trees is proved
by the abundant and symmetrical foliage to
be found on eucalypts throughout the world
except in Australia. Whereas native shrubs
and trees are subject to their pests, the in-
troduced varieties are mainly imported in a
clean condition and thrive well in con-
sequence.—Yours, Ento.
♦
“Derma” : The split between the War Ser-
vice Homes Commission and the State Sav-
ings Bank of Victoria has been inevitable
for some time, mainly owing to an uncer-
tainty as to which is in supreme control.
There. should be one recognised authority
to which Diggers can refer complaints. 1
was unfortunate enough, after 12 months'
occupancy, to find my War Service home
riddled with borers. On seeking assistance from
the Commissioner I was referred to the bank,
which in turn sent me back to the Com-
missioner, who referred me to the bank, and
so it goes on. The striking success of the
Savings Bank with the Credit Foncier and
other housing schemes has shown its ability
to carry out this class of w T ork, and it will
be a calamity it Diggers are denied its
assistance on account of a little departmen-
tal jealousy.
♦
“Bouragi" : Viscount Sandown has achieved
a day’s fame by telling the House of Com-
mons about the dreadful social and moral
conditions obtaining in the Western Pacific,
and especially in the Solomons and there-
abouts. Referring particularly to Govern-
ment officials, he said there was an appalling
amount of insanity among them, and that
young fellows should not be isolated in lonely
stations, hundreds of miles from other
whites, and surrounded by hordes of Ton-
deleyos. The writer, with a good first-
hand knowledge of Solomon officials and their
confreres of British New Guinea in days
when conditions were far rougher than they
are at present, dispassionately assures his
Dudship that his revelations are all rubbish.
Malaria, quinine and (occasionally) too
much whisky took their toll of official and
unofficial white sojourners, but a case of
insanity through loneliness, or anything else,
has never come under my notice. In such
places, as a rule, there is so much work to
do that there is little time for morbid intro-
spection,' and I cannot recall a station in
the Solomons or Papua “hundreds of miles”
from other whites, or where officers are sta-
tioned singly. Ilis Ludship has been told
a tale.
+
A point of interest to people in what used
to be German New Guinea was raised in the
House of Commons when someone wanted
to know whether the Imperial Conference
would consider the question of extending
Imperial preference to mandated territories.
This can be done, but reciprocation is out
of the mandated territory’s power, and the
bargain is. therefore, one-sided, though Aus-
tralia, which is carrying out an equivalent
undertaking as regards Papua, will probably
find that arrangement worth while in the long
run. But the power of reciprocation on the
part of mandated territories can only be
granted by the unanimous consent of the
Council of the League of Nations, and there
would be no chance of getting that.
In fulfilment of the terms of the Washington
Treaty, a commission of foreigners is in
China looking for evidence that that dis-
tracted country is in a ripe state to be given
legal power over white residents. Freshly-
whitewashed prisons and tomes of laws
have been produced for the edification of the
inquirers, in the endeavor to bluff the world
that a modern legal system has been evolved
and is in operation. Aw kward incidents like
the execution without trial of newspaper
editors for _ saying unpleasant things about
the local military desperado are spoiling the
picture, however. The best indication that
Australians and others are not yet safe in
Chinese hands is supplied by Soviet Russia.
The Government of that country voluntarily
relinquished its extra-territorial rights in
China, hoping to steal a march on the “capi-
talistic” powers by so doing. It is now
anxiously asking for most of them back.
♦
“Son. M.”: Queensland abolished capital
punishment despite the command, dropped
direct from Heaven, in Exodus xxi, 12,
that the slayer shall be passed out, and Jus-
tice MacNaughton was obviously sorry for
the fact the other day. The prisoner had
seduced a girl, and then got rid of his liability
by beguiling her to a quiet spot, where he
battered her fatally. His Honor sentenced
him to hard labor till the day of his death,
that being the limit. Queensland hasn’t
hanged anybody since 1913, but it wasn’t
till 1922 that immunity was made certain.
Next year (1923) there were in the Common-
wealth 15 convictions for murder and
attempted ditto, and Queensland supplied
seven of them (six successful and one at-
tempt), though three w-ould have been a
fair thing for its population. When the new
crowd reached office, the State had 19 mur-
derers in its gaols, 13 of them nominally in
till their dying day. Yet only one prisoner
died in the Queensland gaols during 1923.
and it looks as if even lifers seldom stay long
enough in these receptacles to attend their
own funerals there.
NOTICE UNDER COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any articles or paragraphs on these pages that
require a signature, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and
James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney, accept
the responsibility.


r phe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
lor
9°
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVA NITERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
fjfiV
9
POLITICAL
POINTS
A larger question even than whether Aus-
tralia should vote Yes or No has arisen out
of the present referendum campaign. It is
whether the referendum itself shall be re-
tained as a piece of democratic machinery.
The one purpose of the referendum is to
ascertain the opinion of the majority of indi-
vidual electors, without reference to parties;
but if party bosses intrude and insist upon
members of their party voting in a certain
way, on pain of expulsion, then the referen-
dum becomes a farce. In effect the popular
appeal is really an audit; but if the auditor
is instructed how to do his job, and threat-
ened with punishment if he doesn’t do it
in one particular way, it is worse than a
farce —it is a fraud.
It looks as if nothing will come of Pri-
minister Bruce’s well-intentioned scheme
for sending a pai’ty of employers and em-
ployees to the U.S.A. to find out for them-
selves how it is that so many workmen there
can afford to ride to work in motor-cars.
The difficulty is to get men who will see
things with two eyes and write with a free
hand when they come home. The trouble
with most of us is that we commit ourselves
to some policy or other when we are about
20, and spend the rest of our lives picking
up bits of evidence to prove that we are
right. Which is one reason why every pro-
posal to reduce the age for voters below 21
ought to be trampled on. There is a lot
more to be said for lifting it a bit higher
—in unions and elsewhere.
Eggleston is relinquishing the Yic. Rail-
way portfolio, but will continue to rule over
Law and Electricity. As Premier Allan is
disinclined to take the Railways himself; he
will probably ask Bourchier, who now con-
trols Agriculture, to tack on the overlord-
ship of Clapp, Shannon and Molomby.
Eggleston is shedding the railways ostensibly
because he is overworked, but there is a
suspicion that he finds he cannot please both
the Cabinet and Clapp in respect to the
amount of the increase of freights and fares.
Clapp wants £850,000 extra, and the Cabinet
is inclined to grant only another £250,000
or £275,000.
N.S.W. Minister for Lands Loughlin in-
dignantly denied the other day that he had
offered meat-expert Kay the vacant job of
Forestry Commissioner. Kay himself gave
the news of the “offer” to the press, and
Loughlin could only beseech the public not
to think so badly as that of the Government.
Almost simultaneously Minister for Health
Cann was ridiculing the suggestion that he
would ever ask Kay about anything. By this
time Kay probably realises that, as he has
served his purpose, tenderness for his feel-
ings isn’t going to embarrass his benefactors.
Growing Australian cotton for export
seems, like growing sugar, a hopeless pro-
position, though there is room for a profit-
able little industry in growing it to supply
local factories. Therefore, the Bruce Gov-
ernment has planned a bounty not exceed-
ing £120,000 per annum for the production
of cotton, and another not exceeding £60,000
a year for the production of yarn. There
are really very few “primary” businesses in
which Australia contrives to run an export
trade unless they are protected. In 1924-25,
a remarkably good year, the country sold
161 millions’ worth abroad. Of this 63f
millions’ worth was wool and 40£ millions’
worth was wheat and flour. As to wheat and
flour, the tariff protects the local market
from sudden shocks through Hindus and
others dumping surpluses on our market.
The other outstanding export was butter
(£10,000,000), a manufactured article which
lately came into prominence under Protec-
tion. N. S. Wales used often to import it
in pre-Federation days. These facts imply
that even "primary” industries don’t grow
wild.
Wearied oi attempting to convince electors
of the beauties of his Workers’ Compensation
law, N.S.W. Minister for Labor Badly has
set out to explain the imperfections of the
referendum proposals. He is aghast to
think that they may result in N.S.W. losing
its lovely new system of industrial concilia-
tion, and having the old method of arbitra-
tion “by Judges selected by Mr. Bruce” re-
imposed in its place. It is hard to see where
one system administered by lawyers ap-
pointed by Bruce differs in essentials from
another administered by lawyers appointed
by Lang. But the criticism exposes what is
apparently the new-Labor idea—that a per-
son appointed to a judicial position should
ever after administer and interpret the law
in accordance with the wishes of the crowd
which gave him his job.
Tasmania will be one of the first problems
that the new Migration and Development
Commission will take in hand, and the Com-
mission will be helped by the fact that its
chairman has for six or eight years been
g.m. of the little State’s biggest single second-
ary industry, Electrolytic Zinc. Its first job
will be to make an economic survey of the
A MATTER OF PERSPECTIVE.
“Some Citizen Force officers are finding difficulty in carrying on their military duties, because they
cannot secure sufficient leave of absence from their employment.”
THE BOSS: “How many times must I tell you, Jenkinson, that I won’t have you wearing
those military clothes in office hours?”
JENKINSON: “Pm off to join my unit — haven’t you read that the country is invaded?”
THE BOSS : “Such, nonsense when there's important things to he done —are you aware
that we’re one and four pence out in the petty cash?”
island and find out where production is
weak; its next will be to suggest ways of
improving it; its third, probably after get-
ting authority from the Federal Parliament,
will be to carry the suggestions into effect,
There is practically no State Department of
experiment stations, and if the State
used in proportion as much fertiliser as Vic-
toria it would use three times more than it
does. The Commission seems to have a job
here which ought to yield practical results,
Great is make-believe. Although they knew
they would have only from 24 to 28 hours
in six sittings this session, private members
of Vic. Assembly cheerfully launched 22 bills
and two declaratory motions last week. They
had already taken six weeks to discuss the
Address-in-Reply, three Supply bills and a
protest against the abolition of per capita
payments. Two measures sponsored by
.Jackson, of Prahran, would take half a
session, if somebody as big as Gillies were
in charge of them. One provides for a
Greater Melbourne Council and the other for
unemployment insurance—two of the most
controversial questions the Vic. Assembly can
face. Toutcher is on the right track with
an elective Ministry motion, but what hope
has he got with such a House?
The complicated sugar position received an
illustration when the Westralian branch of
the C.S.R. Co. announced receipt of this
message from head office
Under direction of the Government of Queensland,
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co., as agents for the
Government, hereby announce that unless the Re-
tailers’ Association will undertake to see that the
retail price of 1A sugar is reduced in Perth and
Fremantle to 4|d. per lb., as in the capital cities
of the Eastern States, by August 16, the Government
will take such steps as will, in their opinion, help
to bring about this result.
It certainly is an iniquitous proceeding to
charge more than 4Jd. per lb. for sugar,
and some people go so far as to think 44d.
iniquitous. Mild surprise was, however, felt
in some quarters at the revelation that one
State Government has so complete a hold on
the sugar monopoly that it can issue orders
in this fashion. It seems more like the Com-
monwealth’s affair.
The sudden resolve of the N. S. Wales A.L.l*.
last week to cancel the calling of fresh nomi-
nations for the Leg. Council is somehow con-
nected with the return of McTiernan. Evi-
dently that young man is not bringing
Premier Lang a bowstring for use on the
State Governor, and to go to his Ex. with
a request for more minions in the Council
would be to court the disaster of a polite
reference to the electors. To avoid that, at
capable.
Costs opened a fat oyster with the first case
under the new N.S.W. Workers’Compensation
Act last Friday. The claim came from a
milk-carter who went down with bronchitis
on July 5 and had a spell of 23 workless
days. He claimed that his job, which took
him out in early-morning fogs, was respon-
sible, and asked the Commission to assess
his compensation. The case took a whole
day, the insurance office calling medical evi-
dence to show that rain and wind are not
responsible for bronchitis; and the Com-
mission is still pondering over it. And there
are hundreds of cases in which the position
of the influenza sufferer has to be ascer-
tained. The indications are that some dis-
illusioned workers will presently be wonder-
ing who is going to compensate them for
costs incurred in prosecuting compensation
actions under what is not so much an Act
as a conundrum.
Keegan, N.S.W. Tabor M.L.0., has
gone one better and declared for a 80-hour
week. Certainly plenty of people manage
with far less. Scores of dossers in Australia
manage on less than 10 hours a week. True,
they aren’t particular where they take their
meals or what they are built of; and if they
have families they have forgotten them. It
is simply a question of how close to the
dosser Keegan wants to get.
Queensland Public Servants’ Union, in con-
ference, has enthusiastically carried a resolu-
tion that the working week should consist
of 36| hours, with no Saturday work. Time
off for smoko, or for morning or afternoon
tea, or for preparing to work or for prepar-
ing to Jeave work, is to be counted as work-
ing time. The usual argument was advanced
that as much work could be done in 36J
hours as in 40 or 44. When a proposal to
cut out Monday as well as Saturday comes
up at next conference, it will probably be
argued that very little work is done on Mon-
days, anyway. And it will be perfectly true.
But somebody has to pay the bill —or owe it.
Queensland taxation is now just a pound a
head higher than the average for all the
States; and even that didn’t stop the debt
climbing from 70 millions to 91 millions in a
recent four years.
Probably because he has been a practical
man of affairs all his life, the report of Prank
Whysall, the Commissioner who was sent to
inquire into the unrest in Norfolk Island,
is a very plain-spoken document. Whysall
found the islanders a handful of simple,
rather suspicious people, neither better nor
worse than most isolated communities, hos-
pitable and easily enough led by those who
get their confidence, but unused to discipline
-—this no doubt largely because there are
no employing industries on the island and
to-morrow is reckoned a good day for doing
most things. Into this community Colonel
Leane carried his military methods and man-
ners, and, with little, if any, knowledge of
civil law to back him up, the result was
plain disaster. On the Commissioner’s
advice he has been relieved of his job; and
Governments ought to know what sort of
man should be sent in future.
The latest strike at Canberra involves the
whole sewer-digging force, and the situation
was set out briefly as follows: —
A deputation from the union waited on the Com-
mission, and admitted quite clearly and definitely
that the men were refusing to work under the
existing award, and would refuse to work under the
new award if on publication it was found that the
new award did not grant what they had applied for.
That seems plain enough, anyhow. Now,
which does the Labor party propose to do —
to throw industrial arbitration out, or these
men ? Obviously it can’t keep them both ;
at least it can’t and be honest.
Is there anything sillier than the fiction
that an Australian Minister of the Crown
must have deputations “introduced” to him
by a member of Parliament? In Adelaide
the other day a deputation from the West
Torrens District Council, headed by the
chairman, waited on Minister Kirkpatrick
abont some departmental matter, and were
just beginning to unfold their grievances
when they were reminded that they hadn’t
been ushered in by the proper intermediary.
The Minister flatly refused to hear them until
the local M.P. had been hunted up to go
through the dreary old formality; and until
the member arrived the deputationists were
as invisible to the Labor stickler for etiquette
as a wigless barrister to a Judge in court.
It is quite true, as Queensland M’s.P. say,
that at present they get only £5OO as
against the Ma State allowance of £875;
but they don’t mention that the cost of Par-
liament is already 2s. 2d. per head of popu-
lation in Queensland as against Is. Bd. in
N. S. Wales —this, of course, owing to the
unnecessary numerosity of the northern M.P.
It seems impossible for a referendum to
raise its head nowadays without somebody
forecasting a bloody revolution if it is car-
ried. Curiously enough, the shriek always
comes from the party which has made the
referendum a plank of its platform. At the
last conscription referendum little Paddy
Minahan, M.L.A., was the prophet. This
time it is Keegan, M.L.C., who predicts
“the bloodiest revolution in history”—a large
order. In plain language, if the majority
expresses itself in a certain way, the
minority will resort to violence. And Keegan
warns the majority not to vote in such a
way as to annoy this minority. The question
arises whether Keegan is a fit person to sit
in a Parliament.
[For any paragraphs on this page that require a
signature under the Electoral Law, J. E. Webb, 214
George-street, Sydney, and M. G. Skipper, 164
Flinders-street, Melbourne, accept the responsibility.]
COLOR-BLIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The A.L.P. threatens to expel the Federal Labor
leader for supporting the Government’s Referendum
proposals. Mr. Charlton replies that the proposals
are in complete conformity with the Labor platform,
and these very powers were previously sought by a
Labor Government.”
When I was young, upon a stool
I learned to read and write,
And how to work out sums by rule,
And pick out black from white.
When I grew up to man’s estate,
My lesson I had learned;
I put away my books and slate,
And to my new- tasks turned.
I joined the Labor ranks that night,
And learned the Labor creed:
I found that black was often white—
It puzzled me, indeed!
In Labor Land, where red is white,
Confusion now I find.
How can I learn my lesson right—
My creed is color-blind !
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
a
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
/
I
... ra
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
MfJSXg'N
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide.
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY, SECURITY.
It is your Duty to appoint an Experienced Executor.
The Trustees, Executors & Agency Company,
Limited.
Its 48 years’ experience in administering Estates of every description is ample
assurance that the Company can manage yours to the best advantage.
Trust Funds administered EXCEED FORTY-ONE MILLIONS.
JAB. BORROWMAN,
General Manager.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT,
Manager.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Call or Write for Booklet.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
ship Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916.. £30,245 13jp.c.= £28,162 £2,083 £55,880
1917.. 28,436 13i „ „ 28,162 274 56,154
1918.. 30,168 13 i „ ~28,162 2,006 58,160
1919.. 27,752 13J „ ~28,162 57,750
1920.. ? 13J „ „ 28,162 ? ?
Co. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issue'd for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
and also one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922:. 26,411 6 „ ~ 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32.156 6 „ ~25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ ~ 25,345 61 10,859
1925.. 30,203 7 „ „ 29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ ~ 29,570 6,925
Although it was necessary to drag £4567
from reserves to pay the 7 p.c., the directors
did it without any expressed hesitation.
This means one of two things: satisfaction
with the outlook, or rashness. The latter
lias not hitherto been charged against the
management; instead the wholesale watering
of 1926 confirmed long-held suspicions that
the co. had been understating profits for many
years before the event. Qualifying that is
the fact that the reconstruction took place
when prices were at their peak and the
heavy fall in shipping values in subsequent
years demanded that book values be cut
back to bring them into accord with present
tonnage costs. Depreciation has not been
specified, but the steady movement of balance-
sheet figures indicates that the provision has
been far from niggardly:—
1922. 1925 1926.
Liquid assets .. £45,961 £76,833 £82,08*9
Liabilities .. .. 47,432 8,440 3,290
Excess liabilities.. £1,471
Surplus assets . . £68,393 £78,799
Fixed assets . . £440,525 £380,308 £365,336
Thus, though on paper the dividend (£29,570)
was not earned, actually the total cash
receipts were £10,406 more than that amount
after paying all c,barges’, including ship
maintenance and for any additions to plant.
The directors, of course, claim that, in spite
of maintenance, the ageing fleet is worth
about £15,000 less than it was a year ago;
and perhaps it is—only the future can decide
that for certain. Undoubtedly there is com-
fort for shareholders in the figures; at the
worst the co., besides paying the dividend, is
making solid cash provision for replacements.
With Manly Steam as with a number of
other oos. the market has been inclined to
judge the future by the past; but the fact
that almost £400,000 of paid capital of
£422,424 represents capitalisations is no sure
indication that history will repeat itself. In
fact, with 44-hour weeks and wage increases
and workmen’s compensation on their present
scale, things are not at all what they were.
So long as the co. gives efficient service it
is at any rate not likely to be disturbed
from its monopoly. A few years will, how-
ever, see the North Shore bridge completed,
and, once that link is forged, a railway to
Manly and environs is inevitable; and its
probable effect on earnings needs to be cal-
culated now. It by no means follows that
railway connection will be disastrous; on the
contrary, it may make it easier for the co.
to increase the fares, as no doubt it would
dearly love to do to-day. The £1 shares
(15s. paid) keep steady at about 15s. 9d.
* * * *
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.) :
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1915 ..£20,008 8 p.c. =£21,200 £43,629
1916 .. 4.621 £4,621 48,250
1917 .. 59,425 16 „ „ 42,400 17,025 65,275
1918 .. 11,783 8 „ „ 21,200 55,858
Loss.
1919 .. 14,677 41,181
1920 .. 17,073 24,108
Profit.
1921 .. 43,842 12 p.c. = 31,800 12,042 36,150
1922 . . 97,299 20 „ ~ 53,000 44,299 80,449
1923 . . 28,431 8 „ „ 21,200 7,231 87,680
1924 . . 31,240 8 „ „ 21,200 10,040 97,720
1925 . . 28,793 8 „ „ 21,200 7,593 105,313
A record quantity of cane was crushed, and
the new machinery installed allowed of more
rapid handling, which meant a longer grow-
ing period for the cane—worth a lot of money
if the weather is of the kind that brings up
the sugar content. Despite the more rapid
and economical crushing and the big crop,
the net return, owing to the heavy excess of
sugar produced beyond domestic require-
ments, was less. This year the lighter rains
will result in a lighter crop, but that won’t
make as much difference as it would to most
producers. The co. may have done better
than the figures of the introductory table sug-
gest, but nothing is visible in the balance-
sheet to suggest it. Additions and improve-
ments to the estate and plant appear to be
charged to capital, and what is written off
against depreciation is not disclosed. The
untidy entry, “Stocks of sugar, field work
in progress, and sundry debtors’ suspense
accounts,” was £18,667 compared with
£42,723 at December 31, 1924. Here is a
general comparison :
1917 1993 1994 1996
Liabilities . . £51,936 £58,793 £117,315 £126,611
Estates .. . . 173,704 176,063 209,771 217,930
Factories, etc. .. 89,204 112,585 132,884 164,288
Railways, etc. .. 30,821 41,084 45,577 52,597
Plant . . . . 28,859 40,627 51,868 53,377
Stores .. . . 2,740 5,643 7,812 11,265
Book delete. } 88 ’ 263 46 > 070 42 * 723 18 > 667
The increase in fixed assets amounted to
£48,092 in all, £.31,404 being accounted for
by the additions to the mills and stores. In
the 1925 accounts, of the liabilities £94,747
net was shown as owing to the co.’s bankers.
On this occasion the items are combined, but
the dependence is doubtless no less than
formerly. The liquid position was weak,
there being something less than £30,000 in
more or less liquid form to represent
£126,611 of outside debt. Estates, works
and plant were in at £488,192, and although
the figures are doubtless on the conservative
side the aspect which interests the market
is their profit-earning capacity, and that, as
the table shows, may be set down at an aver-
age 8 p.c., with the market prepared to offer
a premium that reduces the investment to
7 p.c.
* * * *
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney), tim-
ber merchants and manufacturers of builders’
goods:—
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1916.. £13,224 Bp.c.= £13,200 £24 £61,750
Written off plant, £6750 .. 55 090
1917.. 10,004 6 p.c. = 9,900 104 55,104
1918.. 10,027 6 „ „ 9,900 127 55,231
Capital returned, £55,000.
1919.. 9,006 8 p.c. = 8,800 206 55,437
1920.. 9,112 8 „ „ 8,800 312 55,749
Assets written up .. 55,000 110,749
Transferred to capital, £llO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear.
1921.. 20,004 6 p.c. = 13.200 6,804 6,804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ „ 15,400 2,004 8,808
1923.. 17,795 8 „ „ 17,000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £25,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c. = 17,600 21 34,024
Capital returned, £llO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ „ 11,000 8 34,135
A year’s profits in a trading concern are a
matter of estimation; and the value of a
table like the foregoing lies largely in the
fact that it lets you see what sort of esti-
mators the directors are, or rather have been.
Once, it will be observed, assets were written
up £55,000 and another time inner reserves
of £25,000 were unearthed ; and those entries
suggest that if they had wanted to the direc-
tors could year by year have declared much
larger profits. But it doesn’t follow that
the ordinary business of the co. has been
much more profitable than has been stated,
and it doesn’t -follow that it is much more
profitable now. It was Goodlet and Smith’s
luck to have large yards in districts which wore
presently enveloped by the growth of the
city, and some profitable land sales were
made in consequence; and no doubt appreci-
ation in values was mainly responsible for
those two entries. How much more of that
sort of thing there is to come the Wild Cat
doesn’t know; but it is quite obvious that
the directors are satisfied there is something
that justifies them in paying year after year
dividends which swamp practically all the
trading profit. Since 1915 profits disclosed
have been only £9974 in excess of div., and
10 out of the 12 years accounted for only
£1166 of that total. In 1925 net income was
shown as £11,103, but the div. rate was
raised 2 p.c., notwithstanding that all but
£lO3 was absorbed; last year the 10 p.c.
was maintained, although the margin was
only £B. But even if trade in building
materials generally is likely to remain
affected by keen competition, this co. may
reasonably expect to do a bit better when
its new tileworks are up—the old ones
were burned a year or so ago. From such
figures as are available it looks, though, as
if most of the revenue comes from invest-
ments (nature unspecified). Balance-sheet
figures for three years past have been:—
1924. 1925. 1926.
Machinery, plant, etc... £30,000 £lO,OOO £27,28*2
Stocks 16,772 18,682 18,922
Book debts, shares in
other cos. and cash.. 216,052 125,879 133,772
£262,824 £154,561 £179,976
Liabilities .. . . 4,934 30,341
Net assets .. .. £262,824 £149,627 £149,635
The shrinkage in the figures represents the
£llO,OOO of capital returned in 1925. In
1918 £55,000 of the capital of £165,000 was
handed back. Two years later there was a 100
p.c. gift issue, so the 10 p.c. of the past two
years is a sweet return to old holders.
Machinery and plant are reported to be in
good order and stock taken in at cost. The
market is hopeful and is prepared to buy
the £1 shares at 31s. 6d., though there is no-
thing visible to justify the figure. It is a
case in which the insider has all the best of
the game; and there is always the danger
that the public will come in strongly in such
cases just when the proper thing is to stay
out. Ferries and Daily Telegraph are
Sydney cases in point.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Pif.te Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1916. . £13,342 10 p.c. = £11,250 £2092 £47,038
1917.. 13,897 10 „ „ 11,250 2647 49,685
1918.. 14,993 111 „ „ 12,656 2337 52,022
1919.. 16,038 124 „ „ 14,062 1976 53,998
Reserves capitalised, £28,125 .. 25,873
1920.. 19,621. 124 p.c. = 16,023 3598 29,471
1921 21,726 124 „ „ 19,939 1787 31,258
1922.. 26,351 124 „ 23,754 2597 33,865
1923.. 28,834 124 ~ 25,511 3323 37,178
1924.. 31,320 124 „ „ 28,125 3195 40,373
1925.. 31,056 124 „ „ 30,988 68 40,441
1926.. 31,989 124 „ „ 31,250 739 41,180
The eye had better not linger on that column
of profits without turning to capital, which
has been increased so steadily that there has
been little left in the past two years after
shareholders had received their 121- p.c.
Visible reserves after latest appropriations
amounted to £41,080, and that is nothing
out of the way considering that paid
capital is now a quarter-million. Man-
agement hitherto has been all that could be
desired, and if shareholders have not had
anything very wonderful out of the business
they have at least had a nice run of 124
p.c. divs. and the contentment that comes
from a knowledge that the rate is not likely
to be seriously disturbed. The co.’s own
funds (capital and reserves) amount to
£291,000, but it is using a fair wad of out-
side money. The 1925 accounts showed
£36,607 owing to the co.’s bankers and
£30,821 other liabilities (including provision
for taxation) ; at .Tune 30 the sums were
£8457 and £70,147 respectively, a net expan-
sion of £11,176. Although substantial, the
total represents only a few weeks’ repayments
of advances. These increased a little:—
Mortgages,
Paid Capital. Pledges, etc.
1914.. £106,250 £140,540
1919.. 112,500 152,859
1922.. 191,797 226,041
1923.. 224,589 276,722
1924.. 225,000 310,453
1925.. 250,000 331,639
1926.. 250,000 338,759
Apart from the advances on mortgages,
pledges and other securities, the freehold pro-
perty was in at June 30 at £42,027 and office
furniture at £lB4o—there is no over-state-
ment in either of those —and cash, £2783.
Of the capital, 200,000 shares are fully paid
and 100,000 paid to 10s. The market is
hungry for the paids at about 41s. 6d., which
suggests hopes of sharing in some more issues
at par. The 10s. paids are worth 275., which
shows under 5 p.c. on the investment. With
the other 10s. called they would yield very
nearly 7 p.c.; and the fact that the co. has
had to go outside lately for money is
promising.
* * # *
W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd., island
merchants and agents :
, Dividends — N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1923. . £12,879 £753 8 p.c. = £6OOO £6126 £6,126
1924.. 16,164 1600 8 „ „ 7688 6876 13,002
1925.. 17,771 1552 8 „ „ 8064 8155 21,157
Remaining prefs. converted to ordinaries.
All Shares.
1926.. 28,692 8 p.c. = 12,581 16,111 37,268
In presenting the 1925 accounts, the direc-
tors remarked that there was every prospect
of the continued expansion of the co.’s busi-
ness, and the ensuing year should “compare
favorably with the current period.” Re-
sults for 1926 were almost £ll,OOO greater
than for the previous year. In the latest
report exactly the same opinion is again
expressed, and if 1926 is a fair criterion the
co. is due for a rich time. It was necessary
to get in new capital during the second half
of the year, and there has been a further
issue of shares since the close of the
accounts. At June 30, 1925, capital was
£120,000 in 18,600 8 p.c. cum. prefs, and
101,400 ordinaries. During the term the
prefs. took advantage of their right to con-
vert into ords., and 41,400 new shares were
issued. Gross profit was £34,258 compared
with £29,220; and the new capital was in
use for only part of the term. Less than
half the net income was absorbed by the
8 p.c. div., but reserves need the attention
they received: they have grown lustily, but
still are small compared with the expanding
capital. Sundry creditors were down for
£12,471, while £5670 “application money ou
uew issue” was in hand at the close of the
accounts. “Branch balances, £103.744,” and
“mortgages and investments, £66,859,” have
to be taken as read. One looks at the direc-
torate and judges the items as carefully
valued; and it is recorded that “ample pro-
vision has been made for all bad and doubt-
ful debts.” The investment is of a type
where management is the paramount con-
sideration ; and the Carpenters certainly
know the island trade better than most. The
shares have had sales at 275., but sellers
are scarce.
Starkey’s, Ltd., brewers of ginger-beer
and aerated-water, cordial manufacturers,
etc. (Sydney). The co. began with £B9BB
of its capital represented by goodwill:—
Writ-
June, Profits. Dividends. ten Oft. Deficit.
£B9BB
1914.. £6,623 10 p.c. = £2BOB £3496 £8668
1915.. 4,590 Nil 4049 8127
1916.. 3,065 Nil 4219 9281
1917.. 5,080 Nil 3476 7677
1918.. 5,735 5 p.c. = 2250 3465 7657
1919.. 7,780 71- „ „ 3375 4068 7320
1920.. 11,581 10 „ „ 4501 4627 4867
1921.. 10,577 10 „ „ 4501 3443 2234
Reserves.
1922.. 10,554 10 „ „ 4501 3628 191
1923.. 8,138 10 „ „ 4501 3387 441
1924.. 8,251 10 „ „ 4501 3040 1151
Deficit.
1925.. 6,324 10 „ „ 4501 3703 329
1926.. 7,820 10 „ „ 4501 3166 176
Three years ago the co. could show reserves
£ll5l in excess of the goodwill item of £5OOO.
After latest appropriations accumulations
amount to £176 less than goodwill. That
indicates a decidedly if not dangerously
liberal div. policy from the viewpoint of both
profits and reserves; and nothing is visible
to suggest that things are much better than
they seem. On the contrary, profits declined
materially from 1920 to 1925, and last year’s
recovery was not remarkable. Gross profit
on manufacturing was £1457 greater than
that for 1925, which a decrease from other
sources reduced to £1393, but a small reduc-
tion in expenditure assisted. Liabilities at
June 30 consisted of sundry creditors £517,
and bottles and syphons deposits £2763. Tan-
gible assets totalled £52,766, freehold and
plant being in at £30,432; stocks, £16,229;
cash, £5210 (the 10 p.c. div. calls for £4501) ;
book debts, etc., £895. The financial position
is sound enough, but the investment isn’t
attractive despite the insistence of the man-
agement on 10 p.c. divs. Indeed, few invest-
ments in which distribution is an important
part of the business are attractive nowadays.
That is mainly why even such a concern as
the Fresh Food and Ice Co., with a very
large trade and a vast experience at the back
of it, has not been able to show alluring re-
sults in recent years.
* * * #
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), which sells
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and other sport-
ing goods (in the table goodwill is not rec-
koned as an asset) :
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
£> £> £ & £>
1916.. 16,166 10 p.c. = 9,667 2080 4,419 4,285
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 14,285
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. = 8,800 2215 1,940 12,345
Added to goodwill, £237 . . . . 12,582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.c. = 11,000 2622 3,608 8,974
1919.. 17,798 10 „ ~11,000 3942 2,856 6,118
Reserves.
1920.. 32,291 10 „ ~ 11,000 3684 17,607 11,489
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £30,625 . . 19,136
1921.. 27,768 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
1922.. 23,669 10 „ ~15,313 2728 5,628 2,136
Reserves.
1923.. 20,034 9 ~,,13,781 2761 3,492 1,356
1924.. 17,297 8 ~,, 12,832 2709 1,756 3,112
1925.. 15,966 7J „„ 12,421 3351 194 3,306
Profit on sale of property, £8856.. 12,162
1926.. 19,537 9 p.c. = 14,905 3807 825 12,987
It was a better year, so the board lifted
the div. to 9 p.c., though that left a mere
£825 for reserves. While distributions have
never been conservative, the directors on this
occasion may have been prompted to their
liberality by the fact that £8856 was won
from the sale of portion of the Haymarket
property which was in excess of the co.’s
requirements. Nevertheless, with £22,161
of goodwill and nearly £70,000 owing apart
from trade debts, reserves of something
better than £35,000-odd are desirable, par-
ticularly with imported lines subject to wide
fluctuations and competition in the retail
trade very keen. At present, although trade
is being held, outgo is heavy. Here is the
progress from that angle:—
Gross Trading-
Profits, etc. Expenses.
1912 .. .. £39,955 £28,819
1916 .. .. 59,441 44,855
1920 .. .. 106,780 78,178
1921 .. .. 112.112 87,201
1922 .. .. 102,452 81,592
1923 101,264 83,861
1924 .. .. 101,598 87,321
1925 . . . . 109,637 96,985
1926 . . . . 120,202 104,512
The increase of £7527 in expenditure isn’t
cheering, particularly since 1925 figures were
£9664 greater than 1924. Something needs
to be done somewhere; whether some depart-
ments are being carried at the expense of
others or whether the whole organisation
needs an overhaul is not visible from the
accounts. The business certainly is ex-
panding and that indicates life, but the pro-
portion of gross profit mopped up by expen-
diture needs to be cut if the co. is to accumu-
late sufficient to buy an umbrella for the
rainy days. Balance-sheet totals increased
generally:—
1919. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital. . £llO,OOO £166,202 £166,202 £166,145
Liabilities .. 37,313 144,266 134,621 142,680
Freeholds .. 121,253 129,958 130,048
Plant, etc. . . 20,277 21,951 24,588 24,795
Stocks. . . . 99,287 120,049 117,749 119,743
Book debts . . 21,861 36,411 36,695 49,438
Cash, etc. . . 6,371 20,540 2,591 6,898
Of the liabilities at April 30, mortgages re-
presented £60,377. With overseas prices


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
To be certain of securing the most modern type
of equipment for laboratories of all kinds, write,
stating your needs, to Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney, or Taylors and Elliotts, Ltd., Char-
lotte Street, Brisbane. Full particulars about the
most suitable apparatus for your purpose will be
forwarded at once. The requirements of sugar and
mining companies are provided for especially. All
classes of chemical and scientific apparatus, reagents,
etc., are carried in stock. — Advt. [3
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * »
That saturated wood is practically imperishable
is markedly evidenced by the fairly recent discovery
of wooden water pipes laid over a hundred years ago,
and found to be in almost a complete state of preser-
vation. No wonder then that users of Pioneer Wood
Pipe find it meets all conditions of economic demand.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is made from thoroughly seasoned
staves, and, by reason of its smooth interior, will not
rust nor corrode, but will consistently deliver a full
flow throughout its entire life. Its extreme lightness
and simple construction cut freight, transport and
installation costs to a minimum, while its main-
tenance expenses are practically nil. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
» * » #
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
“National” British Vertical Suction Gas and Crude-
oil Engines! Cheapest and most reliable power.
Recent installations for Electric Lighting include:
Bathurst, 675b.h.p.; Parkes, 310b.h.p. ; Dubbo,
540b.h.p. ; .Armidale, 270b.h.p. ; Penrith, 220b.h.p.;
Toowoomba, 800b.h.p. ; Winton (Q.), lOOb.h.p. ; Bris-
bane Water and Sewerage Board (for pumping),
630bh.p. Technical information, etc., from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquaiie Place,
Sydney; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; 21 Morphett
Street, Adelaide; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death-Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
w
&
YG
, OOORD^ a SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
sxvift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
fa
BT
Insure witli the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iti Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
bosses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Fowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CFAIMS PROMPTFY AND EQUITABFY SETTFED.
AGENTS IN AFF PRINCIPAF COUNTRY TOWNS.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman.
uncertain, doubtless a careful eye was cast
over the stocks, which were again a little
higher, although they are not over-heavy com-
pared with turnover. The amounts written
off appear to have been consistently liberal.
Finances were comfortable: floating debt
totalled £82,304, and there was twice that
amount in more or less liquid form. There
are 140,625 £1 shares fully paid and 50,000
£1 shares paid to 10s.; the market values the
former at about 225. and the others at
10s. 6d. The sale of property during the
year will no doubt help the directors to keep
the div. at 9 p.c., though on" the record of
the last three years, coupled with the steady
rise in exes., there is no certainty about it.
Broken Hill Prop, reports a net profit
for the year ended May 21, 1926, of £303,032,
after providing £293,804 for depreciation.
Profit disclosed for the preceding year was
£372,307, and for 1924 £279,339. Accounts
are not yet available. The outlook is brighter
as a result of the tariff alterations which came
into force on August 12, under which most
rates have been advanced. In the case of
foreign goods the Protection now ranges from
80s. to 200 s. per ton, most heavy lines being
levied 120 s. to 3255. per ton. Competition
from British goods may be expected; the
British preferential rate on heavy steel ranges
from 445. to 48s. per ton, with barbed wire
carrying 68s. and Jin. hoop, 70s. Wire-
netting is to be free under the new schedule.
The British preferential rate is by no means
prohibitive, but the Protection at least helps
to secure Australia’s most important key
industry.
* * * *
Although Government boring at the north
end of the Kalgoorlie field has so far proved
disappointing, there are great hopes. At
present the drill is stabbing the old Hidden
Secret area, where a lot of wealth was
once obtained from a pipe of telluride ore
which cut out at a shallow depth. Some
good shows have been worked in this locality
and further north, but most have been small.
Many claims alleged to have reefs and lodes
proved to be worthless, and the country is
now dotted with grass-grown dumps and
rusting plant. Several of these old failures
have been taken up on the off-chance of
the Government drill striking a bonanza.
Boulder No. l’s latest accounts show a
loss on the year’s working of £386. The
directors announce that an interest has
been secured in Nigerian and General Pros-
pectors, Ltd., which holds options of tin
areas and is said to be controlled by a strong
financial group. Also 1500 Wiluna shares
have been purchased. Some years ago the
co. surrendered its Kalgoorlie lease and re-
ported its intention of looking for another
property in the West. The excuse given
shareholders at annual meetings for not
getting one was that prices asked were too
high. Of course prospectors allege that the
co. showed no inclination to pay a reasonable
figure.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) closed its financial
year with a loss of £1231 after writing off
£3415 for depreciation. In the previous year
the co. made a profit of £11,825 after deduct-
ing £6971 for depreciation. The plain fact is
that the co. has for some time past merely
provided employment in the hope of some-
thing turning up.
* * * *
Devon (W.A.) again obtrudes. This time
cheerful references are made to the work in
hand and what is to follow. Since the Mel-
bourne co. acquired this show in 1915 gold
to the value of £13,000 has been won, but
this plus £45,000 of capital has been spent
on plant, development, wages, expenses, etc.
Shareholders have received nothing; nor are
they likely to.
* * * #
Tarcoola Blocks Go., which for years tried
and failed to get a gold-mine in Westralia,
is now showing a little activity on the North-
hampton lead-field over there. Some work
has been done on a promising make of ore,
and prospects are reckoned to be bright
enough to keep a small plant busy. One
has been purchased, and when production
starts a market flutter is predicted.
Riverina Gold Blocks, Mulline (W.A.),
are to be tried again. Years ago the property
was successfully worked by a local crowd
and was then shut down. Later on it fell
into the hands of Melbourne people who
pottered about for a while and then gave up
owing to the inefficiency of the plant. Devel-
oped ore worth from 40s. to 60s. per ton is
said to have been left behind, and color is
lent to this statement by the fact that just
before operations ceased a State expert de-
clared that the show gave promise of
becoming a permanent producer. A Kal-
goorlie co. is endeavoring to raise money to
resume.
Nor’-Westralia, hitherto barred by inac-
cessibility, is having its “magnificent dis-
tances” materially shortened by motor
transport, and as a result much attention
is being paid to areas hitherto known only
to the hatter and the dinkum long-distance
prospector. A Kalgoorlie mining group
has taken in hand the possibilities of the
Moolyella tin field, at the head of the Port
Hedland-Marble Bar railway, which has
already yielded over a quarter of a million
pounds’ worth of tin won by most primitive
means. Two thousand acres covering five
miles of leads have been pegged, besides tin-
lode leases. Water supplies have been found
which can be brought into the field if local
catchments fail. The North-West has some
high-grade asbestos deposits, too. Several
parcels are now waiting buyers at the West-
ralian Agent-General’s office, but sales so
far have been slow. Meanwhile Westralia
has a factory for asbestos sheeting and gets
most of its material from much lower-class
deposits in South Africa. Deposits of mica
also have long been known of in the back-
country of the Gascoyne, and an English
crowd has put some money into a show a
couple of hundred miles out from Carnarvon
and a little less distance from the Meeka-
tliarra railhead. A report states that 70 men
are employed breaking down the deposits
and treating it in plant erected on the spot.
Four and a half tons have been sent to
England “to test the market,” ahd the fam-
iliar claim is made that there is enough mica
in sight to supply the world. As though
anybody knew how much the world could
consume if the price Was pulled down whole-
sale !
* * * *
Tarcoola Blocks Co. (W.A.) has bor-
rowed £l5OO from the State, and, with other
money in hand plus what it can get in calls,
proposes to instal a treatment plant costing
£5OOO and do further development work on
its new lead-bearing property at Ajana.
Some rich deposits have been mined on the
field in the past, but they didn’t go down
very far.
* * * *
Westralia’s mineral output for 1925 was
worth £2,393,890, or £187,272 less than that
for 1924. Gold was valued at £1,874,320,
copper £18,200, tin £15,392 and lead and
silver-lead ore approximately £115,000. East
Coolgardie (Kalgoorlie) yielded over 70 p.c.
of the gold won. Northampton accounted for
most of the copper and silver-lead, Greenbuslies
the tin, and Collie the coal, of which roughly
half a million tons (value not stated) was
produced. Divs. totalled £54,109. Expendi-
ture incurred by Mines Dept, in assisting
mine-owners totalled £81,703 and guarantees
given banks on behalf of the Horseshoe and
other mining cos. aggregated an additional
£44,500.
* * * *
Small output, small profits. The excep-
tions to the rule are so few as to hardly count.
North Mt. Farrell, mining only 7307 tons
in its last six months, had to be content
with a profit of £5875. At all times the
show has been shackled by the hunt after
ore at fresh levels. However, it has not done
so badly, because £97,930 of divs. stand
against capital of £66,000, which includes a
fair percentage of water. Reserves of proved
ore have dropped to 10,700 tons, all of which
is at Nos. 7 and 8 levels. Another 9000 tons
of “probable” ore is credited to No. 8. High-
grade ore has been bagged from the main
shoot at No. 7, and fair milling stuff has
come out of the 3ft. footwall lode. At 70ft.
north at No. 8 the downward run of ore from
No. 7 level was picked up and followed for
70ft., when values cut out. As the shoot is
20ft. wide in places, sulphides are being
hunted for on the footwall side. The foot-
wall lode also lives to No. 8, and is being
followed south. Owen Williams isn’t too
sweet about No. 8 level, as the barren part
of the main lode has lengthened to 133 ft.
against 40ft. to 50ft. at No. 7. But the for-
mation is wider, and it needs to be. Now
work is going on to reach the lode in the
crosscut from the plat at No. 9. Less pessi-
mistic than the manager, the directors testify
that the mine rarely looked better. The
bother all the term has been the cranky
behavior of the plant. Williams issues a
warning that a lot of improvements will
have to be made. The cryptic reply of the
board is that “it has taken steps on oxp.ert
advice to ensure more satisfactory working
for the future.”
* * * *
Aided by the high price of tin, Mt. Bis-
choff has netted a profit of £7496 out of
the treatment of 38,260 tons, most of which
came from the famous brown face and the
white and crusher faces. The yield of oxide
after the calcines had been handled was 234
tons of 67 p.c. oxide. To build up reserves
boring and other prospecting has been the
order of the day on the south side of the
mount. A surprise was the opening up of
the Cross lode below the main tunnel level;
it was 2ft. wide, with a grade of 5 p.c. tin.
As against that boring at the white face
proved only 0.1 p.c. ore. So the co. is
down on to the bare bones of developing
Smith’s alluvial leases and its own northern
slope deposits and river-flat areas. Linde-
say Clark has examined the alluvial ground,
testing it by rows of shafts five chains apart
until he was satisfied that the spaces could
be stretched to 10 chains. All the work was
done, in the methodical way in which he
runs the Briseis. Classing sampling results
as satisfactory, he submits two sets of quan-
tities : (1) for work by a bucket dredge;
(2) by gravel-pump sluicing. By bucket
dredge 1.049,200 c. yards of ground containing
1,558,7001 b. oxide, or an average of 1.491 b.,
exist. The quantities and values for gravel-
pump sluicing are 710,300 c. yds. for
1,355,0001 b. tin oxide, or if samples over
101 b. per c. yd. be excluded, the contents
of 710,300 c. yds. are reduced to 1,045,3001 b.
oxide, or 1.331 b. ac. yd. Cost of the bucket
dredge would be £19,700; of the gravel pump
£13,100. Taking tin at £2OO a ton and
deducting the cost of plant, and including
all rich samples, a 100 p.c. bucket-dredge
recovery of the oxide would give £34,200;
with tin at £250 it would be £58,700, and
with the metal at £3OO a ton, £83,000. By
gtavel-pump sluicing the respective amounts
would be £16,600, £37,800 afid £59,000.
These estimates relate to the Watatah River
ground, After sifting out various debatable
points Lindesay Clark’s last word is that for
No. 7 line of bores in Smith’s section to
1500 ft. above the Bischoff boundary the
profit, with tin at £250 a ton, would be
£40,000, or with tin at £3OO, about £60,000.
This leaves ground south of the Bischoff
boundary and the detritus on the northern
slopes to be handled differently.
* * * *
The 10,000 reserved shares in South Comet
Lead-Zinc (Tas,) are being issued. Manager
Waltet Scott states that the monthly calls
o| 6d. have not enabled the co. to keep abreast
of current mine expenses and payments for
equipment. The shares are of 10s. each
but, “in order to make the issue attractive,
the issue price will be 4s. per share paid up
to 9s. per share with August call paid, thus
bringing them to the same paid-up value as
the original ordinary share.” There are
70.000 shares of 10s. each, 20,000 fully paids
being vendors’. This is the show in which
Tommy Palmer is interested and of which
he holds a high opinion.
* * * #
The first report of Tingha Hydraulic Tin
is available. This is the London co. which
was formed in December, 1924, to operate
tin-bearing areas at Tingha (N.S.W.). The
report, which is to December 31, states that
the 17 miles of water races had been com-
pleted and additional claims acquired which
were proved by boring to contain payable
tin. The new ground is not up to the grade
of the original areas, according to the report,
hut is worth lib. to 21b. At December 31
there was £9866 in cash and £15,000 in
Treasury bonds.
* * * *
At Mount Morgan’s annual meeting, the
matter of the new treatment proposal was
left as stated in the report. Shareholders
were infoi’med, however, that the non-pro-
duction of copper at the mine had seriously
affected other interests, notably the Electro-
lytic Refining and Smelting Co., which was
now almost entirely dependent on Lyell for
blister. Limited quantities were received
from various suppliers, but the low price of
copper and hierh labor costs and rail freights
were tending to render production by smaller
producers unprofitable.
* * * *
Progress is being made with the Duchess-
Mount Isa railway. At the end of July,
clearing and earthworks had progressed 10
miles and culverts and drains seven miles;
189 men were employed.
* * * *
Very little news leaks through about Mt.
Coolon (.C.Q.), reckoned to be now the best
gold lode in Queensland, but operations are
apparently in the doldrums. Considering the
high figure asked for an amalgamated group
of the best holdings, the dawdling is inex-
plicable. The Mt. Coolon crowd say they
will increase output later when more water
for crushing is available, and are sinking
two of their shafts deeper. Dave Barclay
still has a little gold-mine in the Native
Bear, and is equipping with extra bins and
machinery. One of the lesser fry, the Golden
Bar, is getting a small crushing together.
Things are not yet hustling, however, neither
is the Chilean mill running hot with pros-
pectors’ ore.
* *r * *
After nearly 12 months’ absence, J. T.
Beckett returned to Sydney from Tanami
(N.T.) with his optimism unabated. _ He
confirms Jensen’s opinions as to possibili-
ties, and states that engineer A. 11. Stewart
is of the same mind. The blame for con-
tinued delay in battery-construction is appor-
tioned to a season of unprecedented wetness;
but men who knew the conditions confidently
predicted the delay long before the wetness
happened. Beckett and Stewart consider the
property “will yield good returns to share-
holders soon after the battery commences
crushing.”
* * * *
Malayan tin-dredging shares were bought
in large lumps in Sydney last week. A well-
known Sydney sharebroker has purchased,
subject to the sanction of the shareholders,
20.000 new shares at 355. in Kuala Kampar
and Tanjong Tualang. Neither co. has yet
reached the producing stage, though both
expect to do so within the next few months.
The deal is without precedent in Sydney.
The price represented at least full market
value at the time, and the sole consideration
paid by the cos. was a commission of 6d. per
share, with no tags in the shape of special
underwriting allowance, calls over future
parcels or anything else. A new share issue
in a mining co. has always been regarded as
a melon ; it was surprising, therefore, to find
money handed out without any hook attached.
The market mostly follows a strong lead,
and the vei'y boldness of the purchase
ensured its success. Market prices jumped
from Bs. to 4s. a shate immediately. This
tin business does, occasionally, look too easy.
The debutant group of punters who have
tackled the market for Malayan tin stocks
for the first time within the last 12 months
must be wondering, like the Scot who picked
a winner first shot, “Hoo lang has this been
gaein’ on?*’
* * * *
Edgar Hall still prays for a railway to the
Silver Spur from Stanthorpe -(Q.). Mean-
time what looks like a big mine lies idle. In
1892 complex silver-gold ore with a trace of
copper was discovered, and a year later
smelting began. Twenty years’ mining and
smelting and 40 miles’ cartage to the rail-
way found Edgar Hall still on deck with a
self-contained plant and equipment; but
meantime a zinc body had displaced the silver-
gold lode, and later brought operations to a
halt. During the smelting period about
50 p.c. of the metallic content ran away in
the slag, and formed a 90,000-ton dump.
The office estimates this to contain nearly
£1,000,000 worth in 20,000 tons zinc, 4900
tons lead, 300 tons copper, 800 oz. gold and
520,0Q00z. silver. With a railway, the zinc
ore and the slag dump might be treated; at
any rate, the Pape process is being discussed
again, but there seems small prospect of the
railway. A steam waggon was requisitioned
recently in an endeavor to test the possibili-
ties of shipping the high-class zinc ore to
Europe in a crude state. The attempt was
not persevered with. Experts agree with
Hall that the slag dump is a mere circum-
stance compared with untapped ore supplies.


MAKING IT MORE LIKE HOME.
“Before touring Australia the Duke and Duchess of York will visit Maoriland in order to escape the trying Australian summer.”— Cable.
But with a little contriving It should be possible to give even Australian ceremonies an English atmosphere.


Exclusive State Express
methods ensure the
purity of -
20g,|^
CIGARETTES
Made in London by Ardath Tobacco Company. Ltd
9 iM .
m
m
asa
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Flagwagger”: Now what sort of luck
would you call this? I shared a dug-out at
{Anzac with an elderly Digger who told me
of his final quarrel with his son, who was a
bit wild. Becoming greatly angered he had
THE COMPLETE GUIDE
TO SPORT.
"No, dear, they're not polo-players. They are going to play
croquet.”
ordered the 19-year-old youth out of the
house, and had regretted his hasty act ever
since. In the five years before the war he
had made repeated efforts to find the boy, but
unavailingly. At this Anzac period all
Diggers had pencilled in large letters upon
their hatbands the name of the spot in Aus-
tralia they called home. That same after-
noon, as we were busy with a fatigue job
at the head of Brown’s "Dip, a young member
of a Queensland unit approached and
addressed my dug-out mate with “You’re
from Ballarat. Do you know—why, you're
him.” They were almost in one another’s
arms as I walked away. A few minutes later
there was an explosion and a “broomstick”
bomb got the just-reconciled pair.
* * * *
“Spenner” : Scotty had been two years in
Australia when the war came, and he
promptly joined up with the A.I.F. On his
first introduction to the trenches he couldn’t
resist trying to get a peep at Fritz in day-
light. He had placed one foot on the fire-
step when an outsize in chats fastened on
the back of his neck. Ducking to catch the
offender, he just moved his head out of the
path of a whiz-bang. Holding the life-saving
insect between forefinger and thumb, Scotty
cast about for means of expressing his grati-
tude. “Well, I canna decorate ye,” he said.
“I could reinstate ye, but that wouldna be
sufficient compensation, so I’ll promote ye—
I’ll place ye on the sergeant.”
“Mars”: The charge of being drunk while
driving a motor-car was hotly denied by a re-
cent defendant in Adelaide, but the arresting
constable stuck to it. A remark made after
the collision convinced him of the defendant’s
condition, he said. “What were the exact
words?” demanded Mr. Costs. “After crawl-
ing out from the wreckage of his car, he
asked me to arrest the other motorist,” was
the reply. “And you regard that as evi-
dence of drunkenness?” The constable
admitted that he did. “You see,” he added,
“the other person happened to be the Queen
Victoria statue.”
* -X- * *
“Leamington”: The Obliging Suicide
seems to be growing rare nowadays; the old
Victoria Barracks, Sydney, provided several.
Back in the ’fifties a blase hussar announced
his intention of poisoning himself, and being
apparently a humorous! soul yielded to the per-
suasions of his mess-mates and committed
the deed in an unpopular o.c.’s quarters,
the grim jest being appreciated by everyone
except the o.c. In the ’nineties a chronic
nerve sufferer woke his room-mates with the
intimation that he was going out to shoot
himself. He was earnestly enjoined not to
bang the door as he left. He didn’t. He
opened a window instead and dived to the
asphalt parade-ground below. The last of
such incidents occurred in the sergeants’
mess, when a weary warrant-officer suddenly
pulled a razor from his pocket and said,
“Here goes!” “Hey!” shouted the caterer,
“don’t do it here. Think of the mess you’ll
make!” “Righto!” said the w.o. and left.
Ten minutes later he was found with his
throat severed from ear to ear and his head
stuck in a bucket.
* * * #
“Lucifer”: Recently two men and a dog
set out from Townshend Island (Q.) for the
mainland, a mile and a half distant. The
sea was smooth until the engine fizzed out,
and then the swell began to get heavy. The
motor refused absolutely to start, and, the
sea becoming extremely rough, one of the
men took the dinghy and tried to tow the
motor-boat ashore. The line broke, and the
dinghy drifted out to sea, leaving the man
in the motor-boat isolated. He was a bush-
man and no mariner, but with two spare
oars and the canvas cover of the engine he
rigged a sail, and,
the wind being in
the right direction,
he succeeded in
reaching the
dinghy. The cur-
rent then carried
the two men into
the Bip, a narrow,
fast passage, where,
the boat being
swamped, they
swam ashore. One
injured his foot on
the rocks, so they
camped in a cre-
vice for the night.
The next day the
busliman, clad only
in shirt and trous-
ers, set out to walk
16 miles over rocky
country to the
nearest dwelling.
He tore up his
shirt to make moc-
casins for his feet,
then used half his
trousers, and
finally cut pieces
from a hide hang-
ing on a fence.
The hard hide tor-
tured his cut feet,
so he threw it
away. When he reached the house
it was locked and empty. Breaking
in, he got some food, and then noticed a
pony in an adjoining paddock. He roped it
in and rode bareback 24 miles to a house,
where he changed horses. A further 40
miles, and he reached Byfield where a motor-
car took him to YeppoOn. Thence provi-
sions, etc., were sent to his friend. The
rescuer refused to be made a hero. He was
65 years of age, and took it as all in the
day’s work.
“Modestine”: This is the queerest accident
that ever happened in our district. x\n 11-
year-old Maorilandcr set out for school on
Monday morning and. meeting a cold
southerly rain, turned b:.; i home for his coat,
and that was the last that was seen of him
until 3.30 on Wednesday afternoon. Then
he was found hanging, head inclined down-
wards, from the overhanging eaves of a dis-
used fowlhouse 50 yards from his home. The
fowlhouse was built between two clay banks
with about a foot to spare on either side.
The lad, trying a short cut, jumped from
one bank on to the roof, tumbled and pitched
down the other side, becoming securely
trapped between the wall of the building
and the opposite bank. His arms were
wedged tightly in front of him, and every
time he shouted for help his mouth and nose
filled with clay. It was some time before
he lost consciousness, for he remembers hear-
ing his mother call the family to lunch and
heard the fowls fed within 10 yards of him.
He was at last found by an uncle who had
A DARKSOME MYSTERY.
“We girls are getting up a secret society.”
“Go on — what's the secret?”
“We haven't got one yet; we’re all thinking up a fearfully difficult one that nobody’ll
find out in. less than three guesses.”
climbed the bank to watch the x’eturn of a
search party. During the 55 hours the lad
spent in that terrible plight it rained and
blew continuously and the temperature never
rose above 50. Yet his only injuries were
badly swollen lips and congested eyes, and he
soon recovered.
“Ah Gee”: Has any person ever been bor-
rowed for literary purposes to this extent?
One of the books of G. A. Ilenty (who, of
course, never heard of me) uses my Chris-
tian name, my surname, my address (street-
name and house number, but transferred
from Sydney to London) and my birthday.
The odds against that are, I calculate, even
greater than against the possibility of Lang
resigning in a fit of remorse.
* * * *
“Wang”: A Melbourne cabbie was hailed
the other night by a partially-sozzled
citizen carrying a paper parcel, and bidden
to drive him to St. Paul’s Cathedral corner.
When the Jehu got down to collect liis fare
he found the cab empty except for the
untidy parcel, the human cargo having dis-
embarked unobtrusively during a traffic jamb
in St. Kilda-road. The parcel, on being-
investigated, proved to consist of the empty
shell of a crayfish, a beer bottle, also empty,
and numerous shrimp heads. It was a very
angry cabbie who exhibited the collection of
remnants to a policeman and demanded what
the Law would do to redress his grievances.
The John pondered some time before giving
his decision: “You take the parcel up to
the detective office and leave it there. If it’s
not claimed by anyone else, in six months’
time it belongs to you.”
“J.F.C.”: A seaman now on a N.S.W.
North Coast steamer has a well-rooted anti-
pathy to mutton. During the war he was
butcher’s assistant on board a transport, and
was unlucky enough to be in the refrigerator
dressed only in a cotton singlet and pants
when the submarine alarm was sounded. Dur-
ing the rush to quarters, the door, which
automatically locked from the outside, was
closed. To keep himself warm he com-
menced to carry carcases of mutton to and
fro at the double. When released some hours
later he was in the last stages of exhaustion
from combined hard work and cold. A few
days in the sick bay put him right; but he
couldn’t face the refrigerator again, and the
captain sanctioned his exchange of jobs with
a fireman.
EVEN OLD PICKLES.
MRS. "I had the Pickleses in to-day. How
tender he is after nearly twenty years
of married life!”
MR.: “Um — yes. Anything would he tender
after nearly twenty years in hot water.”
“Hamfat”: The Sun reports that “Sir
Philip Burne-Jones, the English painter and
a son of the distinguished artist, left
£23,339.”
Sons to their fathers’ greatness cling,
But glory’s glow grows fainter;
Dad rises on the artist’s wing,
His son comes down a painter.
(Continued on page 19.)
A LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis strange!
I thought that when we met
There’d be a rapt and dizzy glowing
On earth and sky;
And there would be
Marvelling past our previous knowing.
And when we met,
Just casually,
I smiled at your good-day to me.
’Tis strange!
We took no quickened breath.
There was no faltering nor sighing,
But like calm friends we took up Time,
As a familiar garment lying
Where we had left it yesterday—
Two careless children gone to play.
We did not try by wit or guile
To make the usual good impressions;
We never talked affinities,
Nor bathed our souls in dark confessions;
But carelessly we walked together,
In gay discourse about the weather.
It seemed so very natural
To go on walking,
Go on talking.
We just kept at it —that was all.
And still we’re walking,
Still we’re talking,
Just you and I, my love, together,
In gay discourse about the weather!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
A TALE-A TO TELL-A
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Giuseppe Camella, an Italian immigrant, was fined
£5 at the Melbourne City Court yesterday for having
attempted to smuggle 100 cigars and a bottle of
wine into Australia.”
“Giuseppe Camella!”
Da John Hop lie bella;
“You smug-ga-lin’ fella,
You sneak in da wine.
Da great beeg mistake-a
You jolly well make-a
To turn da law-breaka—
You fetch-a da fine !
“Giuseppe Camella,
Da Judge give you hell-a;
You don’ get a smell-a
Da hundred cigar;
Da lot we jus’ keep-a,
You do-a da weep-a
An’ feenish your treep-a
Bchin’ da iron bar!”
Giuseppe Camella
He make-a to tell-a
Da tale that is swell-a—
They laugh all aroun’;
Da Judge, he say, “Son-a,
You lose-a da mon’-a ;
Da joke is so fun’-a
It cost da five poun’.”
Giuseppe Camella,
He wish he still dwell-a
In Napoli bella
An’ do-a da toil
Where black Mussolini
Don’ aet-a so mean; he,
Jus’ like to bambini,
Give dose-a da oil.
VICTORIA.
ACCESS-A.


RED RIDING-HOOD AND THE WOLF.
"Sub-clause C of the Lahor party's tighting platform reads: 'Unlimited legislative powers in Australian affairs to be vested in the Commonwealth Parliament, With devolution of anequate local powers npod subordinate Legislatures and municipalities elected by adult suffrage.'"
LITTLE-RED-RIDING-HOOD CHARLTON: "But, Grannic, you can't be angry with me. I've only done what you told me to do." [EDWARD SCORPIELD, 214 George street, sydncy.]


it
á
The TOP NOTCH'ScotcM
-StfWHEIS At.nH-ll 'if
1 *
yr,
I
54T
r f-
//>
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
“Hobnobster”: It doesn’t take long for a
technical phrase to get into current use these
days. A few weeks ago a sermon was being
broadcasted from St. Mary’s Cathedral, Syd-
ney, when some larrikin stopped the per-
formance by pulling up the earth wire of the
transmitting set. Yesterday as I passed a
crowd of youngsters I noticed a red-haired
nipper boasting of his pugilistic prowess. His
brag annoyed one of the listeners, who
finally butted in with “Oh, pull up your
earth wire, for Gawsake!”
* * * *
“Avon”: In Maoriland, where there is one
motor vehicle to every two families of five,
according to the statistics, and where the man
or woman who can’t drive a car conceals
the fact as disgraceful, the authorities who
grant driving licenses generally set a pretty
high standard. The sort of test imposed
is left to the examiner, who in many places,
and almost invariably in the Backblocks, is
the local constable. The J. Hop at a village
called Darfield, in the South Island, has
incurred the enmity of several white-whis-
kered gentlemen who own Lizzies. He takes
them and their chariots into a not-too-large
IT WOULDN’T BE NEW TO ALPHONSE.
MISTRESS : “You may have that dress, Marie. I’ve finished
with it.”
MAID: “Oh, thank you, Madame —Alphonse just loves me in it.”
back yard dotted with kerosene-tins and bids
them steer a mazy course amid these ob-
stacles. And when and if they have done
that without hitting a tin he smiles a nasty
smile and bids them do it backwards. The
local J’s.P, spend a lot of time fining vener-
able and highly-respected farmers who can’t
get a driving-license but won’t give up Eliza-
beth,
* * * *
“T.R.H.”: There is a lot of difference
(B. 5/8/’26) in Victorian gaols as well as
N.S.W. bastilles. Geelong—the alleged
“invalid” gaol—is the worst of the lot, with
its scanty and dirtily served food and 32
men (of all ages) sleeping on the floor
of the “church,” in which the sanitary
accommodation consists of two old garbage
tins. Pentridge is the most unsafe, not
from the authorities’ point of view, but the
prisoners’. It is full of factions between
which there are frequent fights, and one
prisoner now stands charged with murdering
another with a hoe. The medical supervision
is inadequate, and the warders are so badly
paid that the best stamp of man cannot be
obtained. Since the abolition of the old
Melbourne gaol, the “Metropolitan gaol is
also within the walls of Pentridge. It was,
in fact, the women’s wing. The Metropolitan
gaol has its own governor and staff aim so
has Pentridge—nominally. But Ben
borrows warders from the Metropolitan, and
vice versa. Two governors and two staffs
within four walls cannot work smoothly.
Prisoners who know the ropes and have the
money or tobacco to pay can get an occa-
sional baked dinner, too.
* * * *
“Tom Ugly’s”: About one o’clock on a
recent Sunday morning the lonely road be-
tween Taren Point and Cronulla (N.S.W.)
featured a thrilling motor chase suggestive
of Hollywood at its worst. A big motor-’bus
was making its way to Cronulla when a
beer bottle suddenly flew from a taxi going
in the opposite direction, and crashed
through a window. The missile hit a lady
on the head, and the angry passengers forced
the driver to turn his machine and give
chase to the smaller vehicle. Pursued and
pursuer liew towards Botany Bay; at Taren
Point the ’bus caught the taxi, and its seven
sozzled occupants were forcibly transhipped
and jealously guarded until both vehicles
reached Kogarali police station, where several
charges were laid. It all took so much time
that it was five o’clock before the ’bus
crawled back into Cronulla.
* * * *
“Wang” : The motor that essayed to climb
up the back of the car in front of it (B.
5/8/’26) was outdone by a horse in a Mel-
bourne suburb the other day. The animal,
which was attached to a jinker, becoming
frightened, rose on its hind legs, and, jump-
ing forward, plunged its two forelegs through
the back of a double-seater motor-car just
ahead —fortunately there was nobody sitting
there. The car-driver, becoming as scared as
the horse, accelerated, and Dobbin was
dragged along for a hundred yards until lie
managed to extricate his front legs. The
only damage done was a torn hood and a
tear or two in the upholstery of the back
seat of the car.
# * * *
“Wee John”: In the Supreme Court at
Auckland the other day a man was charged
with obtaining £lOO by false pretences.
The jury returned with this verdict: “We
have decided to give the prisoner the benefit
of the doubt in the hope that he will return
the money at some future date.” The
prisoner was dis-
charged by a Judge
who seemed to be
thinking hard. In-
cidentally, the
same accused was
tried on another
series of charges at
the same sessions;
but he didn’t have
the same luck with
his iury that time.
* •
“T r eveno r” :
“Uramao’s” Con-
siderate Burglar
(B. 22/7/’26) went
to even more
trouble than the
paragraph. ind i-
catps to inflict as
littie inconvenience
as possible upon
his victim. Actu-
ally the shop and
the dwelling house
were nearly a mile
apart. The private
house was first
broken into and
the keys removed
from the sleeping
tradesman’s pocket;
later the shop was
entered and £35
extracted from the
safe; finally the
keys were returned
to the place
whence they had
been taken. The courteous Sikes —he is but
21 —is now doing three years. I was the
man robbed.
* * * *
“Griffith Moses”: The discussion about
our Arab brother reminds me that I once
had a nodding acquaintance with the gentle-
man and tried to improve it. Abdul the
Damned built a railway nearly 1000 miles
long, from Damascus to Medina, but his
throne burst up before the work could be
completed to Mecca, 250 miles further south,
or to the port of Jiddah, 65 miles further
still. Abdul’s purposes were to keep Ins
Arabian subjects ’umble and to cut into the
pilgrim trade. The robbery of pilgrims, who
number about 200,000 per annum, is the
great local industry of Mecca. I knew, of
course, that both Medina and Mecca had
always been dreadfully unhealthy f l or Chris-
tians, but, having a vague idea that the rail-
way might have altered that, I asked a poly-
glot official at Damascus about doing the
trip. This was in 1911. He was unrespon-
sive and almost alarmed. His view was
that, if the Christian stranper relieved the
authorities in writing of any responsibility
for his safety, he might be allowed as far as
Ma’an (202 miles and not really in Arabia).
Beyond that the Christian stranger would get
no ticket under any conditions. I believe the
Arabian stretch of line (700 or 800 miles)
has ceased working, having been badly
knocked about in the civil war which suc-
ceeded on Arabian independence, and caused
THEIR REDEEMING QUALITY.
MISS SEVENTEEN : “They say married men are the worst.”
MISTRESS THIRTY : “Yes, darling — that’s the best of them.”
Ilejaz to disappear out of the League of
Nations. It must have been some war, for
it is estimated that the population of Medina
fell from 35,000 to 5000, and Mohammed
turned in his grave. I thus lost the chance
to glimpse the Arab on his native heath, so
to speak. But I saw plenty of him else-
where, the best view being at Jaffa, where he
loaded and unloaded ships, and occasionally
looted one when he heard a report of valuable
cargo or affluent passengers.
“Feng-Shui”: The prehistoric dragon
glimpsed by aviator Gobham at Bima. in the
Malay Archipelago, was probably the biawak
or monitor lizard, which grows to a length of
Bft. and has claws to match. When the
crocodile’s eggs hatch out, the mother croc,
sometimes stands between the nest and the
water and swallows the baby reptiles as they
rush past her : those that escape become
biawaks. My friend Mohammed Sa aid who
told me so, also says that the flesh of the
biawak, if eaten raw, helps the eater to
write good essays,
and that the devil
of both the Koran
and the Scriptures
is really it. Dra-
gons are very wide-
spread and persis-
tent. Primitive man
probably knew the
pterodactyl person-
ally, and the dra-
gon which watched
the golden apples
in the Garden of
the Hesperides was
very like it in ap-
pearance. Wells
were frequently
spoilt in the Middle
Ages through
dragon-seed being
dropped into them,
and at the mid-
summer celebra-
tions bones and
filth were burned
to drive the crea-
tures from their
amorous pastime in
the upper air.
Naked virgins pre-
sented the local
dragon with a
barley cake at
Lanuvium to in-
sure a fruitful
year, and Indian
dragons had real
grass growing on
their backs. The
intestine of one
preserved at the
library at Constan-
tinople was 120 ft.
long and had the
Iliad and the Odys-
sey inscribed on it.
Since that horribly-
sceptical Austra-
lian, Prof. Grafton
Smith, began in-
quiring into the
matter, the dragon
has lost much of
its charm. Smith
lias reduced the dragon to a mere symbol of
human and natural fertility, and the stories
about dragon-slayings, he claims, are merely
rationalisations of the pleasing old custom
early democracies had of killing tlieir kings
annually in order to promote the crops. He
may be right, but I prefer Mohammed
Sa’aid’s simple explanations. He knows the
beast.
* * * *
“Roycha”: Police-court clerks have to
work at such speed that queer things get
into the typed evidence. This one in our
WORSE AND WORSE.
“My wife never leaves her address when she
goes away.”
“ You’re lucky. My wife never leaves her
address.”
court recently will take some beating. A
woman witness was asked by a solicitor
whether her husband had ever had to for-
give her for carrying on with other men.
“Never!” she replied with a snap. Down it
went on the deposition: “My husband has
never forgiven me for carrying on with other
men.”
IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She wept, for her lover was lying low,
For her lover was dead and her dreams were dim;
And she clenched her hands in her sudden woe,
And may have been right, for all I know.
When she called
It
Him.
But the undertaker —a black old crow,
With a mournful face—though he cared no bit,
Came muttering “Ha!” and gurgling “Ho!”
And may have been right, for all I know,
When he called
Him
It.
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.
BENEATH THE PINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No doubt the moral standards of some people
on Norfolk Island need adjustment, but Colonel
Leane, who admitted being influenced against people
by charges of immorality against them, should not
have acted on hearsay .’’—From the report of the
Royal Commission.
The pines grow straight on Norfolk Isle.,
Their heads aloft in stately style
And lordly fashion thrusting.
The trees are such an upright breed
It seems incongruous to read
That folk beneath them sleep and feed
Whose moral standards sometimes need
Adjusting.
In that sequestered sea-girt spot
One scarce would have, presumed a lot
Of scope for scheming Satan.
Among a crowd that’s out of touch
With vaudeville and trots and such
And movie films that soil and smutch,
There really oughtn’t to be much
To straighten.
One featured them a virtuous folk
Who seldom a Commandment broke
Because they’d little chance to;
Who lived in righteousness and peace,
With neither Judges nor police,
Nor bars to breast, nor mugs to fleece,
Nor jazzy tunes the soul that crease
To dance to.
Sans papers, taxis, banks, cashiers,
Sweeps, leg-shows, bookies, totes and beers,
There should be scant temptation.
The pines shoot up from hill and dell,
Their stature scarce believable,
But some folks’ moral standards—well,
Could do with just a little el-
Evation.
N.S.W,
MIDFORD.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlersagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS.
Three Diamonds, Plati-
num and Gold,
£l5/15/-
<2§pfl>
Seven Diamonds, Plati-
num and Gold,
£l5/15/-
Two Diamonds, with
Diamonds at sides,
Platinum and Gold,
£25.
Of all the gifts she ever receives, a woman most treasures her engagement ring. To make sure
that this cherished token will always be worthy of pride, it is wise to buy from a firm whose
reputation for sound values is well known.
Fairfax and Roberts, by reason of long experience, expert knowledge, and wide buying facilities,
are able to offer notable values. They make a speciality of rings, with clear, bright, flawless
gems in dainty distinctive settings, good workmanship and moderate price.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 2d and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH OX LI
â
A Better Dry Battery
♦he EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alar ms,
medical coils, etc.
ã
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The ever-varying un-
conventionalities of the Prince of Wales con-
tinue to amuse his friends and confuse the
Royal family. As he himself has put it,
“Every day Lascelles gets Royaler and
Royaler, while I get Commoner and Com-
moner.” The Prince’s statement when send-
ing a cheque for the relief of miners on his
estate, that he hoped they would not be forced
into a settlement through the starvation of
their side, will long be regarded as the bold-
est utterance of any English royalty for many
a day.
Lionel Hill, who looks like being Premier
of South Aus. in succession to John Gunn,
moved up, is a burly, fair-haired man of
early middle-age, who looks the footballer
that he formerly was; lie played for Nor-
wood. He came into political notice as an
outspoken secretary to the Tramwaymen’s
Association. In the Gunn Ministry he has
looked after Education :• <i Public Works.
TRAGEDIAN : “Women, sir-r, are wonderful!
Now, there’s my wife. She’s been —ah
nursing a grouch all this winter."
COMEDIAN ( interrupting ): “Yes, but you’re
all right again now, aren’t you?"
Membership of a shaky Ministry is no-
thing new to Alec Peacock. The first one
he joined was headed by Jimmy Munro
(1890-92), and of that Government J. L.
Dow, Minister for Lands under Gillies (1886-
90), said that when the Assembly rose on
Thursday night it always fervently thanked
God that it was safe till the following Tues-
day at half-past four. Peacock has been in
14 Administrations all told, and only re-
signed once before a team finished its career.
That was from Bent’s Cabinet (1908).
Whatever may be the faults of John
Allan (Vic.) as Premier and party leader,
be has the goodwill of officers in the public
departments. A year or two before Lawson
left he had everyone about him jumpy. Pren-
dergast was dreaded by the staff w'hen he took
on the Premiership, but he turned out a
trump; and Peacock, who bridged the gap
between Lawson and Prendergast, was a
favorite. The State officers will not join in
any call which may come from the public
for the return to power of Lawson, McPher-
son and Cohen.
Well known all over Australia and M.L.
was Henry Sewell, just dead in Adelaide. He
gave his whole life to plants. Coming to
Australia as a youth in 1865, he work “d
under Dr. Scliomburgk at the Botanic Gar-
dens in Adelaide, and presently started
nurseries at Payneliam, by the Torrens, and
Aldgate, in the hills. He had an enormous
collection of plants, and a memory that took
in apparently every one of them. But palms
and roses (of which he had possibly the
biggest variety in Australia) were always
his chief delight.
Amateur aeroplane-builders are not so
modern. Fifteen years ago an engine-
cleaner at Coburg (Vic.), John McElhinny,
put in his spare time and cash at the job.
He might have succeeded, too, only his
finances gave out; faith in flying-men was
not very strong in those times. McElhinny
is a motor-man
nowadays on the
Vi c. railways,
and such a
model of punc-
tuality that
they set their
clocks by his
rail - motor at
Hamilton and
Warrnambool.
ERNEST H.
FROMEN,
member of the
Dairy Control
Board and
S. Australia’s
best-known
representative
of the butter
industry, lie
came from
Scandinavia
when he was
a boy, and has
studied Danish
and Swedish
methods since
his infancy.
The dailies mention the death of a baronet
who was until recent years a railway
ganger at Gladstone (S.A.), and who not
only forebore to use the title but “main-
tained for 44 years the secret of his associa-
tion with a titled family.” Still, his identity
was obviously no secret to the books of refer-
ence. His name is to be found in any
baronetage: “Sir James Stephen Goold,
Baronet of Old Court, b. 1848, sue. 1893.
Res.: Gladstone, Adelaide.” The title dates
from 1801, and the railway ganger was the
fourth holder and nephew of the third. His
son, George Ignatius Goold, who succeeds to
the dignity, is 23 years of age, and works
in the Port Pirie smelters.
“Essay”: In a tiny township on Yorke
Peninsula (S.A.) there grows to manhood
one Oliver Gallipolia, while at a farmhouse
a mile or two distant the twins France and
Belgium are learning to milk the cows, and
little sister Armistice Day Peace wags it
happily from school.
When Maoriland imports high officials
it usually gets them from the Old Dart; but
Australians sometimes find their way among
the heads. The latest to do it is C. Gostelow,
son of the headmaster of South Strath field
School (Sydney). Gostelow, who is 35.
started with the Mutual Life in N.S.W., and
after some years, during which he picked up
every degree and distinction open to a pro-
fessional actuary—he is the youngest Fellow
of the Institute of Actuaries (Lond.) in
Australasia —he joined the M.L. Govern-
ment’s life insurance department, serving as
actuary, secretary and deputy commissioner.
Now he goes on to the more affluent job of
Government Actuary.
Negotiations for the purchase of the busi-
ness of Lincoln, Stuart and Co., of Flinders-
street, by Snow’s, of Sydney and Glenferrie
(Vic.), recalls that the late Frank Stuart,
once head of the firm, wrecked what might
have been a fine political career by getting-
huffy. Like Alec Peacock, he was an
Honorary Minister in the Jimmy Munro Gov-
ernment. On the death of George Lang-
ridge, Chief Sec., in March, 1891. four
months after the Cabinet was formed, Stuart
thought that he should get the salaried
vacancy. Munro (very wisely, as history
has proved) selected George Turner. Stuart
resigned from the Cabinet. He nearly per-
suaded Peacock to do likewise, but George
Graham and other political friends applied
the brake in time. Stuart never got another
taste of office, while Peacock is in his 14th
Ministry and has been leader of three.
Australia’s oldest sky-pilot was 101 on
August 12. Although not born in Australia
Septimus Hungerford has spent 98 years
in this country. His early affiliation was
with the law, and he went to England on a
mission for a legal firm. On his return he
decided to turn his collar around, was
ordained in 1854, and had his first charge
at Armidale—a parish then as big as a
State and now a diocese. Since his retire-
ment 31 years ago he has lived at Cremorne;
and even that is a space of time long enough
to change bush into a jungle of flats.
In a class apart from the Enoch Ardens
of the A.1.F., the diukum “missing” are still
being located, thanks to the tireless Imperial
War Graves Commission. After 10 years of
uncertainty the Kyneton (Vic.) relatives of
Corporal A. A. Watson, who was reported
missing at Pozieres in August, T 6, have been
informed that his body was found a mile
north of Pozieres, identified and buried re-
cently in the A.I.F. burial-ground at Grass-
lane, Fleurs. Many a sad-eyed waiting
woman, in default of similar information, will
go on clinging to hope.
The hearty way in which Fortune some-
times upturns the cornucopia has become
known to an Adelaide family named Ilodgins,
whose head was a butcher’s assistant ; a
nearly-forgotten relative in England has died
and left the lady £70,000. When £20,000
came along as a first instalment Mrs.
Ilodgins's first idea was to go along in style
and have a fling at the races. Luck went on
smiling, and she backed three winners.
Major Esk Sandford, who comes back to
his native land with the intention of building
aeroplanes, was among the first of Austra-
lian fliers, and took the air in the venerable
machine of W. E. Hart. In wartime, after
service in the Australian force in New
Guinea, he w T ent to England and joined the
Flying Corps, finishing up as a squadron com-
mander. His 82-year-old dad is the fine old
iron-smelting pioneer of Eskbank, Lithgow
(N.S.W.), now living in retirement at East-
wood.
The other day Dr. Muriel Bell won her
M.D. of the M.L. University. She is only
the second woman to win the distinction;
Dr. Margaret Cruickshank was the first—
that was back in 1903. But as she died in
1918, Dr. Bell is the Dominion’s only home-
grown M.D.
W. M. McPherson, ex-Treasurer of Vic.,
is still showering £lOOO cheques. The latest
institution to benefit is the Tech, at Glen-
ferrie, in his own constituency (Hawthorn).
He had intended to make provision in his
will, he explained, but thought that the money
would be more useful while he lived. In the
last few weeks three charitable institutions
have got £lOOO each from him.
Since “Tubby” Clayton, the stout parson
who originated “Toe H,” introduced it
to this only tepidly-interested country, the
movement has grown remarkably. It has
now received an invitation from English
H.Q, to send a representative to the birthday
celebration at Manchester in December. Dr.
Crott.v, Dean of Newcastle, will be Aus-
tralia’s delegate.
At 80 George Cannis still follows the
trade which was his father’s, making sails by
hand. He started at it 70 years ago, when
Woolloomooloo Bay was a harbor for
pleasure craft as well as an anchorage for
brigs, brigantines and schooners; and his
workshop is still near the wharves in Wool-
loomooloo. A Cannis sail was a prized fitting
in the far days, and the old man still gets
enough work to keep him interested in life.
Australia has acquired a new citizen who,
although he is Australian-born and hasn’t
a drop of Celestial blood in his veins, speaks
nothing but Chinese. Even his name is
Chinese —lie got it from the prosperous mer-
chant who adopted him on the death of both
bis parents in Castlemaine (Vic.). The
foster-parents of Lee Chee grew fond of him,
and, wanting to bind him more to them by
training him as a Chinese, sent him to China
for his education at the age of seven. Fifteen
years later he comes back to enter his foster-
parents’ business and learn English over
again.
Died at Auckland Alois Duffus Lubecki,
bachelor, business man and good churchman,
aged 85. The last surviving son of the
Polish Prince Alois Constantin Lubecki, his
line died with him. The family first settled
in Liverpool (N.S.W.), where the eldest boy
was born, and after a sojourn in Melbourne
went on to Maoriland, where the son entered
the Telegraph Department and eventually
became one of the heads. He made a lot of
money as owner of Moutere station, in Cen-
tral Otago, and it goes to help education and
the Church of England.
At South Head (Sydney) recently they
buried an old salt close to the sea he had
loved. F. T. Dunn, after five years of deep-
sea sailing, entered the Sydney pilot service
as quite a young man. In those days, 60
years ago, whenever a ship appeared on the
horizon, the rival pilots went racing out for
her, and their boats w r ere sometimes rowed
20 miles. Dunn, as coxswain, won many
a tussle of the sort. When steam came in
Dunn was appointed master of the tender
Dorothy, and later got the Carrington. When
Time drove him ashore he got a job at South
Head, and ended his days there.
COL. BRINSMEAD, of the Commonwealth
Service, Controller of Civil Aviation ,
who flew on from Darwin ahead of
Cobham.
The history of forestry in N.S.W. is prac-
tically that of Richard Dalrymple Hay, who,
a young surveyor in the Lands Department,
was selected for the job of surveying the
State’s forests when Henry Parkes first
struck the idea that their disappearance
might be a calamity. He is due to retire
from his job as Forestry Commissioner in
October; Norman Jolly, who was a member
of the Commission when it had three mem-
bers, and is at present principal of the Com-
monwealth School of Forestry at Canberra,
is to be his successor. Hay laid out the
National Park; and there are few men who
know more about native timbers. Young
Jolly is a S. Aus. Rhodes scholar who took
a Forestry course in England and got prac-
tical experience in India and elsewhere.
By luring back Horsfield from S.A. to be-
come third Water Commissioner, at £1250 a
year, Vic. has evened things up with the
sister State for coaxing A. E. V. Richardson
to return to Adelaide. Richardson left Rose-
worthy College to become Vic. Superinten-
dent of Agriculture and a semi-professor of
agriculture at tin* Melbourne Uni., but could
not resist when the Waite Research Insti-
tute and a professorship at Adelaide ’Var-
sity were awaiting him. Horsfield was for-
merly on the Vic. Water Commission’s staff,
and it was a great relief to Ministers, other
than Premier Allan, and to the other two
Water Commissioners when he was chosen.
If somebody else had been selected Second
Commissioner Shaw might have resigned and
political trouble followed.
In the M.L. House of Reps, a few days
ago a member mentioned that the first
teacher at the old blockhouse on what is
now Church Hill, Nelson, was Thomas
Arnold, son of Rugby’s great headmaster en-
shrined in “Tom Brown.” The doctor had
bought tw T o sections from the New Zealand
Land Co. of those days, and young Arnold
decided to look at the paternal estate in the
new land. M.L. did not hold him long, and
the Governor of Tasmania, an old friend of
his father’s, offered him a position as school
inspector there, where he met and married
the daughter of Colonel Sorrell. The first
child born was the afterwards-famous Mrs.
Humphry Ward.
Digger members of the S. Aus. Costs bri-
gade have been rightly given first claim on
public appointments. Eric Millhouse, the
Crown Prosecutor, served with the Artillery,
and on his return received his present billet,
which, by the way, pressure of private prac-
tice will soon cause him to give up. Of the
three S.M.’s appointed since the war, two
are Diggers—S. Ronald and Morty Muir-
head. Edgar Bean, another Digger, is
Acting-Parliamentary Draughtsman. The
Police Bribery Commission, which threatens
to break all endurance records, has provided
a job for Blackburn, the profession’s only
V.C. winner, who was appointed “counsel to
assist the Commissioner.”
TWO BOB IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life is a real, earnest thing—
That is beyond all questioning.
Bit of a flutter, all the same,
Tong of the luck that’s in the game;
ill summed up, if you come to think,
tii a phrase you hear where the glasses dink,
When nobody knows or greatly cares
Whether the next is yours or theirs,
And it’s time for closing or thereabouts:
“Two Bob In and the Winner Shouts.”
Tw o Bob In—and it’s up to you.
Must stake something, whatever you do—-
Whether you’re growing wool or wheat,
Whether your job’s in the bush or street,
Mental or manual, physic or law,
Swinging a kellv or wagging a jaw.
Merit and industry doubtless are
Qualities that will take you far,
But Luck still hands out kisses and clouts.
“Two Bcb In and the Winner Shouts.”
Many a prize is in life to win,
But one must always put something in,
N T or count entirely on skill or pace
To lift the pool or to win the race.
You may view him cheerily or askance,
But you can’t get away from the blind god Chance.
Never a day but the dice are rolled
By the careless Fates, or a horse is sold,
And we profit or lose thereby—who doubts?
“Two Bob In and the Winner Shouts.”
Two Bob In —and the lot to spend
If it should come your way, my friend;
And, if it doesn’t, you’ll drain a toast
To him the losers have made the host.
There’d be no success for any to hail
Unless there were some who had to fail,
For whether a man climbs fast or slow
It’s over the backs of the chaps below,
And there couldn’t be Ins if more weren’t Outs.
“Two Bob In and the Winner Shouts.”
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


' JOF
4**r *r
r
' - <■<
ip i
:
ill
: :
i
i.
. .• jSgSE I
r \
~v
: '
Hi
m, : ; m
a
i
-. .'-mBSII
mm
,r§ SlftlJ
: m
2*3
| 'Hk
■Bn m
m
H!
. m
».■
■
■■
mm
■SHI
:
«BB #.
• V ' "f
:
iiiiii
■
«2
V
:
66
1
Cut
1..;
T Wje
i
s
CiS
a
mM
m
m
m
m
■"%
.
i
mm
m
■
■
gl&gM
gggp*
'
OVAL
HEAVY-WEIGHTS
Jfl J&M o/ 25 Ql 50 .
TINS OF 25 -
TINS OF 50
PURE VIRGINIAN.


Cbe
Equitable
å
m
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Etd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy, Managing Director.
f
SHIRTS
are guaranleedb
to give satisfaction
“ They Fit ”
ā
Made In Australia
ă
Who Is This?
I am Jack Wieneke.
My Saddles are
famous all over Aus-
tralia and recog-
nised to be
Genuine
Triers.
They will last for
30 years.
Send me your name
and I will post you
my new book on
Saddle Making,
beautifully illustrated.
Jack Wieneke,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney; or
434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
L.
; j
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“X.N.0.”: As “E.J.H.” (B. 29/7/’26)
says, there is a lot yet to be discovered about
malaria. I was with 16 or 17 ships of the
Mediterranean Fleet in 1904 when we
anchored at Platea, on the west coast of
Greece. Malaria broke out, but a straight
line drawn across the bay would have shown
no disease on one side and lots on the other.
There were no great topographical differences
to account for the phenomenon, nor any
absence of trees, vegetation, etc.; and there
was no stagnant water at all.
* * * *
“D. Wych”: The discovery of the bacillus
of beri-beri, referred to by “Bouragi” (B.
22/7/’26), recalls to me the fact that there
is a remedy for the disease. In 1889 I was
in charge of a
pearling plant in
north W.A. when
a n outbreak o f
beri-beri prostrated
most of the hands,
who were Malays,
Filipinos and
Japanese. I be-
came alarmed, and
sent a telegram to
a Fremantle chem-
ist. Fortunately
the wire arrived at
its destination the
day before the
monthly steamer
left for the North,
so I received the
medicine within a
week. During that
week five men died,
making a total of
15 deaths. The
medicine was a
colorless fluid, with
a strong metallic
taste —I never had
the formula. It
had to be given in
gradually - increas-
ing doses. After
treatment with
this preparation the sufferers —some of whom
were at death's door—-gradually recovered,
and eventually all got well; the number in-
cluded myself.
“The Rumpus”: From a struggling cocky
Old Duncan had risen to be a prosperous
wheat-farmer, and all his success he credited
to modern machinery. As the money returns
flowed in, various little adjuncts to the home
were bought until comfort was reached.
Then extravagance cropped up; the house
must have a piano! Duncan held off the
purchase for a long time, but the tinkling
of a brand-new instrument at the nearest
neighbor's decided him. “All’ll gang t’ toon
t’ order a piano, lass,” he said to his wife.
“What mak’ would ye choose —a Maisey-
Harris or a McKay?”
* * * *
“Outback”: Fishermen have told “C.C.”
(B. 29/7/’26) that cuttlefish is the solidi-
fied matter ejected by the squid when in fear
of attack. Nothing of the kind. The so-
called “cuttlefish” is the bone of the squid.
The soft-bodied squid is a food for many
fishes, chiefly snapper and whales. What
are cast up on our beaches are the remains
of those that have been devoured. At times
the flesh is found adhering to these bones;
indeed, fishermen often use such flesh as
snapper bait. If “C.C.” examines the next
specimen he finds he will probably see on
it the tooth-marks of the fish which devoured
the soft body of its owner. Cuttlefish-shells
are sometimes cast upon our beaches in great
number —a pretty good sign that snapper
are somewhere handy.
A QUICK CONVERSION.
BILL : “Did you 'are much trouble with your mother-in-law when you was first married?"
STEVE: “No, she was more chicken-'carted than th’ missus. Just th’ one black eye
choked ’er off.”
“Wang”: Bees do pick out some queer
places to hive (B. l/7/’26). It is not un-
common for them to lob on top of a horse in
a vehicle. Not very long ago they stirred
a quiet old neddy into action up Lilydale
(Vic.) way, by festooning themselves on
his head. The result was a cocky with a
broken leg and a wrecked cart. One day
last summer a gang of workmen in our
Melbourne suburb, toiling behind a tar-cart,
were astonished to see Dobbin suddenly jump
into his collar and go tearing up the road,
leaving a trail of tar behind him. A hive
of bees had swarmed on the old chap’s head,
and serious damage was only averted by a
workman manipulating a hose at a stand-
pipe and playing water on Dobbin.
* * * *
“W. J.T.”: It seems a shame to put a
smudge on “Gouger’s” poetic picture of
herds of beautiful brumbies descended from
“blood horses and racing mares” (B.
29/7/’26). Any horseman knows that brum-
bies are not worth a tinker’s curse as horses.
Inbreeding has destroyed any vestige of the
alleged good points of the sire and mare of
the herd, though I agree that the sight of
an old-man stallion throwing his weight
about is a good one. I have seen half a
dozen mares separated from a herd that was
being driven to a yard—the stallion raced up
to them and lashed out in every direction
till he successfully stampeded the lot. The
only way to deal with the old buck under
such circumstances is to give him a bullet;
then, having yarded the mares, you will soon
kick yourself for not having shot them for
their hides.
* * * *
“Larrap”: It is still debated, says “Chan-
cery Lane” (B. 22/7/’26), whether bees can
pierce the skin of fruit or not. I have kept
bees for years, and have proved that they
cannot. This I did by placing a swarm in
a gauze cage, together with some sound-
skinned grapes and peaches. The bees
starved to death, as they were unable to
break the fruit-skins. But when for others
I pricked the fruit with a wire, they at once
sucked out the juice. The fact is that bees
only complete the work that birds begin.
Bees are, nevertheless, a decided nuisance
where raisins, apricots or other fruits are
being dried, and the apiarist should see to
it that they are shifted from fruit-growing
areas before grape-picking commences.
It is a pity that friction should arise be-
tween the two classes, as the beekeeper is
the orchardist’s best friend. Where the bee-
keeper has been shifted away from a fruit-
growing area, the orchardist has subsequently
come to the conclusion that he has made a
mistake in banishing the busy little workers
wdio fertilised his fruit-blossoms. In 1913
my bees were declared a nuisance at the in-
stigation of an orchardist at Angaston
(S.A.). After three seasons he found out
bis mistake, as his fruit-crops were partial
failures, and since then he has carted my
bees every spring 20 miles to his orchard
free of charge, because their presence makes
all the difference between heavy crops and
poor ones.
“Raborak": Can any Abo. tell me the
most effective way to ring timber so that
it will die quickly? Last winter I did a
bit of clearing and frill-ringed each tree,
but it seems to have been only a tonic. The
same applies to the arsenic treatment. I
used this on about 200 acres. It was not
absolutely a failure, as I found two trees
looking very sick about a month later; but
that’s all. Is the arsenic process any good?
If so, what is the proper way to administer
the dose?
* * * *
“Kitch” : There are earth-worms in S. Gipps-
land 6ft. long and as thick as a man's index-
finger. Sucking their way through the wet
earth with a gurgle they make mounds 10
or 12 inches high. Their nests are made
underground out of fibrous roots, and they
deposit in these their brown semi-transparent
eggs about 2in. long by fin. thick. I saw a
laughing-jack pulling one out for lunch, and
TAKING HIP PLACE.
“I want a bird that will bo a real companion
to my wife whilst I’m away.”
“This ’ere one’s a great talker, sir.”
“Ah, you don’t get the idea —I want some-
thing that’s a great listener.”
as the worm stretched and Johnny couldn’t
get his head further back he snapped again
and again till he had released the lot. Yet,
strong as he was, he couldn’t lift that piece
of rubber over a sft. shrub.
(Continued on page 24-)
THE GOLDEN GLEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
’Twas a small secluded valley fringed by frowning
mountain crags,
With deep caverns that, in days now long since
dead,
Were the homes of hunted outlaws, where they hid
the golden bags
Of the plundered banks and escorts, so ’twas said.
And Moloney had decided that he’d cultivate the land,
Though the trees grew thick, and threatened fear-
some toil
To the strong and shrewd selector, who must face
it single hand,
If he sought to clear the heavy-timbered soil.
He had neighbors. Like the people in the fabled
“Lark and Young”
They were busy, though they’d yarn for hours on
end
To Moloney, as he chopped or grubbed, or clods
around him flung,
But they couldn’t spare a minute’s help to lend.
Then one day as Dent and Daley were both journeying
to town,
They were startled by a sight that met their
eyes:
’Twas Moloney racing madly through the timber up
and down,
With loud shouts of “Gold!” that made their
greed arise.
They pulled up a"d joined Moloney, and they read
with eyes a-pop
Some strange writing that Moloney had just found
In a buried pickle bottle; but he said he must not
stop
Till he found the fortune hidden in the ground,
For the writing plainly mentioned that beside a
giant tree,
“Fifty paces to the south-east”—but just there
The words were badly blotted, thougli beyond them
they could see:
“Fifteen hundred pounds in gold are hid with
care.”
TWO UP AND ONE DOWN.
DAD: “Ain’t ’e a chumpeen—'cads ’em ’ev’ry time!”
How Moloney puffed and panted! And how Daley
wrung his hand!
And how Dent said that he’d come and lend his
team
To help haul the mighty trees down, and to grub
Moloney’s land!
But Moloney said he’d see, his eyes agleam.
And he saw, for on the morrow all the neighbors
far and near
Came with horses, oxen, mattocks, picks and
spades,
And the glen was like a beehive, and the axes
ringing clear
Were awaking mocking echoes down the glades.
And Moloney showed the bottle and the spot where
it was found,
And he swore he’d fairly share the gold with all,
While they worked like delving demons, and their
jokes were only drowned
By the great trees crashing earthward in their
fall.
When the last tree fell and shattered, and the glen
was nearly clear,
Their fast-dying hope fought feebly with despair.
Still Moloney seemed quite cheerful, as he spoke for
all to hear
Of his plan that their ill fortune might repair.
“Now it may be,” said Moloney, “that the tree
decayed away,
Or that bushfives burned it down long years ago,
But we'll plough the whole glen deeply-—and you’re
welcome all to stay—
For the gold cannot escape us then, you know.”
Here some looked at him disgruntled, with their
slavered mouths agape,
And some cursed him in their beards and left for
home,
But in some strong faith still lingered, and took
true but tardy shape
In the ploughing of the rich, leaf-laden loam.
Now the hardy ploughmen staggered over hidden
stumps and clods,
And they cursed at breaking swingle-bars and
chains,
While Moloney cheered and told them ’twas a sight
fit for the gods,
And the gods would sure reward them for their
pains.
Yes, Moloney’s words were hopeful till the last
rich sod was turned,
And abandoned hope died in the stoutest heart.
Not thinking that their gold-greed had those poig-
nant lessons learned,
That must live, of all men’s lessons, throned apart.
Now the Golden Glen is famous ’mongst the orchards
far and wide,
Though but few know how from forest lands ’twas
won,
But Moloney tells the story, if a short one, filled
with pride
In his discourse with his school-shy truant son:
“You should learn ail that you’re able, lad of
mine—no work or play
Can beat learning, son, to make life’s labor light;
For the Golden Glen would never be the glen it is
to-day
If your daddy hadn’t learned to read and write.
N.S.W.
PAUL CUPID.


ą
ARE MAGNIFICENT
SAYS
A gj||||jj§S - % * f
19| Ipp
; Sflk t ;
nip
• YI >'. j
MMBBi
Hi
Bf * N
P : :
■■■x,:A,
.
' - jr\‘}‘!
k
W|M/ ! / ’Jif. ■ ’ :
HH 1 v ■
..: v; ;
i» wO? <*.■>*** i
1 ill 1853338 1 113bi3b I. !fy JB3I 31388188p1
*
- Mm**
immrr m i y us
i
ii 1 v
i: k ..JB
• YYx^l
■ : ' : - : ' : : ■
■'• ‘*
§r 9 j
wkm^msi
r* i«. y t rji
.
whirr-' ■
HjU ™ • «. V Y !
I I I i 11 ■
111111 l
BP
I®®# - - • -,* f^j
s. -1 J 1
*i i m
'
lliilf^ilb^
General O'pinion


You’ll Soon Feel the Benefit of Rabbit Destruction
with CYANOGAS (Calcium Cyanide)
Cyanogas is the modern, scientific method of rabbit
destruction on a large scale. It is absolutely safe,
sure and speedy, and, properly applied according to
directions, very economical.
The best method of application is to blow into burrows
with the Fumo Dust Blower. The Cyanogas gives off
deadly fumes for 24 hours, penetrating to every crevice
and corner, and killing every rabbit in
the warren.
Mr. G. C. Davis, Dampon, Scone,
writes : —“Re Calcium Cyanide Dust.
We did great work last season with it
in thinning out the rabbits. Where
they were very thick last season there
is hardly a rabbit to be seen now.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Legrgo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers' Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris. Scarfe & handovers. Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
FUMO
BRAND
æ
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Jimmy Possum” : “Yes, I had some clever
dorgs in me day,” said old Dave, reflectively,
slowly filling his pipe from a handful of
loose tobacco in his coat pocket. “But th’
smartest of the lot was ole Bob. He could
dam’ near talk, that dorg. One evening th’
ole woman sent me over to a neighbor’s—
a regular take-down hewwaters —ter get a couple
of fowls for Sunday dinner, as th’ ole woman’s
mother was cornin’ tor see us. Well, when
they’d got the birds in th’ bag an’ paid
for, an’ I Avas jus’ turnin’ ter go after sayin’
good-iiiglit, Bob commenced ter play up.
Trottin’ round an’ round, he kept sniffin’
at th’ bag an’ growlin'. At last he -got that
fierce he put the wind up me. I thought there
must be a snake in th’ bag. Droppin’ it
I struck a match an’ looked inside. Then
I see what w-as th’ matter. Th’ neighbor,
th’ swine, had palmed orf on me two skiuny
ole hens. And Bob had heard tlr ole woman
tell me ter bring a couple o’ young roosters.”
* * * *
“Sylvester” : “Do fish feel?” asks “J.D.C.”
(B. 15/7/’2G). Somewhere near where the
road of life began I remember going to
watch two youths fish for eels in the Kan-
garoo River (N.S.W.). Their first duty
was to catch small fish for bait—gudgeons
they were called. For some obscure reason
these fish were gutted before being placed in
the bait tin. After being disembow-elled one
was accidentally dropped and w-riggled back
into the water. After a few minutes steady
angling one of the boys caught a fish. On
taking it off the hook he discovered that it
was already gutted. Now-, w-here did that
fish intend to store the grasshopper with
which the hook was baited?
* * * *
“Pick” : Many kinds of fish readily feast
off their kind, but the most shocking aquatic
cannibal is the eel. Often when, after a
period of tidal flow, a coastal lake is sud-
denly closed by a sandbar across its outlet,
numbers of eels are barred on their way to
the ocean. Exploring the channel that was
formerly the fairway to the sea, and failing
to find egress, they congregate in the pool
nearest the bar. There in a short time, with-
EASY STREET.
COW-COCKY (to newchum): “I fergot to tell yer, ter-morrow
bein’ Sundee, we ’as a sleep-in—you won’t ’are ter get up
till a quarter-parst three.”
out other food, they resort to eating one
another alive. Gradually the bodies of the
smaller fellows are stripped of flesh as they
frenziedly twine and wriggle through the
weeds below. Their tenacity of life is extra-
ordinary. For weeks their almost fleshless
frames, with bones showing bare and shreds
of torn skin and sinew trailing, may be seen
squirming from the attacks of their stronger
companions. Then the lake again bursts
out to sea and the gruesome mob is released.
* * * *
“A. Rorig”: Is the name of the Federal
capital of abo. origin? I think so, for these
reasons. The termination erra is found in
many names in the
district, as Ginin-
derra, Jerrabom-
berra, Bumberra,
etc. The initial
syllable is found in
Candelo, Canowin-
d l* a, Canbelego,
etc. The old church
records show the
name as Canberry
or Canbury, but
local spelling at
that time was very
rocky. The post
office was always
Canberra. This I
am sure of, as my
father was the first
p.-m. there, and as
a lad in the early
’sixties I had a
good deal to do
with mails and p.o.
work. Residents of
Brindabella, Uri-
arra, Mugga Mugga,
Majura and Dun-
troo'n or Pialago
all got their mail
at Canberra. One
writer thinks th|e
foundation - stone
was laid on Acton.
This is wrong, as
Acton was, and is,
the Jeffries estate.
The whole of the
plain south of the
river and east
of Acton, excepting
Pialago, was Can-
berra, and the
foundation-stone is
on this, three-
quarters of a mile
or so south of the
river. It is to be
hoped that the
name will be left
alone and not
altered to “Kanbra,” as suggested, though
this latter was always the pronunciation
in the old times.
“H. J.lv.”: Planted in dew-laden soil the
germination of the turnip-seed scattered by
“J/s Ass” (B. 29/7/’2G) was assured. The
soil dried by the sun w-as, on the other hand,
not productive. This difference used to be
taken advantage of by an expert golf-links
curator w-ho had his greens top-dressed and
ready for play when other green-keepers were
awaiting the autumn rains.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Those “skilled” lasso-
swingers on Innamincka station (B.
22/7/’2G) didn’t know the game. The Indian
or Spanish “colorini” who taught the Yank
to swing a lariat
carries his coiled
rope in one hand,
with a turn of the
slack - end around
the saddle horn or
through the ring of
the forward-cinch
or surcingle. When
an animal is to be
operated on, he
throws his rope on
to a foreleg while
his mate makes
fast aft. As soon
as the horses feel
the strain they
bear away in oppo-
site directions,
keeping the rope
taut. Then the
riders dismount
and do whatever
the case requires.
If the animal goes
down, well and
good; if not, it is
dealt with on its
feet. The gaueho
or cow-boy doesn’t
worry about forked
trees or the rest
of the ceremonial
described by
“Wandi.” He just
ropes his victim,
operates, and gets
after the next one
pronto, or quicker than that.
* * * #
•‘Bill Bowyang”: I’ve been 40 years in
N.Q. bush territory, and thought I knew
what I w-as talking about when the conver-
sation veered round to our animals and
birds, but I’ve just met a white-whiskered
old bushman who said I was talking through
my hat when I stated that near Mt. Round-
back (N.Q.) I recently came across 130
eggs and 12 empty shells in a brush-turkey’s
nest. He swears he never knew of more
than 100 eggs being found in one mound.
Gould speaks of finding over 200, but he
isn’t here to be cross-examined.
FINANCE.
“Lord o’ mercy, ’ow can she do it on what ’er ’usband gets?”
“She don't. She does it on what ’er hoarders don’t get.”
“Jim Carew” : Apropos of foreign bodies
embedded in timber (B. 29/7/’2G), does any-
one know- what happened to the “liandcuff-
tree” at Oberon (N.S.W.) ? A photo of it
appeared in The Bulletin 30-odd years
ago. Local tradition had it that, years before,
a local resident w-as arrested for cattle-
stealing, and on the journey to the lock-up
he and the constable had to camp for the
night. Whilst the policeman slept over-
soundly the prisoner made his escape. Later
on he managed to slip off the handcuffs, and left
them hanging on a small tree. The tree
grew-, and the chain became embedded in the
w-ood. In The Bulletin photo all that
could be seen of the handcuffs was a bracelet
protruding on each side of the tree-trunk.
* * * *
“Gundy”: The Vic. Game and Fisheries
Department estimates that the' slaughter of
’possums during the two
months’ open season amounted
to close on half a million.
This figure must have been a
surprise to many people, and
may dispose them to the idea
that the valuable little fur
animal is in no danger of be-
coming extinct. Most of the
skins were, however, secured
in the valleys and open coun-
try, w r here probably few-
escape. But large numbers
remain in big areas of moun-
tain country, where the diffi-
culty of trapping makes the
pursuit unprofitable. If a
future open season is contem-
plated the Department ought
to correct a palpable error in
the period selected. Practi-
cally all the does taken in the
time allotted this year were
carrying young, and these all
perished. If the season chosen
was a couple of months later
many of the youngsters would
by then be capable of foraging
for themselves. Also, the fur
does not reach its full value until winter is
w-ell advanced.
* * * *
“Darius” : “Uramao” (B. 20/5/’2G) deplores
the burning of Judge Manning’s records of
old Maori religious lites. It is hardly
possible that much of consequence was lost.
Manning was merely, by way of compromise,
admitted as a novice, and passed through
the initiating stage. He never passed through
the ivhare kura, or theological college, in
which the priests or tohungas graduated.
To this no pakeha was ever admitted, and
women, although they prepared the food for
the students, were forbidden to approach
the whare kura. Strict tests had to be
passed before entrance, the first being the
biting of Pae Hamutu, enough to daunt all
but the boldest. Another test was the drawing
of a strip of flesh from a newly-slaughtered
slave slowly across the bared teeth of the
candidate. Tests well calculated to discover
any “yellow streak” were applied both to young
warriors and to mystics. There is only one
maft alive to-day who is in possession of
the inner secrets, and he is Timi Kara,
M.L.A., one time Minister of the Crown
and acting Prime Minister of Maoriland.
Conditions have greatly changed, and the
priesthood to which he was admitted has
degenerated into a somewhat tricky tohun-
gaism that mostly preys upon believers
through their fears. False prophets have
arisen. The old priests exercised very be-
nign as well as occasional malign influences.
Timi Kara was dedicated to the gods before
birth, and immediately after his birth was
removed by the adopting tribe to the hill-
fastnesses of the Ruakituri River in Hawke’s
Bay. It was not until he was seven years
of age that he saw a white man, and the
first he set eyes on was his own father, come
to ransom him. Unless he imparts the full
knowledge of the occult he possesses to some
faithful friend, the secrets that have been
handed down by tohungas through many
ages are never likely to be revealed.
* * * *
“Jimpey”: It’s not Binghi only who can
smell animals and scent smoke from afar
(B. 17/6/’2G). Numbers of bushmen, both
old and young, can do it. I have often
located a native-bear through the perfume
of the roarer, and have scented dingoes on
a wet day when I have not seen any. That
it wasn’t fancy was proved by picking up
the tracks later. As for camp fires, I have
often smelt them two miles away. There is
nothing extraordinary about this, as many a
bush-born can testify. I once knew a timber-
getter who was directed by his nose in
locating “sugarbags” ; with the wind favor-
able he could nose out a nest from a distance
of at least 50 yards.
* * * *
“X.N.0.” : Re “Murkah’s” calculation (P».
29/7,/’2G) about the 701 b. dog dropping 300
feet and hitting the earth with a 44-ton
thud. Wouldn’t the animal die of heart failure
long before reaching the bottom? I remember
looking down on the Neutral Ground at
Gibraltar from the Galleries about 700 or
SOO feet up, when we speculated on the same
problem as “Murkah” discusses. A doctor
who was with us enunciated the heart-failure
theory and suggested that if any of us wanted
to go over vve probably wouldn’t feel the
bump. Does anybody know anything about
this? With Gap suicides to w-ork on there
might be some local data.
“A.Ii.S.”: “Murkah’s” contention, that a
dog weighing 701 b. which falls 300 feet
would be injured to the same extent as it
a ton block of cement were dropped on it
from a height of one foot fails to convince
me. What of the boy viio recently fell
down a lift-well in a Melbourne building?
He weighed 1501 b. and fell 70 feet. Yet ho
escaped with abrasions.
“Jim G.”: Recent references to cooking
on upturned shovels remind me of a culinary
artist we had with us on a droving trip.
His sole cooking utensils were a shovel and
IT WOULD HELP HIM HOME QUICKER.
VOIOE FROM UNDER: “Get me a spanner, mate.”
PASSER-BY: “You don’t want a spanner. It’s a railway
time-table what you want.”
a kerosene-tin. The chops were fried and
the johnny-cakes baked on the shovel; the
tea was made in the kerosene-tin. Occasion-
ally he boiled a duff overnight, and warmed
up slices on the shovel for dinner. For a
day or so after these feasts little discs of
grease used to float on the tea—but we never
complained.
* * * *
“C.T.R.”: A Toowoomba polo player, E.
Phelp, recently rode one horse 83 miles be-
tween 5.40 a.m. and 8.30 p.m. As Mr. Phelp
had one stop of three hours on the journey
this is claimed as a record for Queensland.
Plas any member of the Council a better
performance to nominate?
TRACKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An aviator has done some thrilling stunts over
Mount Vesuvius.” — Cable.
It does not tell us of his race,
Or of his sire or mater;
It makes no mention of the place
He may have left for later;
He may have been a belted earl
Or someone even greater;
He may have been a boorish churl,
Or son of some archgaiter;
His people p’r’aps were rustic folk
Who tilled old king “pertater,”
He may have toiled mid city’s smoke,
Or been a lowly waiter ;
But I have worked his birthplace out
Till nothing could be “nater.”
He came from Ireland without doubt—
Sure there’s no land that’s swater—
He took some risks, we all agree,
Though of this life no hater;
But if his engine failed, you see,
He’d get a drop o’ the crater.
QUEENSLAND.
J. S. DONNELLY.


ipli ; 1 1 i /
tt/i
m
Mi
i
I
Jiiii
//
$sl m
WW ill
in
1
1
I
&
*Si
i
n
ft
M
/
TO
m
■
I
I
I
m
\\
SH
I
ht)
V
I
ass
£
liiJS
w
II I
a
itnrsf /
1!|S| I'liaxii;
■
Hi
iss
i
1
I
!i^
11
iiiii :
:. : ■
111
iiiiiiiiiiiii
si :
lll!p!i!i i ;iii!i , :i!!iiii!iiiliii‘. ■.. L * I
:
THESE ARE THE ROADS
that emphasise the undoubted
superiority and dependability of
DUNLOP TYRES
Their quality and construction ensures
thousands of miles of free from trouble
motoring over all descriptions of roads*
For value and economical service they
stand alone*
GARAGES STOCK THEM.
★ ★ ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.


Under’
Royal
Warrant
iSH
To H.M.
Kind
George V
Vintage 1914. ,
CHAMPAGNE (
(bJassE
Australian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
ǽ
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO TEARS OLD. *
Australasian Afrsrts-
-BWIFT k COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnsy.
For Reservations ring 8W1361.
S 3 ' i
e
\VfentmorthCafe
The name stands for Perfection
c
ItS ft
he Hotel
Here is all you require for complete enjoyment.
Thursday and Saturday nights of delight.
A superb Dinner from 7.30 p.m. served with Continental
Supper from 8.30, 12/6—an after-theatre specialty.
Complete Cabaret, including Miss Marie Crowther,
premiere danseuse, Mile. Koslova, Ivan Gorski and the
Famous Wentworth Band provide a veritable feast of
entertainment—at no extra cost.
AFTERNOON TEAS—A SOCIAL INSTITUTION,
from S.SO daily.
finish, 21/-
Ihe Ca!6
Order all wines before 6 p.m.
a
7hp centre o/ Ooeens/onc/s
Socio/ Life.
gold
° BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
Sydney has had only one Artists’ Ball.
Monday's function was merely a slightly less
clothed -society affair than the usual fancy-
dress frivol, for this year the Red Cross, which
is more than Respectable, had come in as a
partner. The famous basement of other times
was devoted to a sit-down supper, at which no-
body flung saveloys about and the beer was
strictly rationed. There was actually room,
despite the Charleston fiends, for everybody
to dance. The decorations were unique: a
frieze of aboriginalities, cleverly designed,
ran round the gallery, interspersed with
black-fellers’ shields and black-feller Cupids
at their old gaihe. The east gallery housed
several special boxes for vice-royalty and
others, the loges being artistically furnished.
There was no attempt at staging any real
pageants; but nobody wanted any.
Lady de Chair, in a striking dress of gold
lame, had with her Elaine, in sealing-wax
georgette, Sir Roderick Jones and Riekettson
Ilatt. Mrs. James Burns, one of the organ-
isers, came as a gorgeous and artistic
palette ; j Mrs. George Walker, another of the
committee, was an Andalusian beauty.
Among the character studies was Miss Erna
Living, the repertory enthusiast, who con-
sistently. carried out the representation of
a battered old charwoman; Leon Lyons, as
a perfect Long Jolin Silver, wooden-legged,
with his green parrot on his shoulder; David
Souter, who attempted to disguise himself
m a mask, but his Scotch accent broke
through; Mrs. Venour Nathan, a wraith-like
Spanish romantic; graceful Miss Proctor,
in her favorite century ago; Stella Chaliapin,
daughter of the big Russian, a pierrette; the
Billy Moores, who illustrated Thackeray. A
typical burgomaster was Harry Julius; Don
Moore was an abo.; Sydney Ure Smith, talc-
ing advantage of the absence of George Lam-
bert, appeared as a Persian ; and the most
striking of the sets was a group of scarlet
toy soldiers.
One anticipated that all the youthful
movie fans who cherish ambitions of being
Mary Piclcfords and Rudolph Valentinos
would- have packed the Ambassadors that
night; but youth’s purse is not on the plane
of its desires, and the “Eva Novak” ball
was comparatively an “old” party. Directly
the shivoo was to help the funds of the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children. The Am-
bassadors gave the dinner, and Jean’s pro-
vided a bouquet for the star, posies for the
guests at the star s table and a laurel-
wreath for birdman Cobham, who came for
supper, bringing mechanic Ward, Geoffrey
Hughes, a patient smile and a weary look.
Eva Novak is a North-of-Europe type of
la/v Her flaxen fuzzily-waved hair is
bobbed, not shingled, and her complexion is of
the milk-and-roses order. She registered
pleasure from the moment her silver-shod
feet tripped down the Ambassadors’ marble
stairs at the Movie Ball, and her frequent
smile displayed teeth like even pearls in a
coral setting. Her frock, silver tissue with
flame georgette hugging her slim form to
just below the normal waist, was wired at
the hips, find handkerchief corners alter-
nated with the tissue down to quite below
the ankles; almost every other frock in the
room was knee length or less. Mrs. Norman
iJawn, the wife of the American who will
photograph “The Term of His Natural Life,”
3S i a sood-looking American; her red-gold
curly bob gleamed above a lovely creation of
du 1 creamy frocking with a skirt weight
dull creamy frocking with a skirt weight of
gold and emerald beading. Marion Marcus
Glarke looked like a page out of papa’s book
almost, lor she wore her unshorn hair in a
bun on the crown of her head and a wreath
ot roses around it, and, incidentally, a petunia
velvet frock. The picture world’s fairest
ornament, however, was Edwin Geach’s wife
her silvering perfect shingle rising above a
very plain well-fitting black georgette gown.
Another old Sydney friend is making a
very good marriage—Sir Gerald Strickland,
one-time Governor of this State, now Conser-
vative member for Lancaster, as well as a
member of the Malta Legislative Assembly.
He is to confer his title on Miss Margaret
Hultori’.a sister of the newspaper proprietor
who, dying last year, left 2+ millions of the
treasure that, fortunately for the rich man’s
n ann ! )t be laid U P in Heaven.
S Gerald, whose passion used to be white
leghorns and pigs, has now become a news-
Malta proprietor and runs th e Times of
. r J-]h e sandwich gurgled to the cream-puff
in Farmer s hall last Friday night, for the
occasion was a jocund one; Bill Holman,
K.L., one-time Premier, and his lady were
being welcomed home again by the English-
speaking Union. Surgeon MacCormick’s
lady, as chairwoman of the hospitality com-
mittee, reflected a bit of the spotlight from
black romames heavily charged with sequins
and diamente. The Hughes lady, too, looked
uncommon handsome wrapped to the ears in
ermine. Ruby Rich expressed herself simul-
taneously on a grand piano and in pink
georgettes.
Sargent’s,-of the teashops, had their annual
Poster Ball at the Moore Park Palais last
week. Over 500 employees, all in fancy
costume, took part in the grand march, and
i • iranches entered for the competition
which best illustrated some product for which
the firm is noted. Market-street won this
tor their representation of Sargent’s tea. The
object of the dance was to support the firm’s
six cots at the Kiddies’ hospital.
The Musical Association’s Show for Chali-
apin drew . a record crowd —there weren’t
enough chairs to go round. Almost every
musician in Sydney was present, and such
patrons of the Arts as the Hollanders, Keith
Cohens, Riches, Gladys Teece and Bertie
Kelly (who squired Mrs. Tommy Marks)
listened to the beautiful rendering of the
Ravel quartet by the Kendall players. Ernest
Long, the 17-year-old Con. wonder on the
violin, made liis last performance before
leaving for Paris, where he will study the
fiddle with Thibaud. Iris Rego coquetted
with Cesar Franck. Frank Hutchens made
his first speech as the Association’s presi-
dent, and proved a better orator than the
guest of the evening, but not so great a poet.
In his fumbling vocabulary he said that
when he crossed the Equator he looked for
the Southern Cross and could see only four
stars, but having found Australia he had dis-
covered the fifth. And that’s one of the
prettiest speeches this Continent has ever
heard.
Sancta Sophia, the Catholic Women’s Col-
lege within the Uni., was opened on Monday
by Archbishop Kelly in the presence of the
Bishops of Hobart, Maitland and Armidale.
The college building is already taking the
shape that will eventually make it one of
the stateliest of the family. It is Gothic in
design, and will be the little sister to St.
John’s. Dr. O’Reilly, the rector of St.
John’s, smiled from his great height on the
opening ceremony, and John Lane Mullins,
whose gift of paintings and etchings already
enrich the beautiful panelling of the corri-
dors, felt the glad eye of gratitude beat upon
him from the 28 girl students already in
residence.
The lady who is vamping the Royal Art
Society show is a huzzy from Spain, and
Lawson Bal-
four is the
artist who
painted he r.
Th e gir 1,
muffled in un-
civilised - look-
ing pelts, her
eyes mysteri-
ously shaded
by a wide,
black hat, is
an alluring
creature, and
one wonders
how the gentle
artist m a n-
aged to sur-
vive the radia-
tions of so
much primeval
force. Mr.
Balfour is a
native of Mel-
bourne, but
when a yery young man sought London and
study with Sir Hubert Herkomer. Later
the famous Julian’s in Paris counted him
among its flock. Elizabeth JVTahony made
this picture of him for us.
The prettiest part of Archbishop Kelly’s
anniversary celebrations came on Sunday
afternoon, when the arrival of thousands of
kiddies from Catholic schools caused joy-
riders in every passing car and tram to
thrust heads out to gaze at St. Mary’s.
Grown-ups among the faithful were relegated
to the Cathedral steps or Hyde Park oppo-
site. The youngsters came with greetings
and a present of £5OO in their hands towards
his Grace’s great ambition—the completion
of the Cathedral. The bells of St. Mary’s
rang a very jubilant chime during the morn-
ing to wish many happy returns to the pre-
late they rang in as Coadjutor-Archbishop
25 years ago.
There was no trace of Bohemia or Mont-
martre about the annua] smoke-night of the
Royal Art Society on Saturday: it was an
altogether conventional gathering of some
250 to 300 starched shirts. Yet only a few
of the old-stagers sighed for the days when
beer was cheaper, the smoke thicker, the
talk better. But the changes have their com-
pensations: artists these days live in the
choice spots of Suburbia—at least, if one
is to judge from the catalogued prices and
the rain of red spots.
Passed into Shadowland, Mrs. Vandeleur
Kelly, widow of the doctor who used to
dispense medical advice and lavish hospi-
tality in a big house in Darlinghurst. Mrs.
Kelly was a Featherstonhaugh, and in hex-
youth a dashing cross-country i-ider. Several
of her kinsmen are scattered about Australia ;
there’s a son in the British Army, and a
mari-ied daughter.
Adele Beati-ice Conroy, the tall, good-look-
ing daughter of the late tall, good-looking
Alfred, M.P., has just announced her engage-
ment to Osboi-ne Devenish Meares, of Brooin-
bee, Coolali.
This is May Moore’s picture of a young
man that Sydney may hear much more
about; it
would have
heard a lot
already had he
been as good
at cricket or at
jazz as he is
at mere intel-
lectual pur-
suits. He is
lan A. Hen-
ning, an Arts
graduate o f
Sydney, who,
having won
t li e French
travel ling
scholarship, is
off to Europe
by the Oster-
ley. Born at
Waverley 21
years ago, he
passed fro m
Sydney High
School to harvest prizes, finishing up at
graduation with first-class honors, the Uni-
versity medal for French and German and
the travelling scholarship. The Bulletin
first met him a year or so back when the
Red Page began to find joy in his literary
articles; and he has figured in the stage pro-
ductions of the French section of the Uni.
Dramatic Society. But even more astonish-
ing have been his wireless lectures on lan-
guages—the listeners-in must have judged
the lecturer to have been a matured 60 or so.
The parental roof is at Pymble, to which lan
is expected to bring back further honors from
Paris and Strasbourg.
Leura’s good-looking young widow Mrs.
Morven Nolan is about to try matrimony
a second time. Her second venture will be
made under Naval escort. Commander Alex-
ander Conway Colies, of H.M.S. Delhi, is
the lucky man.
Laurie Armitage, of Bexley, has said she
will, at a time and place to be appointed
later, enter into bonds with William B. Fox,
of Melbourne and Dunolly (Vic.).
Edna Dorothy Gibson, of Roseville, got
home from New Guinea the other day co
find a question re matrimony awaiting her.
The ring in the case was held by Lieutenant
Arthur Wilson, of the Staff Corps, Thursday
Island, but is now to be seen on the girl’s
left hand as she drives her long shots at
the Cammeray links. Arthur is well known
in Duntroon circles.
Pretty Fay Ainsworth, of Warrawee, got
married in one of the few bursts of sun-
shine in the London summer, and on July 7
became Mrs. Harry Hardy. Fay left Sydney
for London, with mother, early in the year be-
cause her tall, handsome young man could not
spare the time for a dash to Australia, having
to be about Seymour Hicks’s business in Lon-
don. Harry has been the theatrical star's
manager for some years. The knot was tied
in the Savoy Chapel, aunts Lute and Jean
Drummond being front-seaters at the cere-
mony.
Ex-Digger Jack Horan, an inspector of
native labor at. Port Moresby, found yet
another job to his hand two days before his
Sydney furlough came to an end. Reading
in his morning’s paper of seven Papuan cast-
aways who had been brought to Sydney by
the Marsina from the Solomons —having
drifted there in an open canoe from Wood-
lark Island —the young man immediately felt
the call of responsibility. Away he rushed to
the Federal wharf, where the boat had berthed,
and there he found the miserable, shivering
and sick little lot camped. Conversation was
limited, owing to the family group not belong-
ing to any of the tribes he was familiar with,
but he knew those shivers. Up to a York-
street warehouse rushed the young man and
bought and brought back with him a stock
of woollen jerseys and blankets. Then he
called in a doctor for the two women, whose
temperatures had caused him concern. Then,
his job being through, he had time to wire
his Government for permission to clothe the
naked and feed quinine to the sick.
A Chatswood girl, Margaret Clark, has
found that a hobby she has entertained from
childhood has a financial side. When she
was very wee, Margaret used to draw fairies
tangled up with Australian floAvers and birds,
and all the art instruction she received
was from friends who were interested in
her quaint fancies. Then other friends began
to demand the decorative trifles, and friends
of those friends came forward with real cash;
and finally some of her “colored drawings”
appeared in shows of the Society of Women
Painters. Now she has a show of her own, for
which Elsie Prince supplied the opening
gush.
Sydney Uni. wishes to perpetuate' the mem-
ory of Bernard Muscio, its all-too-soon dead
Professor of Philosophy. It is planned to
place a portrait in bronze relief of the bril-
liant Australian near the Philosophy lec-
ture-room, and for this £l5O will be needed.
A fund, to which friends and admirers are
asked to contribute, is being nursed by Regis-
trar W. A. Selle.
Miss Brisbane sees the Governor-General:
The Governor-General opened the Show to the
accompaniment of the customary speeches about the
bigness of our State and its future developments.
(The most interesting development immediately in
view is a tramway strike, but that wasn’t mentioned.)
The crowd at both day and night sessions was enor-
mous—lo7,ooo on the first day. In the evening
there were goat races and fireworks. A piece re-
presenting a horse jumping a hurdle was greatly
beloved, but the “leaping kangaroo” and “grand-
father’s clock” were spoiled by the surge of the
crowd into the ring to see how it was done. There
was a big roll-up for the official luncheon, where pre-
sident E. Baynes quoted Gordon, and said Australia
had been lucky in her Governor-Generals. His Ex., in
reply, said what had impressed him was the grit of
the men and women of the Backblocks. Lady Stone-
haven wore floral marocain in blue and gold trimmed
with fur, and a bois-de-rose hat. The Lieut.-Gov.’s
lady, Mrs. William Lennon, was in black and white;
and the Chief Justice’s wife, Mrs. Blair, in navy and
tan. Sydney Show president S’Sam Hordern was
amongst the guests.
In the evening the Gov.-Gen. and Lady Stonehaven
went to the Yacht Club Ball at the Crystal Palace.
The decorations were in blue and gold and wistaria,
with gum-boughs and the Union Jack, and the Com-
modore of the club did the welcoming. Lady Stone-
haven was in gold tissue ’broidered with flame-
colored beads, with a floating train of flame color,
worn with pearls and an emerald pendant.
A new feature of the Show this year was a bevy
of beautiful Persian cats, housed, rather to their
aggravation, amongst the fowls.
The Press Institute poured tea in Finney’s roof
garden for the vice-regals, Sanderson Taylor presid-
ing. The speakers were the G.-G., the president,
the Lieut. -Governor, E. E. Edwards and P. J. Leahy,
and tlie throng included the Sligoes, Readings, Fel-
steads, Spencer Brownes, Mrs. Forrest and the Percy
Reays.
Government House opened its gates for the first
time for many a day, and S’Matthew’s favorite roses
and stocks and Iceland poppies welcomed in the G.-G.
and Lady Stonehaven, while the Lennons were host
and hostess to a large number of people. Tea was
served on the lawn at tables bright with winter
blossomry; the band played and Major Curtis and
Lieut. Davidson attended their Exes. Lady Stone-
haven wore black and white ninon, with a big cycla-
men pink hat swathed in cherry. Mrs. Lennon was
in nigger brown. Her daughters, Mrs. Kelly, in black
satin, and Eva Lennon, in coffee mariette, with touches
of kingfisher blue, helped with the reception.
The Women’s College, had a party for the Stone-
havens, Mrs. T. J. Ryan doing the welcoming. Lady
Stonehaven wore a pearl grey coat over her black-
and-white frock; her hat was of cream pansies.
Boronia and Iceland poppies were handed to her Ex.
by Jill Ryan. Mrs. Ryan wore grey crepe de Chine
and white fur. Ruth George, who arranged the party,
was in her Uni. gown over cream crepe de Chine.
The lawns bore the tea-tables, decorated with Iceland
poppies augmented by Toowoomba violets at the vice-
regal table.
In the evening the Moreton Club had a ball at the
Crystal Palace, with Mrs. W. Ross Munro, in orchid
mauve and gold, as chief hostess. Lady Stonehaven’s
dress was of mignonette green: she wore a rope of
pearls, and jewelled leaves in her hair. The debs,
included Everil Trude, Madge Just, Lilian Walsh and
Patricia Hart. Yellow streamers and poppies did
up the supper-room. Purple and gold flowers decked
the vice-regal board, with white-and-gold wild-
flower edgings.
Every seat was filled at His Majesty’s when the
curtain went up for “The Mikado,” and the season
has been slightly extended to allow some of the
country people to get a look in, the demand for seats
having exceeded the supply. Pat Hanna’s Diggers are
holding the line for an extra week, too, in the Royal.
The Bachelors’ Ball was held in the Crystal Palace,
gumtips, Oriental shades and poppies decorating. The
Commercial Travellers had their dance in the Cen-
tennial Hall in aid of the John Darnell fund. And
at the Women’s Club the Country Women’s Associa-
tion formed a guard of honor to Lady Stonehaven, who
was in black georgette and chantilly.
And through it all the weather has behaved in its
very best manner.
John (“Harlek”) Nicholson’s widow has taken ro
herself a spouse—another distinguished veteran,
Dudley Eglington, F.R.A.S. The bride wove gre>
marocain with a grey velvet toque, and carried a
posy of violets and rosebuds. Mrs. Kirwan was in
champagne crepe de Chine ’broidered in rose and
blue, and her bouquet was of yellow poppies and roses.
Mrs. Essex Evans, the bridegroom’s sister, assisted
by her daughter, Mrs. Walter Thompson, gave a
small afternoon tea at the Rectory.
Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Monteath, whose son Claude
has been studying music in the Big Smoke, have
had a cable recording his qualification as a Fellow
of the Royal College of Organists. In Brisbane his
hands and feet were trained by George Sampson, and
he was at different times sub-organist of St. John’s
Cathedral, and organist and choirmaster of the Ann-
street Presbyterian Church.


_
HAOY BLOS LTD.
J E W E LLER.S
4*?
$
mi
m
m
m
.
m
Oil*
m
Remodelled Jeroelleru
Remodelling old Jewellery may aptly be termed “the
highest art” of the modern Jeweller.
How many people possess old, out-of-date star or crescent
brooches, spray pendants and hair ornaments which are
locked away in jewel cases and never worn, simply
because they are “old fashioned”!
Hardy’s make a special feature of remodelling old Jewellery,
and the brooch illustrated above is an example of what
has been accomplished by their experts.
The Company will be pleased to prepare designs and
estimates, and offer advice to those who wish to have old
Jewellery remodelled.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
( Zffte, c hTousc oP Exclusive 3ewelU*y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
And at LONDON,
116-H8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
PLUMBERS
and STEAM Ell TIIRS
A PRACTICAL TRADE ASSISTANT.
FITTiH®:
HEfeW
PRICE,
COMPLETE SET
OF 4 VOLS.,
30 1-
POST
FREE
ASK
THE
GUIDE
The right answer
to every problem
is at your finger-
tips.
Audels’ Plumbers and Steam Fitters
Guides (4 Vols.)
A new set—just out! A practical, fully illustrated Trade
Assistant for Master Plumbers, Journeymen and Apprentice Steam-
fitters —Gas Fitters and Helpers, Sheet-metal Workers, Draughts-
men, Master Builders, Engineers and all Building-trade Students.
This valuable set of Hand Guides explains in practical concise
language and well-done illustrations all the principles, advances
and short-cuts of the Plumbing and Heating trade —based ort
modern practice. It includes careful detailed instructions on how
to figure and calculate various jobs. ,
Audels’ Plumbers and Steam Fitters’ Guides have about 16/U
pages—3642 trade illustrations. Pocket size, flexible covers, gold
edges, clear type, strong white paper, giving you all the knowledge
of the trade with the latest advancements from the practical experi-
ence of successful Plumbers and Steam Fitters. With the quicK
reference they save time and money for the master worker; com-
prising also a complete Trade course for the apprentice.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Mechanical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Westclox
LOWER PRICES
Sleep-Meter
Baby Ben
jt
Weaxdw
$
KS
76
re
I mi
America
Big Ben
Luminous
Pocket Ben
%
They run on time
TO CALL you on time in the morning, your
alarm clock must run on time all day. To
make sure of getting a clock that will, buy one with
the name Westclox on the dial.
Westclox Big Ben is the most elaborate, having
both a steady and an intermittent call. Westclox
America, having a steady alarm, is the lowest in
price. In between are other Westclox at various
prices.
Pocket Ben and Glo-Ben are good Westclox watches.
And remember this : —All Westclox are dependable.
Big, Ben, 17/6; Baby Ben, 17/6; Sleep-Meter, 10/6;
America, 8/6 ; Blue Bird, 9/6; ® en ’, ’
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 16/-; Glo-Ben,
Big, Ben Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 25/-;
Black Bird Luminous, 13/6.
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
HERALD YOUR
COMING AND
CLEAR THE ROAD
Every day on the crowded streets
or the open road the motorist
needs a sure warning signal to
avoid serious accidents. There's a
SfAS
mk
BATTED I
8 ... J
eK
clearer, keener
note in your horn
when the power
comes from a depen-
dable WESTING-
HOUSE Battery.
A WESTINGHOUSE
BATTERY is safe
insurance insist on
having one in your car.
WESTINGHOUSE
i BATTE RIE S 8
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane. .■
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Wm. Hudd & Co„ 22-24 Divett Place and Roper street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : Anderson & Co., Durham Street, Auckland District.
Alfred Atkinson, Whangarei, North Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Ltd., Blair Street, Wellington.
Freeman & Toon, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Lawrence & James, Stone’s Building, Dunedin.


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 660, Supper Dances 760
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.80, 10/6; Suppers 10.30. 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30 6/«
.Two Hours' Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 Dm
Ring M 3666. ‘
o
m
.... «
Any previous visitors to Melbourne—if thev have
stayediit ‘ Scott’s”—will point out that Scott’s is
THE best place at which YOU can stay.
á
In
The reasons that this is so are
because not only is “Scott's”
Melbourne’s Most Centrally Situated
and Convenient Hotel
but it affords a service to its patrons that gives real satisfaction.
Keaay and willing attention to your every need, sumptuous cora-
tort of rooms and furnishings (including hot and cold water
service and direct and intercommunicating telephones in all bed-
rooms,), and courtesy of an efficient staff at all times.
Inclusive Day Tariff or Bed and Breakfast Rate.
Write for Tariff Card.
SCOTT’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams “Scott’s” Melbourne.
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
aiic
PATHEOEAMA
7 r Rested 7s Films I 9
Home Rbcreations |?
388 George St, Sydney
|opp. Heard Watson!s)
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
Mayor Bruntou and his popular lady had
their final civic flutter, for the present at
any rate, at Thursday night’s ball. The
barn-dike Exhibition wore a sun-kissed radi-
ance of pale gold and rose-pink, displayed
in a striped canopy above the dancers.
Around the galleries were harmonising hang-
ings bearing heraldic devices in pink and
black, with oval plaques descriptive of sun-
sets in many moods. The stage was a fem-
glade through which a crimson sun shed its
dying rays upon a couple of cottages. Under
the balconies lights twinkled behind gaily-
colored umbrellas' upon a garden set with
eerie green electric glow’s and beds of pink
begonias and primulas. Thousands of daffo-
dils all a-blow’ing and a-going (quite a lot of
them walked off with the guests) adorned
the supper-tables.
But all the barriers were ineffective to
keep out the draughts, and the air was so
freezing that much dainty dressing remained
in concealment beneath coats of brocade and
velvet and gorgeously-embroidered shawls.
The Mayoress wore a truly regal cloak of
chiffon velvet in petunia tones, w r ith lines of
silver and diamente adornment, beneath
which scintillated brilliants upon a gown of
orchid mauve georgette. Mayor Brunton
and other civic somebodies sported the robes,
lace jabots, ruffles and knee breeches of their
office —and some of them didn’t look very
comfortable. When the Governor and Lady
Somers joined the group on the dais, a few
crimson military mess-jackets added color
to the scene. Her Ex. had triple flounces of
ivory lace, edged with brilliants, attached to
hydrangea-blue georgette, with a low waist
belt of brilliants that shone in unison w’itli
the diadem that bound her shingle. In the
limelight were Chief Justice Irvine and his
lady, Prime Minister Bruce and his wife
(her black gown had silver cheer) and Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Napier. Mrs. Bruce, wife
of Adelaide’s mayor, wore a dull gold lace and
lame frock w’itli a conventional trailing of
bronze and a dash of green.
The official guests and a few others par-
took in private of their share of the 200
turkeys, 400 spatchcocks, 15001 b. of ham
and other good things that went with the
champagne. The great majority of the in-
vited 0000 refreshed themselves with more
publicity. They made a clean sweep of the
oyster-bar early, but the birds, sucking-pigs
and other meats had up to 1.30 a.m. with-
stood the siege, and there was even a wee
drop of something wet left for the later
morning.
Among smart dressers Marie de Bavay
led the way in glittering raiment of opales-
cent whiteness with floral decoration. An-
other striking dress of the same order was
a glitter of jade-green with breaks of tiny
silver ferns. Mrs. Benjamin Hoare w’as a
commanding figure in a black glistening robe,
which went well with her newly-shingled
white coiffure. Mrs. Jimmy Dyer carried an
immense green ostrich feather fan against
draperies of apricot velvet. Mrs. Kroef, who
intends leaving with her husband and family
towards the end of the year for a prolonged
stay in Holland, wore pale pink brocade
with pearls. Brigadier-General Brand was
there, and Mrs. Brand, charming in a grey
gown.
All the beautifully-laid plans of the com-
mittee that arranged a reception for
iCobham at Essendon on Sunday after-
noon went badly agley. The ’ lawless
mob broke the barriers as the ’plane
skimmed to earth, and charged right
into the enclosure, where were arranged in
nice neat row’s the folk appointed to do the
handshaking. The best people got all tangled
ups w’ith the common herd in the panic. The
seats occupied by the very cream of the select
were reduced to matchw’ood, but not before
they had inflicted many a bruise on plebeian
shins. People found themselves grabbing
perfectly strange infants from the jaws of
death, and when things settled after a while
there was a frenzied sorting out of offspring.
Stalwart masculine arms stole round un-
familiar feminine waists with a protective
air, and torn clothes, battered hats and lost
footwear were minor calamities of an after-
noon which produced some 40 or 50 more
or less serious casualties.
A couple of policemen aided the Mayor to
greet the aviator, but the Mayoress was lost
in the seething mass of humanity. The
Gilbert Lodge couple managed to keep
right end up and join in the wel-
come. A wreath of wattle was to have
been handed to the flier by Mrs. Brito-
marte James, the president of the Wattle
League, but she couldn’t get near. Cobham,
who looked as fresh as paint, seemed some-
what bewildered, and nobody could blame
him. Melbourne is a bit overwhelming.
When the much-travelled ’plane was being
pushed into safety there dangled on its nose
a wattle wreath —and how it got there is
quite unexplained still.
The Y.A.T.O. committee wore a smile of
repletion after counting the gate money from
the final Saturday afternoon’s steeplechase
meeting at Caulfield. The Government
House party, which included the O’Grady
of Tasmania, came early and stayed till the
end. Lady Somers wore a tailored suit of
brown-flecked tweed with a biscuit felt hat,
and Mrs. Davidson covered her frock with
a mink coat, her hat being cherry-red. The
Somerses gave a lunch to some of the racing
heads. Gathered round their board were
Mrs. C. Baillieu, whose all-black turnout
relied for relief upon a band of ecru lace on
her hat; her daughter, who was trimly clad
in beige cloth, topped by a nigger felt hat;
Mrs. George Woodforde and Beryl Gumming.
Colored walking-sticks gave a bright touch
to many a sombre gown.
That popular chameleon the St. Kilda
Town Hall assumed an oriental guise for
the ball to help the Civil Ambulance. The
decorations were Japanese, with a realistic
Asiatic flavoring given by some lovely old
tapestries and banners lent by the Chinese
consul and other lovers of Chinese art. Mrs.
Richard Fitclier, who was the decorative
artist for the jollo, did wonders with quaint
bric-a-brac, cherry-blossom and wistaria, which
had a background of white trellis over black
velvet. A jazz orchestra all tigged out in
bright kimonos helped the place to look hilari-
ous. The Governor and Lady Somers took
part; the vice-regal lady’s attire being of
georgette of camellia-red with a straying line
of gold. She took her bouquet from Mrs.
Ernest Pearce, who had steel and silver em-
broidery upon her black robe. Mrs. Howard
Lewis, who with Miss Rose Paterson organ-
ised the affair, gave the whole show a tone
with her ermine coat. General Chauvel
brought his good-looking lady, wearing a frock
of blush-pink georgette that extended south-
ward well beyond the kneecap. Rear-
Admiral Napier and Mrs. Napier, Group-
Captain and Mrs. Williams and Mayor Cum-
mings sat within the charmed circle. The
younger set in their dressing leaned heavily
on taffeta, one of the daintiest of the bud-
envelopes being worn by Doreen Brennan, of
Westralia —rose-pink with edging of niching,
and net of the same color. Elsa Sir alia,
who came along after the theatre with her
sister-in-law Mrs. Lawrance, was a dazzling
figure in peacock-green with sparkling dia-
mante and silver tracery.
For the past year the Repertory Society
has enjoyed the services, as secretary, of
the very clever
an d capable
lady . \v ho m
R e m b randt
pictures along-
side this. Mrs.
Arnold Seitz
li rs t of all
made, herself
useful behind
stage, giving a
helping hand
with dressing
and make-up;
but she is
even more use-
ful now in
front. She
knows a, lot
about pub-
lic it y, and
having discov-
ered that most
of the ladies
of the society
are handy with the needle, she sees to it
that even the most elaborate wardrobe
doesn’t put too much of a dint into the trea-
sury. On the eve of a production the
society becomes a regular sewing-bee. Mrs.
Seitz is the wife of one of Victoria’s Rhodes
scholars who had a distinguished career in
engineering. Later he became one of the
inspectors of secondary schools, and still
finds time to keep his name prominent in
pennant cricket.
The Fiudon Harriers met at Moonee Val-
ley last week on a depressingly dull and
gloomy day which ended in disaster, popular
J. Bullock, of the Western district, being
killed in the Hunt Steeplechase. The super-
stitious noted the plentiful wearing of green
by fair racegoers, who sported dozens of
verdant-hued coats and hats. Mrs. W.
Bates was smartly tailored in beige and
brown flecked tweed with sulphur-colored
velours hat; Mrs. C. Mackey, lately arrived
from Ceylon, had grey fur upon a bottle-
green suit, with the same shade of millinery.
General Johnston was there with his daugh-
ter Gwen ; also Mrs. F. Grimwade the A. V
Hiskens couple and good-looking Mrs. G. A*
Fairbairn. Amid a flock of bright girls were
Alison and Barbara Madden, Nan Cook
Kathleen Rogers Thomson and Joan Newbigin.
Another semi-amateur programme was put
on by the Theatre Association at the Palace
on Friday afternoon, when the Church of
England’s Brighton home for kiddies shared
the spoil with the association. The Brighton
institution also got the benefit of sales of
flowers and sweets and numerous raffles.
Helen Stransky, Grace Stafford, Margery
Hicklin, Bertha Walden, Frankie Heath
and Nellie Bramley sent along dolls dressed
up to represent their winsome selves, and
these were auctioned at an average of three
guineas apiece. “Vanity,” a three-act com-
edy by Ernest Denny, was the principal item
of the bill. It dealt with the disillusioning
of a musical-comedy star, Vanity Fayre, who
was taken down several pegs as a result of
a death that was greatly exaggerated. Paul-
ine Abrahams played the actress, and Romo-
la Hanstein and Louise Moorehead had a
big share of the laurels. As a curtain-
raiser a little play by Holworthy Hall and
Robert Middlemas, “The Valiant,” was
staged, giving an opportunity to Marjorie
Jones, who made the most of it, as a girl
visitor to a prison in which an execution is
pending. When the orchestra showed its
concern for the welfare of George Windsor
the stage was deluged with spring blooms, and
the committee shook hands with itself.
The Mayoress’s reception-rooms at the
Town Hall were dolled up with pink car-
nations and violets in honor of Mrs. Wallace
Bruce, wife of the Mayor of Adelaide. In-
vitations were limited, and suburban mayor-
esses and other ladies witli civic claims to
recognition made up most of the throng. The
Brunton lady hostessed, in a cape frock of
black cr§pe armure, trimmed with deep cream
lace, and there were large cosmos pink velvet
flowers on her black hat. The guest’s pre-
sentation posy blended nicely with a glimpse
of pink blouse visible beneath a well-cut
black coat, topped by tower-like millinery,
also black. Her daughter Gwen was clad
and hatted in fawn tones. Joyce Homburg,
who was one of the Bruce party, had inter-
twined gold circles . upon a myrtle-green
frock, with hat of the same green. Myrtle
Skinner and Ivy C. Wilmot sang, Gertrude
Cock accompanying, while the brew was
drawing.
The Rooyong Tennis Club’s pavilion
bloomed with daffodils and jonquils on Satur-
day night when the Tennis Association went
in for jazz. Pink carnations and wild heath
garnished the supper-table, and the new
bridge coats worn by many made a brave
show.
On Thursday afternoon Archdeacon Hind-
ley went to Holy Trinity at Kew and tied
Enid, elder daughter of the Harry A. Dodds,
to A. E. Lancaster, who came from the
Federated Malay States to get what was
waiting for him. The bride, in a billowy
gown of tucked white georgette, shaded a
happy face with a myosotis-blue crin. hat;
and sister Marjorie, in orchid-mauve geor-
gette, with crin. hat to match, was her ’maid.
After the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Dodd enter-
tained the guests at Menzies’ amidst a
wealth of flowers.
Margot Best has been commandeered by
Lulu Berry to be a maid at her wedding in
London. The lass, who rejoices hugely over
the jaunt, will shortly accompany the Percy
Berrys and the bride-elect to Europe.
Phyllis St. Maur Carr, second daughter
of Mrs. H. G. Carr, well known in both Fiji
and Australia, has given a promise in London
to G. L. M. Salter, only son of Engineer-
Captain and Mrs. Salter, who is entered for
a naval career.
Though outside all was grey and gloomy,
spring reigned inside St. John’s, Toorak,
when Beryl Hamilton Fitts accepted Dr.
Mark Gardner as her husband amidst a riot
of pale blossom and foliage. The tall, dark
bride twinkled like a star in a gown of
silver lame shot with apricot and thickly
sown with pearls and diamonds. Two trains
cascaded from the hips, and trailed negli-
gently down a length of aisle. The veil of
parchment-hued tulle was bound with a
jewelled circlet tied behind with a posy of
orange blossoms, and a circlet of the same
bloom was worn as a wristlet. To this un-
usual color scheme was added a bouquet of
green orchids. Joan Chirnside and Nancy
Hewlett attended the bride, in draped frocks
of seaweed-pink georgette, and their cream
hats were ornamented with flat bows.
The opening of Carl Hampel’s show at
the Decoration Galleries was quite a social
affair. Some bits of Sydney’s harbor and an
effective still-life study of African marigolds,
an orange-hued basin and a brass plate are
features of the exhibition, which lasts an-
other week or so. The newly-handled Frank
Clarke put aside more portentous duties for
a few minutes to launch the show. His
pretty wife, coated and hatted in fawn hues,
was there, together with the Barrett lady,
Mrs. C. J. Ahern, Mrs. Russell Landale and
Mrs. 11. Lillies. Mrs. Hampel came along
to bask in her husband’s glory.
The Frank Tait couple went off to Ameri-
ca this week with the Old World looming
further along their vista. The travellers had
to taste many a farewell brew. The lady
herself gave a tea, flavored with cards and
an orchestra, at the Oriental.
Two men who were trapped by the flames
in Erica forest when the bush-fires were raging
last summer
owe their lives
to Harry Mc-
Clelland, one
of Melbourne’s
young artists,
who looks out
of this win-
dow. His show
at the Athen-
seum Gallery
on August 31
will include
many pictures
that had their
genesis during
that month of
fury—he was
on a camping-
painting tour,
ind had accom-
plis h e d a
month’s work
when the
scenery he had
been worshipping went up in smoke. But he
found plenty of effective material after the
fire had done its worst, and some of his
studies are of the “l 'tore and after” variety.
Marietta’s camera caught the artist at work.
Sister Adelaide’s week of frivols: —
A social sensation lias been caused by the resig-
nation of Josiah Symon and his lady from the com-
mittees of the Minda Institution after an association
of over 30 years. The withdrawal of the prosecution
for embezzlement against B. S. Connor (former
secretary) is the cause. The committee was faced
with the alternative of prosecuting the well-connected
defaulter or losing the £3OO which his friends
offered to pay if he wasn’t prosecuted, and decided
that its duty was to get the money. “A sad; and
appalling confession of wrongdoing,” the veteran
Iv.C. calls this official explanation.
The sporting crowd divided on Saturday, some
going to Gawler races, but the Point-to-Point Steeple-
chase at Findon attracted the very nicest. The
Governor and Lady Bridges were there to see E.
M. Luxmoore win, with Marmife, for the second year
in succession. Afternoon-tea was followed by a run
with the hounds.
Mrs. J. D. K. Roche, who with her husband has
arrived from the Eastern States to reside here,
organised and financed a ball in the Town Hall in
the interests of Rostrevor College, Magill. Pink
and white cherry blossoms made a bower of the
ballroom; the orchestra was good, the supper also,
and the financial results excellent.
Margaret Sutherland, the Melbourne pianist and
composer, was the guest of the Lyceum Club, when
the President (Dr. John Corbin’s better half) and
some members stood morning-tea to the visitor.
This is a musical week. Students at the Elder
Conaervatorium are handing out grand-opera acts,
and, although they do it on a stage devoid of
scenery, seats are at a premium. “Carmen” and
“The Marriage of Figaro” were the operas chosen.
The latter introduced a new singer, Madame Dorothy
Back, as the Countess. Her voice was an outstand-
ing feature. Clive Carey made a hit as Mr. Potts
in a scene from Pickwick, sandwiched in between
the operas.
One of Adelaide’s amateur grand-opera singers,
Marcelle Lawes, has joined the Hugh J. Ward musical
comedy company, and is displaying a neat pair of
legs in the chorus of “Mercenary Mary.”
Lady Bridges, her daughter and the youthful, ever-
smiling A.D.C., Capt. Brooke, have returned from
touring river Murray districts in the interests of
Girl Guides, with peeps at orangeries and hospitals
as a side-line. Renmark made quite a gala time of
it and entertainments were rife.
Two annual balls were in friendly rivalry the other
evening. The Adelaide Hunt Club was in the Town
Hall, and the S.A. Lawn Tennis Association at
the Palais Royal. Lady Bridges, who favored the
Town Hall affair, wore scarlet and gold. The bill
opened with two hunting the women wearing
white skirts, scarlet coats, hair poudre and black
plumed hats. With about two exceptions they
were all pre-war dancers, who enjoyed the abandon
of the grand chain. That sporting evergreen Mrs.
Mortlock led with the best. George Braund’s capable
wife, as usual, engineered the whole thing, aided by
Mrs. A. M. Toll and Mrs*. E. M. Luxmoore. The
Tennis Ball drew a larger crowd to the Palais Royal.
Many of the visiting lacrosse players were present.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London: —
The W. K. D’Arcy family, who at one time cut
so much ice in London social activities, are now
rarely heard of in any way. Before the Mount
Morganaire’s death they were much en evidence.
Mrs. D’Arcy, who was popular in Melbourne as Mrs.
Jack Nutting, is a cousin of Dion Boucicault. She
was one of the guests of General and Mrs. Archibald
Home at Cavenham Park, Mildenhall, for the July
meeting. She is still a very attractive woman,
though her eyesight is lamentably impaired. When
the D’Arcys offered lavish hospitality at the historic
home of the Dudleys in Grosvenor-square, they were
as gracious to their obscure friends as to the noble
lords and ladies who hovered round their honeypots.
Agnes Goodsir, who, despite her Australian birth
and training, is generally labelled “a West England
artist,” has four pictures in the Paris Salon which
receive the approval of critics and the general public.
She has an attractive studio near the Luxembourg
in Paris.


.
o
Si
f\
8 DAY LACO.UER CLOCK
SIZE r fl'*x 6"
£>
10
0/
m
Handsome ’LOUISXV-
BUM t_
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
BeauMfully Inlaid
and Mounted
lieijrht- iW
Fan cry inlaid
B U ti L
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Gilh mounts. Strikes fhe
half-hours & hours on gang
l2"
DRUMMOND & CO.
WELLERS-SILVERSMITHS- CLOCKMAKERS
4-346 COLUMS STREET -HE.LBOURJtSin
A. SAUNDERS’
FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS
SPECIALLY SELECTED
EXQUISITE PURE PLATINUM SETTINGS
V. Saunders’
Fine Diamond,
Chased Shoulders,
18ct. White Gold
Ring, £15.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Button
Cluster, set
Platinum, Chased
Shoulders, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £25.
A. Saunders’
Four Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £20.
A. Saunders’ Three-Diamond Octagon-shaped,
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. baunders’
Three Diamond
Cross-over,
set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A, Saunders’
Fine Diamond
with Diamond
shoulders, set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £50, |
£60, £70.
A. Saunders’
Five Diamonds,
set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£15.
Smaller Diamonds,
£12/10/-,
£10.
A. Saunders’
Diamond double-
row, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
A. Saunders’ Opal Bar Brooch, £2.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS
per Regd. Post, FREE.
We specialise in re-modelling old-style
Jewellery equal to the latest London
and Paris designs
AT A MODERATE COST.
Country Customers receive the same
care and attention as if calling per-
sonally.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A, Saunders’
Diamond Cluster
with Diamond-set
Shoulders, in
Platinum, 18ct.
Cold Ring, £45.
A. Saunders’
Two Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
lSet. Gold
n»'g, £50.
A. Saunders’
Three Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring
£15.
A, Saunders’
Diamond, Octa-
gon-shaped, Plati
mum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £20.
A. Saunders’
Two Diamond,
Cross-over Ring,
set Platinum, *
18et. Gold,
£20. :
A. SAUNDERS
W atclimaker—J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
OVER 25,000 SHARES PLACED IN ONE WEEK
“SAFETY-FIRST” IN INVESTMENTS
“The Business is Absolutely Safe”—“Sunday Times” Extract, 26/7/’2«.
Australasian Motor Investment and Finance Co. Ltd.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £500,000, divided into 100,000 10 per cent. CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES of £1 each, and 400,000 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each.
Formed for the purpose of financing sales of motor cars, lorries, and other vehicles, etc.
£100,000,000 A YEAR
Time Payment Sales Throughout Australasia.
DIRECTORS: AUDITORS:
SMITH’S WEEKLY, 19/5/’26 (“Investor at the
Breakfast Table”): “The secret of success in
investments, as in management, is to back
only men of experience anti judgment.”
SYDNEY BULLETIN, 6/5/’26: “Good profits
are to be made out of the time-payment habit
if full precautions are taken as to security and
the management is good.”
“ I congratulate both the present and the
future members of Australasian Motor Invest-
ment and Finance Co., Ltd., on its splendid
Board.”—EDITOR, BANKING AND INSUR-
ANCE REVIEW.
ARTHUR SPENCER WATTS, Esq., Merchant and
Investor, Sydney.
STEPHEN LESLIE BAILEY, Esq., M.1.A.E., M.
Inst. M., Factory Representative (Douglas Motors,
Ltd., Bristol), Camperdown.
GEORGE EDWARD FOLKARD, Esq., Director, Hart,
Hitchcock and Co., Ltd., Timber Merchants, Parra-
matta.
JOHN JOSEPH GARRY, Esq., 8.E., Grazier, “Garry-
owen,” Binalong.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING CO. OF SYDNEY,
LTD., Head Office.
Messrs. HERRIOTT & HERRIOTT, Fs.O.P.A. :
207 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. J. W. MAUND & ItELYNACK,
Bank of New Zealand Chambers,
George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REG. OFFICE:
H. R. ROBINSON, A.C.P.A., A.1.0.A.,
C/'o Smith, Robinson and Co., Public Accountants,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A SIMILAR COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA HAS
MADE AS HIGH AS 70 p.c.
NET PROFITS ON ITS PAID-UP CAPITAL
AND PAID A
50 p.c. DIVIDEND.
SOURCES OF PROFIT.
1— Profit on money advanced l»y the Company.
2 Commissions on Insurances.
3 Commissions on Sales.
4 Money obtained against Securities and in-
vested at high interest.
AMPLE SECURITY.
FIRSTLY —The motor-cars or goods purchased
under Hiring Agreements.
SECONDLY—Promissory Note signed by the
Purchaser.
THIRDLY —Promissory Notes endorsed by
the Agents.
FOURTHLY —Insurance covering Loss on Re-
possession.
The Share List is Filling Rapidly.
Send in Your Application AT ONCE!
If You Wait, You may be Too Late.
Further particulars and full Prospectus can be obtained
on application to Australian Underwriters, Ltd., 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney; ’Phones, MA1046 and
MAIO9B. The cost of this and all other advertising in
connection with the Company is borne solely by the
Australian Underwriters.
The Directors,
AUSTRALASIAN MOTOR INVESTMENT AND FINANCE 00., LTD.,
Oentlemen,
I request you to allot me Preference/Ordinary
shares in the above Company, in the terms of the prospectus issued by you.
I enclose my cheque for il application fee at the rate of 2/6 per
hare, and I agree to pay the balance as provided in the prospectus of the
Company.
Usual Signature Occupation
Full name Address
Date
NOTE —All cheques must be crossed “Not Negotiable” and made payable to “Aus-
tralasian Motor Investment & Finance Company, Limited.” Exchange must be
f. nnimtrv fdipmips.. 1
i A.H.
/ IsF
& go fro
The Solidity of the
Pyramid
VITAL POINTS TO REMEMBER —
NO Outlay for Plant or Building.
NO Stock to Depreciate.
NO Labor Strikes or Strife.
NO Large Stall.
NO Heavy Compensation Premiums.
NO Directors’ Fees for One Year.
The Company is already profitably employing its
Capital.
This Company has been formed with the certainty of obtaining its
share of business and has ALREADY ENTERED INTO A £50,000
CONTRACT. OTHER CONTRACTS CAN BE FINALISED
IMMEDIATELY THE COMPANY HAS FURTHER FUNDS,
WHICH WILL ABSORB THE WHOLE OF THE PAID-UP
CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY AS WELL AS SUBSTANTIAL
LOAN MONEYS.
The fact that Banking Institutions advance similar
Companies greatly in excess of their Capital proves
how solid is the Security obtained.
What other Investment gives such Solid Security and
such Quick Returns?
These Shares are offered at Par—Payable as follows—
-2/6 on Application,
2/6 on Allotment,
And 1/- per month until the shares are paid to 10/-
per share.
THE DIRECTORS are of opinion that the amount of 10/- per
share payable on application, allotment, and by instalments as
abovementioned will be all that is required, and that it will not
be necessary to call up the balance of 10s. per share. The amount
OF THE UNCALLED CAPITAL WILL P,E AVAILABLE AS
COLLATERAL SECURITY AGAINST BANK ADVANCES.
CONTRACTS.
The material contracts may be inspected
between the Company and
1. —Options Ltd., dated 23/6/’2S.
2. —J. W. Maund, dated 23/6/’2G.
3. —H. It. Robinson, dated 23/6/’26.
K Rviticb \lnfnvc T.frl mul
at the Solicitors’ Office, and are
—A. S. Watts, S. 1,. Bailey, Q. E.
Folkard, J. J. Garry, A. E. Herriott,
J. W. Maund, dated 2f>/6/’26 and
29/7/’26.


The Sale of Sales!
Mick Simmons’
GENUINE SALE
Offers Incomparable Bargains in Every Department.
Although there is a total disregard of original costs, and Prices are sacrificed to the Sale policy, the
high standard of quality and effective service for which this great Store has so long stood is still
maintained in all its reliability.
All Goods not SPECIALLY REDUCED are subject to a reduction of 2s. in the £. (Tobacco, Cigars,
Cigarettes and a few proprietary lines excepted.)
SALE APPLIES TO OUR HEADQUARTERS, CITY, SUBURBAN AND NEWCASTLE BRANCHES.
Closing Date of Sale, 28th August.
Tennis Sale Specials
â
ã
Usually.
Genuine Alex. Taylor Racket.
Used by notable players the
world over . . 85/-
Spalding’s Tournament Racket 49/6
Ayres* Handicap Racket .... 30/-
Ayres* Champion Racket ... 47/6
Slazenger’s Imperial Racket. . 77/6
Lee Monogram Racket. Uni-
versally acknowledged as
the world’s finest Tennis
Racket.
Standard Model 75/-
De Luxe Model 85/-
Full-length Waterproof Cover 4/6
Sale Price.
54/-
41/6
24/-
37/6
63/-
67/6
76/6
2/6
Ayres’ Famous “Union” Stitchless Hardcourt
Tennis Balls. A Special Hardcourt Ball. Per doz. 2 77-
Tennis Nets, steam tarred, head band and rope
head line 18/6
25/-
16/8
Cricket Sale Specials
# Usually. Sale Price.
Colonial Driver
&
f
<■
it''*
Usually. Sale Price*
Shaw & Shrewsbury’s Autograph Bat 45/- 36 *
Sykes’ Yorkshire Driver Bat 32/6 26/-
M.S. Leather Match Cricket Balls 10/6 8/5
Boys’ Scout Compo Cricket Balls -/9 -/6
All England Gauntlets, rubber faced ......... 18/6 14/10
White Suede Heavy Padded* Gauntlets, shop soiled 10/6 8/5
Gun and Rifle Sale Specials
a
Usually-,
Continental Combined Gun and Rifle,
12 gauge, 32 cal £l5/15/-
Stevens’ Riverside D.B. Gun, 12 gauge,
32in. barrels £5/10/-
Bayard D.B. Gun, 12 gauge, 30in.
barrels £7/15/-
Marson “Bushman” 12 gauge, D.B.
Gun, 30in. barrels £ll/11/-
Marson “King” 12 gauge D.B. Gun,
30in. barrels £lO/10/-
D.B. Muzzle-loading Gun, 12 gauge . . 70/-
Sale Price.
£ll/17/6
£4/9/6
£66/-
£9/15/-
£B/15/-
53/-
a
_ . Usually.
Remington Repeating Rifle, 22 W.R.F. £7
Dominion 22 Long Lesmok Cartridges
(per 100) 2/6
Nitro Club, 12 gauge, 2fin. Cartridges,
6 and 7 Shot (per 100) . 257-
Standard Black Powder Cartridges, 8
and 10 Shot, 12 gauge (Job Line),
(per 1 00)
Standard Smokeless Powder Cartridges,
1 0 and 1 2 Shot, 1 2 gauge (Job Line),
(per 100)
Sale Price.
£5/10/-
1/9
22/6
10/-
12/6
Mercery Sale Specials
Usually. Sale Price.
a
Pull-over Sweaters, Y--
shaped necks, in the
latest checks and
stripes. This repre-
sents the pinnacle
of Value in Pull-
overs, and has not
been equalled any-
where .... 27/6,
Striped Fuji De Luxe
Golf Shirt, collar to
match, o f high-
grade material, re-
inforced neck, etc.
Navy All-Wool Flannel Blazer, with colored braid
25/- 18/11
12/6 9/11
27/6 22/6
Bargains from All Sections
Usually. Sale Price.
Taylor’s Lawn
Bowls, First
Quality (per
pair) .. .. 75/- 62/6
Taylor’s Lawn
Bowls, Extra Usually. Sale Price.
Quality (per pair) . . . „ . . . c 90/- 75/-
Leather Suit Cases, 22 in 37/6 20/-
24in. 40/- 22/6
26in. 42/6 25/-
Dymondite Snooker Balls, 2-1/16in.
(Every Ball guaranteed). Per set. . £l5/15/- £l2/12/-
Jtfick Sinmlons Z*y
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
á
â
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors; BURNS, PHILP St CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sale Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney .
HUNTING KNIVES
ã
MARBLE’S “IDEAL” Hunting Knife. Splendid
skinning blade. Well balanced. Compressed
leather handle. Steel hilt. bin. finest-quality
tempered-steel blade 15/-
MARBLE’S “WOODCRAFT” Hunting Knife,
4Jin. highly-tempered steel blade. Compressed
leather handle 12/6
MARBLE’S SAFETY FOLDING HUNTING
KNIFE. The handiest, most compact, 4in. best-
quality steel blade. Stag handle .... 15/-
SOUD LEATHER SHEATHS SUPPLIED
WITH ALL ABOVE KNIVES.
WADE & BUTCHER, Pocket Knife, 2fin. skin-
ning blade and 2in. cutting blade. Very strong.
Complete with shackel and chain. Price, 5/-
Sole Agents for Marble’s Knives and Arms:
GUN AND CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In last year’s Australian Steeple Miri-
terne fell when looking a sure winner; this year
hi made no mistake and, jumping really well, put
up a fine performance in carrying list. 101b. to
victory oyer four miles. With Clan Robert, who had
injured himself in the Hurdle the previous Saturday,
scratched on the day of the race, there were only
nine starters for the big event, and old Roisel was
favorite at 3’s, with Epergne 5’s, Minterne and
Namera 6’s. Thurowah and Sir Wilson were the early
leaders, but the pace was slow and Roisel, fencing
beautifully, pulled himself to the front, only to
come a cropper in front of the stand. Minterne then
to .°k. charge and was practically never headed.
Missing Link was very dose to him at the last
fence, but the Spearhead—Fisher Lass gelding had
too much pace, and ran home an easy winner bv
two lengths from Namera, who finished gamely, with
Missing Link (16’s) a length away third. Epergne
tell about seven furlongs from home, when looking
dangerous, and Reparation was another who came
to grief. Minterne is owned and trained by Joe
Trenoweth, and was capably ridden by Bert Thomp-
son, who was also successful on the Hurdle winner. The
time, Smin. 9sec., was very slow.
Punters started a bad day when Salturn (12’s)
won the Akaringa Hurdle, after leading all the
way, from Hysteria and Kingmaker, both 20’s, and
Ernest Clarke’s filly, Welosia (14’sj, downed a hot
favorite in Cyanate (7 to 4) in the mile Chatsworth
Plate for three-year-olds, Bob Lewis being aboard
the winner. Worse was to come for backers in the
11-furlongs Balaclava Stakes, for which Smoke Bomb
was again backed to favoritism by the Holt stable.
The N.Z. Cup winner, The Banker (20’s), getting a
nice run on the rails, came home a neck in front of
All Sunshine (5’s), who was a bit unlucky at the
turn, with Stralia (14’s) half a length away third.
It was an impressive performance on the winner’s
part, and he is sure to be dangerous in some of the
big races later on. By Ivilbroney—Bonville, he is
owned by Otway Falkiner, trained by Cecil Godby,
and was ridden by Hughie Cairns. Time, 2min.
22see. There was a great finish in the Knowsley
Steeple, in which Pick Me (12’s) snatched a half-
head victory from Fortasse (6’s) ; and Eridanus
(7’s), well known to Sydney racegoers, ran home
an easy winner by two lengths from Mount Pleasant
in the St. Aubin Welter, giving Cairns his second
wanning ride.
* * * *
After the way he ran in his division of
the Edensor Park Handicap at Warwick Farm..
Boaster seems likely to prove a tough pro-
position again in the Epsom. This is his
second dead-heat. Just on 12 months ago he
divided the Epsom with Metellus and on Saturday
he was bracketed with St. Eaton, after a moment’s
hesitation on the judge’s part. Munro’s propensity
for sticking to the rails served his mount -well
Gainsford, trainer and part owner of St. Eaton,
wanted Bob Miller to run-off, but Windbag’s owner
was advised against this by Kelso, who trains
Boaster for him.
The performance of Royal Tea in the Denham
Court Handicap was not such as to encourage Derby
hopes; the youngster seems more likely to develop
into a useful sprinter than a “classic” winner.
Royal Tea “hung in” badly over the last furlong
and it took Munro all his time to make the big
gelding keep on with the business. Welter cham-
pion Red Gauntlet settled down too late for Pike
to find a passage through the score or so of run-
nel’s. Lilah started at 7’s, something having appar-
ently cramped owner Poison’s faith. It may
have been on account of the way Erie Connollv
backed his importation, Herilon, or because of re-
ports concerning Royal Tea, but anyway the “bar
vons” took liberties and gave everyone the impres-
sion that the mare was not fancied. Lilah won
nearly all the way, which shows that it is advisable
to ignore the betting—sometimes.
Importations from England, of which the number
in Australia is legion, are expected to play a great
part in the big handicaps as well as minor ones
at Randwiek this spring. Most people at the Farm
picked Colesberg for an early winner. He was brought
to this country by a formidable racing trio —Doug-
lass, of Claro fame, A.J.O. Committeeman Stirton,
who acquired Biplane, and Colonel Rutledge, winner
of the first Warwick Farm Cup with Ceo on protest
from “J. Baron’s” Prince Minimbah. Colesberg
finished behind Boaster, St. Eaton and Italian Knight.
He was not fancied on the day by his connections
but was always well placed and will not lack support
next time he starts.
* * * *
Because George Pollock, Chairman of Com-
mittees in the Queensland Parliament, collected £5O
from the tote by claiming that he had asked for
tickets on the wanner, instead of those actually given
him, tote attendants now have to call out the numbers
when handing out tickets. Anyone now claiming
that he has been given the wrong tickets will have
to plead deafness as well as blindness —and even then
the tote is forbidden to pay out. Pollock sent the
£5O to the Children’s Hospital after some criticism
at the annual meeting of the Q.T.C.
lii the Sydney Rugby League series on
Saturday, South Sydney gave further evidence of
slipping. After being almost beaten by Western
Suburbs the previous w'eek, the premiers were soundly
trounced by an even weaker side in Newtown, losing-
-25 to 24, after leading 13 to nil at half time. After
that, Newtown took their adversaries fairly off their
feet, and scored steadily right up to the finish.
A last-minute try by Cavanough only needed con-
version to win the game for Souths, but Blair’s
nerve was not equal to the strain, and he missed
narrowly. Newtown scored five tries to six by
Souths, but five goals by T. Ellis to three for the
opposition turned the scale. K. Ellis, the State
five-eighth, played a great game for Newtown. Eastern
Suburbs won unexpectedly well from North Sydney
by 20 points to 8, good hooking by N. Fitzpatrick
having much to do with the win. Glebe found St.
George a good thing, even on the latter’s home ground,
and came out victorious by 17 to 5. Guest, a young
third-grader, made a great showing behind St.
George’s scrum. At Birchgrove, where they are
always dangerous, uneven Balmain whacked Western
Suburbs, 22 —17, after a heavy game. Having the
bye, University invaded the lllawarra district and,
after a fast game, drew 22 —22 with the local men.
The popular item of the Rugby Union for the week-
end was the final for the Great Public Schools
premiership between The King’s School and St.
Joseph’s. King’s won a very fast and attractive game
by 6 to 3—two tries to one —a result due to the
cleverness and speed of their backs. Lamport, behind
the King’s scrum, and Cullen, St, Joe’s stand-off
half, were conspicuous in a pair of really good sides.
The Union competition saw Randwick again success-
fid, the Seasiders beating Eastern Suburbs comfortably
THEM DEAD-MEAT TICKETS.
"Why are the players numbered, John?”
"For identification purposes, dear.”
"Yes, I suppose accidents sometimes happen in this game.”
by 26 points to 6. The winners rattled up 14
points in the last 10 minutes, Randwick’s fine
three-quarter line establishing a decided ascendancy.
The premiers, Glebe-Balmain, did badly to dra'w,
22 all, with Manly, the latter’s forwards sticking
well in a hard game. Western Suburbs played all
over North Sydney, to win 22—14, while Y.M.C.A.
found the formidable ’Varsity pack too fast and will-
ing, the Young Men succumbing by 30 points to 9. The
Soccer folk were chastened by another Queensland
victory in Brisbane, the Northerners winning the
third game of the rubber by two goals to nil after the
city had lost the midweek game 2 —-0. In the Metropoli-
tan premiership, the South Coast team, Balgownie,
tightened its hold on the top place by beating Gran-
ville, 3 goals to 1, “Judy” Masters, the Australian
captain, making a great showing as centre forward for
the winners. The Australian Rules minor premiership
went, as anticipated, to Eastern Suburbs, who beat
Norths by 119 points (17 —17) to 57 (8 —9).
In Saturday’s League games in Melbourne, Essen-
don settled the “Tigers’ ’’.hopes of reaching the final
four. ’Don got 67 points, Richmond, 62. There
were 30,000 spectators at Carlton, where the Old
Blues, by devastating rushes, frequently swept Gee-
long off its feet. The seasiders lasted the better,
though, and, but for faulty kicking, would have won;
as it was they went down by 75 points to Carlton’s
82 and so slipped down to third place, leaving
Colli ngwood alone at the top of the list. - A fierce
and scrambling game between South and St. liilda
ended in favor of the former by 81 points to 53.
South is still fifth on the list, a game below Carlton,
and there should be something doing next Saturday
when the two clubs meet to decide which will reach
the four. North gave Melbourne a shock by gaining a
lead and steadily holding it till almost the last
minute, when a lucky goal secured the Red Legs a
three-point win by 70—67. ’Roy beat ’Scray by
105 to 63, in a game that concerned only the
barrackers; and ’Wood raised its points percentage
by amassing 104 points to Hawthorn’s 28, Gordon
Coventry booting nine goals.
* # * *
In the two-days match at Lords against 15
boys from the Public Schools, which preceded the
final Test, Australia made 264 (Ponsford 97, Wood-
full 84) ; the P.S. had replied with 114 and 105
for two wickets when rain drew the stumps. Obvi-
ously the game was only arranged to encourage young
talent; it is a pit'" its pleasantness should have been
marred by one of those twopenny-halfpenny mis-
understandings which, too often magnified or dis-
torted, help to provide copy for the English press.
The facts seem to be that Collins, unaware of the
English custom that a match against numerical odds
means that the bigger battalion shall all field as
well as bat, objected to 15 boys taking the field and
had to be set straight by Lacey, the M.C.C. secretary.
As far as that goes, the incident was scarcely worth
a line, but the embroidered version, viz., that the
M.C.C. serang’s note taxed Collins with lack of
sportsmanship in cutting down the fielding side and
that the Australian skipper showed his resentment
by throwing away his own wicket, enabled columns to
be written about it. Yet the embroidery seems to
have been pure speculation; no scrap of evidence was
adduced to show that Lacey wrote a discourteous note
or Collins signified his annoyance by the sort of
hara-kiri that consists in hitting a catch to mid-off.
Hendry was evidently reckoned not yet fit to do
himself justice in the final Test; Ellis and Everett
never had a chance of being included. This left two
to be omitted, with Collins convinced of his own
return to health and form ; Taylor and Ryder provided
the pair. On the English side Strudwick came back
at the eleventh hour vice Brown, who had been picked
to supplant him, but who was suffering from an
injured hand. On top of the jettisoning of Tyldesley
and the return to the side of Larwood, this obviously
weakened the English batting, for Brown has made
at least five centuries for Hampshire this season. On
the other hand, with five regular bowlers, Tate,
Larwood, Geary, S.tevens and Rhodes, England played
a stronger attacking side and a more varied one
than any it has yet put into the field, whereas it
looked as if Australia would have to rely almost
entirely on its two googlie bowlers.
It was England’s turn to win the toss, after having
done so in the first and third Tests, and lost it in
the second and fourth games, and Chapman duly
won it. A big opening score, even with a slightly
weaker batting side than in some of the previous
games, might fairly have been expected. But Eng-
land were all out at 4.40 p.m. The total (280) can
only be classed as moderate, and there were two
stages in the innings—with 3 wickets down for
112 and, later, with 6 for 214 —when it looked as
if Australia was establishing an advantage early.
That wickets fell so cheaply was almost entirely
due to Mailey, who has perhaps never shown his
quality, his head-work and his strategy to more
advantage. Certainly he has never shown them at
a time when they were more needed. He dismissed
Hobbs (37) with the total at 51, Woolley (18) at
91; he broke through Sutcliffe’s defence when the
Yorkshireman had reached 76. And all these were
clean bowled. Chapman (49) helped in the best
stand of the innings for the fourth wicket, putting
on 81 runs with Sutcliffe before he was stumped
off Hailey’s bowling. Stevens (17) and Rhodes (28)
made up Hailey’s naif dozen of victims, one caught
at silly point and the other behind the sticks.
Hailey’s wickets cost 138, 23 runs apiece, remark-
able figures for a man who must needs tempt hitters.
Tate banged up a merry 23 towards the close, but
he and Larwood fell to Grimmc-tt; and Hendren had
previously provided Gregory with his one wicket.
It was Hailey’s day, and 280 may well have seemed
little enough to face when Woodfull and Bardsley
went in at 5 p.m. on Saturday.
But the visitors struck trouble early. Bardsley
touched one of Larwood’s fast ones when he had only
scored two and Strudwick made no mistake. Macartney
opened brightly enough, but he had only scored 25
when Stevens beat him with much the same dropping-
full-toss as that with which Mailey had settled
Hobbs. A little later Ponsford had run himself out,
and the Notts express had uprooted Andrews’ off stump.
Pour wickets were down for 59 when'Collins arrived
to help the patient Woodfull play out time. The
first day closed with England’s supporters if not
exactly jubilant, at least in fairly complacent mood.
Yet the soundest comment, as it turned out, was
that of Jessop, who wrote that “although four for-
midable batsmen had been dismissed, the topping of
England’s modest total should not be beyond the
power of the Australians on the plumb Oval wicket.”
It was a prophetic remark.
Collins and Gregory were the two men mainly
responsible for pulling Australia out of the hole;
Oldfield and Grimmett gave valuable help at the
close. But the main credit goes to the skipper’s
doggedness. The two not outs had only added 31
on Monday morning when Rhodes beat and bowled
Woodfull, who had been at the wickets over two hours,
for 85. Five for 90. Richardson arrived and the
pair settled down to a grimly defensive game, with
the changes already being rung on England’s five
bowlers. Fifty-five minutes saw the addition of only
32 runs, and then Rhodes tempted Richardson (16)
and Geary took a hard catch at mid-off. Six for
122 looked discouraging enough, but the next partner-
ship, that of Collins and Gregory, was to mark the
turning point. The two ex-Djggers, batting gamely
and confidently, added 107. Gregory characteristic-
ally began to clout the bowling at once, while
Collins played the rock. Then the former steadied
down a bit, preparatory to letting himself go again,
but Collins took no chances. Gregory was the first
to go, caught at leg off Tate; his 73 included 10
fours. Collins followed him- 10 minutes later, caught
behind point off Larwood; his invaluable 61 had
occupied a little over 31 hours.
With 8 wickets down for 231, there was still a
gap to bridge, and Oldfield and Grimmett proved
equal to the job. The pair stayed together for an
hour and a quarter and the English total was
passed, Grimmett scoring 33 and Oldfield 35 n.o.
With Mailey snapped up by Strudwick for a duck,
the innings closed for 302, or 22 ahead. Tate’s
figures, 3 for 40, read best, but his victims included
the two last men. Larwood took 3 for 82, and the
veteran Rhodes 2 for 35. Then Hobbs and Sutcliffe
started England’s second innings, and had put 49
on the board without mishap at the close of play
on Monday. Fortune has inclined first this way and
now that in what is clearly going to rank as a
memorable match, but it looks as if the toughest
phase of the struggle has yet to come.
* # * »
Maroubra Speedway gave 8000 patrons
good value for their money on Saturday afternoon,
when there were some exciting finishes both in the
four-wheel and two-wheel sections. A lady driver,
Mrs. Jones, had the pluck to start in the Stock Car
handicap, but an ungallant handicapper gave her
male rivals a lap start and she was not quite able
to close the gap. The Gold Helmet, so long the per-
quisite of Cecil Brown, now changes hands regularly
once a month. Bill Conoulty didn’t defend his title,
and the metal hat now reposes on the youthful brow
of J. R. Sidebottom, whose A.J.S. has always treated
him very kindly. The fastest laps of the day in
various classes go to show what a tremendous price,
in money, mechanism and petrol, has to be paid for
high speed. Peel, winner of the Maroubra Handicap,
on his little Chater-Lea (344c.c. —what used to be
rated as 2ifh.p.) made his best sprint at the pace of
85 m.p.h. Later the same rider, on a 098c.c. Harley
(7h.p.) cut out a lap at the rate of 99 m.p.h. But
the great event of the day, and the record of which
the track is proudest was a lap done by Peter White’s
old Front.v Ford at exactly 100 m.p.h. The cylinders of
the hybrid Lizzie measure up to 2250c.c., and the
progression goes to explain why it is necessary to
use aeroplane engines of three or four hundred h.p.
in order to make new records in these days.
* * * *
At the Stadium on Saturday night Fred
Brock (lOst. 9Jib.) gave a superb exhibition of
boxing against Ivan Laffineur (lOst. 101 b.), the first
of the. recently-arrived French contingent) to be seen
in action, but it was of no avail against an opponent
who forced the fighting throughout and refused to be
hurt. Yet, even then, there were times when the
referee’s verdict could hardly have been anticipated. The
Newcastle man showed far superior science throughout;
the one thing he couldn’t do was to knock out his man.
Laffineur looks like proving himself as tough and
game a fighter as ever entered a ring. His face
was swollen out of shape and his claret on tap
from the seventh round onwards. It was impossible
not to admire Brock’s head- and foot-work, which
often made the other look almost a novice, but at
close quarters and in the rough stuff the Frenchman
was not to be denied and he often had Brock hard
set to stop the fire of uppercuts. It was a great
exposition of opposite styles. Brock’s right to the
short ribs, in the second round, was a punch that
might have settled the issue then and there, but it
only served to show the Frenchman’s imperviousness
to punishment.
* * * *
Melbourne Stadium fans had a return to
boxing on Saturday night, when Raymond Jansen
(9st. 6-llb.), the lightweight member of the French
team, and Bert McCarthy (9st. 81b.) shaped up to
one another. The former opened favorite but after
a few rounds those who laid 6 to 4 on him were
anxiously trying to unload at any old price. Mac.
was completely the Frenchman’s master at boxing,
but Jansen provided a thrill in the thirteenth when
one of his crude swings connected solidly, and Mae
bit the dust. Five times the Victorian was floored,
and fans had their hats ready when the bell brought
respite. After that Bert retired further into his
shell and was content to outbox the visitor until
the finish, when he ran out a winner by the proverbial
mile. Had Jansen’s cut of the gate been paid in
francs, the accommodation of his purse would not
have been unduly' overtaxed.
* * * #
The opening day of the Australasian A.A.
championships at Brisbane (Q.) on Saturday upset
a whole bag of records. In the 100 yards', L. C.
Parker CQ.), holder of the title, just staved off N. R.
Burns (N.S.W.) in 9 4-ssec., equal to the previous
best; and S. A. Lay (M.L.) lifted the Australasian
javelin-throw record to 198 ft. 7 Jin. —lift, improve-
ment on his own previous effort. Four Queensland State
records also went overboard when E. H. Scott
(N.S.W.) took the 120 yards hurdles (3ft. 6in.) ir
15 2-ssec., R. D. Norman (N.S.W.) won the 44(.
yards in 49 3-ssec., G. R. Hyde (Vie.) was first
through the tape in the mile in 4min. 23 4-ssec., and
W. Harvey (M.L.) threw the 161 b. hammer 143 ft,.
6m. In the other events, George Parker (N.S.W.)
took the three-mile walk in 22min. 21sec., R. W.
Thompson (N.S.W.) the discus-throw (112 ft. Biin.),
and M. Shaddock (N.S.W.) the pole vault (10ft.
9£in.). The Ma Staters finished up with five wins
against M.L.’s two and one each by Vic. and Queens-
land.
THE DETERRENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Perhaps the greatest sensation of the opening
day of the final Test match was that the Oval was
less than half full. Many reasons are advanced ; one
of them is that the regular patrons of the ground
refuse to pay the 3s. entrance fee.”— Cable.
“Father, I reckoned to see a crowd
Some forty thousand strong;
I visioned them swarming in like bees
Instead of by meagre twos and threes.
Now what in the world is wrong?
“Have the tales of the midnight queues at Lords
And the elbowing packs been such
That the stoutest barrackers shiver, and quail
At thoughts of a crush like a bargain sale?”
“Not much, my son, not much.”
“Is it losing its charm, the grand old game?
Do they tire of the strain and stress
When fellows sit on the splice all day
And a Test may take a week to play ?”
“Nay, son, have another guess.”
“Is it fear of seeing the rubber lost
That keeps them away, belike?”
“Tush! They scorn such fears, our Surrey lads,
When ’keeper Struddy puts on his pads
Or champion Hobbs takes strike.”
“Then why do the turnstiles click so slow ?
’Tis a puzzling thing to me
When two such teams as these collide.”
“Well, a bob is a bob on the Surrey side
And they jib at springing three.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


&
U)-m &
m
\
SAUCE
//osi ffolirooASays
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
dike an old wine.”
a
DON’T tire yourself out
driving on wet, slippery
streets or pavements. Use
Weed Tyre Chains and save
yourself cramped muscles,
strained nerves and the fa-
tigued feeling that comes from
rainy day driving without
chains.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
I New York, N. Y.
I* w U. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
m
823
TYRE CHAINS
■ ■ I
Paint
Sf
ur
Gandert Seats with
Results are always
Satisfactory.
Write for Color Card and Full
Particulars to
L. A. CORMACK
(Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
To Let.
TO LET, Burraneer Bay, Cronulla, Gent.’s
Furnished waterfront brick residence,
grounds 2 acres, with garage, boatshed, etc.,
for short or long term, a good opportunity for
country residents to visit seaside, beautiful
restful position, extensive views. Moderate
terms for suitable tenant.
Apply owners—
J. WILSON & 00.,
Tramway Arcade, Rockdale.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
s&aeim
x&h
“c
mmm
£&S
--:
a s*
iSSs
JL
arc*
V
W
:.r-
WHEREVER man lives electricity
is his willing servant. It brings
comfort and convenience to his home,
lightens his labor and makes rapid
transportation and communication
easy.
WHEREVER man lives, tne
International General Electric
Co. serves him through convenient,
local representation.
ARGENTINA—GeneraI Electric, S. A,
Buenos Aires, Rosario de Santa Fe,
Tucuman.
AUSTRALlA—Australian General Elec-
tric Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
BRAZlL—General Electric, S. A., Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo.
CENTRAL AMERICA International
General Electric Company Inc., New
Orleans, La., U. S. A.
CHlLE—lnternational Machinery Co.,
Santiago, Antofagasta, Valparaiso; Ni-
trate Agencies, Ltd., Iquique.
CHlNA—Andersen, Meyer & Co., Ltd.,
Shanghai.
COLOMBlA—Wesselhoeft & Poor, Bar*
ranquilla, Bogota, Medeliin.
CUBA—General Electric Company ol
Cuba, Havana, Santiago.
DUTCH EAST INDlES—lnternational
General Electric Co., Inc., Soerabaia,
Java.
ECUADOR—Guayaquil Agencies Co.,
Guayaquil.
EGYPT—British Thomson-Houston Co.,
Ltd., Cairo.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
International General Electric Co.,
Inc., London.
GREECE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Frangaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris, France.
HOLLAND—Mijnssen & Co. Amster-
dam.
INDlA—lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Calcutta, Bombay, Bangalore.
JAPAN —lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Tokyo, Osaka..
MEXlCO—General Electric, S. A., Mex-
ico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey.
Tampico,. Veracruz, El Paso, Texas;
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical &
Engineering Co., Ltd., Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, Christchurch.
PARAGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
PERU— W. R. Grace & Co., Lima.
1 HILIPPINE ISLANDS—Pacific Com-
mercial Co., Manila.
PORTO RlCO—lnternational General
Electric Co., Inc., San Juan.
PORTUGAL AND COLONlES—Socie-
dade lb£rica de Construcoes Electricas,
Lda., Lisbon.
COUTH AFRICA—South African Gen-
eral Electric Co., Ltd., Johannesburg,
Capetown.
SPAIN AND COLONIES Sociedad
Iberica de Construcciones Electricas,
Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao.
S W I T Z E R L A N D—Trolliet Freres,
Geneva.
URUGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Montevideo.
VENEZUELA Wesselhoeft & Poor,
Caracas.
ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING
COMPANIES
BELGIUM AND COLONIES—Soci£tS
d’Electricite et de Mecanique, S. A.,
Brussels.
CHlNA—China General Edisoq Co.,
Shanghai.
FRANCE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston.
Pans.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd.,
Rugby, England.
ITALY AND COLONlES—Compagnia
-.Generale di ElettricitL Milan.
, N Shibaura Engineering Works,
Tokyo; Tokyo Elertric Co., Ltd., Ka-
v wasaki, Kanagawa-Ken.
The Magic of Irrigation
The walls supporting the hanging gardens of Babylon j
where Semiramis disported her seductive beauty werei
over 300 feet high. And it is said that thousands of
men toiled incessantly, night and day, to raise up and
over these walls the water necessary to keep these
gardens abloom.
Water is transported differently today, and to perform,
even greater miracles than fertilizing hanging gardens
three hundred feet high. For, distant accumulations
of water, collected and stored in exhaustless reservoirs
are lifted and distributed by electric power and pump-
ing plants through miles of radiating flumes to fertilize
trackless wildernesses until- they become fields of life
and beauty.
In this marvelous transformation of arid waste through
the magic of irrigation, there will be found, everywhere,
the continuous and trustworthy functioning of General
Electric Power and Pumping Plants, in a service un-
falteringly and uninterruptedly given.
This is the service which is extended to you today,
wherever you may be, by,, our local engineers and
representatives;.
à
Int.-12-26
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CQ-. INC- SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, U. S. A*
THE INKY WAY.
“H.E.R.”: Re first Bulletin cheques.
Mine came when I was 17 and on my back
in the hospital; so I never even saw the
document. But my dad did, and it was a
proud old man who turned it into 30 bob.
Ilis letter to me was a long-kept treasure.
“My boy,” he wrote, “keep on writing to
The Bulletin. I will buy you plenty of
pens, ink and paper.”
“Two Seas” : Thomas Shakespeare, M.L.C.,
can’t peg out the “first newspaper claim” at
the Federal capital (B. 12/8/’26). The
Bulletin’s old friend A. K. Murray staked
out the prospecting claim 18 months ago
with the Federal Capital Pioneer. It
isn’t imposing as regards size; but it has
printed a lot of good stuff by Monaro
pioneers regarding the district’s early history.
Dr. Patrick Slieeliy, who has been sub-
editor of the Catholic Press, the official
K.C. organ in N. S. Wales, for four years,
goes to the pleasant living of Granville
(N.S.W.). He came to Sydney with a
big reputation from All Hallows, and Car-
dinal Moran soon appointed him a pro-
fessor at his college at Manly, where he
put in 16 years, after which Benedict XV.
made him a Doctor of Divinity.
“Jewash”: Mick Condon, proprietor of the
Condobolin Lachlander, and last year presi-
dent of the N. S. Wales Country Press Asso-
ciation, slipped into the Inky Way by a side
track. He was a blacksmith’s assistant, and
had a pal who was a jobbing printer and
had more work than he could handle.
Mick did his best to help, and gradually got
to know the cases. The ink soaked into his
blood, and he has now owned and guided the
Lachlander for many years.
The West Australian, Perth’s only
morning daily, which became the property
of the University of W.A. a few months ago
under the will of the late Wintlirop Hackett,
is said to have been sold for £600,000. The
buyers are Melbourne people, with an infu-
sion of Lionel Robinson of London. The
success of the Melbourne Herald has been
the spur that has driven them into this
purchase. The bulk of the money goes to
the University and the remainder to the
Anglican Church.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Stella Miles Franklin,
whose first literary effort, “My Brilliant
Career,” brought her international recogni-
tion, has lately written a very clever play,
with an epilogue glowing with love and
knowledge of the Australian bush. She still
continues to extend her income-tax as organ-
ising secretary to the National Housing and
Town Planning Council, and the governing
notabilities marvel at the display of so much
business acumen on the part of a mere
woman. Just now she is endeavoring to save
the gullible public from purchasing “restored
Tudor houses” which are pure fake.
“Ces”: The Argus did honor to Dr. Cun-
ningham when he finished the 20tli year of
his editorship. Cunningham is, however,
several years behind his contemporary, G. F l .
Schuler, of the Age. Schuler is now in his
50th year of service with the Symes, and
early next year will complete his quarter of
a century as editor. Like Cunningham, he
has gone right through the mill, from cub
reporter to the editorial chair. They were
both cadets on the Bendigo Advertiser, and
are in their seventies. Another record for
service is that of J. S. Stephens, who has
been sub. of the Age for nearly 40 years, and
still wields a mighty blue pencil with never-
flagging energy.
Arnaldo Cipolla, a pro-Mussolini journal-
ist who is having a look to see how Britain
colonises, lately blew into Maoriland’s Par-
liament. He took his hat off and tiptoed
into the gallery holding it. An attendant
told him to take it outside and hang
it up. He did so, returned, and sat meekly
down. The attendant again approached him
and bade him take another seat. He moved
to a seat in the front row and sat with his
hands on the front rail. “You must keep
your hands off the rail, sir,” said the attend-
ant. Then Cipolla, thinking there could be
no more snags in store, took out his notebook.
The official bade him return it to his pocket.
Cipolla’s wandering eye then caught sight of
some ladies in the gallery knitting. The
notion of anyone knitting in so dignified
a chamber tickled him, and he began to
giggle. That was too much —the attendant
took him by the arm and led him from the
place.
“Ancient Mariner”: “Yamawa” (B.
5/8/’26), who claims a sea-going record from
“ ’way back in ’87,” should have overhauled
a dictionary before falling foul of my con-
tention that the Age and Dibdin were alike
out of their depth as to the term “sheer
hulk.” The Oxford Dictionary lays it down
that the compound “sheer-liulk” points every
time to a craft equipped with sheer-legs; and
that the variant “shear-hulk,” though seldom
"used, has the same and positively no other
meaning. In “Chambers’s Encyclopaidia” I
find it stated that “in the principal dock-
yards there are tall permanent sheers,
mounted either on the side of a masting dock
or on a floating sheer-hulk, often an old dis-
mantled ship devoted to this use.” Such
citations seem to warrant me in reiterating
that it is a glaring abuse of the King’s Eng-
lish to apply the term “sheer-hulk” either to
a defunct sailorman or to a warship igno-
miniously transformed into a breakwater.
“W.H.E.”: “Two Seas” and “Wang” may
be right in asserting that the bush is the
happy hunting-ground of bogus Bulletin
contributors, but I have met some frauds
nearer home. A few months ago I was in
a Sydney suburban train and heard the cackle
of an amused Bulletin reader. A tap on
my shoulder, and the familiar red cover was
handed over with the query: “Did you ever
read anything so good as that bit?” I
admitted that it was an excellent scrap of
literary work, and said I had for a long
time read every line in the paper. He then
triumphantly announced that he wrote most
of the paper under a variety of pen-names,
and only for the legislation compelling sig-
natures during an election the public would
never have known him —he was, he confided,
James Edmond! Having been in close con-
tact with Jas. Edmond from the long-ago,
when his “Pepper and Salt” was a feature
of Bulletin humor, to the present time, it
gave me considerable pleasure to inform the
beery traveller that he was the closest imita-
tion- of Ananias T had ever met.


Everything for the Man on the Land
at Murdoch’s
MURDOCH’S recognise something more in the word “Service”
than simply attending to the Clothing Wants of Australia s
Men and Boys—valuable as that is.
Deeper still there is a binding affinity between Australia’s
greatest Men’s Wear Store and the men who not only placed
Australia on the map, but brought to her fair name the respect
and homage of all nations.
And this deep, unshakable sentiment is expressed in the irre-
proachable quality of Murdoch Merchandise and the guarantee
which accompanies it. Murdoch’s would prefer to suffer
financial loss in any transaction rather than lose the goodwill
of one of Australia’s “Sons.”
Men’s Shirts
Murdoch’s Twill Harvard “Toughite” (Regd.), the
strongest wearing work shirt known. Collai’,
pocket and button wristbands, Double
sewn and gussettcd. Light or Dark
pattern designs. All Men’s Sizes
6/9
Men’s Trousers
Murdoch’s “Toughite” (Regd.) Working Trousers.
A Cotton Tweed material without equal for hard
wear. Strongly sewn and well
finished. Side or Cross Pockets,
plain bottoms. Dark shades. All
sizes
126
Men’s “Wooltex” Tweed Trousers. A material of
super strength and pleasing appearance, exclusive
to Murdoch’s. Serviceable Mid or Dark Grey
shades. Side or Cross Pockets,
Plain or Cuff Bottoms. A size to
lit any figure
13/9
Men’s Khaki Drill Trousers of robust make
and finish. AVell cut with Side or
Cross Pockets, Plain Bottoms. All
sizes
10 6
Breeches
Men’s Riding Breches, Correctly
ensure easy freedom of movement.
proportioned to
Cut with side
or cross pockets, medium balloons
from Murdoch’s Famous “Barb-
wire” Tweeds; strongest make
throughout. Ready-to-wear
19/11
In Fawn shade Bush Cord, superior quality, 25/
In heavyweight Wool Bedford Cord 35/
Hose
Men’s strongly woven Cotton Socks, in
shades of Black, Blue Grey, Unbleached
Cotton, Tan or Nigger Brown, per pair.
Three pairs for 4/3.
1/6
All Wool Cashmere Socks for men, in
Black, Navy, Grey Coatings or Tan
Three pairs for 6/6.
2/3
0m ;
* > *.
: i
\
Murdoch’s Guarantee
All Goods quoted on this Page are sent on
the binding promise that whatever Goods
fail to please you, you are at liberty to return
them and receive your purchase money back
immediately—and in full. Nothing could be
fairer! When writing kindly address your
letter to Desk R.
Suits
Men’s ready-for-service Sac Suits, for fit and style
unequalled. In splendid quality summer-weight
Australian Woollen Tweed, latest Light, Mid and
Dark Grey shades. Graded sizes to
fit every figure. Coat, vest and
trousers complete
55/-
In latest lightweight Woollen Wor-
steds in smart Grey shades
79/9
Boots
Men’s Tan Military Cossacks, Heavy Standard
screwed and sewn soles. Watertight tongues.
Thoroughly reliable. Recommended
for good service. Also in heavy
Black Box Hide. Guaranteed all
solid leather
17/11
Leggings
Men's Splendid Quality Tan Spring
or Strapped Front Puttees, sewn
back
11/9
Blocked all one piece, plain, 217-
Bound Top, 22/6.
Underwear
Men’s lightweight Wool and Cotton Singlets—
ideal quality for warm weather wear and good
service. Short sleeves. Strong finish throughout.
Sizes: 34 36 in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
6/11 7/6 7/11 8/6 8/11
Men’s excellent quality Unbleached Underpants,
specially designed for heavy riding service. Ankle
length. Spliced seats and knees.
Sizes 34 36 in. 38in. 40in.
6/6 6/11 7/6
Flannels
Men’s strong, robust quality Flannel Undershirts.
Square-cut shoulders, self-bound necks,
double sewn seams and gussetted. Dark
Grey, Cream and Natural shades. Sizes:
S. Men’s, Men’s and O.S
6/9
Murdoch’s famous Hats specially designed
for Country Wear
“The Stockman.” A Fur Felt Hat with semi-flat
brim—ideal protection from summer’s heat. Good
quality silk bands. Shades of Slate
and Beaver only. Sweatproof leather.
Sizes to 7|
19/6
The “Kookaburra” Wide Brim Drover,
popular Australian-made Hat. Blocked
A very
after the
Military style, but of finer quality fur.
Plaited leather band. Color : Military
Fawn only. Greaseproof leather.
Sizes 62 to 7i, as illustration B. ...
21/-
a
B 5
The “Sombrero,” with wide curl brim and full crown,
as illustration C. Plaited leather band. Military
Fawn shade only. Highest-gra'de
greaseproof leather. Sizes 6|
to 7|
35|-
Superior Quality, 557-
Super Quality Imported “Sombrero,” 75/-
m
r.-.s
m
M
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
PLEASE ADDRESS TOUR LETTERS TO DESK R.
COPYRIGHT.
%
lVor/d5 2*Z&ns'ancf Boy’s Store”


Bonus Issued by the P. &. C.
THE Directors of the Producers & Citizens* have
pleasure in announcing that the financial position
°/ *ke Company, as disclosed by the Actuarial
Valuation, is such as to enable them to allot Bonuses to
policyholders.
BONUS CERTIFICATES of £2 per cent, for whole life,
and £l/10/- per cent, for endowment and children, have
been granted on the first year of policies effected prior to
31st July, 1923.
BONUS GUARANTEES have been granted for each
subsequent completed year of assurance to be paid in the
event of the Policy becoming a claim, and will apply
to all policies effected by 31st August, 1925. After the
next actuarial valuation the position will be reviewed.
The Producers & Citizens’ Co-operative Assurance
Co. of Australia I imifpd Head Office: 114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
d 1 1 L6CI. Branches: Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart.
Governing Director: A. K. TRET HOW AN.
General Secretary: H. FELL.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Mask and the Face”
Royal “What E\ery Woman Knows”
Palace “The Sport of Kings*’
Grand Opera House “The Best People”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Royal “White Cargo”
Princess “Abie’s Irish Rose”
King’s “The Sentimental Bloke”
Palace “Our Liz”
Athenasusi “A Night in Honolulu”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Playhouse (25th-28th) “Playboy of Western World”
On Saturday niglit Sydney was presented
to two super-egotists, each having the
inevitable quality of dulness. At the lioyal,
John Shand is the most important staik in
Barrie’s bouquet, “What Every Woman
Knows.” The young man, who, poor but
ambitious, has made himself an undergrad
of a Scotch University, breaks nightly into
the library of the well-to-do Wylies to study
from the books most useful to him —the
reason for the burglary being that a Sliand
is too proud to ask of a Wylie such a
favor as the use of their books. Trap-
ped, be is forced to explain ; and the Wylie
family, anxious about the future of a femi-
nine member who lacks char-ruin (the state-
ment is a libel in the case of Angela
Baddeley), made a compact with him by
which, in return for an advance of £3OO
to help him complete his studies, he is to
save Maggie from spinsterhood. Shand
makes a brilliant success, which turns him
from his intention of entering the ministry
into a Parliamentarian who makes a mark;
and, all through, the hard-headed egotist, who
boasts as a virtue that he had never laughed
in his life, fails to see that his unassuming
wife is the main factor in his success—that
is, he fails to see- it until the patient Maggie
saves him from making a fool of himself
with a titled lady who admires his strength,
but, given an opportunity of meeting him
often, discovers his dulness. Barrie’s whim-
sicality plays delightfully on the Scottish
characteristics.
* * * *
Stage management was a feature of the
performance. A complete adoption of dialect
would have lost the audience in fog; but
there was sufficient of it to create a vivid
illusion of Scotch atmosphere; and such a
lively crowd as that which poured upon the
stage to hail the election of John Shand has
seldom been made/ of any band of supers.
The long-legged Brian Aherne made a very
good John Shand, unconscious of everything
but his own ability and his career; the ani-
mated Angela Baddeley, with her varying
moods, gave the almost inconceivably long-
suffering Maggie an air of veracity and a
very pretty Scotch tongue used well in every
situation; and Mary Jerrold added to the
good impression she made in “Quality Street”
by her vivacious Comtesse de la Briere. The
amateurishness is wearing off Mary Hinton,
although, as Lady Sybil Tenderden, she
failed to rise to some emotional passages;
Herbert Harben was an easy Mr. Venables;
and one of the outstanding small perform-
ances was the canny David Wylie of Norman
Macowan.
# * * *
‘ I un at a Funeral” would make an alter-
native title for “The Mask and the Face,”
which, at the Criterion, contains the other
egotist. Count Mario Grazia takes himself very
seriously, and avows the attitude that the
stain of a wife’s dishonor can only he wiped
out by lier death. Faced with occasion to
put the attitude into action, he discovers
that he has. no real desire to be a murderer,
but is afraid of the derision of his friends.
The disappearance of the lady offers a way
out; and a damp female corpse in the lake in
the background satisfies the Grazia honoi*.
Unfortunately the wife declines to remain
disappeared ; by her sudden reappearance on
a stage on which everybody is in mourning,
she threatens the destruction of a perfectly
good funeral. The play runs close to farce;
but there is wit and occasionally satire in
the swift-running current of the dialogue,
and there is atonement of laughter for any
overstrain of the possibilities.
* * * *
The peg upon which the satire is hung
is the rabid desire of Grazia to appear to
the world as the man he thinks he is. Hylton
Allen has to sustain a difficult part upon a
note of pretentiousness, and does it well;
Renee Kelly, as his wife, Savina, a lady who
believes that sire can save her husband if she
can make him laugh, had, on the contrary,
a part which allowed her to gallop looseiy
from high-pitched emotion to almost impish
humor—a lack of sincerity in the emotional
passages being explainable perhaps by the
character of Savina, who is a consummate
actress. Leslie Victor made a capital study
of a pompous occupant of a small mayoralty;
for five minutes he kept the audience gurgling
by mere pantomime. With George Barraud
as the polished Franco Spina, and Jackson
Wilcox, as an old man married to a flighty
young thing who occasions him much worry,
he stood out from a cast which was every-
where fair or better.
'i* v '!*
“Rose Marie” pursues her bright course
at Sydney Majesty’s; but “No, No, Nanette”
is to depart after to-morrow (Friday) to
fulfil an appointment at Newcastle. Owing
to the popularity of “Mercenary Mary” else-
where, that piece is not to appear for another
week, and St. James Theatre goes into
recess until _ August 28. “The Climax”
finishes to-night (Thursday), when great
doings are promised at the Palace in the
farewelling of Dot Brunton. The theatre
houses “The Sport of Kings” on Saturday.
“The Best People” inhabit the G.0.H., and
have struck popularity.
** ❖ *
Chaliapin as the roystering Mephisto in
Gounod’s “Faust” had the Town Hall men-
tally prancing about the Calf of Gold on
Saturday night. This was, among opera and
choral society experts, the big movement; for
the Russian basso’s devil is in a class of his
own and was in his day the talk of New
York. Though the singer had a cold that
troubled him a good deal, there was beauty
of the deep, unfathomed caves order in the
King Philip soliloquy from “Don Carlos,” the
same 20-fathoms-deep tones were heard in
Anton Rubi: stein’s “The Prisoner,” and
Massenet’s Eiegy was again one of the big
appeals. Hilda Sutton, with her violin, and
pianist Max Raboniwitsh wove colorful
threads into the evening’s tapestry.
$ ❖
The Tivoli’s big event of the year, the
San trey Band, is to arrive in Sydney next
week; in anticipation the programme has
been marking time, although Athol Tier in-
troduces a fresh breeze, with the aid of his
partner, Peggy Ross. Fred Bluett and Mo
have also reappeared; but the two capable
comedians don’t blend. Coram, who finishes
this week, will be missed; but less regret
will be felt at the passing of the monotonous
Southern Plantation Revue.
“Midnight Frolics,” which give Sydney
people a chance of catehing trams before
midnight, are still on at Fuller’s Theatre;
the merry compote of nonsense includes “The
Coffee Stall,” an amusing exposition of how
to reduce the cost of food.
Sydney Lyceum fiim, “Irene,” has a story
which is only born in order to lead up to a
fashion show warranted to entrance the eyes
of women. Naturally, it is a foolish, senti-
mental story which Colleen Moore redeems
by some impish humor. Hoyt’s features
Thomas Meighan getting very stagey in
a robustious picture, “The New Klondike” ;
and Madge Bellamy appears in “A Black
Paradise.” Both have thrill.
** * *
That successful, though unprotected, Aus-
tralian industry, “The Sentimental Bloke,”
is being enthusiastically regarded at Mel-
bourne King’s. The Bulletin has a fatherly
affection for the Bloke, for a reason that it
is at the moment too modest to recount.
Members of the push that survive from the
1923 production aire Barney Egan, Edward
Landor, Stella Payter, Leslie Gordon and
Alfreda Bevan. Walter Cornock has handed
the Kid’s toga on to Fred MacDonald; Bert
Bailey has inherited from Tal Ordell the
“NO, NO, NANETTE”
AT ST. JAMES
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
May Beattie as the
comic housemaid and
Elsie Prince as 'Nanette.
part of Ginger Mick; and Dulcie Cherry has
Doreen as a legacy from Eileen Alexander.
Doreen is a lady for whom this Showman
has never been able to feel much respect.
Her priggish heaven of respectability is not
worth the sacrifice of lash and booze that
the Sentimental Bloke is called upon to
make. Her waspishness and lack of a sense
of humor would inevitably turn the Bloke’s
heaven into a hell after the arrival of the
second baby; but as the playwright merci-
fully ends his play on the advent of the first,
the audience is spared the drab spectacle of
Bill s disillusionment. It is on Ginger Mick
that Dennis has lavished the richest pathos.
Being a confirmed bachelor, he is in no
danger of losing in the bog of domesticitv
Ins thirst for beer and the ideal, and he
will consider life worth living and skirts
worth stoushing rivals for until a super-
annuation allowance and a sunny corner in
the Old Men’s Home provide an answer to
the riddle of existence.
* * * ■#
As a play of action, this Australian classic
is notably deficient. Uncle Jim’s error in
taking ’Erb’s lost false teeth as evidence of
a gold reef on his farm is too thin a theme
for solid drama, and the obstetric business
of the final act has no dramatic consequences,
since Bill has already been dragged out of
his evil courses by the apocryphal beauties
of his tart. But none of these things matter
in a show that is so racy of the soil. Bert
“OUR LIZ,” AT MELBOURNE PALACE.
Lizzie's people, Mr. and Mrs. Pickles a
(Arthur Hemsley and Elsa Brull).
Bailey’s is a masterly portrayal of Ginger
Mick, whose fiery head-dress, black sweater,
paralysed-looking arms and stance of a petri-
fied golfer are as fixed and traditional as
Hamlet’s sable duds. Dulcie Cherry’s
Doreen, Fred MacDonald’s Bloke, Beresford
Fowler’s Spike, Rutland Beckett’s Steve and
Leslie Gordon’s ’Erb are equally traditional,
if not equally deserving of applause. A
generation brought up on the patois of Cali-
fornian cinema clowns and the broken Eng-
lish of x.ew York Yids is registering sur-
prised delight as the treasures of its own
language are being revealed by this all-Aus-
tralian mob. Incidentally, this critic observed
from his tower that Doreen’s boshter off-
spring is made of celluloid. He hopes it
isn’t branded “Made in Japan.”
❖ ❖ %
The Melbourne Showman apologises:—
This commentator has thought harsh thoughts
about Mr. Clapp for his slogan-making, but he now
executes a handsome withdrawal. For he has just
discovered that Clapp is a valuable patron of the
Australian stage. Among the gentleman’s multi-
tudinous activities is the Vic. Railways Institute,
which consists of a long corridor over the Flinders-
street station, lined with little cubicles in which
young men and maidens acquire algebra, telegraphy,
courtesy and other equipments of the perfect railway
man. At the end of the tube is a theatre. It isn’t
a large theatre, the red curtain has holes in it and
the seats are hard, but it recently provided no less
than four new Australian plays on the same night.
The Australian Literature Society was sponsor, and
the indefatigable “Karta,” himself the author of a
dozen plays, was organiser.
“Karta’s” own contribution was “Worltless,” a
one-act “comedy-drama of trade and domestic life.’’
This playwright was a member of the Chamber of
Manufactures until the many hold-ups of shipping
caused him to lose his business. He has put into
his play some of his own feelings on the subject.
The capitalist finds the working-man is sometimes a
human being, and the working-man makes a similar
discovery about the capitalist. As drama the piece
had too many points of interest contending for
attention, but as a document from life it was inter-
esting. On the Road to Buffalo,” another of
the quartette, by Mrs. Vernon Williams, was a version
of the eternal triangle enacted in a shelter-shed on
the way to the Victorian Alps, between a bad Mel-
bourne lawyer, a noble husband and a temporarily
errant wife. It was conventional but dramatically
quite sound. “Camouflage,” by Mrs. Mary Simpson,
was the workmanlike story of an unmarried woman
craving progeny, whose craving is partially annulled
when she discovers in her city stitchery a leadlight
burglar who turns out to be the son of her girlhood’s
love. The last item t 0 be considered was Furnley
Maurice’s “A Disturber of the Pools.” Here was
disclosed a fine and poetic mind thinking beautifully
around a genuinely'modern and Australian theme, the
scene a garden in a new suburb, dumbly suffering
(without anaesthetic) the operation known as sub-
division. Alice Crowther and Bryce Dunning gave
the quiet humor and delicate thinking of this piece
delightful treatment.
Here, then, are four Australian playlets, three
exhibiting considerable technical skill, and one dis-
closing a vein of high imaginative insight; all a
sort of by-product of the most utilitarian business
in the country! This commentator went home feel-
ing a new respect for Apollo Clapp and his chariots
of fire and with a fresh attack of optimism re-
garding the Australian stage.
On present information, Melbourne’s
amusement factories will continue to produce
their present lines of goods for some time to
come. Tondeleyo’s eye is turning men into
“White Cargo” at the Royal; “Tell Me
More,” at His Majesty’s, has acquired anew
note in dancing orchestration from the toes
of Thurza Rogers and the heels of Lascelles,
ex-favorites of the Pavlova troupe; the soft
twang of ukuleles and Hawaiian voices per-
vades the Athenaeum; and “Abie’s Irish
Rose” is the Princess’s sign of spring. As
“Our Liz,” at the Palace, Nellie Bramley
is concealing her musical deficiencies with
a skill that stamps her as at least a mas-
terly tactician.
The dark young man with the doglike eyes
who sits at the piano is the most appreciative
portion of Frankie Heath’s audience at Mel-
bourne Tivoli. For the rest, Harmston’s
cockatoos have once more come to hand, and
wrestler Ted Tliye has stepped over from the
Stadium. Thye describes himself as the
world’s champion light-heavyweight wrest-
ler. The description reminds this uninitiated
critic of the ordinary-sized man who applied
for a circus job on the score of being the
world’s smallest giant.
$ $ $ $
Nothing much is needed to supplement
Jim Gerald’s efforts to amuse at Melbourne
Bijou, and nothing much is being provided.
The Australian revue-merchant’s latest pro-
duction, “Not Likely,” is being thankfully
received by crowded houses.
At Melbourne Majestic this week Elsa
Stralia has been singing, while Claire Wind-
sor, in “Souls for Sables,” has been holding
up the dumb end of the entertainment, with
the assistance of Larry Semon as “The Per-
fect Clown.” The singer’s part was not the
second-best. “Early to Wed,” at Hoyt’s, is
not a comment on the Commonwealth Sta-
tistician’s recent discovery that Australia
possesses a 12-year-old bride, but is an aver-
age comedy about an American married
couple and their troubles with the bailiff.
“The Playboy of the Western World” will
commence to murder liis father with his
tongue at the Playhouse on Wednesday.
Beauty and two brushes in Melbourne:—
Carl Hampel has taken 60 bold peeps at Beauty
in the current year. It is a large number, and his
vision of the goddess is too nakedly prosaic. He
poses his gums as the old-style photographer used
to pose his victims —with the head in a clamp and
the right hand resting on a Bible. Also some of his
Australian bush vies with his mandarin oranges for
stillness, and his tulips would be a solid offering to
throw at a lady. No. 44, “Evening Glow,” is
good; here the artist’s monumental composition is
embellished with some poetry. But there is a limit
to monumentalism, and some of the canvases contain
more uninteresting sky than a Melbourne suburb.
The show is at the new Decoration Galleries.
Gwen Barringer, a versatile Hans Heysen student,
has at the Sedon Galleries 45 bits of evidence in
water-color of Adelaide’s art importance. Her gums
look as good to eat as an ice-cream sundae, and
her skill in weaving clouds, foliage and ocean billows
into a synonym for wind is marked. Although she
is deeply impregnated with the poetry of things, she
never gets tangled in her planes. Here is a lady
this Page will watch with great expectations.
That pleasant mixture which is “Mercen-
ary Mary” has been charming Adelaide audi-
ences at the Royal. In a British setting,
but of clear American construction, with
hints of a Paris origin, it recalls the get-
ting-compromised scene from “Katja,” mixed
with the champagne-and-lady scene from
“Fair and Warmer.” Imagine the two ideas
run into one, and acted by Freddie Tatton,
of “The Liars,” in conjunction with a
younger Lee White, and you have the reck-
less mirth into which Jack Morrison and
Mai Bacon have been plunging Adelaide.
There are other agreeable people helping, and
some really unusual dancing is dropped in by
Dick and Dorothy Barstow; but the other
two make the show.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre braved gloomy
prophecies and staged “Anna Christie”; and
so great was the booking that (for the first
time) three shows were given. The sheer
brutality of the language offended many, but
the play was at anv rate an artistic success.
Catherine Neill, Jack Lathlean and Ethel-
wyn Robin were sound and sordid; but the
play was dragging somewhat till Jack Har-
vey came in as the rough lover. From that
moment it never dragged again. He is a
remarkable “find” for the Repertory.


BOTTLED HISTORY
Every Bottle of
vs
it
□
/ \f
mmm
_LL_
O-
Jm
iiiM
is a traveller
for the firm
The purity and maturity of
Johnnie Walker is ensured by
the maintenance of an immense
reserve stock of pure Scotch
Whisky, perpetually ageing in
bond as a safeguard against any
immature Johnnie Walker
Whisky being placed on the
market.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
iiS
r
Born 1820
Still
Going
Strong!
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.


á
«
POLISHES—PRESERVES— PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
es is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price Sd. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere,
28
(adburys
DAIRY MHt\_
CHOCOLATE
D
ML
Delicious and nourishing plain and satisfying nut
bars—Neapolitan dainty tablets packed in carton.
Made every day from Fresh ‘Dairy Milk. Take some home co-day.
-I I 7
(
Poverty
Point
An exhibition of Japanese films viewed by
invitation of the .Consul-General at the
King s Hall (Sydney) may be an intimation
that Japan intends to become a factor in the
A COLD SNAP.
“Why are you always wishing for another
war? lias your girl given you the air?”
“No; but I've thought of a couple of good
Digger jokes that I could make pic-
tures of.”
business in which Australia’s progress is so
slow. Two of those shown, however, were
scenic pictures. The partially-colored' photo-
graphy is in the main good, and the subjects
—“Lake Biwa” and “Beautiful Nikko”—
are extremely interesting. The adoption by
Japan of the manners of Western civilisa-
lion, including straw" boaters and motor-
launches, is illustrated; modernism mixes
quaintly with survivals of old Japan. An-
other sign of modern development w T as the
filming* of the Regent; but the Regent drew
the line at lifting his belltopper to the
camera. The other picture is industrial—it
shows the vigorous , woollen industry of
Japan, and gives the Australian something
to think about. The picture, indeed, makes
a start in Australia with the shearing of
sheep and the cartage of the wool to the
boat. Interlarded information states that
(o per cent, of the raw wool nsed in Japan
comes from Australia ; and of the total value
££7,479,000 taken from this country in
1 .L 4-20, 11 ,GOM worth went without
being eyen washed.
Deadhead : Brisbane Repertory Society
has made a success of things from the jump.
Starting a little over a year ago, it has
already accumulated many members, and can
now run a play for three nights to good
houses. Perhaps the lack of good shows in
Brisbane has helped to shove it along, but
more important factors have been good act-
ing and careful production. The still, small
voice of the prompter is rarely heard, and
, ie res t °f the machinery is well oiled.
Although it has done the inevitable Milne
and Barrie, its most ambitious production
has been Shaw s "Candida,” which it revealed
to Brisbane on or about St. Bernard’s 70th
birthday.
‘‘Caesar's Ghost”: Off to South Africa
with Guy Bates Post, Eric Maxon, Winning-
ton Barnes, Gerald Bring, Harold Moran,
.Dennis Cardan and the weird Ashton Jarry.
In .Tarry Australia will lose its most uncon-
ventional mummer—a survival of the days
when the stage was peopled by people lika
1 rank Harcourt, who used to bring his
props, to even the most stately theatres tied
up in a colored handkerchief, like a tramp’s
swag. Jarry lias shocked the staffs of some
of Australia’s principal hotels by arriving
with his luggage in busted hand-cases tied
up _ with string, and in newspaper parcels,
lies a versatile chap who, when short of a
.lob on the ordinary stage, was prepared to
do entertaining little acts (he wrote some of
them himself) at the Tivoli. He made a
bull s-eye- hit as the High Priest in “The
Green Goddess,” in which he did not have a
word to say. Incidentally, he startled late
Melbourmtes by a near-midniglit appearance
m some of the streets in full war-paint in
order to get from the King’s Theatre to
young and Jackson’s, where lie was staying.
The make-up took a deal of removal, and
Jarry preferred to have the aid of a hot bath
at his pub to half-doing the job at the
theatre.
M.G.S.” : If picture producers wish to delve
into early Australian history, I nominate the
leJsart drama, enacted on the Abrollios
Islands, off the Westralian coast, June to
September, 1029. In those four months the
lonely rock, which had never previously
known a white foot, saw the elevation and
deposition of Australia’s first and only
European king, the creation of her first
fleet and her first naval battle and civil war ;
also it saw 70 persons drowned, 127 murdered
and 40 hanged.. After which it returned to
its primeval solitude for two centuries. That
should be sensation enough for any per-
doocer.
“Castlereagli” : Athol Tier, the cadaverous
dancer in vaudeville whose turn was a suc-
cession of galvanic shocks, leaves for Lon-
don at the end of this month. No boa con-
strictor ever twisted itself more eerily than
Tier. He starred in a musical play; but
we’ll miss his Swiss.
“R.K.D.N.”: Senator Guthrie in the
House the other day mentioned that the
newly-imported American film-actress, Eva
Novak, brought here to be the Australian
heroine of the much-discussed film-play, “For
the Term of His Natural Life,” had sent in-
vitations to members “to see her act and
have supper with her.” Which seems to sug-
gest that American citizens have very Holly-
wooden notions concerning Australian law-
makers.
“Jcune Premier”: “In many of the Ameri-
can films the fool, the rogue, the coward, or
the inefficient is a Briton. It is the same
with their plays. I saw one such play in
Melbourne recently, ‘The Best People.’ The
coward and the inefficient was a Briton. He
was kicked out of the room by a half-drunken
little weed whom most men would have put
across their knees and spanked.” Thus
Senator Guthrie in the Senate last week—
and all very true. He might have added,
had he known the facts, that the same piece
is being played in London at the present
time, but by an all-English cast. In this
benighted country it was thought necessary
to "rub it in” by bringing American actors
for the principal parts. The patriotic Sena-
tor might turn his attention to this aspect
of the question. Australian actors would be
grateful to him.
"A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Mrs. Eecles Snowden,
wife of the Tasmanian Agent-General, lately
gathered all the notables from the Island
State for an afternoon party at the Ladies’
Carlton Club in Chesterfield Gardens. The
most picturesque figure among the guests
was Amy Sherwin. the old-time “Tasmanian
nightingale,” whose hair is now as of daz-
zling silver, so shiny, is its snow. Her man-
ner is as mercurial as ever. The Snowdens
live in the Kensington Gore house which
was formerly the London home of Gaby de
Lys, where the display of flowers in the
reign of the revue queen was the delight of
all her neighbors.
Caesar’s Ghost”: The company had
dragged through some impecunious weeks bo-
fore it began to dawn upon our bright young
amateur, who had paid a premium, that his
£5O was exactly the capital the manage-
ment had. The knowledge that he w r as the
king-pin of the venture caused his numerous
indignities to rankle, and, full of wrath, he
faced the management with a charge of
fraud. “You promised to teach me the busi-
ness,” he railed, “and what have you taught
me?” “Well, my boy,” said the manager
airily, “you’ve learnt that actors don’t get
their salaries, haven’t you?”
“My Word” : Leon Gordon has been driven
to explain things: “ ‘White Cargo’ may be a
libel on the West Coast of Africa to-day, but
it certainly depicts conditions there during
the late Victorian period.” It won’t do.
Gordon makes his frowsy old doctor say:
“They tell me there are hardly any horses
in the London streets now" —all motor-cars.”
And in good Victoria’s days a motor-car was
as unusual in the Strand or Piccadilly as a
dinosaur.
“Ciesar’s Ghost”: “C. Ockney” (B.
5/S/’26) is in error in saying that “Henry
\III. has not been staged in Australia
since G. I. Brooke s day. William Creswick
staged it at the Victoria Theatre, Sydney
(where McCatliie’s drapery store is now), in
CAUSE ANd EFFECT.
MANAGER: It's a big part, and only a first-class actor can play it
I he question is, have you the qualifications?”
FUTZGERJUBS : “Pardon me, would you mind repeating your
remark? I am—ah—slightly deaf—the result—ah—of so
much applause.”
■‘'lie days when the fat J. J. Bartlett was
ruler of that dominion. Bartlett didn’t con-
fine himself to management in a production
of “Henry V.”: he presented himself, in
defiance of all traditions, as a 16-stone
Pistol.
“G. 8.”; The Gaiety company of 1888 was
really the only complete one sent out by the
directors of the Gaiety Theatre under con-
tract to J. 0. W., Ltd. It included Nellie
Barren, Marion Hood, Letty Lind, Sylvia
Grey, Mrs. Phelps, Fred Leslie, Charles
Dauby, Fred Storey and others. The Gaiety
detachment of 1891 was prompted by Nellie
Barren’s vain hope that the Australian
climate would ward off the T.B. which had
made London appearances almost impossible
to her. She was accompanied by Grace
Pedley, who took her place on many occa-
sions ; Plorence Levey, Grace Blenheim, Fred
Leslie, Charles Danby and others less known.
The Gaiety contingent of 1892-93 was headed
by E. J. Lonnen and Robert Courtneidge. It
comprised also Marion Hood, Addie Conyers,
Alice Leamar and Alice Lethbridge. With
the fourth detachment, in ’95, came Decima
Moore, Maud Hobson, Grace Palotta, Flor-
ence Lloyd, Louis Bradfield, Charles Ryley
and Harry Monkhouse. The company of
1904 was headed by G. P. Huntley, the “silly-
ass” dude, as star. It included Maurice
Barkoa, the ladies’ idol; Maud Hobson and
Clara Clifton.
"Two Seas”: The first phonograph I
struck in the bush was owned by a Bingara
(N.S.W.) publican in ’9l. It was a slot
machine, and the charge was 3d. a tune.
Bung soon had all the “trays” that had cir-
culated within a 30-mile radius. Dad and
Dave poked them into the phonograph’s slot,
and beers into their own, until closing time.
It was a great money-maker. About the
same time Joe McMahon had on show in
Sydney three slot machines which turned him
in about £lOO per week.
“Coot”: The record claimed by “Alwyn”
(B. 12/8/’26) for the Sydney Tivoli of
having had more names than any other Aus-
tralian playhouse is beaten by Melbourne’s
first theatre, the Paviliou. Erected in 1840,
during its five years’ existence it was re-
named six times, being known successively
as the Pavilion, Royal, Amateur, Royal Vic-
toria, Royal again, Canterbury and the Vic-
toria.
“Goldilocks - ’: The finest stage battle 1
can remember occurred during a Bilanderson
production of “The Ladder of Life” in Dun-
edin. For the storming of the Heights of
Dargai members of the local Scottish regi-
ment were engaged, as well as supers, for
the Pathan parts. The attraction of the
uniform for the female eye had made enemies
for the Scots, and some of the jealous parties
managed to get hired as Pathans. There was
a noble clash of arms (and legs) that night.
By rights the Pathans should have scattered
before the Highland charge, but the local
contingent charged on their own account
and gave as good as they got. The battle
was still in progress when the curtain fell,
and the opposing races had to be separated
by the police.
“Goldilocks”: The disapprobation of par-
sons has always been a throw-in for theatrical
producers. When I was staging “Sappho”
through the “smalls,” I always made a point
of inviting the par-
sons to come along
o n the opening
night and see for
themselves that the
play wasn’t as bad
as they thought it
was. Those who
accepted generally
thought it was
worse —it was a
particularly hot
version—and what
they told neighbor-
ing deadheads of
the press during
and after the show
made excellent copy
for us. The par-
sons never ap-
peared to suspect
their business use-
fulness. At Roliutu,
a little half-Maori
town in the Taran-
aki (M.L.) district,
assistance came in
another form. The
Salv’army, which
possessed the only
band in the place,
assembled outside
the hall and held a
meeting at which
they implored the
citizens to keep
away from the sin-
ful show. The local
Salv’army boss was
inclined to regard
my subsequent 10-
bob donation as an
indication of re-
pentance in a sinner; but that band outside
the hall was worth quite £lO to us.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : The American film
“The Big Parade” is drawing remarkable
audiences to the Tivoli: the heavy booking
has been helped by the cabled news that the
Commonwealth Government had prohibited
the exhibition of this film in Australia on
the ground that its propaganda was anti-
British. Any entertainment that is attacked
or forbidden by an important official or cor-
poration seems to make a strong appeal to
London audiences. To the average English-
man it seems merely amusing that a picture
which is booming at the heart of the Empire
should be banned as unpatriotic by a
mere Dominion Government. But it probably
isn’t. England isn’t a very trustworthy
judge of patriotism just now.
A Sydney artist in Melbourne:—
Some artists have registered annoyance because
John D. Moore, architect, insists on painting. One
answer to this charge is that many artists design
their own fowlhouses. Another is that Moore paints
well. His current show' of oils, waters and pencil
drawings at the New Gallery is full of lusty color
and dramatic vision. His clouds are sometimes out
of tone, probably to balance his solid landscapes,
but the net effect is usually pleasing. No 24a, a
chaos of industrial and residential bricks and mortar,
is a -whole leader on the bloated city fetich. He
doesn’t look for sentimental prettiness, but discovers
beauty even when, as in No. 11, he is exposing
suburbia by the sea in all the nakedness of its red
roofs, sandhills and general treelessness.
From an Adelaide critic:—
A remarkable little show' is that of Frances Yeates,
now open on North-terrace. Last year she formed
one of a motoring party to the heart of Australia,
and this is the result. One gets for the first time
authentic paintings of Mount Stuart and the Mac-
donnell Range, Arltunga and Alice Springs. Trees
and w'ater are much as in other parts of the con-
tinent ; but some of the rock formations are unique,
and the coloring is remarkable. The artist Is not
a front-ranker, but she has considerable skill, and
her plucky attempt to portray the unusual is
finding good practical support.
THE CAPTIOUS CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The life of a star is not all happiness,’ she said.
‘Long hours of study are necessary.’ ”•— Mix* Eva
Novak, neivly arrived from Hollywood.
“Now, who are these,” the sti’anger cried,
“With towel-engirdled heads ?
These maidens pink and white and pied,
Who should be in their beds?”
A critic he of high degree
Whose frankness ever rode him;
And, not from perturbation free,
’Hound Hollywood they showed him.
He sneered with gestures final, flat,
At beauties all but nude;
He jeered at the comedian’s hat
And methods more than crude.
The well-steered pie, that met the eye
Four-square, won no approval,
And Vaselinos, rated high—
He favored their “removal.”
But here, at last, they knew their meed
Of praise they must attain ;
W ith pardonable pride indeed
They made the matter plain:
“You’ve doubtless heard the lying word,”
They said, “the rumors muddy
Of those who’d give our stars ‘the bird.’
Behold them, then, at study!
“No Bacchanalian orgies theirs,
No nymphomaniac flights,
As many a slanderer vile declares;
Not bright but shaded lights
Are beacons brave to ends they crave—
Pale dawn may find them burning,
As still upon their task they slave
Of learning, learning, learning!”
The critic stroked a thoughtful chin;
He eyed them each in turn.
“And what,” he asked, in accents thin,
“These stars, now, do they learn ?
On harmony, or cookery,
Do they spend hours exacting?
The ‘silver sheet’ makes clear to me
. It never was on acting!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


N
i
ft
BR
i
71
l/0
,/
Efc
///
I
r
Wi
°Ocr
Op
*Of,
4 A/©
4 #o/W
W/S
477 c
01/c
a ot„
"'Ui-
fed
: a «tc-d
eev e n
; °U.s
«*e/
u sjv c /
Pro
Pot
4 Of
P»rty
»n/
«o//
eat
Por
and
' J ° s «>bl
‘ n ?. r edi
and
°//i
n
and
ai'Oj
ent
9ua,'
but
atte
%
'P/ur
atio
ted
°7^
, afeei
? e nta
c °v,
*n«t«
and
and
°re/.
and
° r( ]>a.)
otti
a se f
r/d
Pernj
e Oi6
ros«
Mdi,
c/on a
Prote
° s Sed
on
e &o
jQj Jtat
rom
atjo
'#B«
B 'do
u*t
'ate
o/
no r
and
*fvv
4/,
Rot
r<#o
r fp 0
r °us/
t\, tr
Or o
4m
*O-0,
u 'ed
'P'sea
«nf,
«nrf
''rie
*£r
e "»e»,
">£ r
£5
m Mt :
II
13
n
Vt 9or
Ous/y
02s
G
L
CHIEDA
TIC
JM
A
“Q Blessincj to Humanity
There's a man
who knows what
he wants
“One Wolfe’s
Schnapps a day
for his health’s
sake”
—and he always
keeps a bottle
in the house.
Obtainable in Quarter Bottles as well as in the
familiar Half and Large sizes.


The Mercantile Mutual Insurance Company, Limited
(Registered under the Companies Act.)
CAPITAL increased to £444,562 in £1 SHARES with power to increase.
HEAD OFFICE:
Mercantile Mutual Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors:
A. E. JAQUES, Chairman.
C. 0. GALE THEODORE J. MARKS
•J. M. ATKINSON L. J. DAVIES
Manager: KELSO KING.
Assistant Manager ancl Superintendent of Branches: SELWYN KING
Secretary; ALAN BLAKE Solicitor: P. V. McCULLOCH
Auditors:
ROBERTSON, CRANE & GIBBONS, F.C.P.A.
J. P. LARCOMBE and COWARD, E.C.P.A.
Melbourne Branch: 1 Queen Street.
Directors:
RANDAL J. ALCOCK JAMES M. GILLESPIE
W. J. S. EAVES A. L. WETTENHALL
Local Manager: R. W. HEGGIE
Brisbane Branch:
Directors *
WM. HAMILTON HART ROBERT WILLIS TAYLOR
Resident Secretary: J. G. MILNE
Townsville Branch:
Local Manager: J. J. KELLEHER
Cairns:
Chief Agents: ESTATE H. S. WILLIAMS, LTD.
Adelaide Branch: c/r King William and Pirie Streets.
Directors *
NAPIER K. BIRKS NORMAN JACKSON
Resident Secretary: W. H. SHEPPARD
Tasmania:
Chief Representatives: ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD.
Perth:
Chief Representatives: H. J. WIGMORE & CO., LTD.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO., LTD.
BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 19^6.
LIABILITIES.
1926—June 30.
Capital Subscribed
Less Uncalled in Reserve
Reserve Fund
Contingent Fdnd
Profit and Loss. .
Sundry Creditors (including Unadjusted
..£404,147 0 0
. . 101,036 15 0
£303,110 5 0
110,298 7 0
7.358 11 1
44,688 5 11
£465,455 9 0
Claims) 121,644 11 8
£587.100 0 8
ASSETS.
1926 —June 30.
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane Freehold Properties
Mortgages
Deposits, Debentures and Commonwealth War Loan
Balance at Credit with Bankers
Cash in hand ..
Agents’ Balances
Sundry debtors
Accrued Interest
£231,562 10 0
17,204 6 6
241,610 13 1
23,700 9 7
482 18 11
£514,560 18 1
56,909 8 5
12,735 18 9
2,893 15 5
72,539
2 7
£587,100 0 8
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT for the year ended' 30th June, 1926.
1926—June 30.
To Interim Dividend paid Shareholders, Ist February, 1926
„ Contribution to Officers’ Provident Fund . .
.. Cost of Management, Fees, Commissions and other Charges
~ Subscriptions to Fire Brigades and other Taxation . .
„ Losses
„ Balance
. . £15,155 10 3
500 0 0
. . 137,171 16 5
18,304 11 2
.. 200,834 13 6
44,688 5 11
£416,654 17
1926—‘June 30.
By Premiums,: less Reinsurances and Returns £395,014 16 0
„ Interest and Rents .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 21,640 1 3
£416.654 17 3
KELSO KING, Man a<jer.
We hereby certify that having compared the Balances with the amounts shown
and Profit and Loss Account to be correct.
Sydney, 21st July, 1926.
A. E. JAQUES, Chairman.
in the Books, examined all Vouchers and Securities, we find the above Balance Sheet
ROBERTSON, CRANE & GIBBONS, F.C.P.A. )
J. P. LARCOMBE and GOWARD, F.C.P.A. \ Au(Morfi -
The Forty-eighth Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders was held
at the Company’s Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney, on Thursday, 12th
August.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet the Chairman
referred to the Company’s experience during the financial year ended 30th
June, 1926, as follows: —
THE PREMIUMS received, after deducting reinsurances and return
premiums, amount to £395,014, compared with £376,693 for the previous
twelve months. The progress, although gratifying, is not equal to the increase
experienced by your Company in recent years, and has been affected by a
partially adverse season which operated in most parts of the Commonwealth.
Conditions have since considerably improved, and the prospects can be regarded
as satisfactory, but portions of Queensland are still suffering from drought.
EXPENDITURE shows a slight increase compared with last year, which
was the lowest on record in per centage to premium income.
TAXATION paid, including rates and compulsory contributions to Fire
Brigades, total £21,594 17s. Bd., being about 5-| per cent, of the net premium
income, and is a serious burden on this and all other companies.
LOSSES paid and those in process of assessment total £200,834 13s. 6d.;
they are above the average of our general experience, and have been aggravated
by excessive heat waves and shortage of water supply suffered almost generally
during the greater portion of the summer months. As usual, liberal allowance
has been made for all outstanding claims.
THE UNDERWRITING SURPLUS is £38,703 14s. lid. compared
with £41,457 last year, and the income from investments is £21,640 Is. 3d.,
being £3501 greater than in the preceding year. The total available for distri-
bution amounts to £60,343 16s: 2d. It will be seen that the earnings from
underwriting represented only 9.8 per cent, of the net premium income, a
direct answer to those who have an exaggerated idea of profits realised by insur-
ance companies.
THE RESERVE FUND has been further augmented by the realisation
of Assets at prices in excess of their book values.
REAL ESTATE. It being necessary to provide enlarged office accommo-
dation for the Brisbane Branch, your Directors, on the recommendation of the
Local Board and their responsible officers, decided to dispose of the property
in Queen Street and purchase a more commodious office in Eagle Street. The
property acquired is now in course of alteration, and when completed will meet
requirements for a much larger business. In this important matter your
Directors desire to record their thanks to Mr. T. J. Marks for the valued
assistance given in visiting Brisbane and in making a personal investigation
and reporting on the proposition.
Frequent inquiries have been made from prospective purchasers regard-
ing our Head Office property, which has greatly increased in value since
acquired 12 years ago. Your Directors, however, decided that before they
could entertain any offers it was necessary to secure another suitable site.
They eventually acquired Falmouth Chambers, having a frontage of 61 feet
6 inches to Pitt Street, and an average depth of about 139 feet, which will
HEAD OFFICE: 16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
provide increased ground floor accommodation most desirable, and permit the
sale of the property at this address at its enhanced value, thus effecting a
considerable Saving. As the purchase was not finalised until 12th July the
transaction does not appear in the balance sheet now submitted to you.
NEW SHARE ISSUE. The continued growth of the business justified
the Directors in deciding to issue 40,415 additional shares of £1 each, paid to
155., at a premium of ss. per share; this will add £30,311 ss. to the Paid
Capital; £10,103 15s. to the Reserve Fund, besides providing the addition of
£40,415 to the Subscribed Capital.
THE NEW WORKERS’ COMPENSATION ACT came into operation
Ist July and has cast a serious responsibility upon all employers who, under
the Act, are compelled to insure. Recognising their obligations to the public,
and more particularly to the Company’s clients, the Directors, after most
careful consideration, decided that they would be acting in the best interests
of the Shareholders by promptly announcing their intention of undertaking
a share of the risk. When the office opened on the Ist July there was a great
rush of applicants, and although the pressure is now reduced, conditions are
still abnormal. By strenuous efforts on the part of the staff the position was
successfully met without inconvenience to the public. I should here like to
express the appreciation of the Directors of the excellent work of their officers
in coping with the heavy demand upon them. I regard the. achievement as
masterful.
MR. L. J. DAVIES was granted leave of absence to visit Europe; the
vacancy has been filled by the temporary appointment of Mr. J. Hunter
Stephenson.
The late MR. E. W. GREGORY. It is with profound regret that 1
refer to the death of our late Secretary, Mr. E. W. Gregory, who was identified
with the progress and development of the Company for 47 years. As an
acknowledgment of his valued and faithful service, extending throughout that
period, the Directors have appropriated £l5OO for the benefit of the widow,
which is in addition to the allowance provided through the Officers’ Provident
Fund. I feel sure you will confirm the action of the Directors in giving
expression of their appreciation of lengthy and loyal service in a practical
form. Mr. Gregory’s death led to a re-arrangement in the staff, including
the transfer of Mr. Selwyn King from Melbourne, where he held the office of
Local Manager for 22 years, and his appointment as Assistant Manager at
Head Office and Superintendent of Branches. Mr. Alan Blake has received
the appointment of Secretary.
CONCLUSION. It is customary at our Annual Meetings to impress
upon the Shareholders the advantage of supporting their own Company. I
again plead for co-operation on the part of all interested in placing their
insurance business, large or small, with the Mercantile Mutual, and in
encouraging their friends to patronise this Company. In supporting an
Australian Institution you are helping Australia’s greatness. Finally, I desire
to express the Directors’ thanks to the Agents, whose loyalty generally through-
out the Commonwealth the Directors desire to acknowledge.
KELSO KING, Manager.


Hk Scaled Tin
ts
'your Guarantee
In your interests Tide Water Products are
brought 10,000 miles in sealed containers
J EALOUS of the high quality of our products, and firmly believing that, in the
J long run, quality and fair dealing must tell, ive have adhered strictly to our
policy; avoiding, at some cost, the road of least resistance.
The Universal Oil Company—an Australian Company marketing
the petroleum products of the Tide Water Oil Company of America—
secure in the knowledge as to the unquestionable quality of the pro-
ducts they handle, bring them some 10,000 miles in sealed containers.
The Tide Water Oil Company, controlling and operating some half
a million acres of oil fields and one of the finest and most complete
refineries and packing plants in the world, is in a position to handle
their products from the time the crude petroleum is pumped from
the ground, passed through their unique process of refining until
packed in the sealed containers.
True, we have been forced to supply petrol to re-sellers, who in turn
have dispensed the spirit through pumps. This is, however, only
done when we are certain that our original and genuine product will
reach the consumer; if doubt should arise the account is closed.
To Distributors. You must realise that the sound business man builds his
success on the concrete foundation of “customer confidence/' not on the shifting
sands of illegitimate profits. You must also realise that in confining our
products to selected and legitimate re-sellers, rather than selling to all and
sundry, we have been fighting your battle for you, which recent events must have
brought home to you. We will be pleased on application to give responsible re-
sellers a full understanding of our policy in relation to the marketing of our
products, and are confident that we can conclusively prove, not only the stability of
our position but our earnest desire to give selected dealers close co-operation, en-
abling them in turn to give their clients satisfactory “ business-building” service.
To Motorists. You must realise that the fight we have put up on a market,
tainted with sharp practice, has been in your interest as well as ours, in an en-
deavour to save you from the evil of inferior Motor Spirit and Lubricating Oils,
which you have probably suffered from and never suspected. By buying in sealed
tins or from guaranteed dealers, you can eliminate any risk and be able to enjoy
greater efficiency, plus economy.
To Operators of Motor Transport. Economy in operation without the loss
of efficiency is not necessarily a question of initial cost. Quality plays by far the
greater part; and it is to sustain the quality of Tide Water Products that we are
advocates of the sealed container and have based our policy accordingly.
Until such time as the demand for Motor Spirit, Kerosene and Lubricating Oils can be
met in total within the Commonwealth, a portion of these necessities must be imported. With
a fair field and no favour, we will continue to supply “Tydol” Motor Spirit, “Chester”
Petrol, “Tide Water Power” Kerosene, “ Snowflake” Kerosene, “Veedol” Oils and Greases—
quality products all —and will exercise the same care in the consumers’ interest, making sure
that they will enjoy the “original” high standard of quality.
UNIVERSAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED OF AUSTRALIA. Head Office: 112 Hunter St., SYDNEY
VICTORIA—Henty House, 499-503 Little Collins St.. Melbourne. SOUTH AUSTRALIA—FIinders House.
17-19 Flinders St.. Adelaide. QUEENSLAND—Horsham House. Adelaide St., Brisbane-


Ttf ICOTINE-PROOF PIPES, Guaranteed.
The sweetest pipes on earth. In prime
Briars, 6/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, 330
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Missing: Friends.
MARY JANE BLOOMFIELD, deceased.
Efforts are being made by the Executor
to trace the whereabouts of deceased’s eldest
daughter, Alice Maud Cook, widow of James
Cook,, of Queensland, and her two children
Beattie Cook and William Cook. Informa-
tion should be sent to Messrs Sly and
Russell, 369 George Street, Sydney, Solicitors
to the Estate.
Ain u«eme»ts.
g*l> N E Y’S Clil li I - TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THE MASK AND THE FACE.
ROYAL:
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
|7 DIsL.E It S’ THE A T HE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
PICKAIU) S’ T IVOLI TII EATIt E S.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
, E J. CARROLL says
all
THE BEST PEOPLE
are doing “it”
at
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
c - 'VILLIAJISON LTD., JIELItODKNIJ
ATTH ACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WHITE CARGO.
pitINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
INii’S theatre, mei>i:ou I{ n e.
Direction Bailey and Grant
EVERY EVENING.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
By C. J. DENNIS.
With Bert Bailey as GINGER MICK.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
G f see Hugh J. Ward Theatres, Ltd.
DirectlolJ Wilfred Cotton
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OUR LIZ.
THE MERRIEST MUSICAL SHOW IN TOWN.
Plan at Glen’s.
A' ll K s U IAI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd
„ Lessee E. J. Carroll. ’
Evenings at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
KAAI’S HAWAIIAN TROUBADOURS
IN
A NIGHT IN HONOLULU.
Plans at Allan’s.
N EW m m°P THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
•Twice Daily, 2:30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y| AJCSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
HUGUETTE DUFLOS,
The French Beauty Actress, in
TEMPTATION.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7760
UOYT'S DE LUXE THEATRE
n MELBOURNE A ATK *■
ADOLPH MENJOU in
THE GRAND DUCHESS AND THE
WAITER.
au so
MATT MOORE in
EARLY TO WED.
Prices as usual.
THE MELBOURNE REPERTORY
will present
THE PLAYBOY OF THE WESTERN
WORLD,
A Comedy by J. M. SYNGE,
AT THE PLAYHOUSE,
Wednesday, 25tli August, to Saturday, 28th August
Box Plan at Glen’s from Thursday, 19th August.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
,
CREPE-RUBBER
SOLED
BOOTS & SHOES
Good for Rough Roads.
WONDER-WEARING.
BBII3—GENT.’S BLACK BOOTS, good quality,
leather lined, wide fitting, and crepe rubber,
wonder wearing soles, 38/6, Post 1/-.
85004—-GENT.’S TAN WILLOW BOOTS, wide
fitting, with crepe rubber soles, 37/6, Post 1/-.
BI29O—GENT.’S TAN BOOTS,
medium fit, crgpe soles, 36/6,
Post 1/-.
BSOO2—GENT.’S TAN BROGUE
SHOES, wide fit, crepe soles,
35/-, Post 1/-
81362 GENT.’S NIGGER
BROWN SHOES, med. fit,
lighter crepe soles, 32/6, Post
88113
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF LADIES’ AND GENT.’S CREPE-SOLED BOOTS AND SHOES.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd., 595 G s°dney Slreetl
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
NO DANGER.
Mothers all over the world have found
that there is not the least danger in
giving Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
to their children, even in large and fre-
quent doses, for it contains no nar-
cotics or other harmful substances.
Contains Nothing Injurious .
a
FAIRBANKS WHEELBARROWS
a
df
Fairbanks Wheelbarrows are speci-
ally designed for every class of
work and include Tubular Steel
Wheelbarrows, Concrete and Mortar
Wheelbarrows, Contractors’ Wheel-
barrows (all wood), Wood and Steel
and Wood Canal and Railroad
Wheelbarrows, Garden Wheelbarrows—in fact, Wheelbarrows for every purpose.
Ind give l™ng e servic t e! rdy ’ gl ’ ade materials to withstand hard and "rough use
AH parts are standardised, facilitating replacement when
l,teraturc > prices and discounts
sent either direct or through your U. S. A. buying agent.
Representative for Australia •
R. W. WINNING, 380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The FAIRBANKS Company
!<AIRBANKS SCALES, VALVES AND TRUCKS—ALSO DART UNIONS,
Valves of Every
Description.
Fairbanks Building,
New York City, U.S.A.
Hand Trucks for all
Purposes.
Scales for all Weighing
Needs.
29
t
i.
k
A
f
For Invalids, Mothers
Children and Others
mfords
Groats
Obtainable from all chemists and grocers.
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE Si CO. LTD., SYDNEY
Answers to Correspondents.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F.S.H.: “Gain” misses its climax King
K.: “Years” wants compressing; it should do then.
... . John H. (Townsville) : Poorly observed, and not
very well presented.,. .Peter M.: “Diplomacy” breaks
down on the dialogue Black U.: Long-winded.
... .Stell: Would pass with a few of the rough edges
smoothed.... Rita M.: “White” fades 0ut.... Stan
M.: “85” spoiled by carelessness Whyte L.: Not
too easy to f0110w... .J. 5.8.: Stark melodrama....
O. Argent: “Confiteor” well done, but doesn’t con-
vince .... H. Long: All crude; but that last verse in
“Profiteer” is capital. Keep going.... Salt: We’ll
leap a mountain or so to present this much of your
wild seasong:—
The gallant barque bestrides the seas,
The captain cries “Yoh, ho!
The mighty waves might be little fleas
For all the harm they can show.
“For I,” he shouteth, “will not freeze
In Bay. I roameth as I please,
And all Thy storms can go and sneeze
Yo ho, my lads, ho ho!”
. ...H.W.: “Sauce for Goose” is a sprint turned
into a five-miler... .Phyllis T.: Immature; but
you’ve got the right germ.... Eva G.: Story well
told; but its finish is an anti-climax.... Norrie P.:
Both nicely written; try writing real stories....
Dan: Too slight... .Paul O.: A better finish is needed
to save the bacon of “Patsy Kabor’s Pig”....
J.A.P.: The Choom humor is very tame.... Roma:
Too vague... .F.J.R.J.: Why send a covering letter?
Verse should explain itself E.O’R.: The first two
are good considering the age of the youngsters, but,
of course, not suitable for publication. Why not
send No. 1 to Scout H.Q. ?. .. . J.M.M.: Uneven....
Ralharnor: Too preachy... .Russet: Verse paused on
the edge of the basket; had it been less breathless
it might not have fallen in 5.0. M.: Tender little
thought finds its place here: —-
They’ve planted little Rosemary
In the graveyard down by Maisie’s.
Will she come up in the spring
As buttercups or daisies?
L.R.M.: Was playing tiggy in the w.p.b. when
last seen M. Mcl.: Stilted R.H.M.: That easy
jogtrot will never win the race to publication. ...
F.F.F.: “Canberra” is a dry subject. .. .C.H.L.:
Nothing inspiring about it E.A.P.: A series of
night disturbances doesn’t make a story... .E.D.:
Feet of clay too obvious in your “Idols” P.R.C.:
Write “To My Wife” in your Family Bible K.H.:
the tracks in that garden of memories are over-
worn ....Sorgum: What, another corpse!
With all his sins, with all his virtue,
He’s gone to face his Maker;
No more can he or help or hurt you;
Send for the undertaker.
....Vita D.: Your “Malleeland Elections” worked up
no enthusiasm.... Rita Mac: “Spiders” should spin
more airy webs....T. Pygmie: You’re damned —more
for the bad verse than the impious sentiment....
John Mac.: Sorry; but you merely say that N.Q. has
rivers and hills and palms, and you’d like to be
buried there.... James S.: Irish jingle verse wedded
to “In Memoriams”....G. Long: Jigged its way into
the w.p.b M.E.8.: “March on, 1926” is no Mar-
seillaise. .. .8.W.: Story unreal; and do you know
any author in Australia “lording it in his manor
and making thousands a year” ?... . Challis M.:
Turgid story... .D.M.G.: Send your bird-animal to
the museum... .L.M. (Rockhampton) : You start (and
finish) each of three stanzas with “Ah me!” Alas
and lackaday! Len H.: There’s no tale to “Scu-
thorpe’s D0g”.... D. 0.5.: Yes, we all must die; but
if you’re industrious you can make 50,000 beers
go to one death... .G.8.L.: Quite likely it’s “solemn
fact.” It’s too darned solemn, whatever it i 5....
Walter F.: “John and Alex, were twins... .both
boys.” Thanks for telling us K.M.8.: Don’t like
your rhyming scheme E.C.: “Love, with Paradisal
wing, Made from out my ruth to blow” is love that
passeth understanding T.K.R.: Too like a tomb-
stone. .. .W.H.L.: Verse fails, as usual; but we shall
miss you. Good luck. .. .V.H.: We have just drowned
13 near-poets who broke out over Cobham’s arrival.
You sank with the rest.... Agnes N.: “The Road” is
no rockier than the verse George C.: A sharp axe
is kept for the man who uses 250 words to say
that the story he is about to tell is funny E.M.:
“Dupe” is du11... .D.A.P.: “Shattered Romance”
gives a reminder that the cost of affiliation orders
has gone up:—
Her youthful dream of love is o’er,
Years since he left have gone before;
But at the place where wise men fix
The knaves who play such dirty trix,
She still collects her twelve-and-six (12/6).
M.McI.: The way you make your Pegasus jump
from one stanza to another is cruel. .. .P.0.P.:
“Humpty Dumpty” had a great fall Stan R.: “I
got my writing talent from my father.” That’s
right—blame the old man C.E.L.: Pretty little
English tales R.M.L.: Dull Marie C.: Mere
statement of commonplace tragedy doesn’t make a
story North B.: Introduction more interesting
than the story Betsy M.: The verse doesn’t tone
to the beauty of the desires M.K.: Would be a
good story with proper treatment J.N.K.: “The
Prisoners” yarn lost itself in uncertainty..'. .Paul
H.: More a massacre than a story.... J.C.A.: “Hope
—the averted bride” is the sort of overstrained
imagery that spoils otherwise good verse... .T.J.F.S.:
Naughty! E.M.E.: You trip over your rhymes.
H.H.C.: Semi-seduction story is unpleasant
commonplace... .Les Aitch: Well, if you do what you
dashed well like with rhyme, metre and form, don’t
expect anyone to print you....Ah Gee: But when
in verse of set form you vary the regular rhyme
beats you upset the whole verse cadence.... Macko:
Sorry, but MS. of unaccepted pars cannot be returned.
. ...Tiree: You over-rate the Gipsy... .F.R.J.: Too
long for our use. Only No. 5 is possible. The
verse is poor.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. : Sketches done in five seconds for the enter-
tainment of baby brothers generally look like it....
H.M, (China) : Has that just reached the Orient?... .
J. 5.8.: The chaste Mephistopheles and the eaves-
dropping professor are a pair of artistic vagrants.
. ...J.M.1.: A bucket of whitewash emptied over a
coalheap would produce a better effect... .F.H.:
Your perspective is hopeless... .L.W.S.: The lady’s
tresses would make an ideal picture-ad. for a floor
mop G.P.: Mistook his left leg for a golf bag
having convulsions E.U.T.: Joke tossed its marble
in about the time Cobb’s coaches passed out... .G.H.:
When we knew a few of them, chorus-girls were not
so ungainly... .H.R.R.: Judgment suspended; don’t
send class studies... .D,A.E.; Disordered array oi
impassioned lines.


MISS DOROTHY BARKER, a pretty
Rexona Girl, writes: —“I like Rexona Soap
and always use it for my skin and hair. It
makes the hair so soft and glossy.”
MISS MGNA POTTS, a lovely Rexona
■Girl, writes: —“1 consider Rexona Soap the
best Soap.”
MISS PATRICIA DURANT, a beautiful
Rexona Girl, writes:—“l find Rexona Soap
exquisite for the skin and hair and never use
any other kind.”
it me am health and bCcVUty!
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their beautiful skin and hair. To be a Rexona Girl is to
use only Rexona Soap and enjoy that natural beauty of the skin and hair which cannot be imitated,
but can be obtained by its regular use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which
tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse,
they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and velvety.
Medicated!
MISS VERA lIINKE, a charming Rexona
Girl, writes: —“I find Rexona Soap an ideal
Toilet Soap for beautifying the skin and
hair.'”
I JaWY!tl£!
IVVAM n.%4.
Health Cfliltl
V'"’ <§eautj
MISS BETTY ROBINSON, an attractive
Rexona Girl, writes: —“Rexona Soap is de-
lightful for the toilet and I never use any
other.”
Six of the “Totem Pole”
Girls now appearing
in “Rose Marie.”
m/;
t
Wm
m
V'/f
\o"-V
wS***
tvCi
Gvfc*
b\J**'
It’s
Medicated!
MIBB GWEN BTJLLOCK, a dainty Rexona
Girl, writes: —“I use only Rexona Soap, for
I find it absolutely the best for the skin and
hair.'”


sSknjf ym Mwrl
Season after season the value in that advice holds
its strength. Year by year the firm’s success in selling
the clip adds further laurels to their reputation as
salesmen.
Address Letters:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
[l
ENGINEERS!
It will pay you to use
“Speedicut Maximum”
TOOL BITS
in your tool-liolders. You will be sur-
prised at the wonderful results. They
are made from
Firth’s ‘‘Speedicut Maximum”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
in the following sizes—
3-16in., |in., 5-16 in., fin., 7-16 in., iin.,
fin., fin. square.
Let us send you a sample dozen.
Prices on application.
Thos. Firth U Sons
(Aust.) Ply., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKEH
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
4?
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 25/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
' containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
GraiggAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forCluh
Rail Cigar Factory,
rf any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
W&W26.
AMR
London Office:
“Gresham House/'
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
electrolytic zinc
BRAND
A-Z.
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOME, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
dsg
Yes, he’s a bright
boy — intelligent, alert,
full of youthful vigor,
a real picture of
health.
And your own chil-
dren would be just as
sturdy—just as full of
the joy of living—if
you’ll but help them
with
The Vitamins in HYPOL are what growing children need.
They feed the enrich the blood, induce growth, prevent
rickets.
HYPOL is indeed an outstanding Emulsion—a healer and
tonic in one, rich in nutriment, delightfully palatable.
Try HYPOL for the following complaints— IT NEVER FAILS:
COUGHS ANAEMIA MALNUTRITION
COLDS RICKETS UPSET NERVES
BRONCHITIS WEAK LUNGS LOSS OF WEIGHT
Guard Against Substitutes HfYPOL is just HYPOL No Other Name.
Made by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED 98 per cent. NaOH,
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne*.
WORKS YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.A.8.”: A returned soldier blew into the
office selling soaps and odds and ends. His
war injuries awakened our sympathy, and to
help him along we bought a few things from
las pack, including a tape-measure —the sort
which automatically re-winds itself. Later
on, examining the gadget, we discovered —the
irony of it—the words : “Made in Germany.”
* * * *
“Derma”: Re compulsory car insurance
(822/7/’26). In the U.S. many serious acci-
dents are caused by reckless motorists who
continue to operate after their licenses have
been revoked. To help the police officials to
keep these hogs off the road the insurance
cos. now refuse to issue motor insurance to
anyone who can’t produce a reasonably clean
record. It is a policy that might well be
adopted in Australia.
* * * *
"Wee John” : The desire of some people to
have tomatoes classed as fruit (B. 15/7/’26)
is not aroused by any wish to settle the
question which the encyclopaedia leaves open.
Thus Auckland fruitgrowers are asking that
tomatoes be classed as fruit so that the pro-
visions of the M.L. Orchards Act will have to
be observed by the Italians who grow most of
the Dominion’s supplies. The Act supplies
the necessary machinery for ensuring that
dne precautions are taken against the spread
of plant and tree diseases.
* ’ . * * *
“Oxmcad”: Gresham’s rule that “bad
money drives out good” might be applied in
quite another way to the note issue or as
much of it as is carried about in pockets.
The inclination of 19 out of 20, I verily be-
lieve, is to hang on as long as possible to
clean and reasonably crisp bank-notes and to
get rid of the tattered, greasy paper. There-
fore when once a note begins to show signs
of wear it is booked for the maximum of
circulation, and its flight to the stage when
it is more a germ-carrier than anything else
proceeds at breakneck speed.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A good deal of our fifth of
November ammunition still comes from
China. It might be worth while inquiring
into its composition before the next celebra-
tion starts. The other day the Vancouver
(British Columbia) police seized some
Chinese firecrackers, having been advised
that drugs were entering the country that
way. They didn’t find any opium, but they
did find something that should encourage in-
vestigation in other countries. The Celestial
manufacturers, beset by a shortage of gun-
powder, had made up for it by adding sand.
* * * *
“Spuds” : The bulk of the fresh vegetable
supply in Melbourne is grown by dinkum
Aussies and not by Chows, as in Sydney.
Which makes it the more deplorable that the
market for vegetables during the past few
weeks lias-becn the worst experienced for years
—so bad, in fact, that some growers have had
to cart their produce home again. One of them
recently failed to get rid of a load of cab-
bages at any price. On his way home he
offered them to a dairyman with the remark
“Yer might as well give ’em to your cows,
Jim; the other sort in the market won’t
buy ’em.”
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang” : A new stock food called
molagasse has been produced by Ernest C.
Hunter, of Cairns (N.Q.) ; after a couple of
days’ consideration cattle, horses and sheep
devour it ravenously. As it can be placed
on railway trucks for £5 a ton in Townsville,
it should find an encouraging market in
western parts of the State. The only hitch
is that sugar-mills want a guarantee of 4000
tons each before they will proceed to manu-
facture in bulk. Molagasse is made from
molasses, and contains 42 per cent, of sugar.
Similar preparations have been manufactured
for years in England, and their food value
for stock is very high.
* * * *
“Laborer” : A ’bus service is now in full
swing at the Federal capital. The three
vehicles are the property of the Commission,
and until recently were used for conveying
the staff to and from their daily toil. Four
more are expected shortly, when a time-table
will be instituted, and the journey to Ainslie
from Eastlake, which used to make a big
hole in a 10-shilling note, will be negotiable
for lOd. The Commission service ends at
Molonglo on the Queanbeyan side, but “Mrs.
Barton’s Safety Coach,” besides almost every
car owned in the territory, will take the
would-be traveller into Queanbeyan for 2s.
Sunday, the day they will be most wanted, is
to be the only day the ’buses will not run.
* * * #
“Rehctub”: “J.D.C.” asks what consti-
tutes a forequarter of mutton. The section
of the animal which he complains of being
offered is what is known in the trade as flying-
fox or angel’s wing. On week days Mrs.
Australia has the idea that short-loin chops,
cutlets and best neck chops are the only part
of the sheep worth while. So the retail
butcher buys from the carcase butcher
principally haunches or saddles, leaving the
flying-fox on the carcase-butcher’s hands to
be sold or potted at a very low rate. A
retail butcher quartering a sheep for his own
shop leaves, as a rule, six to seven ribs on
the forequarter so as to get a decent shoul-
der. A forequarter of lamb has up to 11 ribs
left on it and is cut straight across, the flap
of the jbreast being left on the hindquarter.
“Hobnobster” : Some of the Sydney “cut-
price” firms which specialise in cheap
American reprints of standard authors are
discovering, that the business has its risks.
The. Americans are notorious pirates of
British works; and Australia is a party to
the Berne convention which provides that,
although books may have been printed in a
country not a party to the convention, they
cannot be sold here without payment of
royalties. One mail-order firm offered 40
standard works for 25 bob. The list included
Kipling’s “Barrack-room Ballads,” but the
firm soon discovered that it was liable for
the royalities due to Kipling, which threat-
ened to take both the milk and the cream of
the profits. The offer has consequently been
withdrawn. Another firm offered a com-
plete one-volume edition of Shakspeare, with
Sir Henry Irving’s preface. When the firm
was coldly advised that the copyright be-
longs to a London publisher and that royal-
ties must be paid, it got over the difficulty
by hacking out the preface.


/
i
9k
u\ N ; *s^.
®OBi> r BOSCH
r ' c
'
SPARKING PLUGS
Are the only Plugs with Steatite
Insulation and Indestructible
Electrodes.
Gas-tight, Unbreakable, Reliable,
5/- each.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etd ,
256-258 Eatrobe Street.
Sydney., Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Eta,
2-19 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Etd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand.... J. J. Niven & Co., Etd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
v
-
tc
Capstan Lathes, Hexagon
Turret Lathes and Combina-
tion Turret Lathes in stock.
The fastest Machines for producing work from
Bar, Blanks, Forgings or Castings.
Send your drawings or sample job to us for our
suggestions as to the best method of handling.
We give and carry out —
GUARANTEED TIMES OF PRODUCTION.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Ltd.
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Tclcphoncsi tp | r a toc
City I 0109, 101 10. Telegrams: LATHE.
DANKS
MELBOURNE*. SYDNEY
MAKERS OF
B'uabong Windmills
. Pumps
» Troughs
„ Fluming
Etc E TC
7m
Australia’s Best
Billabong Encased
Windmills
The Billabong Encased-Gear Windmill is the embodiment of Power and
Simplicity. In design and construction this Windmill is second to none.
The Billabong is built on lines that ensure making the most effective use
of light breezes and yet with its unique governing device the Billabong
cannot race in a gale. All working parts run in an oil bath, and are fully
protected from all weather influences. The Billabong is extremely silent
in running and is, undoubtedly, the one real serviceable Windmill for the
Australian farmer.
The Busy B Windmill
To meet the demands of those who require but a moderate amount of water
which does not warrant the installation of a more powerful and higher-
priced Mill, the “Busy B” will be found a really sound proposition. It has a
sft. Wind Wheel of our Billabong Standard Design. It is of the direct-
acting type, has a ball-bearing turntable, and is automatically regulated to
suit all winds. The “BUSY B” can be supplied with fittings for mounting
on a wooden post instead of the usual steel tower if desired.
Billabong Troughing
BILLABONG TROUGHING is set in two or more heavy angle steel frames,
which form a most rigid bed, and enable BILLABONG TROUGHS to
withstand rough usage and hard wear. This Troughing is easily assembled,
and is made in styles to suit cattle, calves and sheep, and also a very heavy
type is made for pigs.
FULL PARTICULARS POST FREE.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY. LTD.
HNi
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Wonderful
“LOCK-GRIP” WIRE STRAINER.
o
o Ob
© O
°©
SIMPLE, POWERFUL, RAPID.
Time, Money and Energy Saved.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything in-
vented for the straining of fencing wires. It saves
hours on a job. Joins, tightens and repairs with the
utmost ease. Its enormous concentrated power makes
light of any fencing work —the hardest tensile wires
cannot slip through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can be
carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your motor-
car out of a bog.
Get one and test it —there’s no risk. Failure or
breakage impossible. Thousands sold —everyone
delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6; Interstate,
2/8 (plus exchange).
Agents for South Australia:
THE AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT AND HOUSE
FURNISHING CO., North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Controllers of World's Rights:
S. Cohen, Sons & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
I
m
m
k
Q
Q
s
r
(p\
BEST OF ALL
TO MARK LINEN
or any Woollen Article- invaluable
to every Household. Travellers
School Outfits. &c. Any name
woven in fast color.
A few stitches axil they’re on ''
D S Evans
Actual Size, Style No. 2
The Prices are moderate
J 2 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 dot. 3,8
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPBRS,
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. &J. CASH p ty. Ltd.
85 ( _ Street.
L Jimond.
Melbourne
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ViUPTUREX
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Ims appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
hrmly and comfortably under all conduions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. The Wild Cat’ Monthly ’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copyj 22/6 per annum.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
tone
-''
GIVES EVE®
NOTE ITS
TRUE VALUE
ESIGNED to give pure and strong amplification
(Oiv )) * n sta B es * Produces-abundant volume
y free from distortion and will operate all loud
speakers.
MULLARD Double Green Ring VALVES
Type D. 3 for 2-volt accumulator
EACH
NOTE: MULLARD D. 3 DOUBLE GREEN RING VALVE IS A 2-VOLT
POWER AMPLIFIER.
£ Type D. 06 for 2or 3 dry cells IT/fi
or 4-volt accumulator EACH ***/”
HP Amplification.
LF Amplification.
Power Valves.
Detectors.
When valve is followed by
an Intervalve Transformer
or telephones, use an LF
Amplifier or Power Valve.
When valve is followed
by a Resistance Capacity
Intervalve system, use an
HF Amplifying Valve.
All Mullard Valves are manufactured at Mullard Works, London, England.
OBTAINABLE FROM EVERY RADIO DEALER IN AUSTRALIA.
Milliard
THE ♦ MASTER. * VALVE
(ARKS. 2)
Advertisement of the Milliard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., Balham, London, S.IV. 12, England.
New Radiotrons
new performance
better radio!
v
Here is the way to equip a storage battery
set today to make it many times better.
1. Distance! Put RCA Radiotron UX-200
in the detector socket.
2. Quality! Put all genuine RCA Radio-
trons UX-201-A in the radio frequency
sockets and the first audio stage.
3. Volume! Use either Radiotron UX-112
or Radiotron UX-171 in the last audio
stage for full, clear-toned volume.
Keep abreast of the Radiotron laboratories.
Know all the Radiotrons. For your own
protection always look for the RCA mark
on the base and inside the glass.
If your dealer does not handle Radiotrons,
communicate with:
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia), Ltd.,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(Branch Office at 167-159 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Australian General Electric Company,
Corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Distributors in Australia for the
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
IVCARad iotron
Have You got a Revolver,
bf
Rifle or
Shotgun in
need of REPAIR ?
NOT-E OUR ADDRESS:
COWLES & DUNN,
the oldest established gunmakers in the
Commonwealth, are specialists in repairs
of all descriptions.
Our well-equipped workshops are in
the hands of highly-skilled ENGLISH
GUNSMITHS, and their work is of the
highest order. We GUARANTEE all
work done, and furnish a DEFINITE
ESTIMATE of the cost before proceeding
with the job.
Every member of the firm of COWLES
and DUNN is an expert in some particular
branch of GUNCRAFT, and our Repair
Department is under our personal super-
vision.
SEND YOUR REPAIRS TO US.
COWLES
(Spicer’s Building-
& DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney
-corner of Kent and Druitt Streets —near the Town Hall).
’Phone: MB3BB.
W. R. Dean lias been appointed art in-
spector for Vic. Education Department, in
succession to Carew Smyth. He ran the
Prahran Tech, successfully, and has a knack
of getting things done.
“Balala” : A 14-year-old who should have
a financial future brought the heads of 300
eaglehawks to a northern N.S.W. Pastures
Board inspector, and duly collected the bonus
of two bob a bird. Four weeks later it
transpired that he had brought the heads
from a district 80 miles away w’here the
bonus is only 6d.
McCormack, Premier of Bananaland, has
a warm corner in his heart for his name-
sake the Sydney surgeon. Some years ago
a local doctor sentenced the political Mc-
Cormack to death on a supposed aneurism.
Alexander MacCormick, called in to confirm
the verdict, told the patient to get up and
go about his business.
Sydney’s first experience of royalty of a
sort, apart from King Gibbittikpenny, was in
1805, when Te Palii, a powerful Maori chief,
was brought across the creek in H.M.S.
Buffalo and accommodated at Government
House. Governor King, who was desirous of
promoting friendly trading relations with
the Maoris, had a silver medal made for him,
which the chief wore round his neck on a
silver chain.
Jethro Brown, who resigned his job as
Dean of the Law Faculty at Adelaide ’Var-
sity to take on the Presidency of the State
Industrial Court, is a sick man, and iiis
resignation is expected soon. After attain-
ing a reputation in the sparsely-peopled
field of international law, Brown found
industrial problems most to his liking. Noel
Webb, lately ousted from the Federal Indus-
trial Court, is likely to be his successor.
They order some municipal matters better
in America, perhaps because they know their
Tammany better. On the morning of the
day on which the Chicago Corporation was
to complete the smelliest transaction of the
season, an immense procession of protesting
citizens marched through the streets and
surrounded the City Hall, where the aider-
men were deliberating. Every man and
woman sported a tiny replica of a hangman’s
noose. No word was spoken, but Tammany
took the hint and called the deal off.
The principle of one wage-plug one job
has been sternly enforced in Queensland,
where an entire pub has been declared black.
The boss told two barmaids to carry some
used glass-cloths out of the bar. They
scornfully refused, pointing out that, though
carrying the cloths to dry glasses was in
their scheduled routine, taking them out of
the bar was an encroachment upon the privi-
leges of the Wasliladies’ Union. The Liquor
Trades Union held a mass meeting forthwith,
and the tavern was placed in mourning until
its offence was purged.
Tasmania’s newest Labor member, H.
Lane, moving the Address-in-Reply, suggested
that the Small State might seriously con-
sider closing the local University and Hobart
Gaol, and boarding the habitues at Mel-
bourne Uni. and Pentridge, “thus practising
economy at both ends of the social scale.”
The House sat up, prepared to take notice,
but Attorney-General Ogilvie rather spoiled
the attractiveness of the gaudy novelty by
announcing that inquiries made by his de-
partment a year ago showed that Pentridge
costs per guest were higher than those of
Hobart.
“Burr-Brand” : This is how the drink ques-
tion was handled in early Melbourne. In
1838 a £25 license fee was instituted for the
sale of intoxicants; it was raised to £5O a
year later. Trading hours were from 4 a.m.
till 9 p.m. in the summer, and from 6 a.m.
till 9 p.m. in the winter. On Sundays beer
and wine could be sold from 1 to 3 p.m., but
not consumed on the premises. There was
a £5 penalty for giving or selling drink to
convicts, and a similar fine awaited the man
convicted of paying a workman in a public bar.
Drunkards were severely dealt with, the sen-
tence increasing according to the number of
convictions. The first brought a fine, or one
day’s turn at the treadmill; the 20th sub-
jected the offender to 20 times the fine, or
20 days at the mill.
“M.H.H.”: The Dorrigo, although for-
merly in Island waters, can hardly have
been the subject of T. R. St. Johnston’s nar-
rative (B. 5/8/’26). She traded from Sydney
to Noumea for some years under the French
flag, and was a familiar sight at Mort’s
Dock, where she came periodically for over-
haul. I remember her there on one occasion
berthed at the same jetty as the Sumatra.
Both these vessels were at that time in the
Island trade, and both were marked down
for an early fate, in each case with heavy
loss of life. In those days, however, the
Dorrigo was known as the St. Francois, and
it was not until she changed hands that her
last owners gave her the name she bore
when she foundered.
A British committee of one sort or another
has been seeking a remedy for the situation
under which only 5 per cent, of the films
shown in the country are local products,
while nearly 95 per cent, are United States.
It reports that it has found none, and the
cable adds: —
It was considered that the German “kontingent”
system, viz., a rigid limitation of imports, was only
applicable to a country having a greater native pro-
duction than Britain.
Incidentally, Italy recently decided to re-
duce its imports of wheat by putting 10
per cent, less in the loaf and filling up with
cheaper native substances. If a Dago has
the courage to kontinge like that in a time
of monetary stress, a Briton or Australian
should be equal to an effort.
“Cuchulain”: Where and how does the
Telephone Department get its packing paper ?
Some time ago a new line was being opened
out back in Queensland, and I happened to
be on the spot when the telephones arrived.
Each ’phone was packed (in parts) most care-
fully, the packing consisting of dozens and
dozens of addressed but unopened foreign
newspapers. Some had the wrappers still
on them; others had not been unfolded. They
made good firm wedges, and provided a lot
of interest too. There Were German, French,
Chinese and Japanese newspapers. I imagine
they all came from the Dead Letter Office
if they ever got even that far. I noticed the
lady in charge of the exchange carefully put-
ting away three little yellowed wedges—
they were Irish journals. There was no
demand for any of the others.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra-—V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
IJ ' 9Bl - 12, Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.-15 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
c ARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
„ Passengers’ Booking Office:
i on list Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., Ltd.
THOS. COOK & SON,
STEAMSHIP AND RAILWAY AGENTS.
1841 Established 1841.
100 Offices Throughout the World IGO
PASSAGE TICKETS" ISSUED BY ALL LINES
AT TARIFF RATES.
Sailing Lists, ALL ROUTES, Post Free.
Passengers’ Baggage Insured.
Travellers’ Cheques and Drafts Issued.
Foreign Money Exchanged.
INCLUSIVE INDEPENDENT TOURS
to suit Individual Requirements.
SELECT ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
Write for Australasian Travellers’ Gazette.
THOS. COOK & SON,
Challis House, Sydney. 8W6348.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
A uthorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. £2 685 303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16’789’590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yakivood; Duncan Carson- H R
Lvsaght -O 8.E. ; Georoe J. Sly, LL.D.’; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
Chief Inspector for N.S.IE.; W. G. Hull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). *
Branches and Receiving Olfices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street),
Manager: M. B. Finney
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairuairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £629 938
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875 000
Ordinary Shares 3i750’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3 390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS j}‘ ,nte r“‘ f ° r
, . ~ , ..... fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 876 000
Paid Up Capital .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund 800,000
„ £1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia'
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E G
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted, All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Keversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 tons disp. AUG. 26, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,000 „ „ SEPT. 9, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 „ „ SEPT. 23, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 ~ ~ OCT. 7, for San Francisco.
'''Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
. -,*■
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
tickets to the united kingdom interchangeable for return
BY OTHER BINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TO UR S
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3* to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
d
s
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WOULD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established ISIS.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
My
fm
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull,
Robert W. Gillespie,
Esq., M.D.
Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manage*: OSCAR LINES
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. JLondon Office—29 Threadneedle Street EC 2
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiii PaDua and
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world. 8 u
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Denutv
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C •
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D. M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C. 3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the AVorld
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*CANBERRA
“BOMBALA. .
Brisbane, Maekiy, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkcrLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Strest, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping- Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Utd.
Fitzroy Estates, Utd.
Blackheath Collieries, Utd., and Caledonian
Collieries., Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents, for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
AY. should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Interstate Tourist
Excursion Tickets.
NEW RE-BOOKING SYSTEM
Sydney to Melbourne and return
or Melbourne to Sydney and return
•Ist Class, £B/16/-
2nd Class, £5/17/-
These tickets include a Special Re-booking
Certificate to the value of £2/2/6 on the First-
class ticket and £l/8/- on the Second-class
ticket negotiable at the Government Tourist
Bureau, in excursions to their face value,
either on short tours or in part payment
for extended tours.
Sydney to Adelaide and return or
Adelaide to Sydney and return—
-Ist Class, £l3/18/-
2nd Class, £9/3/6
(Including Certificates valued at £3/10/-
and £2/5/- respectively).
Tickets available for travel by express trains
and for return within two months.
Full Information at
Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
King William Street, Adelaide,
Victorian Government Tourist
Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
or
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


-o
Vr'
1
2S
//
*/>
m
'/s'
7-
W//i
Explorers Use This Car Because
It Is Dependable
Pioneers and explorers, whose lives depend upon the
reliability of the transportation they use, employ Dodge
Brothers Motor Cars almost exclusively.
Stefansson used Dodge Brothers Cars through the uncharted
deserts of Central Australia. Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews,
on three different occasions, penetrated the innermost wastes
of Mongolia in a Dodge Brothers Car.
The car’s dependability is proverbial; and its exceptional
riding comfort permits long travel over bad roads without
fatigue.
Australian Touring Car £325
Sedan (All Steel) £420
Coupe (All Steel) £405
FIVE BALLOON TYRES.
DODGeBROTHERS ( INC.DeT^DIT
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 W-aymoutb Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Dodse- Brothers
motor CARS


f
3
c
%
(UIMB
I bme. fo
Slicfcloni)
iDwcovciy.
Checks CoicL).
'TWe.
'3\a& t
*stvceje
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
sdg
V
'•v arts '
L®
«v«S
m
7i
m
yf
im.
m
k
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney,
and Cr. George & King Sts.
‘ IVhat a lovely
Gift!"
The Maid at the Statue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tiling of boasting granite,
Nine paltry feet or ten,
Will tell you if you scan it
It’s twenty thousand men:
It’s twenty thousand lovers
In twenty thousand graves
Of soil that also covers
The cravens and the slaves.
The cravens and the sotted,
The slave things and the cads
In this same soil have rotted—
And these were fighting lads;
these were young crusaders
Who went away to war,
Invaded the invaders,
And died and are no more;
And died and are not heeding
The scorn that I may fling,
A maid whose heart is bleeding
Before this boasting thing—
Before this thing of granite,
Nine paltry feet or ten,
That tells me as I scan it
It’s twenty thousand men!
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.
Homeward Bound.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR the purposes of this narrative I am
Smith, my friend is Jones and any
subsidiary characters will be Brown
and Robinson. If wanted, Jenkins may
come in.
Jones and I are very old friends, each with
a good tale of years to his credit or discredit;
we leave that open to our little world. He is
the older, being all grey, whilst I am grey
only as to parts and, as the curate would
have said, “excellent, my Lord, as to other
parts.” Jones, unfortunately, has heart
trouble.
We both have been long married and
have grown-up families whom we still refer
to as “the children.” We are church-goers;
that is to say, our wives and children go.
We dodge the ordeal as often as we dare.
Our excuse for the church-going of our fami-
lies, since it seems necessary to excuse it
nowadays, is that we were born in the mid-
years of the Victorian era. For this mal-
happening we humbly apologise.
We are bowlers, and are always, or nearly
always, at the green on Saturday afternoons.
This enables us to have a secular but inno-
cent topic of conversation, on the ’phone, on
Sunday. If on the evening of that day I
am about to carry out an evasion, I ring up
Jones and talk bowls, incidentally intro-
ducing “three times kitty.” As every bowler
knows, this is a meaningless collocation of
words, but the family doesn’t know. Once
my wife remarked that these frequent refer-
ences to “kitty” might convey a false im-
pressions to listeners-in on the ’phone.
When I give the signal, Jones has a touch
of heart at the eleventh hour and does not
go to church. It is easier for him. I have
to go on dyspepsia, which, after a hearty tea,
is not so plausible. I have long been aware
that our respective families have some sus-
picion about the coincidence of heart and
dyspeptic attacks, but they have been with-
out any direct evidence to go on.
This Sunday night Jones arrived
promptly and made himself at home by
the fireside, for “three times kitty” was
more frequent in the winter than in the
summer months.
“Do you know,” said Jones when, having
settled himself comfortably, he was lighting
the third of the two pipes per diem per-
mitted by the doctor, “I had a most interest-
ing dream this afternoon. It is my habit, as
you know, to go down to my little den at
the end of the lawn on Sunday afternoons
and take a stretch there. I love the crib,
for it is full of the books I’ve read and for-
gotten ; but even their backs, in a riot of
discordant colors that remind me of a gar-
den, are comforting. It has always been
my pious intention, Smith, to some day
revive my acquaintanceship with the old
chaps locked up in their covers. I get out
a book, lie on my back and read a few para-
graphs; then my fingers slip, the book falls,
and away I drift. Then when the daylight
is waning I wake .to find Mazzini, Emerson,
Carlyle or some other of our Victorian sages
weighing heavily on me—and the dreams,
dear me, the dreams!”
“Remember-the last ‘three kitties,’ Jones V
We discussed Freud and the psycho-analysis
of dreams. We agreed there was something
in it- —flattering to Freud, eh 7”
“Yes, I told you my dreams almost invari-
ably took the form of hunting for something,
and always I woke without finding it.”
“I remember, and in the end we left the
analysis to the experts. I also remember
some trite remark you made that life was
not unlike such dreams, just looking for
something we never found, with the dubious
hope that in the end, over the Styx, we might
find it.
“But to get on with this particular dream,
old man, whilst the memory remains clear.
It was very grotesque, as most dreams are.
ihe scene was the old home-town in which
I was born, now a city. It seemed to com-
mence nowhere in particular, just down a
long, narrow street—l could see nothing but
a grey haze behind. I turned into a deserted
shop in this desolate street, found an empty
box and sat on it. Feeling depressed and
lonely my thoughts naturally suggested a
pipe, and I wondered if I might venture
so far, despite restriction. I said to myself.
Confound the doctor, here goes,’ and putting
my hand into my pocket to get the pipe felt
my waistcoat swelling out.
“Being as curious as a cat I undid a
couple of the buttons to see what was up.
As I did so out bulged a mass, a most frag-
rant mass, of cut-up tobacco, enough under
restriction to last me six months. It was
seductive beyond resistance. I had the smoke
ot my life, and thrust the remainder back
into its womb to be re-born on subsequent
temptation. I rose and travelled down the
long street rather aimlessly. The grey light
in which I travelled became still greyer, and
I looked at my watch. It was half-past six.
Then I remembered that in this dream-life
I had promised my father and , mother
I would be home in time for church. I must
have gone backwards till I was young again,
as I travelled down the long road. Subse-
quently I found this hopping from age
to youth and youth to age rather
embarrassing. The occasion of the
church service had been impressed on me,
as there was a special collection to be de-
voted to the conversion of the heathen
somewhere, say Malabar. I was now right
back to childhood, when we thought of the
conversion of every race but the British.
“'The old home town had been vastly
changed, electric light replaced the old
paraffin lamp and candles and the then new
and feeble gas supply. I felt younger, yet
old in patches, if you can understand. On
consulting my watch I found, with a start,
that I had but quarter of an hour to reach my
father’s home. At this point my other, or
waking, self intervened and asked, ‘Are you
really in this street, or are you on the
stretcher in the den ?’ And for the life of me,
Smith, I couldn’t say which. The next
moment I had no doubt where I was. The
faster I travelled the more hopeless the pros-
pect seemed of being home in time to succor
the Malabese. I was impeded by strange
humans and creatures. Once I had to face
a huge emu whose head reached far into
the sky; I escaped between his legs. The
contemplation of such a catastrophe so un-
nerved me that mechanically I searched for
my pipe, patted the blessed burden under my
waistcoat, put my fingers in an opening, and
drew out —can you imagine my despair,
Smith? —a mass of soiled twine and dead
leaves.
“At last I came to a creek. It was crossed
by a very long bridge—such a quantity of
bridge to so small a stream! It was a
closed-in affair, something like a tunnel, and
facing the street was a closed door. It was
necessary to put a penny in the slot before
one could get in. And all I had was a few
stinkies and an agate in my pants pocket.
As I stood at the closed door, a stranger
came up, a tall, shabbily-dressed, pale-faced
man. He said, ‘Here is your penny,’ and
tendered a very bright one. Into the slot went
the penny, and the door opened. The last
I saw of the stranger was his tall figure
walking with great dignity. He was eating
an apple—eating it in the fashion in which,
my mother assured me the ‘vulgar’ ate
apples;, a way I rather liked myself. The
act, however, quite precluded me from asso-
ciating the stranger with ‘the lodger on the
third-floor back.’
“I entered a long, dark and evil-smelling
passage. In the distance I could see a speck
of light. It lured me on like a will-of-the-
wisp. When I reached it, I found it came
through a partially-opened door. I opened
this door and was dazzled with the brilliance
of the light displayed—every kind of light
you could think of was there, from the old
mutton-fat mould-candle onwards, and in
the fireplace a roaring fire. It was a large
room and very crowded. An elderly man
sat in front of the fire, apparently telling a
very absorbing story; a group of boys and
girls were gathered at a round table. On
the hearthrug, and blocking the way to a
door on the opposite side of the room, sat
a stout lady with tousled hair and showing
a well-nourished pair of legs clad in the
old-fashioned white stockings. She said ‘Yes
indeed’ continuously, whilst rocking her body
to and fro. Across the hearth was the only
way to the opposite door. Every other part
of the room was crowded. So I decided to
step across the stout lady. Unfortunately I
stepped on her. As I escaped through the
door I heard a girl’s voice say, ‘Never mind,
Mrs. Brown, you’ll get used to it,’ and the
poor thing said, ‘Yes indeed.’ Close on my
heels came a man, a hefty fellow, with one
eye very inflamed, who, following me quickly,
had got in without paying his penny.
“The door through which I escaped opened
into a dismal corridor, its stone walls
stained by moisture. Apparently it extended
into infinity. I could hear the echo of
my small feet pattering on. Would I never
reach home? I pictured my father, standing,
watch in hand, his lips compressed. With
him it would be the breaking of my promise,
a serious breach of faith ; with my mother
it would be more a matter of not going to
church. A number of vicious-looking rats
ran across my path. At last I came to a
blank wall where, leg-wearied and despaii’ing.
I sat down. Behind this impassable wall
I could hear my father’s voice, ‘ls that boy
home yet? It is time for church ! We must
go.’ Almost as the words were said a door
opened in the wall and through it came a
subdued light and an equally subdued mur-
mur of voices and rustling of papers. 1
entered. It was a Law Court —a quite fam-
iliar scene.”
“What had become of the small boy?”
I asked.
“My dear Smith, that was one of the
extraordinary complexities of this dream. I
seemed to slip from youth to age, or age to
youth, without being conscious of the
change.”
“Well, get on with your tour.
“I crossed the court in front of his Honor's
nose—seemingly I was invisible on this occa-
sion—and sat down in the empty jury box.
At the barristers’ table I saw a man whom
I must have known years ago. He was
young, with sandy-red hair and moustache,
a clear pink and white complexion, and blue
eyes. His gown was, as gowns so rarely
are, without rust or moth, and with tails
untorn. Not long ‘called,’ I reflected, and
not too often chosen. His was an open face
for old eyes to read. What I saw there can
be put in a sentence: ‘That’s your judgment,
so I’ve got to take it, you silly old fool.’ I
left him addressing the Judge on the question
of costs, a desperate and forlorn hope. I
got out and found to my relief that the
bridge had been crossed. I was in a brilli-
antly-lit street —it didn’t strike me that this
was at all strange on a Sunday. I hurried
on, jostling the people on the footpath, though
they didn’t seem to notice it. A little later
I must have materialised, for two dogs
attached themselves to me; one was spotted,
a lurching brute of no determinable breed,
the other a terrier. Shortly afterwards I
came to a jeweller’s shop, two-storeyed, shop
beneath, home above. At a window of
(Continucdonnvx^HiQeA


A
9
Vi
%
-3
"Every Picture
Tells a S tory”
Why Endure That
Aching Back?
DOES your back ache day after day with a dull,
unceasing throb? Do sharp, rheumatic pains
torture you at every sudden move? Are you so tired
and nervous it seems you can never be well again?
Then look to your kidneys! The kidneys, you
know, are the blood-filters. Once they weaken,
poisons are apt to accumulate that healthy kidneys
would have filtered off. Then comes constant back-
ache, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
One feels lame, stiff and achy—years older than he is.
Don’t risk neglect! Help the kidneys with a reliable kidney medicine. Use Doans Backache
Kidney Pills, the remedy home folks recommend. Ask your neighbor!
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany, Sydney, says:—“l was
a great sufferer with my back and the pain was at times so bad that I had
to leave my work and go home. I was bent almost double and could not
stand up straight without increased suffering. I used various preparations,
but only got slight relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased the pain and the
second completed my cure. This did not happen yesterday* but about two
years ago, and I have had no sign of backache all that time, so it is not
mere temporary relief, but a perfect cure. I am always advising my friends
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and am glad to have an opportunity
to publicly recommend them.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Williams says:—“My husband is still well
and has been free of backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him
14 years ago.”
Mrs. W. Sullivan, 61 Kellick Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says
suffered terribly with my kidneys for some time I had T ?| ü biect
my back and could hardly move without suffering torture. I was also s J
to bad headaches, dizzy feelings, and had urinary trouble, thesecreti*)i s
thick and cloudy and difficult to pass. Nothing I took seemed to suit my
case and I suffered on in spite of treatment; but at last I got a h ood remy,
and S was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A Wend advised -’ to take
a course of these Pills, which I did, and I am pleased to say they
me of every distressing symptom mentioned. I used 10 j™ i 2
my cure is perfect, for I have been as right as ram for the last if, mont “f 11 _
Ten years later Mrs. Sullivan says :-“Doh’b Backache adney Ms
cared me of backache and kidney trouble 11 years ago, and I am
I always keep this remedy by me and take a dose or so now and then, just
as a help to the kidneys.”
s
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per Tbottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
the home I saw a picture that made iny
hastening footsteps slacken. I stood still.
At the window, looking out on the gay
street, was a pretty child and in her arms a
most delightful baby. I said I was very
sorry I could not have the baby but hoped
to call again. I telescoped down to the
shop-level and, looking in, saw what I ex-
pected —a very neat little man with very
white collar and cuffs. Obviously the father.
“Crash! I had fallen down a hole, a deep,
dark hole. The spotted dog came on top of
me and howled most dismally. Then high
up on the edge of the hole I saw two very
fat policemen. They pulled out, not me
nor the spotted dog, but two notebooks, and
asked for our names and addresses —as if
I could tell them the beastly dog’s name and
address. Then I heard a woman say, of
course without a shred of evidence, ‘Take
them up, Mister Policeman, they’re drunk V
My father! what would happen to me?
Suddenly I found myself again on the pave-
ment, once more obsessed by the immense
urgency of the home call. I could see them
all at church, all but me, ranged in the
family pew in the accustomed order of pre-
cedence, my father at the head, little Janet
at the tail. They must be long past ‘Dearly
beloved brethren’ by this time, near to ‘Lord
be merciful to us,’ and I repeated the latter
with a newborn intensity. Would the long
road never end? Then across the street came
a jamb of horses and vehicles.
“A tobacconist’s shop jutted out on the
pavement, blocking the thoroughfare, and in
front of it were at least a dozen of the old
four-wheelers of my youth. Each horse had
a big white rosette on its forehead, and each
driver a knot of white ribbon on his whip.
It was a wedding, and the sun came out for
the occasion, the night being for the while
thrust into the pocket of old Time. The
bride was coming out and I craned my neck
to see her. She was a pretty little creature
with abundant hair the color of gold-leaf
Virginia. We gave her a cheer —God bless
her! ‘She don’t know what’s afore her,’
said a rather slatternly-looking old woman at
my side. Then I tried to get through the
crowd, for the urge came back. I must go
on—home was calling. How many more
barriers stood between! You will have
noticed, Smith, . that my way' had been
blocked time after time. Not unlike a jour-
ney through life, bits of happiness, bits off
despair, and hustle, hustle all the time. I
was weary beyond measure, but still fixed on
getting home.”
“Did you get there, old man?”
“I’ll tell you. That bally spotted dog
still followed me. I had tried time after
time to get rid of him, but he still held on.
Now the brute, excited by the crowd no
doubt, rushed in among the horses, yelping
and snapping. There was the devil to pay.
The whole show was upset. The horses
reared, the drivers swore, and I heard the
little bride scream. A big-headed brute of
a horse came plunging down on me. I could
see his frightened eyes as he charged. Then
a vision in a flash —my father standing on
the hearthrug, stern; my mother with a
very troubled face. The horse came down on
me, and the last thing I remember was seeing
a few fragments of the soiled twine and the
dead leaves fall from my waistcoat.”
“Reminds me of the Trinity, Jones —‘Not
one incomprehensible but three incomprehen-
sibles’ —yourself the boy, yourself the old
man, and the spotted dog” ; and I passed him
the decanter for our usual nightcap.
“Wonder,” said Jones, as he poured in the
water, judiciously—“wonder what Freud and
Jung would make of it? Hope there’s no
premonition in it.” lie raised his glass.
“Al)sit omen, and damn the dog.”
A few days later I learned that my old
friend’s heart was bad again, and later still
that he had been sent to a private hospital.
The hospital part affected me gravely, for it
seems to be thought indecent nowadays
to let a man die in his own home. All “right-
minded people” are taken to a private hos-
pital to do it. Sometimes, however,
they do come out of these institutions
alive. Jones might- be in that happy minor-
ity. .. . I called at the hospital yesterday,
early in the morning and was shown to the
matron, who, having inspected me, sent for
nurse Cecilia or Ursula —I forget which —
and inquired about Mr. Jones.
“Mr. Jones died in his sleep last night,
Matron,” she replied.
The matron asked me if I would like to see
him—“him” being the corpse. Now, I do
not like “taking a view of the body.” It is
morbid curiosity that does nobody any good,
and is not of the least interest to the corpse.
But yesterday I felt that I would like to see
all that was left of the dear old boy, just
to satisfy a notion I had. So I followed
the nurse into the ward. It was a quite
clean and well-ventilated apartment, but a
cheerless place in which to die. I’d like more
color myself.
She lifted the sheet from his face, and
a glance was sufficient. When Jones was
really happy, and he always was at “three
times kitty,” you could notice a curious
little twist in the corners of his lips. The
rigor of death had not yet straightened out
the twist. I saw it there.
“Got home at last,” I thought.
T. B. CLEGG.
A Busy Evening.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Bordertown’s only bar-room were two
permanent daylight residents. Bill
Speargrass and Professor Chalmer’s
Disciple clung to the foot-rail as a leech
clings to that which gives it food and drink
in one —clung to it until the barmaid mopped
up beer for the last time and nodded towards
the door. Bill Speargrass was as silent and
as yawning as an open grave, regarding liis
companion’s rhetoric as one of the world’s
nine wonders, because it brought him much
drink.
Dr. Chalmer’s Disciple was a short man
with a blunt beard. When anybody else was
talking he hummed.to himself in an irritat-
ing way; Bill Speargrass spent his conscious
moments-between-drinks in wiping his mouth
with the back of his hand, and expectorating
in the foreground and middle distance. Dr.
Chalmer’s Disciple looked like a Jew, spoke
in flowery polysyllables, and smelt like Can-
ton. His chief offence was loosening liis
greasy belt in anticipation and smiling con-
fidently at the “shouter.”
I saw him only twice—once when he was
strictly sober, and once when he was par-
tially drunken. On the sober occasion he
spoke of the immorality of woman, and on
the drunken occasion of the immortality of
man.
The first time was in his hospitable club
at Bordertown. He was chewing an empty
pipe, and making lengthy speeches in the
hope that they would provide him with beer
and oblivion. Every time he commenced a
sentence he lifted his full pintpot, and
before the discourse was finished the pint-
pot was as empty as his head.
“Any of you chaps know of a fellow will-
ing to die?” he said, rasping the nails of his
boots up and dowm the brass rail. “My
uncle, Dr. Chalmer, has given me a lotion
which will bring fellows back. I want to
prove his theory that death occurs from
mental exhaustion —it’s easy and interest-
ing.”
He smacked his lips, juggled his empty
pintpot as an invitation for it to be refilled,
and continued: —
“Gentlemen, I’m not going to annoy you
with nonsensical elucidatory speeches on the
desirability of death, or, rather, of the wish
to undergo transition to the next life.
It’s sufficient to realise that death can be
achieved by mental paralysis. Concentrate
on an egg, the rear wheel of an omnibus, a
tar-brush, the dot over an i or a bubbling
omelette, and you’ll be in the life immortal
before you are interested. Dr. Chalmers
lotion proves that there is a next life; that
the mind controls life, and that drunkenness
and madness are half-dead conditions. The
mind controls life, and—and—and I’m going
to prove it. Dr. Chalmer’s Life Lotion will
restart any suspended action of the heart,”
he concluded weakly.
Call it Fate, coincidence, intoxication or
whatever you like; but I think it was hard
luck. I had not travelled two miles of my
homeward journey when the black mare took
fright, broke the sulky to pieces, and left
me lying at the foot of a big white-gum, on
a lonely road. The loneliness didn’t worry
me, for I had sailed through the air and hit
the earth such a thump that it was the ques-
tion of immortality that began to worry me.
I endured agony in breathing, and began to
think of the “transition” that Dr. Chalmer’s
Disciple had spoken of so calmly, possibly
because he was so much alive. I was not
unhappy, but I regretted that the world was
to lose such a fine fellow as I.
The mare could not have bolted a mile on
her homeward journey when I felt myself
tapped on the shoulder, and got up and fol-
lowed a lot of other bewildered people into
a poorly-furnished parlor of a hotel, where
I signed a book, and then hurried away to
place my right foot on a bright brass rail.
As I drank absinthe Pat Ferguson came
in. I had known him on earth as a good
fellow. We had lived together in Darling-
hurst until matrimony removed me to a
better place.
“Don’t show any respect to woman,” says
Pat confidentially, and as though that w r as
the creed of the wise man in this new life;
“she doesn’t deserve it. Our Men’s Union’s
got a devil of a hold here. Man’s earthly
modesty and politeness is at a discount. The
women doff their lids, and we mooch by with
as little recognition as we got from them
on earth. Down there we took their simper-
ing for shyness, and their audacity for self-
consciousness. If they try it on here they
strike trouble. By the way, is your earthly
wife here or across the stream?”
I said I didn’t know.
He led me to a wide river outside Grogan’s
pub. Grogan owned all the pubs here, it
seemed.
“Over there,” says Pat, pointing across
the water, “that’s Hell. It’s reserved for
women. There are dirty dishes, stacks of
’em; no bargain-counters; plenty of nasty
kids, and no stories of sheiks and wild young
countesses. All their dogs, an’ lip-salve an'
ham-an’-beef shops ’ve been taken away from
’em. They all wear packs of clo’es, because
woman is over-modest where there is only
woman to see her.”
“Don’t they try to swim across?” I asked.
“One tried, an' her modesty drowned her.
She had as many clo’es on her as a cow has
hairs. Would you care for a little trip to
Glorious Manicus, a picnic There’ll
ouly be women to wait on us, an’ I know
you won’t fall.”
Pat led me to the machine that was to
take us to the picnic grounds. Once inside
it he began to advise me again.
“What you want to do,” said the sociolo-
gist, is to trample on’ em, an’ do it hard.
Here, meet this old lady, an’ carry out my
instructions.”
1 turned, and the woman took out her
hatpins and lifted her bonnet to me. Only
for a moment I faced her, for I had looked
into my late wife’s eyes!
“John!” she gasped. I raised my right
hand to protect my eye.
As I stood on the edge of the doorway of
the flying-machine ready to jump, Pat said:
“You’re not funkin’ it, eh, Jack? _ You
ain’t goin’ to be frightened into dodgin’ a
woman up here, eh?”
“I am,” I said, and leaped out into space.
For a moment I floated, and then fell dow-n
among the stars.
I knew 7 no more outside my earthly experi-
ences. When I opened my eyes the bearded
Disciple of Dr. Chalmor w 7 as standing near
me leaning against the white gum-tree with
a bottle irt his hand.
“I’ve won,” he cried; '“you’ve been dead
for eight minutes!”
“It isn’t bad,” I. said, sitting up to look
more closely at the unsteady figure. “It
isn’t bad.”
He turned from me, leapt in the air several
times, looked at a bottle, flung it away, and
ran off through the trees.
I arose and turned to the bottle I knew
had contained the Life Lotion. After a little
search I found it among the long grass.
Picking it up, I read the inscription on the
label: “Johnson’s Gin.”
I limped home, feeling somehow that the
Disciple had ministered to me out of the
wrong flask.
ERIC BEDFORD.


g
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock-—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
D WEST, N. S. WALES
South Australian Agents: Messrs. £LDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide* S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold' Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Slates, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE * SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
HAIR
THE
MASTERS
Your hair will always, look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne... .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collins.
Perth L, M. Cullen & Co.
M
m
■ V'
Manufactured by
ANZORA PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
— Remington,
.22 Long Rifle PALMA
Choose the Cartridge
that gives you confidence
TO BREAK RECORDS—to win prizes—every
cartridge in the box must be uniformly accurate.
You may have the ability to hold your aim, to press
the trigger evenly and at the precise moment, but
unless you know what your ammunition will do —
it is wasted effort!
Shoot PALMA and enjoy the thrill that comes
only to the prize winner and record breaker.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
F 12
/. f
WHY
You should take
Beecham’s Pills
-s.
Prompt and pure
Safe and sure
Most efficacious
For all forms of
Indigestion
Bilious Disorders
Sick headaches
Languor
Constipation
General want of tone
Give satisfaction
MAKE ALL THE
DIFFERENCE.
Sold In boxes
1/- and 2/6.
Whatever car you drive
for best results
fit
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
British-made and the beet in the world.
The plug illustrated is the special Lodge model
for Buicks- Its insulator is Lodge steatite,
a material that is absolutely impervious to oil
or moisture right through.
Other Lodge plugs equally oil-resisting, lor American
engines, are :
Model CT. Model AF. Model SB. Model ST.
I" regular ■§■'' taper i" long 1" regular
(small hex)
5/6 5/- S/6 5/6
All packed in sealed metal boxes and sold by motor dealer*
and stores everywhere.
uiimiiiiimiiiimiim
i#
O
wm
Model TB.
i" long
small hex)
For BUICK.
5/6
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
MARINE
ENGINES'
AU Parts Stand-
ard and Inter-
ehangee bla.
American Boaeh
!Magnetos - im-
pulse coupling.
3 to 100 H.P„
* to 6 cylinders,
“t-cycle Engines.
Built with die greatest care so
that only ordinary care is required to
keep them in perfect running order—
Kermath Marine Engines are first in
service, economy, and dependability.
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia.
SCERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address, Kermath
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Afternoon Tea on Board,
at 3 p.m. Steamer from Fort Macquarie.
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


'UMMAji WJMMk *Z&yh!SM
(it IV
vi
i
IV'
(k
i'i
I*
i
!
i ,
1 l- 6 /toll * Mil
1 1 i (
s. f /
i /
< ' 1 i
(
l\
i 1 1
I WA
d
«
II
ik
t\ i
h
4
k
! i
i, :
ll
f
mi
il
ni'mml
nit
r* 5
if-
or
v>
7
J A
uim
mm
wtfgzmm
A blissful enchantment haunts the South.. The magic of sunshine and
warmin is like a spell that holds the soul. Lite seems hut ahappg (
melodu of ease as agreeable as the serene content and
cloudless geniality that is ever the gift of • • • •
DEWAR'S
