

'T' v \
/
w^»ii»»taii«<ntgMOTuw
/ •
wmmmmmmi
7
1 ■ i
i^sS
%
5$
'Jj'
m
m
M
«r.
S
%m
■'ll'/’ yny
1
I
□
o ©
O
\y'a.c'/oz'/es ocnctfflai'e/iozzs r e&
BRISBANE- MELBOURNE-CANTERBURY-nsw. Aten*.
PRESCOTTS LTT. SUSSEX ST, SYDNEY/LAUNCESTON ws-FREMANTLE •*£*
Qfatf Qct>cet<s <§> SbxQ/tgoocfcmieti. ■ •
“R. S. MAYNARD ADVERTISING”
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2428.
Thursday, August 26, 1926.
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•THE New Library Catalogue for 1926
4 is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DON’T DELAY.
Don't delay when a croupy child be-
comes hoarse. Give Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy at once and check
the attack. Even if an attack has
actually developed, this medicine will
afford prompt and permanent relief.
r
Contains
irioas.
fgjhfgh
fhg
fghg
fghfg
WRITE FOR NEW GENERAL CATALOGUE
£5
T*
/S
Sv
A
tfohe
“Wild West”
WIDE LEAF
HAT
30/'
FREE
A great hat for outdoor
■tfork. Has a big 3 inch
leaf that will not droop
or soften, and a big crov?n
that is airy and cool. Made of Pure Felt.
Splendid Value at 30/-. cAll Steel,
Grey and Fawn Shades.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen Street, ‘Brisbane;
MAIL TO DESK
wm
PLUM
g
s
to
N
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Beal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Bay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion: on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
m
o
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
o* the Lungs.
The Re d Page
The Babe and the Book
When I went to school I was taught to
read by the alphabetic method. Later, when
I practised the craft of teaching, I imparted
reading by methods which varied according
to the pedagogic fashions. I recall- at least
three —the look-and-say method, the pho-
netic system and a combination of these with
the alphabetic method. To-day my small
daughter is being led along the same flowery
paths by the Jones method, which combines
phonetics with diacritic symbols and manual
gestures. The intricacy and rapidity of the
child’s hand- and arm-wagging to the accom-
paniment of vocal ay-aah-ooh-ing might well
turn a signaller green with envy. The accom-
modation power of the brain of infancy is
a thing to baffle science. Consider the six-
year-olds. Brain and senses have combined
to teach them many things concerning the
exterior world, and we can understand why
the burnt baby dreads the fire. But how
many complex purely-mental processes lias
the child-brain accomplished before it is fur-
nished with the intricate' clues necessary to
thread the mazes of the reading labyrinth?
Much credit is due to Jones, who has cleverly
utilised the senses of touch and sight to aid
the brain in the initial stages. But our
anomalous alphabet remains, and all are
doomed to struggle with it.
The changes in the methods of teaching
reading are at least evidence that much time
and thought are spent on how to teach read-
ing. But why is not the reading matter
more carefully selected? Here is my six-
year-old, graduated from signalling, sign-
writing and ooh-aah-ing, to an Infant
Reader, Part 1, published by the Depart-
ment of Education of N. S. Wales, and here,
in this Infant Reader, are perpetrated the
same bad old lessons which were imparted
to me in the bad old days of alphabetic
and slipper methods.
Yes, here is “The Fox and the Grapes”
with the attached moral in bold type:
“People often pretend to despise what they
cannot get.” How sophisticated and worldly-
wise is the six-year-old who can absorb that
lesson! Here, too, are the old tales of the
Rabbit and the Lion, with the implicit moral
that simple cruelty may be frustrated by cun-
ning cruelty: of the Lion and the Mouse,
with its explicit moral, “One good turn de-
serves another.” Does the six-year-old supply
the corollary, “One bad turn deserves an-
other”? And does she then puzzle over the
“Reward evil with good” Bible lessons? “The
Fox and the Goat” still lives in these pages.
“Look before you leap” is the appended
moral, but it might more truthfully be “Lies
and cunning succeed where trustfulness and
simplicity fail.” The stupid story of “The
Frogs Who Wanted a King” is included also,
and the moral of that is “Never try to im-
prove your conditions.” Stay put! “The
Fisherman and the Giant,”, too, is kept alive
—another case of the success of low cunning
and cruelty. “Who Shall Bell the Cat?”
is also included —and the lesson it teaches
is: “Don’t combine to protect yourselves
against the cruelties of powerful oppressors.”
To all these old horrors, which should long
ago have been relegated to the limbo wherein
sleep the doctrines of original sin and ever-
lasting lakes of fire, there is added, for local
color, no doubt, the peculiar horror of the
bunyip. The illustration on page 72. may
be guaranteed to terrify the hardiest child.
I have before remarked in these pages that
giants and ogres are not fit subjects for the
imagination of little, children, and, though
London Punch honored me by quoting that
remark with the facetious addendum, “But
we usually keep the knowledge of the income-
tax collector from the little ones,” I repeat
that tales of imaginary horrors, such as
giants, ghosts, goblins, trolls, bunyips, et
hoc genus omne, do more harm to children
than any knowledge of such real horrors as
income-tax collectors. Why do adults in-
dulge their sadistic instincts by inventing
these things to frighten babes withal?
Added to all this there are biblical tales
told in the language of three centuries ago,
apparently put in to make the whole thing
harder for the infant mind. For example:
“And David put his hand in his bag, and
took thence a stone and slang it, and smote
the Philistine in the forehead and ho fell
upon his face to the earth. So David ran,
and stood upon the Philistine, and took his
sword, and cut off his head therewith.” If
we must tell these bloody tales, why not put
them into plain twentieth-century speech—
and let the Davids of the neighborhood make
merry on us Goliaths with their little cata-
pults, as, since we serve them this, we well
deserve they should?
Concerning the verse, we might, I think,
give little robin redbreast rhymes a rest, and
substitute some verses about Australian
birds. But the prize problem set to six-
year-olds is surely to be found in Christina
Rossetti’s verse “The Wind”:—
The wind has such a rainy sound,
Moaning through the town,
The sea has such a moany sound.
Will the ships go down?
Christina lets it go at that, and the babes are
left to puzzle over the problem of whether
the ships did go down. Christina might have
ended a modern novel on this eldritch note
—but adults can better cope with that kind
of thing. As a problem for six-year-olds to
ponder, it seems to me unduly knotty.
There is a good deal of suitable reading
in the book, but the bastard philosophy and
ghoulish grotesqueries ought to be scrapped.
ALICE JACKSON.
Michael Arlen
One imagines a box of Turkish delight, a
dainty box with all sorts of arabesques and
Eastern designs on the lid, a flange of lacy
paper like underclothes from Paris, a tricky
colorful inner wrapping, and ultimately about
a quarter of a pound of the advertised
nourishment. Your teeth slip through this,
and your palate discovers a fugitive savor,
sweet and sleepy, cynical and at the same
time soft. Before this flavor is fully real-
ised it has gone, and your mouth is empty.
Nothing is left of the whole episode of the
box, save (a) a passing regret that so much
elaboration of presentment can produce so
little, and (6) a half-ashamed desire for more
of that cunning sleepy savor. >
Arlen says: “I’m not really a fashion. I’m
a disease. An international disease. No-
body likes me. Most of the people who read
me say ‘How Hon-id,’ or ‘How silly,’ or ‘How
tiresome.’ And yet they read me. They’ve
got to, don’t you see? That’s really the
cleverest thing I did. I saw the rather fever-
ish state of the body politic and social. And
I disseminated my poisonous prose right and
left. They did not catch it at first. A few
people who have been thoroughly inoculated
by a habit of taking Wordsworth neat have
not caught it even yet. But the great
majority have fallen by the wayside. And
how they hate it!” But that is an illusion
of importance not uncommon in suddenly
successful youth. The great majority does
not take young men with a perfumed, sex-y
trick of style so seriously as that. Another
quality of the illusion is its Eastern-ness ; like
the box of Turkish delight, the ceremonial
demands that the manner shall overwhelm
the matter. In Trebizond, the port of
Arlen’s native Armenia, the acknowledgment
of success must be taken very seriously;
one never knows when an atrocity may in-
tervene. Nevertheless, apart from personal
and national illusions, and remembering that
half-guilty wish for more, the style is worth
an attempt to place.
About 10 years ago Arlen started life in
London on a pound a week, his father (a
subsequently prosperous Armenian immi-
grant) having been financially outed by the
war. Hence the tapestried London back-
ground which is the best feature of Arlen’s
style. London dominates; and that has
always been worth while, from Pepys to
Galsworthy. Trebizond has seen to it that
it is not quite a true post-war London, but
rather that Edwardian city of tight-waisted,
skirted frock-coats and ladies bowing from
the scented mystery of broughams; the Near
East cannot be expected to realise the hard
rigor of the Georgian London of youth. But
the grace of the snobbish earlier London is
here, the grace which is the other good fea-
ture of Arlen’s style. Its bad qualities con-
note with that London, too. In the city’s
atmosphere there were always lying in wait
subterfuge and evasion, nods and winks, and
wit whose sole quality was what is known
as suggestiveness. On the publishers’ dust-
covers these are called subtlety; but they
are really only the lacy flange in the lid of
the box of Turkish delight.
The covers and the end-papers speak also
of the author’s miraculous knowledge of
women. This is good advertisement, but
bad criticism; the author knows nothing of
women. He doesn’t even know men. The
harem demands a quite simple thing from
the inmates: that they shall be as their men
want them to be at the moment. This the
author makes them, superimposing the
Arabian Nights and the Song of Solomon
upon Belgravia and Mayfair. Nothing be-
ing, from either point of view, so primarily
interesting as the harem, the author is a
best-seller. But he hasn’t even scratched the
paint of his most detailed woman-character,
nor the veneer of his favorite bounder. He
has only made these what, in certain moods,
the others would like them to be. And
what could be more popular than that, set
in the sanctuaries of the most snobbish city
in the world? Hence, possibly, one’s abashed
desire for more.
That spot of soft cynicism in the flavor is
Kismet —Kismet drained of all heroic re-
signation. It is now a mannerism instead
of a fate, supplying the kick which gets good
criticism as well as good sales. Compare it
with Thomas Hardy’s Kismet, or A. E.
Housman’s —may the gods forgive me!
But the Edwardian London is good, and
the literary grace is good. Arlen says that
the latter owes its existence to “an early
study of De Quincey with a, side-glance at
the eighteenth century.” One is reminded
of De Quincey, certainly, from time to time,
and very often of the eighteenth century.
His airy polished foppishness is the essence
of coquetry; he does it more because he likes
doing it than to tell you something, but he
does it with such true elegance that quite
often you forget the harem to pause and
admire, really admire, the technique. For
the rest there is the sumptuous beauty of
London brooding like a magnificent Provi-
dence over this cabaret —just London, unin-
habited and beyond belief beloved. One
guesses that the sensitive Armenian boy wan-
dering lonely about Mayfair received his im-
pressions more truly than does the young
man with a host of friends patting him on
the back for his box of Turkish delight.
HILARY LOFTING,
A Standard of Wages
“There is no standard wage except that set
by the energy, ability and character of all
who are engaged in the business.” This is
the dictum of Henry Ford in The Great
To-Day: The Greater Future (Angus and
Robertson). In the gospel according to
Ford the basic fact is that “the standard
wage is what management and industry can
make it.” A business cannot continue to
exist when it ceases to be productive, and “a
business that does not include a steady and
profitable wage-scale among the good things
it produces is not a productive business.”
He propounds the seeming paradox that “the
way to check a threatened depression is to
cut the price and increase the wage.” Higher
wages and lower prices mean, he insists,
greater buying power—'that is, more custom-
ers. Throughout his thesis, Ford insists
that every payment of wage beyond the mere
subsistence line means setting free a pur-
chasing power that in itself reacts to stimu-
late trade. A shopkeeper decks his window
with tempting articles of food or clothing
not for the eyes of the needy but for those
with money in their purses. “One of the
objects of industry,” he declares, “is to create
as well as to supply customers. And cus-
tomers are created by finding out what people
want, making it at a reasonable price, and
then paying high enough wages in the
(Continued on page S.)


it
a
ur Cricket Needs
THONY HORDERNS
i r
fi'-Viiiuiiiini
„ i.
MtiSt
I
The standard qualities in Cricket
material are all of renowned
manufacture, and in inviting you
to compare quality and prices we
have no fear as to your decision.
Postage Paid on Men’s Clothing
and Footwear in N.S.W. and
to the nearest Interstate Port.
WORLD-RENOWNED CRICKET BATS.
GUNN AND MOORE’S—
Special Star Bat Price 52/-
Autograph Bat, extra specially selected
Price 48/6
Autograph Bat, specially selected.
Price 42/6
Cannon Treble Spring Price 33/6
STUART SURRIDGE’S—
Oval Driver Price 19/6
Special “Hordernian” Price 25/-
Standard Driver Price 26/-
County Driver Price 30/-
Nott s Driver Price 36/-
Rapid Driver Price 35/-
Rapid Driver, specially selected. Price 397-
Rapid Driver, extra special . . Price 47/-
The “Perfect” Special Bat .... Price 54 / -
No. 1 Star Price 27/6
No. 2 Star Price 30/-
No. 3 Star Price 32/6
SHAW AND SHREWSBURY’S—
Empire Match Price 32/6
Rattler Match Price 30/-
Australian Match Price 38/6
Autograph Price 50/-
WISDEN’S—
Crawford Exceller, ex. special. Price 40/-
Crawford Exceller, selected . . Price 37/6
WARSOP’S—
Imp. Conqueror Price 42/6
Extra Special Price 45/-
Superior Match Price 37/6
MEAD’S ENGLISH—
XXX Price 52/6
XX Price 47/6
X Price 42/6
Victory .•. Price 35/-
Special Club Bats Price 32/6
Duke’s Cricket Balls.
Uni. Match Price 12/6
No. 4 Match Price 15/-
P.K.D. Match Price 15/9
County and Royal Crown .... Price 18/-
NICOLL’S—
Patent Automatic, rubber cover
handle Price 37/6
Automatic Selected Price 28/6
Bussey’s Demon Driver .... Price 42/-
Harrow, with rubber grip .... Price 32/6
GARDINER’S—
Special Match Bats Price 55/*
Maclaren Bats Price 50/-
Hercules Price 39A
DYE’S Special XXX Champion-
Made by an Australian for Australians
Price 35/*
“ROY KILNER’’ AUTOGRAPH BATS—
Three Crown Price 57/6
Two Crown Price 55/6
One Crown Price 50 A
SYKES’—
Gold Medal Bats Price 50/-
Yorkshire Drivers . Price 42/Q
Special Driver Price 35/-
SUMMERS BROWN—
Autographed by J. B. Hobbs.
Force XXXX Price 48/*
Force XXX Price 46/-
Force XX Price 39/-
Force X Price 31/-
XX Dreadnought Price 407-
DUKE AND SON’S—
The Warren Bardsley Autograph Bat.
Four Crown Price 50/*
Two Crown Price 407-
Star Driver Price 27/6
Record Price 32/6
Challenge Price 37/S
Imp. Cane and Rubber Handle, full
size Practice Bats.
Prices: 14/6, 18/6, 19/6
Bat Repairs.
Bats oiled and faced by experts at the low
cost of 3/6
Rebladed Prices: 22/6, 26/6, 27/6
Rehandled Price 19/6
Cricketing Shirts.
Made in onr own workrooms and
finished with ordinary collar and
pocket.
White Mercerised Twill,
Prices .. 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
White Mercerised Drill.
Price 9/6
White Matt-
Prices 6/6, 8/-, 8/6
Cream Twill Flannel.
Price 17/6
Cream Twill Flannel, best make,
All Wool. Price 25/-
Fuji Silk, Price 19/6
Cricketing Shirts.
Made with smart sports collars.
Cream Bradford Twill.
Price ■ 7/9
W r hite Poplin de Luxe.
Price 10/6
Natural Fuji Silk. Price, 19/6
Cream Cashmere Half Hose.
All-Wool, English make.
Medium weight. Price 3/9 pair.
Ribbed Knit.
Prices 3/11, 4/11 pair
Cricketing Trousers.
Made in our own workrooms, and
designed with side or cross and hip
pockets, loops for belt, side straps,
cuff bottoms.
White Drill. Price 12/6
Cream Cotton Gabardine.
Price 17/6
Cream Wool Gabardine.
Price 35/-
Cream Flannel. Price 30/-
Cream Serge. Trice 42/-
(Clothing —Ground Floor.)
Cricketing Footwear.
Canvas
weight,
166
Good Quality White
Cricket Boots, medium
sewn leather soles.
Price, pair
Superior Grade White Canvas
Cricket Boots, with extra stout
leather soles. /r*
The “Iona” White Nu-buck
Cricket Boot, as worn by leading
players. A specially-designed boot,
guaranteed to give good service.
Extra fine quality White Nu-buck
uppers, leather lined, stout welted
soles. All sizes. ®SQ /Ct
Price, pair ©
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Cricketing Headwear.
Navy Blue Cricket Caps.
Prices 3/3, 4/6
White Linen Hats, plain,
or with green underbrims, 0/11
Price 1 1
Cream Felt Hats. Price, 0/0
Quotations given for embroidered
Caps for Clubs.
(Hats —Ground Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limiied.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


UDJM
The Super-Six Principle Is Exclusive
and Time Proved in the Hands of 800,000 Owners
THE COACH
£499
1
L
x>
0
&
ft
fmmmm
For More Than 10 Years the
Supreme Mechanical Typ
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan . . . £625
Hudson Brougham £565
7-Pass. Phaeton
£4BO
fghj
Because no other type or car shares its position the coach is the
world’s largest selling closed car.
But despite the fact that it exclusively gives closed-car comforts at
open-car cost its greatest appeal is in the brilliant performance and
quality of the Super-Six chassis. For more than 1 0 years it has been
the supreme mechanical type of motordom. Its smooth, vibration-
less motor gives performance distinction and enduring service that
are famous everywhere.
That must always be the uppermost factor in the
service, satisfaction and economy of any car. And
Hudson economy includes the most important of
all savings—long life, freedom from repair need,
and exceptionally high resale value.
In nearly a million cars now in use, and in con-
tinued world leadership of 6-cylinder sales, the
Super-Six principle gives its greatest proof of the
satisfaction of owners.
World’s Greatest Values and Largest Selling “Sixes”
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth-
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney,
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street. Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
1147.


SILK LINED SUIT
£B/15/-, £9/15/- and £lO/15/-
The Suit with the lining that will last as long as
the material itself—superbly tailored on latest
English lines from high-grade English fancy Worsteds
in greys, navy and browns. Ready-to-wear and
guaranteed to fit. Obtainable in all sizes.
Prices .. .. £B/15/-, £9/15/-and £lO/15/-
DAVID JONES 5
making so that they can afford to buy.... If
what has been thought to be a luxury can
be manufactured in quantities at a low
price, then it may become a commodity and
a necessity.”
One of the difficulties in Europe, Ford
.points out, is that the manufacturer does
not take into account the purchasing power
of his own employees, but consistently looks
beyond them for his market. But now that
the industries of the world tend more and
more to be grouped into large aggregations
of employees, the purchasing power of these
wage-earners becomes an increasingly im-
portant factor in the market. So “if you
cut wages you just cut the ndmber of your
own customers.” But—and this is vital to
the proposition—in buying labor, as in buy-
ing anything else, the industrialist must
make sure that he gets his money’s worth;
for “the less work a man does the less pur-
chasing power he creates, which means a
lessened number of people to ask for his
services.” High wages must, therefore, be
correlated to high efficiency in order to bring
about the increased production essential to
low cost. A man’s worth in the wages
market thus becomes an individual question.
“There can be no ‘standard wage.’ A wage
based on a standard of living is destructive,
for it implies that all men are alike, and can
agree on how they want to live. Fortunately
all men are not alike, and fortunately only
a few care to live this year the way they
lived last year. An attempt to fix a ‘living
wage’ is an insult to the intelligence of both
managers and workers. We do not know
what the right wage is, and perhaps we shall
never know.”
Under the American system, as here ex-
pounded, the employer keeps his eye on costs
rather than on immediate profits, for future
profits will depend on enlarging his market.
That means efficiency, and efficiency spells
high wages. It means also organisation and
machinery, so that one man can do the
work formerly done by three. “But that
does not mean that two men are thrown out
of work. Nobody with us ever thinks that
about improvements lessening the number
of jobs, for we all know that exactly the
contrary happens. We know that these im-
provements will lessen costs and therefore
widen markets and make more jobs at higher
wages. All of our efforts to reduce the
number of men on the single job have re-
sulted in more jobs for more men.... The
theory that efficiency and better methods
make for unemployment is pernicious, bxit it
is widespread.... It all goes on the theory
that there is only so much work in the world
to do, and it must be strung out.” He takes
the instance of bricklayers “going slow” to
let in fellow-brickies who are out of a job.
This only increases unemployment by making
bricklaying so expensive that few can afford
to build houses.
In Ford’s own business there is no fixed
scale of wage, “excepting that no wages must
be less than six dollars a day.” The em-
ployee must earn it, and it has been fixed
“because we set ourselves to pay it—in order
to increase our business through making
lower costs. But we have no rule as to
what any job is worth. We pay according
to the man, and more than 60 per cent, of
the men earn above the minimum.”
This plain statement of what employers
and employees think of “a living wage” in
the U.S.A. from one of its most conspicuous
captains of industry is worth the considera-
tion of Australia. At the present time in
the Mother State a commission is sitting
to determine the cost of living under the
present unsettled conditions of that State,
and on the basis, of such cost to fix “a living
wage.” This wage will not represent the
value of any individual’s services to any
industry. It will simply show what
it will cost the wage-earner to main-
tain himself, his wife and (perhaps)
three children, or in the case of a
bachelor a hypothetical wife and non-
existent children, at the current price of
commodities. This will then become legally
the minimum rate of wage in all industries.
What relation this artificially-fixed wage has
to the true economic wage is a question that
would undoubtedly puzzle Mr. Ford. It
would puzzle him still more to solve the
problem of how a great industrial nation is
to be built up on the principle of paying an
employee a wage, not for what he is worth
to the industry, but determined by a purely
arbitrary “standard of living.” It would be
just as sensible to declare to-morrow that,
milk being valuable for babies, henceforth
cows shall give four gallons of it a day.
Perhaps the publishers of this informative
book may see fit to present a copy to the
learned chairman of the N. S. Wales Com-
mission.
T. B. C.
The Film Muddle
Professor Wallace, the chief Federal film-
censor, has recently unloaded his weighty
opinion that nothing much can be done in
the way of producing Australian films until
the industry in Britain is set on its feet. He
made no attempt to show how the one in-
dustry was dependent on the other, and it
looks like the old pathetic impulse to wait
for Dad to take the initiative.
The inferiority complex has often been
strongly marked in our professors, but it
must be pointed out that the lead of Dad
in similar enterprises hasn’t inevitably been
followed by serious activity on our part.
Take publishing, for instance. The very
fact that the British publishing industry is
firmly on its feet has made it almost impos-
sible for us to get upon ours. Enterprising
London houses dump upon us their surplus
stocks of magazines, and sell us their
“colonial” editions at a cut-throat price; and
(like the outside film-interests) they have
created powerful allies in the booksellers
who thrive on the importing trade. Conse-
quently we are no nearer a publishing indus-
try of our own than we were 20 years ago,
and we are suffering from this far more
severely than from a lack of our own films.
The books that are vital to us, whether
imaginative works or studies in economics,
history or science, either don’t get written
or remain in manuscript. Some struggle into
Print, but the machinery of distribution is
so completely adjusted to the business of
wholesale importing that one rarely hears of
these local waifs.
How is it that the quite genuine feeling
against importing our films wholesale, instead
of producing them ourselves, has been mis-
directed into vague, pseudo-imperial channels?
The thing most wrong with American films is
not that they are propagandist, but that they
are fatuous, vulgar and shoddy—the world
seen through the romantic eyes of a half-
witted servant girl. There is no need to
import them, since wd could produce a
healthier article ourselves, and keep the
money in the country. Unfortunately some
of our budding film-producers have not under-
stood the real basis of the objection to
American films ; they have jumped to the con-
clusion that the only fault in these films is
their origin, and have hurried to produce the
same meretricious article on the premises.
Their ideals have been a showy and com-
paratively expensive production, and a world-
market. But a world-market, or even an im-
perial one, is not likely to be built up on
mere anti-American prejudice. It is no use
eliminating everything from a film that has
coherence or character, and showing that
Sydney conforms to the cosmopolitan
standards of speed and luxury that are sup-
posed to appeal to film-frequenters. In re-
ducing a pictured story to the lowest common
denominator of human intelligence, the Los
Angeles entrepreneurs have a long lead. It
would be much better for our producers to
concentrate on the home market as a normal
basis, and turn out simple productions that
were true to our own life. There is nothing
intrinsically expensive about a film; it is
the “features” designed to appeal to the
universal moron that send up the cost. And
the nearer the technique of this very primi-
tive industry approaches to art, the less
call does it make on money for mechanics.
A film of quality, well acted, could be pro-
duced for a few hundred pounds, and the Aus-
tralian market is already wide enough to
yield a reasonable profit. As for the outside
market, it ought to be left severely alone for
the present. If our producers set out deliber-
ately to capture it, they will doom our films
to inanity from the beginning.
POINCIANA.
The Philosophy of Invalidism
There, is much congestion in the lower
reaches of high thought over the problem of
eugenics. It would seem that only the
specially licensed should be allowed to re-
produce their kind. Procreation would be
for the few who managed to get themselves
into the human studbook. They would be
pedigree folk, not as sons and daughters of
a hundred earls, but in the same way as the
progeny of Carbine, the Duke of Derri-
mut and our best merino rams. The culls
would be vasectomised and salpingectomised,
and then the human blood-stock would hurtle
on to the Millennium.
Here is a man who suffered for years from
disease of the spine. Prom birth he was ear-
marked for a life of pain. During the course
of his invalid career he has consulted, or been
attended by, 55 medical men. He had chronic
tubercular pleurisy ; and a tubercular abscess
of his vertebral column was only arrested by
the operative skill of Horsley. By the dictates
of eugenics the fellow should never have been
born at all. But he was born, and he has
smiled his way bravely through. He has so
far recovered as to live a normal sort of life
in a quiet sort of way. In The Idle Hours of
a Victorious Invalid, by Dane Crauford
(Chapman; Angus and Robertson), one may
gauge something of the philosophy of his
invalidism ; and it is to his mother, in grati-
tude, he dedicates the book.
Crauford knew Harley-street quite inti-
mately. As one enters it from Marylebone-
road there is “an atmosphere of chloroform
and ether.” Wimpole-street, the home of
surgery, is hard by. Portland-place and
Cavendish-square are also in this vicious
circle. Only the very big guns, who occupy
whole houses, abide in Cavendish-square.
Standing on these doorsteps, after consulta-
tions, Crauford knew in elation and depres-
sion the sensitiveness of the ear to sounds.
Good tidings made music even of the
discordance of a Klaxton horn; on the
other hand, if the news was depress-
ing every sound was “jangled and out of
tune.” Doctors’ waiting-rooms, both in
their furnishings and decorations, im-
pressed him with a sense of dull uni-
formity. The same sort of papers for
the same sort of people. No one ever
speaks in a doctor’s waiting-room : even the
man- or maid-servant makes utterance in a
sort of cathedral whisper. There is a rustle
of leaves, turning of pages, intensified ticking
of a clock, sound of a bell, and—perhaps —
along some distant corridor the intonations
of the medicine-man himself. Crauford’s
first impression of a nursing-home was a
feeling of sanctuary. The word “sister"
falls caressingly on the ear. There is assur-
ance that, though you pay dearly, they will
keep you alive. If you pay enough they will
put down straw in the street so that traffic,
which must pass on its lawful occasions,
shall pass as sympathetically as possible.
The domestic who cleaned the grate told
him that no one ever died in that home.
Early one morning they ga.ve him a pair
of white stockings, and, looking out of the
window, he saw two cars drive up simul-
taneously. Four muffled conspirators alighted
from one; his local doctor from the other.
The tenseness of the early hour suggested an
assignation for a duel. Their business, how-
ever, was in the theatre, and they could not
get on without him. He went down —and
there was Victor Horsley, “dreadfully seri-
ous,” in shirt-sleeves, overalls and spectacles
—not a bit like the man in 25 iCavendish-
square ; then the rubber-cup.... a beautifully
drowsy sensation.... a slow sinking through
the floor voices fainter and fainter.. . .out
of a white mass his senses made out the figure
of a nurse. Consciousness found him lying
on his side, with pillows supporting his
back.
Crauford knew many doctors. There was
a celebrated bibulous physician who was
called to an old lady whose, symptoms seemed
strangely anomalous to his fuddled brain.
Holding her pulse, and realising his own
condition, he blurted out inadvertently,
“Drunk, by Jove!” When he called next
day in trepidation, the old lady apologised
for her condition and begged him to keep
the matter a secret. Apparently he did not.
Whether he is describing his impressions
at the seaside, in sleep or in sleeplessness,
the cruelty of nature, or his philosophy in
regard to death, there is unconquerable opti-
mism about it all. One gets the impression
of a spiritual insight which physical weari-
ness and bodily pain has created as an out-
post of the further self. If life is merely a
test of capacity in the art of living, then
disease is a spiritual necessity of our exist-
ence. We should not know virtue were it
not for the presence of vice. If disease were
banished, then medicine, surgery, research
work and the like would go with it. Self-
control, cleanliness, caution and fortitude
would diminish, and many of the ennobling
qualities in men and women would be lost.
In a perfectly-organised eugenical state we
should wait for ever for the example of
Damien, or the inspiration of Florence Night-
ingale. Health is an asset of no mean im-
portance : but it is not all. An intellectual
cripple in whose heart “hope springs eter-
nal” is a better man and more likely to be
a better father, even to a sickly progeny, than
the robust creature who knows not the ter-
rors of disease and lacks the mentality to
imagine them.
GERALD DILLON.
A Satchel of Books
The Island, o>f Disaster, by Michael Lewis (Allen
and Unwin). A tuppenny colored detective story
wrought out in an island of the historical but
uncomfortable Hebrides. A book of creeps, cryptograms
and cross-purposes.
Different Destinies, by Fabian Tanner (Sampson
Low). The reader of this discursive story jewelled
with wise commonplaces will regret that destiny
had not led the author to a judicious sub-editor.
An unconvincing novel of amateur workmanship.
The “Chicot” Club, by Keble Howard (T. Fisher
Unwin). Whether the prolific Mr. Howard’s humor
may be likened to the sparkle in champagne or the
froth on beer is a temperamental question; it
certainly makes no appeal to the prosaic tea-drinker
nor the philosopher of the coffee-pot. A harmless
if not filling dish.
Eirsty at the Manse, by June Boland (Geoffrey
Bles). From a lumber camp in Canada to a Scotch
manse—this story tells in a pleasant fashion how
Kirsty came successfully through the ordeal of
transplantation. The sketches of Scotch character
are deftly done and the book is charged with keen
human sympathy.
The Blue Castle, by L. M. Montgomery (Angus
and Robertson). Time has flown since “Anne of
Green Gables” ranked high among the best-sellers.
Since then many novels have come from the same
pen, and all informed by the same spirit of sympathy
and kindliness. This last novel lacks nothing of
the charm and sustained interest of its predecessors.
The Human Element, by Ruth Alexander (Geoffrey
Bles). Wonderful are the ways of love in a novel:
“He stood looking down at her with an enveloping
gaze that seemed to draw her completely in to
himself, to enfold her, to merge her with his own
being.” But before this merger was effected the
reader had to be carried from Wales to Patagonia
and back again. All go and gush.
Golden Green, by Bart Kennedy (Cecil Palmer).
Few authors can view life from as many angles as
Bart Kennedy. Strong work has come from his pen
carrying with it invariably the conviction of a first-
hand experience. Readers of the present volume will
find glimpses of woods and lanes and pictures of
quaint old villages in such bits of England as are
still left unsullied by the dust of motor-cars. Swing-
ing along the road with Kennedy in the early morning
one can feel with him that “life in itself is glorious
and beautiful.”
Mareeya, by E. Tait Reid (Heffer). Maria
Pavlovski is the central figure in a group of
students at a women’s college, Cambridge, where
her chum is a young lady from Maoriland whose
references to her Dominion home are discreetly vague.
A love entanglement with the chum’s brother, the
vagaries of Mareeya and the distress of a mother with
Scotch blood in her veins, who sees trouble in the
possible union of temperamental dis-affinities, pro-
vide material for a domestic story in which the
characters are drawn with considerable skill.
Oliver and Nina Balatka, by Col. T. Walter
Harding (Heffer). The “Oliver” who is the central
figure of the first of these two plays was the eldest
son of Cromwell. He was the- favorite child of the
Protector, and of his death near Marston Moor it
is related the great Puritan said: “It went to my
heart like a dagger; indeed it did.” The second
play is cast in Prague about 1850, and tells the
tragic story of Nina, who sinned in preferring her
lover to her religion. The plays show marked
dramatic qualities, but are for closet reading rather
than the stage.
Goldfish Culture for Amateurs, by A. E. Hodge
and Arthur Derham (Witherby). It is thrilling to
learn that there are folk who still take a con-
suming interest in goldfish. “In many cities of
America and elsewhere,” the authors say, “cups,
medals and other prizes, offered by local aquarium
societies, for the best goldfishes in various classes,
are keenly competed for.” If anyone in our Australian
Commonwealth wishes to know how best to keep
his goldfish free from colds or housemaid’s knee,
he cannot do better than consult this authority.
The Mad-song, by Mabel Wagnalls (Funk and
Wagnalls). A story of music and love interwoven.
The author in a preface sets out her conception of
the duty of those who go down to publishing houses
with bundles of manuscript. “Let earnest writers,
she says, “set their hearts to surmounting, by way
of the short novel, the present appalling taste for
crude stories in some of the conscienceless magazines
that clutter the earth to-day, falling upon it each
month like a multicolored cloud of ravenous, soul-
sucking insects.” All of which seems to have a
remote echo of the once clarion —or was it
clarinet? —voice of Marie Corelli. Beyond some
little feminine lapses into personal items on clothes
the author sticks fairly closely to her principles of
brevity and directness. Here is a sample: “Most
magnificent of all was the Duchesse de Parma a
fat woman in red velvet, whose protruding bust was
pushed up by stays and pressed down by jewels—
pounds of them.”
Under the Rose, by Anatole France (John Lane).
Here Michel Corday has gathered, arranged and
annotated the last finished pages of the dead master.
The greater part consists of unpublished dialogues:
“On Metaphysics and the Existence of God,” “On
Old Age,” “On Sex Modesty,” “Concerning War” and
many other topics. They are all post-war writings
and their content shows it. Towards the end
of the war, after its years of agony, Anatole France
used to say: “I should like to write a dialogue
concerning God, in which I should develop the
following idea: ‘lf Gctd exists, He must be the
most abominable of creatures, since He has permitted
this war to be’ !” This, indeed, was the origin
of “Under the Rose,” but the plan was extended to
include equally vehement and frank expression on
other matters. The anthropomorphic deity set up
is berated in terms which find no parallel in English
literature when dealing with such a subject. A
very earthbound philosophy—if it can be called
such—and very characteristic of one who was at the
same time the unrestrained child and the great
genius.
4
“H.K.”: Included among the literary treasures of
William Dixson, the well-known Sydney collector, is
a small book in the Tahitian language. Entitled
“Epitome of Gospel and Acts,” it bears the imprint
of George Howe, Sydney, 1814, and originally
occupied a place in the library of the Church Mis-
sionary Society. Prior to its discovery in England,
about a dozen years ago, it was generally believed
that the earliest volume printed in any of the native
languages of the South Seas was “The New Zealander’s
Book,” published in Sydney in 1815. The author
of this was Thomas Kendall, a missionary and first
Resident Magistrate in Maoriland, and grandfather
of the Australian poet.


PACIFIC FORESTS LTD.
Registered under “The N.Z. Companies Act 1908.”
Capital: £250,000 divided into 250,000 Shares of £1
50,000 Shares are to be held in reserve; 200,000 Shares are available for subscription, of which number 110,000 Shares have been sold to date.
A Share Issue Company. This Company Sells No Bonds.
£3OOO for £lOO £6OOO for £2OO
£l5 per Acre. Why Pay More? £l5 per Acre.
FIRST RETURNS IN 14 YEARS
A CONTINUOUS AND EVERLASTING INVESTMENT. ENDLESS DIVIDENDS.
The Cheapest and Safest Endowment in the World. Annual Payments Abolished.
Cannot Lapse „ Cannot be Forfeited.
This Investment can be handed down through your family for generations without further payment.
Better than Endowment Insurance, as there is only One Payment.
Better than Life Insurance, because you Draw While You Live.
Ideal Situation.
The Company’s block of Freehold Land of 12,700 acres is situated on the banks of
the Waikato River, Auckland Province, North Island, New Zealand, 31 miles from
Maraetai Railway Station, 13 miles from Arapuni Hydro-Electric Power Station, and in
the vicinity of the Rotorua and Waiotapu Government State Forests.
Finest Tree-growing Land in the World.
The belt of pumice land, of which this block forms a portion, has been thoroughly
examined by leading Forestry Experts, and they unanimously agree it is the finest
tree-growing land in the world. They state that the exceptionally favorable climatic
conditions which this part of New Zealand enjoys, an abundant rainfall and sun-
shine, together with the moisture-retaining soil, promote the growth of trees at a rate
unexampled and unparalleled in the world.
Opinions of Experts.
Some of the facts about the rapidity of growth of Pines and the quantity of timber
it will produce are most interesting.
The Forest Conservator of Rotorua stales: “Many plantations of Pines in the
Waikato have yielded from 100,000 to 133,000 super feet of sawn timber to the acre.”
The late Sir David Hutchins stated: “It is an established fact that many imported
trees, chiefly Pines, grow here more than twice as fast as they grow in Europe.”
When Sir William Schlich, the greatest British authority of Forestry, had his
attention drawn to these and similar returns, he described them as astounding and
almost incredible.
What to Plant.
Acting on the advice of experienced Forestry Experts, who have made a careful
inspection of the Block, the Company is now planting Californian Redwood, Pinus
Radiata and Eucalypts. Evidence of the wonderful growth of these trees is to be found
on the government Plantations at Rotorua and Waiotapu, which are situated in the
vicinity of the Block. Here the growth of Californian Redwood has been nearly as rapid
as Pinus Radiata. Some of the trees are 70 feet high, and could be milled at once if
required. Californian Redwood is one of the most valuable timbers in the world.
Total Cost till Trees Are Ready to Cut.
Forestry Experts, after making a careful inspection of the block, estimate that £l5
per acre (which includes the cost of the freehold of the land) will cover all costs till the
trees are ready to cut, when further trees will be planted, as the land remains the pro-
perty of the Shareholders for all time.
Timber Famine Stares Australia in the Face.
The Prime Minister, the Right Hon. S. M. Bruce, issued a warning in Melbourne
on the Bth August, 1925, when he stated: “At the present rate of cutting, Queensland
has eight years' timber supply.” Referring to afforestation in Australia: “Figures giving-
plantations are depressing, and the Federal Government views the present forestry
situation as one of the most important problems to face.” The position is serious; the
end is in sight.
Primary producers and industries in Australia are threatened.
Timber is indispensable and a national necessity to every country.
In 20 years Australia will require 5000 million feet of timber annually.
Australia imports over 42 per cent, of the timber it uses.
World’s Shortage of Paper.
The United States of America daily consumes 8500 tons of newsprint.
Canada has 110 paper and pulp wood mills employing 29,179 persons, their
woonLl ages and salaries amounting to £7,661,032. Canada in 1923 exported
£28,200,000 worth of paper and wood pulp.
Nine-tenths of the paper used in Australia is imported. The manufacture of
paper and wood pulp is a national industry and a national necessity, and no block of
land is better situated for the manufacture of these two very necessary commodities.
Ample water is available from the Waikato River that runs along its western boundary
lor 5 miles, _ and cheap power can be easily obtained from the Arapuni Hydro-Electric
Power Station, that is, less than 13 miles from the block.
Security.
No Waiting and No Delay.
The security is unquestionably safe, namely : The moment you buy Shares in this
Company you immediately become a part-owner in the 12.700 acres of freehold land, in
every tree planted by the Company, together with all the cash in bank and all other
assets of the Company.
The Outstanding Features of this Company are:
(a) Everyone a Shareholder. All shares of equal value.
(b) Shareholders elect their own Directors.
(c) Each Shareholder will receive a Yearly Audited Balance Sheet.
(d) Shares may be sold whenever the Owner wishes.
(e) First Cost the Only Cost. Shareholders are protected by Law
against any further payments of any nature whatsoever.
(f) This Company sells Shares, which gives the Shareholders absolute
Control of the Management, Finances and Affairs of the Company.
(g) The Freehold of the Land is delivered to the Shareholders to-day
and remains their property for ever.
(h) This Company owns no Leasehold Land.
(i) There is an abundance of proof that the returns from each acre
costing £l5 will not be less than £6OO.
(j) No Limit to the Number of Plantings, as each crop of trees are cut
further crops will be planted at no further cost to the Shareholders,
therefore the returns from this endowment will be everlasting and
endless.
(k) This Company is backed by the Reports of Two Independent
Forestry Experts.
(l) The Most Simple, Inexpensive, Practical, Proved Method of obtain-
ing the Cheapest Endowment in the world.
(m) Planting operations have already commenced on the Company s
block under the supervision of Mr. Chas. H. Wade, formerly with
the New Zealand State Forest Service, Kaingaroa, Rotorua, N.Z.
In looking ahead to make protection for yourself, your wife and
your family, do not overlook to get particulars of this Great Co-operative
Tree-growing Company. The soundness of this Company’s methods
are backed by investors throughout Australia and New Zealand, who
have already purchased over 1 10,000 shares.
EXCEPTIONALLY EASY TERMS.
Application forms and further particulars may be
had by writing to the Company at 101 Cathcart
House, 11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
32 National Bank Chambers, Fort Street, Auckland,
N.Z.
Fortunes in Forests!
Plant Trees and Grow Money!


AFTER SUNSET
Patent applied for.
New Features
in
Storage Battery
Design.
THIS new ceil, Type D.8.G., has been
specially designed for use with Domestic
Lighting Plants, of which many types are
now on the market.
It is extremely robust, and embodies many
new features, including:
DUST-PROOF COVER
EVAPORATION ELIMINATED
PERFECT SUSPENSION OF PLATES
SHORT-CIRCUITS BETWEEN
PLATES IMPOSSIBLE
STOUT MOULDED GLASS BOX
EASY INSPECTION
SIMPLE ASSEMBLY
HYDROMETER IN PILOT CELL
FOOL-PROOF CONNECTIONS
Buy the BATTERY with the BRITISH STANDARD RATING.
fgh
ELECTRICAL STORAGE
COMPANY LIMITED
CLIFTON JUNCTION, NEAR MANCHESTER,
of the undermentioned agents, or from E. H. SHARPE, 15 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
Further particulars obtainable from any
Jlustralian Agents
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Edward
and Charlotte Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd..
Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queens Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents:
W. Crosher & Sons, Ltd.. Edsons Building. Queen Street. Auckland. Watkinson & Kennett. 261-265 Tuam Street, Christchurch.


Studebaker Big Six Offers
Quality ’ Comfort * Dependability
j
Q
m
m
m
m
KB
The fastest- selling high-powered car in the world
ONLY 7 American cars equal the Big
Six Studebaker in rated horsepower
—and they sell at two to four times its
price.
High quality , low price
This amazing price advantage is the result
of Studebaker’s vast manufacturing facil-
ities and resources. The highest standards
of materials and workmanship are con-
stantly maintained, yet through manu-
facturing economies and the elimination
of profits of outside parts makers, Stude-
baker is able to build the finest cars and
sell them at low price.
Unsurpassed riding ease
The unusual riding comfort of Stude-
baker is assured by full-size balloon tyres,
long resilient springs and snubbers. Seats
are restfully deep and wide, providing
ample room for five passengers.
Completely equipped
Equipment is unusually complete and
includes: automatic spark control; safety
lighting switch on steering wheel; petrol
gauge on the dash; 8-day clock; auto-
matic windscreen cleaner; rear-view mir-
ror; cowl ventilator; stop light, and a
splendid coincidental lock to ignition and
steering wheel controlled by the key that
operates the spare-tyre lock.
Come in and see this Studebaker Big
Six Phaeton with folding top. Drive it—
feel the surge of power from its smooth,
silent engine and you’ll know why the
Big Six is the fastest-selling high-powered
car in the world.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, . LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
TUO
E BAKER
BUILDERS OF DUALITY VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS


Fresh Youthful Skin
Maintained By Cuticura
Daily use of Cuticura Soap,
with touches of Cuticura Oint-
ment when required, will do
much to prevent pore-clogging,
blackheads, pimples, roughness
and other unwholesome condi-
tions of the skin.
Soap ls„Talcum 1n.3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R.Towns &Co„ Sydney, N.S. W.”
SjS!F* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
TWENTY GUINEAS FOR AN
AUSTRALIAN POEM.
"pllE Proprietors of the National Annual, Australia
To-day (the United Commercial Travellers’
Association of Australia), offer a prize of 20 guineas
for the best POEM dealing with any TYPICAL
ASPECT OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE, EXPERIENCE
or ASPIRATION. Length of Poem to be approxi-
mately 600 words. Competition open to any resident
in the Commonwealth. MS. to be typewritten (if
at all possible), and to be in the hands of the
Editor Australia To-day, Commerce House, 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne, by September 25, 1926.
Nom-de-plume only to appear on MS., which must
be accompanied by name and address in sealed
envelope. Judgment of Management to be final.
fgh
No.l for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fair Hair
AMAMi
Shampoos
The only shampoo with the
special Lemon Juice Rinsing
Powder which ensures the
thorough rinsing essential to a
perfect shampoo.
All the big Stores,
Hairdressers and
Chemists are
Selling Atnami.
qp
hfgh
Missing: Friends.
Money, Unclaimed Money, Persons
Wanted.
ALDERTON, Frederick James, or next of kin.
ALLEN, Archibald, formerly of Percydale, Vic., or
descendants.
BOARDMAN, Dorothy (daughter of Wm. Boardman).
CRAIG, John Alexander, or his descendants.
DUNNE, Francis John, formerly of Menindie, N.S.W.
FAULKNER, Thomas, left Walsall, England, about
1886.
FORD, Stewart, son of Col. Arthur and Mary S. Ford.
FRENCH, Edward, late of Bearpark, Consett, Dur-
ham, England.
FREITAG, Johann Daniel, or his family.
GODDARD, Beatrice Mildred, in Sydney 1920.
GARDINER, John Kennedy Gardiner, born Ayrshire,
Scotland, 1852, or relatives.
GOODWIN. Annie (daughter of Hy. Goodwin, of
N.S.W.).
GIBSON, James, and William Stewart Gibson, or heirs.
JACKSON, Ellen (nee Tapp), or her children.
KENNEDY, Denis, born about 1850, or heirs.
LOCKHART, Lawrence Archibald Somerville, other-
wise Logan McDonald.
MoMORRAN, John R. S., came to Australia 1907.
McDONALD, Hugh and James, formerly of Aberdeen,
Scotland.
PEIRCE, Edward, believed came to Australia about
1856.
POLA, Charles William Pola, formerly of Grong
Grong, 1922.
RFSHBROOKE, Bertrand Harry, or his children.
SINNOTT, James (son of Thomas and Abigail Sinnott).
SEATH, Henry (gardener), in N.S.W. 1914.
SEXTON, William (he has brother Denis), or heirs.
SCOTT, George Milne Scott, or next of kin.
TODD, Frederick Swan Todd, or his family.
WHITE, Margaret Duncan and Jessie Agnes.
WHITE. William Douglas and Mrs. Mary Brash.
Write Mr. Telfer, 16 Pirie St., Adelaide,'immediately.
fgjhfg
Relief from Rupture
Any sufferer will find
Denyers’ Elastic Truss
gives complete relief and support and
is conducive to curing.
It is perfect fitting, safe and sure. Why go another day without it?
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage extra.
If Unable to call, a Pamphlet will be sent in a plain envelope closed, giving full
particulars.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
fgjh
ihe Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/0 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/0)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/0)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. I
I
1
I
1
H
H
|cvua
ll
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
hfgh
m
The millionaire’s
wads of notes can’t
buy him a better cigarette
than you get when you
say to your tobacconist
‘Twenty Kensitas
please l’
10 KENSITAS COST 9d. 20 FOR l/6
CLUB SIZE 10 FOR i/- 2$ FOR 2/6
m
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Wharf.
I stood upon tlie wharf and saw the painted
heads
Of Holy Marys nod to pagan kings.
O blind, white eyes! O beard with sea-
worms in your threads!
O fingers small, enshrined in colored rings 1
Carved of the deaf, dry wood, unheariii;
things—
Deaf as the dead gods and the deaf, dead
kings!
N.S.AV
HUGII McCRAE.
August.
When August sifts the silver rains
O’er land and sea,
By blossom-mantled hills and plains
My heart goes free
Along the Cootamundra’s lanes —
It cannot stay with me.
It cannot stay with me, so dull
The drab days go,
By ferny ways more wonderful,
And gloom and glow.
It roams where ruffling breezes lull
And singing waters flow.
When winter’s laggard legions pass
’Neath the hill’s brow,'
The roadsides by the green morass
Are flowered now
With emeralds spangled on the grass
And pearls strung on the bough.
And habit binds the weakening thongs
That keep me, though
To realms where beauty’s home belongs
My heart must go
Beyond the purple Dandenongs
When spring winds gently blow.
But sweeter far it were to be
In windy weather.
What wonder worlds might we not see
Of flower and feather,
Keeping such goodly company,
My heart and I together!
On mornings when the magpie sings
Above the track,
How sere the seamy side of things,
And dull, alack!
Where, tired of lonely wanderings,
My heart comes back.
VICTORIA.
KATIILEEN DALZIEL.
Comfort There Is.
Comfort there is in small, familiar things
Within the friendly walls that shut away
The roving winds and blue night's starry
spray;
The books that give a wounded spirit wings
To soar with Shakspeare; smoke that coils
in rings
From an old briar-pipe; children at play;
Pictures; log-fires that cheer the dying
day,
And flowers that recall forgotten Springs.
When small, familiar things have lost their
grace
Of healing, and the four walls close me
round,
Taking this pin-point of an earth for base,
I send out thoughts until all thought is
drowned
Beyond the last dim star in empty space,
And silence more intense than any sound.
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.
Western Fever.
I shall go west, ’way west, and leave these
hills,
These circling hills that meet the sky too-
soon;
They close around me when the foiled wind
stills,
And stubborn shadows lie till very noon.
The narrow river twists and seeps and slides,
And willows veil its mirror from the light;
It runs still darkened when a clear moon
rides,
And sleeps close-hidden from the stars at
night.
Broad on the drought-scarred altars of the
West
The rivers give their lives up to the sun ;
And still they hold the lowered stars caressed,
Till their exhausted waters cease to run.
Death walks with resurrection hand in hand,
There are no secrets and no mysteries;
No apprehensions bred where yielding sand
Lies guarded by the ever-whispering trees.
Let me go free from this too-secret place,
To ride the day-long where no shadows lie,
And feel far-travelled winds upon my face,
Or wait in spreading stillness as they die.
N.S.W.
WINIFRED G. BIRKETT.
A Message to Ulysses.
O wanderer, how many weary days
Must I look out, to where your purple sail
And golden prow sweep down the ocean-ways
And the pearl-hung horizons flush and pale?
I am no acquiescent wife, to wait
While you fare largely, pirating the sea.
I shall not hasten to unlatch the gate
Nor worship at your travel-bitten knee.
I am no meek Penelope, to bow
And plead to sleep once more by your dear
side.
Better you stayed and prayed the Circean
sow
Than came too late, or came to me in pride.
Be soon! I tire, and there are other men
Worthy my kindness. There are other lips.
Perchance you’ll come to take your mistress
when
She lias forgot Ulysses and his ships.
M.L
BETTY RIDDELL.


f
mMmm
" ife* mmmm
m
m
Hrarani
i:ii
mm
ill ill
:
m
m
I -
mm
k
i
H
■
■ m
mm
■
.:■.■■ ■ | ,
:
/
■I
■Hi
H
«■■■ ■ ■ ■■■ ■
HH
■y;
■
«n
.
■
m
W
mm
i
i
4n
1 ■
| n
■BB
■
V
WBBm
11
■
■
■K
Hi
■H :
■
-
:
5
:
■
...
A
■
H
1 &8888
ran
i n
■
IMMI
H
-1 -
1 Mail
H
lilii
■ ; >
■
g m |
I ;
•••
WSmKs.
m
B—l
m
■'
* ■ :
I*
■


EUCHRED!
[EDWARD SCORFIELD, 214 George Street, Sydney.]


the Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, o
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, 101 A
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Austialia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months , £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 J s '
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months , & 1 0
months. 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to vie
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
Te^ The ’contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted , whether in the foim oj
Political , Social or other Articles , Verse, Short dales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable Ink. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of Mb.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
■illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. r lhe conditions undci which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s" representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
• Tiie Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
thehookstallinth^Jjlaiii_JH[al^a^^mstralia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, ,5-
T;i Fairingdon Street, London, E.C.I/.; and tt. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.!,.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1,6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; Ihe British
Australian and New Zealander, JjHi-li Austialia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, ;>8 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.— The Central A ews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Jews
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,t Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., lbl Last
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co. 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. Aew
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.L. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street , New York City; Ho taring s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace , The Neiv Orleans News Man , 100 Royal
Street , New Orleans , La.
Egypt — Jacques , Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., GOG Pedder Street,
°— Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
C °Pafua’ Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fun.—/|. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona , No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.!,.
U.s.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji.
lOoz Id United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: Jioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'fy'ulleiZn.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 26, 1926.
WHY INCREASED POWERS ARE
NEEDED.
The allied extremists of the Tory and Labor
parties have somehow persuaded themselves
that Australians are an easily-scared people,
and in sketching what will happen if the
Ayes have it on September 4 each band has,
to the best of its ability, dipped its pencil
in the gloom of earthquake and eclipse. But
in this friendly, if dismal, contest, the Labor
section is an easy lirst. The Tory attempts
to make Charlton look like Lenin, eager
and able to establish a Supreme Economic
Council and bring about the socialisation of:
industry, distribution and exchange, are in-
ferior in every way to the lurid Labor
pictures of the Prime Minister. That gentle-
man is represented as a Mussolini in silk
hat and spats —a sinister figure plotting the
suppression of Labor newspapers, the deport-
ation of union leaders “regardless of the rules
of evidence,” the setting-up of “scab” unions
with funds seized from legitimate organisa-
tions, which are to be extinguished, and the
employment of the military to shoot down
‘'industrialists” rightly struggling to bo free.
No mean achievement of the imagination this,
especially as the alleged plotter was carica-
tured by the same crowd as a ludicrous
Willie-boy not so very long since! They do
not, of course, explain where Brtjce is to
get his power. He does not ask for an
amendment of the clauses relating to the
'constitution of the Parliament. Every man
and every woman will have a vote in the
future as they have had in the past; and
no Government w 7 ill be able to last a day
longer than it has a majority of the people’s
House behind it. There is not a thing that
Bruce contemplates doing that cannot be
undone by Bruce’s successor; and he will
be just as entirely dependent on Parliament
for power to do anything at all as he is
to-day.
* * * *
The Tories have other disabilities from
which the Labor section of the alliance is
free. They are not in a position to threaten
Bruce as the N. S. Wales A.L.P. executive
has threatened Charlton and the other
N.S.W. Federal members who have come out
in support of the Industry and Commerce
amendments. There is no expulsion appara-
tus in their outfit. They are likewise in-
capable of rising to the towering contempt
for facts shown by some Labor controversi-
alists or of revelling in such glorious mis-
conceptions and inconsistencies as marked
the speeches of Mahony, M.H.R., and ex-
Senator Gardiner at Balmain last week.
The member for Dailey said he wouldn’t
trust any Government with the powers sought
by Bruce. If the gentleman lived in Maori-
land or S’Africa or Canada, he would have
to trust the Government with the powers he
objects to, and more. If he emigrated to
Britain he would find himself at the mercy
of a Parliament which “can make and
unmake any and every law, change the
form of government or the succession to the
Crown, interfere with the course of justice
and extinguish the most sacred private rights
of the citizen.” Nevertheless, he and the
cause he represents would be as safe in
Britain as they are and will remain in
Australia. He suggested to his constituents
that if the national authority acquires a few
more powers, it would set up conditions
“similar to those prevaling in Italy under
Mussolini, the only country in the world
where the trades-unions could be dissolved by
the State.” As a matter of fact, every
democratic State has that power, and the
Commonwealth does not ask for an atom
more than the others have, or than the
people of Australia have already. The only
difference between the Commonwealth and
most of the other self-governing countries
of the world is that, whereas the Common-
wealth has adult suffrage and one person one
vote for both Houses of Parliament, the
others have a limited franchise for at least
one House; so that the Commonwealth is far
less likely to do anything to the disadvantage
of labor unions than other countries are.
The Commonwealth is not, as some of these
scare-mongers would have us believe, a body
outside ourselves. It is ourselves. We are
not giving power to anybody but ourselves;
and even that amounts only to a transfer
of pow 7 er from ourselves in one capacity to
ourselves in another capacity 7. If any mad
thing is to be done under these powers, it is
ourselves who will be wdiolly and solely re-
sponsible. We shall have to do it; no other
power in the world can impose these terrify-
ing things upon us.
* * * *
Ex-Senator Gardiner also exhibited him-
self to admiring Balmain as a unificationist
with a sturdy belief in State rights. Besides
thundering against proposals which he re-
commended to the electors on at least tw r o
occasions, he was responsible for a resolu-
tion affirming, among other things, that
“Bruce, as Prime Minister, has robbed us
of our hard-won Federal rights.” It is not
in Bruce’s power to rob any citizen of his
“hard-won Federal rights.” But perhaps the
ex-Senator, being a Freetrader, was thinking
of the tai-iff complication. The Common-
wealth Parliament passed a tariff law con-
ceding additional Protection to industries in
wdrich the working hours, as fixed by the
Commomvealth Arbitration Court, w 7 ere 48
per w 7 eek. The N. S. Wales Parliament
rushed in and said that the wmrking hours in
such industries should be 44 per w 7 eek, no
matter what the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court ruled. If these are the “rights”
ex-Senator Gardiner had in mind, his friends
were certainly deprived of them, but not by 7
Bruce.- Bruce is asking for authority to
clean up this particular mess—to preserve
industries dependent on the tariff from the
mischievous activities of State politicians
who have nothing to do with the tariff. The
amendment he proposes is, nevertheless, not
directed against the 44-hour week. It is
obvious, however, that it depends almost
wholly upon the tariff whether an industry
can afford the 44-hour w r cek or not; and as
the tariff is a Federal matter it is essential
that the question of hours shall be a Federal
matter also. The tw 7 o things must keep in
step; if they are out of step, both Common-
wealth and State must fall —the tariff be-
comes ineffective, and, since imports then
take the place of home products, the fixing
of short hours becomes useless too. Further,
Bruce is asking for power to do away w 7 itli
“the Serbonian bog of technicalities” through
which unions have had to flounder to the
Arbitration Court owing to the wording of
paragraph xxxv of the section dealing with
the powers of the Commonwealth Parliament
—“Conciliation and arbitration for the pre-
vention and settlement of industrial disputes
extending beyond the limits of any one
State.” “Everv letter in those last eight
words.” Scullin. Labor M.H.R., has said,
“has cost our unions £lOOO in unnecessary
litigation, not as to the merits of disputes
submitted to the Federal Arbitration Court,
but as to whether those disputes should have
been submitted at all”: and who can measure
the cost to the community in bad feeling and
strikes?
A Yes-Yes vote on September 4 will
strengthen the Commonwealth at other points
where it has proved dangerously weak. Ex-
perience has shown that it cannot pass a
uniform or any worth-while company law;
cannot control trusts or combines; cannot
punish acts in restraint of trade; cannot
give members of federated unions that protec-
tion which members of friendly societies get
under State law as regards the expenditure
of their money. During the Queensland
railway strike the Commonwealth Govern-
ment could not even get the inails deliveied,
although the delivery of mails is its own
proper business; and again and again it has
been reduced to humiliating impotence while
foreigners, flow T ii with insolence, if not beer,
threatened to turn out the lights, and so let
hordes of criminals loose on the Big Cities,
or waged wrnr on the community in other
forms. The powers sought will at least
enable us to remedy these defects. And they
cannot be remedied without those powers.
SOME QUIET THOUGHTS ABOUT
SECESSION.
The Westralian secession movement grows
apace, on paper anyhow, as did Falstaff’s
army in buckram, which made one appear-
ance anfi has been missing ever since.
McCallum Smith, Nationalist member for
North Perth, during a recent visit to Sydney,
informed the listening East that 80 per cent,
of Westralians, being full up with then-
wrongs, hunger and thirst to break away.
Certainly Opposition-leader Jimmy Mitchell
has taken the matter up, though Jimmy
Mitchell isn’t precisely a harbinger of good
fortune. It appears that the State Govern-
ment at Perth is being urged to hold a local
referendum on the subject. If it does, and
if the result is a local secession majority,
McCallum Smith declares frankly that In,
doesu't see how the exit of Westralia from
the Union can be averted. On the other liand r
the Constitution describes the Commonwealth
as eternal, and unless a flaw can be found
in the document the only legal way out is
for a majority of the voters who vote in a
majority of the States (which is two-thirds
of the States, there being only six) to alter the
Constitution, and make the Commonwealth a
go-as-you-please. At present there is pro
vision that a State (say Westralia) may
dissolve into various States, but none that
the Federal institution may dissolve. The
Commonwealth began with the whole six
members, whereas the United com-
menced with 13 and the other 35 were added
to them later. Neither did the U.S. Constitu-
tion in its original form forbid secession, so
the two cases are not parallel. Legally,
Australia’s Federation is much the harder of
the pair to get out of. Supposing northern
and southern Westralia were polled separ-
ately, making, say, latitude 25 the dividing
line (the vote being taken for purposes of
information only), it might be unexpectedly
demonstrated that the south, or Perth, halt
doesn’t want to leave the Commonwealth, and
that the north half badly wants to part
from the south and stay in the Commonwealth
as a State by itself. It would be foolish to
take a vote without putting the whole ques-
tion to the vote.
* * * *
Anyhow, if the Smiths secured their little
secession majority, the only thing the Federal
Government could do would be to ask them
what they thought of doing next. It couldn’t
legally let Westralia go except, as already
mentioned, by an amendment of the Consti-
tution, not even if the Smith secession forces
licked the Federal army into a cocked hat on
the battlefield. Suppose the big and allegedly
worried place got out of the Union in a
practical way, it would still be legally in,
and liable to be reclaimed at any time. It
would possibly be reclaimed on the instal-
ment plan, for which there is at least one
United States precedent. When Virginia
joined the Cotton and Slave regions in the
secession movement of 1861, the north-western
section set up for itself as a separate anti-
secesh community, just as northern Westralia
might do, and it is the separate State of
West Virginia to this day. The disruption
movement was a failure and a greatly dimin-
ished “Ole Virginny” returned to the fold
later.
The situation being full of complications,
it is further obvious that the Smith and
Mitchell secessionists, having secured their
hypothetical local majority to say that West-
ralia was out of the Commonwealth, and
having counted the vote to their own satis-
faction, would have to think up some overt
act to show that it was out. W hen the first
six Cotton States broke away from the
Washington Government, and Abraham
Lincoln’s imperturbable Post Office kept
delivering their mail as usual, South Carolina
made the position clear to all and sundry
by opening fire on a Federal garrison. Other
matters became clear at the same time. The
leaders of Westralian secession would doubt-
less assert their cause by taking possession
of the post-offices, the Customs, and the Fed-
eral Ivalgoorlie-Port Augusta railway. Where-
upon it would be natural for the Central
Authority to place a tree across the track on
the South Australian border and stop traffic.
Other doings might follow, but that would
serve to begin with. Probably the first great
trouble of the Secessionist Government would
be to convince a strike-loving and Bolshie
population at Fremantle and Perth that no
violence was permissible except the mild
violence it used itself, and that secession was
by no means a free fight and looting expedi-
tion for all hands. The new Administration
having cut itself loose from all chance of
asking Federal aid to keep order, as well as
from floating another Federal loan, would
probably find it harder than usual to keep
order, and it found the work hard enough
during last strike. Provisional Govern-
ments have a difficult task at times. The
one which managed Paris in 1848 had to
harangue the mob 24 timesi in a single day,
and had most of the clothes torn off it.
* * * *
Assuming that the Smiths and Mitchells
of Westralia really desire to take their
handful of population out of the Common-
wealth, and supposing Westralia wants to
divorce itself and resume its bachelor exist-
ence, a diplomatic course would be to per-
suade the other States to leave also. It is
true enough that no member can leave the
Commonwealth under the existing Consti-
tution while there is a Commonwealth, but
they could obviously do so if there wasn't
one, and there would cease to be one if
everybody left. Even if Canberra and the
Northern Territory remained for want of any-
body to take them away, it would be im-
possible to make two Houses of Parliament
out of the member for the N. Territory who
has no vote and the member for Canberra
who doesn’t exist. One notable result would
be the disappearance of the Federal debt;
the debtor would simply resolve into thin air.
An alternative device would be for the
Westralian secessionists to bend their ener-
gies to the creation of a new State or three
new r States, there being virtue in odd
numbers, with small populations. Canberra
might be one. Then it would be easier to
secure an amendment of the Constitution
and provide that any State may secede on
giving a fortnight’s notice. After that
amendment the Commonwealth would prob-
ably be unable to borrow any more money,
lenders having a natural antipathy to
borrowers who are liable to vanish at
any moment. The present stumbling-block
which prevents heroic doings lies in the
necessity to secure not only the assent of a
majority of voters at a referendum, but also,
which is liable to be more difficult, to secure
the assent of a majority of the States. But
for the purpose of getting a majority of the
members of the Commonwealth, a State with
20,000 population would be worth as much
as one with 2,200,000, and the vote would be
easier to count. With three sparsely-peopled
new States the matter might be easier still.
* * * *
Amid all this speculation one fact stands
out: When a very small member of a per-
petual league (small as to population) pro-
poses to break the bond, the matter is one to
be approached with finesse, and not rushed
at bull-headedly or bull-doggedly. Many a
far more promising battle than the one which
Smith and Jimmy Mitchell contemplate
has been lost through the frontal attack.
And a preliminary essential is to lay in
ammunition in the shape of a grievance
which people can understand.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Four “Reasons” for No-Noing.
With commendable terseness the V ictorian
crowd which clamors for a “No” vote at the
referendum lately issued its argument m four
propositions. (This isn’t the Labor crowd,
which couldn't properly unburden its soul in
40 propositions, but that section of Conser-
vatism which has the Age for a mouthpiece.)
The story ran thus :
The amendment would concentrate industrial legis-
lation for the whole of Australia in the hands of the
Commonwealth.
The same as with the army, navy, posts,
telegraphs and Commonwealth Shipping
Line. Some things get on better under one
command, including an army.
The amendment would result in the eventual aboli-
tion of the State Arbitration Courts, wages boards,
and all the other machinery built up by the States
through long years for the settlement of industrial
disputes.
And anyone who watches the present State
machinery trying to settle an industrial dis-
pute at some place like Bowen or Newcastle
has a tendency to think that it is a rusted
old apparatus like the original locomotive,
and should be left on a vacant allotment as
soon as a substitute is ready—almost any
kind of substitute. .
The amendment would result in the power to
make industrial awards being vested in a central
Federal Arbitration Court with headquarters at Can-
berra, and in other “authorities” to be appointed by
the Commonwealth Parliament.
It is possibly very sad, but experience lias
shown that civilisation can’t get along with-
out “authorities,” and that it is better for
them to be appointed in an orderly manner
by some recognised and popular institution
like the Commonwealth Parliament than to
appoint themselves by club law or secret
faked ballot. Canberra may not be much
of a place, but headquarters must be some-
where; likewise hindquarters.
The amendment would empower the Commonwealth
Parliament to fix a standard working week and
basic wage for all industries in every State of the
Commonwealth.
The last curse seems more like a blessing.
If the Commonwealth or any other sane and
reputable concern can get power to really nx
hours and wages—to fix them so that they
will stay fixed —it is just the thing which
Australia has been shouting for during a
procession of weary, dreary years.
♦
When is Killing Murder?
Capital punishment may be justifiable or
not, but whether a convicted murderer shall
be hanged or merely locked up for a term
of years oughtn’t to depend on political con-
siderations and what brand of Government
is in power. Yet that is what it has come
to in Australia, and a most confused, state
of things is the result. Queensland is the
one State that has definitely abolished capi-
tal punishment; a man may presumably
assassinate a whole township there and a
dozen gaol warders afterwards without risk-
ing anything more than the loss lot his
liberty; and he may have lost that already.
In N. S. Wales he would hardly be in real
danger of the gallows, unless the Lang Gov-
ernment should disappear before he could
commit his murder and get tried for it. I he
Judge might have to sentence him; but as
Lang and his Ministers have only been pre-
vented by the Leg. Council from eliminating
the hangman from the social scheme, even
a Deeming or a Butler need not take into
account the possibility of following his vic-
tim into the next world under compulsion.
In Victoria, which seldom enjoys the. luxuries
and leniencies of Labor administration,
either a Butler or a Deeming would cer-
tainly hang just now; but in South Aus-
tralia or Tasmania, where Labor rules at
present, he would probably be as safe
paratively) as in the Ma State, the abo 1-
tion of capital punishment being on the plat-
form and Labor Ministers, collectively and
individually, too tender-hearted or well dis-
ciplined not to commute those capital sen-
tences that may be passed before Judges are
debarred from passing them. H estraha is
the one State where nobody knows quite
what may happen, the Collier Government
having run quite untrue to form, as it were
by recently hanging a visitor to the
who feloniously slew a bank clerk in a lai-
way carriage for the sake of the money i
had on him. Not only did it hang him, bu.
it tartly told some of the Labor organisa-
tions iii the East, which reminded it that
capital punishment was flatly opposed to
Labor principles, to mind tlieir own business,


and added, with an assumption of rugged
virtue, that it had to administer the laws
as it found them, which is exactly what the
Labor Governments of N. S. Wales, South
Aus. and Tasmania are not doing, and evi-
dently conceive themselves as being under no
obligation to do. Collier’s action may be
applauded, but his spirited retort doesn’t
ring true, simply because his Government
commuted a death sentence a year or two ago
when there was no more reason, if there
wasn’t less, for the prerogative of mercy
than in the case of Royston Rennie. The
crime was an even more wanton one, and
just as cold-blooded and revolting, yet there
was no talk on that occasion of administer-
ing the laws as they were found. Hence one
must look deeper for the reasons why the
law was allowed to take its course, even by
a Labor Administration, in Rennie’s case.
The Collier Government will soon be facing
the country, and there are abundant signs
that Labor’s objections to capital punish-
ment are not shared by the majority of the
electors in the case of murders where no-
thing can be found to redeem or extenuate
the crime. The community as a whole, quite
apart from its politics, is always inclined
to mercy save in the worst cases of all, the
cases, let us say, of convicted Deemings or
Butlers ; it recognises degrees in wilful
murder, but there are some homicides for
which it refuses to contemplate any penalty
save the extreme one as adequate. Three
or four months ago one of those super-
crimes was perpetrated in Westralia, when
two officers of the law were done to death
and their bodies hideously mutilated in the
attempt to destroy evidence that might bring
the murderers to justice. They were men
who had no enemies in the community
except among the class whose lawless opera-
tions they had to try to combat, brave men
who were shot down in the lonely bush for
doing their duty. If anyone is convicted by
a jury of that atrocious and revolting crime
; —and two men are even now being tried for
it in Perth —any Government that can find
extenuating circumstances to save the per-
petrators from the gallows is likely to have
to answer for its action at the polls. Which
may supply one reason why Rennie was
hanged by a Government that is opposed to
capital punishment and pledged to its aboli-
tion. The necessity for the uniformity of
other laws, such as those relating to divorce,
lias often been urged; but surely there should
be a uniform murder law. and not one that
is alterable this way or that for the sake of
votes.
♦
A United Industry.
Fenimore Cooper’s grizzled old trappers had
a way of remarking that the “only good
Injun is a dead Injun.” The maxim has
been adapted by the “advanced” Labor poli-
tician in Australia for application to em-
ployers. They are all blood-suckers, tramp-
lers on the bruised faces of the poor, ex-
ploiters and inveterate riveters of shackles
upon the limbs of the wage-plugs. It is
hard now to rise to office in one’s union,
to secure nomination for Parliament or
aspire to the salaries of 20, 30 or 40 pounds
a week that await the truly class-conscious
unless one can envisage the employer as the
modern equivalent of the Devil —a being
whose functions are entirely abominable and
whose desire to make a profit out of his
employing proclivities must be nipped in the
bud lest the nation totter to destruction.
The sort of employer who makes it difficult
to maintain such a hate against his class
by showing that he is just as much a human
being as he is an employer is quite rightly
denounced by the I.W.W. and other Com-
munist doctrinaires who dominate the Labor
movement as the very worst enemy they
have to contend against. But in England,
where life is much harder than it is in Aus-
tralia, the standard of living lower and the
wolf nearer the door, there is at least one
industry that has made the experiment of
considering itself as an economic entity—not
as a battle between slave-owners and serfs —
and which after seven years is able to report
that everybody concerned is looking pleas-
antly on the past, complacently on the pre-
sent and hopefully on the future. The folk
concerned are the wall-paper makers. Their
seventh annual report is an unassuming
little document, the most illuminating of
which is the chairman’s very short and busi-
ness-like comment on the year. He records
that he got a pleasant shock when all
the workers’ unions in the industry com-
bined to give him (an employer) an illumi-
nated address, which meant, boiled down to
plain Australian, that as chairman of the
Joint Industrial Council they had found him
a white man. He goes on to say about dis-
cussions of wages and conditions at meet-
ings of the council: —
We have practised the policy of “cards on the
table”.... Latterly we have gone rather further
with this policy of frankness than the matters
mutually reserved for discussion within our con-
stitution, and, in addition to full statements of trade
conditions and prospects, have tabled some of the diffi-
culties we have with our shareholders, some of whom
see no further than immediate dividends ; with our price
policy ; with internal competition ; with trade difficul-
ties abroad ; and we have not disguised some of the
different points of view which from time to time
arise on our own side of the table. We have had
this confidence met with like confidence. We know
now. as never before, some of the internal difficulties
of the Trades Union movement; the problems of the
leaders in dealing with their members, and so forth.
The Council’s report is a record of mutual
concessions. The workers met the employers
in a matter of apprentices, and the employers
made a donation of £2500 to pay for sum-
mer holidays; both sides interested them-
selves keenly in the training of craftsmen,
and it is disclosed that the care of the un-
employed of the industry is a joint affair,
like everything else. As there were no
strikes and the industry showed a united
front to foreign competition, there was no
short time and only 2 per cent, of unemploy-
ment. The unemployed numbered 241. and
these got help through the lean weeks. There
was relief also for other cases of hardship.
The employers had a right to reduce wages
owing to the drop in the cost-of-living index
figure—but they didn’t. Every firm in the
trade has its own works committee, and each
sends its:Representatives to the central coun-
cil. The plan works. It has stood the test
of seven years, and the industry has nrade
good progress in the period. Speaker
Whitley’s recipe for industrial peace has
not been so successfully applied in other
industries—but was that the fault of the
recipe or of the spirit in which it was tried?
The wall-paper makers would know how
to answer. If Australia says Yes to
Bruce’s industrial additions to the Constitu-
tion, this country will have a chance to
try a similar experiment.
The Unusual Gunn.
The outlook for Labor Premiers is not par-
ticularly bright, so John Gunn, head of the
S. Aus. Government since April, 1924, _ can
hardly be blamed for letting one of his lieu-
tenants —L. L. Hill, Minister of Education,
Industry and Public Works —take up the
burden. • Neither does the Bruce-I j age Gov-
ernment deserve dispraise for putting so well-
tried and temperate a man on its Migration
Commission as a representative of the organ-
ised workers. South Aus. has been luckier
in its Labor Administrations than other
States, and Gunn’s achievements will en-
dure a comparison with those of contem-
porary Premiers w 7 ho have had a great deal
more limelight. While Lang was amassing
a deficit of £1,274,000 in N. S. Wales, and
McCormack one of £554,000 in Queensland,
Gunn’s comparatively modest revenue ex-
ceeded his expenditure by £12,600. In
25, moreover, he had a surplus of £So,(HX),
after putting aside £193,000 for “reduction
and redemption of public debt.” Certainly
£193,000 wasn’t much of a sinking-fund con-
tribution seeing that the public debt was
just on £72,500,000 at the end of that year,
but if Lang set apart even two bob against
a public debt which lias reached £225,000,000,
his Auditor-General would probably have a
heart attack. “To the victors belong the
spoils,” said Mr. Flanagan of Texas;
“what are we here for?” Labor in office is
too prone to act on the Flanagan principle,
but Gunn set higher standards. He refused
to countenance a salary steal; refused to
concede the 44-hour week; refused even to
exempt wage-earners from payment of in-
come-tax. Although the population of South
Aus. is only two-thirds that of Queensland,
he taxed nearly three times as many indi-
viduals as the Queensland Labor Govern-
ment taxes, and nearly four times as many
persons classified as “employees.” He fixed
the exemption at £l5O p.a., whereas it is
£250 p.a. in Queensland and £3OO p.a. m
N. S. Wales and the Commonwealth. Yet
somehow there has been remarkably little
industrial unrest in South Aus., whereas the
Labor-ruled States which have gone in for
the 44-hour week, fiscal favoritism and other
vote-catching devices, as well as salary steals
and enormous deficits,'' are never free from
strikes. It would seem that unionists work
more contentedly for and under the kind
of Labor Government that treats them as
responsible members of the general body of
citizens than for and under the kind that
treats them as irresponsible members of a
privileged caste, with the right to slow 7 down
at the general cost.
Joseph Cook Reports, on Australia’s
Assets.
The cable brings the familiar news that a
British M.P. has made remarks about Aus-
tralia’s apparent inability to get along un-
less each of the six States and the Com-
monwealth bites the ear of the capitalist
about once a year for a fresh loan, and the
further information that Higli-Commissioner
COOK has rushed into the fray in defence.
It is his business to' Cook' up some sort of
defence. His story fell naturally into four
chapters:—
Australia is as well able to carry its burden of
liabilities as Britain is.
Its wealth is between three and four thousand
millions, which is ample security for all it owes.
Its railways, which represent some £300,000,000
of borrowed money, should be regarded as highly
profitable investments, and not debt at all.
Nobody need worry about Australia’s debts. “She
has resources easily and always available to meet
them.”
Yet the trouble remains that Australia never
meets any of them, but always asks that the
gold loan falling due in London shall _be
renewed, and floats some more loan, which
generally happens to be just about enough
to cover a year’s interest, payable in gold.
The sleepless terror of the typical Treasurer
is lest his particular show, having “resources
easily and always available” to meet its lia-
bilities, shall be invited for once in a way
to meet one of them to go on with. If a
professed prophet persistently declares his
ability to work miracles, he must expect to
be asked some day for a sample miracle; in
fact, he should produce it without asking.
In 1921 the private wealth of Australia,
including the clothes which people had on
them, was estimated by the official figure-man
at 2166 million pounds. The saleable value
of public assets, including deserts and land
not at present accessible, may possibly make
the total somewhere near to Joe Cook’s esti-
mate —the lower one—if there were buyers.
So far as that species of balance-sheet is con-
cerned Australia is in the same position as
other countries which have gone bankrupt,
and it is worse than many. No nation ever
went broke through borrowing more than its
public and private assets were worth, or as
much, or even half as much, as they were
worth. The disaster came long before that.
In like manner no man ever died of alcoholic
poisoning through containing his own weight
in alcohol, or even half his weight; he passed
out before he reached that stage. There is
a good and sufficient reason why lenders get
little or no satisfaction even out of the
fact that the property of an apparently in-
curable national spendthrift is estimated to
be vastly more than he owes—the property
is out of reach. Theoretically, the security
is the entire public and private assets of the
borrowing country. That is also the abun-
dant security for every bankrupt note-issue.
But if an individual lender, being unable to
get payment, say, in London, were to come
out to select and remove sufficient assets to
cover his claim, he would be arrested as a
common thief, or run in as a lunatic. Pos-
sibly, if he started loading Joe Cooic’s furni-
ture or Joseph’s office apparatus on a van
he would receive an even worse reception
than from other men. The British Govern-
ment might collect interest from a defaulting
Australia on behalf of British creditors by
laying a heavy hand on the customs revenue,
blit even it would probably find that it
couldn’t realise on the alleged assets without
spending and breaking more than the realisa-
tions were worth. The whole prospect is so
humiliating and unpleasant that it would
be wiser for this country to try if it can in-
spire confidence by paying its way instead of
by presenting a valuation report on its goods
and chattels, including the clothes people
have on.
A Horse Soldier on Railways.
Military Inspector-General Chauvel lately
furnished Parliament with a report on north-
ern railway matters. The document may
or may not enhance his reputation, but it
will certainly have a gladdening effect on the
party which wants a Federal railway as
much as possible through State territory in-
stead of one through Federal territory. The
Age summarised it thus: —
He emphasises that the only South-North railway
of any use strategically would be one connecting
Darwin with centres of population on the east coast;
that is, a line from Bourke to Darwin by the shortest
possible route.
The familiar sketch plan issued by those
who desire to break the agreement on the
strength of which the Territory was trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth shows an exten-
sion of the Sydney-Bourke railway north-
westerly through Thargomindah, Windorah
and Boulia, all places of small account in
Queensland, and then through a corner of
the Northern Territory to Darwin, or pos-
sibly stopping at the McArthur River, just
over the border. The agreed-upon route
through S. Australia and the Territory itself
is as short a way from Melbourne to Darwin
as one round by Sydney and Bourke, and it is a
vastly shorter one from Adelaide to Darwin,
as a matter of course. If a time came when
the North was bellowing for help it is pre-
sumable that men from the south coast
would be as useful as men from the east.
Further, when the direct line from Sydney
to Broken Hill, now almost completed, is
available, even Sydney will be almost as
handy to Darwin through S. Australia as
through south-western Queensland. And,
finally, the railway through the N. Territory
is wanted for something more than merely
carrying troops, etc., from the south and east.
It is wanted, for instance, to promote settle-
ment, so that inland and northern Australia
won’t be so completely dependent for defence
on far-away centres of population.
♦—
The Protected Farmer and His Gift
of Ingratitude.
The N. S. Wales Farmers’ and Settlers’
annual conference lately sat in Sydney for
the usual purposes, and out of much con-
fusion the most definite results which emerged
were these: —
That “primary” production is the sole source of
Australia’s wealth, or at least the only one which
counts.
That the farmer has to buy what he -wants in a
Protected market (which he says is dear) and sell
in a Freetrade one (which he alleges is cheap).
That the duties on imported farm machinery, and
possibly on everything else which a farmer uses,
should be reduced or abolished. And/or
That a bounty should be paid on exported wheat.
Some considerations which have apparently
escaped the Farmers’ and Settlers’ eye are
as follows: —
The farmer is in some respects looked after extra-
ordinarily well. As an instance, in N. S. Wales
during 1924-25, 2,065,247 tons of grain and flour
were carried on the railways for £1,421,814 ; if
they had been charged the average rate, the freight
bill would have been £2,900,000. This looks like
an average bonus or rebate of about 15s. per ton.
There were similar rebates on hay, straw, chaff and
manures. Wheat and flour are carried between Aus-
tralia and Europe at 255. per ton. For other goods a
much commoner rate is 70s. per ton.
Taking N. S. Wales as an example, manufactures,
by the report of the State Statistician (1923-24),
employed 159,674 persons, while the number employed
in every kind of industry “on the land” was set
down at a mere 135,622, and they were on the
decrease. This included owners, lessees, share-farmers,
employees, and 30,807 “relatives not receiving
wages.”
The same authority saya that the gross value “at
the place of production” of the Ma State’s pastoral,
agricultural, dairy and farmyard products for the
year was £69,846,000. The gross value of manu-
factured products -was £146,359,000, and still there
is room for expansion—lots of room.
The Federal Statistician reports that during the
eight years 1917-24 the local population, which
is mostly engaged in protected “secondary” industries,
bought over 70 per cent, of everything that the
agriculturist. had to sell. Yet the desire of so
many Farmers and Settlers to destroy this reliable
Australian customer and pamper instead the un-
reliable foreigner, "shorn it costs more to reach,
seems incurable. They aren’t even civil to their
best customer.
The Australian fanner doesn’t sell in a Free-
trade market except when he sells abroad. There
is hardly an item that he sells, if there is an item,
which' isn’t, as a rule, protected heavily. If this
wasn’t so he would get the surprise of his life
and get it very often. When there chanced to be
a glut of some food in any country bordering on the
Pacific or Indian Ocean, and prices were low, the
tendency would be to load up cheap labor ships
and have a turn at the Australian market. There
are few parts of the Australian coast north of New-
castle where at times, and many times, even wheat
couldn’t be landed at prices which would tend to
put the far-back grower out of business. In the
really Far North impoxting would be chronic. Com-
merce has more possibilities than Farmers and
Settlers imagine. For instance, in 1924 the Irish
Free State exported bacon v r oith £3,140,000. Yet
outsiders dumped £1,850,000 worth of bacon on the
Free State market. With the Protection removed
Australia might get both cheap wheat and cheap
sugar.
Wherefore Farmers and Settlers should be
thankful for the blessings they have, includ-
ing sugar and cotton bonuses, and not lament
overmuch. If they concentrated on getting
railways made to convenient ports which
are now unavailable they would do better
than by nursing visionary grievances against
their best supporters.
4,
A Friendly Offer.
In one of its business-like moments, the Fed-
eral Government has offered to relieve West-
ralia of the great space north of latitude
29, with the liabilities attached.' It is among
the big State’s grievances that it is burdened
with the administration of the very largest
area in the Commonwealth (975,920 sq.
miles), with the smallest population bar
that of Tasmania to pay the cost thereof.
Still the Treasury at Perth doesn’t spend
much on the northern half of the State. Out
of £65,000,000 of borrowed money, the North
is said to be responsible for only £2,700,000,
and it is blessed with 114j| miles of State
railway out of a total of 3733 miles of State
and 826 miles of private line. Should this
area of some 450,000 sq. miles become a
separate territory, it will start its new career
with less railway than such African regions
as Abyssinia or Gambia or Sierra Leone.
In fact, there is not very much of anything
thereabouts except posts and telegraphs, the
loss on which is borne by the Commonwealth.
Though the place is far more convenient by
sea to a big centre of population than the
Northern Territory is, it is barely threat-
ened with inhabitants—perhaps 7000 or 8000.
It is proposed in the Bruce-Page separation
scheme that it should be fixed up from the
beginning with some sort of self-government
in the shape of a Resident, a partially-elected
Council, and a voteless but vocable member
in the House of Representatives. It would
perhaps be better if it was offered a full Rep.
and a complete Senator to begin with, and
if the same liberality was shown to the
Northern Territory. Their populations may
be small, but a place with no Federal votes
to dispose of doesn’t seem to meet with the
treatment which makes for rapid increase
of population and ultimate Statehood. It
may be assumed that the negotiations,
if there are any, between Canberra
(assuming such a place to exist) and
Perth will be long and complicated and
crooked and curly. The almost untenanted
northern half of the State may be one of the
burdens quoted by Perth politicians as a reason
for large Federal subsidies, but, none the less,
it may easily develop when relief is offered
into a priceless asset, only to be parted with
for its weight in gold or thereabouts. West-
ralia is down on the list for a large new
subsidy, and it would be a business-like pro-
ceeding if the grant was made conditional
on the surrender of the northern area. Such
bargaining might be foreign to the Bruce-
Page Government’s open and generous
nature, but the interests of Australia are in-
volved, and they should be paramount.
Northern Westralia certainly gained about
2000 inhabitants in the decade during which
southern Westralia gained 48,000, and that
is better than the N. Territory record. Still
it isn’t much of -a record, and Bruce and Co.
might as well have a chance as pay away
big subsidies and get nothing.
O
The Crook-Gang War in Melbourne.
A mysterious gang feud, a kind of inter-
necine strife like the Chinese tong feuds of
America, is raging in Melbourne, and police
headquarters are inclined to make much of
it. Criminals who hitherto preyed exclu-
sively on timid old maids in lonely suburban
dwellings are now so busy assaulting' fellow
crooks, beating fences, robbing their own
receivers and threatening with torture the
proprietresses of sly-grog shops and other
haunts that the honest citizen can now sleep
more or less peacefully, and banks can
convert their burglar-alarms into radio sets
for receiving bedtime stories for night
watchmen. So fierce has the conflict become
that police stations are alleged to be crammed
with once dangerous scoundrels clamoring
for protection from their mates, and the
happy epoch is foreseen when Melbourne
will be a crimeless city, the underworld hav-
ing cancelled itself by a process of mutual
extermination. The history of similar uncivil
wars in the past supplies no ground tor
optimism, however. The tong wars in U.S.A.
reached such intensity that scores were killed
or wounded in a single night, and it was
unsafe for policemen to show themselves in
certain portion of the big cities after dark;
but all this didn’t work out for. righteousness.
The average crook is no picturesque John
Gilpin or hero of romance. He is a gent,
who likes to get his money Jus easily as he
can with the least danger to himself; and
when he has settled his internal disputes he
will return to snatching handbags from un-
suspecting grandmas and sandbagging solitary-
wayfarers in the parks. One reason why
he has been bestowing more attention on
people in the same line of business as him-
self is because the police have been giving
better protection to the public than it did
a while ago. The principal innovation in-
stalled in Melbourne of late years has been
the motor patrol in direct communication
by wireless telephone with headquarters.
Some amazing captures have been made by
this device; and so baleful has it proved
that magsmen are said to have started a
system of wireless interception and advice on
their own account. If Commissioner Blamey
acquires a few more of these patrols he
will do a lot more good than is likely to come
from waiting for the crooks to kill each other.
A.W.U. Bosses as Little Australians.
A significant item from the annual report
of the A.W.U.’s central branch, which covers
most of N. S. Wales :
In the past we have had innumerable stations not
bound, by any award, and, as a consequence, they
have been at liberty to pay rates to station-hands
below the award rates prescribed. Many employers
have not hesitated to take advantage of their not
being bound, and, unfortunately, employees in such
cases have been forced to accept low rates.
These bad employers are protected by tin;
fact that the Federal Arbitration Court,
the body that frames the awards under which
members of the central branch work,
has no power to make a common rule. When
the branch seeks a Federal award, as it did
recently in conjunction with branches in
other States, it has to go to the expense
of making thousands of individual pastoral-
ists parties to the proceedings. Those who
arc left out (and in the nature of things hun-
dreds- must be) are exempt from the wages
and working conditions fixed by the Judge,
and so are employers who enter the industry
after an award has been delivered. Union,
Judge and Parliament are shackled by para-
graph xxxv of section 51 of the Constitution
(“Conciliation and arbitration for the pre-
vention and settlement of industrial dis-
putes extending beyond the limits of any-
one State”), as interpreted by the High
Court. The Federal Government is asking
the people for industrial powers that would
admit of Arbitration Court proceedings being
greatly simplified and cheapened, and of
awards being made applicable to all the em-
ployers in an industry. Strangely enough,
the controllers of the A.W.U.’s central


NOTICE UNDER COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any articles or paragraphs on these pages that
require a signature, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb an
James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney, accept
the responsibility.
Safc&enve
“The Australia,” favored by leaders of world affairs ~
the centre of the social world —offering to every
traveller all that is best in comfort and service
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 14/6; Luncheon and
Dinner, from 4/-; Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/0. ,
Ti^ustralia
(Paid-up Capital, £iSS,IOO.)
THU HOTEL OP THE
'\>M MONW EALTH,
SYDNEY.
FRANCE
<5
V-N
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artelVs comes from Cognac only .
Martell's for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
police are not to be blamed. The real re-
sponsibility lies with the Governments which
have starved the forces, until the latter have
been driven to combine in order to get con-
ditions equal to those prevailing outside. But,
however produced, the position is wholly un-
satisfactory.
Presumably it is a sign of prosperity and
something to rejoice about that one insur-
ance co. recently sold to another a Sydney
property for £250,000—£2500 per foot front-
age, or about £35 per foot square. This is
three times what the speck would have
fetched at the beginning of the ceutury. The
Federal Government will now charge more
under its land-tax for the breaking-up of big
estates, the width of a door and a window
being a big estate when measured by price
and not by size. The city rates will increase.
The record established will help to heave
up adjacent land valuations, and there wall
be more land-tax and more rates. The ripples
of the tide of uplift will spread into the
suburbs, and the Pair Rents Court will sit
a trifle harder on the suburban cottage to
keep the rent down, wherefore the desire
to build suburban cottages for renting pur-
poses will be kept down also. Presumably
insurance will be a little dearer, more in-
come being spent in taxation. It is all very
gratifying, yet if N. S. Wales had. 10 mod-
erate-sixed cities instead of one giant, and
the highest land value was, say, £3OO per
foot, the quality of the insurance might be
quite as good.
♦
“OxmeAd”: The secesh movement in W.A.
is no new tiling. One comes along every few
years, abides its little hour, and flickers out
again. Between whiles there are spasmodic
branch, in spite of their organisation’s Fed-
eral traditions and of arguments for an affirm-
ative vote like the quoted extract, are bel-
ligerent Antis. They silenced general presi-
dent Jack Barnes, who had supported the
Industry and Commerce proposals > in the
Senate, and compelled him to put his name
to flamboyant No-No manifestoes. They
“instructed” their members, in the language
of masters to minions, to work as well as
vote in the Little Australian interest; in-
structed them also to finance the Anti cam-
paign by means of “voluntary levies,” until
warned by a decided fall in the temperature
that it wouldn’t do. Their annual report
slates that “concurrently with the case in
the Federal Court, application was made to
the N. S. Wales Industrial Commission for
a board for the pastoral industry, and also
for a conciliation committee,” whose award,
it is asserted, “will apply to sheds not bound
by the Federal award.” It would be far
cheaper and more satisfactory to give such
a referendum vote as would enable the
Federal Arbitration Court to make its awards
effective. In the light of the High CourCs
judgment in the 44-liour week case, there is
no certainty that State awards in indus-
tries already regulated, to a greater or lesser
extent, by Federal awards will be worth
the paper they are typed on. In as far as
they conflict with Federal awards they will
assuredly be valueless. The same is true
of State enactments conflicting with Federal
awards. So, whatever happens on September
4, it will be impossible for unionists to play
off one tribunal against another, or to pick
the choice bits out of Federal and State
awards and enactments, although the No-
No push are feeding them with such fancies.
The A.W.U. has had some queer leaders since
Donald Macdonell died, and Spence and
Lamong were pushed out. The bosses who
are “instructing” N. S. Wales members of
the union to vote No-No —one of them is
Bailey, whom the A.L.P. disqualified for
life over the affair of the ballot-box with the
sliding panel—were responsible three years
ago for the strike against the Powers award.
On that occasion, as on this, they mingled
lavish promises with peremptory “instruc-
tions,” but their strike was a fiasco. It cost
the union thousands of disgusted pastoral
workers and nearly £50,000 in hard cash.
James Kei.l, governor of the Commonwealth
Bank, has told the Government that he will
not seek reappointment in October. The
institution will lose a thoroughly sound
banker, of exceptionally good judgment, and
well trained for his job. He is not always
an easy man to work with ; having made up
his mind he is not readily moved. That,
however, is not entirely a defect: a man who
is paid £4OOO a year for his opinions ought
to be expected to fight for them. Still, it
has produced a certain amount of friction,
the bank having a board which is also paid
for its opinions. Some time ago Tiie Bul-
letin said that there was an uneasy feeling
that the Government might be induced to
bring in to the position, should it become
vacant, one who is not a banker; and if
there is still any idea of that sort it ought to
be promptly dropped. If it were a good thing
to do, some other bank would certainly have
done it before this; but The Bulletin
knows of no case where a board has even
thought of taking such a l'isk.
The Appointments Board of the Sydney Uni.
has issued its annual report. Gradgrind
parents often ask, "What practical value has
an academic training outside the few learned
professions—so called?” Such parents are
not as up to -date as the modern University
is. It has so widened its sphere that it not
only provides training in the professions of
law, medicine, engineering, architecture and
allied branches, but equips graduates for soap-
making and the manufacture of jams, motor-
bodies, sauces and boot polish. The function
of the Appointments Board is to bring the
graduates and undergrads, in touch with the
professional, commercial .and industrial life
of the community, and help them to secure
places for which their acquirements fit them.
A register is opened for the names of gradu-
ates and students who seek openings. Last
year 54 names were added to the list, an
increase of 22 upon the previous year, and
bringing the total since inception to 152.
Of the 54 no fewer than 32 were suitably
placed, a fact which testifies to the useful-
ness of the work that is being done.
The decision of the N. S. Wales Government
to give the police access to the State arbitra-
tion tribunal has been forecasted for some
time. What will it mean? A soldier of the
Permanent Forces cannot logically be kept
out of the industrial tribunals if John Hop
is admitted; and what then? Queensland’s
police force, with its stop-work meeting of
last year, and the dangerous Victorian police
strike have given the community an inkling
of what is possible when any such body
enters the industrial Donnybrook. But the
REAL CHRISTIAN SCIENCE.
“All sickness does not spring from organic disorders. Very often it is the result of some deep
discontent or disappointment at not getting the things we desire." —English medical opinion.
DOCTOR : “Your wife is very ill. Here is my prescription, take it”
HUSBAND: “To the chemist?”
DOCTOR: “No, to the costumiere. It is for four new frocks.”
agitations for separation—-from the State,
not the Commonwealth —by outlying parts,
and indignation meetings are held that de-
nounce the Perth Government even more
viciously than the Perth secessionists de-
nounce the Melbourne one. After these
periodical ebullitions everyone feels better,
and the orators, or most of them, go back
to work again. Curiously, the most vigorous
insurrectionary movement ever started in the
West, also the one in which most money was
collected and ink spilled and inflammatory
talk indulged in, had for its object getting
into the Union and not getting out of it.
It was called the “Separation-for-Federa-
tion” campaign, or crusade, and made quite
a stir on the easteni goldfields in 1899-1900.
At that time the old Groper element and the
coast generally viewed Federation with a
rather dubious eye, and the malcontents at
Kalgoorlie and Boulder demanded that if
Big John Forrest wouldn’t submit the Fed-
eration Bill to the people, they should be
allowed to split off from the rest of the
colony, as it then was, and form a province
of their own so that they could join the
Union and leave the coastal part to fry in
its own juice. The “Separation-for-Federa-
tion” crowd even scut a delegate to London
to put their case before somebody in autho-
rity, and the envoy was subsequently de-
scribed by some base detractor as having got
ns far as the “fifth doormat of the
Colonial Office. Finally the bottom was
knocked out of “Separation-for-L ederation
when Forrest decided to send the lull to the
people, and W.A. voted itself into tlie Union
by a substantial majority. Most ot the men
who were ready to split Westralia in halves
in their eagerness to get into Federation are
dead, but at least some of the survivors are
to be found in the little group of reaction-
aries that has collected £ll2 toward cast-
tag off tl,” Federal shackles," “wrenching
free from the Melbourne (or Canberra) octo-
pus,” and so on.
. ♦
“M.G.S.”: “Picture, chaste subject, suitable
for bedroom.” Ever since I saw in a Melbourne
paper that advt. of a firm which specialises
in furnishing love-nests for newly-married
couples I have been wondering what that
chaste subject is. Is it that photograph ot
an unprepossessing female clad in a prepos-
terous veil or the standing one with the
bloated Crusader’s sword artfully arranged
to circumvent the indecency laws? Ihese
specimens are evidently chaste our curate
has an example of each. They sell by the
million, even under the nose of the Comstock
laws of the U.S.A. Behind the vogue there
seems to be a notion that a nude photo is
polite while a nude painting argues a lewd-
eyed ’artist squatting in front of a naked
model to the detriment of Ins morals. While
reproductions of the fine pictures ot the Pans
salons and the statuary of ancient Greece
have to be ordered from abroad, every Aus-
tralian bookshop stocks albums of nude
photographs “for the use of artists As an
ex-student of Julius Ashton’s life-class, I
am prepared to bet no artist of that group
ever used them; they merely exploit the pub-
lic’s smug idea that photography is
chaste. A Melbourne art-shop which pre-
viously confined itself to pictures of kooka-
burras is attracting increased attention since
it put in its windows “art” photographs or
chilly-looking females in the altogether. A
similar display of painted flesh would have
brought down the disapproval of the public,
if not a visit from the police. Yet no worse
medium exists for portraying nudity than
the camera’s unwinking eye, as _ the cinema-
producers have discovered to their grief. _ v»o
camera has yet been invented that combined
the. self-restraint of a Burne-Jones with the
passion for the ideal of a Myron. Levelled
at the human form divine, it only helps to
betray that form’s earthy inadequacy.
The recent argument between the British
and American Treasury departments over
the question of Britain’s debt to America,
which most people had thought was finally
settled, has some peculiar features. Chief
of these is America’s apparently fixed belief
that, though John Bull has contracted to
make a huge annual payment for 62 years
till principal and interest are repaid, he is
not such a darned fool as to do anything of
the sort. The comment of one American
journal of standing on this aspect of the
matter is typical: “That England, France,
Italy and Belgium will continue for the next
02 years to meet the annual payments im-
posed, no one in his senses believes. ’. A\ hicn
means in his American senses, of course.
The underlying idea seems to be that a new
generation will repudiate the contracts made
by its predecessor. Certainly that is what
has happened in several of the sovereign
States of the U.S.A. as regards cash bor-
rowed from Britain. But the Briton has a
reputation for keeping to his business commit-
ments which has stood the test of several
hundred years; and even at the cost of prov -
ing Uncle Shylock a bad prophet he will
probably stand up to the strain for another
60.
*
“Clerk!” : The inauguration of a Safety
Council in the A r ic. railways indicates that
Chief Commissioner Clapp is settling down
none too soon, to a tussle with his accident
problem. Last year 2517 of his employees
came off second best in various misadven-
tures (an average of eight a day), and this
involved the department in no less than
£25,000 for sick pay and compensation, lfie
new Safety Council, which comprises
Holmes, chairman of the Betterment Board,
and nine representative foremen and engi-
neers, will meet regularly to discuss ways
and means of securing safety in . working,
and to receive reports and suggestions from
sub-committees which are being established
at every workshop and depot in the State.
—♦
“Innisfailure” : When I came to the North
first, more than 10 years ago, the canecutter
looked down on the “squeezer,” or millliand,
in much- the same manner as a duke might
look upon a Commoner. As to being die--
tated to by the squeezer, he would just as
soon think of allowing a blackfellow s dog
to eat from the same plate as himself. But
things have changed of late, especially in t,ie
South Johnstone area. On pain of being
declared black, the squeezers have forbidden
the cutters to do various things, such as
working overtime or outside the hours be-
tween six and six. But the. millhand sees
no harm in doing a bit over himself; in fact,
he looks for it and thinks he has a grievance
if he doesn’t get it. The cause of the cut-
ter’s fall from his high estate is, of course,
the extinction or thereabouts of the Britisher
in the canefields. If the cutters were about
70 per cent. British, and the millhands at-
tempted to bind them down to working hours
which in summer time means loading cane
when the temperature is 120 degrees, the
bulldog spirit would be liable to rise, and
they would probably down knives for two or
three weeks —the longest period that a
squeezer will willingly remain divorced from
his pay envelope.
*
A new terror is threatening the Australian
sheep industry in addition to those recently
outlined in The Bulletin. Four years ago
the French Government secured the services
of Professor Monkey-gland A t oronoff to make
experiments in improving the standard ot
the nondescript Algerian flocks by gland
grafting or otherwise. Glands from tne
choicest French sheep were grafted on a
special Algerian flock of some thousands,
and the result is sending chapeaux flying m
the air. Already it is declared by the sober-
est authorities that the new stock are a vast
improvement on their parents, and the people
in charge of the joke are ready to bet in
real money and not francs—that they will
soon have sheep 25 p.c. bigger than the
present stock and carrying 33 J p.c. more
wool to the square sheep, so to speak. IHe
French, always logical, are thinking m coin
figures. There are 30 million sheep in
France, Morocco, Algeria and the Sudan, lo
put 25 p.c. on to these in meat and 3 Si p.c.
in wool would mean that France could supply
her own wool and cotelcttes d agneau. Then
it would be a bos the foreign exchange, and
adieu Aiistralie!
♦-
“Tarago” : Commissioner Clapp made a bad
break when he bellowed from the housetops his
intention to scrap all the 10-ton trucks on the
Vic. railways, and replace them with vehicles
of 20 and 40 tons capacity. In every little
Main-street town cockies met to denounce
the proposal, and the resolutions they gassed
about were accepted as a godsend by the
country correspondent of the Melbourne
dailies, always hard up for copy. About 17
years ago the six-ton truck was just as com-
mon on the Vic. railways as the 10-ton
truck is to-day, but it faded out quietly
before Tait, the Canadian railway boss, fin-
ished his term of commissionership; and no-
body noticed it go. Had Clapp adopted
Tait’s silent policy, the 10-tonner would have
slipped into the limbo without fuss. But. he
must do everything at the top of his voice.


[For any paragraphs on this page
signature under the Electoral Law, J.
George-street, Sydney, and M. G.
Flinders-street, Melbourne, accept the
that require a
E. Webb, 214
Skipper, 154
responsibility.]
For perfect, soft light without
glare ask for a Condor ' f Opalite”
lamp and safeguard your eyesight
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143.5 York Street • Sydney 493 Collin* Street, Melbourne
16 Chesser Street - Adelaide Exton Hse., Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
1
J>
r
Sr/
;
" The little lamp
•with the big light*
POLITICAL
POINTS
Stopgap Senator Barwell, who commands
the Tory wing of the S. Aus. No-noers,
asserted in Adelaide last week that “if the
additional powers asked for were granted
they might just as well scrap the present
Constitution, and start again under a system
of unification, as had been pointed out by
Lord Bryce.” If Lord Bryce said this he
must be revisiting the glimpses of the moon,
for he died in June, 1923. But he did say in
his greatest work that “the American Con-
stitution,” on which ours was modelled, “has
changed, is changing, and by the law of its
existence must continue to change.” When
he wrote that, 15 amendments had been added
to the U.S. Constitution in 100 years, and
there have been four more since.
Bruce has announced a proper determina-
tion to abstain from personalities in the
referendum campaign; but Arthur Robin-
son's personal interest in opposing the exten-
sion of Commonwealth powers to deal with
trusts and combines is a subject that might
quite properly be mentioned. When the
Tariff Board a year ago was considering
agricultural implements, M. J. Rodney, of
the International Harvester Co., and A. T.
Patterson, of the Massey-Harris Co. —both
suspected of being wings of a colossal trust
—appeared before the board. Their replies to
questions concerning their companies' turn-
over, profits, income-tax. etc., were a mono-
tonous repetition of “On the advice of my
attorney, Sir Arthur Robinson, I decline to
answer that question.” The powers now
asked for may or may not compel the giving
of information required where questions of
the adequate protection of Australian indus-
try are under consideration; but the pro-
minence amongst the “Noes” of a gentleman
so pronouncedly associated with these and
other big foreign concerns, like the Vacuum
Oil Co., is hardly an advertisement for the
“No” cause.
Opening the N.S.W. A.L.P. campaign
against the referendum proposals at Bal-
main the other night, Mahony, M.H.R.,
told his audience that, while Labor stood
for law and order, if it found its opponents
refusing to let law and order prevail, it
would adopt “stronger measures.” Mahony
ought to know better than talk this dangerous
nonsense. It is less than a year since simi-
lar threats from the disastrous Garden and
Donald Grant started the avalanche that
overwhelmed the Federal Labor Party. It is
only a few months since the same inflam-
matory rubbish roused the people of Britain
to crush an incipient insurrection disguised
as a strike. Here it would certainly swing
thousands of hesitating voters into the ranks
of “Yes.”
The N.S.W. tribunal appointed to adjudi-
cate upon claims under the Workers’ Com-
pensation Act has made its first guess at
what the Badly-Lang puzzle means. The
body finds it doesn’t mean what tens of
thousands of workers were encouraged to be-
lieve it meant; in fact, if the Commissions
guess is right and it goes on guessing the
same way, N.S.W. workers have been sold
a large-sized pup. The whole trouble lies in
Lang's amazing conceit. Britain has a
Workers’ Compensation law and so has
Queensland, and both have been run-
ning for years; so the Courts have pretty
well settled what every phrase in those
measures means. But Lang couldn’t follow
either of those measures ; he had to produce
one of his own, just different enough from
both of them to cause doubt and confusion
and mislead the workers into thinking that
tremendous things were being done for them.
S. Aus. is finding the totalisator very
useful these times. Last year the State
got £80,364 in tax and £2588 in un-
claimed divs., while fractions amount-
ing to £4949 went to charities. Yet there
is far less racing in South Aus. than in
Sydney, and the Government is content with
COMING ON.
“Good-bye. Cobham, old man. I’ll make a pair of my own soon and drop in on you.”
5 p.c., plus unclaimed divs. The N. S. Wales
Government exacts 9 p.c.—and sees its re-
ceipts dwindling every year. By being too
greedy it drives clubs and punters to take
an unhealthy interest in McSliortodds (un-
registered in South Aus.), who pays no
9 p.c. or anything like it.
“Caucasian” (Port Darwin) : There was a
good crowd of people waiting on Mindjl
Beach when Cobham landed on August 5.
Practically all the Chinese in Darwin were
there, also the abos. and half-castes, but the
sprinkling of whites looked as scanty as the
plums in a purchased pudding. Given an-
other 10 years of isolation and drift, and
Darwin’s population will be olive-white, with
the slant eye and scanty black hair of their
Mongolian parents. It was a poor sort of
welcome to the intrepid aviator —to be met,
at the front door of Australia, by a hybrid
mob, the colored people mingling indiscrimi-
nately with the few white folk, and, indeed,
elbowing the latter from points of vantage.
Sydney City Council having again shown
signs of acquiring a coal-mine, the A.L.P.
executive is considering the advisability of
squelching the proposal. In a virtuous voice,
it has pointed out that the Council was
eager last time to buy a £12,000 hole for
£60,000, and it might be moved to similar
generosity on this occasion. Ratepayers, at
any rate, may get some comfort from the
knowledge that one lot of er —experts is
watching the other lot.
Another Queensland institution has shown
a bold front to the union bushranger, and,
as usual in such instances, has come out on
top. Brisbane tramway employees flouted a
Board of Trade award, and demanded special
terms under threat of a strike. The Greater
Brisbane Council, which is running the
trams, called the bluff, and applied to the
Board of Trade to delete the preference-to-
unionists clause in the award. The Board
called a compulsory conference, and the
union, scenting the nasty hut inevitable alter-
native, surrendered —work is to carry on
while disputed matters are discussed by the
parties.
Circumstances have forced Vic. Premier
John Allan to take the railway portfolio,
after all. Honorary Minister Mackrell, who
is sec. to the Parliamentary Cocky party,
will help him. Eggleston will hold on to
the Law and Electricity portfolios. It will
now devolve on Allan to sign the Order-in-
Council providing for higher freights, and
it may be depended that lie won't agree to
much more than will wipe out last year’s
deficit (£200,000) and allow a margin of
£50,000 or £70,000 this year. In May in-
creases of £130,000 a year on suburban fares
were authorised, and they will stand.
There was a suspicion among Vic. Mini-
sterial supporters that the Allancocks did
not unduly exert themselves to get in income-
tax by June 30. The figures show that at
the end of the financial year £192,342 was
outstanding in income-tax and £40,941 in
land-tax, as compared with £134,147 and
£27.620 in June, 1925. If the arrears had
all been paid up, there would still have
been a deficit of £142,000 on the consolidated
revenue. As it was. there was a shortage
of £375,000, including £200,000 on railways.
Groves, the Nat.-Cocky Whip in Vic.
Assembly, is finding that constant vigilance is
the price of hi* Cabinet’s safety. As the
Assembly was about to adjourn for the
week, the Speaker, at Allan s signal, put
the customary motion that the remainder o*
the business be postponed till the next day
of sitting. Thinking it had the numbers.
Labor called for a division. It had just
beaten the Government on BrownbiH s bill
permitting State employees to nominate toi
Parliament without resigning their jobs,
unless elected, and reckoned it could repeat
the knock. Groves managed to muster enough
to make a tie (25 to 25) and Speaker Bow-
ser voted for the Ministry. Once more the
Cabinet was “safe till Tuesday.
Nothing lias lashed the stalwarts of Labor
in N.S.W. to such fury lately as the lanft
Board's suggestion that trade unions should
guarantee that bushranging attempts at
wage-increases should stop. Oxygen had
to be administered to some of them when
the board also asked for assurances that
no action would be taken which would defeat
the effect of increased duties. Ihc scorn
and horror with which the suggestions were
received merely illustrate once more the
necessity for giving the Federal authority
which lias control of the customs tariff con-
trol also of industrial conditions, lo sepa-
rate the two is like making the engine-driver
boss of the engine and the fireman Lord
Cockalorum of the brakes.
Premier Meighen, of Canada, has brought
up the question of the Governor s status,
which has interested Premier Lang of N.fe. vY.
so much. The Canuck told his audience that
if a Governor or G.-G. had to sign every-
thing put before him, he thereby allowed the
Government to deny its answerability to Par-
liament and made the Government superior
to Parliament. The very idea seemed to
shock the simple Canadian terribly. But
Meighen isn’t a Labor leader. In Cornwall
they say that a man gets religion so that he
needn’t be a Christian, and in Australia it
looks as though nowadays a man becomes a
Labor leader so that he needn’t be a demo-
crat.
The British coal-miners and the men who
own and manage the mines got together last
week, and parted without any good being
done. Perhaps the parties disliked each other
a little more after than before, in which case
some harm was done. The Government s
share in the business lias been to legalise
an eight-hours day (previously seven hours
was fixed by law) and wait events. It says
it is willing to talk with the parties if invited,
but nobody invites it. There is nothing to
talk about—for tivo reasons. One is that
Baldwin and Co. will not commit the Treas-
ury to pay a permanent definite subsidy on
each ton of coal produced, and the other
is that they won’t nationalise the mines, as
that would mean paying an indefinite per-
manent subsidy. Nothing seems likely to
shove coal prices and wages up to war level
again except another war, and no one can
afford another war just now.
The Greater Sydney Bill is to come on
early, and Premier Lang is understood to
adhere to his theory that the establishment of
Greater Sydney makes it unnecessary to
inquire into the many alleged municipal
scandals of Smaller Sydney under f the rule
of his party friends. This is interesting, for
it implies that, if a man greatly enlarges
his house, it ends investigation into alleged
crimes done in the original cramped premises.
If there should chance to be surreptitious
human remains in the cellar of the old place,
this oblivion would come in handy.
General Gellibrand, accounted by the
A.I.F. one of its brainiest soldiers, told the
House of Reps, last week that, at the pre-
sent rate, it would take 3000 years to com-
plete Australia’s defence. It all depends.
Unless this country makes a few changes,
it will be put on a sound defensive basis
long before that. But not by Australians.
Where the bad foreigner is concerned, the
Federal Government is far too easy. Lately
a vicious Russian was let loose from Fre-
mantle gaol. lie was first shut up in 1917 for
breaking and entering, but escaped, to com-
mit a serious robbery. When arrested for
that his attempt to shoot got him 10 years.
After another try at escaping, he headed a
gaol mutiny in which firearms were used and
two warders wounded. In spite of all
that, being now released, he has been granted
a certificate entitling him to remain in Aus-
tralia for 12 months.
The Federal Parliament adjourned, pro-
bably till the Prime Minister returns from
England, leaving one small applicant with
very little satisfaction. Tasmania is in dire
straits, and a sum of £378,000 for its benefit
is included in the States’ Grants Bill. This
bill, unfortunately, was left unfinished in
the hurry. So the island Treasurer is in-
formed that if he likes he may include the
£378,000 as revenue and make his accounts
look better. Then if the bill passes he may-
be pretty right, and if it doesn’t pass he will
feel as though he was giving a second per-
formance of his railway smash.
THE VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, north and south our boundaries run, and like-
wise east and west,
Their limitations till with joy the smug parochial
breast.
The while my memory wanders back to other days
than these
When there were men who looked beyond our foolish
boundaries.
They did not ladle out to us the sorry parish pap ;
They did not bow them low before the inkmarks on
the map;
They did not strive to catch us at our meanest and
our worst;
But (was it in their ignorance?) they put Australia
first 1
Theirs were the thoughts a continent, flung far
and wide, inspires;
But there are those to-day who only think in States
or shires.
What do they care if they can pose as captain of
the ship,
Their own poor paltry little barque—and let Australia
rip?
It may be they were not so shrewd, those men
whose voices cried
Of old; they’d simple seem to-day who poor so often
died.
The faith they held would but evoke derision now,
or mirth,
But it may be Australia yet will realise their worth.
For far beyond the parish pump they saw their
splendid goal;
They looked into the future and they saw' Australia
whole.
Some still their inspiration draw from these long-
vanished men.
There was a vision once. Who knows ? —it may
return again.
But east and west our boundaries run, and likewise
north and south.
Things to regard with awe-filled eyes, and widely
gaping mouth.
Grim boundaries and border lines that never shall
be crossed
Unless we chance to find again the vision that is
lost.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


H
9-la
<2
Wasted Energy.
Transmitting power with a slipping belt is
like trying to fill a sieve with water. Equip
your plant with belts that grip and last.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
“will never shirk the hardest work.”
Manufactured only by
T. C. LUDOWICI ®. SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Me Kell and
Sons, Tinipson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards Sc
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christctiurcn.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production ot
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES,
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916. . £34,789 9 p.c. =£ 14,136 £20,653 £96,248
1917.. 36,016 101 „ „ 16,492 19,524 115,772
1918.. 37,605 10 „ „ 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59,296
Reserves disappeared, £164 . . 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
to capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. = 24,321 17,468 94,715
1921.. 40,005 8 „ „ 25,098 14,907 109,022
1922.. 39,931 8 ~ ~ 25,098 14,833 124,455
June,
1923.. 25,993 8 „ „ 16,732 9,261 133,716
1924.. 40,282 8 „ „ 25,098 15,184 148,900
1925.. 40,158 84,, „ 26,667 13,491 162,391
1926.. 41,356 94 „ „ 29,803 11,553 173,944
It is six and a half years since the last gift
issue, and shareholders expected to hear
something to their advantage at the annual
meeting. Their disappointment was softened
by a final div. at the rate of 10 p.c., making
p.c. for the year. Very little of the
scrip is loose, and the buying quote of 295.
for the £1 shares (265. 6d. for those
paid to 17s. 6d.) lias been without even a
response for a long time. Sales are few and
far between. Last year’s profit was better
than that of recent years; the best, in fact,
with the exception of the record figures of
1920. The bigger div. took less than three-
quarters of the amount disclosed, so that
the 10 p.c. offers no difficulties. Visible re-
serves at June 60 were at their highest point
and the internal strength is reputed to be
considerable, despite the heavy showers of
bonus issues: capital in 1910 was £51,900;
on June 30 last it was £313,724, the whole
of the additions being capitalisations.
Intercolonial's keen management has
missed few of the opportunities which the
past 15 years have offered. Its chief activi-
ties are the subdivision of suburban land and
the financing of house-purchasers, and the
long run of loan-inflated years, brightened
by the real prosperity of our primary indus-
tries, has brought rich returns to the co.
And now the steady expansion in manufac-
turing, if it is not spragged by experimental
and punitive legislation, should result in fur-
ther grist being brought to the mill. Not
only is the co. doing well from the point of
profit-earning, but it is almost self-sufficient
in its financing, a noint in its favor that
helps to explain the popularity of the shares.
At June 30 outside liabilities were a mere
£lB.OBB. of which £15,446 consisted of de-
posits. Here are chief balance-sheet items
since 1915 :
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915. , £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1921.. 15,057 305,515 74,788 86,318
1922.. 17,404 360,990 67,837 55,805
1923.. 20,098 368,737 73,854 56,378
1924.. 25,044 379,429 94,786 54,103
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 -44,271
1926.. 18,088 412,463 85,185 47,694
Creditors at June 20 were covered more than
twice over by cash and public securities
alone. Advances and freehold properties are
well protected, according to report; but
although provision is made for contingencies
by writing down, no amount is specified.
Allowing for outside liabilities and the final
div., but disregarding all internal resources,
tangible assets at June 30 amounted to
£487,668, equal to 31s. Id. for each £ of
capital.
The Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.,
which carries Broken Hill to the S. Aus.
railway system at Cockburn (the table is
from the time of the last reconstruction, in
which assets were written up and reserves
drawn on to permit of £250,000 of scrip
being handed to shareholders) :
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1921.. £18,834 24 p.c.— £12.500 £6,334 £35,432
1922.. 54,080 7§ „ ~ 37,500 16,580 52,012
1923.. 83,112 13 J „ „ 68,750 14,362 66,374
1924.. 90,557 20 „ „ 100,000 56,931
1925.. 81,514 111 „ „ 56,250 25,264 82.195
1926.. 76,603 15 „ „ 75,000 1,603 83,798
It was a good profit, considering the difficul-
ties. There was, first of all, the serious
water shortage of last summer which slowed
down mining production. There were the
shipping strikes, and a foray by the local
horsedrivers. The English coal strike, which
still drags on, has seriously interfered with
the regular shipment of zinc concentrates.
And, to round off the list of troubles, the
44-hour week and the increase in the cost-
of-living index figures which govern wages
at Broken Hill levied toll. As against those
adverse items the directors say that various
economies have been effected which will help
to minimise the loss, though it is not particu-
larly obvious in the accounts. Rates and
taxes certainly were £1284 lower and general
exes, a trifle less, but traffic and running
exes., maintenance, management and repairs
were £3208 heavier than in 1925. Share-
holders, however, got 15 p.c. for the year—
sufficient to take the sting out of most ordi-
nary troubles. And as the last watering, in
1920, was one for one, holders haven’t to be
too old to accept the trials and tribulations
philosophically. To those who followed the
enterprising few who started the venture in
1886 the scrip has been relatively richer
than the mines which later developed into
the world-famous Barrier group. Apart
from the fact that only £46,800 of the pre-
sent paid capital of half a million was put
up in cash (the promoters got £16,000 in
fully-paids), shareholders have had a riotous
time : in the years prior to the big capitalisa-
tion divs. of 80 p.c. were not unusual.
Finances at .Tune 30 were easy, despite
the substantial increase in liabilities: —
1918. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £46,250 £98,271 £67,264 £102,241
Fixed assets . . 204,346 434,795 444,776 462,348
Fuel awl stores 39,926 51,854 54,181 4 9,563
Sundry debtors 55.399 84,288 78,262 66,666
Cash, etc. . . 117,793 84,265 73,073 111,762
Another year has passed, and Broken Hill
seems no nearer the end. Every time a pro-
phet arises and thunders the date of the
field’s demise, the diamond drill stabs a
new ore body, the funeral is postponed and
Silverton Tram shareholders get in another
wad of bank deposit slips. North and South
and Zinc Corp. are proving that the field is
in its second youth, and the drill on Southern
Lode Continuation has bitten into an 18ft.
body of ore which may or may not mean
something more than Pitt-street enthusi-
asm. Anyway, so long as Broken Hill lives
as a mining field Silverton Tram will have
prospects. Although the co.’s line is only
a 36-mile link with the S. Australian system
its traffic is through traffic, and the heavy
mine traffic to the Port Piifie smelters looks
like lasting to the end. It may be that the
N. S. Wales Government will talk purchase
when the line from Sydney to Broken Hill is
at last completed. But the Act governing
the co. provides that 21 times the annual
profit for the preceding seven years shall be
the consideration —enough to make any ordi-
nary Cabinet shy off purchase. It is true
also that the Government may continue the
Sydney-Condobolin-Broken Hill line through
to the' S.A. border ; but if it does it wall not
get much.' trade, because that would involve
transhipment from the standard to the
narrow, gauge ,at Cockburn. The market
isn’t worrying it considers the shares good
buying, at 295. 6d.
# * * *
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong),
wool-brokers and salesmen of pastoral and
agricultural products (the co. started with a
deficit of £51.765, representing goodwill
£50,000 and preliminary exes.) :
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1916. . £11,500 7 p.c. = £10,500 £lOOO £50,867
1917.. 14,995 7 ~ ~ 10,500 4495 46.372
1918.. 14.479 7 „ „ 10,500 3979 42,393
1919.. 17,146 7 ~ „ 10,500 6646 35,747
1920.. 20,274 7 „ „ 10.500 9774 25.973
1921.. 11,518 7 „ ~ 10,500 1018 24.955
1922.. 1 0,83 S 7 „ ~ 10,500 5338 19,617
1923.. 17,841 7 „ ~ 10,500 7341 12,276
1924.. 15,313 7 „ „ 10,500 4813 7,463
Reserves.
1925.. 21,676 7 „ ~ 12.030 9646 2,183
1926.. 18,801 7 „ ~ 14,000 4801 6,984
The new capital raised in the previous year
was at work for the whole of the term, so
the profit was by no means glittering. Wool
turnover was “much larger,” and livestock
handlings were equal to those of the preced-
ing year, but the directors declare that those
two advantages were more than offset by the
fall in produce values and the prolonged
wool-selling period. Certainly those factors
operated, but their influence appears to have
been greater in the case of Dennys, Lascelles
than with other wool firms operating in Vic-
toria. The co. isn’t assisted by having its
headquarters at Geelong; the policy of Bloat
doesn’t help the decentralisers. The foun-
ders were among the early business pioneers
of the Victorian back country. When the
Mallee was looked upon as something' little
better than waste land, Lascelles saw its
possibilities. To-day the area is thriving;
but very little of the improvement is reflected
in the accounts of the firm whose founders
did the spade-work. Indeed, progress has
been very slow. In 1914 profits amounted
to £14,470, and on several occasions have been
relatively greater than those disclosed at June
30. The difficulties experienced in some dis-
tricts of Victoria last summer may have
played a part, although the report makes no
mention of it. In any case, the general pros-
perity has been such that something out of
the ordinary might reasonably have been ex-
pected. Gross profits last year were higher
than for the opulent 12 months which pre-
ceded it (the new capital helped there, of
course), but exes bolted:—
Gross Profits Salaries Other
and Commissions, and Wages. Expenses.
1920.. £55,356 £20,245 £14,836
1921.. 45,514 38,917 15,079
1922 56.026 23,570 16,618
1923 . 57,731 22,449 17,441
1924.. 58,174 23,709 19,151
1925.. 74,946 27,678 25,592
1926.. 85,710 35,030 31,879
The office axe needs a keen edge if that dis-
quieting growth is to be cut back; unless
it is checked a run of poor seasons would
see even the modest 7 p.c. not earned.
Balance-sheet movement last year were
unimportant:—
1921. 1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
£ £ £ £ £
Liabilities 109,006 88,618 119,143 246,005 200,174
Property and
plant .. 82,197 87,002 92,878 95,866 98,988
Stock . . 4,682 3,309 7,222 15,650 20,881
Book debts 148,008 137,357 163,006 337,802 290,591
Cash, etc. 4,474 3,923 3,824 3,879 3,698
Bank overdrafts were £34,407 lighter, and
other floating debt £11,474 less than at June
30, 1925; £l4OO is represented by a mort-
gage. The freeholds item was added to by
£3280. Liquid and semi-liquid assets at the
close of the 1925 accounts were £112,676 in
excess of liabilities, excluding the mortgage;
at June 30 last the liquid surplus was
£116,396. Progress is slow; very slow con-
sidering the past two years of high prices
and fat cheques to primary producers, and
the increased commission earnings which re-
sulted therefrom. But, as latest sales. of the
shares were at 235., the market is evidently
satisfied with the outlook.
William Adams and Co., Ltd., engineers
and contractors, headquarters in Sydney,
branches in all mainland capitals;—
, Dividends \ Writ-
Pref. ten
Apl., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. Off. Deficit.
1917. . £12,412 £1303 7 p.c. = £5,035 £1484 £592
Reserves.
1918.. 27,420 1750 10 „ „ 7,719 1731 15,628
1919.. 22,794 1750 10 ~ ~ 14,690 2206 19,776
War-time Profits Tax, £5887 .. 13,889
1920.. 12,962 1750 10 p.c. = 17,188 2055 5,858
War-time Profits Tax refund, £740.. 6,598
1921.. 28,919 1750 10 p.c. = 22,194 2203 9,370
1922.. 2,598 1750 24 „ ~ 5,598 3350 1,2/0
Loss. 34 p.c. " Deficit.
1923.. 47,406 875 Nil Nil 47,011
Capital written off . . £45,000 2,011
Profits. 7 p.e. Reserves.
1924.. 6,287 1750 Nil „ 1 i 65 i
Arrears of pref. divs. . . £875 ( ’
1925.. 6,181 1750' 24 p.c. = 4,500 1,582
1926.. 14,411 1750 5 „ ~ 9,000 £>>243
Notwithstanding that the divs. took only
two-thirds of the profits, results, though
better than in recent years, were still far
from brilliant. Reserves were calling loudly
for attention : they are very meagre along-
side capital of £205,000. not to mention the
big sums of other people’s money the co. has
at risk. Consider these figures :
1921. 1924. 1,925. 1926.
Paid capital. . £248,224 £205,000 £205,000 £205,000
Liabilities . . 230,464 232,338 229,288 257,553
Freeholds .. 76,006 90.252 92,750 98,300
Plant, etc. . . 22,742 24,337 24,207 24,173
Stocks . . 244,006 150,214 146,479 149,321
Book debts .. 135,804 152,340 162,485 190,289
Cash, shares, etc. 21,555 24,471 15,324 11,088
Increased turnover is responsible for the in-
crease in liabilities and for the correspond-
ing expansion in book debts. Of the out-
side indebtedness £77,081 was owing to the
co.’s. bankers, £BOOO on mortgage and
£172,472 was down to trading accounts.
Still there is promise in the bigger figures,
provided the worker will co-operate with liis
employer. Unless adequate reserves are accu-
mulated —and that can only be done out of
profits —-development must be retarded, as the
directors point out. If a policy based on a
recognition of that fact by employees as well
as employers is followed, the co. (and its
workers) will have some chance when the
lean times come—if they do not come too
soon. In the past distributions have been
close up to earnings where they have not
actually exceeded them, and the consequence
can be seen by glancing at the 1923 entries
in the introductory table: when a loss was
then registered, capital had to be written
off to clean up the mess. The co.’s experi-
ence in manufacturing has been full of
trouble. It purchased a controlling interest
in a Melbourne brass foundry on the eve of
the slump, and in January, 1924, it had to
close down and realise the assets. It had
been losing on that venture and on its Sydney
engineering works also. Re-organisation in
1925 placed the Sydney works on a profit-
earning basis, and then the 44-hour week
was announced. Now the cost of the new
workers’ compensation is being counted.
There is no talk of loss, however, and not
only are the works “exceedingly busy,”- but
arrangements have been made with one of
the co.’s American principals to manufacture
certain machinery under license. So far
the co. is turning out portion of its require-
ments at prices comparable with landed costs,
and it rests mainly with the labor team in-
side the works and the politicians outside
whether the co. will now go on to bigger
things. The directors are, like wise men,
accepting the position thrust upon them, and
on that basis plan further developments, but
shareholders should not look for any but
very modest returns until reserves have been
built up.
*.* * *
Wentworth Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, Reserves, serves.
1920. . £15,359 10 p.c. = £3500 £11,859 £5.453
1921.. 8,698 10 „ „ 3500 5,198 10,651
1922.. 9,672 10 ~ „ 3500 6,1i2 16,823
1923.. 5,761 10 „ „ 3500 2,261 19.054
1924 4,3-43 10 ~ „ 3500 94b 20,027
1925.. 5» io;;"5000. 571 20,593
1926.. 5,008 10 ~ „ 5000 3 20,606
It appears to be the old story of increased
costs getting a flying start. The additions
to the hotel were fully availed of, and some-
thing decent was expected from the increasea
patronage, but the 44-hour week threw anti-
cipations askew. “The elapse of time has
scarcely been sufficient in which to recover
the increased overhead,” says the managing
director. When that was written the inci-
dence of the new workers’ compensation was
known, and although its effect in this case
will not be material, at least it will not
make profit-earning easier for the Went-
worth —and all high-class residential hotels
in N. S. Wales, for that matter. The Went-
worth has little difficulty in winning patron-
age ; it would appear, however, that either the
overhead exes, are too heavy or the public
isn’t paying quite enough for the service
given. Certainly shareholders have received
10 p.c. regularly since 1920; but the margin
between disclosed earnings and distribution
has narrowed from £11,859 to £B, and that
is cutting things line. Still, the management
is apparently satisfied that when, charges
have been brought into truer relation with
the increased outgoings something better, than
last year’s results can be. shown; it. will be
necessary if the div. rate is to be maintained.
With almost the whole of the Commonwealth
enjoying remarkable prosperity, and with
loan expenditure maintained on a lavish
scale, better times than the present, are un-
likely, especially for hotels of this class.
Capital at £so,ooo—it was increased from
£35,000 in 1925 —still is small: fixed assets
alone amount to more than twice as much.
In the circumstances it is not surprising that
the co. is leaning on its bankers for £30,029.
In addition sundry creditors were owed
£7367. To represent that indebtedness were
a mixed lot of liquids and semi-liquids aggre-
gating £19,629. Material improvement needs
to be shown in the current term if share-
holders are to receive decent divs. when
leaner times come along. The market seems
to take that view also, for at present prices
(about 225. 3d.), the investor can get. a
return of very nearly 9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. divi-
dend basis.
* * # #
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane):
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1916. .£3691 10 p.c. = £2651 £lO4O £19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 . . 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9 ~ „ 4295 ) r „ 4 g 190
Provident Fund, £lOOO )
1920.. 6363 9 p.c. = 4295' 106 g 4 . 258
Provident Fund, £lOOO )
1921.. 6321 10 p.c. = 4829 ) Q()0 = 250
Provident Fund, £ 500 i
1922. . 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 ) 14 , 6 6 696
Provident Fund, £5OO f 1440 b,t>yo
Transferred to capital. £5050 . . 1,646
1923.. 7197 10 p.c. = 5365 1 19Q1 0037
Provident Fund, £541 J ’
1924.. 9221 10 p.c. = 5365 1
Written off premises, £l5OO ) 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £594
1925.. 9172 10 p.c. = 5050'
Written off premises, £l5OO 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638
1926.. 9842 10 p.c. = 5050 4099 10 782
Provident Fund, £693 )
The substantial additions to the co.’s pre-
mises are completed and the freehold, safe
deposit and fittings have moved from £41,203
to £53,231. That is one expansion; total
value of trusts administered shows another:
1910 .. £2,135,244 I 1922 .. £5,679,335
1915 .. 3,382,095 1923 .. 6,096,957
1918 .. 4,049,378 | 1924 .. 6,326,019
1920 . . 4.770,752 | 1925 .. 6,596,698
1921 .. 5,363,333 | 1926 .. 7,016,953
Growth has been consistent and the number
of Queenslanders who will ask the co. to take
charge of their affairs when they are them-
selves no longer interested is likely to in-
crease as the advantages of the perpetual trust
co. as against the short-lived private trustee
become more widely appreciated. Commission,
interest and rent brought in £38,654 —£1550
more than in 1925 —and although general
exes, were heavier, taxes, repairs and insur-
ance were much lighter. Shareholders can
see a steady 10 p.c., with possibilities some-
where in the future. Besides having a
guarantee of expert management, clients and
possible clients can see a guarantee of good
behavior in £61,282 of capital and reserves,
and £151,500 of uncalled capital. Assets
other than the premises at June 30 consisted
of £27,217 in cash and Government stock,
with loans to estates and other book debts
to the amount of £27,594. There are 101,090
£2 shares paid to 10s., and you can get 17s.
6d. for them.


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Chemical and Scientific Apparatus: The most im-
proved types of laboratory equipment are obtainable
from Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney,
and Taylors and Elliotts, Ltd.. Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. These firms carry large stocks and are par-
ticularly well equipped to meet the needs of sugar
and mining companies. Before ordering equipment,
write to them for information about the most suitable
kinds of instruments, etc., if unable to call at either
of the addresses. Pure chemicals, reagents, glass-
ware and scientific apparatus for all purposes are
available also. — Advt. [4
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * *
The possibility of pollution of town water supply
conducted by Pioneer Wood Pipe is entirely elimi-
nated, as it is an established scientific fact that
perfectly smoothly-bored, saturated wood is imper-
vious to rust, corrosion or fungus. It also has
practically indestructible -life, and always preserves
full volume of flow. Of simple construction and
extremely light, Pioneer Wood Pipe is most economically
and quickly installed, and maintenance costs are
practically nil. Write for our free catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, • Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereaglr
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—-Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
“National” British Vertical Suction Gas and Crude-
oil Engines! Cheapest and most reliable power.
Recent installations for Electric Lighting include:
Bathurst, 675b.h.p. ; Parkes, 310b.h.p. ; Dubbo,
540b.h.p. ; Armidale, 270b.h.p. ; Penrith, 220b.h.p.;
Toowoomba, 800b.h.p.; Winton (Q.), 100b.h.p.; Bris-
bane W’ater and Sewerage Board (for pumping),
630bh.p. Technical information, etc., from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquarie Place,
Svdney; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; 21 Morphett
Street, Adelaide; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1S88), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
FOR THE SAKE OF YOUR DEPENDENTS.
The proper management and distribution of your estate are of vital
importance to your dependents. For this work, which demands both
security and experience,
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
offers definite advantages over a private executor.
The Company cannot die, disappear or travel, and its whole capital
and assets —over one million pounds—are legally liable for the protec-
tion of clients’ interests. It has had over 38 years’ experience in
managing estates.
Arrange an interview, or write for Booklet.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
O. E. FRIEND.
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
As Showing the Popularity of the
“CURVILINEAR” in South Africa
Our Bulawayo Agents assure us that, although all well-known concentrators are
represented there, the only Tables sold in Rhodesia for quite a long time arc
“Curvilinears.”
Our agents have just cabled us for another shipment to Durban.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD e? Patentees and Manufacturers,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
“G. D. Meudell”: I have decided to vote
“Yes” for the referendum concerning corpora-
tions and so help to have a Federal Companies
Act _ passed. Disregarding the urgent need
to give the Commonwealth more power over
foreign companies which are taking too much
business away from Australian concerns,
there is a demand in every State for a
modern law dealing with companies of all
kinds. My special grievance is the lack of
authority to compel cos. to draw up true
balance-sheets that give the right kind of
information to the shareholders and the
public. The forms or schedules appended
to the existing State Acts are obsolete and
valueless. This is not the place to suggest
improvements, which would be quickly sup-
plied by the various associations of account-
ants when required. Bank balance-sheets
are not detailed enough; both assets and
liabilities ought to be itemised. Banking
returns published in the Government
Gazette give Monday night actual figures,
totalled and divided by 13 to give the quar-
terly averages, which are misleading. The
actual figures on the last day of a quarter
should be furnished. One result of these prac-
tices is that public bodies are encouraged to
do likewise. The Railway Departments’
balance-sheets never tell the whole truth, and
frequently suppress figures of importance.
In Victoria the Electricity Commissioners’
financial statement is a skeleton and a farce,
although quite according to the Act creat-
ing the Commission. The balance-sheet of
the State coalmine at Wonthaggi does not
convey a correct view of the financial posi-
tion of that undertaking. No balance-sheet
has ever shown what electrification of the
Melbourne suburban railways cost. Nobody
has ever heard what commission the consult-
ing engineers earned. Nobody knows whether
that electrification has paid or is a dead loss.
Why should not all foreign companies be
compelled to advertise their balance-sheets
in the Commonwealth Government
Gazette? What right has any big company
or combine —and there are many of them
operating in Australia —to keep secret infor-
mation regarding its capital, revenue, expen-
diture, assets and liabilities? If our own
companies must render such accounts why
not the alien companies which take such a
torrent of profits out of this country? Hold-
ing companies whose capital is invested in
several offshoot concerns ought to be forced
by law to print and publish all the balance-
sheets in which they are interested. In Vic-
toria, the only honest, clean, audited state-
ments of yearly accounts are issued by the
municipalities. In them every penny is
accounted for, and the items of expenditure
classified with meticulous care. [Mr. Meu-
dell’s address is 7 St. James Building, Wil-
liam-street, Melbourne.]
Wilkinson's Amalgamated, Yalwal (N.S.W.),
has exposed a new lode 12ft. wide, just be-
yond where 279 tons gave 14870 z. in the
early days when the Caledonian Co. ran the
field. George Heron, who is in charge pend-
ing Wilkinson’s advent, reports a. 15dwt.
general assay, fine gold, with a rich 6in.
vein for sweetening. The new lode is 75ft.
south of the mineralised lode which caused
the present flotation, and is running parallel.
Brokers did brisk business in B. H. South-
ern Bode Continuation over the week-end,
consequent on reports that the diamond drill
had penetrated “a solid body of good-grade
ore 18ft. wide at 100 ft. in the co.’s block
38.” The office also mentioned that “good
milling ore is being broken at the 300 ft.
level from Block 38 shaft.” The contrite,
paid to 2s. had a rapid run to 6s. 6d. It is
a long time since something cheap with pros-
pects was offered by the Hill.
* * * *
G. D. Meudell cries out against waste: —
'Authorities in England are urging the more
scientific utilisation of coal. One coal engineer
reckons that from every million tons of raw coal
burned in the house, or under power-house boilers,
at least 20 million gallons of liquid products con-
taining about 2,500,000 gallons of motor-spirit are
wasted. He says that pre-treatment of coal, called
low-temperature carbonisation, should be introduced
so that there -would be no need for Britain to continue
to import £-15,000,000 worth of oil yearly. In
English collieries 25 p.c. of the coal mined annually
is low-grade slack which is wasted. This coal should
be either pulverised for fuel or carbonised and dis-
tilled at low temperature for fuel oil, tar, gas and
domestic coke. It is not generally known that the
progress in using low-temperature carbonisation
commercially has been rapid. Many new and effec-
tive retorts have been invented and proved during
the last three years. Personally, I know of two
processes in Germany successfully extracting oil from
all kinds of fuel and especially converting low-grade
fuels and mine waste into marketable products. The
Stinnes process, working on a large scale, has been
a definite success. From low-grade coal it produces
coke, tar, motor-spirit and gas at a cost of Bs. 6d.
a ton, worth 225. when sold. Then there is the
Bergins liquefaction process, which makes coal of any
grade, after grinding, into a paste by mixing it with
heavy oil and then adding hydrogen at a high tem-
perature and pressure. A chemical reaction occurs
and the mass on treatment produces 10801 b. of oil
products from 22401 b. of coal. The cost of producing
one ton of finished and saleable oil-products ranges
from £3 18s. to £4 125., and their market value
is from £7 to £9 10s. a ton. In England the
Crozier process, invented by an Australian engineer
of that name, distils oil from oil shale or cannel
coal at a cost of £1 a ton —worth £2 per ton of
shaie treated. There are four low-temperature pro-
cesses working on a business scale in the United
States —-the Catliri*, the Wallace, the Trumble and the
N.T.U. —distilling oil from oil shale. The Glasgow
Corporation is erecting a large Maelaufin low-
temperature plant to carbonise 500,000 tons of coal
annually. The gas from this will be used to fire
all the boilers of the electricity generating station,
and, besides, 7,800,000 gallons of oil and 270,000
tons of smokeless fuel will be produced. What Glas-
gow has done Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and
Adelaide surely can do. There is no need to lose
time experimenting. Henry Ford is installing several
large plants at his factories to make and use pul-
verised coal. Why not get a plant from him? Aus-
tralia wants oil very badly; in fact, it is her only
pressing need. Is it not possible to tackle the
business of distilling oil from coal and shale without
delay? We can get good retorts. Why not try
them?
The Boro silver-lead field, near Tarago
(N.S.W.), is having another trial. Thirty-
five years ago Milne Curran went nap on the
prospects at depth, after fossickers had
skimmed the rich surface silver. For over
20 years the late Robert Sands ran the show
as a hobby, and Cockle Creek turned him
some rich yields. In 1924 C. H. Kerry, Billy
Lees and Aubrey Bartlett took over, and
floated a small co. in 600 £5 shares. They
estimated a six weeks’ baling job to un-
water the main shaft to 285 feet, where
riches were supposed to lie. But there were
machinery troubles. Bartlett worked with
a vim, but the waterlogged hole took more
months to subdue than had been estimated
in weeks. Running ground baffled the intru-
ders after the water had been overcome, and
the small co., having exhausted its funds,
threw in the towel after the Mines Depart-
ment had turned a glassy eye on its applica-
tion for aid. The lease became vacant, and
G. C. Wright stepped in and secured 60
acres, including the main shaft. The Great
Boro Mining Co. was registered, being really
a £lOOO syndicate, and from this sprang the
present co., the Great Divide, in 50,000 ss.
shares. Of these 25,000 paids go to Wright
and his syndicate, 15,000 contribs. are re-
served, and 10,000 have had 3s. 6d. paid on
them. Manager Fred Johnson is so elated
with the prospects that he conceives 1,800,000
tons of ore in sight worth from £2 10s. to
£29 a ton. He is working the show by open
cut on the side opposite to that penetrated
by the shaft, and at 65 feet reports rich ore
in such quantities that 151 bags were secured
in three days. The co. is negotiating with a
Sydney group for erection of a smelting plant
to operate by contract for five years at
£2 12s. 6d. a ton for the first two years and
£2 10s. for the balance of the term. W. H.
Trewenack, who reported for the smelting
co. holding the option, recommended the
erection of the plant.
* * * *
So bad are things with the New Red,
White and Blue that it is asking Peacock to
shell out £3OOO as a State grant for shaft-
sinking. The idea is to get No. 3 shaft down
so that centre country can be tapped. The
Treasury till is too light to supply all the
mining beggars about, but it is a good gamble
to back a Bendigo show with a record. How
close things are cut on the field these times
is shown by the fact that the last six months’
work ended with a loss of only £ll2B,
although 5180 tons of sdwt. dirt went
through the battery and a lot of dead work
was undertaken.
* * * *
A bunch of reports from the old Bendigo
Amalgamated is azure tinted. Teddy Dyason
no longer speaks for them; that job is now
Leggo’s. Poor old Carlisle is no longer the
sturdy prop of the bunch. The big pay
shoots carry only low-grade material, and
as the tributors are mostly on poor stuff it
looks as if the old claim will have to be
shut down. Hercules has afforded a 6d. div.
and has still £2600 in hand, which is riches
in Pall Mall these times. Work goes on down
to 1620 ft., but there the reef is unpayable
though big. Ironbark has been in faulted
country at 1328 ft. south, but gold often
makes on the breaks, so developments are
being watched. Then a crosscut from 1237 ft.
should soon reach the Hercules .reef, which
then can be easily prospected. That shoot
of stone has a record, and for that reason
Bendigo would have a nice revival if a run
of gold was got in either the. 1328 ft. or
1237 ft levels.
Tributors on Ives Reward (W.A.) have
been getting a bit of gold lately, but shoots
are short.
Of £6970 expended by Freney Kimberley
Oil Co. (W.A.) during the year ended June
30 nearly a third went in salaries and fees,
and less than a fourth were operating costs
on the co.’s areas. At June 30 the co. had
£11.983 in hand. Stores, boring plant, equip-
ment. etc., had a book value of £15,749. The
board is still confident that oil in commer-
cial quantities will be found on the property
some day. Meanwhile preparations are
being made to start boring at Poole Range,
where, in the opinion of geologists, the co.
has the best chance of success.
Attempts are being made in Adelaide and
Perth to revive interest in Jimble Bar, on
the road to Marble Bar (W.A.), which a
reliable expert recently condemned. “Satis-
factory prospects from dolly-pot tests” are
now said to have been obtained since the
expert was there, and something is also said
about new lines of lode, etc. So far, how-
ever, the speculative public has shown a lack
of faith, and the chances of capital rushing
in to work undeveloped shows are blue.
* * * *
Ravenswood (N.Q.) is getting more than
its quota of faults, although these apparently
have brought in most of the prill ore, which
occasionally runs to over 20oz. gold per ton.
The stope over No. 6 south has now run into
a fault, and the manager doesn’t know
whether he is following the Duke or an off-
shoot. This is not the only disturbance;
the reef was lost some time ago below No. 6
and has not yet been located. These little
troubles have hit the co. hard just at the
time cash in the bank was looking comfort-
able. The Government is being tapped for
another subsidy to tide the co. over a critical
period. It came to the rescue before, but
that advance was promptly repaid. The
latest crushing of 24 tons returned 1690 z.
over the plates, but concentrates will make
the tally much higher.
Alluvial Tin (Malaya), Ltd., discloses a
net profit of £107,432 for the 12 months
ended March 31, and £130,632 was brought
in from the previous year. Of the total
£230,000 has been capitalised; the original
capital was £20,000, so the present total
issued is £250,000. Shares receivable from
promoted companies (£99.000), shares in
other companies (£139,405) and sundry
debtors (£10,530) are the principal items
on the assets side. Liabilities, other than
to shareholders, are stated at £8855. The
directors’ report details the formation of two
new companies, iChangkat and Ivampong
Lanjut; capital, £120,000 and £250,000 re-
spectively. The first is four miles north of
Malim Nawar South, and will be equipped
with a modern bucket dredge. Ivampong
Lanjut is to the north of Malim Nawar S.,
Kuala Ivampar and Tanjong Tualang. Two
steam dredges will be supplied to treat
200,000 c. yds. per month. Managing-direc-
tor Malcolm Newman reports that a pros-
pecting license area of 2500 acres, of which
Changkat is part, has been thoroughly bored,
indications being that most of it is payable.
Boring is still being carried on. Changkat
is on soft granite bottom averaging a depth
of 60ft., the balance of the prospecting area
yielding mostly unbottomed bores at depths
of 80ft. to 85ft. These are often in high
values, and dredges with a digging capacity
of 90ft. to 100 ft. below the water surface
will be needed. Yardage is described as
very large. Other areas have been pros-
pected, but with no encouraging results save
at Ronpibon, Southern Siam, which is now
being bored.
The first three Australian cos. to instal
modern jigs on their dredges have reason to
be satisfied with results. For the first half
of August, Takuapa 36 tons, Rawang 30
tons and Settlements 23 tons indicate that
this method of tin-saving is successful. The
native labor required to handle a big over-
turn on tables is costly, and, at night-time,
certainly inefficient. The automatic machine
delivers the goods with certainty and never
gets tired. It is believed, too, that much
fine-grade tin which w 7 ould not be retained
on tables is saved by the modern method.
Takuapa dredge is proving a consistent
tin-winner. For the year to July 31 the
monthly recovery was 44 tons, and for the
first half of the current month 36 tons is
reported. Other monthly averages _are:
Hours worked, 590; ground treated, 125,000
c. yds.; value. 12d. (approx.); costs, 4d.;
working profit, _ Bd. The innovation _of
generating electric power by Diesel engines
on the pontoon has fully justified the
opinion of its sponsors, Blakemore, Poole
and Grieves, and the dredge is a splendid
tribute to its Australian builders. No 2
dredge, also from Poole and Steel’s yard, is
well under way, and the bulk will be shipped
in November. This plant will be almost a
replica of No. 1 with parts interchangeable,
but will run at slightly-increased speed to
provide a larger turnover.
Kramat is the name of the latest progeny
of Alluvial Tin. It is being registered in
the F.M.S. with a nominal capital of
£150,000; 130.000 £1 shares will be issued.
Of these 84.000 will be contribs. and 46,000
issued as fully paid. Alluvial Tin is to take
£25,000 in fully-paids and £5OOO cash for its
prospecting exes. No contributing shares are
on offer to the public, but Alluvial Tin’s
shareholders are to be circularised to sub-
scribe £25,000; one share in Kramat for
each 10 held in Alluvial Tin. The directors,
F. G. Pratten, Malcolm Newman and T. A.
Duffy, will take up shares not applied for,
as well as the balance of the contribs. The
co.’s area on the west bank of the Kinta
River in Perak, opposite Tanjong Tualang,
is 470 acres, containing about 50 million
cubic yards of dredgeable ground, which
Newman estimates will go Jib. black tin.
An up-to-date bucket dredge of 180,000 c. y.
per month capacity, and digging 75ft., is to
be installed. Fifty tons monthly is assured.
With tin at £250 per ton this should return
a profit of £5OOO per month, or £3750 with
tin at £2OO London, after allowing £2OOO
per month for working exes.
* * * *
The tin position looks very good for pro-
ducing companies. The total visible stocks
at the end of July were 13,076 tons, as
against 19,877 tons this time last year. The
consumption during July w 7 as 10,835 tons,
as against 9635 tons in July, 1925. The sup-
plies during last month amounted to 8874
tons, as against 9977 tons for last July. It
is seen, therefore, that the stocks of tin have
decreased 6801 tons, monthly consumption
has increased 1200 tons, and tin produced
has decreased 1103 tons compared with the
same month last year. Although the above
figures indicate that the total visible stocks
of metallic tin in the world are only equal to
a little over a month’s requirements, it can
always be assumed that the higher the price
of the metal the more tin comes forward
from producing sources.


THE NO-NOES GO TO THE POLL.
“The Constitutional amendments will appeal to the sane and sober citizens of Australia, if for no other reason, then because they are bitterly opposed by the extremists
of both parties.”
[TOM GLOVER. 154 Flinders Street, Melbourne.]


It’s the State Express
methods of manufacture
that perfect-
2(^16
STSTE (xprks
CIGARETTES
Made in London by
Ardath Tobacco Company, Ltd
KSSi
m
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“X.D.”: A new form of enterprise has
been added to “land-agency” in Mel-
bourne, and is said to give employment to
40 or 50 convicted magsmen. The recently-
arrived migrant is usually the victim. As he
rolls through the streets he is approached by
a frank and jovial stranger who asks him
the way to a land-agent’s office. Much to
his surprise the migrant doesn't know, but
HE COULD SEE THROUGH THAT.
TEACHER : “How, class, finish this proverb: ‘People who live in
glass houses’”
PUPIL: “Can’t ’ave a barf.”
so ingratiating is the stranger that they
ramble on together to find out, while the
stranger explains that lie has come down
from N. S. Wales to obtain possession of
30 acres of suburban land over which his
wealthy squatter-father has been fortunate
enough to obtain an option. Quite by acci-
dent they stumble on the place he is seek-
ing, and the stranger passes over to the
agent a cheque for the 30 acres. It then
appears that the squatter really had an
option over 35 acres, and his son, in grati-
tude for the kindly interest of the migrant,
lets that dazzled person snap it up on pay-
ment of a deposit. The land turns out to
be a stony hillside at liingwood or beyond,
and its present value is a few shillings a
foot; but the agent keeps the migrant to the
letter of his bond, and, the stranger having
gone back to his father’s station, there is no-
thing more to be said about it. The number
of “new settlers” who have confessed to
being taken 'in by this transparent hokum
is surprising, and the number who keep their
folly to themselves is probably greater.
“Strict Veg.”: A woman may scream at
sight of a mouse, but it takes more to dis-
turb her if she is a nurse as well. Sister Hazel
Mary Mold, of Ballarat, saw the legs of a
man protruding from under the bed of her
patient, an invalid old lady.
She quietly withdrew and
rang up the police; when
they arrived they found a
crook hiding underneath the
bed and the nurse calmly
ministering to the sick
woman as if there was no-
thing unusual in the room.
* * *
“Bullwhanger”: While the
controversy about the “pic-
turisation” of “For the Term
of His Natural Life” is rag-
ing, let me slip in with the
remark that yet another of
the principal actors in it is
an American. This is the
old schooner Inca, which was
towed into Port Jackson
after a devil of a hammering
in an old-man blow in the
Pacific about four years ago.
Originally a five - master,
she arrived in port com-
pletely dismasted except
for the stumps of the
fore and main; the decks had
been swept clear of all gear,
including the motor-winches,
pumps and coamings. Only
her redwood cargo saved her.
The crew left in the boats
and were picked up; but the
skipper and donkeyman stood
by and came to Sydney with
her. She was too badly
strained to be worth putting
into commission again, and
has been lying off “Hooky”
Einerseii’s shipbreaking yard
in Berry’s Bay ever since.
Now she is to be faked up to
look like a convict ship, and
a lot of the scenes will be
“shot” on board of her at
sea. But it is a safe bet
that none of them will be as
thrilling as the gale in which she was
smashed up.
* * * *
“Tas.”: The legpuller is still abroad in
Vic., where a humorous railway passenger
recently “sold” one of Clapp’s foot-warmers
to a man from the
country. It re-
minds me •of an
episode during the
war. At the gates
of Federal Govern-
ment House there
was placed a port-
able sentry-box for
the use of the
guard. One of the
latter noticed a
Chinese market-
gardener looking at
it appraisingly, and
told him he could
have it for 2s. 6d.
The money was
promptly paid and
the box carted
away. The autho-
rities were infuri-
ated at the dis-
covery of the theft,
but they could
never trace the
“receiver,” so the
whole guard for
that night had to
make up the loss,
ss. being deducted
from each man’s
pay for the pur-
pose. It was not
till two years after-
wards that the box
was recovered by the military authorities,
and it now reposes in the old clink yard at
Victoria Barracks.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The other day an old lady,
while hanging out the washing in a Mel-
bourne back yard, was set on by three buil-
pups owned by her host, a noted winner of
prizes in bulldog exhibitions. He had the
beasts shot, but as the victim died in hospital
she gained no satisfaction from that. Play-
ing with animal dynamite has a queer fas-
cination for some people. I knew a Dutch
woman in Java who ran a hundred risks
daily. -She had a python inadequately
secured in a hencoop in her yard, she
kept a baby Malayan bear until it grew so
large that it nearly bit an infant’s head off,
and in the dusk I once nursed a panther cub
of hers under the delusion that it was a
rather monstrous kitten. The time has
come when civilisation can dispense with
bulldogs, at any rate in the suburbs. They
have been bred to a point where their ugli-
ness is only matched by their potentialities
for doing damage. Owners will say that
ordinarily they are as amiable as guinea-
pigs ; but extraordinarily they are as danger-
ous as tigers. The trouble is that they
don’t say when they are beginning to feel
extraordinary.
QUITE A MODEL.
“They say he's turning out a very good husband.”
“Oh, wonderful! When he chops the wood for her he
sandpapers it so she won’t get splinters in her
fingers.”
“Machete”: A feature of the Australian
Association for the Advancement of Science
Conference in Perth lias been Professor
Lancelot Harrison’s exposition of Wegener’s
theory of sliding continents. This maintains
that islands and continents rest, ultimately,
on a dense, viscous substance which is the
ocean floor, and are in slow _ motion over
its surface. Australia’s trend is said to be
slowly northwards, and if the hypothesis is
correct, this country may some day have
more reason than ever to be thankful for the
Singapore base.
* * * *
“Sunset” : An old swaggie wandered into
Prince Alfred Hospital (Sydney) not long
ago suffering from
a minor complaint,
and told a queer
yarn in the course
of his preamble to
a doctor. He was
wandering in west-
ern N. S. Wales
many years ago
when a bushranger
met him, and fin-
ished by putting a
revolver into his
mouth and pulling
the trigger. He
woke up several
hours later, made
his way back to
camp, and had
never before said a
word about the in-
cident. The story
might have been
regarded as pure
fiction, but an X-
ra y examination
plainly revealed a
bullet in the back
of the neck. The
ancient refused to
allow any further
investigation, and
wandered off with-
out even receiving
treatment for his other complaint.
“Spenner”: Concerning Christmas billies.
When we got our 1915 issue at Tel-el-kebir
my cobber and I decided to “whack” our
two. We finished mine off first. The follow-
ing Friday we were both bewailing, the fact
that we were stony just when Cairo leave
for the week-end could be had for the ask-
ing. “Never mind,” said Cliff; “we still
have my billy to knock open.” We proceeded
with the good work immediately* and almost
the first thing we found was an envelope
enclosing the address of a Melbourne bookie
and a tennei\ We left the rest of the con-
tents to our tent-mates. Gratitude? Believe
me, I’ve been showing it at Caulfield and
Flemington nearly every meeting since the
war.
“C.Q.”: The latest development in wire-
less service to the Backblocks has been pro-
vided by 3LO, Melbourne’s high-powered
broadcaster. An order came from the Bock,
a hamlet in southern N. S. Wales, for a
Wedding March, to be delivered at 12.30
p.m. on a certain day. It was duly sup-
plied. The two-guinea cheque from the
obliged couple went to the City Mission.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: A sight that must have
puzzled Cobham when he did his final grace-
ful figure of eight over Essendon aero-
drome was a fenced enclosure in the middle
of the landing-ground. If he asked its pur-
pose he must have been still more surprised.
The enclosure marks the site of an incipient
reservoir. When I flew from Paris to Lon-
don in a Handley-Page we landed at Cricklc-
wood ’drome in the middle of a mob of cows.
It seemed to me that Strawberry was some-
what out of place there, and I mentioned my
doubts to the pilot. He said they had always
had the beasts there and had never had an
accident, so I suppose it was all right. But
the precedent oughtn’t to apply to reser-
voirs, in my opinion. Keservoirs aren t as
mobile as cows.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: I have heard of newly-
made fathers who yearned to tell everybody
the glad news, but my A.I.F. cobber Bluey
had less excuse for making me risk my life.
It was on November 29, 1915, when the 24th
Battalion was relieving the 23rd, that Lone
Pine was subjected to the heaviest shelling
it ever got. I was sheltering in a dug-out
—sheltering from flying splinters, that is, for
the tiniest shell would have demolished my
refuge—when I saw Bluey beckoning wildly
to me from a similar retreat further along
the trench. The parapet between the dug-
outs had been partially demolished and
Abdul's snipers seemed to be still taking an
interest in it, but, thinking Bluey had been
wounded, I decided to chance it. I made
a mad rush, taking no other harm than a
shower-bath of shell-thrown earth, and was
at his side. “What is it?” I asked him sym-
pathetically. Bluey pointed to an ancient
copy of Melbourne Age and shouted in my
ear’ “Congratulate me, I’m an uncle.” He
had been calmly reading birth notices while
hell was loose above and around him.
“Harold Hardupp” : The merits of obliging
and considerate suicides having been con-
sidered, we come to the Narks. I recall one
who hanged himself from a peg in the roof
of a bedroom wardrobe. Before the final
act he had managed to slip the lock fast;
and his landlady suspected that he had
levanted, taking with him the wardrobe key.
The corpse, then days old, was discovered by
a new boarder who wanted to use the ward-
robe and -was not going to be baffled by a
locked door. Another was a man who had
HIS TRADE.
THE COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER: “Don't you think a man could win
a girl’s love?”
THE FAIR LADY : “I’m sure I don’t know!”
THE T.C.: “Well, what about letting me open up a few samples?”
been pitched out of a pub for not paying
his board. He departed, bought some poison
and returned unobtrusively, sneaked into the
landlord’s bedroom, disrobed, climbed into
Bung’s pyjamas, and laid himself comfort-
ably down in the publican’s bed before he
swallowed his hemlock.
(Continued on page 19.)
BAD SHOOTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. le Souef deposed that the defendant was
under the influence of liquor when brought to his
surgery. He was not very successful in finding his
nose with his finger when his eyes were closed, a
recognised test.” —Melbourne police-court case.
Quoth HDsculapius: “Shut your eyes, old chap.
Herb is a simple test of which the essence
Is just to indicate upon your map
The i site of the olfactory excrescence.
A bull’s-eye straight away will, clear and plain,
Your absolute sobriety disclose.”
The subject tried, but oh! it was in vain—
Ho couldn’t put his finger on his nose.
Whether or no he claimed a sighting shot,
Like marksmen on the ranges, isn’t stated.
He may hava done, but I imagine not,
Lest he should be thereby incriminated.
Inners he got and outers, two or three ;
Anon his scoving-card a magpie shows;
But, confidently and unerringly,
He couldn’t put his finger on his nose.
His pitch alas! was queered. His cake is dough.
A stretch behind the bars his heavy cross is.
Isn’t it strange to think what doctors know
Re the elusiveness of the proboscis
(Jib, boko, conk, beak, nasal organ, snout)
Whene’er a human frame with snakejuice glows?
“Cold sober,” he averred. They ruled him out.
He couldn’t put his finger on his nose.
Be wise in time. Stand up before the glass,
My seasoned toper and my festive stripling;
Never a day over your heads shall pass
But there may come a night—the rest’s in Kipling.
Impress it on your memory, the precise
Spot where your most assertive feature goes,
Or you may have to pay a bitter price
When, after trying once or twice or thrice,
You cannot put your finger on your nose.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE GIRLS’ GUILD GIVES AN ENTERTAINMENT IN THE GHURGH HALL.


The warm breath of spring stifles the last sad sigh of dying winter; so cheering wine
the joy of laughter to the soul that is desolate.
Orlando Wines infuse reverence for the glorious wines of a wonderful country.
CRAMP’S
ORLANDO WINES
• 1 ' - ' .*» ■ -A*.
(Orlando Vineyards, South Australia)
PORT - - SHERRY - - MUSCAT - - CLARET - - HOCK - - FRONTIGNAC
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD. 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
brings
- etc.
“Halt” : In September, .1915, I was aboard
the transport Haverford when she went to
the assistance of the torpedoed Southland
and found her late occupants scattered over
the water in rafts, lifeboats, etc. Destroyers
A HAPPY COMPROMISE.
“I didn't want to encourage him, so I said he could hiss me on
either cheek."
“And did he?"
“Well, he hesitated a long while between them."
that. But ever since we. left Aussie Ive been
trying to get out all the cards in a game of
patience. This morning I had 41 out and
looked a cert, for the rest when that blanky
torpedo came along!”
came racing up from everywhere, but before
we got the signal “Submarine about; pro-
ceed on your course immediately,” the Haver-
ford had already picked up a few of the
Southlanders. Among these was a 21st Bat-
talion lancejack; unable to find room on
the raft, he' was clinging to the legs of a
more fortunate cobber who had managed to
annex a lifebelt. His language as we pulled
him aboard was tempestuous, and we gath-
ered that he intended to wipe out the entire
Turkish nation as soon as he was sufficiently
recovered. Even after we had given him
an issue of dry clothing and a bowl of hot
soup, his flow of blasphemy continued un-
diminished. “Be a sport, mate,” somebody
adjured him ; “it’s all in the game. You’ve
lost your kit and had a ducking, but that’s
nothing to write home about.” Then he
became more specific about his grievance.
“I’m not going crook about my swim and
THE BEST THEY COULD DO FOR HIM.
“My Teddy’s awfully well off. Do yon know what his parents left him?”
“No, but I should judge they left him an orphan, judging by the interest other people
take in him.”
“C. 8.”: The case of an English electric
train losing its driver and dashing on with
its controls tied down with the dead man s
handkerchief had an almost exact parallel
in Victoria in 1922. A motor-man on the
Frankston line got out of his cabin and was
seen to fall on to the line. After the train
had been pulled up by the guard—and that
was only after it had dashed through a
couple of stations and railway gates—the
“dead man’s handle” was found fastened with
the motor-man’s handkerchief, thus keeping
the motors in gear. What made these two
drivers leave their post is a mystery: sudden
madness is the kindest explanation.
-X- * * *
“Coot” : Melbourne’s first pub was not, as
stated by “Brass Rail” (B. 12/8/’26), built
on the site now occupied by the Union Club
Hotel, corner of Collins and Market streets,
but was further down Market-street —about
where the Custom
House now stands.
Robert Russell, the
surveyor, has left
a plan on which he
has marked the
spot. It was known
as Fawkner's
Hotel, the name
being “d aub e d
rather than paint-
ed” in a row of
large, uneven let-
ters on a sign-
board. This was
in 1835; the fol-
lowing year the
Government, requir-
ing the block for
Custom House pur-
poses, bought it
from Fawkne r.
Actually the first
license was granted
not to Fawkner,
but to Geo rg e
Smith, who man-
aged whilst F'awk-
ner was on a trip
to the Speck. Smith
subse qitently re-
erected part of the
premises on a block
in Collins - street,
purchased by him
at Melbourne’s first
land sale. This
second pub was
known first as the
Lamb Inn, and sub-
sequently as the Clarendon Hotel; in 1861
it was purchased by Bdward Scott, and
“Scott’s Hotel” it has been ever since.
“Percy Pawnticket”: An indignant son
has been facing the Hobart magistrates for
punching in the nose another man who, lie
alleged, was canoodling with lus widowed
mother. The assailant was 64, the assaulted
60, and the cause of the disturbance 88.
Whether the son objected to his departed
sire being supplanted in the old lady s aftec-
tions, or just felt that this particular Romeo
was unworthy, was not explained. Widows
sons arc apt to take a high-handed attitude
in such matters. I remember an occa-
sion when the usual calm of a house m
which I was lodging was disturbed by a
sound of tumult in the yard followed by
the voice of my landlady appealing, Mr.
Pawnticket! Mr. Pawnticket! Come quick
—me son Bill’s giving my new ’usband a
’iding.” Having separated the combatants,
I learned that in a moment of romantic im-
pulse, my landlady had stepped out and mar-
ried the quiet old pensioner who inhabited one
of the small back rooms. Bill, a burly cus-
tomer in the thirties, had been upset by the
news, and had incontinently battered his
stepfather; his only explanation was that he
wanted to show his newly-made relative that
it was no use his “trying to come the
fatherly business” over him. But the new
dad merely proceeded to heap coals of fire
on his stepson’s head. Having washed the
blood off bis face, he turned gently to the
man who had put it there. “I hope you
didn’t hurt your knuckles, Bill,” he said.
“Soda”: “.Tesmond’s” T.B. patient (B.
5/8/’26), who increased four inches in height
in the four months before his death, is easily
explained. All humans stoop more or less,
and thereby often subtract inches from their
height. A prone position
even for a short period will
elongate the form; in the
case of a man bedridden for
four months, all the muscles,
the contraction of which
caused stooping, would re-
turn to normal positions.
Every person rises in the
morning taller than when he
or she lay down at night.
* * *
“Modestine”: Queer acci-
dents? A one-armed M.L.
Digger was driving a Ford
up in the more or less track-
less North when something
went wrong with the steer-
ing gear, and Elizabeth
bucked herself almost over a
bank, with a drop of 800 ft.
into the sea. The driver
slammed on the foot-brake
and the car held, two wheels
on the road and two in the
air. There she stayed for
four solid hours until help
arrived with an arm to spare the driver
might have opened the door and jumped; as
it was he dared not let go the wheel. He
says that the four hours seemed like four
centuries; and nobody is likely to doubt it.
“Tin Hat” : As a result of a collision be-
tween two motor-cars, residents of a Mel-
bourne Yarraside suburb have been treated
to the novel spectacle of a large motor sue-
cessfully emulating the wombat. After the
accident the first car cannoned into a pillar-
box, which fell without resistance or further
complication. The second pushed over a
water hydrant, and stopped directly on top
of if. Immediately the water from the burst
pipe commenced to churn up the macadam-
ised roadway, and by the time assistance
had arrived in the shape of a service crane
the car had sunk until only a corner ot the
hood was visible. Two firemen were the
next arrivals; they left after mentioning that
they had no authority to turn off water.
That privilege, of course, belongs to the
Board of Works, and it took two hours
to find the man with the key. The result
is that a mixture resembling peasoup is being
pumped out of the hole as I write, a shop
opposite has had its foundations washed
away and is balanced on temporary stilts,
and those most concerned are suffering from
headaches at contemplation of the damages
involved.
* * * *
“.T.’s Ass.”: The word “blankard” had a
wide vogue in war-time; once it even forced
its way into orders. A s.-m. arrived at
Zeitoun with a reinforcement and soon made
himself exceedingly unpopular. Then some-
one recognised him as the chap who used
to run a hoop-la show at a well-known
amusement park. It didn’t take long tor
the word to run round, and after liglits-out
three or four Diggers, keeping perfect time,
cried out “Who’s a blankard?” In the silence
of the Egyptian night the answer came
“Hoop-la!” After that the inquiry always
produced the same answer from a thousand
throats, and it was heard night after night.
The s.-m. spent many weary hours trying to
find out where the cry sprang from, but lie
finally tired of it and evidently got to work
at Headquarters. Then an order was gravely
read out to the assembled mob that anyone
calling out “Who’s a blankard?” or any-
thing else that would evoke . the answer
“Hoop-la” would suffer every minute of the
punishment prescribed for such offences.
Mr #
“Hermes”: Many assistants at the Cen-
tral-square (Sydney) P.O. are at present tak-
ing more than an ordinary interest in their
mail-sorting duties, in view of a coming test
which will give them a chance of climbing
into the next grade. The test consists of
sorting into their proper pigeon-holes SUO
letters in 14 minutes. A maximum of only
10 errors is allowed. No suburban names
are included among the 500, and there are
no “vias” or other pointers. The list ot
N.S.W. post-offices from which 500 names
will be selected includes a trifle over 3000,
among them being Addicumbene, Bark Hut,
B ellawon gar ah, Bellimbopinni, Chambigne,
Clonegonuell, Coocooboonali, Dondmgalong,
OB X. Creek Number 1, Quorrobolong,
Rufus River, Tia, The Risk, Tantawanglo
and Dickygundi, so the assistants need a
good memory. The sorting-rack has eight
apertures for northern towns, six for south-
ern and four for the West. And there are
many pitfalls. Wallsend, for instance, is
sorted into the 1 North box, while _ west
Wallsend goes into 5 North,_ Gundagai into
I South and South Gundagai into 2 South.
In the Newcastle area Coalopolis itself goes
into 5 North, Stockton and Hamilton into
4 while IMattsburg, Mayfield and Abernetliy
QUITE A BOUQUET.
SHE (coyly): “And am I still your little violet?”
HE (under the strain ): “Darling, you're a whole bunch
of ’em.”
go into i. Newcomers to the Square gen-
erally learn the rudiments of sorting by
means of several old-established memorisers.
Many places are sorted differently on differ-
ent days; thus Ivanlioe goes into 1 West
pigeon-hole on Mondays and Wednesdays,
and into 4 South on Tuesdays and Thurs-
days. But the assistant does not require to
know the “changes” until he has passed his
sorting-test.
AMONG THE GIBBERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Admiral d.e Chair has visited Tibooburra; he
is the first Governor to ever see it and its melancholy
gibbers.”— Argus.
Governors there were and are
Who have journeyed wide and far
To survey this land’s magnificent resources;
Cushioned motors whir them forth
To flic west and south and north,
Where they used to go behind or ’stride of horses,
Out into the wilds they whiz,
Where tire real ’Stralia is,
Far from city streets and shops and pubs and
bibbers;
But there’s none except Do Chair
Who has had the rapture rare
Of examining the Tibooburra gibbers.
Others may have viewed the nigs
Execute their savage jigs,
And corroborees with puzzled eyes regarded;
Watched the straining shearers reap
Fleeces from the patient sheep
And observed the “wild scrub cattle” being yarded;
Felt the “great grey plains” appeal—
And they do, you know, a deal
Unless Backblocks bards are most outrageous
fibbers—
Rut no satrap save Sir Dud
Ever roamed by' field and flood
For an eyeful of the Tibooburra gibbers.
Was it awe or wonder mild
These exhibits of the wild
Awakened in his cerebral machinery?
On his soul must one conject-
ure they had the same effect
As they have upon the circumjacent scenery?
Did he stare with “eagle eyes”
And his aides with “wild surmise” ?
(What a godsend Keats’s sonnet is to dibbers!)
Possibly. But it’s a bar
When you don’t know what they are.
So I leave his Ex. a-gazing through the smoke oi his
cigar
At those melancholy Tibooburra gibbers.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE SPEAKER’S CHAIR.
[For The Bulletin.]
“A replica of the Speaker’s chair in the House
of Commons is being presented to the Federal House
at Canberra.”
Ir. every house there’s a Speaker's chair;
A symbol of power, as Dad is aware;
And Mum is the Speaker who sits throned there.
It’s only an ancient and worn affair;
It’s shiny and dowdy, that old horse-hair,
And it’s much the worse for its years of wear.
It isn’t all carven with tender care;
It’s scored and it’s scratched and its padding is bare;
But many wise rulings have come from there.
“The hand that deals justly,” the words declare,
“Is a sweet-smelling ointment 1” And we’ll all of us
swear
That ointment was needed when Mum got there!
But the session is ended, the members fare
Out into the world ; and the Speaker’s chair
Holds a lonely old dame in a chamber bare.
N.S.W.
SMADA.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running liot and cold water in all bid-
rooms and many have Bath de Line.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
jhfg
SHIRTS
are guaranleecb
b give satisfaction
“They Fit ”
s
hfgjh
Made In Australia
fgj
rnv’C improved “w> id”
ruA o puttees r.i.r.
New Non-fray Spiral (patented).
19/6 per pair.
Obtainable from
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
Tailors and
Broechesmakers,
313
George
Street,
Sydney.
iJI
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some September birthdays :
Geo. R. Laffer, M.H.A. (S.A.), 60, and G. D.
Pelprat, 70, on Ist; Archbishop Duhig (Brisbane),
55, on 2nd; Piof. Anderson (Syd.), 68, on 3rd;
Gen. Bi-and, 53, on 4th; artist Ohas. Nuttall, 54, on
6th; C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 50, and W.
H. Barnes, M.L.A. (Q.), 68, on 7th; A. B. Pidding
ton, Iv.C. (N.S.W.), 64, Capt. Storkey, Y.C., 35,
and Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic. Gov. Astronomer),
48, on 9th; naturalist Gregory Mathews, 50, on
10th; W.' Mclver (Vic.), 55, on 12th; General Bird-
wood, 61, on 13tli; Justice Northmore (W.A.), 61,
on 11th; J. A. Lyons (Speck’s Premier), 47, Lieut.-Col.
Geoffrey Huriy (Federal Member for Bendigo), 58, and
Lionel H. Sholl (S.A.’s former Under-Sec.), 82, on
15th; G. A. Gibbs (Melb. Board of Works), 64, on
17th; Gen. Edwin Tivcy, 60, and mercliant-knight
Wm. McPherson (Vic.), 61, on 19th; Dr. Clias. S.
Ryan (“Plevna”), 73, and Prof. Nicholson (Syd.),
51, on 20th; Philip Charley, 63, and Colonel Heri-
tage, 49, on 21st; Gen. Brundenell White, 50,
Bishop Hay (Hobart), 59, and Sam Hordern, 50, on
24th; “Billy” Hughes, 62, on 25th; N.S.W. Min. of
Justice McKell, 35, and Dr. Chas. Strong (Melb.), 82,
on 26th; Chief Justice Murray (S.A.), 63, and
Josiah Symon, Iv.C. (S.A.), 80, on 27th; H. W.
Gepp (Chainnan of Migration Commission), 49, on
28th; artist Rupert Bunny, 62, his brother-in-law
Donald Mackinnon (Vic.), 67, and Gen. Thos.
Griffiths, 61, on 29th; and Gen. W. Grant (Q.),
56, on 30th.
With Lionel Hill succeeding John Gunn as
Premier of S.A., each of five States is run
by a man who is a native of his State. The
sixth Premier is Collier, of the West, who
was born in Victoria.
James Horsburgb, who will become chair-
man of the North Australia Commission
directly he can get away from his job as
assistant-g.m. of Mount Morgan, has the
advantage of being a North Queenslander.
He was born and educated in Maryborough,
RAILWAY PORTER: “Belter hurry up, sir;
train goes to Melbourne in ten minutes .”
TRAVERLER: “Boi croipes! Thot’s jaster
than Mister Cobham could do ut!
and, after qualifying as a metallurgist, be-
came manager of the Ml. Molloy Copper Co.
in 1907, when only 33. His colleagues, who,
like himself, are packing up to go to Darwin,
which will be h.q. until the administration
quarters can be established at Newcastle
Waters, are William Easton, chairman
hitherto of the N.T. Land Board, and George
Hobler-, chief engineer of Commonwealth
Railways.
Charles Alfred Lee caught the Tenterfield
seat (N.S.W.) in December, 1882, and his
hold upon it was so firm that in many of the
following 16 elections he was unopposed. lie
retired in 1920, being then 78 —he had been
the “father of the House” ever since Harry
Levi on was defeated. Lee, who has just died,
was a Minister under Reid, Carruthers and
Wade; and he might have been a Premier
but for ill-health. As a politician colorless,
as a man likeable, he did some useful admin-
istrative work in the launching of the Mur-
rumbidgee Irrigation Works, and, although
most people have forgotten it, Leeton was
named after him.
C. J. de Garis, who ended a spectacular
career with his head in a gas-stove, drank
deep at the spring of Yankee boost. He
applied the principle that is sold to gullible
Americans (and others) by correspondence
schools as the foundation of towers of dol-
lars—the principle that if you believe in
yourself everybody else will believe in you.
One of his delusions was that he was a self-
made man, but actually he had a very good
start and wasted a fortune that might have
been his in attempts to be a financial
Napoleon. The Mildura fruitgrowers’ scheme
for co-operative advertising and selling, which
gave him a job at £2OOO a year, was sound
enough, but it couldn’t stand what De Garis
spent on advertising himself. He plunged
into a host of businesses, from theatrical
management to newspapers, and after a suc-
cessful flutter in settlement promotion at
Pyap, produced the big Kendenup scheme,
which oughtn’t to have deluded anybody.
Even after his big smash, De Garis, whose
superb self-confidence made him a super sales-
man, might have made a living most men would
have envied, but his belief that the impos-
sible could happen if O. J. de Garis willed it
plunged him into fresh seas of trouble. The
final disillusionment of a great optimist
makes everyone sorry—most of all those
who can see the close resemblance between
De Garis and the politicians who run his
country.
Meeting Cobham has become a habit with
Colonel Brinsmead, Director of Civil Avia-
tion. He was waiting on the shore when the
airman arrived at Darwin and was the
first to greet him when he lobbed in Mel-
bourne. Brinsmead found Darwin, where a
strike was raging, suffering the worst drought
in its existence. Beer was scarce, and the
famous 8.A.T., which is the old name of the
cable mess, was unable to turn on its 11
o’clock gin sling for tl.e first time in its
history. Cobham may be able to reciprocate
Briusmead’s kiM attentions soon. There is
talk of the Australian flier pushing a 'plane
to England.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : The Prince of Wales
had lunch with the King and Queen at
Buckingham Palace on the recent occasion
of his birthday. No other guests were pre-
sent. The Duke of York, Princess Mary
and Prince Henry all had engagements else-
where. The Prince himself had arranged to
give a dinner at St. James’s Palace, to which
only his close personal friends were bidden.
It was cancelled without explanation at the
last moment. The not-so-youug man is really
in warm water at last, so far as the family
is concerned.
Cobham’s flight moved some enthusiast to
furnish the S. M. Herald with a resume
of the accomplishments of experimenters in
aviation during the past 60 years. The Eng-
lishmen Stringfellow and Pilcher were cited,
likewise the German Lilienthal and the
Americans Chanute, Montgomery and
Wright. But not one word about the Aus-
tralian Hargreaves, the master of them all
and the first man to prove the principles on
which all modern ’planes are constructed.
The old story of the prophet unparagraphed
in his own country.
The new president of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufactures, R. A. Marks, belongs to
a cultured Jewish family which is third-
generation Australian; his father, B. F.
Marks, was a native of Tasmania. The son,
whose sister Gladys is lecturer in French
at Sydney Uni., had a first inclination for
the land, and after passing through the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College went to
England and Denmark to study dairying
methods, but after seven years on the soil he
gave up the pursuit of cream cheques and
went into business in Sydney. The day
before he was given his latest job his mother
died —a philanthropic old lady, one of the
last survivors of the committee which formed
the Queen’s Jubilee Fund.
“C. Coral”: Some little time back C. 11.
Walker passed out after having put in half
a lifetime at Badu Island, Torres Strait, as
one of the managers of Papuan Industries.
The natives have shown their appreciation
of his services as doctor, general adviser and
all-round friend by erecting a cement monu-
ment over his grave in the form of a “light-
house” nearly 20ft. high. Coral and shells
at the base give the illusion of a lighthouse
set on a reef —it is not far from the beach
—and mirrors at the top reflect the sun’s
rays, and shine all round “so we can remem-
ber that man he all same light for we.” It
is a remarkably fine piece of work for native
effort. To celebrate the opening of the
memorial the usual big dances and feast were
held, and a couple of dozen turtle found their
way to the kop-a-maori ovens.
Died the other day in Dublin, Father Tony
Boyle, who with Father Malachy O’Cal-
laghan came to Australia on Cardinal
Moran’s invitation 40 years ago to establish
the Vincentian Order in these parts. Making
Ashfield (Sydney) his headquarters, Boyle
spent 20 strenuous years here as a missioner.
Then he was recalled and appointed spiritual
director of Maynooth. Latterly he has lived
in retirement, fi‘om which Death called him
at SI.
In the days when there was only one
Anglican diocese in Victoria, that of Mel-
bourne, William B’Oste, just dead at 97, was
soul-salvaging there. Later he took on the
same job in semi-populated Tasmania, where
his wife is remembered as the foundress of
the Mothers’ Union and parent of 10 child-
ren, all of them dead. The B’Oste family is
of French extraction ; Huguenots who were
expelled from France by the Edict of Nantes.
The refugees went to England, and so
earnestly did they take up sin-shifting
that ever since there has been a B’Oste rector
of a certain Lincolnshire church.
JOSIAH FRANCIS, M.H.R. of
Moreton (Q.).
Col. Murray Bourchier, Vic. Minister for
Agriculture, who smote the Turk hip and
thigh when the Big Scrap was on, had a
bad turn in Vic. Assembly the other night
while introducing the Cattle Compensation
Act Amendment Bill, and had to give up. Dr.
Stan Argyle, Chief Sec., was able to give
him first aid. The attack was a combination
of acute indigestion and nerves. Bourchier,
one of the best-liked of the Cocky dozen in
the Assembly, has never quite got over the
Palestine-France shaking.
A tribe of men now turning grey in vari-
ous parts of Australia and Maoriland had
early instruction from Burnley John Trollope,
who lived at Parramatta until he opened
the door of a greater library; he was then 92.
Trollope, after spending 14 years in M.L.,
joined the teaching staff of the King’s School
in 1858, and was acting-headmaster for a
term, but in 1864 the school closed for lack
of funds —its doors were shut for five years
—and Trollope opened a private school of
his own. It was generally believed that the
schoolmaster was a cousin of the novelist
who libelled Australian birds, flowers and
women, but Anthony wasn’t a relation.
David James, the Kapunda (S.A.) land-
owner and horse-breeder, who came into the
limelight just twice, when he got into Broken
Hill as an original holder and when he
won the Melbourne Cup with Auraria, has
left £13,000. Everyone thought it would be
a lot more, but he was very generous in his
lifetime. And probate duties are very heavy.
iC. J. de Garis’s optimism remained with
him to the end. His last rainbow was an
oil concession. An ordinary speculator would
have sought for oil in some romantic spot
like New Guinea or Elcho Island, but De
Garis was made of more original stuff. He
asked for support on behalf of Mornington
Peninsula, which is mainly in the Melbourne
suburban area. But he was a great sales-
man, and, in spite of his handicaps, just
before his death he surprised some of his
creditors by bursting in and paying big debts
in cash. In one of his recent transactions
he produced £30,000 in notes.
Dr. Vera Seantlebury, who has been tipped
for the part-time (£450 a year) job of Vic.
medical director of infant welfare, has agreed
to enter into a matrimonial partnership with
a fellow-university graduate. This alliance
will not disqualify her from carrying on if
she gets the job, as it will be what is known
as an “exempt” one. In conjunction with
Dr. Henrietta Main, the lady made an ex-
haustive inquiry in Maoriland and Vic. into
infant management, and it would be a pity
not to get the full benefit of her special
knowledge.
Unknown Centralia has just been cxploi’ed
by a little expedition financed by Donald
McKay, of Cootamundra (N.S.W.). The
party consisted of McKay himself, Dr. Base-
dow (S.A.), with Oliffe, in charge of 25
camels, and Feast, with three natives to run
the camp. They started from Charlotte
Waters, and went via Ayers Rock to the
Peterman Range, north towards Tanami, on
the N.T. and Westralian border-line, and
back mostly along the Overland Telegraph
route. Ayers Rock, four miles round, is de-
scribed as one of the great sights of the con-
tinent, and only an Alpine climber could
mount it. Basedow, speaking several dia-
lects, kept in touch with the natives. He is
preparing maps of the country.
From one who knew him very well: —
Somebody writing- about the progress in life made
by the late Jack Morrissey, one-time Vie. Minister
of Agriculture, said that in his youth he was a
“laborer at a piggery.” He wasn’t quite that, though
at one time he certainly was a dealer in pigs, and
used to send numbers weekly to the Melbourne
market.
There was no great advertisement of his
arrival when General McCay stepped off
the Niagara in Sydney after a jaunt overseas;
it was the same lack of advertisement in
his movements which caused a sudden break-
up in a big A.I.F. two-up school when its
members realised that the General was having
a look at the game. McCay had the money
the Diggers left on the ground collected, and
it formed the nucleus of a fund —-afterwards
supported from the proceeds of camp con-
certs —from which grants were made to
English girls who had been too trusting in
their love affairs with Diggers. McCay, who
was Minister for Defence in 1904-05, gained
distinction as leader of the 2nd Brigade,
A.1.F., on Gallipoli, and at the end of things
was G.O.C. A.I.F. Depots in England. He
was prompt. in his efforts to give fair-play
to the Diggers. A letter from a private in
the camp at Sutton Veny, complaining of
the conduct of certain “dug-in” officers, was
posted on Monday night; by midday on Tues-
day McCay had been through the camp, dis-
covered that the complaints were justified,
suspended the officer mainly responsible and
sent a couple of others back to France. And
the private who gave the information was
told he had committed a military offence by
not putting his complaint through Brigade
Headquarters; but, having gone that far,
McCay saw to it that nothing happened to
the informant.
“Chloe”: Canning Downs, the Pioneer
settlement of the Darling Downs (Q.), has
changed hands more than once since 1840,
when Patrick Leslie first pitched liis tent
and then built his pioneer’s shack in the
solitude of the valley. The primitive slab
house of two rooms has been faithfully pre-
served by successive owners ; the present ones,
J. 11. S. Barnes and his wife, have trans-
formed it into a library and smoke-room. The
modern bungalow stands just in front of the
Den, the walls of which have been panelled
with a fine set of sporting prints by Henry
Aiken, who illustrated for “Nimrod the
biography of the famous Jack Mytton—
Mrs. Barnes is a descendant of the Shrop-
shire squire. She and her husband have done
everything possible to preserve the old feat-
ures of their present home as Leslie left them.
In the gateway is still the old tree in which
a blaekfellow hid to spear the white men
as they rode to the stable,_ and another
broken trunk is the one to which the pioneer
fastened his greenhide tent thongs. It
is now the centre of a lovely rose garden.
At the Vic. municipal elections to-day
(August 26) the seat for the central ward
of Brighton is being scrambled for by Mrs.
Elizabeth Bleazby, daughter of Tommy Bent,
and two male
persons. For 40
years or more
Bent was a
force in Brigh-
ton and Moorab-
bi n Councils,
a n d attended
meetings of the
two bodies
pretty regularly
even when lie
was Premier of
Vic. (1904-09).
THEODORE
FINK , chair-
man of the Mel-
bourne IIERALD.
and one of the
syndicate
which is said
to hare bought
the WEST
AUSTRALIAN
for £600,000.
The question of just where Adam Ijindsay
Gordon sat when, for a year or two about
1867, he was a member of Assembly in South
Aus. has been raised by G. R. Gong, the
retired Vie. educationist, w r ho is chairman ot
the committee that plans a statue to the
poet in Melbourne. The old Assembly-room
is now the Parliamentary library; but Fred
.Johns has located the spot, and is confirmed
by Jjangdon Bonython, who in those far-off
days was a junior in the press gallery.
THE EGOIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you are dead, and I am dead,
How sad the world will be!
There’ll he no blue skies overhead
When you are dead, and I am dead;
There’ll be no lanes where fairies tread,
Nor moonlight on the sea.
When you are dead, and I am dead,
How sad the world will be!
TASMANIA.
VERA HOLTHAM.


o are me users o
BEALE PIANOS
The Beale Piano is recognised as an instrument of quality in
almost every walk of life.
Her Majesty, Queen Mary, recently purchased at Wembley
Exhibition a Beale Piano for Buckingham Palace.
Leading authorities and critics in the musical world, orchestral
directors, educational establishments, statesmen, judges, the
wealthiest of the land, speak in highest praise of the Beale
instrument.
The N.S.W. State Conservatorium of Music—an institute
embracing the best musical experts —in 1924 installed no fewer
than 19 Beale Pianos.
The Presbyterian Ladies Colleges at Pymble, Croydon and
Goulburn, have used Beale Pianos for many years. The princi-
pals have had such entire satisfaction from these instruments
that they have purchased others from time to time as required,
until now there are over 30 Beale Pianos in use.
But beyond all this, the great general public—the final court
of critical judgment—have sealed their approval to the extent
of over 60,000 Beale instruments.
Beale Pianos and Player-Pianos are sold on an extended payment plan
that brings them within reach of the most modest income. Liberal
allowances made on used instruments which are accepted in partial
exchange.
miiut j
5
Her Majesty Sjueen Mary
recently purchased a Beale
Piano for Buckingham Palace
i i
Musical critics enthusiastically
endorse the Beale.
ia
Beale
The
concert instrument
*
H
&
The State Conservatorium ot
Music where to Beale Pianos
■I
iflQ * *
4
5-t_JRL
<>*
■ M
%-M
Si5W
Ml
ion*
#
»
RH
i
The Presbyterian Ladies College
has installed 30 Beale Pianos.
I
m.
-■
m
\
‘
mm
Ik
m
ffiSJl
n
■H
10
mi
R
«*#***»
1
8881
Bin
are neuMteuMSM
and other parts of die World 1
COMPANY
I K 1 I T E B
Showrooms:
340 George Street, Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES: New South IVales: Bathurst, Lismore. Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams BrO**
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. IVestern Australia: Thomson sLtd. Perth, and Fremantle*
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90 92 Queen Street (opp Ptke Bros.), Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairn*


Not just for a year
fgjh
“Fairfax” Kntree Dish, very heavily
silver-plated over hard white metal.
Both sides can be used,
llin. size, 88/-; 10in., 75/-
but for a
lifetime!'
One naturally selects for a bride a
gift that by its daily usefulness and
lasting beauty will be a reminder of
good wishes throughout many years.
A “Fairfax” Entree Dish makes an ideal wedding present. By its grace of line,
dignity and perfect finish it is in harmony with other fine appointments of rare
glass and chiua, and constantly reflects good taste and sound judgment.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—-CASH ONLY.. . .
SOLVING THE RABBIT PROBLEM
CYANOGAS
with
(Calcium Cyanide)
&
'FUMO
BRAND—
If unchecked, Australia’s rabbit problem will become increasingly
serious year by year. . , _ . ......
The surest, speediest and most economical method of rabbit destruc-
tion yet introduced to Australia is fumigation with Cyanogas
If properly applied, with the Fume Dust Blower, not a rabbit can
escape. „ .. ....
Mr. W. B. Goodworth, of Glenburme, Scone, writes, 16th
January, 1926: “I wish you to forward to me three tins Flaked
Calcium Cyanide, slb. tins. I may add I pur-
chased the same quantity some time ago and
have tried it out with other fumes in destruc-
tion of both rabbits and wombats, and am
quite satisfied it is the nearest attempt to
solving the rabbit question I have yet tried,
ft is effective and convenient to handle, and
will kill both wombat and rabbit effectively.”
Oet some at once and live care free.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Itil., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Searfe & Handovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
fgj
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Up North” : Often, with travelling stock,
when a beast is
killed for beef bis
particular cobber
will that uiglit
stray from the
mob and nervously
approach the place
of slaughter. He
walks around it
like a cat on hot
bricks, paws the
earth and sniffs
uneasily; then as
often as not he
skies his tail, and
with shaking horns
gallops off. I saw
a nasty stampede
caused that way.
The mob first
became uneasy
at the mourner’s
whimpering be 1-
lows, but when he
dashed amongst
them they simply
rushed the bush.
Our supply-cart
vanished in splin-
ters, the tents
faded like engulfed
mushrooms, the
horses were swept
into the darkness,
and I fourid myself
up a hollow log
whilst the other
men planted them-
selves behind trees.
The abos. have an
explanation. It ap-
pe|ars that the
slaughtered beast’s
spirit hovers round
the spot for days,
and as tire animal
died a violent death
its shade has an
agonised time gath-
ering itself to-
gether’, and this
feeling is trans-
mitted to the inquiring mate,
* * * *
“Soda”: To “Tourist’s” freshwater well
12 yards from a saltwater creek I can add
another, more remarkable. On that part of
the W.A. coast between Coogee and Rock-
ingham dwell a number of lonely fishermen,
mostly of Mediterranean extraction. Their
water supply is as “Tourist” describes, only
that the wells, made of two barrels, one upon
the other, are dug into the barren sand of
the beach less than 12 feet from the wash
of the Indian Ocean. Though this ocean is,
especially along the W.A. coast, the most
saline of any seas, the water from these wells
is as sweet as that from a mountain stream.
The nearest fresh-water river is the Swan.
many miles distant. One fisherman told me
that further back from the beach the supply
was not as copious, and, moreover, since the
coast is flanked by sandhills, it makes
deeper digging necessary. The tidal rise is
negligible, consequently the sea does not
swamp the wells.
EQUIPPED FOR THE: [?] [?]
THE REV. JOHN BICKANIFF : "Oh, dear, I — aw—feel quite dissipated. I rode out on a
becr-waggon.”
OLD JIM CRACKKELL: “Did yer ’ave yer gimlet with yer, Passon?”
“Mea”: I can confirm “Homfrey Beale’s”
statement (B. 8/7/’2G) that the liyperniag-
netic state of a person’s body will play the
mischief with watches. Some years ago, after
a severe accident, I was treated in hospital
with the galvanic battery for 10 days, from
one to two hours per day. For months after-
wards it was useless for me to carry a watch.
On one occasion I received three’ watches
from the repairer to take to the homestead ;
half an hour later, when I had arrived at
the railway station, all had stopped. My
own watch would fairly gallop, gaining
sometimes from one to two hours per day,
although it would be quite normal after being-
-48 hours out of my hands.
* * * *
“Regnis”: My experience of pink-eye in
stock caused by lantana eating (B. 29/7/’26)
indicates that only the young shoots from
roots are poisonous. My cows had continu-
ous access to the thorny pest and were not
injuriously affected by it except from shoots
in badly grubbed patches. In my experience
animals reared on the spot never became
affected, but stock brought from districts
where the plant was not found often suffered.
As to the medicinal properties of the plant,
as a salve I think it a fraud. After many
trials I could find no result that could not be
obtained by the pulping of any common leaf.
* * * *
“Delos”: I was walking past a clump of
lantana-bushes recently when a swamp pheas-
ant ran out and flew away. Being' inquisi-
tive I investigated and found a nest con-
taining three bggs on the ground under a
bush. Next day I revisited the spot to show
the nest to a friend, and was surprised to
find the eggs gone. Eight days Jater I
noticed the same pheasant leaving another
clump of bushes. Again I investigated, and
this time found two young birds in a new
nest. How did these birds manage to convey
at least two of the eggs from the first nest to
the new one more than 40 yards away? A
friend tells me lie has known it occur before
when the nests of these birds have been dis-
‘covered.
* * * #
“S.N.R.” : The heads of Lincoln and Rom-
ney rams and lambs being larger than those
of merinos, it should follow that crossbred
lambing will be attended with greater perils
and subsequent losses than in the case of
pure merinos. But, it is contended, virgin
merino ewes will give birth to a better per-
centage of crossbred lambs than older merino
breeding ewes. Is this a fact? And, if so,
why? Will some Abo. sheepman give me an
answer and the reasons therefor, as I am
interested in jumbuck obstetrics?
“N.P.” : The recent query about the cuttle-
fish (B. 29/7/’26) sent me to one of our
fishermen who work Bribie Passage (Q.) all
the year round. The previous week he had
shown me some handsome but horrible-
looking squids that had come into his net—
he was keeping them for bait. ITe explained
that a squid, an octopus and a cuttlefish are
three distinct kinds of fish, and in Bribie
Passage the cuttle is the rarest. He had
caught one about five weeks ago. The cuttle-
fish, he said, has a transparent body and
wears the hard slab looking like a backbone
somewhere inside of it.
“Ga’maoha”: The “cuttle-fishes” “C.C.”
picked up on various beaches were skeletons.
The cuttle-bone is embedded in the back of
the symmetrical body of the fish and acts as
a backbone. When an enemy has finished
with one of these molluscs the bone is the
only part of it left afloat to tell the tale.
Old sailors say that albatrosses would live
for ever if they hadn’t an appetite for cuttle-
fish. They possess hard jaws shaped like a
parrot’s beak, and these are supposed to
stick in the bird’s neck and prevent it from
breathing.
“Jesmond”: Cuttle-fish are common the
world over, though the live fish is hard to
find. I have not yet met a man in Victoria
who has caught one,, but as many fishermen
expect to find the shell outside the fish, they
may catch cuttle and be under the impression
that they are squids. Squids and cuttles
are very much alike, though usually the latter
have much longer tentacles. The cuttle-
bone, so common on our beaches, is an inter-
nal calcareous shell or plate, and is no part
of the anatomy of the squid. The inky fluid
ejected by both squids and cuttles consoli-
dates into a brown substance without the
slightest resemblance to cuttle-bone. Cuttle-
bone was used for ink absorption before
the invention of blotting-paper; now a good
deal of it is consigned to Melbourne from
Western Port Bay, and is utilised, I believe,
by manufacturing jewellers as a gritless
cleaner.
* * * *
“C. 8.” : I am the unhappy Sydney owner
of a family of Persian cats. Some time ago
I introduced from Melbourne a sprightly and
apparently healthy young Tom to the Per-
sian spinsters of my home. I’ve had trouble
ever since. On the under-part of Toms
front leg I discovered a spot which looked
like dandruff, and was about the size, of a
threepenny-bit. It spread. I took him to
a vet, who said it came of stomach worms, so
we dosed Thomas till only cast-iron reptiles
could have survived. Still the thing spread,
and not only on Tom but over the harem.
They have all been anointed copiously, with
no effect. Their fur is falling out, and they
are very thin. What am I to do? It looks
like mange with the grip of prickly-pear.
(Continued on page 24.)
LISTENING IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can hoar tho children chattering of the cricket
overseas,
Of the honors that their countrymen should win,
As I’m dozing by Iho fire with a book closed in my
hand,
And I dimly hear one speak of tuning in.
Then old faces from old places that long years ago
1 knew
Seem to crowd around my chair and smile at me,
And the book is slowly slipping, through my fingers
it is slipping,
And my empty pipe is resting on my knee.
Listening in, listening in;
There are smiling old bush faces peeping in.
I can hear the horses snorting and the pounding of
their feet
As they’re racing to the yard at break o’ day;
With the colts and fillies leading and the old mares
at the rear,
Ever watching for a chance to break away.
I can hear the bells a-jangle and the cracking of a
whip,
As the young ones bunch together at the gate,
The heavy rolling- flounder of the old draughts trotting
up
And the whinny of a yearling to its mate.
Listening in, listening in,
Oh, it’s good to hear the waggon creaking in.
There’s the bleating and., the baaing as the shorn
sheep leave the shed—
I can almost hear the patter of their feet
As they scamper through the gateway to the green
feed on ahead,
NOT HIS FAULT.
“Ah, my good man, why do you drink from morning till night?”
“ It’s the only time I gets for it, Mister. I has to have a hit of
sleep, you know!”
Where the hungry ewes are bleating as they eat.
An old fat dog is barking at a few that lag behind,
But the poddy lambs and cripples do not heed.
There’s a prick-eared collie skimming like a swallow
on the wing
That deftly turns those racing in the lead.
Listening in, listening in,
While the old familiar sounds come floating in.
I can hear the cheerful crackle of the burning sticks
and leaves
That are blending with the voices round the fire,
The spluttering and the frizzle as the fat warms in
the pan
Or the steak browns on a grid of twisted wire.
There’s the clatter of the dishes on the table in
the hut,
Clink of knife and fork and spoon and pannikin,
With elastic sides a-shuffle and low jingling of
spurs
As old mates of other days come trooping in.
Listening in, listening in,
While old mates of other years are trooping ini
Now come the strains of music and someone sings
a song—
’Tis of little Sally Waters in the sun;
There’s a party playing cribbage—fifteen two and
fifteen four—
And someone’s hand of diamonds is a run.
Another tells a story that I first; heard long ago
Of a stripling'and-a bully in a fight;-
A station dog is howling; he’s fretting at the chain,
While a wagtail twitters gaily in the night.
Listening in, listening in.
While old memories come softly sighing in.
The Royal Mail is coming; T can hear the driver’s
horn.
’Twas the sweetest music ever in the West!
There’s a dock of box on axle, and the rattle of the
gear
On the leaders, as they’re trotting three abreast.
And the friendly driver's giving all the gossip he has
heard
As he hands the mailbag to the jackeroo.
And then he whistles gently as' he tightens up the
reins
In a way the old coach-drivers used to do.
Listening in, listening in,
With the rustle of old letters drifting in, ■
I can hear a bush girl’s laughter as I doze and
listen in,
Sweet and gentle as the tinkle of a lyre.
Without earphone or loud speaker comes a .message
from the bush
That is blending with the crackle of the fire.
Prom the Warrego and Darling and the rivers"further
out
There’s the fusillade of rain on iron roof;
From the runs across the border and the camps beside
the Gulf
Comes the thunder of the beat of cloven hoof!
Listening in, listening in, . ,
While old, remembered voices echo in.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


L
*
O
Va
V
r
f W:
A
>
&
sG
Ul
ih
jxv'
\N
! ;\\
X
s&
1 \
! k'X '-s \
u
ftJ * %J||t t&jl9S x' X „ 'v '
**« 8w .V' " -l» " «*■
‘iipiX .u • / # v..: ; ,
/* a r%v s *\a ir t ■
kkli-M,#' I \\- i \S, 'Sk
&•■,. v- -.
y-m^.
v. :
?M^c:
XXfcllfr'iAkk
!%<- lpsri w r* k
"' %St #f l# ! ®' hi
'f '
K *4'
i, 8^
VX \k&X .
VX Ml'S -r-^TT:#
IX '«
V 04
a
f*sM H*»s
l***- * s v'
is si®
!SU
til
SSSSSSSK
fi:MA
him
AMI
MlSr-
kkkM
S-SS
nUI
kk
..k -k\w
"kk
ty
kkkk
Sk>'
'
i/ |!Nki!
Vi
//
m&
X
s*>
ft
n
iltltik
m
M «
»!
VM M
VtfM' k;
kV
#«
■
V*
I
P^WfB>l
AV
tiri'l
k -
** /Pi. . &?$
' -j» TF *• »* r }
/ fpj V' ’ ;,* •4* s //k-> Li i»* 11
4.
m
m
i
<4*
Vk
m
*?
iffc
•A/
,
i
.'WfflffliJ
xLUv
*4
sn
Good painting serves to beautify and to preserve.
The pleasing effects of good paint-work are due tc
the skilful blending of certain pigments.
The preserving qualities, however, are due to the
formation of an elastic, protective film which resists
the destructive action of heat, cold, rain and wind.
The vital agent in the formation of that film is
Linseed Oil.
The life of paint-work is in reality the life of the
film, which, in turn, is dependent on the durability
of the Linseed Oil.
fĝjf
has for many years formed the protective element in
the best paints made by manufacturers and master
painters under every climatic condition of Australia.
It is guaranteed to be absolutely pure and free from
any trace of chemicals, while its durability
and resistance under the most adverse
conditions have been conclusively proved.
Cheaper than imported oil, its
quality is equal to that of the
best English brands.
To Combine the Maximum
Protection of Property with
a Measure of Economy—
INSIST ON “MEGGITT’S”
GENUINE LINSEED OIL.
I
/
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King: Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510,
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 380. Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. Pty., Ltd .
Hobart and Launceston,


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity —Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 67-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
“Bal”: A peculiarity of the Chinese as
we Australians see them in the Malay States
and Siam is their ability to squat on their
haunches for eight hours a day without any
apparent discomfort. The sievers in the
tin-dressing sheds work in this attitude,
perched on a plank over a tub of water, and
at the end of the day show no sign of
cramped limbs. Our No. 1 dresser, who had
been for some time with French and English
companies, decided to construct a table and
seats under the atap shelter for his crew
to have tucker in proper English style.
Strolling along at noon, I was amused to see
them all perched up with their feet on the
seats, diving their chopsticks into the com-
mon bowl. A recent Abo. inquirer asked
whether Chinese ever whistle. I’ve heard
very young Chinese whistle but can’t recall
ever hearing a grown-up coolie do it.
* * * *
“Hopalong”: Some of the natives of the
Solomon Islands employ an ingenious device
for capturing tucker. It is known locally as
“calling the fish.” A dozen or more child-
ren or gins stand waist deep near the head
of a small bay, each furnished with half a
cocoanut shell, which is moved up and down,
the water being allowed to run out of the
“eyes.” The noise thus caused resembles
that made by a shoal of small fish playing on
the surface of the water, and the big fish
attracted thereby have to run the gauntlet of
bucks posted with spears at the mouth of
the inlet.
* * * *
“Bill R.” : The N.S.W. North Coast may,
as stated by “Gartot” (B. 15/7/’26), grow
the heaviest young people of that State, but
his assertion and “Black Magpie’s” concur-
rence (B. 29/7/’26) do not convince me that
the Northerners can show taller specimens
A FAIR DIVISION.
“I’ll — hic —give y’ ’and, parson. You do zher work an’—hic I'LL
shupply ’proprinte languazhe.”
than are sprouted on the southern table-
lands. In the bracing climate of the Monaro
a height of six feet or over is common at
16 years of age with both boys and girls,
and the towering uniformity of whole fami-
lies is remarkable. Six sons of the Harvey
family of Jindabyne averaged 6ft. 9in.; the
Richardsons of Delegate, men and women,
6ft. 7in. Fifteen brothers of the Whitby
clan were all over 6ft. 3in. The shortest
man of the Ahearns of Hoskinstown was
6ft. 7in., and their neighbors, the numerous
Hopkinses, men and women alike, were all
over 6ft. 2in. Many other such examples
could be quoted. True these longuns are
usually splintery, but they make up for lack
of brawn by wiriness. Hardier men are not
found in the continent.
“Pick”: It would have been well for
“Eureka” before questioning my truthfulness
(B. 5/8/’26) had he studied the geography
of the N.S.W. South Coast ranges and
learned a little of the history of down-the-
mountain roadways and wool-cartage from
Monaro to the Bay. This information he
could easily have gleaned from the men who
for decades had travelled the Tantawanglo
with waggon-loads of the plateau-grown
THE PRIDE OF BOTTLE ALLEY.
“Yus, the flash piece! She's done ’ersclf up so as to kid us ’er old
man’s out again!”
wool. He says that the first road over the
range was down the Big Jack. By this
assertion he pushes its true history 20 years
out of focus. Jeffreys, the pioneer, opened
the way down the Tantawanglo in 1854.
There was then no Cathcart on the levels
above, but the nucleus of that village was
soon afterwards started by the George and
Dragon pub on the Tantawanglo wool way.
Many years afterwards a settlement was
formed at Rocky Hall, in the Towamba Val-
ley, and in 1871 Thornton surveyed the road
to it over the Big Jack. The first wool-
team traversed that deviation in 1880. My
statement that Jeffreys won the reward
offered by Jimmy Manning, manager for the
Twofold Bay Co., for the first load of
Monaro wool landed per team at the Bay,
can be verified by reference to Manning’s
(son, the present owner of Warragubburra
station, near Bega.
* * * *
“Akenehi”: Re the avocado- or alligator-
pear, now being
cultivated in Abo.
circles. The late
J. C. Williamson
told me that he
welcomed a jour-
ney to U.S.A. be-
cause it meant a
stop at Honolulu,
and Honolulu to
him meant alliga-
t o r-p ear s. For
years I tried to get
one, and when I
succeeded (about
five years ago) was
blankly disappoint-
ed. To begin with,
I paid half a crown
for it. To end with
I ate it as a salad
with mayonnaise
dressing and found
it negative. My
American friends
tell me that the
pear should be
“dressed” with Lea
and Perrin’s sauce,
chopped olives and
vinegar and pepper.
By tlie way, I have a tree three years old
and three feet high in my Sydney (Coast)
garden. It was grown from seed.
* * * *
“Wilga”: On the southern tableland of
N. S. Wales there is a bird whose night
screech is really blood-curdling—worse than
the cry of a fox heard at close range. It
is, I think, a night hawk. Our boys caught
one in a rabbit-trap, and, believing, in the
uncertain light of dawn, that they had cap-
tured a black galah, put it in a bag to carry
home. One of them then swung the load
over his shoulder, whereupon the hawk fas-
tened its beak into the boy’s back through
bag, coat and shirt. It never screeched
again. The night-hawk is a busy bird in flood
time, when many rodents are drowned. He
drags them out and dines sitting on a dry
limb. The beautiful little mudlarks are
good daylight warners of his presence, though
their cry of “Knee-deep, knee-deep!” may
not do justice to the depth of the current
in which the enemy is fishing.
* * * *
“H.V.H.”: My Jap diver Baomata has
been afflicted all this fseason by violent
headaches after his diving spells. He re-
fuses with disdain
salts, senna or the
coated pill, the
best my medicine-
chest offers, and
keeps to his own
remedy. This he
finds by going on
all fours under my
cabin-trunk in
search of a special
size in cockroaches.
He has not to
seek long, for no
matter what the
condition of the
shell market may
be the cockroach
keeps faithful to
the industry. Bao-
mata is a judge of
this insect, and
will pass perhaps
a dozen till he
finds one satisfac-
tory in age and
size. This done,
he wraps the living
insect in a shroud
of cigarette-paper
and swallows it —
shroud and all!
T h e subsequent
stages of the drama
are not played out
in my cabin, and
I have shown no
curiosity about
them. But in an
hour’s time the
diver is his lively self again, and goes down
in a most optimistic vein.
“J.D.C.”: Placing sulphate of copper in
the springs and small streams in fluke-
infected territory is now the accepted method
of dealing with the snail-host of the liver
fluke. Draining the water off is costly in
some and impracticable in other cases, and
the Milestone method is found cheaper and
quite as effectual. A very small quantity
of Milestone in the water will kill the snails,
and seems to have no injurious effect on
livestock. It remains to be proved how fish
will stand the mixture. The water-supplies
so treated are mainly the feeders of trout-
streams stocked at considerable trouble and
expense, and it seems probable that the first
droughty summer, with a greatly diminished
flow in the mountain streams, may cause a
serious epidemic amongst the trout. I once
worked in a copper-mine where the water
pumped from the shaft was allowed to run
into an adjoining creek. The copper content
was only decimal something per cent., but
we couldn’t catch even a yabbie for a long
way below the inflow, though fish were fairly
plentiful above it. If the bluestone method
becomes general, trout will find the little
mountain streams very unhealthy unless they
can adapt themselves to a diet of copper.
* * * *
“AdeL”: At our N.Q. camp we have a
pet sucker, one from a wild sow’s litter, which
fell a hundred feet down a cliff, at the
bottom of which was a deep pool of running
water. I could not see what occurred below,
but within 10 or 15 minutes the grunter
had swum 200 yards down-stream, and was
climbing the bank at the cliff-end. It was a
chilly morning, and she ran near the fire
dripping wet, but grunting contentedly at her
safe return from a marvellous journey.
* * * *
“Lilli-pilli”: With no qualifications other
than an ability to drive bullocks and a
donkey-engine at the sawmill, but inspired
by the fact that Ross Smith had passed over
the selection on his historic flight, Jim Fur
therwest built an aeroplane. Contrary to
local expectations, it really looked like an'
aeroplane, and a visiting expert pronounced'
it theoretically airworthy. Jim cast round :
for an engine and finally secured a dilapi-,
dated motor-car. It was a great Sunday
when he swung the “prop” and climbed
aboard. The population of the district was
there and stood back respectfully as the old
engine roared and the ’plane moved gently.
On reaching the open, Jim stepped on the
juice and was soon lost in dust of his own
raising. The spectators could only speculate
as to what was happening, but judging by
the rapidity with which the sound of the
engine changed, the machine was doing every-
thing an aeroplane should do except fly.
Jim described his experience as “like ridin’
a bloomin’ kangaroo,” and explained that
his engine was unable to develop sufficient
power to raise the ’plane. “If I only had a
mountain to hop off, or if one of yous blokes
’ud give me a snig with your car, I’d fly
all right!” he added confidently. But there
was no mountain and none of the Ford
owners offered, so Jim turned to his son.
“Go an’ stick a collar on the race-mare,” lie
ordered. "I want someone light,” sand Jim,
senior, thoughtfully, “because the mare'll ’ave
to go like hell. Where’s young Jim?” “Here,
Grand-dad,” and a sunburnt youth stepped
forward. “You won’t want spurs!” said
Jim, senior, as the race-mare stood snorting
in front of the ’bus, to which she was attached
by a length of rope. “Jist give ’er ’er ’ead,
and when I git up a bit I’ll unhook the rope
an’ she can pull up when she wants to.” Jim
senior, started the engine and they released
her. After that everything proceeded in a
dust cloud. Young Jim admits that he was
so busy riding he did not miss the ’plane
until the mare pulled up at the ten-mile
gate; the pilot asserts that, just as the
machine was rising nicely, the mare swerved
and turned it over before he could unhook
the rope. All the crowd knew was that they
heard one fearful crash, followed by sounds
suggestive of a dog with a tin on its tail.
Following a trail marked by disconnected
aeroplane parts, they at last came upon the
aviator. He was unhurt, but scarcely in a
fit state to receive ladies ; so the men formed
a screen round him while someone went for a
needle and cotton. “I’ll grind in the valves
and fit another jet in the carburetter,” said
the old man doggedly, “an’ if that don’t lift
'er I’ll buy a higher-power engine!” Old
Jim is a diehard.
* * * *
“Zig-zag”: For the past two years Bill,
working in a Gippsland sawmill, had tied his
pony to the same tree every morning. One
day last month a heavy wind blew down a
75ft. messmate on the pony’s liitching-post
and reduced it to splinters. In the next five
minutes every hand had inquired about
Blossom’s health, which was found to be
0.K., for Bill on this one day in the two
years had tied her to a ’phone pole, instead
of to the usual tree. Was it coincidence —
or what?
* * * *
“Toan” (Bougainville) : In spite of
“Parchment’s” assurance to the contrary (B.
13/5/’2G), common kerosene is the best to
use in covering water to get rid of mos-
quitoes in the tadpole stage. He does not
say what method he used in dealing with
the water-tanks. I am sure he did not use
crude oil. Perhaps he overlooked them,
though they should have been attended to
first. Also, he says that he does not believe
in gauze doors and windows; “they are a
nuisance, and expensive to maintain.” If
you exterminate the mosquito, wire-gauze
doors become unnecessary, but I defy “Parch-
ment” or any other man either in the Malay
Peninsula or elsewhere to exterminate the
mosquito. He treated 2500 acres, but does
not mention the thousands of square miles
surrounding his plantation in. which the. pest
could breed at will. In tropical countries —
and in Australia, too —much can and should
be done to combat the mosquito, but it
needs a united effort on the part of the in-
habitants in a systematic war against the
common enemy.
TERRIBLE WAR EXPERIENCES.
HENNESSY: “War veteran, eh? Did ’e get
any knocks?”
MUROHY: “My oath, ’e did! Told me ’e
wuc half-shot dozens of times in France.”
“Carrandotta” : During many droving trips
in Queensland and the Territory I never
knew meat to be taken from the travelling
mob except in case of accident. “Echap”
(B. 29/7/’26) says that in camps within his
knowledge an average of one beast a week
is killed. My experience was 30 years and
more ago. Has the practice been altered?
THE MORNING AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you wake at ten with a pounding head,
Completely fogged how you got to bed,
And wish to Heaven you were truly dead,
You try to puzzle out how you were led
To do it —whatever induced you, or
Think over new resolutions galore;
The peg’s firmly in, you’ll do it no more—
The morning after the night before!
The slightest noise makes you groan and squirm;
And your voice is husky and hardly firm
As you tell your wife that you feci a worm,
That you’ll give the water-waggon a term;
In a broken tone you attempt to implore
The same forgiveness you’ve begged of yore,
And fancy the awful things in store —-
The morning after the night before.
You tell your friends you’ve never felt worse,
That Woman’s a nuisance but Drink’s a curse,
While you hold your head in your hands to nurse,
And you wonder from whom they will hire the hearse.
But lo! as the evening comes once more,
And you hear gay sounds through the open door,
You forget how you suffered and sighed and swore
The morning after the night before.
(And you’re not sure now you won’t do it once
more!)
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.


ƒjfg
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
REPUBLIC
REASONS
fgj
Republic does the work of
72,000 owners effectively
and well. Why? Here are
the reasons:
Republic Trucks are the best value of any
recognised make of commercial vehicle.
They are built by an organisation that is the largest
of its kind in the world, and which manufactures
trucks only, and which, therefore, is able to con-
centrate on quality and efficiency in Republic
construction.
From the Rigid I-Beam Gil-enclosed Rear Axle
and the long wide springs of Special alloy steel to
the unusual size and arrangement of the trans-
mission gears, the Republic is built for Service.
The Republic is, therefore, better able to do your
work, and do it well and quickly, than any other
truck.
Let the Republic Agent in
your State prove this to you.
REPUBLIC Truck for Every Haulage Need ! 1 to 5 Tons Capacity.
There is a
fgj
Republic has more
trucks in use than
any other exclusive
truck manufacturer.
on
t
w
j ( Jv >
-r^*\
Zl\
rxv-^x
\\ T v\
W,
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE LTD*, Crowle House, Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.


tinder
Royal
Warrant
Vintage
To H.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk/
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACNe
'■kuiesHcidsiecfc
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD. *
Australasian Averts -
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
««**
•v„.
'he Hotel
For Reservations ring 8W1361.
@e
Wfentiuorth Cafe
The name stands for Perfection
Here is all you require for complete enjoyment.
Thursday and Saturday nights of delight.
A superb Dinner from 7.30 p.m. served with Continental finish, 217-
Supper from 8.30, 12/6 —an after-theatre specialty.
Complete Cabaret, including Miss Marie Crowther,
premiere danseuse, Mile. Koslova, Ivan Gorski and the
Famous Wentworth Band provide a veritable feast of
entertainment —at no extra cost.
AFTERNOON TEAS—A SOCIAL INSTITUTION,
from S.SO daily.
The Cafe
Order all wines before 6 p.m.
fgjf
ƒg
c9*
Thp centre of Queens /onc/s
' ct/ stingu/s/>oct Soc/o/ Life.
W&M
fgjfg
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central ~nBo—lo Lines.
AWOMAN'S
LETIER
SAY
Kaysey
GLOVES
State Governor de Chair has been explor-
ing the uttermost parts of his territory, even
unto Milparinka and Tibooburra, two tiny
townships that were left on the map after
the Mount Brown gold rush had sunk into
an early grave; and he knows now what
great hearts beat in the mulga and saltbush
country. But, doing his 160-mile runs in a
day by motor-car, even he can hardly realise
what hearts were needed by earlier settlers,
though his guide, Hughie Langwell, now
chairman of the Western Lands Board, pic-
tured for him some of the days of struggle.
Four years ago Sydney's women doctors
started a clinic in Surry Hills for the treat-
ment of women and children. Sick women
and kiddies liked the methods of the Lans-
downe-street establishment so well that
they bragged about them, and soon every sick
mother and baby in the district began to look
upon the tiny health shop as the. home of
miracles. That is how the attendance of out-
patients comes to number 20-odd thousand
in a year, and a stall of 22 women doctors
is needed for the work. A year ago there
was a great moving from the Surry Hills
stand to Clyde House, at 195 George-street,
Redfern. This w r as opened and christened by
Lady Forster, the Rachel Forster Hospital
for \\ omen. But the ambitious establish-
ment wasn't satisfied with that. It must
keep on growing. So on Saturday last Hugh
Denison’s lady, buttoned to the chin in furs,
was called upon to open a new wing for
in-patients.
The Artists’ Ball was determined to give
the police a job or two in spite of the Society
St. Peters who held the gate. Half-way
through the night a young man, dressed as
a pierrot or cow-catcher, caused a mild sen-
sation by gashing his arm with the glass of his
wrist-watch; and during the last dance Stella
Chaliapin s shawl was pinched from the back
of a chair. Thereby Stella got her picture
m the evening papers again with a head-
line that the shawl is worth £2OO. But isn’t
anyone who leaves two hundred pounds’
worth of shawl loose on a chair, even at an
Artists’ Ball, just inviting disaster?
There was a tenderness about King-street
one night last week that those who passed
by credited to the boronia breath of spring.
How could they know that the spirit of
Charity was abroad stirring their hearts
toward the lame dogs of their acquaintance,
and that through the open windows of a
room above the city street blew something
of the kindliness of the 220 men of goodwill
there gathered? Plow Dickens would have
delighted in that supper party at the Marl-
borough! llow much his own Christmas
Carol was responsible for it the great man
might never dream. But there they were,
these 220 good fellows, the bond that knit them
the cry of the poor; each of them bent upon
doing good by stealth, and for that pur-
pose hiding his identity behind the name of
Smith. The occasion was the second annual
dinner of the Smith family, the most intri-
guing philanthropic group that Sydney holds.
. Chairman of the N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion H. G. Alderson held an outsize birthday
party last week, for the date of his anniver-
sary and the association’s ball was the same.
He and Mrs. Alderson, who was the frivol’s
president, had surrounded themselves with
mends; and the large blue banner that
floated from the Ambassadors’ ceiling swirled
in the mighty tumult that arose when he
was the toast of the evening. The night’s
gate-money goes to pay the expenses of mem-
bers taking part in the inter-State races
and, judging by the roll-up of Charleston
contortionists and mere jazz-steppers, there
should be no question of the oarsmen keep-
ing their heads above water.
Those nice old boys the Rotarians are bent
on a week-long beano, and have marked Sep-
tember 24-October 1 on their desk-calen-
d,ars, "A r f d ‘ 7° be exact > the Club has de-
Week that Sydney shall llave another Boys’
The committee running the dinner dance
tor St. \ incent s on September 28 might
be quoted as a model. Already the tickets
are almost sold out, a card and mah iongg
evening at the Carlton to-night (Thursday)
P a y ex es. has been organised, and the
Viking s presence on the great night has been
secured—-all settled and done with a month
before the event.
Chinese lanterns swung outside the
officers mess m Victoria Barracks the other
night, when the carpet was rolled up for a
dance, while a pate young moon sailed
across a starry sky. General Bruche escorted
his lady—she in black embossed with silver
and daughter Dorothy. Also in the van
were mess-president Cox Taylor and his wife ;
Amy Bruggy, a youthful charmer, in deep
rose-pink; the military Lorenzos, recently
over from Melbourne; A.D.C. Broadhurst, of
the G.-G.’s staff; tall Captain Capes, in
charge of arrangements; a couple of British
officers (Captain Costin-Nian, on exchange
duty here, and Captain Battye, of the Indian
Army). And in the throng the genial Harry
pransfield pair, the lady beautifully garbed
in a Paris confection; and Major Selby and
his dark-eyed little wife, shaking hands all
round, as their boat was to leave for India
on Saturday.
The Engineers and Signal Officers didn’t
need to take off their spurs to negotiate the
Wentworth the other night. A few with
hyper-sensitive partners removed the pricks
before squirming into the Charleston, but
most of the die-hards jingled along with
quite a Russian-ballet effect. Captain J. E.
Fraser, who was the evening’s host, received
strong support from Mrs. Fraser, who was
effective in black satin with poppy-red em-
broideries. Bed, perhaps out of compli-
ment to Mars, glowed vividly on many of the
fair.
The real Function of October will be the
Flying Ball. It is to be at the Palais, and
2000 balloons are to be let loose over the
dancing floor.
London heard the kookaburra laugh the
other day, and will always be the gladder for
the sound. Although the chuckles had
travelled by proxy, they were just as good as
in the original. At any rate, Clara Butt’s
guests thought so, as they listened to soprano
Ethel Osborne in her inimitable bird-songs.
Ethel is the newest Australian protegee that
generous Clara is introducing to London,
and among the personages summoned to hear
her the Sydney girl saw Lord and Lady
Reading, Lady de Bathe (Lily Langtry),
contralto Kirkby Lunn, W. 11. Squire (lie’s
the ’cellist) and Ada Crossley. And since
Clara Butt can never do things by halves,
she herself had designed the frock Ethel
wore. It was of thick white moire, embroi-
dered with a tiny red and green floral device
-—long and puffed at the sides, a Watteau
shepherdess effect heightened by a wreath
of silver leaves.
This good-looking lady in the May Moore
picture is Mrs. .Tames Horsbnrgh. the spark-
ling wife of
the new 1 y-
a p p o i nted
chairman o f
the North
Australia Com-
mission. lie is
one of those
big, quiet
Queenslanders
on the job who
combines a
gen i u s for
m e t a Ilurgy
with an execu-
tive ability
that has made
him in turn
g.-m. of the
Chillagoe Rail-
w a y s and
M ining Co.
and assistant
g.-m. of Mt.
Morgan. The
interesting couple will inhabit the Gover-
nor’s residence at Port Darwin, and the deep-
est regret one of them is feeling at the
moment is over the flourishing kitchen-
garden they will leave behind them—rows
and rows of cauliflowers, virginal as arum-
lilies.
Pretty Clarice Hardwicke, whose London
engagement in ''Rose Marie” was quite a
triumph, won a fresh advertisement a few
weeks ago. This time she got herself into
the matrimonial columns with Captain
Wilson, of the Indian Army.
A bud that burst into orange-blossom at
St. John’s Church, Wellington, last week
was Kathleen Rutherford. The young man
responsible was T. R. Machattie. the polo
player, one time of Dubbo, now of Coonamble.
The slim bride, who was sustained up the
crowded church by father's arm and a burst
of choral encouragement, flashed fairy-prin-
cess attire of Chantilly lace over silver tissue
This was fashioned with a long, tight bodice
and a full flared skirt, and was embellished
about the hem with silver galon in quaint
trails. With this went a ravishing sheaf
of white hyacinths and lilies of the valley.
A froth of tulle train sparkling with rhine-
stones and bugles, and a spreading veil in
which old family lace and clear tulle mingled
on the best terms, were other items that
foamed ahead of the two cousinly brides-
maids, Kathleen and Marjorie Rutherford.
Their frocks were of the evening jumper-and-
skirt variety, and one was powder-blue, the
other cyclamen romaine. Accompanying this
splendor were turbans of the dull sheen of
pewter and armsful of hyacinths that floated
off into silver streamers. There were drinks
later at the Oddfellows’ Hall.
Another wedding in well-known R.C.
circles happened last week when Kathleen
.Harlow, of Mosman (she’s one of the Iluglies-
Barlow clan), married Frank Kenny, of
Bathurst. Arthur Barlow squired his nice-
looking daughter in her picturesque moires
and silver lace to the altar of St. Patrick’s,
and her spreading skirts and Limerick lace
veil were followed by sister Lelia and Mar-
garet Curtis in spring-like raiment of lilac
and silver.
That handsome silverliead Ur. O’Gorman
Hughes, who has been a widower for many
years, was married again last week. The
bride was Valerie Lancaster, and the knot
that never—well, hardly ever— slips was tied
in a subdued fashion at St. Francis’s Church.
This is the new matron of Rose Hall, the
Red Cross home for limbless soldiers in Dar-
linghurst. The
matron, who
is Miss Priest-
ley, is a Coota-
mundra girl,
an cl received
her first two
years’ training
in the district
hospital. Four
years at
Prince Alfred
turned her
into a fully-
fledged Night-
ingale, a n d
since then two
years’ service
as sister in
the hospital of
her home town
have further
equipped her
for her work
among the
battle-scarred.
Grumbling about, a gumboil, are you?
Then listen. In Alexandria there is
a little cottage that is the tomb
of a mother’s heart. Once proud of
five sons, Mrs. Nora O'Connor is now
childless. One was killed at the war; one
died last year; now, within three weeks, the
three who remained to her are dead of pneu-
monia. Widowed, childless, pretty well
penniless—Euripides himself might shrink
from transcribing sorrows such as hers!
The municipal elections in the English
town of Prestwich, near Manchester, a few
weeks ago, caused one Sydney man to glow
with pride. He was Herbert Teare, of the
Alexander Hamilton Institute staff, and a
cable brought him word that his mother
had been elected Mayor of the town. Prest-
wich has a population of over 30,000 and
nurses cotton industries and the once-known-
to-Australia Besses o’ the Barn. Mrs. Annie
Teare, who has been the only lady alderman
in its town council for five years, was unani-
mously elected to the robes. The lady, who
until the war had passed her time growing
pansies and enriching the Manchester Phil-
harmonic with a good contralto, took the
plunge into public affairs in a deep-sea man-
ner. She was so good a secretary to the
local Food Economy Committee that she was
made a member of the English Food Control
Board, and afterwards handled the market-
ing of surplus supplies. Nowadays the pan-
sies have to be bedded out by another.
“A.G.M.'s” note from London: —
The most notable thing in Paris during the Grand
Prix Week was the gorgeousness of the women’s
shoes, the prevalence of saxe blue and the almost
universal wearing of flowers on the left shoulder.
The shoes are so delicate and ornate in construction,
so glorified with jewels and embroidery and so
fantastic in design, that many might well have been
used for head instead of foot ornamentation. One
design was in pale opal enamel with heels entirely
covered with brilliants and with small buckles of
the same.
Artist McNally, who came north from
Melbourne a few months ago, lias been given,
if not the Order of the Bath, at least the
freedom of the shower at Bayview. The
McNally tanks being at low ebb, the dwell-
ers, many of them week-enders, had to
wrestle with the problem of the artist’s daily
tub. So many invitations to “use ours”
were passed on to him that he has compiled
a waiting-list of showers, and every morn-
ing-debonairly sets forth, towel over his arm,
to add another item to his intimate know-
ledge of the plumbing of the district.
Reference was made here a while ago to
the British authorities sending lepers to
Makogai from their Chinese possessions and
from India. A correspondent in Fiji tells
this Letter that “patients do not come to
Makogai direct from British China or from
India, but the Fijian Government has
arranged to take charge of patients from
Maoriland and its dependencies. There are
at present about 320 lepers on the island,
which is one of the beauty spots of the
Pacific. They are given every care and com-
fort by a doctor, lay-superintendent, R.C.
priests and sisters, who cannot be praised
too highly for their noble work.”
A man who holds a responsible job in a
large city store has had an embarrassing
adventure. In his private capacity he takes
an interest in chai’ity organisation, and, as
a result, was an official at a semi-private
garden party held for a deserving cause in
the house and grounds of a wealthy patron.
From the throng of guests a woman whose
face seemed familiar, although his ideas
about its owner were misty, claimed his
acquaintance, and, following the policy of
the charity organiser towards all potential
contributors, he helped the lady to feel at home.
Halfway through the function lie was called
into covsultation with the agitated hostess
and some members of the committee. Valu-
ables had disappeared, and the lady with
whom he had been seen had disappeared,
too —who was she? -The reason for the
familiarity of the face hit him at once. The
woman was a shoplifter with whom he had
twice had encounters in his capacity as chief
of his store’s house-detective staff.
She who vacuums the Hat and boils the
sheets once per week dismissed the new
curtains from the Arts and Crafts with a
cold stare. “Dull, I call them,” she said.
“Not what I call fancy-work at all. Why,
my sister out west —well, you ought to see
the mental drape she won the prize for at
the last Show. It’s done in colored silks
on navy-blue velvet. In the right-hand top
corner there’s a red bull, and to the left’s
a brown stump of a tree with grass under-
neath to make it look natural. In the middle
there’s a kangaroo with its young ’un. To
the left of that there’s another stump with
more grass and a butterfly making for it, and
right in the corner there’s a cow and calf.
And at the bottom there’s a lovely yellow
border of baby kittens. See —what I call a
bit of life about it!”
Miss Brisbane settles down:—
Brisbane leaned back, blessed the Mayor and cor-
poration, and sighed with relief when it found it
wouldn’t have to walk to work next week, and the
sniile on the face of the tiger, which means the
tramway man, is widening. So everybody's happy!
Show-time hordes have passed east, west, north and
south again, and Brisbane looks forward now to
the “Ivatja” season. Meantime it drifts into the
Morris and Moon show, farewells the Diggers, and
goes to listen to Jeanette Ethelston at His Majesty’s.
The fair Mackay girl was tea-ed by Mrs. Ryan at
Lennon’s the other day, the guests being mostly press-
women.
The Authors and Artists had their general meeting
during the week, Dr. Cumbrae Stewart presiding in
the absence of Prof. Stable ; the latter was re-elected
president for the year, and the four vice-presidents
were Phoebe lvirwan, Mrs. Forrest, Dr. Cumbrae
Stewart, and Dr. F. W. Robertson of the Uni. K.
Colclough and Ashton Murphy again dropped into
their slots as hon. sec. and treasurer. Music was
spread abroad by Beryl Pratten and Colin Nash, and
Digger Andersen read a topical sketch.
There was a big roll-up for the final day of the
Exhibition races at Ascot. Pansies and stocks
backgrounded the frocking on the lawn. Several
dinner parties at Lennon’s followed, amid Iceland
poppies and roses ; and Charlie and Nell Moss gave
a demonstration of new dances. The Tennis Associa-
tion also had a dance at the Belle Vue, which was
decorated with blue and red balloons.
At the age of 75, Eleanor Sealy, who had lived
for over 60 years on the Summerlands estate, died
this month. Born in Wilts (Eng.), she was edu-
cated at the Ipswich High School. She had a large
library, from which the Ilarrisville School of Arts
has been liberally stocked. Dengue fever left a
heart weakness this winter.
The Old Southportonians and St. Hilda’s Girls
had their dance under wistaria blooms in the South
Brisbane City Hall. The school colors also figured.
Sweet-peas, on streamers of pink and green, dressed
the supper tables, with a jazz cap at each guest’s
place.
For the building fund of the Sisters of Perpetual
Adoration a dance was given in the S. B. City Hall,
St. Hilda’s Old Girls letting their decorations stay
there for the evening. Red roses decked the com-
mittee table, and Iceland poppies the others.
Mrs. Jack Cain and daughter Maisie are back in
Brisbane after some time abi'oad. Nine months ago
Mrs. Cain joined her daughter at Nice and motored
through Italy, saw Mussolini, met Verbrugghen in
Paris, and Isabel Ramsay (Madame Foa). Mrs.
Cain rented a house in. London, where Maisie drove
a car at the time of the general strike. Mrs. Cain
has a good word for Australian frocks. She declares
the smartest things she possesses were bought in
Australia, and the handsome widow is a judge.
The Archbish. of Brisbane has just been paying
a visit to the outlying parts of the diocese of
Carpentaria; after opening a diocesan conference at
Thursday Island, he put in a fortnight seeing the
Torres Strait islands per lugger. Incidentally, he
laid the foundation stone of a couple of new con-
crete churches which the natives are providing, and
dedicated some new buildings. He returns to Bris-
bane with a handsome presentation trowel of polished
turtleshell with dugong-tusk handle, to show south-
erners something of the local resources.
Mayor Jolly, of Brisbane, received a letter from a
Sydney woman a few months ago, asking him to
find her a husband. The Mayor did his best; he
handed the letter over to the press, which featured
it as a “human interest” story. The Mayor tells
the sequel. “I received 20 replies from lonely chaps
in the Backblocks who were prepared to consider the
lady’s proposition seriously. I sent all the letters
on to her. I don’t know how it panned out, but I
haven’t received any wedding cake yet.”


HAR.DY BR.OS LTD.
Jew e l lefls
rterrr : -
£4O
W® $ : *
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT fIRGS
Whether a ring from Hardy’s costs a , few pounds
or many hundreds, the same care is taken in the
selection of the Gems and in the workmanship.
The settings are of Platinum, or Platinum and 18-
carat Gold, and none but high-quality Gems are
used. , The prices are strictly competitive, and will
bear the keenest comparison with other Rings of
similar quality.
A selection will be sent to any address on approval,
at the Company’s risk and expense.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will be sent post free on request.
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS SI.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3R&°bfoxtsc oP &cluswc Vewctl&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
And at LONDON.
116-U8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
OJ
tfm X)cvu i
HI
:«11
U
r a
SI
I : :
8
■
HARRINGTONS
IMPERIA SUPER-8
The Latest and Most Efficient of SUPER-HETERODYNE RECEIVERS
Specially designed to receive ALL Interstate Station (m any location wit] out
interference. The set is also capable of Farmw-s I Station (Zb L).
SIMPLE TO OPERATE —A CHILD COULD WORK 11.
CUT THIS OUT AND POST -TO-DAY.
Please send me Post Free Special Colored Booklet entitled
Wonder of the Day”; also Illustrated Booklet of Radio Sets.
‘The Wireless
NAME ..
ADDRESS
PRICE, includin;
GUARANTEE.—The
<• ALL Accessories, Loud Speaker, Battery Charger, etc., £135
Set'is Manufactured - and GUARANTEED IN EVERY RESPECT BY
38G GEORGE ’"'STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY
UP
Radio and Photo.
Warehouses,
Established 37 years.
KATOOMBA: Katoomba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 43 Willis Street,
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
fgjfg
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


Swuiowi Adieu's
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Crocer Sells
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
■•V-
**
am
m
i
MDnh wuuii
Vi
Immediately .vou enter the Hotel
Windsor you realise the comfort
it affords and the modern service
at your command.
The
Jfo teftjwdooi:
Spring Street, Melbourne,
is indeed amongst Australia's
foremost residential hotels.
Charmingly located, convenient
and select to a degree.
Vou will be doing right
to register at the
“Windsor/’ and remem-
ber that it is always
advisable to book well
ahead.
Minimum Tariff
from 22/6 (inclusive)
Room and Breakfast
from 15/~
Telegrams and Cables:
‘Telwinsor,” Melbourne..
‘Phone: Cent. 9260.
m
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
His Majesty’s had a gala night when the
Firm dressed up the big theatre to pay tri-
bute to Cobliam. The air was full of the
scent of wattle, and early gum-tips bordered
the flag-draped tiers of upper seats, while red,
white and blue electric bulbs glowed m
bunches of foliage. Above the proscenium
an aeroplane picked out in colored lights
was flanked by the Union Jack and the Aus-
tralian flag. Representatives of the Navy,
Army and Air Force in party uniform sup-
plied further dashes of color. Patrons re-
ceived a special souvenir of the flight, and
also carried home the balloons which were
moored to their chairs. “Tell Me More” went
with a whir. The ladies of the company
sported Air Force badges, and George Gee
made topical allusions. Thurza Rogers, in
a fetching Watteau shepherdess rig, and later
in ballet frock of mauve and orange, got a
great reception. Cobham and his mechanic,
Ward, were accompanied by the Gilbert
Lodges, she in a pale green gown that was
all a sparkle.
After the gala-night performance at His
Majesty’s, the Gilbert Lodges hurried Cobliam
off to Bibron’s, where they entertained at
dance and supper some of the naicest. The
Napiers, Bailey Grohman and liis wife,
Colonel Cass, Group-Captain Williams and
Mrs. Williams, Keith Smith and R. Parer
were there; also Valerie Purves, Vera de
Bavay and Meta Power.
Dancers at Praliran Town Hall bided a
while to give aviator Cobliam a cheer when
he was a guest at the fifth annual ball of
Prahran's Naval and Military Club. Colonel
T. W. White, (Gilbert Lodge and Mr. Smid-
more formed a bodyguard for the flier, who
appears to enjoy a ballroom nearly as much
as he revels in the skies. Decorations, red,
white and blue, with many flags, had a cen-
tral bunch of crimson blossoms, which served
as hangar for a burnished aeroplane. Rear
Admiral Napier was there with Mrs. Napier,
whose frock called down from the firmament
some of its blue and silver. Mrs. Denham,
whose husband was president of the hop,
scintillated in a black-jetted robe.
The Victorian Red Cross should have at
least temporary release from its financial
worries as a result of the gymkhana at
Moonee Valley Racecourse. There was a
sparkling programme of events, and Mrs. E.
M. Pearce and secretary Rose M. Paterson
led a body of energetic matrons and maids
who supplied luncheon and afternoon-tea,
sold sweets and cigarettes and did all the
chores for 3000 patrons. Lady Somers came
after lunch wearing a Russian leather coat
over a light-brown frock, with a felt hat,
and passed the prizes—the usual silver cups,
entree dishes and gold-mounted whips—to the
winners. .Tust when six ’planes were doing
dizzy stunts in the clouds, Alan Cobham and
his mate Ward appeared with Gilbert hedge
and Mayor Brunton in the vice-regal pen. In
welcome to the airman three, ’planes swooped
almost to the earth, and then at terrific speed
just skimmed the top of the grandstand.
The most picturesque gymkhana item was a
hunt put on by combined hunt clubs, with
riders in pink and a pack of hounds. Foot-
races for jockeys, wearing colors and riding
boots, added to the gaiety of nations. Helen
Turner, who lately had her collar-bone put
out of gear, though still wearing a sling
managed to gain the prize for the best turn-
out. Hilda McCardel carried off pony honors
over the hurdles, and the mounted police
did an attractive musical ride.
The parasols that will take the air with
the new spring gowns are smaller than ever,
and embellished to a very expensive degree.
Prices range from two to ten guineas. Em-
broideries of crystal and steel beads and
sprays of velvet embossed flowers adorn these'
shades, which may be obtained in almost any
color or tone. Many of these ethereal-
looking gamps have all their decoration upon
the inside lining. Brightly-hued walking-
sticks, embellished with quaint figures and
immense tassels, also threaten to be fashion-
able.
Organisers of gaieties last w T eek strove one
against another to secure the attendance of
Alan Cobham. The most successful of hops
seems to have been that engineered by a
number of bachelors who label themselves
“XL.” The jollo was held at the St. Kilda
Town Hall, and Mayor Cummings welcomed
the airman, who was greeted by a regular
guard of honor made up of flappers in their
prettiest frocks. Though he had other en-
gagements to attend to that evening and
could not stay long, he returned at midnight
to claim lots of partners. Alison Cummings,
whose pink frock had embellishment of
silver, was one of the lasses who danced with
the hero. She was also on Saturday a pas-
senger in the ’plane Cobham piloted at the
Aerial Derby, a favor that went to the high-
est bidders. Miss Cummings’s offer was £25.
The money went into the coffers of the Aero
Club. , ~
The Wilson couple, of Scott’s Hotel, sold
many things not mentioned in their license
on a recent afternoon, but the Law saw no
cause to interfere. Lingerie and bags, bibs
and tuckers, dolls and flowers and such like
brought remarkably good prices, and it all
went to the Children’s Hospital. Besides
turning much of the ground floor into a
bazaar, the generous pair supplied the four-
o’clock pot. The chatelaine of Stonington,
being smitten by the ’flu, had to be excused
from duty, and the Lauchie Mackinnon
matron, who is president of the hospital
committee, opened the sale and thanked the
helpers.
The Hawthorn branch of the Children’s
Hospital Auxiliary was patted on the head
and called a good dog by the central admin-
istration the other day. The occasion was
the Auxiliary’s annual reckoning, held at
the home of Mrs. J. G. Latham. The report
said that 7(55 articles of clothing had been
made, two cots at the hospital and one at
the convalescent home maintained, much
money collected, and other helpful deeds done.
In four years the Auxiliary, with the aid
of its various branches, has contributed to
the hospital over £14,000 in cash and kind.
To-morrow (Friday) is Wattle Day, and,
judging from the wouderful way in which
the trees have burst into bloom this spring,
our city streets should be a sight to see.
Sales of the official button —a kookaburra
upon a wattle-bough—will go to sundry
charities.
Mayor Thomas, of Essendon, and his
sister Miss E. E. Thomas, who has been
Mayoress, came away with some souvenirs
of office after the ball given them by the
citizens. A. V. Hiskens handed over a dia-
mond cluster brooch for the lady and a gold
cigarette-case for his Worship. And the
debutantes of the season insisted on immor-
talising their entrance to society by giving a
crystal bowl set upon a black lacquer stand.
Mrs. Agnes K. Goode, of Adelaide, who
stayed here a couple of days lately on her
\v ay home
after attend-
ing the Fed-
eral Confer-
ence of the
National Coun-
cil of Women
in Brisbane
and meetings
of the Women
Justices and
Housewives in
Sydney, is one
of those
ladies who
combine with
domesticity a
practical and
wide interest
in the public
welfare. She
is a Council-
lor of Hack-
ney Ward, and
as chairman of
the Finance Committee signs many civic
cheques. She reasons that municipal work
is but housekeeping on a broader, larger
scale, and that domestic experience is good
training for it. She has high standing in the
National Council of Women, and is the first
president of the recently-formed S. Aus-
tralian Housewives’ Association, which can
boast in its first breath, as ’twere, a thou-
sand members. Mrs. Goode is the visiting
woman Justice of the Central Gaol at Adel-
aide, and she believes her sex can give good
service on the Bench—but, only if they fit
themselves for the job by study. Her fair-
mindedness is notable. Speaking on the
Married Women’s Protection Act, she argued
that similar protection should be given mar-
ried men to allay some of the misery caused
by lazy, good-for-nothing wasters of wives.
The collection of work from the brush of
Adelaide’s woman painter Mrs. Gwen Bar-
ringer, hung at the Sedon Gallery, was intro-
duced to the world by Arthur Robinson’s
lady. These pictures of sea and land, remi-
niscent, in their treatment of the art of her
co-worker, Hans lleysen, are helped by their
setting, the gallery being bright with blos-
soms, arranged in big brass bowls, and quaint
pottery. Unfortunately the painter was not
able to come across for the opening tea-
drinking and hear the flattering comments.
Wilma Berkeley, who went to the Old Dart
to sing, seems to be at last finding her feet
in London. She has been engaged for a tour
with the Nigel Playfair co. Thanks to Dr.
Lyttleton, headmaster of Eton, who asked
Sir George Herscliel to hear her, the Aus-
tralian is now being trained without fee by
the famous musician.
The citizens of St. lvilda rolled up in
force for the jazz given to Mayor Cummings
and his daughter Alison, who, during her
mother’s absence, has gracefully shouldered
civic social duties. The young deputy-
mayoress, who received a posy, wore a pink
frock with crystal embroidery, harmonising
with the decorations, a glow of pink and
gold electric lights, nestling amid garlands
of blossoms of the same color. Pink poppies
trailed over white lattice, and were set at
intervals round the walls of the hall, with
a background of silver. A committee of men
headed by Town-Clerk Fred Chamberlain as
secretary, with J. B. Lewis, the treasurer, ran
the hop, which also had a little wifely super-
vision.
It has been said that when a man of brains
gives fine gifts to the world there has been a
fi n c woman
behind hi m.
The woman in
this case is
Mrs. Tate,
widow of the
late Henry
Tate, Austra-
lia’s one defi-
nitely original
composer, and
her somewhat
wistful face
looks from
this Marietta
phot o. A
daughter of
the late W.
M e r c c r, a
chemist, Mrs.
Tate received
li cr musical
education at
the Dayles-
ford Convent,
becoming a very capable violinist. Amongst
her work in that direction was the organis-
ing of an orchestra of more than average
standard at Beeac. Mrs. Tate followed her
father’s profession, and has a business at
Hartwell. Her marriage, eight years ago,
to the late composer was something more
than the usual romance. From her school-
girl days she had been friend and inspiration
to the man who had all his life forsaken the
material things of life for art’s sake, and her
unselfish devotion made it possible for him
in his later years to write the music that
was in him.
There were races at Flemingtou on Satur-
day, but the Aerial Derby, at Essendon Aero-
drome, or the refusal of favorites at the last
few meetings to justify their favor, or some
other reason, caused a marked dwindling in
the attendance. Though the weather was
bright and crisp, the gee-gees had reason to
feel a little lonely. A slight flutter was
caused by the appearance of Cobham, who
came for luncheon and to see a race or two.
The coats and skirts and furs on view had
all already gladdened the lawns and grand-
stands.
Many interesting people leaned over the
rail of the Ascanius and held streamers when
the liner put out from Port Melbourne for
South Africa. The G. B. Post co., including
Dorothy Brunton, figured on the passenger-
list, and the Firm was well represented on
the whraf. Miss Brunton held armfuls of
daffodils and boronia against a coat of mink
topped by a cherry-red hat. Cecil Haines,
setting out for her first big tour, waved
good-bye over many posies of violets and
pink blossoms. The clever Kendall quar-
tette. unappreciated by Melbourne right up
to the eleventh hour, were seen off by Muriel
Campbell of the Albert-street Con., who was
there to say the Music Club’s farewells.
On a recent evening Madihuil Harper, only
daughter of Henry and grand-daughter of the
late Robert, motored from Toorak to the Gram-
mar School Chapel to keep a date with an
old boy. Dr. Bruce Hunt. There was a great
muster of the elect to smile on the bond-
smitliing. The bridegroom is a son of the
Atlee Hunts, and his mother, who has been
very ill in Sydney, made a desperate effort
and was amongst those present. Canon
Hancock put the questions amidst a riot of
pink blossom. The bridal gown was a
foam of white chiffon, an ethereal creation
that billowed around the slender figure with
cloud effects, made with long sleeves and a
lace train interlined with gold, suggesting an
early sunrise. A full veil of tulle was worn
with a circlet of orange-blossoms. Mollie
Hunt and Gwen Graham, as bridesmaids,
wore flared frocks of primrose taffetas and
hair bands finished with floral posies.
Constance Neville Johns, a student of the
University Con., who took her voice to
America about three years ago, sends news
of her doings. Completing her contract with
the Cliautauquans, she has since spent 12
months in England and on the Continent.
She had an opera course in Rome with
Madame Delia Valerie, who helped Frieda
Hempel along. Back again in the land of
dollars, the Victorian has a concert tour
mapped out which will keep the wolt away
until past Christmas.
Jessie Simpson, a member of the Arts and
Crafts of these parts, whose talent runs to
china-painting and leather work, set sail
by the Cormorin last week to keep a matri-
monial appointment with the Rev. E. Eric
Watt, at present chaplain of the Seamen s
Mission at Genoa. After the twain are one
they will live at Kobe, Japan.
Folk around this continent who have wire-
less sets may tune in to 3LO on Monday and
hear Lady Somers preach on the text ot
“Eat more dried fruit.” There is to be a
week’s campaign to boost Victorian sul-
tanas, raisins and lexias and stimulate the
home market. Many returned soldiers are
in the business, which is another reason why
it ought to be given a helping hand. Clapp s
citrus slogans will l ave to take a back seat
for a few days, for at railway refreshment-
rooms special dried-fruit dishes are to figure
on the menu. An expert announces that one
pound of raisins is nutritively equal to four
pounds of fresh fruit —interesting if true
and there are many other arguments that
will be loosed on the public.
Sister Adelaide weathers a jubilee:—
The Seamen’s Mission Ball at the Palais Royal
was engineered by our most energetic society dames
pulling well together under the leadership of Mrs.
T. Slaney Poole. Mrs. J. H. Gosse had converted the
place into a bower of daffodils; and Lady Bridges
came on there from Margaret Sutherlands conceit.
The Army got up and asserted itself the same
night at the Maison de Danse, where the 2rth Batta-
lion entertained 200 colonels etc., and their lady
friends.
Before leaving Adelaide the Priminister’s better-
halt' was given a tup of tea by R. V. Wilson’s
dame at the South Australian Hotel, where 40 of
the nicest met her. Large pink roses were pat-
terned on most of the silk frocks worn, the hostess a
included.
University Chancellor George Murray’s jubilee con-
versazione was an overwhelming affair. Starting in
the Elder Hall, the programme included a round
tour of all the seats of learning in four buildings--
several storeys and no lifts! Everyone was glad to
see the marquee where supper was served. Blue
mice were among the titbits on show, and lecturettes
were given in every classroom. The jubilee fevei
ran on into a concert followed by supper at the
Elder Conservatorium. Lady Bridges and her daughter
went to these.
Inter-State hockey flappers were given morning
tea by Mayoress Bruce at the Town Hall, The
town is overflowing with professors and lacrosse and
hockey players, and bed and board are at a premium.
Our new Premier’s wife, Mrs. Hill, is an enthusi-
astic worker for the Adelaide Hospital Ladies
Auxiliary and an untiring toiler in one or two other
causes.
Sixteen pretty girls were debutantes at the Var-
sity Ball in the Elder Hall, and made their bow to
his Ex. and Lady Bridges with more or less success.
The Governor’s lady shimmered in gold sequins, and
Mayoress Bruce donned gold lame. At supper in
the marquee a surprise was provided for his Ex.
a birthday cake with 21 candles and a sugar latch-
key. The candles should have numbered So, but
in such cases short measure is always sure of foi-
giveness. The Chancellor welcomed the crowd for the
third time in one week; he has never how-do’ed so
much in his life, and the University has almost be-
come a cafeteria. Professor Harold Davies was the
only professor present—the jubilee has been too much
for the others. With two or three exceptions the
guests were all on the right side of 30.
Lavington Bonython’s son Jack, here from Eng
land on his ’Varsity vacation of a few weeks, is
improving the shining hour by getting married to
Hope, daughter of Mrs. A. M. Rutherford, on Sep-
tember 4.
Douglas Mawson’s dame and her family leave by
the Ballarat for England. The Professor, who is
lecturing in Perth, will join her at Fremantle.
“A.G.M.” from London :
Some Australians in London have confused Angela
Maude Fane, the fiancee of Stephen Fairbairn’s son
Sydney, with that other Maud Fane who, during
her stage career in the Commonwealth, shed a light
on the dizzy vagaries of the matrimonial state. The
brother of Mr. Fairbairn’s bride-elect was married
last year to Sally Francis, who was left a very’ large
fortune by her grandmother- —she had liberal interests
in Standard 051. Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Fairbairn
live in Great Cumberland-plaee, where Melba made
her only real attempt to establish a home in London.
When Melba started housekeeping in that attractive
crescent Bertram Mackennal designed knockers,
handles and fluiger-plates for the doors, but after a
few years the prima donna tired and sold out.
A word from the Speck:—
At St. Joseph’s, Hobart, on a recent Sunday morn-
ing, Father Murphy brought a blush to modest Janey
Reichenberg’s cheeks by telling the congregation thai
exactly 58 yeers ago that day Miss Reichenberg had
first taken her seat on the organ-stool, and she had
stuck to her post faithfully through the years.
In an illustrated booklet, issued for the informa
tion of the round-the-world tourists on the Carin-
thia, which will sail from New York in October,
there is the following on the subject of the Speck:
“Tasmania. —The visit to Tasmania may be said to
be a visit into the prehistoric past. This holiday
island, with its tall fern-like trees, boasts a vege-
tation but little changed from the time when titanic
lizards wallowed in the primordial ooze.”


A. SAUNDERS’
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT
and WEDDING RINGS
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
Specially Selected Diamonds.
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shape platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold,
£5O, £6O, £7O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £25.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Platinum
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Five-Diamonds,
set Platinum
18et. Gold Ring,
£l5.
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, set
Platinum 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ All-
Platinum, Dia-
mond-set Wedding
Ring, £25.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding
Ring, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
1 Wider, £2.
SENT
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l5.
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum set,
18ct. Gold Bing,
£2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5.
A, Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £l5.
WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK.
1. Saunders’ Four-
Diamonds, set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O. £lO.
MS
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, All
Platinum Ring,
£95,
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Cross-
over Ring, set
Platinum, lBct.
Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, All Platinum
Ring, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£3O, £4O.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller-—Optician,
805-813 GEOROE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Mastertauch
Player Rolls.
Latest and Best
ATTRACTIVE LIST OF AUGUST RELEASES.
Fox Trots.
D. 1419 —Roll ’Km Girls (Roll Your Own).
D. 1421—1 Do! I Do! Don’t You?
D. 142 Aloha, How Are You?
(From “Tell Me More.’’)
D. 1423 —Why Do 1 Love You.
(From “Tell Me More.’')
D. 1431 —Horses.
D. 143 You Sorry?
D.l 434—Dinah.
D. 1440 —That Certain Party.
D. 144 the Harbor Lights.
D. 1445 —My Sweetie Turned Me Down.
One-Steps.
D. 1429 —Bobadilla.
Waltzes.
D. 1420 —Away from You.
D. 1427 —Nights of Gladness.
D. 14.30 —Chimes of Waikiki (Hawaiian).
D. 1435 —Carolina Sweetheart.
Ballads.
D.l424—The Broken Melody. Key of B
Flat, B to E Flat.
D. 1425 —Di'ake Goes West. Key of D.
A to E.
D. 142- —Teach Me To Pray. Key of E
Flat, B Flat to D.
D. 1436 — 11 Baeio (The Dream of Home).
D. 1438 —Cloze-Props. Key of C. C to D.
D. 1446 —Beloved, It Is Morn. Key of D.
D to D.
Marches.
D. 1432 —The Bohemians.
D. 1439 —The Snow King.
Operatic (with Words).
D. 1426 —The Quaker Girl (Selection).
D 1437 -The Cingalee (Selection).
D. 1441—The Pink Lady (Selection).
D. 1442 —Anvil Chorus (from “II Trova-
tore”).
D. 1443 —The Soldiers’ Chorus (from
“Faust”).
C Series.
C.79B—Fledermaus (Waltz). Strauss,
Schutt.
C.Bol—Ballade in A Flat. Op. 47.
Chopin.
C.Bo3—Sonata Pathetique. Op. 13. Ist
Mov. Grave-Allegro. Bethoven. _
C.BO5 —“Juba” Dance (From the Suite
“In the Bottoms”). Nathaniel,
Dett. „
o.Bo7—Adieu! Op. 144. Sydney Smith.
C.BO8 —Semiramide(Deseriptive). Rossini.
C.BO9 —Nocturne. Key of F Sharp, Op.
15, No. 2. Chopin.
C.BU—A Garden Dance (Descriptive).
Vargas. .
0.812 —The Butterfly Dance (Descrip-
tive). Miles.
The Above Titles are also Obtainable in “Expression” Rolls.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
(Procure our Latest General Catalogue, also Bulletin
oj new releases issued on the first of each month.)
AVASTERTOUCH
• Mand Played
. Rolls - =
are the
LATEST and BEST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.
MURDOCH'S
FAMOUS
ARMOURITE
BOOTS
pBSSoocjKI
Mi
—f«
Outlast Two Ordinary Pairs
THIS is no idle claim—a special treatment carried out dur-
ing the tanning of the leather gives to the soles wonderful
wear-resisting properties—not merely the surface, but
through and through tr»e sole leather. Men s Black
Wallaby Boots, fitted with Murdoch’s “Armourite” soles.
Box Calf, Derby shape, with or without toe-
cap. Also in finest quality Tan Willow Hide. O
Comfortable medium wide round toe
For other shapes or prices of Armourite see Murdoch s
Catalogue—Free!
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR,
When ordering by post
kindly state
Mmmi
| in PACK ST^
jfg
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
Ask your favourite
Tobacconist to shots
you the full range
of « 888 ” Pipeu
■>
You can't buy a better briar
than 888
All the best that nature can
give goes into a ** BBB.”
The sunshine of more than
a quarter of a century has
steeped into the very heart
of the wonderful Bruyere,
maturing it to perfection. All
the knowledge of almost 60
years of pipe-making is ill
them also.
Can you wonder then that
the " 888 ” is a pipe apart,
with wondrous depths of
beauty and cool sweetness
hidden in its clean-cut bowl
and stem ?
"BBB'Pipes
The Pipes Without Blemish I London made
Manufactured by Adolph Frankau & Co. Ltd., London, England.
Have You got a Revolver,
jfgjf
Rifle or
Shotgun in
need of REPAIR ?
NOTE OITR ADDRESS:
COWLES & DUNN,
the oldest established gunmakers in the
Commonwealth, are specialists in repairs
of all descriptions.
Our well-equipped workshops are in
the hands of highly-skilled ENGLISH
GUNSMITHS, and their work is of the
highest order. We GUARANTEE all
•work done, and furnish a DEFINITE
ESTIMATE of the cost before proceeding
Every member of the firm of COWLES
and DUNN is an expert in some particular
branch of GUNCRAFT, and our Repair
Department is under our personal super-
vision.
SEND YOUR REPAIRS TO US.
COWLES & DUNN, Gumnakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney
< Spieor’s Building—corner of Kent and Druitt Streets —near the Town Ha ).
'Phone: M3SBB. ——


r
/■/
<w-
—i. - I •r'V'? M ••
zs&rf / M 3S^-0'
WAKEFIELD
ƒghfg
again, has been associ-
ated with an extraordi-
nary success. Trium-
phant Cobham, using
the world-famed lubri-
cant, adds his name to the scroll of great
aeronauts who have flown from the Hub to
the Rim of the Empire.
Significant that all these men chose CASTROL ! Theii
very lives depend on the well-being of their engines. They
have to be right.
Aland! Aloft! Afloat! Trust British-owned “CASTROL”
with the vital matter of lubrication. It never fails. The
better your engine the more it deserves CASTROL !
C. C WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm ,
Head Office for Australasia: Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
“I LIKE TO HAVE
THIS BATTERY
IN THE CAR”
It never fails it can’t fail it’s a
Westinghouse product.
No matter whether journeying through busy
traffic or a night drive on treacherous winter
3*
roads, Westinghouse
always sees you
through. It gives eyes
to your car on the
darkest highway and
a voice that is instant-
ly heard.
Yes! They’re good
these Westinghouse
Batteries —even better
than their name. You
need one in your car.
Say Westinghouse when
you next Renew.
WESTINGHOUSE
jhfgj
BATTE RIE S
Ai
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little I.atrobe Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd&Co,. 22-24 Divett Place and Roper street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Fty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : Anderson & Co.. Durham Street, Auckland District.
Alfred Atkinson, Whangarei, North Auckland.
Thompson Bros., Blair Street. Wellington.
Freeman & Toon, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Lawrence & James, Stone’s Building, Dunedin.
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
®Y APPOINTMENT TO
g.M. THE KING
The British
CRGSSLEY
Built for Australia
£399
Now
Crossley Motors, Ltd,
o
DIEN
ICH
BV APPOINTMENT to
<.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES
Fully Equipped
Four Wheel Brakes Rug Rail
Four Balloon Tyres Shock Absorbers
Spare Wheel Choke
Real leather upholstery throughout.
All-weather curtains carried in a
special compartment behind the rear
seat squab.
A combined Foot Rest and Tool Com-
partment in an exceptionally acces-
sible position.
All these special features are
standard equipment on the
H.E
TOP GEAR CAR.
The new 15/30-horsepower Crossley has been specially built for Australia,
after an intensive study of Australian conditions. In it are all the
features that experience has shown necessary for long life and comfortab e
touring.
POWER
A perfectly-balanced, highly-efficient engine, which, though rated at only
15 horsepower, actually develops 33, giving exceptional flexibility, and
making frequent gear changing unnecessary.
ECONOMY
A petrol consumption of 30 miles per gallon is easily maintained, upkeep
expenses are negligible; twenty thousand miles without repairs of any kind
is no uncommon performance for the Crossley.
SPEED
The standard 1 5/30-h.p. Crossley easily exceeds fifty miles per hour, making
it exceptionally suitable for fast touring.
COMFORT
The body is roomy, the upholstery luxurious, the springing and full balloon
tyres ensure smooth riding over even the roughest roads.
And PRICE
From this standpoint, the Crossley represents the greatest value at present
obtainable on the Australian market.
A demonstration can be arranged at your convenience or a catalogue posted
promptly on request.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NSW • Crosslev Motors (Aust.), Ltd., 87 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria: A. F. Gregerson Motors Pty., Ltd., 130 Russell Street Melbourne.
Queensland: British Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Adelaide Motors, Ltd., 175 Pulteney Street, Ade aide.
West Australia: Spalding Motors, King Street,' Perth.


mMm
£5/
■ i
©
jfg
Lo»k for tha Trademark I Agent* Ev«ry«h*n.
IPrite for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP St CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Specialwhiskv
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
«j-i
a /«;
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P, THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Two very promising young horses were
introduced to Sydney racegoers at Rosehill on Satur-
day. Eric Connolly started Cimon in the Three-year-
old Handicap, seven furlongs, and McShortodds being
well primed with information, the son of Woorak—
Simmerette went out at 7 to 4 in a field of 18. A
mettlesome bay, he was eager to get to business,
and Toohe.y had a very easy ride; running past
Ariedon at the entrance to the straight, Cimon won,
pulling up, by four lengths from the Valais—Burletta
colt Valaisian (15 to 1) in lmin. 20 jsee. ; Sub-
division, the third horse (he is from Maoriland)
paid £7 Bs. 6d. on the 10s. tote. Cimon, in addition
to his Derby engagements, is in the Caulfield Cup
with 6st. 71b. and in the Melbourne Cup with 6st.
111 b. He may never be a two-miler (though his
dam was a daughter of Etra Weenie, who threw
Merriwee), but he will perhaps be equal to a mile
and a half, as Whittier was; in any case, there is
no doubt about his speed. Limerick’s performance
in the Carlingford Mile suggested both speed and
stamina. Being a bit above himself, this half-brother
to Ballymena (he is by imported Limond —Medley)
was not greatly fancied by Maoriland trainer Jones,
and so drifted to 10 to 1, but he proved in suffi-
ciently good fettle to fight out a very vigorous finish
with the 5-to-2 favorite, Quail Tart, whom he defeated
by a neck in lmin. 40sec. ; little Lucy Thrice (20 to
1) was a fair third. Limerick, who carried slb. less
than his Derby weight, is a solid customer, though
no beauty (neither was Ballymena, for that matter),
and Maoriland will have a worthy representative in
the A.J.C. classic if he keeps right. Quan Tart lost
a bit of ground at one stage, and in the circumstances
ran an excellent race, especially as he had 12lb. more
than his Epsom weight, 7st. 10lb. He may not
be brilliant enough over the last bit to win the
Epsom, but there is no more taking proposition for
a place.
Backers were off the track in most of the eight
races, and in the Rosehill Handicap, 10 furlongs, they
were all astray. Connolly played up some of his
Cimon winnings on imported Murillo (Gainsborough
—Raya), and there was good money for Royal
Dighton, Hinchinbrook and the Maoriland gelding
Star Stranger, all four being at s’s or 6’s, according
to the amount of money laid by individual operators.
Mountain Prince, who, like Valaisian, is owned by
the Victorian, E. M. Pearce, eased to 20 to 1 after
a small stable commission had been placed at half
that price. Murillo met with interference, and
Royal Dighton and Hinchinbrook (who will shape
better over a longer distance) remained in the ruck,
but Star Stranger, who was always prominent, beat
everything bar Mountain Prince, who hit the front
at the mile post and went on to win by two lengths
in the fast timei of 2min. 6sec. ; Mingelo was third
and St. Anthony—an English gelding owned by AV.
C. Douglas and trained by F. Williams —fourth.
Mountain Prince, who is a five-year-old chestnut geld-
ing by Mountain King—Tonalda, has 7st. 101 b. in
the Metropolitan—6lb. less than on Saturday'. He is
rather like Highlander in appearance, but gets up
top speed quicker than that sluggish animal and
seems more trustworthy.
* * * *
The herring-gutted Sir Myram, who started
twice in Sydney and fell twice, will trouble punters
no more. He came a cropper in the A.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle at Victoria Park (S.A.) and broke
his neck. Tongarra, Double Musket, Nile Chief and
old Fiscom also fell, Nile Chief when looking all
over a winner, and an outsider, Boy Pistol, plodded
home ahead of Golden Fox, My Greek and the V.R.C.
National w'inner, Sparkling Moselle; the winner’s
supporters got a shade over 141 to 1 for their
money. Bobbie Lewis rode and A". J. Scobie led in
the winner of the Adelaide Guineas, Welosia (The
Welkin —Celosia) making an exhibition of the local
three-vear-olds. E. E. D. Clarke’s bonny bit of stuff
started at odds on. Another favorite in Deux Fils
(Two —Nurse Cavell) easily landed the Fulham Park
Plate, the first two-year-old race of the year in
Australia; he is owned by T. H. McKay.
The annual election for the committee of
S.A. Jockey Club was unusually exciting. Three
members retired in the ordinary course, and a recent
amendment had provided for two extra, making a
committee of nine instead of seven. Dr. Benson,
one of the retiring trio, could not stand again,
another recent rule having barred anyone officially
connected with another racing club, as he is with
Port Adelaide; the other two, W. B. Carr (chairman)
and S. J. Jacobs, headed the poll. Competition
among seven well-known members for the other three
seats was keen; Lance Lewis, H. P. McLachlan and
Frank Downer (by tw'o votes from R. W. Bennett)
were successful. At the meeting, W. A. Blackler
moved (1) that stipendiary stewards be abolished;
(2) that “whips, spurs and batteries” be abolished;
(3) that drawing for positions at the post be
abolished; (4) that no race (except for two-year-
olds) be less than a mile; and (6) that the minimum
weight in all races be 9st. 71b. None of his ideas was
accepted.
The outstanding feature of the racing at
Flemington on Saturday, when punters went down
heavily again, was Spearer’s success in the August
Handicap, 10 furlongs. The Adelaide Cup winner was
having his first run for some time, and backers
neglected him, 12’s being freely offered, but after
being badly placed at the turn, he came round his
field in great style to win by half a length from
Longworthy (6 to 1), with consistent Three Kings
(5 to 1) the same distance away. Royal Charter
(8 to 1), who was also having his first outing after
a spell, finished well, but All .Sunshine (9 to 2) ran
HERBEBT SUTCLIFFE, who repeated his
1924-25 feat of making the highest score
against the Australians in the Tests.
badly, and seems a hopeless ease. Spearer, who put
up the good time of 2min. 51 see., is in the Caulfield
Cup with Bst. 71b. —51b. less than he won with —
and is now a strong fancy. The Woorak colt Crom-
well (2 to 1) was backed like a certainty for the
Three-year-old Handicap, one mile, but a bad bump
early in the race settled his chance, and the fast-
finishing Batalus,, by Demosthenes —Sister Susie
(12 to 1), got there by a neck from Killara (12 to
1), who was half a length in front of Heroic’s brother
■ Thracian (10 to 1). Batalus, who is trained by
Cecil Godby for Mrs. E. M. Anderson, may turn out
a good sort, but Cromwell is sure to do better next
time; he looks really well. Homerus (12 to 1) took
the Apprentices’ Handicap, six furlongs, in w’hich
Spearfelt was moving nicely when it was too late;
and Ambassador (8 to 1), well known in Sydney,
carried lOst. 31b. to a meritorious victory in the
Highweight Handicap, Valiant letting his connec-
tions down again. The handsome fellow has been
a great disappointment since he ran second to Vali-
care in the Epsom.
“Hasen”; There may be no such thing as
luck, but I’ve seen some punting that argues other-
wise. I met Wilkins on his way to a starting-price
bookmaker. He told me he was backing Lady Yar-
borough for the first race at the Ascot (Vic.) pony
meeting, but denied that he “knew anything’’ about
it or ever went to the ponies. “Why are you backing
it?’’ I asked. “Well,” he said, “I had a quid on
it some time ago in a down-the-line Purse.” I
pushed my inquiries. Was he told to back it that
time? No! Did it run well in the Purse? Oh, no
(casually) ; finished about third last. Then I gave
it up. I met Wilkins later. Lady Yarborough had
won, and I told him he deserved his win for sticking
to it after “specking” it before. Wilkins agreed;
then he suddenly said, “Gosh, I made a mistake!
It was Lady Castlereagh that I backed down-the-line!”
And he cheerfully acknowledged that, come to think
of it, he had never even heard of Lady Yarborough
before.
* * * *
“Ascot”; Piastoon, winner of the Queens-
land Cup, St. Leger and Metropolitan, is to be sent
down for the Melbourne Cup, in which he has Bst.
41b., and enthusiastic Queenslanders are already pre-
dicting that he will repeat his sire Piastre’s feat.
But Queensland form is subject to heavy discount
down south. Fujisan made the local cracks look:
like carthorses. And the ancient Admetus, who'
shaped badly in Sydney after running a fair third,
to The Hawk and Manfred in the Hill Stakes at
Rosehill last season, downed Piastoon when they met
at w.f.a. over a mile on the last day of the Q.T.C.
Exhibition meeting at Ascot. With the veteran
Barney Page in the saddle, the old horse turned
the race into a procession as soon as the barrier rose.
Still, Piastre was no miler.
* * * *
It is almost ancient history by this time
that Australia lost the fifth Test, and the only one
in which a decision was reached, by 289 runs. The
result must be mainly attributed to Hobbs and Sut-
cliffe, who put 172 on the board before being
separated in the second innings and scored between
them 874 runs in the match on which so much hung.
It was due entirely to their batting that Australia
was faced with the stupendous task of making over
400 in the fourth innings, a job that proved utterly
beyond the side, the veteran Rhodes (4 for 44) and
the youthful Larwood (3 for 34) completing the
work that England’s two great batsmen had begun.
Admittedly, our men had the worst of what luck
there was; the loss of the toss meant that they had
to bat last on a worn wicket that no man was more
capable of exploiting than Rhodes, but there has been
no attempt to find excuses. The next best thing to
winning is to show yourself a good loser, and never
was defeat taken more gamely. It may be freely
conceded that not only was England the better side in
the one finished Test, but that the result was in
some sort foreshadowed by the unfinished games. In
the first four matches the home team scored 1355
runs for the loss of 21 wickets, while the tourists
made 1401 for 35 wickets. Counting in the fifth
match the tallies are: England, 2071 runs for 41
wickets, average 50; Australia, 1828 runs for 55
wickets, average 33.
Naturally enough, England went wild with delight
over the winning of the game that meant the
rubber; it grows monotonously depressing to be
under-dog for six years. And the climbing back
to pre-war superiority has been a long and arduous
job. In 1920-21 the international side captained
by Douglas was soundly beaten in Australia, losing
every match. Things hadn’t improved much from the
English viewpoint a few months later, when the rubber
was lost to Armstrong and Co. with the third game,
the last two being left unfinished. Never were
English selectors so nervous and rattled as those who
tried 39 men in five games. Rut in 1924-25, when
Gilligan brought the M.C.C. side to Australia, there
were signs that English cricket was improving. Only
one Test out of five was won, but the struggles were
very much closer, and so good a judge as M. A.
Noble has given his opinion that the figures 3 to 2
rather than 4 to 1 would have indicated the relative
strengths of the sides. Now the balance has inclined
the other way, mostly through a temporary decline
in the quality of Australian bowling. We will
have to look to bowlers rather than batsmen to regain
the lost supremacy. Meanwhile nobody will grudge
England her second victory in 20 post-war Tests,
even though it means the rubber.
Time was when to have gone through four months
of an English tour without losing a single game
against the counties would have been more than
a set-off against the loss of a single Test. But the
number of first-class counties has more than doubled
since this century began, and the consequence is that
the Tests have become everything, and most of the
county matches are played more for the gate than
because any real trial of strength is on view. The
present Australian team was unlikely to be extended
by any county but Yorkshire, even if rain had not
cut short so many games. It took no fewer than 11
counties to provide All England’s Xl’s and emergency
men in this year’s Tests, and when the sticks are
taken out of the faggot they are liable to snap
easily. An Australian side may expect to meet much
stronger opponents in a North of England or South
of England eleven, or one of the “English” elevens
encountered towards the end of the tour, than any
county, as Armstrong’s phenomenally successful com-
bination was destined to discover. If a week
is set apart for each of five Tests in the next tour,
as seems more than probable, there will be no time
to potter about with the weaker counties. Which
will be just as well, even if the shorter programme
means some harder games.
Somerset is no higher than tenth in the county
tables, but it can generally show a few good amateurs.
Macßryan only just missed inclusion in Gilligan’s
team two years ago, White bowled his slows for
England in one of the 1920 Tests, and M. Lyon is
a rungetting wicketkeeper of note. Withal, Somerset
must have astonished itself when it had nine Aus-
tralian wickets down for a paltry 127 at Taunton.
Ryder’s 34 was the best score up to that point, but
Everett (59) and Ellis (42 n. 0.) put up a last
wicket stand of no fewer than 98, and the innings
closed for 225. Robertson Glasgow (5 for 78) and
White (3 for 63) did most of the damage.
Macßryan (26) and Young (21) opened briskly for
Somerset, sending up 50 before being parted, but
the whole side was disposed of for 153 (Longrigg
28, Earle 27), Grimmett capturing five wickets and
Richardson four. The tourists found runs easier to
make in their second venture and were in a com-
fortable position at the end of Monday’s play—269
on with seven wickets in hand. Taylor made 75,
Ponsford 41, Collins 45 n.o. and Ryder 23 n.o.
Randolph Rose, the long-legged Maoriland
cocky who went round the globe principally in order
to snatch the laurel wreath from the
brow of one Paavo Nurmi, will return
to his native land without much to
show for his outing. In England,
instead of sticking to mile events, in
which he does best, he took on some
two- and three-mile races as well, and
while he didn’t shape badly he didn't
add to his reputation. A few days ago
Nurmi send him word that if he
wanted to have a go he must be in
Oslo on August 28. Almost on the
heels of this came the news that Rose
was sick of the influenza and return-
ing to the Shivery Isles by the next
boat.
Ted Thye was indeed lucky to be declared
winner over Mike Yokel at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night. Ted had scored a fall in the third
round by means of the gentle application known as
the splits, ’ and Michael had made it level pegging
by dumping the champion heavilv in the sixth.
During an extremely willing seventh canto referee
Alf Bridges, who goes through some weird contortions
in trying to keep his eye on the combatants without
getting in the spectators’ line of vision, was acci-
dentally hoofed to the floor. While Alfred was taking
the count Mike gained a perfectly fair fall, but when
the ref. returned to action it was Edward who had
Michael’s shoulders on the mat. So Thye was given
the decision, to the vast disgust of Mike and the
crowd. The interesting pair, who weighed 12st. 81b.
apiece, will meet again.
* * * *
The Sydney Stadium crowd that saw
Marcel Thuru (list. BJib.) oppose “Sunny” Jim
Williams (list. 61b.) on Saturday didn’t know
whether to call him “Thorough” or “Through.” He
was anything but thorough in his efforts against the
thumping son of Ham, and was soon through. The
Frenchman reminded the seasoned onlooker of the
dummy man that Jack Blackmore used to knock
down for the delectation of wartime crowds, and
that rolled up smiling for more. Six times in all
did Marcel fall. In the fourth round he was so
helpless that Joe Wallis humanely called a halt.
“Go-get-’em”: It transpires that Gertrude
Ederle swam across the Channel between two hired
tugs which, kept close together, tempered the force
of waves and current and gave the astute young
lady the benefit of the “drag” which eveiy vessel
in motion through water exercises on floating objects.
Her backers protest that Gertrude broke none of
the rules of Channel swimming, and that may be
conceded. There are no recognised rules to break.
There was some reckless smashing of re-
cords on the concluding day of the Australasian ath-
letic championships at Brisbane. L. B. Mason’s high
jump of 6ft. 1-Jin. displaced figures which had been
in the book since 1911; G. R. Hyde left three
miles behind in If min. 42 2-ssec. ; A. J. Watson
got to the end of the 440yds. hurdles in 56 l-ssec.,
and W. M. White’s half-mile was done in lmin. 56sec.
AIT four are Victorians; and their State team won
the mile relay in 3min. 33 2-ssec. N. J. Grehan
(Queensland) proved the best man at 220yds.; his
time equalled the record, 21 3-ssec. The other events
went to G. R. Parker, of N.S.W. (mile walk in 6min.
43 3-ssec.) ; A. D. Mclntosh, of Vie. (161 b. shot
putt, 42ft. Bin.), and H. H. Day, of Queensland
(broad jump, 21ft. 9in.). The Vic. team came out
on top with eight wins, whereas N.S.W. had six,
Queensland three and M.L. two.
Sydney League football on Saturday saw
South Sydney, University, Glebe and Eastern Suburbs
win to the semi-finals. Play was marred by the
cold gale blowing; this was particularly the case
with the Glebe-University match, won by Glebe, 17
points to 13. University sadly missed the clever
State centre, O’Rourke, and was slow in adapting
its play to the weather conditions. South Sydney
scored 26 points to 11 against Balmain, Carr, the
State forward, now promoted to centre threequarter,
making a great success of his new job. North
Sydney was too nippy for the solid Newtowners,
21 to 10; and Eastern Suburbs headed West by 17
to 8, Oxford landing four goals for the winners.
In the Union competition, North Sydney’s unexpected
draw, 3—3. with Randwiek brought the latter
within striking distance of University, only a point
separating the two; their match next week should
decide the premiership. Balgownie continued its
march to the Soccer premiership by beating Canter-
bury, 2 goals to 1 ; while Granville is now within
sight of the semi-finals in spite of points lost by
its “strike.” Western Suburbs (7 —-12), by knocking
out South Sydney (6 —=7), made sure of meeting the
winners of next Saturday’s Newtown-East match for
Australian-rules supremacy.
The 32,400 persons, besides deadheads,
who pushed into the Melbourne ground on Saturday,
and left £1907 with the turnstile-keepers, got poor
value for their cash. Melbourne, second on the list,
was expected to make a hard fight against the Col-
lingwood Magpies, but was outclassed all through the
chapter—in pace, in marking and especially in sys-
tem. At the end ’Wood owned 93 points to Mel-
bourne’s 43, and as Geelong kept its end up by down-
ing North, 112 points to 48, Melbourne dropped to
third place. Fourth position is still being battled for
by Essendon, South Melbourne and Carlton, which
latter pair provided the best game of the day. Charlie
Pannam has succeeded in driving some semblance of
system into South, after three years’ hard trying;
that and better head work turned the scale in their
favor against the Old Blues—South 85 points, Carl-
ton 62. Richmond outed Hawthorn with 102 points to
69; Essendon smashed Footscray with 123 to 63;
and Fitzroy put the kybosh on St. Kilda with 126
to 64.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : The M.L. Rowing Association
last week asked the N.S.W.R. A. to send a crew across the
Tasman next March, offering to pay all exes, but
fares. Though the proposed visit -was practically
agreed on when the M.L. eight came to Sydney in
1925, the State Association has turned the invitation
down, urging the expense of attending the race for
the King’s Cup in Hobai’t in May next. This attitude
is characteristic of the N.S.W.R.A., and tends to
explain the State’s falling away in rowing standards
of late years. There is little cash return in “gates”
“God bless Mummy ’n’ Daddy, 'n' make me
a good full-back. Amen!”
from rowing, but the sport is backed by a very large
number of well-to-do patrons, office-holders, and
“keen supporters,” as the press reports put it. These
ought to be able to dig enough cash up to send the
crew across, and have something to spare for the
King’s Cup trip.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: Edward P. has presented
an Empire Polo Cup, and the first tournament will
be held in 1927 —in England, of course. The cost
of transporting players and ponies to the Cold
Country would be considerable; and there’s the risk
of the ponies not acclimatising well. Nevertheless,
the State that sent the Murray Bridge crew to Paris
may be depended upon to despatch a polo four,
and there are some fine players—and ponies—to
choose from.
A BALLADE OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The A.J.C. advertises the spring programme for
October 2,4, 6 and 9. General entries close at
4 o’clock on Monday, September 6.”
Now Time, with his weariless, winnowing wing
AA’afting all the dank debris of winter away,
Reveals the soft shoots of the burgeoning spring,
And the fresh crop of mugs that is greener than
they.
Alas! for these lambs that wend slaughterwards.
Stay 1
Is there no hope at all to dispel or divert
Their folly, and teach to the tender array
That a quid in the pocket’s worth two on a “cert.” ?
For this is the hour when O’Rook of the Ring
Maketh ready for holding his harvesting day.
Cacophonous carols he‘ll cheerfully sing
As he buckles his armor to enter the fray.
As hies to his Meat Board the jubilant Kay,
So O’Rook turns to Randwick, agog and alert,
But e’en if > r ou ask him, he’ll never betray
That a quid in the pocket’s worth two on a “cert.”
The sport that’s supposed to be meat for a king
Is a dangerous dish to a jolterhead jay,
AA'ho’ll find, if lie’s madly impelled to a fling,
There’ll be far cheaper solace in beer and a crav.
The “jokes” of McShortodds, they blister and flay,
And 'twere painful to comment or animadvert
On the arts that the tug and the urger display—-
Yes, a quid in the pocket’s worth two on a “cert.”
Envoy.
So, ye goats, take a pull; it’s a ten to a trey
That the tussle with Ikey will end in your hurt.
Just recall, ere 3'ou fall to the tiger a prey,
That a quid in the pocket's worth two on a “cert.”
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGJNSON.


How to Pour from the
mm
Shell Red Can
The Can should he held so that
the pourer is at the top corner.
The contents will then flow readily,
Without gushing or spilling.
A cold, wet night, an empty petrol
tank, and miles to trudge to the nearest
garage is an experience which you can
avoid by carrying the Shell Red Can.
Stocked by all leading garages, and can be
refilled from the kerbside pump at bulk rates.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED 49 CLARENCE STREET, S'.DNEY
Si 77
Cycling
comfort —
has its foundation in
saddle leather. Only
the finest English
butts are used in
the manufacture of
BRGDKS
SADDLES
R. V. BRISTOL & CO. (Pty.), LTD.,
Fenchurch Buildings,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d*
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Legal Notice.
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
A SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1024 of 1926.
BETWEEN JOHN NORMAN HOLMES
BAIRD of Darlinghurst near Sydney in
the State aforesaid salesman Petitioner
And
ETHEL MERCIA BAIRD formerly Ethel
Mercia Willett formerly of Brisbane in
the State of Queensland his wife Re-
spondent.
To ETHEL MERCIA BAIRD late of
Brisbane aforesaid in the Commonwealth of
Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said John
Norman Holmes Baird has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a divorce on the grounds: That
you have without just cause or excuse wil-
fully deserted the Petitioner and without any
such cause or excuse have left him continu-
ously so deserted during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the seventeenth day of
December one thousand nine hundred and
twenty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this twentieth day of August 1926.
For the Registrar,
,T. McQUIGGIN, Clerk in Divorce,
J. A. CLAPIN. Solicitor for the Petitioner,
370 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Personal.
'THE Estate of JAMES RYAN, late of
* Canowindra, New South Wales, farmer,
presumed deceased. JOHN RYAN, the father
of the abovenamed, is requested to communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEES, 07
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
DRAMICH. - If ARTHUR THOMAS
D BRAMICH (brother of Ernest Bramich,
late of Kunghur, near Murwillumbah, New
South Wales, Farmer) will communicate
with Messrs Hynes and Klliott, Solicitors,
Murwillumbah, he will hear of something to
his advantage. Should the said Arthur
Thomas Bramich be dead the Solicitors will
be pleased to hear from any member of his
family.
IF WILLIAM COFFEY, formerly of Mel-
-1 bourne but last heard of in Broome, West
Australia, will communicate with the under-
signed, he will hear something greatly to his
advantage. Any person knowing his where-
abouts please advise.
P. ,T. RIDGEWAY & SCHILLING,
Solicitors, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.
In-gal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 327 of 1926.
OLIVE MATILDA LENNARD v.
ARTHUR LENNARD.
TO ARTHUR LENNARD formerly of Bris-
bane in the State of Queensland Clerk
present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on
the twenty-eighth day of July 1926 com-
menced against you and that the Plaintiff
claims a dissolution of her marriage with
you. AND in the petition filed in this
matter on the twenty-eighth day of July
1926 the Plaintiff alleges that in month of
June 1921 you the said Arthur Leonard left
your wife the Plaintiff Olive Matilda Len-
nard and have ever since lived separate and
apart from her and have deserted her with-
out reasonable cause continuously for five
years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE
that by an order of this Honorable Court
bearing date the ninth day of August 1926
it has been ordered that service of the Writ
of Summons and Petition in this action by
filing in the Registry of the Supreme Court
at Brisbane and fixing upon the Notice Board
attached to the said Registry a copy of the
said Writ of Summons issued herein and
an office copy of the Petition filed herein
and by an advertisement published twice in
the Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published
in Sydney in the State of New South Wales
and twice in the Daily Standard and in
■the Brisbane Courier both of which are
newspapers published at Brisbane in the
,State of Queensland such advertisements to
be published in the said newspapers in con-
secutive weeks and by posting a copy of this
iadvertisement by prepaid letter addressed to
'you the defendant at Kings Cross Sydney
in the State of New South Wales shall be
.good and sufficient service of the said Writ
and Petition to you. If you desire to defend
the said action you must within thirty days
from the last act done in pursuance of the
.said order enter an appearance at the Regis-
try of the Supreme Court at Brisbane afore-
said. In default of your appearance judg-
ment may be entered against you.
Dated this ninth day of August 1926.
H. KENNEDY,
Acting-Registrar.
McSWEENY & DEEPER, Solicitors,
Strand Buildings,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
To liet.
TO LET, Burraneer Bay, Cronulla, Gent.’s
Furnished waterfront brick residence,
grounds 2 acres, with garage, boatslied, etc.,
ior short or long term, a good opportunity for
•country residents to visit seaside, beautiful
[restful position, extensive views. Moderate
(terms for suitable tenant.
Apply owners—
J. WILSON & CO.,
Tramway Arcade, Rockdale.
THE INKY WAY.
“Gnash Gold” : Sydney Labor Daily musx
nave been on the trail of another conspiracy
when, on the second day of the last Test it
put out this poster:—
ASHES IN DANGER.
KILLED BY BULLDOGS.
The Daily Times, which came into exist-
ence last month at Bundaberg (Q.), i s the
first addition to the morning press of Queens-
land since 1907. George Groom, late of
Melbourne Herald, is the managing editor.
Australia To-Day, the annual published
by the Commercial Travellers’ Association
of Australia, is offering a prize of 20 guineas
for a poem (about 500 words) dealing with
“any typical aspect of Australian life, experi-
ence or aspiration.” MS. must be in by
September 25.
George Henry Varley, who sits in the
House that Lang is pledged to destroy, got
his first experience of journalism on Henry
Parkes’s Empire. He worked for the old
man as a boy, and was still with the paper
when the last edition was printed. After-
wards he ran papers at West Maitland and
Grafton. To-day, at 75, he is a good-natured
old soul, and a live-wire of the Country
Press Co-op., Ltd.
“Chlora Form” : A kindly old scribe now
living in well-earned retirement is Harry
Pinn, formerly of the Goulburn Penny Post.
He started life in a chemist’s shop, but soon
forsook dispensing for “dissing.” From
printer’s devil on the Post he graduated to
the literary staff, and retired a couple of
years ago after having served his paper for
half a century. For the last 30 years of
that period he was editor, and gave a help-
ing hand to many a man now holding a big
job in journalism.
“Bill Bowyang”: Passed out at Brisbane
recently, Raymond Atkinson Field, well
known in N.Q. 20 years back. After pick-
ing type in Townsville and Innisfail, he
started the Bowen Mirror, and later on
drifted to Proserpine where he was respon-
sible for the Guardian. In 1910 he joined
the staff of the Brisbane Government Print-
ing Office, and in spare time edited the Odd-
fellows’ Magazine. During recent years
he was printer and publisher of the Papuan
Courier, and only returned to Brisbane from
Port Moresby a few months ago.
“Miro”: My first Bulletin cheque ar-
rived in the days when I was very hazy
on finance, but, having a vague idea that
there was some connection between cheques
and banks, I turned into the Bank of N.Z.,
in Auckland, and proffered my bit of paper
across the counter. The teller, after a
glance at the document and a suspicious look
at me, retired with it behind scenes. Thence
came loud laughs and I was presently aware
that the whole staff was engaged in con-
templation of my offering. Then the teller
returned. “Is this for a joke? he inquired.
“No,” I said meekly, “it’s for a poem.”
“Huffin-Gulfin” : Yes, printers are stickers
to their jobs (B. 12/8/’26). Joe Rutter,
comp, at McCarron, Bird and Co.’s, Mel-
bourne, is in his 50tli year of service with
the firm. Geo. Lambert has just died in har-
ness, having been with the same firm since
1882, after learning his trade in the pro-
a trees. There are several others on the 40-
years mark. There must be something sus-
taining about printer’s ink. Incidentally,
my grandfather was a comp, on the London
Gazette for 40 years. My father was m
the same trade; so is my eldest son. I am
the only renegade in at least four genera-
tions, the family trait showing in my case
only in the scribbling habit.
“Bandy”: “Coot’s” reference to the old
Melbourne Daily Telegraph impels me to
remark that it was an excellent newspaper
and deserved a longer life. Alex. McKinley,
afterwards of another now extinct paper,
Melbourne Punch, was a proprietor,
Fitchett was the capable editor, and George
W. Walmsley made one of the best commer-
cial editors this city ever had. The only
thing against the paper was that it was 1 ree-
trade and Conservative. It had just about
turned the corner financially when the land
boom happened, and the D.T. failed to
weather the disastrous gale. But it did
not die unmourned, because several of us
lost well-paid jobs when the shutters went
up.
“0.P.H.” : Alec Peacock’s laugh has given
the show away more than once. Over 30
years ago the new’ly-reconstructed bhiels
Ministry was holding a very private fet-
ing at the Premier’s house at St. tvilda.
There was a ring at the front door, winch
Shiels answered. Just what lie had feared
four reporters! He was telling the quar-
tette suavely how he was having a quiet
evening, communing with himself, so to
speak, when everything he had said dis-
counted by a loud Peacockian cackle from
within. Peacock’s provocation was great.
Wheeler was lifting the fancy whisky-bottle
from the tantalus on the sideboard to have
a nip, when it slipped back, the gadget got
locked, and there was no key in sight. Pea-
cock is the only survivor of the Shiels team.
“Wealsman”: The late E. P. Davies, of
Hobart Mercury, learnt to walk the Inky
Way in the Cold Country, but migrated to
Australia early, achieving David Syme as his
first boss in these parts. His favorite yarn
was about the time he was mistaken for an
executioner. He went to an assize town to
report a hanging, and on leaving liis hotel in
the early morning found himself folioAved by
a crowd of several hundred, some of whom
made rude remarks. When it dawned on
Davies that the populace believed him to be
the hangman his first impulse was to turn
and give the mob a piece of his mind. But
he reflected that argument with a mob might
be dangerous, especially for a cripple (he
had a contracted leg and wore an iron sup-
port 10 inches high) ; so he decided to keep
his chin in the air and pretend that he Avas
deaf. Though mud and road-metal began to
fly about his ears, he reached the gaol en-
trance without' being seriously maltreated.
Luckily a warder was on duty ready to admit
him. “Then,” he used to say, “I found my
voice. I turned in the partly opened door-
way and told the hooligans what I thought
of them. I screamed at them as loud as I
was able: ‘Yon blitherin’ idiots, I’m not the
hangman; I’m a reportah, and you’re a lot
of silly ahses !’ ” ' -


now
cvxanbr
tV £lfa) Cost n
y°S' with all
Col tf/?chmA>'ts
I
'»p\
Li
m
m
r
%
li
M
H
fl
©
H
=ss}
m
m
mli
s£
■
tilf,
*£
%
HI
Y.A
m
mk
jSgr
!P®g
rTI!T
IsSlls
j*S
P!=P
SI
iHI
?*rn
sz?
§B^
<fSS
s&£
SS?
@gs
s?
££
ti-a
■<&.
€%&*■
EH
*ss*’s
Cleans where Dust c
Dirt Collect Most /
ITH the complete set of attachments
there is no necessity to take down
and shake curtains, climb up and dust
mouldings, beat your mattresses, and
end the day in a state of exhaustion.
—first among cleaners —wi th
f electric CLEANER
attachments, enables you to effectively
clean curtains, picture rails, book shelves,
walls, etc. is light and powerful,
it moves swiftly over rugs, cleans every
atom of dirt from surfaces and from depths
—sucks it right up. It cleans CLEAN.
’Phone your nearest office for a free demon-
stration in your own home, or call when
convenient at our Showroom, Wentworth
Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney.
This will notplaceyou underany obligation.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL
<Australian General
r 'Jfr
B
T-H
ELECTRIC
Electric Company Ltd
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Also at
Newcastle, Brisbane and Adelaide.
AGENTS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
Oliver and Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, Tas.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority*
Army Club
10 for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
(
w
m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Mask and the Face”
Royal “What Every Woman Knows”
Palace “The Sport of Kings”
Grand Opera House “The Best People”
Tivoli Vaudeville
B'uller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Royal “White Cargo”
Princess “Abie’s Irish Rose”
King’s “The Sentimental Bloke”
Palace . “Our Liz”
Athenaeum “A Night in Honolulu”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Sir Reginald Toothill has had a bad
day, and tells his friend Algernon
Sprigg that he is going to give up
backing horses; whereupon Algernon says
“Rats!”.or words to that effect, and asserts
that the gambling spirit is in the blood of
everybody. A subsequent wager that lie will
turn even the wowseristic Amos: Purdie, J.P.,
into a betting man lays the foundation of
the story of “The Sport of Kings,” which
opened at Sydney Palace on Saturday. The
farce runs racily to the conclusion that
Algernon is right; and some love affairs are
not allowed to interfere with the speed of the
comedy.
* * * *
lan Hay, placing his trust in action and
humorous situations, has not troubled about
giving his dialogue a literary flavor; and it
cannot be said that the present co. does any-
thing to improve the character-drawing. In-
deed, George Blunt’s representation of Amos
Purdie, whose iceberg rectitude melts alto-
gether too suddenly under the warmth of
persuasion, left the part a caricature. There
was no subtlety whatever in his work. Still,
it produced plentiful laughs—which is all that
>; matters, apparently. H. Lane-Bayliff, as the
ex-racecourse head who buttles under the
name of Bates in the Purdie household,
scored better. Bret Randall offered a capital
study of the Johnnified Sir Reginald Toothill,
and Algernon Sprigg was played with an
over-display of teeth by Joseph Cunningham.
Zillah Bateman, fitted with a colorless part
as Purdie’s stenographer, managed to make
herself liked in spite of it, and Kerry Kelly
(recognised as the Ceridwen Kelly who did
very good work as the artist’s dream daughter
in the Melbourne Repertory production of
“Dear Brutus”) gave Purdie a lively daugh-
ter Kate. Richard Landale was good, too,
as an incredibly tall elder brother, Joe
Purdie. The only other player calling for
notice was Henrietta Cavendish, the palely
submissive Mrs. Purdie, whose arrogant hus-
band, when offended, conveys his orders to
her on slips of paper.
“No, No, Nanette,” was farewelled like a
departing relative last Friday, and next
Saturday “Mercenary Mary” will have an
eye on the cash which flows into the St.
James. Renee Kelly is to make another
change on the following Saturday, “Brown
Sugar” providing the sweetness. “Rose
Marie” dances on with unslacked vigor at
Her Majesty’s; but “What Every Woman
Knows” is to be superseded shortly at the
Royal for the sole reason that the Bouci-
cault co. is playing to a schedule of dates.
“The Best People” still entertain their
numerous friends at the G.O.H.
'l' '4* V
The Santrey Band descended upon Sydney
Tivoli on Monday; and the personality of its
conductor, who has a fine voice and a good
dramatic instinct on his own account, lifts
its well-considered act into the realms of
unique vaudeville. To his well-trained per-
formers Santrey’s antics as a bandmaster
are, of course, entirely superfluous; his audi-
ence is the orchestra from which his baton
produces its response. The fine exhibition
of showmanship, backed by good effects, has
highly humorous support in the work of
Anna Seymour, a comedian. The Santrey
venture is the Tivoli’s biggest to date: it
is costing £9OO per week. The band gets
£6OO ; the rest is fares and other exes, spread
over the 10 weeks of the engagement. The
money will take a lot of getting back, but
the venture, as a lift to the standard of
vaudeville, seems worth while. It may, in-
deed, be regarded as a bid for improved
prestige.
$ 4: $ $
“Tall Timber,” Roy Longford’s latest Aus-
tralian film, shown this week at Sydney
Lyceum, only commences to be Australian
when it gets amongst the forests of the
N.S.W. North Coast. The melodramatic hero
arrives there by the best American methods;
he is captured in a police raid upon an all-
night cabaret, and, disowned by his wealthy
father, throws away the hundred-quid cheque
the old man has given him as payment in
full of all expectations, and thereafter wins his
sturdy way through a sea of melodrama to
happiness; and if that is the Australian
way this paper wonders how our public debt
came to get very close up to £1,000,000,000. The
photography is good, and the picture will stand
against the ruck of American films; but the
ill-written captions are a handicap. That
is a detail of picture-production to which Aus-
tralian producers need to give better atten-
tion. A whimsical story of a millionaire who
becomes a menial in order to make love to
a Russian lady of title who, although an
exile, still retains exalted views about her
splendor, is shown by Hoyt’s in “The Grand
Duchess and the Waiter.” The Prince
Edward is hinting that “The Vanishing
Race” will complete its vanishment shortly.
The Midnight Frolics at Fullers’ (Syd-
ney) are madder and merrier than ever this
week, with a series of excerpts from
“Rockets” in the shape of sketches, ballads,
monologues and the like. Clem Dawe, Les
White, Dorothy White, Alex. Regan and
Oscar Beck are the shining lights of the
pyrotechnic display; and Gregory Ivanoff’s
violin solos deserve a line.
The most important theatrical event last
- Saturday in Melbourne was the prologue to
“Australia in the Air,” performed by the
Australian Aero Club, Victorian section, at
Essendon, before a house or paddock of
12,000. The backcloth, painted by Jove and
Co., was a clever study of blue sky and drift-
ing clouds, with a moon, up somewhat early,
on the prompt side, and Mt. Macedon and
the Dandenongs for wings. As in Shaks-
peare’s day there were no women in the cast,
except supers, though Mrs. Howard Jolly is
now in training for her flying ticket. In
England there are women’s aero clubs w’hich
fly from London to the Isle of Wight for a
swim on Sundays. The Englishman Cobham
was, in the eyes of the multitude, the star
tragedian, but there were several local mimes
who took parts as thrilling; and one was an
A.I.F. ace whose exploits in the drama of
1914-18 were the talk of several armies.
Others were Captain Follett and Flight-
Lieutenant Wackett, who took leading roles
last year at Richmond (N.S.W.) in machines
of their own making.
* * * *
Act I was a De Haviland Moth ballet
by Cobham, Mustard and Follett, which in
its grace, ease and simplicity recalled a Pav-
lova divertissement. These machines are
landed in this country for £lOOO (they will
be made here, when the Government wakes
up, far cheaper by mass production). At
present there are no more than 30 privately-
owned machines on this continent, but some
day no big-station owner will be without
one. An even more entrancing turn, in a
vein of slapstick comedy, was provided by
Captain Follett chasing balloons in a Hum-
ming Bird. This sprightly little creature is
a monoplane driven by a 0.-h.p. engine and
costs £4OO. Its flight resembles a bird’s —
or sometimes a fish swimming in transparent
water.
Act 11, a combat between Flying-Officer
Thornton in a D.H.9 reconnaissance machine
and Flight-Lieutenant Watson and F.-O.
“ROSE MARIE” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
Lady Jane (Yvonne Banvard) and Hard-
boiled Herman. (Frederic Bentley) in a
comedy love scene.
Long in a couple of nimble scouts with poison
in their stings, was meant to be a tragedy;
but as none of the contestants would admit
that he was beaten the turn ended rather
tamely. A touch of melodrama was pro-
vided when F.-L. Wackett, after a grim
struggle at 2000 ft., flung F.-O. Scherger
hurtling to his doom. An agitated reporter
who rushed round to get details of the
murder eventually found the victim having
afternoon tea. A new pupil of the Aero
Club learnt his first steps under the care
of the club’s ballet-master, F.-B. Mustard,
who is hot stuff in the air. With 10 to 15
hours’ rehearsal the aspirant should become
a competent performer. The final curtain
came down on a display of aerobatics, in
which the massed company imitated falling
leaves, dropping stones and other matters.
Nobody stepped out on a cloud. Otherwise
the show was enterprising.
** * *
“Abie’s Irish Rose,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess, continues to be a hardy annual which
crowded worshippers water with their tears.
“A NIGHT IN HONOLULU,” AT
MELBOURNE ATHENAEUM.
Keoki and Wehi Greig. Thelma Kaai.
“White Cargo,” at the Royal, contrives to
be less of a sensation as the weeks roll by.
The Hawaiian Troubadours, at the Athen-
seum, provide music which is jovial in inten-
tion but lugubrious* in effect. “The Senti-
mental Bloke” is receiving favorable con-
sideration at the King’s. Fred MacDonald’s
portrayal of the Kid is deserving of more
extended mention. It contains neither too
much of the sentimental nor too little of
the bloke. “Our Diz,” at the Palace, and
“Tell Me More,” at His Majesty’s, are two
musicomedies, each with merits —and de-
merits.
* * sk :j:
The Showman’s Daughter goes to the play:
I was taken to “Tell Me More” the other night.
It’s simply gorgeous. Old George Gee is back
again. He’s gorgeous. And Gus Bluett is funny
too. I suppose he wouldn’t tell me how he gets that
lovely golden shingle. It’s gorgeous. Margery Hick-
lin’s a bit of a disappointment after the advertise-
ments, but she wears some bonzer dresses. Leyland
Hodgson is the hero. I never did like Leyland as
a lover, but his socks in the second act are gorgeous.
It’s all about a lot of people who get mixed up at
the Three Arts Ball in the Winter Garden at New
York and the scenery’s gorgeous. Thurza Rogers
and Robert Lascelles, who used to be with Pavlova,
do some what they call “classic dancing,” but I
don’t care for it. I thing George Gee’s dancing is
twice as clever. He’s simply gorgeous.
* sk >k
The metallic variety of Yankee humor has
lately been represented at Melbourne Tivoli
by Frankie Heath. This restless creatui*e puts
the emphasis always on the wrong word, her
pantomime suggests a timber-getter attacked
by bull-joe ants, and her repertoire has failed
to attract. “The Southern Revue” was de-
posited on Monday—ll colored pussons who
leave no doubt about their origin. This
Showman prefers the sort of humor Osborne
and Perryer knock out of a Ford car. It is
simple, but understandable without the aid
of an interpreter; and Rupert Hazell is an
Australian who can always be trusted to
amuse.
** * *
A stout and humorless individual who
makes jokes about mail-steamers being called
“she,” a gent, who sings “songs at the
piano,” although the piano does nothing to
provoke him, and other unwonderful antiqui-
ties lead up to the real business of the even-
ing at Melbourne Bijou, which is Jim Gerald’s
latest, loosest and most laughable revue, en-
titled “Oh, Mum!” An exception to the
dismal crowd who go before is Halma, a
quaint creature who executes remarkable
manoeuvres with gamps and billiard balls
while bitterly complaining that he is un-
able to sing comic songs. If some of the
singers of comic songs would only learn to
juggle, the w r orld would be a happier place.
At Melbourne Majestic Huguetto Duflos, a
French lady of passion, is pouring a truly
Gallic splurge of emotion over a picture
called “Temptation.” In addition airman
Cobham’s arrival is being surveyed under
more comfortable conditions than the original
spectators enjoyed. The cinema-man, how-
ever, missed the most heroic feature of the
occasion. That was a Bulletin man bal-
anced on a bashed cane chair, holding above
the fury of the mob a plump baby that after-
wards turned out to be a famous Australian
General’s daughter. Hoyt’s is celebrating its
birthday with “Mannequin,” a romance which
is alleged to have won against the world.s
scenario geniuses a £lO,OOO prize, _ while
Tom Mix, astride the usual mustang, is run-
ning wild in the customary manner.
** ❖ *
A Melbourne duo :
Two equally important but widely differing brush-
men are showing their work in Melbourne. The
Fine Art Gallery has Sydney Thompson, a Maori-
lander domiciled in France. He had a notable show
in Sydney a year ago and has also succeeded in
extracting £3OOO from the pockets of his fellow
Windy Islanders. His paint has all the appearance
of having been hurled by a mischievous small boy,
but there is intelligence behind the throwing. Four
or five rapid brushstrokes become a group of Breton
fisherfolk who smell strongly of bait; and a patch-
work of daubs resolves itself into a stretch of
enamelled water —provided the eye can get far enough
away from it. There is no end to the delight to be
obtained from these pictures, which reveal more
feats of dexterity and subtleties of vision the more
they are inspected; but the flat dweller will need
to knock a few holes in his walls before he hangs
them.
John Rowell, at the Athenaeum, goes no further
afield than the environs of Ballarat. His method
seems to be as painstakingly cautious as the other’s
is uproarious. He builds up his pictures by the
careful study and laying down of tones, and the
human or arboreal significance of his forms doesn’t
particularly interest him. His sundowners are less
eager seekers of the pub of immortality than partially
solved problems of light and shadow. The outcome
is a collection of delightful comments on the Aus-
tralian atmosphere, that, judging by the red tabs
about, are selling like a case of beer in Darwin.
From an Adelaide critic: —
Malcolm Helsby, a Lancashire youth who came to
Adelaide as a stained-glass craftsman and then took
up a less commercial side of art, has spent the last
year or two in Europe. He shows the result of
his travels at the Society of Arts Gallery. His
work is distinctly worth while, though unambitious.
He likes to draw buildings, on the water’s edge if
possible, and gets a good deal of solidity and
strength into hisi designs. Better as a draughtsman
than a colorist, his etchings are very soft. The
Art Gallery of S.A. has taken three of them.
The Art Gallery of Adelaide has got over its
dislike for Norman Lindsay, and bought two speci-
mens of his work ; it had only etchings before. The
two are poles apart. One is a careful drawing,
hard and depressing, of a blinded soldier. The other
is a glorious water-color, a midnight fete with a
gondola filled with gallants and ladies, drawing up
to the lighted steps down which another throng
comes to meet them. It is a fine example of his
coloring, and has nothing in it by which even
Adelaide could be shocked. The show of his works
at Tyrrell’s Gallery continues, in a kind of second
edition. All the paintings have gone; but there
is a fresh selection of etchings, including some of his
finest —and most reckless—work.
“Hamfat”: George Castles managed sev-
eral concert tours for sister Amy; and at
one town, where business was good, he was
given an extra thrill when two wild-whis-
kered and most unlikely-looking customers
approached the ticket-box and demanded
seats. It was an indication that music had
charms for the most savage breast. “Hallo,
Jim,” said the man who was moving away
from the window. “I’d no idea you liked sing-
ing.” The leading wire-whiskers grabbed
back his money hurriedly. “Singin’!” he
barked. “I thought it was the performin’
dorgs !”
“Flaming Youth” : A theatrical man whose
tent show was camped in a Queensland town
through which the railway runs vouches for
the power of union secretaries in those parts.
His show was badly bothered by shunting
and manoeuvring engines with an enormous
capacity for blowing off steam. On the day
after the performance had been spoilt by the
uproar, he interviewed the railway superin-
tendent in an endeavor to get the nuisance
stopped. The super, was sorry, but, as a
matter of fact, in his church, which was
close at hand, the sermon had frequently to be
stopped, he said, until the engines had fin-
ished their performance; how about seeing
the secretary of the railwaymen’s union? The
theatrical man saw the union sec., and. a
small keepsake having changed hands, that
night there was no locomotive nuisance.
“Philm Up”: The literati who brighten
life for us by composing movie advts. are less
suggestive than they used to be, but just as
funny. For example, we get this gem served
up as a boost for a Hollywood “master” pic-
ture now being shown in Sydney: —
DRAMA! Snatching sham from the painted faces
of Society; stripping the mask from the mock mar-
riages of hypocrites; tearing, with a sharp thin sound,
the comfortable robes of convention from smug and
portly forms of the wealthy !
If only a sharp thin sound of ridicule could
kill some of these publicity gent.’s attempts
at fine writing!


<3*
r.
\
V
ijM' \
!h
>
r-UA
\
|p
/v
Come in old chap
and let me show yc
To) RIGHT and cheerful, isn’t it? Rather different
IQ) to the dismal lights which I had before, eh?
Really, I could go on from now until midnight
telling you of the hundred and one ways in which
Delco-Light has proved a boon to everyone in the
house.
Cost of running it? Why, it is actually paying for itself
by what it saves, just ask the wife what she thinks
about it —ample power to use Electric-irons, Washing-
machines, Vacuum-cleaners, Pumps, etc., and our
“Frigidaire” Refrigerator is the last word.
Take my advice, old chap, and have a Delco-Light
plant installed —you don’t realise the difference it
will make. There is no work, trouble or mess, and
it is simple to operate. Don’t say you will think about
it—sit down now and write for particulars of this
money-saving, trouble-free plant. There is a unit
that will exactly suit your requirements.
Complete information is contained in Booklet “B.”
DISTRIBUTORS:
Warburton, Franki, Ltd,,
307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q’land.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston, Tas.
mmt
: :W
'.V.'
SB
■MI
H
iff
Simplicity is the keynote of Delco-
Light design and the secret of its
dependability.
The engine is of the 4-cycle, air-cooled, valve-
in-head type, runs on kerosene, is direct
connected to the generator, and is self-
cranking.
The dynamo is a 4-pole shunt wound machine
operating as a compound wound motor when
cranking the engine.
The battery is designed to give years of ser-
vice, and is in every case of ample capacity
for its generator.
There are 25 Delco-Light models, one of
which will suit your needs.
DELCO-IIGHT


\Jf'
Footballers'—
Pass it on that there is no
liner feeling of exhilara-
ting well being” than
alter a clean, close shave
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
m
iP^r
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
fj
fgjfg
The TOP NOTCH Scotch
Sa jWHEN MaaU
V9T
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
“W.1.U.”: Broken Hill has had anothetr
revolution —without realising it. During the
past seven years there has been no increase
in the price of admission to picture shows;
and since then costs have advanced in rents,
film hire, wages, etc. To recoup themselves
the proprietors raised the price of back
seats by 6d. and front seats by 3d.,
announcing the reasons. That the public
thought this fair is proved by the fact
that in one of the theatres 400 seats (the
usual number for Saturday night) were
booked. However, on the first night
of the new charges a few men sta-
tioned themselves at the doors and declared
a boycott. Only 35 of the 400 had the nerve
to enter and occupy seats which had been
paid for; and the same thing happened at
the other big picture theatre. The pictures
being closed, the Palais de Danse became
the rendezvous of amusement seekers; but
although prices there had not been increased
the place was declared black, some of the
same people being interested in it. Irving’s
Midgets then came to open a short season
at the Crystal Theatre, in which the same
people have a say; but the only condition
on which they were permitted to open was
that the rent for the theatre (£5O) should
be paid to the hospital; and this had to
be agreed to. The picture-show owners hung
out for five nights and then the Soviet which
rules at Broken Hill had its way and the
proprietors caved in.
“Peter Pan”: Seems to be quite a boom
among actor-managers. Prank Neil is carry-
ing on, undaunted by the death of his part-
ner. Maurice Tuohy, and opened in Perth
to big figures. Joseph Cunningham (a for-
mer support of Guy Bates Post) launched
out with “The Sport of Kings” at Melbourne
Athenaeum early in the year, and is now at
Sydney Palace doing well; and Muriel Starr,
under her own management, has just con-
cluded record seasons of six weeks in Hobart
and four in Launceston.
“Caesar's Ghost”: George Sorley is be-
coming a power on the outer rim of the
Australian stage; his large company moved
through Sydney on its way from Townsville
to Wagga last week. It is the ability to
take such leaps to fill special dates that
makes the travelling show affluent; the hard-
up eo. moves from one town to the nearest
with seldom any prospect of a big house.
Sorley has his plan mapped out to meet
special events like show dates and picnic
races, with the result that his big tent,
which holds 1500 people, is frequently full
to capacity, and, in spite of tall expenses, its
proprietor is netting a few hundreds a week.
Most of the stronger touring shows carry
their own theatre tents nowadays, and the
conveniences attached to them are surprising;
they are a vast improvement upon the coun-
try halls old-time cos. wei’e compelled to
inhabit. Sorley, who used to be well known
in vaudeville in Sydney, asks the country
town he visits “Is the Girl to .Blame?”
and stages a curious compote which, adver-
tised as “musical drama,” is very popular in
the country districts.
“Up Stage” : Morton Selton, who has made
a success in “There’s No Fool” at the Lon-
don Globe, is the only surviving member of
the once-famous Marie de Grey company
that toured India and Australia 30-odd
years ago in old comedies ; he played Charles
Surface, Claude Melnotte, etc. It was a
very distinguished combination, including
Mark Kinghorne, Matthew Brodie and
Arthur Lawrence. Miss de Grey was very
much sought by society, and was always a
guest at Government House.
“Gallery”: Vic.’s Film Censorship Bill,
which had an abortive gallop last year, has
again passed the Council and gone before the
Lower House, which side-stepped it before.
The bill seeks to empower the State to set
up a censor or borrow the Commonwealth
official, and proposes that every programme
shall contain at least 1000 ft. of British film.
But Hollywood has many friends in the Vic.
Assembly, and the passage of the measure
is by no means sure.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Pavlova will not give
a season at Covent Garden this autumn, but
will visit Berlin. On her return to Europe
she will have a long rest and a “cure” in
THE MUSIC O’ THE PIPES.
DUGALD McROBERT : “It’s verra deefficult to play.”
PLAIN PHILISTINE : “A damn pity it’s not impossible.”
Italy. In her Hampstead house, near the
picturesquely-situated “Bull and Bush,” re-
nowned in song and story, Pavlova lias a
fine dance-room lined with mirrors and fitted
with a practising bar. It has been her home
since the war, is admirably suited for the
hospitality that she lavishly dispenses, and
contains a very interesting collection of
antique furniture and ornaments.
“Frinigga”: The picture “Just Suppose,”
now having a moderate success all about
Australia, has a quaint history. The boyish
polo-playing prince who, when visiting the
U.S.A., breaks away from his escorting gen-
eral and gets engaged to a local girl, was
intended to be H.R.H. But representations
were made that this really wouldn’t do, and
he became merely a Ruritanian prince. The
actor’s nervous fumbling with his necktie
is clearly copied from Edward of England.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Lute Drum-
mond, of Sydney, still does the Italian trans-
lations and other artistic services for the
great publishing house of Ricordi; and, as
a side-line, acts as repetiteuse . at the Gaiety
Theatre when new productions are in re-
hearsal Or ambitious young singers arc being
tested. This post offers excellent oppor-
tunities for her talent. It was at the Gaiety
that Gladys Monerieff recently made her Lon-
don debut in “Riki Tiki”; but, despite the
splendid work she did and the prognosti-
cations of a crystal-gazer, Henri Taunay, the
rich young Dutchman who shouldered the
financial responsibilities, lost £lB,OOO on the
venture. He is regaining some of the van-
ished lucre by the present show, “Mozart,”
for which the Guitrys charge him £250 a
night.
“Wood’s Green" (Lond.) : Connie Ediss,
who often speaks glowingly of her happy stay
in Australia, has returned to the West End
in “Jiggs in Clover.” Connie’s malapropos
doings and sayings in this play provoke comi-
cal situations which recall a phase of her old
success in “ ’lgh Society.” When singing the
latter song at the Gaiety, King Edward (then
Prince of Wales) being present, she omitted
the verse referring to the Prince. H.R.H.
noticed the omission and called out from the
stage box, “Sing the other verse, Connie.”
She promptly complied.
“St. John’s Wood” : Charles Marshall, who
long before the days of “I Hear You Calling
Me” was Amy Sherwin’s accompanist, still
fills that post at her singing academy in St.
John’s Wood. He has not written any new
songs lately, since the public wants only
jazz. Marshall, who made a fortune out
of the songs which Frederick Ranalow and
John McCormack introduced to Australia,
says that both Chappells and Booseys find the
demand for ballads now seldom runs beyond
a fortnight’s flash.
“Chloe”: Does any Queenslander share a
Warwick pioneer’s remembrance of the first
theatrical performance given in Brisbane
somewhere about 1854? An enterprising-
settler named Cooling financed a co. of
which the star was Flora Harris, who lent
her name to the co. and produced wild en-
thusiasm by her ballads and opera solos.
The steamer which carried the co. to Bris-
bane was gaily flagged on entering the river,
not in honor of the distinguished passengers,
but because it carried news of the victory at
Sebastopol, received a few days earlier in
Sydney. The trip from Sydney to Moreton
Bay took from nine to ten days in ordinary
weather. The Boomerang was the steamer,
and fittingly to celebrate her first trip the
captain and officers gave a ball to the elite
of the settlement. Only two unmarried girls
were present. My informant still looks back
to that purple patch in her girlhood—a
toasted belle aged a little over 15, and only
permitted a grown-up ball at the instance
of the captain himself.
“Hamfat”: The co. which financed Louise
Lovely in the production of “Jewelled
Nights” has considered the results of its first
year's operations. The film cost over £BOOO.
which was about £3OOO too much, and onlj
slightly more than £lOOO has been made out
of it; but the- co. hopes to get more Rom
Australian screenings and to market the film
in England and America. Australia, wince
is a large customer, could easily force a
market for its own productions by following
on the lines of Germany, which is now a big
producer simply because the local market is
compelled to take as much home-made as
foreign film.
“Old ’Un”: “What Every Woman Knows"
wears uncommonly well. It is 14 years since
Sydney first saw it at the same address as
its present revival, and it seems as fresh as
paint. I would say the Boucicault produc-
tion is superior to the one in which Nellie
Stewart and Harcourt Beatty appeared; but
several of the players are not so good. One.
though, is immeasurably better —the actress
who plays the Comtesse. She has what
Barrie himself would call “that damneo
charm.”
“Goldilocks”: The “snap” still provides
pocket-money for oqt-of-work mummers. It
is a sudden descent upon a suburb or handy
country town for a special night—a mining-
town payniglit or an occasion when the burg
has gone gay over some carnival without the
event being booked-up by any regular co.
Some familiar play is selected to avoid work
over rehearsals; and the hastily-collected co.
of out-of-works are given parts with, winch
they are familiar. Usually the profits are
equally divided amongst the participants. A
well-known actor, used to metropolitan stages
and a good salary but out of a shop for
some weeks, was included in a recent snap
and it led to a slump in his personal repu-
tation. “He’s a pig of a man !” one of the
enterprisers told me. “We had quite a good
time; the night panned out six bob each —
and the cow grumbled !”
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Osmond
Esmonde, the handsome and extremely ele-
gant young son of Sir Thomas Grattan
Esmonde, now an independent member of
the Free State Dail, found a sympathetic
audience for his motion that the subsidy to
the Abbey Theatre be abolished because Sean
O’Casey’s plays, “Juno and the Paycock”
and “The Plough and the Stars” end kin-
dred productions, derided and vilified the
Irish people, and were generally of a low
moral tone. Meanwhile, O’Casey continues
to get an extraordinary amount of free adver-
tising. “The Plough and the Stars” is clever
and superbly acted; but it is easily the most
unsavory play I have ever witnessed.
“A.V.A.”: Revue has not supplanted the
pre-war type of musical play in Vienna, the
home of operetta. Two recent successes in
elude a Franz Lehar work, “Paganini,” with
a libretto founded upon the hectic career of
the famous fiddle genius. It contains a
waltz melody now sweeping over the world
per gramophone. An Emmerick Kalman
operetta, “The Circus Princess,” is another
Viennese triumph: in this Kalman has in-
troduced his native Hungarian music, with
some characteristic Viennese melodies.
“Ruy”: “Quiz” (B. 5/8/’2G) errs in say-
ing that the old Queen’s in Melbourne is
being demolished to make room for a gurage.
It was pulled down years back; the site is
now occupied by Law Court Chambers.
Actually, the Queen’s was a couple of doors
south. It was opened on April 21, 1845.
with “The Bear Hunters, or The Fatal
Ravine,” and I fancy a panto, at Christmas,
1855, was about its last show.
“Ruy”: The visit, of the artistic Kendall
Quartette recalls the Mendelssohn Quin-
tette of Boston (U.S.A.) which toured these
parts back in 1882. Originally formed in
1849, the quintette kept together for nearly
half a century. The party contained two
players who didn’t care whether they used
viola or flute or clarinet, and thus they were
able to greatly vary their programme.
“Flaming Youth”: Some quick work will
have to be put into the St. James, Sydney, if
the upper theatre is to be opened on Boxing
night. Since Ben Fuller many weeks ago
offered to take bets in large sums upon his
firm’s ability to fulfil its undertaking, not
much progress on the walls is noticeable. But
a good deal has been done in assembling
material; and once a start is made they
will fly up to their limit of 150 feet.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Alfred Turner, who
managed Cyril Maude’s tour in Australia
and Maoriland, has been appointed director
of the six London theatres controlled by the
Sliubert brothers —His Majesty’s, Shaftes-
bury, Adelplii, Apollo, Gaiety and Winter
Garden. This is the first time so many West
End theatres have been placed under one
management.
“Wigs”: Even our Repertory Societies
seem to have shied at John Galsworthy’s last
two plays, “The Forest” and “The Show,”
which, although they scored no particular
success in England, are quite as worthy of
production as a lot of the cranky Italian
and Czecho-Slovakian mixtures rushed by the
amateurs. The newest Galsworthy piece—to
be staged in London this month —is called
“Escane.” One of Bi’itain’s cleverest mum-
mers, Leon M. Lion, is producing and will
play a leading part.
TWO SEARCH PARTIES.
[FORT THE BULLETIN.]
Six men of odd aspect were met in the street.
The Fates were all Furies, the times out of joint,
And chance or misfortune had guided their steps
To the spot that politeness denotes as “the Point.”
Though each fronted the world like a true Spartan
brave,
Some reeded a meal and some wanted a shave.
Their slouch hats expressed their disgust as they
passed
And read the display ads., “Great New York
Success
With original, famous American cast” ;
“Complete English company, staging and dress.”
You’ve guessed it first try, let all mystery drop—
Six Actors were they, in Search of a Shop.
At the same rendezvous six strangers appeared,
And genius shone in the bulge of their brows ;
Their faces were pallid, their clothing was weird,
Their heads were as bald as fair license allows;
And each bore in his hand, like an emblem of hope,
A packet, or parcel, or fat envelope.
“Oh friends,” cried the players, “what calls ye
this way?
Is there hope or despair in the message ye bring
To brighten our sky, or to deepen its grey?
Or is it the prompting of Conscience’s sting ?
In your faces we see certain sympathy lurk;
Oh, say are ye Managers offering work?”
“Alas!” said the others, “no comfort we give.
Our futile adventure your sorrows may crown;
Neglected, like you, on our art we would live ;
Let us drink, the bitter remembrance to drown.
Ye seek stage employment, though left in the lurch.
We are only Six Playwrights who make the same
Search.”
B.A.
BILL O’C.


‘Better than Bricks and Mortar!”
“Banking Review Sydney.
5 Sound Reasons
-Full Prospectus of*
MOTOR FINANCE S SECURITIES
LTD
CAPITAL
£500,000
Applications will now be received for
these 400,000 shares, payable as follows:
2/- per share on application.
2/- per share on allotment.
1/- per share one month after date of
allotment.
1/- per share two months after date of
allotment.
1/- per share three months after date
of allotment.
1/- per share four months after date of
allotment.
1/- per share five months after date of
allotment.
1/- per share six months after date of
allotment.
And the balance in calls not exceeding
1/- per share per month.
The Directors are of opinion that the
amounts of 10/-per share payable as set out
above will be sufficient for the Company s
purpose and that no further calls need be
made. The amount of uncalled capital
will, however, be available as collateral
security against any bank advances that
may be arranged.
The promoter will be entitled, as set
out in the agreement hereinafter men-
tioned, to the brokerage rights on share
sales, and to subscribe for and PAY FOR
IN CASH up to 100,000 shares at par.
These shares must be taken up within
three years from date of registration.
THERE
PAID-UP
ONE.
WILL BE NO FULLY
SHARES ISSUED TO ANY-
Directors:
JOHN FULTON ROFE, Solicitor,
19 O Connell Street, Sydney.
HAROLD CAMPBELL MACFIE,
Company Director,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
PERCY FREEMAN. Investor,
Sliadforth Street. Mosman.
(The qualification of a director is the
holding or acquisition within a prescribed
time of five hundred shares.)
Interstate Directors:
The Articles of Association provide for
the appointment of Directors in other
States of the Commonwealth for the
purpose of supervising and administering
the affairs of the Company in such States,
and capital for investment will be avail-
able for every State.
SOLICITOR:
HENRY WHATMORE. South British
Building. O’Connell Street. Sydney.
AUDITOR:
H. F. HELDER. F.1.1.A., Incorporated
Accountant. 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS-:
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRAL-
ASIA.
Head Office: George Street, Sydney.
SECRETARIES:
Messrs. H. C. MACFIE & CO., Chartered
Secretaries, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Information in possession of the Com-
pany is to the effect that this class of
business has already been successfully
conducted in Australia, the companies
concerned showing excellent returns; in
several instances extremely so, although
in many cases their activities were chiefly
confined to one branch of the business.
This Company will operate over a wider
field, which will include not only the motor
business, which is growing by leaps and
bounds, but other lines of equal merit
and profit.
Investment System,
An instance of the system applied to
the sale of a car upon a hire-purchase
agreement is as follows: —
A company sells a car under such an
agreement. The car remains the property
of the company until full payment has
been made. Any risk of loss, whether by
fire, theft, or accident, is covered by a
Comprehensive Insurance Policy. The un-
paid balance of purchase money, paid
generally by monthly instalments, is fur-
ther secured by taking promissory notes
from the purchaser. To secure cash for
these documents, the selling company
assigns the hire-purchase agreement and,
after endorsing the promissory notes,
bands them to the investment company.
The investment company then insures the
payment of the promissory notes with a
reliable insurance office.
Divided into 50,000 10 p.c. cumulative preference
shares and 450,000 ordinary shares of £1 each,
of which
50,000 10 p.c. cumulative preference shares and
350,000 ordinary shares are now offered for sub-
scription.
100,000 may be issued as stated herein.
500,000
THE SECURITY
It has been said by a
well-known financial
journal that this kind
of investment is
“better than bricks
and mortar " because :
(1) The Company re-
mains the legal owner of the
property upon which it has
lent money until the pur-
chaser, who is actually the
hirer only, has paid the last
instalment.
(2) At the purchaser’s
cost the Company insures
the property against damage
by fire, accident, theft, or
other risk.
(3) The purchaser is re-
sponsible for the due pay-
ment of his promissory notes
which he has given to cover
the unpaid balance of pur-
chase money.
(4) The seller of the car,
usually a firm or company of
standing, is liable as endorser
of the purchaser’s promis-
sory notes for the due pay-
ment of every one of them.
(5) The due payment of
the promissory notes 2s
insured with an established
insurance office.
Some Statistics.
“Dunn’s Review,” September, 192-i.
says: “In the five years ending Decem-
ber 31st, 1923, the largest American
Corporation devoted exclusively to the
financing of motor-car sales or credit
transacted a total business of
$556,000,000.
“In the year 1923 the volume of busi-
ness was $218,686,113. During the five
years’ period the credit losses on the
half-billion business handled was LESS
THAN ONE-FIFTH OF ONE PER
.CENT., and in the year 1922 (the last
for which complete statistics are avail-
able) it did not exceed 15/lOOths of one
per cent. On new cars the loss ratio
was reported as being less than 7/100ths
of the one per cent, in that year.
“This Company has since its ineep
tion financed retail sales of approxi-
mately 500,000 cars to individual pur-
chasers in all walks of life in every
section of the United States of America.
Canada, British Isles. There are on
the books to-day approximately two hun-
dred thousand purchasers who are pay-
ing for their cars on a time basis.”
Additional Advantages.
A Company of this kind has further
advantages. .
FIRSTLY: It can have no industrial
troubles or legislation to contend with.
SECONDLY: It is not necessary to
invest money in buildings or plant.
Capital is mostly in a liquid state.
THIRDLY : Overhead charges will be
very small in proportion to turnover,
as the fullest use will be made of bank-
ing facilities to enable the Company’s
capital to be invested and re-invested
many times over.
Earning Power.
Profits earned by similar companies
operating in the Commonwealth have
been phenomenal and out of all propor-
tion to the risk involved. This is
accounted for by the fact that on the
hire-purchase agreement a substantial
deposit of not less than thirty-three
per cent, of the purchase price is gen-
erally demanded and the balance, pay-
ment of which is spread over a period
of twelve or eighteen months by monthly
or quarterly instalments, carries inter-
est at the flat rate of seven to ten per
cent., so that the actual rate accruing
to the Company ranges from 15 to 20
per cent.
LOAN MONEY may be obtained by
the Company from bankers on the secu-
rity of the documents held in the course
of business plus uncalled capital, and
this money will be invested over and
over again at better interest rates.
Profits.
As no outlay for buildings or plant
(as in industrial concerns) will be
iccessary, such capital will be available
for investments on the lines described
herein, so that profits should be earned
by the Company from the beginning.
Other sources of profit will be:—
Commission allowed by motor trade
for sales effected by the Com-
pany- , . ,
Loans made on money obtained on
loan at a lower rate of interest
than that charged by the Com-
pany.
Commission on insurances effected.
These insurances should produce a
considerable income, as the Company
may be reasonably expected to retain
most of the insurance business of its
clients after its own financial trans-
action shall have been terminated.
Investment Attraction.
An investment proposition should in-
dicate that —
(1) Money invested is well secured.
(2) That the investment is negoti-
able, i.c., the shares may be
easily disposed of at any time.
(3) A regular and adequate return
on the amount invested.
AN INVESTMENT IN THE
SHARES OF THIS COMPANY POS-
SESSES ALL THESE ADVAN-
TAGES.
Articles of Association.
A copy of the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of this Company
may be obtained upon application to the
Secretaries.
Preliminary Expenses.
All preliminary expenses, including
stamp duty, registration fees and legal
charges, shall be paid by the Company.
The Company lias been incorporated
and lias been formed for the purpose
and objects as set out in full in its
Memorandum of Association and par-
ticularly for —-
Tbe financing of deferred payment
sales of motor vehicles and other
commodoties sold upon the sys-
tem of hire-purchase.
To lend money at interest on ap-
proved security on property, real
or personal.
To act as agents on commission for
the sale of motor vehicles.
To discount bills properly secured.
To discount mortgages when
moneys advanced are secured.
To arrange insurances and attend
to renewals of premiums or poli-
cies when due.
To accept deposits at short call.
Contracts.
The following contract has been entered
into: —
Agreement dated July 26, 1926, be-
tween William Allen Baxter on behalf of
the Company on the one part and Percy
Freeman on the other part, and may be
inspected at the office of the Company’s
Solicitor.
Application for Shares.
Application for shares should be made
on the form attached hereto.
Cheques should be made payable to
“Motor Finance and Securities Limited”
and crossed.
Dated August 14, 1926.
Application for Shares.
To the Secretary,
Motor Finance & Securities, Ltd.,
c/o General Underwriters,
6th Floor, Kembla Building,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —
I hereby apply for (in words)
ordinary shares
and preference
shares in the Capital of the above
Company upon the terms of the
Company’s Prospectus, dated the
14th day of August, 1926. And I
hereby agree to accept the same or
such smaller number as may be
allotted to me, and I authorise you
to register me as the holder of such
shares.
I enclose herewith £
being 2/- per share on application,
and I agree to pay another 2/- per
share on allotment, and to pay the
balance as provided in the said
Prospectus, and to be bound by
the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Company.
DATED this day of 192
Name (in full)
(Mr.. Mrs.. Miss, or Title)
Address (in foil)
Profession or occupation
I desire dividends to be paid to
the credit of
at the Bank
.... Branch, or direct to address
Signature
N.B. —'Please write amount and
number of shares in words.
Selling Brokers: GENERAL
UNDERWRITERS,
Kembla Building, Sydney.
Per
N.B. —All cheques must be drawn
in favor of Motor Finance and
Securities Limited, or order,, and
crossed “account payee only, and
the Company will not be responsible
for the loss, misapplication, or
appropriation of any cheque handed
to the Company’s Brokers or Agent:
which is not so drawn.


Now the Dutch T.T
Yet another addition to the long list of B.S.A. Successes! Mr. J. Moos, on a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p.
O.H.V. Super-Sports Motor Bicycle, won the Dutch T.T. (Junior Class) and the Championship
of Holland on June 26. Mr. Moos covered the course of 260 kilometres at an average speed of
87 kilometres (54 miles) per hour.
Other recent B.S.A. successes include the Austrian T.T. (350-c.c. Class), won on a B.S.A.
3.49-h.p. O.H.V. machine; 10 Gold Medals, Team Prize and the B.S.A. Silver Cup in the
Czecho-Slovakian 1000-kilometre Trial; the Western Australian 3 miles’ Solo Championship; the
30 miles’ Final Championship in Japan; 12 Silver Cups in various English Reliability Trials
held since January, and the famous 60 ascents of Bwlch-y-Groes—a world-wide record of success
which proves the consistent reliability of B.S.A. Motor Bicycles.
LEAD THE WAY ON A B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles
will give you equally satisfactory service. Remember this and choose your next mount from the
comprehensive B.S.A. range, 13 models in six engine capacities. Specifications include B.S.A.
Three-speed Gear-box, Grease-gun Lubrication (except on the 2.49-h.p. two-speed model),
Clutch, Kick Starter, Mechanical Lubrication, All-chain Drive, Forged Steel Lugs and Weldless
Steel Tubing throughout.
2.49-h.p. to
9.86-h.p.
Prices from
£57/10
Sip
V
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V.
Super-Sports Model
Winner of the
Austrian l.'l.(Junior)
and the
Dutch T.T. ( Junior)
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDJ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTOR! A- FIN LA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY. f LTD. f
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS. J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide„
WEST AUS.-mortlock bros.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA s//w king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
The Sign
of Quality
D. Y. RENNIE
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia .
(Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE,


Australia Is Now a Nation
And Is No Longer a Mere Combination of Petty States.
The Parliament of a Nation Must Have National Powers. But the powers
now exercised by the Commonwealth Parliament are not national in scope.
They are so limited that Parliament cannot perform satisfactorily its task
of governing the united States of Australia.
% 7%
W
y
-a
w,
m
l
m
s
Kyi
&
3«Jr
°*tßin
es
<5:
\:
y
£
Vs
//
x
" • .S’
“LOOSEN MY BONDS!”
THE COMMONWEALTH
PARLIAMENT
Cannot remove the serious and growing con-
fusion due to overlapping industrial awards.
Cannot make available to the people of all
the States supplies of essential foodstuffs or
materials which may be interrupted by dis-
location of services in any one State.
Can do nothing to restore to members of
certain great trade-unions the control of
their unions’ policy and funds, which have
been seized by union “bosses,” and can be
used for improper purposes without the
sanction of members.
Cannot check trusts and combines which
operate in restraint of trade and plunder
the public.
Cannot inaugurate a system of conciliation
councils and committees, in particular indus-
tries, so as to settle industrial troubles before
they become serious industrial disputes.
Cannot provide Australia with a uniform
Company Law, although 80 per cent, of
Australia’s trade and commerce is done by
Companies, most of which have to conform
with six different sets of State regulations,
involving thirty-four different Company
laws.
Cannot check or punish anyone who inter-
feres with the carrying of the Common-
wealth mails.
Cannot regulate the formation of new and
possibly fraudulent Companies.
Cannot give the awards of the Federal
Arbitration Court a common application, so
that it is now necessary to cite every indi-
vidual employer, causing enormous expense
and embarrassment of industry.
Cannot remove the conflicting industrial and
commercial conditions which have been
imposed by the various State Parliaments
upon our trade and commerce, and which
prevent fair competition between the States
for Australian markets.
The growing Commonwealth’s inability to remedy these evils is creating
social and industrial confusion and retarding our progress as a united nation.
You are being asked, by Referendum, in two questions, to grant the
Commonwealth Parliament wider powers.
“And who are those who oppose us?
On the one hand, reactionaries who
have deliberately obstructed every
progressive measure of recent years:
and, on the other, extremists who hate
to see industrial and social order, and
who prefer for their own ends a state
of anarchy and Bolshevism. Both are
equally menacing to the continued
progress and prosperity of this coun-
try, and both should be repudiated by
a community which controls its own
destiny, and with sanity and judgment
will make greater strides towards the
future which awaits it." —The Prime
Minister (Mr. Bruce).
For Australia’s Sake
voteYES TWICE
“There never was a Commonwealth
Parliament more anxious than the
present one to provide Australia with
a truly national government, nor one
so eager to create the conditions neces-
sary for the rapid development and
population of this great country. But
in many directions in which the Com-
monwealth’s activities extend, we tind
ourselves ‘cribb’d, cabin’d and con-
fined’ by the inadequate powers we
possess under the present Constitu-
tion.” —The Minister for Trade and
Customs (Mr. Pratten).
POLLING DAY: September 4.
VOTING IS COMPULSORY.
Authorised by A. Kemp, National Association of N.S.W., Sydney.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
'BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
pitsh: rubber.
Amusements.
V 1) N E Y’S CHI E F TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THE MASK AND THE FACE.
ROYAL:
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
PALACE: THE SPORT OF KINGS.
pULLEBS' TIIEAT It E, SYI>N E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEX ILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
OIC K A It »S’ TIVOLI TIIE A T It ES.
■* Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
E J. CARROLL says
all
THE BEST PEOPLE
are doing “it”
at
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
C. WILLIAMSON LTI>., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WHITE CARGO.
piUNCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ICING’S Til HATH IS, MISLIS O U It NE.
Lessees Bailey and Grant
Direction E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
By C. J. DENNIS.
With Bert Bailey as GINGER MICK.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
pALACE TIIEAT It E, .MELBOURNE.
Lessee Hugh J. Ward Theatres, Ltd.
Direction Wilfred Cotton
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OUR LIZ.
THE MERRIEST MUSICAL SHOW IN TOWN.
Plan at Glen’s.
£ I HE N .-E U M THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
Evenings at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
IvAAI’S HAWAIIAN TROUBADOURS
IN
A NIGHT IN HONOLULU.
Plans at Allan’s.
New bi.iou theatre. Melbourne.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y|A,IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CLIVE BROOK and MARIE PREVOST in
SEVEN SINNERS.
ALSO
BETTY BALFOUR in
MONTE CARLO.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 707 G & 7700.
U O V T * S 1) E LUXE THEATRE
■ 1 MELBOURNE
ALICE JOYCE in
MANNEQUIN.
ALSO
TOM MIX and TONY, the Wonder Horse, in
TONY RUNS WILD.
Prices as usual.
BOOKS FOR 6d. EACH.
EVERY BRANCH OP LITERATURE in a new
well-printed, “fit-the-pocket” edition. Fiction
(by the supreme masters), drama, science
philosophy, poetry, biography, belles-lettres,
children’s books, humor, etc. One price only,
Od. each, post free.
SEND STAMP FOR CATALOGUE of these
delightful books. Tremendous range.
LITTLE BLUE BOOKS, Albert House. Brisbane.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
a ImiwH fr i
g s r%S
'-■ - - • psyii
- \«Mpi
||jlJ / \ I
oTp* c«j ®*3Et* i
?<msm xMi£ >4
Happy Motherhood.
In the early months of frail life Benger’s does much to
lighten the anxious, happy task of motherhood.
For nursing mothers Benger’s is especially recommended
by medical men. It is light, highly nutritious, and so easily
digested that it is very beneficial in promoting a full supply of
natural milk.
For delicate infants and at weaning time, Benger’s is most
valuable. It adapts the fresh cows’ milk with which it is
prepared to the delicate digestion of a child.
fgjfg
Food
for Infants,
'aaoy sgitvant
BABY BOOK FREE. —The Benger Book of Babies gives much valuable
informa.ion to mothers. It also contains a Baby’s History Diary, and
Weight and Height Chart. Send for it to-day.
At all Chemists and Stores.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, LTD. MANCHESTER, Eng.
iW
j
5%
I
i« fim*m
£S!
V'AN A
5w
vV^
The Decca plays every
make and size of
record. There are 4
models and 2 sizes at
prices from £4 10s. to
£l2.
Sold by all Music
Dealers and Stores
throughout the
Commonwealth.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS;
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 321 Pitt
St., Sydney.
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 290
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth.
Savery Pianos Ltd., 29
Rundle St., Adelaide.
King & King Ltd., Queen
St., Brisbane.
Wills & Co., 7 The Quad-
_ rant, Launceston.
J
Closed
OPEN
a IfUlusical
Evening
Work is over for the day—
now for a musical treat. Bring
out the jolly little Decca and let
us beguile the hours with merry song
and even merrier dance.
The Decca is ready to give of its best
anytime anywhere and its best is
something you will thoroughly enjoy.
For notwithstanding its compact porta-
bility the Decca has a clear, powerful
and mellow tone, just as sweet as that
of any expensive cabinet model you
can think of.
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Learn: Its length makes “Deceivers”
wearisome... .A.P.S., M.R.0., Marquita: Sorry, space
is too short. .. .N.F.C.: Too vague. .. .Croesus: Apply
to the A.J.A. in any capital. It has an agreement,
embodying rates, with practically all papers....
A.L.P.: Missed it....G.M.: You might somewhere in
the course of the story make clear what it’s all
about.... Gloria: Not tremendously interested in
valets; still if you produced an Australian valet —-
one born in the ’Loo and formerly a bottle-oh—
he might secure a welcome... .Casual Wanderer:
Not the slightest. .. .Billie: All very sudden. ... J.C.C.:
Can’t give it a fly. . . . J.T.L.: The “wagged on”-“aban-
don” rhyme was the first blow; but there were others.
... .R.H.H.: Sending your coach song back to its stable.
.. . .M.M.T.: Too slight. . . .A.H.M.: Not bad, but spoilt
by small awkwardnesses. .. .R.C.: Pale moralising^.
. ...P.D.8.: When you are older you will get over
the melancholy and write better verse. .. .L.A.L.:
“The Ploughman” homeward plods its weary way.
... .Goodenuff: Not by a mile. .. .D.W.G.: Well, it’s
put with commendable brevity:—
“Confess your fearful crime, this murder,” so the
parson pleaded,
In his dim religious cause.
“I’ll be hanged if I do,” the criminal retorted to
the chaplain.
He didn’t, but he was.
....Della: “Writing to me seems awfully simple.”
And you send us something simply awful to show
what easy writing generally leads to. . . .C. 0.8.: No
2500-word story can be hung on the ancient joke
of the rash man who ate a rasher.... Celia M.:
Your Kitchener verse referring to the “grate, departed
dead” has a suggestion of cremation. .. .8.G.N.: The
office-boy who brought in your sob-story was nearly
drowned. .. .Billie: Shy little verse which wanders
nowhere in particular. .. .L.R.8.: Unsuitable....
C.R.V.: Your Pegasus is a rough colt; break it in.
....Dal G.: “Pounded on fact” is no excuse
for bad verse; verse that is good needs no other
recommendation.... A.P.: “Two poems —if you can
call them such.” We can’t.... Twilight S.: The
verse is in worse disrepair than the cottage....
S.A.P.: “Over the Fence” is out. . . .R.N.S.: “Song
of the Eagle” more like the twittering of a sparrow.
....Horoscope: Too many bumps in your “Phreno-
logy”. .. .L.A.R.: “Funeral,” which wanders for 5000
words, has found the cemetery.... Mary S. S.: “My
heart shall never thrill For any man who has not
got A large sum in his till.” Mercenary Mary!....
S.H.S.: “My halidom he shall not brook.” Gadzooks,
n 0!.... Eleanor W.: “Thous” and “Thys” are a
handicap to sincerity; put your pictures in natural
language. .. .Beatrice C.: The incidents might make
pars, but they are not well told. .. . W.McA.: Inter-
ested in your statement that “the earth is given spots
to make it beautiful”... .G.R.M.: “Please forward
cheque by return” was the only light touch we could
discover.... Abel N.: Your “Scots engineer” was
apparently born in Ireland of Jewish parents....
S.N.R.: “Piggy” gives only enough bacon for a par,
.. . .F.V.R.L.: You have verse facility; condense....
V.C.L.H,: Fragile little story would have smashed
itself even if you had not broken it into two chapters.
....McT. the Noo: You certainly “reel it off in
yards.” And it’s no good done that way... .M.C.W.:
A trite dissertation.... R.H.M.: Unless these samples
are your worst, you haven’t much hope.... G.M.:
Your blood be upon your own head if any lino.-man,
called upon to set your red type, tracks you down....
V.H.: Why in the month of May? It’s an easy
rhyme of course, but you’re living in Australia....
F.S.H.: Too long. Make it crisp... .R.A.8.: Ditto.
. . . .G.0.R.: Post-mortem shows that the story died in
the tenth paragraph... .L.M.S. : After trudging weary
pages we concluded that you meant that the story ran
to 3000 yards—not words. .. .C.J.T.: Sorry, but the
chronicle doesn’t make a story... . E.D.: “Stars and
Tea” just fails. .. .V.H.: The fact that you are glad
spring has come and sorry it will go lacks interest.
. . . .Sol: The infant death-rate this week is alarming:
In her innocent and childish play
Our beloved, our tiny Jane,
Romping in her infant way,
Swallowed her toy aeroplane.
There are tears in all our eyes;
Now in Heaven above she flies.
. ...0.J.R.: You have the gift of anticipation.
F’rinstance, “His widow moui’ried by the bedside of
the dying man”... .Ranee O.: We liked your Devil;
but the preachy story fails. .. .F.E.: A sort of
woman’s novelette story A de B.: Far too long.
.. . . J.L.K.: Afraid your idea is that a short story is
one written by a man short of ideas.... Jonah:
“Dives” is as poor as Lazarus.... Oscar M.: Songs
of revelry that could be set to the Dead March have
no chance. .. .G.A.S.: Your “Diana” seems more
chased than chaste... .Tony B.: Repellent. .. . J.A.C.:
Paragraph value only F.J.F.S.: “Flapper” still
very crude Senorita S.: Sorry to destroy your
castle in Spain; they’re too slight.... J.D.: Verses
regarding your wife reminding you about cold tea
remind us of cold tea 8.R.: What sort of noise
do things make when they "in muted clamor pass” ?
.... Tod D.: “The game of bridge was interrupted
when Nora banged down the lid of the piano.” A
grand slam?... .Ajax: Your Pegasus is a merry-go-
round hobby-horse. .. .A.D.: Mere rhymed pars
Nat G.: Fair, but not enough in them... .D.A.R.:
Glad to find it was a dream. From the way the story
was told we guessed you were asleep J.0.L.:
Dull L.C.L.H.: Its pathos is mainly in its failure.
. ...ILM.: The verses jump the rails.... D.McM.P.:
All through we felt that something was going to
happen. And then afternoon-tea happened.... Ralph
A.: Well told, but hardly strong enough.... J.P.:
The ginger-bearded philanthropist isn’t very interest-
ing.... M.F.: Tank story has only a watery interest.
... .S.M.H.: The tailoring yarns are duds.... J.M.8.:
One or two roughnesses spoilt “Elan’s” chance.
0.0.8.: Very near Pat M.: “Haunted House”
hasn’t a ghost of a chance D.R.A.G.: A washout.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.A.M.: The only thing right about the neddy
is the number of its feet E.F.W.: Among those
out of step in the week’s march past L.M.M.:
What brand of corset does the lady wear?... .M.G.:
No joke attached. Are your characters dumb?....
H.R.H.: We prayed to the decrepit prad to deal it
out to the profane blacksmith... .N.F.R.; Emu with
a passion for the innards of a Ford has passed his
prime Ink: At the rate you’re going you ought
to tickle our fancy 20 years hence V.N.: Frail
penstrokes, inanimate jokes W.H.D.: Isn’t there
a clause in King’s Regulations about holding Major-
Generals up to public ridicule? .H.E.: You are
destined for print, but not just yet J.8.C.: The
gag was stale soon after primitive man took to
wearing untanned hide.


IT
'
s.
A
M*
-
Incoming raw materials for Wil-
lard Batteries are sampled before
they are even removed from
freight cars—and nothing is taken
into the factory until Willard
chemists have placed their stamp
of approval upon it.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND,


Build Better
Wails and
Ceilings!
8/SSk
inn
Save money and build real charm
and beauty into your new home
by using: "FIBBOLITE" Asbestos
Cement Sheets for lining: all ils walls
and ceilings.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than lining-
boards and is Fire Retardant, White-ant
Proof, Hygienic, and Improves with Age.
The big sturdy sheets are easily and
quickly fixed without waste.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SIDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
BRISBANE: A.M.P. Buildings, Queen St.
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 103 Collins Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Nathan’s Buildings,
Wellington.
Carry
Your
RABBIT
Skins
2R>
how you like. They’re your skins. You are entitled
to sell them where you like. But if you want top
returns you will find it pays handsomely to heed this
advice.
Send Your Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Expert Salesmen, LTD*
Sydney or Brisbane.
[2
BRITISH WADE
venct
QUALITY PENCIL
MS
now£)each
BLACKLEAD -17 GRADATIONS
SOLD BYALiSTATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . . _ . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castiereagh Street, SYDNEY.
fgjfg
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
Old Ways Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
j New Way:
- 5 ' Smear lightly
over face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of
years man has been scrubbing his face
with soaps containing soda, and has never
reasoned that under such treatment the
skin may suffer? Nothing is more ugly
than a face that looks raw. Shaving
soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered SHAVEX,
the natural method, where no brush and
soaps containing soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE!
One can shave with Shavex in half the
time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had,
and shaving will become a pleasure. Your
skin will look and feel like satin, and
your face under this treatment will look
twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a
skin food as well.
1/9 large tube. Obtainable Eyerywkere.
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng. ’
SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
k
ft
• -i
(R ' ' '
I
w
*■
m
m
IHB
02333
PLimurtj
As Shakespeare says: “That is
the Question”
Rncnlyiitiui Oil may be pungent or
extra strong. or may carry excessive
Kucalyptol, but is it a potent remedy
for human illsf Kxperts say: “No,
more harmful than helpful.”
BosistOS "Parrot” Brand Eucalyptus
Is a Potent Oil—ln other words, cura-
tive and healing; truly medicinal, and
a powerful germicide. •
As an embrocation, the genuine
BOSISTO’S promotes that delightful
feeling of suppleness beloved by the
athlete; and how refreshing after
strenuous exercise!
Put Potency before Pungency by asking for
Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil
The “PARROT” Brand
Sold Everywhere - 1/3 per Bottle
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coot’: Matlock (Vic.) could beat Cook-
town (N.Q.) with its 17 pubs in the main
street (B. 22/7/’26). The Vic. mining town
had over 20, and 10 of them were swept away
by fire on the same night. At the present
day there are only four inhabited houses of
any kind in the town.
* * * *
“P.R.”: I struck an expert
hunter the other day. She had a harassed-
looking kid behind the counter of a crockery-
shop searching the stock for tw T 0 Odd cups.
After a long struggle the gifl handed over a
couple of orphans, but the customer’s next
request appeared to stagger her. It w 7 as for a
“couple of odd saucers to match” !
* * * *
“Collins Street” : The thin end of the pro-
verbial wedge has been inserted into Stock
Exchange brokerage charges in Melbourne.
For the six months preceding the maturity
of all Government loans and trustee stocks,
the usual brokerage of one-lialf of one per
cent, chargeable on the face value by the sell-
ing brokers and divisible equally with the
buying brokers will be reduced by half. In
other words, the rate will be ss. per cent,
instead of 10s.
* * * *
“W.L.” : The backward state of this coun-
try’s laundry business is realised by C. A.
Flynn, president of N. S. Wales laundry-
men, who has returned from California. He
went there to study his job, and found that
Australia was years behind Uncle Sam in
the matter of washing the family linen. On
the Pacific coast a family of five can have its
washing done for 10s. a week, and in polite
circles in California tablecloths and table
napkins are changed after every meal.
* * * *
“Willaw” : The fishermen and farmers of
D’Urville Island, in Cook Strait, are
wondering why they did not awaken earlier
to the possibilities of milling mahogany on
the island. Nobody thought the small, hardy
trees had any market value till Sir David
Hutchins, the timber expert who died a few
years ago, mentioned in his report on M.L.
timbers that this was mahogany without a
doubt. Even then nothing was done. Now
A. G. Cummins, a Wellington man, has
secured the rights over 67,000,000 feet on
D’Urville, and a company of which he is
director is milling it.
* » a «
“Machete”: A South African company is
reported to have tackled the extraction of
rubber from the euphorbia, which grows
thickly in the coastal belts, as its kind does
in most parts of South Africa and Australia.
There are a great many plants beside H eve a
braziliensis which yield rubber, and one
wonders whether there are no commercial
possibilities in the latex of Australia’s wild
figs. There are many millions of these on
the East Coast alone, and the scientist who
could improve on the “rubber” made from
their latex by every schoolkid, and make its
production commercially profitable, would
be on a good wicket.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Australia will be introduced to
a new luxury in the Melbourne-Canberra
air-service. The roomy, well-furnished
cabins of two new ’planes now on their
way from England will accommodate seven
passengers; and the ’buses will have a
range of 450 miles at a rate of 100 m.p.h.
Thus far, Canberra has had a mere spur
from the Mclbourne-Adelaide-Brokcn Hill
service. Apparently the Larkin Co. finds
the business all right, as it wants to open a
cross-country route from Hay to Charle-
ville —it will cut days out of the journey
the Central Queenslander has to take to
get to the South.
* * * *
“Wancliai”: “Teller” was right when he
predicted (B. 16/4/’25) that the irregulari-
ties iu the printing of the new issue of Com-
monwealth notes were going to breed trouble.
A counterfeiting gang has succeeded in mak-
ing a good imitation of the Australian fiver
and putting a number into circulation. To
the eye of an expert there are several flaws :
the forgery is of a darker blue than the
genuine note, and the King’s head on the
face and _ the foliage of the trees on the
reverse side are blurred. But, most im-
portant, the genuine note is water-marked;
the forgery is not. The simplest test, there-
fore, for a layman, is to hold a note up to
the light. If it is 0.K., the mesh of the
water-mark can be easily seen in the margin.
“Uramao”: The Norwegian whalers who
have been chasing the big fish in the Ross
Sea for the last couple of years and taking
the oil to Norway and America are now
making a profit. The danger is that the
yearly hunt will result in extermination, an
aspect of the business that has been men-
tioned in M.L. Parliament. In the first
expedition (1923) 17.000 barrels of oil were
obtained, about 8000 barrels short of the
25,000 required to make such an expedition
pay. In 1924 32,000 barrels were got, and
last year over 40,000. This year a sister
ship to the mother ship of previous years
will come south, and it is ''stimafed * -t
80,000 barrels is a likely total for the 1926-
27 hunt. One suggestion is that M.L. should
clap on a royalty of 6d. a gallon, which
would net £90.000 for her hollow-sounding
Treasury box. There are 45 gallons to a
barrel, so the expected 80,000 barrels will
hold 3,600,000 gallons.
* * * *
“Rander Lee”: Most seafaring men have
had the prevalence of opium-running in
northern waters (B. 29/7/’26) forced on
their notice. I know I have. Here is one
instance. We were a few miles north of
Cairns (Q.) during a voyage to Asiatic ports
about two years ago. I was leaning over
the ship’s rail one afternoon when a speedy
launch headed towards us from the open sea.
The general opinion was that she was merely
taking advantage of the dead-calm water for
an afternoon’s “try-out”; but when she was
only about a hundred yards away she re-
duced speed and quite casually picked up a
bulky package which had obviously been
dropped overboard through a porthole on
one of our lower decks. The exhaust of the
departing speedster roared once again, and
the whole business took little longer than it
does to tell the yarn. A group of passengers
eagerly discussed the question of what could
and what should have been done, but appa-
rently nothing has been done.


Daily Mishaps
Make ZAM BUK a Daily Need
I
9
m
&
m
It i
mn'
A
%
k
m;
'I m
m
7
32S
//#
First wash away any dirt or grit from
the wound ; cover it with a piece of
lint or any bit of dean rag on which
Zam-Buk has been spread. Rub gently
with Zam-Buk for bruises and sprains.
Then cover up (especially in burns and
scalds) and let nature and Zam-Buk
do the rest.
TEST FREE
Tlie proprietors of Zam-Buk
invite you to make a free test
before buying. Simply send your request to 0. E.
Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., Sydney, and a trial sample will
be sent you by return mail free and post paid if you
mention The Bulletin of 26/8/’26.
ACCIDENTS in the home occur when least expected—the slip with
the knife or tin-opener —the hot oven door against your bare arm
—the kettle that boils over —the bruises and bumps of play, and the
children’s cuts and hurts.
Injury to the skin means a
breaking of the protective layer
and the admission of hordes of
harmful germs that set up a
kind of local poisoning. There-
fore, be ready to apply at once
to any injury a piece of lint
or clean rag smeared with
Zam-Buk, and keep the place
covered up.
This antiseptic balm kills
disease germs, draws out all
poisonous matter, soothes pain
and quickly ends what is a peril to even
healthy people.
If you had the eye of a microscope
and could see Zam-Buk knitting the edges
of a wound together you would witness
one of Nature’s miracles—the creation
cell by cell of new living tissue. You can
always feel safe in accident or skin trouble
with a box of Zam-Buk close at hand.
It is important to select Zam-Buk for
your regular home first-aid and liealer, because
Zam-Buk means “safety first.” Unlike ordinary
ointments Zam-Buk contains no coarse mineral drug
or rancid animal fat to corrode or harm the skin.
Zam-Buk has proved as wonderfully effective in
cases of eczema, pimples, rashes, poisoned sores,
ringworms, piles, ulcers and deep-seated disease, as
it is soothing and healing for cuts, burns, scalds, etc.
Obtainable of all Chemists and Stores at 1/6
per box, or 3/6 (family size).
ENSURES SAFE, CLEAN HEALING
m
Vo
*
Ap
o
o
&
o
%
o
fo7<
t# £
o
%
o
Mr. Edison’s Latest Invention
FULL DANCE ORCHESTRA VOLUME FOR EVERY
“NEW EDISON" OWNER.
Just a simple attachment —but what a difference it makes!
It brings a live Dance Orchestra into your home —that
full, glorious volume of sound that makes every one get
up and dance, whether they wanted to before or not.
Laughter and chatter cannot drown this new music.
Yet the “New Edison” attachment is only one of many advantages enjoyed
by Edison owners. Amongst others are authentic period cabinets, no needles
to change, and records practically free from wear and breakage.
Ask us how you can hear the New Edison in your home side by side with
any other instrument, without obligation on your part.
NEW EDISON
Catalogues and
SYDNEY —The Edison Shop, 51 Castlcreagh
Street.
MELBOURNE —The Edison Shop, 238
Collins Street.
BRISBANE—W. TI. Paling d Co., Ltd., 86
88 Queen Street.
Or your nearest
Wholesale only: THOS. A. EDISON,
demonstrations at
A DEL AIDE —South .4 ustralian Phonograph
Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
PERTH — Phonographs, Ltd., 653 If ag
Street.
LA UN CE ST ON—Wills d Co. Pty., 7 Quad-
rant.
Edison Dealer.
LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
m
mm
mm
mm
wm
m
iii
IWlnai
m
MU m


Rivals the beauty of
the Scarlet Tanager
Its Colour
Flashes
This Friendly
Cautiom
"Don’t Leave Your
Pen behind!”
parks
\JOF
I’.iMSJtKS’I
The black-tipped, Chinese
laquer-red beauty that’s harder
to lose than plain black pens
cPoint Guaranteed for 25 Years
if not misused
ONLY the Parker has these
creations that abolish
long-standing pen faults:
I—The1 —The Ink-Tight Duo-Sleeve
Cap.
2—The Press-Button Filler con-
cealed inside the barrel—out
of sight —out of harm’s way.
3—The Lucky Curve Feed pro-
viding an instant flow and
a steady flow by capillary
attraction.
4—The Duofold Point, so
smooth and quiet-going that
it makes writing luxurious—
a Point no style of writing
can distort, guaranteed for
wear and mechanical per-
fection for 25 years.
And Duofold’s Over-size
Barrel holds an extra sup-
ply of ink to tide you over
longer stretches of writing.
Sold by Stationers, Book-
sellers, Jewellers and De-
partmental Stores where
pens are stocked.
Agents
SLADE, ALLAN 8 COMPANY
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
!Parker
Duofo'
VJ
WITH LUCKY CURVE FEED'•'AND 25 YEAR POINT
Duofold Jr. 25/ * Lady Duofold 25/*
Same except for sire With ting for chatelaine
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
you our cata J°2ue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 his appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
hrst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
nrmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
It, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D.. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
fjfg
If j’ou are Ruptured write at once for full particular!
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO, 5 Est 1863
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fghfg
5#
i
fg
These are the
RCA Radiotrons
for dry battery sets
RCA Radiotrons UX-199, WD-11 and
WX-12 are the world’s standard for de-
tection or amplification—for big per-
formance and economy.
Power Radiotron UX-120, when used
in the last audio stage, gives added
power—greater volume—clearer tone.
With the laboratories of RCA, General
Electric and Westinghouse steadily at
work to develop Radiotrons, radio re-
ception is being improved year by year.
When you replace the valves in your
old set —or when you buy a new radio
set—always look for the RCA mark on
the base and inside the glass of every
valve you buy. It is your protection.
If your dealer does not handle Radiotrons,
communicate with:
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia), Ltd.,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(Branch Office at 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne.)
Australian General Electric Company,
Corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Distributors in Australia for the
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
RCA- Rad i otro n
jfif
rfpt-K
'Oiitse
on top of the world!
Take the Canadian Pacific route to
Europe and linger awhile at Lake
Louise —pride of Canada’s thou-
sand enchantments.
On every side of this famous Rocky
Mountain resort are scenes of beauty —
from towering snow-draped peaks to glisten-
ing glaciers.
From the time you board the
Motor Liner " AORANGI" or
the popular “ NIAGARA" at
Sydney until you arrive in
England, fast Canadian
Pacific steamers and trains
carry you in luxurious com-
fort andfrom start to finish
of this wonderful journey
you are assured of the re-
nowned C.PR. courtesy and
service.
For Illustrated Literature
and particulars apply any
office of the Union S.S. Co.
o f N. Z.,any Tourist Booking '
Agency or J. Sclater, Re-
presentative, Union House,
247 George Street, Sydney.
TTK J
a '
i ■
imnTCT
r r
Mffiaoaaa
PE
m
c Jrat/elvia
l£S
“Bildad”: After reading the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment’s programme for next session, I set
a trap to see if I could catch a stupider
person than Premier Lang. The trap is
still empty.
“Tamornie”: A note was handed up over
the counter the other day by a small boy.
It ran: “Please give bearer one shilling’s
worth of Alice and Myrtle pills.” We
puzzled over it for several minutes. Then
we hit it—“ Aloes and myrrh.”
“A.8.W.” : I wonder how long it will be
before some rich Australian acquires Captain
Cook's Yorkshire cottage and re-erects it at
Ivurnell. An affluent Bostonian has bought
the Chantry House, Billericay, Essex, for
£lO,OOO and shifted it holus-bolus to the
pork-and-beans town where the Pilgrim
Fathers landed. The Chantry House was the
home of Christopher Martin, one of the
leading Fathers; all the Dads gathered there
for a final prayer before joining the May-
flower.
“Murdoch”: If the case for pre-natal im-
pressions hasn’t closed here’s another bit of
evidence. Three weeks before her second
child was born, the wife of a Walpeup (Vic.)
cocky, responding to the screams of her tod-
dler aged two, found his right arm badly
lacerated by a fhll against some sharp object.
Blood was flowing down the forearm and
acro'ss the wrist. When the baby arrived he
bore a mark similar to the blood-stain on the
elder child. Although he is now six years
of age, the mark is as distinct as ever.
“Pons” : My surgery ’phone awakened me
at 2 a.in., and I shivered at the thought
of a cold night-call. “Listen to me!” roared
a huge voice into my ear. “You repeat what
you said to-night, and I’m cornin’ round
now to knock your ’ead off. You know
dam’ well I got married before Christmas,
and—whassat?” Further parley disclosed
that the voice had wished for speech with
(say) QOlOl, whereas my number is ZOlOl.
The two initial letters adjoin each other on
the “automatic” dial. Very annoying, of
course; but I can’t help wondering what
statement it was that ZOlOl was being chal-
lenged to repeat.
“Glen A.” : The criticism levelled against
J. T. Lang for appointing A. D. Kay to the
Ma State’s Meat Board recalls a breezy old-
time N.S.W. Cabinet Minister who once
nominated a supporter for a fat Government
job. The backers of another candidate came
to protest. Mr. Blank was incompetent;
he was so and so; thi% or that interest would
be offended. To give the final blow the
wowser of the deputation darkly added:
“And the man is immoral. Unknown to his
wife, he’s gadding about with a variety
actress.” “Do you tell me that!” gasped the
hardcase bestower of power and place. “The
fellow has more in him than I thought. He
keeps the job.”
N.S.W. Minister for Justice McKell, asked
the other day to help storekeepers put down
the growing practice of shoplifting, said that
it was largely the traders’ own fault for
showing easily stolen things without adequate
supervision. It is a dangerous doctrine to
preach, and perhaps never more dangerous
than at present. Far more sensible was the
famous alienist Forbes Winslow. He was
consulted by a client who said that he felt an
irresistible impulse to kill a certain man.
What should he do about it? “Well,” said
Winslow, “I can tell you what I shall do
about it. If you kill that man I shall do
what I can to get you hanged for it.” There
was no murder after that.
Two Queensland unions have been putting
on a rather sordid body-snatcliing act. The
advent of the Yellow taxi-cabs has brought
their drivers into the limelight, and the
Carters and Drivers and the Engine-drivers
are wrangling over which should have them.
A number of these men have for years been
working and driving for garages and car-
owners at any old wages, and working all
hours, but no union has offered them any
assistance. It was only when the Cab Co.
arrived and the men’s subs, became easily col-
lectable that unions rushed out to promise
them the moon. Queensland unions used to
be magnificent champions of the poorest
under-dog. To-day their bosses are as hungry
after easy money as any huckster in the
land.
Clemenceau, France’s war-Premier, is 85,
but he still writes a good hand, and the letter
which he has addressed to U.S. President
Coolidge has made a bit of history. His
subject was the intensity of Uncle Samuel's
debt-collecting from ruined Allies who fought
the battle of a common civilisation for 31
yeai’S before the U.S. fired its first shot, and
there was a side glance at the fact that
Uncle showed a trading and money-making
instinct during that period which trenched
on the supernatural. The old man’s general
view was that the debts which the Allies
owed to each other should be cancelled, as
some of them are quite unable to pay, and
Russia says it won’t. Apparently he didn’t
dig up the fact that eight of the American
States repudiated their public works loans,
all raised in Britain, and now owe J. Bull
£05,000,000; but he evidently penned a breezy
essay on sordid hunkses in general and
national hunkses in particular. It is under-
stood that Coolidge will be too proud to reply.
“Simon” : Charles Rogers and Co., of Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), must be nearly the oldest
general storekeepers in the State. The
founder was an enterprising young London
cabinet-maker, who, in ’64, started to manu-
facture his lines on the site of the present
emporium. He was something of a Henry
Ford, too, for he soon had assembly plants
and bulk stores in other southern towns, with
an up-to-date coach service connecting them
with his main centre. He could tell of
several meetings with bushrangers Gilbert,
Ben Hall and Dunn, and used to say that
Gilbert was one of the finest horsemen that
ever crossed a saddle. On one occasion when
Rogers and his party had been stuck up
Gilbert spotted the bullocky making round
the back of the waggon—for his gun, as it
happened. Gilbert didn’t hesitate a second,
but threw himself from his horse, vaulted
the two polers, revolver in hand, and faced
the astounded bullock-driver as he rounded
the end of his waggon. In 1909, on his way
to England, Charles Rogers was put ashore
at Colombo to die. The business is still
being carried on by sons and grandsons. The
last time I saw the firm’s statistics the aggre-
gate length of service of 10 employees was
371 years—which should be close to another
record.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
IS Bridge Street, Sydney.
87981.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Models, Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Th rough Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
* ARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
. Passengers’ Booking Office:
iourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co., Ltd.
THOS. COOK & SON,
STEAMSHIP AND RAILWAY AGENTS.
1841 Established 1841.
100 Offices Throughout the World 100
PASSAGE TICKETS ISSUED BY ALL LINES
AT TARIFF RATES.
Sailing Lists, ALL ROUTES, Post Free.
Passengers’ Baggage Insured.
Travellers’ Cheques and Drafts Issued.
Foreign Money Exchanged.
INCLUSIVE INDEPENDENT TOURS
to suit Individual Requirements.
SELECT ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
Write for Australasian Travellers’ Gazette.
THOS. COOK & SON,
Challis House, Sydney. 8W6348.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, '0.8.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
THIS
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
MEAI) OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL -* £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
elfeeted on all classes ot
-Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and
Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The and Most Successful
Mutual liife Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,1^0,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., G eneral Manager.
Shipping, &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 tons disp. AUG. 26. for Vancouver.
MAKURxV 13,000 „ „ SEPT. 9, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI ...... 22,000 ~ „ SEPT. 23, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 ~ ~ OCT. 7, for San Francisco.
* Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
fghf
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER FINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
fUnion House, 24 7 George Street, Sydney.
(William Street, Melbourne.
.MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TO UR S
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
n
m
Jm
m
is
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Boobing Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
, CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT' JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE .
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fEuripides . . 15,000 tons September 27
•■Ceramic. .. . 18,500 ~ October 23
♦Nestor 14,547 „ October 25
tThemistocles 11,500 „ November 22
tSuevic • 12,500 „ November 30
♦First class only, tFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union' S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
EetublUhed 1811,
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors • A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager; OSCAR LINES.
Head office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
° Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping-.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—-Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular Bailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I'or full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY,
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALIIANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADXNE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
11,100
.. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manaoek.
A I.L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
r\ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


The New — Lower*Priced
CHRYSLER SIX
J'
WALTER P. CHRYSLER now presents the new
Chrysler Six (Model H) the latest sensational
product of Chrysler engineering—the first Chrysler Six
at so low a price*
At last, all the supreme value and performance you
naturally expect from Chrysler, in a size and at a price
that revolutionizes values and quality among lower
priced Sixes.
Remarkable power and performance. Lightning accel-
eration. Extraordinary gasoline economy. The beauty
of Chrysler dynamic symmetry. Genuine Chrysler
quality and Chrysler long life. Riding ease which only
Chrysler gives. The supreme safety of Chrysler four-
wheel Hydraulic Brakes. Oil-filter and air-cleaner. Seven-
bearing crankshaft. Full pressure lubrication. Extraor-
dinary strength. Roomy, luxurious bodies.
The lowest priced Six ever built which combines all
these fine car features. The car which removes the price
obstacle —the only hindrance to the fulfillment of your
desire to own a Chrysler Six.
Test for yourself what this new Chrysler can do —demon-
stration will prove every claim we make for it.
A USTRALA SIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.s. W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vii.; Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
yit.Boltins Motors rty. Ltd., Chrysler House, coiuns
Qld. : Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
j as.: c.nrysier agency, n. uuri ana iMunasswn.
N. Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
. VV ClfCl IVIUIU/b JLtlH'ilieCL y VV il.KflUrrl O.Tc't/t, LJfibUUfie*
Sth. Aust.: 0. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Agency, H bart and Launceston.
TOURING CAR,
£397
ROADSTER,
£395
SEDAN,
£525
COACH,
£505
COUPE,
£495


a
exorva
s 3
Miss JOS / E
TOWNSEND, a
beautiful
Rexona Girl
and winner of
the “M i ss
Rrisb a n e”
Reaut.y Co m-
petition.
'REXONA Soap.
it" me am
health
and
beauty!
• REXONA GIRLS are famous the
world over for their beautiful skin and
hair. Over 5000 girls have written to
the Company the glad news that they
are Rexona Girls and find REXONA
SOAP the most wonderful aid to
Health and Beauty.
One of the most charming of the bevy
of Rex' .ia Girls is Miss Josie Town-
send, winner of the “Miss Brisbane”
Beauty Competition. Miss Townsend
uses only REXONA SOAP, and writes
us as follows: “I have always used
Rexona Soap. It is excellent for the
complexion and unsurpassed for keep-
ing the skin smooch and clear.”
gfhfg
It’s Medicated
DADDY 5 m
HOME.
HI LLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“An3ite%4iLto«ght me
one of thosetOvriy
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
&n£6tHil£aA
162-16 G Pitt Street; also
Corner George & King Streets,
Sydney.
A Long Time Ago.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, life was but a lilt once, set for
lightsome feet,
When even Time would linger, loiter-
ing along;
Friends were met for greeting on every sunny
street,
Days were made for laughter, and night
was meant for song.
Sydney was a town then, in years when I
was young;
Oh the gallant town it was —sunshine all
aglow!
Splendid were the streets then, with golden
awnings hung,
In Sydney, in the brave days, a long time
ago.
With a heart full of youth
And a pocket full of rhyming,
What had I to do with care
In all that merry show?
When Time, then full of ruth,
Was a peal of pleasant chiming,
Up and down through Sydney town
A long time ago.
Taverns down by Miller’s Point—there our
chanties swung!
(Oh, the pendant harbor lights in nights of
jewelled blue !)
Little inns of Margaret-street heard our
chorus sung— *
Dim streets of Paddington—wharves along
the ’Loo.
Oh, life was all adventure, life was all a
song,
In the realm of young romance youth alone
was prince,
With streets for a pageant splendidly
a-throng,
In Sydney, in the young years, a long time
since.
With an armful of girl
(And a pocket full of money
All the inns were glad with song
And wine-cups were allow ;
For Time was not a churl
When the years were young and sunny,
In Sydney, in Sydney town,
A long time ago.
Blooms that hung from balconies, once upon
a time—
The jalousies of Darlinghurst where glad
girls smiled—
The chant of a bottle-o, yodelling a rhyme,
A brave street-organ and the laughter of a
child.
The baskets bright with blossom on the kerb-
stone set
(The fragrance of the wattle when the
autumn shone !),
Jingle of the cabs, and the prance of hooves
a-fret—
The scent and sound of Sydney town, long,
long agone.
With a heart full of dream,
And the morrow safe in hiding,
Could I guess that Time would cheat?
And how was I to know,
In following the gleam
Of his Will-o’-wisp for guiding
Up and down through Sydney town
A long time ago?
Sydney in the summer dawn, all agleam with
gold—
Doves among the fig-trees—the ships upon
the bay !
And the nightfall at Bondi, where the long
waves rolled—
The nights of dream, the careless days, long
gone away!
South’s a song to sing once and sing no
more again ;
Life’s a wine to drink once, and taste the
lees at last.
Time has taken all —all the friends that
loved me then,
The pretty girls I loved once, in the time
long past.
Ah, but once I was young,
And the echoes still are ringing
From the haunts of olden time,
Though darkling shadows grow;
And though the song is sung
It was well worth the singing,
In Sydney, in Sydney town,
A long time ago.
MAORTLAND.
DICK HARRIS.
The Moorbank Mystery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OU’LL have to excuse us if we’re
not the best sort of company to-
night,” said Jason between pants;
“this robbery business has set our nerves
on edge. It’s simply a blessing to have
friends whose nerves are not as rattled as
our own ; but we make rather a poor return.”
Although he had made the same remark
several times since, meeting me in town, he
had pounced upon me with a demand that
I should go home with him to dinner, it
impressed me more now than formerly. The
Moorbank burglar had excited the whole
city. The series of robberies in the fashion-
able, scattered suburb, which the police
seemed powerless to check, was a natural
theme for public excitement. Only once had
ihe police been able to lay hands on the
marauder, and the result w r as a badly-hurt
policeman, in hospital, unable to give a
cohereht version of what had happened to
him.
Hearing or reading about other people’s
robbers, however, is not pulse-stirring, and
even Jason’s nervy recounting of events in
the train did not infect me with the fears
obviously vibrating through his tissues. In
Moorbank itself, however, with the misty
shadows of evening upon it, I felt the brood-
ing fear of the robber who struck first here
and then there, and had shown himself cap-
able of murderous violence; and the jerky
hurry of Jason’s walk, which, setting the
pace, caused us both to pant, helped the
infection.
“I’m sorry!” I exclaimed, as in the dark-
ness I jostled into somebody. Without a
word of apology, or even a check in his
stride, the man walked past me, a rudeness
which woke a warm flame of wrath.
“What are you waiting for? Come on,”
said Jason, pausing as he felt my absence
from his side, and returned to pluck at my
arm.
“You have some nice neighbors,” I said
loudly for the man who had passed to hear.
"Do you know that bounder?”
Jason peered. “No, I don’t know him,”
he said. “Come on, old man ; we want to
get home as soon as possible. The wife is
so nervous when it gets dark.”
The man strode on to a street lamp, made
dim by night-mist, but sufficient to show him
square-shouldered, rather angular, sinister
somehow in appearance, and so indifferent
to my remarks that he did not alter in the
slightest his steady stride. The indifference
chilled my rage. There seemed something
uncanny about it. I hurried on with Jason.
His nervous pause at the gate and his
searching glance at the garden shadows before
he ran towards the door gave me a fresh
impression of the terror that gripped the
place. Almost I ran after him; and liis
whispered colloquy through the door, as if
he spoke to a beleaguered garrison, aided
the impression. It was further helped by
the sharp banging of the door directly we
entered, and the relieved agitation of the
two women, Mrs. Jason and the servant,
whose pale faces confronted us.
“The Watsons’ house was robbed last
night!” The two women announced the fact
together.
“The Watsons!" exclaimed Jason blankly.
“When?”
"It must have been late. Everything was
right when they went to bed; this morning
they found a sweep made of everything. Mrs.
Watson fainted when she found out, and
she's had a breakdown. They had to take
her to hospital.”
“When they catch a burglar they ought
to shoot him on sight, or hang him if they
take him alive!” said Jason, blood-thirstily,
as we sat at dinner. “It’s not what he
steals that matters; it’s the effect of the
shock on the nerves of the women. There’s
Mrs. Watson, now, in hospital through it.
The Tysons have put a caretaker in their
house, and gone to stay at the Dandenongs.
But they can afford it. Young Halsey—you
know Halsey—he can’t; and since they’ve
been robbed his wife has gone to live with
her mother. She says she'll never be able
to live in the house again ; and poor Halsey’s
only just paid probably all he had to get into
that house, and has a heavy mortgage on it.”
“It’s hard on Halsey,” I said.
“But you can't blame his wife,” remarked
Mrs. Jason with a sharpness in her tone
which I felt was intended for Jason. It
brought an awkward pause. Then she went
on : “The strain of living in a place like this
is too much to expect a woman to stand.
She has it all day, anticipating what is to
come at night. Husbands who care about
their wives’ health are sending them away.”
Jason’s face flushed.
“May,” he said awkwardly, turning to
the servant who had been giving us
an attention which had convinced me
that Mrs. Jason would have made a
fine principal of a school for domestics,
“there is no need for you to stay; we w r ill
ring for what we want,”
“Mrs. Jason,” began the girl, as if appeal-
ing.
“The girl’s afraid of being in the kitchen
by herself at night,” interposed Mrs. Jason.
“Stay here if you like, May; you’d better
sit down somewhere.”
That incident added to the sensation of
weird apprehension. With the girl sitting
awkwardly in the background I did my best
to lead the conversation to other subjects;
but the arrival of Professor Dumbrell
brought us back again.
We were lingering over dessert when the
ring came at the door.
“Do you mind coming with me?” said
Jason as he moved towards the hall; and
he did not admit the visitor until he had
inquired his identity through the door.
Professor Dumbrell was a queer little
man, very wrinkled, very wizened, with a
face which combined a certain wizard-like
austerity with an element that was almost
child-like, that element being, to a consider-
able extent, vanity, apparently. It seemed
that he began talking about the mysterious
burglar simply that he might brag about him-
self. Obviously he liked to feel that he was
admired for his courage in passing through
the streets, which fear of the mystery man
had emptied at night. That seemed absurd
in itself; and yet so much had the fears of
the Jasons impressed themselves upon me
that thought of my own necessity to seek my
train later presented itself as an unpleasant
prospect.
Mrs. Jason helped to explain the Profes-
sor’s importance in the matter of the mys-
tery man, to his child-like delight. He
had a psychic gift, it appeared. Mrs.
Tyson had recovered a ring, which had evi-
dently been dropped or thrown away by the
thief, by the directions the Professor had
given her as a result of his queer power.
It was the least part of the, spoils, but the
ring had a sentimental value, and the Pro-
fessor almost gloated as he described Mrs.
Tyson’s gratitude. He had made trifling
recoveries for others, too.
“It’s only for lack of a better name that
I call my power psychic, though,” he said.
“I have a capacity at times of sensing scenes
and things at a distance. It has nothing to
do with the soul; I don’t believe in the soul.
It is just one of those powers science is com-
mencing to investigate.”
“I remember seeing mention of you and
those recoveries in the papers, Professor.”
I said, “but it always struck me that if you
could locate individual items you should be
able to locate the whole 100t —perhaps the
robber himself.”
“I may yet,” he responded mysteriously.
“I lay claim to no magical power, and what
I have of it is limited, but I am following
a line of study, and have already had suc-
cess. You know, I suppose, that I told
the police the Watsons would be robbed last
night?”
That led to a general exclamation.
“The police, of course, were unwilling to
treat my warning seriously. They put a
guard on the place, but took it off at mid
night; and the robbery must have happened
(Continued on next page.)


Let those who listen
judge
“Bis Master’s Voice” Read. Trade-marie.
“Gramophone” liegd. Trade-mark.
HEAR now and judge the excellence, the supremacy
of the latest invention of “ His Master's Voice."
Such an amazing advance in musical reproduction
captivates the ear —gives a new idea of the possibilities of
sound amplification, xnw ,
vihe new
Greatest
oArtists
"His ,
Masters
Voice'
Instruments
FineSt
c ßecording
reveal every shade and variety of tone from the highest treble to the
lowest bass. So rich and round —so realistic that you cannot dis-
tinguish the reproduction from the original. Take the earliest
opportunity of hearing these new Instruments.
Ask your dealer to play any of the following records of world-
famous artists, and judge for yourself.
DA
** 104
Caruso
/ Addio a Napoli ( Cottrau ) (Tenor)
\Canta pe’me (De Curtis) (Tenor)
7/6
DB
314
Kreisler
("Humoresque, Op. 101, No. 7 {Dvorak).
J Violin with Orchestra *
j Caprice Viennois {Kreisler). Violin
with Piano.
10/6
Dal Monte 830
r Caro nome. Act 1 ( Rigoletto ) (Soprano)
\ Una voce poco fa. Act 1 (Barber of
(_ Seville)
10/6
Challapine DB
FI. Austral 899
f Church Scene from "Faust” Seigneur,
J daignes permettre, Part 1
1 Quand du Seigneur le jour luira,
Part 2. (Bass and Soprano)
10/6
Backhaus
f Bohemian Dance, Op. 15 ( Smetana )
(Piano),
Caprice Espagnole, Op. 37 ( Moszkoiv-
(_ ski) (Piano)
fjhfg
Illustration shows—
Horizontal Grand Model
251.
Oak ....
Mahogany
£52/10/-
£6o
Portable £l2
Table Models from ... £l4
Cabinet Models from . . £45
Complete lists of “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and Records, with name of
nearest dealer, sent on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
later. I can’t explain liow the impression
came to me, but it came, and the robbery
might have been stopped if I had been taken
seriously.”
When, leaving Mrs. Jason and the ser-
vant to their duties, we went into the sitting-
room, the Professor proved a most interest-
ing, informative talker, with a surprising
knowledge of modern developments in prac-
tical science—in radio and wireless control,
lie got up shortly, however, to retrieve his
glasses, which he had left in the dining-
room.
“It would be a very great favor,” said
Jason to me during his absence, “if you’d
stay with us for a few days. You see how
things are with us; your presence would
help a lot. Don't refuse, old man. My wife
thinks I ought to send her away, and,
honestly, I can’t afford it. With somebody
else in the house she won’t feel so badly
about it.”
I didn’t like the idea much, but Jason
made it a call of friendship, and I promised.
“I wonder what’s become of the Professor,”
I said, and going to the door threw it open.
To my surprise the hall was in darkness,
but as I held the door open the Professor’s
voice said, “Looking for me? I’ve lost my
way back somehow,” and came forward
blinking in the light. He announced that
he would have to go now, and Mrs. Jason —
the servant hanging about her skirts —joined
ns to farewell him.
“Perhaps with all this upset around 1
ought to walk home with you,” I suggested
not eagerly, but shamefaced and reluctant.
“Oh, I have no fears!” said the Professor.
“I’ll be all right alone.”
“The Professor sleeps in his house all by
himself,” said Mrs. Jason with admiration
in her voice.
“Yes,” he agreed; “my housekeeper goes
home in the afternoon after she has left my
tea ready. But there’s nothing in my house
that would attract a burglar. My valuables
are of the sort that a burglar wouldn’t know
what to do with. There’s a lot of things of
interest, though. I’d like to show them to
you. Suppose you come to see me—say the
night after next?”
It was arranged—even to the servant, who
made an outcry at the prospect of being left
alone, going with us. The Jasons seemed
relieved that the Professor did not want my
escort; I must confess I was, though
ashamed of myself for it.
“The Professor’s remarks suggest it,” I
said, as we sat in the sitting-room : “why do
people keep valuables about that would
attract a robber when one is at large like
this?’ Even you. When you took me into
your bedroom I saw a jewel-case which”
Jason looked at his wife.
She explained promptly: “If the robber
does come, a desperate man like that would
make you show where the things are if he
can’t lay his hands upon them.”
Later we managed to talk about other
matters; but Mrs. Jason did not forget to
ask her husband to go with her, although
it was only across the hall, where she wanted
to get from her bedroom a photograph to
show me.
Her shriek and his alarmed shout drew
me with a rush to them, to find them white
and shaking, Jason with his hands pointing
as he gasped, “The window!” It was wide
open, but the jewel-case was not taken. With
a bound I reached the window, and looking
out was in time to catch sight of a shadowy
form disappearing through the gate.
And I recognised it. There was no mis-
taking those shoulders. It was the man who
had collided with me earlier that night!
The Jasons restrained me as I dashed for
the door and I didn’t take much restraining.
The arrival of the police brought some relief
to our agitation. I was glad to recognise
a man I knew, an exchange officer from
Sydney, who had been allotted only that
day to investigate the Moorbank burglaries.
The disturbing incident of the evening, I
believe, actually brought us calmness. We
felt that we were under the guard of the
police that night, when, after a supper eaten
in more comfort than the previous meal and
with the police as guests, we went to bed.
Next day I arrived early with a suitcase
containing some belongings; and it seemed
a fair thing that in the afternoon I should
set out to meet Jason, who could not reach
home until long after dusk. The mist had
fallen heavily again, but ahead of me at
times loomed shadows coming towards me —
ffien walking to their homes. Then, turn-
ing from a side street a figure loomed which
caused a twitch at my heart.
“Hey, you ! Stop !” I shouted.
I set off at a half-hearted run, but the
man ahead seemed not to have heard me.
•His pace certainly accelerated, although he
was still only striding along. Ahead of him
suddenly I saw the figure of Jason.
“Stop him!” I yelled. “That’s him!”
Just as I thought that Jason was going
to make an effort to stop him, he staggered
aside as if in a scramble to avoid the man,
and half-fell against the fence. When I
came level with him he grabbed my arm
frantically.
“Don’t go on!” he implored. “I meant to
try to stop him; but I couldn’t. He terrified
me.' He's uncanny—why, there seemed to
be fire in his face!”
By the time I had released myself, the
man I pursued had vanished. Jason was
obviously shaken ; but he improved when he
got home, though, even when the police came
lie could only say “Uncanny!” and shudder
when asked to describe the man I had
chased.
It was not my Sydney friend Dalton who
came from the police. That officer, one
sergeant said, was pursuing a line of investi-
gation which was keeping him busy. But
when the sergeant used the ’phone to make
a report on what we had told him, he turned
to us with a portentous face.
“Mr. Walker’s, in Atherton-avenue, has
been robbed.”
“That’s the street you saw your man
leave,” cried Jason, axcitedly, to me.
Surprisingly the evening settled to calm-
ness. We played dummy bridge, and forgot
the oppressive fears that were about "us.
When we did mention the robberies it was
with some exultation. It was we who had
discovered their perpetrator.
Next evening we set out together, after
dinner, to visit the Professor, and met a
surprise as we reached the street to find two
policemen there. A motor-car with dimmed
lights was backing away into the mist further
up the street.
“Been told off to watch your place to-
night,” explained one of the men. “Under-
stand some information has been given that
our friend is paying you another visit.”
“Well it’s a comfort to know the place
will be looked after while we are away,”
said Mrs. Jason.
Her attitude —she appeared glad to get
away—settled the question as to whether
we should forsake our excursion. I think
we were all glad she gave us that lead.
The Professor’s house, set back in the
weedy gardens surrounding it, was in dark-
ness, except for one dim light upstairs, when
we reached the door; and our knock met no
immediate response. I had reached the
knocker, to hammer it again, when a ghastly
screech, followed by others, came from within.
The house became suddenly full of thud-
ding noises and other sounds. We fell back
on the lawn, terrified by the sudden mani-
festations ; spellbound, shortly, when lights
flashed in all parts of the house. The un-
expected developments created sheer terror;
and we fell back towards the gate. It was a
relief to see, in a car racing up to the gate,
the caps of police; astonishing to recognise
two of them as the men who had been stand-
ing by the Jasons’ gate. We were further
astonished when, from the house, Dalton
walked amongst us.
“You people had better go home,” he said.
“Professor Dumbrell is dead.”
“What? Murdered? By the burglar?”
“No, not murdered,” said Dalton, with a
grim smile, and a finger which pointed to
the police car. “And the burglar is there.
Don’t be shocked —it’s not a corpse.”
“Only a mass of gadgets with a man’s
clothes on —well smashed up, now,” said the
policeman with a grin.
“The most wonderful bit of machinery ever
made, probably,” Dalton told us later. “A
perfect automaton —-only it wasn’t an auto-
maton. Dumbrell, who has gone further in
wireless control than most people would
believe, because they thought him mad, had
perfected it in this doll. It could even see,
feel and hear for him, wherever it went, con-
veying impressions back to him in his house,
and he could direct it to the finest movements.
An ideal machine for robbery without risk!
Dumbrell might have made a fortune out of
his ideas legitimately, but he couldn’t get
any backing here —and he’d spent all he had
making his machine-man. He tried to raise
funds in Sydney, but he was too eccentric in
his manner to impress financiers. He really
went mad when he was refused support. I
was called in by one man he threatened—
that’s what put me on the trail; nobody else
believed he had accomplished what he claimed.
“His failure must have put him on the
idea of getting back the money he had spent
by robbery. Then, vanity—the idea of being
the god in the machine of a big sensation —
carried him on.
“The policeman who was nearly killed was
electrically shocked. I had my men at your
place fitted to meet the emergency, and in-
structed them to sail in and smash the devilish
thing as much as possible. They did their
work well. Either some shocks travelled back
to him when his machine was being destroyed,
or knowledge of detection overcame the old
man. He fell into a mass of live wires. My
men, waiting to make a seizure, had to cut
the electric mains before they could enter
liis room.” Dalton lifted his glass.
“Well, he had to die,” he said. “Let’s
drink to him —he was mad, but a great
genius!”
HAMER.
The Tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MM lIEY’VE killed the Tree
That was like friend of flesh-and-
* blood to me—
The Tree 'that in the heat of summer
made
Green circles of cool shade,
And in whose boughs the birds were wont to
sing
Like choristers in some cathedral dim
Their songs of thanksgiving.
They’ve killed my Tree !
Yes, hacked it limb from limb;
And now its leafy loveliness is gone,
The birds are flown,
And, oh, I think there’s something dead in
me!
For in the city yon must know
There’s row on row
Of shabby streets —all, shame it should be so !
And busy working mothers cannot reach
The bush or beach
Whene’er they please.
How often on a stifling summer day
I want to slip away
And leave the washtubs, house and stuffy
street
And town!
I’d like to hide unseen
Somewhere where all is green
And fresh and sweet.
And that is why I loved the spreading Tree;
Its green-and-brown
Seemed like a little bit of bush to me.
And when the wind
Shook its great leaves, I’d think, lying half-
awake,
I heard the sea.
If men were kind
And loved their brother-men, they’d not
destroy
One little bit of joy.
Oh no! They wouldn’t kill
The dear green trees. They’d try instead to
make
The city beautiful
For folks like me !
How dreary looks the street, how drab and
dull
Without the Tree!
N.S.W.
DORA WILCOX.


i£i.
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— ■
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES * CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH'* CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO ”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
WEWOCf
PECROL
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2f-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to .the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Send for our new season’s prices. Considerably Reduced.
AGENTS;
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
Box 16, King Street P. 0., Sydney.
9
p=®F s 5? * f {a 5 LrQffi I
*'/- *e rJv&fi&sk 5?
/
rmmse&i
S<£( Saftbp*
Holds $o f 0 More Ink
Make Onoto your Pen —It is a great time-
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other seif-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
%
v>
fgjhfg
Long Life to Fine
Mechanisms!
SEWING MACHINES, bicycles, type-
writers, clocks, etc. must be treated,
regularly, with a good oil if they are
to give smooth, silent service.
REM OIL cleans, lubricates, prevents rust.
It cannot be equalled for general usefulness.
Remington guarantees its excellence.
Your dealer can supply or order for you.
Remington Arms Company, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
G.P.O. Bo* 686 E, Melbourne, Viet.
:
GOOD REASONS
for taking
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
fghjfg
Safe and Sure
Make no rash claims
Do what they say
Help millions of people
All over the world
TO GET RID OF
Sick headaches
And Indigestion
And dyspepsia
And dizziness
And biliousness
They keep the system
TONED UP.
Sold In boxes
1/* and 2/6.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER OFFER
THEIR STANDARD QUALITIES OF IRISH
LINENS AND DAMASKS AT EXCEPTION-
ALLY REASONABLE PRICES, A FEW OF
WHICH ARE QUOTED BELOW:—
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over flO
Carriage Faid 5y
Parcels Post to
destination, or by
Steariier to port of
landing.
m
m
i&YiT'
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSD.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the finest in the
world.
Table Cloths, 2 yards square, from 11/3 each,
with Napkins to match, 22 x 22 inches, 12/6
per dozen.
IRISH BED LINEN.
Linen Sheets for single beds, 2x3 yards, at
33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases, 20 x 30 inches, from 2/11
each.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling, strongly recommended for hard wear,
24 inches wide, from 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, from 1/1 per yard.
Heavy Twilled Typed All Linen Kitchen Cloths,
sizes 22 x 30 inches, from 11/- per dozen.
Brown Linen Topped Bath Towels, very ab-
sorbent, good friction towel for bathers, 22 x 24
inches, from 3/6 each.
IRISH LINEN HANDKFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs from 4/9
per dozen.
Gentlemen’s Hemstitched Handkerchiefs, from
8/3 per dozen.
ROBINSON &C LEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
The Home of
Irish Linen
2 *
RO O KS
UCE
Host Hol6rooA Says ~
“Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper—Ah! What a
delightful bouquet; what
an appetising zest.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
t Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERT SUNDAY ~3 p No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


ix^x
rr*
-ME»
Cv
®I1»W
fsyygUii.!
• ,-i
nr*'
m
m
;-x
CtesS?
*sr'
xSoxx/
m
M
>*•
iiSS
8$
':. r• •c - v ?+,. >s^ji£S6-.^
3&
Sfe/ ’^lllSfei
9&5
SB?®
X:
ipsa
s
SS$?
X :
m
M
*.?4x
&&£
"Si.
'A'-.. - .
X-
-3$
!^x? :^
Xi
X x X. VX
-, -Nv^S"
VX
*vN
£X*X
X
ifiPif^Niilft
X
ti&2&3?ssSj
tf3fe
*c
KJ
Ctf=
3^.
>v‘
V •! .4
•a--:
gggggp* ffl®
•-
• • X "■
* . •..«***"•*“£*
//
>- v^si
HHH
r# / j
*»f^r
**S:
sf^PsH-
• .0:
r
ttx
m
m
&
fc..^
&&S
"is
SJK
fc
vs^
vK
«:*
' v vC
jjjMj)
a*
I
c
v''Vi
SX
■
SP
o
\
v X
PRICE
BERR'I'
n —rmm
When the breeze is blowing _
the Match you need is a
MALTESE CROSS'
WAX VESTA
MADE BY BRYANT & MAY.
Qt LiQkls and slays aiioAt in
wind and weather, and holds
its flame till its job is done.
