

99
r '■
3J
S ~■£}&
*
II?
.J4"?j
!.m
...
•c.aa
Ml
«I
A'
•?
a
/
' /
-S
'
£ p& e *
Easter-time! How many happy holidays!
What fun!
And how many splendid little Kodak
pictures snapshots of beautiful and curi-
ous things, humorous and exciting events,
portraits of good friends and quaint
wayside characters?
Hand these treasured spools to Kodak
for Developing and Printing. Look for
the words Kodak Print” on the back of
your photographs. They are your
guarantee that the work has been
executed by the Kodak Company, and
therefore by experts.
rfafe S
—then you will get far more than
four days’ fun out of your holiday,
Turn your Easter happiness into pic-
tures and it will never he forgotten.
Kodaks from 42/- 5 .Folding Brownies
from 47/6; Box Brownies from 11/3.
Ask for Catalogue.
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
MM
379 George Street, and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton’
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z, *
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2405.
Thursday, March 18, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for our Library Catalogue and
Hats on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT
o
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
9
S'
\
1
"Nugget” Polishes
include also —
BLACK
LIGHT TAN
DARK TAN
NIGGER BROWN
WHITE-for Patent of
Glace Kid Shoe*
Poliflor for
FLOORS, LINO;
FURNITURE, Etc.
m
as-.MHutug:
••*gwuiu> ro*
c
a/ *Axi ms mpX
r Whitened 1
I To Stay White j
Keeping white shoes clean
I would be irksome if it were
I not for ’‘Nugget” White Clean-
| er—made to stay white and
not rub off*
§
NUGGET
White Cleaner
cleans white Buckskin or Canvas
Boots and Shoes perfectly. Dries a
beautiful pure white and does not rub
off on clothes. Easy to use; economi-
cal. Ask your dealer for “NUGGET”
WHITE CLEANER—(in Bo’ttles)-
the best on the marki't*
NUGGET POLISH CO. oiAaa. Pty.Ltd.
Williamstown
Makers of the famous "Nusrget” Boot Polishes
8h i A
Never travel without
ENO
* /1 y _
In the best hotels —on the best trains —on
the best steamers experienced travellers
always carry ENO. ENO counteracts the
ilheffects of changes of water, food and
climate. It invigorates, cleanses, refreshes.
Carry ENO and take a ‘dash’ each morning
in a glass of water.
69
World-Famed Effervescent
Saline
■NNI
;Sy\ Ks' X
M
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
Representatives: ..
NORMAN BAKER & LONGIIURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield?
England.
M
M
•69ST 'OK!
The Red Page
Local Color
The Australian dramatist cannot afford to
miss “The Farmer’s Wife.” Melbourne and
Sydney audiences have been delighted with
the entertaining comedy, played by a not-
particularly-brilliant cast, simply staged, and
heralded with very little “publicity. It
could have been better acted, and the plot
could have been handled with far greater
dexterity by the author. It did not send its
audiences home tingling with epigrams. Yet
it pleased. The quaint story was accepted
as an actuality, requiring no artificial aids to
capture interest. _
To appreciate the artistic value of Ihe
Farmer’s Wife,” the tyro author of drama
should also see “Kangaroo Flat,” the Aus-
tralian play produced almost simultaneously
at the Athenaeum Theatre in Melbourne.
Making comparisons, in disparagement of
the local product, between best-quality Brad-
ford goods and samples of Australian tweeds
is felt by most of us to be disloyal and
scarcely fair. Australian productions must
be encouraged; our only hope of development
is to have faith in ourselves. But if- we are
ever to turn out world-beating goods, whether
they be tweeds or plays,, we must stop wink-
ing at their defects in the early stages of their
growth, and relentlessly subject them to
measure by the highest standards available.
Now, just why did the simply-constructed
little presentation of rustic life in the South
of England charm and please its audiences,
most of them jaded and sodden with revue
and musical comedy? Why did we come
away with a pleasant taste in the mouth,
while those who saw “Kangaroo Flat” felt
worried, fretted, and subconsciously ashamed,
much as they would if a young brother had
behaved badly in public? Because “Kanga-
roo Flat” is a bad play, being untrue—that
is why. It claims to present a faithful por-
trait of an Australian farmer, his family and
its local setting, and it misrepresents and
caricatures him. A stray “migrant” included
in an audience witnessing “Kangaroo Flat”
would be as utterly “taken down” as if he
were told leg-pulling yarns about bushrangers
and a black-skinned population by a facetious
Aussie in London.
Though in dialect, there is no effort m
the construction of “The Farmer’s Wife” to
force the “atmosphere.” It naturally and
easily Rortrays a phase of rural life in the
South of England. Nothing is! over-stressed,
nothing is forced ; the characters come and go
as though the fourth wall were still intact
and the footlights undreamed of. There are
no tricks, no exaggerations or attempts to
“lay it on thick” in order to get the local
color accepted. Almost farcical comedy is
achieved in many instances. Yet the fai'ce
is believable and acceptable because it is true
to life. It is never the strained farce of
pedants condescending to be clownish. It
is the healthy farce to be discovered in its-
natural unself-consciousness in any little up-
counfry village. It is the Backbloeks faith-
fully, pitifully photographed without any
touching-up or equivocation—not the Back-
blocks caricatured by a city man-about-town
who first roughs out his plot, then spends a
day in the country to procure local color to
be slopped in with a lavish hand, making the
picture as true to life as a cubist’s concoction
is like nature.
We have grown self-conscious about local
color in Australia. We feel that there should
be a market for it, and that if we only lay
it on thick enough it should sell on its patri-
otic merits alone. But we are seldom in
earnest about it. In our heart of hearts most
of us think that the other side of the world
must of course be the most romantic, but
that it would not be quite playing the game
to own up to it; we must make the best of
ourselves, however uninteresting and com-
monplace we know ourselves to be. We must
really boost this Australia of ours—literature
and drama should be splendid campaigning!
So we look for types and scrape up all the
local color we can lay our hands upon. Poor
stuff, really, but we must make the best of
it and fake it up to make as good a show as
we can. Wherefore the “types” are faked up
and the- imbecilities persist to the tragic,
wicked defacement and retrogression of a
timidly growing literature.
Australian types will walk the stage with
the dignity and ease of real men and women
of a virile race when an Australian dramatist
looks tenderly, critically, earnestly and con-
scientiously at Mrs. Smith, his next-door
neighbor, her unpleasant landlord, her hus-
band. her scheming friend, her lover, her
daughter and her son’s friend’s friend. If
he will forget for a moment that they are
Australians, or that he is a brilliant young
author and that gum-leaves will be expected
of him, and if he will seek to represent those
human beings truthfully because he loves them
or hates them or pities or despises or
reverences them, or because he loves to study
human nature, the local color will take care
of itself. If he is in earnest —and an artist—
they will turn out to be real, honest-to-good-
ness Australians. And all the world will
instantly acclaim and applaud the realism
and the faithfulness of the local color.
HATTIE KNIGHT.
Dublin
When Donn Byrne wrote Untitled Story
(Sampson Low) he might almost have called
it “Dublin.” For though the book tells the
story of the wedding of a professed nun and
a gallant Irish soldier and the tragedy of it,
and though the action is laid in the Irish
countryside and in Paris, Venice and the
Riviera, everywhere we are permitted peeps
at the intimate life of the Irish capital—its
majesty ; its squalor ; its unconquerable gaiety
and hope; its friendly, easy-going citizens
who may sometimes be very poor, but always
have their good talk and their gracious man-
ners. .Tames Joyce wrote “Dubliners,” great,
but sordid, and as revolting as. it was
gloomily beautiful. But between Joyce and
Byrne there is a great gulf. Byrne writes
of something he understands and loves, and
in iiis own beautiful -way depicts the beauty
even in the wretchedness.
Donn Byrne within the last few years
has given us “Messer Marco Polo” and ' The
Wind Bloweth.” besides contributing heavily
to American fiction. As in many of the
I younger Irish writers, there is a tang of
anti-clericalism in. his work ; but it is not
the bitter personal hatred of McGill and
Gerald O’Donovan for a distinct clerical
type. Rather is it a gesture of impatience
with the discipline of ecclesiasticism and a
sigh for the long-vanished gods of the ancient
Gael, their faded glories, their culture of
Bard, Brehon, High King, warrior and
mystic Druidism. For his method of tale-
telling he has apparently gone back to the
“seannachies” of old, simple, direct, subtle,
the English often conveyed through Gaelic
speech-forms, without long-drawn analyses of
mind and motive, the whole soothing and
healing as the heathy wind of Scottish high-
land or Irish bog. Here is how he sees
Dublin:—
It takes them to her heart, herself, Dublin, the
City of Failui'e, the Dead City. By day the sun
shines over the green lawns of Trinity, the broad
bosom of Anna Liffey.... Night comes. The ill-lit
streets are full of shadows. The moon discloses the
grey ruins, like the body of some old greying man,
near to dissolution. The moon keeps rising. The
city sleeps. There is no modernity in it.- Through
alley and by quay the old ghosts go. Lady Morgan’s
coach rolls through College Green, and Emmet' is
led to the scaffold, and Lord Edward is stabbed by
Major Sirr. Here wanders Goldsmith to find a city
more desolate than Auburn. Here by St. Patrick's poor
Stella wrings her hands. And through the streets
are ghostly soldiers, dragoon and hussar and fusilier,
off to fight for some foreign king in some foreign
country. Sir Brian Maguire roams staring through
the shadows, too proud to beg. The bucks ruffle their
brocades and fondle their duelling swords. Buck
Whaley and Major Roche and Tiger Kilkelly... .all
through Dublin these ghosts roam as thoughts will
roam through the head, of an old man and he
not sleepy—epic figures and things of youth, ghosts
in the dim, tortuous alleys of the mind.
When James Stephens wrote the story of
Etain and Eochaidli (Yohee), the* mortal
king who wedded the faery princess (the
music-drama presented by Gregan McMahon
in 1924 at the Sydney Conservatorium Hall
dealt with the same epic), he drew an un-
forgettable figure of the beauteous maidens
of Erin whom the magician caused to pass
in visionary array before the love-lorn
prince that he might see once more the
beloved one; but even Stephens, with all his
artistry of word and play l of fancy, drew no
more tender picture of his Irish maidens
than Byrne draws of the lovely English nun
who came to the City of Shadows and the
quiet of the Anglican convent of Drimmond:
“Her eyes were golden, a light brown that
was orange. They were like queer stones,
I but they were alive. Above the eyes the
long, sweet eyebrows swept, darkish, near
purple, as though the hair the hood con-
cealed were deep and auburn. Her soft,
small mouth, not over-red, was beautiful. . . .
the young, sweet religious, with her face
of wonder leaning against the old apple-
tree .... and about her feet the harebells
clustered.**
But there is life, too, in Donn Byrne’s
city, as well as great, lonely ghosts: “There
is always horse-racing, and good talk to be
heard in the bars. Scenery is always with
us, but a fine finish between three-year-olds
is a sight not to be missed by an Irishman,
and a good story surpasses jewels. When
one is old and drowsy and drawing pear to
God, then is the time for scenery.” He tells
us of the sadly comic, acidrflous Dublin
woman from whom, in doubt and tribulation,
he buys the worldly garb for the lady who
had worn the white robe of a spouse of
Christ. “Well.” she said, “here’s the best
of luck. ’Tis how these marriages turn out
grapd sometimes. And if it doesn’t it’ll be
a great ipemory in your old age how once
you- walked on the face of the world —-not
like me with my complaints and my hobbies
and my old tom-cat, and me that never had
even a squeeze in the dark.” It was Synge
who captured the speech and the thought of
such as the acidulous saleswoman; and
Eugene O’Neill, too, in the Irishman of
“Anna Christie” and the old sailing-vessel
mariner of “The Hairy _ Ape,” has made
poetry and light and a little humor in his
dark plays with such words. But Byrne
will be perhaps nearer than either of them
to the hearts of such people, for his work
is, yet young.
I The author’s previous book. Blind Raf-
terv,” ended in a grand, triumphal note, but
here De Bourke O’Malley, soldier and
dreamer, whose life was in the keeping of
the girl, ruddy-haired “like the leaves of the
copper beech” —a life which she dashed from
dreaming heights because the cold shadows
of spiritual fear and maternal failure were
on her —here O’Malley, back in tlip sordid
seclusion of a mean pub on the outskirts of
the City of Failure, reaches for a drink.
P. O’FARREIL.
Two Poets and a Gossip
The most facile English gossip of the pre-
sent day is Sir Edmund Gosse, the sometime
librarian to the House of .Lords. It has been
proved time and again that he is not a critic,
even in the House of Lords sense of know-
ing what he likes; and the most cursory
reading of his millions of words shows that
he is not a scholar, except perhaps in the
quite secondary quality of omnivorousness.
I suppose one could call him, despite his
years, a student, a lazy student with the
habit of neglecting the verification of his
references. Or a causerie writer, which is
the lowest form of intellectual life. Or per-
haps ah apostle of social persistence, writ-
ing so much and knowing so many notorious
people that “there must be something in it
somewhere.”
So I thought, 20 years ago, when I was
fumbling feebly towards some understanding
of the things I liked. But he let me down
heavily two or three times; hence the dirt
in which my pen is dipped. But the dirt is
justifiable, apart from my own grievance,
God knows how many other ignorant enthusi-
asts he has led far astray, condemning them
to the long , travail back, or so narking them
that their only intellectual possession has
been chucked away.
He is rising 77, but he is still at it. In
a London Sunday Times of January he has
(Continued on page S.)


wre
The Newest and Smartest in Easter Apparel
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
H
The Smartest Hose
Plain Heavy Pure
Silk Hose, seamed
leg, with fashion
marks, double lisle
suspender tops and
soles. In Cham-
pagne, Bana n, a.
Gazelle, Beige,
Map 1 e, Dessert,
Brown and Sun-
burn.
Price,
pair . .
8/11
Lisle de Chine Hose,
highly mercerised lisle, full
fashioned, with highly lus-
trous finish, reinforced heels
and soles, double suspender
tops. In Sunburn, Light
Beaver, Greys, Putty, Cham-
pattne, Silver, Mole, Black or White.
Price, pair
5/6
Lisle de Luxe Hose, with self or contrasting silk-
embroidered clox. A smart and service
able Hose for present wear. Price, pair.
7/3
Broad-ribbed Highly-mercerised Hose, good
medium weight, with reinforced toes and heels, in
new tones of Champagne, Light Fawn, Putty, bun-
burn, Nude, Smoke or Grey.
Price, pair
3/6
“Tree” Brand
Footwear for Women.
Obtainable Only at
Anthony Horderns’.
&10 —Black Box Calf Strap Shoes,
with genuine welted soles, leather
sports heels. Ideal for town and
country wear.
Pi'ice, pair
18/11
&352—Soft Black Glace Kid Strap
Shoes, with genuine welted soles and
leather sports heels; pliable
and comfortable. Price, pair
18/11
&30 —Golden Brown Willow Calf
Strap Shoes, with genuine flexible
welted soles and sports
heels. Price, pair
18/11
&37 —Nigger Brown Calf Strap
Shoes, the ideal shoe for
walking or golf. Price. . .
1811
&44—A11-Patent One-Bar Shoes,
with light flexible welted soles and
leather sports heels.
Price, pair
18/11
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Women’s
Dainty Nightgowns.
Dainty Nun’s Veiling Nightgowns,
cut on Magyar lines ; round neck and
sleeves have facings of self, spoke
stitched. Daintily embossed spray fin-
ishes the front, and groups of spoking
give the new long line.
Price
31/6
Other styles
32/6, 37/6
Nuns’ Veiling Nightgowns, Magyar
cut, smartly trimmed Cluny insertion,
edging, and spoke stitching; square
neck. Finished at waist w T ith group
of spoke stitching.
Price
42./-
Nun’s Veiling Nightgowns,
down front, round neck, long
open
inset
sleeves. Finished spoking and
groups of pin tucks. Price..
32/6
(Underwear —Third Floor.)
What shall 1 wear at Easter?
Is this problem yours? Let
Anthony Horderns’ provide
the answer for you, subject
to all your manifold require-
ments of style, quality and
economy —all of which The
House of Economy provides
in a manner becoming its
name and reputation.
We Pay the Carriage on Fashion
Goods, Family Drapery, Footwear, -
Men’s and Boys’ Wear in N.S.W.
and to the nearest Interstate Port.
rt.
J
Men’s Serviceable
Tennis Shirts.
Men’s Soft White Shirts, made in
Anthony Horderns’ own workrooms
from reliable wearing materials;
amply cut for freedom of movement.
Designed with collar and pocket
attached.
In White Mercerised Twill.
Prices ... 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
In Cream Twill Flannel.
Price
17/6
In Natural Fuji Silk.
Price
19/6
The Sports Shirt, made with
back collar. In White Mer-
cerised Twill
7/0
In Cream Ceylonette Flannel.
Price ...
96
(Mercery —Ground Floor.)
Durable Black Umbrellas.
THEY ARE NEW, CHARMING AND CHIC
Chubby Umbrellas, with strong cotton covers,
21Mn. frames, with tips; good
selection of handles. Prices..
7/6, 8/11
Black Umbrellas, 20 x 12 frames, with tips,
reliable covers; wide range
of chubby handles. Prices
1011, 12/9
Chubby Umbrellas, Taffeta covers, selvedge
edge, 20 x 12 frames, with tips; newest designs
in handles.
Prices
14/11,16/11
Charming Chubby Umbrellas, silk mixture
covers, 20 x 10 frames, with tips; attractive
range of handles.
Prices
1711, 21/-
(Umbrellas —Third Floor.)
Exquisite
Collars
and Jabots
A Special Purchase
of these Dainty Ac-
cessories enables us
to offer them at ex-
ceptionally low prices.
M
Attractive Round Neck Collar, of
Net and Valenciennes Lace, Jabot
Front. In Ecru and Oclire
(as illustrated). Price
1/11
Dainty Pin-on Net and
Valenci-
eimes Lace Jabot,
White and Ochre.
, in Ecru,
Price ...
1/-
(Neckwear —First Floor.)
Boys’ Ranger Shirts
and Blouses.
Made in Our Own Workrooms.
Two styles are featured at the same price
—THE RANGER SHIRT, which buttons to
knickers; and THE RANGER BLOUSE,
with band at waist.
Roys’ Duro Nurse Cloth Rangers, in Blue,
Grey, Heliotrope and Navy Block Stripes; also
dressy hair-cord stripes on Navy Blue grounds.
Size 10! to 11! inch —
Price, each
4/11
Size 12 to 13£ inch —
Price, each
5/3
Boys’ British Oxford Rangers, neat, dressy
stripes on White ground. Excellent wearing.
Fast dye. Size 10£ to 13s inch.
Price, each
5/6
Boys’ Poplin de Luxe Rangers —a silk-like
fabric that washes and wears well. In a wide
range of smart stripes. Size 10 i to
134 inch. Price, each
8/6
Boys’ Fuji Silk Rangers —a stout weave in a
super quality. Effective stripe effects on Cream
ground. Size 10$ to 13$ inch.
Price, each
Also in Natural or Plain Fuji Silk,
in above quality. Price, each
(Mercery —Ground Floor.)
13/6
126
A NEW AND BETTER-
BALANCED MONEY’S
WORTH IN
Men’s Two-piece
Suits.
Men’s Two-Piece Sports
Suits, ready to wear. Coats
have patch pockets, stitclied-
down belt at back, with or
without vent. Trousers are
designed with loops for belt,
side straps, side and hip
pockets, cuff bottoms. In
ENGLISH or SCOTCH
TWEEDS, in the latest
effects.
Price
59/6
Better Qualities —
65/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-
( Clothing—Ground Floor.)
v\
J
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.


M
j/ke&eA&tbfke
u
A
M
PRICES
PROM
Model
De Luxe
from £295.
The Car Triumphant
MOTHING that we could possibly say in this
A * advertisement would be sufficient to tell readers
of the outstanding features of Model 509 Fiat.
It is the Car Triumphant in its class, and *‘so9” rests upon the
Pride and Prestige of famous Italian Engineers.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Balloon Tyres, Four-wheel Brakes and the Stan-
dard FIAT equipment of Electric Light, Self-
starter and Detachable Steel Wheels. Complete
with Single- and Double-seater bodywork.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
AUTOCAR INDUSTRIES PTY., LTD MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
GARRATTS, LTD. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ADELAIDE MOTORS, LTD ADELAIDE, S.A.
ARTHUR ANDERSON, LTD PERTH, W.A.
FIAT SALES AGENCY, LTD BRISBANE, Q’LAND
ROBERT NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD., Sub-Distributors HOBART, TASMANIA
iAustrau
PPESS


Time fora
fresh pair?
PARIS
CARTERS
HO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston, Hobart.
a two-column fatuous piece about some bad
verses by the poet-laureate, “New Verse
Written in 1921” :—
Metrically, of course, this idyll comes under the
heading “experiment” ; I will not pretend to describe
it in the prosodical jargon, further than to say
that each [sic] line is unrhymed, and depends on six
vaguely defined beats, three up and three down:
“A blazing afternoon in splendor of mid-July
Kate and my elder sister and I trudged down the street
Past village pond and church, and up the winding lane
Came out beside the windmill on the high corn-land.”
And again:—
It is enough for us that it brings, in distinguished
language, a beautiful vision before the mind:
“ ’Mid the squander’d color
Idling as 1 lay,
Reading the Odyssey
In my rock-garden,
I espied the cluster’d
Tufts of Cheddar pinks
Burgeoning with promise
Of their scented bloom.”
Gosse is, of course, entitled to his opinion ;
if he likes that secondary, pretentious matter
he may say so in his causerie. But the word
“experiment” knocks me endways. All
through the two pontificating columns he
rubs in his theme that this inner form is an
experiment made by Bridges in 1921, a
discovery of which the quoted tripe is sup-
posed to be the triumphant blooming.
We turn —rather wearily, since Gosse is
our poor prey—to “Poems,” by C. J. Bren-
nan, published in Sydney in 1913 (or eight
years before this discovery), and to Section
111, “The Wanderer,” dated 1902 (or 19
years before this discovery). We find:—
I cry to you as I pass your windows in the dusk;
ye have built you unmysterious homes and ways in
the wood
where of old ye went with sudden eyes to the right
and left;
and your going was now made safe and your staying
comforted,
for the forest edge itself, holding old savagery
in unsearch’d glooms, was your bouses’ friendly
barrier.
And now that the year goes winterward, ye thought
to hide
behind your gleaming panes, and where the hearth
sings merrily
make cheer with meat and wine, and sleep in the
long night,
and the uncared wastes might be a crying unhappi-
ness.
But I, who have come from the outer night, I say
to you
the winds are up and terribly will they shake the dry
wood:
the woods shall awake, hearing them, shall awake
to bfe toss’d and riven,
and make a cry and a parting in your sleep all
night
as the wither’d leaves go whirling all night along
all ways.
And when ye come forth at dawn, uncomforted by
sleep,
ye shall stand at amaze, beholding all the ways
overhidden
with worthless drift of the dead and all your broken
world:
and ye shall not know whence the winds have come,
nor shall ye know
whither the yesterdays have fled, or if they were.
In common civility to Brennan I will not
commit the impertinence of comparing liis
rich magnificence with the tripe; the quota-
tions make their own dramatic contrast. But,
remembering myself 20 years ago, I hang out
the danger signal to all bewildered seekers
for some candle-light. In Brennan’s verse
this three-beat inner form is exact and
patent; unobtruded in his sumptuous tide
of inspiration, it is yet here as his discovery
and his experiment. An Australian poet had
tried it, enriched our letters with the lines
I quote, and passed on to other work full
19 years before Bridges trifled with his
Odyssey beside his Cheddar pinks.
HILARY LOFTING.
Critics, and Emile-Othon Friesz
“ Commending you to Almighty God, a
gentleman whom you strongly resemble,”
wrote the Bengali Babu to his patron, and we
laugh. Yet the words might be addressed
to many art critics, by almost any artist —
without laughter. In these days Jack Critie
is as good as the Masters (all of them),
and this though no less a person than Dr.
Johnson has warned us that criticism is a
study by which men grow important and for-
midable at very small expense. “Every man
can exert such judgment as he has upon the
works of others,” he says: and, again, “he
whom nature has made weak and idleness
keeps ignorant may yet support his vanity
by the name of a critic.” Many do. They
make life hard for the artist. Let us ignore
them. Let us ignore such critics as these—
whom Swift; compares to the brassy-clawed,
brazen-beaked birds of Lake Stymphalus in
Arcadia, which fed on human flesh—and listen
to the artists themselves. They are not
dumb. Reynolds with his talk of the grand
manner, Hogarth with his line of grace and
beauty, and Blake with his mystical utter-
ance, “Exuberance is beauty,” speak to us
from the past; and the Moderns are equally
articulate.
“Eliminate the direct appeal,” says Emile-
Othon Friesz, and it is necessary to know his
doctrine before we can judge his work. Even
so good a critic as Sir Charles Holmes, him-
self one of the best of English landscape
painters, and only by happy accident a critic
—even Sir Charles, for want of this know-
ledge, does Friesz less than justice. Writing
in “Notes on the Post-Impressionist Paint-
ers (Grafton Galleries, 1910-11)” he says:
“The subject matter of M. Friesz is the sub-
ject matter of the ordinary water-colorists
of the day, and though violence or eccen-
tricity of handling may obscure this initial
weakness, they cannot get rid of it. A com-
monplace remains a commonplace however it
is translated.” Are his pictures common-
place? Has Friesz, in eliminating the direct
appeal, given us nothing worth having? It
is in such notorious pictures as “I’se big-
gest,” “King Baby,” “The Widower,” that it
is most easy to see how fatal a quality in
art the direct appeal can be. These pic-
tures are sentimental. In life, a sentimen-
talist is a kind of kleptomaniac who steals,
not soft goods, but other men’s emotions. In
art sentiment still keeps its thievish charac-
ter. It robs a picture of content. It is
incongruous. It is like a bull in a china
shop. This is because sentiment has no
absolute value of its own; and pictures
should be judged in terms of absolute value.
Sir Charles has himself given us a for-
mula by which they may be judged. He says
that all great works of art must have unity,
vitality, infinity and repose. In what degree
are these qualities apparent in the works of
Friesz? They have, to an amazing extent,
unity; they have vitality; they have repose
(of a sort). But have they infinity? Lack-
ing this, does a strange, almost disconcerting
sense of intimacy ’ with which they are in-
fused make up for it? For he is intimate —
and romantic. His “Boat in a Creek” brings
Ulysses and his Syrens very close to us. In
this picture Friesz touches a subject often
sung, but seldom put on canvas so happily.
Masefield’s “Quinqdireme of Nineveh, from
distant Opliir” : the Poet Laureate’s “splen-
did ship, leaning upon the bosom of the
urgent west” ; unhappy Davidson’s lines:
The boat is chafing at our long delay,
And we must leave too soon
The spicy sea-pinks and the inborne spray,
The tawny sands, the moon ;
and Matthew Arnold’s hauntingly beautiful
Grecian coaster
Freighted with amber grapes and Chian wine —
even these most memorable ships, which
“bring to our very doorsteps and geraniums
the scent of the world’s end,” give us no
greater sense of romance than Otlion Friesz’s
boat in a creek.
“Le Peclieur,” painted 1909, is by his com-
patriots considered one of his masterpieces;
and, while all the pictures painted in his
“Portugal” period are interesting, “Coim-
bra” is particularly so. The pattern in it is
as intricate as a fugue of Bach’s. This artist
does not allow his line to wander in the
charming goosey-gander way Gauguin’s line
does; or lose itself in diminishing horizons,
as, in landscape, Van Gogh’s line loses it-
self : he brings his line in from the four rims
of his canvas and concentrates it on a spot
just beyond the border of the immediate fore-
ground—that is how he achieves intimacy.
In “Winter at Terueren” the wonderful
drawing again astonishes us: again we are
given that strange familiar fusion which, in
his work, stands for infinity, and the sense
of the still rigor of snow is given as well as
Puvis de Chavannes gives it to us in his
superb picture in the Melbourne gallery.
Viewing the women he draws, one is
tempted to think that Friesz is out to say,
with that wicked French ambassador,
“Beauty in women? We cannot expect it.
It should be sufficient for us if some of them
have their moments, the return of which
may be hoped for.” We are tempted, but
we know better; for M. Friesz is slowly
working his way into rank with' Gauguin,
with Cezanne, with Van Gogh: he is in the
forefront of that movement in modern art
which seeks to give expression to a quality
in life more moving than beauty, more exact-
ing than truth, more intimate than infinity—
a fourth dimensional emotion as yet un-
named.
ETHEL ANDERSON.
The Abuse of the Preposition
If we can’t preserve all our language from
being “white-anted” by the Yankee tripe
merchants—book, stage and screen species—
we might start a Preposition Defence Associ-
ation. The harmless, necessary prep, seems
to be the most violently-handled of the long-
suffering parts of speech—at least in the
land of the “pictures” and “best sellers.” I
have seen an announcement per “silver
sheet,” allegedly by R. L. Stevenson, that
he hadn’t seen someone “in years,” and on
another the youthful lover of Great Catherine
of Russia addressed his Czarina in these
courtly words: “I’m through with you!”
Likewise I have read a remark by the dis-
embodied spirit of William Sliakspearo
(through the agency of an American spirit-
ualistic medium) that there was someone he
could not see “back of him.”
Here is a list of perverted little words, by
no means exhaustive; the illustrations are
all from American books and journals of
allegedly high repute. “On” is the worst
sufferer. Thus we get: “On” for “in”
(“playing on a team,” “arriving on a
taxi”) ; for “concerning” (“reading up
on science”) ; for “at” (“swallowing
on a gnat”) ; for “of” (“the price on
engagement rings”) ; for “at the expense of”
(“the joke is on me”—this used to be a
colloquialism, but is now well-embedded in
the tongue that Sliakspeare and Ben Frank-
lin spake).
Then there is the lawless combination
“onto” for “on” (“sticking like a fly onto a
paper”). “In” serves for “during” (“in
years”) ; also for “with” (“disappointed in
it”). “To” works for “in” (“there’s a lot
to that argument”) ; “over” for “through"
or “along” ''“talking over a ’phone”).
“Through” itself, as a verb, stands' for
“done” (“I’m through with him”) ; “around”
for “near” or “about” (“meet me around the
theatre.” “around six o’clock”; the last is
from the purist, for an American Herges-
lieimer, and strikes one as a champion
absurdity—how can anyone or anything be
“around” a point in time?). We also get
“aside” for “apart” (“aside from that
point”) ; “along,” as an adverb, for “here”
or “there” (“he will be along”) ; “at” for
“with” (“are you mad at me?”) ; “by” for
“at” (“up by Cologne”) ; the clumsy “back
of” for “behind,” and, worst of all, “of” for
“have” (“you should not of done that”—a
vulgarism, but surprisingly frequent). Lastly
there is the total elision of “to,” sometimes
with a misused verb, in such phrases as “have
him do such-and-such” or “I would like you
write me.”
I can forgive Uncle Woodenham his
elisions better than his malfeasances, but
the former don’t go far enough. We can’t
well suppress his books, but, as a small
effort, might not our local censors of films,
who are swift to cut out the bits showing a
trifle too little chemise, or too much hugger-
mugger, turn a purist’s eye on the sort of
English that occasionally accompanies them?
BILL O’C.
Education and Population
A writer bewails the fact that eugenics
and restriction of births are, followed by the
fit and ignored by the unfit; he quotes
U.S.A. statistics showing that the woman
University graduate mothers only three-
quarters of an infant per head as her con-
tribution to the next generation, while the
morons, criminals and mental defectives —
protected by modern philanthropy—multiply
exceedingly. His only remedy is a revival
of religion. The inference follows the con-
sideration of limited data guided by personal
preconceptions.
There is lack of evidence that women of
education in large numbers are intentionally
motherless. But there is much evidence that
early marriage, increasingly avoided by the
educated, favors large families; that higher
education for girls, taking place at their natu-
ral mating age, diverts their thought-energy
from courting to scholarship. They are not
so attractive to the other sex or so desirous
of attracting; and when later they have
graduated, this disability is increased.
Should they graduate with honors, a life of
celibacy is almost assured, and motherhood
becomes a remote contingency. Eugenics and
religion have no more to do with these results
than the Rule of Three. A large percentage
of studious males have no offspring, and in
extreme cases, as with Herbert Spencer, have
no desire for marriage. The greater relative
effect of mental study on the female, to
whose sex it is a novelty, is what might
have been foretold. With any socially un-
desirable race, or special section of it,
prompt, harmless and humane extermi-
nation is possible by the compulsory higher
education of its females.
If it is desired artificially to restrict the
increase of a race the best receipt, so far,
has been the personal ownership of property.
The personal ownership of business or land
leads to pride, ambition and a desire that the
children shall maintain what is now held. But
as what is comfort for the parents might
be destitution if divided amongst a large
family, there is a resort to restricting those
who are to be provided for; hence, where
ownership and its joined ambitions were little
known, as in Ireland, Poland and Russia,
the rabbit-like litters of children. Living in
a rural part of France, I was informed by
the local, schoolmaster that of 21 male
scholars 19 were only sons; and sisters were
limited. This owing to the smallness of the
properties owned by the parents and to avoid
further subdivision. The old Prussians
were an ignorant but prolific race; but mod-
ern education has so decreased their fecun-
dity that they are being supplanted in num-
bers by immigrant ignorant Poles. For a
like reason Scotland is already one-third
immigrant Irish. The ignorant French
Canadians are having a corresponding vic-
tory of fecundity over the invaded New
Englanders. For the race of the Pilgrim
Fathers —the first to highly educate the
females —is ending in sterile wives and spin-
sters.
In a general way there is a limited amount
of surplus energy in a life-form available
for variation; so that anew departure,
persisted in, is likely to be at the cost of
some other organ. It thus happens that
exceptional ability is usually tagged with
a disability. The man of genius leaves no
descendants of his own kind and very few
of any kind; nor is he a result of like beget-
ting like. The problem is complicated; but
without here diverging into a mass of rele-
vant facts now being sorted out by experts,
it is possible to realise that this property
of physical sterility which accompanies
highest mental fecundity may, in our soon-to-
be fully populated world, have a noble pur-
pose.
HENRY FLETCHER.
A Satchel of Books
Monarchs and Millionaires, by Italia Vandervelde
(Thornton Butterworth). In September, 1914, Madame
Vandervelde, wife of a Belgian Minister, visited
America to collect funds for the relief of her war-
oppressed country. Her experiences during that period
make the most interesting feature of a book packed
with reminiscences which cover a wide field. Certain
aspects of American life attracted her attention.
"The habitual sexual relationship between Americans
struck me,” she comments, “as being frank, business-
like and conventional. A girl told me that she and
her fiance had settled how many children they would
have and with what intervals. I thought this was
very sensible.” In President Wilson, “what struck
me most was his extraordinary square jaw and self-
satisfied smile.” The book is full of little thumb-
nail sketches like these.
Sam the Sudden, by P. G. Wodehouse (Methuen).
Wodehouse is an accomplished jester with a large
following, and, although one of his books is much
like another, it would take a super-pessimist to
refrain from chucking over his latest. Characters
are propelled into embarrassing predicaments, hauled
out for a breather, then hurled into the maze again,
until the author takes compassion and restores law
and order in the last chapter.
Ashes of Roses, by Francia Hope (C. W, Daniel
Co.). Against an Australian background that is a
mere impression the author has staged a domestic
drama with some strength in it. The dialogue—and
it is almost all dialogue—-is naturally written and
holds the art that conveys character through form
and expression. As a first book —for it appears to
be such —it shows more than ordinary promise.
A Wayfarer in Unfamiliar Japan, by Walter
Weston (Methuen). By the ex-British chaplain in
Tokio, a famous mountaineer who showed the
Japanese the way to the tops of some of their own
peaks. Beyond a rather distressing habit of putting
exclamation marks after all superstitions except his
own, the author is sympathetic and makes an inter-
esting picture of the mixture of old faiths and
western notions that is the so-called modern Japan.
Thus we encounter an entomologist erecting a
memorial to the millions of insects he has immolated
in the cause of science and a town erecting a
monument to the founder of the local yoshiwara;
innkeepers who zealously loot foreigners and others
who still maintain the pleasing custom of charging
only one price for sake, no matter how much has
been consumed; the 7 0-year-old son who, to distract
the attention of his parents from the approach of
extreme old age, gambolled daily before them dressed
in the garb of a child of eight, and the tenant
farmers who are beginning to challenge even the
divine Emperor by forming unions ; the experts who
go to the tops of mountains to study the cause
of the disastrous floods, and the devotees who go
there to obtain command oveJ natural forces by
performing complicated genuflections. A final chapter
is given to the frightful earthquake of 1928, which
the country accepted with a stoical calm that did
not prevent it turning to reconstruction with all
the energy of less fatalistic people.
The Rider of the Mohave, by James Fellow
(Geoffrey Bles). The Sheriff, the noble-hearted hero
“gone wrong,” the innocent love-lorn maid and the
usual crowd of wild riders up and down the rock-
walled canyons fill up its pages with such stuff as,
American movies are made of.
Wild Animals on the Films, by Joseph Delmont
(Methuen). The writer of this interesting book,
translated from the German, was for many years an
animal trainer in connection with circus and other
menageries, and has a wealth of anecdote and remi-
niscence at his command.
The City of Desire, by Juanita Savage (Geoffrey
Bles). Since “King Solomon’s Mines” disclosed a
vein of payable metal for literary miners, many have
worked in this field of lost civilisations; but none
of Rider Haggard’s imitators have come within
reach of the art of their master. The present novel
is a very artificial performance highly colored and
full of the passion that clings to the skirts of hysteria.
Still, it rattles along through its chosen ground of
Mexico.


Full Prospectus of Smith
(To be registered under the
MOTOR BODY
Authorised Share Capital, £250,000
Consisting of 125,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each and
125,000 8 p.c. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each
(Participating up to 10 per cent.)
ISSUE OF PREFERENCE AND ORDINARY SHARES.
The Capital of the Company consists of 250,000 shares, of which 40,000
shares are to be issued to shareholders of the Vendor Company in pursuance of
applications therefor. An issue of 160,000 shares is now being offered for public
subscription, and 50,000 shares are being held in reserve. Such shares are more
particularly classified as follows:
20,000 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each, to be allotted to the share-
holders of the Vendor Company in pursuance of their preferen-
tial applications therefor.
20,000 8 PER CENT. CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES of £1
each (participating up to 10 per cent.) to be allotted to the
shareholders of the Vendor Company in pursuance of their pre-
ferential applications therefor.
80,000 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each now being offered for public
subscription, and
80,000 8 PER CENT. CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES of £1
each (participating up to 10 per cent.) now being offered for
public subscription.
50,000 SHARES to be held in reserve for future issue.
250,000 SHARES.
PAYMENT FOR SHARES now offered for public subscription shall be made
as follows:
10/- per share on application, and the balance of 10/- per share in calls
as required. Such calls shall not exceed 2/6 per share at intervals of not
less than one month.
Shareholders may now or at any time pay the balance for the time being
uncalled in respect of their shares, and in respect of such amount will receive
interest at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum.
Dividends as hereunder mentioned will be calculated in respect of preference
and ordinary shares from the date of allotment on the Called-up Capital for the
time being paid up.
It is intended to pay dividends half-yearly.
Preference shares will be issued in accordance with Clause 5 of the Memoran-
dum of Association, which, in respect of preferential dividends and return of
Capital, provides as follows:
“The preference shares shall confer on the holders thereof the right
to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of £8 per centum per
annum on the Capital for the time being paid up thereon, and the further
right, whenever a dividend for any year exceeding £8 per cent, on the
Capital paid up on the ordinary shares has been declared to an increased
dividend for that year equal to that declared as aforesaid in respect of the
ordinary shares up to, but not exceeding, £lO per cent, on the Capital so
paid up, and the further right in a winding-up to have the Capital paid
up thereon and arrears of dividends (if any) to the commencement of the
winding up paid off in priority to the ordinary shares, but such preference
shares shall not confer the right to. any further participation in profits or
assets.”
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The principal objects of the Company are:—
(1) To take over as a going concern or otherwise the business carried on by the
Company of the same name. Smith & Waddington Limited (incorporated on
the 7th September, 1922), of building and manufacturing and trading in motor
bodies and/or motor accessories, including the freehold and leasehold premises
in which the business has been carried on or which belong to that Company,
and/or all or any of the assets and liabilities of that Company.
(2) To carry on the business of motor-car and vehicle body builders and manufac-
turers, and of repainting, repairing and renovating motor-cars and other
vehicles, and any business incidental thereto or capable of being conveniently
carried on in connection therewith or calculated directly or indirectly to
enhance the value of or render profitable any of the business or property of
the Company.
(3) To carry out any of the other general objects of the Company as set out in
its Memorandum of Association.
The Company is being formed primarily to take over the existing business of
Smith & Waddington, Limited, carried on at Parramatta Road, Camperdown. and
to enlarge that business, as increased Capital is necessary to cope with large
expansion anticipated, and orders that have been offered by importers and pro-
prietors of high-grade motor vehicles. The business up to date has proved highly
successful, and the prospects of the new Company are exceedingly good, as the
increased capital will allow the business to expand legitimately in accordance
with demand, and thus show a handsome profit for shareholders.
TERMS OF PURCHASE.
The Company is to acquire the whole of the undertaking and business of the
present Company of Smith & Waddington. Limited (herein usually referred to as
the Vendor Company), including all its'freehold and leasehold property, plant,
machinery, equipment, fixtures, fittings, office furniture, stock in trade, and work
in progress, motor-car and lorry, stationery on hand, prepaid expenses and goodwill,
trade name and benefit of contracts in accordance with the values of such assets
(except the items of goodwill, trade name and benefit of contracts) as shown on
the Balance-sheet of the Vendor Company’s business as at 31st December, 1925, as
certified to by the Auditors after stocktaking on the last-mentioned date.
The Company’s Auditors, Messrs. Priestley & Morris, Public Accountants,
have certified that the assets of the Vendor Company (including goodwill), as
shown in the Audited Balance-sheet of the 31st December, 1925, are as follows:
ASSETS.
Freehold property (being the actual cost of the land, buildings and
additions 1 £30,849 0 0
Machinery, plant and equipment (being the actual cost price, less
depreciation charged from time to time, and as certified to by
the General and Departmental Managers) . . .. .. 9,559 0 0
Furniture, fixtures and fittings (being the actual cost price, less
depreciation charged from time to time, and as certified to by
the General and Departmental Managers) .. .. .. 2,006 0 0
Stock and work in progress (being the actual cost and laid down
cost, as certified to by the General and Departmental
Managers) 25,719 12 10
Motor-car and lorry (being the actual cost less depreciation) .. 549 10 0
Stationery on hand . . . . .. . . . . . . .. 260 0 0
Prepaid expenses (including insurance premiums and advertising) 675 0 0
Sundry Debtors .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7,583 16 4
Cash in Bank and on hand .. .. ~ .. ~ .. 1,368 19 3
TOTAL .. .. £78,570 18 5
Part of the consideration for the acquisition of the above Assets shall be the
discharge of the following Liabilities of the Vendor Company:—
Mortgages on Freehold —
Property .. .. £17,000 0 0
Trade Creditors . . . . .. .. .. 8,320 18 5
Taxation Reserve . . . . .. .. . . 3,250 0 0
£28,570 18 5
The net consideration to be paid in cash for the above Assets is the
sum of £50,000 0 0
In addition to the foregoing, the Company is acquiring the Vendor Com-
pany’s goodwill (shown in the Audited Balance-sheet of 31st December, 1925, at
£15,000), together with the trade name and benefit of existing ordei’s in hand at
Bth January, 1926, amounting to £63,588,
The Vendors are to receive for these additional Assets the sum of £25,000.
The total consideration payable in cash is therefore £75,000. out of which
the Vendor Company has to discharge liabilities to the extent of £30,000, which
are not being taken over by the new Company. Of the balance of the cash con-
sideration, viz., £45,000, the sum of £40,000 will be applied by the shareholders
of the Vendor Company for the purchase of 20,000 Ordinary and 20,000 Preference
Shares in the Capital of the new Company which they have undertaken to
subscribe for. The net cash consideration to be retained for distribution amongst
the members of the old Company is therefore only £5OOO.
The Company will also receive the beneficial interest of three Leasehold pro-
perties, one at the corner of Missenden Road and Parramatta Road (adjoining
the Freehold premises), over which an option of purchase exists, and two other
premises situate in Broderick and Marsden Streets, Camperdown, at rear of the
main Freehold Premises.
The net profits made by the Vendor Company since the 31st December, 1925,
to date of incorporation of the new Company will go to the new Company as
profits, but the new Company is to pay the interest at the rate of 10 per cent,
per annum, payable by the Vendor Company from 31st December last in respect
of the sum of £30,000, being moneys lent to it, and being discharged by it as
mentioned above.
The Company is to take over the services of all employees and officers of
the Vendor Company. The Managers, with whom the Vendor Company has
written agreements, will, as hereinafter mentioned, enter into written agreements
with the new Company.
ALLOCATION OF SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL.
It is proposed to utilise the £200,000 subscribed Capital in the manner
following:—
Payment to Vendor Company for Assets acquired (as set out).. £50,000 0 0
Payment to Vendor Company for Goodwill, Trade Name and benefit
of current contracts in hand (as set out) . . . . .. 25,000 0 0
Repayment of the Mortgage (bearing interest at 7 per cent, per
annum) on the Freehold Property No. 45/61 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown . . . . .. .. . . . . 17,000 0 0
Purchase of Freehold property 39/43 Parramatta Road, Camper-
down, an option of purchase over which is held by the Vendors,
and is being passed over to the new Company. (Part of these
premises is at present occupied by the Vendor Company) . . 20,500 0 0
Erection of the new factory building as hereinafter described at
an estimated cost of about .. .. .. . . . . 76,000 0 0
Purchase of material, plant, etc., general expansion of business and
general matters incidental to the Company’s affairs .. .. 11,500 0 0
£200,000 0 0
PROSPECTIVE PROFITS.
As an indication of the ability of the Company to pay substantial dividends
on the Capital proposed to be issued, and of the popularity of the Vendor Com-
pany’s products with motor-ear proprietors and agents, and the phenomenal growth
and prosperity of the Vendor. Company under the management of the Directors,
who are also to be the Directors of the new Company, the following figures,
extracted from the Balance-sheets and Accounts of the Vendor Company, which
have been audited since its inception by Messrs. Priestley & Morris, Public
Accountants, Sydney, are given for the information of intending shareholders: —
Tear Ended
30th June, 1923
30th June, 1924
30th June, 1925
Net Profit prior to making
provision for interest
on Loan Capital.
£8.125
8,716
8,302
Turnover.
£67.601
98,992
117.644
Bad Debts.
£4l
70
95
£25 143
And for the year ended 31st Dec., 1925 £11,860
£284,237
£138,851
£206
£lO6
“During the above three years to 30th June, 1925, the average Share and
Loan Capital invested in the business was £32.748 per annum, on which the
average Net Profit per annum was £B3Bl, representing an average return of 25-. D
per cent, per annum on the average funds employed, in the business, after making
ample provision for Depreciation and Income Taxation.
“The turnover for the twelve, months ended 31st December, 1925, aggregated
£138.851. on which the Net Profit amounted to £11,860 on the same basis as above,
being equivalent to a return of 24.9 per cent, on Funds of £47,515 employed during
the period.


& Waddington Limited
Companies Acts of N.SW., 1899-1918)
BUILDERS, Etc.
Directors:
FRANK WADDINGTON, Chairman.
RUSSELL H. WADDINGTON, General Manager.
ARTHUR S. SMITH, Manager Body-Building Department.
CHARLES L. FAIRS, Manager Painting and Repairs Department.
HARRY L. WARD, Chartered Secretary and Accountant.
Solicitors:
TURNER, NOLAN & BENDER,
Dalton House, 1 1 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
PRIESTLEY & MORRIS, Public Accountants, 107 Pitt St., Sydney.
Bankers:
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES (Annandale Branch).
Brokers:
CHARLES H. SMITH & CO., 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM TILLEY & CO., 78 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Registered Office:
41/61 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN.
Secretary: HARRY L. WARD, A.C.1.5., 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
PROSPECTIV E PROFITS— ( Continued ).
“On total sales of £354,520 for the past three and a half years Bad Debts
amounted to only £273, representing a charge against the profats of only 18.0 pence
per £lOO of turnover. __, . r fl <j =yjo
“The value of orders in hand at Bth January, 1926, amounted to fbd.DBS,
being sufficient to keep the factory fully occupied for a period of nearly six mourns
on the basis of its record production for the past twelve months. ■ ,
“As portion of the new Capital will be used for the purchase of property
formerly feased, and in the erection of a modern well-lighted factory in place of
the unsuitable and badly-liglited buildings in which the business had to be carneU
on, the amount of £2606 per annum, which in the past has been expended for Kent
Interest, Lighting, etc., will be available toward the payment of Dividends, whilst
much better light and larger space will be secured and greatly lncreased efhcn y
will result. The net profit earned by the Vendor Company for JJe twelve montte
ended 31st December, 1925, together with the above saving of £2606, would show
a return of 7 per cent, per annum on the proimsed Capital of LV
ASSUMING THE COMPANY DID NOT INCREASE ITS PRESENT Obi
PUT NOR RECEIVE THE BENEFITS OF ITS NEW FACTORY WIIH
ALMOST PERFECT MANUFACTURING CONDUTIONS. AND WiraCOfU
SIDERABLY MORE THAN DOUBLE THE SPACK TOGETHER WITH THL
ADDITIONAL CAPITAL AVAILABLE FOR „
“(Signed) PRIESTLEY & MORRIS, Public Accountants.
The Vendor Company was on various occasions approached by importers of
high-grade cars, who offered to place with that Company orders for the ma
facture of large numbers of high-class bodies but owing to limited Capital^d
restricted factory space, the offers had to be declined. VLI H T I N .
CAPITAL AND THE NEW FACTORY THE COMPANY WILL BE IN A
POSITION TO ACCEPT THIS BUSINESS IN FUTURE.
THE NEW FACTORY.
It is now proposed to erect a new factory of concrete steel construction
from plans being prepared by Messrs. H. E. Ross & Rowe, Architects, oQ t
of the present buildings at 39-61 Parramatta Road, Camperdown aUthe corner of
Missenden Road. Such factory is to consist of a ground floor and three other floois
and a flat roof, suitable for purposes incidental to the Company s business.
The greater portion of the walls will be of glass, and as tly the
natural lighting should be practically perfect, a very considerable Charge for electnc
light, which is necessary owing to the present badly-lighted buildings, will be
ehm Although splendid results have already been achieved, and the Vendor Com-
nan v has had a' remarkably successful career m the present unsuitable bui-di ,
further great savings can be made in the new factory, which will moie tna.f
double the floor-space, and which will afford better facility for the movement of
cars. Further, as the risk of the building being destroyed by fire will be practical y
non-existent, considerable saving will be effected m insurance premiums.
In addition to the recent installation of the most modern and efficient paint
snraving nlant labor-saving wood and steel working machinery and pneumatic
tool Xnt enabling great reductions in costs to be effected, it is intended with new
capital to instal further labor-saving and cost-reducing appliances and thus enable
the Company continually to improve the quality of the goods manufactured and to
reachthe largest possible field of buyers. This policy has been found to be highly
SUCC Tffie l m n w'factory, offices and showrooms will have a frontage of 232 feet to
Parramatta-road, 124 feet to Missenden-road, and 282 S&wq three
natural light on three sides, a covered floor-space of Ioo,UUU square ieet lor i
floors, ajid a °flat-roof space of 33,000 square feet, making a total floor area of
166,000 (actory , there w „, be the ®>4
blacksmith shop at the rear, with a covered floor-space of lb,lbo square teet ±ne
total available space in both factories will, therefore, be approximately 182,000
square feet.
ESTIMATE OF COST OF BUILDING BY THE COMPANY’S
ARCHITECTS AND CONSULTING ENGINEERS,
H. E. ROSS & ROWE, SYDNEY.
“We hereby confirm our approximate estimate of cost of construction of a
rein forced-concrete and steel building of four floors
on parramatta-road, Camperdown, at a cost ot ti o,uuu, mcmsivc ol uiujiiui
showroom fittings, office-fittings, most modern car and passenger elevators, electric
light and power, and complete sprinkler installation. , ~ ,
“Thebuilding will be of such design and construction to admit of additiona
floors being added as required up to the building height limit of l.»0 feet.
“We are so confident of the success of your business that we shall be very
pleased to invest an amount at least equal to that of our' commission in shares in
the new Company, and now request you to reserve a parcel of shares for this
P ur P° se - “tSfVnPfU IH- E. ROSS & ROWE.”
MANAGEMENT.
The management of the Company and the control of every Department will be
in the hands of very capable men, who are acknowledged experts in their respective
branches, and who have had the management of the Vendor Company since its
inception. They will all be shareholders of the Company, holding between them
at least 40,000 shares, and are keenly alive to the Company s best interests, and
may be relied on to continue to exercise the greatest economy consistent with the
b( St the three departmental managers has agreed to enter into a contract
of service with the Company for a term of seven years from the inception ot
the Company, and will not during that period engage directly or indirectly in any
similar business except as employees of this company.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Application for shares may be made on the form this Prospectus,
and the form of application, after being properly hllcd in and signed by tne
applicant, must be sent, together with the amount of the Bakers
allotment money, to the Company’s Secretary or to the Company sßakers,
Messrs Charles H. Smith & Co., or Messrs. William Tilley & Co., Sydney.
The Company will proceed to allotment on the receipt of applications for
2« ss s
aPPl Any'of the preference shares for the time being unissued may be converted
into and classed as ordinary shares and issued accordingly.
BROKERAGE.
a brokerage of sixpence per share wall be paid in respect of. shares allotted
Brokerage and all expenses ol flotation and winding np the old Company are to
be paid by the new Company.
LISTING OF SHARES ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the shares on the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.
Conies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company may
perused and approved of the Memorandum
and Articles of Association.
CONTRACTS.
ment to purchase the undertaking and business: of the Vendor I y preparedf
srssi *”*• *“ bc
of the one part and Frank Waddington
2. Agreement 'between the Company of the one part and Russell Herbert
3. Agreement°between the Company of the one part and Arthur Spurway
4. thfcompany of the one part and Charles Leslie Fairs
5. fgroem°e® e bet a ween the Company of the one part and Harr, Landstein
of sale and the said Contracts may be inspected
be deemed to have had notice of all such contracts.
SYDNEY, 26th February, 1926.
Fill in application form below
for shares, and forward, together with application money, to Company’s Brokers, or the
Secretary of the Company. -—====
APPLICATION FOR
SHARES—SMITH &
(To be Registered.)
WADDINGTON, LIMITED.
Smith & Waddington, Ltd., and
The Directors, Smith & Waddington, Ltd., No 7 Fifth Floor, 14 Martin
Gentlemen, —I hereby apply for ..••••••• Preference and/or . ••••*•• * ’ g Um Q f £ being application money
agree to pay the sum of £l for each of such Shares. I forward to calls as they fall due, not
of 10/- per Share for the said Shares. I agree to pay the balance of 1 0/- per Share tor the said on
exceeding 2/6 per Share at intervals of not less than one month. f FebrUary 192 6, that number of
I request you to allot to me upon the terms of the Prospectus dated the ™enty- bound by the Memorandum
Shares, and I to accept the said Shares or any smaller £‘renter me as the holde/of the said Shares,
and Articles of Association of the Company, and I hereby request and authorise you ro g
DATED . day of 1926.
Name in full (Mr., Mrs. or Miss) *
Signature
Address
Occupation or Description
... WITNESS *
IAULULIj-i*


REX-PYE, packed in 1 lb. and
hygienic cans, in a delicious jelly, is the
tastiest treat cooked ready to serve,
and the most economical meat meal you
can obtain. You will find, as thousands
have found, that each tin is consistently
of the same outstanding choice quality.
This, due to the facts set out below,
accounts for the triumphal march of
REX-PYE into popular favor.
M
sacas
i.TTZXZZC*
c mm»
«a*3sso;
PUAK
w
*£>
MS'
gg
This is why we claim that REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world:
1. The tin itself is unique, being stamped out and seamless; hermetically sealed without
solder (lead) or soldering flux—it is the perfectly hygienic container.
2. The meats (raw materials) are perfectly wholesome, being choicest quality, carefully
selected. Visitors from abroad, inspecting our works, have said that the meats are
superior to those used at any other factory in their experience.
3. The spicing by a recipe in our sole possession and the excellent jelly help to produce
the delicious flavor characteristic of REX-PYE.
4. The cooking en casserole preserves all the wholesome meat juices, and retains the high
food values.
All these facts combine to produce a meat product of unrivalled quality. Thus we account
ror that delicate aroma as you open the tin, and that delicious flavor when the daintv is
Ask your Grocer for REX-PYE
the finest meat in the world.
Look for the attractive label.
Imitations are offered for sale, but
they are decidedly not REX-PYE.
REX-PYE
Its delicate aroma and delicious flavor
distinguish it from all other meats.
FOGGITT JONES LTD
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon,
and
Packers of the Choice REX Canned Delicacies.


Cuticura Baths
Comfort Baby's Skin
r:
(vtimrASwf
Mwiiuinnw
The absolute purity and delicate
medication of Cuticura Soap
make it ideal for baby’s tender
skin. Used daily,with touches of
Ointment to little skin troubles,
it keeps the skin smooth, clear
and he ff.lthy. Cuticura Talcum
is soothing and cooling, ideal
for baby after a bath.
Soap Is., Talcum Is. 3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
H®" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK OP
I
SCHUTE,
BELL&C
O.
Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 4f Bridge Street, Sydney.
70 be healthy-
drink
M
the finesc
tonic food
drink
in 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
Its Fragrance
is a sheer joy!
If you have not yet used
Pomeroy Day Cream, there
is a new delight in store
for you. Its refreshing
fragrance, which lingers so
long and so alluringly, cap-
tivates every woman who
has a nice regard for her
appearance and who
studies charm.
POMEROY
DAY CREAM
Obtainable from all Australian Stores
and Chemists, or from the
POMEROY DEPOT
(Ripley & Simpson), Macdonell House,
SYDNEY.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Fashionable Wristlet Lever
Gold Watches
This is a Lady’s Jewelled 9-ct. Gold Lever Watch,
with the fashionable Moire Silk Band and 9-ct.
Gold Fastening. It is exceptionally neat and a
Thoroughly Reliable Timekeeper
SPECIAL
PRICE
70/-
c <>
m
hi
PLAIN
on
FANCY
DIALS
In Solid Silver Case - - 40/-
WE PAY POSTAGE
We also have a large selection of other shapes
to choose from, ranging in prices up to £l5
STEWART DAWSON & GO.
ESTABLISHED 1871 N.s.w. Ujro.
Two Sydney (412 George Street, Strand Corn> 3P
Establishments ' ISS-1 87 Pitt Street, near King. Street
M
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream —patt up in collapsible
tubes —is the cleanest and m.ost convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6 d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
® 314
"7,7 /
f /; '•
or
IZ r <s
mST FREE
The PLUM RAZOR remains keen.
CRAIG S. fIITKEN 654 b GEORGE ST..SYPNEY.
M
To Car Makers
Car Sellers
Car Buyers
During recent years the uses for Australian leather
have increased extensively. This has been due to the
great improvement effected by the tanners of Australia
in the quality of the leather they produce and in the field
of upholstery leather. It has also been due to the very
marked superiority they have shown in making leather of
colors and designs that are appropriately beautiful for
all uses.
An appreciation of these facts on the part of the
public has created a very definite demand for these
beautiful leathers for the interiors of closed cars. A
number of the manufacturers of the high-class cars have
adopted leather of beautiful design for several of their
standard closed models, such as sedans, coupes, etc.
This trend is not only due to leather s beauty, but
to its superiority, utility, its hygienic value and its long-
wearing qualities.
Ask for Australian Enamelled Motor Leather. It
is the best.
Inserted with the authority of the
Federated Master Tanners’ Association of Australia.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To a Soul Mate.
You that are my soul-mate,
One with me in spirit,
Hearken to this summons
Couched in courtesy:
Since I would delight you,
Herewith I invite you
Straightway to come hither,
And abide with me.
Should you heed my calling,
We shall breathe together
All the sweetest perfumes
Of untainted trees ;
Since in soul I know you,
Freely I shall show you
Fronded grove and leafy grove
Tossing in the breeze.
Though you slave for ever,
Toil and tire for ever,
How will Time reward you
When you’re grey and old?
Bell-birds over yonder
Time like spendthrifts squander,
Tinkling in tall wattles
Hidden in their gold.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Return.
The altar fires of the tall waratah
Burn through the bronze and green
Of bracken wildernesses where the cool
Of dusky leafage lips the dreaming pool
The old grey cliffs between.
See the dimmed silver of the morning star,
Serene in splendor, glitter in the blue.
The far-flung armies of the eucalypt
Soar to the sleepy ranges, umber-tipped,
Flushed with the dawn and glinting with
the dew.
Deep in the gullies laced with wispy cloud,
Greeting the day with keenest notes of
bliss,
I hear the calling of a stockwhip bird.
Where in my wanderings have I ever heard
Music that stirred the heart of me like
this?
Now I return —an exile far too long.
Take me, my country, for my heart is fain
For this dear spot of earth where I was born !
Bind me with beauty, keep for me, forlorn,
Old spells that will not let me roam again.
The mounting day has burned away the stars ;
The south wind harps among the myrtle-
trees. . S ~
And I, whose ships are wrecked on many
a shore,
Homing, have found more treasure than
before,
And dearer happiness in things like these.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Waiting.
Love, joying in this velvet night,
Has fired his rockets in the air;
The star-sprays, gleaming in the height,
By magic hang suspended there.
A sparkling, serried necklace flung
Round shores that in their shadows dream,
The lights on terraced hill-slopes hung
Deep in the harbor waters gleam.
The night with silences is filled,
Yet full of sound. Afar, there sobs
Soft music from romance distilled,
And all the air with passion throbs.
There breathes a voice from every tree
That to the breeze its incense gives;
Your name, a long-drawn ecstasy,
Amid the swaying fragrance lives.
Here do I wait with heart on fire
While unblest minutes creep away;
The furnace of my hot desire
Wastes me each moment you delay.
Within the tree-made shades I pace
Lest any impious light might view,
By some betrayal of my face
The daring thoughts I think of you.
Ha ! Swift my pulses leap and start—
Rush, rush, my lover, to my side!
Your footstep taps upon my heart,
And all its gates are opened wide.
It is for this the night is bright,
For this it spreads its thousand charms.
Love, joying in the velvet night.
Has brought your sweetness to my arms!
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.
Out at Tally-ho.
Blackberries on the hilltops,
Red apples on the plain,
And wharves with ships unloading
Soft-bouqueted wines frofti Spain
I leave for your delection ;
Another love I know—
The jollv yellow quinces
Out at Tally-ho!
The perfumes of a garden—-
Musk-rose and violet
And stock and sweet geranium
And hidden mignonette—
May swell your sense to rapture;
Another garden’s mine
With swinging yellow quinces
And red-liipped eglantine !
Ripe peaches from the north wind,
Salt sea-fruits from the south,
Or kisses from the night wind
May quench your thirsty mouth;
But when your palate’s jaded
And all your blood runs slow,
Go you and smell the quinces
Out at Tally-ho!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


M
u
¥
1111#
m
: ;
MU
mmmmwi &
.
HR
ip»
MALVOLIO,
Winner of Melbourne Cup
1891.
Owner ----- J. Redfearn.
Trainer J. Redfearn.
Jockey G. Redfearn.
Weight- - - - - Bst. 41b.
Time- ----3 min. 29£sec.
SOS—We want to complete this series oj
Melbourne Cup winners, in which exceptional
interest has been taken. Will owners oj
photos, of victors previous to 1890 entrust
them to us? Every care will be taken of
them, 1
B. Seppelt & Sons, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
CHATEAU TANUNDA Hospital Brandy has become
famous throughout the Commonwealth. As the label has
been closely imitated, please insist on getting the genuine
CHATEAU TANUNDA Brandy when you ask for it.
r
Proprietors: B* SEPPELT 6 SONS, LT-P


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 47.—N0. 2405.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1926.
Price 6d.
KINGS IN EXILE-AND OTHERS.
“Former royalties are to meet in conference in Vienna at the end of May. Germans, Russians and Hungarians will be represented.”
KING OF SAURKRAUTSTEIN: “Who are these persons?.”
PRINCE OF FISCHUNDCHIPZ: “The o ue on the left used to reign in Queensland. The other tried to be Czar of New South Wales.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 4s. / 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, los. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
r Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved tinless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood thc.t
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
hut unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad."
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Li. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Alain Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli, 75-
71) Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.4.; E. T. Hole, Uolerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn,
London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street,
London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana Home, Durban;
llhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., IGI East
Erie Street, N. Michigan lloulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency. 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
I'hiYi’T. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
llong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon.- — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo: Wijeratne and Co., Manning Mansions, and
Bristol Hotel, Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — . 4. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotcli, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan lloulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: ' 16~0z.’ lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.’: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1926.
PAYING FOR THE OTHER FELLOW’S
IMPORTED WEED-CUTTER.
“How long are the people going to stand being
tramped on so that a small section of the com-
munity may ‘get rich quick’ ? I have just imported
from the U.S.A. a patent weed-cutter the like of
which, for efficiency, is not made in Australia, and
which cost me £l2 19s. lOd. f.o.b. San Francisco;
but the duty I am called upon to pay is £5 2s. 7d.
.... If the manufacturers’ case is a good one, why
do they not export their goods and meet the world’s
markets as the primary producer has to do instead of
skulking behind tariff walls?”— Typical specimen
from the Foreign-trade correspondence with which
importers have lately flooded the press.
There are many intricacies in finance and
trade, and it is possible that some of them
are little known to the importer, blinded with
rage and hatred and self-interest, who can
only see that he contributed £5 2s. 7d. to the
revenue in a way that may assist local in-
dustry, instead of contributing in some
fashion which wouldn’t help local industry
but leave the way open for more imports.
According to his tale, which is of a piece with
thousands of others, he imported his machine,
which he holds to be better than anything
made here, apparently because it was im-
ported. He brought it from a really High-
Protectionist country because it is that kind
of place which produces good articles. The
bulk of our imports of agricultural appliances
come from highly-protected lands, and if it
weren’t that Australians protect the products
of Britain in the Australian market with a
lavish preference the Commonwealth would
buy a great deal less than it does from the
Old Freetrade Man in London. There is
the usual plaint about the wealthy habits
of the Australian manufacturer, though the
best residential quarters of Australian cities
reek with the importer’s ostentatious afflu-
ence. And the person of Foreign-trade and
foreign interests professes that he paid for
his imported wecd-cutter. Almost certainly
he didn’t. Probably the children of people
yet unborn will be toiling to pay for it after
the infuriated dealer is in his grave.
* * * *
Australia’s finance, for extravagance and
rottenness, is not like anything else of its
kind on earth, and is probably like very few
things which have ever been on earth. This
is the borrowing country par excellence, with
a prospect of being the burst country par the
same thing. And. a vast mass of its troubles
arise through paying for things like the weed-
cutter. Smith imports the article and makes
it the occasion for throwing mud and insult
at the land he lives in and lives on. He sells
it to Brown (probably for more than a
local implement would cost, only Brown
doesn’t know that) in order to prevent
Brown supporting the local industry of
Simpson, and thereby he helps to deprive Big-
gins of liis job in Simpson’s works. And by
the juggling of loan finance, of which Aus-
tralia has a variety which is all its own, the
blatant Smith pays little if anything for the
weed-cutter, and it finds its way into the
public debt, though its presence there is little
suspected by the masses. The latest Federal
Quarterly Statistics show that the State (or
peace, or nominal public-works) debts have
progressed wonderfully since the madness
really set in :
GROSS DEBTS OF AUSTRALIAN STATES.
Total for
\ ear to Six States. Increase.
June, 1900 .. .. £195,227,406
June, 1905 .. .. 230,7.38,671 35,511,265
June, 1910 . . . . 257,623,663 26,884,991
June, 1915 . . . . 342,925,669 85,302,006
June, 1920 .. 430,092,847 87,167,178
June, 1925 . . .. 603,334,254 173,241,407
These five five-yearly periods show a stagger-
ing rate of progress devilward, and as the
desire is not only to increase the debt each
year but to increase the rate of increase, it
is certain that the racket can’t last. The
old lenders in London haven’t enough to meet
the demands upon them, and the new ones in
Manhattan are too suspicious. The outside
borrowings, which comprise the most serious
part of the business, are not for public works,
though the lie still passes muster. The
money borrowed in London stays in London,
and is used to pay for the imported
weed-cutter and for other disastrous pomps
and vanities which bring grist to the shoddy-
monger’s mill.
* * * #
The process looks complicated, though it
is simple enough. In the course of five years
Australia’s exports were short, to the full
amount of its foreign borrowings, of the sum
required to cover interest payable abroad (in-
cluding importer Smith’s share of interest),
and to pay for imports (including Smith’s
wecd-cutter). The people who send sale-
able produce abroad, such as wool, wheat,
butter, minerals and a few manufactures, to
keep the aggregate national account in credit,
couldn't send enough, for the amount re-
quired to meet the ravenous demands of
Smith, importer, passed all reason. Smith,
importer, being an absolute non-producer
who doesn’t grow jib. of potatoes per annum,
sent nothing—at least he sent a bit of paper
to London and a furious letter to the Foreign-
trade press in Sydney. In other words, he
bought, for paper money, from a bank here,
a draft instructing a bank in London to pay
for the weed-cutter in gold. And to post-
pone the financial, catastrophe of a land
which owes too much, and imports too much,
and exports too little, the State Governments
regularly borrow another heap of debt, and
so keep the Australian banks in London sup-
plied, and charge the weed-cutter to posterity.
At least it is charged up to the descendants
of Brown, the farmer. The descendants of
Smith, the importer, will probably drift back
to England, where their father came from,
and be out of the trouble.
If the matter ended with the Australian
loan in London to pay for the weed-
cutter, which is imported into Australia
to hiuder Australian industry, the posi-
tion would be bad, although it might
be worse. But a pretence has to be
made that the money is raised for “perma-
nent and reproductive public works, urgently
required for the development of a new coun
try.” There was a fair amount of truth in
this tale in the days of small borrowings and
comparative sanity, but there isn’t enough
now to gild the prospectus of a new life-
assurance office. Still the fiction must be
kept up in order to preserve the confidence
of the British public to which loan agents
peddle, for the usual commission, the new
spring fashions in Australian securities. So
“works” are constructed in Australia, with
Australian paper money, to account for the
gold raised in London. It is impossible to
devise enough even ostensibly reproductive
public works here to explain away all the
new debt, but something can always be done.
The latest N. S. Wales railway report men-
tioned that nine new railways had been
opened. None of them connected with a new
port, or anything tangible like that. Seven
of them lost all the interest on their cost and
also much of their working expenses, mostly
through carrying “primary products” at
pauper rates. The other two paid running
costs, but failed badly on the interest. Their
total loss for the year was £216,583, and
these were only nine financial wrecks out of
55. Unproductive debt having been incurred
in London to pay for things such as Smith’s
imported weed-cutter, which helped to de-
stroy Australian industry, it was also neces-
sary to pay the loss on the works created
to explain away that unproductive liability
in London. One result is that the taxation
levied by the States on their people goes
up at an even greater rate than the debt.
Some condensed figures are as follows:
STATE TAXATION.
Year to
June, 1900 £2,138,288
June, 1905 3,347,573
June, 1910 .. .. .. 1,017,660
June, 1915 7,000,395
June, 1920 14,291,633
June, 1925 .. . . . . 21,670,037
♦ *
It is thus a compound case of finding by
taxation the wherewithal to pay heavy in-
terest on money borrowed in London in
order to provide the “credits” which help to
purchase imports, and of finding, by more
taxation, means to pay the loss on “works”
which lend an air of respectability to the
rotten transaction in London. Railways are
not the least profitable of works, and the
N. S. Wales railway system is about the best
of the collection, yet N. S. Wales has plenty
of dead-end lines which lose 5 per cent, per
annum on their cost instead of helping the
revenue. Among these varied circumstances
the weed-cutter imported by the enraged and
supercilious and utterly unproductive im-
porter Smith costs quite a lot, apart from
the fact that it helps to reduce local wages,
and that means reducing local tax revenue.
It can at least be said for the Commonwealth,
against which the burning rage of importers
is directed, that its tax-collections only in-
creased by £408,269 between 1920 and 1925
—the period in which the State exactions
grew by £7,378,404. There are, in theory,
two ways of averting national bankruptcy.
One is to export much more with which to
pay the bills. The other is to import much
jess and have fewer bills to pay. But there
is really only one way, and that is to get
rid of the unproductive importer and the
diseased system he stands for. With the
wild uncertainty of seasons which makes
“primary production” a gamble, the distance
and uncertainty of big markets, the constant
interferences ivith the means of reaching
these markets, and the collapse in Australia’s
output of metals, any idea of a reliable in-
crease in our sale of raw materials abroad is
a drunken dream. Hope lies solely in cap-
turing the Australian market for the Austra-
lian manufacturer.
THE PRECEDENT OF THE MALTESE
COUNT.
It is announced that the N. S. Wales Pre-
mier, still pursuing his maddened imitation
of a cactus in fits, not only wants the sack-
ing of Governor i>e Chair, but desires the
right to appoint his successor. Various ways
of appointing Governors are known, that of
the TJ.S. being at least simple and logical.
There the 1-ower House of each State is
elected by the people in small constituencies;
the Upper House by the people in large con-
stituencies (in a place like New Hampshire,
where one House contains 422 members and
the other 24, the size of electorates must
vary considerably) ; and the Governor is
chosen by the people voting as one con-
stituency. Other familiar methods include
appointment by the monarch, the President
or the Governor-General, but the idea of
appointment by an obstinate suburban estate-
agent is fresh. The number of new political
ideas which wander about the Ma State like
homeless fowls these days is remarkable, but
they are birds of no pedigree worth mention-
ing. It is proposed that the Governor should
be made the creature of the Premier, in
which case the Premier might as well be
Governor himself, and either collar the
salary or share it with his colleagues. This
assumes that the Premier will always be
civil and presentable, for there are some
social courtesies, such as extending a hand
to eminent foreign visitors, which can’t be
cut out Avithout rousing a suspicion that his
Excellency is unsober or under restraint for
medical reasons, and such an impression
might damage the loan market. Then it is
proposed, of course, to abolish the Leg. Coun-
cil. That is what the supreme row is about.
But a prominent legal member of the Labor
party lately made a suggestion which looked
very like the premature emergence of the
feline from the receptacle. His view was
that the party really wants a Leg. Council,
and will (or should) reveal the fact when
the coast is clear. The idea as faintly fore-
shadowed is that when N. S. Wales gets
down to one House (partly nominee as at
present, though nominally elective, and with
a Labor or Stopwork majority) that one
House will proceed to create a second House.
This is to be elective, and, of course, paid,
and the electors are to be a strictly limited
section of the community—the trades-union
section, with, it is to be presumed, a careful
exclusion from trades-unions of persons sus-
pected of “capitalistic” tendencies. The idea
is, in fact, to create a House or Impregnable
Fortress of Privilege, from which property
and, so far as possible, education and intelli-
gence will be excluded.
* * * *
, The fact that such a possibility should be
mooted suggests another chance of the future
—a wild chance, certainly, but no wilder
than many strange mental creations which
are now at large. The chance is that the
Assembly majority, which represents a
minority of the electors and is certain to
become a minority itself if the people must
be consulted, might abolish the Lower House
and the new Council, with its narrow
franchise—the body from which property
and, so far as possible, education and intelli-
gence would bet excluded—in sole possession.
This would be a blessed re-assertion of the
unicameral principle. The idea is pictur-
esque, but it Avonld probably be impractic-
able owing to the unlimited and interminable
adhesiveness of stipendiary objects. But if
the present crowd can get the existing Upper
House out of the way and prolong its term
of office for a while it is fairly certain that
the will to restrict the Lower House fran-
chise will develop strongly, whether the
feasibility of so doing develops or not. The
absurdity of leaving any political power in
the hands of any set of people save trades-
unionists who have paid up all strike le\des
to date is obvious to the, Langs and all their
kin. Its obAdousness amounts to a disease.
Meanwhile the appointment of nominees to
the nominally elective Chamber continues
as occasion permits. Precedents are being
created for the removal of judges and civil
servants to make room for reliable partisans.
And as for the initiative, referendum and re-
call, it isn’t good form to mention them now
Labor society, any more than it is polite
to discuss capital punishment in the home
of a family iv hicli had a relative cut off by
premeditated shortage of breath. It hasn’t
been plainly laid down, as in the case of
Sydney Municipal Council, that all appoint-
ments will in future depend, not on merit,
but on the recommendation of a Labor mem-
ber ; but then it is often foolish to lay tilings
down. It is also often foolish to hang things
up—such things, for instance, as a tariff
of charges for recommendations.
* * *
As a restraining influence, there is always
the possibility that the Governor may swim
out of a sea of troubles {he having been
a mariner from his youth upwards) by dis-
charging his Ministry, installing a new one,
and granting the new men a dissolution, so
that the country may decide all the vexed
questions at once. In other words his Ex-
cellency may exercise his undoubted autho-
rity to sack Gang and ,Co. while they are
prowling around for means to sack' him.
Consequently Attorney-General McTiernan,
arriving in London to see about the bounc-
ing of De Chair, might find out that he was
neither an Attorney-General nor a member,
but only an absentee candidate for Western
Suburbs. Then his position would to some
extent parallel that of Hall or Cocks, the
Agents-General who got such short notice
from himself and his very off-hand colleagues.
The last N.S.W. Governor who gave his
Ministry notice in mid career was Gerald
Strickland, G.C.M.G. in England and Count
Della Catena in Malta, who presented
Holman with the key of the street and told
him he would find it a very nice street. His
action was indisputably legal and might have
been brilliantly successful, only the impul-
sive Maltese omitted to first provide himself
with an alternative Premier, and finding
there was none in sight had to withdraw. De
Chair, on the other hand, has Bavin in
sight. Then Lang and his majority of one
nominee in the elective House is a very dif-
ferent proposition from Holman, posed as
an advocate of compulsory service, and with
a powerful new Coalition to present to the
islander’s astonished gaze. Some men would
have been upset over an incident like that,
but the Maltese nobleman stayed on and
took nourishment as usual.
WIRELESS AND CABLE.
The other (lay there waddled into sight of
the Westralian coast, not far from the spot
where the Dutch galleon, the Vcrgul'de
Draeck, sank with a rich cargo in 1656, a
large vessel of almost as unusual a shape,
whose slow progress suggested to many of
those who saw her that she was disabled.
She was the s.s. Colonia, whom I last shook
hands with, so to speak, in the Malacca
Straits. On that occasion she had arrived
to lay a new cable between Penang and
Colombo. Goodness knows how many thou-
sands of miles of line she has consigned to
a wmtery activity since. Her present visit
to Australia is concerned with the linking-
up of Perth with Cocos Island and the out-
side world, and the event marks the latest
stage in the dramatic struggle between the
long-established cable companies and wire-
less.
Compared to shooting out waves of elec-
tricity from an aerial which another slender
pole ten thousand miles away nets from the
air, the preparation for submarine communi-
cations appears to be clumsy and out of date.
The cable takes years to manufacture. It
is toilsomely coiled into large tanks on a
steamer specially constructed for the busi-
ness. The route lias to be carefully surveyed.
A cable festooned across a submerged Ivanim-
bla valley would soon part under its own
weight. The ship pays out over the stern
the thread of wire at a speed of six or seven
knots, allowing sufficient slack for it to lie
comfortably. The cable may develop a fault
or break. The ship has then to stop and
grapple for the end. passing it solicitously
back from the bow to the stern when she
recovers it. She chats the shore station all
the while so that continuity will be assured,
and when she gets to her journey’s end a
stouter type to withstand the wear and tear
of heavy surf is brought into action and sent
ashore by buoy and boat. The last flurry
is often an affair of picturesque excitement,
in which the surface of the sea becomes lit-
tered with gear, boats are stove in and lost,
and human blasphemy affronts the watching
heavens.
The new link just laid is an astonishing
improvement on the old types. Up to a
year or so ago the latest types of cables
were no different in principle from those
which were first laid and lost on the floor
of the Atlantic in 1867. Their chief con-
stituents were copper and gutta-percha, and
the only direction in which they could be
improved was by increasing the weight of
copper per mile. Consequently, as need
for greater speed arose, cables tended to
become as bloated as Friday’s pay-envelope,
and the prospect of reducing rates on mes-
sages was a nightmare managing directors
did their best to forget. The practical
limit was nearly reached when a cable with
7QOlb. of copper and 3601 b. of percha to the
mile was prayed over and laid tenderly to
rest between Ascension and Buenos Aires
in 1910. Yet the speed of this costly colossus
compared to the speed of the land telegraph
or the anticipated hurry of the projected
beam-wireless system was as the speed of
the shellfish to the mullet. If the great
British cable combine had had only this to
rely on, it would have been compelled sadly
to write off its £150,000,000 invested in sub-
marine cables and leave the business to Mar-
coni. A German, however, discovered a
metal alloy that cancelled most of the factors
reducing the speed of cables. Unheard-of
speeds were prophesied, and a cable of the
new material was laid. Much has been
heard about this Teutonic invention, but little
has been said about a British improvement
on it. After long experiment ■ an English
concern lately perfected a new alloy called
mu-metal. The new cable which has just
been dragged ashore in Westralia, amidst
suitable rejoicings, is made of this curiously-
named material. One of its principal advan-
tages is that while it weighs far less than the
old types its capacity is immensely larger.
The new link between Perth and the island
which Yon Muller made his last port of call
is 1719 nautical miles in length, and its tlieo-


retie speed is 2100 letters a minute, against
tlie 150-odd letters of the older types. It cost
£582,000, which looks a lot of money to ex-
pend on a cable when Britain has just suc-
ceeded in chatting U.S.A. on the wireless
telephone. Yet the company which bought
the new cable proposes eventually to replace
its entire line of communication between
Britain and Australia with similar appa-
rent anachronisms. Being composed of shrewd
business men, it probably has justification for
its faith, and it has large reserves with which
to indulge its fancy. While the last few
miles of the Cocos section were being slowly
laid, a private individual in Benalla (Vic.)
was discoursing through the ether with a
man in Pennsylvania (U.S.A.). In a few
months’ time the last taps will be given to
the new beam-wireless station near Melbourne.
Whatever may be the outcome of the in-
teresting contest between the old method and
the new, whether wireless eventually sup-
plants earth telegraphy, or both survive in
mutual independence, one fact sticks out
with certainty. This country will shortly
have facilities for bulling and bearing on the
markets of the world second to none.
C. Q.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Light on "Great Natural
Resources.”
All truly pig-headed patriots are ready to
hold forth at any hour of the day or night
about “the boundless natural resources” of
Australia. So., even more violently, are im-
porting liars, because they want the people
to believe that the nation can be affluent with-
out manufactures. Local manufactures are
bad for. importing liars. The latest batch
of Federal statistics is belated in places be-
cause of the difficulty of extracting facts from
some sluggish State departments, but so far
as they go they are rather despondent about
the natural resources. Some points :—
Gold production in Westralia is down below
£2,000,000 ( £1,871,421) for the first time since
1896. The year’s gold output of Victoria is down
to £200,901, which is the lowegt recorded. (The
highest was £12,214,976 in 1856.) The gold output
for the Commonwealth is £2,365,236, the worst
since 1851. (The best was £16,302,731 in 1903.)
Australia’s total mineral production for 1925 was
£24,644,739, two-thirds of' it from fortunate N.S.W.
Coal accounted for £11,615,570, and gold, silver,
lead, zinc, copper, tin and oddments for £13,029,169.
Great Britain, a shade larger than Victoria, produces
11 times the Commonwealth’s mineral values. There
are considerable known reserves of coal, etc., in these
parts, but the prospects of another gold boom rest
at present on the putting through of the South-to-
North railway.
The great oil discovery is still postponed. It may
always be. None of the 4344 existing bores (down
nearly 1000 miles), nor the forgotten and abandoned
bores, nor the Freetrade bores, nor the plain wells,
nor the innumerable shafts sunk in search of many
things, have dropped on any oil supply worth men-
tioning. Geographers, who have some standard of
measurement, say that the average height of Asia is
3200 feet; Africa and South America, 2000 feet;
North America, 1900 feet; Europe, 940 feet; and
Australia only 800 feet. Apparently volcanic action
left off early in this country, and it began to age
when some other continents were still young. Pos-
sibly the oil strata weathered down long ago, and
blew away into Genesis. Oil has more of a tendency
to come to the surface than some products. It has
even been known to leap 100ft. or more in the air,
which gold never does.
The stock of animals has been practically station-
ary of late years. The area under crop, which is
about equal to that of the British Isles, is not
increasing in any way commensurate with the very
large loan expenditure on “settlement” devices. It
looks as if progress won’t really resume until the
railway makes Central Australia and the N. Terri-
tory accessible as the beginning of a new policy,
though the abandonment of the supremely silly device
of keeping the outports barred against overseas trade
might do a good deal.
It may really be necessary to recognise that
manufacturing is a “natural resource,” and,
at present anyhow, the greatest one in sight,
if not the only one. Despite strikes, the break-
age of awards, the doings of imported com-
munists and the insane habit, peculiar to
Australia, of discouraging the small indus-
trial towns in order to further swell the
metropolis, this country’s factories find work
for a larger proportion of the population
every year, and the civil service is the only
other branch of industry concerning which
that can be said. Also, there is still great
room for factory expansion, and that can’t
be said even of the civil service.
4
The Shindy at Geneva.
The banging of Fritz's mailed fist on the
door of the Council of the League of
Nations has been very noisy of late. Four
Powers, Britain, France, Italy and Japan,
are permanent members of the Council with
one vote each. Six other States out of the
50 or more are annually elected to sit on
the Council, but their position is, of course,
uncertain and spasmodic. It has been pro-
posed for some time that Germany should
be admitted to the League, it being regarded
as safer inside than outside, and less likely
to continue its. very suspicious dealings with
the Soviet push. But* Fritz took a' lofty
attitude, and declined to join unless he was
made a permanent member of the govern-
ing body. He also gave instructions that no
other State should be admitted along with
him. Spain, which was a friendly neutral,
and Brazil, which was an ally in the Great
War. have both applied for a regular place
on the Council, and so has Poland, though
it looks hardly of sufficient importance to
have much show. Fritz said that after he
was in and settled down, and probably after
he had helped to elect some of his friends
to temporary membership, these and other
applicants might lay their cases before him
(and, of course, the rest), and he would
look into them. Sweden, which was a friendly
hanger-on of Fritz during the war, pounded
the table in a fury while demanding a per-
manent seat for Fritz and the exclu-
sion of every other applicant. Brazil,
without any damaging of the League’s fur-
niture, issued its ultimatum, which was that
Germany must not have a seat, and that it
must have one itself, and be always on hand
to talk to Fritz 1 if lie came to the door again.
Otherwise a republic which is larger than
Australia and Maoriland proposed to pack
its spare clothes and leave. There are only
three older members of the League than
Brazil, for Argentina hardly counts, having
departed in a huff after one meeting; and
the Brazilians have been cordial supporters,
but they draw the line at Fritz 1 .
*
Protection from Literary Dumping.
The Minister for Customs has been
approached by the authors’ section of the
Australian Journalists’ Association with a
request that something should be done toward
protecting the Australian writer from the
person overseas who dumps his surplus print-
ing into the country at a price which makes
local competition impossible, and thus takes
the bread out of the mouths of decent citizens
of the Commonwealth who are trying, against
heavy odds, to build up a literature of our
own. The matter affects the printing trade
even more than it affects the writer; but,
squarely viewed, it affects the Australian
public most of all. The literature produced
in a country is the articulate voice of a
people, and nations have the same right to
self-expression as individuals. The country
that has nothing to say for itself —no word
to hand on from generation to generation—
is in a poor way. No success in commerce,
economic organisation or social uplift can
make up for its failure to produce a litera-
ture of its own. The nation without such a
possession is a nation without a soul; and
the soulless nation is a nation without a
future. These facts are mere commonplaces
to those who have given thought to the
matter, and may reasonably be taken as a
basis on which the whole question can be
argued. Australian writers who try to make
their country articulate work under a great
natural handicap. We have a comparatively
small population of moderately busy people.
There is no large leisured class, as in older
lands, under whose pafronage and sponsor-
ship a literature might be fostered through
its weak infancy. On the contrary, our
writers have been forced not only to make
their appeal to a small audience, but to do
so in competition with the writers of larger
lands. About l(i0,000,000 people use the
English language; about 6,000,000 of these
are in Australia. That represents a heavy
handicap against the local writer; yet
the extent of Australian effort has been
large enough to give us a place with our
big competitors. For instance, in a recent
representative anthology of the verse of the
English-speaking world, out of 200 writers
eight are Australian. That is almost our
exact normal proportion; and it is certain
that the compilers of the publication have
shown us no favor as against England and
America. In fiction and general literature
our position is equally creditable. It is
clear, therefore, that in asking for Protection
Australian writers have proved against
the heaviest odds that there is something
real to protect. There is no suggestion that
the general reading public should be
forced back upon the product of Australian
brains alone. Nothing of this kind is pro-
posed. What is asked for is a reasonable
Protection against masses of dumped litera-
ture of the inferior sort with which the
Australian market is now swamped. While
these continue to be sold at a fraction of the
cost of the paper on which they are printed
it is impossible to produce even their local
equivalent. Australian readers are fed upon
these cheap products of overseas minds with
results that are anything but beneficial to a
growing nation. The demand for Protection
ia no new one; but the matter is so import-
ant that politicians should be forced to sit
up and take notice.
♦-
The Mungana Business.
Mines Minister Jones (Q. >, called before
the Brisbane Trades and Labor Council to
explain the affair of the Mungana
mining leases, gave a long-winded explana-
tion which added little to public knowledge.
Mungana is now the principal supplier of
silver-lead ore to the Chillagoe smelters. The
leases reverted to the Crown by forfeiture
in March, 1917; six months later they were
granted to one Fred Reid, and in February,
1922, the Government bought them back from
Reid for £40,000. Jones’s explanation was
that the leases had twice been abandoned
as valueless before Reid took them up; that
individual unexpectedly struck rich ore, and
the Government bought the leases because
it needed the ore to keep the Chillagoe
smelters going. He contended that the Gov-
ernment had made a very good bargain. Reid
certainly did. Jones could not give the
names (so loudly demanded on all sides) of
the fortunate individuals associated with
Fred Reid in his syndicate: he said there
was no record in the Mines Department. A
nai've touch in the Minister’s apologia was
the citation of the Labor majorities at Mun-
gana and Chillagoe at the recent by-election
as proof that the electors approved of the
transaction. In short, the Government’s case
is that it gave the leases away because they
were valueless, and bought them back be-
cause they were very valuable. The Trades
and Labor Councillors declared themselves
satisfied with the Minister’s explanation, but
Labor recalcitrants and the Opposition are
still crying for the names of the Retd syndi-
cate, and won’t be satisfied until they get
them.
Digging Holes to Fill Them Up.
The vocation or pastime of digging holes in
order to fill them up again is as old as the
dirt they are dug in. Asa figure of speech,
the operation may be made to cover most of
the waste that helps to ruin businesses and
lives, but it is in a very real and literal sense
that ill-ordered cities squander their sub-
stance on such folly. Sydney, in especial,
seems to have an insatiable mania for dig-
ging up the roads. In George-street, to take
only one thoroughfare, there are always
fatigue parties out with mattocks and shovels,
toying with the bowels of the earth, and
other roads and streets are never free from
barricades and excavations. Not infre-
quently the hole that was dug on Monday
and filled on Tuesday is reopened on Wednes-
day and filled again on Thursday. On the
heels of the myrmidons of the Railway Com-
missioners come the minions of the Water
Board; shadowing these are the Gas Com-
pany’s plumbers, who are dogged by the
.Electrical Department’s linesmen. Piaying
a sort of game of hide and seek with most
°tjiers are the street-maintenance men
of the City Council. It is all about as
maa as mad can be, and all parties to the
insanity are agreed that it ought to be ended,
ilie question, however, is how it is to be
ended. The City Council considers it should
nave supreme control over the streets, and
* it- 8 ?* sie$ ie Government to issue a ukase
to that effect. The Government may com-
ply, not because it is desirous of ending the
existing dog-fight between the rival autliori-
j.es’ but because the City Council is under
direct control of the Labor Caucus and the
other authorities aren’t. To make the City
Council the boss of the roads would be to
extend the opportunities for patronage
already enjoyed by Labor aldermen, which
opportunities are to be multiplied by a frenzy
of loan expenditure on “resumptions,” which
generally cost 50 per cent, more than the
estimate, and by the ordinance that only
applicants personally recommended by alder-
men(which means Labor aldermen) and
certified by the Town Clerk as having paid
their union dues, their subscriptions to the
Labor paper and any levy that may
have been struck, are to get municipal jobs.
A corporation which, in a single year of
Labor rule, has added 1151 employees to
a which got along with
hands three years before could not be
relied upon to lessen the hole-digging and
hole-filling. To enlarge the scope of action
would merely be to increase the number of
billets that might be bestowed by Alderman
Muedoon upon the free and enlightened
voters of Surry ’llls or the ’Loo. In some
cities where the methods of Tammany Hall
are not favored, they set up a board consist-
ing of the engineers or managers of the
various authorities concerned; with a man-
date to. get their several and various jobs
done, with as little useless hole-digging as
possible. In other places the various authori-
ties are merged in one, big board of works
with many departments, and the departmeiits
work with full knowledge of each other’s
purposes and operations. But without a
sincere intention to husband the public purse
and . give the public efficient service, adminis-
trative changes of the kind are but as sound-
ing brass and tinkling cymbals. All that
is likely to happen in Sydney is a further
demonstration of the truth of Gresham’s
law in politics as in currency—the bad drives
out the good.
+
The High Commissioner.
The question of who is to be the Common-
monweal til’s next High Commissioner in Lon-
don is already being discussed. Canada has
adopted quite a different principle from ours
in filling such an office and keeping it filled,
and South Africa has followed Canada’s lead.
The Dominion and the Union pick their man
—not always a politician, either —and keep
him there. His tenure is almost as secure
as that of a Judge; in most instances he has
been removed only by death. In Australia
the billet has come to be a prize to be held
for a limited term by a party hack, because
he Wants it or is held to have merited it by
party services, or because his party wants
to get rid of. him, or for all three reasons.
And when his five years are up, there is
always somebody for whom the billet has
been earmarked waiting to succeed him. The
system is never likely to give good results
to the Commonwealth, and it is desperately
unfair to the man. The late G. H. Reid
was so loath to leave Australia House, in the
early days of the wai% that he offered to go
on High Commissioning without any salary,
but his old opponents were in office and
Andrew Fisher had a lien on the job, so
out Reid went. Still George managed to
drop into a seat in the House of Commons
for the brief evening of his life; Fisher,
when his time came to make way for Cook,
failed to drop into anything. The British
Labor party, apparently, didn’t want him,
and when he returned to Australia for a fly-
ing visit he seems to have discovered that
there was no place in politics left for him
here. So he just faded out. Presently, no
doubt, when Cook’s successor has been de-
cided on and another “good party man” has
obtained the prize, the present High Commis-
sioner will return to Australia—to find as like
as not that anew generation has risen up which
knows not Joseph, or sets no particular store
on what it does remember of him. And the
country will have had four High Commis-
sioners within about 15 years “chasing each
other through the Zodiac like Taurus chases
Aries.” Is this sort of thing to go on in-
determinately?
Australian-made Motor-cars.
The Argits has worked itself into a state
of alarm concerning the imminence of an
Australian motor-car industry, and it has
produced a number of reasons why all good
men and true should come to the aid of the
Foreign-trade party and discourage such
horrible ideas. Boiled down, its objections
are these:—
If it were economically possible to manufacture
cars in Australia, they would have been manufac-
tured here long ago. America didn’t dare to com-
mence motor-car manufacture till it had a population
of 90,000,000 and Britain didn’t start till the Stork
had provided 45,000,000. Canadian experience ought
not to be cited, because Canada takes 60,000,000
dollars’ worth of motor parts from Detroit each year.
The establishment of a local industry will mean
higher duties, and therefore decreased importations,
a decreased number of motors in use, and less call
upon the industries that have grown up around the
imported motor. Investors have lost £600,000 in
efforts to assemble cars from imported parts, owing
to the use of a few locally-made parts. The only
success has been in the assembling of complete units
supplied by a single overseas manufacturer.
In effect, “Australia already has its automobile
industry, and if Parliament will leave w r ell alone the
future of the industry will be safely guarded by those
whose money is awaiting investment in any new
development.”
The main reason why America and Britain
didn’t start making njotor-cars before they
did is that the vehicle wasn’t invented.
Canada, however the Melbourne journal may
shuffle on the point, manufactures complete
cars; indeed, a substantial proportion of
Australian imports consists of Canadian-
manufactured, not merely-assembled, cars.
And what Canada has done for a decade
can surely be done in this country. The
bogey of lowered consumption and loss of
work to those employed in handling and
repairing imported products lias 'been flour-
ished in the face of every manufacturing
industry in Australia. It has no longer the
power to sciire a generation which has wit-
nessed the rise of the Newcastle steelworks,
tne conquest of the Australian market by
Australian-made and, in many cases, -in-
vented agricultural implements, the expan-
sion of the textile factories, stimulated by
the recent tarilf revision, and the emergence
of scores of other secondary industries. Nor
have losses, real or alleged, in efforts to
assemble cars from imported parts anything
to do with the case. Customs Minister Prat-
ten says he has information that the manu-
facture of an all-Australian car is likely to
commence this year or early next year. This
announcement weakens the first plank in the
Argus platform—that the fact that an in-
dustry hasn’t been started is conclusive proof
that it can’t succeed if it is started.
+
The Ebbing; Tide of Migration.
While everyone seems to be agreed that it
would save J. Bull a heap of worry if he
could induce hundreds of thousands of his
progeny to set sail for the Dominions, the
affection of said progeny for places of resi-
dence within a 350-mile radius of Manchester
is increasing. Before the Great War Bull’s
annual natural increase was getting near the
half-million mark, but he could reckon on
keeping it down to a quarter-million or so
by emigration. The Dominions took most
of his migrants, and the U.S.A. a generous
slice of the balance. But even in pre-war
times there were factors at work to make
emigration less popular. In 1911 there was
a balance of departures over arrivals of
240,000, the Dominions taking 200,000. By
1913 the balance had shrunk to 200.000 and
the Dominions’ quota to 185,000. There fol-
lowed a period in which migration, the birth-
rate and the death-rate were all knocked out
of their normal course by the most sanguin-
ary war in history. In 1922 departures
exceeded arrivals by a mere 80,000 —and this
at a time when the importance of a better
distribution of the white population of the
Empire Avas being talked about all over the
territory on which the sun doesn’t set. Latest
available figures give only the Dominions’
part of the picture and show that they
absorbed a little under 90,000 migrants iii
1924 and not quite as many last year.
Australia, which took 56,337 in 1911 and
68,673 in 1912, took only 28,156 in 1924 and
27,056 last year. Canada shows a still
more marked tapering oft. Her figures are:
134.765 in 1911; 128.029 in 1913 ; 89,102 in
1919; 69,690 in 1922 ; 46,469 in 1924, and
38,666 last year. The hero of the piece from
Father Bull’s point of view is little Maori-
land, which has kept up its pre-war average
of about 10,000 a year—the Tremulous
Islands took 9432 in 1911; 12,692 in 1922:
8836 in 1924 and 11,730 last year. In the
case of Canada, as in that of Australia, the
migrant is neither officially discouraged nor
unofficially welcome, and as he or she has the
dole and the Poor Law Guardians to fall
back on at home, the line of least resistance
can easily be traced. It cannot be said
that the antipathy to the migrant, in Aus-
tralia at all events, always runs on familiar
economic lines. Quite recently there was a
protest by a trade-union against the impor-
tation of a party of skilled workmen on the
ground that they were guaranteed by con-
tract a much higher wage than the award
minimum. The admittance of outsiders on
such terms, it was pleaded, would cause dis-
satisfaction amongst Australian workmen.
Probably the three greatest factors that
operate to keep J. Bull’s children at home
are (1) the dole; (2) limitation of migra-
tion to the U.S.A. and the effect of that limi-
tation upon Canadian opinion; (3) the in-
creasing influence of organised Labor in
Australia and South Africa. The situation
is not likely to improve until it is candidly-
discussed by the parties concerned, and a
really candid discussion of any “Imperial
problem’’ would be something so unprece-
dented as to be positively terrifying.
The Expulsion of Ogden.
“Press”: Senator Ogden’s expulsion from
tfie A.L.P. by Tas. Labor Conference (B.
20/2/’26) was far more emphatic than the
figures indicate. It is safe to estimate that
at least a dozen of the 21 votes cast against
expulsion were given on quite other grounds
than a belief that Ogden’s recent attitude
towards his party could be justified. Some
delegates (including Attorney-General Ogil-
vie) openly favored postponement of definite
action until Federal candidates come up for
Labor endorsement at the end of next year.
Another prominent Labor leader, though con-
demning Ogden’s views on deportation,
strongly urged that the foolish and intoler-
ant truculence of certain mainland industrial
extremists might well be held to excuse a
man of Ogden’s age, health and temperament
kicking over disciplinary traces occasionally.
Others argued that the Federal Labor Caucus
should make the first move to deal with
Ggden’s alleged breaches of the Federal
Labor platform. However, in a muddled and
roundabout way the conference eventually-
arrived at a vote of expulsion by a majority
of seven. Ogden declared that, expulsion or
no expulsion, he would remain Labor, and
would be a Labor candidate at next election.
In ,! view of this definite statement it is not
improbable that he will be an applicant for
re-admission at next annual conference. As
this conference declined, by 27 to 24, to
censure the executive for re-admitting Jens
August Jensen prior to "the Federal elec-
tion in order that he might run as the
official Labor candidate for Wilmot, and em-
phatically refused to re-admit Gerald
Mahoney, extremist, who ran for a seat at
the State election as “Independent Labor,”
it is realised that anything may happen at
the next pow-wow. At any rate, it would
be as well for furious party controversialists
to remember that the decisions of a State
Labor conference have only one year’s cur-
rency. ■ *
A Little Disarmament for Uncle.
The postponement of the Disarmament Con-
ference, which was put off because Russia
would neither disarm nor confer nor leave
off plotting insurrection in other people’s
territories, is said to have “shocked public
opinion in the United States.” Some people
are wondering whether a little disarmament
would do Uncle Sam any harm. Whatever
the quality of his forces may be, they are


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. P. R. HIGGINS (Chairman), W. NORTHAM, ALEX. KING.
Total Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart! NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
bonuses? * Association and no deduction made from pol”
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to oublic
and private hospitals varying in amount according t? the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
N° EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED for THESE BENEFITS:
Probate Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. PEACOCK, Secretary.
T. W. RAPLEY, General Manager.
large enough to be visible to the naked eye.
Uncle’s navy is within a stone’s throw of
being the biggest in the world, and is, on
paper, anyhow, twice the strength of Japan’s.
He has 131,000 troops under arms, and State
militias amounting to 141,000. These are
voluntary men, but the President can turn
the militia into a compulsory service force
if lie thinks necessary, and take it into the
regular army. Also “citizens’ military train-
ing camps” are encouraged every summer on
a huge scale under Government instructors.
G. Washington doesn’t live alongside un-
pleasant compulsory-service persons like the
Russian and the Turk. He isn’t driven to
keep command of the sea, as J. Bull is,
lest his food supply be cut off. He isn’t up
against any such stupendous colored-man
problem, as the Briton has on his hands in
India. So. G. Wash, is a peaceful and dis-
arming sort of person, but he plays around
a great deal with sharp tools all the same.
4
An Exhortation to Cheerfulness.
Nicholas Lockyer, a man with a dignified
civil service record but not much known in
manufacturing, agricultural, pastoral, mining,
shipping, banking, mercantile or railway
circles, was sent to Tasmania to inquire
why that isolated little State is in difficulties
and asking for assistance. At recent advices
the Commissioner had made some progress
with his investigations, and was talking to
the community after the manner of a rich
uncle discoursing to a down-at-heel nephew
whose dilapidations were due to beer. In
particular he commented on the pessimism
of the people, “including leaders of public
opinion,” the apparent backwardness of agri-
culture, and the lack of helpful suggestions
for making the position better—though de-
mands for the complete abolition of the Navi-
gation Act hadn’t been wanting, and that
looked like a suggestion. As for the people
not being optimistic, Nicholas himself didn’t
show them anything about which to op. Some
of the features of the case are these:—
Tlie Navigation Act confined inter-State sea-trade
to local boats which are almost wholly at the mercy
of strike-makers with whom the feeble central Gov-
ernment has shown itself utterly unable to cope.
Westralia was saved from the disaster of periodical
isolation by being presented with a railway, which
it received on conditions which haven’t been fulfilled,
and the loss on which is mostly borne by its neigh-
bors. The Northern Territory, not being similarly
provided with a railway, has gone, as regards its
port and many other matters, to the penniless and
unutterable dogs. Tasmania, which can’t be con-
nr-ted by rail, is struggling against many difficulties.
*he profitable tourist traffic received something
nke a death blow with the last great strike, when
the summer consignment of Australian visitors were
marooned on the island, unable to get back to their
sources of income, and some of them dreadfully short
of money. The futility of the Federal Government,
and its navy, and its shipping-line, and all its
other assets on that occasion was abject, and it has
been pretty abject all along.
Out of ten steamship-lines, apart from the Laun-
ceston-Melbourne mail, which served Tasmania before
the Navigation Act days, five have stopped, three
now carry cargo only, and the others supply reduced
services. An unusual amount of the local exports
have now to be sent to Australian ports and tran
shipped at serious expense.
Railway earnings have fallen off amid the general
depression. In 1920 the Tasmanian railways yielded
a better return on their cost than those of Westralia,
South Australia or Queensland. Now they are at
the bottom of the State list, the yield having dropped
from £2 6s. per cent, to 5s. 2d. per cent. The
earnings of the Westralian lines have risen in the
same time from £1 12s. 9d. per cent, to £5 2s. 2d.
per cent., which is the best figure in Australia.
This may be partly because the big Federal railway
is a valuable feeder for the Westralian State system,
though it loses much money itself.
Tasmania may be backward in some things, yet
it isn’t so far back as seems to be suspected. It
is the smallest State, and is one thirty-seventh the
area of Westralia, which is the, largest. Yet by
latest figures the very little State had one-fourth the
very big one’s stock of sheep, cattle and horses, one-
fourth its output of wool, was nearly equal to it for
bacon and ham, had over twice the output of
butter and 280 times the output of cheese. The
Tasmanian factory-hand works for the lowest
wages in the Commonwealth (latest returns showed
a decrease), and the population pays the highest
tax rate per head save one among the six States
in the effort to keep the public accounts square.
Last year it did get them square. Westralia is the
lowest-taxed State save one, and is almost proud
of the fact that it hasn’t paid its way, or tried to,
for a dozen years.
The most depressing circumstance is that
population has begun to show a steady de-
crease. The Northern Territory isn’t quite
so isolated as Tasmania even in the worst
marine stoppage, for people do reach it by
land, and it also shows a decrease. It is
quite possible that Westralia would do the
same but for its great Federal railway. The
situation is that the big low-tax State with
the premeditated shortage and the small high-
tax State with the unintentional shortage
have both attracted Federal attention. West-
ralia has been presented with a big cheque
over and above its habitual allowance, and
Tasmania has been handed an exhortation
to be cheerful—it isn’t quite clear about
what.
“Atherton” : Queensland trades-union lead-
ers are almost bursting with arrogance.
Union books, with the exception of those
of the A.W.U., are closed to new members,
which means that jobs are held exclusively
for the privileged few, also that 3000 workless
men are walking the Brisbane streets. The
A.W.U. is open to them, but on approaching
a job with the A.W.U. ticket they are coldly
told the ticket is no good; every different
job means a different union ticket. Trades
Hall aristocrats merely shrug shoulders when
an A.W.U. member approaches them for a
ticket in another union. These blind leaders
of the blind have learned nothing from the
defeat of the Red wharfies at Bowen and
Cairns, or the verdict of the people on
November 14, or the collapse of the Sea-
men’s Union, with its fool-leaders expelling
one another among the ruins, and the N. S'.
Wales shipowners carrying on as usual not-
withstanding the latest of a hundred mad
strikes. Post-war industrial unionism is
fashioning the rope with which it will hang
itself.
♦-
Melbourne ended the week with the usual
riot, which, curiously enough, was the only
end-of-the-week riot of any importance to
THE INVITATION.
"I suggest to British manufactures that, instead of complaining of the unalterable Australian
poliey of Tariff Protection, they use same of their captal to extablish factories in Australian. Our market
would then be entirely open to them, and work would be avaible for thevery clas of men who at
pressent swell the army of unemployed in Britain."-PRATTEN. Minister of Customs.
THE ENGLISHMAN WHO BECAME AN AUSTRALIAN PROTECTIONIST: "Come over here!"
get a mention. The trouble began when two
policemen endeavored to arrest a man on a
charge of assault and robbery, and some 400
sympathisers waded in to effect a rescue.
They presumably formed part of the grow-
ing class which is taught by imported revolu-
tionists to regard the police as “minions of
capital, and to view any violent sort of
criminal as an embodiment of the spirit of
liberty and a harbinger of the new era. The
original prisoner was lost, but one out of the
400 rescuers was gathered in, with the pros-
pect of being fined a trifle. One officer of the
law was not quite killed, and though the cab
m which it was proposed to convey awav the
FJ;\ SO , ner J vas s^ en > the driver wasn’t quite
killed either. About the same time a con-
stable was partially slain in an adjacent sub-
urb by another rescuing party, and became a
hospital case. The English idea of a city
police force, in localities of dubious repute
anyhow, is to sow cops so thickly along the
streets that they are almost in sight of each
other, and when one toots his bugle-horn
for aid the signal is passed along and the
strong arm of the ,law arrives at a canter.
For the area on which J. Bull plants 67
constables Victoria is satisfied with one. So
when serious trouble begins, police head-
quarters is either rung up for reinforcements
by siome friendly but interfering person, or
learns of the matter in next day’s paper.
The complications of Sydney municipal poli-
tics are so numerous and so disreputable
that the best hope lies in abolishing the
whole show and putting the city under com-
missioners. Anew trouble concerns a Brob-
dingnagian power-house which the city
fathers are erecting at Botany, miles outside
their own territory, on land the title of which
has been badly spoken of. The unprinciple
has been laid down that all such work must
be restricted to residents of the city, who
number about 110,000 all told—mostly dwell-
ers in flats, hotels and boarding-houses, care-
takers, seamen and the like. In practice
it is further restricted, or to be restricted,
to persons who dwell in wards which return
Labor aldermen, and who are known to, and
recommended by, such aldermen. All this
sort of thing greatly reduces the number of
male citizens available for the £2,000,000 or
£3,000,000 Sydney municipal job at remote
Botany. Working there, but living in the
city so as to be available to vote the Labor
municipal ticket at any moment, they have
to be exported to their work every morning
and imported home each evening. The agree-
ment was that they should travel to and fro
in their own time and at their own cost, but
the agreement has gone where Jonah went.
The demand is that travelling expenses shall
be paid, and that travelling time shall come
out of the 44 hours per week, reducing the
week to about 38 hours. It is a big tax
to pay in order that the men who toil at
the Botany power-house shall be absentees
trom Sydney, and the rage of unemployed
.Botany Laborites at being disqualified for
employment in their own town, which isn’t
especially affluent, because the push at Syd-
ney lown Hall has its own ends to serve, is
intense.
♦
1ms quaint argument was put forth by a
leally intense Foreign-trader at the confer-
ence of the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association: —
Theie were industries in the country built up
on a rotten foundation, for they depended absolutely
on local consumption. Thus Australia was build-
ing up a large industrial class that had no hope of
succeeding when its output exceeded the popula-
tion’s needs.
And the graziers were much impressed. It
is a pity the agitated gent, didn’t take a
really large look at his case and put it like
this:—
There were industries in the world built up on
a rotten foundation, for they depended entirely on
globe consumption. Thus the earth was building
up a large industrial class which had no hope of
succeeding when its output exceeded the planet’s
needs.
Even taking the narrowest view, there art;,
when one comes fo think of it, an amazing
number of people dependent on local con-
sumption, including railway-, tram- and ’bus-
men, _ barbers, shopkeepers, street-cleaners,
Turkish-bath attendants, lawyers, and any
amount more. It is impossible to export
tram-rides, haircuts, legal opinions and per-
sonal cleanliness when supply is abundant
and demand short, so any cow-minder should
see that these industries should be discour-
aged. The position is enough to make the
cow weep, let alone the minder.
«
“Clement R. d’Uppe’’ : One of the minor
fatuities of the N. S. Wales centralisation
system is the retention of all motor-car and
motor-cycle registrations at Sydney. No
police-station in the State is permitted to
keep a register, even of those petrol-driven
machines owned within its own district. All
registrations have to be sent to Sydney, and
from Sydney must be obtained all informa-
tion relating to the ownership of a
machine when police inquiries concern-
ing some accident or breach of local
ordinances are launched. Even if a
ear bearing a certain number bangs into a
country police-station and speeds off into
the night, a polite request must be made to
Sydney that the name of the person appear-
ing on the Sydney register as owner of the
car be forwarded as soon as possible. By
the time the information is received, the cul-
prit will have leisure to repair any damage
to his car and produce the alibi. Unless a
law-breaking motorist is personally known
to witnesses of his misdemeanor, the police
outside Sydney have very little chance
of establishing his guilt. It doesn’t seem to
have yet occurred to the authorities that
the most effective means of rounding up
motor crooks is to permit traffic officers in
the larger sub-districts to keep their own
registers and to supplement them, from time
to time, with metropolitan and other coun-
try additions.
+
“Mayne Stay" : In “The Case for the Ship-
master” (B. 4/3/’2G), “Albatross” is on the
wrong tack. Chairs of navigation and
astronomy in our universities wmuld not
make any difference. There is already a
chair of engineering, but the marine engi-
neer’s certificate is of more value in getting
a job—even on shore—than a degree. To
make a university course necessary for a
ship’s officer would alter the whole struc-
ture of the service, and the benefit would be
doubtful. The merchant service has always
been democratic and proud of it. The in-
creasing stiffness of the examinations is mak-
ing it harder for those who have not had a
good grounding, especially in mathematics;
still, even mathematics can be swotted up
by anyone sufficiently keen. No university
course could turn out a ship’s officer. The
handling of ships and men must be learnt
at sea. Uncle Sam experimented with a
short intensive training when he thought he
was going to mop up the carrying trade of
the world, but it wasn’t a success. The ship’s
officer is, and always has been, the buffer
between the owners and crews, and his only
hope is to copy them in combining for his own
protection. If we had one association cover-
ing all qualified men, we should be able to
demand the consideration that is our due,
though I’m afraid we’d have to strike to
prove we meant it, as the P. and O. men
once did. In England, with four or five
societies, one at least largely controlled by
shipowners and all fighting amongst them-
selves, the chance of stopping undercutting
is small. In Australia, where practically
every certificated man is in the Merchant Ser-
vice Guild, we are on a bit better footing, but
there is a long way to go yet.


The Savings Account and the
Money Box.
The Savings Account is a convenient method of conducting
the household Accounts, of accumulating Savings for any purpose,
and for teaching the children the wisdom and benefit of thrift.
Accounts may be opened by each and every member of the
household with any amount from 1/- upwards.
The Bank issues attractive metal Money Boxes at 6d. each, and
renewals of these are given free.
There is an agency of the Savings Department at every Post
Office.
Commonwealth M of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
MMMM
Tariff Increase Reduces Price
of the “BUZACOTT” Pumper.
Now £45.
Following on the recent increase in tariff, larger production and
consequently lower manufacturing costs have enabled us to reduce
the price of the “Buzacott” Pumper from £47/10/- to £45.
This “Wizard of the Wells” is a standard, portable, self-contained
pumping outfit that is designed to supplement or take the place
of windmill power for your pumping work.
It guarantees your water supply through the hot, parching
weather When there is not a breath of wind to drive your
windmill.
Made in Australia to give uninterrupted and satisfactory service
in ail weathers under Australian conditions, it is ready to put
to work, after tightening four ordinary nuts, the moment you
receii e it.
"No “extras” or “accessories” such as pump jacks, belts, or even
a special platform are required.
STANDARDISED THROUGHOUT.
Spare parts available by return post.
Illustrated Catalogues promptly on request.
BUZACOTT (St. CO., LTD.,
7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last time the N.S.W. Premier called on
Excellency de Chair to ask for a dozen or two
mere Upper House nominations that affable
seaman offered him a dissolution instead. As
the mildest-mannered morning paper ever
invented put it, “the Premier declined the
suggestion.” It would have been a breach
of orthodoxy if it had written : “Wearing an
expression of almost maniacal fury and speak-
ing with difficulty, the Premier scorned the
insinuation and implied that he wasn't that
kind of bally ass.” Still, it would have been
graphic. Probably Lang would have been
equally irresponsive if he had been offered
a good precipice so that he could take jump-
ing exercise, or the use of a train so tliat he
might run over himself. It wasn’t his day
for being responsive.
For the second half of 1925 this country’s
imports, as usual, exceeded the exports which
are supposed to pay for them. Every Free-
trade caclder is ready to explain that im-
ports are always paid for by exports, but
somehow these States at last June owed
£337,000,000 abroad through imports not
being so paid for. Another £19,000,000 or
so have been added since to the heap of mis-
fortune. The day the figures came out the
tariff was having another spin in the House
of Reps., and the usual crowd of shoddy
prevaricators were on their hoofs alleging
that Australian duties are “prohibitive,” and
trying at the same time to keep the flies off
each other with their tails.
An unfailing sign that a general election
is approaching in Queensland is provided by
the upward leap in loan expenditure on
public works. The last general election was
held in May, 1923, and the loan expenditure
for that quarter was £525,546 more than for
the preceding one. There was another great
’ ) eund in expenditure in the last quarter of
19-,s—from £685,505 in the September period
>461,979 in the December one. The
1 ederal election was held in November, and
the Chill agoe-E a c h a m by-elections in Janu-
ary- Opposition-leader Moore has been re-
calling that the Willowburn railway works
Toowoomba were started just prior to
the 1920 election, shut down after the elec-
tion, started again prior to the 1923 elec-
tion, and shut down again after the election.
It looks as if they might be re-opened at any
moment now.
r ?? le vi^ es * :ra^an Collier Government has
made Walter Dwyer, sometime Labor M.L.A.
tor Perth, president of the State Arbitration
Court with a seat on the Supreme, -Court
Dench. Dwyer, a grave and studious young
man who is personally esteemed, has been
out of politics since 1914. when he was de-
bated by. J. D. Connolly, since Agent-
Ceneral, but the appointment is sure to be
questioned when the Westralian Parliament
meets. It is expected that the Government
will defend itself by quoting Queensland
Labor precedents, especially the elevation
to the Bench of Frank Brennan, Labor Min-
ister of Education, the transfer of Labor
Premier Gillies and A.W.U. secretary
Dunstan to the Board of Arbitration.
Lloyd George, being Welsh and a wizard,
could probably still fill a bigger ball than
any other British orator, but his following
in the House of Commons has shrunk so
much that it would hardly crowd a coal-
cellar. Nominally, there are, or were till the
recent defections, 42 members of the once
mighty Liberal party left on the Parliamen-
tary deck. Twenty-four of these were all
that could be mustered at the recent open-
ing of Parliament to choose a chairman, and
while 17 voted for Lloyd George, seven voted
against him. Ned Harney, K.iC., sometime
an Australian Senator, took the foremost
part in shoring up the tottering Colossus;
at all events he nominated him for continua-
tion in the leadership.
The Limerick Steamship Co., some of
whose vessels were commandeered here dur-
ing the war, had a long and dismal time in
the courts trying to get compensation from
the Commonwealth and from Scott Fell
and Co. All it got was two huge
bills of costs. Recently its s.s. Knock-
fierna, flying the Irish Free State flag,
steamed into the den of lions, and was
promptly arrested for debt. It was, of
course, the Scott Fell firm which did the
deed, for the Commonwealth is a hopeless
dud at collecting law expenses. The Free
State has laid in a new flag, and it has re-
named its ports of Queenstown and Kings-
town, making them Cobh and Dun Lasgliaire,
but these changes don’t help much.
More bubbles on the troubled sea of N. S.
Wales politics:—
According to statements made in the Parliamen-
tary lobbies, Ministerialists may urge the Premier
to take a referendum of the people on the question
of Upper House abolition. A section of the Cabi-
net favors this move.
It isn’t convincing. In Queensland a refer-
endum was taken re Upper House abolition,
the vote was overwhelmingly against aboli-
tion, and abolition happened all the same.
N. S. Wales doesn’t want a spasmodic refer-
endum, which can be granted or withheld,
overruled, ignored or set aside. But it would
see its way out of many, difficulties if its
shirty Premier would make the referendum
(a binding one), initiative and recall per-
manent features of the Constitution. Then
all parties might have a rest.
THE SNAKE CHARMERS.
“Mr. Manning, M.H.R. for Macquarie (N.S.W.), proposed the construction of a railway from Bourke
to the N. Territory. Mr. Gregory, M.H.R. for Swan (W.A.), moved an amendment that a railway be
built from Broome or Derby to the N. Territory.”
With a melodramatic gesture Prohibition-
ist Greenwood, M.L.A. for Boroondara, de-
clared in Melbourne the other day that he
had lopped himself off the Ministerial party
in the Leg. Assembly. Instead of looking
alarmed, the party said that it regarded
Greeny as having done the lopping just be-
fore Christmas, when he joined Prendergast
in voting against the Income-tax Bill. In
any case it didn’t care a tinker’s malediction.
It was recently mentioned that one pas-
toral leasehold show, managed in Scotland
but operating largely in Queensland, had
made £228,000 in the year, after paying
£02,000 in taxes. The Queensland Govern-
ment, which has the advantage of being on
the spot, took to running something like a
dozen stations itself, and lost hundreds of
thousands of pounds, and paid itself no
taxes, though it acquired a whole fortune in
weeds and wild dogs. Which may be taken
to show that intelligence is a handy thing
in any business.
Stewart, M.H.R., and his radical follow-
ing were routed by the moderates at Vic.
Farmers’ Union conference at Ballarat. On
the first test vote the immoderates found
themselves in a minority of 75, and on the
second day, when conclusions were tried on
the question whether compo. Cabinets should
be tolerated any longer, the moderates, with
whom Federal Ministers Hill and Gibson
and State Premier Allan arc allied, won by
220 to 135. Then the right wing re-elected
H. AY. Pickering (Ouyen) president by a
majority of 5(5 over 11. J. Wiltshire; AVilt-
shire’s extremism discounted the prestige he
had acquired as a representative of the Dig-
gers on the Soldier-Settlement Commission
last year. Feeling crushed, Stewart’s sec-
tion met to determine whether it should
accept a broad hint by Pickering and “go
out.” The majority decided to stay in and
try to mould enlarged and new branches to
their way of thinking.
“Gallery”: Tired of being a mere private
member, ex-Treasurer McPherson (Vic.) has
bounded into the - limelight with a demand
for an early session of the State Parliament.
He is, posing as the man who wants to get
things done, but the things he specifies
were not considered urgent by him when he
was in office for six years. The Spencer-
street bridge, the Hawthorn bridge, gas regu-
lation and redistribution of seats were all
problems of McPherson’s day, but they were
left unsolved. Twice within the last five
years the belated zealot was abroad during
a general election ; and in July, 1923, while
awaiting Lawson’s return from England, he
showed that he could not lead the Assembly.
He has no following in that House, and,
except for a few suburban Bumbles, nobody
takes his limelighting seriously.
About 30,000 electors failed to vote at tin;
Brisbane Water and Sewerage Board polls.
The Government ingenuously announces that,
although compulsory voting is the law of
the land, defaulters will not be brought to
book “on account of the frequency of dengue
fever.” It is doubtful if one per cent, of the
30,000 abstained from voting for dengue rea-
sons, but with a general election approach-
ing the Government would rather violate
its own fool-law than render itself unpopu-
lar by enforcing it.
Timothy Coghlan had an unlucky day last
week. It was stated in the press that the
N.-S.W. Premier is "personally friendly”
with him and “holds him in the highest re-
gard,” which wasn't a nice thing to say.
It was further mentioned that if Lang
could get rid of Governor de Chair as he
did of Agent-General Cocks, and could get
permission to nominate a successor, he would
offer Coghlan the billet, just as lie did with
Cocks's billet. And it appeared to be
assumed that the offer would be accepted
in this case as in that of Cocks, to say no-
thing about the previous case of Agent-
1 ttv.li t” j ~ _ . &
General Hall, v\ l o got the peremptory, coarse
and uncivil sack from the last Labor Govern-
ment and was also replaced by Timothy,
To be put forward as the sort of man to
serve Langs purpose, which consists in
dodging any expression of the popular will
by referendum or otherwise, would certainly
aggravate some men. And to be classed as
such a ready and persistent acceptor of
victimised men s jobs would drive others to
tury as casting a slur on their union tickets.
The Rockhampton (Q.) Industrial Coun-
cil, one of the many little private Soviets
which nowadays dot the face of Queensland
, . , . vtfucciioituiu,
has issued a communique condemning the
capitalistic practice of prosecuting men who
steal rides on the railways. It considers that
men who put up with the inconvenience of
travelling under a tarpaulin in the Queens-
land climate in order to find work, “and thus
contribute their share towards the future
benefit of tlie State,” should “be extolled
rather than punished.” All the same, if a
worker tried to steal a free ride on a union
without paying his fare, he would not be
left long in doubt as to whether he would
be “extolled rather than punished.”
Westralian politicians are wondering
whether the State Labor Government will
bring in a Redistribution of Seats Bill next
session, which will be the last before the
general election. There are 50 Assembly
seats and the net enrolment on June 30 was
202,040, so on the one-vote-one-value prin-
ciple, in which Labor used to believe, or said
it did, each Assemblyman should represent
4000-odd electors. But one Labor M.L.A.
represents 334 electors in Menzies, another
571 in Cue, a third 620 in Pilbara, a fourth
767 in Leonora, a fifth 960 in Yilgarn, a
sixth 966 in Magnet, a seventh 977 in Mur-
chison, an eighth 1009 in Hannans, a ninth
1100 in Coolgardie and a tenth 1332 in
Kanowna. Also, the party has high hopes
of ejecting Mulga Taylor from Mount Mar-
garet (470), and the cutting up of Canning
(14,051), which Alick Clydesdale holds by
virtue of his personal popularity, would pre-
sent the Opposition with at least one seat,
perhaps two. So it is expected that the
Collier crowd will dodge redistribution as it
would dynamite.
Queensland Premier McCormack is pur-
suing the “divide and conquer” policy in
fighting his railway-union antagonists. He
has stirred up an internecine war between
the railway leaders, and the Labor press is
cheering on both sides. It is asserted that
Rymer, Moroney and the other delegates
expelled from the Southport convention acted
on their own responsibility in signing the
anti-communist pledge “under protest,” as
the A.R.U. State Council had instructed them
to sign unconditionally. The south-eastern
division of the union, which comprises one-
third of the membership, has censured the
rebels for causing the 11,000 members to be
disfranchised at the Labor convention.
Rymer and Moroney are now so busy defend-
ing themselves that McCormack is enjoying
a rest.
The British Government is being urged to
get rid of the coal barons who collect
£6,000,000 p.a. in royalties, and it will pro-
bably buy them out and add them to the
public debt. The move will be popular in
industrial circles, but the present position is
that the Government subsidy to the coal
wages fund pays the royalties and a good
deal more, and after the State has paid
them out of taxes it takes back perhaps half
the money in other taxes. So the situation
is mixed, and the immediate benefit will be
hard to find. In fact, until ,T. Bull does
something with a big Protective tariff to
recover his own market for his own workers
it is unlikely that there will be much benefit
anywhere. In 1925 he bought £47,429,000
more and sold £16,100,000 less abroad than
in 1924, and he had to find £390,023,000,
largely by eating up his savings, to settle
the difference.
The pawns concerned in the proposed move
early next year to Canberra are quite prop-
erly taking an interest in their fate. They
have formed themselves into a mutual pro-
tection society, and recently stirred the
somnolent Pearce out of his slumbers to
answer a few pointed questions. One was
whether it was a fact that the cost of living
at the bush capital is already higher than
elsewhere, and whether the sudden influx of
a hungry horde would tend to raise it. In-
dications are that the answer is in the
affirmative, despite the Minister’s evasive
rhetoric: there are no signs yet that dairy-
men, orehardists and other necessaries of
civilised existence have arrived in sufficient
quantities in the Territory to be able to
cater for the expected multitude of politici-
ans ail'd their batmen.
The N.S.W. Premier, who is never happy
unless he is wronged and resentful, resumed
the other day his favorite role of Ajax defy-
ing the ghosts of posterity. He foresaw iil-
treatment and prepared against it. As the
report went: —
He resented what he considered the unfair manner
in which the position and activities of the State
Government had been presented to the financial
world in London. Unless he received the sympa-
thetic treatment from London that he desired when
raising loans he might accept offers from American
financiers.
“American financiers” are always reported
to be in the offing, and anxious to advance
money, at low interest, on personal security,
also bonds, debentures, public and private
lands, rabbits, unused ports, unpayable rail-
ways, etc. Still Australia (States and Com-
monwealth) has only contrived to borrow
about £20,000,000 from its American uncle
in five years, whereas N.S.W. alone, despite
Lang’s grumpiness, has raised £6,260.242 in
London during eight months. Uncle's inter-
est is high, his flotation charges are high, his
supply of money is spasmodic because there
is no big group of professional foreign-loan
floaters in New York as there is in London,
and Uncle doesn’t renew the loan when it
falls due. This is a horrid and loathsome
proposition for a country like Australia,
which pays nothing and renews everything.
REPARATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In reply to a question asked by Dr. Maloney
(Vic.) in the House of Iteps., the Treasurer said
that the amount received by Australia in reparations
to date was £377,390. Australia’s allotted share of
the reparations was £63,162,000.”
A penny ha’penny in the £, as near
As an indifferent cipherer can set it,
A penny ha’penny in seven year,
And pretty lucky, Mr. Page, to get it,
Spite of Versailles and vain imaginings
And Dawes’s scheme and lots of other things.
Seems but the other day that Hughes came back
Announcing, when the victors Fritz should squeeze,
The first eight millions of Australia’s whack
Would go to furnish Dig.’s gratuities.
Counted your chickens early, you’ll allow,
Didn’t you, William? Well, you’re wiser now.
A penny ha’penny in seven year
Still, other creditors have more to fret
About. A simple sum will make it clear
The last instalment at this' rate we’ll get
In years eleven hundred and a score—
Unless the world should shut up shop before-
It seems a devil of a time to wait.
Still there are slower pays than Fritz, I guess ;
At least he's wiped three ha’pence off the slate,
And poor old Bull, however hard he press
His claims, has found he’s less than Buckley’s chance
Sq far of squeezing even that from France.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
M
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
fi
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows :
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Trustees, Executors & Agency
Company, Limited,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(The First Trustee Company established in Australasia.)
Capital paid up, £140,000.
The standing of this Company in the public mind is the result of
constant fidelity for more than 47 years to the highest principles of
Trustee Work.
Write fo r Booklet.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Huddabt Parker, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
r~ Dividends. >, To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 90,634 30,000 7 p.c.= 35,000 25,634 78,989
1916. .117,140 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 37,140 116,129
1917. .140,645 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 60,645 176,774
1918. .220,747 30,000 11 „ „ 65,000 135,747 312,521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000 204,387 516,908
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 „ ~ 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. .205,243 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800,735
Transferred to Capital .. £250,000 550,735
1923. .159,479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 12*,, „ 93,760 18,565 608,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 12* „ „ 93,750 9,255 618,034
Two general strikes and minor forays by the
Australian Seamen’s Union seriously inter-
rupted trade during the year. The result
was the lowest profit disclosed since 1916.
The directors took the unkind cut philoso-
phically, being doubtless helped to a non-
belligerent frame of mind by the fact that
there was sufficient to pay ordinaries 121 p.c.,
and send a few thousands to reserves. Most
of the co.’s present strength is based on the
profit-making of the war years which enabled
it to build up, to provide liberally for all
known contingencies and to put something
aside for those it couldn’t remember off-
hand. Moreover, it showed wisdom by dis-
posing of its old tubs when the war-time call
for tonnage was at its loudest. Here are the
movements in an accumulation which is not
counted in the introductory table —the ‘‘re-
serve for contingencies, taxation, repairs and
maintenance, boilers and renewals, super-
annuation fund, etc.” :
1915 . . . . £63,81.2 Increase £27,627
1916 . . . . 123,117 „ 59,305
1917 .. .. 131,239 „ 8,122
1918 . . . . 262,089 „ 130,850
1919 .. .. 292,494 „ 30,405
1920 . . . . 330,385 „ 37,891
1921 . . . . 324,474 Decrease 5,911
1922 . . . . 358,518 Increase 34,044
1923 . .. 347,178 Decrease 11,340
1924 . . . . 354,502 Increase 7,324
1925 . . . . 351,981 Decrease 2,521
It is evident that some true profit is tucked
away in that particular bag. Primarily, the
fixed assets —an assorted parcel of “steam-
ships, tugs, lighters, plant, furniture, free-
hold and leasehold properties, and shares in
other cos.” —are in “at valuation,” which may
mean that depreciation is allowed for. No
trace of allowance, however, is visible.
Furthermore, the reserve amounts to 32 p.c.
of the fixed assets item, which includes shares
iu other cos.; and “shares in other cos.” may
be a very substantial sum if all of the co.’s
associated interests are included. Huddart
Parker floated Hebburn Coal, controls the
Metropolitan Colliery, and has a holding in
Tasmanian Steamers, Ltd., in addition to
other interests. The mixture is well com-
pounded, and the balance-sheet figures do not
disclose much. Still, there are things they
cannot hide: —
1914. 1924. 1925.
Ships, etc £857,376 £1,055,442 £1,100,727
Cash . . . . 46,875 35,127 8,242
Book debts . . 69,306 159,817 161,745
Investments ... 191,598 1,283,256 1,268,536
Stores . . . . 34,926 54,441 56,320
Total assets . . £1,200,081 £2.588,083 £2,595,570
Less liabilities. . 97,177 311,052 311,805
Net assets . . £1,102,904 £2,277,031 £2,283,765
Having disposed of its old hookers at the top
of the market, the co. held off purchases until
the price of tonnage receded. Last June it
obtained delivery of its new 6500-ton cargo-
carrier, the Hebburn, and the final payment
probably influenced figures. Also, the co.’s
Wellington (M.L.) premises, which were de-
stroyed by fire in 1923, were replaced by a
seven-storeyed concrete structure, and “occu-
pied by tenants in October.” And yet the
“fixed assets plus shares” item increased by
only £45,285. It looks like pessimism run
wild. The liquid position went back a little.
It is in those assets that the remarkable
growth of the co. is more pronounced. The
return from gilt-edged securities and other
investments (exclusive of the return from
the unspecified amount represented by “shares
in other cos.”) should be equal to twice the
sum required for prefs.: it should be, nor-
mally, a simple matter for the ship-
ping business to provide the net balance
necessary to give ordinaries 124 p.c.
The co.’s possession of £500.000 of" cheap
pref. capital (6 p.c.) is also of assistance.
Allowing for liabilities, almost the whole of
capital was covered by liquid and semi-liquid
assets with another £1,100,727 in steamers,
coal interests, premises, etc. Little wonder
the shares are popular on the market. The 124
p.e. seems fairly secure ; but anticipations of
further gifts must be considered in conjunc-
tion with the narrowing margin between
profits and distributions, and the fact that
the present opulence is based on the unpre-
cedented profits of the war years and the
post-war boom. That, however, has not
stopped investors getting notions about the
scrip.
* * * * ,
The Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd ,
from the time the original co. w r as recon-
structed and pastoral properties were trans-
ferred to the Australian Stock Breeders’
Co., Ltd.:—
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
193 6. . £82,151 8 p.c. =£52,398 £29,753 £104,753
1917.. 77,561 10 „ „ 65,498 12,063 116,816
1918.. 52,719 8 „ „ 52,398 321 117,137
1919.. 26,585 Nil 26,585 143,722
1920.. 27,029 6 p.e. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil - 50,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,120
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,102 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.e. = 26,199 552 54,840
The co. did well to show such a result in
She face of conditions unfavorable to Aus-
tralian beef exporters. South America kept
its grip on European markets—or on such
markets as existed during the 12 months.
Most of the Continental countries are still
uncertain fields; some have ceased altogether
to enter into calculations. Instability in the
chief countries which still remain open—Ger-
many, France and Italy—resulted in large
quantities of meat being diverted to Britain,
with the natural result that prices fell. An-
other factor was the “abnormally large sup-
plies of home-grown meat” placed on the
English market. The Q.M.E. appears, how-
ever, to have studied its field to good effect
and utilised to the full the few assisting
circumstances. Although the Co. is reticent
on the point it probably was helped to its
changed position by the decision of the
Director ot Army Contracts (Eng.) to place
substantial orders for tinned meat with Aus-
tralian cos. Also the co. escaped serious
industrial troubles in its own works, although
the strikes of the Queensland railway men
and the British seamen resulted in a com-
plete stoppage for a while.
Almost the whole of the profit was
absorbed by the 4 p.c. div. Reserves of
£50,057 plus the undistributed balance (£4788)
after payment of the div. are helping capi-
tal of £654,976, and that relatively small
accumulation is £76,612 less than when the
last previous div. was paid—in 1920. Still,
there has been a gradual improvement since
the crash:—
1921. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Creditors .. £221,239 £119,806 £110,335 £78,653
Property, plant,
live stock and
shares in other
cos. . . 500,433 425,798 438,682 425,023
Stock . . 56,029 85,557 98,400 109,696
Stores . . 65,271 45,865 32,437 34,449
Debtors an d
cash . . 275,874 270,688 250,080 245,500
Investments .. 30,275 —.—.
Linuid and semi-liquid assets were almost
five times greater than total liabilities, which
were reduced by almost 30 p.c. over the 12
months. Fixed assets, shares in other cos.,
stock, etc., are grouped, so that it is im-
possible to see what provision is made for
depreciation. Admitted losses following the
slump totalled £81,395 and in the past three
years shareholders’ funds have earned only
£80.982. Whether, over the lean period,
sufficient has been set aside tor wear and tear
of premises and plant is.a matter on which
the insider alone can sp"eak; unless it has
been done, then even the attenuated profits
claimed by the accounts were not earned. On
the other hand, allowing for the stock and
other assets in the compound item, the cos.
two big meatworks do not appear to be in
at an excessive figure. World conditions, of
course, have reduced their profit-earning
capacity and the future is still marked with
uncertainty. The management obviously has
solved portion of the problem; and g.-m.
Colman is again visiting the U.K. There
should be something in it for shareholders
next balance, even if the something isn’t
much.
* * * #
Pelaco. Ltd., formerly Pearson, Law,
Ltd., Melbourne, manufacturers of shirts,
collars and men’s wear, from the reconstruc-
tion of the co.:—
, -—Dividends-r——.
A B
Prefs. Fiefs. Ord. Written
Dee., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 12f p.c. Off. Deficit
1918. . £15,131 £2092 £1406 £5OOO £1053 £12,788
1919. . 26,181 2082 2812 7718’ 1284 503
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 5766 2165
k°SS. Defirit
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil 8 772
Profit - 10 p.c.
1922.. 20,518 2082 4500 10,724 5 sfio
1923.. 24,723 2082 4500 14,908 2^327
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13*200 _ 10,727
Pelaco did well to show such a good profit
111 , c Lice of a general depression in soft-
goods and delayed shipments of material, due
to the British seamen’s strike. The former
called for every ounce of energy and initia-
tive to win business in competition with
houses which were throwing goods on the
market. So difficult were conditions that
some factories had to close down. The effects
of the shipping trouble were minimised by
shipments of goods from England direct to
Melbourne —director Pearson was in London
at the time. The .10 p.c. could have been
maintained,, but the directors considered it
wiser to attend to reserves. These, at £20,727,
are £10,727 in excess of the goodwill item
(not accounted as asset in the introductory
table), and that is little enough related to
paid capital (unchanged at £244,736) and
the co.’s general position :
1920. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Capital . .*£148,486 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 56,849 192,916 183,646 156,345
Premises .. 23,289 127,027 116,2219 120,592
Plant, etc. . . 15,513 63,552 65,59(2 69,328
Book debts . . 54,630 87,290 101,0446 103,143
Stock.. .. 124,349 167,129 155,72(7 129,280
Cash, etc. .. 9,652 1,868 9,9710 4,356
During the year the bank overdraft was
reduced from £112,409 to £84,206. A few
cuts like that! and the management will be
justified in shouting itself a collar or two.
Total liabilities were £27,300 less than at
the previous balance. Further additions were
made to premises and plant, and stocks were
lightened by £fc26,447. Much is yet to be
done before the* co. can take an easy view
of the position. Rapid expansion (paid capi-
tal in 1916 wasi only £49,560) and the fact
that the co. has put £120,000 into premises
made it necessary to seek substantial accom-
modation from its bankers. It has done well
to reduce the overdraft by £31,804 in the
past two years.
Gross profits showed only a slight falling
off:—
1918 .. £46,337 1923 .. £111,631
1920 . . 89,659 1924 . . 126,008
1921 . . 49,849 1925 . . 124,421
But outgo, which includes unspecified
amounts for depreciation and bad debts, was
£7098 heavier —-an uncomfortable tendency.
However, last year’s results, in the face of
the difficulties mentioned, plus the competi-
tion from goods manufactured overseas
under low-wage conditions, indicate that the
co. will give a good account of itself when
unfavorable factors are absent.
■ WESTroRT-STOCKToisr Coal Co., Ltd.
(M.L.) :
r- —Dividends—*— N
Prof. IV lit- Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. Or Ac ten Off. serves.
1918.. £7,956 £3BlB Nil £4OOO £10,703
1919.. 14,155 3865 5 p.c. =i£6574 5500 8,919
1920.. 17,205 4798 6 „ „ 7888 3500 9,938
Loss.
1921.. 1,113 Nil Nil 8,825
Profit.
1922.. 7,323 6305 Nil 1500 9,343
1923.. 312 Nil Nil - 9,655
Loss.
1924.. 4,914 Nil Nil 4,741
Profit.
1925.. 447 Nil Nil 5,158
So far as shareholders are concerned results,
as the introductory table shows, halve mostly
been nil. Whether the long-overduie change
for the better will appear now that the co.’s
big project—the installation of watler flumes
—is completed, is doubtful; the best the
directors can promise is that “future pros-
pects would seem to indicate a more* hopeful
aspect.” This is almost as indefinite as the
man who said he was thinking about think-
ing about something. Last year 89,877 tons
were hauled from the mine, and something
above that was sold, for there was more at
grass at the beginning of the term than at
the close. The main flume was put into opera-
tion at the end of September, and thegiccumu-
lation of small coal was sold. All -this for
a profit of £447. Trade conditions Avere not
satisfactory during the early part of the
year, but they impnwed considerably towards
the end, according to the directors. Sales of
over 90,000 tons indicate something in the
nature of a market for the co.’s good-quality
product, but a lot more than that is neces-
sary if the 395,571 fully-paid 10s. shares
(132,631 8 p.c. prefs.) are to brealk their
fast. Labor appears to be reasonable, and
the Board has nothing to say of any other
trouble. But something calls for very defi-
nite treatment. The directors remark that
it is pleasing to note reduction in working
costs; the big saving anticipated by the use
of the flumes has apparently been achieved.
But markets are necessary. Meantime the
balance-sheet position isn’t anything to raise
a cheer:—
1929. 1924. 1925.
Debentures £40,625 £52,796 £70,650
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 20,202 16,683 8,652
Property, plant, etc. . . 234,632 249,906 262,975
Coal stocks. .. .. - 4,865 1,192
Book debts, etc 27,406 18,’109
Cash, public securities, etc. 22,699 —.—
All capital expenditure during the term
appears to have been charged to capital
despite the year’s extraction. The mine pro-
perty at December 31 stood at £256,139—a
hefty sum; other mines producing big ton-
nages, the shareholders of which are receiv-
ing fine divs., are looked upon with less in-
dulgent eyes. The debenture debt is well
covered, and other liabilities amounted at
December 31 to only £8652. Prefs. fortu-
nately are non-cum., so the co. at least has
saved from an accumulation there.
, la * ls t° represent the ordinaries might
he stated if the real value of the mine pro-
perty and plant could be estimated. But
the liook value and the results as shown in
the introductory table taken together do not
lit well. Results indicate the possibilities
111 “ e flumes, but considerable improvement
additional to that will he necessary if ordi-
naries are to get into the picture again
* * # #
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
„ To Re-
r®°*> "routs. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910. . £24,332 10 p.e. = £6,828 £17,554 £65,039
23,004 10 » » 6,828 16,176 81,215
1917.. 20,265 10 „ „ 6,828 13,437 94,652
1918.. 17,076 10 „ „ 6,828 10,248 104,900
Transferred to capital, £45,522
Cash bonus, “A” and “B” shares, £22,761
7 6,136 8 p.c. = 9,083 67,053 110,004
1920.. 17,818 8„ „ 9,083 8,735 116,282
1921.. 5,052 8 ~ „ 9,083 112 251
1922.. 14,635 8„ „ 9,083 5,552 117,803
1923.. 19.696 10 „ „ 11,354 8,342 126,145
1924.. 9,249 10 „ „ 11,354 124,040
1925.. 13,710 10 „ ~11,355 2,355 126,395
There have been better profits in the past
decade, but last year’s harvest deserves
attention because it was won under con-
ditions which brought poor earnings to
other cos. Southland improved £4461
over 1924, the £13,710 being £2355
more than div. requirements. And the
10 p.c. is worth almost twice as much
t° _ old holders because of the 1919
capitalisation; there was also an issue
(£22,761) of bonus scrip in 1912. But the
co. built solidly from the beginning, share-
holders—chiefly the mutton growers them-
selves —being content to leave much of the
profit in the business: it was not until 1910
that the div. touched 8 p.c. As a result of
this early abstinence, reserves at December
31, despite the gift issues, were greater than
paid capital, which makes the matter of 10
P.c. divs. easy under even fair conditions.
Last year’s distribution, for instance,
amounted to little more than 4f p.c. on
average funds. Balance-sheet figures showed
no material alterations:—
. 1920. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. .. £97,634 £40,587 £50,042
Works •. .. 153,915 121,946 124,740
Stocks . . .. . 32,467 22,861 32,869
Book debts, cash, in-
vestments, etc. . . 150,156 139,037 138,052
That is very comfortable. It may be even
better than it looks, for “sundry credi-
tors and contingent liabilities, £50,042,’’
may include the contents of the family
sock. In any case shareholders could
see, on December 31, £115,202 in more
or less liquid form after allowance had
been made for liabilities and the final div.;
and that’s apart from the £124,740 in freehold
and leasehold properties and plant. Capital
is £113,547 in 26,160 fully-paid £1 prefs.,
64.884 ordinaries fully paid and 45,006
ords. paid to 10s. Net liquids and semi-
liquids alone were equal to £4 Bs. for each
pref. share and over 20s. for each £ of capi-
tal ; and the properties and plant, in at con-
servative figures, were equal to a further
21s. lid. It will take a lot of bad markets
to make a serious mess of that position.
* * * *
Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.) :
r~ —Dividends . Written
Dec., Profits. Pref. Old. Total. Off. Reserves.
1915. .£28,328 5 p.c. 10 p.c. £25,698 £72,814
1916.. 28,847 5 „ 10 „ 27,301 - 74,360
1917.. 23,039 5,, 5 „ 15,517 £3,000 78,882
1918.. 38.404 5,, 5 „ 15,517 8,000 93,769
1919.. 43,766 5 „ 5 „ 15,747 5,500 116,288
1920.. 34,354 5,, 8 „ 23,090 4,500 123,052
1921.. 42,438 5 „ 8 „ 23,090 16,284 126,116
Reserves written off, £54.863 .. 71,263
1922.. 38,445 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 25,026 14,961 69,711
1923.. 58,514 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 16,330 85.362
1924.. 72,674 5 „ 8 „ 26.533 56,105 76,398
1925.. 64,257 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 16,081 98,041
Consumers benefited last year by two price
reductions, each of twopence. Six reductions
in all have been made during the past three
years, the decreases amounting to 17d. per
1000 c. ft. In that period the co. has been
expanding and modernising its plant. Before
the war an investigation showed that insuffi-
cient allowance had been made for deprecia-
tion and obsolescence, the upshot being a
heavy writing-off (£45,606 in 1914); and
for three years the annual div. was cut in
halves. A few years later the management
found itself face to face with a different prob-
lem : the necessity of prompt expansion. An-
other plant-modernisation campaign was
necessary to meet the situation. Plant which
had become obsolete was wiped completely
out of the books. Conditions now are some-
what clearer. New plant continues to arrive,
and additions and construction are main-
tained. In addition to the activity on the
manufacturing side, the co. last year erected
new offices; the old premises will be con-
verted to shops for letting purposes. Despite
the price reductions, revenue increased by
£9829, but manufacturing and distribution
costs were £lO,OOO-odd greater, and manage-
ment was £7192 more than in the preceding
year. However, the necessity for extra-heavy
depreciation having passed, the board was
enabled to make the usual distribution, set


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’'
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane.— Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos Covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it
is used, and steam pressure keeps uniform, inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Aiivt. [3
* * * *
An illuminating instance of the survival of the
fittest in these strenuously competitive times is the
continued and increasing success of Pioneer Wood
Pipe. Undoubtedly the most adaptable and economi-
cal conduit in existence, it provides in addition
exceptionally long service without deterioration.
Where metal pipes will rust and tuberculate, becom-
ing less efficient with organic growths and such
like accumulations, Pioneer Wood Pipe actually im-
proves with the years, the interior bore becoming
smoother and offering no foothold for the lodgment
of foreign matter. Send for the interesting booklet
of further particulars. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
There is no excuse these days for an ill-lighted
country home, for a Wizard Lighting System is
not only wonderfully efficient, but its low cost of
installation and running actually proves an economy.
The brilliant white light is never trying, because it
possesses all the virtues of natural daylight. If
desired, one can obtain a full-sized cooking-stove
or gas-ring as part of the system—a truly inestim-
able boon in country districts. Made in Australia
and possessing many valuable features that speci-
ally conform to our climatic conditions, be sure
to get the genuine by writing direct to the sole
manufacturers: Wizard Lighting Systems—New
address, 283 George Street (opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers, hundreds of satisfied users, Concrete Placing
Plant, Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrum Garbage Destructors, “Leplastrier”
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers, “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Pt.v., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane: 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Collins
House, Melbourne; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE to GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
GREAT \
BRITAIN I
narv. Deferred.
2/6 1/3
Telegram.
9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Week-end7id.(minimum charge!2/6, 20 words)
I ItANt'E
Holland
BELGIUM
GEBMANY
SWITZEBLAND
CANADA . .
2/6 1/3
Nil
2/- 1/-
(~|Uo.\\ OS '»/ U
umuiiuiui)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,2owords)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to' Nil
NEW
ZEALAND.. 4*d,
N.Z. Night Letter
Rate minimum charge
3/- for 20 Words and
2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 CeOrge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street.
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7784.
Queen’s House, Queen Street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
r,
cr
L
3 o on
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
IV9
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 36 30 Clarence ijt.. Sydney
If you have already appointed a private person as Executor of
Your Will
the substitution of
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO. (Ltd.)
may be effected by a simple Codicil.
CONSULT US ABOUT IT.
Explanatory Booklet Sent on Application.
MnnfiEfpr *
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. R . Copland LETHBRIDGE.
aside £2OOO for a superannuation fund, and
send £21,643 to reserves. These amount to
£98,041—27 p.c. of paid capital. But the
co. has £200,000 in mortgage debenture stock,
so that on share capital and borrowed money
reserves equal 17.4 p.c. In N.S.W. under
the Gas Act the accumulation must not be
greater than 10 p.c. In view of the co. s
drastic treatment of obsolescent plant and
the fact that new retorts and containers have
been and are being erected, it is highly un-
likely that its accumulations will be called
for. This is comforting to shareholders, and
consumers have no kick against a co. which
has clipped bits off the price on six occasions
in the past three years. Balance-sheet figures
have moved as follows: —
1923. 1924. 1925.
Debentures .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. .. 10,396 8,222 12,915
Property, plant, etc. 523,997 481,232 520,995
Stocks .. .. 14,312 18,182 15,423
Book debts .. .. 46,602 32,120 20,908
Investments .. 34,080 31,580 24,705
Cash, etc. .. .. 55,185 98,531 107,949
Government securities have expanded from
£44,831 to £83,295 since 1923. and cash and
deposits from £10,804 to £24,654. The Board
appears to be concentrating _on its construc-
tional campaign. But provided the N.S. VV.
miners behave and costs are kept in hand,
it is in a position to look appraisingly at
the div. rate.
* * * *
The two clauses of the recently-passed Com-
monwealth Petroleum Prospecting Act state
that the Minister may, out of moneys stand-
ing to the credit of the trust account, make
advances
(a) To persons or companies engaged in the
search for oil in Australia for the purpose of testing
their holdings; and (b) to assist persons, companies
and State Governments to make detailed geological
surveys.
Accordingly, no money can be advanced
to persons or companies holding oil-
shale areas they want to test for oil by
distillation. All applications relating to
shale-oil have been refused. This is dis-
appointing to Tasmania and N.S.W., where
immense masses of kerosene-shale lie waiting
to be treated. The £60,000 grant is to assist
well-boring oil companies only and to survey
the Longreacli district, as recommended by
Dr. Wade. But Wade’s report of June 30,
1925, concluded in these terms: —
I should like to point out that in the long run
these kerosene shales may be more profitable to
Australia than oil wells, especially if only sma 1
wells and limited pools be eventually discovered.
Moreover, there is no certainty that such pools will
be discovered. In the meantime, the amount of
shale can be ascertained definitely; we can find out
what our resources are, what can be done with
them, and make plans accordingly. Beds of kerosene
shale are not so erratic and uncertain as oil wells.
Water troubles and careless drilling will not anect
them. They remain where they are and will not
peter out when most wanted, as oil wells sometimes
do. Their profitable development will depend upon
research and business methods and not so much on
wild-oat speculation. I consider them to be one
of the greatest assets that Australia possesses, and
the day of their very great importance may yet come.
This must sound encouraging to those
interested in the recent improvements of re-
torting. If these inventions and processes
fulfil the claims made on their behalf, the
rich Australian shales may yet come into
their own. . .
Numerous prospectors enjoying a spell in
Perth (W.A.) recently stated they did not
know which way to turn in the search for
something new, nothing worth while having
been struck for years. This year a number
of them will give the old deluged workings
of Westonia a trial, and they might do worse.
It is more than probable that, while Westonia
managers were wrangling over their respec-
tive pumping plants doing more than then-
share towards unwatering the field, at least
one payable block of ore was left undisturbed
above water-level.
* * * *
Hampton Celebration (W.A.) is in trouble
again. This time disappointing results at
the 500 ft. level have led to a cessation of
operations, and the Board is wondering what
to do about it. Some time ago Hampton
Properties, Ltd., which bolds a big wad of
scrip, backed the reconstruction of the Cele-
bration on the strength of “encouraging pros-
pects at depth.” but according to official re-
ports results fell far short of anticipations.
As the risk of further loss is great and the
probability of profit practically hopeless, the
co. had better seek fresh fields or wind up.
Only the dead and dying now remain in the
locality where its present holding is situated.
* * * *
Coolgardie (W.A.) is clamoring for a dia-
mond drill. Good inducements are said to
offer for boring in and around several old
derelict local mines, including Bayley’s. Tin-
dal’s, Burbank’s, Londonderry, Griffith’s
and Slierlaw’s. It is hardly likely, however,
that boring in any of them will prove a howl-
ing success. Some will probably furnish an
occasional crushing, but that is all.
* * * *
Westralian Manganese Co., Ltd., had a
roll-up in Perth the other day when some-
thing was again said about a clear profit in
the home market and the annual disposal of
100,000 tons abroad at current market rates.
Cables from an American firm asking for
quotations, and from a London agent giving
figures of the world’s consumption and the
quantity a firm there anticipated it would
take, were also read. Particulars of the
finances of the co. were not given.
* * * *
Brown’s Reward (Central, which the “Wild
Cat” once said had little cash and lots of
assurance, has had its lease at Field’s Find
(W.A.) forfeited for non-compliance with
labor conditions. The co. lias tried several
so-called good things in its time, but all have
turned out badly and made calls harder and
harder to rake in. At present shareholders’
optimism is down to a trace to the ton.
N.T. Mica, Macdonnell Ranges, has pro-
duced 70cwt. of the mineral to date. _ One
ton is in Adelaide, a similar amount is on
the way there, and 30cwt. is being cased
ready for despatch from the field. Manager
Lee states that some of the product mea-
sures 20in. by 14in., an almost unprocurable
size. Burkliards have advanced the co. £5OO
against the first ton, full price to be adjusted
later. At this rate, holders should soon be
relieved of calls, especially as Lee states
that all three shafts are still in good grade
mica, and a further strike has been made in
prospecting.
* * * . *
The whip is being cracked by R. W.
Stringer over the English crowd who have
been offered a cheap go at the Federation tin
area near Zeelian. J. B. Lewis was the
cheery optimist who went thither after noble
work at the Anchor or the Blue Tier. He
arrived on the property when tin was on
the down-grade and eyes were towards the
East. So funds were not forthcoming for
equipment, and the Federation has been idle
since. His estimate is that an outlay of £OOOO
should yield £54,000 of profit if attention is
devoted to the alluvial and soft lode matter
of the mine. Stringer’s plan, if the overseas
crowd isn’t sympathetic, is to make an issue
of cum. participating prefs. out of the old
100,000 ordinary shares, of which 52,400 are
held by the co.
It may help the Federation float when its
directors learn that the discarded Anchor
mine at Lottah, as taken up by a small Mel-
bourne crowd under the guidance of W. Las-
celles, has got on to the div. list. The ven-
ture is now identifiable as the Blue Tier Tin
Mines, and only about £1650 has been spent
on plant. As a profit of £l5OO was netted
out'of the first six months’ work it looks to
be good enough to stick to the claim, but
London is being asked to come in.
* * * *
A parson named Fitzgerald has picked up
a fresh run of osmiridium some 20 miles
away from the beautiful resort of Huonville
(Tas.). His fellow prospector has asked for
a 10-acre reward claim, which he may or
may not get from the Labor Cabinet. Pre-
mier Lyons has declined to become a peddler
of osmiridium for the Speck diggers, but
says he will see they get a fair spin in
the marketing of the precious stuff.
Junction North directors, consequent on
the recent earth movement between the
1100 ft. and 1200 ft. levels, have decided to re-
arrange the underground plan thereabout.
This will involve the levels in question being
concentrated more in the footwall solid rock
at a cost of £BOOO or more. Three months
is the estimated time, and there is sufficient
cash in hand to do the work.
Bribbaree (N.S.W.), about the only gold-
producer in the Ma State, manages to pay
wages without calls. At the battery
96 tons produced 760 z. for the month,
and the cyanide plant found 290 z.
Ihdwt. in 200 tons of sand. The falling-
off here is described as “due to the low
values in the 96 tons just crushed.” On
the Bonanza lease the shaft is down to 100 ft.
and will be deepened to 150 ft., the extra
50ft. being in solid country, and expecting
to cut the reef at 119 ft. vertical.
* * * *
Flagstone, Emmaville (N.S.W.), operations
have been hampered by shortage of labor
due mostly to ’flu and accidents. Both tun-
nels on the parent co. are going in slowly,
and values are minus fireworks. On the
West Flagstone lease there is a Oft. body
of ore at 35ft. in, worth 3 p.c. to 4 p.c. On the
Cartwheel lease Mackenzie is endeavoring to
circumnavigate the granite intrusion, and re-
ports improved grade as he cuts in to the
right. Mill erection is still lagging and it
now seems sure that C. Alma Baker’s May
estimate was nearer than the office tip that
the end of March would do the trick. The
market, which never had much heart in it,
has sagged dismally on the latest setback.
* * * *
Accounts of Mount Isa Mines, Ltd., for
the year ended December 31 show expendi-
ture at mine £39,015 and administrative
exes. £5624. a total of £44.639. Income of
£1643 included £llO3 from sales of ore. Mine
property was in at £488,547, plant and build-
ings at £9722, while there was £30,506 cash
and £3807 in stores, etc., to represent the
modest £4BO of outside debt. Prospecting
and development was £76.794. At the bal-
ancing date the purchase consideration of the
Isa Prop, leases —125,000 shares —had not
been allotted ; when distributed paid capital
wiU be £608,896.
• # * *
A gold rush of minor dimensions is re-
ported from Cairns (Q.), the find being at
Daintree, south of Cooktown, on the coast.
Dr. Jensen was in the neighborhood recently,
and geological curiosity took him to Dain-
tree. He was so struck by the resemblance
to the Palmer River country—and particu-
larly to the Maytown portion—which lies the
other side of the range that he informed local
residents that a find of rich alluvial would
not be surprising. The country is slates and
schists, and the strike n.n.w.
• * * •
“Talna” mixes oil and water: —
Orallo is not within the so-called artesian (flowing
water) area, as might be inferred from “Kerogen’s”
remarks (B. 24/12/’25).. The Roma gas was not
struck in pockets or fissures in the shales; it was
encountered in sands, as was the oil at 2815 ft. The
drillers reported pockets—it was one of these that
produced the large flow of gas—but never fissures.
The water-logging of oil-bearing strata by artesian
water in overlying sands and the subsequent dis-
placement of oil and gas is purely theoretical. Aver-
age speeds of underground flows in sandstones have
been shown by Schlieter and others to be too slow
to accomplish much flushing. This would particu-
larly apply tc the Roma main gas sand at 3700 ft.,
a count of the grains of which by geologist Cameron
giving 90 p.c. passing a 200-mesh screen. That over-
lying artesian water does not affect production is
illustrated in many American fields. The Monroe
gas-field in Louisiana has an artesian iresh-water
sand at 400 ft. with a closed pressure of 401 b. at the
surface. The Kemp-Munger-Allen oil-field in Texas
has an artesian salt-water flow at 1500 ft., and the
Ranger field, also in Texas, has four water sands
between the surface and the oil-sand, each with a
static head above surface. The Sunburst and Cat
Creek oil-flelds of Montana, which produced 3,000,000
barrels of oil last year, obtained all this from the
Dakota and Lakota artesian sands, and the Colorado
fields are all producing from this great bed, which
exceeds our own artesian bed in area. So it is evi-
dent that the flushing action of the artesian water
has not been much in evidence here, as the wells
are of a fair size—up to 4000 barrels daily. Cases
of artesian water above, between and below oil-sands
are numerous, but, with modern equipment and the
necessary knowledge, these flows can be held in
check. In the Mexican fields artesian water always
succeeds the oil when the latter is exhausted, enor-
mous flows being reported. Although water is the
oil-man’s enemy, it is realised that without its agency
the commercial accumulations of petroleum would be
rare.
* * * *
The Avilting of Taranaki Oil scrip is ex-
plained by the news that the Moturoa bore
is a dud. So drilling ceases, the casing is
to be withdrawn and the hole plugged. Sig-
nificant words are that the walking beam
at the Tarata bore has been out of repair.
But it is now going, and if geologist Clapp
says so will run until the drill touches 5000
feet. Meantime a flutter is being staged for
Gisborne.
* * * *
New Salak South. Siam, has received word
from its “Eastern” rep., W. T. Anderson
that the Siamese Government has approved
an exclusive prospecting license over an area
of 850 acres in the State of Chum Tawn
Anderson has also secured an option over boo
acres at Bandon. The Chum Tawn area is
“20 miles from a large town and accessible to
suitable roads and rivers.” Values to olb.
a yard are said to have been taken * from
several places” on the area. The tin is fine,
and water supplies ample, while the pros-
pector alleges that “an east road can be
found connecting with a large river. Lhe
portion of the valley comnosmg the area is
described as flat, and the surface thereof
a series of waterworn depressions.
Pulo, Burma, run by the Barrett stable in
Melbourne, proposes floating its Kopali area
of 350 acres into a subsidiary co. to be
named Satu Pulo. The offshoot will have a
copitM of £2OO 000 in 20s. shares, of which
30 000 paids to go the parent co., and
17.500 paids along with £17,500 in cash re-
present the original vendor’s cut. Holders
of Pulo contribs. will be offered 90,000 of
the subsidiary contribs. in the ratio of (>0
to 100, and as a further inducement will
get 20 fully-paids to the 100. The con-
tribs. will be paid to ss. on application and
allotment. Alfred Ashbolt has guaranteed
the contrib. issue, for which he will be
allowed 10 500 10 p.c. participating prefs.
fit par rate of 20s. The reserve wad will be
52,000 shares. Besides the 350 acres which
have been bored and check-bored at lib. to
the yard, an additional prospecting area of
700 acres is belie\ 7 ed to lia\'e some merit, as
the circular states that it should “increase
the dredgable area to some extent.” The
parent co. is in 250.000 20s. shares, of which
50.000 are fully paid, 150,000 are contribs.
and 50,000 reserved.
* * * *
F. A. Govett scattered a little of Avhat he
believed to be wisdom at the recent meeting
of the Burma Corporation, of which he is now
chairman. He said that sooner or later,
no matter how long might be its life, every
mine came to an end ; therefore out of the
divisible profits must be provided by its
owners not only dividends but also redemp-
tion of capital. This point was always for-
gotten by enthusiastic speculators. A fund
to redeem the £14,000,000 capital of the
Burma Corporation was simply impossible
for the board even to attempt, so that each
shareholder must form his own sinking fund
out of dividends.
“Oil Shaler” :
From the director of the State oil-shale industry
at Reval in Esthonia, I have received a report on
the activities of this oil-shale field, which contains
5000 million tons of shale nearly identical with the
tasmanite deposits of Latrobe (Tas.). By using special
furnaces of a semi-producer type, raw oil-shale is
used as fuel. Many factories have their boilers
fitted to use oil-shale for power production. The
State Railway has partially adopted oil-shale as fuel
for locomotives and 35 are heated with it. It is
also used for burning lime in kilns and for heating
houses. The biggest consumers are the Portland
cement factories, where the mineral is dried, pulverised
and injected by air into revolving kilns. Several
big gas plants in Esthonia use oil-shale for gas-
production, the yield being 10,000 cubic feet of
gas per ton. The ash has the properties of Roman
cement.


THE RIVAL HANGMEN.
SHIPOWNER: “Not my funeral this time.”
MEMBER OF SEAMEN’S UNION: “Your execution’s bin postponed. The executioners are too busy tryin’ to 'ang each other.”


Smokers wlio
appreciate
quality Ct zj
aO
/<£
Vo
MADE IN LONDON BY 4 R r )4TH TOBACCO CO LTD
M
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Iford" : Sydney’s anti-mosquito campaign
is sadly overdue. At the present rate of in-
crease some of the prettiest and most his-
toric spots within easy distance will soon be
unapproachable towards the end of summer.
The other Saturday I headed an expedition
of students of Australian history to Kurnell
beach, Botany Bay, that they might see with
their own eyes where Captain Cook landed.
The eminent navigator’s progress, we learned
from various written sources, was only
opposed by two natives, but ours was con-
tested by about two million ’skeeters for
every inch of the distance towards the bun-
galow where the pictures and relics are
SO BORING.
“It strikes me motor-cars are becoming more of a pest than a
pleasure.”
“ You’re quite right, dear. The last four cars I went out in I had
four wretched proposals.”
viewable for a fee of twopence. Cook routed
the nigs., but the mosquitoes drove us back
to the beach inside of half an hour, though
we had counted on a pleasant and instruc-
tive afternoon on those wooded slopes. My
final impression of Kurnell is of a few dozen
tourists distracted from their contemplation
of monuments and things by the incessant
and insistent necessity of brushing voracious
insects off every vulnerable portion of their
frames. There was a Yankee among the
intending worshippers at Cook’s shrine; his
language was worse than that of any other
sufferer because, as he mentioned, he came
from a civilised country where preventable
pests like these weren’t tolerated —at all
events, not on the outskirts of a great city.
I am still wondering wnat it is like tnere at
night-time.
* * ■ * *
“Northerner” : Queensland women have not
rushed the jury-box since it was thrown
open to them. Bvery female elector is eligible
for jury service provided she signs a declara-
tion of her willingness to serve; but out of
209,0.0 women on the rolls only 29 have
so far been placed on the jury lists. Two
of these have been called up, but both were
excused. The first woman to trip into a
Queensland jury-box may be sure of getting
her photograph into the papers.
* * * *
“Nikko” : The coils of Government red-tape
find their way even underground. Recently
when a party of tourists was being escorted
through the Aranui Gave, near YVaitomo
(M.L.), an entomologist noted that the roof
was covered with hundreds of the fearsome-
looking Maoriland weta, a wicked-faced
creature with long, barbed legs. He applied
to the guide for permission to remove one
of the insects, and while all the Maorilanders
invited him in chorus to take the lot the cave-
conductor solemnly replied that the Govern-
ment would not allow anything to be re-
moved from the caverns. A suggestion that
the ban applied only to fixtures of the stal-
actite order failed to move him. Just then
there was a frenzied yell from a lady tourist
who was trying to dislodge the weta that had
become entangled in her collar, and the
naturalist sprang to the rescue. In the gene-
ral scatter the guide’s attention was diverted;
I saw the insect-man lovingly fingering a
little box in the car on the homeward jour-
ney.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is a serious conflict of ideas
between the Melbourne churches in their
role as interceders with the Almighty to end
the drought and the secretary of the Council
of Churches. The former united the
other Sunday in prayers for rain; almost
simultaneously the secretary wrote to the
Brunswick Council asking it to close its
baths between the hours of two and four on
Sundays, as the lure of fresh water deflects
the local small boy from the Sunday-schools.
Since then the failure of the massed churches'
supplications has brought about the very
conditions that the ecclesiastical secretary
wants. Not only the Brunswick municipal
baths but nine similar institutions have had
to close down altogether through shortage of
water.
* * * #
“Naklioda”: Tasmania needn't take to
heart the nasty things the Methodist con-
ferencers said about it in Melbourne the
other day for being the home of Tatt.’s.
There are plenty of Tussles about. In the
old days in Singa-
pore, where games
of chance were pro-
hibited, we used to
lose our money in
the territory of the
Sultan of Johore.
Penang was served
by gambing farms
in the native State
of Kedah. Shang-
hai suppressed the
vice inside its own
borders while run-
ning car services to
“The Wheel” out-
side, which flour-
ished under the
protection of the
Consul for Cuba.
Hong Kong’s
safety-valve was
Portuguese Macao.
Europe’s, of course,
is Monte Carlo, the
tiny principality
nicked out of
France. The regu-
larity with which
Alsatias, where
gambling is the
chief industry,
occur alongside
countries where
games of chance
are put down by
the police suggests
that a deep human
need is served
thereby. Two
human needs, pro-
bably—tlie seeond being the need to be
morally indignant at church gatherings about
the denlorable wavs of other countries.
* * * *
“Sol. Malaprop”: This is the plain unvar-
nished explanation which isn’t given, though
it perhaps should be, after the motor-’bus
has rebounded off the tram-car. got on the
pavement, tried to climb a telegraph-pole,
rushed into a shop window and out again,
and finally come to anchor, bottom-upwards,
with its human freight scattered all over the
place:—
“Oh, ves,. I was driving the old ’bus, and my
name’s Smith, all right. Never mind if it was
ever something different. That’s my affair, and
nobody else’s. No, I haven’t been driving very
long—not this time. What do I mean by ‘this
time’? Well, perhaps 1 was driving a previous
time and got stopped, that’s all. I was a bit sur-'
prised when I passed for my license, even though I
tipped the bloke something. He seemed surprised,
too, when he saw me driving a few days after. He
stopped me, and asked if I mistook myself for the
Melbourne Cup, or what. I told him I was giving
the best imitation I knew of a funeral in Geelong.
“This isn’t my lucky day, I s’pose. Friday never
is. Mind you, this mix-up wasn’t my fault. I
was talking to a girl over my shoulder, but I kept
HE KNEW THEIR LITTLE WEAKNESSES.
COLUMBINE: “Although I do not know yon. somehow I feel that the success of this ball
depends upon you, you naughty men!"
THE INDIAN RAJAH: “ Wouldn't be surprised. I am the caterer.”
looking round to see that, the road was clear. But
then a bloke behind my other shoiflder began chip-
ping in about a horse, and 1 had to listen to both
of them and keep an eye on both of them. Then,
first thing I knew, a tram was bearing straight
down on me, and the driver performing like a mad
monkey at the Zoo. Why didn t the fool get out
of the way, I wanter know? Some blokes lose
their silly heads over the least thing. That galoot
oughter be sacked out of the service. You can bet
your natural life I jambed on all the stops at once
—the retarder and the accelerator and the refri-
gerator and the prevaricator and the rest. I don t
go nutty just because some trifle has gone skew-
whiff. But it was too late, and we banged a treat.
You could have heard the row a mile off. Last
thing before the knock the girl was shrieking in
one of my ears, and the bloke with the horse was
shouting into the other, but even then I never lost
mv presence of mind.
“When I crawled out of the D-briss a year or
two later I couldn’t have told that the oid
'bus ever was a ’bus, and the street was
blocked with a mile of fallen buildings, and
that tramway bloke was still performing like
a mad monkey at the Zoo. I hate a
coward. That isn’t my line. 1 nearly went to
the Avar once, but it was over when I volunteeied,
and it broke my heart, it did.
“Now there’ll be a lot of talk in the papers,
and as like as not I’ll be disqualified. Then 111
have to dye my hair, and call myself Montague h itz-
clarence or something, and go through all the fuss
of getting a fresh license. May have to shift to
another town. No, it’s no business of yours what
color my hair was before I dyed it last, and if you
ask any more questions like that I’ll maybe dot
you one in the eye.”
* * * *
“Hotham”: A case of “running the rule”
which presented some unusual features was
reported near Adelaide recently. An Angli-
can parson was entering a pub purpose not
specified—when he was hailed and effusively
embraced by a complete stranger. The clergy-
man hotly remonstrated, and the presump-
tuous person withdrew in apparent confusion.
Soon aftethe holy man found that his wal-
let containing £44 had withdrawn with the
stranger. The latter has since been arrested,
but what remains insoluble is the enigma of
an Anglican country clergyman in possession
of so much money.
“T. 0.1.”: A hundred years ago the site
now occupied by the Union Club, Sydney,
and about to be resumed by the City Coun-
cil for what it calls “street improvements,
belonged to Robert Campbell, junior, a mer-
chant, who had stores close by. The dwell-
ing-house was built in the ’twenties, and the
owner lived there until his death in 1851,
and his widow after him. The Union Club-
bers, previously in Wynyard-square, presently
moved hither, the dining-room being the first
portion of the present clubhouse built. Dal-
gety’s, the neighboring property threatened
with resumption, is mainly on the site of
the Australian Club House, built some 70
years ago for a first-class hotel by John Edye
Manning, of Sydney.
* * ' * •*
“Ex-Englisliman”: South Aus. has been
deeply stirred by an unusual kind of murder
trial—a woman accused of poisoning a
woman, with a jealousy motive. A girl
from N.S.W. became engaged to a man at
Bute (S.A.), and went to his farm to look
at her intended new home. He was a
widower, with a grown-up family and a
housekeeper. The visitor was taken ill imme-
diately after her first meal in the house,
and was dead before night. The local doc-
tor said that strychnine was the cause.. They
arrested the housekeeper. At the trial, in
Adelaide, Yilleneuve Smith, K.C.. excelled
himlself in defending. The ;fa t rmer, he
argued, was a Lothario and other contempt-
ible things; the poisoning might have been
ptomaine; country doctors, however skilful,
couldn’t be expected to have had much ex-
perience of strychnine; anyway, there was
nothing to show that accused administered
it; and she was a deeply wronged woman
deserving of sympathy. The jury, after an
hour’s consideration, said the lady was not
guilty; and the crowd —mostly women —
burst into the hysterical applause that lias
become a fashion at murder trials m
these moving-picture days. After which the
staid old Register published some sensa-
tional evidence from the inquqst, whi,ch
Judge Parsons had ruled could not go to the
jury on the trial.
* * * *
“Centurion” : Amid all the welter of criti-
cism which has been beating about Bertram
Mackeiinal’s Shakspearean group of statuary
opposite the main entrance to Sydney
Botanic Gardens, no one has had anything
to say of the statue of Governor Bourke
which it displaced. The Governor’s statue
now stands close to the Mitchell Library, in
such a position that its regard falls directly
on the swollen and ruffling figure of Falstaff
in Mackennal’s group. The expression on
the old-time autocrat’s features is not so
much one of disdain as of a mild wonder-
ment that a group of play-actors, particu-
larly the figure of such an obviously impos-
sible person as Falstaff, should have been
set up in liis place.
* * * *
“Miro”: Phil May’s experience with the
lady who dressed the gins (B. 4/3/’2G) re-
calls the sop to respectability handed out at
Rotorua (M.L.) some years ago. At one
time the small Maori children who give the
exhibition jump from the high bridge at
Whakarewarewa did so in the nood, and the
small brown bodies, skimming through mid-
air, would have delighted any artist. But few
tourists are artists, and soon the complaint
was heard that the unclad piccaninnies were
an offence against decency. The authorities
were duly impressed, an,d young Henare and
Eketere now take their headers weirdly clad
in the multi-colored cast-offs of the pakeha.
(Continued on page 19.)
COLOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Geranium lips’ are now quite fashionable
amongst women.”
My lady has her purplish hair
Clipped close about her cranium;
With heliotrope her cheeks are hued;
The lashes of her eyes are blued,
Her lips are of geranium;
In fact, the lady of my dreams
A nightmare is of color-schemes.
My lady’s in her heart true-blue,
And hence my perturbation.
I don’t know why it gives her joy
Her native beauty to destroy
With such discoloration.
Her colors, costing much good pelf,
Oft make me color up myself.
She thinks it puts her in “the pink”
To paint herself so mystic.
A woman inns where fashion goes,
And so a color-scheme she shows
That’s crudely inartistic.
But one thing’s missing, be it said —
She needs to have her poor head read.
N.B.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


NO HOME
SHOULD BE
Without One ,
" Ybs.oeatr, My new servant, John Henry
•s a. perfect treasure ,"
" "Then Geopfpev used To Smoke
WHILE. He WAS. MAKING cakes "
"Of course, you never know —
' thought Percy a jewsi_
UNTIL. » FOUNO H»M Out **
w WIF E /WHILST IN TOVMN /
ENSAaeo another Ma,n •
"AsND KS Wa»S
Entertaining, Poucevjomen
INI THE KITCHEN ”
e>OT ' TVW& ONS /
For Hia> Facs :'
" \ Got IRIO of Claremce Because he wanted
Too Manv Evsnnnqs off, •*
DOMESTICATING JOHN HENRY.
“Owing to the increasing scarcity of Mary Ann, who is flocking into occupations hitherto held by men, an association has been formed in England
to place men in domestic service. The experiment has proved a success, and there are suggestions that it might be copied in Australia.” Australia.”


The Federal Mutual
CJQD’vrQS^
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT
and Secretary.
AGENTS WANTED,
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE, Manag«
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
. E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—i
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put oft by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto.
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto as manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmaconoeia Sarsaparilla.
THE SORT THAT COSTS MORE.
“I don’t mind whom I play with so long as
they aren’t hard losers.”
“They aren’t half so bad to play with as one
of those easy winners.”
“Pat Bushie”: Being a N.S.W. J.P., I
have come in contact with a number of
widows who are desirous of getting the pen-
sion. A lady of 67, in receipt of the old-
age pension, wanted to know whether she
could get the widow’s pension as well if she
were to adopt a child. The answer being
in the negative, she said, “I hope you won’t
mind me asking, but suppose I do make
myself eligible for the widow’s pension, will
it affect my old-age pension?” I encountered
another lady who had removed from West
Australia when she heard of the pension
scheme here, because she had a family to
keep. A third migrated from Scotland with
her young family when the husband died;
learning on arrival of Lang’s scheme, she
promptly put in a claim. The quickest
mover of the lot lost her husband on March
2, got the form the same day, and had it
back with the Registrar by March 4.
“Spare Corp.” : Some workmen putting the
military cemetery at Thiepval (France) in
order pulled at a loose strand of wire and
exploded a buried mine, to the serious detri-
ment of the graves area. That mine has a
strong resemblance to a number of the sur-
prise packets Fritz strewed along his tracks
when he retreated. One that I remember was
an innocent-looking child’s toy cart, left lying
in the roadway as if an infant owner had
forgotten it; a Digger who made to seize it,
exclaiming that it was funny to find such
a thing in such a place, finished his remark
in the air. In one little village, brigade-
headquarters escaped only by a suspicion in
the mind of the Brigadier that a comfortable
house left intact in the midst of ruins was
too good to be true. So he located else-
where, and presently an explosion shook
the village. A dilapidated Digger crawled
from the ruins of the attractive dwelling
and explained that he and two mates had
decided that the house would “do them ;
an unthinking pull at a bit of picture-cord
hanging from one of the walls had exploded
the mine. Obviously that trap had been
prepared for headquarters.
* * * #
“1/321”: A financially-involved painter
and paperhanger in a South Island. (M.L.)
town had for weeks been dodging the
bailiffs who sought to serve him with
judgment summonses. A new bailiff hit
on a bright idea; he sauntered up to the
debtor’s house, only to learn, as usual, that
the bird was not at home. ‘'That’s bad luck,
said the caller, “I’m just off on my vacation
to-morrow week, and wanted to see him
about some paperhanging before I left.
Scenting business, the wife undertook that
her husband would be home the following
evening. When the bailiff arrived the elusive
one duly came to the door. The bailiff said,
“You are a paperhanger, aren’t you, Mr.
Dodger?” “Yes,” said Dodger. Right,,
said the visitor, handing him four sum-
monses. “Just go and paper the first room
you find with these.”
* * * #
“Knib”: Animated by vanity or freakish
humor, a double of John Allhn called at a
Wallan (Vic.) pub a few weeks ago and
mentioned that he was the Premier. He
explained his unheralded appearance by
pointing to his petrol-consumer, and adding
that he liked to go
about quietly and
find out things for
himself. As he
shelled out liberally
for everything he
ordered, and shout-
ed for half the vil-
lage, there wasn’t
much to kick about,
except for the pro-
bability that sev-
eral bold adminis-
trative and legisla-
tive reforms which
he promised will
remain unfulfilled:
and that sometimes
happens where real
Ministers are con-
cerned. However,
since it found out
that its leg had
been pulled, Wallan
is shy of taking
any more celebri-
ties at face value.
Treasurer Alec
Peacock found that
out last week when
lie pulled up at the same pub for dinner.
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: Governor de Chair
drove up to the gates of the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) showground the other day with a
mounted policeman in front and another be-
hind. But the pomp and circumstance nt
the cavalcade were lost upon the gatekeeper
who stubbornly refused to give the outfit
admission. His orders were, he said not to
op: those gates to anyone till the Hon. J.
M Baddeley, Minister for Mines and Babor.
came along' at 12.45, and if the party duln t
liko it they could lump it. Ills Ex. remained
unperturbed, but the A.D.C. was much put
out. Even after the entourage had gained
admission by another gate, they found they
wore all dressed up with nowhere to go. An
official eventually picked up the explorers,
however, and sought to smooth out ruffled
dignity by hunks of cake in the committee-
room.
* * * *
“Light Horse”: The news that the Kirk
Session of Partick, near Glasgow, lias ex-
pelled one McKenzie, a deputy-harbor-
master, because his job sometimes entailed
Sunday work, recalls another instance from
Avrshire. The Camcronian sect is, or was,
particularly strong thereabout, and to the
Carneronian even walking, save to kirk, is
Sabbath desecration. Two young fellows
staying at a near-by country house were,
accordingly, pulled up by a kirk-going elder.
“D’ye ken y’r gaum’ tae th’ Dell? he asked.
It was explained that the pair were only
following the example of the Founder oi
Christianity in walking on the Sabbath. The
elder asked for proof, and was shown, in his
own “Buik,” Matthew xii, 1: “At that
time Jesus went on the Sabbath Day through
the corn.” “Y’r rieht.” said the old man
angrily, “y’r rieht; but deil fash me if Ah
think muckle th’ mair o’ Ilim for’t.”
* ' * * *
“Old Wig”: The Practice Court in Mel-
bourne, where recently a batch of new J’s.P.
attended to be sworn in, houses one of the
most interesting records in the Common-
wealth. It is the roll of
magistrates for the State of
Victoria (formerly “the dis-
trict of Port Phillip”), and
dates back to 1545, the first
name on its pages being that
of David Norman Innes, of
Gouiburn River. They did
some, extensive swearing in
those days when taking the
oaths of office. The modern
formula is a spineless thing
beside the old forms of affir-
mation. “In all articles in
the Queen’s commission to
you directed,” the Justice
was solemnly instructed, “you
shall do equal right to the
poor and to the rich after
your cunning wit and power,
and after the law and cus-
toms of the realm and
statutes thereof made" : and
all are warned against being
“of counsel of any quarrel”
coming before them. That
human nature was not all
it was cracked up to be in
the days of good Queen Vic-
toria is suggested by this
passage : “The ' issues, fines
and amerciaments that shall
happen to he made and all
forfeitures that shall fall be-
fore you ye shall cause to
he entered without any con-
cealment” embezzling, in
plain English—“and truly
send them to the Queen’s
Exchequer. Ye shall not let
for gift or other cause, but
well and truly ye shall do
your office.” The oath of
supremacy and another of
abjuration, in the latter of
which Bonnie Prince Charlie
gets one in the eye, had also to be taken.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: A much-needed reform was
mentioned at a conference of Melbourne
spiritualists lately when a delegate advocated
a school to teach mediums to speak and
write English grammatically. Some mediums,
he complained, were unable to express them-
selves correctly. This is what I have found
in all the mediums I have listened to. They
describe the other world in terms that betray
a very limited knowledge of this. A depress-
ing similarity between their accounts of
Heaven and those given in their scriptures
is evident, and this applies to all denomina-
tions. The tranced Jain, for instance,
describes a paradise in which all the foliage
is a mild shade of pink—an obscene and
horrible conception, but strictly in accord-
ance with his sacred books. I once heard
HE’D STOPPED A FEW.
ADRIAN: “What bonser black eyes you’ve got!”
ALISON : “Yes — they're hereditary.”
ADRIAN : “ Mother , I presume?”
ALISON : “No, father —he was a prise-lighter.”
a Tutong medium of Borneo, after. being
raised to the right plane of exaltation by
betel-nut and the banging of a drum, describe
the other world. Those who had gone before
were engaged in a head-hunting expedition
in which the supply of heads was absolutely
limitless. Their spirit-enemies, every time
their thinking apparatus was removed, im-
mediately budded a new one. Conan Doyle
during his Australian tour depicted an astral
sphere which was more up to date. It was
an exact replica of this, only everything was
more refined and lovely. The whisky was
more than six years in the wood, presumably,
and the moving-pictures didn’t come from
A CASE OF BUSINESS AFTER
PLEASURE.
“Heavens, there's old Mrs. Snigglesniff! That means he,
infernal daughters are here. At her age one docs
not go to dances for pleasure.”
Hollywood. But then Conan is a writer of
detective fiction.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: “Kit” (B.
4/3/'26) is wrong when he states that Lans-
downe Bridge over Prospect Creek (N.S.M.)
was the first stone bridge erected in Aus-
tralia. He gives the date of its official open-
ing as Anniversary Day, 1836. One David
Lennox was our first bridge-builder, and he
got to work years before that. Sir Thomas
Mitchell, the first Surveyor-General, has told
how he came upon Lennox —“a mechanic
then employed upon day wages cutting the
coping-stone of the dwarf wall in front of
the Council Chambers in Macquarie-street
and. after satisfying himself of the
mechanic's qualifications for the job, installed
him as Government bridge-builder. The
first of his handiwork still spans a gully at
Lapstone Hill; “David Lennox and 1803
may still be read on the keystones. The
bridge over the river in Parramatta is known
as “Lennox Bridge.” Lennox also built the
first stone bridge over the Yarra at Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“P.P.”: Luck is sometimes as capricious
as the most perverse flapper. I was helping
to rnn a R.C. bazaar in
Brunswick (Vic.) some years
ago. The late Archbishop
Carr had sent a fiver to be
divided among five stalls, and
the parish priest was anxious
that the bishop should get
something for his money.
With that laudable purpose,
he put down the prelate’s
name for 39 sixpenny tickets
for a fine ham which was
being raffled ; one ticket had
been sold, or I make no
doubt he would have taken
the lot. At the drawing I
helped to fold the tickets —
a procession of 39 “Arch-
bishop Carr’s.” I don’t know
who folded the odd one, but when we called
up a little girl from the platform to put her
hand in the barrel the 39 to 1 chance
came off.
-X- * * *
“Booze”: While patrolling his district
(Dowerin. W.A.) our John Hop struck an
Italian who appealed to the officer of the
law to find a job for his brother, _ a recent
arrival from Mussoliniland. He dilated en-
thusiastically on the newchum’s Herculean
physique and gluttonous appetite for work.
Then he played his trump-card : “He speak-a
da Engleesh, too; not as good me can but
better dan da pom-mee!”
PROPER PRIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Rome correspondent of the Times states
that under a decree promulgated by Signor Musso-
lini organ-grinders and exhibitors of monkeys and
other beasts will disappear from the streets of
European cities. Signor Mussolini has decided to
refuse the issue of passports to such showmen, be-
cause they offend the prestige of Fascist Italy.”
rt was not sleep nor trance nor dream, this seem-
ing strange and rare
That traced its quaintly simian theme upon the
startled air ;
I was not mad nor drugged nor drunk, and yet I
dare to swear
I saw a super-manly monk, who wept and tore his
hair.
And “Monk,” I cried, “you well may be a figment
of the brain,
But if with parts of speech you’re free, pray, tell
me—why the pain ?”
And from the utter depths of woe he dredged this
dull refrain;
“I’ll never see and never know my ’Tonio again!
“We were as brothers, he and I, unfettered as the
breeze;
We shared alike, come low, come high, from finery
to fleas.
With equal unconcern we played life’s little comedies
Or tragic roles, as we were bade by higher destinies.
“Alas!” He gulped and blinked at me, like one
whose awful bane
It is of mortal misery a brimming cup to drain,
And murmured through his tears (and, oil! they
fell like summer rain) —-
“I’ll never see my ’Tonio, my ’Tonio again!”
“Ah, Monk,” I said, “not yours alone to taste this
cup of gall,
For snobbishness claims men its own, holds high and
low in thrall;
Each strutting Mussolini’s keen on dignity to call;
You lowered his prestige, old bean....he cut you
out... .that’s all.”
But “What!” that monkey cried. “Cut me?
You’re wandering, that’s plain ;
Though, true enough, ’twas dignity that felt at
last the strain....
A ‘steaka-d’-oyst’ he opened.... No! I could not
bear the stain
And so I left and ’Tonio I’ll never see again!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
SMOKING
, TOBACCO .
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Cbe
equitable
mm
Cife
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA#
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAHD
Gerald Buckley, the elderly bachelor who
bought The Night Patrol at auction from
Lord Stradbroke for £10,500, has a stud
farm at Kyneton (Vic.). He acquired the
old home of the Argyles, which was built by
the father of the present Vic. Chief Sec.
Situated on a hill right behind the grand-
stand of Kyneton racecourse, the well-
appointed and lavishly-furnished homestead
excited the envy and the admiration of race-
meeting crowds. Sam Mackay, another rac-
ing man, purchased the place from the
Argyles, and had no sooner remodelled it
than he was summoned aloft. Then the
Lockes held it for a while, and now Buck-
ley, the new squire, has caused a flutter in
the old town by becoming owner of the
English horse. Stan Argyle, as political
head of the Police Department, bosses an-
other sort of night patrol.
When Prohibitionist Greenwood, M.L.A.
for Boroondara, announced that he had in-
vited himself to attend as a coat- and hat-
holder for McPhairson while the ex-Trea-
surer pitched into the Compo Cabinet at
Hawthorn Town Hall, old members recalled
an incident of 28 years ago. George Bennett,
who then represented Richmond, took the
unusual course of
proposing a vote of
confidence, French
fashion, in the first
Turner Govern-
ment. Fred Gray,
the unpopular mem-
ber for Prahran,
seconded. Before
Speaker Mason
could give a ruling
whether the motion
was in order, Ben-
nett rose and said
that if he could
have no other sec-
onder than Gray he
would withdraw the
motion, and with-
drawn it was.
There are times
when it is wise to
wait till you’re
asked.
A. D. KAY,
Sydney Domain
spouter and M.L.A.
for North Shore.
As a curtain-raiser to the Queensland
election campaign, Mines Minister Alf Jones
and Opposition-leader Moore are entertain-
ing the electors with an interminable con-
troversy about the Mungana affair, and the
Orallo oil-leases. The discussion is funny
in spots. In one of his dissertations the
Minister dropped into poetry (a little habit
of his), and was disconcerted by the stern
retort that “an ounce of fact is worth a
ton ,of poetry.” Alf Jones is more or less
poetic, even in his prose. In his latest
effusion he begs his opponent “not to dip
the pen of mendacity so deep into the ink
of ambiguity and innuendo.” Mr. Pott, of
the Eatanswill Gazette, couldn’t have
bettered that.
Sundry States know Brian Wibberley,
who was in the chair at the recent Methodist
conference in Adelaide. He was in South
Australia for years before he went to
Westralia about 1911, and since leaving the
West he has had a term in Victoria. Author-
ship (mostly church history) and music--
he holds the Mus. Bac. degree of Adelaide
Uni. —are the Rev. Brian’s side-lines.
A, N. Walter, who replaces A. A. Dun-
stan as a representative of the State Par-
liamentary Cocky party on the central council
of Vic. Farmers’ Union, succeeded the late
Speaker Mackey as M.L.A. for Gippsland
West. He has a vigorous and even lurid
way of expressing himself, not so much in-
side as outside the House, but he is liked
for his straightforwardness. He is the chair-
man of directors of the Morning Post and
Countryman Co., and and has put some
ginger into the business side.
“Petrie": Add to the list of those who
have been ruined by winning a big lottery
prize the name of Queenslander Edward
Eastham. He won
first prize in the
Golden Casket in
1921 ; thereafter lie
lost his arm, lost
his wife (by
divorce), lost his
money, and finally
lost his life —pre-
sumably by suicide.
His dead body was
found in St. Pat-
rick's churchyard,
Brisbane, in Octo-
ber last, and the
coroner is still in-
quiring into the
matter in the leis-
urely fashion that
obtains in Banana-
land.
JAMES EDWARD
RENTON, M.H.R.
for MAribyrnong
( Vic. ) and a good
Protectionist.
Jimmy McCombs, Labor member for Lyt-
telton (M.L.), whose seat was taken away
from liim by one vote at last election, and
who has regained it after an Electoral Court
inquiry, wall be welcomed back to the Par-
liamentary Labor party with mixed feelings.
An industrious and conscientious man. with
a gift for handling figures, McCombs has
given his party good service, but his posi-
tion has been jeopardised of late by his defi-
nite repudiation of Lenin and all iiis works.
He is of the Philip Snowden type, as cold
as a fish, intensely serious, and moreover a
prohibitionist of the most pronounced descrip-
tion. His hold on the wharfies and tannery
workers of his constituency is not a matter
of personal popularity, and his refusal to
straddle the fence on the Communist issue
has not improved it. But his return will
give Harry Holland the right to claim to be
leader of the Opposition, since the Labor
party will now outnumber the Nationalists.
The father of H. J. Holden, just dead in
Adelaide, started a leather business long ago;
the son, with the aid of a solid partner, built
it up into Holden and Frost, which held
many contracts during the war. The firm,
however, was quick to realise the possi-
bilities of the motor industry; it sold out
the saddlery business to the Harris Scarfe
Co., and became a really big Holden Motor
Body Building Co., with a factory in the
city and another at Woodville. The Holden
who has gone found time to be mayor of
suburban Kensington and Norwood for eight
years ( a local record), and to do good work
on the City Council, the Tramways Trust,
the Y.M.C.A., and many religious bodies. He
had not been in good health for some time,
but the end was. quite unexpected. In
fact, his son E. W. Holden, managing direc-
tor of the company (who at the beginning
of December was elected on the Adelaide City
Council and the University Council in the
same week), has only just started on a busi-
ness tour of Europe.
t Amongst the newcomers admitted to the
N.S.W. Bar at the opening of the term is
Bernard Sugerman. Left an orphan in
childhood, Bernard has paid his way through
college on the scholarships he has won. His
University career was exceptionally success-
ful. An appointment as Challis lecturer on
contracts, mercantile law and torts in the
University Law School will keep the pot boil-
ing while his practice is building itself.
It seems likely that Hobart will lose its
synagogue now that Samuel Benjamin is
dead ; the old man, who would have been S 7
in July, was its one reliable prop. Benjamin
was left money by an uncle with a special
injunction that, whilst he lived, he was to
keep the synagogue going. The injunction
marched with the heir’s own inclination, and,
in spite of a rapidly-dwindling Jewish popula-
tion in Hobart, the synagogue was in some
manner maintained. Four years ago, respond-
ing to a presentation address made to com-
memorate his 83rd birthday, the old man
mentioned that -of 11 men who had signed
a similar address on his 70tli birthday four
had died, two had left the State, and two had
drifted out of the synagogue.
An oldster who has lively recollections of
the spacious sporting days of Bananaland
is Francis Pontey, born 1836 and still going
strong. A builder by trade, he was at Ips-
wich when the North Australian Jockey Club
matched the local mare Miss Pitsford against
John Tait’s mare Zoe, from Sydney, for
£lOOO. That was in the ’sixties. It was
at another Ipswich meeting that 12 sporting
squatters issued a challenge to a similar num-
ber of bullockies for a bare-knuckle contest.
The squatters won. Pontey has been a
Sydneysider for the last 40 years. Before he
settled at Balmain he put up several of
the pioneer pubs and chapels in the Tweed
River district.
At the recent dinner of Australasian book-
sellers it was related that three pioneers of
the trade, the original George Robertson
(who had nothing to do with Angus and
Robertson), Samuel Mullens and E. W.
Cole, all arrived in Melbourne on the same
day in 1853. E. W. Cole was the most re-
markable of the three. He had strong views
on morality, coupled with a shrewd idea of
the tastes of an uninstructed public, and
not only published his own rhymed effusions,
but made money out of them. Persistently
he exploited the advertising value of his
eccentricities. When he decided to marry,
he advertised for the ugliest woman in Mel-
bourne. The lady he married proved as'much a
character as himself, and she bossed him and
ruled his business. A former employee re-
calls how Cole, glowing like a man who is
giving away a fortune, raised his salary from
1.45. to 15s. per week. But Mrs. Cole heard
of it, and vetoed the increase. After a
month’s battling the rise was confirmed by
the pair. “But we hope,” said Cole solemnly,
‘that this extra money will not breed in you
a taste for vicious extravagance.”
Handed in his last mailbag docket, Jimmy
Lyall, of Harrow (Vic.). Jimmy commenced
driving the big four-horse (sometimes six-
horse) coach between Hamilton and Harrow
(60 miles) in 1872, first for Cobb and Co., and
later as mail-contractor. It has been cal-
culated that he travelled over 1,000,000 miles
on this run, and that wasn’t his first coach-
ing experience, as he had been previously
employed at the same work in the Warrnam-
bool district. He was 79 when the last
journey ended.
That there is enough wealth in Australia’s
furs and feathers, properly conserved, to
pay the national debt was the text of an
oration by J. J. Moloney at a A.N.A. feast
in Sydney. He advocated that mountain
areas unsuitable for either cultivation or
grazing should be set aside as game sanctu-
aries, and castigated the Government for
having allowed the proclamation of an open
season for shooting king parrots and other
native birds. Moloney, who, in spite of his
Irish name, is one of the heads of David
Cohen and Co., is an ardent and well-in-
formed nature-lover who knows more about
Australian flora and fauna than many pro-
fessional naturalists. Also, he has proved
himself a good friend to the abos.
“Von” Stacey, who now gathers fees at the
N.S.W. Bar, was only a few months over
30 when he became lieut.-colonel and com-
mander of the Ist Battalion, A.I.F. His
Christian names are Bertie Vandeleur, but
the Diggers made “Von” out of the second
name, having in mind a certain precision of
dress and a steely indifference to shellfire.
This disdain of danger was not relished by
runners who had to stay outside cover with
him, but the “Von” was invented in no
unfriendly spirit. The Diggers liked Stacey,
who was an easy and approachable com-
mander. During the cigarette-and-match
iamine that followed the disappearance of the
Y. Emmas in the Fritz push of 1918, Stacey,
having been challenged as he approached a
post at Meteren, was astonished when his
Friend! was answered with “Advance,
friend, and give us a match.” His inquiries
resulting in information about the desperate
shortage of cigarette lights, lie passed over
all the matches he possessed.
Clarence Pitman, known in Melbourne as
Daddy, has audited his last balance-sheet.
He was a nephew of Isaac Pitman, the short-
hand king, and wrote an excellent script to
the last. Pitman was once in the Colonial
Bank, but of late years had been a munici-
pal auditor.
“Galleryite”: Vic. Parliament will be 70
on November 21. The jubilee was cele-
brated during Tommy Bent’s Premiership;
there were then 68 seats in the Assembly as
against 65 at present, and 35 in the Council
as compared with 34 now. Sternberg, Edgar
and Payne are the remnant of the 35 Coun-
cillors, and Edgar has not been in the House
all the time. Ten of the Assemblymen re-
main—Peacock, A. A. Billson, Bowser, Car-
lisle, Downward, Lawson, Lemmon, Oman,
Prendergast and Toutcher. Strictly speak-
ing, Solly should be included, as he was out
of the House only during the brief time it
took him to change the uncertain seat of
representative of the railway employees (they
had their own member then) for the Carlton
certainty. There were 60 members when the
ERIC MILLHOUSE, who prosecuted for
the Crown in the Bute (S.A.) murder
trial.
first Parliament under responsible govern-
ment was elected in 1856, but the official
records show only 59 names. John O’Shan-
assy was elected for both Melbourne and
Kilmore.
There was a strong flavor of “Try, try
again” in the life of Fred Peddar, old-time
Tas. sportsman, who was bowled out at 85
last week. Passing as a conveyancer in 1869,
he never relaxed liis efforts to qualify as
a barrister. After a long succession of fail-
ures he was called to the Bar in 1893. In
the meantime he had become police super-
intendent at Bellerive, after which he was
head of the force in Hobart for nearly 20
years.
Gosling, Labor M.L.A. for St. George
(N.S.W.), who has become annoyed at cleri-
cal comment on Lang’s Abolition Bill, is
a gloomy-looking young man of Quaker ex-
traction. A painter by trade, he took on a
forlorn hope at the 1917 Federal election,
and was rewarded three years later with a
nomination for St. George. Though an immi-
grant, he drew attention to himself not long
after his election by expressing decided anti-
immigration views. Industrious in his
fashion, Gosling is chairman of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party, chairman of the Par-
liamentary Accounts Committee, and member
of the Parliamentary Library Committee, the
Elections and Qualifications Committee and
the Metropolitan Water Board. He has a
hunger for newspaper publicity, and his
photo appears in the Labor Daily at least
once a week.
“Riwaka”: Perhaps it would not have
mattered if Augustus John never finished his
portrait of Billy Hughes (B. 18/2/’26).
Some obscure stone-carver has achieved a
remarkable likeness of Billy in a corbel on
the n.-e. tower of the Church of the Immacu-
late Conception at Glenferrie (Vic.). As
the artist operated while the ex-Priminis-
ter was a resident of the district, there is a
strong belief that the likeness is not acci-
dental. Anyway, perhaps it is kinder to
say that Billy was the model than to suggest
that there'was always a chance one of the
gargoyles would be like him.
Sydney Plospital has its own hero-martyr
to the cause of science. With all but a
couple of his fingers gone, James Young
keeps at it cheerfully. He was the pioneer
X-ray operator at the hospital, undertaking
the work undeterred by the knowledge that
physical injury was inevitable, and several
years ago, when carcinoma set in, he refused
to relinquish his job. A grim fight has been
made to save his hands, but he has had to
lose his fingers one by one. Lacking funds
with which to be generous, the hospital gave
him a six-month trip to England to get the
best of treatment, and an attempt was made
to obtain a grant for him from the Carnegie
Hero Fund. A grant from that fund was
made to Reginald Blackall, the London Hos-
pital operator, who died the other day after
losing both his hands; but the fund does not
reach as far as Australia. To-day gloves
are worn as a defence against the harmful
action of the rays, but there is already a
long list of martyrs, several of whom have
died, in this particular sector of the cam-
paign against human ills.
FOR THE LITTLE ORES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Melbourne committee is appealing for funds to
suitably recognise the courage and resource of Miss
Florrie Hodges, who saved the lives of her brother
and sister by shielding them with her body against
the flames which swept over them in the waterhole
in which they took refuge from the bush fires at
Powelltown. Miss Hodges is still in hospital, and
it is feared that she will be permanently crippled.”
God’s wooded plains and slopes, man’s frail abode,
Alike a charred and blackened waste became,
Yet in the hell of it was something glowed
Brighter than leaping flame.
Courage, self-sacrifice and thoughts that turned
First to the little ones in peril fell.
It dies at last, the fiercest fire that burned—
These were unquenchable.
Care for the weak —strong man’s allotted care
When blazing buildings rock or doomed ships fill.
What of weak womanhood, as quick to dare
Death—for the weaker still?
Red ruin round them, while the choking blast
Beat on their heads, the children crouched and
kneeled,
Her dauntless breast their rampart to the last,
Her tortured limbs their shield.
Caught from an earth aflame a blood-red glare
Through sullen veils of smoke the heavens showed.
’Fore God! but there was heroism there
Brighter than fire that glowed.
Care for the weak ! In splendid sacrifice
Reckless of self, anguish and fear above,
She paid (can we not lighten it, the price
She paid?) in sister-love.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


f.t
■
.'3 1 r 4r
V i
-3 '
L J ■
i. .5
/
m*
1
iiiildtiwiuiiiliinLifeiiiii
i I I i |j mmfi M
iiuiiiiiflnniiiuiivnuMiiuiH
i
@
%
A
y.iiti j j
iimi ■■ iinnii.’iirT, iiiir
HIJ— Jin mj> Utti "mm muiLimjiL'.iiL. ji ;i
<T>
sD
o
o
CM
tr>
:o ur
~WJ\ere
QaaJifer
Counl^*
66
/os%'
if' *
,M'P
tiffin
Cigarettes
(OVALS)
||H"" The reason for '"'l|||
the wonderful popularity
of "POLO” Cigarettes (OVAIj)
is no mysterious elusive secret.
It may be summed up in
till.. one word —Quality. .ill
Choice fizrg/17/art Toiaeeo
W. D.& H. O. WILLS


from
RABBITS CANNOT ESCAPE
CYAN OGAS (Calcium Cyanide)
FUMO
BRAND
Full particulars
promptly on
request .
Qj nogas has rendered old methods of rabbit destruction obsolete.
It is the SAIfE way of using deadly hydrocyanic gas.
Blown into rabbit burrows with the Fumo Dust Blower, in the
iorm oi a fine dust, it sinks and reaches the lowest portion of the
burrows, then slowly gives off deadly fumes from which the rabbits
cannot escape. It indicates every opening of the burrow bv a dust
cloud J t is harmless to the worker.
no Geo Langley, of River Farm, Albion Park, writes,
, 23 /W My experience with CYANOGAS (Calcium Cyanide)
is that it kills every rabbit in the burrows no
matter how large the burrows are! I have dug
the rabbits out of my farm (200 acres). I
used the 51b. I bought from vou in the largest
burrows, and after digging out the smaller
ones I decided to dig out the large ones, and
in every instance found the rabbits all dead.
I got as many as 32 in one burrow. I can
recommend it to anyone that wants to get rid
of rabbits.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Btd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Besjjo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Btd., Adelaide
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’iand), Btd.. Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Searfe & Handovers, I,td., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Btd., Baunceston.
Koberts & Co., Btd., Hobart.
mm
1
mma
HMOFMSIC
m
m
m
0
o
m
BifcgoiooeoMO’
Mr h; i :s:k
o;<a
M
Acknowledged to be
tCJ
*
M
i
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Hop Toit” : Not long back old Shaft' Deon,
a Hindoo hawker travelling the Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.) district, camped at the station where I
had the honor to jackeroo. A fowl was caught and
given to him for his evening meal. I inquired why
it was that he and his countrymen killed personally
all the meat they used. Shaft’s reply showed that
he had made more than a passing aequantance with
his adopted country; lie said, “Oh, I like say a
little prayer over him before I kill him. All you
Australians say ‘Die, you , die !’ ”
ENCOURAGING A NEWCOMER.
VISITOR : “Do you lose many bathers during the season?”
BOATMAN: “Well, not what you’d call permanently. They
generally get washed up after a day or two.”
‘‘Really" : The bush-fires around Walhalla
(Vie.) recall to me many strange happenings there
in its golden days. Not the least of these was the
funeral of a well-known bush hotelkeeper. The old
man, who spent his spare time in prospecting, kept
his pub in almost inaccessible country about 30 miles
back in the mountains. The many prospectors there-
abouts helped to keep him going. The bar door was
never locked, and. a notice on the bar itself stated:
“Whisky on the top shelf; beer on the bottom.
Leave your money in the box.” One day two miners
arrived at the pub and found him dead. After having
a drink to steady their nerves, they decided that
one should remain as watcher whilst the other went
to Walhalla fdr the undertaker. When the man
of crepe arrived with three companions, the watcher
was so drunk that it was difficult to distinguish the
corpse. A rough coffin of bark was made to hold
the body, and, placing it on a sleigh, the party—
after a few drinks—started over the wild moun-
tainous country to the Aberfeldy cemetery. Near the
top of a steep rise they were having a spell and
more consoling drinks when one of them had a shot
at a kangaroo. The two horses attached to the
sleigh took fright and dashed away. The mourners
failed to catch them, and two days later one horse
was found dead at the foot of a 1000 ft. drop. The
other horse and the incidental corpse were never
found.
“Pick”: In 1923 an unknown weed poked
up its unwelcome head on the wheat-lands of the
Bibbenluke closer-settlement area (N.S.W.), and now
threatens to become a lasting trouble. It has a tough,
spidery growth like a giant dockweed, abundant
aster-like blue flowers, a taproot 18in. in the soil, and
flufty leaves giving off such an offensive smell that
animals will not feed in the vicinity. Cutting is
of no avail, because it springs again from any bit
of root left. To ensure that all the tender root-ends
have been taken out, a miniature shaft has to be
sunk and the dirt sifted for the fragments. The
settlement farmers want to know whence came their
latest enemy, its name and the best means of killing
it.
* * * *
“Tip North”: A dangerous bush habit is
to work in the open without a flannel. I’ve seen
men, toiling, hard, suddenly fall. A ray of sun-
light slanting through the trees had caught them at
the critical spot along the spine. In one case the
after-effect produced by a misty blindness during
two hours in the middle of any hot summer day.
Several cases required hospital treatment, and were
followed by inability to work in the open for some
years. An old friend of mine had his issue for
the duration of his life. Working hard at a fencing
contract with his flannel off, as he had done for
years, he suddenly dropped and a week later woke
up in hospital. For the remainder of his life he was
compelled to work indoors, and every summer a
sunstroke recurred, sometimes necessitating further
hospital treatment.
* * * #
“Joan g.” (B. 18/2/’26) may
be satisfied that her prad’s founder is hopeless if
the vet. has given it best. The chronic inflammation
causes new tissue to grow, which, being contained
in the unyielding hoof, causes pressure on the blood-
vessels and cuts off nutrition, especially of the
coffin-bone. In general, a good cure for acute
founder is to keep the hoofs wet, either by immer-
sion or swabs, and administer 4oz. of saltpetre
in a pint of water every six hours. Keep at this
for a week if necessary. The saltpetre won’t do any
damage.
* * * *
“Desist”: On my selection the greater
number of passion-fruit vines planted six years ago
are now dead, but those put in within 10ft. of
common acacia-trees are doing well in growth and
fruit. An old hand tells me acacia roots store nitrogen
and the passion vines tap this store. Has the
Council any data about it?
* * * *
“Herodot”: Some animals seem to pos-
sess a susceptibility which makes them fear certain
spots, although there is nothing in the slightest
unusual about those
spots so far as can
be seen. While riding
along a country road
in the south-west of
Queensland one night
recently, a friend of
mine was nearly
thrown from his horse
through the animal
suddenly shying when
it came to a small de-
clivity. For some
minutes it exhibited
acute terror, and could
be got past the spot
only by vigorous forc-
ing. A few da.vs later
the rider discovered
that a neighbor had
had exactly the same
trouble with one of his
horses at the same
Pla c e in the road,
although the animal
was unusually quiet
and had never previ-
ously been known to
behave in such a
manner. Similarly, I
once saw some dogs
show fear of the same
kind outside a deserted
bush hut, while two
horses also present be-
came uneasy and
trembled violently. Is there an explanation?
* * * *
“Really : Some of the Papuan outback
tribes show occasionally a sense of humor. It may
be seen in the mosquito dance of the children. They
hum and buzz in admirable imitation of the pest,
and with uniform action slap their legs, arms and
bodies, as if smarting from vicious bites. Then, in
a pretence of great irritation, they wildly toss their
arms about, till finally they cease in mock despair.
Binghi says that the mosquito is the only living
thing that mourns for man ; for he can no longer drink
his blood and sing sweet songs to him. All other
; creatures rejoice over man’s death, as the end of a
common foe.
* * * * *
“Saaedi”: Can anyone tell me if the seed
of the plant known as Mexican poppy poisons sheep ?
Years ago, going to move sheep from a paddock in
which water was getting scarce, I found the flock
considerably decreased through deaths. There was
no apparent reason for these fatalities, and they
ceased about three days after the sheep had been
shifted. The symptoms suggested a slow poison, the
effect of which was speeded up if the animals became
heated. Though I am familiar with the complaints
that sheep ordinarily contract, the cause in this
case was a mystery to me. It has, however, since
been recalled by me that there was a quantity of
Mexican poppy in the pastill e paddock. I know sheep
will not touch the leaves or stalk of this plant, but
possibly they might chew the seeds. Can any wise
old owl cast a light on the subject?
“Parama” : The sandpaper-tree mentioned
by “Kriz” (B. 21/1/’2G) is a dwarf compared with
IN SWEET FRIENDSHIP’S
NAME.
“It’s a terrible thing to sec husband
and wife fighting in the public street!”
“Bless you, they ain’t ’usband an’ wife, sir — they're only just a
couple of friends.”
similar trees that grow in New Guinea and the
surrounding islands. There 15 to 20 feet is the
general height attained. The leaves are used by
the islanders for smoothing down and finishing off
their carved wood ornaments, poles, weapons, etc.,
as well as for callosities on hands and feet. 1 have
seen a couple of “boys” using them to smooth off the
sides of a dinghy before repainting it. The leaves
are more effective if picked and allowed to dry
before they are used. The trees are distinctly
ornamental, too, with dark green leaves and wide-
spreading branches.
* * # *
“Cucliulain”: “C.W.G.” (B. 4/2/’26)
wonders why he cannot get myall-wood pipes. It is
because the value of this picturesque little tree is
not fully realised and nothing seems to be done about
protecting or cultivating it; there are not many
places where it grows. In some parts of Banana land,
along the Warwick to Dirranbandi line, for example,
a number of the trees are to be found. There is no
better firewood than myall, and it provides a most
valuable sheep food in time of drought,.’ I have
seen many myalls sacrificed to the sheep, the first
“chop” attracting all the woollies to the feast. It
is really strange that nothing of consequence has
been done to preserve the myall, if only for its
cabinet-building qualities. A very sound and en-
during wood with a pretty grain, it retains a sweet
scent, even after polishing.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: The creature called by
scientists Thylacoleo (B. 11/2/’2C>) 'is now extinct
in Australia. It was the nearest approach to a lion
our continent possessed, though pouched like a
kangaroo. As “A.R.W.” says, the skulls are fairly
common, but the rest o* the skeleton has not yet
been found. Teeth are come upon occasionally, and
the Queensland Museum has one picked up at Mar-
mor (C.Q.). This place, by the way, is an absolute
mine of geological specimens, and its limestone caves
have yielded some prizes, among them being a snake
fossil found recently, of a kind never known before.
Probably Denmark Hill, near Ipswich, is the only
place in Queensland that can compare with Marmor
as regards fossil wealth.
* * * *
“Mug Gunner": The Cape Barren goose
is the pioneer of aerial traffic-control, for it always
follows the same line when winging towards its
roosting-ground, never deviating from its course a
fraction. Exactly at six o’clock each night a flock
of these birds would fly directly over a haystack we
were building at Barwon Park (Vic.), and their
appearance was always the signal for us to call it
a day. I’m sorry to admit it now, but goose figured
on the menu at dinner the day following the
completion of the stack.
* * * *
“Anaf”; The distance which the human
voice will carry (B. 25/2/’26) depends entirely on
the rarefied state of the atmosphere. Two members
of one of Franklin’s Arctic expeditions were heard
talking in normal tones while they were nearly two
and a half miles away. In portions of the great
mountain ranges of New Guinea, it is not an unusual
thing for voices to carry close on a mile, especially
in the early morning, and there is one place in
the Ivaiserin Augustin Range where it is often possible
to hear the words of people talking nearly two
miles away. But much depends on whether the
conversation is slow or rapid ; if the words are spoken
quickly, the sound waves, travelling at different
speeds, usually arrive in a jumble of unintelligible
noises.
Riverton ’: Talk about quick changes of
luck! Thirty-odd years ago an old chap close on
1 0 was making south for Adelaide. After passing
Innamincka he took a road leading to a recentlv-
completed tank, which of course brought him to a
dead-end. Instead of retracing his steps to the turn-
off he kept on south,
thinking he woul d
strike the road again,
but he got right down
to the Strzelecki sand-
hills, 50 miles east of
Strzelecki Creek. lie
realised then that he
was in the wro n g
direction, so he struck
west to try to find the
road again. He spent
a fortnight wandering
over tremendous sand-
hills without water
except for the mud he
might find in occasional
shallow claypans. He
lived on “parrakillia” (a
species of pigface) and
pigweed, getting daily
weaker. He was actu-
ally within a hundred
yards of the road and
over the last sandhill
When he decided to
give it best and lay
down to die; but lie
could not have been
there for more than a
few hours when a
passing teamster—and
they are rare birds
there—saw him, picked
him up unconscious
and handed him over
to the stockman and
cook at Toolachie.
They looked after the
old chap for a month
or more; by that time he was on his feet again
and well enough to continue his journey by the mail-
coach.
* * * *
“VE”: After the remnant of the extinct
Tasmanian aborigines-—never a very numerous people
—had been removed to Flinders Island, in Bass
Strait, they supplemented the rations allowed them
by the Government with other foods, of which
mutton-birds (the short-tailed petrel), their eggs and
young constituted the chief items. A too-long-
eontinued diet of young mutton-bird, however, not
infrequently resulted in boils, which covered the
body of the sufferer much as they did that of Job
at an earlier period in the world’s history. Like the
Hebrew 7, the abo. patient sought relief in ashes,
rolling his body in them while resting beside a
fire. It was in cases such as these that the fleshy-
leaved plant known as pig’s face (Mesembryanthe-
mum), the juice of which has a purgative action
and is to some extent a blood-purifier, came in
THE SIGNAL.
GUEST (at country hotel): “Boy, there is no
lock on this door. How am I to prevent
anyone entering while I am in my
bath?”
THE BOOTS: “Oh, just keep whistling.”
handy . Nor vvas it unusual in these earlv davs
(about 1830) to find a sick aboriginal left'bv his
people with some food and water and a bundle of
f resh ly gathered pig’s face beside him. The rest
was left to nature; he either recovered or passed
to the happv hunting-grounds of his race,
(Continued on page 24A
"W’EAT-CARTIN’!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s slow work, w’eat-cartin’;
’Ot work, too !
It's twenty mile from our place
Into Lameroo.
The magpies gets up early
Aar’ starts to pipe an’ call—-.
But we’re astir before the birds,
Teams an’ all.
It’s ’ard work, w’eat-cartin’.
’Ard ? —too right!
Sixty Dags our waggon takes—
Then we’re runnin’ light.
Yer bloomin’ back’s a-breakin’
Before ye’ve shipped yer load :
Then twenty miles o ’blazin’ sand....
Bust the road!
It’s dull work, w’eat-cartin’ ;
’Ard graft, too.
But w’en its rottin’ on the trucks—-
Out o’ Lameroo—
The agent signs yer little cheque,
An’ times is easy then;
Till fallerin’ an’ seedin’ comes....
Well, ’ere’s w’en!
S.A.
C. H. SOUTEY.


MOTORING
is what you
M
0
D-
AN
7
It can be your servant
or you its !
The car and tyres yos select for your requirements are
either suited to the purpose or they are not. All cars
and tyres are not alike, and therein lies the need for
careful selection of an automobile. As regards tyres,
many motorists are careless in this respect, and when
purchasing a car or tyre replacements just take what-
ever tyres happen to be fitted, or offered, irrespective
as to whether they are of sufficient strength and quality
to withstand hard work on Australian roads. Safe-
guard your interests in this direction by specifying
DUNLOP TYRES
and thus start away with high grade covers and tubes
that will ensure you many thousands of miles of trouble*
free motoring. These tyres are of high standard uniform
quality, for we make only one grade, the best, and
motorists can always rely on obtaining value and
economical service by using them. Don’t take
any tyre offered, demand “Dunlop.” They
cost no more, the difference is in the extra
mileage you obtain. Garages stock
them in Cords and Balloons.
* * ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Ail States and N.Z.
5^
\
//.
//.
’
\
1
i
<x
N 1
S
OP
k
o
n\
1
m 5
a


DEAF?
Socially and commercially, Deafness is a
handicap.
You can hear, and we are ready to prove it,
entirely at our expense, by sending you an
AC OUST ICON
ON TEN DAYS’ TRIAL.
We do not ask you to part with one penny
until we have PROVED to you that you can
hear.
Worn by the ex-Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
and selected for the use of the Deaf at the
Wembley Exhibition.
Call or write for full particulars.
TamciM* Store r. 102 Daking House,
LdUlSOn service, DO., Sydney.
“The Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor, 200 High Street, Christ-
church.
—H. Litth & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
p
A
B
C
O
L
I
N
“NOT THE SAME AS OTHEKS.’
■H
r
&
fin
Wl
M
sss
as
rL.
FLOOR SQUARES
BEAUTIFUL DESIGNS.
STAIN PROOF DUST PROOF.
LIE FLAT WITHOUT FASTENING. LOW COST.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager, CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
p
A
B
C
O
L
I
N
O\TO
Sfi2
is tfie
M
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
'Ofic Crca^t
Toti Dai Monte
saj/5 it is MARVELLOUS
obtainable
ONLY
At
Home Recreations I d
<3BB George St, Sydney.
(opp Ba&.rd Wkfsott’s]
“Coolabah" : Whenever I see a newclium
mustering sheep I feel sorry for the disappearance
of native-bears from the N.S.W. tablelands. In
bygone days the little fellows afforded pleasure,
mixed with bewilderment, to the newcomers. I
remember one boundary-rider who was astonished
to find that he had mustered a couple of bears with
the sheep. On another occasion he declared that
one of the jumbucks had climbed a tree.
* * * #
“Gouger": “Sleep means muscular relaxa-
tion,” say the wise men. But I’ve watched men,
animals and birds asleep in positions that necessi-
tated muscles being kept alert. I’ve seen hundreds
of men sitting asleep in their saddles, and I’ve
watched birds and animals asleep in positions that
made muscular relaxation impossible. When dis-
turbed by something not hostile they’ve simply
regained poise without awakening. Wild ducks will
keep paddling while asleep to avoid being carried
downstream by currents. Some men without waking
can actually perform well-practised mechanical work.
I remember one personal experience. The troops
were weakened by hard fighting, sickness and w'oeful
lack of reinforcements, and w’ere so nerve-strained
as to be physical wrecks from want of sleep alone.
I was armed sentry on a shell-magazine, and any
breach of duty was punishable with death. Sound
asleep, I stood stiflly erect, with hands clasped round
the rifle-muzzle and bayonet-haft. The officer of
the guard came noiselessly in the pitchy darkness to
the pile of shells and stood within three feet of me.
Automatically my rifle jerked up, the bayonet-point
resting quite steadily within an inch of his chest.
He remained absolutely quiet for several minutes,
THOUGHT IT WAS SOMETHING
SERIOUS.
MRS. JONES (who has been excitedly knock-
ing for five minutes): “Oh, Mrs. ’Arris,
y’r ’usband’s got six months!”
MRS. ’ARRIS “Oh, y’ did give me a start! I
thought it was the man for the rent.”
then said softly; “Sentry, you are asleep.” “A
lie!” I replied as my eyelids opened; “there is a
bullet in the chamber, my finger on the trigger
has taken the first pull, and if you had made”the
slightest suspicious movement you would have been
a dead man.” “Then why did you not challenge
me?” he asked quietly. “Because we have been
repeatedly warned of the spies who go among us in
officers’ uniform, I could not be absolutely certain
until I recognised your voice. If you had been
a spy, and I had challenged, you would have melted
into the darkness on the instant. But I had you
at my mercy, whether friend or foe.” After a pause
he said; ‘‘But your eyelids were shut!” “No,” I
replied emphatically. “The left eye was closed, the
shooting eye was ready for instant action.” I do
not understand it, but it was one of those things
we learnt we possessed during the war: to sleep,
and yet retain our mental activity.
NO GOOD AT EXPLAINING.
MAGISTRATE: “The constable says you attacked and threw him
violently. How did you come to do such a thing?”
COUSIN JACK “WRASTLER” ( charged with assault): “I caan’t tell
’ee, your ’Onor, how I came for to do it; but if ’ee like for
to step down I’ll show ’ee.”
"Baseplate”: It is evident that “Essby’s”
cattle-dog gets too good a reception at his old home.
If the person to whom the tyke attaches himself
grasps him by the legs, dips him slowly up and
down in a tub of water, knocking off when he is
thoroughly cowed, and returns him immediately to
his rightful owner, he will stay put. The use of a
muzzle is optional, but be sure to immerse the
dog’s head each time of dipping. He will then surely
know that an enemy hath done this thing.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Has any Abo. seen a young
ceratodus ? I have often caught ceratodi in the
Burnett and Mary rivers (Q.) and in some of their
tributaries. The smallest I have seen was just on
two feet long, while the biggest was about three feet.
Eggs were plentiful when I was in those parts, but
1 never caught sight of a young fish. Is it not time
something was done to protect these fish? They
are easily caught, and are not bad eating, and as a
consequence are rapidly dying out. Their value
to science is high enough to warrant the expense of
their adequate protection.
* * » *
“Bill R.”: In sufficient quantity sawdust
is effective in preventing earth erosion. Across
the fertile flat that fronts the coastal village of
is 1 a room a (N.S.W.), flood waters from inland and
tidal flows from the sea had worn a deep channel
and threatened to convert the loamy patch into a
miniature gulf. A newly-erected sawmill at the
head of the fiat utilised the widening gulch as a
tip. In a year or two the sawdust, which had been
expected to sweep out to sea, commenced to dam back
the tides and the gathering silt above in time rebuilt
the flat. Decades have passed since the final whistle
shut off the sawmill’s operations at this spot, but
the sawdust bank still holds back the ocean.
* * * *
“Eggsact”: An outsize in the way of horse-
shoes hangs as a mascot in “Sam” Weller’s office
at Sands and Mac’s, Adelaide. This giant hobnail
measures 22 inches around, 7J inches across, and
81 inches from stem to stern. Although well past
the half-soleing stage, it turns the scale at 22 ounces.
Sam saw the shoe actually shed many years ago by
a very tall and big-boned Dobbin; the driver told
him, as he picked the omen of good luck up, that
he wouldn’t find a much bigger one about. Was
he right ?
* * * *
“Canar”: In Central Queensland young
children have lately died from bites of large brownish-
black ticks which attach themselves to their hosts’
flesh until engorged with blood. In every instance
the symptoms were practically identical. The
children, all under the age of seven,, were first
afflicted with headache, accompanied by a rising
temperature. The external signs were inflamed
patches at the site of the bites and swellings of
the neighboring lymphatic systems. If the tempera-
ture continued to rise, convulsions followed, with
subsequent coma and death. So far as is known,
these are the first instances of anything of the
kind having taken place, and it is probable that
the primary cause of death was the toxin injected
into the children’s systems by the ticks.
* * * *
“X2X”: So much has been written con-
cerning the danger of sleeping in the vicinity of
a male pawpaw-tree
that an instance in
which a person was
benefited by doing so
will probably be of
interest. The subject
was a girl of 21 or
22, who for more
than three years had
suffered greatly from
acute chronic dyspep-
sia and various other
complaints, leaving her
in an advanced ame-
nde condition, so weak
that she was unable to
stand more than slight
exertion. After having
lived in northern N. S.
Wales for some years
she returned to her
home in a town on the
north coast of Queens-
land. By medical
order she had been
sleeping in the open
air, and on arriving
home her bed was
placed on a side veran-
dah, alongside which
was a large clump of
pawpaws, in full bear-
ing, was growing.
Within a few weeks
she started to show an
improvement in her
general condition, and
within two months had
almost reached normal
health. Then it w r as
decided to send her
south again for the hot
months, and almost
immediately sh e re-
lapsed into her former
state, and before long
was as bad as she had
been before. Return-
ing home, she again
took to sleeping under
the trees, whereupon
an improvement set in
once more. This time she remained at home, sleeping
for about four months with her bed close to the
trees, and by the end of that period had recovered
completely.
* * * *
“Te W.”: About the only two countries
in the world not supplied with crows are South
America and Maoriland. An attempt was made in
1869 to meet this deficiency in the land of the moa
by the importation of a consignment of English rooks,
which it was hoped would multiply and, incidentally,
check the ravages of the wire-worm and caterpillar.
The experiment was a failure. The crow is a valuable
insectivorous bird, and so is the closely related
raven.
* * * *
“Fitz”: Wingham Brush (N.S.W.) just
within stone’s throw of the main business centre of
the town, is still just as Nature left it—thanks to
the foresight of the hamlet’s forefathers and also to
Joseph Carruthers, who, when a Minister, had matters
so fixed that the hand of the spoiler will never
interfere with the sanctuary for bird life. ’Possums
also thrive there, and can be heard in the big
trees at night. It is a bush within a town, and is
the admiration of people from all parts who have
had the privilege of seeing it.
* * * *
“Starlight”: With an outlay of only old
tins, iron, etc., the youths in a small Queensland
mining town added considerably to their wages.
Long wooden troughs, packed with every variety of
old tins, were placed in a stream owing its existence
to the overflowing water from one of the local copper-
mines. The action of copper water on metal produces
a fine copper dust realising from 10s. to 15s. per
cwt. The writer has earned from £2 to £3 per week,
the only labor involved being the removal of neighbors’
old tins to the scene of operations.
* * * *
“Riverton”: Can any Abo. tell me what
has become of the diary of an old sundowner which
for years was stuck up on a wall of a hut on
Tenappera, in the back country of Queensland ? This
old battler was humping his swag along a dry,
barren stretch of country, making for Bulloo Downs.
A horseman overtook him and asked for a light and
tucker. The old chap had just enough to last him
till the end of that day, but he handed it all over
on the horseman assuring him that he would ride
ahead to the next homestead and return with rations
before nightfall. The promise was not kept, how-
ever, and that night floods came down and the
morning found the sundowner on a sandhill sur-
rounded by miles of water. He had no food and
no prospects of getting any until the Bulloo River
went down. From the morning when he found him-
self stranded he began to write a diary, and his
entry on the third day was that he could not last
much longer unless help came. The daily entries
were all in the same strain until the tenth day,
when he wrote with new hope—he had found a
nest of six wild-duck eggs. Some days afterwards
he managed to catch a small fish, which he ate raw,
not having any matches to light a fire. For weeks
he existed in this way, occasionally finding eggs
or another fish, but his last entry was made on the
forty-first day, when he abandoned hope and lay down
to die. How long he lay there is not known, but
Sidney Kidman and a blackfellow were riding in the
vicinity and the latter crossed the creek to see
whether it was possible to ford the river the other
side of the sandhill. He came back with the in-
formation that there was a dead man lying under
a tree. Kidman investigated and found the man
alive, but only just. He roused him and sent the
blackfellow to Bulloo Downs for a buggy, and then
took the swagman there, where he remained for
some months. Later the old adventurer left south
with a mob of cattle, and I can’t find anyone who
has heard of him since.
* * • *
“Canar”: Dalby (Q.) possesses an object
of somewhat melancholy interest in the form of a
large hedge of prickly-pear, situated right in the
town, which was the original starting-point of the
curse in that portion of the State. The hedge is
believed to have been planted from cuttings, about
1875, by a man who had seen the pear growing wild
elsewhere and thought that it would make good
ornamental material. It wasn’t long before the stuff
had escaped from control, and now it has completely
over-run the district.
* * * *
“Ess”: Most animals show the marks of
combat where it hits them, but the ram’s scars of
honor are always where he isn’t touched. I have
seen pugnacious warriors with lumps bumped out of
the backs of their heads (properly the nape or
forepart of the neck) through frequent fighting. As
the combatants always meet head on, the injuries
are caused by the shock of the colliding skulls. On
Whittabranah (north-west N.S.W.) I found the
skeletons of two rams lying head to head in a gully.
Their horns had locked together, probably through
one or both rearing slightly with the force of the
impact when fighting their last battle.
* * * »
“Sucre”: Bananaland is never likely to
remain “dry,” even if it does adopt prohibition.
Every fruit it grows has great possibilities for the
manufacture of “hard stuff.” Pineapples, pawpaws,
bananas and the native plum hold the potentiality
of “spots” strong enough to give an elephant a
morning headache. At Marburg (S.Q.) I sampled the
brew of a German selector. It was equal to the
best sparkling hock. “Dat vas made from celery,”
he proudly informed me.
* * * #
“Johnar”: Asked to describe what hd con-
sidered to be the most amusing stunt practised by
cattle when being mustered, an old drover plumped
for what he called “playing ostrich.” This game
is more frequently played by wild cattle than by
those much handled. When a number have been
gathered on fairly clear country and a fringe of
scrub or high cover is reached, the mob recces towards
it and squats like rabbits with heads hidden. If not
disturbed they will lie without a movement, but
Wjhen approached they bound up and make off at a
gallop.
A PILLAR OF THE CHURCH.
THE PARISHIONER: “Ah, the new landlord
at the put) is a great help to yuh, sir—
a great help to yuh.”
THE PARSON: “I’m proud to have made an
impression on him.”
THE PARISHIONER : “Yes, sir, he’s helped the
attendance a lot —he lets the boys in
for a reviver afterwards.”
“Hotham”: Someone complained in a
recent Bulletin about the apparent scarcity of
wombats. A large section of Melbourne’s population
heartily wished recently that they were still scarcer,
since one or more, of their number cut off the flow
of some 20,000,000 gallons of water —about a quarter
of Melbourne’s daily supply. A fair-sized landslide,
which blocked an aqueduct, was traced to the
burrowing beast.
AT THE GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her cheek is pale, her face is thin
Behind the barrier gate.
The Western Mail comes gliding in;
And it is always late.
For though the city clocks in chime
May praise the speedy' tiain,
Her heart has only counted time
By waiting and by pain.
An hour is gone in one swift sigh,
A day in one hot tear;
The eager wheels that seemed to fly
Were late by half a y'ear.
I cannot tell for whom she waits.
Perhaps a wandering son,
Who gambles youth against the fates,
Comes home when shearing’s done.
Perhaps some daughter of her brood
Had written home to say
She would be back again for good
A year ago to-day.
Or does some ageing swagman tramp
From weary place to place
And make his lonely, homeless camp
While dreaming of her face?
I only know she waits in vain,
With eyes that never smile,
As if her heart beside the train
Had measured every mile.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


\
k
1
11
->.
, * -/s'
IA


Under
Royal
W&rrant
Vintage 1914.
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charies Heidsiecfc
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACN*
Qttitelleidsiedt
**ei ms
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YE4RS OLE.
Australasian Agrents--
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
2. >
‘‘The Restaurant Supreme’'
SPECIAL EASTER FESTIVITIES.
wonderful round of gaieties is promised for Easter: Special dinners each
gilt, with cabaret and novel attractions of every description until 1 a.m.
In addition to the famous Zelda and John Juan, the inimitable Miss Marie
Crowther and the talented Ballet, there will be
THE ELCA TWlNS—Famous Danish Dancers in Original
Interpretations and Gorgeous Fashion Displays.
’Phone: BWI3CL
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30. 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.50, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M3G66.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK
GTOCKINGS
Turning the corner suddenly and coming
on last Saturday’s procession, you might have
thought that Time had whirled you back into
one of the old guild pageants where a miracle
play was in progress. The most striking
feature was the lorry with the touching
tableau of in the midst of the children.
But the recurrent note of the display was
Erin—in smiles and in tears —and the on-
looker quickly realised that the procession
was in honor of St. Patrick, and was the
preliminary to the big sports meeting on the
Show Ground. Archbishop Kelly led off,
and a ravishing Miss Australia smiled under
a starry coronet on the crowds through
which her chariot passed. A group repre-
senting the Pope giving audience to ambassa-
dors of the peoples of the world was strik-
ingly handled, and the Kincumber and the
\\ estmead boys' bands flung the tunes of
old Ireland like a banner in the day’s sun-
shine.
Founder and secretary of the Lyceum Club,
Mrs. Rose Soley, is a proud woman these
days, for the institution has grown so big
that it demands a permanent abode. Up
till now it has been a sort of literary paying-
guest of other societies, but from June the
present premises of the Women’s Service Club
in Hunter-street will become its address.
There are assembly, dining- and dressing-
rooms, topped off by a flat roof in the eyrie,
near Macquarie-street; and the earnest-
minded will delight to hear that three after-
noons a week can now be devoted to pursuit
of the three arts.
Mrs. Norman Lowe, a former Sydneyite,
whose husband is the engineer-in-charge of
Siam’s waterways, drops a note from Den-
mark on the joys of ski-ing and on the un-
pretentiousness of royalties in that up-to-
date country. One night she went to the
Royal Theatre to see the special ballet. To
her surprise the King entered unattended,
and slipped into his box alone. No one stood
up, and no National Anthem clove the air.
At the end of the performance he left as
unceremoniously. Tut, tut! What would
some of Australia’s ex-Excellencies think of
Denmark?
A Queensland girl in New York who was
present at the Australian Day reception
given by the Commissioner for Australia
and Lady Elder at the Hotel Plaza has a
word to say about the food. There was a
ball after the reception, and the supper con-
sisted entirely of specially-imported Austra-
lian products. Even the turtles which pro-
vided the soup came from Australia. A lamb
from Victoria was greeted with cheers as, in
all its roasted glory, it was borne aloft’by
v alters through the terraced restaurant. The
rolls were made of Australian flour, and the
butter came from N. S. Wales. Fruits for
the salad had grown in Queensland, S’Aus.
and \V estralia, while Tasmanian raspberries
ami gooseberries were served with the ice-
cream.
t.i was the doorstep over which
. ] jy hs Jean Allsopp, of Chatswood, stepped
wn “ atnm 2 ny ' and Albert Benjamin, of
Wollstonecraft, was the young man waiting
with the ring The bride, a glittering array
pearls and rhinestones, demurely paced
the aisle on father's arm, her frock under
its gemmy crustings being of ivory romaines,
flaring at the knee. A train of coral tulle
sown with diamentes coruscated like a
comet s tail, and the whole was misted over
by a beautiful veil of Limerick lace There
were four maids in blue and silver, and a
small train-bearer in rosy tulles over silver
her special addendum was a balloon of
the 1 ? a ™. e woven of pink hydrangeas
and blue delphinium. There was a great
foregathering later at the Wentworth, where
the bride s mother received in rosewood-toned
crepe Romaine with velvet-swathed millinery
of the same complexion.
Another bride who plunged into matrimony
from the springboard of St. Stephen’s was
!t Sie 4 £ e nra ore. Her bridegroom
w a . s . .Athol Calder, of Turramurra. The
striking-looking bride got a great effect from
ivory georgettes embroidered in crystal and
a cut tulle veil that cascaded into a foam of
train. The two maids. Ida Rawlinson and
Glory Bohrsman, added to the scenic effect
m apricot georgettes made with full and
beaded skirts springing from tight bodices.
Little Janet Thomson added white taffeta's
and a pink-garlanded head to the procession.
The Ambassadors staged the cake-cutting,
bride’s mother doing the honors in sable
raiment of great charm.
St. Joseph’s at Woollahra blessed the
vow-exchanging of Margaret Pargiter, of
Cape Town, S’Africa, and Irving Toohey.
son of the Jack Tooheys, of Point Piper.
The bride was frocked and hatted in palest
lilac, and was supported by one 'maid and
sister Mrs. Quinane. The home will be made
on the bridegroom’s station at Bowral. Bride
is a sister to Justin Pargiter, whose married
life with Irving’s sister, Girlie, was so tragi-
cally cut short.
In common with all just-home Australian
women. Dr. Fanny Reading can find nothing
too good to say of the London police. Those
of other countries may be more dashingly
attired and generally imposing—the kliaki-
clad Vienna police, Dr. Fanny considers, are
the'handsomest (except the high-grade Egyp-
tian) a woman could wish to sec—but the
London Robert is a far more durable and
reliable article. The Berlin police are gor-
geously attired in brass helmets and blue
capes, but owing to their shaven heads they
are in the same position as a woman who
looks better with her hat on than off.
Race prejudice dies hard. Dr. Fanny was
interested to note that at the Quinquennial
Convention of the International Council of
Women the mulatto delegates were never
placed in front of or beside the Southerners.
The initial reception of the Convention was
held in the immense Auditorium at Wash-
ington ; Lady Aberdeen, the president, moved
about, a regal, black velveted figure in spite
of her 76 years, though on her arrival at
Washington in her white gossamer-enveloped
black hat she presented something of the
appearance of the travelling Englishwoman
of the Victorian age.
BuLLETiN-writer Cripps Clark had a wed-
ding in the family the other day, when eldest
son John married Dorothy Blundell, daugh-
ter of the late J. Blundell, of Bingarah.
Since her father’s death Dorothy and her
mother have lived on the North Shore line;
the knot was tied at the Presbyterian kirk
at Pymble; and the subsequent party was
given at the home of old family friends—
the W. D. Lanes. The house is called Mac-
quarie Cottage, and the garden is planned
to go with its Georgian architecture. Here
are old-fashioned red roses, jasmine and
heliotrope. The paths are all flagged, and
the one the bride trod between her car and
the threshold was carpeted with the sweet-
alice that grows thickly between the flag-
stones. The bride and bridegroom made
acquaintance very early in life. For
the first five years of their existence they
were each other’s only playmates, being
miles away from any other children. John’s
business in life is growing crops and sheep,
so it is back to the land for the bride.
The wearer of this graceful head is Mrs.
A. G. Thomas, the 1926 president of the
Lyceum Club.
The Lyceum
exists to foster
the arts gener-
ally, and ad-
mission to the
fold can only
be obtained by
achievement in
some artistic
sphere. Music
and the drama
are the new
p r e s i dent’s
specialties, and
those who re-
member musi-
cal Sydney in
the days of
violinist Ivrits-
climann will
recall Mrs.
Thomas as one
of his most
brilliant pupils. Steffani and Charles Ken-
ningham were her singing masters ; Kenning-
ham also trained her in elocution and dramatic
art. Hence the stage circle of the club is
the lady’s special interest. Mrs. Thomas
has a pronounced gift for the executive side
of club progress, and the members are look-
ing forward to a year crammed with interest
The picture is from May Moore’s studio.
Women graduates and girl undergradu-
ates and all the wives and other female be-
longings of the University staff and Sena-
tors are working hard for the success of the
fete to be held in the University grounds
on Saturday, May 1, in aid of the new Settle-
ment House of the University Women’s
Social Service Society. Lady MacCallum.
wire ot the Vice-Chancellor, presides over a
large committee; one young graduate, Mrs.
lioiace Cubis, and two sweet young under-
graduates. Ailsa Aspinall and Dorothea
Simpson, are the busy secretaries. The side-
shows promise something special in the wav
of amusement. The University May Day
h ete that’s the name which fixes the date.
The sea, breeding many romances, pro-
duces some of the outsize variety. The
latest to hand recalls one which occurred on
the Barrabool. Aboard that steamer before
it left England stepped a woman who
promptly interviewed the captain with the
request that, although she knew she was
travelling on a third-class liner, she should
be given special attention, for which she w T as
prepared to pay. The handsome young
steward wiio was allocated to her received a
10-shilling note each day as a tip. and at the
end of the voyage an invitation to tea with
the lady at the Australia. He did not return
to his ship, but she did, with surprising in-
formation. She had married the steward,
and, being worth £40,000, was prepared to
pay, if necessary, for his discharge. In the
most recent case a young man, very hard up,
got a job as steward on one of the Common-
wealth liners. He has made only one trip,
but on the voyage out he met a "fate which
is likely to change the starvation of a few T
months ago to affluence. The lady is near-
ing 40, wdiilst the man upon whom her
maiden fancy has fallen is in the early
twenties; but there is a heap of money to
balance matters.
This jolly-looking lass is Llywelyn Lucas.
She stax-ted out in life as a gardener, and
threatens to
end as a poet-
ess. For over
eight years the
Victorian girl
has earned her
living on
Adam’s plan ;
and when in
Melbourne the
demand for
her work and
ideas grew so
insistent that
she had two
men working
under her
direction. In
the intervals
0 f watching
the seeds grow
she took to
writing verse,
and is now a
consistent
Bulletin contributor. Her short stories,
too, bloom in these pages and in those of
the Mirror. Pottery and motoring are two
other hobbies of this out-of-doors girl, who
describes herself as “one of those people
with the canvas shoes and no ambition!”
Hm!
The testimonial concert to basso Oliver
King will occur at the Town Hall on the
24th. Oliver’s deep notes are well known in
Sydney, where he has sung with the Royal
Philharmonic, the Welsh Choral and the
Caledonian societies many times. Arthur
Middleton urged Oliver to go to America,
predicting that after a year’s hard study he
would become a distinguished singer. Mr.
Middleton has promised the Sydney man the
proper introductions in New York, and as
Oliver is due for a year’s leave he is going
to have a ’busman’s holiday cultivating
notes instead of counting them. His daily job
is managing the Rose Bay branch of' the
Government Savings Bank.
The Sydney Conservatorium began another
season with a concert by the Con. quartette.
Marjorie Hinley took the viola part in place
of the world-touring Alfred Hill. Gerald
Walenn and Lionel Lawson brought refreshed
and refreshing fiddles to charm a sultry
night, and Gladstone Bell’s ’cello proved as
mellow as ever. A Haydn quartette in B
Flat, a woodwind trio by the Belgian Locillet,
and Brahms’ quartette in G Minor were
presented, and A. N. Arlom’s flute was one
of the night’s outstanding memories.
Don Finley produced four little plays on
Monday night at Burdekin House, and
although the rain fell in torrents lots of nice
girls with Spanish shawls and boys with
slicked hair and a sporting taste in socks
filled the ballroom. The patchwork curtain
on which Don had labored with love got
cramp and could neither go up nor go down.
It stayed for a harrowing period in mid-air,
with the result that Pierrot, who w T as speak-
ing the opening piece, fluttered agitatedly
into the wings, saying, “I haven’t a word
left in my memory.’’ The first of the four
plays was a translation from the Russian,
“The Merry Death,” and was interpreted by
the Pierrot referred to, a Columbine like a
Valkyrie, a Harlequin whose inflections were
of the stand-and-deliver order, a Doctor, and
Death. There were no other characters, and,
as not one of the performers was letter-
perfect, it was just as well for the prompter.
Dunsany’s “Fame and the Poet,” Edna Mil-
lay’s “Aria Da Capo,” and A. A. Milne’s
absurdity, “The King’s Breakfast.” from
“When We Were Very Young,” finished the
group.
The French Alliance opened its season
with a three-act French comedy, “La Bello
Aventure,” the work of three writers —De
Caillavet, De Flers and Etienne Rey. As
usual, Belgian Consul Segaert was the stage
director and, as usual, a heavy part of the act
ing fell to his lot. He played the lover to
the heroine of Mrs. G. Brenae, and between
them they were responsible for the most con-
vincing moments in the play. The Conser-
vatorium was packed with a sleekly-groomed
h rench audience for the production; and the
stage frocking represented the very last word
in day and night raiment.
Just returned from 12 months in England
and Europe, Keira McCourt, of the (Com-
monwealth Bank, and sister Myal. The two
girls always caused a block on the staircase
when the crier at the reception was making
a flying stab at their Aussie names. They
have been everywhere, and done everything
that travelling Australians are expected to
do. They bought dresses in Paris, hats at
Colombo, opera in Vienna, and went to see
every Australian artist appearing in London.
Best of all they liked Madge Titheradge in
‘‘A Doll’s House,” and afterwards they went
to tea with her and sister Nina.
Pianist Beatrice Tange, who left these
parts with her mother at the end of Septem-
ber for further study abroad, received a
tempting offer of an American tour on her
arrival in the Big Smoke, but decided to
stick to her original plan of acquiring a
Continental veneer first. Agent-General
Coghlan’s lady has taken the maiden of the
crashing chords and inflammatory locks
under her wing, and already musical folk
are eyeing the girl, who got a generous pat
of butter at a gathering of followers of
the Arts at the home of baritone Riddell-
Hunter.
The dinkum Australian was back in Lon-
don after a tour of the Continent. “And
how did you like Paris?” asked her friend.
“Oh, I loved it!” was the unexpected reply.
“It was so cheery and friendly. You know,
we struck it in galah week.” No wonder
Dad and Mum from Hollow-tree Gully had
felt at home.
Sydney is to have still another rabbi —
Kirshner, of Shepherd’s Bush. London; he
will reach the Eastern Suburbs Synagogue
in time for next Passover, if possible. He
isn’t really a rabbi yet, but is to look in
at Palestine to make arrangements about it.
Some of the elders shook their heads over
the appointment. It is .the rule in Jewry
that a minister should be married before he
is given charge of a congregation. Kirshner,
who is still in his twenties, remains a
bachelor.
Singer Gertrude Concannon is finding her
feet in the U.S.A. She drops a line to say
that, from Galli-Curci down, the Americans
have been most generous and helpful to her.
She is now touring Canada as one of the
prima donnas of the Doree grand opera co.
A miscellany of Brisbane doings:—
Crimson roses were a setting for the good-bye
luncheon given by pretty Rinda Robbins and held at
Lennon’s. She is off this week to the Cold Country.
Mauve mariette with French lace decked the hpstess.
On the same day the Lyceum Club did itself proud,
amongst roses and zinnias, with Jean White-Haney
presiding, for Mrs. Barnard, inter-State and inter-
national secretary of the National Council of Women.
Dr. Jean White-Haney was in gold and white, and
Mrs. Barnard in beige crepe de Chine.
Fred Derrick has presented a ring, later to be
replaced by a plain gold one, to Phyllis Irene, only
daughter of the F. J. Browns, of Corinthia, Kelvin
Grove.
J. Bain, who presides over the destinies of the
August Agricultural Show, and his smart-looking
wife are back from a three-weeks’ trip amongst the
beautiful Noi'th Queensland scenery. They went to
Lake Eacham and, of course, the Barron Falls, and
spent some time in every township en route.
Rosemary Rees, the Maoriland authoress, play-
wright and actress, passed through here on the Port
Dunedin, going to the Cold Country with her laurels.
In Sydney she played in “Good Morning, Dearie.”
The Royal Automobilites went off to Belmont over
200 cars strong for the opening of the season. Presi-
dent and Mrs. Carter boiled the billy, games and
racing passed the fleeting hour, and a band played.
For Grace Fitzgerald, who is marrying Walter
Armstrong, of Sydney, Ida Clark spread the tray-
cloth at Lennon’s. Bowls of pink and red roses
decorated the Eastern lounge.
Merna Gillies had a party for Mrs. Georgeson at
the Women’s Club, when golden zinnias and fern
decorated the tables. Mildred Bell, Vera Parker,
Merna Gillies and the guest of honor made music.
A beautiful bright afternoon was taken out of the
box for the garden fete at Lennox Lodge, when the
Bruce Shearers lent their home for the benefit of the
coffers of the Coorparoo Scotchbyterian kirk. Colored
paper made gay the pavilion stalls on the green
lawns, and the Tricolor flourished on the verandahs,
with festoons of flags. Each visitor brought a pound
of saleable goods. Mrs. Shearer received guests and
goods in rosewood-hued marocain worn under a coat
of cigar-brown and a hat of rose felt. R. M. King
opened the show. There was a big roll-up, and
music was provided by Doreen Morgan, Mabel Malouf,
Fred Homer and J. Devitt.
Gloria and Muriel Burton, who are off to the
Cold Country, were honored guests at Olinda, Too-
wong, when Ivy Crooke gave a party for them. Flags
enclosed the verandah, where there was dancing.
The Repertory Society is to stage Clements Dane's
‘‘Bill of Divorcement” as its first piece this season,
to be followed by a Shaw play.


— » --
HAR.DY BFLOS LTD.
JEW ELLEK.S
White Gold Wrist Watches
.in New, Exclusive Designs-
B.A. 7210.
Attractive, fancy-shaped Wrist Watch, high-grade
Swiss movement; 15-carat yellow gold ease. On
Moire Silk Band. £l2/10/-
■V
B.A. 7205.
18-carat White Gold Wrist. Watch, reliable Swiss
lever movement. On Moire Silk Band, £l5/10/-
B.A. 7208.
Smart 18-earat White Gold Ribbon Watch, fitted
with fully-jewelled Swiss Lever movement. On
Moire Silk Band, £l6.
Selections will be sent to any address on approval.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will be sent post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
H / KD'Y
BROTHERS LTD.
< xffie c J{ouB4 o£&cluswc3ewcU&y
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
n6-m
QUEEN ST.
BRISBANE
JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and 1 Enlarged Edition of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered to the Public!
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH-CENTURY BOOK
OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES
Contains over 10,000 practical processes, recipes and formulas, especially prepared
for daily use in the home and place of business; it includes thousands of heretofore
unpublished secret methods needed every day in the city home, as well as on
the farm, in the workshop and factory. The book is in one large volume, is
beautifully printed in large, clear type.
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HOW TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics, Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventatives, Dyes, Filters, Cleaning
Preparations, Enamelling, Beverages, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants,
Flavorings, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; how to make fly-paper; to color llowers
artificially; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials fireproof;
to work wilfh metals—aluminium, brass, etc.; to make anything and everything from
A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is a money-maker and a money-saver; it appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe their success to the manufacture or kale of
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
Profit by the knowledge that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
TO-DAY. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer—Workshop—Factory
—Laboratory—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book—formulas which men have
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before.
Every formula can be depended upon. It is a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the expense of
the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which hitherto have been impossible
to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
r,
Instruments that
add joy to the
EASTER HOLIDAYS
For greater happiness MUSIC is unequalled, and now that the Easter
Holidays are fast approaching the question of taking a musical
instrument with you should be considered.
At Palings you may buy a Portable Phonograph and Records, or if your
fancy turns to the charm of stringed instruments Paling s stock of Banjos,
Mandolins, Ukuleles, Banjo-Mandolins and Violins offer great scope
for choice. An Accordeon is a fine instrument for dances.
For the Home you could not wish to have anything better than a PALING
NATURAL EXPRESSION PLAYER PIANO. Purchasing becomes
easy with PALING’S EASY TERMS. Call in to-day and inspect our
stocks.
Every instrument is FULLY GUARANTEED. Catalogue and price
list free; send for one to-day, mentioning the instrument you are
interested in.
MM
mm
mmtm.
EASTER VISITORS TO SYDNEY
ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO
VISIT PALINGS.
M
“Quality Our Keynote Since 1853,’’
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore and Rockhanipt
M


M
Melbourne’s Finest Hotel
By the maintenance of a high
standard of comfort and service,
m
fi®
®
, t MELBOURNE
has won the continued favor of “people that count”
InThrwcl?nf tero a fthe a CoramonWealtI ‘ aild ove?s"as.
in this well-planned, modern residential hotel there is
every comfort and convenience supplemented bv
service of ah unexcelled standard.
Inclusive Tariff by Day
Or Bed and Breakfast Kate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams; "Scott's." Melbourne.
.ft
The Dainty \Ooa*ians
Favourite Starch"
Invaluable for fine fabric s
Wf
W
mi
:
'i '■ ,
& J
m
Maitu factu red
Clifford lpVe<^(S
b
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
His Majesty’s Theatre, in addition to a
spring cleaning, was provided with a new
stngc and an extra stall entrance for the
coming of Pavlova and her Russian ballet
on Saturday night. The ushers, too, were
in new bibs and tuckers for the great occa-
sion. Almost as many people stood outside,
with no hope of getting any nearer, as gained
admittance within the bright portals. The
onlookers had as their part the pageant of
a seemingly unending stream of motors,
emptying out the beautifully gowned of
society. The inside of the house has never
presented a more opulent sight. From front
stalls to tin; horizon of the gods the audi-
ence was a mosaic of bright gowns and gay
Spanish and Italian shawls, set in a bind-
ing of black coats and white shirts. With a
little more jewellery it could have been
mistaken for a grand-opera premiere. The
vice-regal party was furnished with bouquets
and front seats in the centre of the d.c., and
not even a cord segregated its members.
There were the G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven,
she with diamonds rippling upon crimson
velvet in her hair, above a gown of dull gold
lace; Governor Stradbroke; Lady Strad-
broke, in black, with ropes of pearls and
diamonds and a glittering brow-band ; Lady
Beatrice Pole-Carew, in black velvet; and
her daughter, who had crystal-beaded mauve
raiment. Consular folk were within coo-ee
of the vice-regal camp. From the boxes gazed
knight George Tallis; his lady, in black
lace gown, long-sleeved; daughter Biddy;
numerous Taits, including the Charlie Taits’
trio of bonnie girls and their aunt, Mrs.
Scott; Mrs. Norton Grimwade, who waved
a white-plumed fan before a black gown;
the Lionel Grimwades, Mrs. Geoffrey Syme
and some others. Dorothy Brunton, with
John Chirnside in attendance, accompanied
by Janet Winter Irving, and Keith Toihurst,
was given friendly recognition by the gods.
The Robert Garrans, the Mitchell lady and
Dr. and Mrs. Walker Sinclair were sighted
in the throng.
Pavlova herself leaves an impression of
ethereal grace, deep blue eyes that glowed at
intervals in a white face, and midnight hair.
She appeared first as a fairy doll, in silver
bodice with ballet skirt of white tulle, spark-
ling with crystal and tinsel, and strewn with
pink and magenta feather rosettes, and a
Juliet cap of silver lattice design upon a
red wig. Beside her, her dancing partner,
Laurent Novikoff, loomed up like a circus
strong man, and one almost expected to see
him dangle his will-o’-the-wisp companion
by his teeth. In her famous creation, “The
Swan,” the dancer’s slim, well-shaped form
was encased in white plumage over white dew-
drop tulle, beneath which she gracefully folds
her limbs in death. Picturesque Russian cos-
tumes enhanced by many streamers of colored
ribbons depending from the w r rists were worn
by gentlemen of the ballet, as they danced
to the wild strains of a Liszt Rhapsodie.
Most restful of spectacles was a dance based
on Chopin melodies. Against a background
of tall green trees and mauve shadow’s the
ladies of the ballet floated in billows of white
tulle, wreaths of white roses crowning un-
shingled heads. Pavlova, similarly clad, had
a distinguishing mark of pink blooms. A
wonderful variety of fantastic and beautiful
dressing was seen in “The Fairy Doll,” in
which all the dolls and animals of a toy-
shop come to life when the fairy waves her
magic wand. During the four weeks of the
season the Firm promises many changes of
programme, and we shall see all the star’s
most famous dances. There was a mountain
of flowers for Pavlova when the curtain fell
upon the last dance of the evening.
The Firm didn’t stage-manage Pavlova’s
arrival at the Spencer-street station, and the
star’s carriage pulled up a train’s length
from the well-lined police-marshalled crowds
that rolled up to welcome her to Australia.
Turmoil was fierce for a while. The Foorce
let the multitude fend for itself for a bit
while it protected the “dancer from being
crushed to death. Trimly clad in a bois-du-
rose coat and skirt with buttoning to the
throat, and a corresponding felt headpiece,
the slepder, bright-eyed dancer gazed upon
the scene with intense interest, shaking ex-
tended hands that passed over posies, and
finding her first glimpse of the Aussies on
their native heath very much to her liking.
Melbourne put up another record in the
way of abominable weather on Saturday.
Heat, dust and wind added to the sereness of
parched lawns and an unwatered track made
the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield memorable.
Feminine members of society, evidently suf-
fering from an overdose of gee-gees, mostly
gave the outing a miss. They who came found
that the business of renovating one’s com-
plexion and extracting motes from one’s eyes
was so onerous that but little attention could
be given to the racing. The vice-regal pen
was empty, and even the committee’s ladies’
reserve gave shelter to but few of the regular
sports. The jumper suit was again almost
universal, decision in that respect being aided
by a few drops of rain that fell in the very
early afternoon. One offered up a silent,
fervent prayer to the heavens to carry on,
and left the autumn garment shrouded in its
tissue paper. Mary Hinton Pitt Rivers looked
smart in a coat-frock of bottle-green crepe
de Chine, small felt hat of a similar shade
and a string of pearls and dark green beads.
Mrs. Charlie Lyon was silk-jumper-suited in
periwinkle blue with fawn millinery. A
dainty frock, all pleatiligs of cream crepe de
Chine and lace, was visible beneath a much-
braided ivory coat worn by the Merson
Cooper matron. Mrs. Lloyd Tolley, from the
Holy City, sported coy raiment of navy crepe
Roinaine, which introduced upon an apron
front and full under-sleeves red parrots and
foliage worked in wool, sprinkled with dull
cream bugle beads. A study in black-and-
white in gown and headpiece was artist Mrs.
Ida Rentoul Outhwaite. Joan a’Beckett and
Betty Shacked, like most others of the
younger set, favored sports wear, the first
topping her green suit with a black crinoline
hat. The other, in the same color, chose red
headgear.
The Stradbrokes’ daughter, Helena Rous,
having first dutifully kissed her vice-regal
mum and dad, put her bits of duds aboard
the Otranto and set sail for Suez and the
tight little island to the north-west thereof.
Fifty girl friends dived into their vanity-bags,
abstracted a quantum of the week’s allow-
ance, and bought a nice little memento of
Lady Helena’s stay in Melbourne —a plati-
num and diamond wristlet-watch. The Girl
Guide companies, remembering the hard work
that was put into the job of being their hon.
sec., came to light with a suede-bound album
full of snapshots of Guide junketings and
ceremonies.
It’s a long way socially from the news-
boys to the Governor’s wife, but the Strad-
broke lady takes an interest in these lads,
who reciprocated by clubbing together and
buying her a piece of Australian pottery as
a farewell gift. She attended at their club
on the night of the presentation, and took
the G.-G.’s better half along to see her young
proteges and some of their mothers. Three
nervous boys stood up and enunciated
certain well-rehearsed words. Their vice-
regal president—she’s had five years in the
job and knows the imps—found it mighty
difficult to thank them. Then some of the
club’s specialists played “God Be with You
Till We Meet Again” on the mouth-organ,
and audience and newsboys joined in the old
hymnal wish. Edith Onians, hon. sec., and
the newsies’ best friend, handed the Gover-
nor’s lady a fountain-pen from the mothers.
The Governor showed his interest in the club
by sending along a pair of boxing-gloves. Be-
sides arranging that the boys will have a
Christmas treat each year, Lady Stradbroke
has also endowed a scholarship at a training-
college.
It’s four years since Ella Riddell, pictured
here by a Dickson-Monteath camera, came
from Bonnie
Scotland seek-
ing restoration
of nerves shat-
tered by years
of war work
in a Paisley
munition fac-
tory. Now the
bright - eyed
lassie says she
wants to stay
with us for
keeps. The con-
cert-going pub-
lic, when it
has heard her
rich contralto
voice uplifted
in Scottish
ballads all d
folk-songs, will
second the
in ot i o 11. At
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer's British Music Society
gathering at Kinnoull recently Miss Riddeil
sang songs of the Hebrides, some of which
presented great technical difficulties. Her
singing has been enthusiastically praised by
Ilenri Verbrugghen, and has attracted the
attention of Marjory Ivennedy-Fraser, col-
lector and arranger of many famous British
and Hebridean folk melodies.
At the comparatively select farewell jazz
at Federal Government House supper was
served in two places—a buffet off the ball-
room and in the State dining-room. One
of the G.-G.’s gentlemen, to avoid unseemly
strife, endeavored to make the guests divide
themselves up a bit. A dame of much pomp
and circumstance resented a suggestion that
she should patronise the outer eatery.
“Young man,” she said, “I have had supper
for many years in that room on all official
occasions, even before you were born, and
I intend to have it there to-night.” She
did. Blessed with a sense of humor, most
priceless of social gifts, was a fair matron
who remarked to the harassed official: “Eh.
mon, but I’ve tried it mysel’, and I canna
draft the sheep frae the goats. Let’s know
how ye get on.” The Scots have a funny-
bone all right, but they don’t always let on.
This one did. She said softly to a friend,
wi’ a twinkle in her e’e: “ ’Twas a shame
to worry the puir wee laddie, an’ him so
fashed.”
Kathleen Martin, here portrayed by Rem-
brandt, is one of the clever students of Swin-
burne College.
Her water-
colors of in-
teriors were
amongst the
Art School ex-
hibits included
in the work
the Technical
Colleges of
Victoria sent
to Wembley.
Her studies in
her own land
have been
rounded off by
a tour abroad
covering the
British Isles
and the Conti-
-11 en t, from
which she
lately returned
with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Martin, of St.
Kilda, and her sister Florence.
At _ a meeting held last week to put the
finishing touches to arrangements for a pre-
sentation to Lady Stradbroke, the usual ele-
ment of snobbery was introduced when one
of _ Melbourne’s much-moneyed matrons in-
quired how they would keep “the rabble” out
of the function. Someone explained that
there need be no fear on that score. At Lady
Forster’s farewell rich and poor alike were
bidden and attended, but there was, no
rabble.
Warm weather and the big counter-attrac-
tion of Pavlova did not prevent the dance of
the Victorian Tennis Association at the
comfy club-house at Kooyong from attract-
ing a large crowd and making it happy. Vera
de Bavay, as usual, went along and arranged
the floral decorations of roses and asters.
The lords of a good many square miles
of the western pastures came to town for
the marriage of Sarah Allison Scott Webb,
offspring of the Capper Webbs, of Clendoxey,
to John Hall Waugh, of the squatterage of
Colindale, Seymour. The bride gleamed
white satin and silver lace, with an append-
age of silver lame. Her mother’s tulle wed-
ding veil was brought out of its lavender to
serve as a luck-bringer. Two bridesmaids
were arrayed in billows of pervenche-blue
georgette attached to close-fitting bodices of
taffeta. At the Windsor after the knot had
been tied the bride cut a cake that bore
sugary emblems of the pastoral interests.
Dr. Oscar Tiegs, the bright young savant
who came to Melbourne ’Varsity via the
Queensland and Adelaide halls of learning,
emerged from his laboratory the other day to
claim as his fiancee Ethel Hamilton, who
runs the ’Varsity telephone system.
At the last moment Anne Williams
changed her mind and sent father back alone
to visit expectant relatives. Melba has re-
peatedly testified that Anne can make any-
thing sing that has a voice, and students in
London are so assured of this that work at
present does not permit of an extended holi-
day. Quite a number of influential folk have
taken a fancy to this quiet and demure young
woman, and Lady Darnley sees that she has
an occasional social flutter.
Midge Taylor, who edits the Woman’s
World, goes off next month by the Ceramic
to gather inspiration abroad. Incidentally,
she will be a delegate with Miss Gilman
Jones to the International Suffrage Alliance
Conference in Paris. During Miss Taylor’s
absence Mary Grant Bruce, whose “Billa-
bong” stories are known and beloved by every
schoolgirl, will occupy the editorial chair.
Margaret Sutherland, a young pianist and
composer of the Melbourne University Con.
staff, had a full house and much floral appre-
ciation at an evening devoted to her original
works last week. A sonata for violin and
piano, already presented in London by Leila
Doubleday, was sympathetically done by Ber-
nard Ileinze and Edward Goll. The latter
also played with caressing touch some piano-
forte pieces reminiscent of Debussy and kin-
dred inchoate moderns. Violet Somerset,
accompanied by Miss Sutherland, gave six of
her songs; a couple very attractive, the
others unusual. The accompaniment of one
suggested the mental image of a rapidly
revolving ball upon which the singer unsue-
cessfully endeavored to maintain a hold with
some quite irrelevant notes.
Renee Kelly, Daddy Longlegs' Judy, has
been a hostess twice lately. She gave a tea-
drinking to theatrical associates and other
friends at the Quamby Club; and on the fol-
lowing day, in an atmosphere of blue table-
cloths and pink belladonna lilies, she dis-
pensed the warm brown beverage to several
presswomen at Menzies’. With Hubby Hylton
Allen in the near background, the natural-
mannered little lady, attired in georgette and
felt hat of pale cedarwood tones, stood up and
said she didn’t care how long she stopped
over here if there are many more folk around
the continent like those of Melbourne. Mar-
garet Damer and Dorothy Fane, who Were
guests at the journalistic gathering, have
also found everything to their liking so far.
Mrs. Neville Wight rushed down from
her Woodend retreat this week to hostess
an afternoon party at the Wattle. Mrs.
Gower Williams, off to England by the Nal-
dera, and the recently-returned Jean Wilmot
were the guests of honor. Orange is a
fashionable color, but it doesn’t suit every-
one, and some of those seated over the tea-
cups suffered from the decorative reflection.
Mrs. Henry Cube, the Hutton girls, medico
Grant’s wife and the Yenckens’ daughter
Alice were amongst the many who came to
say their farewells.
The Italian Society, presided over by meteor-
ologist Baracchi, had a very musical reunion
at the Lyceum Chib. Dr. Arnaldo Barto-
lini sang, and introduced some of his pupils,
who illustrated the bel canto in early but
promising stages. Mrs. Howard Jolley,
Frank Walker and William Murrison Were
heard in operatic excerpts, and Frances
Brook, a young student with a very light,
sweet voice, was a surprising success. Mrs.
Merrigan’s piano accomplishments pleased
everybody.
The Repertory Theatre Society will com-
mence 1926 with the performance at the
Playhouse of Galsworthy’s latest play,
“The Show.” Mrs. Elizabeth Apperly will
be the producer. At the annual meeting mem-
bers were greatly uplifted to find that’the
profits amassed during last year’s season
amounted to nearly £176.
Beryl Fitts, daughter of Mrs. E. Hamilton
Fitts, whose engagement to Dr. Mark
Gardner was the surprise announcement of
the G.-G.’s party at Government House the
other evening, returned after the gaieties of
polo week to the family’s holiday home at
Shoreham. The bridegroom-elect earns, a
well-buttered crust as a Collins-street special-
ist. He did his bit in the argument with
Germany, and was once star pinion of a
city football team.
Miss Adelaide’s variegated discourse:—
The Hospital Auxiliary, brought into being by
Knight Moulden’s lady, gives an excellent account
of its first year. The sewing division has produced
nearly 3500 garments and articles of bed-linen, the
work of just on 100 members, “with new ones join-
ing every week.’’ The refreshment kiosk has done
brisk business, too, and had its financial path eased
by a gift of the whole of its china —48 dozen pieces.
There is a Government subsidy of 30s. for every £1
the auxiliary collects, and it is its laudable intention
this year to make quite a big hole in the State’s
pocket.
Our Mayoress, Mrs. Bruce, gave the first of her
official tea-parties at the Town Hall in a drawing-
room refurbished in blue and pink, which was echoed
in armfuls of flowers—and this after a prolonged
drought!
Poloists, or most of ’em —Miss Ryden has stayed
on for a time with the Stonehavens, and Miss Vee
Bray has gone to the Fields at Deniliquin—are back
from Melbourne with the honors tucked into their
luggage and their speech full of praise for Victorian
hospitality. The Creswieks’ and the Western District
matrons’ dances loom largest in their talk, and neither
heat nor fires seem to have taken the edge Off their
enthusiasm.
Lady Bridges opened the sale of work by con-
valescent soldiers at the Red Cross Home at Henley
Beach with a hint concerning some hospital handi-
crafts that pay well in England and have not yet
found their way here. Trade was brisk, and no
wonder, for the work was exquisite. - Most intriguing
were the diminutive dolls’ shops, fitted with every-
thing the most enterprising suburban tradesman
could desire. Her Ex.’s south-eastern trip included
Robe, where she was the guest of the K. D. Bowmans
and made her first inspection of that picturesque
village’s Girl Guides.
Port Adelaide is enduring a violent and all-pervad-
ing smell as an aftermath of the sugar-refinery fire,
and the Board of Health’s insistence that though
it is unpleasant it isn’t unhealthy brings small com-
fort to the unfortunates who must- inhale it, house-
wives, whose silver and brasses discolor again as
soon as they have cleaned them, and shipmasters,
who find that the gases are doing violent things to
their paint. Fish are dying literally in tons, and
are left stranded in shallows by the falling tide.
If Tortoise 11. and the Rymill brothers know
anything about it, the race for the motor-boat cham-
pionship will see some speeding. The Tortoise’s
fittings include handles and life-lines for her crew
to hang on to when she is going all out —not a need-
less precaution, since in a trial spin she touched a
speed of 71.14 miles per hour.
The Tubercular Soldiers’ Aid Society’s annual
appeal is to be conducted throughout the State on
March 26. The committee hopes to break the record
this year and raise £5OOO.


A. SAUNDERS’
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS.
WATCHES and BROOCHES.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Platinum Set, lSet.
Cold Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Four Diamond,
Platinum and lSrt.
Cold Ring, £25.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O.
A. Saunders’
Diamond cluster,
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Five Diamond,
Platinum and 18ct.
Cold Ring,
£l2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5,
Smaller Diamond, £3/10/-.
ASAUNDCRS
m
6
A. Saunders’ Diamond Set, 18rt. White Gold,
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband.
£25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
«
r x v O
6 6
A. Saunders’ Diamond Set, 18ct. White Gold.
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband.
£3O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Brooch, loct. Gold, £4/10/-
SEND FOR EASTER GIFT BOOK.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders’
Three Diamond,
Platinum and lBct.
Gold Ring, £33.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25, £l5,
£l2/10/-.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Platinum and lSct.
Gold Ring, £2O.
Larger Diamond,
£3O, £5O.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Crossover,
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£7/10/-.
Smaller Diamonds,
£5.
A. Saunders’
Three Diamond,
Platinum and 18et.
Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Travelling Cases.
'
m
t
mmk
If * jPr if :
;
Travelling Bag in best
quality cowhide, 24in.,
complete with finest
quality African Ivory
Brushware and Silver-
mounted Bottles.
Special Value, £4O
Smaller
Bags, with
fewer fittings,
from
£lO/10/-
DRUMMONDS carry the Largest Selection of
High-grade Fitted and Unfitted Cases in the
Commonwealth. Fitted Cases contain a full
complement of Travelling and Toilet requirements,
and if desired are made according to customers’
own specifications. Cases will be submitted for
approval at the firm’s own risk and expense.
A discount of 5 per cent, will be allowed on cash purchases.
OTm, Brummonb & Co,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
1
wafer supply
that doesn't fail
m
%
i ■
Jr"
f
rf
adi
A
e
f»— ■
“ VWITH the Comet” Mill you will be
assured of a Reliable Water Supply.
It starts to pump in light breezes—sooner
than other mills—and gives Long and
Dependable Service. Simplicity, and Great
Strength in Design make this possible.
Satisfied users throughout Australia are
continually testifying as to “Comet”
Service and thorough Reliability. Read
their opinions in our new booklet,
“USE THE WIND!”
COMET
SIDNEY WILLIAMS AND CO., LTD.,
Works and Office—DULWICH HILL, SYDNEY
City Office - - - - -255 a GEORGE STREET.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane, and
Townsville
S.W. 21
Jay Walkers are
always with us—
SffiiKg
battery
i
and many times
each day you
have seen acci-
dents avoided by
sure, strong,
warning signals.
Your Battery blows your
horn —and the dependa-
ble Westinghouse always
answers to the touch.
So insist on a Westing-
house Battery for your car
.... it will never fail you.
WESTINGHOUSE
8 BATTERIES.®
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne**.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd & Co,, 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : North Island: Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
Canterbury etc., Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dhnedin.


i liiiasas
wmmmm
SHHSHHp
m
9
—
manat
.
■1
1
at
mm
pft
:
m
4
O 9n adsJantafJe cf to ~daj!
.
HBMfe
t>
<=
S
<
£
s , * .....i
£
<s
S
s
55
E>
-■
flit
<
m,
'<
1 1
£
>
&
s
3
Sit
mu
m
urn
<
<
in
mil
i
<3
m
HiLjJ
yuy
SS?SS
»
■'
:•
<
m
M
MM
. . :■■■■:.:'■
»«,' ’i
iili
s. - « -■ ' ' yn
': \ V 'V' N :*"/v*£o! '* ' ' ■*'* "♦''i'
■ ::
1
‘
<^ : ;,r ;■
;
V :
, ,
•^!
' :
mil
SKSSBfii
5
u
iI«S
m
s
/
B
A VIEW OF HAMPTON COURT AS FINISHED BY KING HENRY VIII
c Lhis Court, which is on the extreme right of picture, u/as built
by Henry V/flafter the yearls26u/hen It/olsei/ surren-
dered to him the Lease of the Palace.
(SbrctusxVetg
n*ei IfyroujiV
out Interstate
and iftciortatt
fflbampxonstitp
SToutuameui
|10vX925.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C°L TD jUI States
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA
c/Jn Interesting series of Sketches' illustrating the evolution of ffawnOennis which took its present form in
1873 will be produced bir the B a rne t Glass Rubber C°£ l £. Copies of enlarged Sketches on art papers— 3
are available on application to the Head Office , Swans ton Street chfelboume


a nant>n '
*****
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE &, STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney..
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Flying Handicap at Moorefield on
Saturday—it was the Hawlsesbury R. C.’s meeting,
but the old club requisitioned the Ivogarah course —
served to show what a smart horse Bongula (Bron-
zetti—Gula) is. Though in a bad position for half
the journey, the chestnut gelding from the country
decisively defeated a big field of sprinters which
included such performers as Golden Voice (5 to 4)
and King Cyllene (6) ; and then he shied at a bit
of paper in the straight when tackling Golden Voice,
who led most of the way and finished second —King
Cyllene was third. Bongula, who was ridden by
Toohey, went out at 6 to 1, and it was his 14th
success in 24 starts. He gallops as if a mile would
be well within his compass (his sire, of course,
won the 1917 Caulfield Cup), but, oddly enough, he
was not nominated for the Doncaster, nor yet for
the well-gilded Liverpool Handicap at Warwick
Farm. Toohey rode him well and piloted two
other winners in Kedgeree (8 to 1) and The Mahdi
(7 to 4), who carried off the divisions of the Park
Stakes. Trustworthy Right Heron (6 to 1) gave
owner-trainer Teddy Keys another win in the Hawkes-
bury Autumn Handicap, the other place-getters being
the useful Buckwheat mare Chalder (6) and Feather-
nest (9 to 4), who is fancied in some quarters for
the Sydney Cup; and Blackman (7), who is by
Feathernest’s sire, Featherstitch, beat a pretty good
field handsomely in the Highweight Handicap. Vala-
mita, who had far too much racing in the latter
half of last year, showed up prominently for a time,
and Mingelo, who travelled uncertainly in the
betting, was just behind the third horse, Rhymond.
* * * *
Windbag, after galloping brilliantly on
previous occasions, was coughing a bit at the begin-
ning of the week, and it is doubtful at the moment
whether he will take his place in the Rawson Stakes
field at Rosehill on Saturday. If he does, he should
win, even though Top Gallant, Pantheon, Manfred,
Leslie Wallace, Hemisphere and Valicare have been
nominated. The Rawson Stakes is a nine-furlong
w.f.a. race without penalties. The Railway Handicap,
seven furlongs, generally throws some light on the
Doncaster Handicap, and the Rosehill Autumn Handi-
cap, 12 furlongs, is occasionally a guide to the
Sydney Cup. Anambah (Bst. 61b.) and Loquat (7st.
71b.) read well for the Railway, and Samoan (7st.
21b.) for the Autumn Handicap, although the latter
race, with Virgin Gold (Bst. 91b.), Feathernest (Bst.
lib.). Player (7st. 101 b.), Night Heron (7st. 51b.),
Confusion (7st. 41b.) and Varney (7st. 31b.) in at
nice weights, is very open. Brimming (lOst. 21b.),
who has been startling the Flemington touts, will
be a strong order if started in the Parramatta Mile.
Should she decline the engagement, Hit (9st. 81b.) is
ai possibility.
* * * *
It was sultry at Caulfield on Saturday,
but punters don’t mind the weather, be it as hot
as Gehenna, when favorites are winning, and three
of them got home. On the strength of his good
third to Valbee and Beau Fils in the Brunswick
Stakes at Flemington, Tookarby (Bst. 91b.) was a
5-to-2 favorite for the St. Kilda Cup, 12 furlongs,
Naos being half a point longer, Spearer and King of
Mirth 7 to 1, Gungool 8 to 1, and the rest from 15
to 33 to 1. Woolpack (6st. 121 b.) made the early
running, buk King of Mirth (Bst. lllb.) passed him
near the home turn and sailed into the straight with
a nice lead. Tookarby, however, came with a
resolute run, and, taking charge half-way up the
straight, won handsomely by a long neck from the
Comedy King horse, with Naos (6st. 131 b.) a length
and a quarter away third, and Spearer, who looked
dangerous at the entrance to the straight but didn’t
come on, fourth: time, 2min. 32Jsec. The winner,
an aged gelding by Sea Prince—Caram, is owned by
“M. Denis” and F. IV. Kitchen, and trained by Dave
Price. He has Bst. 21b. in the Sydney Cup, for which
he is assured of strong support, but he failed in last
year’s Melbourne Cup after annexing the Moonee
Valley Cup, and the extra half-mile will bother him.
That great old St. Anton gelding Waranton put up
a slashing performance in the South Yarra Handicap,
six furlongs. With lOst. slb. on his back he won
brilliantly from Adrift and Mars after making nearly
all his own running. Ridden by Cairns, he started
at 4 to 1.
* * * *
“Centurion”: A devil of a fuss lias been
made in the newspapers about the behavior of Heroic
and Manfred at the barrier. Both horses seem
mortally afraid of it, and backers all over Australia
have been cursing them for their perversity. It does
not seem to have occurred to the complainants that
both offenders may be short-sighted. Heroic, as a
youngster, was threatened with blindness, and in any
case shortsightedness among horses is a commonplace
with anyone who really knows them. The most
notorious shiers among hacks are invariably one-
eyed horses, or those suffering from incipient cataract
and other eye diseases. This tendency in a hack
is often put down to innate cussedness, whereas it
is nothing more or less than nervous apprehension.
Sudden movement particularly affects shiers of this
type, and for obvious reasons nothing seems to be
more likely to scare a highly-strung semi-blind horse
than the sudden jump of the barrier tapes. To
the clear-sighted neddy the thing presents no terrors;
to the other sort, the blurred, terrifying movement
in the semi-darkness is something to fly from. Man-
fred’s particular trick of jumping backwards at
barrier-rise seems to confirm the idea. One doesn’t
suggest that a pair of specs, will ensure Manfred
being a 100 per cent, starter in the future, but I
have an idea the eyesight question is worth investi-
gating.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The sale of The Night Patrol
for 10,000 guineas in Melbourne marks the fourth
occasion on which a thoroughbred has brought five
figures in Australia. Old Carbine led off when the
Duke of Portland gave 13,000 guineas for him over 30
years ago, and there was a long interlude till Valais
brought 14,400 guineas in 1924 after he had proved
himself as a sire of winners. Then came Heroic’s
record of 16,000 guineas, still to be broken. The
Night Patrol’s buyer, Gerald Buckley, of Ivyneton.
hopes his purchase will prove as great a success
at the stud as Woorak has been. If the English
horse can get a few like Whittier, Buckley should
have no ground for complaint.
* * * *
“Harold liardtipp”: A Sydney man who
occasionally backs horses has decided that betting
is ruinous. A friend gave him a sure thing, and in
a fit of recklessness he risked a fiver. By evening he
was £4O better off; and in the glow of his triumph
he decided to make his wife a present of the lot,
Her excited curiosity over the transaction flattered
him ; but suddenly her mood changed. “Well, this
is the first time I’ve ever heard of you winning,”
she said, “and you needn’t try to tell me it’s the
only time you bet. You probably make a practice
of it. And if you can afford to risk £5 on betting
in a single week you can afford to give me at least a
couple of pounds a week more for housekeeping.”
The argument is still running.
* * * *
The Sydney Stadium management fell in
badly when it matched George Eagel (lOst. 61b.) with
black ’Frisco McGale (lOst. 71b.), both from Califor-
nia. Australians want to see their own countrymen
box, not two undistinguished bruisers from the
same American State, and the crowd was small and
hostile —to McGale, at any rate. It showed its
dislike of the coon in several rounds during which
Eagel’s left swings to the commissariat department
made him squirm and hang on for safety ; and when,
in the 16th, he went down under punishment, and
stayed down, there was a storm of hoots. Eagel is
a confirmed left-hander now, but telegraphs his
punches. McGale fought up to him for a time, and
cut both George’s eyes in the ninth round, but after
that there was only one in it.
A CASE FOR THE UNDERTAKER.
SECOND: “If y' do feel bad, Bill, don' forget
the other Hoke feels worse.”
PUG : “If'e feels any worse 'n me 'e’s parssed
away.”
Billy McAlister’s re-appearanfce at Mel-
bourne Stadium after a successful invasion of N. S.
Wales was welcomed by ringsiders and back-seaters
alike. In Norm Gillespie William had an opponent
who was making only his second appearance over
the long journey, but Gillespie proved a surprise-
packet, especially in the second half of the battle.
Norman fought like a veteran, and his clean and per-
sistent punching gained him the verdict by a small but
clear-cut margin. Each lad weighed Bst.
In the second bout Jack Cameron (lOst. 411 b.) out-
classed Harry Young (9st. 131 b.), forcing him to
capitulate at the end of the 13th round. Cameron
is getting plenty of boxing against second-raters,
but that won't do him any harm. Most promising
young Australian pugs are rushed into the cham-
pionship class too soon.
* * * *
“Bayne Lane” : When he entered the ring
for the wrestling match his hair was plastered
across his forehead, and the curling-tongs had been
at work about his ears. The tough-looking gentle-
man on my right expressed what we all felt. “ ’lm
throw a man,” he said; “'im? Blime, the on’v
thing he could throw is a kiss.”
* * * *
Better classifying and a better knowledge
of the track on the part of competitors were features
of the latest meeting at the Maroubra (N.S.W.)
Speedway, but those looking for sensation got it
when Hope Bartlett’s Sunbeam developed a flaming
tail like a comet in the last lap of the Lucky Devil
Cup race. The cap fell off the carburetter, it seems,
and gas ignited outside the engine. Bartlett hopped
out, and he and his aides put the blaze out with sand
and a hose before the car was ruined, but the accident
lost him second place. The luckiest devil on the
track was motor-cyclist Cecil Brown, who, in addi-
THE PRESENT.
CHAMPION : “When I was in England I was
presented to their Majesties.”
NOVICE: “And wouldn't they TAKE you?”
tion to winning the Maroubra Gold Helmet for the
fifth time in succession—at £3O a time and £lO a
week in between it has been worth close on £3OO
to him since the first race on December s—also5 —also won
the Silver Cup, which adds £ 5 a week to his stipend.
The Silvdr Cup is for medium-power (3-5-h.p.)
machines, but Brown hustled round at a speed that
reached 93 m.p.h. on occasion. Hope Bartlett’s luck
wasn’t all out, since he won the stock-car race in
a little Bugatti. The Lucky Devil Cup went to Gar-
lick and his super-charged Alvis; he also won the.
All-powers Handicap. Don Harkness, who had fitted
a super-charger to old “Whitey,” his veteran Over-
land, didn’t get as much speed as was expected out
of the innovation.
* * * *
“Lyttleton”: Randolph Rose, the Maori-
land cocky whose contests with Hahn have been
causing such a lot of excitement in the Shivery
Islands, comes of a family that has been noted for
its fleetness of foot. His dad missed the 100 yards
championship of Wellington College of his year by
a whisker—and it was run in lOsec. dead. Randolph’s
second cousin, W. J. Burk, held the Australasian
three-miles record from 1893 to 1901 (Randolph broke
it again in February, 1923), and W. J. Burk’s son
Hector is one of the few milera who can boast that
he beat Alfred Shrubb —they started off the same
mark in a mile race at Lancaster Park, Christchurch
(M.L.). A misleading cable credited Randolph Rose
with knocking nearly ssec. off the Australasian mile
record, 4min. 18 3-5 sec., made at Masterton (M.L.)
12 years ago. Actually he only pushed a fifth of
a second off Power’s 1914 effort. The funny thing
about it is that a re-measurement of the track on
which both records was made shows that it is a few
yards over the 1760.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: I’m glad “Shrewsbury”
(B. 11/2/’26) has taken up the modern affectation of
presenting one’s tennis opponent with a stroke to
mark the fact that one considers a line-umpire to
have made a mistake. The original idea was admir-
able, but it has grown into a mere method of snub-
bing umpires, who can judge the question of fact
better than any player. Incidentally, giving a ball
out that was reallv in generally means a difference of
two strokes; 15 love, for example, moves up to 30
love instead of being 15 all. Thus the next thrown-
away stroke (which might have been lost even if
played out) does not really square things at all. But
it always gets its conventional round of applause
from a thoughtless public. The thing is only a
fad, and could quickly be stamped out. Let the
snubbed umpire always and instantly get up and
quit. Within half a season players would come to
recognise that courteous acceptance of an umpire’s
decision, whatsoever it may be, is the only true
sportsmanship.
Up to a certain point Westralia put up a
fair show in the field against Collins’s expedition-
aries, prior to giving them God-speed. The locals,
batting first by grace of the Australian skipper, com-
piled 282 87, Drew 64, Quinlan 42,
Evans 33), but they hadn’t to face Gregory, nor
was Oldfield behind the sticks. Richardson took 6
wickets for 71, and Grimmett 3 for 88. Wanning
to their work, the reps, of the Sunset State got rid
of Collins, Ryder and Woodfull for 50, but Ponsford
and Taylor came together and banged up 102 and
149; with minor contributions of 49 and 41 n.o.
from Richardson and Ellis, the innings realised 424.
The best bowling analysis was Herbert’s; tried
last, he dismissed Taylor and Hendry for 30. In-
verarity took 3 for 118. W.A.’s second venture was
a gloomy procession. Grimmett had strained him-
self and couldn’t bowl, but Everett and Ryder were
mainly responsible for rattling out the side for 97.
In the evening Kelleway gave a cricket lecture, and
mentioned that Westralia was near to becoming a
first-class side.
“Shrewsbury”: Though nobody is downhearted, it
is apparent that the now departed Australian XI is
not carrying the same amount of public confidence
as its predecessor. When one compares the bowling
talent of that side with that of the present one there
is reason for gloom. McDonald and Gregory,
vlus Armstrong and Mailey as he then was, were a
wonderful quartette for skill and variety of attack ;
and though Ryder and Hendry did nothing great,
and Macartney was practically useless with the ball
—he took only eight wickets on the tour —the same
variety appeared in the changes. Gregory, who has
been working the fast stuff in big cricket ever since
the tour of the A.I.P. XI, is not the bowler he
was, and the same is true of Mailey, who was
costly at his best. Grimmett may possibly repeat
in England the lone-hand triumph of Bosanquet in
Australia; but the strain which incapacitated him in
Perth is ominous, for he is no chicken. Ryder and
Hendry are certainly no better than they were in
1921, and if Macartney is to do wonders with the
ball his batting will suffer inevitably. Barring
Grimmett, perhaps, we must look to Arthur Richard-
son and Everett if the tourists are to make a repu-
tation as another bowling side. Richardson seems
assured of success if the wickets he likes come his
way, as they probably will in England. Everett,
previously an indifferent performer in inter-State
cricket, found himself in the closing round of the
Sheffield Shield games. If he can keep that form,
there need be no doubt of him. If not, even his
unusual capacity, for a fast bowler, to get wickets
on rain-spoilt pitches may not help his average.
It is bowling that wins three-day matches. Ours, in
my judgment, is inferior to England’s.
* * * *
Paddington, which misses .Tack Gregory,
has suffered its first defeat since the amalgamation
with Sydney, Glebe downing it by 58 runs. Pad-
dington had won nine matches straight, and the
reverse still leaves it with 31 points against Western
Suburbs’ 26: tjni. and Waverley follow with 24
each. There are two more rounds to be played.
Thus far R. laider (Northern Districts) has scored
more runs than any other grade cricketer this sea-
son ; his total is 616. In pursuit of him are A.
Hall (Cumberland) 615, A. McGrath (North) 615,
H. Steele (Marrickville) 594, L. Gwynne (Manly)
593, N. Phillips (Gordon) 555, and J. Foskett
(Glebe) 544. Among the bowlers O. Asher (Padding-
ton) has bagged 53 wickets and B. Long (West) 52.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Cricket Asso-
ciation has declared itself in favor of Queensland’s
admission to Sheffield Shield cricket, and its dele-
gates to the inter-State conference to be held at
Adelaide on May 7 have been instructed to that
effect. N. S. Wales is of the same mind, and it is
proposed to overcome South Australia’s opposition
on the ground of distances to be covered in travelling
by altering the conditions of the tourney, as the
original States have power to do. The irrepressible
E. E. Bean let a cat out of the bag when he told
the meeting that at one time N.S.W. fought strenu-
ously to leave South Aus. out, and was only defeated
by Victoria’s untiring efforts.
“Which-is-Collins?”: As a casual and
somewhat short-sighted spectator at big cricket
matches, I think the authorities might do more to
make the players identifiable at long range. It isn’t
only the fieldsmen who are liable to be confused with
one another; a pair of batsmen are often sd similar
in figure that anyone may fall into a momentary
mistake. They managed these things better 50
years ago. According to the London Daily Chronicle,
the first English team that visited Australia wore
(in the field), along with other things, brightly-
colored' sashes. Each sash was a different color, or
combination of colors, and the color or blepd appeared
after every player’s name in the programme, the
same as a jockey’s colors in a race-book. Orieke*
programmes, of course, went out in the remote past,
but the modern player could easily be labelled or
lettered in some fashion and the scoring-board pro-
vide the key.
“Cedric”: “G.O.TVs” par (B. 11/3/’2G)
re Hendry’s run of centuries in Saturday games calls
to mind J. R. M. Mackay’s wonderful season in 1905-
06, when in all matches he recorded 11 centuries, twice
passing the 200 mark. In first-class matches only
his scores that season were 203, 90, 194, 105, 102
n. 0., 4, 136, 18 and 15. C. B. Fry is the only
cricketer who has made six centuries in consecutive
innings in first-class matches.
* * » *
“Past Grammar”: Time was when the
N.S.W. Rugby League lived for Sydney only; the
country player was given small consideration.
Adversity has changed the outlook, and the crack
Sydney clubs now go hunting in the country dis-
tricts for new stars for the professional code, much
as the “scouts” of the English Soccer clubs used
to scour Scotland. Of late the North Coast has
been turning out. some excellent material, and is,
in consequence, being overrun by buyers this season.
Queensland’s prestige is, however, an obstacle,
and this, combined with competition, has given the
market a decidedly bull tendency, with sellers
holding on.
* * * *
“Bris”: Brisbane Rugby League has pub-
lished, with justifiable pride, its balance-sheet for
last year, showing record receipts of £6369—an
increase of £2041 over the previous season. Gate
takings amounted to £4796, and season tickets
to £298. With so much money to play with, the
League could afford to be generous, and it passed
out bonuses and subsidies right and left—£9Bo to
clubs, £613 for expenses of teams on tour, £240 to
representative players, £144 to the Referees’ Associa-
tion, £lO2 towards encouraging the game in schools,
and £25 to the Junior League. The bonus to players
was an innovation—for Brisbane. There the game
has been almost purely amateur hitherto, but with
the prospect of bigger “gates” than ever this winter
the element of professionalism is bound to creep in.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: In encouraging the Papuan
to seek his enemy’s scalp on the Soccer field (B.
11/3/’26) instead of in the jungle, Lieut.-Governor
Murray is following in the footsteps of Rajah
Brooke. That pacificator’s methods of suppressing
the Dyak’s national sport so shocked Queen Victoria
that the good lady turned her back on him when
he came to London. If head-hunting occurred any-
where in his vast territory he armed and led a
friendly tribe against the recalcitrants, letting the
victors take the heads of the vanquished as a reward.
When all his subjects had seen the point of the
argument he was able to replace head-hunting raids
with football. I once saw two tribes of Kadayans to
whom the Western evangel had been newly brought.
Seventy played to a side, and when any barefooted
player got disabled or exhausted a fresh recruit
stepped in. As each tribe mustered some 300 extras
thirsting for a chance, the game lasted for several
days. The same tribes now put into the field teams
of the right number and with as sound a knowledge
of the game as most B-grade players.
PROFESSIONAL PUNTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At home professional men, such as doctors and
lawyers, do not, and perhaps dare not, associate
themselves prominently with the turf, but in Aus-
tralia some of the best authorities are professional
men, and some of the clergy occasionally attend
racing.”— Lord Burnham , a recent visitor to Aus-
tralia, at the Royal Colonial Institute, London.
I heard a famous doctor take the odds to twenty
quid.
About Sam Slippery’s In-and-Out—at least I dreamed
I did.
He’s seen so many humans die, I reasoned like a
shot,
He knows by intuition when a horse is stiff or not.
His diagnosis seldom errs, his patients all agree;
Whatever he accounts a cert, is good enough for me.
I watched a shrewd King’s Counsel press to where
the bookies roar,
And twice he took the price they laid concerning
Distant Shore.
He never makes a slip in court; the evidence he
weighs
So carefully he’ll be a Judge one of these blooming
days.
He knows a thing or two, I mused, maybe from
doc tors hid;
1 counted him the safer guide—at least I dreamed
I did.
A gaitered bishop ’mid the crowds around the tote
I saw,
And Medicine to the dogs I threw and lost my faith
in Law.
He knows the way to Heav’n, I thought; he’ll hardly
make a slip
About an earthly handicap—l’ll take the Church’s
tip.
I waited eagerly to see on what terrestrial moke
His Gaiters would a ticket take. And then —worse
luck !—I woke.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


jNOgA
m
gT-Ete
ysuvsjXOUk
THE
HOUSE
OF
STEEL,
FOUNDED
a.d. 1888.
m :
W. Jno. Baker Standard Sets Tattoo
Ear Pliers. For Sheep and Cattle. Fine
Quality Nickel-plated, with Adjustable Jaws to
allow Figures or Letters to be changed as
required.
W.JNO.BAKER
W. Jno. Baker Bagging Bottle and
Skinning Outfit. Contains Tin, Bottle,
Dagging Shear, Skinning Knife and Steel. Very
best Leather Sheath. To carry on Saddle.
No. 19 With Strong Rosewood Handle
Knife and Steel, complete, 37/6.
No. 20 With Oriental Design Knife (No. 1)
and Horn Steel, as illustrated, complete, 42/-
Any of the above posted, 1/6 extra.
§3,
BAKER
Aluminium Sheep
and Cattle Ear
Labels—
Sheep, 12/6 per 100
Cattle, 26/- „
MM
Lock Pattern
Aluminium Sheep
and Cattle Ear
Labels—
Sheep, 15/. per 100
Cattle, 25/- „ „
Initials and Number-
ing Free.
The W. Jno. Baker
New Improved Lamb
Clam. No. 435.—The
position of the blade en-
ables the user to complete
the operation without
moving his grip on
the Clam. The result be-
ing a cleaner job, quicker
healing and saving time.
About S inches over all.
Blackwood Handle Grip,
Brass Guard; width across
Jaw If inch. 10/6 each.
Post Free.
R
Sheep and
Cattle Fire
Brands,
Hand Forged;
any design
made to order.
MM
Hand-forged Sheep and Cattle Ear
Pliers; any design made to order.
W. JNO. BAKER,
THE HOUSE OF STEEL,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
M
Genuine
ROBERT BOSCH
Quality Products
MAGNETOS.—For thirty years the World’s
Standard of Efficiency.
SPARKING PLUGS.—Millions in use demonstrate
their Efficiency and Reliability.
HORNS.—-The World’s Finest Warning Signal.
Dlf NAMOS.—Fitted with cut-out and special volt-
age regulator. Can be used without
battery.
All Genuine Bosch Products
are
Fully Guaranteed.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
250-258 Latrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
199 Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide... Duncan & Co., 101 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Pertb Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart D. J. Nettlefold & Co., Ltd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand.... J. J. Niven & Co., Ltd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
TRADE
MARK.
MMM
COSMOS LAMPS
British
Made.
»v
sIU
British
Made.
To ensure good lighting it is essential to have
efficient lamps that will burn brightly.
Cosmos Lamps are British and best—they burn
brightest and last longest, thus ensuring maximum
service and practical economy.
Cosmos Lamps are made in wide variety to answer
every need, including Metal Filament Vacuum
Lamps, Carbon Filament Lamps, Motor-car and
Motor-cycle Lamps, Gas-filled Lamps, Clear, Opal
or Color-sprayed, Gas-filled Lamps for Cinema,
Floodlight or Show Window, Radiator Lamps, and
many Specials.
There is a Cosmos Lamp to fill your requirements.
Be sure you ask for Cosmos Lamps and ensure the
satisfaction you desire.
Obtainable from any firm dealing in Electrical Goods,
or from the Factory Representatives in Australia: —
W. G. WATSON 8 CO., LIMITED
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide.
55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
933 Hay Street, Perth.
THE INKY WAY.
“Ah Gee”: Whether or not H. G. Wells
is rude to correspondents (B. 25/2/'26), he
is sometimes refreshingly impolite to him-
self. In a revised edition of “When the
Sleeper Wakes” he mentions that it was
“one of the most ambitious and least satis-
factory” of his books, “written under con-
siderable pressure,” and with “streaks of a
slovenliness which seems to be an almost
unavoidable defect in me.” Similarly the
preface to a new edition of “Mankind in the
Making” says that the book was due to his
excess of nervousness as a young father, and
was written in altogether too fussy and
grandmotherly a spirit. Not many of our
modern writers are so frank. It almost gives
him a right to criticise other people.
The transfer of the Federal Parliament
to Canberra has robbed the A.J.A. of a good
president. R. W. Ivenderdine, who is on
Federal Hansard, is under orders to take
up residence at the Federal capital at the
end of the year, so he drops out of the honor-
ary A.J.A. leadership. During his term
pressmen got the best rises in screw they
have ever had, and it w r as due in no small
part to his untiring work on their behalf in
preparing their case. Syd Deamer, once of
the Evening Sun, but now chief sub. of
Melbourne Herald, steps up to the vacant
chair.
“Topee”: The report that Joseph Cook
proposes to return to Australia when his
term as High Commissioner finishes (B.
25/2/’26) reminds me of the first time I
ever saw his name in print. It was in the
Phonetic Journal about 1892. Isaac Pit-
man, in extolling the value of his system as
an aid to worldly success, quoted the ease
of Joseph Cook, a working collier, who had
acquired a certificate of proficiency in the
art. This, on emigrating later to Australia,
iiad enabled him, not only to secure certain
lodge secretaryships, but eventually to find
his way into Parliament. If Isaac, who died
in 1897, had only lived long enough to see
Joseph become Prime Minister of Australia,
what an ad. he would have had for his short-
hand !
“Coot”: Melbourne Age has acquired the
warehouse at the rear of its Collins-street
premises for £85,000. For years the paper
has been cramped for space, and it is pro-
bable that in the near future the whole pre-
mises will be remodelled.
“Jackeroo”: During a recent heat-wmve
at Thargomindah (Q.) 112 deg. was regis-
tered, causing the comps, on the local paper
to drag the frames outside under the trees,
where type could be set in comparative com-
fort. I remember once moving for the re-
verse reason; it was a bitterly cold morn-
ing in Mulgaland, and we moved a frame to
the back yard in the sun. A passing sub-
scriber (one of our few financial ones) in-
vited me and the comp, over to the pub. On
our return we found the frame knocked over
and the type hopelessly pied. A draught-
horse with the mange had selected the article
for a rubbing-post, with the result that our
next "was chiefly composed of dummy ads.
“Machete”: Judge Curlewis, the literary
precisian of the N.S.W. Bench, like the
gentleman in “She Stoops to Conquer,” who
would permit his bear to dance only “to the
genteelest of tunes,” insists that counsel in
his court address him only in the purest of
English. Recently s’Onali objected vehe-
mently to the use of the adjective “chummy,”
declaring it was more like Chinese than Eng-
lish. Nevertheless the Oxford Dictionary
gives the noun and verb “chum” as dating
back in the language to 1684, and where
there is a noun there must be an adjective.
De Quincey talks of “chumship in “The
Opium Eater,” while Webster certifies to
“chummed,” “chummage” and “chummery”
as well as “chum.” If “chummy” is not in
the dictionaries mentioned, it has, at least,
the cachet of universal usage in addition to
being a cadet of an ancient and unimpeach-
able family.
“Pat Bushie” : Why do so many black-and-
whiters adorn the head of the constable in
court with a hat or cap? I have attended
hundreds of courts of many grades, but never
yet saw the constable who was game to
parade with liis lid on.
“P.H.iC.”: Loitering outside Salisbury
Cathedral, England, I was cordially accosted
by some official emerging from the historic
structure—l am not certain whether he was
a rural dean or a verger—and hand-gripped
for my noble services at the Front (although
at that time I had not been there). I told
my courteous acquaintance that I was wan-
dering through rural England in quest of
some of the spots I had mentally Visualised
from the books of famous English novelists,
particularly Dickens. “You’ve come to the
right place,” he said; “five miles away, at
Alderbury, Dickens wrote and placed many
of the scenes in ‘Martin Chuzzlewit.’ ” Next
morning I had my water-bottle filled with
beer at Pecksniff’s back door; a little later
I was in the parish church, putting my
fingers on the keys of Tom Pinch’s organ’;
finally I sought the Blue Dragon Inn, and
had bread and cheese and beer for breakfast.
I saw the taproom, maintained in order by
my genial ancestor, Mark Tapley, and it was
a gentleman’s parlor compared to the tap-
rooms of my youth in the Speck. Lastly I
found the room where Dickens wrote and
slept, and amazed the worthy landlord by my
knowledge of Alderbury three-quarters of a
century ago. “I wish you would stay here
a day or two, sir,” he pleaded, “and write
them things down for me. Considerin’ that
I have been keepin’ the ’ouse this twenty
year, I’d like to know summat about ’em.”
Robert Emmet O’Halloran, M.L.A., secre-
tary of the N.S.W. Labor party, the hero
of the recent cheering episode in the Council
gallery, owns a couple of brothers whose
Christian names bear still more forcibly the
mark of their father’s fiery patriotism. The
innocent-looking initials of one, P.S., stand
for Patrick Sarsfield; the other is Oscar
John Wolf Tone. The father, Mick O’Hal-
loran, is an old-time newspaper proprietor,
who conducted several N.S.W. up-country
sheets. In more than one town he was the
most belligerent politician for miles around,
and twice unsuccessfully tried to batter his
way into Parliament.


MMM
City Comforts for Country Homes.
In the country home not served with Electric Current, the lady
in the home deserves equally as much as her partner, the
freedom from drudgery that electricity brings. She needs more time to
devote to her children, to make her more comfortable and beautiful.
Consider the value of Lighting alone.
Good lighting in the farm home and in and around the farm buildings probably contributes more
to the comforts and happiness of all members of the family than any other single convenience. The
value of sufficient lighting properly located and protected, and instantly available by tipping a switch,
can hardly be over-estimated.
Oil lamps burn the oxygen out of the air, making it not fit to breathe—often cause ill-health.
With them there is the ever-present danger of fire. Electric lighting is odorless, consumes no oxygen
and gives the most flexible supply of artificial illumination with the least danger of fire.
MM
Home Light and Power Unit supplies this medium. In addition, it will also drive the electric
clothes washer, electric dishwasher, electric vacuum cleaner, electric iron, electric toaster,
and electric percolator.
Our illustrated Booklet AHLI Mailed free on request.
1
m
a
mm
m
\m
m
%
VATA
m
m
m
%
m
m
m
m
m
i
WJ
I
wk
v~~
K:
fc::::-::
4™
afisr-
-1
I
J
ir’.T
m
i
if
K
7A
%
a
I
HR
m
VA
mmm
:
%
d®mmm \
VM
g
Wk
WM
wx*
m.
to.
saw
8
WwA
»
S3®
W-
Wfff/ff
if
m
m
54*
1
Hi
S»
\s
m
m
m
m
1
m
Wf/JSS/A
w*
S 6
p
W///±WMX/£m.
r:
I
m
\ i i
u
m
&e*i
fZf.
''s--y*~, (j/f / ■
m
saa
I
w
gfc
m
'A
m
A
rwr .sty
-M
m
m
m
SB
m
m
wIM
Wk
m
R
m
%/a
m
m
m
i
1
i
m
i
W
I
///
il
a
V/Avz/M
0
y /.A.
r
5.
Home
U«Ht
XtTld s
Power
unit
Australian General Electric 0! ltd-
Mazda nouse, Wevtwortli Avenue, Corner Queen and Little Collins Street,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
Hunter Street West, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. 25-27 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Box 457-H G.P.0., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Chas. Atkin
894 Hay
Ui Co. (W.A.). Ltd.,
Street, PERTH, W.A.
Oliver & Oliver.
Pfv.. IM
AGENTS:—
Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Cnr. Edward and Charlotte Streets, Brisbane. Q.
HOBART and LAUNCESTON. T ASMARA ' ’


NIGHT SHOOTING AT 200 YARDS
SOMETHING ABSOLUTELY NEW.
NICKEL CASE, lOin. overall, 3in. lens, adjust-
able focus. Stationary and intermittent switch.
Takes 3-cell battery. Weight lslb 21/-
Spare Batteries, 2/6 each. Spare globes 1/3
Also lOOvd.-range WINCHESTER FOCUSING
TORCH. Nickel case, 9in. Adjustable for long
and short distance. Takes 3-cell battery, 18/6
FIBRE Case, same model, 100-yard beam. 17/fi
NICKEL or FIBRE Case, same as above, 100-
yard beam to take 2-cell battery, 61 inches
overall, 15/-. Spare Batteries, '2-cell. 1 /ft
3-cell, 2/6. Globes, 1/3. '
Postage on all torches, 1/.. Batteries, 6d.
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
A
1
'ljpujU -need.
Guaranteed
Shirts, Collars.Pyjamas
'JAey Jit" .
mpmMyr’m
EVERREADY
l TORCHES -
6 The Worlds Best
3
/AMY
MMM
Writt for lllustroted CtuUogut.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britan) Ltd.
165 Pitt Street, Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
He* Majesties “Katja”
Criterion “Give and Take”
Royal “White Cargo”
Palace “Kangaroo Flat”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fullers' Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Pavlova
Royal “Lilac Time”
Princess “The Honeymoon Girl”
Kino’s “Quality Street”
Athenaeum “The Sport of Kings”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hott’s Moving Pictures
- ♦
“Clapping palms on thighs, the women
stamped, wriggled, kicked the dust, and ended
with a violent movement of the shoulders,
hips and loins.” Thus wrote Sir Richard
Burton, of the corps do ballet of King Gelele
of Dahomey (1863), and thus might a con-
temporary critic write of the fox-trot and the
castle-walk. It was far otherwise that
Pavlova and her band expressed the
poetry of motion on Saturday night ■ at
Melbourne Ilis Majesty’s; and an audi-
ence gorged for years with spectacles
of the Dahomeyan order could be for-
given if at first it registered bewilderment,
and even wondered when the management
was going to give it its money’s worth. For
here was scenery serenely painted, but of the
simplest; here were costumes merely harmo-
nious and intelligent; here movements in
which few were asked to risk their necks
to make a theatregoer’s holiday.
* * * *
The ball opens with “The Fairy Doll,”
an artless fantasy. A Moscow toy-shop is
revealed, painted in the primary colors of
a semi-primitive age. Enter a delicate satire on
an Englishman, his wife and daughters. The
shopkeeper, in excellent pantomime, displays
his wares. They are wound up, and dance.
A little tame, this, because every musical-
comedy producer has filched the notion. The
customers refuse each one in turn. The
shopkeeper is in despair, and then bethinks
him of his finest possession. A curtain is
withdrawn, and the treasure is disclosed.
Of course, Pavlova. The Englishman writes
out a cheque upon the spot. Then the scene
changes to the shelves, where the toy dolls
all come to life and dance a farewell measure,
while the fairy doll expresses with legs more
articulate than poet’s pen and feet almost
as dainty as the clievrotain her reluctance
to leave her friends and her terror of having
her paint licked off by a giant baby Sassen-
ach. The fantastic music of Bayer, played by
an Australian orchestra under Lucien
Wurmser, gave to the scene the right touch
of fantasy. Sometimes like a sparrow aban-
doning itself to the sensual delights of wash-
ing in the dust of a suburban road, some-
times full of a grotesque fairy horror, the
Russian dancer was always the mys-
teriously animated doll. Novikoff brought
to the scene legs of Herculean prooortions,
coupled with a temperament of Schumann-
esque appeal.
* * * *
“Chopiana” was a setting, to the language
of the leg, of the best-known pieces of the
Polish musician. Norman Lindsay might
have made this soft ground etching of a
group of dryads in ballet skirts and fauns
in cream jumpers against a dim background
of huge pines, in which Pavlova was the
vivid theme and Novikoff’s black velvet
jacket the recurring bass. Sundry divertisse-
ments concluded an evening haunted with
vague and vivid sensations. Pavlova flut-
tering to her death in “The Swan” to the
music of Saint-Saens, and anon coming to
life to clatter through a Slav measure
of Tschaikowsky; Novikoff clapping his
majestic thighs to the tempo of a bolero by
Minkus ; amongst the exotic crowd an Eng-
lish boy, Lascelles, disclosing that the dance
is not an exclusively Russian monopoly; and
in a scene dansante of the eighteenth cen-
tury, M. Pianowski, a small black object in
a mask, a white waistcoat and black legs,
wooing Mile. Rogers, a dainty sylph with
posies on her skirt, in a spirit of delicious
comedy—these must have dispelled any lin-
gering doubt in the beholder that the dialect
of the dance has any limits to its vocabulary.
In the final frivol Pavlova, before a futurist
Russian village, made up of a bridge that
was never made to be walked on, an incon-
ceivable milkmaid, ducks in procession on an
unusual pond, a rustic Kremlin, a remark-
able rainbow and some communistic cultiva-
tion on the hills, danced with bucolic humor,
while a Mr. Algeranoff did an athletic scherzo
that sent even the devotees of the dance
gymnastic happy away.
** * *
Joseph Cunningham’s punting hero in the
facetious “Sport of Kings” at Melbourne
Athenamm presents himself on a second
viewing as a more acceptable creature than
at first appeared. A tendency to make every
speech a winning number and every situa-
tion a favorite may be put down to the
actor’s music-hall experience. Zillah Bate-
man, however, will need to be beheld in a
fatter part before a final judgment can be
passed. Henrietta Cavendish’s dear old lady
remains the choicest figure in the show.
#* * *
“Daddy Longlegs” will rescue “Judy”
Kelly from the John Grier home for the
last time to-night as far as Melbourne King’s
is concerned. The show moves forthwith to
Adelaide. Angela Baddeley, Brian Aherne,
Mary Hinton and other personages will make
“Quality Street” a distinguished thorough-
fare .at the same house on Saturday. The
Barrie fantasy was first seen here over 20
years ago.
% * sj: *
The electrics still announce nightly in
large letters that it is “Lilac Time” at Mel-
bourne Royal.
V V '!»
“The Honeymoon Girl” will leave Mel-
bourne Princess in darkness to-morrow night.
This Page’s final comment is that she was
a good girl, if a trifle slow.
* * #
After the inevitable usher with the inevit-
able new boots had finished his prologue,
Beresford Fowler and his amateurs were
heard in a bush-fire benefit performance of
“Man and Superman” at the Playhouse, Mel-
bourne, one night last week. The pshaws of
Shaw have lost some of their pristine power
to shock, but Fowler, Charles Row, Eric
Donald, Mona Pepyat and others optlined
the intention of the play to the satisfaction
of a large audience. Eric Donald, as the
emotional Ricky Ticky Tavy, got an ovation
which would have done honor to a miisica I-
comedy star; this was his meed for sound
acting on previous occasions of the season.
** * *
This commentator saw spotted-gums and
blackbutts grow out of the stage at the Mel-
bourne Auditorium the other evening. Pre-
sently a breeze sprang up amongst the trees
and the sun came up and played henna, red
and purple harmonies upon the secondary
growth. The occasion was an Australian
event of some importance: the first perform-
ance by the ’Varsity Orchestra, under Ber-
nard lleinze’s direction, of Henry Tate’s
new symphony depicting an Australian dawn.
Here is a passionate believer in the artistic
future of this land, equipped as few pas-
sionate believers are with the necessary tech-
nique to carry his belief into practice. The
result is a tone poem of considerable charm.
Round a scaffolding of some 11 notes the
composer has built an airy edifice of har-
mony, so airy in its first storeys as to appear
a trifle thin, but developing depth and vol-
ume as it proceeds. The dawn theme is sung
from the throats of birds every bush-lover
knows, and by the breeze moving bush odors
amongst the leaves: and both are worked
into a musical synopsis of this country’s
early vicissitudes. The new work was treated
by the men and maidens of the University
Symphonic Orchestra with respect and, in
places, with enthusiasm, although the efforts
of the flautists to emulate the complicated
fervors of the magpie and the thrush weren’t
always attended with success. The produc-
“KANGAROO FLAT,”
AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Tal Ordell, the author, as the rouseabout,
and C. R. Stanford as the old farmer
wearing his first suit of pyjamas.
tion will help to remove the reproach, which
even Maoriland has been able to fling at this
country, that the abounding material for a
national music must lie unexploited because
there are no local virtuosi capable of fossick-
ing it out.
* * * *
Some old friends and some more or less
fresh acquaintances who tend to outstay their
welcomes are in session at Melbourne’s two
music-halls, which of recent weeks have been
houses of variety by courtesy only. The
Tivoli has Harmston’s cockatoos, the two
Aerial Benos and the moiety of an old master
in Ralph Holbein, and on Monday Will
Whitburn's niggers returned. Ella Shields
is staying back for a docli-an’-doris, and
Melbourne is seeing that she doesn’t have to
drink it with the flies.
** * #
At the Bijou, Fullers’ black-faced com-
mando is mixing archaic humor with jazz
and Gayle Wyor is in the .midst of his ump-
teenth revue and his final week. “After the
Storm’’ is the title of the whirl of girl and
Joe Brennan.
** * *
The Repat. should be told about Wong
Ling Fu, a Chinese magician at the Majestic,
Melbourne, who is producing out of a hat as
much live stock as a Digger poultry-farmer
was given in 1920. “White Fang,” from
Jack London’s best work of fiction, is the
star film. Strongheart, a dog, displays in
the title-role considerably more intelligence
than many two-legged actors. Hoyt’s house
is pluming itself on the acquisition of a really
“THE SPORT OF KINGS,” AT MEL-
BOURNE ATHENEUM.
Zillah Bateman (Dulcie Primrose) getting
acquainted with Joseph Cunningham
(Algernon Sprigge).
imaginative filpi. “The Beggar on Horse-
back” is a musician who dreams he has been
condemned by a Court to write jazz dishar-
monies, and makes of the sentence a theme
for some scenes of freakish humor.
* %
An advance-guard of the Easter excursion-
ists dropped into the Palace one night last
week, and gave loud approval to “Kangaroo
Flat.” It consisted of three stringy young
rncn whose joy was occasioned by their recog-
nition in Manson (C. R. Stanford) and
Horace Brown (Royston Denham) of two
more or less popular characters in their own
home district.
* * * *
“Katja” has reached the century, and the
play is as sparkling as ever at Her Majesty’s'
Sydney.
There is no falling-off in the public readi-
ness to pay the usual wharfage dues at Syd-
ney Theatre Royal, where “White Cargo”
is being delivered.
jfj
“Give and Take” at the Criterion shows
no present indication of giving in or taking
its leave.
* * * *
A shy show: —
Creeping shyly into Sydney, A. E. Newbury, of
Melbourne, has established a temporary home for
S 5 of his pictures at Macquarie Galleries, Bligh-
street. A rather pallid little show, its unaggressive-
ness disarms criticism; one feels inclined to give
this painter’s art a kindly pat on the head for its
prettiness and ask what it is going to be when it
grows up. The influence of Meldrum is very
evident in some of the canvases. On the whole, the
still-lifes, very neatly worked, are the most likeable
of the collection; but there is appeal in others,
notably "Country Road” (No. 10), a thoroughfare
which loses itself delightfully in morning mists;
“Thunder Clouds” (No. 6), in which the clouds
have a watery effect which inclines the careful
citizen to think of his gamp; and “The Pond” (No.
13).
* ♦
Oils and water-colors :
W. Follen Bishop and Florence Fitzgerald, his wife,
have an exhibition of 76 oils and water-colors at
Farmer’s Gallery, Sydney. The couple have been
settled in South Aus. for some time, and in her
Australian scenes Florence Fitzgerald gives the sense
of Australian atmosphere with a fidelity surpris-
ing . in an artist with an eye trained to
English landscape. This is particularly evident in
“In Sunny South Australia,” in which the light
glows starkly on a white gum in the foreground,
throwing up its brown scars and the exuding gum
finely. “A South Australian Kitchen” is a cleverly
arranged contrast of shadow and sunlight in water-
colors. Pollen Bishop’s English scenes are his best •
such pictures as “Down the Old Mill Stream,” with
its translucent treatment of the water in the fore-
ground and the richness of the foliage overhanging
it, and the sunset gleaming on the Malvern Hills in
“The Vale of Evesham,” are very good examples of
his quiet style. There is conscientious work aho
in his “Sydney.” ' ’
** * *
Russian violinist Alexander Chuhaldin im-
pressed his first Sydney audience at the Con
last Monday by the smoothness of his style
and the color with which he tinged the
Tschaikowsky Concerto—in this the bril-
liance of the vivacissimo movement made
people quite enthusiastic. The opening piece
was Handel’s Sonata in A Major, and the
after-interval programme was made up of
small pieces of cobweb delicacy; the most
arresting of these were the Turkish March
(Beethoven-Auer), and the artist’s own com-
position, “Love Song of the Hero.” Paul
Vinogradoff was the solo pianist; he played
Mendelssohn and Liszt with that something
more than mechanical accuracy which makes
his music a delight. Vern Barnett was the
accompanist.
* sis 5k H:
The fear that Dollie and Billie would
merely revive the deservedly dead Sisters
Sardine act, once popular, in which two poor
soubrettes duplicated one . another in awful
songs and dreadful dances, was dispelled on
Monday night, when they made their first
appearance at the Sydney Tivoli. The pair
are bright, good-looking and lively, and their
act is well diversified, although most of the
work falls upon Dollie (or it may be Billie).
Ben Nee One, another new arrival, is a
Chinaman who blandly sings and patters in
the Australian language, embellishing with
a quaintness due to the rarity of a China-
man being seen as a vaudeville comedian
humor that is not particularly new. The
amusing Scott Landers is back again, as also
are the. lively Hollanders. The programme
is sufficiently good all round to dim the lustre
of Bob Albright, who, like most vaudevillains
from overseas, evidently suffers from a short-
age of material.
❖* * *
The Cavana Duo provides the froth upon
the beer offered this week at Fullers’
Theatre; the feminine section foots it featly
in the intervals of her male partner’s stunts
on and off a wire. In “Nights of Joy,”
Jim Gerald is much as usual; but the mem-
bers of his company might leave it to the
audience to be -convulsed with laughter at
the antics of Gerald. Even if he does spring
gag surprises upon them, they should be get-
ting used to him by this time.
The Lyceum has got back to business with
some first-class concert performers to rein-
force the pictures. This week Elsa Stralia
is displaying a buxom stateliness and a wide-
ranged, somewhat heavy voice, which, how-
ever, shows surprising flexibility in the Waltz
Song from “Tom Jones.” It is a decidedly
pleasing innovation. “The Navigator,” which
depicts the adventures of a comically-help-
less man and woman who, on a large derelict
ship, drift on to a cannibal island; and
“Baree, Son of Kazan,” which provides the
usual excitement associated with James
Oliver Ourwood stories, make the basis of a
good picture programme. The meeting of
male and female speed-hogs in “Wild, Wild
Susan” gives some amusing moments at
Hoyt’s. The other picture is “The Desert’s
Price,” which is just Buck Jones with a
new title for his deeds. “The Goose
Woman,” shown at the Empress, is an ex-
ample of what can be done with make-up;
Louise Dresser, as an opera singer who,
losing her voice and her figure, takes to keep-
ing geese, is hardly identifiable under her
layers of avoirdupois. The lady’s restora-
tion to grace and slimness after a single
day’s application of beauty culture is farci-
cal. “The Iron Horse” still keeps the rails
at the Prince Edward.
** * *
“Aladdin,” at Adelaide Royal, follows the
old story pretty closely, and where a dragon
is faced by a modern golliwog, or the
magician’s cave by Nilsson’s unicycle,
crowded houses merely welcome the anach-
ronisms. Jenny Benson and Bruce Green
do the usual exchange of identities as Boy
and Dame, and Gus Bluett does highly clever
work on his own lines. Allan Wilkie at
the Prince of Wales has worked through a
classical but comic programme with “She
Stoops” and “The Rivals,” content himself
to play a series of well-thought-out elderly
parts. Mrs. Malaprop (Lorna Forbes) and
Bob Acres (Milton Sands) had the usual
popular appeal, and Arthur Keane is a valu-
able recruit. The co. is now getting back
to Shakspeare. Rin-tin-tin is seen in the
snow at West’s. Wondergraph calls up
ancient memories with E. I'. Roe (as novel-
ist.) and the Chicago fire. The York has
a strange story of a girl who threw herself
at the head of a stranger, knowing only that
he was a sailor named Smith ; and, starting
to comb out the U.S. Navy for him, found
that it had 2600 of that name. The acting
of Barthelmess makes this foolishness
acceptable.


BLACK
WHITF
If 11111 Li
m
a ■*
■ li ;
i I y, *; s i * ■
'ftl•• ■, '*' §:
HHHHHNSMHttfi
m pi
as 'aSS
* fix s’
. f >•' . a
- j
MIS
MBt
I*l
Hill a||f
, -W\*[
mm
mmmm
gnu
M
,Si«
8
*' 1
.As, .. ,
i
iitiilil
,4 - J
IS
w
111
y> *S
' 3
as®
SKW'
is
» (
HP ■:«!
“>S Grand Spirit .
99
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., are In the predominant and unrivalled position
of holding the largest stock of old matured Scotch Whisky in Bond in Scotland, and
are thus able to maintain the great superiority of the quality of ‘‘Black and White.


Army Club Cigarettes
IO for W 20 for I^6
5 OforSb
. 9nf}uh£ / iMejd iAcefxifaJi
fv:'-.
a
3 £*s;
The Majoi </
CAVAN DERS LT?
LONDON.
Poverty
Point
“Caul-boy” : Over 60 stage people arrived
in Melbourne last week to the order of J. C.
Williamson, Ltd. A firmament of stars for
the G. S. revival debouched on Tuesday,
Boucicault’s commando arrived on Wednes-
day and Pav.’s contingent was deposited on
1 hursday. J.C.W.’s offices for the rest of
the week were as good a replica of the first
act of “The Great Lover” as any student of
psychology could wish.
“Cajsar’s Ghost”: Billy Russell’s 10 years’
lease of the Sydney Opera House will com-
mence on Easter Saturday with “Uncle
fom’s Cabin,” to be delivered by the Nellie
Bramley co. The old sob-raiser, which will
have the comedy well developed and special
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT.
"You seem to think the sun shines out of
the new stage-manager.”
“No, dear, not the sun—the limelight.”
attention paid to the negro choruses, has not
been shown on a metropolitan stage for over
20 years. Its last production was by the
Sandford co. at the Lyceum just before that
showhouse was purchased by Ebenezer Vic-
kery and handed over to the Methodists. At
the end of the season the Sandfords, a poor
combination of invaders from America,
stranded, and some of the wreckage still re-
mains on the Australian stage or thereabouts.
Their version of “Uncle Tom” was so bad
that one night an indignant member of the
audience rose and offered the opinion that the
maiiagement ought to be sued for getting
money by false pretences.
‘Nama bukan Untong”: Pavlova’s visit
to Singapore two years ago wasn’t tbe bril-
liant “social and artistic event” the press-
agent predicted for it. Somebody bungled,
and the famous prancer arrived to find the
theatre engaged by amateurs bent on produc-
ing “The Follies of 1922.” The Artistic
People declared that it would be a graceful
act if the Philistines withdrew in favor of
the visitor, but the Philistines retorted that
if the Artistic People were so keen on Art
•they should be prepared to indemnify the
Philistines for the 3000 dollars they stood
to lose if their season was postponed. No
response to this suggestion coming from the
Artistic People, Pav. was constrained to do
her turn in the somewhat dingy surround-
ings of the old German Club.
“Hamfat”: Tal Ordell’s stage debut
occurred when that quite competent little
actress Jennie Maynard introduced “Nurse”
at the Sydney Royal and struck a tragic
failure; it is about 25 years ago now.
‘Nurse,” which had some bright spots, hardly
deserved the public coldness; but the venture
was. made when theatrical affairs were at
their lowest ebb in Australian history. One
line I remember as worth preserving: “A
rustle of silk -a lady. A jingle of ornaments
still a lady. A whiff of patchouli—not
quite a lady.”
rf i^ trict . Vegl ” : . George Palmer, of Surrey
Hills (Vic.), will either break his neck
shortly or produce Australia’s biggest movie
melodrama. The other day he raced the
Sydney express from Spencer-street to Wan
garatta at GO m.p.h., and in a few days
he proposes to scrape the paint off one of
Mr. Clapp’s engines travelling at full speed
over a level crossing. The enthusiast or
fanatic started to save up to buy a biograpli
at the sanguine age of nine, successfully pro-
duced his first picture (200 feet) at 15, and
is now bent on outdoing Hollywood with a
3000-foot shocker at 17.
Haseu” : In the main street of our Bris-
bane suburb I pass two sets of advertising
posters for the pitchers. On the first I
noticed the other morning that the censor
had been busy. Several lines of print were
completely blotted out by a broad, super-
imposed black band, evidently the work of
a lithographic machine. The forbidden
words were very Hollywooden, and, there-
fore, tripey; they ran: “Contaminated by
the waves of passion” and “Creatures of
sensual pleasure.” How do I know? From
the next edition of the poster further along
the street. Here the censor (and his
machine) had slipped an inch or two, with
the result that what should have been sav-
agely obliterated was heavily underlined in
such_ a way as to make it the most conspicu-
ous item in the poster.
Goldilocks”: Gus Neville, who has joined
the Nellie Bramley co. for its Sydney season,
may be regarded as an insurance against a
short run. In a lengthy theatrical life,
Neville has needed only a few engagements
to keep him going. lie was with Allan
Wilkie from the time Wilkie started opera-
tions in Australia up to last December, and
for a much longer period he was Dampier’s
leading man.
“Topee ’: There is no doubt as to the
status, of Hosea Easton as a ban joist (B.
11/3/26). Hosea had a tremendous tone
and, at the old Sydney Haymarket in 1886,
seemed to almost drown Lochhead’s orches-
tral accompaniments. I saw him last in
Perth (W.A.) in 1896. He told me (an
old pupil) that he was prospering, and he
looked like it; but I was sorry to hear of his
death from malignant disease of the throat
not long afterwards.
“Curtain-raiser” : Pity the poor ballet-
mistress ! Where is she to get sensations for
“Yes, Yes, Flannelette” that will draw the
crowds fjtom contemplation of the free show
outside the theatres? At the last vice-regal
garden party I saw a parade of bewildering
color, lavish paint and powder and near-
nudity that no unmusical comedy could excel.
If the assemblage had lain on the grass and
waved its silk-artoed hose in the air the illu-
sion would have been complete; but even
that display is rivalled daily, despite restric-
tions, on the beaches. One Melbourne entre-
preneur tells me he is getting inspiration for
his next production from the period of the
Canterbury Tales.
“Hamfat”: An Australian, C. H. Davis,
has produced an invention which wipes out
the difference between tinned music and that
fresh from the tree, so to speak. What looks
like a light wooden lamp-reflector set up on
end carries the needle instead of the usual
arm, and the sound comes with a clear re-
sonance. One trial was given at Sydney
Con., and another last week let a band of
Sydney pressmen into the secret. A com-
pany with its capital already subscribed in-
tends to place the innovation on the world’s
markets, and, seeing what the “resonator”
can do—a record pivoted on the top of an
ordinary butter-box with motion provided by
an ordinary clock-work adjustment under-
neath produced finer music than that of a
moderately-expensive gramophone which
lacked the resonator—the thing should be a
winner. Davis, a musician, engineer and
business man, was in Maoriland until he
decided to concentrate upon his hobby of
inventing things. He is drawing cash re-
wards for a successful milking-machine. As
a musician, the resonator is more in his line,
but it took him six years of experiments be-
fore he got what he wanted.
“Paree” : The latest success in Paris bears
the simple title “Three Young Girls —
Naked.” There is a play within a play,
and the scene is laid in the wings of a
theatre. Three highly respectable sisters,
from the country, offer themselves as chorus
girls, having heard that husbands are more
easily got that way. But the Cinderella of
the family has followed them, thinking it
time to assert herself; and she does so by
offering to appear in the Altogether in the
last act. Of course nobody quite does that
on the actual stage; but the idea that some-
body (or bodies) will do so the next moment
is the backbone of the comedy. Cinderella is
rewarded with the hand of the most eligible
husband in sight—an English nobleman.
TRUE TO NATURE.
ARTIST : “That little effort , my dear sir, ‘Road-makers at
Work,’ is probably the most realistic picture I have
painted.”
FRIEND: “ But they’re not at work!”
ARTIST : “Ah, that’s where the realism conies in,”
“Hamfat”: To emphasise the importance
of the thing he was about to stage at
Sydney Lyceum, Bill Anderson once for-
warded puff-pars to the papers declaring
that “the members of Mr. Anderson’s two
splendid companies will be grouped in this
production, which calls for a very large
cast.” _ The best language William had
learnt in his bill-posting days was requisi-
tioned to meet the situation when he read in
the S. M. Herald that the Thespians in-
volved were “the two splendid members of
Mr. Anderson’s company.”
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The most cheerful troupe
I ever met arrived in Guyra (N.S.W.) on
foot, pushing a handcart w r itli its entire
worldly possessions. It rented a two-roomed
weatherboard building as a camping-place,
the two women of the co. of seven doing the
housekeeping while the men posted bills,
distributed “dodgers,” and did whatever else
was necessary in preparation for the even-
ing show. When they finished with Guyra
they pushed their handcart to the next town
having a pub and a store. Happening to
meet a member of the co., I asked him to
have a drink. He immediately worked the
rest of his crowd into the shout, and then
invited me to go down to their shanty
and have a drink with them; being
careful people, they bought their beer by
the gallon. They told me gleefully that they
had had a “splendid house” the night before,
actually three pound seven; and on the
strength of that they intended to stay longer.
They talked of great nights when the “house”
had gone over a fiver, and of one delirious
occasion when they had taken ten pound
fourteen. They mostly prospected places
which didn’t appear on the map, except for
an occasional railway-siding of the “trains-
stop-here-when-requested” variety. But they
were supremely happy and most cheerfully
companionable.
“Oilskin” : Percy Mavon Ibbs, who helped
to direct Melba’s “farewell” concert tour of
the U.K. (B. 25/2/’26), was organist and
choirmaster at Christ Church, South Yarra,
in the ’nineties. He was a very capable
musician and a good fellow, and the cherubs
worshipped him. However, another kid and I
fell foul of him one Saturday morning when
we relieved the official organ-blower during
an Ibbsian rehearsal of the “Wedding
March”—there was to be a fashionable hitch-
ing in the afternoon. We suddenly deserted
the air-lever and bolted for Fawkner Park.
Weir-d sounds from the expiring organ and
the apparition of Percy in hot pursuit
quickened our pace, and we gave him a half-
mile run before he caught us. Then he
bumped our heads together, and sat on one
boy while he spanked the other. But,
suddenly relenting, he begged our pardon
and promised that if we returned to our job
he would make royal reparation at the tuck-
shop afterwards. The pact was kept.
“M.G.S.” : There was keen competition as
to who should be the cavalier at His
Majesty's, Melbourne, in connection with
Pavlova’s pretty insistence that she should
be carried over the stage doorstep instead
of walking in ; but it is a good thing these
superstitions aren’t general. There’s Oscar
Asche, for instance.
“M.G.S.”: Australia is
shortly to see an entertain-
ment that is far more Slav
than Pavlova’s dancing to
the music of West Euro-
pean composers. E. J.
Carroll is importing a
choir of 36 Don Cossacks,
soldiers whom the Bolshe-
vik revolution drove into
the, ranks) of the White
Army, whence they made
their way to Sofia —they
siang there in the Greek
Orthodox Church in the
intervals of working in a
factory. Singing in chorus
seems as natural to the
peasant in Siberia as sit-
ting dumb at a picture-
show is to the people of
this country. A journey I
made in July, 1914, from
Vladivostoek to Moscow
was a 14-days’ symphony
provided by the deep-
voiced singing of the sol-
diers already being moved
up out of Asia for the
approaching world scrim-
mage in Europe. At a
cafg outside Moscow I
attended a dinner given to
a departing English offi-
cial. The musical accom-
paniment came from the
throats of 20 blue-bloused
peasants, rough-handed
giants with the voices of
bassoons, and, anon, of
nightingales, who stood
simply in a group like
human organ-pipes. Above
were the stars and below
them Moscow’s barbaric
“golden roof.” It was a
good turn and staged worthily.
“Blum” : It isn't possible to get very far
on the road to literary fame without learning
to read, but there are fewer prejudices in the
realm of music. Witness the success of
Irving Berlin, who boasts that he doesn’t
know a crotchet from a handsaw. And on
the R.A.N. cruiser Adelaide they have a
young man who is pointed out to the visitor
with pride. He plays 22 instruments, in-
cluding the piano and American organ, but
not the fiddle, and does it all “by ear.”
Among stringed instruments, in addition to
the piano, he favors the banjo, mandolin,
guitar and harp; he can tootle a tune on
the cornet, saxophone, clarinet and several
varieties of mouth-organ, and has mastered
the mysteries of the xylophone and glocken-
spiel. Hayward is his name, and “Sticks”
his pet name. The lad has earned his living
in London cabaret orchestras, and the Adel-
aide bandmaster testifies that he is quite a
handy member of the band despite his in-
ability to play music by the eye.
“Wongajong”: Even the highbrow reper-
torian is not immune from ludicrous stage
mishaps. Duncan Macdougall, the Playbox
actor-manager, has cause to remember one
night when he played Eugene O’Neill’s “The
Hairy Ape” at St. James’s Hall, Sydney. In
the expressionist type of drama beloved of
Macdougall, the “props,” and even common-
place stage-noises, carry a significance un-
known in the sordid commercial theatre, and
the ringing of a ship’s bell in this play was
a rite of immense importance. Macdougall
gave the cue with gusto, but instead of a
clanging response from off-stage there was
dead silence. The cue was repeated, but
the minion behind the scenes seemed to be
asleep. Tired of waiting for the bell, the
little Playboxer turned his back to the
audience and said, “Ting-a-ling-a-ling.” As
the last echo of his imitation died away, came
the tinkle of a handbell which the flurried
minion had dug up in place of the regulation
gong.
MIDNIGHT BENEVOLENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My soul is like a mug of beer
That wants to slack a thirsty throat.
The world is sometimes glum and drear,
But I shall strike a cheerful note.
Though nightfall’s hush is round me set
And shadows dark like burglars creep,
I’ll shatter silences to let
The world know joy is not asleep.
Yes, I am like a mug of beer
That spills its froth, and I shall sing
As gaily as a chanticleer
The joy that lives in everything.
It matters not if wowsers should
Cold water from high windows throw;
That life is full of mirth and good
I’ll let those saintly persons know.
I’ll sing of joys outweighing fears
And all the glooms that round us lie;
We drink some forty thousand beers
For every once that we must die.
It matters not at all to me
If when I’m singing “Auld Lang Syne”
I use the air of “Nancy Lee,”
As long as flowing joy is mine.
So homing through the night I cheer
The world through which in bliss I float;
My soul is like a, mug of beer
That wants to slack a thirsty throat.
N.S.W.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


/
/
The “Valet” Razor differs from any and every other
kind of Safety Razor —it does what no other can do—
it sharpens its own blade, and keeps it sharp for weeks
and weeks without removal from the frame. A few
strokes daily on the strop and the blade comes up keen
and sharp morning after morning. Nothing to unscrew,
nothing to take to pieces. Simplicity itself!
Ask your dealer to show you how the “Valet” differs.
The illustration shows the new No. 55 Set.
With genuine “Valet” self-stropping razor, strop and
three blades in beautifully-finished nickel case, lined
purple velvet, with nickelled strop container.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney,
m
a*
2^
111
cdl v
MMM
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
GTVION
®y APPOINTMENT T<>
jaJ4. THE KING
Let a British Car Reflect
Your Pride of Ownership
Crossley Motors, Ltd.
oiw
ICH
BY ATPOINTMENT TO
fl.lt.H. THE PRINCE OF WALE#
CARS
The only car which has really been specially built for Australian conditions.
Do you realise what this means? Some fifteen months ago Crowley Motors Ltd Manchester, sent out to
Australia special representatives to study the conditions and actual requ.rements of this market.
To-day the Crossley factory is embodying in all chassis coming to Australia one hundred per cent, of
the recommendations sent home by these special representatives.
These improvements and alterations embrace every possible requirement suitable for Australian conditions. We
therefore have much pleasure in inviting your most minute inspection of our va.xous models.
We are convinced that you will find that we are really offering the best possible car value on the market to-day.
What better proof do you require than the ever-increasing number of Crossley cars on the road to-day.
Do not be satisfied till YOU own a Crossley. Built by the firm with nearly one hundred years’ engineering
experience behind it.
Prices from £495.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (Aust.) LIMITED, 87 William Street, Sydney.
CROSSLEY DISTRIBUTORS PTY., LTD., 116 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.


SILK . . . HALF - HOSE . . . GIVES . . . THAT. . .WELL - DRESSED. ..IMPRESSION
yccy .a^a:
■y^AL
rw' Vw V'v-V VvT>-yY VvV Vt/ Vw* Vw
>2rV WV r '~VW~
:
iHI
mmmmr
m
§P
mm
m
p|
*
wmmm
wm
mmmi.
»-g>
o
feftllll
w
mzm
uL
The Sensible Habit of Wearing Shoes
Demands Smart and Serviceable Half-Hose
KTO question about it, shoes
are comfortable, healthful,
sane. But they do demand care-
ful attention to the choice of
Half-Hose. Something smart,
dressy, good looking. Above all
something that will not
“hole” unexpectedly, Sx)
inconveniently, after
few wears.
a
Hence the preference of so
many men for Bond’s Half-
Hose, notable for their good
looks, good service and good value.
The prevailing vogue for checks brings
Bond’s latest production "R.K. 54”
into particular prominence.
Bond’s
“R.K. 54”
Half-Hose
4/ll PAIR
Bonds “R.K 54” Half-Hose is
a Pure Silk Plated Sock with a
phenomenal capacity for hard
wear allied to an appearance
that wins the approval of the
most fastidious. Check patterns ,
of course! In a range of
colorings wide enough to
cater for all tastes.
You, as an Australian,
will be glad to purchase Bond’s
Half-Hose, for, apart from its
superlative merits, its Australian
origin makes your purchase a definite,
personal contribution towards rendering
this country self - supporting and
self'reliant.
HALF
MADE I
Underwear, Bond's Towels
-HOSE
N/AUsi’^ALIA
Xl LTD. All Sii '
(osienj,/~Bond’s He
a Sheeting.
GEO. A. BOND & CQ. LTD. All Stales, N.Z. and S. Africa.
hianufacturers of Bond’s Hpsien/,si3gpd’s Half'Hose, Bond’s “Tru-Si^e”
’ioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.
Bond’s “Triple-Wear**
Half-Hose
*' —the Half - hose that gives
three times the wear” —is
obtainable in all the
plain shades that men »/ /
prefer. Sells at all fjLlfa
stores f0r ..... •*/
Bond’s “S?lk-Arto”
Half-Hose
Combines ibe texture of PURE
SILK with a lustrous finish
that remains unchanged
through months of
wear. In heather p* I/
mixture and all plain
shades , , . per pair I
M


Amusements.
OTDN£I'S CUI E F TIIE4TBES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: KATJA.
CRITERION: GIVE AND TAKE.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
PAlja C 15 TIIKA T It 15. SYDX E Y.
■ Lessees: J. & N. Tait.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinges Wednesday and Saturday at 2.15.
KANGAROO FLAT.
A Laughable 3-act Comedy by TAL ORDELL.
Tal Ordell, the original Ginger Mick in
“The Sentimental Bloke.”
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
IC K A It I) S’ TIV O L l TIIIS A T It E S
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best
pbLI. Elt S’ TIIISAT It E, SYDNEY
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre
C. HI LI.IA AIMIN' LTI).. AILLUOLK.M.
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PAVLOVA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
UUGH J. WARD’S MELBOURNE
" ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS THEATRE:
THE HONEYMOON CTRL.
DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL COMEDY.
Amusements.
II IS NAS U M riIK.VTKE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
Joseph Cunningham’s
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO.
IN
THE SPORT OP ICINGS.
Laughable Farce Comedy—Not Drama.
Plans at Allan’s. ,
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
"The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identity them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
ROOKS
)
Host Holbrook Sous
“ I have an appetising variety of
table delicacies. Sauces, Olives,
Capers, Malt Vinegar, Flavouring
Essence —all quality goods—the
high-grade quality of the House
of Holbrook.”
Amusements.
|y| KIiSSTIC Til HA I KU. MELItOUit.NE.
MARIE PREVOST and MONTE BLUE in
“lass ME AGAIN,”
AND
PATSY RUTH MILLER in
“BACK TO LIFE.”
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at £.
Box Plans at Allan’s or Theatre. ’Phone 7075. & 7790.
|£ INK’S Til HAT ICE MHI.ISO U IS N K
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
“QUALITY STREET.”
Amusements.
HOYT'S D E LUXE
MELBOURNE
THEATuE,
BEBE DANIELS in
“WILD, WILD SUSAN.”
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
ALSO
JAQUF.LINE LOGAN in
“WAGES FOR WIVES.”
Prices as usual.
NEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
YE OLDE TIME NIGGER MINSTRELS.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
March 29 to April 7,1926.
NINE DAYS - FIVE NIGHTS.
£13,000 - - - - PRIZES - - - - £13,000
Greatest Show of Live Stock in the Commonwealth.
Finest Displays of Agricultural and Primary Products in the World.
Attractive Ring Events.
THE GREAT WHITE SHOW.
NIGHT TURNED INTO DAY.
Grounds and Buildings Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electricity for Five Nights.
Well Lighted Pavilions and Parade Ring.
Spacious Halls of 108,400 Square Feet. Floor Space for the
Display of Manufactures and Motor-cars.
Magnificent Grandstands.
Comfort, Convenience and Accommodation Unsurpassed Anywhere
in the World.
Ringside Accommodation for 60,000 Spectators.
Lectures on Subjects of Interest to all Classes Day and Night in the
Lecture Pavilion.
GRAND MUSICAL PROGRAMME.
DAY AND NIGHT.
ADMISSION: Outer Gates—DAY: Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
NIGHT: Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
PARKING AREA FOR MOTOR-CARS WITHIN THE GROUND.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Endeavour House, Secretary.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Real Ladies’ Helps
■ IU
w
O
*S7
Oil
m
McCLARY’S ELECTRIC COOKER.
This latest model cooker makes good cooking a daily matter
—because the obtaining of the right heat for the right food is
only a matter of turning the switch to high, low or medium as
required. The oven and boiling top are heavily insulated and
retain enough heat to cook or boil with the current “off.”
The shrinkage of meats in the oven is practically done away
with, owing to the hermetically-sealed door. Nothing is left
to chance.
McClary’s Cooker gives you leisure —flavor —and economy.
See it demonstrated in our showrooms.
Domestic Science re-
ceives a new impetus
from the McClary
Electric Cooker and
Vital (non-electric)
Vacuum Cleaner in
the direction of per-
fect cooking and
dustless sweeping.
tk
mmm
halve the sweeping—
and secure the dust from spreading through the air of your
rooms and lodging on curtains and furniture, bj using tnc
Vital Vacuum Cleaner.
Powerful suction —latest construction —lower price—will not
injure the nap on the finest carpet. Non-electnc and light
weight. See it demonstrated.
Price £7/10A
SDatiks & Son\JPly£txL‘
324-330 PITT ST SYDNEY 391~403 BOURKE ST.^MELBOURNE


GOLFERS—IT PAYS TO PLAY
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The Ball that makes good golf a certainty.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
_Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide. Brisbane. Perth. \2
MM
MMM
MMM
“A Few
Stitches
& Theij're
on" '
CASHiStiMAMES
For Marking Linen
are a Great Convenience
in every household—No trouble as with
marking ink Quickly attache J to any
fabric—Your name is woven in fast color.
Actual Size, Name Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DPAPERS.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne.
‘lreland and Her Three English-made Gods.
Price 1/- post free.
ALL BOOKSELLERS and
1 DARLEY PLACE, DARLING HURST,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
RUPTURE.
A FREH TRIAL.
® ***..**• *rouSled with th. complaint, write m end
*«"“ *°“ ont catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Ibn appliance does away with all cumberiome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
prst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we Mate
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing, it is suitable for
men. women and children, end the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street. Melbourne
liegral Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
x ZEALAND.
Wellington District.
In Divorce, No. 2850.
To JAMES HAMILTON OLNEY for-
merly of Auckland Clerk but now of an
address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear
and answer the petition of Margaret Wini-
fred Olney of Wellington Married Woman
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage witn you on the ground of deser-
tion and such citation intimates that in
default of your so doing the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within 40 days after the date of this
publication to attend in person or by your
solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington New Zealand and there to enter
an appearance without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
March, 192 G.
(1.5.) G. S. CLARK,
Depdty Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. C. B. O’Donnell is the Solici-
tor for the petitioner, whose address for ser-
vice is at the office of the said C. B.
O’Donnell, 200 Lambton Quay, Wellington,
New Zealand.
IF WE COULD ONLY GET YOU TO SIT
i
m
m
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE.
IN THIS
SADDLE
YOU WOULD
BUY NO
OTHER.
The narrow, non-chafing grip, the feeling
of security, the quality of the work and
the general appearance of the saddle
would all appeal to you forcibly.
THE “LONGREACH’’ is one of our
most popular high-grade Stock Saddles
designed to add to the comfort of stock-
riding. The price, including folded girth,
bevelled leathers and four-bar solid nickel
stirrups, is—
£l6 lO/-
■Freight Paid for Cash with
Order to any Station on
N.S.YV. Railways.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
on Woo
WHEN BUYING PAINT ORDER
THE BEST.
RiPOLIN
ENAMEL
is unrivalled for MOTOR-CAR paint-
ing, also HOSPITALS, YACHTS and
all interior and exterior HOME
Decorations.
Send for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD.,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 11054.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep.),
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
MMM
And
Terracing
made easy. Bigger Crops—lncreased Farm Values and
Better Roads assured if you use
MMM
the,
FA»n DITCHER
TERRACER
And Road grades
Simple—Practical—Adjustable.
Cuts a mile of V shaped ditch in a day. Cleans out weed-
grown ditches. Does more work than 100 MEN.
J. WALLIS Ltd. Sydney: Challis House, Martin Place.
Melbourne: 312 Flinders Street. Adelaide: T. T. B’ld’gs, Light Sq.
Brisbane: Exton House, Queen Street. Perth: Queen Street.
MMM
Missing Friends.
’T'HE next of kin of JOHN WINTER, late
of State Hospital, Liverpool, who died
on the 16th April, 1924, or any persons
acquainted with their whereabouts, are re-
quested to communicate with the under-
signed stating the date and place of birth
of deceased, the name of his father and the
maiden name of his mother.
E. J. PAYNE, Public Trustee, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ALA ELLIOTT, aged about 40, formerly
housekeeper to William Mosley, Como,
should communicate for her advantage with
IL INNES KAY, Solicitor, 170 Phillip
Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know .
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
RAIL TRACTORS
New Patented System Revolutionises the
Sawmilling Industry.
nr
m
*
m
m
'4 .'.h.
Hi
■
%
m.
mm
■
M:
sm
Patent Rail Tractor operating on Rush Irani wag with severe curves and grades up
to 1 in 6 in presence oj Sawmillers’ Association and Secretary (without hat).
L. BANNISTER & SONS PTY., LTD.,
393 Flinders Street, Melbourne. TELEPHONE: CENTRAL 7354.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insu/Hciently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Groper: Thanks, but we are growing a
little tired of the relationship conundrums which
lesult when a widower takes his son’s sister-in-
law to wife or a widow marries her daughter’s hus-
band s brother. .. .Homo: Does not resemble vei'se....
D.l.M.: lhat sort of manufactured pathos is not
our style. .. .E.J.H..Not enough interest. .. .R.G.
(Hastings): Very mild little tale E.C.D.: The
stoiy is not quite told. .. .F.W.L.: Not enough yarn
there. . . .R.M.O.: The supernatural affair is not badly
written, but it is not our style N.L.D.: The verse
is far below standard. If you are so keen you
.should read good verse until you discover what it is.
... .Marquita: Very weak stuff I.H. (Moonee
Ponds) : It flutters feebly in poor verse... .Moon-
bria: Misses. . . .G.E.D.B.: Doesn’t get near... .Henry
: You don’t develop it into a yarn.... Lucy H.:
tar too slight... .Emel: Not quite up. .. .Ripponlea:
It is one of the most remarkable sonnets we have
ever read:—
I laboriously take up th’ pen o’ me
To indite a sonnet; knowing all th’ while
Capricious inspiration will’st not smile
Whene er I might wish that phenomenon to be,
And yet I slave and h’ppe to see
Fair fields of fancy, towering pile ’pon pile;
And don’t. I drop mine quill and say that i’ll
i erforce deprive mine readers of their usual sheer
ecstasy.
I must make it a rule to only sing
When th full force of my artistic temperament
is certain to leave, mayhap, this world behind,
ror tis no use dispassionately to out-grind
Garbled gleanings of a sluggish and quiescent
Genius besides, people don’t like that sort of thing.
... .O.H.B.; The mad person is not particularly in-
teresting. .. .E.O. (East Malvern): Those abstractions
are rather tedious W.B. (Cessnock): They fall far
short... .S.C.R.: The verse has no. lift in it....
K.D. (Newmarket) : “Dead Timber” has some nice
lines, but misses. The ideas hardly dance to that
tune N.W. (Maryborough): They all fail John
E. : Too crude J.M. (Winnabah) : Not quite, but
somewhere on the way A.J. (Malvern): Not
nearly up... .R.W. (Watson’s Bay): They miss by
some distance... .A.W.D. (West Maitland): Not
enough there... .L.155: The farmer gets worse as he
goes on and flops at the finish. The jangling pros-
pector doesn’t move us... . Jock B.: Sorry, but it’s
not up. We prefer the Australian language
Johu J.: Thin and unconvincing K.J.M.: No
use sending us a long screed of commonplaces....
K. (Newmarket) : The “Wind” falls down in a
few places... .A.M.B.B.: Too crude... .R.G.M.: The
verse must be a lot better than that before it can
hope to see print C.F.J.: Not for us A.M.R.:
“Midnight” should sell somewhere else... .Bellerive:
The brief and furious episode is excellently described:
In a farmyard ensued—
A thrilling combat.
Betwixt a venomous snake—
And an active cat.
Against the onslaughts—-
Of its daredevil foe.
Fiercely hissed the reptile.
And swayed to and fro,
Fatal to both was—
The sensational fight.
In agony they died—
At the hour of twilight.
M.H.S. : The run on from the octave to the
sestet spoils the form ; but this might pass if there
were more freshness of thought Tom 1.: Poor stuff.
H.L.B. : Not nearly enough skill J.B. (Tai-
hape) : The verse is too rugged... .Walter C.: You
don’t get the possible mirth out of the yarn. . . .0.0.
(Christchurch): The verse fails Dingo: The lines
are crude and lumpy J.T. (Corowa) : No use to
us. ...E.T. (Walkerville) : There is not much wrong
with the manner, but the matter is very thin....
Fred D. : No use sending us chopped prose under
the pretence that it is verse. Such rubbish could
be strung out by the mile... .C.P. (Broken Hill):
What sort of a thing is an “eaven-tide” 1.... Ivenne-
less; The verse is not exciting O.F.A.: Not well
enough handled... .Denis M.: “The Test” fails....
L. ; Not enough in the ache for the city
Paulatim: Commonplaces in a weary setting
W.H.R. : The argumentative people leave us sad
H.C.K. : Not well enough done. .. .R.H. (Kureen) :
Verse written “without effort” generally shows the
effect of the process. Yours is very weak and thin
F.M.J.; It improves towards the end, but is very far
off E.D. (Perth); “The Reckoning” doesn’t carry
itself W.B. (Croydon) ; They both fall short by
a long way Dindi: Not up....Tom Hale: No
mirth in it... .C.W.C.; Both are somewhere on the
way E.S. (S.A.) : The idea of “The Grey Thread”
is not bad, but the verse is very poor... .M.E.B.:
Not up T.M.S. : Has some points, but not enough
of them The Girl in the Pink Dress: The yarn
doesn’t move us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. : A pity the locomotive missed the car....
H.C.J.: The steeplejack joke has barnacles on it....
E.F.; Weak drawings and insipid jokes. .. .R.J.B.:
Haven’t you any control over your pen?. .. .N.K.:
Discharged with a caution B.M.H.: We will agree
to differ as to the value of your work. . . .A.E.A.:
Why waste our time and yours? C.C.: Lamentably
wooden K.A.: Try to remember that published
drawings are considerably smaller than the originals.
Masses of fine lines are apt to become smudges
in reproduction.
H’Ig” : Those who rode in Sydney’s first
electric train on the Sydneyi-Oatley line
experienced none of the thrills which were
the lot of passengers on the first N.S.W. elec-
tric-tram service, instituted on the Milson’s
Point-Spit line in September, 1S92. The
first trials were as full of incident as a
novelty turn at a freak show. The country
at the Mosman end of the line was almost
wholly scrub, there beini? scarcely a shop or
dwelling in the vicinity of that nowaday
busy shopping centre—Spit Junction. Break-
downs were frequent, and the jibbing of the
cars was expected on every run. Frequently it
was a case of. get out and walk.
“Moab”: “Carysfort”. (B. 5/ll/’25) says
that Australia has reduced the percentage of
deaths under one year from 83 to 63 per 1000
in 20 years. In London the Ministry of
Health has done even better than that. Up
to 1918 the rate of infantile mortality (i.e.,
that of children under 12 months) had never
fallen below 110, but by 1923 it had been
reduced to 00, lower than that of the Com-
monwealth and of all our capital cities except
Brisbane. Similarly, the maternal mortality
rate for England and Wales for 1923 was
3.94 per 1000, as compared with 4.91 for
Australia.


The Packard Six
SINGLE.SIX SEVEN-PASSENGER SEDAN
of a distinguished family
HpHE joy and thrill of motoring for its own sake may be experienced to-
day in practically any make of car. Pride of ownership has been dulled
by the quantity production of of the present day, and the ordinary vehicle
is in the hands of the multitude. But to those who want a car that stands
above all others just as a thoroughbred is pre-eminent over his fellows, there
can be nothing better than the Packard. The Packard was first made by
a rich man as a hobby and ever since, right through the history of
its production, only the best of materials and workmanship have ever been
allowed to go into Packard construction. And never having known poverty
Packard has never learned to substitute or cut corners.
Always true to the standards required by its
position as a front-rank car, Packard has always
lead the way in the matter of comfort and im-
provement. For instance, the one-shot oiling
system, by which 45 chassis points requiring
regular lubrication, may be oiled merely by the
pull of a plunger located on the instrument
board is a built-in feature of the Packard.
What is usually considered a garage job may
now be done even while travelling at full speed.
The motor oil rectifier keeps the motor oil free
from dilution and retains the original viscosity
of the oil. These twg improvements alone near-
ly double the life of the car. Packard protects
its owners, too, by maintaining a standardised
body design and by offering no yearly models.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
" Only Packard can build a Packard ”
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Mark Foy’s). Ring M 3 348 for demonstration. Write or call for catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors,
14.1 Flinders St., Adelaide .
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Lta.
Hobart, Tasmania.
PACKARD
O N E ”
"ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS


He is worth
what he will fetch at market. But his sale
at top values is certain if this step is taken.
Truck Your Fats,
Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs,
to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
[2
BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
m
By building: your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of 115 ROUTE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Roofing with "FIBRO-
UTE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
? n “ lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated I
but big concessions are secured in insurance i
rates. 1
Write lor Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD., |
“Asbestos House,” I
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY. I
A.M.P. B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane. I
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne. |
Nathan’s Buildingrs, Wellington, N.Z. !
Adelaide and Hobart.
A -AUSTRALIANS visiting London
-TV should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
noni Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London. W.C.
where t ; hey can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
FIRTH’S
“SPEEDICUT” High - Speed
Steels give service under the
most arduous conditions, either
in the form of lathe and other
tools, drills, milling cutters,
reamers, slitting saws, etc.
Is it not better to entrust your
High-Speed Steel orders to a
firm whose manufacturing ex-
perience ensures the highest
efficiency?
Firth’s .do not experiment at
their clients’ expense. The Steel
is known to be good before it
leaves the works.
“SPEEDICUT” was one of the first
HIGH-SPEED STEEDS produced
and with its subsequent improvements
it has always been the best.
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth & Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Eg
IF YOU LOSE
YOUR RELISH FOR MEALS,
Your Stomach Is Disordered
Or Your Liver Sluggish.
But You Can Quickly Set
These Organs Right and
STIMULATE YOUR APPETITE
WITH A COURSE OF
chamberlain's tablets
Wonderful for Biliousness, Constipation and Bad Breath.
iVlotherhood
While Students of La'tf,
Medicine, and Science are
spending years in study,
Mothers are learning {heir
business in the grim unsym-
pathetic school of experience.
After all, experience is fhe
best teacher, and that’s why
thousands of Mothers who
ha'Oe reared large families so
strongly recommend
MMM
KRUSE’S .
FgaMaMMa
<?h f au,tle ss Medicine, so safe and simple, is
ideal both for Nursing Mothers and their little ones. It
gives instant relief in severe Indigestion, and is a reliable
remedy for Biliousness, Acidity, Constipation, etc.
IvRUSES FLUID Magnesia is particularly valuable
during me tn?i>.g period of pending motherhood. It
presents vomiting and nausea, and keeps the stomach
in a healthy condition.
For Family use the large bottles at 2/6 each are more
economical. KRUSE’S benefits people of all ages.
Made by FELTON, GRiMWADE & CO. PTY. Ltd., MELBOURNE
Models:
JJ f /JiOh.p., 20/60h.p.,
30/901i.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted, with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for I
British People '
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the fastest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address.: “Supertnoco, London.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
Krua ’: Maoriland, which grows more
venison than it cares to consume, is seeking a
market abroad for the meat. New York has
expressed willingness to take the surplus, and
the Wellington Acclimatisation Society has
disposed of its farm stock to an enterprising
which aims at supplying Uncle Sam with
chilled haunches. If trade can be established
it may solve. M.L.’s problem of dealing with
the rapidly increasing numbers of deer.
* * * *
The suspicion that the Melbourne Tram-
ways Board, in substituting the noisy and
intractable electric- for the cable-car, may
have been too precipitate, is shared by Prof.
Payne, of Melbourne, who gave it out in the
Cold Land the other day that, judging from
what he had seen, the improvement in the
petrol-chariot had made it a better carrier of
white cargo in a congested city than the
tramcar that has to stick to rails. It is
noteworthy that some of the sponsors of the
electric tram in Melbourne have admitted
that this form of traction would possibly be
outed within 10 years.
* * * *
“Alwyn”: One of the few private enter-
prises N.S.W. Premier Lang has not yet
hinted at taking over is the vegetable-growing
industry. Yet at one period the Govern-
ment ran a vegetable garden on Hyde Park
which supplied greens to Sydney per John
O Hallo ran, who was in charge. These state-
ments disclose that in 1825 he sold products
to the value of £llB 6s. 2d. One statement
-—April to June—shows 432 doz. cabbages,
sd. to lOd. per doz.; 85 bunches of turnips
and radishes, Id. per bunch; 40cwt. pota-
toes, 6s. to Bs. per cwt.; and 49doz. green
oats and barley, Is. per doz. bundles.
* * * *
“Northerner”: Russian emissaries now in
Brisbane are making cautious inquiries into
the possibility of opening trade relations be-
tween their country and Queensland. Ivan,
it is stated, is prepared to take any amount
of canned meat, hardwoods, boots, cotton,
stud rams, prize poultry and various other
things. In exchange he offers oil, softwoods
and other products of Eastern Russia, or if
required he will pay in gold, or in drafts on a
Queensland bank. Soviet ships will be sent
to load at Queensland ports for Vladivostock.
Inquiries were made through the Queensland
1 reference League, which passed them on to
e^ ra^ers concerne *3. The orders for cotton,
stud rams and prize poultry were ruled right
out, but Queensland traders are prepared to
discuss supplies of canned meat, timber and
manufactured goods on a cash basis. The
Soviet evidently means business, as credit
has been arranged with a leading Queensland
bank.
* ~ * * *
Crosscut”: American investigators have
satisfied themselves, following up experiments
made by the Commonwealth Institute of
Science and Industry, that the Australian
eucalyptus otters a very adequate raw material
tor a perpetual supply of paper to fill the
shortage due to the depletion of spruce.”
ii j ere no suggestion that Australia
should supply the raw material; on the con-
!i rai 7u Ullcle , Sam is Pertinently reminded
tuat the eucalyptus can be grown very suc-
cessfully m California, New Mexico, Arizona
and Florida, where the climate will bring
it to pulp-wood size in less than 10 years.
Australia gave South Africa! the wattle, and
is content to get back the bark for tanning ;
now it seems destined to provide the mere
seeds for the trees that will keep America’s
paper industry going, while it continues to
import the paper which it should be pro-
ducing.
* * # *
Ex-Dig.” : War trophies arc down to rub-
bish prices; the N.S.W. R.S.A., with an
assortment of souvenirs to distribute, has
received only two applications from all its
branches for such curios. A Digger mate
who smuggled back a sackful of garnerings
from the battlefield told me the other day
that being bound for America, and wishing
to travel light, lie decided to get rid of the
war-junk. Unfortunately lie finds most of
it is disdainfully declined, even as a gift, bv
persons who were only too ready to buy six
or seven years ago. He told me ruefully that
he only got seven and sixpence for a German
oflicer s revolver for which he more than
once refused a fiver when he came back from
the war. The municipal garbage tip in one
suburb where there are a number of war-
service homes has a surface resemblance to an
n^ n< L°? battlefield, the less salubrious rub-
bish being topdressed with “tin” hats, bay-
onets, German helmets, shellcases and scores
of other articles that have slumped in value to
nothingness. Perhaps the Diggers, in their
house-cleaning, are eager to get rid of re-
minders of the affray which led to their living
m war-service homes.
<< * , * * *
i.Qc^i, regor i,-i 7° section of the community
has been hit harder by the diminished value
o the pound than the holders of university
scholarships and the winners of university
prizes. The funds are often provided in
these cases by the interest on the bequests of
past benefactors. Up till a few years ago
the capital invested was sufficient to return
an adequate sum, but the shrinking value
of money has altered all that. The difficulty
has been partly overcome in some cases by
increasing the value of the scholarships as
has been done by the Rhodes trustees, but
this is rarely possible in the case of private
endowments by deceased benefactors.
“Frontignac”: “C.W.G.’s” par on* myall-
wood pipes (B. 4/2/’26) reminds me of a
tobacco burner which my father had for a
matter of 30 years—until his death. It was
made of needlcwood, the handiwork of a
Cobar bushie who was particularly clever
With a combination pocket-knife. The
beautifully grained bowl was once sent to a
Sydney firm to be re-stemmed. When my
father called for it. he found that interest
had been. awakened about its origin • the
turn mentioned that it had been experiment-
ing with the same wood with little success.
It turned out that the timber used was cut
green and seasoned in the usual way while
the wood of which the pipe in question was
made came from the butt of an ancient but
very solid stump. This class of material
was given a trial, but whether it is still
being used I do not know.


Studebaker Sport for
APPEARANCE and
PERFORMANCE
!
m
m
m
m
8
\ n f
WS
*r ;;
- "I ,Wl'lilg>
H
US
aBBWPMw>
jjo^-
>A
W
23
8k
fe-
. jn
kJIM
ir^\
i,w
M pr/7\ !
V IV
r'^vaxD
r
K
W L
/,
t§
||§P
m
-a
i
a
«
ES
i
>-u.
<2
fls
—.V
m
m
wm
f Sk
£490
The Most Powerful Car of Its Weight and Size
STUDEBAKER Standard Six Sport Road-
ster, illustrated, on appearance alone com-
mands admiration. The closest attention has
been given to every detail and the result is a
car of exceptional beauty and distinction. The
mighty Standard Six engine supplies abun-
dant power. In every respect and every de-
tail, this car reveals advantages which come
only through One-Profit manufacture or else
which are to be had only in more costly cars.
By making, in its own great plants, all its vital
parts engines, bodies, steering gears,
clutches, differentials, gear boxes, springs,
brakes, axles, grey iron castings and drop
forgings, Studebaker eliminates the extra
profits which all others (except Ford) pay to
outside parts and bodymakers. In some
models savings of as much as f 100 are effected
and they are returned to the product in better
workmanship and finer materials.
For instance—Studebaker pays a premium
for steels of extra toughness, which contri-
bute to the .ruggedness of its cars; it machines
all surfaces of its crankshafts, which elimin-
ates vibration and contributes to the silken
smoothness of Studebaker engine operation;
it uses only genuine leather upholstery in
open cars such as this roadster. Extra quality
is found at a hundred points, yet Studebaker
prices are low due to economical One-Profit
manufacture.
Studebaker cars are engineered, designed and
manufactured complete under one supervi-
sion, so that every part functions in perfect
harmony with every other part. Being Unit-
Built, the Studebaker functions as a unit.
This results in smoother operation, greater
riding comfort, longer life and higher resale
value.
Such quality as the Standard Six Sport Road*
ster offers, is possible at its low price only be-
cause of advantages gained through its One-
Profit manufacture and Unit-Built construc-
tion.
KB-711
DEBAKER
Australian and New Zealand Distributors :
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROTHERS, 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, (Q) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbana
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN AND FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, Ltd., Hobart
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand


Five New Patented Features
ran
*****
w
€
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully.
SECURITY
Cheque Protector
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Prices—including tube acid-proof ink—
Gent.’s, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, *6O/-
Ladies’, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Registered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib preferred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
LIQUID
MUSTDIE
flies mosquitoes
and all insect?/
&Q
rfi
JP
m
» v '-- 4 £
-JhaZ&zzttffiy
w&icfcdriFes
fanaeUe' „
f&Szappv&er
PRICE
zi per boh Powder l^perfih
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE*
I
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each, j
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
GraigsAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
QN
BANK
I*HE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMKN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
m
gessi
■>*<
-<W?
■sa
fc
*k>
\
r*G
Z
n —-
aF«
/y/'
v^r
closed
open
The Decca plays every
make and size of
record. There are 4
models and 2 sizes at
prices irom £4 10s. to
£l2.
Sold by all Music
Dealers and Stores
throughout the
Commonwealth.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 321 Pitt
St., Sydney.
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 290
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth.
Savery Pianos Ltd., 29
Rundle St., Adelaide.
King & King Ltd., Queen
St., Brisbane.
Wills & Co., 7 The Quad-
rant, Launceston.
Double
the pleasures
°fV our Picnics
Picnics are usually gay affairs,
full of sunshine and laughter.
But take a Decca and at once you double
the joys and pleasures of even the
gayest outing.
There Is no trouble with the Decca—
no fuss. It is so light and compact
that it can be carried as easily as the
luncheon basket. Instantly it is ready
to play your favourite records, with a
volume of tone, as clear and sweet as
that of the highest price cabinet
phonographs.
DECCA
THE PORTAM.E PHONOGRAPH
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADE'S COLOSSAL ART UNION IN AID OF
THE HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, and CHARITIES OF THE
STATE (by Permission of the Attorney-General).
FIRST PRIZE, MOTOR CAR VALUED AT £1,300
AND
FIFTEEN MOTOR CARS AND MOTOR CYCLES
143 Other Valuable Prizes.
TICKETS ONE SHILLING
24 TICKETS FOR £J.
Two or More Tickets, Result Slip forwarded. Apply to Hon. Secre-
tary, N.S.W. Fire Brigade’s Art Union, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S-W.
Write plainly. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
Rudolph The
Giraffe
JOINS THE
Fire Brigade
I'm Rudolph the Restless.
Every time I get a loose
bob I bend my neck and
buy a ticket in the
£lO,OOO Fire Brigade's
Art Union, and I intend
to keep on bending until
all my spots have turned
into bobs. If I don’t get a
prize I’ll be surprised.
Where's that black cat?
Drawn in Sydney
Town Hall,
On May 13, 1926
“Copabella”: Add to recent pars, about
Bundaberg (Q.) that the first white foot-
step wfts placed on what is now a city of
12,000 people about 1859; by 1867 it had
a settled population of only seven ! It was
then there came to the district to work on
a near-by cattle-station one Thomas Watson
with his wife and 16-year-old daughter. Mrs.
Watson was the first white woman in the
district, and her daughter the first white
girl. Miss Watson, now Mrs. Thos. Broom,
still lives in Bundaberg, not far from where
her parents originally made their home in
the virgin scrub. No one is in a better posi-
tion to say how much is possible in Aus-
tralia within the span of one life.
Ernest Scott, Professor of History at Mel-
bourne Uni., is back from a year's trip to
Europe loaded with notes which he will use
in compiling the fifth (Australian) volume
of the Cambridge History of the Empire. A
little more than 35 years ago Scott landed in
Melbourne, fresh from London, to become a
reporter on Melbourne Herald. He held the
job for seven years, and then he was on the
Vic. and Federal Hansard staffs for 14 years
before he got to his ’Varsity job. Scott’s
investigations in England and France mainly
concerned the navigators William Dampier
(who is to get a book to himself) and
D’Entrecasteaux.
Adelaide has lost one of its oldest and
best-known architects in Charles Good.
He was native-born, but learned his profes-
sion in England, and on returning put in
several years in Melbourne, where he had a
hand in the plans for the Federal Palace
(Hotel and Modern Buildings in Coll ins-
street. But for many years latterly he had
lived in Adelaide, where Kalyra Home for
consumptives, the Goode Durrant warehouse,
built for his veteran namesake, and many
church halls stand as his monument.
“Coppertop”: When is a vagrant not a
vagrant? In Brisbane the other day a Rus-
sian, alleged by the police to have lived in
city parks for 18 months without working,
was arrested and duly charged. However,
when he was searched at the \yatch-house
74d. had been found on his person,. and a
scrupulously impartial Beak pointed out
that the money was sufficient to procure
food for a day, provided he lived on an apple
and a bun. Nor was there any evidence to
show that these visible means had been ob-
tained by begging, so Ivan left the court a
free man.
“Harold Hardupp” : There is nothing new
in the cabled story of a French civil servant
who embezzled 500,000 francs of State money
and spent it on stamp-collecting, believing
that his philatelic knowledge would enable
him to show a big profit and return the
money. Not many years ago a Sydney firm was
amazed when heavy defalcations were sheeted
home to an employee who was considered the
steadiest man on the staff, a non-gambler,
non-smoker and non-drinker. His vice was
collecting stamps and curios, and he had exer-
cised so much judgment in his purchases
that he might have put himself square by
reselling a portion of a collection could he
only have brought himself to part with them,
for the value of his treasures far exceeded
the amount of his thefts. A plea that he
had a mental kink saved him from severe
penalties. Dissipation takes all sorts of
forms.
“Schnorrer”: Sydney has lost one of its
characters in the disappearance of “Brocky”
Bronstein, who has no farther use for his
much-faded old frockcoat with its eternal
buttonhole, and his dilapidated straw hat
that still had some aspect of jauntiness. The
travesty of a Beau Brummel rarely spoke to
anyone without asking for some money. It
didn’t seem to matter how little he was given
so long as he got something, and directly he
had a few shillings in his pocket he shuffled
—his best walk was little more than a
shuffle —round to the Goulburn-street sav-
ings bank and socked it away. Although
he was reputed to be a man of some sub-
stance, Jewry, which knew him well,
tolerantly humored what was regarded as
his eccentricity. He scored also from Gen-
tiles, who, having no knowledge of his finan-
cial reputation, pitied him.
Dick Toutchcr, one of the veterans of Vic.
Assembly, who succeeded “The Dove” (McLel-
lan) as member for Ararat 29 years ago,
finds it necessary to take another holiday to
neutralise the wear and tear of political life.
He is off this time to Maoriland. Dick
reached the height of his ambition two years
ago when he became Minister for Education.
Prior to that his highest niche was the chair-
manship of the Railway Committee. He was
chief president of the A.N.A. at the historic
Bendigo conference in 1893, when the Con-
stitution drawn up by the Federal Conven-
tion was endorsed.
Old-man Parkhill, who w r as a monumental
mason, has been responsible for a multitude
of the stones which decorate the graves in
Waverley Cemetery; and son Archdale Park-
hill, although he has so far failed to put a
stone on the grave of political Labor, has
done his best. When the N.S.W. Nationalist
Association was formed out of a fusion of
anti-Labor parties, Parkhill was appointed
secretary, and while political leaders have
come and gone he has held his job. He goes
now on a trip to Europe. Archdale and his
brother (who now conducts a big accountancy
school) were cricketers in their youth, and
jointly led off the innings of a Waverley
team. They were also in the vanguard of
the surf army which left the enclosed baths
for the open beaches and breakers.
“Royclia”: A solicitor who has seen enough
of life’s seamy side to make him cycnical re-
ceived quite a shock lately. As he walked
out of Darlinghurst Courthouse a bedraggled
gent, approached him and in plaintive tones
related that a certain person had insulted
him. “I would get you to send him st letter
demanding an apology, but I haven’t got the
fee,” he remarked insinuatingly. The solici-
tor curtly replied that he couldn’t take the
job on; but the bedraggled one still clung
to his grievance and followed Costs for a
hundred yards along the street. Despairing
of shaking off his man by any other method,
the solicitor finally agreed to send the other
person a letter. He did so, demanding by
return post an apology and a guinea for
legal costs. Three days later, as he walked
into the local court, a man handed him the
apology—and the guinea!


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra —V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday, 9 p.m. ; passengers
due Brisbane, Mondav, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOI.f.ONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m.;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., Ltd.
HERE’S A CHANGE:
HAWAII HAWAII HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America with
a fortnight or more’s sojourn in the isles of
eternal springtime. Tropical scenery. Exotic
flowers, fruits. Haunting melody ’neath moonlit
palms. Surfing, outrigger and surf board riding,
golfing, motoring and other outdoor sports the
year round. Ro extra cost for “stop-over”
privilege en route to America. Round trip
from Sydney, 8 weeks, for about £125 to £l6O,
allowing 3 to 4 weeks in Hawaii and a day at
Suva or Pago Pago each way. Good hotels
with meals in Hawaii 12/- to £2 per day.
Ask steamship or travel agency or write Hawaii
Tourist Bureau, Dept. H., Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
On Your Next Trip to America
HAWAII - - HAWAII
[3
THOS. COOK & SON
Beg to Announce
A SELECT ESCORTED TOUR
IN JAVA.
Leave Sydney June 23.
14 DAYS’ MOTOR TOUR IN
BEAUTIFUL JAVA.
Hotels, Sightseeing, Couriers and
All Pees Included.
Fare £l5O First-class Throughout.
Programme on Application.
THOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
Banking, Rubilic Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925. . £15,395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.O.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, O.B.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. Manager: A. C. Dibpin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at 1 nterest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875.000
Paid Up Capital .. .. •• £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 780,000
£1,655,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,530,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
MAKURA 13,000 tons disp. MAR. 25, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 ~ „ APRIL 8, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ APRIL 22, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ MAY 6, for Vancouver.
Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly. equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Dn rivalled
Cuisine.
amm
mm
The Scenic
lioutes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTEIiCHANGEABJLE FOB RETURN
lIY OTHEK DINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO..
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of Ik to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
=“®IBS
1
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour— including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, lories ,si ,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1311,
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
MMM
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Directors ;
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors- A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.3.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, bew Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED ISM.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,830,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,830,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; lion. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Hon. J. W. MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. R. PRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
\ ietorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
* Brisbane, Mackav, Townsville and Cairns,
t Brisbane, Port Alma (no cargo Port Alma), Macka.y,
Bowen. Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLis®
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable acldvesa:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Be wen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1819.
t7 H Pitts o t!!syd„ w
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. ~ .. £55,800,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every <!lass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
AVIATION
BY
AIR
Broken Hill,
Adelaide,
Riverina,
Sydney,
Melbourne.
MM
PARCELS
PASSENGERS
MAILS
Airport.
ADELAIDE
MILDURA
HAY
NARRANDERA
COOTAMUNDRA
SYDNEY
BROKEN HILL
DENILIQUIN
ECHUCA
Agents.
M. G. Anderson & Co.
J. H. Bayliss Pty., Ltd.
Wilkinson and Lavender.
Culley & Co.
G. A. Fitzpatrick.
( Rudders Ltd.
j Tourist Bureau.
McCulloch Carrying Co., Ltd.
H. Lloyd & Sons, Ltd.
Murray Shipping Ltd.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Managing Agents:
Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Ltd.


Startling
•J New Prices
ices /
Vital Improvements
Attractive New Colors
Absolute smoothness and quietness of engine oper-
ation characterize the improved Dodge Brothers
Motor Car.
Decreased weight gives it a surprising new snap
and elasticity.
The lower and more graceful closed bodies are
finished in rich and attractive colors.
Vision from within is increased to an almost in-
credible degree.
Reduction of bulk was accomplished by further
notable advances in all-steel body construction, in
which Dodge Brothers have led the world from
the very beginning. Naturally there is a propor-
tionate gain in operating economy—with increased
safety and durability.
Any member of the great Dodge Brothers Dealer
organization—the finest and most aggressive in the
world—will gladly give you all the interesting details.
New prices now avail-
able from any Dodge
Brothers Dealers
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
□□□be- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
MMM


MMM
“In Rexona
I have at last found
a Shaving Soap
that will retain
the full lather for
a cons i d e rable
period. I shall
most certainly con-
tinue to use same,
as 1 find it most
convenient and
pleasant.”
Mr. QEOIIGE
EDWARDS.
Here’s a Shaving Soap that
Satisfies—Rexona—The
New Triangular Stick!
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph-
one this time which will be appreciated by men wherever beards
grew.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same Oils and Essences which
have made Rexona famous the world over, and is made on the
Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick which is a soap
and lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving
and tempers the skin against wind and weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is Rexona Soap
snecially treated, so as to produce a thick, creamy lather, which
will soften the beard and improve the skin at the same time. It
is delicately perfumed and medicated on the same principles as
Rexona, and not only produces a lasting lather, but purifies and
leaves the skin in perfect condition. Being an antiseptic medicated
soap, it has a tendency to quickly heal any cut you may have the
misfortune to get, and, if troubled with pimples or blotches of any
kind, will daily tend to remove them.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the New Triangular Stick, is sold in pure
aluminium containers at 1/6.
REXONA SHAVING SOAP—
The New Triangular Stick—l/6.
RE*V 0 U°l
ppc
*0
Choc
by mail!
Carefully packed in strong
RED METAL BOXES.
No matter where you live in Aus-
tralia you may be sure of them
reaching you in a perfect condition.
es
Wvcw
W»
cs
as*
Lc?
Manufactured, Packed and
Mailed on the same day
your order is received.
lib. Red Metal Box.
21b. „ „ „ .
31b. ~ „ „ ..
41b. „
51b
per lb.
Other States.
1/2
1/S
2/2
2/S
3/2
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
CifuzSt tjllfi&i
162-166 Pitt Street and
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
Sea Horses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WILD sea-horses! I dare you tell me
What onlv the high gods know,
Where you escape when the word
is given:
“Let the sea-horses go!”
.When you have turned from your savage
roaming
The fields of the creamy tide
And left deserted the foam-flowered meadows,
Where do you break and hide?
Steeds of the Sea! When the pastures
brighten
Beryl-blue under the sky, .
When the sunfolk dance in their golden
slippers,
Tossing their crowns on high,
Over the glass-wet ocean uplands—
Glimmering, lierbage-deep—
Where do you go, O Steeds of Neptune,
Where do you go to sleep?
Down to the cool of the deep-sea gullies
Lying in deep-sea weeds?
Up, drinking air as the land drinks water,
Whither, O restless steeds?
And why do you go in the dawns and twi-
lights,
Cantering over the sands,
There where the sea and the dim horizon
Catch at each other’s hands?
Do you know what to mortals is past all
knowing—
Infinite, mortal-wise —
Galloping ways of eternal Heaven,
Browsing immortal skies?
Or have you a stern and loud-voiced master
Who holds you in savage thrall,
Blindfolding, laming you, quieting, taming
you,
Goading you into his stall?
Would anyone dare it, with lash and halter
To bridle and bit and bind
The red-eyed steeds of the tameless ocean
Sired by the curbless wind?
Answer, oh, answer me! Wild steeds, ans-
wer !
Is there a secret power
Of some god-spirit to turn your spirits
So pale and still in an hour?
Hark, hark, hark how the white steeds
whinny,
Screaming to answer me
With a riddle strange as my own propound-
ing,
And fathomless as the sea !
“Sired are we by the winds of Heaven
And lashed by the whips of Hell!
There are angels to guide us and monsters
to ride us
Till, ho! we rebel, rebel!
We rear and we plunge—how the spray is
flying
Over the shrinking land!
Till a voice cries ‘Hush, 0 ye rebel stal-
lions !
The reins are still in my hand !’ ”
The reins are still in the hand that guides
you,
A hand in a milk-white glove,
Smooth and soft as the voice that chides
you,
Sacred as Mother-love.
“Soft—soft—soft—while the spray is flying,
Trumpet, my steeds, obey!
Peace! ye may sleep! For I, White Moon
Mother,
Ride on the milky way !”
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Mateship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MAN ’d do more ’n that for a mate,”
was a stock phrase with Thurston.
He had joined up with the reinforce-
ments which dribbled in to make up the
strength of our smashed platoon, a medley
of old hands returned from hospital or leave,
raw newcomers and lead-swingers scraped
from safe jobs which had to go in the urgency
of 1918.
My acquaintance with him began on the
morning we moved back towards the line.
It was always at such a time that the Dig-
gers showed at their worst. There were the
cursings of adamant M.O.’s by lead-swingers
who had failed in a last attempt to get left
out; the grumblings of the old hands at the
over-use of the Australians, who seemed to
be always ordered into the line again when
they were imagining that a real “rest” was
just beginning, or at never being left out with
the “neutrals” —the “nucleus” or skeleton
battalion on which to reform if the batta-
lion should get smashed in the line; and the
irritating, nervous questionings of new-
comers whose courage was beginning to ooze.
“Cripes! When a man’s married an’ only
ilrawin’ a bob a day,” remarked Thurston
cheerfully, “he might just as well be in the
line as out of it! A few bob will be accumu-
latin’ for him to spend when lie comes out.”
Once the battalion was moving and the
chance of evasion had gone, the Diggers
struck a better humor. Any voice raised in
“windy” grumbling was bantered down; the
men discovered a grim, sardonic humor in
prophesying the worst for themselves. As
a marching companion Thurston developed a
cheerful resource. He showed me how march-
ing became easier if the carrying of rifles
was shared, two mates taking it in turn to
carry both rifles; he also showed a generous
idea of what was his share.
In the skurry for billets at Borie I over-
looked the man I had appreciated as a
marching companion; yet I had hardly
thrown off my equipment before he dropped
oown beside me,
“Didn’t know where you’d got to, Blue,”
he remarked. “But, cripes, this isn’t a bad
old home— tons better than that I found.”
‘ I ; was just going to look for you, Thurs-
ton* I lied, ashamed at my forgetfulness.
My name’s Tom,” he said; “I’ve been
att?® or a ever since I joined the
A. 1. 1., but I never seemed to keep any of
’em long. Something always happened to
them or me.” ,
“That’s a cheerful recommendation.”
He laughed. “A man needs a mate,” lie
said wistfully. “Especially when he’s pretty
much on his own, an’ not many letters comm
from the other side.”
“You’re married, though?” I suggested.
He sat up suddenly on his bunk, fumbling,
with his tunic; liis paybook opened in front
of my eyes, he struck a match, the light of
which fell on the “Dependants” entries.
“Six children!” I exclaimed. lie looked
a young man to have gone so far in matri-
monial cares.
“It’s a pretty big parcel,” he said grimly.
“Well, you can’t call yourself alone in
the world,” I said.
“They don't write much,” he answered, and
lapsed again into silence.
“I had a mate,” he said suddenly, “when
I was in Australia, and we knocked about
together for eight years. All up an’ down
Queensland and old New South we’ve been
together. My old man was a cow-cocky, an’
we didn’t hit it about what constitutes filial
duty. He reckoned that a son oughter work
for the sake of the old man until he was
Lord knows how old, an’ it was the duty of
a father to larrup him if he grumbled. I
stood it pretty long, and then I bolted.
“I didn’t get on too well. I was almost out
when, limping along near Dubbo, I met the
chap who became my mate. He hollers to me ;
an’ when I went over to his camp he gives
me a swill of tea and some food, and tells
me I’d better doss by his fire.
“We swapped yarns as, we smoked after
tea, and then he suddenly looks at my feet
and throws over a spare pair of boots. ‘Better
put ’em on,’ he says. ‘To-morrow, if you
care about it, you can come along with me.
I’ve got a clearing contract, and there’s work
for you if you want it.’
“Of course I did go along; and we were
mates ever after. He was years* older than
me, but we seemed to get on well together.
He was a terror for work; an’ he could nose
out jobs in a way that beat me. Him an’ me
were working when other blokes were grumb-
ling all over the country that there was no
work to be found ; and lie didn’t mind what
price he tendered for a job or how hard lie
had to yakker as long as lie could keep doin’
something. I reckon he did half as much
again as I did, yet he always shared fifty-
fifty—would have it so. It suited me a darn
sight better than trampin’ about broke; and
I liked the old bloke, though he'd never go
on a spree. You see, he couldn’t afford it;
he had his wife and kids to keep.”
“Well, yon had your wife and kiddies,
too.” I suggested.
“Yes, of course,” he said, but his talk
ended suddenly. Then we were disturbed by
the swift “swoosh” of a shell, the thud of
its fall on the earth reverberating through
to us, shaking the earth from the sides of
the dug-out. During the next ten minutes
our new friendship had that baptism which
in the war appeared to ripen mateship so
wonderfully. When it was over the call
came to me to help the one casualty the
barrage had caused. He had to be taken to
the medical-aid station, and it seemed natural
to find Thurston with me.
On our way back we found the battalion
moving. With the sergeant ivho had been
detailed to wait for us, we followed directly
wo had secured all our equipment.
“But what’s the stunt, sarge?” I asked.
“Somethin’ doin’ in the line —Lord knows
what!” said the sergeant irritably. The
sudden call had jarred him even more than
us; such calls, which might mean a smashed
and broken battalion before the morning,
were pleasant to nobody.
The possibilities were being whispered
amongst the Diggers when we caught and
fell in with our platoon, the whispering
sounding eerily amid the stealthy nedse
of moving feet in the darkness. Then the
older “Side of the road!” came back, again
and again, and ambulances commenced to
pass. Later, walking wounded and men with
stretchers passed, some of the wounded
cheerful about the “Blighties” they had re
ceived and inclined to return to our questions
ironical banter about our bad luck in the
direction we were travelling.
We heard all sorts of varying stories along
the road; but by the time we had taken
possession of a trench position in “close
supports”—rather relieved that we were not
being thrown right into the line for a hop-
over—we knew the position, fairly well. The
South Australian brigade which ours had been
due to relieve next night had had a big hop-
over, and “thudded” with such heavy casual-
ties that it was judged necessary to hurry
up the relieving troops ahead of time.
The quietness of our platoon-essential in
any case, now we were near the line —was
almost oppressive. The newcomers —fresh
reinforcements and old lead-swingers
were overawed by the evidences of war they
had seen: passing wounded on the road, a
continual stream, although only a small part
of the total; the crowd of whispering shad-
ows in a field as we passed, where the sharp
clank of spades and the low, droned voice
of the padre reciting prayers indicated that
recovered bodies were already being buried;
the passing, later, of blanket-covered burdens
on the way to that field ; broken limbers and
dead horses by the wayside; the shelling of
the roadway, during which we had to crouch
for cover in the hedges at the side; the poor,
moaning Digger who died with a low, hor-
rible scream as we swung past his stretcher.
But the march and its incidents had
ripened amazingly the mateship between Thur-
ston and myself; when we moved into the
front line, it seemed that we had known one
another for years. I had learned a lot about
Tom, but chiefly from his broken anecdotes;
there were strange reticences when he
was deliberately telling me about himself.
Apparently he had had a wild youth, spending
his cheques carelessly; and now the repres-
sion of his shilling-a-day status was irksome,
although there was no sign of grudging the
money he had to allot for his family.
Strangely, he spoke little of his family, and
I sensed reasons even before he, in a moment
more confidential than usual, showed me the
photograph of a girl not yet out of her
’teens —a bright, smiling girl, pretty even in
the cheap and poorly-finished representation.
“That’s the girl I’m going to marry when
I get back,” he said.
“But you’re married!” I exclaimed.
(Continued on next page.)


m
il
afN
i
Picture
Every
Story
Tells
Tells on the Kidneys
Many People have found this to be true.
The strain of overwork tells on weakened
kidneys. The hurry and worry of business men,
the heavy lifting and stooping of workmen, the
women’s household cares tend to wear, weaken
and injure the kidneys until they can no longer
filter the poison from the blood, and the whole
body suffers from the waste matter that
accumulates. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
prepared especially for weakened kidneys; tired,
worn-out backs have proven their merit in
thousands of cases. Convincing proof of their
worth is here told.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. H. Holder, 235 West Street, North Sydney, says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a wonderful
kidney medicine. I have proved this. For a long time
I suffered agony from backache and kidney trouble, and
only those who have been afflicted in this way have any
idea what I went through. My limbs swelled consider-
ably, the kidney secretions were thick and cloudy with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. I
was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts of remedies,
but nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally
very worried about the serious state of my health, and
when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice I decided to try them. It was a grand thing
for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Pills
and recommend them with every confidence to other suf-
ferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder says: “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They cured me of kidney disorder eight years ago, and I
have had no return of the complaint since.”
At All Chemists and Stores, 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster McClellan Co., 1 5 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
fiaekac&e Kidney Pifls.
DOAN’S OINTMENT ? CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: A member of
my family suffered terribly with Pro-
truding Piles. The pain was so great
that he could not sleep at night, and
Would toss about for hours. He had been
suffering for three years, and we were
always having advice and using dif-
ferent remedies, but nothing did him
any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment. This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan’s Ointment,
and recommend its use whenever op-
portunity offers.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Wark
says: “I am pleased to tell you that
the member of my family who was
cured of Piles by Doan’s Ointment over
eighteen years ago is still free from
this trying complaint. This remedy
is a certain cure for Piles.”
Mr. J. Mitchell, 26 Campbell Street,
Glebe, Sydney, says: “I was a sufferer
with Itching Piles for years, and I
cannot describe the agony of this ail-
ment. Scores of times I have lost
my rest, sleep being out of the ques-
tion. I used a great many Pile reme-
dies, and was treated by a doctor, but
got no relief. Reading of cures effected
by Doan’s Ointment, I decided to try
it. A few applications gave me ease,
and by continuing the. treatment I
found, to my great satisfaction, that
all the pain and irritation had gone.
I am very grateful to Doan’s Oint-
ment for my cure, and advise sufferers
to try this remedy, and am satisfied
that if they follow the directions they
will soon be cured.”
Ten years later Mrs. Mitchell says:
“My husband has been free from Itch-
ing Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured
him, but he still uses this remedy now
and then, just as a preventive
against any return of his old com-
plaint.”
Price 2/9 per tin.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
“I’ll have to get rid of the missus, of
course,” he said with a queer, ironical grin.
That sort of thing was common enough, of
course; but he; with his clean-cut ideals of
mateship and loyalty, hardly seemed the
type. His confession jarred.
His wife and family seemed to be in a
shadowy background to his mateship with
the man he spoke of only as “Tom,” but
almost with reverence, and I gained a know-
ledge of real mateship in his stories of their
difficulties, struggles and mutual sacrifices.
Story after story was rounded off with “A
man wrnuld do more ’n that for a mate.”
They seemed to have been a queerly-
assorted pair. A cheque collected, Thurs-
ton was inclined always for a spree; but his
mate, older than he by years and settled
down, would never join him. He was tied
by a devotion to a family that made excessive
demands upon him; and, careless and spend-
thrift himself, Thurston appeared to enter-
tain a reverence for that quality in his friend
which caused him to slave and stint himself
to make proper provision for others.
Thurston had, on occasions of holiday,
gone with his mate to his home; and his
mate’s wife, he said, was a nice woman, but
one who managed money badly; she no
sooner had received one lot than it
was gone and she was looking for more.
Tom spoke of it indignantly, recalling the
anxiety her thriftlessness threw on his mate.
“The poor beggar ’d go nearly dotty if we
were slow in picking up money, thinking of
that family of his going without,” he said.
And it all ended in tragedy, it seemed.
Meeting liis mate during one of his sprees,
Tom had forced him to have a drink, and to
his consternation had wakened a spirit of riot
of which he had not dreamed. In liis young
days the mate also had been fonder of spree-
ing than Tom himself, but the domestic
loyalty to which he made himself a slave
had suppressed his tendencies. With the
taste of the old liquor came a fierceness of
unrestraint which paralysed Tom. Before
morning the other Tom was buying drinks,
time after time, for everyone in sight. Peni-
tence came with empty pockets, and a re-
membrance of the money that should have
gone to his home.
But the fierce desire for the riot of free-
dom stayed when another cheque was earned.
Tom graphically gave an indication of his
mate’s struggle between self-reproach and
reawakened desires, and his own efforts to
restrain his friend; and then, one morning,
the mate vanished, forgetting, apparently
completely, the family whose needs before
had been such an obsession.
“What became of the family?” I asked.
“I did what I could for them,” said Tom.
“A man would do more ’n that for a mate.
Tom must have gone off his head to leave ’em
like that. It ’d drive him frantic to know
they wanted anything, if he was all right.
i3o I had to do my best in his place.”
“But you couldn’t, with your family.”
“Well, I did my best. After all, the whole
damn thing was my fault,” said Tom with
deep feeling. “I’d brought back bad im-
pulses to a man who was like a saint in the
way he did without things for the sake of
others.”
The call came to me for duty—a patrol
was wanted to search No Man’s Land for
possible wounded from the hop-over of the
previous night, and, if it could safely be
done, to bring back any dead for burial;
and it surprised me when Tom came out of
the dug-out with me.
“It’s right,” he said. “I told the sarge that
my mate was in the stunt, and I had to be
in it, too, and he put off Pearson to make
room for me.”
Although a lull was over the Front, like
that which in nature succeeds a storm,
strange and unreal after the conflict, the
work was ticklish and gruesome. Tom and
I kept together and succeeded in bringing
back the bodies of two men, and we were
carefully reconnoitring further afield when
three Yerey lights shot questioningly in the
darkness ahead of us. As their pale glare
shone upon us we saw shadows running some
distance away from us. Some of the new
hands, unable to stand the strain of keep-
ing stock-still under the glare of light, were
betraying our presence by moving ; and, know-
ing what that would mean, before the
machine-guns commenced to bark we made a
dash into the cover of the yawning shell-hole
the light had shown to us.
' We lay shiveringly in the cover whilst a
chorus of machine-guns barked viciously and
a stream of bullets thrashed the air over us.
“There’s a man in here,” whispered Tom,
“and he’s still alive.”
I could hear the strangling, choking breath-
ing—the breathing of a man who is strug-
gling with death ; and we both slithered in
the direction of the sound, and were by the
wounded man when another Verey went
up, throwing its pale light into the hole. It
gleamed for a moment on the man’s batta-
lion colors and on the ghastly, greenish-hued
face, on which the cold sweat gleamed. The
eyes were open, and seemed to fix on the
face of Tom.
“Tom! Tom Thurston!” cried the man
whom I knew by that name.
“Jack!” The wounded man’s exclamation
was a hoarse whisper.
I stared. And I saw the tears of a mental
agony shine in the wounded man’s eyes.
“Jack! My wife and kiddies!” he gasped
weakly. “It was madness that made me
leave them —a madness for freedom, to have
my money to spend, and be free to live as I
chose. Something seemed to snap, and I let
myself go. But I’ve been lying here, know-
ing I’m done, thinking of them —unable to
die.”
“They’re all right, old mate,” said Tom
softly. “I’ve been looking after them.”
“You!” he gasped.
“Yes, o’ course. But I couldn’t get the
jobs as you could ; and so I decided to enlist.
And then we got the idea that I should
enlist as you, so as they could get the separa-
tion allowances —and the pension if I took
the count.”
The wounded man’s hand came up. feeling
for the other’s, and grasped it weakly.
“Cripes!” he whispered, the tears of relief
and gratitude falling on his cheeks, “You’re
a wonderful mate, Jack!”
“It’s no more ’n a man would do for a
mate,” returned Jack, whom I had known
as Tom, deprecatingly. “Besides, if I get
back again I’m going to marry Lil.”
Even in the agony that was upon him
the real Tom gave a little cry of pleasure.
“We’ll get you back, Tom,” said Jack.
“It’s no use; I’m done,” responded Tom
weakly.
Then it was that the idea came to us, and
quickly I spoke of it. It was on to a man
already dead that we finally got the tunic
of the man I knew as Tom, and then Tom
made a change on his own account.
When the machine-gun fire died away
I made my way back to my platoon
with the papers and the identity disc which
would show that Tom Thurston was dead,
and his wife and family entitled to the pen-
sion earned for them by an Australian soldier
who had made the last sacrifice; and in
the meantime the man who had shown such
loyalty of mateship, with the colors on his
shoulder and the papers in his pocket which
would identify him as a missing member of
a South Australian unit, was threading his
way carefully through the lines so as to
pass the area where lie might be recognised
as Tom Thurston.
HAMER.
The Man with the Stone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD come up the winding country road
with its dusting of white sand as fine
as powder. The bracken was patched
with myriad colors —olive-green, and russet,
and rich cadmium yellow, and ashen-purple
where the stems were dead. There were
skimpy hedges of prickly bush, clumps of
spindly-legged ti-tree, still with drifts of
late bloom lying along the branches. There
were little isolated houses with rough gar-
dens full of red geraniums; pumpkin-fields
and empty spaces with the sun spilling over
them. Away in the distance, under a haze,
lay the sea, as blue as lupins.
The birds were singing as I tramped over
the short grass—yellow-tailed tits and finches
and blue-wrens, with their thin, broken songs
like glass beads tinkling together. A little
rabbit ran across with a flick of its white
tail. A bee droned heavily overhead.
I went through a tiny town. It seemed to
lie in a dream. A black dog padded past
me in the dust. It seemed to come sound-
lessly as though it were in the dream, too.
I came to a monumental-mason’s yard on
the side of the hill. It was not much of a
place. There was a little shed, something
in the way of an engine and a pulley with
great dangling chains. Finished tombstones
and uncut hulks of marble leaned drunkenly
together like the walls in a child’s badly-
built house of cards. A man was working
on a block of marble. Clink! Clink! Clink!
It had a silver-sweet sound, as though bell-
birds were singing. I stood and watched.
“Sacred to the Memory of Alice Mary. Aged
22.”
It was sad, I thought, for Alice Mary not
to be alive on such a day! It was cruel.
I wondered if the soul of Alice Mary were
dancing somewhere about with the yellow
bees.
I watched the man with his chisel and
hammer. Clink! Clink! Clink! The
marble flew up in a fine dust. The man
looked around.
“It’s a fine day,” I said with a propitiating
smile.
“Fine enough,” agreed the man grudgingly,
and I could see that he was not going to
give the day any more than it deserved.
I sat down uninvited, and he clinked on.
I offered him a cigarette, but he refused
with a swiftness that left me no shadow of
doubt as to his opinion of the modern young
woman who smoked.
The wind blew softly, fanning out spicy
odors from the ti-tree and the pines.
Touched with a swift, warm happiness,
I looked at the face of the man. It was
brown and weather-beaten, but it had the
quality of the stone that he worked in. His
eyes, too, had the dullness of granite.
“It is pleasant here,” I said. “You’re
lucky to have work out of doors.”
“In the winter it rains on you. and in the
summer the sun eats you up,” he said
grumblingly. “There ain’t nothing to see
here.”
I stiffened. “But all this—the beauty of
it ! The open country stretching away to
the sea. The trees holding out their arms
to hold all the sun they can ! The grass—•
oh. doesn’t it all want to make yon sing?”
“Want to spit, more like,” said the man
inelegantly. “No, there ain’t much in things.
Each day each stone finished brings you one
nearer to the place on the hill.” He stopped
chiselling to point. I saw a patch on a far
hillside, with white streaks and dark smears
that meant cypresses in a row.
“But life is good while it lasts,” I urged
childishly.
“Pshaw! There ain’t much in it.” He
flicked his thumb back towards a long, thin
house squashed back in the ti-tree that re-
minded you of a woman with flat breasts.
His chisel tapped at the “22” on the stone.
“She lived there, and she was alwuz singing
a song about something. Useter go out in
all weathers picking heath and bits of trees
with brown tips—a slip of a girl with holler-
looking eyes and thin legs. You couldn’t
keep her in.”
He tapped away sullenly.
“Well, she got what was coming to her
orlright. I seen her in the wet, sitting on
her square of a handkerchief—so big. She
died of a cough. Askin’ for it orlright.
Singin’ to the birds!”
I scrambled to my feet with a sigh.
“It ain’t much use bein’ dead,” said the
gloomy philosopher of the white stone, “but
it ain't much use livin’! Potatoes at the
price, strikes and all, and murders! We
ain’t safe in our beds, we ain’t.”
He tapped on. He saw nothing but the
stone. I knew that he had never seen any-
thing but the white stone under his fingers.
And Alice Mary who had sung to the birds
was up in “the place on the hill”!
I went on, crying again passionately that
it wasn’t fair. The silver clink, clink, clink
followed me up the road. I could see the
shadowy little form of Alice Mary spread-
ing her small white handkerchief on the
ground to sit on.
“Alice Mary!” I called. “Alice Mary!”
Nothing answered, only a fantail in the
branches began to sing like a squeaky, fairy
violin. And I walked on towmrds the sea.
MYRA MORRIS.


S-asr"
ta mSk
If/I A';-r
If 3 Jf fe£. -M
vS m* - - -'...1
w| n
/rr - ; ■
■
'
2H84-
Mil
%✓’ /i
■/:■ '
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
BITUMASTIC
(REGISTERED TRADE-MARK)
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
Rust Insurance
The use of “Bitumastic" is an effective insurance against
the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than preservation.
Use Bitumastic” only.
Sold in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
J. WILD RIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
590-592 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 239-241 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Fanshawe Street, Auckland.
n
$
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Adelaide, Arthur Glove!
Ltd. Brisbane Gregory & Collins.
Sydney .Jones & Joseph, Ltd. Perth L. M. Cullen &Co
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesdcn Lane, London, ENGLAND.
The New Remington,
Repeating Rifle
Model 25
10
Shots
*r
I
m
; -:
*i", y - '•' : • ., •
■ -a ■ ■ \ i •: •• -> - .•
, ■" *''■
Calibres
.25*20 and .32 W.C.E
MODERN in every detail,
this latest Remington is efk
fective for medium sized game
at ranges up to 300 yards.
Remington Hi-Speed cart-
ridges are highest in velocity
and energy, lowest in trajec-
tory.
Cal. Bullet Wgt Veloo. Energy
.25-20 60 2200 645
.32 80 2000 710
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Ific.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative j
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
MMM
MORE GOOD REASONS
for taking
Beech am’s Pills.
MMM
Safe and dependable
Gentle in action
Certain in effect
They keep you fit
TAKEN AT NIGHT
Work while you sleep
You’ll start the day
With a smile
YOU’LL HAVE ENERGY
And sparkle
They help you
To have good health.
Sold in boxes
1/- and 2/6.
You don’t know how good your
car really is until it is fitted with
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
Lodge plugs, In different models to
suit all engines and each model the
best one obtainable for its particular
purpose, are sold by accessory dealers
and stores everywhere. Packed in sealed
metal boxes.
British made and the best in the \vorld
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.
RUGBY—ENGLAND
Mention make of car
when buying plugs.
■
Illustrated Is
Model CT
(!" regular).
Price 5/-
LOOSE
m
m
DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$135.00 to
$1,050.00
f.o.b. Detroit,
Mich.,U.S.A.
MMM
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representatives:
Falrbanks-JUorse Company (Australasia), Ltd.,
25-27 Clarence Street. Sydney.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Detroit* Michigan* U* S. Cable Address* Kermath
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances 'permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day, 2 0; Half-day, 1/0, Children, 1/- and Od.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel: ’ Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 pm Ad«its! ea i% er fer^od^™™ 6 '
Tels.; 136276 (4 lines). ' Sydney ’ Ferries, Ltd.


BOTTLED HISTORY
The Purity of
□
_h
is reflected in the
brilliancy of its
bottling.
One of the most important con-
siderations from the point of
view of your health is the
Whisky you drink. Johnnie
Walker is the bottled experience
of many generations in the art
of distilling.
f ' -
Bottled in Bond
under Government
Supervision.
n
m
.
■
':,y:
m
@8
mm
i s
ss
■
SMf
SS ■
$5B
m
m
Born 1820-
Still
Going
Strong!
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
