

s
fa
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2415.
Thursday, May 27, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


°H r Library Catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
PYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 George Street, Sydney.
(LYS AG HT
O
B
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Oi *=*
T hese illustrations are but the broadest
indication of the gradations to be found
in “ Swan ” points. Every nib is hand
ground and finished and the variety of
points is almost unlimited. Any and every
steel pen can be matched.
Every “ Swan ” Pen is guaranteed to
give satisfaction to the user; if the first
choice does not do this, it may be exchanged
until it does.
SWAN
*
Self-filling “Swans” from 17/6.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd.,
Swan House, 133-35 Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Managing Agents: Phipson & Company, Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ĵ
.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
6
AFRAID OF FOOD.
I
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food or. a
emseives m time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Rumen
. ujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive 't
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE— Tins i/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Pkactitioneb, etc.
It
JIJ
HUDSON
The Red Page
What is the Matter with England?
In the latter part of last gtear two..young
Englishmen, qualified engineers, set them-
selves a mission.. They saw on the other
side of the Atlantic a nation, new and cos-
mopolitan, abounding in prosperity, with a
standard of widespread comfort immense
higher than that to be found in the liisto
industrial centre that was their home. T 1
this was so hurt their British pride no h
than it excited their curiosity. So, bei
young and adventurous, they set out to fine
—as if they were knights of Arthur iii.qm
of the Holy (.frail—the. precious secret th
lay hidden in the heart of America. Th
started on an intensive tour of some of t
industrial regions of H.S.A., wisely coiiclu
ing that a close analysis of a section wou
furnish more valuable material than a supt
iicial view of the whole. On their retu
they embodied the results of this research
a memorandum which, seen at first by
limited circle, was deemed to be of such vali
that it has now been issued in book form
The ticcret of High Wages, by Bertra
Austin and W. Francis Lloyd (Fish
1 i win).
The problem presented was that of a natio
which’, while it contained only some 7 p
cent, of the world’s population producei
-- per cent, of its wheat. 48 per cent, of i
coal. 58 per cent, of its copper, 58 per cen
of its cotton, (JO per cent, of its steel am
72 per cent, of its oil. Allowing for all i
rich natural advantages, how could it yie
such a harvest? It seemed to argue tlia
there must be some force at work in tire lie
world which the less elastic conditions o
the old, hampered by custom and traditioi
had cabined and confined.
The investigators directed their inquir
mainly towards the causes responsible fo
bringing about a condition of high wages i
industry coupled with low cost of productioi
I'hey found that in the new land “iudustria
enterprises have succeeded by virtue of
strict adherence to a few' cardinal principle
of management, some of which are the direc
outcome of the scarcity of labor. Americ
has hit upon the secret of prosperity owin
to the fact that the scarcity of labor forcer
her. out of sheer necessity, to adopt time
and trouble-saving devices.” How to con
struct a system which would obtain from
given quantity of available human energy it
maximum output was the problem the U.S.A
had to work out. How it did so is clearly
outlined by the investigators. In the fore
front of the essentials to the success of any
enterprise it was found necessary to adhere
strictly to a policy of promotion and re
wards to employees by merit and ability
only. No artificial dividing line between
executive and staff was drawn. The capable
workman could rise to the position of chief
executive officer. On the other hand, “when
mistakes are made or lack of ability is shown
there is no hesitation in reducing in grad<
or removing the incompetent.” This system
is equivalent to payment by results, and in
conformity with the American policy of re
warding labor by wages bearing some rela-
tion to output. “With the progress of in-
vention and with the greater reliability and
accuracy of machines, it is very clearly
realised m America that no limit can be set
to the output which can be attained by
one man. The policy is to increase each
man .s output with the aid of time- and
trouble-saving appliances, and—here is an
important factor—it is done “with tile full
co-operation of the workers.” The encour-
agement of this co-operative effort is found in
a system of rewards or wages for the exer-
mse not only of diligence and special skill,
industrv braUlS USed f ° r the bencfit of the
The more complete this co-operation can
be made the larger the output, the cheaper
the product and the higher the wage:
It is accepted that the higher the wages labor is
able to earn the better it is for the community as
i whole, since it enables the working man to raise
his standard of living. With higher wages he can
afford to obtain some of the comforts of life and
1 hose stimulate his desire for more comforts and
even luxuries. The logical outcome of this state of
tilings is that he is incited to greater effort in his
productive capacity.
In other words, his wage is what he by his
personal effort chooses to make it. He is
not, dragged back by any outside influence
to a standardised output, lie may work to
his full capacity, profiting not his employer
alone but himself individually. “In Europe”
—and largely it is the same in Australia —
“wages are generally taken to be the price
paid , per week for a supposedly fixed amount
of work done. Not sufficient account is
taken of the fact that one man’s output mav
be considerably greater than that of another.
As variations must occur in the output of
different workmen according to their ability
and attitude, a weekly wage is in reality,
therefore, not the price of a fixed amount
of work done.” In America it has been
shown that, where labor is paid by wages
bearing some relation to output, it is pos-
sible for the level of wages to increase while
the general level of prices remains stationary
or even falls. Obviously, where wages in-
crease and output remains stationary the
cost of living must increase: but under the
American system, where increased wage
means increased output, this does not neces-
sarily follow. If there is an increase in
]trice some ulterior influence must be sought.
And. as the authors point out. this principle
of placing no limit on the actual weekly earn-
ings is an incentive to work which no em-
ployer can afford to disregard, its psycholo-
gical effect being that men are happier at
their work because they can use to the full
the aptitude they possess for their own
advancement.
T.B.C.
Why Authors Leave Home
The situation as I see it is as follows.
The newsagents windows and the bookstalls
are 90 per cent. American and English
periodicals and 10 per cent. Australian. The
foreign percentage in the case of novels is
much more than 90, of course, but we
can leave the novels for a moment while we
have a look at the magazines, which lead
the novelist to his destiny by keeping Him
while he learns the destiny’s technique. The
Australian reader buys this foreign trash,
otherwise it would not be here for sale.
Another economic truism tells us that, since
there is no important Australian fiction
magazine for. sale here, the Australian reader
has been tried with it and has refused to
buy it, preferring to spend 5)0 per cent, of
his- reading money on foreign trash.
iYhyV Apart from all associations to
protect the Australian author, all diatribes
against this infamous tariff, all deprecation
of the unpatriotic attitude of booksellers,
publishers and newspapers, why does this
man, looking for something to read in the
train or to take home to his wife, buy one
English and two American magazines and
refuse to contribute his ouota to the upkeep
of an Australian magazine?
If Mr. Fleming and Mr. Sayers will throw
a last glance at this disgusting trash I think
one quality of the stuff will, if it is pointed
out to them, strike them at once. All these
dreadfully inartistic yarns and serials have
plots. They are not delicate or vivid pic-
tures of English or American country or
character ; they do not extol the deserted
land and run down the crowded city ; they
are not fairy-stories with an English or
American moral; they do not depict in ex-
hausting detail the technique of the station,
the mine or the poultry-farm; they have,
as a rule, no themes, no bricks to chuck
and no roses to pin. They tell a yarn
which has its _ proper guts : a plot.
A lot of things have conspired to prevent
the Australian author from learning to plot:
papers fighting the dumped periodical and
therefore forced to set up such a variety
of interest that fiction-space usually held
only the plotless sketch : a sparse popula-
tion with English ties, who naturally bought
prosperous old English friends with no fight-
ing to do; a population too scattered and
sparse to create the circulation to justify
payable advertising rates; that possibility
of leaving home for the denser populations
and circulations where a living could be
made by merely artistic writing; and, above
all, the absence of any Australian standard
to force us to learn to plot.
These circumstances have made us all
fairly artistic writers, from the paragraph
to the epic; they have created an inspiring
atmosphere of art round the everyday busi-
ness of Australian journalism; they have
brought into being a delicate and pungent
sketch, so good that it has bracketed Ilenry
Lawson with Poe and De Maupassant in
permanent authoritative criticism. But they
have not forced that inartistic traveller to
buy anything but what he wants to read in
the train. And until we ean plot as well
as write it looks as if he will continue to
buy Phillips Oppenheim, Peter Ivyne and
Zane Grey.
_ S°, too, I think, in the booksellers’ shops.
The pudding must surely prove itself in
the eating. In the last few years a good
many Australian novels have been published
both here and in England. Why do they
not sell as well.as those dreadful people
I mention above? The bookseller w r ould
much rather sell the Australian books—if
he could. Furthermore, why do these Aus-
tralian books sell better in England than
they do in Australia? Isn’t it because in
England there is a buying population large
enough to effect The succes d’estime, whereas
here, for this century or so, the buying
population is as yet only large enough for
the guts—the yarn? Supplying that, I think
it is likely that we shall soon need neither
1 rotection nor protestation of the rights and
wrongs of our glorious job.
HILARY LOFTING.
Love Amongst the lons
ihe quest of the novelists into the ultimate
mystery of life proceeds apace. The Rev.
Dixon paused breathlessly on the heights
Avith “The Love Complex” (already dealt
with on this page), in which human emotions
were traced once for all to the activities of
the ductless glands; Karel Capek carries
on with Kralcatit (Geoffrey Bles; translated
by Lawrence Hyde).
When a young man plants a buss on the
soft, parted lips of a lovely girl he is not
urged thereto, we learn, by gland or complex ;
he is a collection of alpha particles hi
trousers, compelled by electro-magnetic at-
traction to coalesce with an agglomeration
ot beta- particles arrayed in pink georgette,
and flesh hose. This is the profound dis-
covery of Prokop, student of destructive
chemistry, of Prague, whose senses are so
exquisitely attuned to the molecules of matter
that he can feel with his hand the vibra-
tions of the atoms.” He stumbles on his
hnd m the course of experimenting with a
new explosive, losing several fingers and his
memory in the process. Out of the detona-
tion comes Ivrakatit. Ivrakatit is no mere
super-dynanute It is a light-grey substance
that releases the enormous power latent in
i Ve » ytl ii ng tJiat exists is a dull,
“S, tS 0 n IVe i,, tlle eord which binds it
is nothing more than a cobweb on the limbs
SfJLl 1 T ng Mm strength to
i d i lle i WI 1 tear thp Surface off
the globe and liurl Jupiter on to Saturn.”
ouslv ai hnfld 1S only , a swallow which labori-
ously builds a nest under the roof of the
cosmic powder-magazine.”
Prokop resolves to let this deadly secret
formula 1 fr™’ i?* U steals the
" I k i hlIn „ U - " le he i 8 in delirium
P,-nWp / *2 - seU 14 to a foreign Power.
I iokop sets off m pursuit. His quarry has
the formula, but is unable to discover the
piocess. and when Prokop walks into the
huge munition works of the foreign Powe?
Va pr^ ptly mad <‘ a prisoner. He ismt-
V u? ed ,M, th a - guar(l - a suite of roomslnd a
splendidly-equipjped experimental laboratory.
but no°irtelv t n UP --a T^ y mabc no
nut politely provide him with another He
the"^Pr procee d with his researches. 'Then
tin. Pimcess enters. The Princes a*,
mnn de AU rPm i Khan < ruler of Turco-
n?a.l1’ Altai and Western Thibet,” who had
5“ < SL"“9' as 50,0(10 people; whose
Wnm„ « . Khan, depopulated Chiv and
*es ot j OOO people and driving them
(Continued on page 3.)


w aae
Compare the prices—compare the qualities—
in conjunction, they will convince you.
Chiffon Finish Velveteen, twill
back, fast pile and Worrall s dye; 2 7
inches wide, rich in lustre. Colors in-
clude Black, Light Navy, Navy, Grey,
Mole, Mid Brown, Cinnamon, —i- «
Cardinal, Brown. Price, yard . . <3/11
Chiffon Finish Twill Back Vel-
veteen, 2 7 inches wide; an extremely
soft texture in Worralls dye, fast pile.
All wanted shades are available—lvory,
Black, Rosewood, Cedar, Navy, Light
Navy, Red, Brown, Light Brown, Cin-
namon, Nigger, Mole, Saxe, Nat-
tier. Price, yard
Black Velveteen, superior, even
weave with chiffon finish; a fast pile and
Worrall s reliable dye. In various widths
and prices. 22 inches wide.
Prices 2/6, 2/11, 36, 3/11 yd.
2 7in. 36in.
5/11, 6/11; 7/11, 811;
40in.
9/11, 10/11 yd.
New Arrivals in
EXQUISITE PILE FABRICS
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
There are other reasons for
their popularity, in addi-
tion to the supreme one of
Fashion’s favor. There is
the wealth of color choice,
the durability, and —when
bought at Anthony
Horderns’ —the very low
prices.
Twill Back Velveteen an abso-
lutely fast pile and Worrall’s dye and fin-
ish are certainly attractive features —in
Black, Navy, Mid Brown, Light Brown,
Mole and Nattier. 36 inches q<-| -j
wide. Price, yard O j 1 X
Chiffon Finish Twill Back Vel-
veteen, 22 inches wide. There is satis-
faction in every yard of this dependable
cloth. Colors are those wanted for new
season’s frocks—Grey, Mole, Vieux Rose,
Cerise, Cardinal, Ruby, Drab, Pink, Light
Brown, Saxe, Ivory or Black, qi 1 *|
Price, yard «3{ 1 1
Colored Chiffon Velvet, adapt-
able for day or evening frocks, wraps,
etc.; luxurious in appearance, giving the
utmost comfort in wear. Cherry, Jade,
Vieux Rose, Cinnamon, Mauve, Cham-
pagne, Lemon, Pink, Henna, Orange,
Royal, Brown, Mastic, Flame and Apri-
cot. 37 inches wide. 1O 1 1 1
Price, yard !«/ 1 1
“Bonnet’s” Luxurious Black Silks.
“BonnetV* Paillette, 36 inches
wide. This silk represents the utmost in
value; its wearing propensities „ -.-
are undoubted. Price, yard . . //II
Duchesse Mousseline, 36 inches
wide. An old favorite made by a favor-
ite manufacturer — Bonnet s. These
qualities will give service. Q/1 1
Price, yard Of I I
Others at 9/11, 10/11
Esclarmonde Another of the
famous “Bonnet’s” weaves; correct for all
occasions; beautiful quality with lustrous
Prices, yard .... 13/11, 14/11
“BonnetV , Vulcain. An entirely
new weave possessing individuality and
distinctiveness; adaptable for Coats,
Wraps and Frocks; a finely woven silk,
soft and lustrous. 39/40 inches wide.
Prices, yard .. . . 12/11, 13fll
“Bonnet's”
40 inches wide
Crepe Meteore,
For every occasion you
will find elegance and service in this
exquisite silken fabric. 1/111
Price, yard It* 11
Others at 15/11, 17 11
“Bonnet's” Gros Grain, 40 inches
wide. Yet another “Bonnet s weave
that cannot be excelled for wear. Suit-
able for Frocks and Coats. 1Q 1 1
Price, yard It/11
“Bonnet’s” Crepe Merveille,
38/39 inches wide. One of this well-
known manufacturer’s leading silks.;
a reversible weave featuring a soft, rich,
satin surface and crepe back. - Ojl 1
Price, yard 1 <&/ 1 1
Others at:
13/11, 14/11, 15/11, 16/11, 17/11
“Bonnet's” Samson, 39 inches
wide; a silk of exceptional value; brightly
finished; reliable wearing quality, reveal-
ing fine grain effect. *| Oil 1
Price, yard 10/1 1
Others at 14/11, 15/11
Postage Paid in N.S.W., and to the nearest Interstate Port.
A New Shipmemt of
Patou's Renowned
KNITTING WOOLS
Paton’s Rose Quality Wheeling
Wool, three-ply, favored for
scarves, jumpers, sports coats
and socks. In Black, White,
Greys, Navy, Browns, and
Heather Mixtures.
Price:
8/11 lb.; 1/1 2 2oz. skein.
Paton’s Moorland Sports Wool,
three-ply, suitable for outer
garments. Black, White, Navy,
Browns, Fawn, Biscuit, Oyster,
Saxe, Peacock, Mole, Henna,
Vieux Rose and Red.
Price: 8/6 lb.; 1/1 2oz. skein.
Paton’s Rose Fingering Wool,
two-ply, for caps, dresses, coats
and cardigan jackets. In Pea-
cock, Henna, Dark Saxe, Mole
and Natural.
Price: 10/6 lb.; 1/4 2oz. skein.
Paton’s Rose Fingering Three-
ply Wool, for caps, dresses,
socks, coats and cardigan jac-
kets. Colors include Black,
White, Grey, Browns, Natural,
Vieux Rose and Emerald.
Price: 10/6 lb.; 1/4 2oz. skein.
Paton’s Super Scotch Fingering
Wool, two-ply. For women’s
and children’s garments. There
are Greys, Browns, Heather
Mixtures and Black, White and
Navy.
Price:
13/6 lb.; s£d. ijoz. skein.
Paton’s Super Scotch Fingering
Wool, three-ply. For under-
garments. In Black, White,
Browns, Natural, Navy, Greys
and Heather Mixtures.
Price:
13/6 lb.; 10|d. loz. skein.
Paton’s Rose Fingering Four-
ply Wool. The wool for frocks,
hats, capes, scarves and socks.
In Black, White, Natural,
Browns, Greys, Mole, Biscuit,
Vieux Rose, Oyster, Saxe, Pea-
cock, Henna, Navy, Mauve and
Heather Mixtures.
Price: 10/6 lb.; Bd'. loz. skein.
Paton’s Rose Sports Wool,
four-ply. Used for sports gar-
ments, hats and scarves. In
Black, White, Grey, Brown,
Vieux Rose, Saxe, Mole and
Navy.
Price: 10/6 lb.; 1/4 2oz. skein.
Paton’s Super Scotch Fingering
Wool, four-ply. Black, White,
Greys, Browns, Navy, Mole,
Sand, Saxe, Peacock, Vieux
Rose, Salmon, Sky, Oyster,
Natural and Heather Mixtures.
Price:
13/6 lb.; lO&d. loz. skein.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440,


BOTTLED HISTORY
Say
r
r\f
o
l
Because that
name protects
you against any
inferior spirit
Don’t take risks, specify
“Johnnie Walker” and you’ll
get the Whisky that is perfectly
matured, uniform in quality,
and of a distinctive palate-
persuading flavour. Every
bottle of “Johnnie Walker” is
guaranteed.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
■
I
fffi
BSS
m
m
%
m
g&
Born 1820
Still
Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD.. Scotch Whisky Distillers.
Kilmarnock, Scotland.


PARIS GARTERS
No metal can touch you;
are made for you
Men of Australia
65*
i /
t
X" ■m
Imitations:
You know that imitation
is the sincerest flattery.
PARIS GARTERS are
crudely and widely imi-
tated—more so, perhaps,
than even our human
desire for praiseworthy
approval invites.
A.t no time could a man better afford to insist upon
getting; the genuine PARIS GARTER than to-day. A
substitute is too costly at any price.
Sold by Men's Stores Everywhere.
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
50 York Street, Sydney. 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
This is the PARIS
trade mark
j
PARIS
CARTERS
No meial
can touch you
Il’s your guarantee
of garter quality
into the Kuba Steppe; and
who became the tounder of the Luiopcan
branch of the family by murdering the lie
to a barony and committing bigamy with
his sister. The lady’s appearance is as re-
markable as her ancestry. She lias small
breasts, ungainly legs, magnificent hands,
dark down upon her sharp nose, and other
natural advantages. Prokop watches her
kneeling down feeling the hocks ot her horse
and his ions are instantly on edge. 1 e
became exceedingly ashamed ot him. _ ,
stopped, and had a foolish tear that the b iri
would come across and feel Ins liocks.
The law of the atomic world is operating.
Unlikes attract. Anode calls to cathode.
In the language of commerce, the haughty
princess and the plebeian man of science
have fallen in love at first sight. I>ut. then
methods of expressing their passion arc dif-
ferent. The student of destructive chemistry
eyes his charmer and wonders how the
dark, proud girl would explode. Ihe I nn-
cess runs him over with a far more practical
eye. They meet clandestinely, but the crisis
in their love does not come until the day
when Prokop, having relieved the monotony
of imprisonment by inventing, out of a pot
of female face-powder, an explosive substance
not so strong as Krakatit, but still equal to
many tons of fulminate, buries a pinch or
it in a field and proceeds to set it oft.
Suddenly the Princess appears and starts
to walk towards the spot. He yells to her
to lie down. She “gives him a terrible look
for taking such a liberty,” but lie throws
himself upon her and bears her to the ground,
placing his palms over her eardrums to
prevent the explosion breaking them. - But
the Princess cares little for explosions. Her
sharp nails dug into his neck, and in Ins
face he felt the savage gnawing of four
sharp eye-teeth.... Then he felt the strug-
gling knees pressing themselves to his leg,
and two arms twined themselves round liis
neck; on his face he felt. the hot, moist,
trembling contact of her lips and tongue.’
1 le moans with agony, and seeks the Princess’s
lips with his own. There is a frightful
explosion, rocks and earth being flung high
in the air, and Prokop gets a terrific clout
from a boulder on the back of the head; but
“he hardly realised it, for at that instant
he was kissing her mouth, tongue, teeth, her
parted and trembling lips.” Incidentally, the
guard who lias been put over Prokop is a
silent spectator of these electrical pheno-
mena.
There are other remarkable scenes between
the lovers, including one where she, with
her pockets full of arsenic, and he with his
clothes stuffed with sufficient benzoltetra-
pxozonid and other explosives to wreck
Europe, “swayed about between the rows of
bottles containing unstable oxozobenzol and
terribly powerful fulminates, dumb and con-
vulsed.”
P>ut his adventures are by no means over.
He is picked up by a motorist who proves
to be a direct-actioxiist and who wants to
exploit his discovery* to abolish kings and
governments and establish the reign of uni-
versal peace and the brotherhood of man.
“Man must explode to find the highest good
within itself,” he explains. “Society must
explode.... and we must not bother about
what is destroyed in the explosion”; and
although this reads very like Prokop’s own
philosophy he does not take to the new pro-
posal. How he disappoints the revolution-
aries; how the remaining stock of Krakatit
gets spilled ; liow the revolutionaries scramble
for it. getting enough in their hair and finger-
nails to destroy a liner; how its sinister
power is released by wireless, carrying a
large city and all the revolutionaries up to
Heaven ; and how, in the midst of all these
alarums and excursions, Prokop’s ions are
once more fatally attracted by the molecules
of a daughter of the people with “hot. sinful
lips,” can be found between pages 347 and
415 of the original work. Suffice it to add
that Prokop’s electronic economy, after pass-
ing through so many vicissitudes, at length
found peace and quiet under his father’s
roof, where there were no explosive bodies
of the feminine gender to distract him, and
where all the atoms were of similar polarity
to his own.
The author of this profound and palpitat-
ing book is the Austrian who, on the strength
of his play “R.U.R.” (performed at the
Sydney Playbox last year) and his insect-
play, was recently voted by world-wide acclaim
as the sagest philosopher and interpreter of
human nature since Shakspeare and Ethel
M. Dell.
M.G.S.
Simone Tery on the Irish
These little Athenic cliques and coteries in
Dublin are used to being written about. One
can scarcely pick up an American magazine
without finding in it impressions of Dublin
and its writing men. It is an age when
works do not suffice. Personalities assist
rperit. Much that is written is mere extra-
vagance at which the subjects must smile.
They took Simone Tery’s impressions seri-
ously enough to review them all over the
island. Her fine, flashing French attracts
of itself, and it is evident that they liked
the Gaul within their gates. However, it is
not of Simone, but of her impressions that
one writes. L’lle des Barden is not all
sweetness.
Of her style this only. Simone is not a
literary photographer like Katherine Mans-
field, nor a sculptress of words like Alice
Meynell. She is a Lavery Of letters. She
paints her men, the outer wrinkles and the
inner. Photography does not allow of a
lifetime exposure. Painting does. Simone
is a painter before she is a writer. Take
this of Yeats:—
Yeats was long and thin 20 years ago, and that
wag of a George Moore compared him then with' his
voluminous cloak to a reversed umbrella with its
point in air. But to-day he has filled out and he
fits exactly his great coat of black velvet. He has
an air of elegance, rare in Ireland, in his slippers
with buckles of silver, his flowing necktie, his bezel
of gold on his little finger, and his black ribbon
crossing the face and holding on the eyeglass with
its tortoiseshell rim....
But the (‘.yes are amazing eyes, full of a strange
power; under their black brows, sketched finely in
circumflex accents with China ink like a pair of
swallows with wings arched for flight, those shadowed
eyes reveal and retain mysteries. They a re-so' heavy
with dreams that they appear sorrowful. Their look
is not luminous, but lit by a diffused glow. It
reminds you of a flame in a fog.
He scarcely lifts bis lids to look at the per-
.somwhonv he is addressing. Half the time
lie is dreaming behind his shelter of glass
and horn. She gives an instance of this
absorption :—
And when we left the theatre the poet dreamt on.
While his wife and I chattered, Yeats walked beside
us, silent, and when we raised our eyes we saw him
before us in the shadow, head bent. Suddenly we
turned. The poet had disappeared.. • • ,
“Lost as usual,” said Mrs. Yeats with a tender
amusement. “Hi! Psitt! Willie! Hullo there!
She gave a strange whistle through her teeth. At .the
signal Yeats stopped sharply, raised hW head, looked
startled, turned, saw us, and loped back to> us with
great strides. Then Mrs. Yeats took him by the arm
so that he wouldn’t lose himself again, and he
let himself be led like a good child.
Mary Godwin probably had the same trouble
with Shelley. Such geniuses are possessed.
They are not their own men.
But it is “A.E.” to whom she gives her
best. He is to her like the sage m Wisdom
and Destiny”:—
Buried in his armchair, he smiles and smokes his
pipe. And the curls of the smoke lose themselves in
his long beard, which makes him like unto God the
Father. One might say he hides himself m this
fleecy beard; it has invaded all that it can of his
face, and the clearing of his brow to which it cannot
reach is threatened by the exuberance of rebellious
hair that “A.E.” rumples as soon as the conversation
grows spirited.
He forgets himself in an argument, waves
his pipe, takes great puffs, enfumes his
billowy beard, which floats up with its
smoke like an incense, and from its troubled
depths comes the voice of the oracle. His
philosophy is not new. He believes in the
ultimate happiness of the soui and the tri-
umph of good over evil. Simone is right
when she says the greatest things about
Yeats is his works, but the greatest thing
about “A.E.” is himself.
She leads us to another m her gallery.
This time it is Synge, of whom Yeats and
others have told her much. She is proud ot
Synge’s connection with the land ot the
lilies. He was soaked in Flaubert and Mau-
passant. His Celtic melancholy appreciated
to the full the irony of Anatole France, but
to Synge Loti was the king of them all.
This she got from the portrait that Yeats s
old father painted of Synge: —
Strangers found Synge wearisome. There was no
means of making him talk. In the land of Bernaid
Shaw and George Moore, where conversation is raised
to the dignity of a national art, Synge lacked this
splendor, this impish wit that carries the fort ot a
stranger in the first hours. Like all great comedians,
Synge is gloom and silence.
Poor Synge, cut off so soon! He was to
marry one of the players from the Abbey,
but he fell sick and died. His last wish was
to be carried into a room whose windows
looked out on the lovely hills of Dublin. It
was done, but the window was too high, and
his dying eyes could not reach to the sight or
that purple countryside.
Another turn brings us to James Stephens,
perhaps the strangest genius of the west :—
James Stephens resembles his friends, the lepre-
chauns, these little nimble gnomes who live under-
ground and come out from between the roots—like
all supernatural creatures, he possesses magic gifts.
Thus he has only to open his mouth, and instantly
all chatter ceases and each one listens open-mouthed.
He has the queer power of moving all his features
at once as if they were of india-rubber. When the
big eyebrows lift all the wrinkles run together and
converge towards them, those of the brow flown,
those of the cheeks, mouth, and chin up, as it he
drew the string of a purse.
Strange, gentle, malicious, pitiful, imperti-
nent urchin of the West! If Angus Og and
Cathleen na Houlihan could come to lite
what smiles he would win from them with
that forking wit of his!
It is a far cry from him to George Moore.
He reminds Simone of a cat. a cat with
velvet paws that plays with helpless mice,
giving them hope of life until the final blow.
One can see that she appreciates his artistry
in killing. And yet she does not forget that
he wrote “Esther Waters.” All the world
loves that delicate, nervous prose. It is like
the hand of a Medici, fine and exquisite and
vicious. His pen is better than his tongue.
She makes no prophecy as to whether it
will endure, that sunny, spite-flecked prose.
It probably will not. Men die by the body
but live by the soul. .
There is one more portrait m the gallery,
perhaps the most interesting. Any impres-
sions Simone Tery got of James Joyce, were
wrested from him, a bitter wresting. Of his
personal appearance she says:—
James Joyce is tall and thin, and there is great
dignity in his manner. His profile is clear and
delicate, his nose straight and sharp, his lips thin.
A delicate, even, rosy tint extends over his whole
face but curiously enough you get an impression of
pallor. There is a singular sweetness in his face,
and almost indolence in his gestures
When he goes to see his friends he remains some-
times whole hours without opening his mouth. When
he is questioned he lets heavy folds of silence fall
on the. poor interrogator. Is it indifference, timidity,
or the obsession of thought? All, doubtless. Except
for his eyes nothing stirs in his face. Sometimes
again he gives a little laugh, brief, dry, slightly
harsh and mirthless.
He lias left Ireland, but liis heart is in Ire-
land. He knows her latest thought. There
is something pitiful about this intentness,
for the next moment he shows a letter tell-
ing him that the Committee for the Tailtean
Games has rejected his name almost with
unanimity. He takes a bitter pride in Ins
outlawry : —
I would have liked to hear his views on great
Irishmen I had met in Dublin. But each time that
I pronounced a name, “Never met him.” he answered
brieflv. As he made this constant answer, he accom-
panied it at the end with a look of malice and a
laugh as if of triumph. And he added with a point
of pride, “All my friends are obscure.”
In the midst of their obscenities his books
preserve a loathing for uncleanness, an
Vloysian loathing that breaks through all the
attempts at daring. He who would be free
of all fetters is fettered for ever by the gyves
of disgusts. Simone does not see this as an
Irishman would see it. The Latins do not
feel that way. But Joyce feels it. Though
the coterie of “A.E.” and Yeats would wel-
come liis genius, forgiving the smuts upon it,
his soul goes its own way.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
The First Man
Professor Elliot Smith is reported to have
said that he doubts whether the oldest man
is to be found in Australia. He favors
Africa as being the more likely field for such
discovery. Now, Professor Smith, in his
book. “The Evolution of Man,’’ says that the
Rhodesian skull “represents a species of the
genus Homo which is definitely more primi-
tive than that of the Neanderthal man.” He
nlso hazards the opinion that “the ancestors
of the Rhodesian man may have sprung from
the main stem at a much earlier period than
the Neanderthal man, but survived till a
much more recent period than the latter.”
Would not this also apply to the Cohuna
man, lately discovered in Australia and de-
clared by Dr. Colin Mackenzie to be older
than any skull hitherto dug up?.
Professor Smith writes: “This [the sur-
vival of the Rhodesian man] would not be
surprising when one considers that in Africa
there have been preserved until the present
time representatives of a much more ancient
genera of mammals whose European repre-
sentatives became extinct at a vastly more
ancient time than that assigned... .to the
origin of Rhodesian man.” Will not this,-
too, apply with greater force to the antiquity
of man in Australia? Our monotremes and
marsupials, classed as mammals of the most
archaic form, still persist; moreover, they
exist side by side with the most primitive
living man—the Australian aboriginal. Here
is Professor Smith’s own testimony on that
point: “The most primitive race now living
is undoubtedly the Australian, which repre-
sents the survival with comparatively slight
modifications of perhaps the primitive type
of man.”
Within recent years a famous German an-
thropologist, Klaatsch, searched Australia
for specimens. Ilis opinion and that of other
Continental anthropologists is that Aus-
tralia will give the primitive man. The in-
comparable Owen, in his famous book, wrote
of the extremely primitive type of Australian
skulls he examined. But some scientist’s
seem to be egregiously jealous of what our Aus-
tralian men, with their limited opportunities
in research work, owing to lack of sympa-
thetic treatment, are doing. I do not know
that they always get a generous welcome
even from expatriated Australians.
BOS.
A Satchel of Books
Two Lives, by William Ellery Leonard (Heine-
mann). A moving tale in verse in which closely-
knit affections are at war with the consequences of
inherited dementia. The work is uneven but contains
many strong passages.
Breakers on the Beach, by Leigh Bell (Angus and
Robertson). There is a happy-home atmosphere
about this book dealing with young life, the scene
of whose mild out-of-door adventures' and fresh love
is picturesque Tasmania. Not high-class work, but
with a pretty wide appeal.
Hangman’s House, by Donn Byrne (Sampson Low).
The Ireland of 20 years ago, making love, going to
work, plotting revolt and, in between whiles, brood-
ing over her wrongs with wistful melancholy in
the poetic dialect of Yeats and Synge. A fetching
romance in the manner of Charles Lever by the author
of “Blind Raftery.”
The Lucky Prisoner, by' Count Gobineau (Heine-
mann). A translation from the French. The writer,
who spent his earlier years in a diplomatic job,
sought recreation in this lively tale of romance
and clash of military arms in the sixteenth century.
The environment appears to be closer to historical
truth than the average fiction-monger troubles about.
Essays of To-day and Yesterday (Harrap). In
this set of well-printed and handy pocket-volumes
Andrew Lang, Alice Meynell, Philip Guedalla, Basil
Macdonald Hastings, James Agate and Barry Pain
are represented—a combination which ranges from
the versatile, fanciful and scholarly work of “Andrew
of the brindled hair” to the snippets of the avowed
humorist. .A feast of many courses, all palatable.
The Murray Valley, by C. Brunsdon Fletcher
(Angus and Robertson). A record of what the
editor of the S. M. Herald saw and learned on
a 3000-mile journey along- the Murray Valley.
In this basin Mr. Fletcher found great potentialities
of settlement, given efficient means of river control
and water distribution. Given also, The Bulletin
adds, a large market close at hand. But upon tha
point Mr. Fletcher doesn’t dwell, the Herald not. yet
being so frankly Protectionist as\ it will be 20 yeais
hence.
Keeping Fit, by Colonel H. Mayes (Harrap). n
this treatise on “How to be healthy and graceful
there is a stimulus to those about to enter middle
age. “Men and women,” the Colonel declares, can
grow comparatively young and fit again 0 they
take their bodily health in hand before the age ot
45. The real tragedy is oftentimes that people have
worked too hard in youth to allow themselves time
for open-air exercise. Then, feeling their physique
beginning to age under the strain they resign
themselves to this failure of the body as though
it were inevitable.” Suzanne Lenglen testifies to
the value of the exercises recommended, and a emu t
is attached showing the Diana of the tennis couit
putting them into practice.
Year-book of the Universities of the Empire, 7926,
edited by W. H. Dawson (Bell and Sons). One effect
of the intellectual revival in Europe during the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries was the foundation
of seats of learning in Paris and Bologna from which
sprang our present university system. Similar centies
of teaching were established in Oxford and Cambridge
differing only from the constitution at Bologna,
which was in substance a corporation of students, in
being corporate bodies of teachers. 1 rom these
Oxford and Cambridge forebears has sprung an
academic family scattered the Empire over; the
universities in the homeland and in Austialasia,
Canada, South Africa, India and elsewhere now
number 67. To this complex the year-book is a
comprehensive key of nearly 800 packed pages.
The Truth about Borstal, by Sydney Moseley (Cecil
Palmer). In October, 1902, the senior of the four
Institutes which comprise the English Borstal System
was opened in a convict prison at Borstal, neai
Rochester. The first batch that arrived were hand-
cuffed and in chains. Up to that time, having
passed the reformatory age of 15, they had been
classed as adult prisoners, to be subjected to aU
the evil influences of prison association—-herded with
habitual law-breakers and deprived of all the kindlier
influences which in these later years have been
brought to bear on youthful offenders. Since its
foundation, Borstal itself has undergone a trans-
formation; starting with the simple object of segre-
gating criminals between the ages of 16 and 21 from
the prison herd, it has developed into an advanced
reformatory. The actual period of detention is not
rigidly fixed by the sentence, for the authorities
may in their discretion release their charges at any
time after six months if satisfied that the reformative
object has been attained. In working, it has been
found that the average detention in the case ot
boys is little short of the nominal minimum oi two
vears, and in the ease of girls about 30 months.
Manual training includes farm-work, gardening, brick-
laying, carpentering, painting, poultry- and pig-
keeping dairy and domestic work. Ample provision
is made for education in other directions and
physical exercise and recreation receive attention.
Lectures, concerts, cricket and football matches lelieve
the restraint. When finally the lad is released, he
still remains subject to license, so that it he tails
to settle down to an honest life he may oe remitted
to his former discipline. Coupled with the insti-
tution is an association which receives and assists eacn
discharged lad or girl, so that, in ordinary cir-
cumstances, the licensee is under the care and control
of a resident in the district to which he or she
goes. It is a genuine and apparently within limits
effective means of saving young life from lapsing into
the criminal class.


The Difference Is
Astonishing
Saying hard things about a rough road won’t make that road
smooth. Using swear words about it won’t prevent it from loosening
bolts and nuts nor stop it from breaking springs.
Calling it a won’t change it from what it is. Hard
adjectives and harder nouns leave it unmoved; it remains just a
rough road.
But good shock absorbers do take the “ump” out of “bump”
and make an astonishing difference in riding.
ĵ
■
M?
1/
r\
ĵ
And of all "snubbing” devices offered the car-owner to-day there s one that has never
yet failed to surprise by its sheer efficiency,
That device is the Stewart Shock Absorber, a “snubber” that is capable of taking —and
does take —each and every shock that the wheels receive as the car moves along.
It matters not what your speed, nor how many the number of ruts and pot-holes per
y arc J—the Stewart will take every shock, substituting for a series of body-racking and
nerve-racking jolts a gentle rolling motion.
The explanation of the Stewart’s unusual efficiency lies in its scientific design, in its
simplicity and in its goodness. It took a long time to make this best of all “snubbers”
what it is now, but the time and money spent on the job were worth it, for to-day hundreds
of thousands of motorists the world over talk—if they do not actually sing—the praises of
the Stewart Shock Absorber, where formerly they cursed the roads, and cursed to no
purpose!
The cost of a set of Stewart Shock Absorbers is but a fraction of the amount those
absorbers save in repair bills.
StmaM>
SHOCK ABSORBERS
Set (4) for medium-weight cars, £lO/10/-
Set (4) for Chevrolet, Rugby, Overland 4 (and other
light cars), £B/10/-
Set (2) for Ford, £5/10/-
When Ordering state Name of Car and Year.
Obtainable from Car Agents, Garages, Accessories Dealers and from the undermentioned
Stewart Service Stations:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., SYDNEY; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., BRISBANE; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd.,
MELBOURNE; Cornell, Limited, ADELAIDE; Arthur Christian, PERTH.


REX-PYE, packed in lib. and
hygienic cans, in a delicious jelly, is the
tastiest treat cooked ready to serve,
and the most economical meat meal you
can obtain. You will find, as thousands
have found, that each tin is consistently
of the same outstanding choice quality.
This, due to the facts set out below,
accounts for the triumphal march of
REX-PYE into popular favor.
Mr
vrszv*
tsasssm ep
OTSP
S&SSBB*
:*£2%B&*&**
C 2» s»
Mi
cass^
«03iGse»
■ Eawy 7
■HI ■^•Ss»P" |k;
//V
sr~JtTT
til
/P
I o*w?<
mlf /
B£
PS
This is why we claim that REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world.
1.
2.
3.
4.
The tin itself is unique, being stamped out and seamless; hermetically sealed without
solder (lead) or soldering flux—it is the perfectly hygienic container.
The meats (raw materials) are perfectly wholesome, being choicest quality, carefully
selected. Visitors from abroad, inspecting our works, have said that the meats are
superior to those used at any other factory in their experience.
The spicing by a recipe in our sole possession and the excellent jelly help to produce
the delicious flavor characteristic of REX-PYE.
The cooking en casserole preserves all the wholesome meat juices, and retains the hign
food values.
All these facts combine to produce a meat product of unrivalled quality Thus we account
for that delicate aroma as you open the tin, and that delicious flavor when the dainty is
eaten.
Ask your Grocer for REX-PYE
—the finest meat in the world.
Look for .the attractive label.
Imitations are offered for sale , but
they are decidedly not REX-PYE.
REX-PYE
Its delicate aroma and delicious favor,
distinguish it from all other meats.
FOGGITT JONES LTD,
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon,
. and
Packers of the Choice REX Canned Delicacies.


...««•
renuer
w
jflflll
Z
CD
Mill
|fMii|
<
<0
L>
W
||IIIMIIf
r %
k «iiuir
i-9
jit
MBl
w
111111 l
IJIIIk
ml
ml
*"ii!!!
s
so
«s
■4
©
XJ
Our easy monthly-payment
plan and free home demonstra-
tion will interest you. Full
particulars gladly mailed.
Write Dept. A.
9
m
Comer Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney.
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Corner Queen and Edward Streets, Brisbane.
Hunter Street West, Newcastle.
27 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
OLIVER &
AGENTS:
OLI\ER | ,r IA,, LTD., Hobart and Launceston, Tasmania.
ATKINS { W.A.), LTD., Hay Street, Perth* ■


Stic
mm
A
SHAVIN
STI
For Tender Faces
The creamy lather of the Cuticura
Shaving Stick, with its delicate med-
ication and soothing properties,
enables men with tender, easily ir-
ritated skins to shave in comfort,
even twice a day, and leaves the
skin smooth and fresh.
Soap Is.,Talcum Is.3d..Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
1988?”* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Babies
thrive on
it /S SO
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists 4 Stores
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dontloseyour
Good Looks!
L,eft to itself
your skin will
gradually but
inevitably lose
its clearness and
fine texture
j
an d beco in e
wrinkled and otherwise
blemished. But if every
night you give your face a
Pomeroy massage, then,
despite advancing years and
the strain of life, you will
keep it wrinlde-free and
youthful looking. It is the
nourishment in Pomeroy
Skin Cream that accom
plishes this wonderful work
of rejuvenation.
POMEROY
SKIN CREAM
(Formerly Fomeroy Skin Food)
Obtainable from all Australian Stores
and Chemists, or from the
POMEROY DEPOT
(Ripley & Simpson). Macdonell House,
SYDNEY.
BRING HAPPINESS.
Chamberlain’s Tablets quickly remove
the poisonous accumulations of con-
stipation and their beneficial effect
is felt throughout the entire system.
They do much towards promoting
health, happiness and success in life.
There 9 s a Smile in every Tablet.
-
Safe
Quality!
# T'HE first thing a man asks of a pipe is that it
•*- shall smoke well the second that it shall
look well.
GBD
ĵ
A sweeter, cooler pipe than the
GBD, or one that bespeaks
quality more definitely in its
shapely polished exterior and
fine grain, it would be impos-
sible to find at any price.
Yet the GBD is obtainable in
all the popular shapes —silver-
mounted with vulcanite mouth-
piece at 12/6.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Trade enquiries are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
%
Shape
No. 2/438
AI3M
XV 33 nOA Tlkr PNfIOA AOH
ao.T.«|4 .mofi
seep :pt{A
I ' V
\ N
NS
m.
■i,
®s your Hair its natural color or skowir>g a
Pfew threads oV silver grew ? Hah* to
MEXICAN
VAINUT STAIN
With this harmless elean aad fimple liquid
or faded hair can be tinted to laft
color uv a ivy reguired shade .it is Lasting, &a
and easily applied. _
Obtainable at all ©Ke mists ar\d ©tores«
WHOLESALE ONLY
DUERDW AND SAINSBVRY LX 1 ’
MELBOURNE.
j
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
126
. POST fRU
m
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Country Wife.
She does not know wliat splendors there
may be ~ , ,
Beyond the frugal lot she calls her home.
She has no knowledge of the majesty
Of Eastern minaret or Western dome.
Her world is circumscribed : a garden plot;
A white-walled cottage distant from the sea;
A babe soft sleeping in his shaded cot,
And only bushland minstrels melody.
She does not know the fascinating lights;
The splendid city streets ; the crowded ways ;
The wondrous palaces where hours are shod
With magic shoes that cheat the aching
nights.
She toils, she hears, she weeps, ohe hears
no praise— . „ ,
Unless, perhaps, it be the praise of God.
N.SAV.
CECIL MANN.
John Brown’s Knapsack: Sambo’s
Chantey.
John Brown’s knapsack was number ninety-
two ;
We’s bound for America, me an you.
Glory Hallelujah!
Our ship she rolls an’ our slap she labors,
We hates our foes, but we loves our neigh-
bors,
As we go sailin’ on.
Poor Jeff Davis got a wasp up his nose,
They took his vote an' his old-woman clothes.
Glory Hallelujah !
Reef-in tops’ls, batten down the hatches .
Keep a bright look-out an' sing your snatches
As we go sailin’ on.
John Brown’s knapsack was number ninety-
two,
But Sherman he was a war-ri-or too.
Glory Hallelujah !
We sinks our rye, an’ we swipes our sherry
To Kansas Brown an’ to Harper s Ferry,
As we go sailin’ on.
When grand old Abe with his great heart o’
gold
Passed over Jordan the church-bells was
tolled.
Glory Hallelujah!
Our Yankee Hag at de half-mast flym’,
We niggers all for sure fell a-cryin',
But we went sailin’ on.
John Brown's knapsack was number ninety-
two,
I guess my chantey it is well-nigh through—
Glory Hallelujah !
I hear our mate on de poop-deck callin':
“Boys, splice the main-brace when y’ done
haulin’,”
As we go sailin’ on.
John Brown’s knapsack was number ninety-
two,
A stout, dry ship an’ a bully tine crew.
Glory Hallelujah !
A tall, dry ship an’ a Yankee skipper.
So here’s good luck to de crew an’ clipper
As we go sailin’ on.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BEADY.
Undecided.
Swift to attack and thund’rous in retreat,
I saw the Sun, but yesterday professed
Night’s mortal enemy, for battle dressed.
His head in Heaven, the earth beneath his
feet.
And then the evening eloquent and sweet —
Fond arbiter uniting east and west—
Saying to light and darkness “Truce is
best;
Go greenly through the valleys clothed in
wheat!”
Night folded all her charges, each in turn,
Woods, waters, cities, flocks and birds and
flowers
By the mere wisdom of her quiet breath.
Then came with stars to place upon Day’s
urn ;
And I stood still midway between the
hours.
Nor knew to follow life or walk with death.
MAOIULAND.
DARIUS.
The Terror of the Coast.
Full many ships on many tides
For years and years have ceased to float
Since on the harbor’s breast we cruised,
Three urchins in an old blue boat.
Her sides were blistered by the sun; _
Her patchwork sail was weather-stained,
A crazy thing with leaking seams
And creaking planks, worm-bored and
strained.
Yet never craft that sailed the seas
A prouder crew than hers could boast;
Her flag it was of tattered silk. }
Her name “The Terror of the ,Coast.
By noon and moon all winds that blew —
Blew high, blew low —in her we hailed,
As day and night by timbered isles
And cosy coves we rowed or sailed.
Three liatless urchins, bare of foot.
With “Ship, ahoy!” upon our lips,
We cruised the harbor up and down.
And dipped our flag to clipper ships.
On azure waves or white-capped waves
We felt the joyance sailing thus
Of voyageurs of old Romance
And mariners adventurous.
Glad harbor days—days blue, days gold—
How sweet they seem and how remote!
Far other seas we've sailed since then.
Three urchins in an old blue boat.
N.SAV.
RODERIC QUINN.


■
J3/ue
tl
wi vHxsnv
IIiPHI SMOS
wnos
%&*#*« I
* ” ■ J3 r i- •
I; T
*** a 1*
ĵ
0


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspape^
Vo l .. 47. —No. 2417 i.
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 1926.
Price 6d.
RECKLESS DRIVING.
"The N.S.W. State Government has promised to introduce legislation to deal severely with reckless motorists.... Some industries have already moved to Victoria to escape
the effect the 44-hour week and kindred legation."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
minted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and AicLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Offiee of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydnej', N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER B
(In Advance only).
Posted to anv address in Austkalasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.: 3 months, 7s.
To ant address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
oil Business Communications to be addressed to the
-V anager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2321 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents oi this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or,, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood thc.t
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bullf.tin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhicli such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London Is
1,. St. C. Gromlona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. .4/ 4 -e from Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli, 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.lj.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, li.C.Jj.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, Iffi Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 51 High Uolborn,
London, W.C.I ; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street,
London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27tli Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 I Vest 41st Street, New York City.
Washington : Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Part Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. —J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 4<>z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 1926.
A FEAST OF PROPOSALS.
The Bruce-Page Ministry has spread be-
fore Parliament, one House of which has yet
to dispose of the tariff, an excessive amount
of food for reflection during the remainder of
the session, which was resumed last week.
In the course of a few days it came out with
proposals for additional grants to Westralia
and Tasmania, for the readjustment of exist-
ing Commonwealth and State financial
arrangements, for tin- Federalising of 528,000
square miles of territory now under West-
ralian control (the House of Reps, is already
struggling with legislation for the setting up
of a commission “to develop Northern Aus-
tralia”), and for Constitutional alterations
that will admit of the Commonwealth (a)
taking control of essential services in the
event of a general strike, ( h ) grappling with
trusts and combinations in restraint of trade,
whether combinations of employers or em-
ployees, and (c) creating authorities “to
deal with all matters relating to the regula-
tion of industry and the determination of
fiOMUtious of employment throughout Aus-
tralia.” Members had already been warned
that they Mould have to wrestle with bills
for the setting up of another commission-
for “migration” this time —the construction
of the Redhill-Port Augusta railway and
the amendment of the Arbitration Act that
has been amended so often and with so little
effect; and that they would be expected to
finish everything by the end of August, the
Prime Minister being due to leave for Lon-
don early in September. It is a sinfully
overloaded programme, and although it will
probably be lightened in some respects —for
instance, Westralia will almost certainly re-
fuse to part with its best sheep and cattle
country, its richest base-metal districts, its
pearl fisheries and some of its finest harbors
—overloaded it will still be. Trying to do
too much in a given time is one of the Gov-
ernment’s had habits. It makes for con-
fused thinking and defective legislation.
* * * *
In 1923 the Bruce-Pages offered to let
the States have the exclusive right of taxing
incomes of £2OOO p.a. and less if they would
abandon their claim to the per capita pay-
ments out of Federal revenue. These pay-
ments should have ceased when the Beaddon
clause expired in 1910 and the people refused
to vote them into the Constitution, but they
•were extended for 10 years under an Act
of the Fisher Government, and have been
continued since 1920 as a matter of grace.
Nevertheless, the State Governmetits de-
clared, in effect, that the Commonwealth offer
was contemptible considering that they had
been guaranteed the 255. per head for all
time; and Treasurer Page took it like a
lamb. He then proposed to abandon the
Federal impost as regards individuals —com-
panies were to be taxed to a maximum of
2s. 6d., in the £—conditionally on the States
waiving the per capita payments and interest
on the transferred properties, w r hieh latter
amounted to £381,400 last year. This plan
was viewed with less disfavor, but N. S.
Wales objected, being the Everlasting Nark.
The third scheme contains the principal fea-
tures of the second plus “temporary financial
assistance to prevent undue dislocation of
State finances” and “financial assistance
without regard to State boundaries or popu-
lation where proper and necessary develop-
ment cannot otherwise be secured.” By way
of “temporary assistance” the States are to
get £970,000 in the first year, £600,000 in
the second year, £400,000 in the third year,
and after that as much as they can wangle ;
the tn r o or three millions already promised
to Westralia and Tasmania, and M-liich M'ill
probably have to be doubled, are additional.
* * * *
It is alleged that the latest proposals
“offer a satisfactory basis for a definite and
final determination of the present unsound
system, noth its accompanying duplication of
income-taxes.” The truth is that there would
still be duplication of income-taxes, and of
land-taxes, taxes on entertainments and
death duties as well. Also, to get over the
difficulty created by the fact that the inter-
est on all Commonwealth loans issued locally
since 1918, and on all State loans so issued
since January 1, 1924, is free of State
iucome-tax, yet another impost is suggested.
And this would still admit of a man earning
£lOOO a year in a State like N. S. Wales or
Queensland being taxed £4O or £5O while
an investor drawing the same amount of
money or more from several States with high
exemptions would escape altogether; with
numerous other anomalies of the kind. The
whole business could be settled, without pre-
serving the worst of the present maddening
complications and inventing new ones, by
the Commonwealth terminating the per
capita payments, which are round about
£7,000,000 p.a.; reserving the income-tax for
its own requirements, particularly those con-
nected with the w 7 ar; abandoning its land-
tax. entertainments-tax and death duties,
which bring in £4,000,000 p.a., roughly
£6,000,000 less than the State income-taxes ;
and paying half the interest on the State
debts, which interest amounted to £25,000,000
in 1923-24. Thereby it could make a start witli
the taking over of the State debts, as author-
ised by an immense majority of the nation
in 1910; in fact, it could arrange to take
over 50 p.c. of those liabilities at once, it
■would be nothing new for the States to get
their revenue from other sources than the
taxation of incomes: Westralia didn’t have
an income-tax till 1907, and the Queensland
and Tasmanian imposts arrived two years
after the establishment of the Common-
wealth. Page’s plan would only make con-
fusion worse confounded.
* * * *
The suggested additions to the Constitution
command much more respectful attention.
In asking for power to “protect the interests
of the public in case of actual or probable
interruption of any essential service,” the
Government is on unassailable ground; to
convince those who are not blind or one-
eyed it should only be necessary to refer
to what happened in Australia last year and
in Britain within the last, month. The pro-
posal to give the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court supreme authority in industrial affairs
will likewise require no defence in the eyes
of honest men. Because authority has been
divided between six States and a Federation,
industrial arbitration has never M'orked suc-
cessfully in Australia ; it may not work suc-
cessfully if a single over-ruling authority
decides broad principles, but it M'ill at least
have a fighting chance. The Maoriland ex-
perience of the system has been that once
you get both sides used to the principle that
they must accept the ruling of the arbitrator,
however much they may grumble about it,
neither side M'ill really umnt to relinquish it.
The law is strained at times in the small
Dominion, and it sometimes gets broken ; but
despite the enmity of the Red element the
principle of arbitration U'orks. The Aus-
tralian chaos increases the opportunities for
mischief of professional strife-mongers. The
Federal Arbitration Court is powerless to
enforce awards, and the States play eatch-
as-catch-can with arbitration courts, wages
boards, industrial commissions and other in-
ventions, and the result is a tangle amid
which the only thing that grows luxuriantly
is bad feeling between employer and em-
ployed. To end that insanity, to make in-
dustrial law a Commonwealth matter, is a
necessary step towards securing those
friendly relations between wage-payers and
wage-earners Mhich exist in the republic
on the other side of the water and which
Australia so sorely needs.
SYDNEY’S TAMMANY HALL.
When tlie Labor party recaptured the Syd-
ney Town Hall, thanks to the other crowd’s
internal quarrels and the Fueler Govern-
ment’s neglect to provide for preferential
voting, the municipal accounts showed a
surplus of £93,496. The surplus has gone
where all surpluses go when socialists rule
the roost. A few days ago the Labor vice-
chairman of the finance committee, reviewing
the 1925 transactions, reported a deficit of
£70,684. A member of the Opposition coun-
tered with the assertion that the deficit was
really £206,684, since items amounting to
£136,000 which should have been paid out of
revenue had been charged to a new capital
account. To this there was no reply. The
vice-chairman of the finance committee said
that “the financial position is absolutely
secure, as the City Council has assets repre-
senting £19,920,097, which gives a surplus
of £700,783 over liabilities.” It may be so,
but the £700,783 is only an estimate, and,
oddly, the very same estimate was arrived at
on December 31, 1924, when assets were
stated at £18,479,941 and liabilities at
£17,779,157; the previous year’s estimate
was £448,808. The vice-chairman did not
dwell on the circumstance that liabilities
had gone up £1,440,157 in the first year of
the Stokes regime. Neither did he mention
that loans floated in the good old four-per-
cent. days are falling due with embarrassing
frequency. Twenty-one 4 p.c. loans totalling
£473,050 matured in 1925. and five totalling
£295,000 will mature in 1926, together with
a trifle of £20,000 at 34 p.c. Portion of
this £788,050, for which the other party de-
mands at least 5i p.c. when he renews the
bill, was borrowed for the municipal markets,
some of which don’t pay. The greater part
was expended on the electricity-supply under-
taking, which paid handsomely in the non-
Labor past, though it is very unlikely to pay
as handsomely again, if it pays at all.
The electricity accounts are kept separate
from those which showed the £70,000 deficit
last year. In 1921, the closing twelvemonth
of the Bill Lambert circus, the concern
was run at a loss of £23,747. In 1922 and
1923, both Reform years, there were net pro-
fits of £141,352 and £93,761 respectively. In
1924, the last Reform year, the gross income
was £1,523,840, and the net profit £207,271.
Then Municipal Labor came along, and,
though gross income went up to £1,700.450,
net profit slumped to £53,608. In the first
three months of 1926 net profit disappeared
altogether, there being a loss of £15,240.
Simultaneously the business has been cursed,
as never before, by dissatisfied consumers,
for in some portion or other of the region
served the lights go out at least once a week.
It is stated that the service will be restored
to its former efficiency when the new power-
house is in being at Botany. Whether this
be so or not, the cost of the new power-house,
owing to riotous extravagance in the letting
of contracts and the engaging and treatment
of labor, will assuredly prevent any restora-
tion of former profits, this side of 1940 at
least. The most important part of the elec-
trical apparatus is to be constructed at a
Government dockyard which has never had
a contract of the kind before, and whose
quotation for turbo-alternators was £34,000
higher than that of Sydney manufacturers
who undertook to get 51 p.c. more material
in Australia. As for labor, it is all engaged
in municipal Sydney, and is motored to and
from the distant job at the ratepayers’ ex-
pense, that it may be on hand, and in the
right frame of mind, to vote for Tammany
when required. These and other peculiar
things were and are done in the absence of
the highly-eapable general manager, who was
sent abroad on a perfectly useless mission
before the power-house business was brought
on, and who has since sent word by cable
that he is worried about the vanishing of
profits and about socialist schemes for buy-
ing a coal-mine (a. previous Labor Council
wanted to pay £75,000 for a property valued
at £5000) and retailing electrical appliances
on terms to suit the downtrodden masses.
• * * *
In Town-clerk Nesbitt’s last annual re-
port (there has been nothing half so infor-
mative since he retired) it was stated that
the Council employed 3548 persons on Dec.
31. 1922. as compared with 3602 in 1921 and
3285 in 1920. The Labor crowd put on 1151
ip 1925. and 600 or 700 have been added this
year. Nearly all the latter were nominated
by Labor aldermen in accordance with the
Tammany idea (embodied in an actual reso-
lution) that: ward bosses should engage labor,
and not the heads of departments—an aider-
man’s nomination, enrolment as a municipal
elector and membership of the. Municipal
Employees’ Union or some other Labor
organisation are now the only qualifications
required. Probably another thousand or two
will he recruited before the municipal rolls
are made up in May next year, the franchise
being conferred on any person, male or
female, who has occupied a room. Hal or
slum “for the six months next preceding tin-
first day of May in the year in which a roll
is to be prepared.” The housing of this
horde is becoming a problem, for municipal
Sydney is a small place and accommodation,
except in the slums, is scarce and dear. It,
is therefore proposed to build dwellings and
blocks of flats on land costing anything from
£3O a foot up, and debit the ratepayers with
the certain loss. Laborers who are family
men would be better off in the outer suburbs,
where land can be got for £2 a foot, and
where the surroundings would be far healthier
for the bodies and minds of their children
than those in slum quarters; but in that
case their votes would be lost to the Muni-
cipal Labor party, and nothing else seems to
be thought of. How to keep the host em-
ployed till votes are wanted is no problem
at all. City Council employees get so much
annual leave and so many other holidays
that a large proportion of them are always
away. Also, undue exertion is discouraged
since Municipal Labor arrived and with it
the 44-hour week; the Mosman Council,
which has to pay the basic wage for the 44-
lmur week, complains that laborers are de-
serting its service for that of the City Coun-
cil, which pays £1 a week more for less work.
Many Sydney municipal laborers spend their
44 hours, less holidays, on resumptions, the
Council having a craze for widening streets
that are not worth widening and pulling
down buildings which there is no necessity
for pulling down. Touching resumptions,
£267,000 is to be paid to John Wren, the
Labor party’s wealthy patron, for property
which the municipal valuers reckoned to be
worth £2ul ,000, and of which the owner s
valuation was said to be £250,000. Also,
Minaiian, M.L.A., another Labor capital-
ist, is to get a corner site, without the annoy-
ance of an auction sale, for less, it is
claimed, than the present owners offered, and,
according to one alderman’s account, for
“£5OO a foot below the market value.” So
some people are not doing badly under the
Labor regime, though the general body of
ratepayers have plenty of reasons for regret-
ting that it ever seized Sydney, and will have
plenty more.
A CALL FOR THE ALL-ROUND MAN.
When, in the eighties of last century, Glad-
stone and several of his colleagues spent a
holiday at Cannes, ears were cocked to catch
any hints of political developments that they
might drop. But all listeuers-in were dis-
appointed. The discussions were of litera-
ture and art, of Greek drama and Gothic
architecture, of a thousand and one things
of interest to readers and scholars, but never
once was there a suggestion that these men had
any special concern with European politics.
They may be taken as almost the last types
of an order 'which has passed away; yet
they were in direct intellectual descent from
the makers of civilisation. Sophocles was
in his youth one of the Athenian athletes,
and in liis middle-age one of the ten generals
selected to lead the Attic armies. Julius
Caesar, up to his neck in political intrigue,
fighting desperate battles in Gaul all sum-
mer, ruling a huge province and acting as
a Judge on circuit all winter, reading Greek
authors with enthusiasm, and even writing
Latin verses, was at the same time the great-
est expert in gems of his time. Cicero, on
the other hand, comes down from the same
period as a kind of failure. As a gover-
nor and a soldier he was a joke; and the
fact that he was the greatest prose-writer
of the Roman race has never been sufficient
to balance his lack of other qualities. Even
Alexander in his world-shaking career was
far more than a leader of soldiers. A
strategist, he was at the same time a leader
of cavalry, a student of Greek philosophy,
a statesman of vision, and, above all, a
planner and builder of cities.
It may fairly be said that the all-round
man rather than the specialist dominated the
world from the time of Cyrus, and even
earlier, to the days of the first Napoleon ;
but with the growth of science and the ex-
pansion of trade the new era of specialism
began. To what an extent the all-round idea
governed ancient education can still be seen
in certain linguistic remains. In the Irish
schools of the sixth century, where Greek
was taught and the sphericity of the world
accepted as a fact, a single word was vised
to cover the whole field of poetry, philosophy
and science. Our own word “philosophy”
was almost as wide in its application, extend-
ing from argument about the immortality of
the soul, to physics and mineralogy.
The modern world lias become sectional,
has broken knowledge into fragments and
action into atoms for rather doubtful gain.
Great Italian artists of the later Middle
Ages might paint a picture one week, pro-
duce a group of statuary the next, and spend
the month which followed in designing a
cathedral or laying out new streets for a
city. The fact that an artist paints well is
almost taken now as a guarantee that he
has no knowledge of sculpture, and even as
presumptive evidence that he knows little
about the ordinary business of life. The
idea that a great surgeon should know much
about medicine is scouted, and that lie should
be a painter, a scholar or a poet is almost
out of the question. The new ideal of human
life appears to be that the brain and energy
of a man should be concentrated intensely
upon one point, that he should be entirely
and altogether master in some matter of
knowledge or practice and oblivious of all
else. Carried to its logical conclusion, such
an ideal must in the end contract efficiency
almost to a pinpoint: and the danger is that
in doing so it may leave vast areas of life
barren, unexploited and even unexplored.
The scientist who concentrates entirely on
a single phase of insect life, though in doing
so he may add an accurate and intense
chapter to the book of human knowledge, is
not greatly different from the man who
spends eight hours of every day in screwing
a nut of exactly the same size on a piece
of machinery of exactly the same design.
Though the narrowed mechanical skill of
one goes only to cheapen machinery and
the brain-power of the other goes to extend
knowledge, the effect upon the two lives must
be very much the same. Each in point of
citizenship becomes a smaller man.
To decry specialism may be both foolisli
and futile; but there can scarcely be a
doubt that a well-balanced civilisation de-
mands both the specialist and the all-round
man. It is possible to go farther and assert
that the all-round man must still be greater
than the specialist, because more important
to the race. In the great sphere of world-
affairs this is particularly noticeable. The
lack of wise leadership is the feature of the
age, and that lack is very largely due to
the absence of all-round men of the highest
type. The specialist cannot possess the full
qualities fitting him for political headship.
In handling certain details he may be the
man best qualified for the post; but on the
larger human stage, where a thousand in-
terests intermingle and clash, he is certain
to be found wanting. It is the all-round
man who is alone fitted to lead—the man
whose broad survey of life is based on a
sound philosophy and a reasonable know-
ledge of the history of the past. If he has
been in close touch with a dozen different
occupations by which men earn their bread
it is all to the good. If he knows much of
the gracious things of life, is steeped in its
beauty and its poetry, that also is an advan-
tage. If he has enough knowledge of the
arts and sciences to grasp the meaning of
the technical advice which experts in different
directions are able to give, and can weigh
such advice without depending on the names
and reputations of his advisers, he can the
more readily arrive at. a just and swift judg-
ment on matters which may otherwise cause
great waste of time.
A national education which will open tin 1
doors for these things is greatly to bo desired.


The present view of educationists would
appear to be that each pupil iu the State
schools is to be a specialist—whether in
wielding a shovel, selling tape or setting
bones does not matter. The truth is that
general education has nothing to do with the
specialist callings of those who may after-
wards narrow and intensify their life-work.
The business of an education system is to
turn out those who 'will have the means of
taking a full hold upon the business of
living. And it is from those who live most
fully and who have the widest human in-
terests that the leaders of the future must
be drawn.
D.M.W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Leaders Who Don’t Lead.
Ramsay Macdonald is beating his head
against the stone wall of organisation-rule
upon which so many Australian Labor legis-
lators have battered their hapless brain-boxes
in futile protest. Macdonald believes that
the duty of a leader is to lead, but in that
belief he is opposed by the Supreme Adminis-
trative Council of his party —an extra-Parlia-
mentary body. A few weeks ago four
Socialist M’s.P., members of the party execu-
tive, took their places on the front Opposition
bench in the House of Commons. These
gentlemen were elected by the executive of
the Parliamentary Labor party, and did what
they did at the bidding of that body. The
front bench has hitherto been reserved for
ex-Ministers, Privy Councillors, and members
of the party invited there by the leader.
The new policy means, of course, that Ramsay
Macdonald is compelled to accept as col-
leagues men chosen not by himself but by the
party. The plan is common iu Australia,
and simply signifies that party is dominant,
and that leadership is at a discount: the
Parliamentary executive is dominated entirely
by outside influences, and these exterior
forces aspire to run the legislative machine
openly and undisguisedly. Against this prac-
tice the ex-Prime Minister felt called upon
to make a protest in the Socialist Revieav :
With the growth of the Parliamentary power of
the Labor Party is an increasing tendency for bodies
and committees to give us our policy and our
programme. This indicates a healthy sense of
possession perhaps, but it has its limits, which had
better be recognised.... It is a great temptation for
conferences and committees to prepare schemes and
proposals, pass them in the frame of mind of a
public meeting or propaganda council, and by the
\otes of delegates who will never have to explain
or defend them in the teeth of hostile criticism
and down to the minutest detail, pass them, and
then hand them over to a body of unfortunate
members of Parliament, and especially Ministers, like
orders issued to subordinates by military commanders.
It will never work, and now is the time to make
that plain to all whom it may concern.... When to
that is added the sanctification of phrases of no
definite meaning like “Socialism in our time,” as
though Socialism were a dose of something or a
rigidly outlined erection in social architecture, the
movement is being headed straight to destruction.
....No Government can satisfy expectations the
content of which every man must decide for him-
self ; no Government can stand the racket and the
bombardment that would f0110w.... It is weakness
and not strength to hang millstones for mere show-
round the neck of the movement, and no Parliamentary
party worth its salt -will allow its work to be settled
for it by bodies who will not have to face Parlia-
mentary attack. We know as w r ell as any other ooteiie
the spirit of the Socialist movement and its goals,
and we shall not allow our marchings to be dictated
to us against our judgment.
Ramsay Macdonald would have been ex-
pelled from the ranks by any Labor party
in Australia for the sentiments expressed in
the last half-dozen lines. It was for pro-
testing against this settling of Parliamentary
policy by irresponsible outside bodies that
Kidston, Airey, Kerr and Jackson, and a
dozen others, were driven out of the Queens-
land Labor party 19 years ago, au expulsion
that resulted directly in the present demorni-
isation of that body. There was and is
something to be said for Caucus control.
The Caucus is at least composed of chosen
representatives of the people. But for any
outside body of men to attempt to control
the people’s representatives and to dictate
their “marchings” is as undemocratic as any-
thing could be, and as subversive of popular
government.
The Northern Ghost Walks Again.
The Bruce-Page Ministry has resumed the
parable of the Northern Territory where it
left off before the Parliamentary holiday.
The bill hasn’t improved during the interval,
and the scheme is still the scheme of Pearce,
with all that gentleman’s legislative ear-
marks. The place is to be divided in two,
one being called North Australia and one
Central Australia. When these banal re-
marks are put on the map to keep company
with South Australia and Western Australia
there will be no originality iu the land west
of about long. 140. Some outstanding needs
of the neglected Federal province are so con-
spicuous that there is unanimity, or 994 per
cent, of unanimity, about them. A through
railway is wanted to connect the place with
centres of population as Westralia was con-
nected, subsidiary railways to follow accord-
ing to circumstances. This matter is
embodied in the agreement under which the
Commonwealth holds the Territory, and even
the route is practically defined, so nothing
is left to argue about there. The impossi-
bility of progress with a system under which
land freight is 2s. 9d. per ton per mile is
also plain enough. The demand for more
wells has been shouted for years. Even the
Old Testament patriots knew that travelling
cattle need water, but the N.T. is the worst
supplied spot on the continent in this re-
spect. The total depth bored was officially
reported as 52,294 ft. in 1916 and 54,970 ft.
iu 1924 —an increase of 2676 ft. Queensland
has 67 times the Territory’s aggregate depth
of wells. Having made some facilities for
traffic and some provision against said traffic
dying of thirst, an obvious idea would be
to devise some land tenure which would
attract settlement, and as settlers have been
attracted easily enough in some other States
this shouldn’t be difficult, provided that theo-
retical cranks are kept out of the business.
The monumental triumph of the bill now
wobbling through the Federal Legislature is
that it doesn’t attempt to provide one of the
big rudimentary things that the North, to
everybody’s knowledge, requires. But it pro-
poses to set up two costly arid elaborate semi-
demi-Administratious at two widely-apart
places, to discourse afresh on the need for
cheap and rapid communications, water and
population to begin with, and other improve-
ments to follow-. These bodies won’t be State
Governments with real powers, for there
aren’t enough settlers to create and main-
tain Governments, and the bill fails to pro-
vide for settlers. So they will report to Mel-
bourne, which Avas too remote before to take
an interest in northern events, and which
isn’t getting any nearer. Melbourne isn’t
to act without their advice, which is worse
than the present position, but it will very
probably get their advice without acting,
which is the present position over again.
♦
The Meat Market.
The primary producer’s other name _is
Jeremiah, but there is a lot of justification
for the long-standing complaint of the Aus-
tralian cattle-raiser that what was once a
flourishing industry is dying on its feet.
There have been many contributory causes,
some of which were faithfully dealt with the
other day by Frank Houlper, chairman of
directors of Bergyl Australia, Ltd., and asso-
ciated with other big shipping and meat in-
terests. According to this authority, meat
treatment and shipment in Australia has
shown a steadily increasing loss for the last
five years. Taxation —especially in Queens-
land —high rates of wages and the repeated
holding up of the industry by petty labor dis-
putes have been big factors in a decline
which has reduced the tally of Queensland
meat works in active operation from 20 to 3.
Last season promised a definite change for
the better, but the British seamen’s strike
speedily changed that hope to near-disaster.
But not all the trouble is due to industrial
handicaps, or bad seasous like that which as
now- afflicting the northern cattle country. Iu
the Argentine Australia has a competitor
which has so outdistanced this country in
matters of stock breeding, transportation and
preparation for market as to make it seem
almost impossible for us to catch up. If we
had tried to do so a generation ago, as many
experts advised, we might have been in a
better position. Though it has a natural
advantage in its greater proximity to
Europe, which enables it to employ the
vastly superior method of chilling its meat,
as opposed to our freezing, the Argentine
has labored hard for results. From the A-ery
beginning the greatest attention has been
paid to the importation of the finest beef
strains. This policy has not been confined,
as, for the most part, has been Australia’s
foolish fashion, to stud bulls only. The
Argentine has watched the standard of its
coavs, with, the result that the expensive
sires have not been wasted. As the German
made his railway system converge on the
Belgian frontier long before the invasion, so
the Argentine has spun a network of rails
over its cattle areas, and brought them to a
point at Avorks which load the chilled beef
into the oversea ships lying alongside.
Special trucks are used for transporting the
cattle. Avhile the care taken in their handling
is quite unlike our casual methods. Behind it
all is the cheap and industrious peon, likely,
occasionally, to knife a foreman, perhaps, but
never so brainless as to attempt the assas-
sination of a Avhole industry, and his own
means of livelihood at the same time. The
outlook for the Australian beef-grower, then,
is not exhilarating. There is a minor demand
for his frozen product as a second-class
article. while an occasional Army contract
and a desultory trade AA-ith Asia appear to
hie the sum of his other opportunities outside
the home trade. At present rates of rent,
taxation and wages, ulus industrial and
weather uncertainties, his product is costly,
even Avithin his own borders. Unless science
can help him greatly his only hope for the
future would seem to be a much-increased
home population.
*
Unreliable Statistics.
"Azac” : Now that the selling of our pro-
ducts is to receive more attention- —Govern-
ment marketing branches are springing up
all over the Commonwealth, and Ministers
are tripping to London to see how- they do
it “over there” —our statistics of production
ought to be got into better shape. In this
country the missing-link between the pro-
ducer and the buyer is reliable information
slioAving the surplus of production over con-
sumption, so that we can tell prospective
buyers Avhat we have to offer them, and in
what quantity. The Commonwealth tries to
supply some of this information through the
“Official Year Book,” the “Quarterly Sum-
mary” and the “Production Bulletin,” all
three of which contain the same information.
To be as good as the other fellow, N. S.
Wales also publishes three statistical books.
To say they are useless would perhaps be
considered profanity, as politicians quote from
them so often and so fervently that many
are under the impression that figures cannot
lie when they are “official.” However, offi-
cials can only do their best with the figures
they receive from producers, and if figures
can’t lie liars can figure. The collection of
these returns, so far as rural industries are
concerned, is one of the many extra jobs
loaded on the local John Hop, and as it
carries no responsibility of any note, he
generally extracts particulars from the
farmers when he meets then in the township,
instead of making a personal visit to the
farms. Naturally the cow-cocky thinks in
terms of cows, the w-heat-farmer in terms
of wheat and the sheep-man in terms of
sheep; consequently the only reliable infor-
mation that they could give from memory
would be concerning the cows, wheat or
sheep, as the case may be. All minor farm
operations are brushed aside with the in-
junction to “put ’em down the same as last
year.” The farmer is contented; he has
been doing it the same way for years. And
the statisticiaus seem satisfied, for they con-
fidently claim there were 80.110,461 (note
the one) sheep and 13,357,508 (yes, and
eight) cattle in Australia on December 31,
1923. Absolute accuracy, of course, could
never be obtained with most figures, as
counts that run into millions could not
possibly be made on a particular date.
Still, there must be very great im-
provement if the figures are to be of
any great use. Farmers must receive in-
struction as to why the statistics are
collected; they must be shown the value
of exactness; only Avheu they become in-
terested shall we get anything reliable. But
something stronger than instruction is needed
by many of the larger pastoralists and
farmers, who intentionally supply false re-
turns of clips or harvests with the object
of defeating the income-tax people, so they
think, though as a matter of fact the com-
missioner never sees such returns. Let us
take the case of the wool industry. Pasto-
ralists for years past have been returning
iigures far below actual production of wool;
and the proof is in the “Commonwealth Year
Book” itself. Production for the whole of
Australia in 1922-28 was 640,817,5891 b. as
in the grease. Local consumption averages
about 50,000,0001 b. yearly. In that same
year were exported 597,429,6491 b. greasy
wool, 106,319,9651 b. scoured, and 6,374,9221 b.
tops, or in terms of greasy wool (21b. greasy
to lib. scoured) a total of about
820,000,0001 b. exported—22o,ooo,ooolb. more
than was produced that year and available
over and above local requirements ! There
is, of course, a carry-over from one year to
another to consider, but such amounts could
never account for such enormous discrepan-
cies. It is, therefore, fairly safe to say
that the wool clip of 1922-23 was nearer
820,000,0001 b. than the 640,000,0001 b. re-
turned by pastoralists—an under-estimation
of 180,000,0001 b., or about 20 per cent. Here
are the production and export figures (iu
terms of greasy wool) for the last five years
ending with the clip of 1924-25:
Production, lb. Exported, lb.
547,502,715 554,128,800
631,514,435 927,833,90.0
640,317,589 823,839,700
590,820,185 678,655,900
676,238,427 579,515,900
Total.. 3,086,393,351 3,563,974,200
From the total production for the five years
we have to take 250,000,0001 b., or 50 mil-
lion pounds per year, being the amount taken
for local consumption. This would leave an
exportable surplus for the five years of
2,836,393,3511 b., which is 727,580,8491 b. less
than the total exports for the same five years.
The Statistician must have suspected such
discrepancies, and as he has independent
checks, such as selling brokers’ returns, cus-
toms returns, and carry-over returns with
which to check his suspicions, surely he can
do something to more reliably tell the world
what we really are. We cannot so easily
check other industries, but enough is known
to say that the pastoralist is not the only
“black sheep.”
A Memory of May Day, 1925.
In his May Day oration at Auburn last
year—he called it a policy speech— Lang,
now N. S. Wales Premier, asserted that his
opponents’ finance was suspect on the London
money market. “That is proved,” he went
on to say, “by loans floated by the National-
ist Government being left in the hands of the
underwriters. Labor has never found any
difficulty in raising money, and it anticipates
none now.” Follows a comment from Lon-
don Review of Reviews, which is by no
means unfriendly to Labor parties:—
Some arrangement ought to be made for limiting
“colonial” borrowing in this country. The Common-
wealth Government sought to bring about a limita-
tion of borrowing by Australian States by co-operation.
Rut N. S. Wales refused to be a party to co-operation,
and issued a loan for £4,000,000 in five per cents,
at 98. The issue was a failure, and very properly
so. N. S. Wales is the most importunate of Aus-
tiaiian borrowers, and by her excessive borrowing is
imperilling Australian credit as well as her own. It
is absurd that one State should be allowed to inter-
fere with the general financial programme of Aus-
tralia.
Scabbing on the Loan Council was Lang’s
own idea, and the London fiasco ivas the
immediate result. The gentleman was so
sure that J. Bull’s purse would be at his
disposal that, in addition to “the vigorous
public-works policy” always promised on
these occasions, he undertook “to raise the
necessary money to effect, the settlement of
every qualified applicant who wants to go
on the land.” A “qualified applicant” was
defined (as far as a definition was attempted)
as an Australian who could p.ay “a small
deposit.” There were “10 or 20 thousand”
so situated, and their “settlement” was to be
“accomplished as soon as possible” ; also they
Avere to be placed "on at least as good a
footing” as the 6000 immigrants provided for
in the latest arrangement with the British
Government, which immigrants, he alleged,
were “to each get a block of ground and a
cash advance to stock and improve their
holdings.” ‘The “10 or 20 thousand pros-
pective settlers” are still waiting for their
farms and cash advances, and are likely to
keep on waiting. Their feelings- are shared
by a numerous band to whom tin following
pledges were given in the May Day policy
speech, among others :
One of thp first acts of the Labor Government will
be to take the necessary power to resume the big
western leases, for the subdivision of which- a keen
demand has arisen, and turn them to more productive
use.
The Labor policy will include a reduction in
country railway fares and freights, a reduction in
second-class fares on suburban lines, and a reduction
in tramway fares.
Labor will introduce an unemployed insurance
scheme, establish industrial banks for the use of
the workers, set up a higher standard of living, and
appoint an employees’ representative on the Board
of Railway Commissioners —in fact, on the boards
of all State enterprises.
There has been no resumption of the west-
ern leases, no reduction in fares or goods
rates, nor any attempt to supply the remain-
ing items. The Goi’ernment has tackled other
things, some of which were not mentioned by
the May Day spouter, but it has made a
mess of most, especially the 44-hour-week
legislation—so stupid in its effort to over-
ride awards of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court, and so serious in its effects
on N.S.W. manufacturing industries —and
the screaming farce of the attempts to
abolish the Leg. Council. Practically the
only job on which the Government hasn’t
fallen down was the salary-grab, which
awarded each Assemblyman another £275
p.a. and made the Premier’s figure
£2445, the Attorney-General’s £2095, the Leg.
Council leader’s £1375, and those of nine
other Ministers £1945 each, the increases
dating from July 1, although the bill wasn’t
put through till October. In that inglorious
enterprise the Administration succeeded per-
fectly.
♦
Cassava in Queensland.
Dear Bulletin, — “W.r.D.” notwithstand-
ing (B. 13/5/’26), the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture either told the Federal
Joint Committee of Accounts tliat “....no
information was available concerning the
growing of cassava under Queensland condi-
tions, but it was estimated that the cost of
production would be about the same as
arrow r root, and that the yield per acre would
approximate eight tons,” or else that Depart-
ment should insist upon the removal of the
statement from the report of the committee.
This does not square with what “W.P.D.
says the Department told him; but, then,
neither does its shameless efforts to coax in-
experienced people out to engage in agricul-
tural pursuits on grazing lands square with
the facts. It merely indicates that the De-
partment does as a Government of trades
unionists tells it, and boosts agricultural
schemes by using bulk rainfall averages,
and says nothing about the rain all falling
at once. This has nothing to do with the
cost of producing cassava or with its alco-
holic content; but it has a lot to do witf*
the reliability of “W.P.D.’s” information.
Bulletin No. 24, issued in 1928 by the Com-
monwealth Institute of Science and Indus-
try, says this of cassava: —
The yield of alcohol from a ton of such raw
material as cassava or sweet-potato could not average
more than 14 per cent. Having regard, therefore,
to the low density of the raw material and the
necessity of cultivation, and of collecting it from
relatively large areas, the cost of raw material per
unit of product is likely to remain higher than that
of minerals of liighly-concentrated fuel value like
coal and shale.
Further, one B. Hooper spoke a piece in the
Cairns Post just about a year ago. He
talked from his own experience, and said
that it costs more to cultivate and harvest
a crop of cassava than a crop of sugar. He
went on to say:—
Cassava cannot be ploughed out like potatoes or
dug out with a spade or a mattock, as the roots are
3ft. long and vary in number from three up to seven.
.... The deeper the roots go the heavier the crop
will be, and it is an exceptionally good crop that will
go over 15 tons per acre. It costs Bs. per ton to
harvest a fair crop of sugar, but who will harvest
cassava at Bs. per ton? Little has been said of the
insect pests which attack cassava. The cane-grub
has a liking for it, and I have seen several stools
eaten by grubs. At Rollingstone I saw a plot
wholly destroyed by white ants, and if cassava is
harvested during the wet, the broken ends of roots
are attacked by a fungus which causes the roots to
rot very quickly.
“W.P.D.” says that agricultural methods in
Queensland are in advance of those in Java,
and suggests that, through the resultant
higher yield, the costs of production in
Queensland will compare favorably with
those for Java. This probably accounts for
agricultural products having to be highly
protected in Australia to enable them to be
produced at all. Sugar, a product of both
countries, has to be put on the list of pro-
hibited immigrants, and if sugar-production
lias not reached the high-water of efficiency
in Queensland it never will. If the grow-
ing of cassava for use in conjunction with
waste molasses in the manufacture of power-
alcohol is going to stand the acid test, it
will do so on its merits ; and its merits will
only be found by a clear and calm examina-
tion of all the factors, both for and against.
—Yours, Cleveland.
——♦
The Four-color Flag.
Prime-Minister Hertzog of South Africa
has made an announcement about a new
national flag, and the enraged British people
of Natal say it is Paul Kruger’s old banner
come back. Natal is the only one of the four
provinces which began British, and its people
take the fact very seriously. Yet it is the
least white of the four, and is afflicted not
only with the local nigger but with colored
brethren and sistern from India, imported
under the clieap-labor delusion. They were
invited in fully half a century after the
white man’s advent, but already they out-
number him, and have given up cheap labor-
ing. The position in S’Africa makes many
people doubt if the famous victory of 1902
was all the success it was cracked up to be.
A large and warlike Boer community was
added to the British property, which was a
good deal Boer already. The annexed areas
(Transvaal and Orange Free State) have
the greatest increase in population; in fact,
the white increase in the Transvaal alone
between 1911 and 1921 far exceeded
that of the two more British pro-
vinces put together. The white birth-rate
in the Union is much higher than the colored
one, so the two whitest (and Dutchest) pro-
vinces showed to advantage. The Union has
had three Prime Ministers, all Boer generals.
The first two were obtrusively loyal to the
British Empire. The third (the man with
the new flag) is less so—much less so. Seven
out of the ten names in the Ministry don’t
sound British, nor those of three out of the
four provincial Administrators. General
Smuts declared that the new flag-business
tends to burst up the lately-accomplished
unity of the two races, but when one-half of
the Federal capital is at Cape Town to please
the British (not that the Cape Province is
all British by any means) and the other half
at Pretoria, 1000 miles away, to mollify the
Dutch, the unity appears to be in two parts.
The S’African Dutch may be anglicised in
time, but they will probably have to wait
their turn, which comes after that of the
Irish and the French-Canadians.
“Bildad” : W. M. Hughes always wants to
stop on the brink of action and reopen the
whole question. If he was just starting on
a free ride in an airship he would jib at
the last moment and ask if a tunnel might
not be better. He broke out lately in the
House with a proposition that the N. Terri-
tory should be supplied with roads and
motor-cars and trucks rather than railways.
In his own burning words; —
The motor vehicle is more constant, more econo-
mical and more flexible than the railway. The
completion of the South-North rail way is going to cost
millions and it will take years to construct. Stock
can be carried just as effectively in motor trucks as
in railway trucks.
And so on. It is more cantankerous than
convincing. Roads, if they are long roads,
also take years to construct, and are apt to
cost millions. (“Millions” is a handy word.)
Near where I reside a mob of men have
toiled for weeks re-making half a mile of
highway. It looks a very nice highway, but
has a paved-with-gold appearance. The kind
of road which can stand heavy motor-drays
for anything like as long as two steel rails
stand heavy trucks costs a lot, often more
than a railway, and one big truck going on
its daily errand with freights of tree-trunks
pan wreck miles of common road in a month.


The Federal Mutual
QOTOftSifi.
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE, Manager and Secretary.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
EVERYMAN’S BANK
Whether you be Primary Producer, Manufacturer, Importer, Exporter,
Retailer, Salary- or Wage-earner—whatever your occupation—you will look
for the highest degree of Efficiency and Security in the banking Service
you use.
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia is founded on the experience of the
whole history of banking, and its security is Australia itself, for it is
guaranteed by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
There are branches in the principal towns, and every Post Office in the
Commonwealth is a Savings Bank Agency.
Commonwealth .Bank of Australia
The motor vehicle is certainly flexible. The
flexible way it runs off the road and into
perdition if: the driver takes Iris eye off
it; for a second is amazing and murderous.
It does this on lonesome stretches where a
railway driver and fireman may go to sleep
for 10 miles and yet escape accident. No
one ever saw three men (two in front and
one behind) guiding 30 motor-lorries across
the landscape, but three railway men can
do a similar deed with freight-cars and
not turn a hair. The motor-car is short-
lived by comparison with a railway vehicle —
at least mine is after two years’ service. Yet
1 never wore out a train in ray life. The
sleeping, dining and lavatory accommodation
on all the motor long-distance vehicles I have
seen is far below that of the Melbourne
express. Australia provides flic fuel to drive
innumerable trains. It imports its motor-
spirit, and begins to think it will always have
to do so. Sanguine people say that petroleum
will be found here if searched for in the
right place. It is also possible that if Ire-
land is searched for snakes in the right
place it will reveal a thick deposit of fresh
boa-constrictors. When a motor service is
young, and provided kindly people present
it with and maintain a permanent way to
run upon, it may have points; yet I don’t
think much of the points even then.
The British Miners’ Strike.
The waves of a general strike having ebbed
away, there is left only the miners’ idleness to
remind the people of Britain that one of
the oldest skeletons in their economic cup-
board is still unburied. The visitation is
something that need not call forth any vast
amount of sympathy on behalf of Mother.
She has been through it before so often that
she really ought to be learning to manage
these things a little better. There was a big
upheaval of the kind in 1765, when the
Northumberland workers struck against the
system of yearly contracts, and ended a
scheme which has since been revived in the
case of the native races of the South Seas.
There was another big rumpus in 1810. when
miners in other counties loosened the shackle
of the year of servitude. Passing over a
hundred lesser troubles, the next really big
event was in 1893, when the hewing of coal
stopped in half the mines of the country
from the beginning of July to the middle of
November. In 1912 there was a strike that
lasted a month and kept a million men and
their wives and children short of tucker. In
1920 there was a widespread strike that
lasted a fortnight, and the following year
the miners went out for 90 days. But a
mining strike, without sympathetic dis-
turbances of transport and communication,
cannot seriously discommode Britain. The
coal trade, essential though it is to certain
manufacturing industries, is principally an
export trade. Britain’s own coal needs do
not go entirely unfilled in time of strike,
and the fact that Continental competitors
in the world’s markets have to pay more
for coal for a space need not be written en-
tirely on the debit side of Britain’s ledger.
If this latest dislocation of the industry
leads to a closing up of a number of unprofit-
able mines and to the use of modern methods
of coal-winning in those that will pay for
the application of such methods, and by these
means to the elimination from the industry
of a great army of _ vagrom men, the net
result should be a social gain. When Britain
is so much better organised industrially that
it will be considered folly to pay any human
being to he on his back in a dark hole and
chip bits of coal out of his roof with a pick-
axe, miners’ strikes won’t occupy so much
public attention.
If Stipendiary-magistrate Peisley (N.S.W.)
had consulted that venerable authority
Webster instead of relying on the obiter
dicta —it was nothing more—of James, J.,
of that State, he would not have gone astray
as the Justices of the Supreme Court de-
clare he did. The S.M. had the licensee
or a hotel brought before him on a charge
of having supplied liquor after the statutory
hour to a person who was not entitled to
have it, he being neither a bona-fide lodger,
servant nor inmate. The licensee contended
that the person in questiou was an “in-
mate” within the meaning gratuitously
attached to that word by James, J., who
thought, off-hand, that it would cover all
persons lawfully on licensed premises within
the meaning of the Act, though he would
exclude persons there for the purpose of
getting drink only. The obvious effect of
this was that anybody could drop into a pub
after hours, call for a sandwich and demand
a beer. This looked very like knocking the
bottom out of the prohibited-hours sections
of the Act. The magistrate, in fact, decided
so, for he held that a person who went to
a hotel for a meal after six o’clock was an
“inmate’ and entitled to be served with
liquor. (The one-course sandwich may be
as much a meal to one man as the six-
course dinner to another.) Webster does
not waste much space in defining an “in-
mate,” whom he declares to be one “admitted
as a dweller.” And so said their Honors
of the Supreme Court. In the Chief Jus-
tree’s view the word “inmate” connoted
something in the nature of in-dwelling: he
did not think any possible interpretation of
the word could cover a person going to a
hotel merely for his dinner. All of which
are excellent reasons why Peisley, S.M.,
would have been better advised to have con-
sulted Webster, speaking deliberately, in-
stead of James, speaking off-hand.
A Melbourne resident has invented a device,
claimed to be simple, sure and cheap, by
which trains approaching a level crossing
will automatically set working a bell by day
and a bell and light by night to warn motor-
ists before they reach the rails. The gadget
should cost about £6O a set and there are
only about 2000 spots where it is needed
in the State. Clapp’s department professes
that every device yet invented has failed to
prevent some fools from committing suicide.
But how many has it saved? South Aus.
could offer an opinion worth having on that
subject. It has had a bell device in good
use for -I'! years, and “waggling” lights have
been added during the last few years.
*
The first "basic wage” for Australia was
specified in the Harvester award, which
provided for £2 2s. a week. H. Y. McKay
was the Harvester man in the case, and that
alone would win him a place in the indus-
trial history of the continent. He has other
claims, though, not only to the remembrance
but to the gratitude also of the Common-
wealth; for liis work made possible a wide-
spread application of machinery to agricul-
tural processes. Son of a Victorian who had
arrived in the ’fifties, he ivas a knowledgeable
farmer at IS, and an ingenious improviser
PAY UP AND LOOK PLEASANT.
“An interesting development in the 44-hour strike took place on Saturday when the building
trade unions at a combined meeting decided o launch a campaign in favor of a 40-hour week of
five days. Resolutions in favor of one big union and a working week of 40 hours in five days were
carried by large majorities.”
of machinery into the bargain. His first
model of a combined winnower and stripper
was made out of old machines and kerosene-
tins. In 1887, when only 22, he was
given a premium by the Victorian Govern-
ment for the best combined harvester
machine; and the following year his work-
shop in Ballarat was opened to manufacture
the implement. The business grew, in spite
of American competition and the difficulty
of convincing politicians of the necessity of
Protection. But McKay was a dominating-
personality, and the people in any venture
that secured his support felt they were half-
way to victory. His only quarrel with his
workpeople was inspired by the suspicion
that he wanted to speed up industrial
methods. He did, but not in order to reduce
wages, as his detractors alleged. His energy
wore him out early and he had been a sick
man for some time when death arrived at the
age of 61. He had long been a director of the
Broken Hill Prop., liis interest outside his
own business being largely occupied with the
co.’s Newcastle steelworks; and there, too, he
did work that commands Australia’s thanks.
+
Amid the fervor of congratulation which
Amundsen’s transit of the Arctic Circle has
evoked, the French explorer Charcot strikes
one note which has particular interest for
Australia. Remarking that the neighbor-
hood of the North Pole has no scientific or
economic value, he wishes that explorers
would centre their attention on the South
Polar region, where there is “a vast con-
tinent which may hide the greatest geological
secrets and mineral wealth.” France’s recent
claim to the occupation of Adelic Land, part
of the southern continent referred to, is an
indication that others besides Charcot have
envisaged the possibilities of the Antarctic
wilderness. But Australia can put up a far
better claim than France to first say in the
disposition of the greater part of that ter-
ritory, not only because of her propinquity,
but because she has had the largest share,
next to Britain, in its exploration. Pro-
fessor David has told us of coal deposits
and the probability of valuable minerals. To
say that these possibilities will never he
developed for climatic reasons is to impose
a limit on human ingenuity and enterprise
which experience does not justify.
#
“H.1.M.”; Nearly every member of the
A.I.F. who had not made a formal will filled
in the will-form in his paybook. It was
generally supposed that this will held good
only if the soldier died on active service, but a
just-reported English judgment has laid it
down that such a will, being legal when made,
remains legal until rendered void by mar-
riage or a fresh will. In this case the will
was burnt in 1916, and ignorance of the fact
that a will destroyed by misadventure may
still be admitted to probate if there is proof
of its contents led to the deceased being at
first regarded as having died intestate. He
was an army paymaster, and he signed the
document when under orders to sail for
Egypt at the outbreak of war in 1882. The
Court, on being appealed to, held that he
was a soldier and on active service at the
time. No person before the Court had seen
the will other than the wife, who was sole
beneficiary under it; but her evidence was
accepted as sufficient proof of its contents.
The question was raised as to how long such
a will would retain its validity. The Roman
Justinian limited the term of such wills to
one year after the completion of active ser-
vice. But the Court held that no limit has
ever been fixed by English law, so that the
considerable fortune the ex-paymaster had
made after leaving the army went to his
widow, instead of the half only she would
have received under an intestacy.
«
An unpleasant feature of the butchery of
two Westralian detectives engaged in tracing
gold-stealers is the Government’s self-
accusing attempts at excuse. When Labot-
Premier Collier came into office he abol-
ished the one-third Government grant to-
wards the cost of detecting gold-robberies.
As a result the number of detectives engaged
at Kalgoorlie was cut down, a fact which
may or may not have contributed to the
murder of Walsii and Pitman. Collier’s
explanation is that the Labor Government
knocked off the subsidy because it was an
endowment of a special section of the com-
munity at the expense of the rest. “Endow-
ment” is an absurd term to use in the cir-
cumstances. The Government might have
been justified in refusing to countenance the
companies’ activity in the matter of crime-
prevention; that is to say, it might have
refused to pay anything less than the entire
cost of properly policing the held. Mere
withdrawing only looks like a bid for popu-
larity on the goldfields, where the advocacy
of stern measures against the illicit gold-
buyer has generally been confined to the
Chamber of Mines.
Managing-director T. Young, of Cas-
sell’s, the big English publishing house,
after he had been dined and wined in Mel-
bourne the other day, praised this country
for consuming more imported books per head
of population than any other land, and
added that the fact reflected the high intel-
lectual status of the people. Cassell's hap-
pens to be a firm that does not traffic ex-
clusively in ephemeral mush, and many of
the books it sends to this country are edu-
cative. But such works form only a minute
proportion of the annual torrent of printed
leaves which is poured into this country.
The greater part contains neither art, of
which this country needs as much as it can
get, nor Australian sentiment. A lot of it
comes from America and is written in the
curious language sometimes spoken in that
land. In conjunction with the cinema, this
traffic presents the most astounding example
of subdivision of labor in history. It means
that this country leaves the supplying of its
mental pabulum or dope or whatever it is
to foreigners. This does not indicate high
intellectual status. It indicates dashed lazi-
ness. A country that had any regard for
its intellectual status would stop the flood
of imported rubbish and exercise its own
brains in endeavoring to amuse itself in its
own way.
“Dingo”: It would be interesting to know
on what “Canar” bases his assertion that
tick-infested stock have been brought from
Queensland to N.S.W. “without examination
or quarantine” (B. 13/5/’26). Does he
seriously say that the tick is coming south
unknown to the State Department of Agri-
culture? Even if not carrying the organism
which produces tick-fever, an invasion by the
parasite, such as “Canar” suggests is taking
place, would spell ruin to thousands engaged
in the cattle industry. In many parts of
the world, some, unfortunately, quite close
to home, the tick has caused losses not
greatly inferior to those produced by
rinderpest or foot-and-mouth disease. Will
“Canar” come out in the open and give
ns something more than vague generalities?
If he does, he will find the State authorities
only too ready to investigate his statements
without calling in the assistance of the
Commonwealth. If he doesn’t, he mustn’t
feel hurt if cynical cattlemen in this State
recall the fact that a mild but well-conducted
“tick-scare” campaign has been known in
the past to raise the price of beef on the
lioof at Flemington yards (N.S.W.) by
checking the full force of Queensland com-
petition.
“Anophele” : The other day in the yards of
the Commonwealth Railway Commissioner at
Darwin I watched hefty white laborers toil-
ing hard in the pitiless tropical sun as they
handled 2000 tons of steel rails which burnt
and blistered the human skin wherever they
touched. Piecework rates of pay left no
idle moments; 40s. was to be earned in a
six-hour day. Human energy, with no
mechanical aid, was loading rails for the
proposed extension of the tiny railway that
pushes itself 200 miles south from the water-
front —the northern link in what will some
day be the North-South railway. Rolling
stock and tiny engines that elsewhere would
long since have found their way to the scrap-
heap are being used to transport the stuff
to the platelayers. The load for each trip,
which takes three days, is limited to 110
tons; the starved permanent way and obso-
lete rolling stock will net carry a greater
tonnage. Thirty thousand tons of steel will
thus have to be manhandled at least six
times before coming to the platelayers. The
Commissioner’s yard contains not a single
mechanical aid for the handling of materials
and stores. Yes, it is going to be a mighty
expensive job, and Australia pays. And
what a commentary it furnishes on the inep-
titude of politicians ! In the Parliamentary
debate on the extension there was not one
word or suggestion regarding the means to
be employed in handling the huge quantity
of materials and stores on this highly-paid
white-labor line.
Sydney’s amazing Municipal Council has
resolved to break into the electrical appli-
ances trade, and hawk the gadgets on the
time-payment plan, the said gadgets includ-
ing everything from electric stoves and re-
movers of superfluous hairs to a complete
lighting equipment. Time payment is a tricky
business, and its success depends on regular
collections. A cold commercial institution
can put the screw on a bad pay without
caring a hoot what influence the process will
have on his or her vote at the next munici-
pal elections. But should the City Council
collector try the iron hand, some alderman
is certain to be called to account; and that
won’t make for efficient service or satisfac-
tory profits. Still, there’s always the tax-
payer.


1
u
m
X
'Army Club'
The TXajof
IO for 9? 20 for 1%.
for 3^
CAVANDERS LTP
LONDON
POLITICAL
POINTS
Five proposed amendments of the Federal
Constitution have been stated as subjects
for five referenda in August, but the one
giving the Commonwealth authority to sub-
divide big States isn’t among them. Possibly
it may turn up later, and it would be a pity
not to give it a trial gallop. The result
would at least show what the movement is
and where it is.
If anything comes of the Commonwealth-
States finance conference which opened in
Melbourne on Monday, everybody will be sur-
prised. Little time was allowed the States
to digest the Bruce-Page proposals; indeed,
Collier (W.A.) had to speed eastward with-
out consulting his colleagues. The reception
given to the scheme in his own State was
enough to make Bruce shiver. At present
Vic. is raising £2,240,000 a year in income-
tax, and the per capita payments come to
£2,100,000. but it would be necessary to re-
form or abolish the Uppah Chambali before
a bill could be passed authorising a levy of
£4,340,000 a year by a State Government.
The Bruce Government established a pre-
cedent which is unlikely to be followed any-
where by having its Customs Tariff Bill in-
troduced in the Senate by an Honorary Min-
ister. The task should have been undertaken
by Pearce, as leader of the House, but hav-
ing been a Freetrader in 1901, a New Pro-
tectionist in 1908, a whole-hog Protectionist
in 1920, and a low-tariffist in 1925—at least,
he insinuated in Westralia that he was the
Ministerial brake on Pratten and other out-
and-outers —and knowing that these eccen-
tricities of genius would be harshly recalled,
the leader of the House retreated according
to plan. lie has a gift for retreating from
awkward situations and principles that have
become unpopular. But he has. never been
known to retreat from a portfolio.
Though Labor members of Parliament
might reasonably be expected to stand up
for legislative methods, there doesn’t seem
to be one of them game to flay the unions
that are on strike in N. S. Wales against
awards of tribunals which Labor itself had
most to do with creating. The Labor Daily
certainly has published some hot words from
coal-miners who have been thrown out of
a job by the striking engine-drivers; but for
the most part Labor politicians and Labor
press seem content to let unions try to get
it both ways—by law as far as it will go,
and by defying the law when it won’t go
any further. The business isn’t honest; and
the sooner the great middle party says so
the better for this afflicted country.
A week or so back the S'African Govern-
ment introduced a bill withdrawing prefer-
ence on goods grown or manufactured in any
dominion refusing preference to S’African
goods. The bill is a direct reprisal for Aus-
tralia’s withdrawal of S’African pre-
ferences, which takes effect from June 1.
Though the balance of trade is in our favor
the abolition of preferences may do this
country no harm. We bought from our sister
explosives, maize, fish and wattle-bark, all
produced by nigger labor; and if they are
made more expensive the Australian may try
to produce them himself.
Competition between tramways (mostly
municipally-owned) and motor-buses is as
keen in most parts of Maoriland as it is in
Australia. The Coates Government has just
issued a ukase calculated to end the squabble
with a jolt. An Order-in-Council decrees
that a motor-’bus plying on a route served
by a tramway must charge at least 2d. more
for any journey, short or long.
The Poor Persons’ Assistance Act, passed
by South Aus. last year for providing counsel
free to litigants who cannot otherwise afford
the luxury, has had a large hole picked in it
(pro tern.) by Judge Poole. He declined
the application of a man charged with house-
breaking, saying that something more than
mere poverty must be shown as the ground.
Some special circumstances (unspecified)
are needed ; “otherwise it will be the duty
of a Judge to appoint a counsel in every
case of poverty.” Most people had supposed
that to be the exact intention of Parliament
in passing the Act.
Though manufacturing has still a long
way to go before it meets all local require-
ments, it is already Australia’s biggest line
of industry, with the pastoral business sec-
ond and agriculture third. Statistician
Wickens shows the relative values in his
1925 Year Book. And manufacturing is
COBBERS.
“In the near future all the efforts of the artisans will be studied with the object of minimising the
expenditure of energy.”— Geo. Kaibbs, at the Australian Philosophical Congress last week.
“Put it there, brother — that’s what I’ve been advocatin’ for years!"
even better than it looks. For instance,
Australia exported £5,286,773 worth of sugar
in the eight months to l/3/’26, and that was
published under “primary produce.” Yet 30
per cent, of the value of sugar is “added in
process of manufacture,” so nearly £1,600,000
was really an export of manufactured goods.
Nearly 16 per cent, of the value of flour is
also “added in process of manufacture.” The
Commonwealth does more in the export of
made-up articles than is generally realised,
and the “primary” individual takes credit
for a lot of prosperity which doesn’t belong
to him.
In an effort to make the best of the
indifferent state of things on the Ministerial
side of Vic. Assembly, half a dozen Libs, and
as many Cockies talked things over last week.
Ordinarily the Government would do all the
conference proposes and leave it to the House
to accept what was offered, or put it out.;
but the circumstances are not ordinary. On
thin left of the Speaker are 28 Laborites and
an Independent (McLachlan) who is a law
unto himself. On the other is an unhappy
family of 35. Eight, have some sort of
common aim as members of the Cabinet,
but oven they do not always see eye to eye.
Of the others, 20 tolerate the Ministry, and
the remaining seven are either candid friends
or caustic critics. Beginning with proposals
for the amendment of the standing orders
and redistribution of seats, the delegates
claim to have created an atmosphere for
solidarity. They had Farthing’s assistance,
but not that of McPherson, who is unwilling,
or Greenwood, who is unwanted,
In spite of silly-season stunting, Vic. Pre-
mier Allan won’t call the State Parliament
together any earlier than usual. It will
assemble at the end of June, and if the new
Gov. arrives on his due date he will do the
requisite strutting. The auxiliary Cabinet,
comprising a committee of Liberals and
Cockies, is meeting weekly to assist the
official Cabinet to work up a programme
for the session and keep Labor in check with
additional standing orders, including the
guillotine.
Dear Bulletin, A paragraph (B.
13/5/’26) ran as follows: —
Ex-Senator St. Ledger calculates that the Queensland
election campaign cost the party between £ 40,000
and £50,000. He took as a basis the expense ol
distributing Theodore’s pamphlet, “Queensland s
Progress Under Labor,” to 450,000 electors, but he
allowed only Id. a copy to cover paper, printing,
addressing and postage. Postage alone costs a penny,
and the pamphlet (20 PP-, stapled, with stiff-paper
cover in two colors)' could not be produced tor less
than the copper of commerce.
You were correct as to the cost of produc-
tion. It cost not less than 2d. per copy ; so,
on St. Ledger’s calculation, the
total cost of printing and distributing the
pamphlet (3d. multiplied 450,000 times) was
£5625. But as a matter of cold fact the
total issue of “Queensland’s Progress Under
Labor” was 12,500, not 450,000; and the
pamphlets were not posted to individual elec-
tors. The entire cost of the whole issue was
about £lo4—not £5625 ! Queensland Labor s
publicity campaign may have been “the big-
gest thing ever undertaken by a State poli-
tical party,” but the cost of it was not one-
twentieth part of the amount the ex-Senator
mentioned. —Yours; Edward G. Theodore.
The Queensland Government has given a
Scottish firm a contract for two hopper
barges, though various Australian firms ten-
dered. Treasurer Mullan said that none ot
the Australian tenders came within coo-ee
of the Scottish £58,000. Of course they
didn’t. Time was when Queensland could
profitably build its own barges: but a 44-
hour week and other so-called Labor trim-
mings have changed all that.
A Reform alderman’s investigations into
the Sydney Gity (Council’s methods of en-
gaging employees show that, of 600 new
hands taken on since January, over oUU
came from wards represented by Labor aldei-
men. Most of them, it would be sate to
wager are “lodger” voters, whom the futility
of George Fuller permitted to remain on
the municipal rolls. The cost to the com-
munity of George Fuller's sins of omission
can’t be written in £ s, d. All that can be
said is that his amiability and capacity toi
’bus-missing are more responsible for his
State’s present political and industrial
troubles than any other single cause.
The Age in barracking for the ‘'amalga-
mation” of Tasmania with Victoria says that
one Parliament in England does the work
for 43 million people that seven Parliaments
do for six millions in Australia, the Bri-
tish Parliament doesn’t control railways,
schools, tramways, police (except the Met-
ropolitan force), land settlement, electric
supply or water supply, and has not over-
much to do with the agricultural depart-
ments. All these activities, except the pn-
vately-owned railways, are controlled by tlie
county councils, which are our State Parlia-
ments with variations.
A section of Brisbane is getting restive at
having to carry on without a Governor. It
is seven months since Sir Matthew Nathan
left, and there is still no hint of a successor.
The Opposition press is trying to stir the
Colonial Office into making an appointment.
But the Labor Government will make no
move, being quite content with its old pal
Bill Lennon as Lieutenant-Governor. In
Labor circles there has been some discussion
about suggesting to the British Government
that a Labor Governor would be acceptable
—perhaps one of the Labor lords, Olivier or
Thomson. There is a standing need to dis-
sociate Labor from Bolshevism in the pub;
lie’s mind, and it is thought the existence ot
a Labor lord in our midst might help.
It is impossible as yet, and it may remain
impossible, to sort out all the rights and
wrongs of the Polish row, which has caused
Marshal Pilsudski, who was President before
Mr. Wojciechowski, to start a civil war of
some sort. There exists a regretful sus-
picion that Poland hasn’t come back on
the map to stay, and the new adjacent baby
States of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia,
also the Free City of Danzig, don’t look per-
manent either. To be between the Hun and
Ihe Soviet is a bad situation, the little
States have too many brisk hatreds, and
Poland seems to have resumed its old habits
of commotionski rather soon.
Sydney City Council is again out to pur-
chase a coal-mine, as it was once before, when
it was proposed to buy for £70,000 a show
reported by experts to be worth £5OOO or
less. Experts are to report on mines offer-
ing, or, rather, “on mines specifically sub-
mitted to them by resolution of the Council.”
In other words, mine-owners are to see Labor
aldermen, or some of them, before getting a
chance to enter for the competition.
The flight of N.S.W. Premier Lang to
Queensland, away from the noise of the
strike which his 44-hour law brought about,
had at least the advantage of suspending his
daily message—published per favor of the
“capitalistic” press. Its burden was always
the same —that Lang was astonished at his
own ability and his lofty attitude, and
staggered at the depths to which Bavin or
somebody was capable of descending. The
resumption of the series will be a calamity.
The British coal strike, which remains
though the general strike has gone, was sup-
posed to show signs of settlement last week,
and then followed the deadest of all dead-
locks. The position arrived at was that the
miners, will work no more than the present
40 or 42 hours per week; won’t increase the
output (which is barely 17|cwt. per man per
day) during the present working time; wont
take less wages, though the day’s wage has
averaged, for some time, about Is. 4d. more
than the selling value of the coal dug out.
They say the Government subsidy, wdiicli
seems to have cost between two and three
millions per month, should be continued in-
definitely. The Government says it hasnt
got the money, can’t get it, and wouldn’t it
it could, because if it did it couldn t m fair-
ness refuse a hearing to other trades which
are worse paid than the coal-men. Anybody
who can strike a solution satisfactory to all
parties could fix up the Irish question.
The Sydney City Council’s edict that em-
ployment in its service is to be available
only to people who live where they can vote
for their ward aldermen has introduced a
quaint system of dummying. To keep his
job and his vote, Bill Jones hires a bed m
Belmore or Woolloomooloo, and either
doesn’t disturb the bedclothes or allows some
out-of-work pal to sleep in it, and thus qualify
for another municipal job and vote. Biff
himself sleeps in his own home at Banks-
town. Or he may sleep there for the nights
of his working week, which, under the
present benevolent system, need only be tour
nights—for the week-end he joins Ins family
at Narrabeen. It is a tax on his income,
but the income is good and the yob easy;
and Bill’s vote is there for his aldermamc
patron, which is the main point.
THE INGRATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The latest spectacular fall of the franc is attri-
buted by the French press to outside influences.
L’Avemr complains of the Government s weakness
in yielding to the demands of voracious foreigners,
'who from Washington and from London swoop down
on the French pocket like birds of prey.
"The Teuton came down like a hawk from the skies
And our doom had been sealed in default of allies;
Our fate had been sadder and costlier than
In the days of grim Bismarck and bitter Sedan.
But they stood to us staunchly, for better or worse,
Their armies were ours and their purse was our purse.
They helped us to hammer the foe and regain
What we lost single-handed, Alsace and Lorraine.
But now they’re insisting, although they’ve been
slow,
We should pay off a bit of the debt that we owe.
Mon Dim, ’tis outrageous!” says Johnny Crapaud.
“We are grateful, of course, they averted our crash
With millions of fighters and billions in cash;
We have tears for their losses and pride in their
deeds,
But the money they poured in our lap for our needs,
The sinews of war that decided the fray,
It’s over the odds to be asked to repay,
While the pound and the dollar at parity stick
And the poor little franc is so dreadfully sick.
For Frenchmen object to taxation, you know,
And those who propose it from office they throw.
So the franc is tres malade says Johnny Crapaud.
“When once with a comrade you’ve fought, it ensures
That what’s yours is his and what’s his’n is yours—-
Or it should. We should deem it ill-breeding accursed
To dun you for debt, were positions reversed.
When you swoop on our pockets like this, understand,
We’re apt to forget what you did for our land.
’Tis true that the Hun would have collared, unless
You’d come to our aid, every sou we possess.
Still, we didn’t expect to these lengths you would go.
Voracious, 1 call it, to bother us so;
You’re regular Shylocks,” says Johnny Crapaud.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
ĵ
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
j
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
swtaasw
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Trustees, Executors & Agency
Company, Limited,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(The First Trustee Company established in Australasia.)
Capital paid up, £140,000.
The standing of this Company in the public mind is the result of
constant fidelity for more than 47 years to the highest principles of
Trustee Work.
Write for Booklet.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank:—
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
1919* £145,099 £78.789 £lO,OOO £56,310 £1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(9 i p.e.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1.376.625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares.. 163,164 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares.. 14,739 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares.. 191,823 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307.973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares.. 167,629 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
*Six months.
Disclosed profits for the 12 months were
again larger, more than usual was written
off premises, and a tidy sum added to visible
reserves. Shareholders get their 10 p.c., of
course. Altogether, the accounts add still
another bright page to the history which the
National has written since it moved out of
a mostly-Victorian rut and launched boldly
on an all-Australian career which has
already put it third on the list of the Common-
wealth’s great banks. There has, however, been
a halt in the expansion of capital, the
first since 1921, when paid capital was half
its present size. Among Australasian banks
only the Wales and B.N.Z. now have more
than the National’s £4,000,000, while the
Wales and the Commercial of Sydney alone
hold more deposits. It has been a glitter-
ing record since the first big step taken
under the present vigorous control the
amalgamation with the Colonial in 191 S.
Here is the progress from 1921:
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921. . £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862,102 £525,491
1922.. 2,661,125 1,661,907 953,758 603,590
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1924.. 3,225,000 2,148,342 1,199,282 701,113
1025.. 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,587
1926.. 4,000,000 2,532,958 1,370,195 501,940
Capital is made up of 150,000 fully-paid £lO
shares and 500,000 £8 shares paid to £5.
Recent issues have been at substantial pre-
miums, but even on these burdened shares
the 10 p.c. is worth about 74 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures tell of continued pro-
gress :
1920. 1925. 1926.
Notes .. .. £49,809 £48,184 £48.033
Bills, etc. , . 962,908 2,598,345 1,640,773
Free deposits . . 11,926,167 13,683.921 13,897,590
Fixed deposits .. 11,472,035 18,232,621 18,386,662
Liquid assets .. 13,194,160 16,331,299 14.619,502
Advances .. 13,903,139 23,865,165 25,001.394
Premises, etc. .. 643,636 981,311 1,085,122
In 1914 the accounts of the Colonial and
National exhibited deposits together amount-
ing to £15,308,956, and advances £12,151,862.
That last year should show more profit than
1924-25, with its exceptional money-making
conditions, is an evidence either of remark-
able keenness or of exceptionally large allo-
cations for inner reserves in the earlier
period.
Deposits last year increased by £367.710,
of which £154,041 was fixed. Advances
have moved more rapidly, partly the natural
result of the extension of the business,
partly because secondary industries in Aus-
tralia have been calling for much more
capital. The heavy Federal borrowings have
also sent a few people to their bankers,
and, among other things, the steadying of the
wool market at remunerative prices has been
followed by the loosening of many purse-
strings and the simultaneous acceptance of
many liabilities^ —too many of them for non-
productive luxuries. At March 31, 1925,
the National owed £34,563,071, and held
£16,331,299, or 47.2 p.c., liquid. That was
greater strength than normal conditions de-
mand. The reduction of liquid resources
disclosed by the latest figures leaves the bank
still well within the safety zone: outside
liabilities on March 31 amounted to
£33,973,058, and liquids to £14,619,502, equal
to 43 p.c., which is a thoroughly sound
figure. From another angle the position
was strong: for each £1 of its own funds
the bank was holding only £5 4s. of outside
money, which means that even on its known
resources the bank can safely increase its
deposits.
Of course the testing time of Australian
banks has yet to come. It is easy enough
to show good results under flourishing con-
ditions, when very few bad debts are being
made—especially when property values are
on the rise and buyers are numerous. No-
body looking at a bank balance-sheet to-day
can tell for certain how it will come through
the different sort of period. So much de-
pends then upon not what the bank showed
in the good years, but xvhat it put by for
use in the bad ones —to meet bad debts
really made in the years of froth and bubble,
but not disclosed till the years of gloom.
All that can be said certainly is that during
the past few years this and other Australian
banks have had very unusual opportunities
to make provision for contingencies. At
the same time the very unusualness of the
opportunities may and probably will make
the testing all the more severe. The con-
tinuance of the borrowing policy year after
year to an extent which a couple of decades
ago would have seemed madly impossible,
will, for one thing, make the wrench all the
harder when a halt is called ; and that halt
isn’t likely to be called when our other cir-
cumstances are favorable, either.
* * * *
The Bank of Austkalasia :
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1915.. 410,521 17 p.c. = 340,000 2,895,056
1916.. 407,568 17 „„ 340,000 2,962,664
1917.. 405,646 17 „„ 340,000 3,028,310
1918.. 438,745 17 „ „ 340,000 3,127,055
1919.. 460,768 18 „ „ 360,000 3,227,823
Premiums bn new shares, £875,000 4,102,823
Reserves capitalised, £1,000,000 3,102,823
1920.. 573,052 13 p.c. = 455,000 3,220,875
Premiums on new shares, £250,000 3,470,875
1921.. 588,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3,546,764
1922.. 620,105 13 „„ 520,000 3,646,869
1923.. 618,559 13 „„ 520,000 3,745,428
1924.. 629,904 13 „ „ 520,000 25,000 3,830.332
1925.. 632,555 13 „„ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
The return to the gold basis solved a pro-
blem ; but the solution wasn’t all gain so
far as the banks are concerned, because ex-
change rates were drastically amended.
Wages, too, have bitten deeper into the ’Asia’s
gross income, calling last year in Australia
and M.L. alone for £19,189 more. However,
the ’Asia can stand it; for while the 12
months hadn’t the opulence of the preceding
term so far as wool was concerned, the golden
results were still being reflected in banking
and trading returns, and they had a strong
ally in old General Prosperity. The
1 (15,000,000-bushel wheat-yield, the still very
remunerative prices for wool, the £10,000,000
of butter exports and the high market for
most of Australia’s export minerals all played
their part in carrying gross profits almost
to the high-water mark of 1922:
Oct., Gross Profits. Expenses. Taxes.
1914 .. £836,549 £307,623 £74,520
1915 •• 846,202 317,290 118,319
1916 . . 948,589 348,402 192,620
1917 .. 952,206 349,751 196,810
1918 .. 1,020,966 361,052 221,168
1919 . . 1,065,927 391.917 213,242
1920 .. 1,302,861 481,756 248,053
1921 . . 1,501,541 535,470 377,682
1922 . . 1,520,467 532,749 367,613
1923 . . 1,489,876 538,157 333,160
1924 .. 1,478,205 541,389 306.912
1925 .. 1,485,143 564,636 287,952
Bigger advances and probably a higher aver-
age interest rate offset the reduced revenue
from exchange, and the dropping of the cor-
poration profits tax in London was a wel-
come counter to increased expenditure else-
where. The latter movement isn’t likely to
stop so long as Federal and State borrow-
ing and other factors bloat the cost of living.
• # + • * «
Uncertainty seems to be the normal con-
dition of affairs throughout the world, and
the process of settling down is proceeding
very bumpily. The ’Asia, however, is in
a splendid position to meet mo&’t contin-
gencies". Visible reserves are now within
reach of paid capital, and the internal
strength is great, there being at least a
million hidden in premises alone. One
result of the disturbed conditions will be to
postpone the possibilities of gifts to share-
holders. These—or increased divs.—have
been expected for some time, and proprietors
were buoyed up by a statement the year be-
fore last, in answer to a direct question, that
“the claims of the shareholders will be recog-
nised as soon as we are reasonably satisfied
that any increase can be maintained.” The
13 p.c. is not by any means as rich as it
looks despite the £1,000,000 of reserves capi-
talised six years ago, for new issues were
made at heavy premiums. Nor are disclosed
earnings noteworthy, in view of the large
inner reserves; last year’s div., for instance,
was equal to only 0| p.c. on shareholders’
own visible money in the business.
Balance-sheet movements disclosed con-
tinued expansion:—
Liabilities.
1923. 1924. 1925.
Notes .. .. £423,684 £386,257 £437.626
Bills, etc. .. 3,698,474 3,396,147 3,694,129
Deposits . . 27,352,162 28,010,187 28,703,674
Liquid assets.. 9,367,583 10,133,542 11,180,726
Advances . . 25,947,538 24,347,537 25,393,633
Bills, etc. . . 4,134,322 5,354,492 4,339,651
Premises . . . 30,306 47,351 79,306
The ’Asia finds it easy to attract deposits.
The settlement of the exchange difficulty
moved the bank to open its heart to borrow 1 -
ers, and advances increased by over a mil-
At October last liabilities totalled
*32,840,429, and £15.520,377 of the lot were
represented by liquids—a much higher per-
centage than was necessary. Against the
balance—£l7.32o,os2 —were advances with a
book value of £25,393,633, and the premises.
Moreover the holding of public money was
only £4 3s. 2d. for each £ of its own visible
funds, which is strength far beyond the
average.
* * * *
The English Electric Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., formerly Stan ward-Waygood-
Hercules, Ltd.: —
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
19X6.. £6,152 10 p.c. = £ 15,638 £21,000
1917.. 16,268 10 „ „ 16,888 20,380
1918.. 16,925 10 „ „ 16,888 £37 20,417
1919.. 16,993 10 „ „ 16,888 105 20.522
1920.. 46,238 10 „ „ 21,600 ]
Special div. (10 p.c.) to pur- j- 3,038 23,560
chase bonus shares, £21,600 J
£lOO,OOO (in shares) paid for Deficit.
English Electric connection .. .. 76,440
1921.. 26,750 Nil 26,750 49,690
Bonus to subscribers to new share issue,
paid in Weymouth serin, £23,760.. 73,450
1922.. 46,543 10 p.c. = 35,842 10,701 62,749
Reserves.
Goodwill shares cancelled, £100,000.. 37,251
1923.. 37,175 10 p.c. = 36,912 263 37,514
1924.. 37,501 10 „ „ 36,982 519 38,033
Recovered from Sydney Council, £16,447 54,480
1925.. 5,600 5 p.c. = 18,491 41,589
1926.. 10,982 2j „ „ 9,246 1,736 43,325
This good Australian co. has had a rough
time. Accounts for 1925 were delayed be-
cause an unsettled outlook, partly due to
the vagueness of the Federal' Government’s
tariff intentions, made valuations uncertain.
Profits for that term were, later, more or less
guessed at £s6oo—the lowest since the birth
of the old Standard Waygood Co. in 1909.
■Certainly the accounts claimed £22,047, but
£16,447 represented an amount owing by
Sydney City Council since 1922, which came
as an award from the arbitrator appointed
to deal with the matter. That recovery
made possible the 5 p.c. div. The new tariff
was a help in the past year, although chair-
man J. B. Nicholson says that it has not
put the co. on firm ground. Inflated labor
costs, due mainly to Australia’s excessive
borrowing, are the outstanding difficulty. In
general the wages fixed by Australian tri-
bunals are double those ruling in Britain,
which in turn are double those of some Con-
tinental countries. As if those disabilities
were not sufficient, Sydney’s Labor-controlled
Council gives lip-service to the Australian-
made ideal and pocket-service to its oppo-
nents. This and absence of orders from the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners for turbo-
alternators has resulted in the co.’s big tools
being idle. Fear of a continuance of poor
prices moved the directors to declare the
smaller div. rather than draw on reserves.
They report that the staff is being kept to-
gether, even though prices obtainable may
not always cover cost. Property, too, “has been
maintained in good condition, and the plant,
etc., subjected to the usual depreciation of
10 p.c., and stock and work in progress care-
fully valued.”
Balance-sheet movements have been as
follows: —
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital , . £361,720 £369,820'£369,820 £369,820
Debentures . . 41,500 33,400 33,400 33,400
Liabilities .. 78,355 67,965 69,393 49,027
Property and
plant .. 285,258 290.046 281,000 270,000
Stock and work 115,659 129,035 92,742 97,992
Book debts,
cash, etc. .. 80,108 56,173 83,852 61,826
Subsidiaries,
etc. .. 74,976 70,944 75,09(9 75,000
But the future is not all gloom. Although
the 44-hour trouble is not; going to make
things easier in N. S. Wales, the co.’s sub-
sidiary in Victoria (Weymouth’s, Ltd.) is
earning profits : last year’s accounts benefited
by a 15 p.c. div. from that source. The co.
is fortunate in having two useful offshoots
handling its lift-construction and installa-
tion business—Weymouth’s, in Melbourne;
Standard Waygood in Sydney. In this con-
nection the continued big-building activity
in the two capitals has proved very helpfui.
Providing the estimate of stocks and work
in progress is conservative, as the manage-
ment states, the financial position is quite
satisfactory. But though divs. have averaged
11 p.c. p.a. since 1910 the market views the
scrip in the light of the uncertain outlook,
and 11s. has been accepted for the £1 fully-
paid shares, which is really a severe reflec-
tion on the still-inadequate tariff.
* * * *
Caldwell’s Wines. Ltd., vignerons and
wine and spirit merchants. In the table
goodwill (£25,000) is not reckoned as an
asset: —
, Divide nds. N To Re- De-
Dee., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, fieit.
1920. .£11,392 8 p.c. 15 p.c. £9133 £2259 £468
1921.. 10.614 8 „ 15 „ 9650 )
Staff bonus . . . . £lOOO ) • 004
1922.. 6,085 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6140 859
Reserves.
1923.. 13,237 8 „ 10 „ 8910) „rro ovni
Staff bonus .. . . £765 j 3dG2 2703
Property reserve, £17,641.. .. 20,344
1924.. 13,686 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 9160)
Staff bonus £lOOO ( 3j -‘” -' 3 > 870
1925.. 20,789 8 p.c. lOp.e. 9616 ) 00 „ ~
Staff bonus .. . . £1250 J 9922 33,792
Reserves include “special freehold and lease-
hold licensed properties reserve, £23,491,”
which the co. assesses as the bonus value of
the licenses attached to its property pur-
chases of the past two years. The manage-
ment stated at the time that the reserve was
established to equalise the bonuses earned on
the sale of the properties, and to prevent an
undue proportion of profit coming into the
accounts in any one year. General reserve,
amounting to £25,000, offsets goodwill, which
is in at the same figure, and there is the
undistributed balance of £10,301. less what-
ever the tax-hounds bite out of it. Results
for the 12 months showed improvement,
gross profits being £52,423 compared with
£47,764 for 1924. Working expenses, in-
cluding depreciation and bad debts, took
£35,436, an increase of £2476. Capital was
further increased by the issue of 7337 prefs.
and 3250 ordinaries (£1612 calls unpaid).
Most of the new money was used to finance
expansion, purchases of licensed properties
amounting to £18,009. The co.’s policy of
owning or controlling licensed premises is
perhaps necessary to meet developments in
the trade, but adequate return for the risk
will depend on its ability to place the leases
in good hands. Profit from the sale of pre-
mises has doubtless been up to expectations,
but the steadier return from wine-sales
through those premises is the major con-
sideration. Balance-sheet figures show the
influence of the new capital, but the net
movement in liabilities was a slight increase:
1922. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Paid capital .. £80,500 £95,500 £95,500 £104,474
Deposits .. .. 12,820 8,495 14,571 18,93 J
Mortgages, etc. .. 41,258 37,271
Overdraft.. .. 24,855 7,626 23,392 16,392
Other liabilities.. 15,631 18,259 21,101 33,395
Properties, plant,
etc 45,773 49,777 138,401 144,202
Book debts . . 28,449 45,176 39,223 48,471
Stock .. .. 65,469 45,857 50,834 43,313
Cash, etc 551 1,450 1,394 1,918
Shares in other
cos 12,217
At December 81 to represent floating debt
of £63,718 there were book debts, stocks and
cash £93,702, with £12,217 down for shares
in other cos. The shareholding represents
the purchase of a Queensland business “on
favorable terms”; the unpaid balance is
in “sundry creditors.” With £43,313 in
stocks (£7522 lighter) and £144,202 in pro-
perty and plant (together equal to almost
twice paid capital), it is not surprising tli at
the co. has to lean heavily on outsiders.
The profit shown has to bear State and
Federal taxation. For the previous year the
amount paid (less refund) was £2048.
Allowing for only a similar sum, plus the
£1250 staff bonus and the pref. div., net
profits last year were equal to almost 20
p.c. on ordinaries. The vineyard property,
cellars and plant appear to be in at reason-
able figures, but the licensed properties over-
shadow other assets. Despite the improved
position, the scrip is not popular, although
the prefs. have gone to par and sales of
ordinaries have been made at 20s. 44d. Prefs.
can see £5 3s. of net assets of one kind and
another for each share, and there was 265.
6d. for each £1 of capital. But those figures
are governed by the remarks made regard-
ing the licensed properties.
* * * *
Young husband, Ltd., formerly Young-
husband, Row- and Co. Pty., Ltd., wool,
grain and produce merchants, agents, etc.
( Melbourne) :
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1917. . £12,868 7 p.c. =£4,888 £7,980 £33,734
1918.. 23,341 10 „ „ 6,982 16,359 50,093
1919.. 24,265 15 ~ ~ 10,473 13,792 63,885
1920.. 29,183 15 „ „ 10,173 18,710 82,595
1921.. 12,140 10 „ ~ 8,491 3,649 86,244
1922.. 11,382 10 „ ~ 10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,376
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924.. 25,405 15 „ ~ 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums . . 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32.534 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133.255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ „ 22,500 6,098 139,353
The third best profit in the co.’s history
and extra-good in view of the fall in wool
prices and the setback last summer in rural
Victoria. Shareholders were given 15 p.c.
without effort; total funds have to earn only
7.7 p.c. to do it. But the only test with a pas-
toral finance and agency co. is one applied over
a period of years. This co. was a proprietary
to 1920; the return to shareholders since
then lias equalled 134 p.c., although the
50,000 new shares issued in 1924 carried a
premium of 25 p.c. The old management
built very solidly, and that policy is still
adhered to. Prior to 1917 goodwill was in
at £42,047; it was written out in that year.
Shortly afterwards came the rich run of
profits of the boom years, and more was put
aside than was distributed. Wool is a vari-
able commodity, subject to many vicissi-
tudes : but it is still wool, and the iron tank
and the liquid cellulose appear to have pre-
cious little hope of producing anything so
wonderful as jumbuck and the Australian sun-
shine can yield. The substitute is a source of
worry to the industry, nevertheless, although
it is now evident that the bogeys raised last
year are not so terrible. Sales made by this
co. for the term were easily a record: —
Bales. Bales
1914 .. 49,129 | 1922 .. 49,513
1916 .. 38,444 | 1923 .. 68,106
1918 .. 50.288 | 1924 .. 48,968
1919 .. 67,685 i 1925 .. 39,342
1920 .. 66,209 I 1926 . . 73,562
But those last figures weren’t due to natural


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copyj
22/6 per year.
To be certain of securing the most modern type
of equipment for laboratories of all kinds, write,
stating your needs, to Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney, or Taylors and Elliotts, Ltd., Char-
lotte Street, Brisbane. Pull particulars about the
most suitable apparatus for your purpose will be
forwarded at once. The requirements of sugar and
mining. companies are provided for especially. All
classes of chemical and scientific apparatus, peageuts,
etc., are carried in stock.— Advt. [3
• • * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.P. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. 11
The wonderful adaptability and low cost of Pioneer
Wood Pipe are not the only factors contributing to
its outstanding success in hundreds of installations
throughout Australia. Reliability and economy arc
evidenced in every direction. Its carrying capacity
is from 15 to 20 per cent, greater than cast-iron
pipe, and the flow remains constant throughout its
extraordinarily long life. Upkeep can be put down at
practically nil. It cannot lust nor corrode —it is
also immune from all types of interior growth.
This quality ensures purity of content and unimpeded
flow. A well-illustrated booklet of interesting data
may he obtained direct from the Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
• * * *
Investors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Oastlereugli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
This is the Age of Concrete, and Machinery-mixed
Concrete is cheapest and best. “Multimix” and
“Tiltamix” Drum Concrete Mixers are manufactured
by us in Australia. All sizes up to 50 cubic feet
per batch. Our latest is a small self-contained
Tilting-Type Mixer, with an ingenious one-man
operated loader, the mixer having a barrow-load
capacity of mixed concrete each batch. It is strong,
cheap and quite reliable. Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty. ’Ltd., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; 21 Morphett
Street Adelaide; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne;
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.— Advt. #
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of east-iron and structural-
steel requirements. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrovving for
tlie purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. O All VAN,
Managing Director.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
V
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&- OLD TOM
DT
■ Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St ..^Sydney.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office i*- Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Austral ;*.
Losses from Fire, Marine. Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTOR TAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
OJI.AI.MS OKOMPTOY AND COUNT
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G - HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
expansion, the heavy carry-over of 17,400
bales from the previous year swelling what
would have been a quite ordinary 58,16-
bales. Despite the greater volume that was
handled gross revenue didn t nse much—it
was £108,061 compared with ±107,811 tor
the previous year. ....
Balance-sheet movements were:—
1922. 1924. 1925. 1928.
raid capital.. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 215,996 174,193 155,724
Pr ir aUd 77,339 107,866 109,019 109,115
Book debts, etc. 235,652 318,893 353,769 328,819
In etc. tment . S .’ 30,526 12,035 12,045 15,517
Merchandise . . 3,380 2,622 5,115 6,626
The position is strong, but the balance-sheet
grouping is untidy: leases are bunched with
freeholds, and advances with all other
asS ets”—a kind of n.e.i. entry. Outside debt
of £155,724 was secured by more or less
liquid assets aggregating £350,962, with pre-
mises and plant valued at a further £109,115.
As bountiful rains have fallen in the areas
in which the co. operates and wool and pro-
duce generally are fairly stable, shareholders
have bright chances of another 15 p.c. div.
Beyond that it would be rash to forecast.
But shareholders are probably more confident
than most —and with better cause.
* * - * *
Ives Reward Co. (W.A.), after putting up
a record for broken anticipations, is now
letting tributors have a go. The latter hope
by picking and choosing to obtain a tew pay-
able crushings and then get out. If and
when they do the Government will probably
be asked for further financial assistance—it
is owed a good bit already—as ail induce-
xnent for jibbing shareholders to pay more
calls. They will throw money away if they
do. * * *
# * *
Mararoa (W.A.) has at last wisely de-
cided to do one thing at a time. Exemption
has been obtained on two diamond-drilled
leases at Wiluna, and, in view of ' the exist-
ing state of mining depression,” funds are
to be conserved for the development and
equipment of the hitherto disappointing
Reedy mines. In the hope of putting some
life into a paralysed market the co. spent
about £2OOO of its own and £7OO of the
State’s money in boring at I\ iluna, but the
attempt failed. # #
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) seems to be
opening up well. Latest progress report
issued by general-manager Vail mentions
good values in both ends of the oOOft. work-
ings, with assays on the up grade. As a
preliminary the aim of the crowd backing
this venture is to quietly block out half a
million tons. _ .
* * • *
Mount Painter Heights, Painter Explora-
tion, Radium and Rare Earths Treatment
and United Painter, all radium cos., are to
meet next week to consider amalgamation.
The proposed new co. is to be called Aus-
tralian Radium Corporation, N.L., capital
£500,000 in £1 shares. Each is to receive
100,000 Shares, half fully-paids, half paid to.
55., leaving 100,000 in reserve. #
Boring is in progress at Point Addis
(Vic.), which carries the imprimatur
of Henry T. Lyne and E. di A 7 ilia
in addition to the commendation of
the Glenelg area by Wade. Latest report
is that No. 1 well, to 800 ft., has proved the
existence of cover rock “in the form of com-
pact sandstones and shales, lacking in all
the wells hitherto bored” in the Cabbage
Garden. The way is. now prepared 4or meet-
ing the first main oil-sand at about 1000ft’.
Lyne has laid it down that the needed factor
to insure an oilfield at the spot is the pres-
ence of a suitable cover rock. No. 1 bore
gives at least that.
* * * *
South Comet, Tommy Palmer's Tasmanian
lead-zinc proposition, is now moving. That
it did not blaze earlier was partly due to the
Speck’s manhood having so unanimously de-
serted the north-west coast that a stair is
difficult to obtain. In addition it is in the
wettest locality on the island, ram having
fallen recently for 18 days without a break.
To fill in time the lode has been gone over
again and Palmer affirms that the lead ore
in the upper tunnel is wider and of greater
length than was assumed. There really
is no barren stuff in the lode, so that a solid
shoot awaits the pick. Whether this solidity
will mark the shoot in the uext tunnel lias
to be proved. Meantime the metal market
has gone colder: lead at £2B isn t lead at
the £3B it was when the venture was first
talked about. The co., therefore, while ex-
pecting profits from the No. 1 tunnel shoot,
needs cash in order to get a full equipment
on the mine, and calls up to the limit ot the
10s shares will have to be forthcoming, that
means wringing £7OOO more out of holders.
As they weren’t mugs who thought lead
would stick at £3B they are ready, as far as
one can learn, to find funds. Nevertheless,
what should be supplied is T. Palmer’s latest
estimate of (1) ore proved, (2) its contents,
(3) cost of extraction, (4) cost of realisa-
tion. and (5) ore probable. The policy of
the board is sound, but ore reserves should be
stated so that it may be determined whether
South Comet is really now worth splashing
money on. The co. owes sundry creditors
£2700 and £687 is due as purchase money.
* * * *
The osmiridium find at the Weld River
(Tas.) proved a washout, most of the
ground being unpayable. It is rumored that
the metal has been found in payable quan-
tities about 40 miles to the n.-w. of the Weld ;
but as heavy snows have fallen, and the
rivers are all in flood, it is not likely that
this area will be prospected until the spring.
* * * *
All shares in Baker’s Discovery Tin, Derby
(Tas.) have been taken up, and work will
begin very soon. According to the Govern-
ment Geologist, the find is very rich. The
previous owner, working single-handed,
sluiced out over £2OOO worth of tin within
a couple of months.
* * * *
Storey’s Creek (Tas.) tin-tungsten mine
is giving its syndicate a handsome profit. Two
fine lodes are being worked; one contains
2 p.c. tungsten and 1 p.c. tin, the other 2 p.c.
tin and 1 p.c. tungsten.
* * * *
“Iverogen”: No other country offers
greater inducement for the establishment of
shale-oil industries than Australia, notwith-
standing past failures. The lessons learnt
are chiefly that whatever form of retort is
adopted the design and capacity must be
regulated to the actual oil recovery. Tee
crude oils produced have been of fair quality,
but refining losses and marketing expenses
have been excessive. The position to-day
indicates that quite different methods of
treatment than retorting may solve the
problem. Recent work by McCoy and Trager
iu U.S.A. has shown that Colorado shales
can be directly converted into oil by high
pressures alone, and I believe that, working
along such lines, a commercial process will
ultimately be evolved directly liquefying our
torbanites and tasmanites. The economic
success is more likely to be attained when
coal and shale associated are worked
together, and, when a full face of shale con-
taining some of the lower grade “stony
material and cannels is mined as a whole,
even if large oil yield is sacrificed to de-
creased mining charges. The production of
oils frbm solid oil-yielding material has
reached an interesting stage in Germany,
where the Royal Dutch Shell group has a
large interest in the Bergin liquefaction
plant and processes. Our own torbanites
easily head the list of such available raw
material.
* * * *
Improved mill returns and a report of
“fair ore underfoot” in the shaft recovered
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) to about 3s. The
plant operated only one week in April for
a recovery of 3 lons Bcwt. concentrates from
204 tons ore, and during the first half of
May 313 tons gave 4 tons lOcwt. concen-
trates. The profit on these figures is only
about 6s. or 7s. a ton, without allowing for
administrative exes.
* * * *
New White Crystal, Ardlethan (N.S.W.V,
lias its battery running three shifts, 130
hours’ work last week putting 258 tons
through. With more men, this output should
be improved. As there are only 53,075 “live”
shares on a full register of 150,000, div.
prospects are better than a superficial look
would indicate. The market holds at 2s. 3d.
and upwards.
* * * *
Queensland Antimony has continued its
Pitt-street run, and concurrently Jensen
announced “free gold” as well as antimony
in the Black Bess No. 1 shaft. The shilling
shares climbed beyond 9s. 9d. and “rights
to the new 2s. issue were supported to 6s.
Bruin’s scamper for cover was a considerable
factor in the inflation. But, on present
appearances, they are not the last who will
be bitten.
•* * *
The latest gold-discovery on the Daintree
River, near Gooktown (N.Q.), was in a
reef which can be traced for a couple of
chains. In shallow workings it shows up
to 18in. of stouc, from which nice-looking
specimens of free gold have been got. Re-
garding the “rush” spoken of by the daily
press the warden reported that a mob of
one advanced on the new find, and as he was
unsuccessful in locating anything of value
he returned to Cooktown. #
The Sardine. Kangaroo Hills (Q.), is look-
ing very healthy. Directors reckon they
can see something like 3s. in dividends from
ore in sight. The rich shoot extends beyond
the end of No. 4 North, which is 150 ft. Ironi
the No. 2 tunnel, while No. 3 has passed out
of the shoot at 200 ft. A good formation
lies ahead of this, and it will certainly be
driven on later for another shoot. A crush-
ing of 159 tons has been completed for 10
tons of concentrates, equal to a shade over
6 p.c. This is very low, and the manage-
ment promises that the next will be better.
Previous crushings this year averaged 17 p.c.
The stopes in No. 4 N. show up to 3ft. of
good ore—a big shoot for "the Hills. ’
* * *
Finney’s Hill United, the silver-lead mine
near Brisbane, has closed down for the time
being, and the co. is seeking liquidation. The
decline in the price of lead and low-grade
ore were the causes. Further, prospect-
ing in the bottom levels did not reveal more
than a formation carrying low metal values.
A committee of shareholders has been formed
to investigate the financial position, and an
endeavor will probably be made to effect a
compromise with creditors and raise further
working capital to continue prospecting.
Values from the open cut have lately been
about 2 p.c. lead and low silver, and that
grade of ore won’t pay in Queensland with
the lead market around £3O. #
The failure of the Great Northern at Her-
berton (Q.) to strike a rich tin lode on a
diviner’s say-so recalls the fact that one
wizard of the rod, who was an official water-
diviner appointed by the Queensland Labor
Cabinet, had a shot at the Indooroopilly
silver-lead ore body. The shaft can be
pointed out to-day; depth, 82ft., all in schist,
with not a smell of galena. The rod alfirmed
that there was a rich lead-lode at 60ft. "With
a further 22ft. added and no sign of it, the
backers lost faith. The rod then hovered
over Coorparoo, another Brisbane suburb,
and located a gold reef. A shaft was sunk,
but the reef was too elusive to locate, and
one “widdy woman” lost her all. #
It was inevitable that the Queensland
Mines Department should select a site near
the No. 1 Lander bore for the Common-
wealth Government to subsidise. A geolo-
gist must have underground structure on
which to base a recommendation for any
one spot as more favorable than another in
the same rock formation. The Orallo-Roma
district is notorious for the paucity of crops
of the soft Walloon series, and it was cer-
tainly understandable that, in the absence
of these, the old site should be re-selected.
There were reports of oil showings in that
bore; and really this one is going down to
verify those reports, and, incidentally, test
the suggestion that powerful outside influ-
ences were at work to make the drilling in
that case a failure.
* * * *
A nice development is reported on the Rio
Grande lode at Mount Isa. The east cross-
cut in the 200 ft. level of the Lawlor main
shaft is in sulphides from 64ft. to 70ft., aver-
aging 16 p.c. lead and 19oz. silver.
“Long Tom": Randolph Bedford says (B.
22/4/’26) that the Mt. Isa board “has shown
its sense of proportion by giving away blocks
of shares for leases which by and bye it
would have had for nothing.” The only
possible interpretation is: “These working-
men leaseholders will never be able to finance
the full development of their leases. Non-
fulfilment of labor conditions must, therefore,
result in ultimate forfeiture by the Queens-
land Government, when the leases, together
with the value of prospecting already per-
formed, will be ours for nothing.” I don’t,
know what Bedford may think about it; 1
only know that every old-time prospector
will applaud Corbould for giving these men
a fair deal.
* * # #
Rabaul is a-flutter because of a new gold
find. The “rush” is a slow matter. The big
steamer has to be awaited to take the gold-
hungry to Salamoa, the nearest port to the
fields, from which they have a five or six
days’ trek over the mountains. Carriers
are the great problem. For each party at
least 15 “boys” are necessary, and they must
be taken from Rabaul, as the local boys
won’t carry beyond their own boundaries.
At least £2OO in cash is essential. Porterage
costs 255. per trip inland for each boy. They
are allowed to carry up to 501 b. each, and
must have their own ration included in that.
Practically everything neeced must be taken
from Rabaul; there is only one small store
at Salamoa and nothing can be purchased on
the field. It is recalled that old miners at
Misima five or six years ago used to swear
that the Mission fathers were “sitting on
a good find.” keeping it dark until the Man-
dated Territory became more settled.^
Joseph Tomlinson, a Sydney director of
Ronpibon, is leaving by the Marella on June
3 to run his expert eye over the co. s pro-
perties in Siam. # ,
Huey Yot, alias Trang, registered in
F.M.S. and operating in Southern Siam, is
offering 70.000 12 p.c. cum. prefs. to the
70 000 ordinaries. The scheme was agreed
to in the December reconstruction, despite a
cabled protest from a meeting of Sydney
holders. The terms are ss. on allotment and
the balance spread over nine months. A
bucket dredge contracted to be delivered in
December will take £40,000, and an adjoin-
in<r area of 225 acres will be secured for
£5250. The co. has always been reticent
about the original area. Only a part of
the new acreage has been bored, and the
progress chart reads 4, 000,000yds. of just
over pound ground. Details, however, are
streaky. The circular mentions a lawsuit
pending against Thompsons in connection
with the suction cutter-dredge contract.
* * * *
Malim Nawar (F.M.S.), the eldest of the
Alluvial Tin pups, got seven tons oxide from
a trial run which treated 45,000yd5. I hat
means s}oz.; but it is explained that the
dredge was opening out, and that overburden
was much in the picture. Still, some people
can't forget the promise that 12oz. ground
would be disclosed by the first operations.
The co. holds 324 acres in Perak, in the
centre of the Kinta Valley—an alluring spot
with all prospectus draughtsmen. Malcolm
Newman, who reported on the area, men-
tioned that 324 acres of an average depth of
50ft. carrying .821 b. to the yd. should give
22,000,000yd5., and yield for 15 years a profit
of 50 p.c. with tin at £250. He mentioned an-
other 102 acres which, if acquired, should yield
another B,ooo,oooyds. and extend the life of
the co. to 20 years, but nothing has been
said of this area in later reports. The co.
went to registration at Rawang, in the State
of Selangor, on 13/7/’23, and in November
of that year a contract was let to Vnited
Engineers, Singapore, for a dredge capable
of turning over from 120,000 to 150,000yds.
a month. In the annual report, 31/7/’24,
chairman F. G. Pratten said that he “anti-
cipated that the dredge would be at work
early in 1925.” When the scheduled jinn'
arrived, tin; office mentioned June, 1925, as
the revised starting time. Later October was
mentioned. October came and nothing was
heard of the dredge, but shares were lifted
to 445. Now, with another June in sight,
seven tons of tin have been chronicled. In
the interim share prices had subsided to 305..
but at the notification of tin they moved
above 40s. again. The parent co. got
£37,000 for the area, of which £26,416 was
represented by paid shares and £10,584 “cash
disbursements to Chinese landowners, com-
missions to agents and boring costs.” _


We made
Strai&ht for
THe Pole,
After ridding.
Our well-wishers
G|OOD-BVE ,
But pound the
poets had Been
INTERFERED with.
We Therefore
Landed To inquire
“the Wav
And got our be^rinqs^
We then proceeded
And soon reached
S>IG|NSs THAT WE WERE,
NEW? THE TERMINUS ,
WE. WERE VNELCOMED a> THE LEADING. CITIZENS,
And mors vicissitudes returned ,
• M PLE/V«>E,S>\R ( N\/s!ve BROUGHT
AHMUSSENT HOME , WHAT CA>N VUE BOOST
'THE QRCJUIATION WITH NEAT' 2 ”
WITH AHMUSSENT TO THE POLE. —(From the Notebook of a Stowaway.)


Smokers who
appreciate
quality buy
0-Q
j
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO
LTD
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Say Bo": Find an equal to this in the
movies! Ben Nee One, <x Chinese comedian
lately on at Melbourne Tivoli, was sitting m
a car in a Carlton street the other evening
when a man rushed by and disappeared up
a blind alley, closely pursued by a policeman
whose head was dripping blood while his
revolver continued to spit bullets. A tew
minutes later the fugitive reappeared, step-
ping briskly, with a gore-soaked constable
holding his head on with one hand while he
kept his gun pressed to the prisoner s spine
with the other. After getting the surprised
Chinaman to search his capture, the intrepid
John made him drive them both to the nearest
police-station, after which he asked the kind
favor of a trip to the hospital, where in-
spection disclosed a five-inch by twounch
gash which had severed the muscles of the
neck but just missed the spine. The man
who put up this endurance test was Constable
Jacobs, a new recruit, aged 114.
* * *
“Riwaka” : Another unexpected meeting in
war-time. Cecil Freestone, now farming
near Lorquon (Vic.), left his job at Duftys
WHAT MORE COULD ONE ASK FOR?
HELEN: “What does Marie know about infants, anyhow? Has
she ever had any experience?”
MOLLY: “Oh, certainly! She was one herself for years and years.”
farm in that district to enlist. One day,
three years later, while lie was serving m
France as a driver with the artillery, a new
horse was put into his team to replace a
disabled animal. The recruit was a horse he
had worked on the Lorquon farm for several
months up to the day ho left. The horse
recognised his old driver, too, as soon as he
heard the welcoming yell of “Bluey! Ton
old cow 7!”
* * * *
“Merris” : It is quite true that the “Ha,
ha! No shave?” joke was fastened in turn
on nearly every “haw-haw” officer of the
A.I.F. (B. 6/5/’26), but there isn’t any
doubt about its origin; the incident occurred
at Morphettville Camp (S. Aus.) in the very
early days of the war, the Digger being a
popular footballer, Phil Robin, who was
afterwards killed at the Landing. When the
First Divvy hit Cairo the yarn went the
rounds of the camps, and was printed in the
Egyptian Gazette. One night the Ameri-
can Charge d’Affaires dined with us, and when
he mentioned the wheeze the C.O. asked it
he’d like to meet the officer concerned. Cap-
tain Blank, who was absent on duty, was
sent for, and—little suspecting the joke that
was being played upon him —was duly pre-
sented to the diplomat. #
“Light Horse” : As to beating the military
censor (B 6/5/’26), one ingenious Aussie
fixed up an excellent dodge with his girl in
England. Each had a copy of a small atlas-
map of France, about the size of a square
of letter-pad paper. The semi-transparent
sheet was laid on the map after the letter
was written, and a pin was stuck through
it at the place where the writer was located.
When the girl got the letter, she had onl>
to put it on her map to find the exact spot
where her lover was stationed. Flien the
rest of the forbidden news was culled from
the communiques. All went well till one
morning the girl opened the letter and found
it as full of holes as a fishing-net. Across
it was written in blue pencil: I> d cleiei ,
now try something else.”
“Tarago”: When the medical and other
experts have finished with dengue I would
like to know what trench-fever is (or was).
I don’t require to be told about the symp-
toms • I know them. One of them was
a light head; if I stooped I was overcome
with a dizziness, and would drop on my
hands and knees, and stay there until the
attack passed. The lassitude in the bodj
and limbs forced me to sit or lie down at
every opportunity. There were none of the
aches that usually accompany Hu, but a
dry, hard cough that set my head buzzing.
The thing hung to me tor two months (until
I got mv issue), and during that time m.\
rifle felt a hundredweight, and the equipment
straps' seemed to burn the flesh ; sti 1 there
was no fever, rather a kind of deadly cold
ness all the time. A sergeant of the A.M.L.
told me it was merely a form ot weakness
brought on by the lack of proper nourish-
ment the consequent poverty of blood mid
overwork. If so, many civilians should suffer
the same complaint, and I don t hear about it.
“M.G.S.” : The inventor of an automatic
cigarette-machine has been calling his device
fool-proof, but he is going to revise his
nomenclature. At Beechworth O]C.)
machine erected outside a tobacconist s shop
has been made to work for a long time by
means of halfpennies filed down to the size
and weight of sixpences. The other day a
watch was kept, and a man caught in the
act. He was an inmate of the local lunatic
asylum! # » *
“Stellsby” : “Me and me boy friend” in a
new role! A big estate in one of Mel-
bourne’s outlying eastern suburbs was
subdivided and sold in building blocks on
terms. The vendor afterwards transferred
his interest in the estate to a
well-known city firm. A shark,
getting wind of this, rounded up
the purchasers of blocks in the
estate and, posing as a member
of the city firm, advised them to
transfer to more attractive
blocks in an estate reputedly
owned by him in the
outlying suburbs;
£5 additional per
block was modestly
demanded. One
young lady, less
credulous than
most, asked if she
might inspect the
new property with
a ‘boy friend.”
The shark con-
sented, and motored
the couple out of
town, taking the
opportunity to try
to badger the lady’s
companion in t o
buying a block. "I
can see,” he said
engagingly, “a
happy little home
being built here be-
fore long.” He was
wrong. The “boy friend” was a detective
from headquarters, who duly lumbered the
enterprising gentleman on a false-pretences
charge. * * *
“Fadraic” : Another instance of the long arm
working overtime. Eight years ago a resident
of Tingha (N.S.W.) lost a valuable set of
carpenter’s tools. The theft was reported,
and the police searched the house of a sus-
pect, but without result. Since then the
Tingha man has worked at many occupations
in many places; and quite recently he went
into a hardware shop in Armidale (?\.SAN.)
to buy a handsaw. A stranger standing
alongside the counter took him aside and
offered to sell him a better aiticlo
than the shopman had offered and at a much
lower figure. The pair adjourned to the
street where the stranger produced a tool
which the would-be purchaser immediately
recognised as the one stolen from him eight
years before—it even had his name on it.
The seller discovered that he had urgent
business elsewhere when this was pointed
out to him, but he was pursued and cap-
tured, with the help of a handy constable.
He then alleged the tool was one of a set
belonging to his father. Investigation proved
that he was telling the truth, and the paren-
tal thief, who was the one originally sus-
pected, parted up with his stolen goods after
eight years. Owing to the suspicion aroused
at the time of theft, he had been afraid to
dispose of a single tool, and at the first
attempt on the part of his offspring Nemesis
descended upon him.
NEVER OUT OF A JOB.
MRS.KIRRIBILLI : “So you hare been married before, Mrs. Killigan?"
MRS. KILLIGAN (charlady) : “Yis, mum; an' if ’Eaven takes this one, I c'n easy lays
'ands on a fourth."
“Machete”: The Queenslander is taking
to the air in greater quantities than his
countrymen in the sister States. The reports
of “Quantas,” the northern air service which
has now flown 346,789 miles, carrying pas-
sengers and goods, without a casualty or
loss, prove that. Close on 300 passengers
were carried in the course of 115 trips during
April, and 16 of these were doctors flying
to urgent cases. There was no end of fuss
when a paralysed man was the other day
brought part of the way to Sydney in an ail-
machine;, up north in one recent month six
cot cases flew to town to consult the quack.
No mention is publicly made of the flying
undertaker, hut it is any odds that the
western crow has lost his old-tnne monopoly.
* * * *
“Cascade” : One of the 30-odd people that
the Melbourne detectives took to police head-
quarters over the Tullocli murder was a
voluble Yankee who assured the sleuths be-
fore they had sat down to first-degree him
that they had got the right man. "Yes,
he went on, "I put the poison m his por-
ridge while lie wasn't looking. ’ Before Jus
captors had recovered from the shock of
this he was in the middle of an intriguing
story about a Spaniard who had threatened
liis mother’s life in Universal City, Ii.S.A.
In consequence of this he had felt moved
to poison' him and then join the American
Navy, which he deserted in Melbourne. It
soon transpired that the humorist merely
wanted a cheap trip home; but he didn t
get —the City Court turned him loose in
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Hasen”: A recent Melbourne Sun has
this communique from the Front: —
In an affray at a Fitzroy hotel Mrs. , Young-
street, Fitzfoy, received two knife wounds in her
left arm and five -in her right shoulder.
After that, I should think, she could call it
a day—even in Fitzroy.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The various titles affected by
claimants to crowns which have gone into
storage (or soak) are confusing to an out-
sider. The Due d’Orleans, who was the head
Of the French branch of the House of Bour-
bon and as such the hope of the Royalists,
died the other day, and it was announced
that his job, which seems to consist mainly
of looking as kingly as possible and waiting
for something to turn up, has been taken over
by his cousin, the Due de Guise. I wish
some Frenchman would explain why these
pretenders, or whatever you call them, don t
hang on to one title, if only to make identi-
fication easier. The late Due was a son of
the Comte de Paris, which complicates things
further. Sometimes there are two or more
claimants to one vanished throne, which looks
like a waste of good pretension. Portugal,
for instance, had a king and a fairly vigorous
Pretender tip to the time Manoel was sent
on his travels. After that the ex-sovereign
dropped into the r6le of leading Pretender,
the other chap was pushed further into the
background and doubtless caused to reel like
?in investor who has merely got a second ot
third mortgage on a heavily encumbered pro-
perty. But I have read somewhere that the
ex-king has recently conveyed all his right,
title and interest in the job he couldn t hold
to the fellow who would have been only too
glad to dispossess him of it while he was
holding it, which suggests that Manoel is
either a generous person or a very tired one.
If Russia stays Bolshevik for a generation,
the claimants to the throne that has dis-
appeared ought to be as long as a first-night
theatre queue.
**• * *
“Bio M : The equestrian statues by Gilbert
Bayes which are to be erected in front or
the Sydney Art Gallery invite a little criti-
cism. ' The stone images of two young people
of either sex. mounted on the bare backs oi
Suffolk Punch stallions, might gladden the
eye at the gates of Hampstead Heath or
lipping Forest, but what do they do here?
The Suffolk Punch is not a riding animal,
and our farmers have no time for him in the
THE PROPER SORT OF HIGHBROW.
THE POET : “Is he very literate?"
The Artist: “ Literate — cripes, yes! Why,
he's the great, authority on menu-cards."
plough—the breed is too short in the leg.
To the average Australian unacquainted with
the ideal of Ilodge in rural England, the
animals will appear a joke; and the rounded,
meaty look of the riders suggests the new-
chum just landed on Circular Quay. It if*
hard to understand what useful or artistic
purpose was served by spending ±4OOO on
those thoroughly un-Australian images.
(Continued on page 19.)
BR-R-R!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s coughing in the offices
And sneezing on the trams,
The chemist’s working overtime
Dispensing gills and drams;
The sun’s gone north, delight’s gone west,
The days are brief and drear,
And we know by the size of the woodman s bill
That the wild (atchoo /) winter’s here.
The melancholy punter now
Regrets the socks and shirt,
The underpants and overcoat
He put upon a cert;
And the flapper in her half-way frock
As the wind becomes severe
Puts another half-inch of powder on,
For the wild (atchoo!) winter’s here.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


WILL NURSE GET HER WAY?
“ The P roposed Referendum to make Arbitration a Federal matter is being opposed by the state Frighters.”
NURSIE: Ah, sir, let me have the little darling to put in the pram and for a beautiful walk to the cemingtery!"


LIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANTS
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow*
f L.
PALATO
The New Orange Drink
If you want an Orange Drink, made
from Pure Orange Juice, without
artificial essences, insist on getting
PALATO.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“P.ill O’C.”: Concerning bishops and their
conventional signatures (B. (j/5/’26). When
George Wyndham Kennion was lord or the
S.A. Anglicans lie embarked on a newspaper
controversy with a man in the northern areas.
Kennion, who was personally likeable
enough, Imcl a considerable fund of dignity
and a touch of the superior person. He
referred disparagingly to his adversary hid-
ing under his worn do plume of Constant
Reader" or “Struggling Farmer,” and
signed himself “G. W. Adelaide.’ Ihe
anonymous bucolic countered brightly with
a charge of tu quogue, and. as his own front
initials happened also to be G.W., and his
township badly needed a little publicity, he
claimed the same privilege of signature as
his opponent, and subscribed himself ‘ G. W.
Booleroo Centre.” Then his Ludship retired
behind his apron. Later on he was “trans-
lated” to a much bigger bishing job, where he
THE OLD EVE.
“It isn’t casy for a girl to find a husband these days.
“Nonsense, child! A pretty girl like you can make her choice
from four out of every five men she meets.
“Yes, but it’s the fifth she wants.”
became entitled to sign himself “G. W. Bath
and Wells.” and so could afford to forgive his
colonial logpullers—he never had _ any
enemies. Oddly enough, the whirligig ot
time some 25 years later saw a new see
established with headquarters quite handy
to Booleroo Centre, and it might easily have
been so named, but authority fixed upon
Willochra, after a long, meandering creek
in those parts.
* * * *
“Adam’s Apple”: Sydney trammies are
experts in the gentle art of leg-pulling. Re-
cently at North Sydney the Simple Simon
of the shed was asked to join in a raffle for
Jessie, the elephant at Taronga Zoo. It
was explained that the trustees were donat-
ing the animal to the depot, and that the
proceeds were to go to a sick and benefit
fund. As the name of nearly every local
tramwayman was on the sheet, Simon tossed
in his bob unsuspiciously. A few days later
he was told that he had won the animab nnd
was overwhelmed with handshakes. _ But?
gasped Simon, a little dazed at his luck,
“what in the deuce will I do with an ele-
phant?” Up spoke the chief jester: Why,
sell it to Wirths’ Circus when it comes to
Sydney. They’ll pay as much as 500 quid.
Meanwhile, keep her in yer back yard and
feed her on hay. All the youngsters in the
district will want to ride her, and you can
collect a zack a time from them.” Next
morning a little man in a tram-conductor s
uniform, carrying a clothes-line and wearing
a wide smile, trotted briskly up to the Zoo
to take possession of his pachyderm. W hat
followed is clouded in secrecy, but Jessie
is still at home to Taronga Park visitors.
* * * *
“Mat Lowe”: Further to the subject of
headgear etiquette, the general rule in the
Navy is “caps off” in church and in court,
except in the case of those present on duty
and under arms. At funerals the guard wear
their caps, others doff theirs.. At courts-
martial the officers who constitute the tri-
bunal wear their ornate fore-and-aft hats
until the president gets weary of his and
takes it off. Everyone else goes bareheaded.
At the reading of warrants before commit-
ting a man 'to punishment, the presiding
officer and the guard wear their caps; the
prisoner and ship's company present do not.
* * * *
“Moreton”: A union advocate in the
Oueensland Arbitration Court waxed elo-
quo lit over the hard lot of hotel and caie
employees in the Central West. “In some
of these places,” he declared, “they are so
busy that the barmaids, cooks and waitresses
have to work in shifts.” “Of course, it is
very hot out there sometimes,” murmured ex-
Premier Gillies, who was on the Bench.
* * * *
“Wallaby” : It is not offered as a recom-
mendation ; but from my own personal ex-
perience I can attest that the physical suffer-
ing which precedes death by drowning is very
slight. I am indebted for my knowledge.
or for being- able to
make it public, to
a plucky French-
man who dragged
me out from the
somewhat treacher-
ous surf at Bacos
Beach, Alexandria,
an d wh o never
slackened in his
efforts till he had re-
suscitated me. using
a walking-stick to
prise open my
clenched feet h.
Mentally, however,
1 did suffer ; in that
last moment of
consciousness m y
past flashed up be
fore me as clear as
the entries on a
crime-sheet.
• •
“P etri e” : A
Queensland man
with political ambi-
tions promised
£lOOO to the Cocky-
Nationalist funds
if he was endorsed
as the official can-
didate. The organ-
isation needed
money, and the seat
was hopeless, so he
was endorsed. But
when he was asked
for his cheque, he
explained that he
had been misunder-
stood —he hadn’t
intended to give
the money for gen-
eral use: lie meant
to spend it on his
own election. And
he proceeded to do
it. After a lavish
campaign, whi c h
brought great joy
to derelicts engaged
as canvassers at £1
a day, he w r as well
and truly beaten. His votes cost him the
better part of £1 each, but he reckons the
advertisement was worth it.
* * * *
“ Jesmond”: Sea-travel would be unsafe if
helmsmen on steamers steered as “C. Bump-
kin” thinks they do (B. l?>/5/’26). In old
sailing-ship days the bowsprit and compass
were among the things the' man at the wheel
had to keep his eyes on; but on steamers
the bow does not interest him —often he can t
even see it. A black line corresponding to
the bow is drawn on the inside of the com-
pass-casing, the compass-card is attached to
the needle and the compass “floats” —swings
in gimbals—so that it maintains a horizontal
position and the arrowed-point N. always
points north. The helmsman’s job is to keep
that black line opposite the given course
with as little deviation as possible. Gyro-
scope steering is certainly as safe as, if not
safer than, hand steering. The gyroscope
ALL SET.
“There's a parson who says lie’ll marry me whenever I say the word,”
“Goodo! Let’s let him. Ere got a pal in a secret-service agency who’ll fix up a divorce
for us any time.”
has no mind to wander from its work, and
the officer on the bridge, by not having to
keep his eye on the man at the wheel, can
give more time aiul attention to other
matters.
• * * *
“Spare Corp”: Speaking of queer o.p.’s,
some of them, which Fritz must have known
and spared from destruction for very definite
reasons, caused us to use many curses. There
was, for instance, a tall chimney which re-
mained unharmed amidst all the ruin of
Ypres. It was employed by us for long-
distance observation purposes; although it
seemed suicidal for an observer to risk his
life on top of such an obvious mark, it was
safer than most on that very account. The
Germans, having its exact position on
their maps, no doubt found it a convenient
range-gauge, from which they could measure
the distance to the places iliey wanted to hit.
A windmill enjoyed the same sort of immu-
nity and evoked much the same profanity.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The old University custom
of conferring degrees honoris causa on more
or less distinguished people seems to be
spreading beyond the seats of learning. At
'Taree (N.S.W.) an itinerant herbalist styl-
ing himself “Professor” W. Bland was fined
£9O or two months, because he had not pub-
lished his Christian name in full, according
to the law in that case made and provided.
Asked what right he had to the style of
“professor” Blank made the indignant reply
that he had every right. It had been con-
ferred on him by a police inspector at Mait-
land Show years ago.
* * * *
“Flagwagger” : I wonder what Digger had
the briefest period of soldiering before falling
in action. A cobber of mine enlisted in
March, 1915. Long experience with boy
scouts and, later, the compulsory-train-
ing forces had made him an efficient signaller
and won him a transfer to the flagwaggers lu
days after Ms enlistment. His draft sailed
almost immediately, landing in Egypt five
weeks later. After a week’s stay there they
re-embarked for Gallipoli, and 10 days after
leaving Egypt mv cobber was mortally shot
by a Turkish sniper. Only nine weeks had
passed between his enlistment and death,
whereas I, who had joined up mouth
sooner, never heard the crack of a I urkish
bullet until four months after lie was killed.
* * * *
“Pick” : Despite the scepticism of some
contributors about the transmission of mater-
nal marks to children, there are authentic
instances of such impressions having been
conveyed under the stress of fear or excite-
ment. Sabina Austin, an old Bombala
(N.S.W.) identity, now gone west, wore
throughout her life on her left cheek, neck
and shoulder the furry growth of an opos-
sum, black-curled tail and all. Prior to her
birth her mother had received a fright from
a ’possum that sprang upon her left shoulder.
A South iCoast (N.S.W.) girl has a short
growth of black curly hair covering her fore-
head from the right eyebrow upwards. Pre-
vious to her birth her mother, with her
forehead resting upon her hand, had been
seriously upset by reading the villainous do-
ings of a character in fiction with black curl-
ing hair. Before its removal by operation,
Pete Roberts, of Mayfield (N.S.W.), had a
complete ripe strawberry growing upon his
cheek. A playful girl had flung a strawberry
at the mother and struck her on the cheek
not long before he arrived.
* # * *
“Ellae”: At boarding-school my mother
had a great friend, Pollie, who crept into
all her reminiscences as a leader of school
pranks; but they went different ways on
leaving, and utterly lost track of each other.
Within three days of the end, 50 years later,
my mother was put into a two-bed room m
a hospital; the pitiful shadow in the other
bed was Pollie, also booked for the long
journey.
* * -■ *
“Adamascus”: In a Brisbane police-court
recently an old practitioner and a rising
young solicitor were engaging in a verbal
duel. The former had in good faith made
a statement which was afterwards found to
be only partly true. “A little knowledge is
a dangerous thing; Mr. Costs, said the
younger ncidly. “Yes, replied the other,
looking benevolently over his spectacles at
the precocious youth ; “still, it earns some of
us a living.”
* * * *
“Julian”: Niagara (W.A.) was the only
town I ever struck with four hotels at the
intersection of its two principal streets. Kal-
goorlie narrowly missed having a quartette
in the same position, three pubs smiling at
each other where Maritana-street crosses
Hannan-street —in the peak days of the gold
boom the latter had 27 licensed pubs. Broken
Hill never got nearer a full hand than Kal-
goorlie did —the best it could do was three at
an Oxide-street intersection. Niagara, the
winner of the competition, has dropped oft
the map, but jumbucks browsing on the sur-
rounding saltbush are doing well.
* * * *
“Hi” : The war years made death so con-
stant a companion for millions of us that
I believe a gifted few glimpsed through the
veil One sensitive friend of mine saw his
loved brother blown to pieces. A month
later, during duty, this man shouted, Jump,
Jack !- Quick !” As we landed in the trench-
bottom the shell burst on the very spot where
we had been working. “I didn t hear a
sound ” I said curiously; “what gave you
warning?” After a momentary hesitation,
he said defiantly, “Wally’s voice.” He went
on to tel 1 me how his brother had appeared
to him, just as he was in life, the night after
lie was blown to pieces, and how lie had
twice heard the dead man’s voice distinctly.
He continued to hear it to some effect, too:
more than once his strange intuition saved
those close around him. He came to be
called “the Witch,” and an idea grew that
every man who stuck close to lnm would
live to see Australia again. He several
times told me of some unlucky one whose
number was called. And he uras always
right.
COMPRESSED AGONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Rirl— Meet me any time, anywhere ; not under
&TB&tte 0 '
Column (two lines 2/-; Saturday, .1/ ).
You got fair value for your couple o’ bob,
“Three O’s,” I’ll say—or was it half a crown?
Wistful appeal is there, and choking so 3,
Inverted love and hatred upside-down.
Who ever saw before two lines, or three,
Packed with such palpitating agony?
Useless to ask, impossible to state
What mercy you deserve for what you did.
Still, one can scarce forbear to speculate <f
Whether vou went as you were bidden, Uu,
And if to meet him once again you came
Boiling with fury or with love aflame.
Did spirits through the lips together rush
Impulsively—or did you hand the scamp
Who specialises in neurotic gush
A clip beneath the ear-hole with a gamp.
Hot love he bade you bring, or hatred hot;
One mildly wonders which it was he got.
A bob a line! And who shall say the price
Five days a week is aught but passing cheap
As long as one can make it so concise,
The fierce, tempestuous call of deep to deep ?
The throbbing heart’s emotion superfine,
Whirled on its errand for a bob a line!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereafch Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
ĵ
j
The TOPNOTCH "Scotch
"SayWHEfi Man ll
• T'
!
sac
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
ijlie,
PATHLORAMA
7' ft)slt»d 7s Rims Id e<x.
Home Rbcreations h
388 George St,Sydney
[opp. Beard M^fso/i’s)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some June birthdays :
Ex-Federal Minister Archibald, 76, on 3rd; ex-
Premier Propsting (Speck), 65, on 4th; Bishop
Radford (Goulburn), 57, and Mrs. vEneas Gunn (“We
of the Never Never”), on sth; Senator Major-Gen.
Glasgow, 50, and W. M. Marks, M.H.R., 51, on
6th; J. J. Knight (?risbane Cockier), 63, on 7th;
Bishop Gilbert White (late of Willochra), 67, on
9th; Vic. State Treasurer Peacock, 65, on llth;
Senate President Givens, 62, and Judge Herbert
fPapua), 66, on 12th; G. H. Knibbs, 68, on 13th;
Federal Crown Solicitor Castles, 66, on 16th; Bishop
Ma x wel I'G'U rn b 1 et on, 54, and Arlchdeacon D’Arcy
Irvine, 64, on 17th; ex-Senator Best, 68, and Frank
Tate (Vie. Director of Education), 63, on 18th;
Senator Brig.-Gen. Elliott, 48, and Dr. J. H. Cumps-
ton, 46, on 19th; Adelaide Mayor Frank Moulden,
48, on 25th; Major-Gen. Monash, 61, on 27th; ex-
Senator Keating (Tas.), 54, on 28th; artist A. M.
Patterson, 49, on 29th; and Prof. T. Hudson Beare
(Edin., formerly of S.A.), 67, on 30th.
Admiral Cresswell recalled in Melbourne
the other day an incident of his early career
as sea-guardian of
Sont h Australia.
His fleet, which
consisted of
H.M.A.S. Protec-
tor, was perform-
ing mimic offen-
sive operations off
the pier at Largs
Bay. “All, Cap-
tain,” said a visit-
ing French naval
officer, “I envy
your fleet its ex-
emption from one
terror which accom-
panies our manoe-
uvres." “What is
that?" asked the
gallant commander.
“The risk of a col-
lision !”
A Merman E.J.
ROGERS, who
earlier this
month was unani-
mously elected
Mayor of Hobart.
Cremated at Spring Vale (Vic.) lately,
Professor Mica Smith, up till a few years
ago science-master at Ballarat School of
Mines. He was a pedagogue of the old
school, devoted to his work and capable of
inspiring genuine affection both for himself
and the sciences he taught. As a lecturer
he was apt to forget all about the‘flight of
time, and on one occasion a student concealed
a big alarm-clock in the old chap’s desk,
timed to go off at the hour when, according
to the syllabus, the lecture should end. The
gong cut athwart what had promised to be
a most beautifully-rounded sentence, but the
shrewd old Scot was not in the least dis-
turbed. He waited till the clamor had ceased
and then calmly appropriated the clock,
thanking the students heartily for having
"so kindly remembered my birthday.”
Detective-sergeant Holden has the hound-
nig down of the man who murdered
Colonel Tulloch, the coach of Melbourne
Grammar, on the eve of the schools’
boatrace. The public enjoys a manhunt, but
most ot us do it through the daily press. For
the man with the hounds it is more than a
mere amusement. The sleuths have had u
strenuous time. Out of many clues they
selected a man who confessed to a bogus
murder in San Francisco, thinking it was
tor that he had been apprehended. Holden,
believing his confession to be mere halluci-
nation, sadly let him go. Then a freshly-
released criminal was seized on. This clue
v\ as abandoned after the man had been re-
manded, released and then collared again.
Then a reward of £7OO was offered. And
still nothing is discovered but new theories.
bile at Capetown, on his way to Lon-
don, Carl Pinschof, once a prominent figure
in Melbourne trade and society, laid down
fife s load. Falling in love with Vic. when,
as a handsome chap of 26, he came as Aus-
trian Commissioner to the Melbourne Exhi-
bition in ’Bl, lie set up as a merchant, and
kept in touch with his homeland by becom-
ing Austro-Hungarian Consul. At functions
l le was a commanding figure in his showy
uniform. Australia owed him something for
pioneering the credit-foncier system which
has been adopted by savings banks with
much success. Madame was a teacher at
the Conservatorium of Music founded by
Marshall Hall, but they fell upon cold times
during the war. She died two years ago,
just as people were inclined to forget war
bitterness. Mrs. Carmen Harris (Singa-
pore), Mrs. Elizabeth Finley (Melb.) and
Mrs. Louisa Hutchins (New York) are the
three daughters who survive their parents.
S. C. Lazarus, who for some months has
been writing literary criticisms for the Mel-
bourne Herald, hr.s been c iosen by Primin-
lster Bruce to accompany him to the Imperial
Conference this year as publicity officer.
Lazarus is a Doctor of Philosophy' (Melb.),
and ivas a member of the team which re-
cently opposed the U.K. University debaters.
The Japanese Consulate in Sydney loses
one of the oldest of its fixtures by the
death of E. W. Foxall, who has been its
English secretary for 26 years. Before
deserting politics for that secluded haven, he
was a leading single-taxer and one of the
promoters of the visit of Henry George to
this country. He was 6S at the end.
Death robbed Vic. of one of its ablest
public servants when it struck down Deth-
ndge, second member of the State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission, at 61. Be-
fore joining the commission he was chief
engineer of water supply, and he designed
and superintended some of the State’s big-
gest works, lie dodged publicity, but his
sterling worth could not be hidden. More
philanthropic than businesslike, he made a
present to the world of the apparatus he in-
vented for measuring water for irrigation.
Judge Dethridge, of Vic. County Court, is
a brother.
The presidency of the Adelaide Public
Library and Art Gallery Board goes now
to S. Talbot Smith, lawyer and journalist.
He has for many years been The Bulle-
tin \s dramatic critic in the southern city,
with an eye also on art and sport. He is
a voluminous book-reviewer, and was till
lately chairman of the Repertory Theatre,
but is equally at home refereeing’ the ’Var-
sity or intercollegiate sports.
A cobbler who stuck to his last: was A. H.
Sargood, a partner in Sargood Bros., ware-
housemen, who passed over at 57 in Mel-
bourne the other day. Unlike his titled
father, Frederick Sargood, he left politics,
and public affairs generally,, alone. Never-
theless, the Y.M.C.A., in which he was a
quiet but active worker, will regret his going,
and members of the Frankston golf links will
remember him gratefully as founder.
When Cardinal Moran, who had a pas-
sion for setting up religious houses in the
Sydney Archdiocese, decided to add yet an-
other to the half-dozen already settled, he
imported Father Treand in 1891 to estab-
lish at Randwick, Sydney, the Society of
the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart. So
successful was this foundation that a col-
lege of the order for Australians was built
at Kensington and another at Douglas Park,
both still thriving. Father Treand also
founded a monthly publication, the Annals,
now also firmly established. Though for 85
years he had been parish priest of Randwick,
he never saw a race-meeting in his life. He
died last w r eek at the age of 70.
In one of O. Henry’s stories a millionaire
and a political boss fight in a New York
slum area for the right to monopolise the
victims of their charity. The writer pro-
bably did not foresee the day when competi-
tion would become so keen that it would be
necessary to start exporting, yet the bequests
of American plutocrats are now operating
all sorts of activities in every part of the
globe. The latest extension to this land
comes from the Rockefeller Foundation,
which proposes to grant research fellowships
to Australians to pursue their investigations
in America under a scheme known as the
International Education Board. There will
be a small stipend to cover living and tra-
velling expenses and university fees, and
special provision will be made for married
men. Dr. Russell, an American pedagogue,
is at present in Melbourne looking for worthy
objects for his organisation’s largesse.
Tate, of Victoria, gave many an out-back
youngster a chance when he established rural
secondary schools. Now the young teacher,
as well as the taught, is to have, a better
start. Under the
old system, un-
trained teachers
were sent to at-
tempt that most
difficult of jobs,
the management of
a one-man bush
school. A new Act
enforces the train-
ing of all depart-
men t a 1 teachers
especially in rural-
school organisation,
and a commence-
me n t has been
made by opening-
teachers’ colleges at
Ballarat and Ben
digo. The princi-
pals, at £7OO per
annum, are Scott,
of Shepparton High,
and Elwood, of the
inspecting staff.
NORMAN MAKIN,
Labor M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh ( S.A. ).
Jack Spencer, dentist, genial sport and
sculling enthusiast, who backed Ned Trickett,
Neil Matterson and Harry Searle in their
engagements, big and small, has pulled his
last scull and his last tobth. Spencer started
gum-digging at 16. A couple of months ago, in
his 77th year, he was still practising in his
King-street rooms. Death called for him
last Sunday; and, if the crystal sea is at all
suitable for sculling, Spencer is sure to hunt
up his pal Searle and challenge all the
angels to bring along a champion prepared
to race him for 500 harps or crowns.
Only a handful of the members of the Vic.
Parliament who once sat in Spring-street
will return to the building next year when
the Commonwealth moves on to ’Berra.
Bowser, A. A. Billson, Downward, Lawson,
Oman, Peacock, Toutclier and Prendergast,
M’s.L.A., and Sternberg, M.L.C., are all that
are left of the 148 who shifted to Rathdown-
street in 1901. Sternberg is very, feeble and
Payne very indifferent to politics; Down-
ward is in his 80th year, and A. A. Billson's
health is far from robust.
South Aus. has appointed a strong com-
mission to inquire into pastoral matters, five
men with long experience. T. E. Day is
.chairman of the Pastoral Board of the
State, as well as Surveyor-General; A. G.
Rymill, a bank director, w r as for years chair-
man of the Canowie Pastoral Co.; F. W.
Lundie has been secretary of the Shearers’
Union and president of . the A.W.TJ.; Pick
and O’Connor are respectively pastoralist
and farmer, both with Parliamentary experi-
ence and a wide knowiedge of the vast range
of lightly-watered country that S.A. has to
reckon with.
Dame Charlotte Wrixon, daughter of
“Money” Miller and widow of the man who
was Vic. Attorney-General under Duncan
Gillies and later President of the House of
Landlords, left a tidy little heap when she
died at Regent’s Park, London. The Vic-
torian portion on winch duty will be assessed
is £56,214. She survived her Henry (wiio
won his knighthood over the Ah Toy Chinese
exclusion case) by 14 or 15 years.
The Kelly Gang’s best joke is recalled by
the death in W.A. of ex-Sergcant George
Dennis Devine. Devine w r as in charge of
Jerilderie in 1879, and his boast that the
gang was frightened to cross the Murray led
to its arrival. Jerilderie was an amazed
township when some “relieving police from
Sydney,” after making a general inspection
of the place, started to loot, taking posses-
sion of the principal hotel and making every-
body wdio entered it a prisoner. Before
leaving the town after cutting the telegraph-
wires, they relieved the Bank of of N.S.W.
of £2OOO. When they had gone Devine and
a constable were found trussed up in a shock-
ing state of undress —the bushrangers had
borrowed their uniforms. Devine, who wms
79 when he died, leaves a widow': she was
forced, whilst the ’rangers had their joke, to
cook their meals, and it was her pleading
that saved the life of her husband.
• Another to join the exodus to the Euchar-
eongress at Chicago is Dr. Tom Hayden,
Mo, l i PreSld f nt of the Cardinals College at
• a foundation professor and sole sur-
0/ tlle , original staff of 40 years ago.
- ve ” een three other presidents, the
v st . being a cousin of the Cardinal, Dr.
eraon, who was afterwards Bishop of
imnedm. Next came Dr. Murphy, from a
milar position in Kilkenny, and then an-
other foundation professor, Hugh 'McDer-
mott now of Leichhardt (N.S.W.). Hayden
was I rofessor of Dogma and Scripture, and
• _ post was looked upon merely as a step-
-1 >g stone to a bishopric. But a suspicion
modernistic taint, deepened by an article
published by him in Rome, is believed to
nave scotched his chances. He goes to
menea as offsider to Sydney’s unseen and
unheard Coadjutor, Dr. Sheehan.
11. E. Coffey, who has been J. C. Boyce’s
light-liand man ever since the formation of
flic Vic. Government Tourist Bureau in
LW)S, has retired at GO after drawing rail-
nay pay for close on 44 years. He drafted
ihe booklet “Picturesque Victoria,” the stand-
IV™ .tb'tnst guide for the State, compiled
the Coach Guide” and the pamphlet “Pro-
gressive Victoria” which went to the Pana-
ma Exposition, and supervised the “shooting"
ot several thousand feet of film for the adver-
tising of Vic. tourist resorts. He gets a
pension, and has earned it.
Priminister Coates of Maoriland, who
gained a reputation for making up his mind
quickly when he was running Railways and
other services under Massey, takes his time
nowadays. Chris Parr went off to be High
Commissioner some time ago, but the con-
sequent re-arrangement of portfolios took
place only last week-end. Bob Wright, mem-
ber tor Wellington Suburbs, a printer by
trade, has been brought in to take Educa-
tion: he served an apprenticeship on the
) \ i Education Board. Bill Nosworthy
(Ashburton) hands Finance over to Downie
Stewart, who knows something about it and
becomes Postmaster-General. The job of
Attorney-General, which lias been looking for
an owner ever since the wise but ancient
Dillon Loll dropped out, goes to Frank Rol-
leston ( fimaru), who made his debut as a
Minister a few weeks back. Leadership of
the Leg. Council, formerly held by Bell, goes
to Heaton Rhodes, the amiable and wealthy
knight whose resignation of Defence and
umpteen small departments has been re-
warded by translation to the one-hour-a-day
chamber. McLeod, the strong man of the
Cabinet, relieves Stewart of Industries and
Commerce, and if he wasn’t a squatters'
nominee he might find out what it is there
for. The six or seven members who got hot
under the collar when Wright was chosen
have been pacified by Coates's assurance that
he intends to let go of Public Works soon.
The death at Campbell town of Mrs. Jane
Taber severs a link with the early days
of Australia, She was born at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) in 1841, and married Gregory
Taber, a grandson of Sydney’s first peda-
gogue.
The globe is a very small place to Ivan
O’Meara, the Gisborne (M.L.) wireless ama-
teur, who has now been in communication
with every country in the world. Talking
one night with a fellow-enthusiast in Paris,
he heard a Russian station butting in, and
WILLIAM JAMES, Austro Han pianist and
composer, who is now with Toti dal
Monte.
next day lie and the Russian in charge of
the radio laboratory at Nijni-Novgorod con-
versed lengthily in English. Then the
Siberian University at Tomsk entered and
exchanged greetings, and an island off the
Madeiras spoke up for the first time, fol-
lowed closely by a few 1 remarks from Java.
It is Ivan O’Meara’s ambition to establish
a round-the-world circiut, and he will, if
patient persistence counts.
TOPPING OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here we go round the top of the world, the top of
the world, the top of the world —-
Here we go round the top of the world on a cold
and frosty morning.
There was never a bear, there was never a duck,
Nor even a frozen seal;
Our engines whirled and we trusted to luck
Through the fog of the North to steal;
Then we went to the south and we went to the west
And we went to the north and east,
Till we came to the place where the four points rest
And the figures of earth had ceased.
There, was never a sea, there was never a land,
But all was ice and snow ;
There was nothing to learn or understand
And nowhere else to go.
So we shivered a while in our frosted fur
And looked at the cold, blind fears
That died to the mighty engine’s purr
And the sound of the distant cheers.
vVe had conquered the void, we had conquered the Pole,
We had realised all our dream;
And the total worth of the North as a whole
Was less than a pink ice-cream.
So Hudson, may rest and Ross may sleep,
• And Peary tad Cook may- smile ;
For the prize of the ages is ours to keep
And we won it in perfect style!
What will you do with the top of the ivorld, the
top of the world, the top of the world?
What will you do with the top of the ivorld on a
cold and frosty morning?
We’ll drop a stick in the top of the world, we’ll
drop a stick in the top of the world, we’ll
drop a stick in the top of the world and fly
away home in the morning!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


VA
44
\\>
\N
PM*
f,
a**
(ICE RE#
tt
'w
n /
>\W
7
\V
£
u
m
t
<0
F
*3
w
\
As/
Z)
/
r»o
[/?
/
»*
0
0
*
\v
\\^
p
£>
\X>
n
\\
w
4‘
w
<SSs>
xV
Mi
ss
7
n
«s
/ /
hi
7'
/,
%
f u£
y/t
m
Cigare
&
W.o
vs/ifel
& H
O
<&r*
Spt
c «AC
V ORv
If!
Tip s
Packets of lO.Eighhpence.
Packets of 15,1/~
Tins of 50, 3/s.
If you smoke a P l P e > °f smoke
"Vice. ‘Regal” Mixture in a "Civic” ‘Ripe.


Che
equitable
KE
L>
Cite
Assurance Company
Of
Queensland Ctd.
Head Office:
Parhnry House, Ragle Street, Brisbane.
Brandies:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
W Pitt St., Sydney. SfiO Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy, Manning Director.
SHIRTS
are guaranleedb ,jnm
to give satisfaction
“ They Fit "
ĵ
Made In Australia
j
POLO NEWS
IN
fr .
e
Every polo player
in Australia should
write for a free
copy of the NEW
BOOK ON POLO,
containing the Rules
and Photographs of
Polo Teams; also
full description of
all gear required.
WRITE TO-DAY.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Sydney Polo Specialist,
371 George Street, Sydney.
And at 434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“The Rumpus'’: The nut referred to by
“N.Q.” (B. 22/4/’26) is probably the candle-nut,
which hails from the South Sea islands and grows
into a beautiful ornamental tree. Its fruit approxi-
mates the size of a walnut, and is similar in appear-
ance, the difference being in the flinty hardness of
the shell and the fulness of its kernel. It is a
very rich nut, and as a youngster living on the
coast of Bananaland I often became sick after half
an hour’s chew. Its trouble, from the commercial
point of view, is the hardness of the shell; but
efforts to produce a soft-shell variety are still being
made, and with some success. There is another
Queensland coastal nut frequently misnamed “bread-
fruit.” This fruit has something of the shape of
a pineapple, is yellow and red, a id shines as if
varnished. Left to mature and ripen on the tree,
it becomes frowsy, and falls to the ground in sec-
tions, iii each of which are half a dozen cells of richly-
flavored nuts. But it takes a tomahawk to cut
through the fibrous jacket and inner shell protect-
ing the nuts.
“Derby Clonard”: Wonderful how one
beast of a flock or pack will tower above all the
others in intelligence! In the Nadda (S.A.) malice
an organised effort is being made to capture a dingo,
Silver Ring, who has lost 100 of his cobbers but
evades capture himself. He is a magnificent animal,
savage and wily and brave, and is probably the last
of the tribe that a few years ago roamed those
parts.
* * * *
“Jimspy": I was once in a Queensland
country hospital when the local priest stopped at
the door of our ward to chat for a minute with the
nurse. I was in between two old-timers, one of
them nearly blind. “Is that the doctor?” he asked
his mate. “No,” was the reply, “he’s a bloke
bound’ry-ridin’ for the Pope.”
* * * *
“8.J.” : Inquiry has been made as to the
origin of the name “Cock-eyed Bob” given to the
sudden wind storms that sweep across Roebuck Bay
(W.A.) from the son’-west. In the early days of
Broome, before the advent of the diving dress and
the Japanese Divers’ Union, old Bob White’s crew
of a few coastal abos. loaded his st ill cutter with
pearlshell by diving for it in the nude. They
were always on the look-out for bad weather, as they
feared White’s ancient boat. When seeing a blow
approach they would therefore call out excitedly
“Couk ei, Bob,” or “Look up, Bob” -and so the
quaint name came into use.
* • » *
“Jcobb”: Station-owners in tlu* Northern
Territory, especially those on the Northern Rivers,
are up against a prob-
lem in the alligators
that infest the rivers
and waterholes. These
pests are increasing to
such an alarming
extent that many of
the smaller holders
count them a worse
pest than the dingo;
the latter’s scalp at
least brings five shil-
lings. Many of the
watering-places in the
rivers, biliabongs and
waterholes which at one
time were considered
quite safe lave now
had to be fenced off
on account of the
losses of stock, despite
a vigorous campaign
of poisoning. Many are
the reasons given for
the increase, but the
most feasible one is
that the natives to a
great extent kept down
the ’gators by never
missing the chance of
erlleeting and devour-
ing the eggs. Now
that flour and other
foodstuffs are sup-
plied by the stations
and Government depart-
ments, the eggs are
disdained and mostly
left to hatch in the
usual way. One wise
old squatter is solv-
ing the difficulty by
handing out an issue
of flour for every dozen
eggs delivered at any
of his camps; others
may follow suit or wait
lazily for the Govern-
ment to take similar
steps.
“Tar'ago”: I don’t think “Wang” need
worry about the effect of war-souvenired cartridges
dumped into municipal incinerators. In every camp
in the back areas in France during the war, incine-
rators, built of flimsy sheet- or galvanised-iron, many
of them burnt through by fires, were used to explode
thousands of live cartridges dumped in with the
rubbish. Around these furnaces were hundreds of
Diggers, to say nothing of the men who fed them,
yet I never heard of anyone being hurt by flying
lead. On one occasion only I w-as struck on'the
forearm by a bullet thus discharged, and the hit
produced merely a sharp sting.
C. Coral”: Amongst recent visitors to
Torres Strait have been several entomologists. The
object of -search in which some of them have been
chiefly concerned is the Chiton, familiarly known as
Loricates, a little creature that attaches itself firmly
to the rocks, flat, with a fleshy girdle, and carrying
plates of armor on its back. Chitons range in size
from an eighth of an inch or smaller up to three or
TWO OF A KIND.
HENARE: “Precise, Poss, I want go home see to missus. She
worry sick.”
STATION MANAGER: “Oh, yes, hut she just rang up to say that
she's letter."
HENARE: “Py carry. Poss, yon no potter riar fan me! I no hare
to missus.”
four inches, and are found in many varieties. To
collectors they have a definite value. Some folk
have them mounted as brooches or bracelets, but
to the ordinary layman they seem rather unat-
tractive. The usual number of plates on the back
of the chiton is eight; some seven-plate ones may
also be found. A record was put up the other day
by a lad of 76 who, after retiring from the S.A.
Postal Department, fills in his remaining days
chasing shells and sea-slugs. He came up to look
for a particular variety, of which only a couple of
specimens were known, and managed to collect
them. On the point of departure from the Strait
be astonished himself by finding- a chiton carrying-
nine plates—said to be impossible in the chiton
world! However, he had some independent witnesses
at the time, and has now gone back elated, rejoic-
ing over American opponents in the same field.
When the Islanders saw his eagerness in acquiring
loricates they asked “This one, he got price all
same beche-le-mer? What that man he going to do
with that thing—he going use him make soup?”
* * * *
“Adamascus” : About 30 years ago some
well-bred Berkshire pigs escaped from Toorilla sta-
tion (C.Q.), and the owners did not recapture them.
In a few years they had increased their numbers
considerably, and now there are hundreds of them
roaming over the plains and rooting up the ground
in search of food. They are in prime condition,
short-snouted, and mostly black in color—quite
different from the narrow-hipped, ginger-colored wild
pigs found on the W.Q. plains. They make large
holes in the plains, and are consequently looked upon
with disfavor by the Toorilla people, who frequently
organise hunts, either on horseback or in cars. Any-
thing more exhilarating than a pig-hunt in a car
would be hard to imagine. Usually one can approach
to within 100 yards of the pigs without being seen.
At the first shot there is a scamper, and they make
for the nearest scrub. Then the real excitement
begins. The pigs are good eating; the suckers,
caught by chasing on foot, are as tender as any
home-grown product. The biggest kill of pigs on
Toorilla in one day was 33, and in one year just
over 300 were destroyed.
“Erua”: Fishermen in the Bay of Plenty
(M.L.) were perturbed lately when they wrested
from the deep several specimens of an unknown
fish which measured anything up. to 10ft. long.
Purple or nearly black in color, with a scalekss
body, ornamented with spines, it looked an uninvit-
ing customer, and the museum authorities were
asked to pronounce judgment upon it. This was
wholly favorable, even enthusiastic, as the fish
was identified as the escolar, hitherto known only
in the Mediterranean and North Atlantic. The M.L.
invasion seems fairly large, but is quite unexplained.
Dp North" : The northern Binghi’s knife
tor performing the “mika” operation is an instru-
ment over which much time and labor are expended.
The myalls who are unable to obtain a steel knife
or broken glass perforce keep to the stone substi-
tute. Close-grained quartzite or a very fine flint is
chosen, and a fire lit upon it until the stone glows.
Then, on the application of cold water, the stone
splits into many fine
flakes, of which only
one may be suitable
as a knife-blade. For
hi s hunting - knives
Binghi goes to less
trouble; nevertheless
the patience required
is often prodigious. A
block of quartzite is
selected, perhaps from
a “quarry” that has
been worked for cen-
turies. By a series of
sharp taps it is flaked,
but only about one
Hake in thirty splits
into a suitable knife-
blade. This blade
tapers to a fine point,
and is generally three-,
though sometimes
four-, sided. The fourth
side is invariably
ground away. Some-
times two sides are
sharpened. The split-
ting of the stone often
gives the sides an
almost razor-like sharp-
ness. If not sufficiently
keen, a series of tiny
chips are flaked from
the blade to produce
an effective cutting-
edge. The butt of the
blade is stuck into a
lump of grass-tree
resin, which, being
heated, can be fashion-
ed readily to any de-
sired shape of handle,
often lengthened by
the addition of a
carved chip. The carv-
ing on it is symbolic.
The complete handle is
then oehre-painted and
a neat sheath for it
made out of paper-
bark, the seam being
sewn with animal or
human hair-string. It
is generally decorated
ar the end by a red,
grpon, white and purple ball of parrot-feathers.
* * * *
“Nisi Prius" ; Many years ago my old
grandfather used to spend the winter days reading
in a sunny corner of the verandah with a little tin
of cheese crumbs at his elbow. Presently the birds
looked in tentatively, before long got to know the
old chap, and hopped round his feet without alarm.
Finally he tested them by holding out his hand
with a few crumbs, and after hesitant fluttering
experiments a silver thrush picked up a crumb and
fled hastily for home and mother, it wasn't long,
however, before he took more leisure over the repast,
and now his friends and their descendants have regu-
lar meals without hurrying over them. They make
an awful fuss if not promptly seen to, and will
feed from the hands not only' of the family but of
visitors. We don’t have to whisper or keep still.
The other day I was snoozing after lunch, and along
“POOH! I NEVER LIKED PEACHES,
ANYHOW!”
came Joey for tucker. I wasn’t having any, so he
tried to charm me with his liquid warbling, and then
to rush me by fussing angrily. At last he got
disgusted, and hopped from my feet to the rail
behind my head and pecked at my ear. Then it
seemed a fair thing to reward him. The yellow
robins are friendly, too, but jib at alighting on the
hand. Can any Abo. tell me how to woo them?
(Continued on pope 2-i.)
PANTS IN PAWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun shines warm through the window, Jane, and
the morning is bright and fair,
And the fowls run wild in the garden, Jane, with
never a cross nor care.
And I—l sit, with my soul bowed down, on the edge
of my bunk, and dream
Of the world of men that is lost to me—your methods
are so extreme!
Now, where did you plant my trousers, Jane? I’m
feeling their absence so!
0 Jane! .lane! Jane!
Gimme m’ trousers and let me go!
I got m' coat and I got in’ vest and I got m’ socks
and shirt,
And I got me braces and only want—oh, why did
you do me dirt ?
As long as you hold m’ pants in pawn there’s
nothing in life for me
But to sit and wait for the change of heart that'll
set my footsteps free.
The days are long and the nights are long and
the clock goes crawling slow.
O Jane! Jane! Jane !
Gimme m’ trousers and let me go!
I sit in the’ old spare bedroom, glum, and dwell
on my gloomy lot,
And wonder if ever again I’ll call at the pub for
a friendly pot.
Oh, gimme m’ pants and let me go—l’d like to be
free once more,
To lose myself in the dim unknown on a happy
and distant shore,
Or be off and away to the far, wild bush where
the carefree breezes blow.
O Jane! Jane! Jane!
Gimme m’ trousers and let me go! 1
TRACING THEM BACK.
MAGISTRATE ( trying to settle dispute betreed neighbors over storm-
water drain ): “But where do these storm-waters come from
originally?”
WITNESS : “From the sky, your Worship.”
I hear you speak to the butcher’s boy in a gentle
and kindly tone,
And you talk to the baker, quite genteel, while I
pine on m’ bunk alone.
Ah, softly you speak to the grocer’s lad. as you
would to a dear old friend,
But never to me and my urgent plaints a merciful
ear you lend.
Oh dash my buttons to blazes, Jane—you’re over the
fence, y’ know!
Hi, Jane! Janet Jane!
Gimme them! Gimme them! Gimme m’ pants
and let me go!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


fOt&VU..
/
M
■III:
■
V--I:
mmm i
m a
■
i
KB
£
c
.1
I
m
■
... ■
■
■ *
0
I
■
m
w
jgi
v'V'l
11
i
■
I
w
A
■
1
r
pi* V 'm j?
v ' - ~i


with
END YOUR RABBIT PROBLEM
CYANOG
A
S
(Calcium Cyanide)
FUMO
BRAND
Th ° quickest safest and most satisfactory method of
the rabbit pest is with Cyanogas (Calcium Cyanide).
TTwl b, t ™ th ° d of “Plication is by means' of the
Blower, if you have any difficulties, write tons, and -
jou light. Do not blame the Blower or the Cyanide.
Mr. W. B. Coodworth, of “GlenbUrnie,
lt'th January , 1926:
Scone, writes,
wiping out
Fumo Dust
we will put
‘“I wish you to forward to me three tins
Maked Calcium Cyanide, 51b. tins. 1 may
add 1 purchased the same quantify some
tame ago, and have tried it out with other
Umies m destruction of both rifbJi'iH and
wombats, and am quite satisfied ft is the
nearest attempt to solving the rabbit question
I have yet tried. It is effective, and eOh-
venient to handle, and will kill both wombat
and rabbit effectively.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS;
N>«- South IVales: Buzacott & Co.. Ltd.. 7-11 Market St.. Sjdnev
Ijctcria: A. Victor Lckko & Co., Melbourne. y "
South Australia: S.A. Farmers* Co-op. Union, Ltd
Queensland; Buzacott’* (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street
Mest Australia: Harris, Searle & Handovers, Ltd
1 asmnnia: Davidson & French. Ltd.. Launceston
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
Adelaida.
, Brisbane.
Berth.
ĵ
SMOKE
cpGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO,, SYDNEY.
“Jesmond”: The prevailing idea seems to
be that as the cocky does not plant or cultivate
mushrooms they are common property. A man
writing to a Melbourne paper complained that a
farmer, armed with a stockwhip and accompanied by
a savage dog, gave him five minutes to get out of
the paddock. He plaintively asked if a farmer has
any legal right to the mushrooms on his land. This
correspondent did not seem to realise that the farmer
is the only one with any legal right to be on the
ground, and that the intruder had no business there
whatever. When a mushroomer can devise a means
of gathering the fungi on private ground without
trespassing, he may be entitled to all he can get.
* * * *
“Mundee”: The following may help “Vic
Emma” (B. 4/'3/’26) to get rid of Johnson grass.
Spillman, the American agrostologist, writes: “You
want a good two-horse turning-plough to eradicate
it properly. Plough in the autumn, sow winter
grain, and plough and harrow again in the spring.
Then continually keep cut.” He also shows how it
may be lessened in vitality and utilised at the
same time: “Lucerne can be grown on infested land.
Plough the land, and harrow out the root-stocks
early in the autumn. Then ' sow lucerne. 3S r ext
summer cut it promptly as soon as it is high enough
to make a fair crop of hay. The lucerne grows more
vigorously than the grass, and the latter is gradually
weakened in vitality. The hay is not at all affected
in quality through the inclusion of Johnson grass.”
* # * *
“Hayeworray”: The open season for ’pos-
sums, the first for many years in Victoria, is, being
marked by a wonderful trek to some parts of the
bush. With only two months to do it in, the 1500
licensed trappers and their numerous assistants are
certainly making a welter of it. Many are doing
the job in comparative luxury. In the last fortnight
1 have seen among the gums cosily appointed vans,
as well as motor-cars, whose owners assume the air
of a bored “something in a city office” seeking a
rest or having a prolonged picnic. In every case
the haul has so far been extensive, and Pos. is
getting the surprise of his life, as he is not yet
able to discriminate between picnickers and C3'anide.
layers.
OBSERVATIONS IN UNNATURAL HISTORY. '
“Mum, look at th' little feller. He's hopped in where his
ma's fur has come unstitched!”
“Zanthus”: The Pisonia brunoniana, a
common tree on the islands of the Capricorn group,
off the Queensland coast, has a queer way of
distributing its seeds. The noddies nest in thousands
in the trees, whose seeds are extremely sticky and
attach themselves to the feathers of the birds. On
a recent visit to Nor - -west Islet, in the Capricorns,
P. A. Gilbert, a Sydney birdman, took a photograph
of a noddy-tern so covered with bunches of pisonia
seeds that it could not fly and had to hop along
the ground.
: As to the cochineal beetle’s de-
struction of fruit trees (B. 29/4/’2G). In the pear
areas of the Upper Burnett (Q.) large numbers of
these insects are at work, and although many fruit
farms are in the district, mostly citrus, i have
never heard of the trees being attacked. Farmers,
however, inform me
that cabbage and cauli-
flower crops have
suffered from their in-
vasion and that the
insects thrive on the
change of diet.
j» . .
“W.P.D.” ; There
must be something
wrong with “F.H.’s”
authority who says
that the cochineal in-
sect will attack orange-
trees. Professor Harvey
Johnston and H.
Tryon, the Commis-
sioners appointed by
the Queensland Govern-
ment to investigate
the natural enemies of
the prickl y-pear,
visited Florida and
other .orange-growing
States, but did not hear
of the insect attacking
orange-trees. Subse-
quently W. B. Alex-
ander, Alan Dodd and
others visited the same
areas, and had nothing
to say about attacks
on citrus trees. Com-
prehensive tests have
been carried out both
at Sherwood and in
America by the Com-
monwealth Prickly -
pear Board with
cochineal and other
cactus insects on plants
of economic import-
ance. Fifty insects of
each species were tried
on 60 different kinds
of plants and cereals,
and on fruit trees of
all kinds -and" Aus-
tralian timber trees.
Altogether about 3000 individual insects of each
kind underwent this test. In every case the insect
died from starvation, although occasionally some
made attempts to chew or suck the juice of the
strange plant.
* * * *
“Agnot”: I enter this one for the Thrift
Stakes. In Raratonga in 1921 the Government was
paying a bonus of 3d. per rat’s tail. The gardener
at our boarding-house trapped a mother rat and
kept her caged and fed for a week. At the end
of that time he was able to cut off nine tails
instead of only one tail. Then, thinking it a pity
to waste the mothers of future threepences, he let the
lot go. Somebody must, however, have told, be-
cause a week or so later heads were officially sub-
stituted for tails.
* * * #
“Evilo”: The skull of the smaller of the
two animals “Anaf” is inquiring about (B. 29/4/’26)
was identified, at the Sydney Museum, as that of
the spotted-tailed native cat,
* * * *
“AdeL.”: I hasten to advise you of the
impending - fate of us white people
on the upper reaches of the Gulf
of Carpentaria. A perspiring
native messenger has just reached
our camp bringing a friendly
warning to the white “marramba”
(friends) of the surrounding tribes
to hasten to shift ourselves, be-
longings and sundries to the high-
est mountain, the local prophet
and magician having summoned
all his old cronies for a flood-and-
wind-devastating singsong which
takes place two moons hence. All
the station homesteads in the
locality are to be demolished by
the force of the wind; all white
men and their stock are to be
swept seaward by tremendous
floods which will fill all the val-
leys and transform the plains into
a vast sea. All this in punish-
ment for the ill-treatment and dis-
gracing of two young bucks by a
few whites. Many times I have
seen these same magicians assem-
bled for a rainmaking singsong;
and always the skies have become
overcast and more or less rain
has followed. What do they
know ?
Ben /me : I do not agree with “Sorl-
!’ lght (H - s /4/'26) when he says that, after dehorn-
ing, rows feed and milk as usual, ft is extreme!v
painful to the cattle, and at least a week passes
before they are normal ; a slight touch upon the
vmund at any period up to a month gives pain.
Ihe simplest method upon dairy farms where all
calves are available at birth is to destroy the rudi-
mentary horns at from one to four davs old. To
do the job, obtain a stick of caustic potash, clip
ci little hair fiom the button 5 ’ which denotes the
future horn, moisten the spot slightly and rub well
"ith the stick, which it is advisable to hold in a
wrapping of brown-paper. Give another rubbing in
a couple of days and you will later on have a
perfect polev. Be careful that the moisture you
VAIN HOPE.
“ It's always money, money, with you! D'you think I’m made of
the blinkin stuff?”
“My oath, I wish you teas! I’d change yer.”
apply does not run downward, or there will be great
danger of the caustic injuring the calf’s eyes. Keep
your caustic stick in a screw-top jar to exclude
the air, otherwise it will draw moisture from the
air and deteriorate.
* * * #
“Jimsey”: We hear much about Binghi’s
rain-making hut little about his wind-making cere-
monies. I once saw an interesting exhibition of the
latter. We were becalmed about three hours out
of Broome (W.A.) and were cursing our ill-luck. A
Binghi, who had been sitting very still in the
prow, asked for and obtained permission to call
up the longed-for wind. Bringing his dillybag i from
its hiding-place he started a slow jog-trot up, and
down the deck, crooning words none of us understood
and throwing what appeared to be small seeds >from
the bag, alternately on either side of the boat, finish-
ing up by scattering two liandsful over the stern.
A few minutes later we felt a puff of air, and in
less than lo minutes from the time he finished jj were
running in before a five-knot breeze. I’ve never
known whether he had amazing luck or was just
a wonderful guesser.
“Tamornie”: I was in the bush at the back of
Astrolabe Bay, New Guinea, a few years ago. The
natives of the villages there had their ground ready
to plant, but rain had not yet fallen. They blamed
the natives of Billi-billi for the drought, as the
chief of this coastal village, near Madang, had the
reputation of being able to control the weather. I
was requested to visit him in my capacity as Police
Master and get rain started. Two days later I was
it Billi-billi, and for a joke gave the old chief a
good tongue lashing, telling him to turn the rain
on at onc-e. Late that night it fell in torrents.
* * * *
“Wild Dog”: On old Paringa station
(S.A.) we were so troubled by dogs that the sheep
had to be yarded each night. We used to light
fires round the yard, tie up our own dogs, dress up
guys, and adopt all sorts' of dodges; but everi then
the enemy would get in. and leave a trail of bitten
sheep. We tried poisoning, but the beggars wouldn’t
touch a bait; then trapping, but got only, a few.
I happened at the time to meet old Sherriiighum,
well known on the Murray in the ’nineties, and he
gave me the following advice. “Get a few tins of
sardines, make a small hole in one of them and hang
it on your stirrup. The oil will drip out slowly; a
tin will last about two hour's, sufficient for, say, 12
miles. Start laying your trail in a fairly wide
circle, with the yards or dam as the centre, and
work gradually inwards, criss-crossing your lines.
M hen close in, take a couple of tins and make two
holes in them, thus releasing the oil in a fine
stream. Place out the baits of raw meat and
strychnine. They need no special care in handling,
as the dogs are apparently excited by the smell of
the oil. and, when they find the food, gobble it up
without precaution. Then go home, cat the sardines,
and next morning visit the nearest dam.” I tried
it. My brother and I took out 12 tins the first
time. I used up six the first trip and threw out
about 30 baits. There were six dogs dead at the
dam next morning. On riding round to gather up
the baits not eaten, I found every one of them taken
—probably a few by the same dog. Next night
with the same number of baits we got three dogs,
and I picked up about half the baits. We were bo
pleased with the result that I rode 30 miles to the
nearest town and got three dozen tins of sardines.
On my way back I tried another dam not then in
use and got two dogs. On arriving home I found
that the sheep had not been disturbed. Shortly
afterwards I laid a trail along the border fence,
and found five dogs dead next morning.
* * * *
“Derby Clonarcl”: Generally, the Dande-
nong Ranges offer scope enough for their deer, and
lew venture near the towns; but a beautiful stag
came into Yarra Glen recently to see the sights,
and, in the name of sport, was promptly shot!
* * * *
“Golub'": Recently a naturalist friend
carried out some first-hand tests as to the hearing-
powers of the death-adder, and he reports that these
are just as keen as in any other wild creature,
this should help to dispose of the suggestion that
its proper name is “deaf added.” Apparently
the idea is that because of its imperfect hearing
it will lie on a path until trodden upon.
The late Archie Meston, an observant student of the
bush, told me that as a youth he had never heard
the reptile called anything else but “death” adder;
and, as far as 1 can learn, it is only during late
years the corruption has crept in.
* * * *
“0.A.P.” : At the start of Johannesburg
cheap houses (I have since seen some of them *.i
years old and still sound) were built of unburnt
but thoroughly sun-dried bricks set in a mortal-
composed of red clay only. Inside they were plas-
tered with the same material with hair added, and
then papered. The outside walls where exposed were
painted with oil, and sometimes finished off with
ordinary paint. What is the.matter with this idea
being applied here now that second-class pine, full
of knots, is three times the price first-class cedar was
in 1889?
* * * «
“Ex-Skin-collector” : I rise to support the
contention (B. l/4/’26) that something should be
done to check the use of cyanide of potassium in
the taking of native game. Though prohibited in
Bananaland, the deadly powder is in universal use,
and during the trapping season it is common to come
across ’possums, etc., which have staggered away
after nibbling- at a bait and died before camp was
reached. Losses of valuable stock as a result of
indiscriminate bait-laying is widespread, although
cyanidefs maintain that their baits are harmless
to cattle and horses. In Queensland a permit is
required to obtain the poison even in small quanti-
ties, but trappers have no difficulty in securing
supplies from friends in the fruit-growing industry,
who employ it in fumigation against scale pests.
The authorities could cripple its use in the trapping
business by commandeering all pelts that do not
bear the unmistakable mark of the snare, the
puncture of a bullet or the bruise of a waddy.
* * * *
“Cuclmlain” : Thirty years and more ago
the young men of the tribes along the Barwon River,
west of Goondiwindi (Q.), used to play a form of
golf. It was, apparently, regarded as a young man’s
game, the oldest players never being more than about
30, and the majority youths of 19 or a little
younger. Ten or 12 would meet before a chosen
“pitch,” usually a small knob of dried saltbush,
a hummock of springy dead grass or any sort oi
slight rise witli a good spring. In succession the
men approach the hummock at a steady run,
not as fast as the pace of an ordinary cricket
bowler; each hurled his wooden nulla-nulla with a
wide swing of the arm, so that it bounced off the
knob and flew into space. A nulla thus thrown
SHE KNEW WHAT WAS MISSING.
Helper ( to lody who has slipped): “There,
there, you're all right. Merely lost your
equilibrium.”
LADY: “No. It’s me ’at.”
would go perhaps 90ft., and the man whoso weapon
went the farthest was the winner of the round.
It was then his privilege to pick the next site, and
thus the game proceeded for miles. Played with-
out umpire, the game was conspicuous for lack oi
argument and quarrels; indeed, the proceedings were
almost solemn.
OLD HOSPITALITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a station in the West—
“ God send its like again,”
Say roving folk; for where it stood
There waited blanket, drink and food
For gaunt, track-weary men.
A man of men its owner was,
Big-hearted, frank and free;
And widely was he known and famed,
And rightly, justly was he named
Old Hospitality.
Upon his door none knocked in vain....
It is not so to-day;
For house and heart are one no more,
And from unyielding heart and door
Want turns and limps away.
House-room and ruddy fireside warmth—
Nights now are chill as then,
But Greed and Self must pinch and save—
On wet and cheerless nights it gave
To soaked and shivering men.
Still stands that homestead; but, alas'
Fate knows the reason why—
Old Hospitality no more
Waits there, as oft he did of yore,
To cheer the passer-by.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


' ■:
l
m
v :>
_ ..!
Ml
t
:
r
•or,
-. ■-
>
-5>5
<’c
s
mu
y;
•**4
/
2*
y i i
V
Qv
sp.
'■?***—
m
uU.
iN
- /
/i
COR
\
%
'
o
%•
iiiiilHiii
Our big output of tyres is kept on
the increase because many tens of
thousands of Australian motorists keep
on coming back for more. Satisfaction
is built into every Dunlop cover and
tube we issue, and the result is that '
DUNIOP
TYRES
are easily the most popular and eco-
nomical on Australian roads. You can
buy them with the utmost confidence
of obtaining mileage, and value un- •
surpassed by any tyre in the world.
Garages stock them in all sizes. Be
sure and specify “Dunlop” thus en-
suring economy and satisfaction.
★ * * '
Price list mailed on application.
* * *
CORD
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
of Aust. Ltd.
ANDN.Z.
ALL STATES


Under
Royal
Warrant
-i &
.
To H.M.
Kins
George V
Vinliijre 1014.
CHAMPAGNE
MEIM&
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
eh arlcsHeidsiedc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
m
Reservations ring 8W1361.
WfentuiorthCafe
The name stands for Perfection
The Hotel
Here is all you require for complete enjoyment.
Thursday and Saturday nights of delight.
A Supurb Dinner from 7.30 p.m., served with Continental
finish, 21/-
Supper from 8.30, 12/6 —-an After-theatre Spoeialtv.
Complete Cabaret including Ralph Lynne and Miss Marie
Crowther, the Elea Twins, the Ballet Incomparable and
the I amous Wentworth Band provide a veritable feast
T of entertainment (at no extra cost).
ARTERNOON TEAS—A SOCIAL INSTITUTION, from
8.80 every afternoon.
The Cafe
Order all wines before 6 p.m.
j
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRON'AO E CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 750
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30. 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to fi SO m
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight. • 6/ *
Book early. Order all Wines before A nm
Ring M 5666. 0 pnK
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
Evidently his acquaintance, as a small
boy, with the Shorter Catechism held no
bitterness for surgeon-knight Alexander Mac-
Cornnek. His gift of The Terraces to the Pres-
hytenan iChnrch is one of the most magni-
hcent acts of generosity on Australian record.
lie terraces lias been the great surgeon’s
domain for 23 years, and the roomy
building m its 34 acres of garden lias
witnessed wizardry with the knife that came
very close to the miraculous. The hospital
holds 40 beds, and is packed to the teeth
nidi the very latest in surgical fashions,
and. although in Paddington, some beautiful
glimpses of the harbor are to be had from
its verandahs. The donor will continue his
services to the hospital, which will probably
be called the Scottish.
When Lady de Chair arrived at the Femin-
ist Club the other afternoon to be, for the
hrst time, the guest of that stronghold, not
only had the club not on its wedding gar-
ment but its president, so to speak, hadn’t
Lit the mothballs. However, after taking
one startled look at the visitor, a vice-
president pushed forward with the official
handshake and kept things going till the
president could be produced. When the same
thing happened at one of Walter Kirby's
concerts last year the press wrung its hands
in such distress that the public felt that
something in the nature of a Guy Fawkes
plot had been happening in the Town Hall
basement. But the Feminists are above sus-
picion of disloyalty— why, there’s scarcely an
Irish name on the register. The vice-
reine had come with a pretty and some-
times witty speech on Woman, her use and
abuse by man. and the amount of dust that
was proper to such a situation having been
bitten, nobody’s head but only the speech
came off. ' 1
The Orange cabaret at the Ambassadors
that was to finish the Nellie Stewart Radium
Appeal was a sad anti-climax to the radiant
success of the Sweet Nell matinee. The act
fiom the play which was to have been the
gloat attraction of the evening was shang-
mied by Hon Fluenza, both Jefferies and
Charles being confined to their berths from
the gentlemans attacks. However, the
oran.ge girl came—not the Nell of Old Drurv
but the fine lady of St. James, a glitter of
jewels 1,1 her rich court dress of white and
silver, very much as Lely painted her. V
golliwog who was fascinating instead of gro-
d31 C fii cl Sarettes, and the direct descen-
Sl l h the oran&M that Mistress Gwynne
called thorugh the London streets were sold
s, y lhn / a Piece by Beryl Clifton, in
a Lock of pale blues patterned in pink roses
like an old-fashioned chintz.
, Tj- National Council of Women is taking
'rm n VV vocatlonaJ guidance bureaus.
_ his is an old service under a new name ;
woiT rtal 0 - h f lp glrl ® and boys to find the
woik that interests them, and direct them
m their training. In other words, to keep
the square peg out of the round hole. At
the Royal Colonial Institute last week, when
Professor MacCallum’s lady was in the
thm-r’„on S ‘ atts ’ I wl, ° was Margaret Thorpe,'
thoiougldy damned the gospel of cheap labor.
oil S TT’°'\ < m as clea,dy <or nearly as clearly >
as a Euclid proposition that it was the most
expensive in the end for both the State and
the wage-slave. Mrs. Hamblin and Mrs.
Hood cock also spoke with spirit on the
Sfcf; aad Minister for Labor is to be
talked to thereon even as he was last year
fn S e , I S\ ,igl,t - S °V lc Road assembled in
foice at Ih° s’gn ot the Drummers' Retreat
the WWov aC< ' I ol ,' Saturd »y night. From
the highways and byways of the State came
he«t C « al i lbaSS i a<l ? r ' s , of trade t 0 entertain their
in 1 A ' ,dt,J e best girls—3oo of them
—in their best frocks and shawls turned the
assembly room, usually a study in black-
and-white. into a composition as multi-
smAM- :IS # '"!- l;l , lis K °wan collection. A
« no i°i eB | wf b al,ns and an artistically set
l^ h ° helped on the good work, and a concert
to which Elsie Peerless rendered first aid
t2ir U i 'l® , o ’!. c grumpy critic. Bob Carbines
vv?n d ir' 1 bnance, and Alick Whitson and
V\ ally Baynes raised voices that pleased;
Charles Lawrence monologued and Frank
Cottingham and Roy Allen served the accom-
paniments in fine stylo. Later there was ,
suppei that was a compliment to their
guests discernment.
G.-G Stonehaven hailed as con,rad,.
fine old warrior at the Old Queen’s Birthday
(.1 inner to the Veterans (Sargents’ supplied
the boiled and roast) last Saturday. “William
luen, JB, of Crimean campaign—here’s a
health to you.” was the toast. Other brave
old boys and a mere youngster of barely 60
represented Alma, Balaclava, Inkerman.
Eersia (1856-57), Indian Mutiny, Indian
scraps (starting in ’5B), China
(.1X57-08) and other tiff's of the mere ’sixties
and thereafter.
There was a pretty little play on one of
Ihe last nights of Pavlova. A party of
lion Cossacks sat entranced in one of the
boxes. They applauded with fervor, and
at the close of one of the dancer’s dazzling
bits of footwork cast a red rose at the tips
° L her ballot-shoes. Finally, as Pav. was
taking her recalls, Serge Jaroff, the Cossack
conductor, carried on to the stage a bouquet
or great magnificence. This he presented to
the lady while he bent low over her hand
and kissed it. And a sigh like a mighty
wind tore the breasts of countless women
as they thought of the tributes that Anglo-
Saxon birth deprives them of.
Toti dal Monte (Taits’ Mont-de-Piete, as
some wicked Philistine has named her)
could not altogether break with Australia
on her travels in the States and in England.
Her accompanist during her American tour
was Dorothy Mcßride (now Mrs. Lanri
Kennedy), of Adelaide. Toti tried to in-
duce this brilliant pianist to return to
Australia with her. but a Sydney husband
-—still with John McCormick —was waiting
lor her in London.
The death of brilliant Eleanor Chase,
who gained her B.Sc. in 1916, became demon-
strator m zoology at the Uni. in the following
year the first woman to hold such a job—
and lecturer in 1923, has lost feminists
a potential great leader; for although her
inclinations were for scientific research she
also had an interest in feminine progress
politically and generally, and was prominent
in the National Council of Women. She
was a vice-president of the University
Science Society and a member of the Lin-
nean and Zoological Societies; and last year
she was a member of a scientific expedition
to the Capricorn group. It was whilst she
was working upon the collections and data
of that expedition that pneumonia came to
her, and in five days the gifted young woman
was dead.
Australia does a little religious business
with Japan m the way of turning Japanese
girls into nuns, who return to Nippon to
carry on the work. They come from the
Catholic missions in the land of the little
Brown Men. Three of the demure ladies,
two in Japanese dress, arrived by the last
Japanese steamer, the Aid Maru, which on
its previous trip back had returned the sister
ot one of them, ivho had completed her
training.
One of Sydney s oldest and most success-
ful amateur gardeners is. Mrs. W. R. Sayers •
the brig h t-
eyed lady has
been planting
an d potting
since the days
of her girl-
hood's ringlets.
Then she met
W.R., -who was
a banker by
trade and a
landscape gar-
dener by in-
stinct. Forty
years ago they
chanced on a
gully an d
rocky wilder-
ness in North
►Sydney. The
hou s e was
built-—its wide
balconies and
generous ver-
, . 4</ -, . . , andahs in the
olu Colonial style—and the garden began to
grow while the roof was getting its final slate.
To-day there arc winding tracks into the
twilight o! feathery foliage where tlio lemon-
scented gum, the glossy leaves of the Port
•Jackson fig, emerald patches of maiden-hair
mu! palms from many shores, with some of
our own, make a little paradise of beauty.
Turn a tap and a little waterfall splashes
over rock and ferns, near ponds where gold-
fish waggle lazy tails of content. Orchids
1 rail in bush-houses, and the rose in pro-
fusion shakes its petals in the north-easter
on terraced beds. The late .Mr. Maiden
oltnn asked Mrs. Sayers if site could grow
this or that delicate plant; in the open, to
which the lady as often as not replied “I do.’’
Happy echoes of bells which chimed (50
years ago were heard in Lindfield on the
2drd. when Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Saxby had
a "diamond wedding.” The long-distance
matrimony started as a bov-and-girl affair
Saxby. then a youtli of 18, met the girl lie*
decided to marry, and duly married her
three years later. lie was a schoolmaster,
so fond of daily contact with boys lie knew
1 hat: lie refused an inspectorship which would
take him away from them. His last charge
was’ the William-street school; son George,
now headmaster of Sydney High, carries on
the family tradition.
Noel Linton is the lucky man who secured
Yal Cohen, of Neutral Bay, for his Own on
Monday evening. Yal is one of the original
Vagabonds, and has appeared in countless
plays in aid of soldier funds. In appearance
she is like a little sister of Pavlova, and in
her wedding dress of gold lame and her
golden veil she looked as though she might
whisk into some magic ballet-doll at any
minute. The wedding breakfast (which was
a dinner) was served at the Carlton, the
bride’s parents doing the honors with an
attractive bridesmaid in cyclamen taffetas
rendering first-aid.
This is a home-made picture of Clare
Weekes, the clever girl who lately carried off
the University medal for zoology. Clare is
the first girl student to sport the decoration,
and the second to have won first-class honors
for this grave
subject, which
has nothing
whatever to do
with ho w
many hairs
are in the
elephant’s tail.
Not that zoo-
logy is par-
ticularly a
man’s calling:
it has always
proved as at-
tractive to
women as to
men. Of the
seven senior
students now
doing research
at the Sydney
Uni., four are
women. And
they can tell
you precisely
how closely you are a big brother to the
little fish and the great fowl, and if you are
a medical they can give you quite a lot of
scientific hints that have bearing on your
executive job. In fact, some of the days of
the girl in the picture are given over to
demonstrating to first-year medicals.
Victoria Barracks called out all the regi-
mental dancing men the other evening, and on
the wide verandah Chinese lanterns waltzed
with the _ Lady Moon. General Bruche
escorted his wife, who was in a shimmer of
cyclamen and blue, and fair-haired daughter
Olga. President of the Mess Colonel Cox
Taylor brought his little lady, and Major
kelby, guiding his Best Girl in the jazz, was
like a kindly beacon to smaller folk. Lieut.
Harlock, hon sec. of the committee, looked
after material blessings for visitors, of
whom Joyce Howes, in floating silk drapery,
Avas one of the belles. Commander Quick
brought his attractive lady in a gleam of
ivory satin.
Queensland singing-girl Jeanette Ethel-
ston raised her lyric soprano in an atmo-
sphere of warm appreciation last week. The
slim, fair girl is facing study in Europe, and
the inevitable cabaret had been organised
to speed her. The Ambassadors was crowded,
for Jeanette’s talent has won her a follow-
ing. and when she let her voice soar in the
melodic music of “La Sonnambula” there
was a chorus of applause that included a
gobble from the turkey. This was a prize
bird, very much dressed, and won after a
mercenary wooing with a £5 note.
“Will you walk into our parlor?” cooed
tho Fem’nist to the male, for, however con-
firmed in her feminism, a woman likes a mere
man to partner her in the dance. So the
men came—mostly husbands and intending
husbands, it is true, but still men. Tho
flutter was the first Feminist dance of the
season, and. although of the small and inti-
mate order (fruit-cup and ices for 100), some
raiment of great price flashed on the scene.
A batik shawl ot hydrangea-blues melting
into a background that held the greys of a
Japanese print enfolded Mrs. England's
sequins. Mrs,. Harry Hammond, another
hostess, veiled leaf-green georgettes with cry-
stal-bedewed lace; Tony Lee and his bride,
from Lismoce, were the bright lights in his
mother’s party, and an attractive Miss Bon,
from Noumea, came with Mrs. Crambourne.
Irish names and Irish types prevailed at
the Wentworth the other night when the
girls of Rosebank College met for old times’
sake. The school shield:—gold on an azure
field glittered down on the youngsters, and
balloons, emerald and topaz and ruby, like
fabulous jewels, swung in the jazz-drenched
i , | r ’ Mrs. J. ,C. Ryan was the president, and
Mrs. Deakm and Eileen Bovlan the treas-
urers.
Florence Fourdrinier is back in town once
again after an extended tour of the back
country, and is launching out on a series of
racy lectures. Plans at Paling’s.
Qn Sunday next the Town Hall will harbor
an evening concert in aid of the Prince
All red, with the Russian violinist (’hiihaldin
as leading artist.
Nathalie Rosenwax is pinning up her
hair to do her hit for the Red Cross appeal
Her cabaret with a difference and named the
‘‘Rosemary” will happen on June S nt the
Wentworth.
The Themistocles is filling its holds with
ice-cream and turning its decks into slippery
slides, fishponds and side-shows in pre-
paration for a party this afternoon.
Mayoress Cecilia Walsh is to be queen of
the revels,, and will present the prizes for
the best fancy costumes. The Y.A.L. empties
the treasure-chest.
Father and mother had their feet on the
sociat'htdder in their country town, so it
was a great disappointment when their small
daughter, day after day. brought home from
school some of the grubbiest and shabbiest
of her fellow-adventurers in learning. Tact-
fully mother remonstrated. "Don’t bring
anybody home,” said she. “You can play
with the children at school, and at home
you can play with your toys.” Of course
Susan knew what was the matter —she had
taken in the atmosphere. Several days she
arrived, a desolate little figure. Then came
a triumphant afternoon when with great
ceremony she ushered a small, shining com-
panion across the threshold. “Mother,” she
called eagerly, “I’ve brought Ethel home
with me. She’s all right. Pier father is a
carpenter—like Jesus.” Mother, who is
quite a good sort, hugged the two of them,
and now Susan’s friends go and come unques-
tioned.
Talking of Pavlova brings to mind the
story of the Russian ballet-girl and the
great artist who were supping in company
with a great concourse. Said the artist in
a great voice to the pretty, slim dancer:
‘Your neck, shoulders and waist are de-
lightful. Figuratively, I kiss your delicious
arms. . But your legs, here and here”
(drawing a rapid pencil sketch), “are out of
proportion.” The artless creature looked up
at him through lashes that curved with
admiration. "How clever you are!” she
cooed. “And now you would give us all
great joy by rolling up your trousers and
displaying for us the perfect male leg.”
Miss Brisbane’s bird’s-eye view T of a week:
Brisbane Needlework Guild reports that in 27
years it has distributed nearly 37,000 articles
amongst charities, and not a mere 7000 as stated in
this Letter last week. The soldier settlements and
many private persons who are helped anonymously
come into this.
Ihe State Orchestra, under George Sampson’s
baton, gave its first concert of the season in the
Exhibition concert: hall. Mrs. Robert Bell and
Vera Parker did the solos.
Lennon s is going in for a series of supper-danecs
this winter. The first had a sample of the Charles-
ton and slow foxtrot by C. E. and Nell Moss.
Amongst the throng were the Austin Lennons.
Eldreds and Kents, Grace Gordon, Enid Howes,
P. J. Symes and Neville Henderson.
Jhe Queensland Art Society has a cabinet exhibi-
tion o\or Wilkinsons which has been drawing a
good many visitors.
Ascot races were postponed from Saturday till
Monday on account of heavy rain. Pelts were then
much worn. Mrs. Cadell-Garrick had a fur coat
with her black charmante, and a hat of satin. Mrs
Cecil Palmer's silver jersey was worn with a mole
hat; Mrs. Ray Matthews was in nigger, with a
biown hat; Mrs. J. J. Power chose delphinium-blue;
Mrs. Bulcoek, mole with fur; Leith Graham was in
saxe blue; and Cooee Blume had fox furs with her
Russian green.
Luis Amardco Pares had a big party at his
studio, which was decorated in deep-toned chrysan-
themums, when some hundred and fifty accepted invi-
tations to hear songs in Russian, French, Italian,
Spanish and good old Anglo-Saxon. Luba Bolhova
did a pretty Russian dance in national costume,
and her mother, who was at one time Mayoress of
Vladivostock, sang in Russian and looked like an
elder sister. May Dunn, Mabel Cormac and Irene
Llphinstone also contributed to the programme. Luis
Par6s fiddled a composition of his own. Julie Tardent
gav e an extract from Moliere; Clarice Cox, looking
charming in a Greek costume of white satin, started
the ball rolling with songs from “The Garden of
Kama, and rich-toned Mildred Bell and some of
her pupils were amongst the singers. Meta Maclean
had set Essex Evans's “Dairyman’s Song” to music
and it was strenuously sung. The teacup was
passed round in the company of the sandwich dressed
with olives and other foreign titbits.
The W omen’s Club broke out into poetry, ancient
and modern, with Barbara Sisley to interpret. The
menu ranged from William Blake to Jean Ingelow.
Mabel Zillmau played some Liza Lehmann in between,
and Mrs. Wedd presented tall Barbara with a bunch
of roses and fern.
One Tree Hill kiosk was illuminated for a dance
given to Nocla Harris by some of the Uni. girls,
before her departure for colder lands. A boomerang
indicated the place of each guest, and small suit-
cases and baby boats decorated the supper table. The
guest of honor was in sunset velvet.
The Authors and Artists’ Association had a “bush”
evening from which nothing was missing but the gum-
trees. A supper of damper and brownie and tea
was cheered along by papers read by Henri Tardent,
“Tarboy” Grierson-Brown and others. Chief Justice
Blair and ex-Judge Jameson were amongst the audi-
ence.
The Sisters of the Mater Misericordi* Hospital are
launching an appeal for funds for the new hospital
for children, the foundation stone of which was laid
on Sunday by Dr. Duhig.
Ipswich is in mourning for “Jim” Oibb, a
member of its best-known family, who died early
this week.


. I-
HAR.DY BLOS LTD.
JEW E LLEFLS
White Gold Wrist Watches
—in New, Exclusive Designs—
KP™ a
BA 7210.
Attractive, fancy-shapid rist Watch, high-grade
Swiss movement ; 15-carat- yellow gold ease. On
Moire Silk Band, £l2/10/-
X
BA 7205.
18-carat White Gold .Wrist Watch, reliable Swiss
lever movement. On Moire Silk Band, £l5/10/-
BA 7208.
Smart 18-carat White Gold Ribbon Watch, fitted
with fully-jewelled Swiss Lever movepient. On
Moire Silk Band, £l6.
Selections will be sent to any address on approval.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will be s&rit post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
Zflleffous* oP£aaUustvc3ewclUry
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-na
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
Publishers’ Special Announcement.
A NEW STEELE RUDD STORY
“THE RUDD FAMILY”
NOW READY
IN THE BOOKSTALL SERIES.
PRICE; ONE SHILLING. Posted: 1/1 b
A BOOK OF LAUGHTER.
The doings of the Rudd Family would bring
a smile to the face of the SPHINX.
Other Stories by STEELE RUDD in the Bookstall Series:-
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMU CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASH WOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
SOUTH SEA ROMANCES.
The increasing popularity of stories of the South Seas is an outstanding feature
noticeable in the Book Trade, a steady demand having set in for Books relating
to the Pacific.
The most successful authors of Island romances whose books are being read
in Oversea and Australian editions are notably Jack McLaren, .1. M. Walsh,
S. W. Powell, Ernest Osborne and C. Rodda.
The popularity enjoyed by the Authors above mentioned has been largely
gained by successes achieved in the Bookstall Series of Novels, from which the
following list of Island Romances has been selected: —
SOUTH SEA STORIES.
Selected from the Bookstall Series List of 150 Titles.
Price 1/-; Posted 11 2.
BULLY HAYES. BUCCANEER
SOUTH SEA SINNERS
QUEEN YAITI
THE CORAL QUEEN
FAGALOA’S DAUGHTER
OIL SEEKERS
RED MOUNTAIN
SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR
SKIPPER OF THE ROARING MEG .
THE PLANTATION MANAGER
THE COPRA TRADER
A MAKER OF PEARLS
GREAT JADE SEAL
HERMIT ISLAND
PEARLS OF CHEONG TAII
TRADER OF KAMEKO
FORTUNES OF GEOFFREY MAYNE
THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER
TAP TAP ISLAND
PRINCESS NAIDES FETISH
Louis Becke
... Arthur Crocker
Beatrice Grimshaw
Beatrice Grimshaw
.... Jack McLaren
.. .. .Tack McLaren
Jack McLaren
Jack McLaren
Jack McLaren
.. . Ernest Osborne
... Ernest Osborne
, .... S. W. Powell
.... S. W. Powell
S. W. Powell
S. W. Powell
S. W. Powell
C. Rodda
Ralph Stock
J. M. Walsh
C. P. Wynn
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
WORK WELL AND LAST LONG.
Prices are Lowest but Value Highest.
“SUNDERCUT”
10 disc, cuts 5 ft. 14 disc, cuts 7ft.
For summer fallowing in hard soil.
For ploughing stubble, and killing and burying the heaviest weed growths.
More “Sundercuts” are at work in Australia than any other Stump-Jump Disc,
because they shift more soil per horse-power than any other.
n ynuhhn
S 3
ĵ
“SUNTYNE”
Sizes 8 12 14 16 20 rows
With 17 25 29 33 41 tynes
Width 5 H Si 9i 12 feet
Combines the best Tyne Cultivator with the best Grain and
Fertiliser Drill. Two implements in one. Saves capital. Saves
labor. Sows scientifically and pays for itself by conserving the
moisture and increasing the yield.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Write to any of the following addresses for Catalogue and Price List.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
102 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
Corner MURRAY & KING STREETS, PERTH,
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.


CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL. JFWELLERS
fiCOTTA
Stay at Melbourne’s
Most Convenient Hotel
An outstanding feature of “Scott’s”
central situation.
i
i
is tastefully and comfortably furnished
throughout, and includes every modem
time-saving and service giving feature in
its appointments.
Hot and cold water is available in all
bedrooms (many have private bathrooms
attached) and direct exchange and inter-
communicating telephones are installed.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or
Bed and Breakfast Bate,
GET TARIFF CARD NOW-
WRITE.
Telegrams: ♦‘Scott’s,” Melbourne,
is its very
j
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones,burglar alar ms,
medical coils, etc.
ĵ
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1532, 1533.
A badge or a posy served as a receipt for
a silver coin on city streets when the collec-
tors for the Mayor's hospital fund went forth
in battle array. It was the second annual
begging day for this fund, and the gardens
of the Flower-growers’ Association, which
gave the posies, must have felt like Samson
after the Philistinish maid had shingled him.
Chrysanthemums and holly were prominent
among the loot. Fine weather, theatrical
matinees and bargain sales at the ragshops
brought crowds to town. Nurses in bright
uniform, capes of crimson, of purple and of
other hues, made a cheerful note among the
collectors. Professional florists lent their
aid in making posies and buttonholes, and
the day’s sales from the Diggers’ flower-stalls
went to the cause also.
J. C. Newlands, who for years taught
public speaking at New College, Edinburgh,
met Melbourne’s brither-Scots in charming
surroundings at the Hotel Windsor. The
blue room was all prinked up with brown
baskets of mammoth chrysanthemums, roses
and bronzed foliage. The visitor talked of
Barrie, gave excerpts from the works of that
guid man, recited a couple of border ballads
and told some stories. Dr. Gilrutli did the
honors, president Downie being on the sick-
list. Colin Thompson’s pleasant tenor voice
was heard in Scottish song, and Miss Mac-
gregor’s fiddle sobbed out the strange music
or the Gael. Mrs. Downie was there, in
mole and gold covering, and secretary Bruce
Lang’s wife was a slim figure in gold lace
that had fringe adornments. Mrs. Gilrutli,
the Douglas Stewart couple, Mrs. R. Pitcher
(a study in mauve and gold), Jimmy Dyer,
Miss Wemyss (of Adelaide), Miss Downer
and Mrs. J. Buchanan were amongst those
who seemed to enjoy the proceedings.
The 23rd annual report of the Civil Ambu-
lance Service discloses that the Ma State’s
subsidy to its ambulance transport service
last year was £17,500, while Bananaland
stumped up £43,000 for similar purposes.
The Victorian Government’s grant was £450.
In its 23 years the V.C.A.S. has had only
£1650 from the Government. The service
carried 1522 patients free last year. For the
last six years an annual ball, organised by
Gertrude Rennie, has helped somewhat. Last
year’s, which had the ’Murkan Fleet visitors
to offer as a special attraction, netted £lO5O.
A meeting of enthusiasts held last week
fixed this year’s hop for August 10 at the
St. Kilda Town Hall. Gertrude Rennie’s
mantle as organiser has now fallen on Rose
Paterson and Mrs. Howard Lewis. Thelma
Halbert and Lyell Bowes-Kelly are ticket
secretaries. The decoration of the hall is in
the hands of Mrs. Richard Fitcher and Ali-
son Cummings: and other helpers include
Mrs. Alfred Boyes, Mrs. Gilbert Lodge, and
Mrs. Beacham Kiddle.
Members of the Music Club flocked into
the V.A.S. Galleries to hear Fritz Hart dis-
course informally upon English folksongs,
with Jean Ilambleton and Millie McCor-
mack on hand to give vocal illustrations. The
singers lifted their voices without affectation,
maintaining quite the right atmosphere. As
a contrast in national styles, Miss Ilamble-
ton gave a trio of characteristic songs of the
Hebrides. Further variety was provided by
the performance by Ida Scott of two short
pianoforte fantasies composed by Mr. Hart,
in which the themes were the old English
airs, “Cold Blow-s the Wind” and “Mowin’
the Barley.”
The large audience gathered at the Assem-
bly Hall for the latest Edward Goll recital
turned up its collars against the draughts
and slowly became numb as the pianist
played the interminable “Variations and
Fugue” of Max Reger, a composer who has
few admirers outside the ranks of the vir-
tuosi. Much more to the listeners’ liking
were the Chopin numbers and the pieces by
Couperin and Rameau, redolent of the per-
fumes of Louis XlV.’s court.
Four-instrument pieces by Mozart and
Ravel, with the Schumann quintette in E
flat, were played by the string quartette at
the Assembly Hall, Edward Goll playing the
pianoforte part in the Schumann number,
which scored the success of the evening. Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, Dr. and Mrs. ,T. F. Rudall,
Dr. Constance Ellis, the Professorial Skeats
couple and Mrs. Albert Miller were among
the faithful.
The Austral Salon was sicklied o’er with
the pale cast of thought the other night when
members listened to Frances Pennington,
who is history tutor at the ’Varsity, expound-
ing the race problems of the Pacific. She
liad been on a six months’ holiday in Fiji,
where she investigated the habits and cus-
toms of the natives. After the Pacific had
been pondered sufficiently, sweet music was
discoursed by Coral Trenery, Louie Hillburn.
Marjorie Firth and Kitty Smyth. Luther
Wardley, an English baritone who is visiting
these parts with his wife, also obliged. ,T. C.
Newlands, the elocutionist whose recitals
commence this week, was another guest. The
gathering was hostessed by Mrs. John Booth
and Mrs. IT. Webster.
Jimmy Dyer, w y ho shares his wife’s interest
in music and art, gave a push-off to James
R. Jackson’s show at the New Gallery. It
was a very effective shove—sales were an
Australian record for the first day of a one-
man show. The trustees of the National
Gallery have bought, out of the Felton be-
quest, a canvas on to which Jackson has
transplanted a valley of the Murrumbidgee.
They got it for 85 guineas.
Regine Madson, a member of the Harbor
City’s Arts and Crafts, is creating quite a
flutter among members of the sister society
here with painted shawls, which are on sale
at the depot in Capitol House. The wraps
are of heavy crepe de Chine of various
colors with a border in some bold floral
design and deep hand-knotted fringes. The
dyeing has been done by paint-brush, and the
effects obtained are in many cases strikingly
beautiful. The process, by the way, was
described by Mrs. Andrews —another Sydney
art-worker — in last week’s Woman’s Mirror.
Menzies’ best china was handed round
when Elsa Stralia stepped off the Sydney
express en route to the blighted Apple Isle,
where she is due for a fortnight of song.
The soprano has just signed for another 20
weeks’ contracts in Australia; after that
she expects to pack up and fill long-standing
engagements in London.
Dorothy Brunton has been called upon to
do some intensive study since she cancelled
her holiday trip to the Great Fog to plunge
from musical comedy into the drama with
G. B. Post. She was billed to appear in
“The Climax” on June 5 at Sydney Palace,
but a sudden change of plans necessitates
her learning a part in “The Masquerader,”
with which the company will open a Perth
season, to fill the dates previously allotted
to Sydney.
The alert-looking face pictured here by
Lafayette belongs to Rachel Robinson,
organising sec-
retary of the
II o use wives’
A s sociation.
She joined
that bod y
about two
years ago,
drawn in by
her interest in
the bread war,
and ever since
then, she de-
clares, she has
been wrang-
ling with mill-
c r s. The
Hons ewives’
president (Mrs.
Andrew Glen-
cross) is under
doctor’s orders
to go slow for
a while, throw-
ing chief re-^
sponsibility for the routine work on the
shoulders of the secretary, who hails from
the Apple Isle. Miss Robinson gathered
news for a period on the Launceston
Weekly Courier, filling a chair her mother
once occupied. In 1911 the lady crossed
Bass. Strait, and threw in her lot with the
People’s liberal party, eventually passing
on to the Australian Industries’ Protection
League.
. The 11ousewives’Association’s latest yearly
review of its achievements disclosed a great
deal attempted but not very much done.
However, it is in no way daunted,
and carries on its war for the rights of
the sex with unabated vim. It hopes to
further its aims by putting women in the
seats of the mighty—on the Bench with the
J’s.P., and helping to roll logs in the State
and Federal Parliaments, with seats also
on municipal councils and tribunals and
boards whose decisions affect the home; and
there are mighty few things that don't
affect the home. A course of lectures on
social science given at the University during
the year to associate members was well
attended and highly appreciated; so much
so that there is a project for a diploma of
social science. Revelations have been made
to the Minister of Agriculture concerning
the character of his breakfast egg and the
rapacity of its vendors, and a loud cry for
cheaper bread has been raised. To break
the ring that is said to keep up the price,
the lI.A. has asked that it be declared illegal
for a miller or a baker to refuse to supply
Hour or bread to any person who can pay
for it.
Mary MacGregor, Bananaland’s titian-
haired mummer, got her chance, when Angela
Baddeley went into hospital last week, to
play the part of Tweeny in “The Admirable
Crichton.” She came through quite credit-
ably. Incidentally, Mary Hinton Pitt Rivers
is steadily gaining confidence, and her pro-
fessional career is much more promising than
it seemed when she first made the plunge.
Strella Wilson, wearing a fur coat over
a brown marocain frock and a blue felt
headpiece, received welcome and congratula-
tions from fellow-students of the Albert-
street Con. on a recent afternoon. Beatrice
Touzeau, president of the Old Girls’, passed
over the usual floral offering, and director
Fritz Hart spoke a complimentary piece.
Mrs. Hart, lately back from Europe, whose
apparel was of navy blue, with gold-bright-
ened felt millinery, backed up the greeting.
The clinking of teaeups was the only music.
Mrs. Ruby Reynolds Lewis - this is a
little Ruskin picture of her—is the Austra-
lian composer
whose “Hunt-
ing Song ’’
gained a gold
m e d a 1 and
d i p 1o m a at
the Olympic
Games in
Paris a year
or two ago.
Un fortunately
she has only
half of the
a ward to
s h o w. for,
though regis-
tered, t h e
medal was
stolen any-
way, it disap-
peared be-
fore it reached
her li and s.
She has seve-
ral composi-
tious to her credit, and has written some
effective settings of verses by Florence Ava-
lon Cussen. Recently a recital of her com-
positions, consisting of solos for pianoforte
and organ, and also songs, was given here
by well-known artists.
Rupert de Burgh Iver, who has a station
out at Richmond in Bananaland, has come
this way to join his wife, who has been
summering at Brighton. In the musical world
of Britain Mrs. Ker was well known as
Phyllis Lett, the contralto, but few in Aus-
tralia have heard her sing save through
the gramophone. She was singing to cheer
the soldiers during the Big Scrap when she
met her future husband.
Rachel Gillespie, daughter of ,T. A. Gil-
lespiej who is doing a course of doctoring at
the Royal Free Hospital for Women in Lon-
don, rushed home to spend a vacation with
her dad and brothers. A hop given by the
family at No. 9 celebrated the reunion. The
repatriated exile danced in a white frock
with an all-over glistening of blue and cry-
stal. Mrs. J. E. Gillespie, who was hostess,
dressed the part in a gown of pale amber hue
with beaded reflections in cherry and green.
Cupid has been flying high enough lately
to snipe several members of the R.A.A.F.
The latest casualty is Flight-Lieutenant
Stanley Brearley, D.F.C., formerly at Point
Cook but now at Perth, who on a recent
afternoon piloted a gold ring on to the finger
of Gena Satchel!, youngest daughter of a
Camberwell family. The wedding was a
quiet one, the bride murmuring her mono-
syllables in an ensemble suit of corduroy
velours and georgette, in fawn and brown
hues, fur-trimmed, with harmonising milli-
nery. No. 9 emitted sounds of revelry that
night, the bride’s father and her sister, Dr.
H. C. Colville’s wife, doing the honors.
Silver lame with attachments of petunia-
toned georgette adorned the new matron, and
the hostess held a posy of delphiniums and
carnations against a gown of blue and
silver.
Yvonne Waley, eldest daughter of the
Harbor City knight, who has taken up her
abode at Kew, has given her promise to
James McLeish, a son of the Alex. McLeishes
of that suburb.
Fasoli’s cafe in King-street has been a
fountain of tribulation for some time past
because the chatelaine, Madame Maggia, is
leaving by the Chitral for a trip to Italy
with her sou Guido. Fasoli’s is a bohemian
restaurant, and it isn’t. There is certainly
no similar resort in any other of the
world’s great cities. In New York, Paris
and London, the habitues of bohemian eating-
houses are mostly artists and musicians.
At Fasoli’s you find lawyers, engineers, doc-
tors, soldier and sailor officers, flying-men,
sharebrokers, artists, vaudeville people,
actors, singers et hoc fraternising twice a
day. Madame Maggia is going to be missed
by a lot of people who have known her and
her family for :>0 years.
Victorian fishermen came out of their lairs
on Saturday night and assembled for a fish-
supper at Ormond Hall, where the air was
thick with hands that measured the monster
that escaped. The Anglers’ President, R. G.
Lillywhite, was there with his wife, who
wore black, brightened with gold. It was
a happy party.
Miss Thorn, president of the C.M.U.W.,
spread a cloth at the University during the
week in honor of an Auckland graduate in
social science, Wyn Braithwaite, who is
keenly interested in Australian social pro-
blems. Melbourne is merely her stepping-
stone on. the way to Birmingham University;
fi ui e , Mso represent Maoriland at
the World Students’ Conference in Denmark
next August.
Georgie Trumble. the popular daughter of
the secretary in the Defence Department,
has announced her engagement to Leslie
Gordon \\ alker, of Camberwell. As the
, Department is the first marked
oown for removal to Canberra, the wedding-
may be amongst the pioneer social happen-
ings of the new city.
Nora Barrett, of the deep contralto voice,
is about to slip away. No farewell recital
will mark her departure, though she has
given her services generously enough for
others. Maoriland will be her first stop, and
after making some promised visits she will
go on to America. There is no present talk
ot a return.
The new secretary of the Big Brothers in
Melbourne is A. F. Burrett. He was at
Anzac from the first day to the last and
missed nothing of importance in France ll e
rSVo™ 6 when all was over a m ajop 'with
This week the iChitral carried off Mrs. E.
1. Bevan and daughter Maybery for six
months of sight-seeing with a homeward iour-
aey by way of what the English call the
har East. The Caulfield home of Mrs.
Gerald Mcllarg housed a tea-party, with
posies of violets all round, at which good-
byes were said.
Bernard Heinze, who waves the baton over
he Varsity Symphony Orchestra, is keeping
his musicians hard at work. He will pre-
sent on June 9 at the Auditorium the first
performance in Australia of the “Sea Suite”
of Frank Bridge, an English composer who
is making liimsGlf hoard in the musical world.
A new exhibitor at the Arts and Crafts
depot is Michael O’Connell, who produces
concrete bowls and plaques decorated in
colors. O (Connell saw war service with the
Dublin h usiliers, and came here to go on
the land, but found landscape gardening, to
which he had been accustomed, more profit-
able. His training in decorative art was
given him in England.
Sister Adelaide’s P.S.:—
The last day of the Cup meeting, the South Aus-
tralian Orchestra’s concert, and visits to the R.S.
Club-rooms, the Lyceum and the Queen’s Home
brought the Stonehavens’ visit to an end; and a
feature of their Murray trip was a real country bali
at Berri, to which settlors mustered 300 strong.
The orchestra chose Coleridge Taylor’s “Hiawatha '
to open its season, and had the satisfaction of
hanging out a ’house full’* sign as well as giving
an excellent performance.
Now we’ve lapsed again into calm, with a charity
dance and a couple of art exhibitions as our wildest
distractions. The dance was at the Glenelg Palais,
its object funds for the Keith Sheridan Kindergarten,
and its committee 15 of the jounger set, whose
energy gathered a mort of dancers in spite of a
night cold enough to freeze a polar-bear and wet
enough to drown a fish. The art exhibitions were
Borman Lloyd’s at the Dunster Galleries, with Russell
Booth to give it an opening benediction, and the
School of Arts students’ exhibition, sponsored by
Attorney-General Denny.
The Glovers are off to the Islands and Rabaul,
their last engagement here a birthday party for Mrs.
Glover’s mother, Mrs. T, J. Hannam, who is a
mere 84.
Five hundred pounds goes to St. Mark’s furnishing-
fund from last month’s fSte and bridge party. The
next engagement for the same cause is a dance which
members of the College themselves will run, under
the wing of Mrs. Gordon MacFarlane. It is to be
at the Glenelg Palais.
Congratulations will go from this State to the
Hugh Denisons on the American appointment. The,
formerly lived here and built the house on the
top of Montefiore Hill that S’Langdon Bonython
afterwards bought and rechristened Carclew.
Girl Guides are to have a -week of special energy
under the wing of Miss Behrens, England’s chief
instructor in Guiding, who will conduct camps at
Brighton and at Poltalloeh, and give lectures into
the bargain. Government House will be her head-
quarters while she is here. Afterwards she will go
on to Melbourne.
The Dance Palais on North-terrace has been taken
over by a co. for, it is said, £25,000. Henry Ayers,
one of the very few wealthy pioneers who located his
mansion actually in the city, left his heirs a veri-
valuable slice of North-terrace land. The big hous<'
has served various purposes since, being the R.S.
Club for some years. The eastern part of the garden
is an open-air theatre in summer; and the other
end is the aforesaid palais—a military pay-office
during the -war.
We’re to have something quite unusual—a “snake
park.” Keith Minehin, son of the head of the
Zoo and a world-wide traveller in its interests, ha?
wheedled the City Council into granting him a bit
of the parklands opposite the Zoo for a ipeciol
display of reptiles.


A. SAUNDERS*
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT
and WEDDING RINGS
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon,
shape platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O,
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold,
£5O, £6O, £7O,
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring-,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
Specially Selected Diamonds,
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, set
Platinum, lSet.
Gold Ring, £25.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Qctagon-
shape, Platinum
set, 18ct. Cold
King, £2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £lo.
A. Saunders’
Five-Diamonds,
set Platinum
] Bct. O’d King,
£l5.
Larger Dia-
monds. £2O,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three.
Diamonds, set
Platinum lSct.
Gold Ring, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5,
£l2/10/-
\. Saunders’ All -
Platinum, Dia-
mond-set Wedding
Ring, £25.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O, £4O, £5O.
j
Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding
Ring, 25/-
!ct. Gold, 30/-
Wider, £2.
SENT
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, IBct. Gold
King:, £l5.
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £l5.
WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK.
£. Saunders’ Four-
Diamonds, set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O. £lO.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, All
Platinum Ring,
£95.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Cross-
over Ring, set
Platinum, lBct.
Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, All Platinum
Ring, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£3O, £4O.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ĵ
i
“iTh:
X >V‘
i*S&2
&
r.< n
f
'y&zm
itz
SSMii
Crete
■ -
l **3&
Trousers
Specials
SPECIAL in every sense —strong,
tough-wearing quality, robust
make, providing reinforcement
where strain is greatest —and re-
markable value because you buy
direct from the Manufacturer.
Smart dressy Trousers in DARK BLOCK
STRIPED WORSTEDS, extremely durable
wearers. Neat pattern effects.
Made with Cuff or Plain Bot-
toms, Side and Hip Pockets .. .
15/6
MURDOCH’S RENOWNED “TOUGHITE”
TROUSERS —serviceable Grey shades. Side
or Cross Pockets, Plain Bottoms;
(Regd.)
12 6
MEN’S SPECIAL SERVICE KHAKI DRILL
TROUSERS —well made with Side or Cut
Pockets, Plain Bottoms. All Sizes
10/6
Postage Paid to Your Door.
When writing kindly state Waist and Inside
Leg Measures and address your letter to
DESK R.
MURDOCHS
In Sydney
k “The World's Larges! Men's and Boys' Wear Store."
jj 10
TU7
lAi
f?
m
L
Diamond a Sapphire Wrish Wahch <£Bo
i
a m
Diamond eSapphire Wrish Wahch ,£2OO
ea«* vs
$ 1 pali
? ad®
Diamond Set - Wrisl - Wahch £35
WRISTLET WATCHES
So consistently have quality and excellence been associated with the
firm’s Wristlet Watches that their reputation for workmanship and
accurate timekeeping extends into the remotest parts of the Common-
wealth. Only those watches which bear the impress of the world’s
best-known manufacturers find place in the selections of Wm,
Drummond & Co. The present selection includes the most exquisite
designs in gold and platinumboth plain mid gem-set, and merits
an early inspection. Five per cent, discount allowed on all cash
purchases.
WMoMtDM]MONAD € €0
344-34(5) COLONS SI M!EIL!B©IUIKNE
Player Rolls.
Latest and Best
ATTRACTIVE LIST OF MAY RELEASES.
C 5
FOX TROTS.
D. 1851 Sleepy Time Gal.
D. 1357 On Mother Kelly’s Doorstep.
D. 1358 I’m Gonna Charleston Back to
Charleston.
D. 1359 I’m Knee Deep in Daisies.
D. 1364 The Farmer Took Another Load
Away! Hay! Hay!
D. 1365 Who? (from “Sunny”).
1).1366 Paddlin’ Madelin’ Home (from
“Sunny”).
D. 1367 I Wish’t I Was in Peoria.
ONE STEPS.
D. 1356 Valencia.
WALTZES.
D. 1360 Too Many Parties and Too Many
Pals.
1X1372 Kiss of Spring.
MARCHES.
.1363 Sagamore March.
.1371 Hawaiian Patrol.
BALLADS.
D. 1352 Down the Vale.
D. 1353 The Flight of Ages.
D. 1354 The Fairy Pipers.
D. 1361 I Was Dreaming (Ma Mie
Rosette).
D. 1362 1 Hid My Love. Key of B Flat,
A to D.
D. 1369 The Prisoner's Song.
D. 1370 Just A’Wearyin’ For You. Key of
D Flat, F to F.
OPERATIC (with Words).
D. 1355 Kissing Time (Selection).
CLASSICS.
C. 771 Turkish March. (Prom “The Ruin
of Athens.”) (Beethoven Rubin-
stein.)
0.772 Liebes-Tod (Love’s Death). (From
Tristan and Isolde.) (Wagner,
Liszt.)
0.773 Overture to the Caliph of Bagdad.
(Boieldieu.)
0.775 To the Evening Star. (0 Du Mer-
holder Abenstein.) (From “Tann-
hauser.”) (Descriptive.) (Wagner,
Liszt.)
C. 776 Danse Macabre. (Descriptive.)
(Saint-Saens, Liszt.)
0.777 1812 Overture Solennelle. (Descrip-
tive.) (Tschaikowsky.)
0.780 Nymphs and Fauns. (The Pipes
of Pan.) (F. K. Logan.)
0.781 Faust. (Valse.) (Gounod, Liszt.)
0.782 Light Cavalry. (Overture.) (.Suppe.)
0.784 Finlandia. Op. 26. No. 7. (Sibe-
lius. )
C. 785 0 harmeuse Valse-Intermezzo.
(Robert, Coningsby, Clarke.)
0.756 Dance of the Hours. (Lai Gio-
corida.) (Descriptive.) (Pon-
chielli.)
0.787 A Midsummer Night’s Dream. (De-
scriptive.) (Mendelssohn.)
C. 788 Invitation to the Dance. Op, 65.
(Weber, Tausig.)
The Above Titles are also Obtainable in “Expression” Rolls.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
(Ask for Latest General Catalogue, also Bulletin of
neu' releases issued on the first of each month.)
- JVLASTERTOUCH , .
r. . Mand Pta/ed : =:
Rolls -
- ‘ are the —'
LATEST and BEST
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.


\
/
\%. u/
& w' /, J
SS* : - .A&
-
&
"Hmsmeam
Iklt. fe
•obert bosch
kVI
rf
SPARKING PLUGS
GIVF SFRVICF
AND KEEP ON GIVING SERVICE.
Standard Types, 5/- each.
Fit a Complete Set
and Note the Improvement.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Ptv Ltd
256-258 Latrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd
249 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., (01 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert .Tones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street,
Hobart D - J Nettlefold & Co., Ltd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand.... J. J. Niven & Co., Ltd, Wakefield Street
Wellington.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
More powerful than ihe revolver /
Winchester Focussing Spot Right Electric Pocket Torch, Two-cell
Baitery and powerful sliding Lens that throws a penetrating shaft of light *j /
200 feet. Length 6fin.; diameter lAin. Nickel or Fibre Case '4o' *
Winchester Focussing Torch, Three-cell Battery, throws light 350 feet.
Length 9in. ; diameter l|in. Nickel or Fibre Case
Winchester Vest Pocket Lamp, Three-cell, nickel-plated finish case,
switch contact. Gives good light. Very handy size
Postage on Torches: N.S.W., 9d.; Other Slates, t/2
Write for Complete Price. List, sent Post Free on request .
186
66
Mick Simmonsfe
“The World’s Greatest Sports Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
i
&
m
BA ii f,Ry
WINCHESTER
TORCHES
AND
BATTERIES
A
Good
Gun
Deserves
a
Good
Cartridge
I
I
feKS-/» 1
3; £*4
a ' :
m
o
r"N *****
WW
■ -
W l^
S
■••'•v.'V
NHfai
■MI
i
ora
Maximum
Reliability
Scientifically tested ingredients that are
scientifically loaded—these facts explain
in a nutshell the maximum reliability of
All British
Nobel-Eley & Kynoch
Cartridges
Laboratory tests first, then loading, by a
wonderful machine that rejects any cartridge
with the slightest fault or variation, and,
finally, thorough proof tests at the range
of each batch—these are your guarantee
of that reliability and satisfaction for
which Nobel-made Cartridges are now
so justly famous.
Obtainable at
All Gunsmiths and Dealers
Wholesale Only:
Ammunition (Nobel) Proprietary Ltd.
380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand:
li. H. LA BOX E, 117 Resolution
Street, Lyall Bay, Wellington.
f >*ii ■-***'■•
- i
■ :: v,v- mk
m mmm !
■F
m m
PHI
!b
*m mmm
■ teMSB -" ; :f
I
fl
•-
%
ftr
6
Hi
$
■v"-:. jiisSi
mmSml Mf
mm
1 11
HP: ■
■M
r
MMMM
■ ■ ■
. j
* •
I Mh
-. ti '■■ ■ 4. ,»
-.
A
Good
Gun
Deserves
a
Good
Cartridge


CADET RIFLES
——— - n*
New Rifles
direct from
the manu-
facturers.
500-Yard Range Exact Size of Cartridge
Those splendid long-range 297/239 cal. Cadet Rifles, so well known for accuracy and reliability,
are remarkably cheap shotting. Self-cocking Martini action, adjustable rear sight to 500 yards.
Complete with cleaning rod and sight protector. Length of barrel 27 inches. Y\ eight silb.
97/6
Cartridges, 7/6 per 100 Cong; 5/6 per 100 Short.
ALSO
SAVAGES 22 ill-rowE3R. 1000-yard range.
Under Lever Action. 5-sbot Magazine Rifle. Length of barrel 20 inches. Weight 631 b.
Take-down Model, £ll/10/-
Cartridges. Soft Point, 32/6 per 100.
V s*B®*'™*^
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
RESCH’S
lager, pilsener
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian
Distributors: BURNS, PHIEP * CO., LTD , Perth and Ceraldton
Harvey’s Special li i s^y
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
After the first three races at Rosehill on
Saturday Sydney bookmakers were on most cordial
terms with themselves, for rank outsiders prevailed
in all three. One of the joy-bringers was Egerton
(Sir Dighton—Marquet), who looked particularly well
and was meeting a very ordinary lot of sprinters,
but was nevertheless aHo wed to go out at 20 to 1.
He settled Don Moon and Yerrubil (5 to 2) very
impressively. The other five winners were at much
shorter odds, but as there was good money for several
horses in each event, McShortodds contrived to keep
well ahead of it. O. W. L. Murchison’s fine Comedy
King colt Amusement had another victory in the
Juvenile Handicap, and is now to be put aside for
the A.J.C. Derby—next to Rampion he is the likeliest-
looking candidate that Sj'dney lias so _ far seen.
Godby’s New Hope justified the good opinion formed
of him at Randwick by his attractive gallop in the
Rosehill Handicap, for which McShortodds magnani-
mously laid 2 to 1 New Hope, 9 to 4 Blaireourt
and 3 to 1 Valamita in a field of 12; and others
to improve on Randwick running were Otacre (.5 to
1) in the first division of the Highweight Handicap
and the very promising Midlothian (5 to 2) in the
second division. Each was ridden in his most
resolute style by the leading jockey, Munro. Toohey
Munro’s nearest rival, was blamed for taking Bunting
Wallace (5 to 4 on) from the rails to the outside
at the crisis of Otacre’s race, but John “Baron s
chestnut, although he has plenty of pace, is a
very awkward customer in a field.
# * * *
E. J. O’Dwyer, wliose team is earning its
oats, had another good win at Williamstown (Vic.)
on Saturday, Sir Dighlock (9 to 2) making a one-
horse race of the Bay View Handicap, ten iurlongs.
This brown son of Sir Dighton—Charlock stays much
better than when Sydney knew him, and his manner
of beating Olola (9 to 2) and Janomagne (20 to 1)
suggested that he will do the trick again before
long. In the Itororoit Hurdle backers were asked to
lay 5t04 on Autrolite —a ridiculous price, for the
Flying Machine gelding is a long way from being a
champion. He was vanquished by Joulni (6 to 1),
who won a brush steeple recently. Epergne (2 to 1)
had an easy conquest in the Autumn Steeple, and
looks like furnishing into a good sort, as he has
fair pace for a ’chaser. Retsacnal (6 to 4) scored
for the fourth successive time in the Gellibrand
Handicap, 6 furlongs. So smart a sprinter deserves
a less barbarous name.
* * * *
Joe Burton, one of the oldest and best of
Australian trainers, will be seen at Randwick no
more. In a way he was a veteran when, he set
up as a trainer at the age of 19, for as a nine-
year-old weighing 3st. 101 b. he had ridden races
in the Bathurst district, where he was born; and
he saddled up horses for upwards of half a cen-
tury. At 21 he prepared an A.J.C. Derby winner
—Javelin, a Yattendon colt, who triumphed in
1871, and with his own lwrse Dare Devil, a son of
Grand Flaneur, he won the A.J.C. Epsom Handi-
cap in 1892. Other famous steeds with which
Burton was associated were Belali 1 A.J.C. Derby,
1903), Mountain King (A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies,
1907), Westcouit (second Melbourne Cup. 1915,
and first, 1917) and Bitalli (Melbourne Cup, 1923).
“Runner”: Winston Churchill s Betting
Tax Bill, now before the Commons, promises to
confine Mclkey’s activities within strict limits.
Mclke has had a splendid run in Britain, unchecke
save by the Jockey Club’s “warning off” m a tew
special cases, and unlicensed save by occasional
clubs. The law offered no redress if he failed to
face the music on settling day, and altogethei he
was as carefree a freebooter as the average secret
agent in Sydney. If the bill goes through in
its present form, the odds-layer will have to take
out a Government certificate, which will be subject
to cancellation, suspension and endorsement tor
misdemeanors. If lie tries to wangle a new
certificate while he is on the ice, the joke WIU
cost him a hundred yellow ones. The Johns are
authorised to run the rule over any betting joint,
and lumber without a plaster anyone layin em
without coming to light with a stamped brief,
or going shy on showing his o.k. Any of these
last breaks will cost a monkey. Boiled down,
that’s about the strong of it.
* * * *
“Northerner”: More and more racegoer?
from the played-out South visit N.Q. for the round
of meetings held' during the sunny northern winter,
for the conditions are as agreeable as can be found
anywhere. Queenslanders who do the whole round
start at Rockhampton on June 18, and work up
through Mackay, Bowen, Charters Towers and Towns-
ville to Ingham by the end of July. Approximately
£ll,OOO will be distributed in prize money; Rock-
hampton alone is hanging up £5OOO. Several
teams of Sydney horses, in addition to many from
Brisbane, will make the trip.
Issy Tanner scaled l.Ost. 01 lb. to Eddie
Butcher’s lOst. 241 b. when the pair shaped up at
the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Despite
the difference in the weights, and the allegation that
Issy had knocked out at least 30 pugs who box right
hand foremost, as Butcher does, Wcstraiian i*ddie
REVIVING THE APPARENTLY
DOWNED.
INSTRUCTOR: “I’m truin' yes out, sec, so don'
be afraid t’ it me ’ard."
PUPIL: “In the event of my — er —rendering
you insensible, what method of resusci-
tation would you recommend?”
showed no trace of fear; on the contrary, he began
straightway to damage Tanner’s countenance with
right jabs—he has a jab that might be envied by
any crack exponent of the left lead- -varying the
treatment with wicked left crashers to ribs and head.
He was leading comfortably till the 13th, early in
which Tanner connected with one of the weighty
right smashes he had been specialising in all along.
It caught Butcher on the cheekbone, just under the
left eve, cutting the skin and knocking him over the
middle rope to a seat on the running-board. He
took six seconds to pull his body back to his legs,
which dangled inside the square, but then he jumped
up, met Issy’s furious rush, and in 10 seconds was
punching that hopeful warrior around the ring, amid
thunder', of applause. Issy won the 18th, and tried to
settle the argument in the 19th and 20th, but the
ever-smiling Butcher took them both and the veidict.
It was a stirring fight, worthy of a much bigger
attendance, and Patsy Burke has obviously brought
Butcher on a lot. #
Melbourne Stadium submitted a double bill
on Saturday, and two proteges of Billy Grime gained
decisions, Johnny Taylor (9st.) scoring at the
expense of Dick Congress (Bst. l.'Hlb.), and Norm.
Gillespie (Bst. 51b.) at that of Patsy Kelly
(Bst ljlb.), who doesn’t mind giving away lumps
of weight. Taylor had Congress down for two
lengthy counts as early as the second round, and
thenceforward Richard boxed on safety-first Bnes
that robbed the fight of interest and spoiled the
crowd’s temper. The tedious wrangle dragged on
until the 12th, when the referee disqualified Congress
for throwing liis opponent, a natural fighter who
imitates Grime —not always to his advantage. Gilles-
pie v. Kelly was a sparkling affair from start to
finish with very little between them. Gillespie s
skilful right-hand punching earned him the verdict,
but the Sidney boy, who has done a lot of fighting
lately against bigger and older men, showed all the
gameness of his race.
* * *
“Boxer-major” : George Gunther, “the Aus-
tralian negro” (B. 20/5/’26), is recalled by none of
the recognised Sydney authorities on the game. 1
fancy he" had a few fights in America, and, going to
Paris at a time when Sid Russell was giving Aus-
tralian boxers a boom, posed as one of us to get a
standing and secure matches. He was never in
Australia as a ringster, if at all.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Jones’s flat is so situated in
relation to mine that 1 am able to hear Mrs. Jones’s
copious accounts of his past life when he comes
home late —especially when he says he has been fish-
ing and has no fish to show for it. The other night,
when I met him on our outer doorstep, he drew
my attention to a parcel he had been lugging along
by means of thick string looped round the fingers of
one hand, and proudly gurgled, “Boo’ful fis’! ’L’ave
’em fer breakfush mornin’.” The shape of the
three articles suspended by the string looked familiar
but not fishy, and 1 remarked to Jones that they
were wrapped up in brown paper. “Yesh,” he said.
“Merra fella on th’ boa’ who hadsh shome brown
papish, an’ offered ter wrapsh shem up fer me.”
Three minutes later 1 heard, in the well-known
accents of Mrs. Jones, “You drunken brute! You
say you’ve been fishing, and you bring home three
bottles tied to a piece of string and tell me I can
cook them for breakfast. What sort of a woman do
you think I am?” That was only the start, and it
was accompanied by a sound like three empty
bottles being thrown down violently. I am wondering
how the man who did the dastardly deed enjoyed
Jones’s fish.
* * * *
The Australians put up the best perform-
ance of the tour so far against the M.C.C. Still,
seeing that their object is, or should be, to win as
many matches as possible, Collins would have
shown sounder judgment as well as keener sports-
manship if he had declared an hour sooner. There
was nothing to risk thereby, and the way in which
the club’s tail was rattled out in the first innings
suggests that an important game might have been
won Of course in that case Ponsford would not
have been able to make another century, and Richard-
son a lialf-century, and the pair to add 119 for a
last wicket that never fell, but individual achieve-
ments and records ought not to count in comparison
with those of the side. If it is ever accepted that
a draw with an overwhelming advantage is as good
as a victory, except in Test matches, cricket will
go another step along the path of dullness^.
The English ’Varsities are hardly expected to give
Australian elevens the tussles that they sometimes
did: in bygone days, but Cambridge made anything
but a poor showing on first hands. Such success
as it achieved was due almost entirely to three men
__Enthoven, the captain, who has the unique dis-
tinction of a three-figure innings in two successive
years against Oxford, and who came within seven
runs of repeating the performance in his first innings
against Collins’s men, Dawson (69 and 22) and
Meyer, a bowler who appeared with the Minor
Counties and will re appear presently in the . south
of England side at Bristol. Duleepsinhji, Banji s
much-lauded nephew, failed his admirers and 1 urn-
bull whose batting records as a schoolboy the last
couple of years have been phenomenal, managed only
21 at the second attempt. The Cantabs first innings
of 212 —Ryder did the bulk of the damage with
6 wickets for 74—was not imposing, but Australia
didn’t better it by much.
It mightn’t have been headed at all except for the
sturdy Woodfull, who went in second wicket down
and was not out for 98. No one eise did half as
well as Dawson had done m Cambridge s fust innings.
Still Gregory and Taylor were both absentees—
precisely the'pair likely to play most havoc with
voiinf bowlers Mever took 6 wickets foi Oo m the
first "innings and 2‘for 5 in the second, a perform-
ance againft Australians which it would be necessary
to go back through many years ot ’Varsity annals to
parallel Cambridge in its second innings collapsed
fo-nominiously for 81 before Grimmett (6 tor 28) and
Macartney (4 for 21). This left Australia without
sufficient time to obtain the 59 runs necessary to
win, but with enough jto lose 2 wickets toi * •
Collins and Macartney were the two noticeable
standers-down for the Oxford match. Batting first,
the home side was all disposed ot before to, l -time
for 131, Stephenson (45) and Taylor (34) being the
main contributors. Richardson had a day out aga-n
with 6 for 28. Oxford being notoriously weak m
bowling, it looked as if some centuries would be
forthcoming in reply, but the Australian .otal (•>- >
was more remarkable for evenness than individual
success Nine men obtained double figuies, but
only Andrews reached 50, and he didn t get beyond
it ' He will need that and a little more to ensure
him a place in the first Test next month. Gregory
smote p 42 with his wonted vigor; Ellis and
Grimmett (41) put on 74 for the ninth wicket.
Oxford tried eight bowlers. The ’Varsity was fighting
for a draw when this .report had to close. _
“8 TS ” • What patronage a totalisator on big
cricket’ would have—and what dividends it would
HORRIE CLOVER,
Carlton's half-
forward, club
secretary and
delegate to the
V.F.L.
pay! Highest scorers
in' the first game in
England, Ryder and
Bardsley. First cen-
tury in England, Gre-
gory. First men to
make two centuries,
Gregory and Woodfull.
What price about any
of those events ? —•
with Macartney, Pons-
ford and Taylor, to
say nothing of Col-
lins, Andrews, Rich-
ardson and Hendry,
among the also-ran.
And then, in the first
really important
match, all the effec-
tive bowling done by
Richardson, Collins
and Ryder.
After all, fast-bowler Scott has turned
down the Northcote (Vic.) club’s offer, and pro-
poses to remain in Adelaide. “Scottie” has a steady
job in the sports department of the Harris Scarfe co.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby League’s star game on
Saturday University v. Balmain, turned out a poor
and dull display. “ Uni. won by 10 points to 3.
The students have a good back division, O’Rourke,
at inside centre, showing brilliantly at times, but
they sorely need a capable hooker. Glebe, without
Frank Burge, but with Bert Gray in the forwards
again, had no trouble in beating North Sydney, 20
to 11, and is now bracketed with South Sydney and
’Varsity at the top of the table. East was pushed
further down the ladder by Newtown, the latter scor-
ing 8 to 3, and Western Suburbs defeated St. George
by 17 to 12. South Sydney, having the bye, went
to Newcastle and, with a ’flu-depleted team, had a
tough job downing the Goalies by 19 to 12. Rugby
Union followers were taken aback when Randwiclc
thudded to a vastly improved University side. The
students had lost two of their three previous matches,
but the return of that fine five-eighth, Sheehan,
improved their back play out of sight, and they
scored 22 points to 8, their handling being so clean
that their six tries were contributed by the wing
threequarters. A nasty knock lost Randwick the
services of Crossman, but the side was in a hopeless
position before the flying wing threequarter was
carried off. Manly headed Eastern Suburbs by 15
points to 10, Cant, a schoolboy threequarter, making
an impressive showing for the villagers; and Johnny
Wallace had a lot to do with Glebe-Balmain’s 27 —8
victory over Western Suburbs, while in a big scoring
game, fast and furious from start to finish, Y.M.C.A.
overcame North Sydney, 31 to 23. The Soccer world
was perturbed when the premiers, Granville, with a
personnel largely drawn from the Clyde engineering
works, characteristically went on strike, as the
culmination of a long-standing feud with the Metro-
politan executive, and forfeited to Gladesville. Bal-
gownie was too hot for Canterbury, 4 to 1, Masters
again doing great work at centre forward, but
Annandale held off Woonona by a goal to nil, and now
shares the lead with Gladesville. In the Australian-
rules competition, Newtown’s conquering march was
stopped by the Sydney XVII I, who got home by 49
to 37. West (61 points) had , a stiff struggle with
Eastern Suburbs (51) and now heads the list, not
having suffered a defeat.
* * * *
On Saturday Melbourne saw football of
the 'exciting, rather than the scientific, kind. Gee-
long visited North Melbourne, and looked like going
down until the last quarter, when a fierce struggle
gave them the game by 57 points to North’s 50.
Essendon went to Footscray, and, with the memory
of old defeats rankling, put up a great fight, gain-
ing the verdict ultimately by 2 points—49 to 47.
Coilingwood, meeting Melbourne, travelled badly
until it put the old “system” into action; then it
steadily pulled up, and at the close it owned 84
points to Melbourne’s 79. St. Hilda, almost in-
vincible on its own ground, found the degenerated
Fitzroy Maroons rather a gift, and demolished them
with 62 points to 51. The improving Carlton Blues
outed South Melbourne—now captained by Charlie
Pannam, a former ’Wood star, who had been de-
barred from playing for three years—by 71 points
to 66; and Richmond totted up 112 points against
Hawthorn, but as the latter acquired 100 points
there was nothing for the Tigers to go gay about.
During the week the League’s tribunal passed out
two Geelong men and one Saint for eight weeks, and
a Carltonian for four, by way of showing that it
will not tolerate undue effervescence.
* * * *
“Kerys”: I have a vivid recollection of
a juvenile football club that once flourished in
Auckland (M.L.) under the poetic but misleading
name (at least the noun was misleading) of the
“Wild Roses.” The Wild Roses issued a challenge
to St. Stephen’s native school, Parnell, the age
limit of the players to be 14 years. Young Henare
at 14 years is apt to weigh 14 stone, and a gigantic
opposition took the field against the challengers, who
were of normal size ; moreover, it had rained for a week
and the Held was nearly a foot under water. As the
hefty Maori boys charged the Wild Roses were sub-
merged in the depths. At half-time the spectators
could not recognise the Wild Roses except by their
size ; a little later the Roses were unable to recognise
each other. The score was a Rugby school record,
which probably stands to this day—l7B to nil! After
the match the headmaster of the native school solicited
the pleasure of the visitors’ company at afternoon
tea, but after one horrified look at the Wild Roses he
revoked his decision and remarked frigidly that
buns would be served in the quadrangle.
* * * *
“Ivillara”: Keith Harrison and Russell
Davidson of the Killara (N.S.W.) club won the cham-
pion foursomes at Kensington with two efforts of 80
and 78, which were six strokes better than A. E.
Andrews and F. and E. Headlam could manage; E. L.
Apperley and E. J. Pope were third. The winners
played capital golf; in fact, Harrison’s work was
masterly. The man who beats Keith on Saturday
will win the amateur championship of the State.
* * * *
After a lapse of several weeks and the cut-
ting of a Gordian knot of financial troubles by the
sale of the speedway, motor-racing was resumed at
Maroubra (N.S.W.) on Saturday under manage-
ment of the new owner, J S. Taylor. The racing
was as good as ever, what there was of it. Cecil
Brown, the Amurrican motor-cyclist, who, as long as
the old management could pay its way, was getting
£l5 a week as holder of the Gold Helmet and
the Silver Cup, went back to the land of the boot-
leggers when racing and payments were suspended.
The new management has taken over the serial
events, but it pays the weekly stipend for four
weeks only—not until the next meeting. H. Peel
is the new Gold Helmet wearer. He won despite
lubrication troubles. The Silver Cup went to Ken
Carmody, one of the most promising of the native-
born riders. In the all-power car race McKellar,
driving his 12-years-old Vauxhall, just pipped Cantor
in a tiny Baby Austin at the last turn. The Lucky
Devil’s Cup race has not proved particularly lucky
for those who competed in it, which is perhaps the
reason why Garlick was given a walk-over. He
tried to break the track record, but got nowhere
near it.
*'* * *
“Centurion”: Those who complain that
Sydney daily journalism’s interest in sport is
bounded by horse- and pony-racing, cricket and pro-
fessional football are not fair. Last week, for
instance, the Sun published a photograph of a small
boy, “supported” (as the heralds say) by a brace
of pheasants and a setter. Across his knees the
youngster held a small-bore rifle, and the inscrip-
tion underneath said that, “equipped with rifle and
bag,” the urchin had been getting among the
Maoriland pheasants. “Ouida,” a friend tells me,
once wi’ote of the crack of the rifle on the grouse
moors, and one American enthusiast lias advocated
the use of the small-bore rifle for shooting ducks
on the wing. As the correct thing for high phea-
sants it may have its points, but pending the intro-
duction of the machine-gun proper most shooters
will be content to rely on the double-barrel, or
the murderous automatic shotgun at worst.
SEMPER PARATT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•< Although the Grand National weights do not
appear till Monday, fielders have already issued
double charts on the events in their eagerness for
business.” —Sydney daily.
Lots of markets are dull,
With a regular lull
Occasioned by trouble or strike;
You never can say
When there won’t be a day
With a shortage of coal or tl.; like.
They may cut off vour light
Almost any old night,
And a harrowing prospect it is,
But the odds for a prad
Can always be had
While the bookies are eager for biz.
They never resort
Aggrieved to the Court
That holds the industrial scale;
No 1i.c.1. rows
Or stop-work pow-wows
The calm of their calling assail.
Who hasn’t the trial
Of some self-denial,
A lot super-lucky is his;
But none need go short
Of odds —of a sort —
While the bookies are eager for biz.
Other trades, other ways;
But their voices they’ll raise,
1 reckon, and custom entice
Till the sand of the old
Sahara is cold,
And Hay is encrusted with ice. .
Will their satchels be downed
When Gabriel shall sound
His trumpet and Thronewards we whiz?
Nay, if you’ve a mind
for a bet on the blind
As to whether to lleav’n or Hell you're assigned,
I’ve a notion that right to the death-knock you’ll
find
The bookies still eager for biz.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT TASMANIA.
Mathi.momal Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALFRED ALBERT BURROWS late of Tasmania
last heard of in Victoria.
WHEREAS a citation has issued out of this
Court citing- you to appear and answer the Petition
of Gwendoline Edith Burrows for dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion TAKE
NOTICE that unless within thirty-five days from the
Twenty-seventh day of May One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-six you cause an appearance to
he entered in the Registry of the said Court at
Hobart to answer the said Petition the Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved and pro-
nounce sentence your absence notwithstanding.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Acting Registrar of the Supreme Court.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W.
Winter Garden. Palm Court.
Louis Seize Drawing-room.
Lounge. Dining Saloons.
Billiards and Dancing.
Central Heating. Gas Fires.
Single Rooms from 4-J guineas.
Double from 8 guineas.
New Extension now ready.
Telephone, Park 27G5.
Also
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, LONDON, W.
Thoroughly up to date. Newly decorated.
Extension now ready. Double 5 } guineas;
Single 3 guineas.
Telephone, Paddington 1800.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
<ll
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cttd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
II you «e troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
lt> and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . ~7T . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
1
tie To®
Oats
<4 Plates for 3
Magnificent Nourishment
in delicious form
Sold Everywhere
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE fit CO.. LTD, SYDNfcr
tone
3
GIVES EVE®
NOTE ITS
TRUE VALUE 1
ESIGNED to give pate and strong amplification
fn y jl in all L.F. stages. Produces abundant volume
_]/ free from distortion and will operate all loud
speakers.
■M- ULL A R D Double Green Ring VALVES
Type D. 3 for 2 volt accumulator J 7 C Type D. 06 for 2or 3 dry cells IT/£
EACH **» U. or 4-volt accumulator EACH
NOTEt MULLARD D. 3 DOUBLE GREEN RING VALVE IS A 2-VOLT
POWER AMPLIFIER.
GET ONE FROM YOUR RADIO DEALER
Milliard
THE * MASTER. * VALVE
ARKS E 2,
MULLARD VALVES CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL
RADIO AND ELECTRICAL DEALERS.
Advertisement of the Milliard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., Balham. London, S. lf. 12, England.
FALKINER CANE HARVESTER
Machines will be worked in Queensland sugar plantations during the coming Season.
m
$
C M«
I
'g&l
wm.
.mLZ
The above photograph was taken in B undab erg, Q., where the Harvester was demonstrated last season.
The Australian Sugar Producers' Association, whose delegates witnessed demonstrations, together with
nearly all the leading Millers and Cane-growers in Queensland, have taken shares in The Queensland Cane
Harvesting Corporation, Ltd., Parbury House, Brisbane.
THE INKY WAY.
The world's long-distance record in the
service of a newspaper is claimed for Charles
Melton, who has spent 08 years helping
the Brisbane Cockier to get to press at the
appointed time. He was 14 when the office
first saw him.
“Senojo” : The coming Test matches have
brought Australian newspaper proprietors
to a realisation that the old method of a
duplicated, often triplicated, cable service is
costly and stupid. This occasion will see
almost every Australian newspaper subscrib-
ing to the one service, except for special
articles. It means making eight copies in
the Melbourne and 14 in the Sydney office
of the cable cos.
Fred Johns, Australia's “Who's Who"
authority, has long leave from his Hansard
duties in South Aus., and spent the first
month of it at the Hepburn Springs (Vic.)
Sanatorium, lie lately gave up the editor-
ship of S.A. Freemason, and a kindred
paper, the Vie. Craftsman, farewells him
with this generous tribute: “No one has done
so much to lift Australian Masonic journal-
ism as R.W. Bro. Johns; we arc prepared
to admit that he is the greatest of all Masonic
editors in the Southern Hemisphere.”
The job of Parliamentary Librarian in
Maoriland has always been regarded as a
haven for journalists—the only sort of
literary people the small Dominion is afflicted
with. Charlie Wilson is to be replaced by
Guy Scholefield, who has more letters after
his name than any other Inky Wayfarer in
the Shivery Islands. After being the white-
haired boy of Victoria College (Wellington),
where he shook a hockey-stick valiantly and
accumulated' all the prizes, he became a
junior reporter on the Bruce Herald, and
played forward in the local Rugby pack.
After three i years the N.Z. Times claimed
him, and after a year or so on the Christ-
church Press he went back to the Times as
chief-of-staff. Eighteen years ago the Press
Association pent him to London as its rep-
aint he stayed there for 11 years, finding time
to attend London Uni., where he got his
science degrees, and to write books about
Maoriland and the Empire and all that sort
of thing. He corresponded in the Big Scrap,
and wrote up Edward P.’s tour, and since
1919, when he returned, has been the main-
spring of; the Wairarapa Age. But the most
useful thing he ever did was to compile the
Maoriland “Who’s Who.”
Dear Bulletin, — I’m glad to know that the
Melbourne laureate who had sets of stand-
ardised “poems” adaptable to any occasion
(B. 4/3/’26) is still in the land. He is
James Purtell, and when I last heard from
him was in tlje Old Colonists’ Homes at
North Fitzroy. ‘ A staunch battler against
adversity, he formerly supported himself
solely by the sale of his topical ballads. In
the course of a Red Page controversy with
Monty Grover he entered into a spirited
defence of poetry as a means of livelihood.
Ill's masterpieces were “Farewell, Poor
Tommy Corrigan” (which ought to have de-
veloped into a folk-song, like “The Wild
Colonial Boy”) and “The Boot-Box
Tragedy.” Old-time Melbourne roundsmen
will recall the latter. It centred in the
murder, by Alexander Travice Todd, of a
young woman whom he had loved too well,
lie placed her remains in a boot-box. which
lie pushed into the Yarra. After describing
Todd as “Toddy” in order to rhyme him with
“body.” Purtell rose to this great height:
Just think of that man, and his awful position:
Just Chink of that girl, in a certain condition!
There was a great sale for the “effusion”
(the description which the poet invariably
applied to his works) at a penny a copy. In
later years Purtell confined himself to metri
cal obituaries and rhymed acrostics embody-
ing japs for races. His good friend the late
Byron Moore (Heaven rest his soul, though
he once did his unsuccessful best to prevent
me interviewing the winning jockey of the
Melbourne Cup!) used to buy copies for a
guinea apiece, though the market price was
only sixpence. These things were printed in
gold in a sort of edition de luxe on cream
cardboard;—Yours, Guy Innes.
ON READING "THE PUKPLfc PYJ.VSJA,"
BY MICHAEL ARMENIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The British verbs are out on strike;
And through the maddened prose
The nouns and adjectives alike
Jazz on in fretful rows.
The pronouns, with hysterics shriek
And lonely adverbs stand
In paragraphic islands bleak,
Three dots on either hand.
The lady with the “husky” voice
VVho> wears the “brittle” laugh,
Although insane from settled choice,
Cuts madness’ self in half.
The foolish thing she tries to say
In each soul-stirring stunt
A semi-colon breaks away—
She closes with a grunt.
Dear lady of the faded past,
Long posing on the stair,
The fifty pages round you cast
Have thrilled me with despair.
I shake with tremors of defeat,
1 plunge from doubt to doubt ;
But, with the tale of words complete,
What is it all about ?
They say it is the greatest book
That has appeared this year;
Its twentieth edition shook
The Northern Hemisphere.
But, in humility grown meek
Before such gusts of praise,
What language do the English speak?
1 ask in sore amaze.
I saddened when Corelli wrote,
1 wrestled with Hall Caine;
When Meredith at syntax smote
I understood with pain.
Though Browning beat me now and then
With hoards of wordy pelf,
1 think 1 understood him when
He understood himself.
But times are changed. The wild words run
To clicks and groans and stops;
And not a hint of what is done
The brilliant author drops.
If such gay works can give delight,
Before the fashion stale
They ought to get a dog to write
A novel with his tail.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


■
I
The Best
Known Motor
Truck in
the World
I , N
-I I T\
11
on
t
w
w.
TO
»
imnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
A
Republic Trucks waste no time. They start earning
from the moment they are placed in service until
the end of their remarkably long lives. Remem-
bering that Republic has more trucks in action
to-day than any other exclusive
truck manufacturer in the world,
that over 70,000 owners have
proved the supremacy of Repub-
lic, you cannot question the real
economy of this famous range.
JZ
BST
1
V
-vi
rapid haulage service
'find uninterrupted j||
economical
performance
‘ REPUBLIC’ ’ AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lavke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-123 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
George Mason & Rasch, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd..
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Taranaki and Cable Streets
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W.
A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney,


The Man on the Land’s Own Company.
The p & c. is controlled by the Man on the
Land, and operated in his interests.
The P. & C. is -linked with the most important
co-operative bodies in each State; a fact that testifies
to the confidence felt by them for the Company.
The P. & C. offers to Farmers and Graziers the
obvious benefits of dealing wiJi their own
comoanv.
The Producers &. Citizens’
of Australia, Limited,
Governing Director: A. K. TRET HOW A )V.
a
Co-operative Assurance Co.
Head Office: 114-120 Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
Branches: Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart.
General Secretary: H. FELL.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “Daddy Longlegs”
Royal “The Seventh Heaven”
Palace “White Cargo”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Mikado”
Royal • “The Bad Man”
Princess “Mercenary Mary”
Athenaeum “The Best People”
Tivou Vaudeville
Ruou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
With an impression that the act had been
unusually short, this Sydney showman looked
at his watch when the curtain tell for the
second interval of “Seventh Heaven” at the
Royal on Saturday. As it was nearly 10,
thfe impression was wrong; but that the
play had created it is a first-class testi-
monial. “Seventh Heaven” lacks literary
quality, but it holds a clean, skilfully-wrought
story, refreshingly changed from the usual
routine by characters who climb upward vo
regeneration. The opening scene is a Paris
slum, with two garbage-tins amongst the
stage-settings, which are peopled by sewer-
rats and other nefarious characters; and the
outlook is made more unpromising when the
first manifestation of Diane (Remy Carpen)
is a scream, and her entrance is as under-
dog in a throttling act. The domestic dis-
turbance helps to make it plain that Diane,
not being inclined to the profession which in
Paris apparently is disguised by the title of
“seamstress,” is driven to it by a sister with
whom she has run away from the harsh home
of their foster parents. Chico, young, crude,
swaggering, who never kuew a father, is a
despised sewer-worker, and declares himself
an atheist because the bon Dieu, having been
given three chances, has failed to answer his
prayers; but he saves Diane from suicide, and
subsequently, having had one of his prayers
miraculously answered-—securing promotion,
in fact, to the proud ranks of the street
cleaners—saves her again from the police.
In the course of a morality campaign they
are about to arrest Diane, with her sister,
when Chico declares that she is his wife. It
then occurs to him that they may call at his
lodging, and when they find out the truth he
AT MELBOURNE ATHENEUM.
Robert Adams, as Henry, the chauffeur
guy, spills the dope to Helen Audiffred
that “The Best People" are the worst.
will lose his job. Installed in his crazy attic
to guard against such complications, the waif
Avho has hitherto known nothing but unkind-
ness finds her seventh heaven; but the war
comes just as he is about to marry her, and
Chico, called up with the first drafts, merely
has time to make a marriage pact with her
over some religious medals. From that
time onward Diane, clinging to her faith
that Chico will return, holds to his old lodg-
ings though offers of luxury come her way.
There is a liappv ending; but the author has
wisely avoided the temptation to give it un-
reality by making Chico an ultra-heroic war
figure.
* * * *
Remy Carpen, giving a first impression
of lack of force necessary for strong drama-
tic work, soon dispels it in the opportunities
the second and third acts give her. She
reached a great height of intensity in the
third act; and Frank Harvey shared a tri-
umph that deluded the house with applause
bv his representation of the difficult charac-
ter of Chico, the youth who, dragged up as
a street arab, has fine impulses, and is
convinced that he is “a remarkable fellow.”
A flaw here would have spoiled the reason-
ableness of the whole rdav. Next honors
fall to George Blunt, who, usually a charac-
ter man of rather monotonous methods, gets
beyond them as Boul, the good-natured,
thieving taxi-driver who becomes an honest
corporal in the army transport service. John
Bedouin was unconvincing as Pere Clievillion
in the first act, but was better afterwards;
and the work of the rest of the company was
almost without exception sound.
The organ-like sonority of the Don Cos-
sacks was switched on to their third pro-
gramme at the Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night; and the enthusiasm of the audi-
ence rose on a crescendo to the magnificently
varied song-group which concluded the even-
ing. In the religious group Rachmaninoff’s
“We Sing to Thee,” with its bold, dignified
phrases, gained most appreciation. “The
Joke,” Napravnik’s collection of Russian folk-
songs—which gave a fine opportunity to the
tenors—and “Down the Dear Mother
Volga” (Panin) were amongst the offerings:
and the quaintly remarkable “Cossack Song,”
into which are woven animal noises and
weird whistlings, was a novelty that roused
enthusiasm. Naturally “The Song of the
Volga Boatman” was again amongst the
encores. A new programme is being offered
for the rest of the week.
& sis % sjc
It is so many years since Kathleen Mac-
donnell and Charles Waldron produced
"Daddy Longlegs” that the play is quite
new to Sydney theatregoers of to-day.
But Renee Kelly has handled the Cinderella
part of Judy in 2000 performances elsewhere ;
and the reason for the public’s appreciation
was shown when the play, as improbable as
a fairytale, but delightful, was revived at
the Criterion on Saturday. The actress made
believable the waif who was kept at the
charity home on the pretence of a philan-
thropic interest in her education, but really
because of her use as a drudge; and the
bright, impulsive, outspoken girl lives on
in the Judy who is sent by her shadowy
benefactor, Daddy Longlegs, to college, and
makes her way in the world. The repose
and dignity with which Hylton Allen as
Jervis Pendleton, the crusted bachelor who
learns to love the ward to whom he has acted
as unknown benefactor, gave first-rate assist-
ance. Elsewhere there was a good deal of
stiffness in the action. Antony Holies, how-
ever, whose shy smile is a wonderful asset
m light comedy, was excellent as James Mc-
Bride ; the Mrs. Sample of Beaumont Col-
lins was lovable as well as laughable ; Nellie
Mortyne was a credible Mrs. Lippett, the
tyrant of the charity home; and the quite
small part of the Pendleton butler, Walters,
was made outstanding by Jackson Wilcox,
This revival is. to be only a short one; the
Boucicault co. is imminent at the Cri.
* * ’ * *
An old Bulletin hand who saw his share
of the war in New Guinea, and returned
with malaria, asserts that a visit to “White
Cargo” at the Sydney Palace brought back
the malady—a clear case of auto-suggestion.
Atmosphere that can do that must be right.
* sj: * Si;
“No, No, Nanette,” is making a birthday
celebration of its 75th performance at St.
James’s, Sydney, to-morrow (Friday) night.
The last bloom of "Lilac Time” faded
from Her Majesty’s last night (Wed-
nesday). Sydney playgoers will be given an
introduction to “Rose Marie” on Saturday.
❖ * :!:
Nellie Bramley and “Paddy, the Next Best
Thing,” will be at the Grand Opera House
(Sydney) until Friday week. Then, on the
Saturday, Nellie Stewart will begin a one-
week’s reappearance in “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury.”
* * * *
The Americans stew their tripe in sump-
tuous casseroles, and in some respects “The
Wanderer,” introduced at the Prince Edward
(Sydney) on Friday, excels in magnificence
of detail even “The Ten Commandments.”
Multitudes of people and animals are em-
ployed, and the effect of the destruction of
a city, with its massive buildings crashing
down on the terrified inhabitants, shows
amazing ingenuity. But all this pomp of
circumstance surrounds a painfully Ameri-
canised version of the Prodigal Son, the
hand that did the writing on the wall (fre-
quently mentioned by politicians), the pro-
phet Jeremiah and the destruction of Sodom
(or it may be Gomorrah). Every time the
sorrowful mother appears on the screen the
orchestra dutifully bursts into “Abide with
Me” or (more reasonably) “Where Is My
M anderiug Boy To-night?” It gives an
irresistible reminder of the musician who,
hired to play appropriate music for a Scrip-
tural diorama, greeted a view of Christ
walking on the water with “A Life on the
Ocean Wave.” Towards the end the produc-
tion seems to have quite made up its mind
that it has a Great Religious Purpose, and
the audience, with familiar hymn-tunes in
its ears, goes away with a feeling that it is
Sunday evening. In spite of the debauched
story, however,' the picture demands atten-
tion for its photography and effects.
* >"fi * *
Frank Hurley’s picture, “The Jungle
Woman,” makes up weight for a rather obvi-
ous story by the photography and the back-
ground of Papuan scenes and scenery. It is
vastly superior to most imported films; and
Grace Savieri, the one white woman in the
cast, has a good screen face. Hurley him-
self is making an appearance and a few
remarks at the Lyceum. Tom Mix mixes
it at Hoyt’s in “My Own Pal,” with Pola
Negri giving assistance to the programme in
“Flower of the Night.”
PAVLOVA AT SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
Laurent Novikoff, Pavlova’s dancing partner ,
and Anna Pavlova in the Beethoven-
Kreisler Rondino.
At Fullers’ all well is;
With tune and teclinioue
The Four Little Kellys
Approval bespeak;
And the rep. of Jim Gerald,
Mirth’s whimsical herald,
Is nowise imperilled
In “Bubble and Squeak.”
Sydney Tivoli bill-of-fare this week is at
least full of variety. Coram, the ventriloquist,
taps an old vein of pleasant humor effec-
tively, and George Gee’s robust tunefulness
scores high marks, Jackie the seal’s store
of acumen shows no signs of petering out,
the woodchopping turn remains a genuine
draw, a special word of praise is due to Van
Dock’s lightning efforts in whimsical car-
toonry, and there are others.
A Queensland water-colorist: —
Roy Parkinson, an artist young enough to date his
first exhibition, held in Brisbane, no further back
than 1924, has not yet made up his mind about his
methods; and in the 33 water-colors he is showing
at the Sydney Art Salon, Fuller’s Buildings, there is
an inclination to veer to the methods first of one
artist and then of another—sometimes Heysen,
sometimes Hilder. Yet there is very strong promise,
especially in his grasp of distance. In “Moreton
Bay Passages,” “Wide Spaces” and others his work
is attractive, although a tendency to make a mere
smudge represent foliage should be checked.
* * * *
Light comedy, with or without music, con-
tinues to be the only fare served or promised
in Melbourne. Frank Neil’s fun-doctors will
retore “The Nervous Wreck” at the Palace
for the last time on Friday; on Saturday
“Are You a Mason?” will be the proposition.
At the Royal “The Bad Man” is in
his last throes: on Friday week he will
“Leave it to Jane,” who is Margery Hicklin,
a new importation of the Firm and reputed
to be legsome, songful and humorous to a
degree hitherto unknown in this barbarous
land. The scene will be changed from Land’s
End to Yoko-blailky-hama, or thereabouts, at
His Majesty’s on Saturday, when “The
Mikado” will be heard in his own defence.
“Mercenary Mary” has announced her last
weeks at the Princess, and those who haven’t
gone are being told by those who have that
they will regret it.
❖ * * *
“The Best People,” at the Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne, get better. Sundry crudities have
vanished from the text, and although the
language barked or spoken is still American,
it is more intelligible and large audiences like
it. On the modern unemotional, realistic
plane, the mumming is excellent.
❖ * *
On Saturday a packed house at the Audi-
torium. Melbourne, listened breathlessly to
Dal Monte, mainly in selections by that
popular last-night composer, Special Request,
and although there were slight indications
of a cold, the little diva climbed with her
customary ease and agility to top C in
“Clavelitos,” that clattering torrent of Span-
ish trisyllables by Valverde, merely to speak
which is a linguistic feat. Numerous Eng-
lish items followed. Toti puts a baby to
bed in English with the same earnestness
and fervor as she employs to flee in Italian
from a disappointed lover with murder in
liis aspect. “You like it? Then I like it,”
is her smiling attitude to her audiences’
demands for more ditties in t'heir own tongue.
AugustO Beuf also manfully overcame a cold.
e different only in kind, was that
ot William James at the piano.
Melbourne Tivoli'caught "Lee White and
Clay femith back to its discriminating bosom
with something akin to rapture on Monday.
Mo (Roy Rene) appeared with a new Stiffv
m the shape of Fred Bluett, and the partner-
ship was found to be acceptable. Betty
Blackburn, thinly disguised as a geisha, sings
as no geisha ever sang or will until Nature,
which is stated to have added one inch and
a quarter to the stature of the species of
late years, also effects alteration in the race’s
thorax. _ One of the Rigolettos threads
needles inside his stomach more easily than
this critic can perform the feat in the outer
air; and the Swanson sisters provide an
entertainment which is so like the Dollie
and Billie turn recently seen in this theatre
that you could swear the two were twins.
Albert Brock and his curious partner are
providing a trick-cycling act with refreshing
features at Melbourne Bijou, where there
has been a close season for original talent
for some time past. Heaton and Strange.
Australian champions, continue to demon-
strate the dread potentialities of the Charles-
ton. The Moon and Morris Revue co. com-
pletes the bill, but the dog of the evening’s
entertainment isn’t wagged by the tail.
❖ *
Melbourne Majestic’s excitements this
week include “The Sporting Chance,” a
racing meller, in which Lou Tellegen dons
the unaccustomed clothes, starts and twitches
of a gentlemanly villain ; and “Memory
Lane,” with Eleanor Boardman and Conrad
Nagel acceptably in the foreground. Hoyt’s
chief confection is “The American Venus.”
who is no relation to the dowdy female with
the insufficiency of arms at the Paris Louvre.
She is Fay Lanphier, who at the Atlantic
City beauty pageant of last year won the
proud title of Miss America. “A Regular
Fellow” is the amusing support.
Sydney comes to Melbourne:—
Whatever the day is like outside, the weather in
the New Gallery will remain set fair until .James
R. Jackson removes his 36 reports on last year’s
summer in N. S. Wales. The young painter’s third
show registers advance. He has a shrewd eye for
the picturesque and the ability to add the touch of
careful observation which prevents the transcript
from being merely pretty. He takes pleasure in
draughts of strong color, and a selector could take
up a holding with no other guide than the sound
topography of his inland studies. No. 27, a grey land-
scape at Taraila, is like- a pleasant chord struck on
a soft-toned piano. Ho paints that bedizened charmer,
Sydney Harbor, well; but his human nudes arc no!
so pleasing. The girl rising out of the water in
No. 17 has a sleek and boneless look, like a seal:
and the one in No. 30, although a solid enough lady,
seems to be floating. The couple absorbing the
sunshine in No. 34 are better.
“THE BAD MAN,”
AT MELBOURNE
THEATRE ROYAL
The hero (Eric Maxon) scorning the advances
of the innocent daughter of a loan-shark
(Cecil Haines).
Memories of Nance O’Neil were recalled
by tlie Adelaide Repertory’s two perform-
ances of Sudermanu’s “Magda.”; and, as it
chanced, Catherine Neill was now the prodi-
gal daughter, in a version locally (and skil-
fully) translated by Meta Buring. She gave
the difficult part a rendering that was always
sound and sometimes inspired. James Ander-
son’s dapper little old gentleman, however,
though good acting, was probably not the
author’s idea of the failing autocrat. Basil
Harford (steadily improving) was Magda’s
partner in sin, and Ethelwyn Robin neatly
touched in the few moments of humor in
the gloomy story. Also there is promise for
the future in two youthful recruits, Olive
March and Don Downey. Wilfrid Neill was
producer.
(Continued on page 36.)


Absolutely
Wonderful
Value —
m
VA
%
V.
&
9161
UIOXJ
Heavy Country Overcoats
at GOWINGS’
Reduced to clear because they arrived 2 months late.
Only once in a while are you given such an opportunity as this to get a real bargain m
Overcoats like these. They are big, thick styles, specially made for country wear, for
travelling or for the man who must be out of doors in extreme cold. They are extra
long and the linings are of leather, thick, soft fleece, Tweed or Italian cloth. The values
are remarkable, but you really must see the coats to realise their worth, why not
send for the style that interests you most? You will be under no obligation, as we
pay the carriage and will refund your money if you are not entirely satisfied.
Single-breasted Raglan style in plain Dark Grey and with vertical pockets and
full belt. This coat is lined and is extra long. Usually 84/-. Now reduced to
vjq. Is*
# 17/U
Tweed Lined
Double-breasted Dark Grey, heavyweight Fleece
Overcoat with Tweed lining throughout. Another big
style, well tailored and exceptionally
warm. Usual Price, 105/-
Reduced to
97/6
Italian Lined
Double-breasted, similar style to above,
from Navy heavyweight Tweed, lined
but made
throughout
with Italian Cloth. Extra long and
good fitting. Usual Price, 105/-
Reduced to
97/6
Fleece Wool Lined
Double-breasted heavyweight Overcoat in Dark Grey
All-Wool Coating. The lining in this coat is Fawn
Fleece Wool —an extra soft warm
material. Usual Price, 147/-
Reduced to
1261-
Leather Lined
Double-breasted Dark Grey Heavy Coating Overcoats.
Lined throughout, including sleeves with soft leather.
This is a coat that will give endless
service. Usually 147/-
Reduced to
126 1-
Send for one on approval. We Pay Carriage and refund your money if dissatisfied.
GOWING BROS., LTD.,
486 George Street, Sydney—Branches at 304 and 454 George Street


§
fe
Sy's
b x
/
o
w
J-
OK
/
'J’HERE are no better lamps for your car than CONDOR
AUTOMOBILE LAMPS. They throw a powerful, brilliant
light they are designed to resist vibration and jolts and are
economical in first cost and maintenance.
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD,
143-5 York Street
16 Chesser Street
Sydney
Adelaide
49.3 Collins Street • Melbourne
Exton House, Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willia Street
Wellington, N.Z.
“The Farmer’s Wife,” at Adelaide Royal,
reveals itself as aimed mainly at a feminine
address. The savage gibes at women, with
the ultimate discomfiture of the male, and
the elaborate tea-party preparations get full-
est recognition from the sex that mainly
crowds matinees. Good acting in it is too
common to particularise, but Susan Rich-
mond deserves a special word for her elderly
spinster, almost painfully lifelike, with allow-
able touches of caricature. A quaint double
is at West’s, Eileen Castles aud Rin-tin-tin
—both effective and popular. Syd Chaplin is
funny in and out of feminine costume in
“The Man on the Box” at Wondergraph ;
and the York scores well with Buster Keaton,
Barthelmess and Dorothy Gish.
* * * Jk
From an Adelaide critic:—
Norman Lloyd’s paintings, sent from Sydney for
a show at the Dunster Gallery, hold promise ; but
he has a lot to learn yet. There is something
weird about the way in which he can make the
gracious Harbor shores look like the blasted slopes
of a volcano; and some of his buildings, solid cubes
with cutting edges and gaudy coloring, give the
sensitive a shock. Still, power is there; and, if he
is of the stuff to respond to the severe handling
he will get in Europe, he may come back an
artist really worth while. On the other hand, he
may go still further in the direction of the extremists
who clearly have influenced him even at this distance.
Gwen Barringer has a pleasant water-color show
at the Society of Arts. Her work is sound if
lacking in distinction. The Art Gallery has taken
one study of chrysanthemums.
* sk * *
A Melbourne man at a mere kid’s show
I spent 20 years of my life in the painful acquisi-
tion of electrical science, but a visit to the wireless
exhibition at Wirths’ Melbourne Olympia on Satur-
day convinced me that 1 had left off where the
modern small boy has begun. The first thing that
confronted me was a display of marvels by amateur
experimenters, mostly of tender age. One was an
Aladdin’s lamp capable of summoning the expen-
sive Dal Monte from the stage at the Auditorium
to a humble home in Footseray or a log cabin in
the Dandenongs; it was housed in half an egg-shell.
Another was a ballet-dancer, fashioned from two
gum-nuts, who held a cat’s whisker in one hand
and a crystal in the other, and whose skirts were
tbe primary and secondary of a set capable of trans-
lating invisible pulsations of the ether into a
sneeze emitted by a broadcasting gentleman sitting-
in a draught ten miles away. Next I was lost in
admiration of an exquisite piece of furniture which
was giving forth the information that bran bags
were in very fair request. “A Tickophone eight-valve
super-sonic heterodyne,” volunteered the infant in
arms with whom I was accompanied; “personally,
I prefer the new Qualaeidyne.” I didn’t ask him
why, but volunteered a comment, which, when volts
were volts and amps were amps, would have passed
muster in any electrical laboratory. “But Grid
Bias should always be used on Amplifiers,” remarked
the infant terror, with pitying scorn, and went
on to talk of the relative importance of Bremer-
Tully Silent Sockets, Quam Condensers and Kurss
Kasch knobs and dials. Recognising that his once
omniscient parent was for the nonce Alice in
Wonderland, the tactful child took ine by the hand
and introduced me to other miracles. He showed
me the difference between a set that is merely a
plaything for women and old men and a set that
will talk on equal terms with New York, London
and Madrid. He showed me the difference between
mere costly showiness suitable for fooling million-
aires and sound workmanship which is within the
reach of a boy with subtle fingers and a small
supply of pocket money. He took pride in the
achievement of Amalgamated Wireless, which is
making many sorts of valves in Australia and will
soon be building the big high-power ones that are
revolutionising wireless elsewhere; and while the
attendants, ignoring me, talked to him earnestly
about amplification factors and super sets, he made
some purchases with all the expert discrimination
I show in selecting a new pipe.
* * * *
Sweated paint:—
The oil-colors employed by Miss Jo Sweatman, who
has a show at the Decoration Galleries (Melb.), work-
under no award and most of her pictures illustrate
the consequences of long hours in heaviness and
fatigue. Her skin surfaces have the texture of stamped
leather rather than human flesh, and there is the
character of paint and not of Nature in her foliage.
Nice sunlight lies on “The Road to the Village,”
but the thoroughfare isn’t one for neglected Fords.
No. 1, “A Girl of the Period,” is a high-priced
portrait of a damsel with the arm reach of a cham-
pion pugilist. The artist is friendlier to still-lifes,
and some of these are fine passages of airy realism.
In No. 2, “The Inglenook,” she has put her solidity
of manner to best use. The fireplace, the heavy
terra-cotta timbering of the room and the vague, yet
vivid, figure of the woman in the shadow are splen-
didly conveyed.
“H.K.”: The last-minute ban placed by
the Parkes Government on the Kelly Gang
drama at the old Victoria Theatre, Sydney,
recalls that the first publicly-presented dra-
matisation of the family story was written
by E. C. Martin, then of the Age staff, 46
years ago. Staged at the Princess in Mel-
bourne under the title of “Ostracised,” it
was an instantaneous success.
Poverty
Point
Sydney is suffering from a flood of vaude-
ville. Besides the two old-established houses
and several in. the suburbs, the Arcadia is
going in Pitt-street and the Gaiety in Oxford-
street ; and the Fullers are going to make
their vaudeville gun double-barelled by open-
ing the Hippodrome. Irving’s Midgets will
set the ball rolling some time in June.
“AN ACCESSORY AFTER THE ACT.”
“Caul-boy”: J. C. Williamson, Ltd., has
thrown a writ at Hugh J. Ward, alleging
misuse of the Firm’s copyright in the comedy
or farce known as “His Lady Friends.” The
charge is that “No, No, Nanette,” at present
running in Sydney, is in substance a musical
version of the Williamson play. It was com-
mon talk that the Firm had the missile
poised when Hugh started on his first suc-
cessful season with Miss Nanette in Mel-
bourne last year, and the news that hostili-
ties have actually begun surprised few,
though it will interest a multitude. Among
the latter is Joe Coyne, who toured Aus-
tralia in “His Lady Friends” five years ago.
“Minim”: Where freezing Melburnians
used to listen to Melba and other concert
celebrities is now only a hole. The sprout-
ing of the new Town Hall will commence
when two cranes, one of them the largest of
its kind in Australia, are in position. From
then until the finish of the job these two
giants will keep their places, like a pair of
intelligent Martians, lifting stone, pouring
concrete and placing the steel girders in their
places. The jib of the larger is 90ft. long
and 140 ft. in height, and it can lift a small
matter of seven tons.
“Ancient Prompter”: Rupert Julian may
have been regarded as a bad actor in his
young days on the Australian stage (B.
13/5/’26), but he proved himself an acro-
bat of no mean, order. In “The Breed of
the Treshams” Rupert, as a bold and disso-
lute soldier, was molesting the beauteous
heroine in the gallery of an old mansion, at
the same time attempting to drag her down
a long flight of steps. In the midst, of the
mel&e the hero (Julius Knight), who had
been lying on the stage apparently drugged
or dead, revived sufficiently to fire a blunder-
buss just as the would-be abductor reached
the top of the staircase. Julian’s agonising
death-shriek and sensational back-fall from
the top to the bottom of the stairs drew
the biggest applause of the night. One of
the supers remarked to me, “Blime, I
wouldn’t take on the part for 50 quid a
night” ; and I agreed with him.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The Oddfellows’ Hall
in Lorne-street, Auckland, has crumbled
under the breaker’s hammer; a new theatre
is to be erected where the old building, which
saw the “last, loneliest, loveliest’s” first
theatrical ventures, has stood for 74 years.
Auckland was founded in 1840, but it did not
reach the dignity of a borough until Sep-
tember, 1851, when the population had
grown to about 8000. The Oddfellow's’ Hall
was opened the following year.
“J.B.1I.”: The Theatrical Employees’
Union scored a bull’s-eye the other day when
it persuaded the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court to order that non-unionists as well as
unionists must get the wages and working
conditions prescribed in the award. One of
the stumbling-blocks in the union’s path has
been the employment of alleged "family”
labor at reduced rates, as well as the engage-
ment of non-members on cut contracts. The
imposition of the common rule will abolish
the chief reason for these dodges, and all
hands should be happy, except those who
found the evasions profitable.
“Hamfat” : The magical change of stage-
setting in Pavlova’s Dionysus ballet is
worked on a principle introduced by Adrian
Samoiloff in London. Australia saw it illus-
trated in “Primrose” in the
dance wherein courtiers in
seventeenth-century clothes
were suddenly made to look
like negroes by a change in
the lighting. The scenery for
the Dionysus setting is so
painted that, with one light
flashed upon it, a plain and
rocky cliffs and other fea-
tures are shown; another
light throws into view a
garden and a lake. It is
simply the exploitation of
different reactions of colors
under various lights ; but it
means a big thing in the
future of the stage. Per-
haps tiresome scene-changing
may disappear entirely. In
a production of “Hamlet” in
Vienna the stage was set
with a composite picture of
the various scenes. By turn-
ing the light on the particu-
lar scene required, while the
rest of the stage was in dark-
ness, the action of the play
proceeded without the neces-
sity for even a black-out.
“Adam Ant”: Chatting
with Bland Holt lately—the
veteran is still as straight as
a rush —I was reminded of
a Kelly-gang incident. When
Bland first produced “New
Baby 1 o n” at Melbourne
Royal in 1880, Australia was
being thrilled by the melo-
drama staged by Kelly and
his company. Ned was cap-
tured that year. “New
Babylon” was transferred to
the old wooden Princess’s, and the steeds
which the gang had used before the denoue-
ment at Glenrowan figured on the stage in
the horse-sale scene.
“T.P.” : At least two Melbourne Methodist
churches have cradled eminent singers. Mary
and Lena Conly were members of the Clifton
Hill Methody choir. Later on Evelyn Scot-
ney sang in the same suburban tabernacle. At
an earlier period Ted Beaumont warbled in
the Brunswick-street Wesleyan choir, a few
blocks away. His full name was Edward
Armes Beaumont. I have always regarded
him as the greatest of Australian tenors.
“Ibsenshaw”: Unlike Pinero, who insists
that his plays must be produced exactly as
he writes them, and w 7 ho has his scripts pri-
vately printed for use by his company, Barrie
is in the habit of altering and patching up
his pieces sometimes right up to the eve of
production. During rehearsals of “The
Admirable Crichton” Barrie felt there was a
weakness in the third act. Two days before
the production he went to Dion Boucicault
and said, “I have thought of something which
I think will give us what we want. I have
written a scene for Harry Irving and Irene
(Vanbrugh). Is it too late to put it in?”
The principals were consulted, and the new
scene was rushed into the piece 24 hours
only before its production. Boucicault’s
opinion is that “it made a success of the
play.” I have known J. C. Williamson have
sentences written in during a final dress-
rehearsal. When “Parsifal” was getting its
last training canter, nobody had a busier
afternoon than the reverend author.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Among certain high-
brows it has been the fashion to treat the
talents of Wagner’s son Siegfried w 7 ith
thinly-disguised scorn. But at various times be
has compelled even the dispensers of faint
praise to acknowledge his possession of at
least some exceptional gifts. With his latest
opera he has been still more successful, and
on its recent production at Karlsruhe the
first performance of “The Angel of Peace
met with a most enthusiastic reception from
the critics and the public, who accepted the
opera as a work of inspiration with scenes
of exceptional beauty. Ferdinand Wagner
was the conductor, and the scenery and cast
were worthy of a great occasion. The opera
story, a combination of romance and mysti-
cism, deals with a youth who killed himseli
for love of the heroine, Mita. The curtain
rises on a procession of nuns singing a lamen-
tation. Then the peasants arrange to dis-
inter the beloved’s body, his mother inter-
poses, and Mita throws herself on the grave
while the chorus sings a hymn of atonement
and redemption.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Joseph Hislop,
the Scottish tenor who is meeting with great
success wherever he appears, is to make a
new record by being the first British singer
to interpret a leading role at the Opera
Comique, Paris. Rodolplie, in “La Bolieine,”
is the vehicle for his debut, and the usual
roles of lyric tenors will follow.
“C. Oekney” : A. P. Herbert, the London
Punch writer who was over here for the
Press Conference, has made a start as play-
wright. A piece of which he and Nigel
Playfair are the authors has been staged at
the Lyric, Hammersmith. Entitled, not in-
aptly, “Riverside Nights,” it is a sort of
operatic trifle. Two of the principal singing
parts are allotted to Australia’s old acquaint-
ances Kathlyn Hilliard and George Baker.
“Hamfat”: The two last bushwhacking
companies I have farewelled —they are now
seeking' fortune or courting disaster in the
wilds of N. S. Wales and Queensland respec-
tively—went away without even an apology
for an orchestra. Music is to be supplied
by members of the co. who happen to be dis-
engaged when it is needed, or not supplied
at all. Mummers, as a rule, know very little
about the conduct of their business, and
this is one of the short-sighted economies
that help to wreck so many theatrical
ventures. An expert pianist is an essential;
if a violinist is added, so much the better —
for one thing, it helps to get the co. a repu-
tation for providing show r s above the touring
average, and that brings people to the most
expensive seats. In many country towns
“Expert musicians; dance after the per-
formance” is a lure which doubles or trebles
audiences; and the ivory-tickler and gut-
scraper who can be borrowed for private
sing-songs on Sundays and wet afternoons
win a travelling co. a popularity it has no
other means of earning.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : “Rose Marie,” the
musical comedy which is to make a million-
aire of Arthur Hammerstein, has given
Drury-lane a new record by making a run
of over a year at that house. Since its
foundation in 1663 no other play produced at
the old national theatre has ever approached
this. In the opinion of many “Rose Marie’s”
unusual success is attributable to the scheme
of advertising which the director, Alfred
Butt, entered on in his endeavor to justify
his policy as opposed to that of his fellow-
director, Basil Dean, who had just resigned
when the American play was staged. Enor-
mous sums vrnre spent on advertisements, and
for a time adequate return seemed unlikely,
but in the end Butt’s plunge was justified.
The dramatic version of “Rose Marie” was
successfully produced in Australia about a
decade ago under the name of “Tiger Rose,”
with a French-Canadian in the leading part.
“Curtain-Raiser”: Ibsen’s “Wild Duck,”
which is to be released from the Beresford
Fowler net for the first time in Melbourne
on Saturday, will initiate a new season of
the Little Art Co. “Hindle Wakes” was so
well done at the last session that it will be
repeated on June 17.
“Lud”: The Viennese taste in drama,
according to Australian ideas, runs mostly
to light opera, all froth and frivolity—and
not too respectable at that. But a referen-
dum of the 2000 subscribers to the Burg-
theater in Vienna reveals that Shakspeare is
first favorite with that play-going public.
Wherefore, during the coming season, “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “The Merchant
of Venice,” “Macbeth,” “Coriolanus” and
“The Taming of the Shrew” are to be staged.
Australia has no State theatre. Suppose
there were one in N. S. Wales, can anyone
imagine 2000 Sydney patrons voting for
the production of “Coriolanus” and “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” in preference to
“The Cocktail Kid” and “Mannequins and
Men”?
THE BUSS USEFUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The dialogue of ‘Eiki-Tiki’ falls to lower depths
of stupidity than have been previously reached in
musical comedy. When the finale was reached, says
the Daily News. Miss Moncrieff saved the situation
by impulsively kissing the producer on the lips.”
I seem to behold a solution
Of difficulties that abound
In many a stern institution,
Where equal stupidity’s found.
You loud, ineluctable Members!
No more need you nervously shake
When voters grow cold as dead embers;
This Thespian hint you may take.
Though the depth of your dulness
Is bared, and its fulness,
The censoring world will grow meeker;
Even folly supreme
You can always redeem
By suddenly kissing the Speaker.
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


You wouldn’t call 365 good shaves
for 5/6 extravagant, would you?
As a matter of fact it doesn’t usually cost even that when
you use a Valet Auto Strop.
Why? Because a Valet is a razor and stropping
machine combined in one. It gives its blade a perfect
edge for forty or fifty daily shaves, by the simplest
action in the world.
HOW? You just slip the edge of the strop through the
head of the Valet and move it to and fro for about ten
seconds. Result, a lancet-like edge to overcome the most
obstinate beard. Ask your dealer to show you the Valet s
simple action.
Prices to suit all pockets, 3/6, 7 6, 10/-, 21/-
BRITISH
MADE.
j
OF ALL
DEALERS.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ax:
Wm,
UJI «J
Here's the No. 55
Set at 10 - m~
This handsome new Set contains a Model “C” self-stropping
Razor. Strop and three Blades in nickelled blade-holder. Ihe
case
and
is highly-polished nickel, lined purple velvet
fitted with hinged strop-holder as above
10/-
m
mm
m
mm
PAVLOVAS
Incomparable
Verfect Dancer
PERFECT ART TREASURES
“A Symphony in
Silence.”
A wondrous picture
of loveliness.
Supreme in express-
ing emotions.
World renowned for
perfect art.
Subtle and delicate
shades of meaning
exquisitely re-
vealed.
Affords us complete
satisfaction.
A Symphony in
Sound.
A magnificent, noble
looking instru-
ment.
The best medium for
mu sic a 1 expres-
sion.
World famed for its
artistic effects and
mechanical per-
fection.
The most delicate
sounds and har-
monies effectively
produced.
Convinces us of its
undoubted merit.
tm
mm
Incomparable
Perfect Piano
d the admiratior* of the pufeli
BotH Have earne
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ĵ
'Quality Our Keynote
Since 1853.”
SOLE AGENTS.
CATALOGUES FREE.
206-210 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.


150,000 Shares, consisting of 100,000 Ordinary and 50,000 Preference Shares, have been underwritten.
Abridged Prospectus of Motor Parking Stations Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
CAPITAL - - - - £500,000, Divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
’ "° W bCing ° ff ' red PUbUC 3UbSCription ’ Payable 10/ - P« £75,000
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are now being offered for public subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per £l5O 000
20 000 rTrT ° n a lk tmCnt V Tl furth k er C m, ? for ,f mo , nths ’ balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than one month
? l rdmary Shar . e ? of t SJ each will be allotted to the Promoter or his Nominees. £2O 000
255,000 Shares, comprising 125,000 Preference Shares and 130,000 Ordinary Shares, are to be held in reserve, and any of the said £255 000
200700 “ Share8 ' bU * "" 0 Wi " the aggKBate nUmbCT ° f Prekren « Shares of Ac 55 ’°°°
500,000
PREFERENCE SHARES.
£500,000
The present capital is to be divided into 200,000 preference shares and 300,000 ordinary shares.
suf the ,v!nt - *■“««" - ■•«»*«- -« »,
but no more than sharesSLube*tsuedTef^onf ot the'§ff 0 SHr'tuf ofanf' rr* £ ivil< * eS aS the preference shares,
preference shares for the time being" issued unless the net assets value ner nreferenee if f; increase except with the consent of the holders of three-fourths of the
including such issue of additional preference shares and taking into account the cash to be in respect thereof® /moutof unnai,] oto b - e *’}*& £2 10s - P er Preference share,
** e,, “"“ ins net a,se “ tho A " dit ” “ d " fc ■>“““■ <*** «*«•. *-«■*. we,WA*Mr3 „ *,. lwt 6lpm „.
nr>l BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
ROLAND C. CLARK, Merchant, 244 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Chairman
niriii SENATOR W. MASSY GREENE, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney
R I GHARD WINDEYER, K. 0., Barrister, 182 Phillip Street, Sydney
B - p - ANDREAS, Investor, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
TATHAM ELMSLIE RR G.S., F.I.D. Company Director, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IRAN CIS LESLIE MARTIN, Company Director, 10 Bligh Street, Sydney
BANKERS;
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LTD.
ARCHITECTS *
rr w rPI MORROW & GORDON, 17 Martin Place, Sydney.
H. E. ROSS & ROWE, National Mutual Building,. George Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS;
SMITH, JOHNSON & CO., Martin Place, Sydney.
E. S. WOLFENDEN, A.I.A. (London), F.C.P.A., Metropolitan Building,' Hunter Street Sydney
SOLICITORS: ’ ' 7 *
SLY & RUSSELL, 369 George Street, Sydney.
nrTTT BROKERS :
PHILIP Queensland National Bank Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
KENNEDY, BOWLY & MANSON, Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
_ SECRETARIES;
H. B. ALLARD, WAY & HARDIE, Public Accountants, 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney
REGISTERED OFFICE:
SOUTH BRITISH BUILDINGS, 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
to acquire from R. C. Clark his consent to exercfse'the thf 5 aT ;lli ''' lil '‘ : 'Poht t sUir'aiklioar the area of the City of Sydney, and as a first step,
scheme prepared by h,m for the conversion of the existing building into a modern'fire-pS S£s
The following extracts are taken from a letter written on the 31st March 1926 bv • • m- •
The custom of ‘parking’ cars in the streets of Sydney, particularly in the’more busv and narrow fLif“uP" 1 ' M , lmst . er 111 charge of the Traffic Department:—
reasonable progress of the traffic movement to the danger of the public and Die inconvenience to business generally! ShfareS ’ h&S beCOme an absoll,te menace, and, to a very great extent, is holding up the
had any experience in traffic matters that. ‘standing^Tar^'wm^a^to^eTemOT^^TOi^ar’city^treets 8 and the” ?,. Trans P ort Conference recently convened by me. It is strongly held by all who have
stations will have to be established to remove the evil referred to. y ’ and tb e Traffic Authorities and myself are m complete agreement that a proper system of ‘parking
so serious that it is my intention, in the public’s iutere"t, J to f isTue a a I 1 the^ne^^'uturPprohfwtbi^he^Daiidnff’ 6 \° establisb Private motor ramps or parking stations. The position is becoming
, The only reason such a regulation has not already been issued is duetothe that I was honffni ibff Pn S , c f s more busy and important streets of the city,
ramps or parking stations ’ which would have permitted the regulation to have been issued with the least bffi LoPvenience ” lntereSted ln motor transport would have seriously attempted to establish
Action has foilowed swiftly since the above was written, and the regulations have now the parking of cars in certain areas and numerous prosecutions have resulted.
Thn nrnnoriv nvm< j.. j. _ i , . . I XlCiMloiliS,
The ,
the first to be
for a Parking Station.
be paid 12 months after date d of bl exercise U of Option f P purchase’ 8 eSCIX ‘ ised ; (b) £70 ’ 000 hy 14 annual instalments of £5OOO each,
Each car will have a numbered stand separated''from 1 Tts °iicighbor °by Dx incffil h rf U1 ’’ d8 ‘ V '’ ?l onth . t,v - Vfar ’ a ? d exclusive use of the space chosen will be guaranteed,
for turning and manoeuvring and more than sufficient for two cars to pass. " u inches high and nine inches wide; all aisles will be from 19 to 22 feet wide, which is ample space
Tho PROPOSED CAPITALISATION.
The total Capital outlay for the first Parking Station will be:—
Purchase Price of Property .. .. .. ; .
Alterations and Additions to Building, including Fire-fighting and Service Equipment
Expenditure necessary before the venture becomes revenue producing (e.g., brokerage,
legal expenses, registration costs, printing, advertising, rates, taxes, insurance fees,
salaries, sundry expenses an.l amount payable to the Promoter)
One year s Interest on Mortgage, £ 155,000, at 6 per cent, per annum .. ~
£lBO,OOO
142,325
33,607
9,300
which will be financed as under:—
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each .. .. . „ .. . £l5O 000
75,000 Preference Shares of £1 each .. .. .. ’ \\ 75*000
I irst Mortgage, at 6 per cent, per annum over Building . . .. ~ .. ’ ’ 155*,000
£380,000
Deposit on Property .. .. ~ .. .. .. £25 000
First year’s Instalment of Mortgage .. .. .. .. .. .. ’ ’ s*ooo
First year’s Interest (as above) .. .. .. .. .. .. ’’ 9*300
Alterations and Additions to Building, including Firefighting and Service Equipment 142*325
Expenditure before venture becomes revenue producing (as above) .. .. .. 33,607
to be financed by : m u M ’
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each .... .. .. .. .. ~ .. £150,000
75,000 Preference Shares of £1 each .. .. .. .. ~ ~ 75*000
£225,000
There will thus be a cash surplus of £9,768 available for working capital,
Bank accommodation which may tie obtained.
REVENUE.
The full parking space available is for 935 ears, and revenue has been estimated on a letting
of, roughly, 90 per cent, capacity. h
Parking revenue .. .. £44,500
Revenue from washing and cleaning cars, rent of lockers, collecting and delivering
cars, battery service, adjusting brakes, re-lining brakes, minor repairs and
service work
15,156
REVENUE ( Continued ).
Revenue from 14 shops, Young and Alfred Streets, roof garden and restaurant,
and from advertising .. .. .. .. . . . . r , . 11,582
Profit from sales of petrol, oil, gearbox compound and grease, batteries, tyres and
accessories .. ~ .. 5,495
£76,743
EXPENDITURE.
The estimated annual expenditure is as shown below:—
Salaries and Wages .. £15,050
Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees 1,350
Advertising, Telephone, Printing, Stationery, Stamps and Telegrams . .. .. 1,350
Municipal and Mater and Sewerage Rates (at present £1699) .. 2,840
Insurance, Lighting and Powtr .. .. .. 2,120
Repairs and Maintenance and Depreciation of Building and Plaut 4.300
Federal Land Tax .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ 1,210
Allowance for Contingencies ~ .. .. .. ~ . . .. ~ ~ 1,000
£29,220
SUMMARY OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE.
Total Estimated Annual Revenue .. .. .. .. .. .. •. .. £76,743
Total Estimated Annual Expenditure .... .. ~ ;. ■, ~ 29,220
£47,523
Interest on Mortgage (i.e., 6 per cent, of £150,000 for second year) 9,000
£38,523
State and Federal Income Taxes at current rates .. a .. .. .. .. 6,645
BALANCE AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION * ... .. £31,878
Dividends on Share Capital at varying rates are shown below:—
10 per cent, on Preference ( £75,(00) and 10 per cent. Ordinary ( £170,000) . . .. £24,500
10 per cent, on Preference (£75,000) and 121 per cent. Ordinary (£170,000) .. 28,750
10 per cent, on Preference ( £75,000) and 15 per cent. Ordinary ( £170,000) . . .. 33,000
Investment Trust Ltd., and at the office of the Compunv.
CAPIT'VI SECURITY
Particularly should it be noted that the increment in the value of the property will result in , ~, „ ~ ... ~ ,
i result m steady progression in the value of the Company s assets, affording added security to capital.
The Promoter, Roland Cuthbert Clark, has offered to give his consent to the evereiso « . ~ ,
Out of this sum of £27,025 the Promoter is to purchase for cash 20 000 fully-naid f 1 „u over . the property, provided £ -7,625 is paid to him m cash.
7,625 represents the total sun, of financial obligations incurred by the Pi’onXr in'^
expenses under Capital Outlay.
The following
Piomoter in procuring the option for the Company, and for other purposes beneficial to the Company, and is provided for in the
sources of revenue. 100,000
expenses of such underwriting. In
the right to underwrite not being
„ . only partially exercised.
CONTRACTS.
con racts, with the names of the parties thereto and the dates thereof, have been entered into:—
ordinary
additioi
exercised
(1) Option to Samuel McHutchison as Trustee for the Company from Goldsbrou°-h Mort & Co
Ltd., to purchase the within-mentioned property for £lBO,OOO on the tenns therein mentioned dated
20th May, 1926. nalea
(2) Agreement dated 20th May, 1926, between Samuel McHutchison, as such Trustee and
Roland Cuthbert Clark, agreeing thac such option shall not be exercised except with the Jypt„,
consent of Roland Cuthbert Clark. 1 n ne * mten
(3) Agreement between Roland Cuthbert Clark and Motor Parking Stations Limited tv.rms.llv
adopting the last-mentioned agreement, dated 21st May, 1926. ’ > m y
(4) Brokerage Agreement between Roland Cuthbert Clark and the Phoenix Investment Tr„*t
Limited dated 26th February, 1926. investment lrust
(5) Agreement dated 21st May, 1926, between Cuthbert Clark, Phoenix Investment Trust
Limited and Motor Parking Stations Limited, wherein the latter formally adopts the Brokers
Agreement with the Phoenix Investment Trust Limited. oroKerage
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PREFERENCE SHARES
To the Directors,
Motor Parking Stations, Limited,
C/o H. B. Allard, Way and- Hardie,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
I/We hereby make application for p f
Shares in the capital of Motor Parking Stations, Limited, in terms of the Company's DrocneptWTnd
authorise you to have my/our name placed on the Register of the Company for the number of sh«r«
mentioned (or any less number that may be allotted to me/us). 6 ° 5l c
Enclosed herewith please find cheque for £ . • .. .
money of 10/- per share, and I/we agree to pay a further 10/- per’ share upon aliotnm.u appUeat)on
I/We agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association“ofTheCompany and
declare that I/we am/are acquiring the shares m the above Company on my/our own behalf
and that I/we am/are not an aliens. J/ °' vn Den<u L
Dated this day of.
Name in full
(Mr., Mrs., Miss)
1926.
Occupation
Address ..
Signature .
(6) Underwriting Agreement between Roland Cuthbert Clark and Phoenix Investment Trust
Limited, dated 28th April, 1926.
(7) Agreement between Roland Cuthbert Clark and Phoenix Investment Trust Limited, dated
12th May, 1926, amending the last mentioned Agreement.
(8) Agreement dated 21st May, 1926, between Roland Cuthbert Clark, Phoenix Investment Trust
Limited and Motor Parking Stations Limited wherein the latter formally adopts the Underwriting-
Agreement mentioned above except in regard to certain payments.
(9) Agreement dated 20th May, 1926, between Roland Cuthbert Clark and Samuel McHutchison,
as Agent for Motor Parking Stations Limited, providing for a payment to the Company in certain
contingencies.
(10) Letter from Gray & Co., dated 15th March, 1926, with references to letting of car stands
and reply thereto of even date.
(11) Letters from J. G. Ward, dated 26th October, 1925, and 22nd March, 1926, with
reference to internal advertising rights and reply thereto dated 29th March, 1926.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR ORDINARY SHARES.
To the Directors,
Motor Parking Stations, Limited,
C/o 11. B. Allard, Way and Hardie,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
I/We hereby make application for Ordinary
Shares in the capital of Motor Parking Stations,Limited, in terms of the Company’s prospectus, and
authorise you to have my/our name placed on the Register of the Company for the number of shares
mentioned (or any less number that may be allotted to me/us).
Enclosed herewith please find cheque for £ , being application
money of 2/6 per share, and I/we agree to pay a further 2/6 per share upon allotment, and the
balance as and when required in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than one month,
provided that no calls are made for a period of six months after date of allotment. I/We agree to
be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of thei Company, and I/we declare that
I/we am/are acquiring the shares in the above Company on my/our own behalf, and that I/we
am/are not an aliens.
Dated this day of 1926.
Name in full
(Mr., Mrs., Miss)
Occupation
Address
Signature
Ail cheque* to be made payable to “MOTOR PARKING STATIONS, LIMITED,” and crossed “Not Negotiable *
Further particulars, or comes of oomnletc nrosnectus »v i . ~ u .. trotecu _ 01 wegotuwe.
Further particulars, or copies of complete prospectus ana crossed "Wot Negotiable.” Please add exchange.
Street-, Sydney. ’Phone, 8W6737. ’ 0,1 application to the Company’s Brokers, Secretaries, or Phoenix Investment Trust, Limited, Adyar House, 29 Bligh


u
It does not look possible,
1000 Engine Drivers *>Firemen have tied upSSOOO
Coal Miners.and their Dependents. Already 150.000
persons are directly affected in their Right to Z+rttE
And the shame of this Strike
is that it has no justification
Admitted facts leave the Engine-
drivers and Firemen without a case
%
i"
¥f\ \
£17,500 IN SEVEN YEARS!
That was the cost to the Enginedrivers and Firemen of taking their claims to the Federal Arbitration
Court from 1913.
Mr. Gibson, their Federal Secretary, says so in his official organ, and he should know.
Since 1 920 the year of the appointment of the Special Tribunal, this huge expenditure on the part
of his union has not been necessary. In plain language, the Hibble Tribunal has el, |"\ n^ d^ U fy
lay by the union and has given its members economical and ready access to an independent system
of conciliation.
Apart from this—
For every daily sitting of the Special Tribunal—
and there were many —Mr. Gibson and his four
colleagues, who are members of it, received
£2 together with £l as expenses when away
from home. First-class railway fares, plus
sleeper, were also granted on all occasions.
Moreover, all witnesses’ expenses, loss of wages,
and first-class railway fares were provided.
Apart from this—
In its three awards, spread over five years, the
Special Tribunal has granted a steady increase
in wages, until to-day colliery drivers and fire-
men receive much higher rates than are granted
their fellow members in metalliferous mines
and outside industries working under the costly
Federal Arbitration Court. Furthermore, hours
have been gradually reduced, and in the last
award a 43-hour working week was conceded.
In addition, four more holidays were included
in the award.
LISTEN TO ARGUMENT-BUT REMEMBER THE POINTS,
Point 1
There has been no
decrease in wages.
On the contrary, in-
creases were granted
to every enginedriver
and fireman in New
South W ales, Queens-
land, Victoria and
Tasmania, without
exception.
Poiivt 2
W
The Chairman of the
Enginedrivers and
Firemen’s (Coal In-
dustry) Special Tri-
bunal was appointed
by agreement of the
parties, and for five
years the men now on
strike have accepted
his Ch ai r m anship,
and have brought
endless evidence be-
fore him.
Point 3
The increases under
the Hibble award
were applied
throughout and are
being worked under
by the Queensland
branch of the strik-
ing union.


Quality Durability Economy.
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
Is the best golf ball you can play.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:—
NORMAN L. BURNELL & 00. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [1
W“ r
bath with
RIPOUN
PAINT
Applied Over Special
RIPOLIN Undercoating
Results Are Always
Satisfactory.
Write for Particulars to
L.A. GORMAGK (Fact. Rep.)
4 Underwood Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT II E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: DADDY LONGLEGS.
ROYAL: THE SEVENTH HEAVEN.
PALACE: WHITE CARGO.
pOLLEKS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, .Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE MIKADO.
THEATRE ROY.AI
THE BAD MAN.
piiINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
HUGH J. WARD’S GREAT ATTRACTION,
MERCENARY MARY.
Brilliant Musical Comedy.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBO U K N K.
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
l HEN A 5 U M THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
The Merriest Play of the Day,
THE BEST PEOPLE.
Three Acts of Joyous Comedy Interpreted by an
Entirely NEW AMERICAN COMPANY.
_____ Plana at Allan’s.
■VIEW BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily. 2.30 and 8.
MOON & MORRIS REVUE CO.
Popular Prices Plan Cen. 3251.
|y| A JESTIC TIIEXTRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING On’ SATURDAY.
BETTY BLYTHE in
SHE
From Sir H. Rider Haggard’s Famous Novel.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790
|_|OYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE.
.MELBOURNE.
THE AMERICAN VENUS.
Featuring Miss FAY LAMPHIER.
RAYMOND GRIFFITH in
A REGULAR FELLOW.
Prices as usual.
Missing Friends.
I F FRANCIS ROBERTS, known as
1 FRANK ROBERTS, son of the late
John Harris Roberts, would communicate
with H. B. Platt-Hepworth, Solicitor, 54
Pitt Street, Sydney, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
JF HENRY ROBERTS, known as Harry
Roberts, son of the late John Harris
Roberts, would communicate with H. B.
Platt-Hepworth. Solicitor, 54 Pitt Street,
Sydney, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
RE JAMES HOGAN, deceased, formerly of McMil-
rmi s, near Cohuna, Victoria.—John Joseph Hogan
(a son of the above-named deceased, who died on
2nd May, 1926), or anyone acquainted with his where-
abouts. please communicate with Fanners and Citi-
zens’ Trustees Company, Bendigo, Limited, Charing
Cross, Bendigo, Victoria.
IN AVID LAMBIE WATT, late of 337
u Crown-street, Surry Hills, Joiner, or any-
one knowing his address, please communicate
with Pigott. Stinson. Maegregor and Palmer
Solicitors, 2 ( 'antlereugh-st reel, Sydney.
VAUCARE WEARS
A “BEENIE” RUG
THE IDEAL STAY-ON RUG.
EASILY FASTENED.
“A" QUALITY, for turning out, made of super white all flax
iined with warm wool check —
uft. Sin., 47/-; sft. Gin., 48/6; sft. 9in., 50/-; 6ft.
canvas
51/0.
“E.S.” QUALITY, for racehorses, a light ru
lined with warm wool check-
made of white duck
sft. 3in 39/9; sft. 6in., 41/-; sft. Din., 42/3; 6ft.,
Add 2/9 tor freight. Write for full Rug List.
44/-
■N.vfc
K’BURRA Stockwhips arc
kangaroo leather right through.
Thongs: 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft
12-plait: 17/. 19/6 22/6 24 6
16-plait: 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
Handles: 16-plait,, 16/6; 24-plait, 18/6
POST FREE FOR CASH.
Bio.—Remington Ballet Knife,
with two blades, colored grained handle and
shoe forms a bottle cap opener, 7/6.
Postage 6d.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
For Good Saddlery and Leather Goods, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
that the follow ins three great annual trade gatherings will be held at the
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL HALL, LONDON N., ENGLAND,
on the dates specified
The Bakers and’ Confectioners' Exhibition (30th Year)
SEPTEMBER 4 to 10, 1926.
The Grocers and Allied Traders’ Exhibition (30th Year),
SEPTEMBER 18 to 24, 1926.
The Brewers, Wine and Spirit and Allied Traders’ Exhibition
(47th Year),
OCTOBER 30 to NOVEMBER 5, 1926.
THEY ARE THE TRADE GATHERINGS OF THE YEAR.
A Most Exceptional Offer
in Stainless Steel Cutlery
Wade and Butcher Manufacture.
Foi a limited peiiod only Stewart Dawson’s are offering* this
Special Bargain in Stainless Steel Cutlerv. Each knife is Guar-
anteed Firth’s Stainless Steel throughout, with White Zylonite
balanced square Handles. The name of the manufacturers (Wade
and Butcher) is a. “household word’’ for dependability.
This is a most exceptional offer—the Value is unapproachable
anywhere for Quality.
BOXED IN HALF DOZENS, AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE
KNIVES
10/6
Half Doz.
j
DESSERT
KNIVES
10/-
flalf Do z.
Higher Grades in Wade and Butcher Stainless Cutlet v Mirro
finish, both square and round handles. Prices :
Table Knives, 22/6 Half Dozen.
Dessert Knives, 21/- Half Dozen.
Wade anti Butcher Real Knife Sharpeners
2/- to 3/6 eat?h.
Call and inspect these wonderful offers without delay.
Catalogue oj Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, etc.. Post Free to
Country Residents.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N.S.W.), LTD.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
Two Sydney
Establishments
> I
MX) OKS
UCE
//ost ffolirooA Sai/s
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
Aye, and then I mature it
like an old wine.”
ROAD-MAKING MADE EASY.
For Road-building:. Repairing and Maintenance, t ho
Martin Ditcher is the best instrument devised. It
grades, terraces and cleans with ease. The
moderate cost, adaptability, strength, and service
with horses or tractor make it the close friend of
every municipal and shire engineer.
Write to Desk B.
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
519 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street,
Brisbano.
T.T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
r ' s maiti*v?
Does the Work
of 100 Men.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
P.A.C.: Can any use be made of the
enclosed two poems? Well, we will return them
with a slice of cold shoulder and you can try them
as a sandwich.... P.O’F.: An excellent idea, but done
sloppily... .S.N.R.: Too much like the disconnected
barks of an annoyed terrier.... Carnbrae: A poor
sample... .8.W.C.: Scrappy and inconclusive... .
C.W.S.: The first part is good. The second was
sufficiently dealt, with a few weeks ago... .0.A.P.:
Sorry, but we haven’t been able to find space for it.
. ...Mikko: Easy writing, hard reading. Plan your
article before you proceed to write it.... C.Me.:
Afraid you’ve rather over-drawn the man in “Free-
dom’ ... .Edward D.: “Fever” is well done but very
thin... . Q.P.: That crop has been harvested....
W. 8.5.: Valamita, Yield, Kerebin Iranian: Sorry,
but the original par. is long since 4 forgotten... .
Kildare: Why not ask them yourself? Their address
is 24 Bond-street, Sydney 3130: That streamer
yarn comes along every month or so E.M.: One
cheerful fragment of the “blackie-fantail” song: —-
His fan is Played as Wind in leaves, his life is all
a breeze;
He’ll sing a glee of notes so free, he is Perched
among the leaves ;
He loves the sheep and cattle too, upon their backs
he rattles,
His Music sweet for them to greet, With strenuous
Notes he Prattles.
He eyes the fly, he shall die, upon the wing he grabs
the thing,
Upon the ground he hops around for things to make
him sing.
... .W.H.McG.: Lord bless you, we don’t want to
“suppress the views of the public.” It is the Govern-
ment that does that by gerrymandering the elector-
ates. That’s what we are growling about....
Kookaroo: Yotir cheerfulness very nearly carried you
in,.. .A.K.T.: If these pages were elastic we’d print
“Hardy,” which has merit.... Jerry G.: Yes, but
that hardly proves them incapable J.A.T.: Poor
verse isn’t made better by great length H.I.P. :
Far too long and we don’t care for the manner....
N.D.R: “The Golden Calf” is a very mild and in-
effective beast N.S.M.: It must go back
A.M.8.8. : Both miss; but the apple yarn has
good material Stewart T.: Even its alleged age
shouldn’t make the grammar as bad as that....
L.M.J.: Shocking... .G.E.L.: Both prose and verse
have some qualify, but don’t grip Ginger: You
don’t quite succeed in telling the yarn.... Proggins:
We fought with the handwriting for a long time, but
got little out of it....W.5. (Westbrook): “Voices”
hasn’t much resemblance to verse W.E.R.: Ideas
uot attractive and the verse has some very rugged
spots... .T.H.W.; “A Satire with Morals” isn’t a
satire, for one thing. But it’s awful Alone:
Shingling verse nearly got our hair off J.A.T.:
After reading halfway through we realised why
“curses” rhymes so often with “verses” H.: Your
“heart is dull.” Marry it to your verses, and make
a perfect match Y.Z.: Your red-hot MS. scorched
the w.p.b Ole Blue: Not bad; but the sinner
who wants someone to pr;ly for him is rarely as
interesting as the sinner who is still prepared to
prey... .E. 8.; Immature, but there is hope. As you
get away from the joyousness of childhood, however,
try to realise that poetry is not merely stuff that
makes paper soppy with tears D.H. (Wellington):
The time rhyme must go back.... Joseph L.: As told
it is not convincing.... Ed G.: Doesn’t run to mirth.
Marco: The tale drags a little T.H.W.: A
wild and startling end; but hardly worth its space.
. ...McC.R.: The lines are not bad, but the method
is tedious and the conclusion obviously false....
T.H.IT. : Material for a paragraph or two. Try itl
....Whyte L.: The ending is unnecessarily horrible.
... . Franklin Iv.: To place a yarn like that in Aus-
tralia overstrains our credulity R.D.C.: The wild
thing has small interest Edwin W.: “Toady” is
too slight Sagittarius: Cold and commonplace
Ortlam: Do comb your brains. You’ve got good stuff,
and you waste it by careless delivery Ripponlea:
“The Cat Woman” is an entirely fresh creation:—
The Clock struck one! ’Twas half-past twelve.
A rodent careered along a shelve.
A flour-faced female herself did muffle
And slunk o’er the room with somnambulistic shuffle.
A down the stairs she floated her eerie way
With confidence, as though ’twere bright as dav.
Into the kitchen, across the yard she sailed,
And nimbly a high brick wall she sealed.
Up a right-of-way past occasional cats did she <ra,
Then across a vacant lot did she hurriedly blow.
Her movements at each turn seemed madder and
madder
For she ascended to a fowl-house roof by means of
a ladder.
Her pace was now slow and her action loose-jointed
Her ears to and fro did wag and were pointed,
with her head in the air, not seeing the ground
Around the roof she paraded around.
... .J. 8.: Your racing verse jibbed at the post, ran
wide shortly after the start, and broke its neck
at the fourth stanza.... Sella: The man who came
home at 2 a.m. and asked for supper got cold tongue.
No need to put that prosaic fact into 40 lines....
C.L.: Give “Boots” a better polish. .. .P.T.: “Forty-
four Hours” weak... . J.R.L.: Your jiggitty-jog verses
are going back. You’ll never succeed in that jog-
trot style... . A.J.M.: Very much the same old tale.
....L.G. (Northbridge) :■ Not enough there
W.8.H.: If fiction, it’s a poor yarn; if fact, a
good par would have summed up all there was' to
say... .Dorothy F.: Those rather futile questions have
often been asked before in verse that was very little
better T.H.W.: A number of very ordinary state-
ments in prose which attempts to rhyme... .Johnny
AV.: Rough verse which calls for more elbow-grease.
....George C.: No use here K.M.: The weakest
and thinnest sort Dorothy H.: Too trifling
Playfair: Lacking all touches that might give it life,
the story is entirely unconvincing E.T.H.: Both
miss.... O.M. (Byron Bay): Shows feeling, hut not
enough 5ki11....P.E.5.: Not well enough done.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
•T.F.: Didn't got a. place C.A.8.8.: Very little
demand for silhouettes C.A.P.: Fair, but not
g-ood enough for The B 0.W.E.: The seated
damsel’s lower limbs are too missive C.F.: Wait
until the Councillor is Lord Mayor; bv then you
may have improved W.A’.P.: * Unabashed suitor
with the hips of a German frau crashed. Others
carved out of granite J.D.C.: Which is the
sozzled lodge official and which the lamp-post?
R.F.: Drawing poor, humor weak. Still you’re for-
given, for at least you don’t draw a man and woman
merely facing fa eh other W.H.N.: Quite believe
that a stork dropped t-tuit baby down the chimney. ..
F.A.D.: Sprinting professor let off with a caution.
M.G.: Just scratches... .E.M. : Bridget’s mis-
tress would wipe the ceiling with her shingle if she
stood up Ink: Glad to hear of your luck else-
where, but. a Comtc Ottts success is a poor introduc-
tion here.


"Gentlemen,
l have never before recorded
for any reproducing instrument.
Nona I have played my works
for the Ampico because of its
absolute faithfulness, and its
capacity to preserve beautiful
ione-painting. It goes far be-
yond any reproducing piano in
these particulars, which a pian-
ist must demand in considering
a perpetuation of his art. ”
SERGEI RACHMANINOFF
■Jf
mum
*4 V<
liiill
SMi
■
mm
i
assgP A
av
mu
0,7
bX*
>=v7,"
ffiM
V
mus
N"
7v^--
oV-3)-; R
V©‘£j
VK -
i;
s
£/Vi°
Qtachmamncff
ave played for the AMPICO
because of its absolute faithfulness.
PONDER this declaration of the great Russian pianist! Better still, consider the
deep import of the whole of his letter which is printed above! This statement
of Rachmaninoff means definitely that he was unwilling to record "for any reproduc-
ing piano.” He was unwilling that his work should be judged by any repetition
which but thinly shadowed forth the magnificence of the original performance. Then
he met the Ampico and, in gratitude, he eagerly seized so rare and wonderful an
opportunity for the perpetuation of his playing.
In effect he says of the Ampico: "This is Rachmaninoff. Whatever I can do, it will
repeat. Whatever I have done, it will do—for ever!” There was never a finer
tribute. It comes from a great master, jealous of his reputation and keenly anxious
that contemporaries and those to come, shall know him as he really is !
Testimony equally definite and convincing, has been written by other world-famous artists who perform ex-
clusively for the Ampico—notably Moisiewitsch , Ornstein , Levitzki, Godowsky, Strauss, Schnilzer, D’lndy and others.
BEALE -AMPICO
The Ampico is associated only with the world’s greatest pianos—instruments possessing the rich tone, great volume and
fine subtlety of expression vital to Ampico re-enactments. In Australia, the BE ALE-AMPICO is the worthy repre-
sentative of this group of celebrities.
The World’s Music at your Command
The music of all the world is yours to command through
the Beale-Ampico : This wonderful instrument will play
for you sonatas, nocturnes, operatic selections, serenades
and fantasies; simple songs and ballads, hymns, marches,
dance music, jazz. The most modern selections beside
the musical treasures of generations.
You must hear the Beale-Ampico —•
for without hearing it you cannot appreciate the marvel of its performance.
We invite you to hear the Beale-Ampico at our George Street Showrooms,
Sydney, or any of our Branch addresses.
Exchange your Piano
Any piano that you now own will entitle you to an allowance in buying a
Beale-Ampico. Convenient terms can be arranged.
Catalogue and other descriptive literature post free.
BEALE & COMPANY
Showrooms ;
340 George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories.
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES:
Hobart; '
(New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros.,
laples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson s Ltd. Perth, and rremant e.
BEALE COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
w
s
SMITH <f'JUUUj
57U DI05


l
One Sheep
may follow another. Mankind has frequently
been criticised for taking the same action.
But the man who grows wool and follows
this advice takes a sound step which gams
general approval.
Send the Clip to
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
FIRTH’S SAWS
IN THE BIG TIMBER
Up and down, throughout the timber
lauds of the world, from the logging
camps amongst the Californian Red-
woods to the dank, fever-ridden
Mahogany forests of Burmah. experi-
enced timber jacks are getting real
satisfaction from the use of Firth
Woodsaws.
The ability to cut just a shade cleaner,
a trifle faster with a bit less effort, is
the reason why the lumberman chooses
a Firth Saw.
There is something different, some-
thing liner in the balance and feel of
these saws—an indefinable quality
which represents just the difference
between “just a saw” and "the finest
saw you've ever used.”
Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKEH
All (000
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
64.
each.
tf-
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
654B George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
\V4tW26.
AUSTRALIAN
mm
Eondon Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
ĵ
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Patou & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ronnie Cherubs Owe their Precious
Lives to the Building-up Power of
fEEBLE and fretful, unable to as-
similate nourishment from their
natural food, HYPOL was ordered.
Almost the first few doses put the
joy of living into their little beings
by promoting fresh impulse, vigour,
and bodily health. Now it’s romp
all day, and sweet, refreshing sleep
at night. Mother says the HYPOL
treatment was “ Just Wonderful.”
RYPOL is a Cod Liver Oil Emul-
sion of peculiar distinctiveness
full of valuable elements for
health, and famed for its richness,
freshness, and restorative power.
Only those who have taken HYPOL
know how good it is—how it streng-
thens and sustains. For severe
Colds,Bronchitis, Unhealthy Lungs,
HYPOL is without equal.
You protect yourself by asking for the Original and Genuine
All high-class Chemists stock it.
Kwok
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID-32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis. _
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sturt”: South Aus. is nibbling at a now-
industry, sandalwood. There is plenty of
it about Wbyalla, on the west side of Spen-
cer’s Gulf, but at present it is thought to
be not equal to the Westralian. However, a
trial shipment of SO tons is being sent
to China, and if the variety is approved
there, pretty big business may result.
* * * *
“Wollard”: After many years of testing
the harbor authorities at Burnie (Tas.) have
proved the suitability of N.S.W. turpentine
logs as piles. The timber was used when
the wharves were constructed in 1001, and
after 25 years’ service was found to be as
sound as when placed in position. The hard
outer covering showed no deterioration, and
the teredo had left these piles untouched,
though other timbers were riddled.
* * * *
“A.G.C.”: The Yank is building new cars
and replacing old ones at a greater rate
than ever. Last year he turned out 4,200,000
new machines and scrapped 1.800,000 old
ones. By the end of the year lie had one
car to every five people. In California 10
cars are now 7 registered for every 24 people,
and in Florida 10 for every 28. The fewest
cars per head are in Alabama, where there
are but 10 for 120 inhabitants.
* * *
“E.S.”: Australia has been responsible
for many important inventions, and there
should be a museum at the Federal capital
to house them. One. of the treasures of the
Pioneers’ Club, Sydney, is the first model
of a ship’s propeller, which w 7 as invented by
an Australian, Thomas Mitchell. It was
fashioned after Black Brother’s hunting
boomerang, the spinning flight of which gave
him the idea. I’ll bet that propeller and
boomerang, niched together, would command
more attention than a dozen exhibits in the
portrait-gallery.
“Clerk”: Vic. railw r ay-chief Clapp hopes
to soon undertake the two-million-pound job
of equipping his rolling stock with automatic
couplers. This mechanism automatically
couples trucks as soon as they touch, and
' there is no need for shunters to crawd under
the buffers while the vehicles are moving.
In addition to safety and speed considera-
tions, the device reduces the possibility of
impact-damage to trucks and carriages. Last
year Clapp had to put no less than £344,000
on the debit side of his ledger for damage
to rolling stock in shunting operations.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A will submitted to probate
in Sydney the other day directed that the
testator’s widow should have the use of his
house on condition that she does not allow
her sisters or any of their descendants to
enter it; and, if she allows them to live
with her anywhere, her annuity of £4OO is
to cease. It would be interesting to know
how far such a stipulation is reconcilable
with the Act which requires provision to
be made for the widow and children out of
the estate of a deceased person—the Act
that was hurried through to enable Mrs.
Norton to get a fair deal out of John’s estate,
# * * *
“Hiawatha”: Australia has had the three-
line railway that has lately been again sug-
gested as a means of overcoming the break-
of-gauge curse. The first line in Tasmania
was from Launceston to Deloraine. It was
45 miles long, and took three years to con-
struct. It was worked for a time by a co.,
after which it was taken over by the Govern-
ment, which has had it ever since, and every
year loses money, on it. It was of broad
gauge, and when the main line from Hobart
to Western Junction was built of a less
gauge a third rail was laid so that trains
could run right through ; and for some time
both broad- and narrow-gauge Stock were to
be seen in the one train.
* * * a
“Narara”: “Gregor” is over-sanguine in
laying it down (B. 6/5/’26) that there is
very little illegal distillation in Australia,
and that spirit from private stills is so raw
and fiery that even if blended it could be
at once detected. Compared with the amount
of spirits we drink the output from private
stiils may be insignificant, but that is only
because few of them work at full pressure.
There are few farming districts in the north-
east of Australia without one or two of
them, but the owner is generally contented
with making sufficient “moonshine” to supply
his own wants and those of a few friends.
As tO' the stuff being too fiery to pass muster
over a bar, I know of one man in mid-
western N.S.W. who sells his stuff to local
publicans, and there are no complaints from
their customers. I also know of a couple
of Lower Hawkesbury River stills whose
output is readily bought in Sydney. As
“Gregor” says, I might inform the police
and collect several hundred pounds: but I
hope to live several years yet, and I fre-
quently have to visit those districts.
* * * *
“Alti”: Though the cable news sent to
Australia, perhaps naturally, deals entirely
with the accidents that are happening to
Captain Wilkins in the course of his
attempts to make the beginning of a com-
mencement of a start with an aerial expedi-
tion to the North Pole, the Wilkins venture
is only one of five that propose to test
Peary’s strange story this year. And not
one of the five owes anything to Britain or
is using British material. Wilkins, financed
by America, is using German-made Fokker
’planes with American engines—Wright and
Liberty.. Amundsen, forgetful apparently of
the fact that his life and that of his com-
panions was saved by the superlative relia-
bility of Rolls-Royce engines in the last
adventure, took the fpld again in an
Italian-made dirigible. Captain McMillan,
the American aviator who is being financed
by John Rockefeller, junior, and Edsel Ford,
was still hovering, at latest advices, between
aeroplanes (American-made, of course) and
a dirigible made by the Goodyear Rubber
Co., of Akron, Ohio. Lieutenants Wade and
Ogden, who took part in the lI.S. Navv’s
beautifully-managed round-the-world Might
with three associates, are being sent by three
of the big American Universities, and ihey
will certainly use American material. The
fifth entrant for the Pole Stakes is a Russian
concern, the Siberian Air Transport Co..
bettey known in its home as Aviachim,
which will use all-metal ’planes of the
Junkers type—made in Germany,


£2
4
*
if
PA
SURES
AND
MID
/"
V/:
H
..-v:
ant
Fifty years’ experience as
bell-founders enables us
to supply single bells, or
bells in peals of fine tone,
correctly tuned for church
and musical purposes.
Bells are an inspiring fea-
ture of city and town life.
Their varied tones can be
used for many civic pur-
poses as well as express-
ing the feelings of citizens
on religious, festive and
historic occasions.
Quotations ‘furnished for single
hells, peals, and iron towers
for holding bells.
PTY. IXO
324-'330 PITT ST. SYDNEY 3 . 391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
Look for the
W estinghouse
Service Sign
Right within hailing distance you have
the opportunity of getting the kind of
service your battery needs.
The Westinghouse Attention which is given
a battery, regardless of make, i a skilled aid
Sv
BATTEP.Y
experienced watchful-
ness! It spots trouble
before it starts and
remedies ailments
which may have de-
veloped before the
battery was put
under proper care.
No charge is made for
regular testing and re-
filling. And Westing-
house Agents won’t try
to sell you a new battery
until your old one has
gone the limit.
WESTINGHOUSE
BATTE RIE S
(\#|
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and T 7« Elizabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A T. Electrical Co.. 17 Little Latrobe Street , Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
t.OUTH AUSTRALIA : Wm. Hudd & Co,. 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
lASMANIA: Hobart: Robt. Nettlefold, Pty. Ltd,
Launceston: Geo.Ceard & Co., Ltd.,
NEW ZEALAND : North Island : Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
j Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
\R. K rk, Wanganui.
South Island: Canterbury etc.. Freeman & Toont. 27 Litchfield Street,
(Christchurch,
OtagG J. E. Moore. Stone’s Building, £nzac St, Dunedin.
•IUJ
1814
Clayton Crude Oil Engines
Universally used in
Electric Light Stations
Flour Mills
Refrigerating Plants
Pumping Stations
Municipal Works
Factories and Mills
Cinematographs
Agricultural and Pastoral
Stations, etc.
A Few Leading Features:
Low Fuel Consumption
Accessibility of all Working Parts
Low Maintenance Costs
Simplicity in Starting.
Alfred Herbert
(Aust.), Ltd.
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegrams: LATHE, SYDNEY.


A TIME- AND MONEY-SAVER.
7WP tec# <3/?//* I 'terrs’S
Tfreo T#ert au, start s>eerry good, pot- /vo*/s
eev*£!C r# jr /rj&iFr ■
A'O s/.,/>rs„c- Mtotef rratres*
V */*'{ & SC'/OOCA'
'r Vo/*s r/es #- rrw/'vA's -r,
~v OSTW€CtV 04/ r»
ferr So S/a/ws vo fasy^.
7>/c &/oe/*rerr orrru.e
foot. >£•*» Vowc & a- CerYc£/t
■ fr £W« sve/*—
<r ’ ‘•'/A: 0/or?>* a*/Y
\
l
'Vavey s’eru/s/ysj/ /f
*#o*e» UAfs*T/SF»cropy.
T*C*es oro #fSA
30/- each. Postage in Victoria 1/6; Interstate 2/8.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the wholesale dis-
tributing agents:—
S. Cohen, Sons & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
c 7%q fier/okt
/airper/eci ■n'ort/GL
Stssfi
=ss»
The favourite of
everyone who has
once used it.
L & C. HAB DTMUTH, LONDON, Eng.
Agent:
J.‘MACDOUGi ALL, G.P.O. 166 SYDNEY.
Factoi *y Czecho - Slovakia.
BIRKRIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etjc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton duicks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
HOPE WORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Worship of Nature, by Sir
JAMES GEORGE FRAZER, 0.M.,
F.R.S., F.8.A., author of “The Golden
Bough,” etc., 2 vols. Yol I. The Wor-
ship of the Sky, the Earth and the
Sun. 255. net.
The Outlook : “Again, as many times before,
we have spread before us the fruits of ■ a
'prodigious learning and a prodigious industry,
served with all the wit and charm that Sir
i James has taught us to expect from him.”
Sir Hubert Parry: His Life and
Works, by CHARLES L. GRAVES.
With Portraits and other Illustrations.
Two vols. 30s. net.
The Times Literary Supplement: “This is a
long-expected and welcome book on a fine
theme.”
ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS.
New Series.
Edited by J. C. SQUIRE. ss. net.
Swinburne. By HAROLD NICOL-
SON.
The Daily Mail: “This study of Swinburne
is good, and written with plenty of humor.”
Herman Melville. By JOHN FREE-
MAN.
George Meredith. By .T. B. PRIEST-
LEY. (Immediately.)
Walt Whitman. By JOHN BJAILEY.
(Immediately.)
Send for Prospectus.
To bo Obtained from a/t
Bookse/lers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors — A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq. : W. H. Hart, Esq. •,
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; .D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
Old Way: Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
A
New
Way:
Is it not strange that for hundreds of
years man has been scrubbing his face
with soaps containing soda, and has never
reasoned that under such treatment the
skin may suffer? Nothing is more ugly
than a face that looks raw. Shaving
soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered SHAVEX,
the natural method, where no brush and
soaps containing soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE!
One can shave with Shavex in half the
time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had,
and shaving will become a pleasure. Your
skin will look, and feel like satin, and
your face under this treatment will look
twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a
skin food as well.
1/9 large tube. Obtainable Sverywhere.
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
m
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGIIURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
j
No. 1369.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
The Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the year
which then terminated are now submitted to the shareholders.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £86,274/18/7 for
Income, Land and Note Taxes, amounted to ..
Add balance brought forward .from previous year
Leaving available .. ....
From this sum the following appropriations have been made
Interim Dividend of 10 per,cent, per annum paid in November
Transfer, to Reserve Fund Account (making it £2,410,000)
Reduction of Bank Premises . . . .
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the £lO and on the £8 shares,
at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
last
During the year the following New Branches were opened: VICTORIA—Cowes, Hopetoun, Sea Lake,
Warburton and Thornbury, the two latter- being converted from Receiving Offices. SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Nailsworth (sub-branch), previously a Receiving Office. 'WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Narembeen, Cottesloe
(formerly a Receiving Office). QUEENSLAND.—TuIIy (formerly a Receiving Office).
The branches at Jemieson (Victoria), Cowell (South Australia) and Beverley (Western Australia)
have been closed.
The Bank’s principal office in New South Wales is, now at 342-346 George Street, Sydney, and the
office at 60 Pitt Street has been named the Royal Exchange Branch.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Bank’s Office, at 126
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne (corner of Elizabeth and Little Collins Streets), on Wednesday, 26th May,
at noon,, when the shareholders will be called upon to elect two directors in lieu of Sir John Grice
and the Honourable Frank G. Clarke, M.L.0., who retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles
of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other candidates.
The shareholders will also be called upon to appoint two auditors for the ensuing year, in lieu
of Messrs. John Bishop and S. J, • Warwick, who retire, but are eligible for reappointment.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager,
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., Melbourne, 13th May, 1926.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
AT 31st MARCH, 1926.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-150,000 £lO
shares fully
paid up ..£1,500,000 0 0
500,000 £8
shares, paid
u p t o £5
per share .. £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve fund account
Profit and loss account ..
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing
interest .. £241,824 10 1
Bearing in-
terest . . 944,580 5 7
Other Deposits—
Not bearing
interest . . £13,656,266 3 9
Bearing in-
terest
Interest accrued
current bills
Balances due to
17,442,082 8 9
and rebate on
other banks
£4,000,000 0 0
2,410,000 0 0
322,957 18 9
£6,732,957 18 9
48,033 10 0
875,053 11 7
1,185,904 15 8
31,098,348 12 3
370,726 14 8
394,992 16 8
£40,706,017 19 7
£1,135,631 9 -5
Contingent liability, as per contra,
in regard to obligations of cus-
tomers and others on letters of
credit and guarantees ..
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion, Australian notes,
and cash at bankers
Government, municipal and. other
public stocks, debentures and
funds
Bills and remittances in transitu
Notes and bills of other banks . .
Balances due from other banks . .
Duty stamps
£6,419,738 0 9
5,086,190 11 3
2,761,018 10 7
117,071 3 8
211,826 13 5
23,656 19 11
Real estate, consisting of bank
premises
Other real estate
Bank furniture
Bills ( discounted, and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts ..
£14.,619,501 19 7
904,407 12 10
120,828 9 6
" 59,885 11 7
25,001,394 9 1
£40,706,017 19 7
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit, drafts, and
V guarantees, as per contra . . £1,135,631 9 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
JL/X #
To expenses at Head Office, 305
Branches and 161 Agencies
To income-, land- and note-taxes . .
To interim dividend
To transfer to reserve fund . •
To reduction of bank premises
account
Balance
£715,665 11 0
86,274 18 7
200,000 0 0
110,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
322,957 18 9
£1,484,898. 8 10
Cr.
By balance, brought forward .. £114,703 15 0
By gross profits, including recov-
eries, less rebate on bills current,
interest accrued on deposits, re-
' pairs to premises, rent, etc. .. 1,370,194 13 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Dr.
T-j bjrtww'f
i 1 ", (m.rtrio n n
1,2, <10.000 o ft
By balance last year
By transfer from profit and lass
account
Cl.
£2,300,000 0 0
110,000 0 0
£
£2,410,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager, to comply
with the Companies Act (Victoria), appear on the O ffieial Report.
1 S ~ E. 11. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
“Brady’s Lookout”: The Black Horse
Hotel, Richmond (N.S.W.), although it dates
from 1819, isn’t the. oldest licensed house in
Australia (B. l/4/'26). A lady named
Bridger obtained a license for the Bush Inn
at New Norfolk (Tas.) in 1810, and if
"Harold Hardupp” ever strikes the town-
ship on the Derwent he can blow the froth
oft' a pint at the ancient tavern where Wal-
lace wrote part of his “Maritana.”
“Wang” : The accused was not represented
by counsel, which only made his protesta-
tions of innocence the more persistent. His
eyes roved over the occupants of the Bench,
and singling out one member he addressed
the presiding magistrate with : “Mr. Blank,
up there, knows me.” The P.M. looked in-
terrogatively at the J.P. "Yes,” continued
the victim of circumstances. "I met him down
at Geelong.” Blank. J.P.. roused himself.
“Yes,” he answered, "that's right. And I
gave you six months.”
“ACacus Atkins”: The Count Rada, now
running the counter-espionage for “White
Russia” in London and Paris, was for two
or three years (1908-11) the head teacher
at the Bayswater (Vic.) Reformatory of the
Salv’army. Under the stimulus of necessity he
applied his University training to the rough
material in his charge—and succeeded. Even
in that milieu he was always well groomed
and sported a monocle. Whilst persona
grata at Government House, he was the very
special bete noir of a worthy tea-merchant
now deceased, whom he had offended by a
very plain heart-to-heart talk from the pulpit
of the local Methodists at Bayswater.
“Westerner” : Over 20 years ago I went
to the races at Ascot (Perth) with Bob
Hastie (then W.A. Minister for Mines),
Andy Dawson (first Labor Premier of
Queensland) and Wallace Nelson (then a
State M.L.A.). I missed them after the
first race, and saw no more of them until I
went to collect a tote dividend on the last
one. They were sitting on the grass behind
the tote, discussing evolution. They had
been at it all the afternoon ! Dawson and
Hastie have long since gone where is nothing
to argue about, but Nelson’s voice has lost
none of its carrying quality: it was being
broadcasted in Sydney last Saturday night
when the Great White Train returned from
its peregrinations about the State.
“Nikko”: Re the curious things posted in
pillar-boxes (B. 6/5/’26), a Sydney man
had a disturbing experience on a recent
night. Returning from a suburban call, he
\vas entrusted with the family’s Sunday-
night mail, with instructions to drop it in
the corner pillar-box. He did —and inad-
vertently cast in his cigarette likewise. .
Terror at once gripped him, and when a
strong smell of burning paper made it clear
that the fag was pursuing its deadly work
he rushed to a near-by fountain and
collected water in his hat. With this,
and the aid of a soaked hanky, he
managed to subdue the blaze. There
were several vicious pars, in the dailies
about him, and when next he passed the
scene by night he discerned a large police-
man lurking in the shadows. Altogether he
feels that he had a narrow escape.
“The Church of New Zealand, commonly
called the Church of England,” as it is
termed in official Anglican documents in the
Shivery Isles, doesn’t make much effort to
live up to its proper designation. When-
ever it wants a bishop or a vicar for a
fashionable city church it discovers that
the only possible nominee is someone that
the Maorilanders never heard of. About the
only exception is Archgaiters Averill, and
he isn’t wholly an exception, because they
pulled him out of a curacy in St. George’s,
Hanover-square, where dukes get married, to
fill the vicarage at St. Michael’s, in Christ-
church. The bishoprics of Waiapu and
Auckland, to be followed by the primacy,
were just natural sequences. The latest case
of preference to the English has occurred in
connection with the new diocese of Waikato,
to which C. A. Cherrington, an English arch-
deacon, who has been stationed at Mauritius
for the last three years, has been appointed.
Thirty years ago Paddy Minahan and his
brother made and sold boots in a shop in
Hunter-street, with a frontage to Elizabeth-
street; and it is to the brothers’ credit that
they made good boots. Paddy helped to pay
the rent by tooting a horn in an orchestra;
and it was as a delegate from the Profes-
sional Musicians’ -Union that he made his
first appearance in Labor politics. He didn’t
bother about ordinary meetings, but concen-
trated on conferences, and a surprise vote
for him as a compromise candidate between
two warring factions made him president of
the P.L.L. The Hunter-street business had
by that time grown into a factory, and had
sprouted a shop in Pitt-street, and Minahan
did not find it difficult to get into Parlia-
ment as member for Belmore on the death
of E. W. O’Sullivan, after the Labor execu-
tive of which he was boss had declared bogus
the Belmore league, which selected Aid. Eng-
lish. Minahan was always a colorless poli-
tician, but his luck in politics—and business
—has been remarkable. At the moment it
looks as if, in making a property deal with
him, the City Council has handed him a tidy
fortune in itself.
“Ces” : The Nortlicote (Vic.) council pro
jects a memorial to Johu Batman, the
founder of Melbourne, on the spot near the
junction of the Merri Creek and the Yarra,
where he is supposed to have made his
famous treaty with the blacks for all the
land within sight (and a bit out of it) for
a few hatchets and beads. The scheme is
to be commended, for Melbourne is addicted
to forgetting its most famous citizens and
the men who made its foundation possible.
Bass has not a memorial except in the
turbulent strait named after him. Flinders
has only recently got his. Murray, the dis-
coverer of Port Phillip, is only associated
with the river that should have been named
Hume or Sturt. Robert Hoddle, but for
whom Melbourne would not have had its
broad thoroughfares, has his name attached
to a street which is good only in parts.
Governor Latrobe has no more than a street
named after him, like Captain Lonsdale, the
first superintendent. Johnny Fawkner. most
remarkable if not most famous of Mel-
bourne's citizens, is remembered by a sub-
urb. and Batman has a brass plate where
he built his first house, an avenue near the
Yarra and a small drinking-fountain. They
all deserve better.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma— Sierra- -Ventura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, I’hilp and Co., I.td.
Balmy Days Now in
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
Avoid the cold this winter by visiting the
Islands of Enchantment. Round trip from
Sydney in eight wefeks (three or four weeks
in Hawaii), about £125 to £l6O. If en route
to Canada, America or Europe, the “stop-over”
privilege costs you nothing. Good hotels, with
meals, 12/- to £2 daily. Tropical scenery,
fruits and vegetables, thrilling melody, moon-
light, outdoor life, surfing, outrigger and surf-
board riding, canoeing, golfing, motoring. Ask
steamship or travel agent, or write for booklet,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. H, Box 241 D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Costs No Extra Passage-money to
Break Your Journey at
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
Two Select Escorted Tours.
Organised by Tnos. Cook and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Fees included.
JAVA. —Leaving Sydney 23rd June,
per s.s. Tasman; 14 Days’Motor
Tour in lovely Java. Pare £l5O.
JAPAN. —Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Maru, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Pare; £227/14/-
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application.
TIIOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
Ranking* l’ubliic Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925 ..£ 15,395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, 1v.8.E., Chairman;
Prank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: 1.. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Djbdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYABD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS GRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest tor
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also. Fremantle. W.A.
Melbourne Office:
Sydney Ofliee:
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund . .
26” Collins Street.
105 Pitt Street.
£2,000,000
875,000
.. £875.000
800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 108 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping. Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotong a and San Francisco.
AORANGI 22,000 tons disp. JUNE 3, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ JUNE 17, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ JULY 1, for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI .... 11,350 „ „ JULY 15, for San Francisco.
♦Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usiii"
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
■site
mt-
I
: .
T he Scenic
Uoutes to tiie
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
4
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTE ItCII AN O EAISEE IOU KETL'ItN
BY OTIIEK El N ES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
a
•••••
--
X
j
j
ĵ
j
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1811.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
v :
£6,000,000
4.400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Directors ;
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M
Robert \V. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors- A G Milson, Esq • W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head°Office—Gedrge Street, Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneeclle Street E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. nl ~ , ,
° Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1534.
CAPITAL PAID UP nnn n n
rf<;frVF FUND 2,830,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,830,000 0 0
Directors:
nrnppF T COHEN Chairman : Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
GEORGE J. COMLJn , Hon JAMES ASHTON M.L.C. ;
Hon J W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General Manager • J. R. PRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office. —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone).
Hrisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parkerfe 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers,
tor full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blacliheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Main Line. Huddart Parker,
T.td. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritirnes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth. Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428.000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. • • •• £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly ... .. •• £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every <llass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’'
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


r
v
i-L
■USSj?
71
JU-
Z#
m
m
Km
*
ir
Lands/
Australian Standard Touring - £325
Australian De Luxe Touring - - £345
Sedan £420
Five Full Balloon Tyres.
Magneto Ignition £lO Extra
In 1925 Dodge Brothers Motor Car led all
other cars, at or above its price, in sales
outside the United States.
It is popular in eighty-one different
countries —and on hundreds of important
islands scattered over the Seven Seas.
For one thing, the car contains a higher
percentage of chrome vanadium steel, and
a higher percentage of drop forgings, than
any other motor car in the world, regard-
less of price.
And fine steel and drop forgings mean to
an automobile what strong muscles and
a sound heart mean to the athlete.
moose- E 3 roth erb.lnc.Detrd it
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street.
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd..
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville-
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CARS
27/57'36.


Girls! Beautify Your
m
■
a
HR
§*§
m
m
i
Hair.
Shampoo it
with
Rexona Soap.
To shampoo or wash the
hair with Rexona Soap is
an easy task, but the results
are startling. It leaves the
hair in such a beautiful con-
dition, the scalp perfectly
clean and wholesome. The
hair becomes light and fluffy,
waving about the face in
abundance, as beautiful hair
should always appear. Rex-
ona Soap leaves a delicate
perfume, invigorating the
;-oots of the hair, which pre-
vents greyness. A few sham-
poos with Rexona Soap
effectively removes every
trace of dandruff or loose and
falling hair. Ladies who use
it for the hair say that
Rexona Soap is far better
than any of the so-called
'hair-tonics.
Miss EUNICE BART RIM, a
beautiful Rexona Girl, writes;
“/ have used Rexona Soap for
many years and find it gives
the most satisfaction for my
skin and hair.”
Rexona
Soap
It’s
m'/'/W.
%sm
ZA
m
m
,, NOOSE" , /
C ,f •
( - Lt <L *N0
>e> LS *c
M
fl
1 /-
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes
and mailed to you the day they
are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, Post free to any address
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/- in Australia.
Sr
rx
•'"•wseß
y% ■
f
i
162-166 Pitt StSydney ,
and Cr. George 6 s King Sts.
‘ What a lovely
Gift! ”
“Eighty Years.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A TIME to fear, a fate to dread,
Grey Age no more appears
Since we foregathered yester-night,
Myself and Eighty Years ;
For Eighty Years, without a trace
Of care upon his brow.
Red firelight shining on his face,
Seemed youth-in-age, I vow.
While leaping here and falling there,
The sprite-like fire-gleams played
On wall and door and window-blind,
Good company he made;
With eyes that sparkled youthfully,
And limbs outstretched at rest,
Bright company, fine company,
He made with tale and jest.
What time outside on wintry wings
A wind blew, bleak and cold,
Of other men and other days
Dead men, dead days, he told.
Dead men, dead days, they lived again
Thus summoned from the grave—
Too good for death were days and men
Like them, so blithe, so brave.
He sang the songs they used to sing,
Day done and labors o'er.
Dead droving men, dead roving men,
That roam and sing no more;
And standing, singing, head thrown back,
With every song thus sung
How vital, (lushed with life he seemed.
How radiant and how young!
Songs sung, he told of olden sprees
In homestead, hut and shed,
And danced the steps they used to dance.
These mates of his, long dead —
Danced heel and toe, danced reel and jig,
Feet moving light and free,
As when upon a wind-blown twig
A leaf jigs merrily.
He danced, danced on, with swaying head,
Eyes bright and cheeks aglow.
Till watching him with spell-bound gaze
This truth I came to know—
To know and feel that youth may live
In spite of time and tears ;
A truth brought home to me last night
By hale old Eighty Years.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Mug’s Mate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Sunday morning, and even in
dairy-farming Kilkilla Sunday was dif-
ferent from any other day. The men
did not work in the cultivations or go to
the pig-market, and the younger ones some-
times played tennis between milkings.
Tom Wallace, the bachelor owner of The
Gums, and his workman and friend, Harry
McLean, were smoking on their long-legged
cottage verandah when three horsemen rid-
ing past waved salutations. One of them,
Mick Mellon, hatless, his uncovered hair, over-
due for a cut, waving over his grinning,
freckled face, rode up to the fence. “Bring
out them "orses o' yoorn an' let's show yous
'ow ’orses ought to move they laigs,” he
demanded.
McLean looked questioning!y at his em-
ployer. Wallace was rather an unknown
quantity in Kilkilla, though one of the most
prosperous of dairy-farmers. He did not
repel advances, but in some indefinable way
kept folk from making them. Bather to
McLean’s surprise he responded to Mick’s
good-natured impertinence. “Righto, we’ll
be there as soon as we get the horses.”
“It’s a bob in!” called Mick as lie rode off.
On the wide, winding road were patches
smooth as a lawn, green with paspalum which
had spread from the neighboring farms,
dotted here and there with giant blackbutts
and close-cropped by wandering cattle. On
one of these stretches a number of the farmers
and share-men had found a favorite spot for
a Sunday-morning race.
After the run that morning, which to
everyone’s surprise had been won by Wal-
lace’s Baby, they sat about on their heels or
lay in the shade of a large blackbutt, and
discussed their horses as men (Jo, wherever
men own horses.
From horses the talk drifted to the dengue
epidemic, which then held Queensland in a
fierce grip.
“Say, Wilson,” Mick Mellon interrupted
the talk, “isn’t that your missus?” The men
turned to see a thin, straight-backed woman
riding across the opposite paddock. Wilson
rose promptly and went to meet her.
“It seems a pity you. men can’t find some-
thing better to do on the Sabbath than horse-
racing,” she greeted hum. She was a thin-
lipped woman who always cleaned her stove
on Fridays, hemmed her dusters, and for
six years had had tine same five hairpins to
do her hair. Her husband diffidently ex-
plained: “You couldn’t ’ardly call a bit of
a run like that ’ors& racin’ ” ; but she inter-
rupted : “Mrs. Kelly is very ill —she may die
if she doesn’t get the doctor at once.” And
without waiting to ’give or receive any more
information, she turned her horse and rode
quickly back.
“Mick Mellon, you’re the lightest; take
Baby and don’t spare her!” Wallace gave
the order quickly, much to McLean’s sur-
prise. He did not know that the week be-
fore Wallace had ridden home from the town-
ship behind Mrs. Kelly and had been un-
pleasantly stirred by the tired, hopeless look
of the little woman in the battered sulky who
seemed utterly unable to grapple with the load
of exuberant young Keillys. Wallace had
opened her gate for her as he passed, won-
dering that her husband allowed her to drive
and at the same time carry the shawl-
wrapped bundle which contained the latest
Kelly.
To Wilson’s surprise Wallace turned off
the road with him. “I—I —think I’ll go up
an’ take these few bob; they might be
handy,” he said, holding in his extended
palm the “bobs in” that Baby had won.
Weather-grey, comfor [less, unhomely, the
share-man's four-roomed cottage stood on
its spindly lGgs at the back of the W llson
farm buildings. Under it were children play-
ing and Wilson himself nursing the contents
of the bundle which had stirred YV allace s
sympathy the week before.
Kelly was as surprised as grateful when
Wallace hesitatingly mumbled: “I thought
I'd just call over an' see —well, Baby won
these few bob jus* now, an you might get
somethin’ for the kids —an —an how s she
boldin’, Kelly? I —l’ll send over a few quid
if it's’ any' help till the missus is about
again.”
Before Kelly could more than stammer
out, “Why, it’s very good of you.” Mrs. Wil-
son came to the cottage door. “Here, Kelly!
Give that child to Mr. Wallace and come—
your wife is very ill.”
An instant later a dismayed Wallace was
wondering what to do with the child thrust
into his arms. As a drowning man is sup-
posed to see upon the silver sheet of his
departing consciousness his pictured life in
Hying reverse, so Wallace, who had never
before held so young a human thing in liis
arms, remembered all he had known or heard
of children killed or injured by ignorant
nursing. To rope in a. steer, break in a wild
cow or yard a recalcitrant bull was one of
the ordinary jobs of life. But how to treat
this small soft bundle of humanity and not
damage it beyond repair was a problem which
made him feel suddenly helpless. There
were strange creeping* down his back, a
survival, perhaps, from far-off ancestors who
erected their hair when life presented diffi-
culties. Ilis arms were twitching; he was
breathing as if he had been running. A dis-
turbing row of young Kellys was surveying
him with interest. He felt they knew ho
was a menace to the welfare of their small
brother.
The baby, young as it was, had found this
out- also, and screwed up its _ face and
squirmed violently. Wallace shifted it on
to one arm, and in a voice he hardly knew
and which couldn’t find an exit until a cough
had cleared the way. he endeavored to effect
a compromise with the wronged infant.
“Hello, little fella; hello, little fella,” lie
crooned. He tapped one chubby hand with
a large, rough finger, and to his surprise a
small fist closed round it and held fast.
And then occurred a miracle. He sud-
denly felt comfortable. His voice became the
one he used every day. He no longer waited
in an agony of terror for Kelly to come and
take the child. In the curve of the big arm
Master Kelly lay content, holding the rough
linger, and (Wallace was sure) looking
pleased with the reiterated “little fella, little
fella.” Presently the round blue eyes grew
drowsy, they closed for an instant, then open-
ing looked into the tanned face bent above, as
with a seraphic smile the baby turned his
face to him and nestled into sleep.
“Little fella,” he whispered, “I guess you
think you’ve found a mate!”
Up and down, his arms stiff and aching
with the careful tenseness with which he held
tiie child, he walked over the rough, bare
earth, careful not to trip in gutters worn by
rain and the hooves of cows and horses, and
picking his way among the litter of broken
and discarded dairy, domestic and farm im-
plements.
He marvelled that such an ordinary man
as Kelly should father this wonder-child, and
when finally the parent took it from him,
with what seemed to Wallace almost crimi-
nal carelessness, he mounted Mick Mellon's
horse and rode back home scarcely replying to
the man’s expression of thanks, but repeating
his promise to send over “a few quid."
True to his promise, he sent McLean over
with the money.
“Did you see the little fellow?” he asked.
McLean had returned, and was voluble
about the discomfort of the Kelly men aye.
McLean answered in the affirmative.
“Was he all right?”
“Yes; an’ it’s to be hoped lie keeps all
right. Ilis missus is pretty low !"
“I mean the little chap, the baby.”
“The baby?” McLean turned, the saddle
still in his arms, stared and repeated. “The
baby? It ain't got the dengy. has it?”
“No ; but I thought you might have seen
it. It’s a nice little fella !”
McLean hung up his saddle, making no
reply. He watched Wallace go up the back
steps, heard his tread on the floor above,
then announced to the saddles: "Well. I'll
be damned! I thought he didn't know there
was babies!”
Next morning the man with the cream-
waggon brought the news that little Mrs.
Kelly had finished her work. The tired
hands would ache no more with jobs which
never ended. Kelly had the daily problem
to face by himself.
Wallace was starting the engine, for the
milking-machine when the news came, and
Whistle Breeches, the yard-boy, had just
brought the cows down from the hills through
the grey morning.
“Get off that horse,” Wallace abruptly
ordered the astonished lad. “Milk what you
must,” he spoke to McLean as he vaulted
into the saddle. “Don’t bother about strip-
ping; them that are goin’ off you can leave
till to-night.”
“Wha’s he say. Boss?” A wondering
Whistle Breeches could not understand that
anything short of total incapacity would
allow work to be left undone at The Gums.
“He said." answered McLean with brutal
suddenness, ‘“that if you don’t get to work,
and go like hell, I’m to fire you on the
spot!” lie needed some sort of outlet for
his feelings.
“My Gord!”
Two hours later McLean, in the dairy,
heard Whistle Breeches’s pious ejaculation.
It brought him out to stare where the boy
was staring—at the sight of Wallace coming
down the track, a baby in his arms, Blue
Boy following his master, who was talking
to the bundle, unmindful that his horse’s
reins were trailing on the ground, and not
even caring to look at the two who were
staring from the dairy door.
“Little fella, no one can give you back
your mummie. but you can always count on
your mate,” lie was telling the child in a
soft, shaky growl.
“What arc you going to do with that?”
McLean’s voice was one of awe.
“I'm going to keep him !” Wallace looked
triumphant. The miracle of yesterday had
(Continued on next page.)


"■Cvery picture
Veils a Story'
Ik
Headway
Add This Fact to Your Store
of Knowledge.
Kidney disease often advances so rapidly that many
a person is firmly in its grasp before aware of its
progress. Prompt attention should be given to the
slightest symptom of kidney disorder. If there is a dull pain in the back, headache, dizzy spells, or a
tired, worn-out feeling, or if the kidney secretions are irregular and attended by pain, procure a good
kidney remedy at once. Sydney people recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Read these
statements: —
TWO COMPLETE CURES,
Mrs. Pullbrook, Sour., No. 342 King Street. St. Peters.
Sydney, says: “For six or seven years I was troubled with
weak and disordered kidneys. The chief symptom was back-
ache, and the pain I suffered was awful. When I stooped the
agony in standing up again was almost unbearable, and I often
had to get someone to help me. Nothing I took seemed to
relieve the pain, and I used to wonder if I would* ever be well
again. One day I was urged by a friend to try Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and it was a real friend's advice, for a few
bottles completely cured me. My experience proves that Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine remedy, and I sincerely
trust that other sufferers will benefit by my experience and take
these splendid pills.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Pullbrook says: “I am still a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and would not
like to be without them. They are invaluable to the kidney
sufferer.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. Thomas Duggan, No. 99 Connell's Ihiint Road, Hurst-
ville, Sydney, says: “I am pleased to tell you that Doan's
Backache Kidney Bills have done me the world of good. For
a long time I was so ill with backache and kidney trouble
that 1 was almost a cripple, not being able to move without
enduring positive torture. My limbs swelled very much, show-
ing serious signs of dropsy, and this worried me a good deal.
I tried all kinds of remedies, but they did not benefit me. and
1 was fast losing hope of a cure. One day I happened to hear
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were a splendid remedy
for all kidney ailments, so I got some at once. After taking
them for about a week I began to feel better, and as I per-
severed a steady improvement was noticeable, twelve bottles of
these grand pills fixing me up completely.”
Four years later Mr. Duggan says : ”1 have had no return
of backache and kidney trouble since Doan’s Pills cured me
over four years ago.”
ĵ
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per hottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
remained. He had carried the baby over
his shoulder; he had forgotten that babies
were brittle things which, if you took your
eye off your job, would be injured and
twisted for life.' "I couldn’t leave him there.
Kelly says I can have him."
"The hell he does!" McLean pushed back
his hat from his forehead and wiped his
hot brow with his hand. "Say, M allace,
you are a mug, aren't you?"
"Mrs. Green says she’ll come over and
lend a hand now and again.”
"She’ll jolly well need to !” McLean was
fervent, and returned to the dairy abruptly.
There were things there which he understood.
"Pooh.” observed Whistle Breeches airily.
“There’s nothing in mindin’ a kid. I've
often minded ours when Mum was sick.”
“Can you?” There was almost respectful-
ness in Wallace’s eager question. “Can you
attend to a baby, feed him and —and —all
that?”
“Can I what? Can I feed ’em, an’ change
’em, an’ bath ’em. an’ put 'em to sleep?
Too right, I can ; done it millions o’ times.”
"Well, if you’ll lend a hand with this
one you can shift your bunk up to the
house, an’ you’ll get an extra ten bob as long
as you give him a fair deal."
Whistle Breeches proceeded to live up to
his name. His ample pants flapped about
his thin legs, and he filled the air with a
shrill rendering of “There Is a Tavern in
the Town” which drove McLean to profanity.
Mrs. Green, who failed to see any wonder
in the Kelly baby, grew tired of being
brought over to see that a perfectly well-
cared-for, healthy baby was not threatened
with immediate dissolution each time he
grew bored with the general outlook. She
presented the men —for all were now slaves
of the child —with a weighty volume: "The
Child in Sickness and in Health.” It was
discussed and produced for reference in the
dairy, the cornslied, the milking-yard. It
grew to be a battered, haggard volume.
Meanwhile the baby thrived.
It was a source of amusement to the
neighborhood to watch Wallace with the boy,
to stop as they passed and inquire after "the
new mate," to count and discuss the ever-
arriving parcels in the returning cream-
waggons. The two men. admitting Whistle
Breeches into their councils, held earnest dis-
cussions as to the college he should attend
and what profession he should follow. The
day lie took his first step was one of the
few days that The Gums was a neglected
farm.
Meanwhile Kelly's sister was keeping
house for him. Sin- was a capable, thrifty
woman, who ruled the household with an
orderly sway ; and her visits to her nephew
grew more syid more frequent. She pro-
fessed a devotion to tin' child which Wallace
was glad to share. But suddenly his eyes
were opened as to the thought behind her
devotion when, a farm lower down the creek
coming into the market, lie bought it.
"I suppose.” questioned Kelly, grinning,
"that you will put McLean there when you
and Katie get married?”
“When—me —an' —Katie —get—married?”
Wallace repeated the words with an
amazed pause between each word.
“Well, that's what everyone's sayin'!”
Kelly was suddenly uneasy.
"I'm sorry if folks think that, because
I shan’t marry.” And then, feeling the
occasion demanded further explanation : "You
know, Kelly, there’s —well—there's some-
thin’ ; an' the little fella's all the wife an'
fam’ly I shall ever have.”
Katie Kelly's visits to The Gums abruptly
ceased, and one night while they were weigh-
ing the cream ready for next morning's van
Kelly rode up. Hesitant, ashamed, he told
them that he was giving up share-farming,
that he had a job in Brisbane, and as his
aunt could not bear to be separated from him
he would have to take the child.
"But he's mine ; you gave him to me. You
can't take him from me.” Wallace towered
over the smaller man w r ith a sudden blaze
of furious passion which ended the discus-
sion for the time and sent Kelly home
frightened.
But Katie Kelly was not to be intimidated,
The woman, who felt herself scorned, per-
sisted. Wallace by turns threatened, offered
money. Whatever they asked he would pay.
But the woman, pleased to see the depth of
the wound she had made, was adamant.
There came the last day, when Wallace
held the child tightly by the hand, by turns
carrying him. staring out across the pad-
docks into the wooded hills beyond, seeing
in them nothing of promise, nothing of
beauty. His world was a chaos of broken
dreams.
From the moment he took the child in
front of him for that last ride on Baby.
Wallace settled into a new quiet sternness.
Each year he grew more silent, and spent
his energies in the accumulation of
money ; success attended every venture that
he made. Then came the call to arms,
and with the first Queensland Light Horse
went Wallace and McLean. Whistle
Breeches with his mother and her family
were installed at The Gums.
But the night before they sailed Wallace
and McLean, waiting on the Central Station
for the Enoggera train to take them back to
camp, were accosted by a grinning infantry-
man. Whistle Breeches had run away, and
was now busy explaining: "It’s all right,
Boss! Me mother and the boys will run the
place all right. If yous has got to fight, so
have I.”
Wallace came back a year later, injured in
the head. Whistle Breeches slept in Flan-
ders. McLean, who had married a month
before lie sailed, had not returned from Gal-
lipoli. His widow and a little Mollie were
installed on that lower place, the buying of
which years before had marked the losing
of Wallace’s “mate,” and the title-deeds of
which he had given McLean’s widow, Jean,
on his return.
But the swearing daredevil who had come
back in Wallace’s body seemed to have no-
thing in common with the quiet man. who
had gone so diffidently to Kelly's home,
years before, to find out “‘how she was hold-
in’.” Watching him sometimes Whistle
Breeches's mother, from the verandah of The
Gums, would wipe her eyes on a corner of
her apron. “War does awful things,” she
would say to the boy doing the work that
Whistle Breeches had left.
The only friendship Wallace seemed to
care for was Jean McLean's, and she alone
seemed able to manage him. One morning
she saw him coming up the creek as fast
as Baby's daughter could carry him.
"Anything wrong?” she called as he rode
into the yard.
"Wrong! I should say there was!”
As he hung the bridle reins over the fence
and came up the steps two at a time, she
saw that his eyes were blazing, and he
dragged a newspaper out of his pocket with
trembling hands. He banged it on the
table.
"See that! See what they’ve done to the
little fella ! That dirty blighter of a Reslin !
An’ here I’ve put hundreds in the rotten cow’s
way, I have: and this is what he’s done. I
think I’ll kill him, Jean ! I’m off to Bris-
bane by this train an’ I'm going to twist his
dirty little neck so’s he’ll look at his tail till
he dies.”
"Now. then,” Jean took the paper out of
his hand, and pushed him in a chair. “I
am rather stupid, but if you will tell me
again, slowly, I should like to know who
‘they’ are, and what Reslin has done."
Her words had partly the desired effect.
"I am a blustering brute,” he said, "but it
knocked me over. Here, see! They got my
little fella up before the beak! ‘Francis
Kelly'—that's my little mate. They gave
him to me. an’ then took him away again,
and never let me know any more about him.
They must have brought him up rotten !
There was nothing of that sort about him,
I’ll swear!” His voice was rising.
Jean repressed a smile at the pictured in-
tegrity of an eight-montlis-old child, but she
said: “Well, don’t get in a tangle. What has
Reslin done?”
"It’s all him. the dirty German cow! Had
him working for him, an' set a trap:
marked some coins an' put 'em where lie
could see them. I’m glad the magistrate gave
him hell, and dismissed the case. And let
me tell you, I am going to take it up, just
where the magistrate left off!"
"Now that would be sensible! Go down
and make a good row, so that everyone will
remember the slip the boy has made. And
make a fuss here, so that everyone will know
about it.”
Wallace knew the woman was laughing at
him, but he sensed the underlying kindness
and recognised the wisdom of her words.
“All the same, I'm going down now." he
insisted.
"And then?”
"Then I’m "oing to bring him back home,
where lie belongs. I’m going to make him
forget, and let him understand, that what-
ever it is. it's me an' him for it!”
"That sounds more like sense—if his
people will let him come,”
"Let him come!” his voice rose again.
"I'm goin’ to do what I should ha’ done
years ago if 1 hadn’t been a mug. Going to
fight ’em for him.”
“That’s all right. And now, if you are
going to catch that train, I’ll get you a cup
of tea and off you go.”
As he rode away, lie turned in the saddle
to call: ‘‘You won’t hold it against the little
fellaV He’s straight if he’s treated right;
you'll let Mollie play?”
"Mollie shall be own sister to him.” She
waved him away.
* ** *
"Tell Reslin that Wallace from Kilkilla
wants to see him at once!” he ordered later,
as lie strode into the store of the provision
agent in Roma-street.
Reslin came out with the smile he wore
for his very, best customers. “Ah-ha Mr.
Wallace ! Very glad to see you, I’m sure.”
Seeing the unmistakable scowl with which
Wallace leaned over and inspected the out-
stretched hand his usual flow of eloquence
stopped.
"I’d rather not touch anything of yours!
Y r ou might have it marked!” Wallace looked
at the agent with an expression that made
that worthy remember uncomfortably that
his customer had come back from the war
with head injuries. “If you’ll give me young
Kelly’s address an’ the bill I owe for
that bit o’ seed corn, we’ll call our accounts
closed.”
Reslin, usually a bully, this time did not
argue. He turned to his office, and hastened
to comply with the request. Unchallenged,
Wallace followed him to the door, and pull-
ing a long oat-stem from a sample bundle,
he leaned against the door jamb, and offered
Reslin a general summary of his past, pre-
sent and future, which gave delight to the
office boy, and sent the subject of the horo-
scope in quest of a bracer.
Kelly himself, now 7 looking an old man.
answered Wallace’s knock and at first did
not recognise his visitor.
“Where’s the boy?” Wallace demanded.
"Oh. Mr. Wallace! We are in—a bit o’
trouble like—-Frankie was”——
“I know all about that. Where is he?
lie's cornin' with me. You get me, Kelly?
This time he stays!”
"We done you dirty takin’ him away, Mr.
Wallace, but Katie” —-—
"Where is he?” insisted Wallace, inter-
rupting.
"I'll call him, lie’s in his room ; lie’s broke
up like —he s been a good boy till this. I
married again, Mr. Wallace, an’ his step-
mother didn’t understand how a boy wants a
few ponce for hisself, when lie’s workin’
like.”
"I don’t want to know that; I want the
boy.”
A few moments later, there were steps in
the passage. They halted at the door, then
entered a shamefaced lad. His eyes were
swollen and his cheeks devoid of color, but
he stood nearly level with Wallace, an over-
grown. lanky boy. He put out a hesitating
hand.
Wallace looked for an instant in amaze-
ment, but said no word. Blue eyes looked
silently into grey ones, grown hard and riot-
ous in a world carnage. Then he gripped
the outstretched hand with a grasp of
iron.
"Get your hat and come along, mate! I’ve
been no good to anyone while you’ve been
away.”
LUCIE ANDREWS.


4*d
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4(4.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES S' CIII’KCII. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street. Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. ~ , e »
South Australian Agents: .Messrs. ICU)EH, SMITH & CO., LID, Adelaide, S.A.
BITUMASTIC
(REGISTERED TRADE-MARK)
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
Rust Insurance
The use of ‘Bitumastic” is an effective insurance against
the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than preservation.
Use “Bitumastic” only.
Sold in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD..
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
590-592 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 239-241 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Fanshawe Street, Auckland.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .. .Baldwin & Slattery I’ty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane . .. Gregory & Collins.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
V.
(A
/*k\
Manufactured by
LTD,, Willesdcn Latte, London, ENGLAND.
Remington
Remington.
einmvzQ
L,R. P.
125 CONSECUTIVE
BULL’S-EYES at 200 YARDS
A record that takes some heating
A KEEN EYE, a steady nerve and
PALMA ammunition resulted in
this new world’s record made by Mr.
R. H. McGarity in the National Rifle
Association matches at Camp Perry,
Ohio, on September 19th, 1924.
Bull’s-eye 7.2 inches in diameter, prone
position, using telescopic sights.
E 26
Pull up your score
with PALMA
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Representative G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
WHY
You should take
Beecbam’s Pills
Sold in boxes
1/- and 2 6.
Prompt and pure
Safe and sure
Most efficacious
For all forms of
Indigestion
Bilious Disorders
Sick headaches
Languor
Constipation
General want of tone '
Give satisfaction
MAKE ALL THE
DIFFERENCE.
Whatever car you drive
for best results
fit
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
Mritish-'made and the best in the world.
The plug illustrated is the special Lodge model
for Buicks- Its insulator is Lodge steatite,
a material that is absolutely impervious to oil
or moisture -right through.
Other Lodge plugs equally oil-resisting, for American
engines, are :
Model CT. Model AF. Model SB. Model ST.
regular F taper T lon S fJTtex)
5/6 5- 5/6 5/6
All packed i» sealed, metal boxes and sold by motor dealert
and store* everywhere.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiimimm
m
i
m
Model TB.
i" long
small hex)
For BUICK.
5/6
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, EN ~ LAND.
jj
Dependable
Marine ” J!
3 to 40 H. Pi
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
ĵ
Reduces
Prices
$135.00
to
$1,050.00
F.O B. Detroit
,Mich..U.S. A.
All Parts' Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Matlne Engines are made with the precision ot a watcht
alt narts evenly balanced* eliminating vibration^and_f fiction*
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representatives i
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia), Ltd
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.SJL
Cable Address-KERMATH
harbor tourist trips
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day. 2/6: Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY •* 3 P ‘™AdultB! e */ , 6 r Children, 6d. *
Tels.: 86276 (4 lineß). , e Sydney_Ferries ; _jAd ;


%
m
*
tk
f-
V'j.
m
Vi?
N
m
%
m
%
m
W??',
AC
m
8
fT&,
: m
Si
V)
/a
*C?.A
*
m
<£*
HAROLD
K1 ELSON
HJU
A #fo
<M&P
x
Tke great Northlands of space and solitude make unceasing call upon
endurance of spirit and body get they fascinate. How welcome tkere ,as every
wkere, tke friendly feeling and hardy kealtk
always so lavishly bestowed by
DEWAR'S
j
