

m
£
1
\
'0
))\^2
'U
b*
mi
■Ui
HP
% sT
/ ~^S
-^.sSs-
m
r-v
«
Si
C •’’-
ate
V\
~vj
w-%
a
O^HH
'/
%
€2
p
‘ ’• *>'
a
tft-L "!
i r/
fe
M
mu
tej
a
\-
/ 1
and that and Summer well agree
KuaL
The shimmer of sun on sapphire sea, and the restful green of tree-clad
cliffs .... the rhythmic throb of the engine as it bears you steadily
up the land-locked bay .... a picnic luncheon where the whispering
breeze sweeps across the water .... “and that and Summer well agree.
Then with the meal the additional delight of "K.B."—-the logical beverage for a Summers
day .... As it glistens in your glass-clear amber beneath its 1 naming crest its
inviting sparkle is a promise of real refreshment .... The mellow flavor instantly
appeals—its dietetic properties add nourishment to enjoyment . . . . fool and thirst-quenching
—pure ami satisfying .... “that and Summer well agree." "K.B. is a I rue huger.
TOOTH'S
KB
a true
LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by Toolli tf Co., Limited, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2444,
Thursday, December 16, 1926.
Price 6d.
Roistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE New Library Catalogue is now
x ready and will be forwarded post free, with fur
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
;mmm
1 -
m
•• :■■<
Tit#
Particular Value
OS ISP
and its superiority over all other prepara-
tions lie in its natural action, its fresh,
invigorating, pleasant taste, and in the
fact that ENO assists Nature without
supplanting her methods,
As a safeguard against those digestive
ailments which often beset us —as a blood
purifier—as a gentle corrective for liver
troubles —as an aid to tjiose who are
subject to rheumatism or gout —as a
refreshing thirst-quencher - ENO’s
“Fruit Salt” is unequalled,
All who value health and internal clean
liness should drink a glass of water,
first thing every morning with a dash of
FRUIT salt:
the world-famed effervescent sale
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN
HANDY SIZE - Most
convenient for travellers,
office uae'Ond week-end bag.
TWO
SIZES
HOUSEHOLD SIZE-
Best for family use, th(
most economical size.
Sales Agents The British Harold F. Ritchie 6? Co., Ltd., Sydney, NS.W.
2- cmc^
k POWDER V
ill*
p*m
y* - '
•v •- •
l v
S , V-
m
v.:
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/6 or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
The Stady of Literature
I am sorry to say that I find myself in
complete accord with “Country Ped.’s” (It.P.
:28/10/’2O) view of the Universities and the
teaching of literature. I, too, have been
through the “course,” and hold it as some
sign of grace that I did not take a first-
class.
On general principles I am all for the
abolition of “Literature” as an item in the
regular curricula—at any rate, as we know
it now. Certain elements of the syllabi might
be retained with advantage and the larger
part discarded. For schools I would suggest
as a desirable method (though it should have
as little of “method” as possible) readings
and brief talks. The class should be taken
over from the regular teacher by a specialist
(again, with as little of “specialisation”
about him as is conceivable). The ordinary
schoolroom atmosphere, necessary for general
study, would then be removed from the par-
ticular study to which it is fatal. The read-
ings should be almost indiscriininate—the
business of “selecting" poetry for boys and
girls is dctestal/ic and utterly wrong. Let
the sheep feed where they will. I knew one
boy who went to Swinburne with the most
lively pleasure, and to hear him read aloud
was to know a new value for the most
subtle .rhymes: but when he was “doing”
"King Lear” at; school his opinion of it was
expressed by the gory adjective; yet, pressed,
he admitted that it might have certain merits,
and that he might even discern them, "if
they d only let you cut out notes and things.”
lurn up almost any school Shnkspeare and
you will see bis point; I doubt if even his
genuine love for English poetry survived his
schooldays.
Comment has its value undoubtedly, but
Shakspearcan scholarship is not the desirable
aim at that stage, and if it were, the text-
books would quench ardor with their douches
of dull stupidity. Later the stupidity ceases
to be altogether dull, but our children have to
take it seriously, poor wretches!
All that sort of tiling should go from the
schools, and most of it from the Univer-
sities. The idiocies that are uttered in the
name of scholarship are unbelievable if
they were not known, and their result is
to set up a barrier between the reader
and his author, to prevent that first
necessity of literary appreciation, free, direct
intercourse between the two minds. There
does come a stage when the acquisition of
special knowledge is desirable ; the advanced
student or the thorough reader will feel the
need for the critical commentator; and this
occasional demand seems to be the Univer-
sities’ sole excuse for afflicting all who come.
1 offer no disparagement of intelligent, in-
formed commentary; it is a relish for (lie.
palate that has fasted many fruits; and
there can be few close readers who would not
delight in such a critic as A. C. Bradley,
for instance. But the tendency to make the
academic regard so very much more important
than the simple aesthetic is fatal to both
alike. The first lives in the life of the second,
and where it parasitically devours there it
will starve.
Lecturettes in the school could be of value.
1 hey should be quite informal, though, and
their subjects dictated by the children’s
interest. The* ideal of the speaker should be
to set the author up as a man, understand-
able and unexpurgated.
It is extraordinary how the stray fact or
idea, seemingly irrelevant, can vivify a child’s
mind, or a man’s. I recollect how Keats’s
“Lines on the Mermaid Tavern” awoke me to
the Elizabethans; and liow real the shadowy
Shelley became when I heard of his sitting oil
the floor of an omnibus and calling for stories
of the deaths of kings. Dates and political
opinions are of little value in awakening the
child mind to sympathy and comprehension.
It is the torch of nature —the one touch,
if I may. mix the figure—that lightens the
understanding.
In the school reading there should, of
course, be no hint of examinations or tests:
and I say this as one who, in general, favors
the examination system as a practical
measure.
For the Universities I suggest a similar
system, with suitable extensions, adaptations
and additions. Examinations should go, and
the course should be purely optional, or,
better still, made valueless for the degree-
quotas. The less extrinsic incentive there is,
the more chance for the intrinsic to reveal
and develop itself; and on what way should
art be approached but its own? It is better
for a few to win to love and knowledge than
tor many to acquire facts and a distaste for
it all.
Like “Country Ped,” I have had an inter-
esting opportunity for comparing the Uni
versify student of literature with the outsider,
and perhaps my experience is a little more
valuable as an argument, for it embraced a
number of people of varied social and econo-
mic status. I came from a University lecture
to a Workers’ Educational Association
class. I had been asked to talk about the
development of the novel—a sufficiently
academic subject. The interest of the meni-
bers was a revelation after the thumb-
twiddling of the undergraduates. I was asked
to elaborate the theme, and the one talk
expanded, on invitation, to three. lam quite
certain that my personal ability added not
a jot to their interest: I was young, immature
and inexperienced, and my delivery must have
been hard to follow, Their keenness sprang
lull-armed from a genuine zest for literature
as a living, growing, glorious experience, and
their debate was joyous and ardent. To me it
was a refreshment and—dull as the phrase is
—an inspiration. Yet why wasn’t the same
thing happening at the Arts course lectures’'
Because the minds of the W.E.A. students
wen; untrammelled by a mass of useless, dull
stulf. and, free, from the conditions of an
examination-dominated system, they pranced
over the whole range of their interest. TJiev
Rrew fair; the University people
stunted for the slaughter.
I have, remarked that certain elements
ol tllft University courses should be preserved
as an ordinary subject, and it should be
separate from the genuine literature course
lho old 'term “Grammar” would do. and
literature should enter merely as a provider
of standards and a model of rhetorical recti-
tude. Honors students and specialists will
need their extras, but for the general student
the development of word forms and meanings,
the general survey of the growth and struc-
ture (to use Jasperson’s admirable phrase)
of language, a sufficient tutoring in the read-
ing of Middle English, and a brief, suggestive
(rather than exhaustive) survey of the prin-
cipal literary forms, is sufficient.
Beyond that, let the student go his own
way; it should be fairly obvious that what-
ever the reward/punishment incentive may
do in the way of propelling information into
reluctant minds, it cannot create apprecia-
tion : one never loves under compulsion. Yet
love .and appreciation are the only justifiable
ambitions of the literary pedagogue; unless,
indeed, it is held (and sometimes it seems
as if it were) that the chief value of good
reading is to fit one for writing sales letters
and market reports.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Trotsky’s Youth
I lie debonair Max Kastman in The Portrait
0/ « Youth (Faber arid Gwyer, J.ondon)
tells the story of Leon Trotsky's beginnings
and of the birth of Bolshevism. He does it
gracefully though not profoundly. Ills touch
is light and yet graphic, with the sort of
easy insolence and elegance characteristic of
bis cynical if aesthetic American school.
Kastman edited “The Masses” in a racy
Shavianlike attempt to proletarianise cul-
ture and obversely inoculate light and leading
with the virus of proletarian philosophy. The
war to bits the medium and the
mission. Having since spent some years in
lvussia and mastered the language, lie seeks
to explain Trotsky and the factors which
moulded him. Trotsky co-operates to the
extent pf imparting conscientious informa-
tion, but accepts no responsibility for the
characterisations and valuations.
Trotsky's true name is Bronstein. His
father as a Jewish colonist took up free land
under an edict of the Czars designed to in-
crease the population of southern Russia,
hie got rich working and hiring the peasants
to work with liim” ; he became the most itn-
porta lit man in the place and died five years
ago at So. The son was an infant prodigy
at aeven lie was bis father’s secretary and
book-keeper. Says Kastman :—•
ft would be interesting to understand just why this
happy and healthy-natured child, with his great
power of brain and will, did not rise to a position
of wealth and faultless respectability in Russian
society. Instead, lie crawled, under Russian society,
disrrputable and tike dynamite; and only because
the whole of that society toppled and fell, he rose
to his great position.
At nine, young Trotsky (born 1879) went
h’oin home to school at Odessa, staying with
his aunt Spencer. A queer child, sensitive,
obstreperous, brainy in manner, something
ol: a prince, he liked to excel everybody, and
soon was attacked thus by bis German head-
master : “The first boy in my class is a
moral monster !” His crime was organisation,
lie had organised a scholars’ rebellion. Here
is an illuminating case of instinctive classi-
fication :
Bronstein?’ said the old German. “Do you want
us to take that boy back? Let me tell you that’s
a bad boy. He has all the boys in the school under
bis power. That boy is going to be a dangerous
member of society. AVe don’t want him here.”
Trotsky evaded expulsion and graduated,
and when lie, tvent elsewhere to finish his
course he left behind him “a glow of personal
affection, an intellectual glory which never
entirely died out to this day.”
At 16 he was brought into contact with
Svigotsky, a thoughtful gardener, and Gal-
atsky, a bookseller (in uzarist Russia all
booksellers were radical). Out of this associa-
tion came his renunciation of wealth and
position ; he “accepted a real arid complete
poverty as a part of the choice that he was
making.” Though not yet a Marxist, he was
considerably influenced by Alexandra Lvovna
Sokolovsky, whose Marxism he, however,
combated f or years. So fierce was his love
of debating—tremendous all-night struggles
on-one topic, “What is to be the course
ot the Russian Revolution?”—and yet so
equally intense his apotheosis of action that
lie abandoned liis studies at the University to
give all bis activities to the cause of liberat-
ing Russia from all her oppressors. In 1897,
when 18, he undertook the illegal organisa-
tion of the workers of the factories of
-Nikolaev. In that year the leaders of his
group. 28 of them, were arrested and gaoled
at Odessa, until in 1899 lie and his com-
rades were shipped to Siberia. But, first,
he and Alexandra Lvovna were married,
’not because Trotsky and Alexandra Lvovna
needed the blessings of a church or of the
laws upon their love. It was in order that, as
man and wife, they might be exiled to the
same village. That was the ‘marriage prob-
lem’ for Russian Revolutionists. They were
often married when they were not lovers,
as well as when they were.”
In his banishment Trotsky “plunged head-
long into the life of the literary artist. He
read and studied the literature of the whole
world, tasting its qualities in five different
languages, copying out extracts, estimating,
moulding his own style as he wished to have
it. All night long he would sit up at his
table, writing, re-writing, rejecting, writing
again, until he would have something in
bis hand at dawn that lie could weigh and
believe in. Then Lenin’s paper, Iskka,
reached him. It seemed a summons. Trotskv
effected his escape (1902) with wife and
babies, adopted the name he was to make
famous, joined Lenin, differed from him —later
on he went for some months into the camp
of the Mensheviks—worked for revolution
and at 26, in the year 1905. at the head of
the St. Petersburg Soviet, “spoke with an
authority in Russia exceeding that of the
Czar.
Chronological sequence thus epitomised,
there remains for notice much of special
.utti activeness in this romantically-realistic
Work almost as full of good dialogue as is a
good novel. There is a scene in which a traitor
is exposed ; it is as breathless as a throat-
{Continued on page S .)


w aae
Men Appreciate the Practical Gift
Choose Yours from the Wonderful Selection
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Men’s Bath Gowns
*
Ksr
I
Wliat man would not welcome a
Bathgown at the festive season?
Illustrated is one that, would be
sure to please. Made from‘a
heavy-quali'ty Bath Robing, and
shown in a range of attractive
jacopiard designs. Has patch
pockets and cord at */
waist. Price ■
Other designs:
55/-, 57/6, 72/6
Men’s Garters.
Garters —
useful and
most ae-
c e p table
Made o f
a stron s'-
w earing
wide web.
In a range
vbvn
of bright colors.
Price, pair
Others: 1/9, 3/3,
2/6
4/3
(Mercery—^Ground Floor.)
f
h .
£3
1
'US
m
*'£'s*l
ZA:
m&*A
■?m
PRESENTS HE WILL WELCOME.
19/6
Striped Fuji Silk Shirts. Made by
Anthony Horderns’ from a reliable
wearing quality all-silk Fuji. De-
signed with Y-cased front, double cuffs
and detached collar to match. In
a splendid range of newest o-j /
designs and colors. Price,
In Plain Natural Fuji Silk.
Price . •
White Linen Handkerchiefs—
Prices: 1/6, 1/9, 2/-, 2/3, 2/9 each
In fancy boxes of half dozen. Prices,
8/6, 10/-, 11/4, 12/10, 15/8 per box.
Best Quality jHandkerchiefs, 17//6
half doz.
With initial letter in corner, 2/6 each,
14/3 half doz.
Colored Silk Handkerchiefs —popular
with every man. This attractive handker-
chief is of French Crepe de Chine. There
are many designs to choose from. £!/££
Price, each
Also with tie to match 10/6
Half Hose. No man can have too
great a supply of Half Hose. “Hole-
proof” is always favored. In a range
of exclusive checks. Price,
pair 3/
In Silk and Wool with side
stripes. Price, pair 4' 1 1
Smart Broadway Ties, are shown
in a range that is certainly
exclusive and distinctive. All latest
effects are displayed, including many
featuring the favored multi A/ *2
colors. Price 4/
Others: 4/11, 5/9, 7/6
Walking Stick. A handsome Walk-
ing Stick in Polished Australian
Blackwood. Unmounted. -* ■* /g»
Price H O
With silver collar. i- /n
Price 13/0
Clift' Links. A thoughtful and most
acceptable gift. Oct. Gold
fronts. Price, pair 5/ O
Others: 6/6, 7/6, 8/9, 9/6
B
%
IBP*
JAPARA AUTO TENT.
For the Motorist who camps out, this Japara
Auto Tent is ideal.. It is the lightest rainproof
tent procurable, weighing (with ropes) approxi-
mately 121 b. It is easily handled, and can be
pitched in a few minutes, making a tent large
enough for four stretchers. The car is separated
froth the sleeping compartment, and the walls taper
to 3ft. din. in height. Ready for pitching, with four
poles (3ft. din. long), and 12 galvanised- £»q /r* /
iron pegs. Price, complete X 5 3/ “
(Manchester —First Floor.)
Serviceable Gifts.
(' X 494 — Valet Auto Strop
Safety Razor, complete in
Leather or Nickel-plated case,
with 12 blades and ofi/
Velvet Hide Strop, -
Valet Razor Blades, 5 for 37-
Valet Strops 3/6
(Safety Razors —First Floor.)
Quality AX — -Serviceable Kit
Bag, iii cowhide, with top lock,
ring and clips, lined canvas.
12 14 16 18 20 in.
14/0 17/0 19/0 22/0 25/-
Quality BX —Superior quality
nickelled side locks and clips,
lined canvas.
Sizes 14 16 18 20 in.
Price, 19/0 22/0 25/- 27/0
*•
g*»?;?53L
NS fl
“The Grosvenor” Brush
Cases, containing two Gentle-
men’s Hair Brushes, Clothes
Brush, Comb and Mirror, in
Hide and Fancy •%e\/
Leather. Price oil -
Others at:
86/-, 42/-, 50/-, 557-
Military Brush Cases, in Solid
Tan Leather .Case, containing
two good Brushes, with ebon iked
backs.
Prices:
12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 217-
Real Ebony Backs—
Prices 25/-, 30/-, 33/-
(Travel Goods —Ground Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


Luxurious Comfort
Amazing Performance
Complete and easy mastery over tremendous actual
power, with all the sense of satisfaction that state of
mind affords-*-this is the feeling of drivers who own
and operate the Willys-Knight Great Six 7-passenger
touring . ..
The smooth and silent flexibility of the modemly-engi-
neered Knight sleeve-valve motor, the only motor-car
engine in the world that actually improves with use—
cñn
lighting control with-
in easy finger-reach,
directly under steer-
ing wheel, gives great-
est degree of safety in
night driving with
least possible' per-
sonal effort.
the definite assurance that it is al-
ways ready, without attention or
bothersome adjustments, to deliver
its full measure of performance—
take away all the usual conscious-
ness of a mechanical power-plant
under the hood . • •
Its wide range of speed, its unfail-
ing high-gear power on hills, in
deep sand and mud, its amazingly
quick acceleration eliminate the
usual impulse to change gears with
every change in traffic condition 01
road demand • • •
The easy operation of the highly developed 4-wheel
brakes brings a feeling of comfortable security in
crowded streets or on the high-
ways. • •
When to its extraordinary engine-
efficiency, excelled by no other
motor-car engine in the world, are
added the most modem chassis
construction and such exquisite
beauty and luxury as are present in
the Willys-Knight Great Six 7-pas-
senger touring—here you have
motor-car excellence of the highest
order—you have a driving and rid-
ing comfort such as you will find
only in the world’s finest and cost-
liest cars.
vcbv
Ingeniously located
under left front head-
lamp is a very useful
ditch-light, for road
safety, when the dim-
mers are on. Another
invaluable feature of-
fered in this Great Six*
In fairness to yourself see this modem touring car. We
invite you also to see other models of the Willys-Knight
including the 7-passenger Sedan with glass partitions
the rear compartment may be completely separated
from the driver. A ride will give you new ideas of
motor-car comfort and performance.
WILLYS-KNIGHT
Great SIX
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE*
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., LAUNCESTON, HOBART and DEVONPORT.
WILLYS
OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS
. n


s/ jyy a
/ ■'
Mi
ass
0;#:g:-....
.•r&Xfe-O
»
-. :■■
HSSSi;!?:;
mm
"•v H ,
■xs-x-
-x
Your Holiday Attire
The Sports Coat —this one correct in every
detail, is tailored from popular English all-wool
materials, features half belt at back and has four
patch pockets. In fawns, greys and browns. 6 37-
Others at prices .. 42/-, 55/-, 70/-, 75/-
Popular Grey Flannels to wear with the coat are
also correct and tailored from reliable material.
Priced at 21/-, 32/-, 35/-
DAVID JONES’
gripping situation on the stage. The
opinions of young Trotsky on certain eminent
men are decidedU “different.'' For instance,
he thinks Nietzsche is only to be explained
by examining the social soil that produced
him—that soil is rotten, malignant and in-
fected. Gorky, on the other hand, repre-
sents the revolt against society, not the
revolt of the proletariat within it. In prison
Trotsky became a Marxist. Strangely
enough, Darwin made him take the leap.
“Darwin destroyed the last of my ideologi-
cal prejudices.” Again “Darwin stood to
me like a mighty doorkeeper at the entrance
to the temple of the Universe.”
The intellectual contests recorded in this
biography show that the sustained argument
between Trotsky and Alexandra Lvovna (she
was by six years the elder) forced the for-
mer’s mental clarification and made him a
formidable controversialist with Lenin when
Lenin’s great psychological contribution to
the science of revolution —dynamic deeds
rather than ideas—was splitting the ranks.
There is instructive aid to understanding
things in the author’s short surveys of other
notable party discussions — e.g., whether the
party should explicitly advocate a political
struggle for the overthrow of the Czar, or
confine its attention to the economic struggle
of the workers, and whether the party should
be centralised or a federated organisation.
One other world wide conflict is revealingly
displayed—the conflict between parents and
boy in the effort to make the latter ornamen-
tal, steady and altogether bourgeois. Eastman
mentions that in Trotsky’s life “there were
enough romances to occupy a really conscien-
tious biographer for several chapters.” He
contents himself with chronicling that after
escaping from Siberia, Trotsky fell in love
with Natalia Ivanovna, who is the mother
ot his sons, his daily companion and his
dearest friend; but Mrs. Bronstein is also
his friend.
It is recorded that Trotsky’s books are read
by every lively-minded man in Russia. “His
prose style is a thing of individual beauty
and unusual force.” His literary income is
turned over to the party. He lives to-day as
simply as he has always lived. Many, says
Eastman, consider him the greatest orator
of our time. Ilis voice; is “deep, but it is
not a big liquid sound like Chaliapin’s—there
is an electric crackle in it.” His selfless
devotion, reckless courage and self-discipline
win the praises of our author, who ends
wondering that a mind so brilliant can be
so wise. Lest there be any alarm over it,
the publishers make the announcement that
they “do not associate themselves with the
author’s attitude.”
R. S. ROSS.
The Life of “Bellerive”
The second and final instalment of “The
Story of My Life,” by the poet of the Corres-
pondence Column :
STRANDED IN LAUNCESTON.
Making swings for cages, I carried on a small trade,
But ’twas tedious work, and results barely paid.
To Launceston city in autumn I sailed
To tour as a busker, at which I failed.
Banned by the police, and hunted about,
Sadly left me stranded and down and out,
When a kind acrobat acquainted with me,
To board the Loongana paid my voyage fee.
A NIGHT OUT UPON THE BANKS OF
THE TAMAR.
Upon the banks of the Tamar River
As the winds of autumn did sigh,
Out in the cold, bitter night,
Under the starry sky,
Deprived of God’s privilege to man;
Hunted by police on their beats;
Homeless, hungry and weak,
Banned from the city streets!
Wearily the hours wore on;
White mists o’er the waters arose,
Which into my very bones
Did soak through my shoddy clothes.
As a craft on an outward trip
Sped past for the open foam,
Stirred by its splashing sound,
I would ’twere bearing me home.
Crouched on the quivering grass,
As the winds of autumn did sigh,
Out in the deepening night,
Under the starry sky!
BACK IN MELBOURNE.
I arrived in Melbourne, run down and thin.
At my parents’ home put the winter in.
I occupied a back room for my literary den,
Which I’d enter at dusk to move the pen.
While scampering mice did squeak and play,
Scribbling, I’d pass spare hours away.
A spark of hope, like a waning fire,
If left unfanned will darkly expire.
In the midst of trials I’d endeavor to rhyme,
Dispel dull care and trust to time.
THE DEATH OF MY FATHER.
’Twas on the tenth of August,
At the setting of the sun,
When my father dear expired
At the age of ninety-one.
The exit of a pioneer,
Who vividly could unfold
Stirring recollections of
The roaring days of gold.
Conscious to the very last,
His honest life did close;
My friend and just employer
Lay hushed in death’s repose.
OUR COTTAGE HOME AT ST. KILDA.
An industrious occupation I did follow day by day.
By night I’d pen my verses in a more contented way.
I built no castles in the air of a mansion and a car.
I courted inspiration from things just as they are,
Save upon occasions ’twas my hobby for to rhyme,
And addeth to the samples I’d written in spare time.
Mild recreation’s healthy, the doctors wisely teach ;
My wife and I in summer would stroll along the
beach.
Situated was our cottage near the wide and breezy
foam,
And I wrote a lot of verses in the old-fashioned home.
When my occupation ended for a job I looked around,
And took up beating carpets on a vacant piece of
ground.
I’d a living to consider and was not a man to shirk;
Though adapted for a poet, from youth I had to
work.
The accordion and concertina of my old busking reign
Upon a shelf I hoarded should I need their use again.
Pride won’t raise a dinner when empty is the purse;
I’d try the same game over had things came to the
REMOVAL.
When the cottage we lived in for a good price was
sold
We rented a dwelling more shabby and old.
Bright, up-to-date houses were hard to obtain;
The rookery was close to tram and train.
After laborious scrubbing our oilcloth we laid.
And we were more satisfied —a week’s rent we’d paid.
And I did proudly retort, which made the wife laugh :
“Clean as a tramp after a Turkish bath.”
CANVASSING.
To fill in spare days with an ointment for cattle
At dairies and stables I did cheerfully battle.
The ointment was good, and I did fairly well,
Made a good profit on each box I did sell.
When the maker sold out —which is always the same
Nine times out of ten in even,' game.
Betwixt hope and struggle a man’s lot is weighed
When facing the brunt without a trade.
BATTLING ON.
I obtained a situation, and very heavy was the
work —-
Tough duties for a poet, but your humble didn’t
shirk.
Though wearied of an evening within my little den,
My dogs a-nestled round me, I’d dip my common pen.
Many saileth smoothly, and many souls are hurled;
For actors, not the supers, is the glory of the world.
Only one of thousands that trials have knocked about,
Whate’er the span before me, I trust to live it out.
Dogs are my companions; my wife is fond and true;
Before my task is finished I’ve a lot of work to do.
Time brings many changes; no matter what betide,
While my eyes retain a glimmer I’ll not lay the
pen aside.
I’ve slaved to earn a living, no old friend can deny,
And received my education as a humble passer-by.
The Rudd Family
In discussing Australian literature it has
become the fashion of late years to deride
the Rudds. Mr. Davis’s work is “vulgar
caricature,” “mere buffoonery” and the like.
“W.N.L.” (R.P. 28/10/’26) calls the family
“uneducated vulgarians.” The Rudds were
uneducated, certainly. Why not? As
pioneers they had not the facilities for
acquiring education that people in their
remote locality doubtless possess to-day.
That being so, would their creator have been
justified in fastening to them a charming cul-
ture, thus damning his work with unreality?
His own good judgment prevented this. In-
stead, in “On Our Selection” and “Our New
Selection,” using humor and the lucid, sen-
sible English that remains refreshing, he
limned a type—a wholesome, worthy type—
of bushfolk quite as faithfully as the beloved
Lawson drew his nomads. The Rudds were
not manufactured from material gathered in
a city literary clique, nor diligently
fashioned from characters in other books.
They were people Steele Rudd knew inti-
mately and affectionately.
Thirty years ago and more, Dad, Mum.
the youngsters and their relations were to
be found wherever poverty-stricken selectors
battled out back. With rare perception ami
skill Arthur Iloey Davis made them live
in print. Unerringly he painted their sur-
roundings, and just as unerringly captured
the correct “atmosphere”—that elusive quality
that docs not come automatically with the
mere mention of place-names. He made his
characters laugh at themselves and exaggerated
a little —far less than is commonly supposed.
These were the correct methods. No people
in the world are readier to make a jest of
evil circumstance and to humorously exag-
gerate their failings than the real Australian
bush-dwellers. It was no literary crime,
surely, to cloak the hardship, failure and
occasional tragedy of selectors’ lives with
a mantle of cheerfulness since those people
did—and are still doing—the same thing
themselves. But the two “Selection” books
are never “heartless.” Under all the laugh-
ter there runs a vein of pathos for those who
have “been there.”
Mr. Davis did not—thank goodness!—
assume a highbrow pose of superior aloof-
ness in chronicling the family’s life. He
wrote unashamedly as one of them. And
his efforts were successful —so successful
that the whole understanding Bush rose to
acclaim him. Had he chosen the aloof
course, made good pld Dad and the rest
beings of gloom and morbidity, largely mis-
laid the verb, and introduced a pornographic
streak, he would probably be reverently
labelled great to-day by the intelligentsia.
His crime seems to be that he gave us as
they were the bush settlers whose gallant
battling made things easier for those who
followed in their wake. It is significant
that his work is still regarded as true to
life out there.
C. H. WINTER.
A Satchel of Books
The Happy Heriots, by Lilian Turner (Ward,
Lock). Parents who still attempt to keep their
girls in the old home atmosphere of domestic inter-
ests and affections will find them all wrapped up
in what should be the lavender covers of this
pleasant, simple book.
Cut-outs, by G. F. Scotson-Clark (Werner Laurie).
This happy idea in children’s books takes the form
of a group of shadow pictures ranging from Charlie
Chaplin to Mr. Pickwick. It is the revival of an
old form of entertainment which will have the
novelty of a new one to the present generation.
Sybil, or the Two Nations, by Benjamin Disraeli
(Oxford University Press). Republished as a ■"'olume
in the handy pocket series of “The World’s Classics.”
The keynote, it is suggested in a prefaetory note,
may be found in Disraeli’s aphorism, as true to-day
as it was in 1845: “It is not so much to the action
of laws as to the influence of manners that we must
look.”
An Arcadian Calendar, by Marcus Woodward
(Geoffrey Bles). The author of “Country Con-
tentments” knows nearly all there is to be known
about the green fields, the woodlands, the hedgerows
and gardens, with the birds and field creatures, of the
Old Country. The hook will recall pleasant hours
in the old home to many a one' in the new.
The Temple of Truth, by Arthur Craven (Watts).
“What is truth?” The author will satisfy neither
the story-reader nor the diligent seeker after absolute
verity. It may be granted that truth is “the
only sane and sure avenue to just conduct and
human felicity” ; but has Mr. Craven really caught
the will-o’-the-wisp? It has dodged the world for
many centuries, and the efforts of this author do
not suggest its capture.
England and New Zealand, by A. H. Harrop
(Methuen). The task of compiling Maoriland’s
historical records was entrusted to Dr. McNab and they
were carried by him to the threshold of the British
colonisation of the islands. The author of this
volume has picked up the record at the point of
rupture. So far as possible he has made use of
those sources of information which are not available
in the Dominion itself and concentrated on aspects
of the historical story which hitherto have received
little attention. He has delved into official records,
the volumes of correspondence, etc., of the New
Zealand Company, contemporary newspapers and
magazines, and from these and other sources compiled
a book which, within a limited space, gives a good
general view of Maoriland history from Tasman to
the Taranaki War. An introduction is supplied by
Lord Jellicoe.
The Queen of Roumania’s Fairy Book (Fisher
Unwin). Since Andrew Lang passed, our only
sporadic out-crops of this class of literature have
appeared, and of these the bulk has come to light
through the present publishers. In this volume of
tales from a land more associated with violent
factions than beneficent fairies, the material is so
new and the style so attractive, plus pictures, colored
and plain, that there is little doubt of its popu-
larity among the fortunate young folk whose parents
have well-filled pockets.
A Selection of the Principal Voyages, Traffiques
and Discoveries of the English Ration, by Richard
Hakluyt (1552-1616), Set out with Many Imbellish-
ments and a Preface, by Laurence Irving (Heine-
mann). “I often wonder why children in this country
from eight to eighteen years old are so examination-
ridden that all interest in English history and
English classics, such as ‘Hakluyt’s Voyages,’ is
invariably nipped in the bud.” Plenty of Aus-
tralians wonder in the same way about education
in this country. This book is beautifully printed,
illustrated with exquisite woodcuts and line draw-
ings and includes the most famous voyages of Francis
Drake, the Third Troublesome Voyage of M. John
Hawkins, the even more troublesome voyage of the
“Spanish Huge Armada,” together with the “wofull
and miserable successe of the same” ; and much other
truth stranger than any fiction.
hie of Escape, by Jack McLaren (Fisher Unwin).
“Our island, David -ours,” said Stella softly. “It
was a beautiful island. It was an oasis in the
desert of the sea. Flat and completely circular, it
was a cameo on the breast of the world. Clreen
was its color —the sunlit green of palms, which is
like no other green ; and the greenness ended in a
beach which was as white selvedge to the blue
of the lagoon.” To this “Isle of Escape” came
David and Stella. The latter had eloped with
her lover from an incompatible husband to whom
she had become mated through the stress of poverty.
How between the lovers came Moira, the half-caste
daughter of a pearler whose schooner was anchored
off the island, is the dramatic motive of a story
full of interest. That McLaren’s local color is
true to life goes without saying, but his dramatic
quality is no less marked.
The Making of a Cricketer, by Eric P. Barbour,
M.B. (Sydney and Melbourne Publishing Co.). The
author, a member of the N.S.W. XI from 1908 to
1914, has produced an interesting book, admirably
illustrated. Occasionally his discursiveness runs
away with him and he ventilates some amazing
theories. In a concluding chapter on “Professional-
ism” lie discovers the reason why England, the home
of cricket, with its population of 40 millions, is
barely able to hold its own with Australia (six
millions) in international contests. It is briefly that
“first-class cricket in England is limited to two
classes —those who do not require to work for a
living and those who make cricket their living” ;
hence England, with its whole “middle class” ex-
cluded from county cricket, has really no bigger field
to draw from than Australia. One wonders how the
writer would account for the fact that South Africa,
with barely a million and a half whites, is not far
behind either. The biggest part, in the development
of cricket is that played by climate; the assumption
that English county teams are made up of wealthy
men and professionals is nonsense.
The Principles of Immunity in Tuberculosis, by
W. Camac Wilkinson (Nisbet). The late lecturer in
pathology and medicine at Sydney Uni. has written
this book as a sequel to his Parkes-Weber prize
essay. “I welcome this opportunity,” he remarks,
“of again remembering gratefully the loyal trust
and help given to me in my pioneer work in a
strange country. The memory of that trust ana
interest in the' work of a stranger from a distant
part of the Empire is a very precious possession, ana
I would humbly dedicate this book to those who
never faltered in their faith and still believe in this
new system, which hails from Australia.’ Ihe
writer 'approaches his subject from the viewpoint or
the biologist. Every infectious disease he holds to
be a biological problem having its own problem oi
immunity, and tuberculosis is not an exeeption.
“For nearly 34 years,” says the Doctor, 1 have
been trying to think of, and visualise, the processes
of immunity in tuberculosis in a biological sense,
and I shall' continue to do so, because in no other
way can we fathom the mysteries of immunity in
tuberculosis, and in no other way can we solve the
early diagnosis and the ideal treatment of this
elusive disease.” Whatever conflict of opinion there
jnav be in medical circles as to the author s
approach to his subject, there can be no hesitation
in pronouncing this volume to be a valuable addition
to the literature on this insidious menace to health
and life.
Elysia, by Albert Luc (Watts). The author sub
mits a new philosophy of happiness. His chiet
purpose is “to mitigate the modern feverish anxiety
for pleasure and happiness—the fretful fear that some
great happiness may be lost hv a trifling accident,
that others are happier than we are, or that irritat-
ing obstacles stand jn the road to our Elysium.
Happiness is not a thing to be striven for, “but a
condition of mind inevitable at times to all those
who are capable of feeling misery ; and, further,
it is directly proportional to the pain and misery
that have been experienced.” The quest of enduring
happiness is a quest of the non-existent. The sum
total of Mr. Luc’s philosophy is that it is not m
mortals to command happiness, so the wise man
does not worry about it but gets on with his work.
Your Old liattalion, by Henry Weston Pryce
(“Gunner 379”) (Cornstalk Pub. Co., Sydney).
Here, collected, are the authentic verses of the
Digger. Prvce has been through it all, and tells
us in fitting phrase and with a grim and poignant
reality the humors and the horrors of the war. It
is a fine and splendid figure that he paints, the
Australian soldier who did his whack manfully, but
wondered often why :
“Could Homer walk this hill and heap
The song of cannon high and clear,
The roar of caissons jolting past,
The hiss of bullets, and the blast
Of shrapnel over yonder trees. ...
I wonder would he sing of these?
Could Homer see this field, and spy
The walking wounded reeling by,
With wet, rod wounds and faces grey,
Each helping each along the way— ■
If he could see these broken men,
I wonder would he sing again ?”
There are vignettes that reveal the thoughts and
feelings of the grim-faced Digger; and throughout
there is a stark veracity in his excellent verse.
“Gunner 379” was an unofficial “eye-witness” of
souls:—
“But here one sees the souls of men from cant and
creed win frße,
Here Christ with eyes and cap of steel is known
to such as need....
In your dark hour you’ll find Him there; although
your eyes but see
A comrade with a cigarette, stooping to give God-
speed.”
Pryce’s phrasing is powerful and vivid:—
“Sick in the sickened Heaven
The sun sinks down to the mire:
And the dead man sprawls in the crater
And grins at his mate on the wire.”
The volume is leavened with many a gracious picture
of peace and the yearning for home—and if the
tinge of bitterness intrudes, surely it can be forgiven!


Standard Six
DeLuxe Sedan
£565
Ill
e=
AH
rv\
V"
<S f
\
iS
O
£.
<o
Q
o*
-A-r
'/5
7*
KB-753X
The Distinction
You Want
at a Price
You Are Willing
To Pay
THE Studebaker Standard Six
Deluxe Sedan embodies all
the distinctive beauty of the
master creators of fine coach-work
and satisfies the utmost longing
for motoring luxury.
It has a low-hung steel body,
finished in colorful lacquers—
mohair upholstery —wide win-
dows and the complete equipment
of a costly special-built car.
Under the bonnet is the Stude-
baker L-head motor —a marvel of
quiet power. Disc wheels and
four-wheel brakes contribute to its
perfection of performance. Stude-
baker’s One-Profit facilities bring
you this deluxe car at the price
of an ordinary car.
PRICES OF STUDEBAKER CARS.
STANDARD SIX MODELS.
Folding Hood Roadster £398
Duplex Hood Roadster £420
Sport Roadster £475
Folding Hood Tourer ' £405
Duplex Hood Tourer £425
Country Club Coupe £545
Victoria £565
Customs Sedan £585
120 in. WHEELBASE BIG SIX MODELS.
Duplex Hood Roadster £5BO
Folding Hood Sport Roadster £6lO
Folding Hood Tourer £6lO
Duplex Hood Tourer £620
Customs Victoria £690
Customs Brougham £715
127 in. WHEELBASE BIG SIX MODELS.
Folding Hood Tourer £685
Duplex Hood Tourer £695
“President” Sedan £865
Australian and New Zealand Distributors :
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Branch at Newcastle.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUN'CAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
BUILDERS OF QUA
T
VEHICLES FOR 7 4 YEARS
y^===°^


BATTERY
SATISFACTION
D.T.G. and
D.F.G.Type.
C.Z. Type.
W.H.Type,
Battery §atisfaction sums up in two words just how satisfactory reception
can be assured. And battery satisfaction means
xi
“Long-Life” Battery
No matter how small or how large your set, there is an “Exide” Type of
Battery that will give you that satisfactory service—in volume and clarity
—that you have been wishing for.
Only Need Recharging Once Every Six Months.
This is a feature of the NEW EXIDE WIRELESS HIGH TENSION “W.H.”
and “W.J.” Type Batteries—and a feature that must appeal to all wireless
enthusiasts, because it means satisfactory reception day after day without
worry of constant recharging. The W.H. Type is made up in 1 2-cell units
(thus giving 24 volts per battery), and has a capacity of 5000 milli-ampere
hours. The “W.J.” Type has a capacity of 2500 milli-ampere hours, made up
in 20-volt units (with mid-point connection that allows of 1 0-volt tappings) ;
measurements, 2§in. wide, s|in. high x 1 3-fin. long and weighs 841 b.
(including acid). 3oth are in moulded glass containers, so that every plate
can be readily inspected.
“EXIDE” D.T.G. and D.F.G. Types.
Of special design to supply small currents at low discharge rates suitable for
dull emitter work and immeasurably superior to dry cells from a point of view
of both efficiency and economy. Supplied in moulded glass box with sealed-
in” lid to prevent evaporation. Only need recharging once every six months.
“EXIDE” C.Z. Type (Celluloid).
Suitable for all low tension work. This type of battery is constructed in
separate 2-volt celluloid cells, which insure exceptional durability. Convenient
to handle and highly satisfactory in service. Series C.Z.2, C.Z.3, C.Z.4,
C.Z.5, C.Z.6.
Ask Your Radio Dealer to Demonstrate
“EXIDE” to You.
Australian Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.,
472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


This Prospectus is issued for information only, the whole of
the Preference Shares offered herein having been subscribed for.
PROSPECTUS (Abridged)
OF
THE GOODYEAR TYRE & RUBBER CO.
(Australia) LIMITED.
(TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 1899-1918.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - - £1,200,000
DIVIDED INTO 1,200,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
Consisting of
300,000 8% Cumulative Preference Shares
900,000 Ordinary Shares
.. £300,000
.. 900,000
£1,200,000
Of which
300,000 8% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each are offered for public
subscription at par.
500,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each will be subscribed for at par by The
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Company of Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.,
and paid up in cash.
Leaving
400,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each to be held in reserve.
1,200,000
Directors:
JAMES KELL, ESQ., of Sydney {Chairman).
(Retiring Governor of The Commonwealth Bank of Australia.)
PAUL W. LITCHFIELD, ESQ., of Akron, Ohio, U.S.A. WILLIAM G. EITHER, ESQ., of 184-190 Day Street, Sydney.
(President of The Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.) (Managing Director of The Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co. of Australasia
Limited.)
Solicitors:
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY, 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
SMITH, JOHNSON & CO., 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
FLACK & FLACK, 128 William Street, Melbourne.
Brokers:
TITMUS & QUINAN, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bankers:
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Registered Office:
184-190 Day Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Parent Company’s business was started in the United States of
America twenty-eight years ago to manufacture Tyres, Tubes and other
Rubber Goods. It has built up an enormous trade in these and subsidiary-
products, and is now the largest manufacturer of Automobile Tyres in
the world. In 1915 it formed a subsidiary Company in Australia (known
as The Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Company of Australasia Limited) for
the purpose of supplying the Australian demand for the products manu-
factured by it in America,, and during the intervening eleven years a very
considerable trade has been built up.
Notwithstanding the disabilities arising from the heavy import duty
and charges on “Goodyear” Products and the fact that the latter have
recently been sold at prices considerably above those of the Australian-
made article, the sales show steady expansion and during the past twelve
months exceeded £750,000. The benefit of the connection with traders
established during the past eleven years will be passed on to the proposed
new Company, so that there will be no break in the continuity of operations,
and the new Company starts off with an assured annual turnover of large
amount which it is confidently anticipated will be greatly increased when
the Australian product is available.
The Company, recognising the Commonwealth Government’s well-
defined tariff policy and in order to satisfy a growing demand for “Good-
year” Products, has decided to undertake the manufacture of “Goodyear”
Automobile Tyres, Tubes and other rubber goods in Australia. The present
Company is therefore about to be formed for the purpose of purchasing
from the Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Company of Australasia Limited the
whole of its business in Australia, including Stocks, Plant, Office Furniture,
Fittings, etc. An option has been secured over an extensive block of land
covering approximately twenty acres at Granville, fifteen miles from Sydney,
with a frontage to the Parramatta River and having railroad and tram
connections as well as a splendid main road to Sydney. Plans are now
being prepared for the erection of an up-to-date Factory equipped with
the most modern Machinery designed for the manufacture of Automobile
Tyres, Tubes and other Rubber Products.
It is estimated that the Plant will be operating in about twelve months
and in the meantime the Company will continue its present trade in Tyres,
etc., imported from the United States and Canada.
So that the Preference Shareholders may be amply assured of their
Dividends during the initial stages of the Company’s manufacturing opera-
tions, the Parent Company (The Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Company of
Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.) has agreed to enter into a Contract GUARANTEEING
the Dividends of the Preference Shares for the two years up to Ist January,
1929,
In view of this proposed guarantee it is of considerable interest to
Preference Shareholders to learn the financial position of the Parent
Company; in this connection a copy of its last yearly issued Balance
Sheet prepared as at 31st December, 1925, certified by Messrs. Price, Water-
house & Co., Public Accountants, of New York, as Auditors, has been
presented to Messrs. Smith, Johnson & Co., and by them summarised and
converted from Dollars into Sterling at an exchange rate of 4.86 (shillings
and pence being omitted). This summary is submitted herewith:—
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY (OF AKRON, OHIO, U.S.A.).
(Consolidated with Principal Selling Companies, The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Company, Inc., and The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Export Company.)
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1925.
LIABILITIES
Capital Stock—
Paid up
Funded Debts—
Gold Bonds, Debenture Bonds, etc
Current Liabilities—
Including accrued Interest and Reserve for
Current Federal Income Taxes
Reserves—
For Contingencies and Federal
Taxes £791,553
Special Raw Material Reserve ... 1,543,210
Surplus on Profit and Loss Account
£16,685,103
12,256,893
2,177,501
2,334,763
6,306,444
£39,760,704
ASSETS
Property Accounts—
Lands, Buildings, Machinery, Rubber Plan-
tations, etc. ( Less Depreciation)
Investments in and Advances to Subsidiary
Companies and Foreign Branches
Investment in Company’s Securities, includ-
ing Debenture Bonds purchased and
Cash deposited with Trustee in antici-
pation of Sinking Fund Requirements....
Current Assets—
Stocks, Book Debts, Bills Receivable
{less reserves ) £10,810,949
Cash in Bank and on hand 3,240,753
Other Assets—
Including special account and A.C. &
Y.R.R. Co. and other securities held
therein, Goodwill and Patents
Deferred Charges to Future Operations—
Discount on Bonds, Debentures, etc.,
prepaid insurance, etc
£10,576,233
10,981,289
873,657
14,051,702
2,572,017
705,806
£39,760,704
The story of “Goodyear” growth is a remarkable one. From one small
Factory Building in 1898, it now comprises sixty-four Factory and Office
Buildings in Akron alone, covering more than 100 acres of floor space,
whilst “Goodyear” Factories are also established in Los Angeles in California
and Bowmanville and Toronto in Ca,nada. The Company owns Cotton
Plantations in Arizona, Rubber Plantations in Sumatra and three large
Cotton Mills.
The capacity of the combined Plants is 60,000 Tyres per day, with a
somewhat larger output of Tubes. In addition a huge volume of mechanical
rubber goods such as hose, belting, packing, soles and heels are produced.
The Australian Plant about to be established will be under the superin-
tendence of officers trained at the Akron Works, so that an equally high-
grade product will be manufactured here.
DATED at Sydney this Thirtieth day of November, 1926.
. “Goodyear” has gra,dually spread itself over the world, and at the
present time Subsidiary Companies are actively operating in twenty-three
different countries, whilst in ninety principal centres distribution is in
the hands of Wholesale Distributors, giving “Goodyear” contact with more
than 55,000 Dealers throughout the world.
MANAGEMENT AND TRADING RIGHTS.
The new Company will take over the staff and organisation of the
existing Australian Company, while the factory operations will be super-
vised by expert officers supplied by the Parent Company from the United
States. The Company will also acquire from its Parent a license to trade
in “Goodyear” Products throughout Australia.


)A
"■Yft
p
Disfiguring Rashes
Prevented by Cnticura
Cuticura Soap and Ointmept not
only soothe and heal pimples and
rashes but their mission is to pre-
vent such skin troubles. The Soap,
used daily, assisted by the Oint-
ment when required, keeps the pores
active and the skin clear and healthy.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
MP Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
L®'v»
CASH SI
WASHABLE X-
GIBBONS*
For the c Dainty Finishing
Touches to Your Lingerie
jV/TADE in Plain or Bro-
A A caded Styles in Pretty
Pastel Shades up to 1 -in.
widths no need to re-
move CASH’S RIBBONS
from garment before
washing as they retain
Colour and Freshness in-
definitely
cAsk Your Draper
IF unobtainable write to
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St . Richmond
MELBOURNE
CASH'S?
.RIBBONS
m
~J(A
?!
Nal fit
Dark Hair
NosA*r
Fair Hair
AM AMI
Shampoos
The only tonic-shampoo you
can buy. The shampoo that
leaves your hair cleaner,
brighter and more fragrant
than you have ever known
it before. From all Chemists,
Hairdressers or big Stores.
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
cnvbn
cbcvn
Relief from Rupture
Any sufferer will find
Delayers’ Elastic Truss
gives complete relief and support and
is conducive to curing.
It is perfect fitting, safe and sure. Why go another day without it?
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage extra.
If unable to call, a Pamphlet will be sent in a plain envelope closed, giving full
particulars.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers.
Dent. 1. 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SF
ff
Jbr.
•M
Chid its a Bolex /
JAe best watch money can buy -
rRETTER than anything you could select as a fitting symbol
JO of a life-long friendship—a "RO L E X is the Gift
Supreme. It’s the watch "for life” mechanically perfect—
ALWAYS TRUE TO TIME, and exact to taste in its Beauty
and Distinction of Design.
A.T ALL GOOD JEWELLERS
WATCHES
P°U*X
WRIST &
POCKET
Have you Med AnchoveDe lhis icay ?
c tomatoes
Take as many firm ripe Tomatoes as required and cut a hole in
the top of each. Bake till tender, and fill with a mixture of
Anchovette, butter, bread crumbs, pepper and salt, well beaten
together. Place under grillet to brown and serve hot. An
PCOtC S easily prepared and delicious entree.
ANCHOVETTF
c 57 delicious 9* ish Qaste
cvbcvn
If any illustration in **THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
I
i
i
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6dL
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box,' containing 2 Cigars.
1/- Post Free. j
CRAIG AND AITKEN
r\ ivi rv distributors for
J)Y UIML Y CLUB reil cigar factory
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evening
The plough is at the iurrow’s end:
My son will bring the horses home,
And I shall sit before my house
And watch them come.
The rich, red slopes are fallowed well;
This season’s crops my son will sow,
And I shall sit before my house
And watch them grow.
Time past I bought and bargained for;
But all the peaceful years to be,
When I may sit before my house,
Are given me.
Next harvest-time will recompense
My son for months of labor spent;
I shall but sit before my house
And watch, content.
An eastern sun I’ve only known,
Nor faced the way it went to rest;
Now I shall sit before my house
And face the west.
N.S.W.
WINIFRED G. BIRKETT.
Guilt.
I am grown fearful in these mild, green hills.
Let me go down.
Find me the opiates that strife distils
Within the town.
Make me carousal where the walls are high ;
Bring me more light!
Hide me with Babel lest a wronged God spy
My craven flight!
Oh, I am abject where this silence broods —
God is too near!
And all these placid-seeming solitudes
Are stark with fear.
S.A.
M. R. C
Jenolan Road.
When we came down the Summit Hill
The morn was grey and soft and still;
From distant slopes a fine, dark rain
Swept like a shadow to the plain;
A swift, wet wind from mountains high
Rushed by us with a plaintive cry ;
In dusky aisles the wakened trees
►swung reddened crests against the breeze
As we came down the Summit Hill
When all the world was grey and still,
On a December morning.
Of time there was but little space
Ere we had reached the meadowy place
Where in a sudden hillside twist
Tne road broke from the swirling mist,
And through the cloudbank rolling dun
There came the glimmer of the sun
Upon the sodden fields ; and there,
Soft-borne upon the freshening air,
We caught, with joy akin to pain,
The scent of briars through the rain
From a green mountain meadow.
They grew by slope and rocky ledge,
Here sparsely planted in a hedge,
There rioting adown a bank
Through clustering grasses, tall and rank,
While over slope and craggy brink
They cast their petals, fairy-pink,
And filled the morning with the scent
Of bloom and leaflet subtly blent—
And then the meadow-space was past,
And we were travelling, far and fast.
The straight road to Jenolan.
But I was back again with you
In other fields besprent with dew.
Where larks were in the wide pale sky,
And cold winds shouted wild and high,
Where all along the yellow roads
The briars bore their summer loads
Of blossom, till the autumn-tide
Bent them adown in crimson pride,
So I might pluck the fruit, and thread
A chaplet for your dusky head—
But what a jade is Memory
That she should play such pranks with me,
Take me across the oceans vast
Into a long-forgotten past,
Merely because there came again
The scent of briars through the rain
From a green mountain meadow!
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
A Butterfly.
Lulled by the drowsy hum of amber bees
She rests, white lily-cra/lled, azure wings
Folded and motionless. She lies at ease
Nor heeds the swaying of the lily towers,
The wind that whispers low of jasmine
bowers,
The mellow notes a merry magpie sings.
No fabled princess in a tale of old
Was lovelier than this frail sleeping fair,
Blue robed and powdered with the lily gold.
The bright enamelled wings are faintly
stirred.
What lover comes to speak the magic word?
What princely wooer climbs the petalled
stair?
The castle of the sleeping beauty stood
Encompassed by impenetrable green
Of trees within a dark enchanted wood.
This beauty in a lily palace dwells ;
And foxgloves tall, her stately sentinels,
From lofty turrets watch her wide
demesne.
O lovely one, whom loveliness embowers
Where larkspur minarets that pierce the
sky,
Slim lupin spires and blue delphinium towers
Are limned against the sunset, happy thou
To dream within the lily cup as now
Till sunlight wakens thee, blue butterfly!
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.


9
JB'hie
' /■.*• ,
:
r/S -C-,
7
U
#l3®*' *****
£m¥L«| *<r
fiPf. 4 %
1/ # [ \|
..... / .:'.v; . -d* 'Mm
a*SEf>PEtT & SONS itt«
SOUTH AUSTHAUA
. '*’«£s4S i P«sj
bnmbm
0


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2444.
December 16, 1926.
THE WAGES BIRD.
THE POLITICIAN: “There’s your wages bird, lady. Haven’t I fattened him up magnificently for you!”
THE HOUSEWIFE: “You might make my old man think so, but I know his magnificence is mostly wind and feathers.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. (id.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all limitless Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in iLondon is
Tj. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” pan he ohtauied from him or
the_ bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.Jj.; E. T. Hole, Uulerth Satire Ser-
vice, lib Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” lfHi-Vl Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel Home, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/41 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27tli Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 lloyal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, Neiv Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional f/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
'BxziZefon.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1926.
THE BOTTOMLESS MORASS.
The N.S.W. Premier has been described
as a man who is always wrong, but who
makes a pleasing variety by sometimes
being wronger than other times. He made
one of his best efforts recently at New-
castle, and was thus reported:—
Mr. Lang said that the amount of money the
State was borrowing overseas was rapidly decreasing,
and that within the next seven or eight years the
State would be self-contained, and would not need
to raise loans outside the Commonwealth.
These are the remarks of a gentleman who
has borrowed £8,000,000 overseas during
1926, and who will soon be in desperate
need of a lot more! N. S. Wales keeps out of
the Loan Council because it wants to borrow
more than it would be allowed to if it
joined the Happy Cadging Family, and in
the two years to June, 1925, it exercised its
freedom by increasing its overseas debt by
more than all its neighbors put together—
roughly by £16,000,000 against the
£11,500,000 of the other five spendthrifts.
Now the complete returns to June, 1926, are
being awaited with interest, also with bated
breath. Though some of the figures for
N. S. Wales cannot be separated from those
of Australia, it may therefore be quite safely
concluded that the general Australian posi-
tion in this matter is better rather than
worse than that of N. S. Wales; and the
general Australian position can be arrived
at quite definitely.
* * * *
The Commonwealth’s man of figures lately
issued some returns for all Australia show-
ing how much the excess of exports over
imports ought to be to cover the country’s
“annual obligations abroad for interest and
services,” which obligations have grown in
11 years from £16,000,000 per annum to
about £30,000,000 through the community
doing too little work, apart from unprofitable
public loan works, and borrowing too much
for luxury. Also he has revealed how some
years the exports showed a balance over
imports and over the bill for “interest and
services,” and some years they didn’t, and
how the years when they didn’t became more
frequent till there was no other sort, and
then the country gave up all pretence of
paying its way, and lived shamelessly on its
creditors, and said that if a cataclysm came
it would just have to arrive. The table
doesn’t include additions to the local debt.
If it did it would look worse than it does: —
Balance op Australian Trade.
Deficiency of
Exports, Deficit
to go in some
Surplus of Exports way into the
over Liabilities Foreign Public
which they are Debt, there being
supposed to cover. no other place.
1914- . £19,800,000
1915- 20,200,000
1916- £3,400,000
1917- 2,900,000
1918- 10,600,000
1919- 27,600,000
B.A.W.R.A.
dividends 22,500,000
£53,500,000 £53,500,000
1920- £55,900,000
1921- 1,900,000
1922- 40,700.000
1923- 5,900,000
1924- 23,100,000
1925- 32,300,000
July-Oet, ’26
(4 months) 19,300,000
£179,100,000
The item for July-October, 1926, is esti-
mated on the assumption that the interest
liability hadn’t grown since the previous
year, and, as it certainly had, the figures
shown are too favorable. About 1921-24
this country had the luck to collect
£28,800,000 of back-pay from the British-
Australian Wool Realisation Association, so
it didn’t require to borrow so much as
appears, but that windfall won’t be repeated.
The position may be summed up like this:
(1) Australia really paid its way so far as
meeting its outside peace obligations was
concerned between 1914 and 1920 despite
a seeming deficiency of £22,500,000 shown
by the Statistician, for it was then that the
B.A.W.R.A. wool money was earned, though
it wasn’t paid till later. (2) It afterwards
slithered downhill into a state of squalid
dissipation in which it still wallows, and,
judging by the last four months’ figures,
this year’s wallow promises to be the worst
of all. When exports of merchandise are
worth 7a i millions less and imports cost 9|
millions more than for the corresponding four
months of 1925, the prospect of squaring
the ledger and getting into the blessed condi-
tion of self-dependence promised by the
ineffable Lang is poor beyond words, while
existing conditions last. (3) The amount
of extra work in the way of local produc-
tion and extra self-denial in the consumption
of foreign goods that the case calls for is
very considerable, and the sooner this 44-
hours-per-week community realises the fact
the better for its material and spiritual wel-
fare.
* * * *
The violent fluctuations in quantity of
exports (the result of the seasons) and in
price (the result of causes beyond our con-
trol) teach a lesson. It is that growing
raw products for a distant market, and im-
porting vast quantities of manufactured
wares which we ought to make for ourselves,
is a rotten and futile scheme for a nation
with very heavy fixed liabilities and a crav-
ing for a high standard of living. If a nation
makes clothes for itself it matters compara-
tively little whether it charges itself £5 or
£l2 10s. for a suit, the local stock of money
being the same either way. But if it im-
ports its clothes and tries to make good by
selling butter to other people, and the other
people say they can afford only Is. per lb.
instead of the old 2s. 6d., that makes a
disastrous difference to the amount of money
in the butter-mongering country, and also to
the amount available to liquidate the butter-
monger’s liabilities.
* * * *
Above all. the matter is one that calls for
something different from a sinking fund of
10s. per cent., especially if the fund consists
of paper currency with a purely local value.
The usefulness of such a fund is beyond
question in the case of a peaceful old seden-
tary mortgage, but a small annuity isn’t a
remedy for delirium tremens.
HUGHES AND HOLMAN AS
ADVISERS.
The N.S.W. National Association, in con-
ference assembled at Sydney, had the honor
of being addressed by two former idols,
W. A. Holman and W. M. Hughes. Each
gentleman led a secession from the Labor
party in 1917 and, although circumstances
were altogether in his favor, conducted his
particular band of Nationalists to disaster,
Holman in 1920 and Hughes in 1922. Both
therefore feel it a duty to give their old
crowd beans and the new crowd bushels
of advice. Holman, speaking on a motion
expressing faith in Nationalism, described
the present-day Labor party as “a creeping
monstrosity, the mere husk and shell of its
former self, into which have entered the
destroying maggots of self-seeking and cor-
ruption.” Hughes defined Nationalism
as “Laborism purged of its iniquity, and”
(memory of the £25,000!) “its dross.”
“Prices and wages,” he declared, “are
the fundamental facts which bring poli-
tics home to every man and woman.
Every man demands of his member of Par-
liament, above every other thing, that he
shall find employment; and if you put your
iconoclastic hand on that” here the
speaker waved his own hand impressively—
'great will be your fall.”
* * * *
The Bulletin does not believe that “every
man demands of his member of Parliament
that he shall find employment.” It likewise
refuses to believe that the salvation of the
N.S.W. Nationalists depends on their becom-
ing finders of jobs (with unlimited loan
money, of course, and in the Government
service) and fixers of wages and prices, like
the party to which Hughes and Holman
belonged. On the contrary, it is of opinion
that if the N.S.W. Nationalists take Hughes
and Holman for advisers on “the great
employment question” . and politics in
general, they will curse the day. Hughes
and Holman had their opportunities, oppor-
tunities such as have been given to few party
leaders, and what did they do with them?
Knowing little about industry themselves
and less about finance —on that subject they
will always be children— Hughes and
Holman meddled and muddled in every
possible direction, pursuant to the policy,
which they did not change when they took
another party label, of “extending the
economic functions of the State.” Because
of this policy, long persisted in with much
fizzy rhetoric, men now expect the Govern-
ment to find work for them, to put them on
the land, to finance their farming operations,
to guarantee them a price for their produce,
to carry it on the railways at a specially
low rate, the general taxpayer having to
make up the deficiency, and even to market
the stuff abroad. Other men, seeing the
Government rush blindly into one unneces-
sary enterprise after another and conduct
them with gross inefficiency (with gross
cowardice also when political jobbers or
union bullies interfere), acquire a dangerous
contempt for legitimate authority, a con-
tempt which has been shown on divers occa-
sions on which the public has been injured
and humiliated. And in the financing of
this grandmotherly system, so opposed to
the genius of the race, so destructive of the
pioneering spirit, the N. S. Wales public
debt has grown from £106,170,000 on June
30, 1013, when Holman became Premier,
to £213,173,000 on June 30, 1926, without a
penny being spent on the war, which was
a Commonwealth matter, while the interest
hill—£ll,llB,9ol in 1926, whereas it was
£3,516,200 in 1913—has become a serious
burden on the taxpayers, those of the middle
class especially.
* # •
In short, N. S. Wales, in common with
other parts of Australia, is suffering from
the results of excessive State interference.
And Hughes tells the Nationalists that, in
order to catch votes, they must push State
interference to even greater lengths, make it
more excessive still. He and Holman have
bad their hectic day. The times demand
other men and other measures. The Ameri-
cans, sobering up after the war, found them-
selves with railway services demoralised by
Government control; with Government ships,
hundreds of them, that were just sinks for
public money, like our own Commonwealth
Government line; with Government depart-
ments over-run with meddlers and idlers ; with
the worst unemployed problem on record.
“There is too much Government in business,”
they said, “and not enough business in
Government.” Proceeding on those lines, and
strengthening the weak points in their tariff,
and enlisting the industry and patriotism
of the people as reinforcements, they have
made their country a miracle of prosperity.
They pay their workers the highest wages
in the world, nor do they shove or prop
them up with London loans; they have re-
duced, and are reducing, working hours,
without calling in the fatal aid of Langs
and Piddington s and Beebys ; and they
have materially lightened the load their
taxpayers have to bear, whereas taxation is
persistently rising in these over-governed
parts. Australians excessively admire and
imitate in their fashion the frivolous things
that come out of America —its nigger music,
its nigger dances, its Hollywood pictures—so
they should not be too proud to take a leaf
out of its book of solid and meritorious
achievement. Let the Nationalists stand four-
square for payment by results, wherever it
can be practised, and strenuously resist the
efforts of union bullies to hound good men
out of the Government service for taking
bonuses for superior work. Let them tell the
people firmly that the degrading and ruinous
practice of borrowing for things that should
be paid for out of revenue or left alone must
cease forthwith, and that Australia could
have done without it long ago if it had
made the purchase of its own produce a sort
of economic religion, after the American
example. Let Bavin’s party encourage em-
ployers and emploved to make their own
arrangements as to wages, hours and work-
ing conditions —they can do it far better than
any breed of politicians or Piddingtons can
do it for them —and when it goes after the
young voter let it go not with bribes in its
hands, but with appeals to the generous sen-
timents of youth, its honorable ambitions
and pride of race and country. One of the
saddest spectacles to be seen in N. S. Wales,
and it is one of the results of the spurious
benevolence for which Hughes and Holman
stand, is the spectacle of young men, many
with fine, intelligent faces, doing coolie work
while artisans have to be imported. Let the
Nationalists take up the cause of this wasted
youth and so order things that a boy with a
bent for a skilled trade will learn the begin-
nings of it before he leaves school, and go on
to an apprenticeship without finding the path
blocked by the selfishness of employers or
unions or both.
* * * *
It is a mistake to suppose, as so many poli-
ticians do, that the electors are to be bought
with bribes. That may be true of a de-
bauched minority, but it is certainly not true
of the majority. Again and again have
parties which audaciously appealed to the
cupidity of an Australian community been
roughly rejected. The attribute of a party
leader which Australians value most is cour-
age. When courage, honesty and vision are
combined under the one hat, they respond
immediately.
THE ETHICS OF CROSS-
EXAMINATION.
“The issue of a cause rarely depends upon a
speech, and is seldom even affected by it; but there
is never a cause contested the result of which is not
mainly dependent upon the skill with which the
advocate conducts his cross-examination.”
Lord Justice Coleridge, speaking to the
Law students in Birmingham, laid down a
basic proposition with regard to the profes-
sion of law. “I deny altogether,” said he,
“that the principles of lawyers are different
from those which guide men of honor in
other callings.... Grant that what a man
may honorably say and do for himself an
advocate may say and do for him, not more,
not less, and I ask for no further concession,
and I desire to be judged by no other rule.
.... Our profession does not stand outside
Christian ethics; and the rule, rightly and
sensibly interpreted, that we should do to
other men what we should wish in like case
other men should do for us, is as good for us
as for the rest of mankind.”
The advocate, having resolved, wisely or
not, to cross-examine a witness, has in view
one or more of three objects: to weaken the
effect of the evidence in chief he has given,
to elicit some fact favorable to the advocate’s
case not stated in such evidence, or to dis-
credit him as a witness of truth by showing
to the jury that he is unworthy of belief.
Here, then, are two psychological factors to
be considered: that of the man in the
witness-box and that of the men in the jury-
box. The average juryman has the average
sense of fair-play, and any marked deviation
from the golden rule will undoubtedly—
though it may not be expressed—prejudice
the cross-examiner’s case. On the other
hand every witness has his own individual-
ity, which must be quickly grasped by the
advocate and, to employ an angling metaphor,
the appropriate fly used to make him rise.
“Be mild with the mild, shrewd with the
crafty, confiding with the honest, merciful to
the young, the frail or the fearful, rough
to the ruffian and a thunderbolt to the
liar” was one of the golden rules of advocacy
formulated by David Paul Brown. Deviate
from it and be rough to the young, the frail
or the fearful, and you are at once up against
the psychology of the gentlemen of the jury.
Never lose your temper, for “anger,” said an
old sage of the law, “is always either the
precursor or evidence of assured defeat in
every intellectual conflict.” Successful cross-
examination makes a direct and heavy call
not only on the intellectual faculties, but on
personal restraint and the ethical qualities
which put right-doing before self-registration
in the limelight. “There are,” says Cox, in
“The Advocate, His Training, Practice,
Rights and Duties,” “two styles of cross-
examination, which we may term the savage
style and the smiling style. The aim of
the savage style is to terrify the witness into
telling the truth; the aim of the smiling
style is to win him to a confession. The
former is by far the more frequently in use,
especially by young advocates, who probably
imagine that a frown and a fierce voice are
proofs of power. Great is their mistake.
The passions rouse the passions. Anger, real
or assumed, kindles anger. . An attack stimu-
lates to defiance.... Undoubtedly there are
cases where such a tone is called for, but
they are rare.... In every part of an advo-
cate’s career, good temper and self-command
are essential qualifications; but in none
more so than in the practice of cross-
examination.”
To Cox’s two classes might be added a
third, which could be described as the gadfly
style, calculated to irritate the witness and
inflame the wrath of the juryman. The
gadfly stings with a question and draws the
blood of a reply—but not enough blood. Then
he buzzes about, returns to sting again with
the same question in a slightly different
form. Having drawn no more ample supply
of blood, he repeats the performance again
and again, till perhaps in a moment of irrita-
tion the victim answers wildly. The worthy
Cox moralises on this conduct as follows:
“Never should you seek to entrap the witness
into a falsehood, nor, by your art, to throw
him into perplexity, with a design to discredit
him, if you believe that not only is he honest,
but that he has not erred. Your duty as an
advocate is strictly limited by the rules of
morality. The art to be practised in cross-
examination is to be used only when you
really believe that the witness has not told tin:
truth, and it is your honest purpose to elicit
it. For if by arts ingenious but wrong, by
confusing the honest, browbeating the timid,
and putting false constructions upon the
words of a witness a verdict may be stolen
now and then, the benefit of such triumphs
is more than counterbalanced by the mis-
trust which a departure from candor and
fairness and a resort to arts for concealing
or disguising the truth invariably sow in
the mind of the Court and of the jury....
You have no right to tempt, to terrify or
entrap a witness into falsehood.”
Then, apart from that unwritten law of
fair-play which is part and parcel of the
Britisher’s ethical make-up, may not the
quality of human sympathy be commended
to the cross-examiner? It is embodied in the
words of Lord Coleridge already quoted—■
“to do to other men what we should wish in
like case other men should do for us.” Even
the most self-confident man faces the ordeal
of the witness box unwillingly. He steps
into it as if it were an enclosure strewn
with trap and gins. It is so different to sit
on the bench or stand at the barristers’
table! A story is told of an English Judge
who, being called upon to give evidence in a
case, spent the preceding night in sleep-
less apprehension and proved to be a hope-
less witness. Even in our own annals it is
related of Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.)
that he was once called upon to appear as a
witness before his colleague Mr. Justice
Simpson. Darley was asked some question
about the matter in which he appeared, and
in the novel situation had a temporary lapse
of memory. “In my opinion,” he said, “er
—that is—l believe” “What! You be-
lieve, sir?” exclaimed his colleague on the
bench. “What has the Court to do with
your beliefs or opinions? We want facts.”
If a Chief Justice could be so upset in the
witness-box as to forget even his student
law, what about the citizen unaccustomed to
the atmosphere of courts and what about


the flustered woman and the nerve-wracked
girl ?
There are etliies of cross-examination.
Men of the past honored in the profession
have laid them down clearly and decisively,
and they square with the layman’s “square
deal.” It will be a bad day for Australia
when they are smirched by later generations
of lawyers in whom the old concepts have
ceased to function.
c.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Torture in the Witness-box.”
“A Mere Lawyer” puts the other side: —
Tee prosecutrix in the Bondi Ctise hud necessarily
to tell the Court all the filthy details of the treat-
ment to which she had been subjected, and in order
to find out whether she was telling the truth she
had necessarily to be cross-examined. No complaint
was made of the way in which the cross-examination
of this part of the case was conducted. Everybody
who heard it knows that the questions were put
with all the courtesy that any gentleman could show
to any lady if he had the disagreeable duty of
inquiring whether she was telling the truth or not.
She was asked to explain how it was that after being
forcibly abducted from the city to Bondi she crossed
the street with her captors without struggling or
calling for help from passers-by. Let it be said
at once that her explanation was entirely satisfactory.
It satisfied the jury, and, as Justice Ferguson said
at the end of the case, it is now clear that, however
improbable her story may have appeared in some
particulars before it was investigated, it was in all
essentials true. But this was not the end of the
case; it had still to be ascertained whether she
was telling the truth or not; and it was while she
was being pressed upon her explanation of that very
important fact in the case that she fainted. As
she was known to be subject to fainting fits, an
official of her own sex had been stationed near the
witness-box to support her. A juryman protested
against her being further tortured, and The Bulletin
comment (9/12/’26) takes for granted that this was
a well-merited rebuke both to the cross-examining
counsel and to the Judge.
No doubt it was very painful to a truthful girl to
have to answer questions which suggested that her
story was a fabrication. But the defence of the men
on trial was that it was a fabrication, and the only
means open to their counsel of testing whether it
was true or not was to probe it in places where it
seemed improbable. If a lying woman had been in
the box, the cross-examination would have been still
more painful .to her, because every question would
have brought her nearer to possible exposure, and
it has not yet been found possible to devisp a scheme
under which only perjurers, blackmailers and victims
of hysteria should be subjected to unpleasant cross-
examination and truthful witnesses have their stories
accepted without question.
In the same dock, three days before, a man stood
charged with' rape. The prosecutrix gave a moving
account of the brutal violence and outrage to which
she had been .subjected. Then she was asked to
explain certain facts, and, instead of accepting her
explanation, the cross-examining counsel pressed her
with further* questions. She was not young or
pretty, but it was none the less a very painful
experience for her, and when she left the box she
screamed with hysteria. The jury acquitted the
accused. If the counsel employed for the defence
had chivalrously desisted from further cross-examina-
tion when it became apparent that the witness was
suffering torture, his client would probably have been
found guilty and sentenced to death, and the sen-
tence would have been greeted with a chorus of
approval.
Let me put a question to any mother amongst
Bulletin readers. Imagine that a charge of an
abominable sexual offence were made against your
boy—as may happen any day—and that on his
assurance that he was innocent you employed counsel
to defend him. When the woman who made the
charge had told her story, would' you be content
to allow it to pass without the most searching
scrutiny? If there was a point in it that seemed
to help your boy’s case, would you be satisfied
if his counsel stopped asking questions that might
throw further light on the point because they
were excruciatingly painful to her?
The Bulletin expresses regret that it should have
been left to the protesting juryman to give the
Bar and the Bench a lesson in what is seemly. Is it
not just remotely possible that the juryman was
misled by his natural sympathy with the lady in
distress, that he was wrong, and that the experi-
enced King’s Counsel who asked the questions and
the experienced Judge who did not stop them were
right ?
And wliat about tlie mother of a girl upon
whom an abominable offence has been com-
mitted? She will no doubt agree that her
daughter’s story ought to be well tested.
But what will she say when, the court
having been cleared of all but men, the
unhappy girl, who has done no wrong, but
against whom awful wrong has been done,
is kept for nearly seven hours in the witness-
box? That experienced counsel subjected the
girl to such a gruelling, and that not only a
most experienced but a most humane Judge
permitted it, makes the position far worse;
for it shows that, until legal and judicial
ideas of what is a fair thing are changed, no
less than this, and perhaps much worse, may be
expected by any girl who, having been the
victim of an abominable wrong, ventures
to complain about it to the police.
#
Facing the Debt.
Dear Bulletin, — To my mind the scheme
of “Facing the Debt,” suggested as a pos-
sibility in the issue of December 2, leaves out
important points of the case. It is proposed
that the’ Commonwealth should cease paying
the States the present subsidy of £7,600,000.
In return it is to surrender to them taxes
which are set down at £3,731,000. Taking
the figures as correct, this would leave the
States with a loss of £3,869,000 per annum,
though against the loss they would save the
small and variable sums which they pay. into
their own sinking funds. Then the Common-
wealth is to put £3,088,000 per annum, which
seems very meagre, into a much needed fund
for the extinction of the State debts. This
means that the Commonwealth, which has a
surplus, will gain about £780,000 or so per
annum by stoppage of the subsidy, even after
paying its contribution to the sinking fund,
while the States, with their chronic deficits,
will lose the £3869,000 aforesaid. In
other words, the Federal Treasurer won’t
raise a penny of new money to face the
debt with, but will tell the States to face it
with much less money. In fact, he will
supply them with a sinking fund, and in
doing so make it almost, if not quite, im-
possible for some of them to meet their
interest bill. The statement is made that the
result will be “to eventually pay their debts”
(the State’s debts) “out of voluntary con-
tributions made by the Federal authority.”
Unless said authority does a lot more than
proposed, the result will be to pay off, with
extraordinary good luck of course, some of
the local debt which doesn’t so much matter,
and pile up the foreign debt faster than
the local one is paid off and faster than it
piles up now. The States alone owe some
£350,000,000 abroad, payable (principal and
interest) in gold. As Australia doesn’t pro-
duce enough gold to make a ripple on the
surface of the case, that means that they must
pay interest out of the surplus of exports over
imports—or else pay it out of new loans as at
present. As The Bulletin has said many
times, the problem has .been, in recent years,
that this country requires to export about
£35.000,000 worth more or to import about
£35,000,000 worth lees per annum than it does
in order to square the account, and if it pro-
poses to export some sinking fund in addition,
the figure, I suppose, will be about £3,000,000
more. The first essential is to remedy this
situation. If it is assumed that a paper-
money fund can be used to reduce liabilities
due in gold, the problem becomes easy. But
it can’t be so used, and that is really the
biggest question to be faced. In suggesting
a possible basis of a sinking fund, The
Bulletin remarked that the Federal subsidy
to the States (some £7,000,000 a year) is a
purely voluntary benefaction, and the truth
of that is undoubted. The Commonwealth
has an absolute right to stop the subsidy and
give nothing in return, even if all round insol-
vency is the consequence. It has in addition
an absolute right to take over the State
debts, and find the interest money. If it
puts the States in an impossible position
(though I think it has done so to a great
extent already) I can picture them address-
ing this sort of memorial to the Federal
Treasurer: —
Disrespected Sir,—lt was provided by an amend-
ment of the Constitution that you have the right
to take over our public debts, in whole or in part.
That implies that we have the right to surrender
them to you. As you have been so slow to act, we
have decided to anticipate the generous impulse
which doubtless burns in your bosom or stomach, and
to make a voluntary surrender of our treasured
embarrassments. Here at your feet we lay the whole
bundle of blighted obligations. It is largely due
to your and your predecessors’ failure to regulate
the import and export trade that Australia has now
never a sufficient credit balance in London to cover
interest bills, wherefore the only way a poor but parti
ally honest State can satisfy its creditors there is by
borrowing gold. One reason for not borrowing
more gold is the difficulty of getting it. As for
your reduced subsidy, keep it. We refuse to be found
dead with it. It is only paper money, like your
sinking fund, and the demand in England is for
coin.
Perhaps the States, when the subsidy fizzles
out, will hand over their foreign debts, or
perhaps they will whole-heartedly make a
present of the lot. They might be moved to
some extent by the feeling that a small
indirect subsidy would be no more assured
than a big direct one, and that, though one
Federal Government partly retired from the
field of direct taxation, another might come
back. It would be much better for the Com-
monwealth to take over the State debts,
with stringent stipulations against new
borrowing, than chance having them handed
to it on a pitchfork.-—Yours, etc., James
Edmond.
—♦
“Blackbirding in New Guinea.”
The missionary returning for a period to his
own folk is responsible for many wrong
impressions. This may be due, in some
instances, to the faulty understanding of his
audiences. More often it must be credited
to the inability of the Cloth to consider
any question except from its own point of
view. This leads to the possibly unconscious
presentation of half-truths as facts, with
irritating consequences. An interesting
instance of this is seen in an interview
recently given in Sydney by the Rev. M.
K. Gilmour, of the Papuan Methodist Mis-
sion. Volunteering his opinion on the condi-
tions prevailing on the much-discussed New
Guinea goldfields, which apparently he has
not visited, the gentleman bemoaned the
“interference” to which the New Guinea
natives were being subjected by the recruiters
of native labor for the goldfields. In Papua,
he said, there was little “interference,” as
plenty of labor was available. In New
Guinea, however, recruiters were actually
being paid a premium for natives, this rising
as. high as £3O a head. In cold fact, the
conditions of engaging native labor in New
Guinea are exactly the same as they are
and have been for over a generation in
Papua. How completely the regulations
there safeguard the natives must be well
known to Mr. Gilmour, since the district
which his own mission has assigned to it,
especially the D’Entrecasteaux group of
islands, has been a favorite recruiting area
for many years. In both Papua and New
Guinea recruiters are licensed, paying a stiff
fee, and are under strict supervision. Every
native laborer must be separately signed on
in the presence of a Government official, who
must see to it, personally or through an
interpreter, that the native knows what he
is doing and is satisfied. The slighest hint
of deception or compulsion entails on the
recruiter the duty of returning the native to
his own district, plus perhaps the forfeiture
of his license. Even the missions are not
exempt from Government supervision. As
to the payment of a premium to recruiters,
a payment which Mr. Gilmour infers leads
to “interference,” this has always been done
in Papua, as in New Guinea, native labor
being as scarce in one as in the other if the
Papuan official reports are to be relied on.
In each case the recruiter’s minimum fee is
fixed by the Government. The New
Guinea rate, alleged to be £3O, certainly
looks like profiteering compared with the
Papuan rate of from £4 to £7. But the
recruiter for the new fields must go far,
and house, feed and transport his recruits
till they are indentured to their em-
ployer. That the missionary visitor, who
has been 26 years in Papua, omitted any
reference to these things in the interview is
regrettable, since they will certainly be seized
upon by those who are eager to make Aus-
tralia’s path in the Mandated Territory diffi-
cult.
♦
The Example of Paddington.
A municipal report concerning the condi-
tion of Paddington, one of Sydney’s shabby
suburbs, was published the other day. Pad-
dington is a place of no great size and with
about 27,000 inhabitants, or 60 to the acre.
The small terrace-house habit prevails, and
nearly half the terrace houses contain two or
more families; also more than 2000 families
dwell under conditions akin to those of the
beasts which don’t perish so often as they
ought to. More than 80 per cent, of the
suburb was erected before building regula-
tions were invented and before bath-
rooms and lavatories came into fashion. Yet
Paddington is by no means the prize bad
example among the cheaper residential sub-
urbs of the Ma State metropolis!. The
causes which make up the unsatisfactory
situation are various. Sydney had the dis-
mal distinction, at last census day, of being
the fastest-growing and fastest-crowding city
in the empire. The apparent supremacy of
Glasgow was due solely to the annexation
of new districts. There is no sense in this
abnormal growth in a sparse and spacious
land; it arises out of a deranged and crooked
State policy. Nobody sees a way to the
clearing of an undesirable, area of its inhabi-
tants with a view to complete reconstruction,
for there is no place within a reasonable
distance where the inhabitants can be de-
posited, and in any case the law makes
eviction a very difficult business in N. S.
Wales. If a slummy landlord (who can
only get ridi of his business by selling it to
another slummy landlord) should desire to
eject even one nest of tenants and do the
handsome and liighly-expensive thing in the
way of civilised and up-to-date replacement,
he is liable to find so'many problems in
the way that the game isn’t worth while.
As a rule, however, he has no ambitions,
being of opinion that he has quite enough
money in the precarious house-letting trade
already. The small number of permits
granted for the erection of new buildings,
or for the alteration of old ones, in some
of the Sydney suburbs which are much in
need to be born again is a whole essay on
the housing problem. In Redfern, which is
an extreme case, one completely new struc-
ture authorised in 1924 and four in 1925
represented two years’ work, and there is
no evidence that any of them was a dwelling
for rental purposes. The supplying of homes
for humble tenants being practically at a
standstill through legislative, industrial and
other causes, while humble tenants increase
and multiply, and the holding capacity of
even a Paddington terrace having its limits,
the tendency among many workers is to go
further out than they can well afford, con-
sidering the cost of time and tram-fares,
and strike a bargain in high finance. In a
bad form it may pan out like this. The
premises are worth £975 at the present boom
charges, but the price is called £1075. The
buyer parts with possibly as little as £75.
He may raise £6OO for three years on a
legitimate first mortgage at pretty fair rates.
Lenders, though they may be willing to re-
new, object to commit themselves to long
terms when the security may get into bad
hands and suffer dilapidation. The inves-
tor satisfies the rest of his debt to the
builder with a second mortgage (£400) for
three years at 10 per cent., the second mort-
gage being a sketchy security, especially if
the holder isn’t in a position to pay off the
first mortgage, if necessary. The builder
generally sells his second mortgage of £4OO
for £3OO, and buys bricks for another house
with the money. And the buyer settles down
to enjoy the “rent-free” life as specified
in the advertisement. There is no single
remedy. In fact, while we pursue a conges-
tion policy, and at the same time maintain
and multiply our laws and regulations and
ordinances and courts and commissions and
tribunals, there can be no remedy.
*
Morals and Movies.
Dear Bulletin,— ln “Reasons Why Wo
Should Make Our Own Movies” (B.
9/12,’26), commenting on N.S.W. Justice
Ferguson’s remark that “Picture-shows, or
some of them, are having a very evil effect upon
the youth of this country, as is sometimes
shown by proceedings in the courts,” you
say: “The evidence of Australian (Children's
Court magistrates would be pertinent and
valuable, but none is forthcoming.” As one
who has had experience of these courts, I
endorse this statement. Such evidence would
be pertinent and valuable, and I have no
hesitation in saying it would emphatically
support the view you take, which is also
that of all thoughtful persons who have had
an opportunity of forming more than a hap-
hazard opinion on the matter. The body of
direct evidence is necessarily comparatively
slight. It is difficult to trace any direct
act of misconduct to a specific source of
influence. As one magistrate of wide experi-
ence has aptly put it, “the movie influence
is subtle and pervasive.” The pictures set
up abnormal conditions of life before the
child which he absorbs as the normal condi-
tions he will have to meet. Life is not
presented to him as a succession of duties
more or less uneventful, but as an adventure
in which violence, lust and the unscrupulous
attainment of wealth are principal elements.
Some of the . Hollywood influences can, in
the experience of Children’s Courts, be
directly shown. In several cases where
young people have been brought before the
magistrate they have, when called on to take
the oath, done so in a manner unusual in
Australia. The boy has held the Bible in
one hand and immediately raised the hand
of the free arm above his head —in the old
Scotch and modern American fashion.
“Where did you learn to take the oath that
wayY’ asked the • magistrate. “At the
pitchers,” came the prompt reply. _ There
was nothing whatever objectionable in this,
and it is quoted simply as an example of
picture impress upon the lad’s mind. It
is elementary psychology that visual impress
is more distinct and clear-cut than aural
impress or impress by medium of the written
word. Another bit of direct evidence cropped
up in a case where the facts were as
follows. The lad was at a picture-show in
which one of the Wild West heroes appeared
on a prancing horse firing his “gun.” No
sound of its discharge was provided for
by the stage-management, hut a revolver shot
was heard in the body of the hall and simul-
taneously a yell of pain. A boy spectator
was found to have discharged a firearm m
his pocket. The bullet passed through the
woodwork of the seat in front of him and
grazed the lower part of a man s back,
fortunately without serious results. Instances
of the excitement set up by some of the
more sensual pictures are even more
emphatic. The evidence in the case of a lad
charged with indecent behavior was to the
effect that during the exhibition of a sheik
picture and under cover of the darkened hall,
he — a lad of nearly 18 years—moved up from
the seat he occupied to where a young girl
sat alone and there made indecent overtures
to her. The girl was an absolute stranger,
and her protest led to the arrest of the lad.
In another case where a darkened, and
poorly-attended hall gave the. opportunity, a
boy and girl were found during the display
of a similar type of picture together on the
floor of the aisle. During recent years an
increasing number of burglaries and house-
breaking cases have come before the Child-
ren’s Court, means being used in some of
these cases that have been obviously sug-
gested by the movies. Quite a number of
window-breaking cases, sometimes associated
with petty thefts, have come before the
magistrate, and it has been suggested that
some of this epidemic of specialised offence
may bo traceable to the effect of a picture
that was very popular not long ago. The
principal characters were taken by the film
favorites Jackie Coogan and Charlie
Chaplin, and in it the former was shown
breaking the windows of houses in order
that the latter might have an opportunity
of re-glazing them and pocketing some money.
Children seeing this picture, at which their
fathers and mothers and other adults laughed
heartily, would naturally not be struck by
the obvious want of respect shown by it
for one’s neighbor’s property. However that
may be, it is the emphatic testimony of all
who have to do with these courts that too
many of “the pitchers” we are getting from
America are having a most injurious effect
on the ethical conduct of our children. —■
Yours, etc., John Hop, Retired.
*
The State of Lost Opportunity.
Opposition-leader llogan nailed his banner
to the mast with a headless nail when he
told the Vic. Assembly tliat his policy, when
he attained office, would be “no borrowing
of any kind except for clearly reproductive
works.” But if he could get the axiom put
on the local Labor programme, then the nail
would have some holding power. McGowicn
hung up an even more gaudy banner when
he was bidding for office in N.S.W., for he
promised also an efficient sinking fund for
the whole public debt, and half promised to
build works out of revenue. Then he and
Holman started a jag, the disastrous end of
which is now in sight. It is a pity that
llogan failed to go the whole hog, as no
one else is using the animal, and declare
against borrowing in general. Victoria is in
a better position for that radical reform than
any of its neighbors. It has already more
railway for its size than any other State.
The percentage of its area under crop is 8A
times the Australian average, and. 3| times
the percentage of N.S.W., which ranks
second-best. Though it is far the smallest
of the mainland States, it has more acres
under crop than any other except N.S.W.,
and that beats it by only a fraction occa-
sionally. It has nearly 10 times as many
live stock and 10 times as many human
beings per square mile as the Australian aver-
age, and its nearest competitor is only visible
in the offing. In fact, Victoria hadn’t a
single large urgent problem of railway con-
struction, or settlement, or anything else, to
explain why it rushed into the orgy of high-
priced borrowing which began after the war,
and proceeded to double its expenditure all
at once, and go in for deficits, and begin
charging its new gaols and schools and
lunatic asylums to loans. And as the State
paid, and still pays, the least taxation per
head, there was and is even less reason than
appears. If the rate of taxation was put
up to the level of much-less-affluent Queens-
land for a few years till the position im-
proved, and if works expenditure was reduced
for a time to the sober pace of, say, 1917,
Victoria could be an absolutely non-borrow-
ing land, and when it got the taste of finan-
cial drink out of its mouth and the smell
of it out of its breath it would probably find
the new sensation wholly enjoyable.
*
Ma State’s Experience of Propor-
tionalism.
“Derwentside” in a reproachful strain: —
A Bulletin reader tor over a quarter of a ceu-
tury, I notice fairly frequent references to the
electoral principle of proportional representation.
Some of these are by no means laudatory. Why?
Surely the system invented by Thomas Hare is the
most democratic yet devised and practised. It was
used for the first time in the British Empire just
on 30 y*ars ago (January 20, 1897) in Tasmania;
and it has since been extended to Malta, Manitoba,
the Irish Free State and many municipalities in the
U.S.A. and the British Empire, besides school-boards
in Scotland. What the Hughes Government inflicted
on the Australian Parliament is a travesty of
proportional representation, as also is the thing about
to be discarded in hi. S. Wales. It can be claimed
for Hare’s idea that, wherever it has had a fair
trial, it has not been relegated to that obscurity
which you seem to think is its fit abode. What
happened in Tasmania? P.R. was tried twice and
then discarded, but so dissatisfied was public opinion
with the return to single electorates, with their
opportunities for log-rolling and downright corrup-
tion, that proportional representation came back in
1907, since when seven elections have been fought
under it. Repeatedly one reads in your columns
protests against a minority of votes returning a
majority of members. That is the natural result
of single electorates unless there is an almost monthly
alteration of boundaries. It cannot occur under
proportional voting. P.R. renders gerrymandering
impossible.
The concluding sentences make The Bul-
letin smile. At the last N.S.W. general
election—“the third occasion on which mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly have been
elected in accordance with the principles of
proportional representation,” as the Chief
Electoral Officer reported—the Labor party
got 46 of the 90 seats with 48 p.c. of the


CHRISTMAS AND
NEW YEAR
Entertain Friends at Dinner.
Special Dinners at Horae are quite an undertaking.
We have arranged to provide all the delectable plea-
sures of this occasion free from the worries of
preparation which beset the hostess in her home.
Tables should be booked with the Superintendent
before noon on the selected day.
Dinner from 6.30 to 8 p.m. 12/6 per cover.
Served to order only.
bnmbv
( Paid-up Capital, £422,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMON WEALTH.
SYDNEY.
BjtAMth that atie . ,
appteaaxea
ELKINGTON PLATE
AND CUTLERY
MACLELLAN & CQ
THE BIG STORE
CHAPEL ST. PRAHRAN MELBQURNF:
effective votes, 17,000 fewer than half the
total. This came about mainly because of
disproportionate quotas; for example, 5852
votes were sufficient to return a member
in pro-Labor Sydney, whereas it took 10,908
votes to return a member in anti-Labor Ryde,
an outlying suburb. The “Nationalist”
Government had gone to the country with-
out altering the electoral boundaries, which
tend to become obsolete whether constituen-
cies have five members or three, or only one.
It was a Government of the ’bus-missing
kind, and it missed the ’bus badly in this
instance; but if the anomalies had been such
as would apparently have given it an im-
proper advantage at the polls, and if it had
abstained from rectifying them on that
account, as might have happened, it would
have been guilty of gerrymandering. In
effect, proportionalism is no bar to gerry-
mandering when the will to gerrymander
exists. It has failed to give the Ma State
majority rule, while thrusting on it minority
representation of the very undesirable sec-
tarian sort. It has deprived electorates in
which vacancies occur before Parliament has
run its course of their prescriptive right of
choosing the man they want—done away with
the by-election, that wholesome and necessary
check on the audacity of Governments, and
put a dangerous weapon in the hands of
party leaders. In the first P.R. Parliament
a person who hadn’t stood for election was
appointed to the people’s Chamber on the
nomination of the “Nationalist” chief, the
supply of Nationalist candidates for that
particular constituency having run out. In
the second P.R. Parliament a Labor member
presented his job to a brother without con-
sulting the electors in any way; and a
Nationalist was unseated because a Parlia-
mentary committee ruled (it being judge,
jury and court of appeal) that the transfer
value of certain preference votes had been
wrongly computed by the returning-officer,
although the Chief Electoral Officer main-
tained, and presumably still maintains, that
the returning-officer was right and the Par-
liamentary committee wrong. And the pre-
sent Leg. Assembly contains five defeated
candidates, one of whom, the Laborite
Tonge, was imposed on a Nationalist strong-
hold, in which he wouldn’t have a shadow
of a chance of election, in place of the so-
called Independent Kay, who had previously
stood as a Nationalist and was elected for
that reason a politically unscrupulous
Premier wanted Kay’s seat for a docile sup-
porter, and bought it with a fat Government
billet. Moreover, proportionalism has greatly
increased the cost of elections to the country
and the candidates, and increased administra-
tive expenditure in various other ways. For
in the effort to get in touch somehow with
their vast constituencies, three or five mem-
bers, as the case may be, go fussing around
jobs which used to be attended to by one.
Proportionalism may suit Tasmania, which
is small in area and population, and it
might do for Second Chambers in which
minority representation would be advan-
tageous. But it has been a ghastly failure
in N. S. Wales.
♦
“A Dirty Game.”
Unlovely in its life, the N.S.W. Lang
Government is evidently incapable of dying
with decency. When Messrs. Loughlin,
Gillies and Goodin broke away from
Caucus and formed what they called “the
Country Labor Party,” the Premier, speak-
ing on the Opposition-leader’s no-confidence
motion, said: —
The Labor Government is prepared to yield office,
to yield place, to yield power... .before it will stoop
to compromise or dishonesty. We will not truckle
with compromise. We are not going to listen to
any demand from anybody. So far as I am con-
cerned, there will be no compromise.
Before the day was out the no-compromise
crowd had compromised with the three rebels.
The latter, at the instance of one of the
Ministers, agreed not to vote for the no-
confidence motion, the Government undertak-
ing, for its part, to drop the publications tax
and other rotten features of its Budget and
go to the country within four months. The
humiliated Premier then said :
I recognise, with the leader of the Opposition, that
an appeal to the country is most desirable. When
this motion is disposed of, 1 shall ask the House to
give me four months’ supply, and I shall then take
the necessary steps for the purpose of obtaining
a dissolution of Parliament.
Before the motion for four months’ supply
came on an unspeakable attempt was made
to nobble the only woman member of the
House. She was promised the passage of
legislation in which she had shown a special
interest if she would cross from the Opposi-
tion to the Ministerial side and vote for six
months’ supply, thus enabling the Govern-
ment to break faith with Parliament and the
people. The lady refused, and on taking the
House into her confidence was grossly in-
sulted by the Minister who had made the
ignoble proposal—on his own authority, he
said. Four months’ supply was granted, the
Premier saying, in answer to the Opposition-
leader, “The statement I have made stands:
it is the intention of the Government that
an election shall be held within four months.”
The next people heard was that negotiations
aimed at the dishonoring of this undertaking
had been entered into with Goodin. That
gentleman, the youngest of the three rebels,
had stated positively in his speech on the no-
confidence motion that he and his two asso-
ciates had formed a new party and were
“going to have the courage of our convic-
tions.” “The only thing I can do.” he added,
“is to put the question to the people; the
only course left open to us is to allow the
people to decide.” Yet at the week-end it
was announced that, thanks to the interven-
tion of politicians from other States, mem-
bers of the Federal Labor executive, the mar-
tyr to principle was back in Caucus. It is
not clear at the moment what promises were
made to and by Goodin, nor does it matter.
The material point, as far as the electors
are concerned, is that the Government has
pledged itself to face them within four
months. That is a solemn compact with
Parliament and the people. Should it be
broken the Ministry will show itself void of
faith and honor.
♦
“L.C.M.” : May I be permitted, as a school
doctor who has examined about 6000 Aus-
tralian children, to add my testimony to the
existence of an Australian accent. The aver-
age country child signifies assent or dissent
by “Yairs” or “Nup” ; his pronunciation of
“how” is indescribable, and his whole speech
A SURPRISE FOR FATHER.
YOUNG MR. STAYER: “Er — erexcuse me, Mr. Linswith, I—I — I’ve courted, your daughter
for the past ten years, and”
MR. LINSWITH : “ Well, what about it?”
MR. STAYER: “Well, I—I want your daughter!”
MR. LINSMITH : “You surprise me! I thought you wanted a pension.”
is blurred and nasalised. “Australia” is
pronounced—and to-day I saw a child write
it —as “Astrilia.” A little girl who lived at
Bowling Alley Foint pronounced it Bownelly
Point; Narrabri becomes Nowrerbri, Uralla
becomes Yerallar, and so on. It is the
general slovenliness that offends. The tiny
tots of the kindergarten, when they have been
in the hands of a really good mistress,
pronounce “Yes” and “No” as they are spelt,
and the purity of their vowel sounds is often
a pleasure to the ear. But, for some un-
known reason, as children reach the higher
classes the really important parts of infant-
school work, such as phonetics, manners and
personal cleanliness, are omitted altogether
in the stress of formal work, and the nine-
year-old slips back into slovenly speech and
careless personal habits. No longer—to my
sorrow do I know it- —does he trouble, about
such refinements as the washing of his ears
and the blowing of his nose; and a constant
blockage of these organs is not without effect
on his accent. Surely there is no reason why
the careful personal supervision of modern
infant-schools should #not be canned on for
a few years further. The Australian accent,
and many other things, would benefit if it
were.
Of railway gauges this continent has eight,
though those measuring 20in., 27in. and 3ft.
count for little, and the 2£ft. lines extend
to only 336 miles. Still, that leaves a dread-
ful amount of variation. The Federal
Treasurer lately reckoned that the annual
loss through the transhipping of passengers
and cargo, and through rolling stock being
idle and bottled up on one system when it
might be doing service on another, is equal
to the interest bill left by the war. That
means that it represents the same amount
of lost capital. The shifting of the war
burden is a mere matter of money, and is
being attended to a little, while the railway
burden requires for its removal money and
labor, and is being allowed to slide. Yet
the railway loss grows bigger every year
as more broken gauges are constructed, while
the war debt, at the worst, would remain
stationary. England and the United States
began with mixed gauges, England having
four, and the biggest measuring 7ft.; but
in both places the trouble was got over. A
few important countries, such as Argentina
and India, still lack uniformity, but they
believe in having one predominant gauge to
which the main lines conform. Australia is
the exceptional place in which there is prac-
tically every gauge beneath the sun, where
no one of them has a decisive predominance,
and where the main lines are in as many
pieces as the rest. And it is in a category
by itself for lack of any enthusiasm for
improvement.
“Feng-Shui” : The quiet progress of our
Celestial brother in the art of making himself
independent of the outside (hairy) barbarian
is apt not to be mentioned in the press these
days, quiet progress having less news value
than outrages on missionaries. Yet in the
last 10 years, which have been years of con-
tinual upheaval, he has increased his shipping
tonnage from 20 to 32 millions, and now
owns 25 per cent, of the fleet that trades
up and down his magnificent waterways and
overseas to foreign ports, exceeding those of
the French, American, Dutch, German and
all other nations except the Japanese and
British. During the same period he has
developed his shipbuilding to a point where
he can fill all his own requirements and even
indulge in world competition, although he
has to import most of his materials. The
Chinese shipwright is a low-paid but remark-
ably efficient worker. A boilermaker is pleased
with Is. 9d. for a 12-hour day and an elec-
trician is equally gladdened with 2s. The
aristocrat of the yard is the fitter. He re-
ceives 2s. 3d. When the iron and other home
industries are properly developed and the
country settles down to the rule of a slant-
eyed dictator, a military despot or a pearly
emperor, more will be heard of the Chinese
shipbuilder and the Chinese shipowner.
♦
“Boubagi” : A long-cherished ambition of
Papuan Administration which began with
Sir William Maggregor 40 years ago may
soon be realised. It is the discovery of the
source of the great Fly River, which, after
rising in the heart of the big, mountainous
island, takes a twisted course of oyer 1000
miles to the Gulf of Papua. Numerous
expeditions have failed before the difficulties
encountered in the later stages. This
official expedition, armed with better data
than its predecessors, is expected to be five
months on the job and cover 1000 miles, most
of it through country where the natives have
never seen a white man. The party will
consist of two young white officials, two
n.c.o.’s, 10 men of the Armed Native Con-
stabulary, and some 40 carriers. There are
no machine-guns and no medical officer.
♦ 7“
Dear Bulletin, —The shutting of the prison
door for a decade or so on convicted criminals
of the Harris and Brauner type is tanta-
mount to closing the stable when the horse
is gone. A crime of this magnitude of
abomination was no spontaneous one of
passion, but rather the crowning perform-
ance of a career of lechery. Just as Nietz-
sche’s “supermen” entailed in their creation
a prolonged course of systematic training,
so it may be suggested for consideration that
two arcli-criminals of this type represented
but the “last word” in malpractices made
possible by factional if not communal moral
laxity. Individual sexual psychology may be
elevated or depraved by the well-intentioned
but misguided tolerance of a community.
“All the world loves a lover,” but the dis-
cerning ones of the world will impose con-
ditions on candidates for the role. The very
virtues that the new independence of women
claims for its devotees are not always its sole
reward. Older democracies than ours have
seen fit to strengthen the safeguards against
abuse what, time they enlarged the scope of
their women’s independence. Thus in New
York men can be arrested for attempting to
scrape acquaintance with girls in the public
thoroughfares. Unenviable as may be out-
record of v.d. —overshadowed, for the moment,
by the public attention to cancer mortality—
the grimmer threat of a Psychopathia sexu-
alis may lurk in the secret places of an out-
wardly prosperous community.—Yours, etc.,
S.N.R.
4
The cable that 10 “battle honors” have been
granted to Australian cavalry and infantry
units for emblazonment on guidons and
colors will cause some heartburnings when
the honors themselves are considered. They
are Sari Bahr-Lone Pine, Hamel, Mont St.
Quentin, Albert, 1918 (Chuignes), Gaza-
Beersheba, Magdahba-Rafa, Jordan (Es
Salt), Jordan (Amman), Jerusalem and
Nablus. The first-named, a Gallipoli honor,
is shared by cavalry and infantry. Of the
remaining nine only three commemorate the
fighting on the Western Front —Hamel, Mont
St. Quentin and Albert (Chuignes). The
rest, for actions in Palestine, concern only
the Australian cavalry and air forces which
took part in them. How the Right o’ the
Line managed to score on the public
record to by the foot-sloggers might be
worth knowing.
4
“J.D.C.”: The present construction of the
main Western-road from Dubbo to beyond
Nyngan (N.S.W.) is a fine example of
departmental shortsightedness. The railway
from Dubbo to Bourke is practically a
straight line over fiat country. Following it
within a chain on one side or the other, the
main road is nearly completed as far as Coola-
bah, roughly 108 miles west of Dubbo, and the
ultimate object is a main road from Sydney
to Bourke which will follow the railway for
more than half the distance. This means that
the railway will be used for little else but
the conveyance of heavy machinery and live-
stock, as it is well established that with
decent roads the motor is faster and cheaper
than the train. Had this road been con-
structed 40 or 50 miles from the railway and
parallel with it, it would be of considerable
service to outlying settlers. As it is they
must still haul their produce the same dis-
tance, on a slide or some similar conveyance
in bad weather, and the total result will be
only a reduction of the already* meagre
railway returns. Had the same amount of
money been expended in building roads at
right angles to the existing railway, to act
as feeders and assist development, a very
considerable increase in loading could be ex-
pected. As it is, the settler alongside the
line, who was already fairly well served,
now has the option of travelling by road or
rail, while the man 20 miles out is just
where he was before —with a few more
taxes.
Send your friends a Christmas Bulletin
and prove to them that Australians are now
producing the best short stories in the world.
Of all newsagents. Price sixpence.


Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine. Lounge Rooms.
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or wire for reservations .
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
? Phone 8W6329.
bnvnm
cnvnm
The TOP-NOTCH’ScotcK
•Say WHEN Man!!'"
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Having regained Goodin, one of the three
Labor mutineers, by eating the greatest amount
of dirt ever swallowed by an Australian Gov-
ernment in a given time, the N.S.W. Lang
Ministry will have 44 voters on the floor of
the House. One of them is Tonge, the reject
of North Shore, whose seat was purchased
by shoving Kay, “Independent” and some-
time Nationalist candidate, into a £l5OO
Government billet. The Opposition numbers
42; the others are Dooley the Speaker;
Louglilin and Gillies, who broke away with
Goodin ; and Skelton, the “Protestant” Labor
member for Newcastle. Loughlin says he
won’t go back on his demand for an imme-
diate election, and Gillies “will not rejoin the
party until the terms of the agreement are
honored.” So the Ministry, which says it
hates sectarianism, is relying on being kept
in office by the “Protestant” Labor member
for Newcastle.
Harder things than any that have been
said by London critics of Australian finance
were spoken the other day by Bertranel
Latham, actuary of the Commonwealth Bank
and president of the Actuarial Society of
Australia. He gave evidence before the
Federal Arbitration Court as a private
citizen, and said plumply that the “apparent
prosperity” of this country was based on
money borrowed abroad, that the London
market was undoubtedly becoming hostile to
Australian loans, and that Australia’s only
hope of escape from financial difficulties lies
in putting the cork in the loan bottle and
paying attention to increased production. He
had read what Bruce had said on the sub-
ject, and didn’t blame him for saying it, but
it didn’t affect his (Latham’s) opinion that
the Commonwealth was not to-day in as
sound a financial position as it was before
the war. The fact that liabilities had been
incurred through war didn’t alter the fact
that they were liabilities.
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners have
decided to tear up four lots of tramway rails
—three country and one Sydney-suburban;
Broken Hill is among the sufferers. It is
a mad business. The Commissioners can
null up what rails they please; but after the
Commissioners have torn up the lines at
Broken Hill, Parramatta and elsewhere,
there is nothing to stop the Government
from ordering somebody to lay new ones on
the old tracks. And it is about a thousand
to one that, unless the present ridiculous
arrangement is altered, some Government or
other will relay such lines. There is no need
even to wait for Parliamentary sanction.
A Minister authorises a scrap of tram-line,
so small that it need not be referred to the
Works Committee; and other scraps are
added by the same or other vote-hunting
Ministers until a “system” is acquired.
F. W. Birrell, the S. Aus. Labor Speaker,
stepped down to the floor of the House
recently to put in a few words for payment
by results. He was a printer, he said, and
if there were evilly-disposed persons who
wanted to prevent the Adelaide dailies com-
ing out he would give them a tip: “Go round
and tell the lino, operators that piecework
has been abolished in their offices.” Birrell
says the lately-proposed delegation to the
U.S.A. to study industrial methods ought to
go. But, as Mr. Speaker himself suggests, it
really doesn’t need a delegation to persuade
the bulk of Australian workmen that pay-
ment by results is a good thing. Far more
important is some law which will secure the
rule of trade unions by their members. We
should have piece-work soon enough then.
McShortodds has been given a respite in
Vic. for a few months. The Allancocktails have
abandoned their proposal to levy a tax on
the turnover of odds-yellers till the electors
THE MAN IN POSSESSION.
“The Vic. Ministry has disclosed a total consolidated revenue deficit of £377,505. As there will be an election
in April no new taxation is proposed, and Treasurer Peacock will budget for a deficit of between £200,000 and
£250,000.”
THE BAILIFF (to Treasurer Peacock): “You may make the electors forget about me but I'll be here
all right when you come back!”
have spoken in April. In sounding the
retreat, it was proposed to do with existing
taxes and ask the new Parliament to pro-
vide for the deficit. There was a debit balance
of £315,000 last year, and the 1926-27 dis-
grace will be bigger. Since the Reform Bill
was passed in 1888, Vic. has never had such
an unworkable House as the one just dying,
which will be unwept, unhonored and un-
sung when Baron Somers signs the warrant
for burying it.
Westralia had a spell and opened only
195 miles of new railway between 1919 and
1925. It added £21,000.000 to its debt in
that interval, increasing it by about 50 per
cent., but most of the money was spent (in
that region where the State owns 95. per
cent, of the soil) on the repurchase of private
land for settlement. Perhaps by reason of
this tranquil spell the Westralian railways
made a striking recovery. From being
almost at the bottom of the list in 19110,
they became the best-paying system of all
in 1925. Now, however, it is proposed to
get £10,000,000 of cheap loan money out of
the Development and Migration bubble, and
to build 200 miles of new railway per annum,
so the State’s new record threatens to be
soon spoiled.
On the principle that one cannot do a
good deed too often, Garden, the Moscow
pilgrim, has again resigned from the Com-
munist party. As regulations prevent his
rejoining the A.L.P. for two years, and
standing as a Labor candidate for five, his
admirers are expressing interest in his
future. Meantime' nothing has been heard
of the Communists repudiating Garden.
One of the conditions on which Goodin,
M.L.A. for Murray, agreed to keep the Ma
State’s Labor Government in office, although
lie and it gave the people their word of honor
that there would be an early election, is that
Emil R. Red secretary to AAdllis, leader
of the Leg. Council, and sometime distributor
of Communist-press stuff, is to fade away.
AVhile his fate was in the balance, Voigt
went along to the Sydney Trades Hall broad-
casting station and spoke a piece through
the air. The papers announced it this way:
Sporting feature: —Some hints on long-distance
running. By Mr. Emil R. Voigt.
A poor creature is Lazzarini, the N.S.W.
Chief Secretary. Not long ago he promised
to do something for the struggling Aus-
tralian film industry, apd hinted that he
might copy the Vic. legislation making the
screening of a certain footage of Australian
film compulsory. But when a deputation of
showmen called on him last week he said
they had “no cause to be alarmed,” that he
“had had the matter explained from the
other [i.e., the American] point of view,”
and that “State legislation would be of very
little value.” The explanation of this somer-
sault is that a general election threatens,
and the American picture interest represents
ten times as many votes as the Australian
interest. So Lazzarini turns the Australian
interest down.
A pleasing method of helping one of our
great primary industries is clironicled by the
Westralian Auditor-General. In April, 1925,
32S sheep were bought (with loan money, of
course) “to eat off Ivennedyia creeper on
groups”—i.e., Mitchell’s group settlements.
The animals were sold four months later,
“a loss of £314 being shown.” Premier
Collier charged up the £314 to “Development
of Agriculture, Loan Account,” and made
another thrilling speech on _ “What Our
Group Settlements Are Doing for the
Empire.”
Constituted authority, in the person of a
Federal Arbitration Judge, spoke soft words
to the perpetrators of the latest lawless
waterfront strike, and repeated them after
the customary rebuff. In the result, there
may be a truce for a few months or a few
weeks. The outlook would be a lot brighter
if constituted authority had said that the
Waterside Workers’ Federation had, in effect,
deregistered itself and would remain deregis-
tered until it so altered its rules as to prevent
the branches in Victoria, South Aus., Queens-
land, Westralia and the Speck being called
out because of the periodical rumpus at
Sydney. Other unions have similar rules and
never transgress them; the W.W.F.’s record
is so rotten that there would need to be sub-
stantial guarantees. It is no secret that
thousands of lumpers in the lesser Australian
ports have no sympathy .with the Sydney-
manufactured strikes, but individually they
feel that if they didn’t come out they would
be branded as “scabs.” Constituted authority
should protect these men and the communi-
ties which suffer. Unfortunately, constituted
authority never does protect them.
Westralia is reaching out for £10,500,000
of the cheap money which is to tiy round
under the “migration and development”
scheme. Three Development
and Migration Commissioners
spent a month in the big
State and inspected the group
settlements in the South-
West. They approved of
several proposed railways
there, and they studied
the wheat lands adjoin-
ing the proposed Norse-
man-Salmon Gums railway
in that region. But when
the money is spent Westra-
lia will still be huddled in
the South-West, and our
title to most of the Empty
North will be even more
questionable than it is now.
Recent allegations from the
N.T., which the Common-
wealth manages direct, were
that for many months the
Victoria River stations have
been short of supplies and
that a bagged crop of pea-
nuts has been lying at the
Daly River for seven months
awaiting shipment.
Though the Tas. Labor
Government could have
bludgeoned its Workmen’s
Compensation Bill through
the Assembly, as Lang and
Badly did in N. S. Wales,
it did not laugh scornfully
in the Lang-Badly fashion
when Opposition-leader
McPhee suggested that all
parties interested get to-
gether to discuss details of
a measure suitable for Tas-
mania’s special conditions.
Instead, it agreed to delay
the bill pending the report of
a round-table conference
composed of Attorney-
General Ogilvie and McPhee,
delegates from the Chamber
of Commerce and the Trades
Council, and a representative
of local cos. concerned in
employers’ liability insurance.
Conference recommended that
employees receiving up to £7
p.w. should be brought under
the Act (the previous limit
was £4 p.w.), and that pay-
ments for death be raised
from £4OO to £750, and for
total incapacity from £5OO
to £750; and so it was
arranged. Small Sister’s
experiment in sweet reason-
ableness is worth following
elsewhere.
The N.S.W. Lang Government has been
routed, with costs, in a High Court action
which should never have been brought. It
asked the High Court to declare that the
Judges of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court had no right to prohibit a N.S.W. con-
ciliation committee, part of the Piddington
circus, from dealing with the N.S.W. section
of a dispute in the metal trades with which
the Federal Judges were about to deal them-
selves. The emphatic reply was that the
Commonwealth Court had that right and
had properly exercised it. “The State law,”
said Isaacs, J., ’’has full force until it comes
into collision with the national law; in that
case the Commonwealth law prevails.”
The-Christmas Bulletin— the best short
stories and verse of the year—sixpence. Now
available at newsagents and stalls.
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE JOCKEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You are on a winner in Australia, but you must
get the best out of the horse yourself. You must
handle the horse properly to win.”— Governor-General
Lord Stonehaven at St. Andrew’s dinner.
You’re on a good ’un, sonny; he’s the champion
of the South,
And if you nurse him right along—go easy with his
mouth! —
Not bustling him, you understand, nor dropping too
far back,
They’ll never see the road he goes when the whips
begin to crack.
By Southern Sun from God’s Good Air he’s bred
the proper way,
Sound-winded and great-hearted—why, he’s good to
go all day.
He’s easy in the handling, doesn’t know a trick that’s
bad,
And he’s ready for the riding and—it’s up to you,
my lad.
He hasn’t done much racing yet in open company,
But all my roll goes on him ’gainst the greatest
cracks that be;
Till lately he has never had a decent “boy” on top;
Old Binghi in the saddle was as clumsy as a cop.
But don’t begin to figure it’s an armchair ride you’ve
snatched;
You’ve got to keep him moving or he might as well
be scratched;
He’ll loaf on you if you let him like any other
prad,
But he’ll answer to good riding and —it’s up to you,
my lad.
So just sit down and do it, never mind the fancy
stuff ;
The field is big, the race is long and the going’s
mighty rough;
Don’t stop to pick up daisies and don’t rush him
off his feet,
Just keep on sending him along, and never heed the
bleat
Of all the wise-heads in the stands, and their shriek-
ing politics—
“Go slow!” they’ll yell, or “Fasti” to suit their
own pet box of tricks.
It’s horsemanship that’s wanted, leave each critic
to his fad;
The colt is game and honest and —it’s up to you,
my lad!
VICTORIA,
HASEN.


rt
J' 4 B(ish£o'^
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only bj
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Melveil and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, .Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christctiurcti.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
engineers, steel founders, forgers,
Works & \ Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries } Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch j 312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Offices 1 T. & G. BTg, Brisbane.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1915.. 470,336 10 p.c. = 350,000 120,336 2,711,065
1916.. 474,310 10 „ „ 355.133 119,177 2,830,242
1917.. 553,653 10 „ ~ 389,707 163,946 2,994,188
1918.. 552,344 10 „ „ 390,486 161,858 3,156,046
1919.. 579,482 10 „ „ 395,158 184,324 3,340,370
1920.. 642,852 10 „ „ 463,839 179,013 3,519,383
1921.. 753,341 124 „ „ 621,801 131,540 3,650,923
1922.. 698,124 10 „ „ 521,609 176,515 3,827,438
1923.. 825,082 10 ~ „ 597,981 227,101 4,054,539
1924.. 846,833 10 „ „ 600,000 246,833 4,301,372
1925.. 979,383 12-1 „ „ 750,000 229,383 4,530,755
1926. 1,099,559 124 „ ~ 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
In its 109 years of growth the Wales has
never swallowed a competitor except, perhaps,
that an odd branch has been taken over. It
has grown strong and has fattened on a
traditional diet of financial caution and the
husbanding of its own strength. Its first
severe lesson was in 1829, when, after re-
paying a loan from the Government, it was
left with £29 in cash on the premises. Now
it notches a new record in the history of
Australian banking by writing net profits
over the million-pound mark. Results to
September 30 are easily the best even of
recent years. Disclosed net earnings were 10.1
p.c. of total funds compared with 9.3, 8.2,
8.2, 7.2 and 8.7 back to the 1921 flood of
imports. And what makes those figures more
pleasing is the fact that 31.8 p.c. of last
year’s profits remained in the business. At
that rate reserves would overtake capital
(£6,000,000) within four years. The 2£ p.c.
bonus handed to shareholders with the final
1925 div. was repeated last year, with the
“exceptional” label torn off. Certainly the
121 p.c. was a very easy matter, and, at that
rate the market is satisfied to value the scrip
on aSJ p.c. basis. At the same time, Presi-
dent Thomas Buckland has reminded share-
holders that the present general prosperity
is accompanied by a dangerous drift in money
matfebs. The continuance of prodigious Gov-
ernment borrowing, reckless spending on un-
productive works, a perpetual renewal of the
old mortgage because exports fail to exceed
imports, the handicap of an annual crop of
new taxes, and the too rapid growth of t.p.
business in luxury lines all tend to stimu-
late the growth of artificial conditions liable
to end with a very severe wrench.
When you cast your eye down this next
table, it should be remembered that seasons
in Australia for the last eight years have
been above the average :—-
Notes. Bills, etc. Deposits.
1895 .. .. £733,978 £3,291,619 £17,343,558
1960 .. .. 890,837 2,857,549 20,987,103
1905 .. .. 960,477 2,564,816 23,320,148
1910 .. .. 1,281,468 4,061,568 31,808,365
1914 .. .. 287,655 6,594,816 * 36,722,127
1915 .. .. 369,481 9,729,074 40,202,97 S
1920 .. .. 832,882 10,049,549 50,068,085
1921 .. .. 645,075 10,025,752 50,489,136
1922 .. .. 565,048 9,248,640 50,559,271
1923 .. .. 631,466 9,742,662 53,127,108
1924 .. .. 481,090 8,610,135 52,396,570
1925 .. .. 535,020 9,093,185 57,070,095
1926 .. .. 592,036 8,719,031 58,587,508
The past year’s growth of £1,517,000-odd in
deposits is small compared with that of the
preceding term. But the value of the 1925-20
wool clip was not so good. Also Government
and Municipal loans and a heavy crop of new
capital issues soaked up most of the available
cash. Maoriland business sent the note circu-
lation up £57,016, and there was a drop of
£374,154 in acceptances, etc., neither move-
ment of much importance.
Although exchange transactions, now on
a 6 p.c. basis, are not as profitable as they
were a couple of years ago, there has been
no difficulty in finding profitable employment
for funds: —
Liquid Assets. Advances. Premises.
1895 .. .. £9,254,352 £14,675,035 £621,000
1900 .. .. 11,941,272 15,528,146 650,000
1905 .. .. 10,749,340 18,942,298 706,000
1910 .. .. 18,578,215 22,628,076 730,000
1914 .. .. 21,779,989 27,207,838 795,000
1915 .. .. 30,040,334 25,734,765 825,000
1920 .. .. 29,289,187 39,425,089 820,000
1921 .. .. 30,338,068 38,797,819 800,000
1922 .. .. 31,557,371 37,853,994 800,000
1923 .. .. 30,006.861 42,848,973 850,000
1924 .. .. 27,850,352 43,208,816 880,000
1925 .. .. 33,972,945 42,676,111 880,000
1926 . . .. 30,181,742 48,017,148 880,000
The demand for money grew toward the
close of accounts, which suggests that some of
the £5.341,037 increase in advances, etc., is
seasonal in character. But the money is
well spread over Australia and Maoriland,
and as the proceeds of wool, wheat, sugar
and other products come in, it should quickly
find profitable use if. present conditions con-
tinue. Prior to the restoration of the gold
standard in 1925, the Wales transferred
about £2,250,000 of its then accumulated Lon-
don funds by importing gold from America
and South Africa. In the last 12 months
Australia has exported to America nearly all
the gold \nported in the previous year. That
and other movements are reflected in this
comparison of liquids :
1925. 1926.
Coin, bullion, cash balances
and Australian notes .. £15,376,715 £13,393,270
Other notes . . . . . . 47,584 24,500
Short-call money . . . . 620,000 360,000
Treasury bills . . . . 1,750,000 770,000
Government securities . . 8,417,081 8,946,231
Municipal and other securities 361,754 488,004
Hills receivable . . . . 6,363,803 5,206,675
Bank balances 1,036,008 993,062
£33,972,945 £30,181,742
Coin, bullion, etc., decreased nearly
£2.000,000, and money in London £2,397,128.
The bulk of this found employment as ad-
vances, and £655,400 went into public
securities. The financial position was com-
fortable enough. At September 30, 44.4 p.c.
of total outside liabilities was in liquid
form. To meet the balance (£37,716,833)
there was £48,017,148 of advances and
£BBO,OOO in premises, worth a great deal
more. The bank was holding £6 12s. of
the public’s money for every £1 of its own,
advances were just a shade under 82 p.c. of
deposits and ratio of the cash to liabilities
was 19.7 p.c. That looks as though the
lending connection won’t require to expand
much before the board will begin to think
of getting in more funds.
Except for a patch in Queensland, pros-
pects for the current season are satisfactory,
and output in the textile and other trades
is on the increase. Also the export pool
continues with a slight adjustment, to the
benefit of the trading banks, in T/T busi-
ness ; this mostly concerns wheat.
* * * *
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane) :
To lie- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1916.. £3,819 8 p.c. = £2,230 £1,589 £15,149
1917.. 3,789 8 „ „ 2,230 1,559 16,708
1918.. 4,449 12 „ „ 3,344 1,105 17,813
1919.. 5,421 12 „ „ 3,344 2,077 19,890
Reserves capitalised, £12.151 . . 7,739
1920.. 6,913 12 p.c. = 3,688 3,225 10,964
1921.. 10,594 12 „ „ 6,096 4,498 15,462
1922.. 11,618 12 „ „ 6,525 5,093 20,555
1923.. 14,027 12 „ „ 7,794 6,233 26,788
1924.. 18,277 12 „ „ 10,548 7,729 34,517
Additions to reserves, £7OOO .. 41,517
1925.. 23,487 12 p.c. = 13,272 10,215 51,732
1926.. 20,921 12 „ „ 17,863 9,058 60,790
Capital was increased by £60,785 and
£197,649 more was attracted on deposit.
£190,803 was added to advances; the balance
went to swell liquids. Expansion has been
rather dizzy of late years. So recently as
1918 profits were nearer four thousand than
five, and the capitalisation of £12,151 of
reserves two years later, reducing the visible
accumulation to £7739, seemed reckless. Yet
within three years the amount had been
replaced without interfering with the 12 p.c.
divs. Capital has expanded more than six-
fold in the seven years. Part of the growth
is due to natural causes; Queensland crops
and clips, generally speaking, have been good
and Brisbane has grown fast. The demand
by the well-paid workers for their own homes
lias been great—the eagerness to own a home
is one of the good features of Quensland life
—and the Federal, which is a building society
more than a bank, has in consequence had a
busy time. The co. has found no great diffi-
culty in obtaining deposits, thanks largely
to the fact that it allows interest on current
balances; and capital has been increased to
maintain a reasonable proportion between
the co.’s own funds and those belonging to
the public. Shareholders have been given the
right to the new issues at par, and since all
old boom froth has long since been blown
off, and the 12 p.c. seems fairly safe, each lot
of new shares has been snapped up. This
comparison gives a general idea of the co.’s
progress in the past six years:—
„ . 1921. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. £52,725 £74,328 £130,074 £190,860
Deposits, etc. 303,562 478,476 690,431 890 468
Debentures .. 12,500 12,500
Advances . . 245,089 410,597 526,277 717 080
Properties, etc. 13,431 13,304 34,100 45’100
Govt, securities,
_ etc - 60,657 59,664 146,592 208 157
Cash, etc. .. 69,195 109,321 172,405 181^782
Two years ago the co. owed the public a
shade less than £4 for each £1 of its own—
a hefty debt for a building co. A solid
amount, however, is held liquid. At Sept
30 last the co. owed £590,468 and its own
funds amounted to £251,650. There was
? u iV aild or on fixed de Posit, and
±207,50< in Government securities, so that
the amount within reach was reassuring.
Interest, rents and commission last vear
brought in £67,553 (£53,064 in 1925-
£44,(21 in 1924). Outgo, of course, was
heavier. General exes, took almost £3OOO
more than m the previous year—an increase
about which the directors might have offered
a word of explanation. Considering the
necessity the Federal Deposit is under to
keep large sums liquid, net earnings are
handsome. Paid capital will call for £22 903
this current year on the basis of 12 p.c. divs..
and payment at that rate can be made without
difficulty if profits are maintained. Nothing
beyond that should, however, be thought of
until there are more solid reserves to support
the enlarged capital and the poorly fixed
deposits. Not that the position is trouble-
some : at Sept. 30, to cover outside debt,
almost £390,000 was handy, with freeholds
and advances in the books at £45.100 and
£717,080 respectively to secure the balance
of half a million.
The Permanent? Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1916. .£6,724 19 p.c. = £5OOO £1724 £42,633
1917.. 6,758 10 „ „ 5000 1758 44,391
1918.. 7,516 10 „ „ '5OOO 2516 46,907
1919.. 8,386 10 „ „ 5000 3386 50,293
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 293
1920.. 8,437 6 p.c. = 5800 2637 2,930
1921.. 9,528 6 „ „ 6600 2928 5,858
1922 14,104 9 „ „ 9900 4204 10,062
1923.. 12,5i2 74 „ „ 8250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 7*„ „ 8250 5775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8800 5758 25,857
1926.. 15,572 9 ~ „ 9900 5672 31,529
Net increase in trusts for the year amounted
to £055,306, which is about the average of
the past three: in that period the total has
climbed from £8,001,351 to £10,850,424. But
some of this increase isn’t healthy, because
it is built on inflation due to bad conditions
of one sort and another. Excessive borrow-
ing and spending by the State is one factor,
of course: and industrial legislation which
limits production and so pushes up prices is
another. It is delightful, no doubt, to read
that Sydney is making such strides that a
property lias been sold three times in the past
dozen years, and each seller has got twice
as much as he paid. That sort of increase
in value figures largely in the accounts of
cos. like the Permanent Trustee; but it
doesn’t really mean much. The only in-
creases worth anything are those based on
increased value of production. From that
point of view our position is quite unsatis-
factory ; and if the wool and other markets
hadn’t stuck to us wonderfully it would be
much more unsatisfactory than it is. Profits
of this and other cos. will, however, go on
moving along with the rise in prices (of pro-
perty as of other things) so long as they
last; but what the investor has to keep his
eye on is the slump that is inevitable sooner
or later. How is it going to affect this co.?
Commissions and therefore profits will of
course shrink; and possibly the rate of divi-
dend may shrink too. But in that day prices
will not be what they are now; so a shrunken
dividend may be worth then as much as the
fat one of to-day. What the investor has
chiefly to look out for is the possibility of big
losses of capital; and it is hard to see how
anything of the sort is possible in this case.
Look at this :
1995. 1920. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. £25,000 £109,945 £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities .. 23 933 9,408 4,114
Assets:—
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 20,289 26,804 60,577 46,144
Premises . . Nil 66,271 63,362 62,741
Sundry debtors 98 858 393 393
Cash .. . . 959 3,996 17,055 23,585
The co. hasn’t borrowed anything to lend
out again; so it can’t be struck by the most
frequent cause of trouble. There is, cer-
tainly, a bit of its own funds out on mort-
gage ; but the co. doesn’t carry on a regular
advance business, and the line is very closely
watched. The co. is not so hard up for a
few pounds that it needs to take risks.
A detailed view of earnings and outgo
follows
Gross Taxes and
Earnings. Salaries. Office Charges.
1910 .. £11,743 £4,167 £763
1915 .. 14,515 6,102 1501
1920 .. 24,948 11,669 4020
1921 .. 27,672 13,536 4407
1922 .. 35,574 16,816 3954
1923 .. 37,182 18,555 5614
1924 .. 39,584 20,443 4478
1925 . . 42,950 22,449 5322
1926 .. 47,654 ' 24,275 7187
Exes, have been growing rather lustily, but
more has to be done for estates these days
—particularly in the matter of work for
taxation commissioners. But, despite in-
creased exes., there was still 36 p.c. of the
earnings left after paying the increased div.;
and it has to be remembered that the partly-
earned corpus commission for which no
credit is taken must be worth more than
a trifle. Capital is in 200,000 shares of £5
each, paid to 11s. Shares are sought at
225. 3d., which suggests that the market
looks for something better than 9 p.c. The
hopes are not unreasonable. There is only
a little over 14s. of visible assets; but there
is business in hand out of which profits
can certainly be made, and that has to be
taken into account in any valuation.
* * # *
0.T., Ltd. (Melb.). —This co. was regis-
tered in 1909 with a nominal capital of
£200,000, and three years later £115,851 had
been paid up. Since then, though the busi-
ness has been greatly extended, it has not
been found necessary to issue more than an
additional £18,107, making the present issued
and paid capital £133,598. At the outset a
large amount of the capital was represented
by “goodwill, trade-marks, bottles, etc.,”
which the Wild Cat was not able to regard
as tangible assets, though subsequent events
have shown that the goodwill, etc., was very
valuable. Goodwill in such a case consists
largely of the organising capacity of the
people in control; and, as events have proved,
the co. had the good fortune to possess some-
thing extra in that line. It had tremendous
energy also, and operations were presently
extended to Europe and America. “The
business is now an international one,” the
directors announce: “there is hardly a port
in the world that the cols products are not
shipped to.” The original O.T. cordial was
soon supplemented by other lines, and a
general trade in fruit-juice drinks is now-
done. “On one day last summer it was esti-
mated,” the directors say, “that over
4,000,000 Kia Ora drinks were sold in
London.” To carry on the business outside
Australia a subsidiary co. or cos. were
formed; the accounts to June 30, just issued,
show “shares in other cos. abroad, £47,445.”
So astonishing has been the success of this
investment that the appropriation account
show-s a dividend from it of £30,000. The net
profit for the year was that amount plus
£l6ll from investments in Australia out-
side the business plus £11,666 from the busi-
ness in Australia (this is after writing off
£2382 against depreciation) ; total £43,277,
or over 32 p.c. on the paid capital. The divi-
dend for the year was 2s. Bd. per share from
investments outside Australia (and there-
fore free of income tax in Australia) and
Is. 4d. per share from the Australian busi-
ness ; total 20 p.c. The visible reserves,
apart from taxation and plant reserves, are
£66,158, which is £6294 in excess of all good-
will items, including bottles. But “shares
in other cos.” which produce £30,000 in a
year are obviously greatly under-valued at
£47,445; so that there are large amounts of
undisclosed reserve. Further, the oversea
trading is to September, 1925, only; and
large profits have been made since that date.
Other avenues of trade are being opened up.
For instance: —
It is our intention to ship Australian apples to our
own London office and distribute same through
grocery stores, which we maintain and believe is
the right method in handling this fruit, as we
have had experience with citrus fruit. The great
majority of grocers already sell lemons and would
gladly handle apples.
It looks very promising; no other Australian
firm comes into direct contact with so many
English retailers, and if this fact can be
made use of for the benefit of Australian
fruitgrowers the country will be under a
further obligation to these remarkably ener-
getic people.
* * * *
The Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Written Off
(including
Losses on
Reali- To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends, sation). serves, serves.
1910.. £9,285 8 p.c.= £7,487 £l2 £1836 £51,874
1917.. 8,959 8„ „ 7,927 1488 51,418
1918.. 8,636 8 ~ „ 7,987 649 52,067
1919.. 9,715 8„ „ 8,236 27 1452 53,519
1920 .. 11,441 8 „ „ 8,273 3168 56,687
Reserves capitalised, £34,467 .. 22,220
1921.. 12,239 8 p.c.= 11,029 1210 23,430
1922.. 12,064 8 „ „ 11,029 1035 24,465
1923.. 13,409 9 „ „ 12,408 3001 25,466
1924.. 13,408 9 „ „ 12,408 1000 26,466
1925.. 14,787 10 „ „ 13,787 1000 27,460
1926.. 14,787 10 „ „ 13,787 1000 28,466
Disclosed profits are a guide to the co.’s
position, but little more. Certainly income
which regularly runs to an exact £lOOO
above div. requirements cannot be taken
seriously. Visible reserves at £28,466 are
not particularly hefty, when it is noted that
paid capital is £137,870 and deposits £95,784,
while £222,611 is out in advances. But real
estate held by the co., according to report,
is in at a conservative valuation, arid if
that isn’t the best kind of reserve strength
it is generally the chief support in the case
of land, building and investment cos. In
this case, much of the property is situated
in the city of Newcastle, where values have
risen substantially of recent years. Further,
the directors have placed £12,000 outside;
the business—in Commonwealth stock—and
that habit is worth cultivating. The extent
ot the reserve in the co.’s property holding
may be estimated roughly from the rents
received: £9990 last year, or very nearly
20 p.c. _on the book value of the “real
estate” item. It is not unlikely, too, that
portion of the steadily growing reserve for
taxation (now £5044) consists of stored-up
profit, though it is not counted as such in
the introductory table. Balance-sheet figures
further reveal the co.’s recent progress in
this way (no new share capital has been
got in since 1920) :
Liabilities.
1915. 1920. 1925. 1926.
Deposits .. £62,896 £78,167 £95,236 £95,784
Other debts .. 537 4,685 2,534 8,945
Assets.
Advances .. 118,071 171,823 1 „ la oin
Foreclosures.. 33,690 21,714 j - 18 > y lo 22..,61i
Other property 53,785 40,219 45,500 50,409
Liquid assets 889 16,022 12,012 12,000
In the past 12 months liabilities increased


Want Some Advice?
GET
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for December.
An invaluable guide—Companies’
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat’’
experience and data of 40 years
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
We stock -|- GP -f Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* # * *
The universal popularity of Wood Pipe for conduit
purposes is markedly evidenced by its use in water
schemes which are among the largest in the world.
Pioneer Wood Pipe, made in Australia, is of the
highest efficiency, and has proved beyond doubt its
economic adaptability to all conditions in every
state. Quickly and easily transported and installed, it
neither rusts nor corrodes, is immune from frosts and
electrolysis, and actually increases in capacity when
kept saturated. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * #
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
WORTHY OF YOUR TRUST.
Experience in handling trust matters is essential if you wish to ensure the safe
administration of your estate.
PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF N.S.W.
LIMITED
offers you the benefit of their 39 years’ experience in the administration of trust
estates.’ The Estates under their control now exceed £11,000,090.
Unlike an individual, the Company cannot die, whilst the whole of the Capital and
Assets, exceeding one million pounds, is liable for the protection of its clients, thus
affording you a security no individual can offer.
The advantages over the appointment of an individual, with little or no experience in
handling trust matters and with no financial backing are obvious.
Make an appointment or write for booklet.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
0. £. FRIEND.
F.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager
E. V, T. WHITTLE. Assistant Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
KEYSTONE POWER SHOVELS
FOR
CONTRACTORS, ROAD BOARDS, WATER, SEWERAGE
AND GAS MAINS.
VERSATILITY: Power, Speed, Strength, Economy. The Keystone is equipped
with 3 different Buckets: SKIMMER, for Road Work and General Excavation
PULL STROKE DITCHER, for Ditching, Trenching, Foundation Digging, etc.
CLAMSHELL, for Loading, Unloading and Handling Materials.
Sole Australasian Agents-
GUTHRIDGE,, LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
by £6959; and the £12,000 of Commonwealth
loan was the only really liquid asset on
tiu premises. Depositors and other credi-
tors could, however, see at August 31
advances amounting to more than double
the liabilities uncovered by liquids, with
the written-down real estate as further
support.
* * * *
Chartered Lands, Ltd., a Brisbane real-
estate concern, is asking the public for
£lOO,OOO in 4000 bonds of £25 each. Part
of the money is to be applied to the pur-
chase of nearly 700 acres near Wolston,
about 200 acres around Tingalpa Creek,
and unspecified areas at Ferny Grove and
Moggill-road, all unimproved. These lots are
to be subdivided and sold within 15 years,
and the bulk of the bondholders’ money
goes to buy out present owners. The
co., however, deposits £8 6s. Bd. per
bond (one-third of the purchase price) with
the Public Curator, which amount is held
in trust for the bond-holders. It is said in
black letters that bondholders are thus pro-
tected during the life of their bond; but it
is not full protection, and, as will be seen
presently, even this may be withdrawn. The
interest on the money deposited with the
Curator is to be used to pay charges; the
net profits from sales of land are to be
taken, 5 p.c. by the co. and 95 p.c. by the
bondholders. The present value of the pro-
perties is not disclosed; nor is it at all clear
what control, if any, the bondholder will have
over the co. What this clause means is not
clear either:—
A two-tliirds majority in value of the holders of
any series of freehold (profit sharing) bonds and
the directors of the co. may dispose of all or any
portion of the land covered by that bond series.
Such land or lands may then be sold by the co. or
its agents.
The “conditions of issue” attached to the
bonds make things a little clearer; the pros-
pectus is clumsy here, and in many other
places. It is intended to give the bondholders
some control, but all the prospectus says is:—
The 'co.’s activities are directly under the control
of the directors and the co.’s experts.
Machinery will be created whereby bondholders
are able to exercise the option given to them in
deciding how and when the land they are interested
in is to be disposed of.
This “machinery” can thus form no part of
the contract, seeing that it is not yet
“created.” Further, no statement is made
as to the paid capital of the co. It may not
be more than £lOO. There is no visible
guarantee fund for the bondholders here,
then. And even the one-third of the bond-
money paid into the trust fund may, “with
the concurrence of a two-thirds majority' in
value of the bond-holders,” be taken from
the fund to improve the land. The security
for bondholders is, therefore, much less than
it looks. Apparently, also, bondholders are
to put up all, or practically all, the capital,
and have a very uncertain control over it,
and no control at all over the running exes.
* * * *
Latest addition to the list of Australian
manufacturers is a pup of the big Goodyear
Tyre and Rubber Co., Ohio, which is
capitalised at £16,685,103. That American
concern established a tyre-selling subsidiary
in Sydney in 1915, and a good deal of local
business has since been won. Now tariff
alterations have induced the parent co. to
manufacture here, and plant to turn out
tyres, tubes and other rubber goods is to
be installed on a 20-acre block at Granville,
near Sydney. To handle the venture the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co. (Australia),
Ltd., is afloat with a nominal capital of
£1,200,000 in £1 shares, of which £BOO,OOO
is issued and called up; the balance (400,000
ords.) is held in reserve. The parent co.
takes 500,000 ords. for cash, and 300,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. were offered in Australia
and all snapped up before old Man in the
Street could get in. The 8 p.c. div. is
guaranteed to Jan. 1, 1929, by the parent,
whose p. and 1. surplus at Dec. 31, 1925,
was £6,306,444. The prefs. are to be listed,
and the assets and business of the old sub-
sidiary will be swallowed by the new co.
Thus, with a flying start and business to
be won, it should progress. James Kell,
lately Governor of the Commonwealth Bank,
is chairman of the board; with him are Paul
W. Litchfield, president of the parent co.,
and W. G. Kither, chief of the old subsi-
diary.
* * * *
The New Guinea gold rush has revived
interest in Papuan mining. Carl Schroeder
has brought to Sydney a ton or so of ore
and specimens from claims which he says
have been pegged out in a locality so far
undisclosed. It is three miles from the sea,
he says, with plenty of native labor about,
and lots of timber and water, while goods
and supplies can be easily landed on the
field from the boat without cartage. This
sounds like Milne Bay, on the Papuan north-
east coast. There was a good alluvial rush
there a generation ago, and one or two
decomposed reef formations were picked up;
but the discovery of the Northern Division
fields practically ended interest in it. It
is about 50 miles north-west from Samarai,
with a good port and river communication.
Great Britain Sluicing Co. (N.S.W.) can
thank good management for its £2170 net
in the October half-year. Although McGil-
livray had to burst a heavy cement intru-
sion with explosives, and keep his weather
eye on the fast contracting water storages,
he got through 83,445yd5. of 2.891 b. ground
as against 25,941yd5. of 2.741 b. stuff in the
April half-year. Holders of the 10,000 10s.
shares got 4s. in divs. for the six months,
and another shilling has been paid since the
accounts closed. Besides paying £2OOO in
its four divs., the co. wrote £505 off plant
and had £165 to carry forward, against a
debit of £5 brought in. Property and plant
are valued at! £4890, cash items £1666,
stores and fuel £lO7O, and investments £3751.
The Y Creek end of the show was less pros-
perous than usual, sluicing 14,765yd5. for
tons oxide, against 13,980yd5. for 12|
tons during the April half-year. Another
18 months’ ground is available hereabout.
* * * *
The Terni leases, at Yerranderie(N.S.W.),
have been so well spoken of by C. Lonsdale
Smith and C. Roberts that a small co. in
100 £5O shares is being floated in Sydney to
test them at depth. The Colon Peak, Silver
Peak and Yerranderie are the big three of
the field. According to Smith’s report: —
The three mines referred to are on -what are geo-
logically known as plugs or off-shoots from the
parent rock, which is 1100 feet lower horizon. In
each property only one vein is known to exist. There
are other mines in the district that have not been
successful, but these do not occur in the same strata,
nor do their veins run east and west.
The lodes on the Terni leases are all in the parent
rock similar to the successful mines on the Yerran-
derie field. Three have been proved and are traceable
on surface throughout both properties.
There is every probability of continuous ore i'veP-'S
at Terni level (1100 feet lower than Yerrander : e>
they being that much nearer the source of ore
supply. From developments to date, they appear to
be continuous.
* * *
“Tidapa”: Lost River Diamond Mines,
near Goulburn (N.S.W.), reports having
washed 24 diamonds, equal to 5 carats, and
25dwt. of gold from 40 yards of dirt. Sluic-
ing is still going ahead. Writer floated the
Doctor’s Creek Diamond Co., Inverell
(N.S.W.), in 1884, and took a bag full of
diamonds to Amsterdam, where the lapida-
ries said they were too small and too hard
to profitably cut. Unfortunately diamond-
mining and -selling is a monopoly belonging
to the richest group of capitalists in London
and New York. If they can spoil or stop
an Australian diamond-field they will, by
mere force of money.
• * • •
Donkey Hill has been registered with
240,000 ss. shares; 150,000 are offered; the
vendor takes 80,000 paids and £2500 for
about 87 acres near Moruya (N.S.W.), and
10,000 shares are in cold-store. The show
has averaged over 2oz. per ton of stone
shipped, but that doesn’t mean much. Ten
head are expected to put through 500 tons
of 2oz. stuff per month, with tailings over.
The promoters talk about divs. of Is. 6d.,
with £6OOO p.a. to spare, but who figured
the costs is not stated. And nobody guaran-
tees the persistence of either reef or gold.
The vendors are asking too much.
# # * *
Coolgardie (W.A.) has a Government bore
stabbing its innards and is pretty optimistic
about results. Local people—or some of
them —think the field never had a chance
owing to the exodus to Kalgoorlie when the
big mines were opened up there. But, really,
Coolgardie had every chance. Most of its
co.-owned mines had some rich ore near the
surface, and that kept things going while
a very fair amount of prospecting was done.
Shows such as Bayley’s and Burbanks
lasted much longer than the rest, but all
collapsed in the end. The nature of the
Coolgardie deposits leaves little hope of any-
thing of importance being discovered.
* * * *
All going well, Westralia’s next gold-min-
ing float in London will be the Glenelg
Queen group at Glenelg Hills, on w r hich Jack
McDermott holds an option. Associated with
him are A. H. Collier, chairman of the Lake
View and Star; J. A. Agnew, Consolidated
Goldfields of South Africa; and F. 11. Hamil-
ton, chairman of the Wiluna Gold Corpora-
tion. Floaters, including some of phenomenal
richness, were found on the surface of the
Queen, and costeens exposed high-grade
stone in places. Sinking is now proceeding
to see how prospects are at depth.
# * * •
Despite unprofitable outputs, Mararoa
(W.A.) persists in asserting that its Reidy
group of mines are payable. Last half-year
the average yield, including cyanide returns,
was a shade under £2 per ton, and but for
contributions from mostly-unwilling share-
holders, the co. would have had to close its
doors. Estimated ore reserves are still
about 30,000 tons, and the extractable value
remains at something over 40s. per ton. But
as these reserves can’t under present con-
ditions be turned to profitable account, it
is no good including them.
* • * *
There is a prospect of life being breathed
into Westralia’s defunct nor’-west tin min-
ing industry. Someone in Melbourne hopes
shortly to instal an electrical concentrator
on the dry areas at Mooleyella, where lack
of water has so far rendered large deposits
unworkable. The process, however, will have
to work cheaply. Wages costs are neces-
sarily very high there.
# * * *
Westralia’s gold yield hasn't shrunk much
during the past year, but a disquieting
feature is that a greater proportion than ever
lias been obtained from the declining Kal-
goorlie field. Last month Kalgoorlie con-
tributed over 33,000 of the 39,0000 z. received
at the Perth Mint. In the absence of fresh
discoveries, and with no new mines of im-
portance coming, the prospect isn’t promis-
ing. In fact, a further fall in output is
likely. Assistance in the shape of gold bonus
or some other concession from the Common-
wealth Government is eagerly awaited by
the downhearted people of Kalgoorlie and
Boulder. Meanwhile most of the producing
cos. are picking their workers and treating
only the best of the reserves.
* * # *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has just issued an-
other estimate of ore in sight. This time
1124,000 tons are said to be visible; 78,000
tons are reckoned to go 14dwt., and 146,000
tons 7-jdwt. There are also 115,000 tons of
“probable” reserves estimated to average
6|dwt. The recoverable value of the stone
now being treated is a little over 9dwt.
Dividends have been maintained at 25 p.c.
for over six years, and as reserves and values
are keeping up, this rate of distribution is
likely to be made for at least several years
to come. This show is the only fairly sound
one left on Kalgoorlie.
* * * #
London has just acquired two mammoth
manganese outcrops at the back of the Gas-
coyne (W.A.). The stuff in sight is esti-
mated to exceed 15,000,000 tons, all reckoned
marketable. This makes the big deposits
near Peak Hill in which Broken Hill Prop,
is interested, and to which a railway is now
being built, look small.
* * « #
As a new hand B. F. Lloyd has scored a
small win at the Eldorado, Gaffney’s Creek
(Vic.). Dead work for a dozen years had
left a long trail of disappointments. One
job was putting up a big-angled rise on No.
9 reef. In it rich gold is now showing. That
development has been followed by gold
making in payable values in No. 8 reef. So
the plan is to open up properly. As a pre-
liminary the old scheme of getting the mine
to pay for plant is being followed, instead of
first seeing if the shoots deserve a battery.
A 10-head mill is ordered, but with only 200
tons to start on the initial campaign will be
short and sharp. The gold in Vic. mountain
mines cuts in and out so quickly that this
procedure has an excuse, but it is poor-
man’s policy.
* * * *
King Island has tin drifts to which Bowes
Kelly devotes attention. His henchmen are
Mockton Kelly, Bob Knox (son of Bowes
Kelly’s old pal William Knox) and Gordon
Lyon. Alec McGeorge, now in Malaya, did
some early scouting, and then prospector T.
Daly put in months checking up and adding
to results. Lastly Duncan McNab came
along with the finishing touches, light and
artistic. Altogether about 770 bores have
gone through the wash, and it is advised that
1,000,000 cubic yards of drift averages
0.9651 b. a yard. In Malaya or Siam that
would bring a crowd of promoting buzz-flies
round, particularly as the tin-bearing area
hasn’t been fully tested. McNab advises
sluicing with a nozzle, and suggests the build-
ing of dams on Camp Creek or pumping
from the Sea Elephant River. Cash wanted
is only £5OOO, and the plan is to cut up the
100 shares of £lOO each into £1 shares, and
then to increase nominal capital by an issue
of 35,000 £1 shares. To get things ship-
shape a new co. is to be formed to take over
assets, present shareholders getting a cut of
20,000 £1 paid shares for their £lO.OOO of
capital. Then they are to subscribe the
funds needed by taking up 10,000 of the new
shares. Tom Husband runs this little tin
co. just as he did A. E. Langford’s big'
Briseis float, into which Bowes Kelly went
at the outset on a pretty big scale.
* * * *
At the second attempt J. T. Walton suc-
ceeded in floating Mama, Woodlark Island,
Papua. The capital is £30.000 in 120,000
ss. shares. 50.000 of them fully paid. Former
mining efforts failed, but the belief held by
the present group is that, with modern man-
agement and better treatment methods, the
series of reefs to be worked by tunnelling
will yield profits.
• * » *
Not long ago the Gascoyne mica deposits
(W.A.) were boomed a bit, and a London
syndicate was induced to find capital to
work them. Funds, however, soon ran out,
and as shareholders jibbed at finding more
the output was mortgaged in order to carry
on. Now it is stated that operations have
ceased, and that £2OOO is owing in wages
and £3OOO to other unsecured creditors.
Mica prices are high; the difficulty is to
get them.
* * # *
New Salak South is making a fresh start,
and after the Sikon episode it is sure to
pick a path carefully. The board as consti-
tuted to-day doesn’t carry any of the group
which sprang out of Olympus to grab the
show and as quickly and silently retreated
again. W. T. Anderson remains on the field
for the New Salak South, his last selection
being a property at Itonglek, in Siam, which
he is boring. lie will also test some claims
in the Kinta Valley, Federated Malay States.
The co. has £l5OO to go on with after having
spent £3OOO in its search after a mine. This
cash in the till is enough to scratch on with
for a time, but the idea is to float another
56,000 shares, thereby advancing nominal
capital to 84,000 shares of 20s. each. As only
6d. will be paid on the new issue, there
should be plenty of cash for equipment if a
claim is approved.
* # * *
Kampar River (F.M.S.I has been rejuven
ated by the report of Malcolm Newman and
T. L. Willan, of Alluvial Tin, Ltd., whose
check-boring was agreed upon as final by the
contending parties in preference to a long
outing in the courts. Prospectus estimates
of 16oz. oxide to 50ft. over the co.’s 100
acres have been confirmed, and the sale for
£87,000 to the Winchester Trust will now
be completed. The 120,000 20s. shares in
the co. should get about 14s. 6d. as salvage.
When the outlook was chiefly litigation
instead of oxide, share prices fell to 3s. 6d.
Later, when somebody interpreted the check-
boring prospects aright, prices recovered to
10s.; and now that the report is available
12s. or thereabout is the market.
* # * *■
Adelaide is again trying to stir up in-
terest in Ives Reward (W.A.). Tributors
are in possession, but with the aid of a
better water supply and a good response
from call-paying shareholders the co. hopes
to resume on its own account before long.
The mine is what it always has been, one
of “pleasing appearance” and poor results.


STAGE FRIGHT.
This being the festive season of the year, young Montmorency Jkones, encouraged by dad and the matah, decides to do a bit for sweet charity.


1
Cfc
m
V/URUIZER
PLAYER PIANOS.
The exceptionally high standard of excellence set by Wurlitzer instruments
places them far ahead of competition. Those considering the purchase of a
player piano should investigate the claims of the Wurlitzer. Tonal beauty,
faultless mechanical construction, and the exclusive Wurlitzer metal action
are features of the utmost importance to purchasers.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
New South Wales: Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney, M. Light & Sons Ltd., Newcastle and
Cessnock; Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong, The Australian Stores, Yass.
South Australia : The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide, Victoria : Myers Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne. West Australia : Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth. Queensland: Young &i Whatnall,
Campbells Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives :
PARKER, BLAU & CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. ' 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE KINDERGARTEN SCHOOL.
“I have never loved another girl.”
“That’s all right, dear ; I don’t mind —I rather like
beginners.”
“John’s Wood” (London) : It would be
well for those directing the arrangements
for the Royal visit to remember that the
health of the Duke of York is not robust.
Although of larger build, he has neither the
stamina nor the experience of the Prince of
Wales, who was snowed under by liis many
engagements in the Commonwealth. The
Duke of York takes a serious view of life;
and this attitude in itself makes a public
engagement a more than ordinarily respon-
sible affair. The other day, when on a visit
to Wales, the Duke requested the suppression
of ail ceremonies; and since then at another
celebration he merely handed the Mayor a
written reply, and did not attempt the for-
mality of speech-making. The Duchess, who
is very animated, is equal to a lot of social
demands, although she is of the petite order
of physique. Every alternate day free of
public engagements would go a long way
towards ensuring the enjoyment of the Royal
couple and the success of the tour.
“E.D.”: Nowadays I never hear the
Oldest Inhabitant talk of the wonderful
things that happened when he was a boy
without thinking of what did happen when
we were making preparations at Ballarat
in 1904 to celebrate the jubilee of the
Eureka Stockade. It was decided to collect
as many as possible of the survivors of that
historical clash with authority. Postal invi-
tations were out of the question; so the
committee decided to advertise in leading
papers for replies from those Stockaders who
could attend the function, with the
object of printing a suitable souvenir. A
special appeal was made to ensure the
attendance, if alive, of the man who had
concealed Peter Lalor in the load of hay
and smuggled him away to Geelong. Reli-
able records put down the number of those
who were under fire in the Stockade at not
less than 200 and not more than 240. Pic-
ture the amazement of the Eureka committee
when it received something like 4000 replies.
There were over 30 claimants to the distinc-
tion of having dressed Lalor’s wounds and
driven him away to safety.
* * * *
“Morris”: A roar as of many chariots dis-
rupted the Sabbath calm, and my old batta-
lion cobber Darky pulled up at my front
gate in a newly-painted rattler. Darky is
in the used-car trade, and is flourishing.
“ ’Op in,” he ordered. “I’ve just got the
missus ’ome, and I want yer to come round
and wet Rosemary Alberta’s ’ead.” So we
rattled down the quiet street and on to his
up-to-the-minute bungalow at over 30. Darky
was in a hurry, and seemed anxious to get
home. In the kitchen he decapitated a bottle,
and we drank with solemn ritual. “But
where is Rosemary Alberta?” I queried.
Darky crept up to the bedroom. “Can you
wait ’alf a minute?” he whispered on his
return. “She’s just fillin’ up at the Bowser.”
“Herodot”: Speaking of bogus disappear-
ances at sea (B. 2/12/’26), about 20 years
ago the steamer Ventura left San. Francisco
for Sydney with an absconding embezzler
aboard. His wife accompanied him. The
police were hot on the fugitives’ trail, but,
there being no wireless in those days, all
they could do was to cable to Sydney asking
that their man bo detained on arrival there.
The night after the ship left Pago Pago
the wife raised the alarm that her husband
had jumped overboard. The vessel lowered
a boat, which circled for two hours before
the quest was abandoned as hopeless. The
wife’s story was that her husband had taken
this way out of his troubles, realising that
his chances of escape were hopeless.
Actually, however, immediately the alarm of
“Man overboard!” went up, he had been
hidden by two of the crew, with whom
arrangements had previously been made; and
on arriving in Sydney these managed to
smuggle him ashore by night.
* ' * * *
“The D.”: When a prohibited immigrant
takes French leave from a
boat in an Australian port
the master of the vessel be-
comes. liable for the for-
feiture of a bond of £lOO.
Hence an industry which has
flourished since the passing
of the law is that of keeping,
prohibited immigrants “in
smoke” until a fair price is
offered for their delivery.
Immediately a coolie or
Chinaman has disappeared
from a vessel, the first thing
is to locate the missing one,
the next to keep him under
surveillance until the time is
ripe to produce him. The
ripeness depends on the re-
ward offered for his return
on board. The first figure is
always £3, but it grows
rapidly as the sailing hour
approaches. I know police-
men who have received as
much as £3O for locating a
“missing” Chow who was
never more than a hundred
yards from his vessel and
always under tile eye of the one who lifted
the reward.
* * * * r
“Flagwagger” : Early in 1916, a dozen of
us A.1.F.-ites, after being billeted at the vil-
lage of Wittes, in northern France, went into
the line at Fleurbaix. It was there that
Joe Blank, whose knowledge of French was
limited to a few words, asked me to trans-
late a letter which he had received from a
Mademoiselle (say Leontine) whose acquaint-
ance he had made at Wittes, and also
to pencil a reply. Thereafter I acted as
a medium between the lovers until, in June,
1917, Joe was wounded and evacuated. I
never met him again, and sometimes used
to wonder if the pair had made a match of
it. One morning last August saw me sharing
a compartment of a Geelong-bound train
with a dainty young thing who was reading
a French novel: I made a remark in French
concerning the book, and we were soon con-
versing. Learning that she was a native
of France, I asked if she knew Wittes. She
A RATHER FROSTY MORNING.
SAND SHEIK: “How do you find the water this morning, girls?”
SURF QUEENS : “Keep straight on and you can’t miss it.”
excitedly answered that she came from there,
and a few more questions revealed that she
was the girl to whom I had written for Joe
Blank. At first I concluded that she must
have married him, but Leontine explained
that she had subsequently met another
Digger whom she liked better, had married
him, accompanied him to Australia after
the war, and had parted from him three
years ago in Sydney for causes unspecified.
The train was now running into Geelong sta-
tion, and Madame suggested that I meet her
that evening to further our acquaintance.
By this time she was leaning her weight
lightly against my shoulder, and I vowed
to be at the rendezvous. However, later in the
day, I thought better of it. Leontine was
French and adorable, and complications
might have resulted.
“Crojack”: Talking of smart rescues in
mid-ocean (B. 2/1.2/’26), when Captain
"Bunker” Smit li
was in command of
the Atua in the
Fiji trade he was
just leaving the
strong-room one
night when the cry
of “Man over-
board!” was raised
and the telegraph
hells were heard
ringing overhead.
A trimmer, coming
up at eight bells,
had said, “Well,
here goes,” and
vaulted over the
rail. It was about
half-way from Syd-
ney to Suva, with
a black nor’-easter
blowing. The first
officer had instantly
punched a light
buoy and thrown it
overboard; it could
be seen astern
when the skipper
mounted the bridge
with the sh i p
swinging on her
helm and the watch
manning the life-
boat. The man was
aboard again in 23
minutes from the
time he went over.
Of course, it would
not have been
possible but for the
guiding light.
“Venturino”: In a recent exam, paper
issued by the N.S.W. Department of Educa-
tion was a commonseuse problem of this
type: “Johnny lends the Savings Bank
£5 16s. 9d. from March 12, 1926, to August
16, 1926, the rate of interest being p.c.
per annum. What interest does he receive.
Remember that the bank does not pay inter-
est for parts of a pound or parts of a
month.” Answer, Is. 6d. As a moral lesson.
I blackboarded the above and then placed
the following problem under it: “A pawn-
broker lends Johnny’s dad £5 16s. 9d. from
March 12, 1926, to August 16, 1926, the
interest being 6d. in the pound or part there-
of for each month or part thereof. What
interest does the pawnbroker receive?"
Answer, lbs. Doubts of the moral effect of
my lesson assailed me when one lad (I’ll
admit he had a curved nose) exclaimed,
“Gee! I’m going to be a pawnbroker!”
It- * * *
“Cleo” : Speaking of people with prejudices
against ablutions (B. 2/12/’26), I knew a
hardy old chap who boasted that he hadn't
taken a bath for over 60 years. He was
84 when I met him, and he told me his
eldest boy had “been a terror for bogeyin’,”
and had thereby caught a chill which turned
to fatal pneumonia. Since then he himself
had sworn off all baths, hot or cold, being
THE EXPERT PLACES THEM.
“Ah! A new string of pearls! Pearls are for tears, you know."
“But, silly, they're not real pearls.”
“In which case, of course, they're crocodile's tears.”
firmly convinced that pneumonia lurked
therein. Until he was 90 he walked six
miles a day, and right up to the illness that
took him off at 94 lie worked on his farm.
And then, such is the cussedness of things,
he too died of pneumonia.
EN PEDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Duchess of York has small and dainty feet.”
—Sydney Sun cable.
The feet of the Duchess are fairy-like things,
Small twos are her size, I suppose.
The item a certain uncertainty brings
Whether even the goldsmiths who cater for kings,
Though they furnished her fingers with fair-fitting
rings,
Could find small enough bells for her toes.
Withal she’ll have music wherever site goes
Till the wind of the chap on the cornet who blows
Is gone and the drummer’s exhausted;
And ’tis certain, of course,
She won’t need a white horse
Or any of those
Rather mad quelques choses
The lady of Banbury Cross did.
Her trilbies —God bless them! —resemble the pair
That sprightly and chivalrous soul
John Suckling portrayed with felicity rare
In his ravishing seventeenth-century fair.
Like mice, you’ll remember, they peeped here and
there
Before under cover they stole.
These, too, one imagines, present quite a whole
Of features in common with mouse or with mole
Except for the vanishing touches.
For the skirts full and wide
Beneath which they might, hide,
Retreating cajole,
Returning console,
Aren’t built nowadays for a. duchess.
N.B.W.
MIDFORD.


“Sucre” : Some queer wills have been found
on battlefields, but they can’t beat one that
was discovered back of Camooweal (Q.).
A heap of bones huddled against a scarred
stump was identified by some words scratched
on a rusted billycan. They read: “To my
ole cobber Joe I leave all I have.—Bill
Anderson.” The police discovered £750
standing to Bill’s credit in the Q.N. Bank
at Cloncurry; but Joe, unfortunately for
himself, has never been identified.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Up here on the smaller islands
of the Reef and the Strait woman is
struggling to raise her end of the log,, and
doing it too. Especially is Minna, of Flinders
Island, making history. The spirit-god whis-
pered in her dreams, so she says, and told
her that she is a great rainmaker. Minna
spread the tidings and fashioned an oval
board with queer decorations. With a red-
hot iron she bored through it a cunning
“whistle” hole, and, looping therein a plait
of hair, swung the board to a lime-tree,
where it whines dismally to the breeze. In
the midst of a drought Minna predicted big
rain. It came within a week, and the witch-
girl’s fame was smoke-signalled to the main-
land. The new “doctor” held her head high
and whispered so much of mysterious things
that Monkey, the wind “doctor” of Port
Stewart, and Culla Culla, the turtle “doctor,”
unbent to be friendly to her. Minna achieved
more rain and sky-high fame. Culla iCulla
was unsuccessful on a turtle expedition, and
actually consulted Minna as to why. She
replied that Meinwa, a bright-eyed mainland
gin, had breathed a charm against the expe-
dition. Meinwa promptly received the hiding
of her life, while Minna smiled at a grudge
avenged. Culla Culla went turtling again
and returned successful. Which proved it,
and Meinwa received a further instalment
—and no turtle-meat. (No Port Stewart gin
can eat the meat without Culla’s permission,
as before he charms the turtle its meat is
full of debil-debil for women. And, as every
man knows, woman is quite full enough of
devil without absorbing more in good turtle-
meat.) To keep his end up, Monkey has
raised a great wind. It is blowing now and
stacking Cape Bedford with thousands of
cases of benzine from the Rio Claro.
* * * *
“Privateer” : As has been pointed out, the
trans-Siberian- line from Moscow to Pekin
beats the longest Australian stretch —beats
it by 5757 miles to 5540. There is a
good deal to add at either end, too. You
can start from Lisbon and go to Paris (1176
miles), and from there to Moscow (1660
miles). In Asia Pekin connects with Ningpo,
south of Shanghai, a distance of about 900
miles. This makes a total of 9493 miles.
In pre-Bolshevik days it was possible to
do the journey from Paris to Pekin in 11
days, and you went all the way without a
break of gauge. Since the Bolshie gospel
took charge of Moscow there has been a bit
of slowing down, but if the Reds keep
somewhere near their time-tables they should
still get you through in 12 days from Mos-
cow to Pekin. It would take you another
48 hours or so to get from Paris to Moscow,
providing you are not held up on one of the
four frontiers, so there is a loss of about
three days since pre-war years.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne is in the galling posi-
tion of having to stand by for another
decade while less important centres celebrate
their hundredth birthdays with offensive
pomp and pride. Rhyll, on Phillip Island,
where the British flag was hoisted in Decem-
ber, 1826, is the latest to hold centenary
festivities. Phillip Island has not changed
much in the interim. Mutton-birds and
native-bears, being protected, still use it as
if no white man had ever set foot there.
The bears have become so tame, or civilised,
that one paid a visit to a church while an
evangelical mission was in progress recently.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Touching the possibilities of
home-grown gallstones for decorative pur-
poses, I know a Boggabri (N.S.W.) man
whose stock would suffice for much more
than a single brooch or watch-chain (B.
18/11/’26). He was operated on at the
Coast Hospital, where the surgeon removed
587 from him. He keeps them in a treacle-
tin.
* * * *
“H.K.”: The Duke of York’s duties in
Australia will doubtless include tree-plant-
ing, although liis predecessors’ efforts in
that direction have had poor luck. At St.
David's Presbyterian Church, Haberfield
(N.S.W.). there is a marble slab in the
stone, wall enclosing the building with the
inscription: “This stone marks the fig-
tree planted by H.R.H. Prince Alfred,
26/3/1869.” The tree, however, has long
since perished. When the present King and
his brother visited Australia, in 1881, they
each planted a tree in the grounds of Faul-
conbridge (N.S.W.), the home of Henry
Parkes. Both of these trees, too, have dis-
appeared, photographic proof of their exist-
ence alone remaining. That planted by the
late Duke of Clarence was destroyed by
a bush-fire only about seven years ago.
“0.5. G.”: Another ease of the long arm.
A party of miners returning to Samarai
(Papua) after a profitable trip up the Yodda
had the misfortune to lose overboard some
of their gold stacked on deck. The spot
was carefully marked and a diver came round
from Samarai to try to recover the lost
metal, but without success. At last the
search was abandoned and the anchor raised.
Caught in its flukes lay the lost treasure.
» * * *
“Vulcan”: It’s not often the countryman
scores over the townie in repartee, but here’s
a case. He was obviously from the back
country. His air suggested the vast open
spaces, while his legs proclaimed a lifelong
acquaintance with horses. As he sauntered
down the fairway of Lake Street, Cairns
(N.Q.), a jeering voice came from the kerb.
“Gumleaves,” it said. Prompt came the
reply : “ ’Ookworms !”
* * * *
“Blum” : There are few new ideas in toys
this Yuletide. The Japanese celluloid fabri-
cators, of whom better things might be ex-
pected, have had only one bright thought—a
parrot on a ring, to be suspended by a
string. Czecho-Slovakia and France are
pushed through the window this year by the
Teuton, whose trains on rails—when I was
a kid you couldn’t get anything that would
have its own rails to run on under a quid—
are priced at from 2s. 3d. upwards. There’s
an English concern that makes boy-toys that
appeal to every father; they’re solid, and
they’re the sort of thing that boys would
sell their souls to get. But the price is very
stiff, and most Australian boys will have to
be satisfied with a mighty poor substitute
for their dreams. Why we don’t make more
of our own toys is one of those things that
take a lot of understanding.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne has never had a
free public entertainment similar to those
provided Sydney by the big advertisers at
Circular Quay, but she will be a gayer city
now that the City Council has decided to
relax its regulations. Curiously enough, the
people who lead in devising these sensations
are the Chinese. His customers being about
99 per cent, illiterate, the Celestial mer-
chant, like the Russian, has always used signs
to advertise his wares, and he soon found the
value of red and purple dragons picked out
in electric lights. The most striking sign
I have seen was the young man about 200 ft.
high who slowly put a cigarete to his lips,
withdrew it and blew a gigantic smoke-ring
over Shanghai. He was visible for miles
around, and was a favorite mark of the
gunners of both sides' in the fighting of
1913. He and his fag bobbed up serenely
until a lucky shell removed the ash. After
that his owner turned him off until the
Armistice.
* * # *
“Trion”: Since the advent of the N.S.W.
Fair Rents Act there has been an enormous
increase in the business of selling houses on
the rent-as-interest-and-capital principle. In
my experience this is only another way of
squeezing out extortionate rents, with the
renter shouldering the additional responsi-
bility of directly paying for the upkeep of
the property and the rates. A house was
offered to me the other day for £1100; and
if it cost more than £750 . to build then I
know nothing about houses' A £lOO deposit
was wanted (I know of others I could get
for £25 deposit). I asked the terms, and
was told, “Oh, just the usual.” I pressed
the question, and was told they were a first
mortgage of £6OO at 8 p.c. and the £4OO
at 10 p.c., and the payments were 355. a week.
Of course I would have to keep the place
in good repair and pay the rates. Houses
are being “sold” every day on such terms.
“Let,” of course, is the proper word; but
why should any owner keep that word in
his vocabulary when he can avoid all the
unpleasantness of the Pair Rents Act by
replacing it with “sold”?
* * * *
“S. Inna”: A recent Bulletin par.
brought back memories. I was in Moresby
when Tim Ryan landed Papua’s first motor-
car, and after a little preliminary playing
about with its innards proceeded to drive, it
up to his pub. The procession was a quaint
one —Tim in the lead, followed by a mob
of niggers enthusiastically yelling like der-
vishes. My head office-boy was a bit above
that sort of thing, but the apparition had
him beaten flat. With a note of genuine
concern in his voice, “Taubada,” he said
“where horse he stop?”
* * * »
“J.C.”: Another use of oatmeal in con-
nection with motor-cars is that employed
by unscrupulous dealers in second-hand
machines. When the gears become worn, the
racket is horrible, so, to deaden the
noise, a couple of handfuls of oatmeal are
mixed with the gear grease. The buyer
is able to drive the car away in comparative
quiet, but as the meal becomes digested (or
masticated) the owner becomes convinced
that a spanner must have been dropped in
the box. Because the meal becomes
thoroughly chewed up in the gears, it is
hard to sheet home the practice.
* * * *
“Up Top”: The wild abo. is more careful
of the eye of a lunatic than of anyone else’s,
for should a lunatic be killed then the debil-
debil in the victim will immediately enter
the slayer and bring disaster to the tribe.
His knowledge of this explains why a pros-
pector friend of mine, having been cornered,
commenced unconcernedly to chew grass and,
stripped naked, attempt to climb a tree feet
first. The niggers gazed in astonishment, then
silently disappeared into the scrub. The bucks
are positive that all naturalists are mad. Once
the niggers recognise a bug-hunter, he can
wander amongst the wildest of them in
safety. When McLennan hit the Peninsula
with his habit of squatting for hours up
tall trees with a bird camera, the niggers
reckoned they’d met the greatest dim-dim and
debil-debil man that ever went mad in the
North. But Mac didn’t care. And, any-
how, he found a new species of parrot
dwelling in the anthills.
RONDEAUX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Beginning on January X a progressive tax will
be imposed in Italy on bachelors between the ages
of 25 and 65 years. Ihe revenue from the tax
will be devoted to a national maternity and orphans’
fund.’’
In Italy they’ve found a way
To make the selfish persons pay
Who try to dodge connubial gyves,
Who look askance at winsome wives
And kids about the house at play.
I'll bet they’re feeling none too gay,
Misogamists, from section A
To Z, who’ve led ascetic lives
In Italy,
Or made the neighbors think that they
Were under celibacy’s sway.
A sort of Nemesis arrives
Now that, the tax-collector drives
Up in a Latin cabriolet
In Italy.
In Italy, the land, you know,
Where downright old Boccaccio
Gave affaires d’amour such a boost
Large-minded rulers never used,
Emperors or Doges, to be so
Severe upon the jilted beau
Whose goddess told him bluntly No,
Or reasons excellent adduced
In Italy
Why she was indisposed to go
Where benedictions priests bestow
And playful show'ers of rice are loosed,
But now that Musso. rules the roost
They have a harder row to hoe
In Italy.
In Italy, as everywhere,
Are men who never could ensnare,
Acquire, lasso, secure, annex
A member of the other sex
To make an altar-facing pair.
Yet now the reckoning they must share
For—well, what wasn’t their affair.
Aye, they must help to sign the cheques
In Italy
For birth-rates climbing up the stair
And cradles worn to disrepair.
How rare to see a man-made lex
Enacted bachelors to vex,
While spinsters clearly needn’t care
In Italy.
N.S.AV.
T. THE R.
SAVAGE JUSTICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Four men, whom the Judge at Dover. Ohio
(U.S.A.), pronounced to be habitual drunkards, were
sentenced to consume each a gallon of water per
day for ten days consecutively.”
Tell me not of antics Hunnish
That once earned a world's reviling,
Nor of some old penal punish-
Ment, on horror horror piling;
I surrender
My most tender
Thoughts to those who know its talons—
Law that measures
Its displeasures
Not in months or years, but gallons.
They thumbscrewed you and they racked you
In the unenlightened ages,
Or, maybe, they somewhat hacked you
In their mediaeval rages ;
I am easy,
No more queasy,
When I read of rack and slaughter,
But I shiver,
When they give a
Helpless drunk—ordeal by water!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.
JUSTICE-AS IT WILL BE IF WE DRIFT ON.


f
&
:
'WT'
I Sucfqest 7
No gift you might offer
could be more appreciated
than a Box of lOOKensitas.
)Ofor3 / 9 Cigarettes lOOforZ'6
•s'.
m
■
an
■
.
m
WM
I
“Muggins, .Tun.”: vVhat are alleged to
he the first “Siamese twins” born in Aus-
tralia arrived in Queenscliff (Vic.) on Nov.
7. They were joined together amidships
by a fleshy ligament and had a common
system of blood circulation but independent
organs. They died shortly after birth. An
application for the maternity bonus for the
second child was disallowed on the grounds
of premature birth.
* * * *
“Wongajong” : At a Sydney seaside village
there is an aged fisherman named Mick who
every week-end entertains some hard-
drinking cronies at his weatherbeaten shack
CUP WEEK.
THE GIRL JINKS : “Have you picked your nag, yet?”
THE MAN BLINKS ( absently ): “Oh, I’ve been married fifteen years!”
upon the bgach. The other Saturday night,
expecting extra company, Mick bought a
couple of barrels for the festivities. The
load proved too heavy on the road home and
he decided to cache half of it. Picking the
church, a wooden affair built upon piles, as
a good hiding-place, he rolled a barrel under.
The party ran dry on Sunday evening and
Mick went out to retrieve the hidden beer.
A church service was in progress, but that
didn’t stop him from crawling under the
sacred building on all fours. Somehow in
JUST THE GIRL FOR IT.
MAUD: “Do you think we ought to tell Doris?”
MABEL: “Well, she can keep a secret in circulation
as well as any girl I know.”
the gloom Mick got stuck and commenced to
bellow at the top of his voice. The noise
penetrated into the church and the disturb-
ance brought half a dozen sidesmen running
out. Mick was hauled forth violently and
ordered away, but in stentorian tones de-
manded his beer and announced his inten-
tion of remaining there until he got it. In
desperation lights were requisitioned by the
church officials, and an active lay-reader
w r ent to ground and secured the barrel. It
was solemnly handed to Mick and he was
told to clear off, but was sport enough to
offer a taste to his helpers.
“Feng-Shui”: Woman takes a lot of de-
grading. The process has been going on
for 20 centuries, and here and there you’ll
still find one that is respectable. Pliny (a.d.
23 to 79) was very agitated about it. The
cause then was the importation of silk from
China, a trade, Pliny complained, which not
only drained the Roman Empire of 100 mil-
lion tuppences annually, but enabled lovely
woman “to be dressed and yet naked.” So
fine were the silk fabrics of those days that
when Akbar protested that he could see a
mole on the chest of one of his Court ladies
through her dress, she was able to put up
the highly respectable defence that she had
on no fewer than nine layers. A Mel-
bourne matrons’ meeting concluded that if all
the girls with pretty figures hid their charms
all would yet be well. My experience does
not justify their optimism. The ladies of
the Tutong tribe of Borneo, for instance,
wear nothing at all, even when sitting down
to meals; yet their morals are frightfully
high.
“Joseph Scott” : I have a Methodist friend !
who, after hearing his minister deliver a ,
stirring denunciation of gambling, went ,
home and burnt his ticket in the Golden ;
Casket. Five days later the drawing took 1
place, and his full name and address ap-
peared in the papers as winner of the £5OO
prize. The zeal of the convert failed at this
point; he signed all sorts of sworn state-
ments as to the fate of the ticket, and
received the prize. ,
* * * . . *
“Black Tracker”: When the mailboat
arrived at the Outer Harbor, Adelaide, a
young man was eagerly awaiting her arrival.
He came to meet the girl he had left behind
in England, whom ho had since supplied with
passage money and travelling expenses. He
had the ring and a home all ready to com-
plete the business. But the one face he hoped
to see was missing. Presently he was
approached by a young lady passenger who
asked his name. On being told, she handed
him a letter in the writing he knew so well.
It was a lengthy affair, but the gist of it was
that she had met another on the voyage and
both had landed at Fremantle. The lady
who delivered the note did all in her power
to soften the blow. Perhaps it was because
her expressions of sympathy were so genuine
that she caught the jilted lover, as it were,
on the rebound. Anyway, a month later
she took her fickle friend’s place, and is now
wearing the ring.
“Morehead”: Queanbeyan has established
its right to be considered the wettest
country town in N. S. Wales. Only four
out of 331 police-courts furnished more
drunks in 1925, viz., Sydney Central, New-
town, Newcastle and Parramatta. Tiny
Queanbeyan provided 630 convictions for
plain drunkenness and 69 other convictions
in which booze formed part of the charge.
It beat congested suburban centres like Red-
fern, Paddington, Glebe and Balmain hands
down and left thirsty mining towns such
as Broken Hill, Maitland, Lithgow, Walls-
end, Cessnock. Bulli and Wollongong panting
in the rear. Populous provincial centres like
Bathurst, Goulburn, Tamworth, Orange,
Lismore, Albury, Armidale and Grafton were
altogether outdistanced. The reason, of course,
is that Queanbeyan is on the edge of the
Federal Capital Territory, and that the inhabi-
tants of that dry area empty themselves
into the town for their week-end burst. If
Canberra and its surroundings remain dry
permanently, a pub in Queanbeyan should
presently become more valuable than any
goldmine, and a brewery will be worth a
king's ransom.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Some worthy people in
Melbourne have been writing to the Argus
demanding that legislation or something
should be introduced to prevent the airmen
at the Essendon aerodrome from frightening
the traffic by flying under the electric-light
and ’phone wires on the Bulla-road. One
correspondent declared that these reckless
young men actually indulge in a game of
flying under the wii’es on one side of the
thoroughfare and over the opposite sot.
Granted that this would be a disconcerting
spectacle for any sober citizen to behold for
the first time —still, all the same, what
about three cheers for the daring young
idiots? In the next war the country may
require them to do such things. In fact,
that they can do such things may save us
from having a next war.
# * * *
“W.L.” : The fuss made over the discovery
of an allegedly ownerless coffin on the
steamer Ville de Verdun has made sailormen
smile. Plenty of ships carry coffins for use
in case of sudden death. Not everyone
relishes the idea of being dropped overboard
wrapped in canvas with firebars at the feet.
The old China Navigation boats used to carry
coffins. For some reason which I never
fathomed the number carried was always
seven. These were Chinese coffins, made out
of a softwood log, with a strip sawn off for
a lid, and both coffin and lid hollowed out
enough to take a corpse. The dead Chinese
wete roughly embalmed by the ship’s doctor
and nailed, up. Dr. Lindsay, father of the
artists, Was a medico on the China boats,
and often preserved the mortal remains of
those who died at sea.
* * * *
“Naked Ned”: My best sample of Army
red tape was unwound at Doingt in 1918.
During a route march a Lewis-gun on one
of the limber waggons was accidentally dis-
charged, to the grave detriment of a mule.
The injured animal was unyoked and
dragged to a shell-hole at the roadside, and
a runner sent back to camp to report the
loss to me as transport officer. I went after
the battalion, and meeting a veterinary n.c.o.
requisitioned his services. We viewed the
mule, and I instructed him to shoot it forth-
with. Three days later the usual Court of
Inquiry sat to apportion the blame for the
FRIENDS HAVE THEIR USES.
ELINOR'S FRIEND : “I’m awfully fond of
Elinor. But, ooh! I heard something
TERRIBLE about her last night.”
ELINOR'S FRIEND'S FRIEND : “I wondered
why you, looked so happy this morning.”
•
mule’s death. Ten witnesses, including my-
self, were summoned. I was cross-examined
at great length, and duly told how I had in-
structed the vet. sergeant to shoot the mule.
“In that case,” remarked the senior officer
of the court (a Sydney solicitor), “we shall
have to begin at the beginning again, for it
is obvious that it was not the Lewis-gun
that killed the mule, but the vet. sergeant.”
I had to go into the line that afternoon;
consequently I never heard what the finding
was, if one was ever reached.
ALL IN A ROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A remarkable lawsuit concerning the Northeliffe
newspapers is engaging the attention of the Chancery
Division of the High Court. A beneficiary under
Lord Northcliffe’s will is claiming that the sale of
the Northeliffe newspaper properties to Lord Rother-
mere for £1,643,000 shoulfi be declared null and
void. Plaintiff claims that the property was wortn
much more, as it was sold again by Lord Rother-
mere a year later for £6,500,000. Breach of trust
by Lord ltothermere and his co-trustee is alleged.
Seventeen K.C.’s are engaged in the case.”
It must have been crowded, that Chancery Court,
Where the Judge sat supported by tipstaff and
clerk
And a jury perhaps, although the report
Doesn’t say; but in front, like a one-purposed
shark,
Silked, horsehaired and banded from crown down
to toe,
Sat seventeen Iv.C.’s all in a row.
But even with that the tale is not ended.
There must have been juniors—about the same
score.
Was ever there seen such a galaxy splendid ?
Yet clerks and solicitors made many more,
Supporting that wondrous professional show
Of seventeen K.C.’s all in a row.
And the cause of these costly litigious capers
Is a vast heap of money ( vulgariter, splosh),
Six millions of Northeliffe investments in papers.
What his trustee did with it comes out in the
wash ;
And three dozen are briefed! I doff my chapeau
To my seventeen cobbers who sit in a row.
It’s alleged someone sold the whole outfit to “Itother”
For a mere song—one million, or one and a half —
One supposes, to save all the counting and bother;
Such casual ways make a poor poet laugh.
Yet there’s likely to be a good hole in that dough
When he hears of that seventeen all in a row,
It matters not —seventeen, seventy or seven
(For his manifold millions are useless up there),
To Northeliffe, aloft in his newspaper heaven;
Though he'll storm as of old and most probably
swear
And make rude remarks about carcase and crow
When he hears of that seventeen all in a row.
Well, fiat justitia, eoelum mat!
Let the heavens collapse, but justice be done.
They’ve appealed to the law, in the fire is the fat
And there’s plenty to load each forensical gun.
But I would, with those fees and refreshers—What
ho!—
I wore one of the seventeen all in a row.
8. A.
BILL O’COSTS.
A MISSING FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Again her pageant has Spring begun;
In Fortune’s favors the soul believes;
The silken horses prance in the sun
And hidden • between long, drooping leaves
Cherries are clustering ripe to pluck—
But what’s become of the toodlembuek ?.
All the Cup horses, name by name,
Each in its place round the whirling disc;
The solemn wagers upon the game,
Then a few fierce seconds of breathless risk,
Until one name ’neath the pointer stopped
And cherrybob wealth was won —or dropped.
C'herrybobs new, still stained with juice,
Cherrybobs old and bleached bone-white,
All on a hazard that could seduce
The shyest kiddie to loud delight;
What in the world are cherrybobs for
Now the toodlembuek is spun no more?
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all b2d-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
The three new 20,000-ton Liners and the fourth now building are fitted with
more single-berth cabins than any other vessels afloat. Their vast decks
for recreation and exercise, their palatial public rooms and their excellent
cabin accommodation ensure both a comfortable and enjoyable voyage.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia.
«rrujiN i MtNT TO
HIS -EXCELLtNCV
THE RTHONJCRDDENMA*
COV. GEN. OP THE •
GOMMOfMMTHcfAUSTKAUR
£siaMlsßed JSSS
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
s TAILOR-MADES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Australia’s most successful Labor organiser
of the ’eighties and early ’nineties died at
the week-end—good old W. G. Spence. He
was at Creswick when some mineowners
looked longingly towards Chinese labor.
Spence, who was at the time secretary of one
or two small mining shows, sprang in, pro-
moted the A.M.A. (Amalgamated Miners’-
Association), and was its general secretary
for many years. Then the need for . organi-
sation among the shearers appealed to him,
and he and a few friends formed the A.S.U.,
which was afterwards merged in the A.W.U.
Spence, who was the mildest-mannered man
that ever ran a strike, went into politics
later, and was the bush-workers’ mouthpiece
in the Federal Parliament; but the veteran
was flung out when he decided in favor of
conscription. The idea of Spence as a “rat”
and a “scab” was too ridiculous for words;
yet that was the company in which he was
put. However, he was philosophical, and it
didn’t kill him. He lived to be 80.
For some time to come Melbourne ’Varsity
will have an interest in the silk hose and
corset business. Sidney Myer, of the big
Bourke-street emporium, has presented it
with 25,000 fully-paid ordinary shares, which
he wishes the institution to keep until their
present value of £50,000 has doubled.
Myer came from Bendigo, where he had
built up a prosperous business very rapidly.
With the forward vision of comparative
youth, he saw that Melbourne’s retail busi-
ness, which was going to the scattered sub-
urbs, might be brought into the city and
captured there. The development of the
motor ’bus, among other things, helped; and
the success of the business has been extra-
ordinary.
Andy Petrie, patriarch of Bananaland’s
Parliament, has resigned the Toombul seat
after sitting in it for 33 years. He could
have gone on sitting, but preferred to rest.
His late electors rallied round and gave him
a fat purse, an illuminated address, and a
gold wristlet-watch for his wife. Petrie is
a son of the first Mayor of Brisbane, who
came to Brisbane in ’37.
Now that Scliutt, J., has decided to retire
from Vic. Supreme Court Bench, to be free
to come and go where he lists, somebody
should induce him to write his reminiscences.
He has dozens of good yarns which many
besides lawyers would enjoy. His descrip-
tion, for instance, of the discomfiture of his
senior,' .1. L. Purves, when a tough Irish
bobby dated everything from “the time
O'Hara thrashed ye,” would be fine.
When Osman Digna said good-bye to his
chibouk in Cairo the other day Australia
lost a good enemy. The ex-slavedealer was
chief of staff of the first Mahdi, whose mili-
tary prestige was entirely due to the pure-
blooded Arab who led his forces. It was
this doughty old villain, Osman Digna, whom
the Soudan Contingent set out from Sydney
to subdue.
George Morgan, whose little news-stand is
as well known in Hobart (Tas.) as the
G.P.O. outside which it flourishes, astonished
everyone a few weeks ago by making a
handsome gift to charities. Now he has
gone one better and provided a row of
seats running the length of Franklin-square,
from Elizabeth-street to the Treasury Build-
ings. Morgan isn’t rich, but in proportion
to his means he’s a princely giver.
Bananaland still favors the native-born
when her high places have to be filled. Fol-
lowing on Judge Webb’s appointment comes
the announcement that J. L. Woolcock will
succeed Judge O’Sullivan when the latter’s
time is up. Born in Brisbane in 1862, Wool-
cock graduated at Sydney Uni., and was called
to the Bar in Brisbane in 1897. Having the
good luck to be appointed private secretary
to Sam Griffith he accompanied liis boss to
the first Imperial Conference. Subsequently
he studied law in Britain, and in 1909 was
appointed Parliamentary Draughtsman in
Bananaland, paving the way to the higher
job.
Priminister Bruce is one of the few Aus-
tralian politicians interested in Australian
art. He has a very fine private collection. A
set that cheers him when he feels sad con-
sists of Bulletin cartoons of himself by
Tom Glover. Lord Salisbury, leader of the
recent Imperial Parliamentary touring party,
has similar tastes. His first meeting with
a collection of Bulletin originals was in
Brisbane; and before he finally packed up
in Australia his baggage included a dozen of
them.
Timi Kara (James Carroll), best-beloved
of Seddon’s Ministers, made his own rules of
etiquette. He was present at a reception to
Pavlova, and the prima donna asked him,
“Have you seen me on the. stage?” Timi
replied, “No, Madame. You have not sent
me a box.” Tickets for a box arrived in due
course, much to his amusement. He went,
clad in his heavy coat and venerable —and in-
evitable- —green muffler. Clouds of smoke
from his rich black pipe proclaimed his
presence. He leaned over the edge of the
box and stared fixedly at the stage for a
while. Then he leaned back against the red
plush, and slept.
Alfred Averill, Archbishop of Maoriland
since Churchill Julius decided to lay aside
his crook, commenced his Maoriland career,
like Julius, in the flat city of Christchurch,
the most intensely Anglican town outside
Hingland. Julius brought his broad mind
and rugged face from Ballarat, where he
learned to like colonials; but Averill’s prin-
cipal charm to those who beckoned him was
ARCHBISH OP AVERILL.
that he had been curating at London's
toniest church, St. George’s, Ilanover-square.
But he was no ordinary curate. When he
went to be vicar of St. Michael’s, the oldest
and most fashionable church in Christ-
church, a discerning choir-boy took one peep
at him and muttered earnestly “That bloke’ll
either be hung or be made a archbishop.” The
parish was gripped in a silk-gloved iron
hand; the church was rebuilt and a parish
day-school founded. Six years of steady
climbing up the ecclesiastical ladder brought
the strong man to his first bishopric—that
of Waiapu, and three years later he was
translated to the see of Auckland. He had
to wait 12 years before the primacy came
his way, and he has only been archbishing a
year or so.
Tom Stirton, known to hundreds as a suc-
cessful station-owner and to hundreds of
thousands as the owner of Cetigne, was a
son of the manse; his father’s cow grazed on
the glebe at Inverell. He got his farming
proclivities from his mother, a Nivison,
daughter of a many-branched family of squat-
ters. Young Stirton went into the Bank of
N. S. Wales, but could see more possibilities
in land agency, so he bought into a business
of the sort at Narrabri. When 1914 came
along he was a fairly big landholder. The
war sent wool soaring, and Stirton found
himself richer than he ever expected to be.
Indulging then a long-established fondness for
horse-racing, one of his first purchases was
Cetigne, for whom he paid 1500 guineas. The
horse won him over £27,000 in stakes and
proved a handsome asset at the stud. Stirton,
who never married, died the other day—a
kindly soul who, if he thought his gee-gee
could win, told his friends so.
Melbourne’s hat goes off to Albert Jorgen-
son, a foreman of the Vie. Stevedoring Co.,
who went into the holds of the burning Ido-
meneus the other day, again and again, to fish
out firemen and others who had been over-
come in droves. The so far unidentified gas,
which seemed to emanate from the covers
on frozen carcases, rotted the leather off
the firemen’s helmets and destroyed gas-
masks. It should interest military chemists.
About the most unfortunate thing that
could happen to the cause of flying in Aus-
tralia was the killing of one of the few busi-
ness men who have realised the possibilities of
the most elevated method of travelling.
Geoff Chapman, of Toorak, whose career as
a land-agent was cut short at 36 as the re-
sult of injuries received when a Curtis
’plane steered by his brother Norman had to
make a landing after an ill-judged turn, be-
longed to the aristocracy of the land-selling
brotherhood. His specialty was pastoral pro-
perties. The Bank of Australasia, in whose
service he was for three years, gave him
a grounding in finance, and when he left and
started to sell stations he made so much
money that in a few years he owned two of the
best that ever passed through his hands-
Milcheagowrie and Tullamore, both in N.
S. Wales. It was to visit them that he
bought an aeroplane. His death has been
cited as a reason why the private citizen
shouldn’t own an aeroplane. But on the
basis of miles flown aeroplanes don’t kill
nearly so many people as motor-cars do. For
one thing, collisions are almost entirely cut
out, and no brindle cow ever upset an aero-
plane on the wing.
A retired master-mariner who passed out
at Auckland (M.L.) the other day just
three years short of the century was one of
the founders of the Union Steamship Co.
James Macfarlane was a mate at 18 and a
master at 21. He brought the City of
Dunedin to Dunedin in 1863 and found the
Scotch town a good place to tarry in. After
a spell at stevedoring he joined James Mills
and John Darling in forming the Otago
Harbor Steam Navigation Co. Mills was
acting as trustee for old Johnny Jones, and
it was Jones’s money that bulked biggest
in the undertaking. The Union Co. was
formed to take over the O.H.S.N. Co.’s
assets, which consisted mostly of the ships
engaged in a harbor-ferry service. The first
ship the Union Co. had built in Britain was
the Bruce, and Macfarlane was sent to bring
her out. She traded along Maoriland coasts
under his command for years. He also
brought out the Taupo, one of the first
two passenger ships on the co.’s list, and
the Rotorua, which was used to open up
trade with Sydney.
One. of the pillars of the volunteer move-
ment in Vic., Captain Alexander Rushall,
died at St. Kilda the other day. He organ-
ised several tours for boys in Britain and
the Continent. The last was in 11)14, and
Rushall and his party, who were in England
when war broke out, enlisted in a body and
were accepted for service. IBs health was
affected by his war experiences, and his
death at 56 closed a life marred in recent
years by chronic invalidism.
“Oxmead”: If the late Walter “Karri”
Davies didn’t serve all of his two years'
sentence after the Jameson Raid’ (B.
9/12/’26) my memory is at fault. Almost
all of the other captives petitioned for
leniency after a spell of incarceration, or
signed some document that was in effect an
expression of regret for having taken up
arms against a friendly State, and found
Oom Paul Kruger anything but implacable;
but “Karri” and one other obstinately re-
fused to do so. So they stayed in gaol, like
Mr. Pickwick, for the sake of principle.
The end of Robert Hughes, Chamber
Magistrate at North Sydney,* who died the
other day after a very short illness, was
made doubly tragic by the fact that his wife,
shocked by the news that he had collapsed
while in his office, dropped dead on her way
to see him in hospital. The husband, in
turn, failed to rally from the blow, and died
SMALL SISTER: “Would both your stockings
hold everything you want for Christmas,
Dorothea?”
BIG SISTER ( sentimentally): “No; but I
really think a pair of socks might!”
three days later. Hughes had been in the
public service for 44 years, first in the
Lands and later in the Justice Department,
and he had been a C.P.S. and Chamber
Magistrate for five years.
The Christmas Bulletin is now available
at those newsagents’ and stalls which haven’t
sold out. The price is the old sixpence,
though there is more than enough first-class
matter in it to fill a full-sized seven-and-
sixpenny novel, with over 50 humorous and
other drawings thrown in.
THE UNFATHOMABLE FEMININE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most gloriously beautiful —none ever doubted that
Was Madeline O’Halloran, the Belle of Plover Flat.
Oh, her hair was captured sunshine, and her eyes
as skies were blue;
The locals fell in love with her —and promised to
be true.
She was sought from many quarters; all the
squatters’ sons were keen
On accompanying to the altar fascinating Madeline.
Many motor trips were proffered, and accepted by
the score.
And other invitations were innumerably more.
.She attended picnic races and the seasonal shivoos,
And she flashed her silks and satins and her terp-
sichorean shoes.
She encouraged many lovers—was there ever such
a smile?
After seeing it they reckoned that no other was
worth while.
And she could ride King Ebony, the station’s equine
pride,
Over all the logs and fences in her native countryside.
No scrubby steep or gully, and no deep creek or
ravine,
Could contribute any terrors to the dashing Madeline.
Her voice was sweet as honey, aye, and sweeter
far, they said ;
For no stings were in its sweetness to provoke the
slightest dread.
And oh! the thrilling music she evolved from ivory
keys
Was like that of feathered songsters when bush
bloesoms scent the breeze.
J. E. DAVIDSON, a former editor of the
Melbourne HERALD, now managing direc-
tor of the string of newspapers which
includes the Adelaide NEWS, BARRIER
MINER (Broken Hill) and DAILY NEWS
(Perth).
When she travelled down to Sydney to adorn the
ballroom floors
At the swishest private functions, or the swell
Ambassadors,
She was envied by each Venus, and the men cast
longing eyes—
How, in the name of Reason, could they cast them
otherwise ?
* * * •
“Squin” Jackson lived at PloVer Plat, in a land of
flood and drought,
*A bandy boundary-rider and the station rouseabout.
He was lank and red and freckled, and was
“squinny” in one eye,
lie was naturally gawkish and inordinately shy.
He pathetically stuttered though he seldom spoke at
all,
And his intellect was plainly microscopically small.
Y'et, such is Love’s surprises in the world of maid
and man,
He was loved by, and he married, Madeline O’Hal-
loran!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


■*-- »21K‘*£ / •n*
'-' S-. "
V* -
; '<
'
mms
:■;•
:
1
*&&*****«*£>
m
m
ms.
,
m
v‘
it**
... ■
mm
sags
♦
:>«■-.
I
*
L
m
mm
: I
Its a
■■■•■■'.
/ ■;
STETSON
The Reputation of Stetson Hats has
been made by the men who wear them
P. B. SHEATHER COMPANY, LIMITED, Sole Wholesale Distributors for Australasia,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE AND ALL STATES.


For CHRISTMAS and
the New Year 2
The Best Gift for
Lady or Gentleman
"Right with
the Sun.”
* e
WN
XV
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
cnvbnm
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.80, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/'2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines uefore 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
* * * *
“L.R.”: Re “Jim Grahame’s” par about
the killing for home consumption of sheep
and cattle rejected from flocks and herds to
be sold (B. 18/l l/’2O). Years ago it was
the custom for squatter's when selling to
the butchers to “throw in” a few scallywags
THE LONG HONEYMOON.
SHIPWREGKED BRIDE (on desert island): “Dear, I think to-day is
the anniversary of our wedding. Do you love me still?”
HUNGRY HUSBAND: “ Love you! Why, I could eat you.” .
free. Beasts rotten with pleuro were often
driven from stations among a mob of healthy
animals and sold to butchers in towns the
drovers passed through. This went on for
some years till an outbreak of tubercular
disease alarmed the health officer in Rock-
hampton (Q.), with the result that inspec-
tion of cattle for slaughter, and slaughter-
yards generally, became more drastic. The
scallywags were, it was said, usually killed
for the pigs, for in the old days nearly every
slaughter-yard ran a piggery as well.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: Having just returned from
a long motor-trip through N. S. Wales, dur-
ing which I frequently had to make my mid-
day halt in the shade of a wire fence, I can
appreciate “Nakhoda’s” remarks about the
necessity for tree-planting along our bush
roads (B. 18/11/’2(i). In a few cases this has
been done by beauty-loving owners who have
planted pines and elms in place of the native
timber that had been destroyed right up to
the boundary fence. But the soulless indi-
viduals who destroy the beauty of the coun-
try without any regard for the unborn mil-
lions who will inherit the treeless desolation
are in a huge majority. As regards the
roads, the shire councils, or their servants,
are mostly to blame, and they merit the
bitter curses travellers launch at them when
they find even the few shady trees left at
the roadside killed, on the plea that they
“shade the road too much.” The same thing
applies to municipal councils, with a few
exceptions like those of Bathurst and Orange
—towns that are beautified with avenues of
trees. From Pertliville to Bathurst, about
seven miles, the willows arch overhead for
most of the way, and give the lie to the old
excuse for destruction —that trees spoil the
road. In my home town trees are planted,
but so soon as they are large enough to cast
a shade they are dug out because some tree-
hater with a vote objects to them.
“S.N.R.”: “Nakhoda” (B. 18/11/’26)
pleads for tree-lined roads in our hotter
areas, and quotes Java as an example of
benefits accruing. It all depends on (1)
the type of trees, (2) their proximity to
the road-edge. Road maintenance —already
our bugbear—is more difficult where trees
cover or overlap the highway. If evergreen
they retain the moisture on the road-surface
in winter, causing pot-holes to form. If
not evergreen they shed leaves and twigs—
and worse in a gale—on the surface, fill
up the drainage ditches, which their roots
also traverse and damage, and generally
make a mess of things. It might be prac-
ticable and justifiable to plant large-grow
ing trees further back from the edge and
rely on their shadows to afford solace. Be-
sides, most umbrageous trees do not take
kindly to those pedestrian paradises where
the heat-haze dances on the split-rail fence
and kurrajongs arc valued at £1 each for
potential stock-fodder. Also, don’t forget
the telephone-wires.
“Dinkum” : The crew of the Karakara, a
Sydney horse-ferry which lately arrived
from England, vouch for the truth of this
fish yarn. Late one night, after they had
left Thursday Island for Townsville, a bonita,
four to five' feet in length, landed on the
deck with a flying-fish in its mouth. The
big fish had sprung for its prey and been
\ unable to check itself. It must have leaped
, 18ft. and a height of at least Bft.
* * * *
| “Jimmy Possum” : Cracked his stockwhip
’ for the iast time, Jimmie Possum, a full-
blooded abo. who
called a white
woman mother,
lie was fished out
of a creek at Cash-
mere station, back
of Cardwell (N.Q.),
in the ’seventies,
following a scour-
round by a native
police patrol, under
the command of a
sergeant who car-
ried the abandoned
piccaninny to the
police-station. Ilis
foster - mother-to-be,
Mrs. Murray, took
charge of the little
fellow and brought
him up. When she
became a widow a
few years later she
took young Jimmie,
then a boy of six,
to Rosedale cattle
station (C.Q.),
own e d by her
brother,. where
Jimmie put in the
remainder of his
5G years of useful
life. His foster-
mother, now in her
eighty-seventh year,
survives him, and
there is a totally-
blind half-caste wife with five young Pos-
sums.
* * * *
“Mimax” : Concerning the effect of radio
on trees, it has been overlooked that every
tree is an aerial itself, and during the whole
of its growth it has been receiving wireless
waves of greater or less strength with prac-
tically not a moment’s pause. I refer to
“static,” which is everlasting, and on long-
waved, untuned receivers causes an incessant
roar. It has been known for at least 10
years that a good aerial can be made by
driving a nail into a green tree 10ft. up, and
another at ground level, and connecting a
receiver between them. Good results have been
obtained by putting a network of wires over
a crop and applying h.f. current to the net-
work ; but a great deal of power (compara-
tively) is used, and the network is near the
ground. A receiving aerial is neither low
enough, nor is there enough of it, to affect
vegetation, and the electricity it handles is
microscopic. It has been shown that the
energy a fly expends in walking one inch up
a window-pane is about equal to the energy
picked up by the average aerial during a
REACH HIM SOME WAY.
“Young varmint, if 'ce won't listen to the word of God, thee shall
feel ’un.”
whole year, assuming continuous reception.
If wireless affects the growth of trees I
would expect to see those surrounding Radio
Melbourne (Domain, South Yarra) either
very dead or enormous giants. Last time
I saw them they seemed quite normal; and
the station has been broadcasting since about
1010. If smaller plants were affected the
station is in the best place to have the effect
noticed, as it is 100yds. from the Botanic
Gardens, but I have yet to hear of the cura-
tor noticing anything out of the way.
* * * *
“Prickly Jack”: If the applicant for a
station job walks with a short step he may
be safely engaged without asking if he can
ride. I know this is right, for in my artil-
lery brigade the drivers selected on this
simple rule were all good horsemen. If
further is wanted recall the long stride
of Edward Prince of Wales.
* * * *
“Bisley” : Recently in the Gulf country my
“boy” arrived in camp with the news of
having seen a “long-tail pussycat with big-
feller stinlt.” Investigations led to my un-
earthing a fine specimen of an American
skunk. I did not recognise the beast till I
had logged it and, seeking to annex it,
received the full force of its stench. In the
excitement that followed the creature escaped.
This is the second time a specimen has been
seen in the North. The late explorer Kendall
was the first to report one, and he had a
fine specimen in his collection. It is believed
that a pair of skunks were liberated from
a Yankee pearler by James Cawley, now well
known as an overlander in Australia. Several
times white settlers have seen the little
creatures or heard the natives speak of them.
Birtles started one up at Cape Flattery.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Clerk” has seen a gum-tree
that was standing in water with its branches
on fire and wants to know whaffor (B.
25/11/’26). Probably the tree,was ignited
by a flash of lightning. “Clerk” doesn’t
mention if there had been a storm, but the
tree need not necessarily havq been ignited
that day, or the day before; it might have
been smouldering for a week before bursting
into flames. Most bushfires are started by
lightning, and the dry storm is dreaded by
men on the land when grass is long and
dry, as it is at present throughout most of
N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“Fleming”: Tell “J.D.C.” that the proper
length for a bullock yoke is 4ft. lin., and
the space between the bows 22in., with 9in.
neck holes. Long yokes place the bullocks
too far away from the draught and develop
in the offsider “swinging on the end,” i.e.,
twisting the head in and sticking the rump
out, thus getting an unfair advantage over
his mate. The four-abreast idea is impractic-
able for real pulling. Without going into
the difficulty of yoking and handling four in
a line, a bullocky would want a 50ft. road
instead of the seven or eight foot crooked
track he goads his two-formation along.
“Quandialla”: Mrs. Sarah Musgrave, in
her book, “The Waybaek,” says the name of
Wagga was changed to Wagga Wagga after
the flood of 1844 because a new town was
built on higher ground on the other side of
the river, and, this
being the second
town of Wagga, the
name became Wagga
Wagga. Mrs. Mus-
grave states that
all the white popu-
lation of 91, except
two, were drowned
in this great flood,
one of the survi-
vors being “Long
Tom,” the publi-
can, and the other
a young lady whose
name is not men-
tioned. I do not
remember whether
the author gives
the meaning of
“Wagga,” but I feel
sure she would be
able to do so, as
she was born in
1830 near Young,
where her uncle,
James White, was
the first man to
take up land —in
1812. Mrs. Mus-
grave was 90 years
old on May 4 last,
and is still hale and
hearty; her memory
is quite clear about
h e r experiences
among bushrangers,
blacks, droughts,
Hoods, etc., in the
Young and Bland
districts during tin 1
last 90 years, and
any Abo. who has
not read “The Way-
back,” published
last year, will find
it deeply interesting.
“Springsure”: As for lucky escapes, how’s
this one? A party of seven in a Lizzie on
a recent Sunday turned a corner sharply in
Springsure (Q.). The car rolled right over,
(smashed the hood and windscreen, and
pinned the party underneath —only one was
thrown clear. After being raked out. it was
found that only one had so much as a scratch.
The car itself was running again next day.
* * * *
“Will Ford” : Prickly-pear has again saved
the lives of many dairymen’s herds in w.
and s.w. Queensland. The spiny pest is
first made into a pulp and then served to
the cows with a mixture of bran or pollard.
In some places the broad-leafed spineless
pear is actually cultivated, and at one
cocky’s place I have seen cattle break down
REPAIRS.
CITY LASS: “What do you think of the city
girls, Uncle?”
COUNTRY UNCLE: “Oh, they're orlight. I see
they've found out a thing we bush
blokes know—that it's a poor shack
that ain’t improved by a lick o' paint.”
fences, even in a good season, to get to it.
The fruit of this pear generally weighs up
to half a pound and is excellent for making
jam—and wine. The latter is so potent that
a glass of it is often enough to give the
drinker all the pink snakes he can possibly
want.
BY CANDLE-LIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I sit alone in my room at night,
Scribbling stories by candle-light,
My fancy roves (and it’s roved before)
As a clean breeze blows through the open door;
A clean breeze sprung from the roadways brown,
Like a breath of life to the swooning town.
And Fancy captures my scribbling pen,
With old desires in my bush-heart then ;
I think outback to the Western plains,
The smell of the ploughed fields after rains,
The songs we sang on the outward track
And the paling skies on the long ride back.
Is Eenaweena the same old run,
With blazing skies and a Western sun,
And loose-limbed horses that used to* go
From Canonbar to The Overflow ?
Ah, hearts were simple, and men were men;
A man could trust to his neighbor then.
Along the Bogan the teamsters swung,
In days of mateship when hearts were young,
And nobody bothered with motor-cars
As the camp-fires gleamed with the blazing stars,
And drovers dawdled their big mobs dowm
From Goondiwindi to Nyngan town.
The song I sing will be sung again,
As a bush-heart longs for the open plain,
For the fancy roves (and it’s roved before)
When a clean wind blows through the open door;
Oh, I might be tramping the old bush ways,
And I might be living the old bush days....
Instead of sitting alone at night,
Scribbling stories by candle-light!
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.


si
b>
tL.
1- fc. , I
1
Vi
y
*.\ /•
>
8 s
i
%
I
;
DUHwP
Wes
Ks«
%
v;
e=>
ISS
H
i
5
v
-3
-v-
-(
«r
£f
K
v^
*p
v
aft
a
m;
«
k 3
57/
V
5^
'X
r
&
Xi
v
'
Don’t worry about\
tyre troubles—/it
DUNLOP TYRES
and avoid them/
The success of your holiday motoring is de-
pendent greatly on your tyres, and the wise
motorist will see that they are in proper
condition to stand up to the work ahead.
Discriminating motorists use “ Dunlops”
and thereby ensure a great mileage with
wonderful freedom from trouble. You will
find them supreme for quality, value and
economy. Fit them, it pays!
GARAGES STOCK THEM. _
7/
■- .4
Greetings To you We extend the Greetings
of the and all happiness that goes
With it. For ourselves We desire more
and more to merit, in our service, your
continued friendliness and patronage,
* *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.


What of Christmas?
Make a present of diamonds, whether it is a ring, a brooch, a bracelet. Diamonds
always are a delight to the recipient. Besides being a thing of pleasure, diamonds
are certainly one of the presents that last.
They are more than a thing of temporary joy; they are an investment when well
bought. They are a form of exchange in any civilised country.
All our diamonds come direct from the cutters at Amsterdam, so that you are
buying at bedrock prices.
Seven Diamonds,
Platinum and Gold,
£lO/10/-
Four Diamonds, set
in Platinum and
Gold, £l5/15/-
Diamonds and
Emeralds in all-
platinum ring,
£6O.
Single Diamond
with Diamond
shoulders, £65.
FAIRFAX & ROB ERT S, L T D*,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 2o HUNTER STREET,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
4oz. Kills 100 Rabbits.
Cyanogas Dust costs about one penny per ounce, and four ounces will kill every
rabbit in a warren with 20 openings, whether they total ten or ten times ten. It’s
the cheapest, simplest and most certain rabbit exterminator known.
r °* KILL
ru* o
BBAhD
INC
RABBITS
:? s and
JJrpesi
Get a free copy of our latest Booklet just
to hand from the Printers, and learn all
about this remarkable dust, which graziers
everywhere are using to completely free them-
selves of the rabbit nuisance. Ask for Book-
let L2l, and it will come by return mail
BUZACOTT
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .
QUEENSLAND
WEST AUSTRALIA .
TASMANIA
CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:—
.. .. ..A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
~ .. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
.. .. Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
.. .. ~ Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
~ .. Davidson & French, Launceston.
' Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
“Edgar II.” : A writer in the Abo. column
a few weeks ago referred to the reputed
dying-out of the platypus, and suggested that,
if it were absolutely protected, it might in-
crease again. I was under the impression
that it was absolutely protected. There is
certainly no reason why this curious animal
should not still flourish, as settlement is
not likely to affect its habitat to any extent.
In this district (Texas, Q.) the platypus has
been absolutely protected for a good many
years; the result is that it has become quite
plentiful, and the Dumaresq River is as full
of the creatures as it was 30 years ago.
MORE BRIBERY.
SICK VISITOR: “ Your husband is putting up a wonderful
fight, for his life, I’m told, Mrs. Smitheram.”
MRS. S.: “Yes, he is, ’m. I’ve promised him I’ll get a
bottle in every Saturday night of his life if he’ll
get better.”
“Elgar”: I know a ease that illustrates the
great germinative powers of wattle-seed. Be-
tween Oakleigli and Notting Hill (Vic.), on
the Fern-tree Gully road, was a paddock
that had never known the plough; stumps
of the old original gums that were cut down
by early pioneers still adorned it, and not
a wattle of any sort grew within miles. One
day in ’O2 it was grubbed, ploughed and
harrowed, but not burnt, and left till the
owner obtained some English grass-seed. He
presently changed his mind, but before he
decided what to put in, a thick crop of black
wattles sprang up and he left them, ultimately
stripping the trees and selling the bark.
Apparently the heat of the summer sun had
germinated the seeds. Docks are the same.
Take any ordinary well-grazed paddock —at
any rate, on the eastern side of Melbourne—
and not a dock will be seen. But plough it
up and presently there will be a finer crop
of docks than any sane land-owner wants to
see.
“CRIPES, BILL, THERE'S A
LOT OF THAT COVE
SLEEPS BY HIMSELF!”
“C. Coral”: Cat’s cradle, referred to by
a recent contributor as being a favorite
pastime with the abo. mainlander, is also well
up on the list with the islanders. In the
Straits it is in vogue amongst both young
and old; and in addition to the fingers the
toes are brought into play. To the
accompaniment of chanting voices, a couple
of old men squatting on the ground will give
string representations of a boy climbing a
cocoanut-tree, two men fighting, a crab
crawling, canoes sailing, and so on, while an
admiring throng looks on.
“Jim Carew”: Re ’roo leppers. Once in
the foothills behind Cobargo, N.S.W. South
Coast, our dogs went after
an old-man kangaroo, and
almost had him, when a big
fallen tree loomed up right
in the tra c k. Broken
branches prevented anything
passing underneath, and the
’roo went straight over. The
dogs had to run round.
Thinking the jump an extra-
ordinary one, we carefully
marked the taking-off and
landing spots, and, return-
ing with a surveyor’s chain,
made measurements. The
distance covered was 29ft.
4in. The point at which the
’roo cleared the tree was
lift. sin. from the ground,
and he did it with some
inches to spare. The dis-
tance from where he took off
to where he cleared the tree,
measured on the slope, was
18ft. A now retired in-
spector of schools was one
of the party that made the
measurements.
* * *
“Ginger”: I was riding
along after sheep when we
noticed the flock separate.
We soon found the reason.
A plover was guarding her
nest by flapping her wings
vigorously at the sheep,
which kept well away. There
were four eggs in the nest.
A drover informed me that
he had recently passed
another nest which water
had nearly reached. The plover had stood
the eggs upright, narrow end down, to keep
them dry.
* * * *
“Pick”: If the sliprails are not up on
the argument about how far and high a
kangaroo can jump, let the Council’s thirst
for knowledge be slaked with three records
of actual measurements made by me. Past
Pleasant Hills woolshed (N.S.W.), my shear-
ing mates and I watched a flier doe spear
across a long sandy flat with a greyhound in
close pursuit. The fugitive’s bounds with
undeviating (regularity covered 27ft. and
those of the pursuing hound 19ft. On the
long down slope from Craigie Mountain, near
the Vic. border, a fleeing old-man ’roo jump-
ing a fallen tree was staked by a protruding
branch and killed. From where he took
off to where he fell dead was 41ft. Peter
Gehl. a Jugiong (N.S.W.) hunter, yarded
11 kangaroos in a trap built round the
banks of a washaway at Bundarbo. He
intended bagging and sending them alive to
Sydney. When approached, one big fellow
made a standing perpendicular spring. Ho
landed on the caprail of the fence, balanced
there a moment and fell back into the yard.
The rail was 13ft. and an inch or two from
the bed of the gutter.
* * # *
“Ento”: Gathering a newly-deserted nest
of the noisy minali recently, I bred from it
18 flies of the genus Passeromyia, which is
known from Africa, India, Java and Aus-
tralia, and is said to feed on the blood of
fledglings. Europe and North America have
a blowfly that treats the birds in those lands
in a like manner, but Passeromyia is a mus-
coid fly not very distantly related to the
housefly, and about three times the size
in bulk. From the puparia of this bird-
eating fly, I reared also three species of the
parasitic wasps that are somewhat in-
adequately controlling sheep-maggot flies.
The minah’s nest contained four young; two
reached maturity, one I found dead on the
ground beneath the tree, but what became
of the fourth I never discovered.
* # * *
“Rex”: The bearer of a light swag is
generally looked upon with contempt by
the professional
waltzer of Matilda,
whose “knot” often
weighs anything up
to 1001 b. But the
swag carried by a
navvy who cleared
out from a road-
construction job at
Omeo (Vic.) can
be fairly claimed
as a record. Owing
to his mind becom-
ing unbalanced,
this muckslinger
decided to tramp
to Melbourne and
interview the then
Minister of Works.
After packing up a
tent, fly, blankets,
fire-pot and frying-
pan, etc., he decided
to also carry away
his tools —a shovel,
pick and mattock.
Word was sent
along the route to
different police-
stations, where he
received kindly treatment, on his 300-mile
tramp. At Sale his burden was weighed,
and balanced the scale at 2361 b.
* * * *
“Geoloin”: A couple of local lads had
been to the Brisbane Show and were very
enthusiastic about a showman there who
threw knives all around his partner without
injuring him. “Ho,” said old George,
“throwin’ knives is easy. But can the bloke
throw a tommyhawk? W’en I wus cap-
tured by the blacks in the Northern Terri-
tory, I soon picked up all they knew about
tommyhawk throwin’, an’ fer years I wus
known as the champeen tommyhawk-thrower
of Australia. After I got away from
the blacks I wus doin’ a bit o’ fencin’ fer
Jimmy Little, on Rosedale station, an’ every
day w r ’en I sits down to ’ave me dinner, a
big dingo useter come an’ sit a little bit
away an’ watch me till I’d finish. ‘Ho,’
says I ter meself, ‘l’ll soon put the set on
you, me noble.’ So I puts a razor edge on
me tommyhawk, an’ one day w’en he comes
an’ sits down as cheeky as you like, I
reaches out an’ gets the grip—which is the
main thing—on me tommyhawk. Just as
I wus goin’ ter throw, he makes off. But he
wus too late. I lets fly, and the tommyhawk
caught ’im on the rump, went clean through
’im, an’ come out at ’is nose, cuttin’ ’im in
two halves. The two halves run fer about
250 yards afore they fell apart. It wus
real funny ter see ’em run.” “It must lia’
bin very funny,” said Fritz, sneeringly.
“It’s a vonder dem two ’arves tidn’t kom
to-getter lika lizard’s tail, an’ run off inter
de bush.” “I serpose,” said George, “that
if you ’ad a bin tellin’ the yarn, Fritz, them
two halves would ha’ come together an’ ’ad
pups; but w’en I tell a yarn I alius stick
ter facts.”
* * * *
“Gouger”: In the Great Sandy Straits
(Q.), by Inskip Light, the banks have a
habit of sliding into the ocean. The sea
works like a thief at night, very quietly, and
when no one is looking. In the morning an
acre of once solid-looking sandbank will have
quite disappeared. You gaze in astonish-
ment at the absence of the familiar trees,
finding it hard to realise that they lie 30 feet
below the innocent-looking sea. The scurry-
ing currents that race for the ill-famed Wide
Bay bar are responsible for these acts. I
once had a comfortable shed built in the
centre of an apparently solid five-acre point.
One morning the whole affair had dis-
appeared beneath the sea.
#.* * »
“James B.” : Thrown from his horse while
carrying a double-barrelled gun, and dragged
by the stirrup, Harold Clancy, of Gunning
(N.S.W.), showed rare presence of mind.
Instead of trying to free himself, he poured
the contents of both barrels into the horse’s
vitals. Even then he was dragged 70 yards
before the horse fell dead. Then he pulled
his foot from the stirrup and arose without
serious injury.
* * » *
“E.S.” : We halted one blistering hot day
at a travellers’ dinner camp on the bank of
Iloganthulla Creek (Q.), and found the
owners lying on their backs in shallow water
about 50 yards away. Their heads were
pillowed on a small log. One was reading a
.tattered book, the other an equally tattered
.newspaper, the literature having apparently
been picked up on their travels. They said
it was the only way they could enjoy a read
and a smoke in such weather after their
THE SIGNS WERE PROMISING.
“My word, yer old woman’s properly wild.”
“No, she ain’t yet; but she’s workin’ up to it.”
midday meal. A little farther down the
creek we found black brother cooling in the
same way, but he was lying on the sand
with only his legs in the water. He said
it was good feller, only plurry little fish
wouldn’t leave his toes alone.
# * * *
“Sandys”: I was out after some sheep
the other day when I saw a real snorter of
a thunderstorm cornin’ on. I sez t’ meself
“It’s me for home” ; and I wheels the prad.
I got home dry; but the old dog ’ere was not
so slick. He was 10 yards behind me, and
blime if he didn’t have to swim the whole
way home, the rain was that heavy.
DUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One thing in this life I’m convinced isn’t just.
In the streets of the town, on the stock-trampled
road,
In the house, hut or humpy one calls his abode
We get a super-allowance of dust.
Though our patriots tell us with voices robust
It’s a glorious country, this land we possess,
I’d join in the praises and curse it much less
If so much of it didn’t keep moving as dust.
If you battle for farmers with drought and red rust
And ride scarifiers at “fallerin’ time,”
The cocky will tell you, with grins through his
grime,
“You’re no good till you’ve swallered a bushel of
dust.”
Or perhaps in the sheepyards you work for a crust.
You may stop for a second to blink, spit and
cough,
When you’ll hear the overseer’s voice throwing-off.
“Damyereyes! Catch the sheep and don’t stir up
the dust!”
liven down in the woolstores they look with mis-
trust
At our bales, the result of a solid year’s work,
And their verdict depressing they never once shirk,
'Too short and too burry and too full of dust.”
There are souls heroic I envy, who lust
To work in the thick of the dry, windy brew.
“How goes it now, Bill?” you ask one of this
crew,
And “Oh, not so dusty,” says he-in-the-dust.
When I’ve gone the long road that all of us must,
And the parson and sexton have had the last say,
With their “ashes to ashes,” good-bye to my clay,
You may put up a tombstone, a statue or bust.
But you can’t stop decay or the northerly gust.
So I’ll watch from a cloud-edge in Heaven’s
clean air
And sing to my harp strains as loud as I dare:
“Hosanna! Some other bloke’s getting my dust.”
B.A.
BILL O'C.


Motion Pictures
and
Patriotism.
Jn opportunity forjou to get behind this movement to (teklop
Australian made Pictures
Motion Pictures made America
The progressive country it is to-day.
Motion Pictures can develop
Australia in exactly the same way.
Never in the history of Australia has there been such a demand for Australian-made pictures as there is to-day.
Our daily papers and magazines are all demanding of Australia to ke t A " s . tra, ! an
Our public men in their speeches are embodying the same demands when talking to the public.
EVA
NOVAK,
STAR
It is a positive sensation to
have secured such a star
as Eva Novak, and one
can feel assured that Aus-
tralian Pictures produced
by Phillips Film Produc-
tions, Ltd., with Eva
Novak as a Star, will find
a ready market all over
the world.
The time was never more opportune than right now for a Company
to produce pictures in this country, and Phillips Films Productions
Limited has been organized and registered for filming Australian
pictures from the pen of Australian authors, by Australian artists.
In order to make this enterprise a huge success, it is absolutely
necessary to have a Star who has a world-wide reputation, and a
producer who has had years of experience and a thorough know-
ledge in the art of production. These have been secured by this
Company.
The next thing that is absolutely necessary is money, and we feel
that every true Australian wants to help produce, these pictures,
and we are inviting you to become one of the proprietors by apply-
ing for shares.
We want your support. We want you to take shares in the
Company. We want you to become financially interested in
Australian-made pictures.
Aside from patriotic purposes, it will be a sound, solid investment.
We want your application by return post. We can assure you that
you will never regret having taken shares in Phillips Film Produc-
tions Limited.
MOVING PICTURES HAVE BEEN THE GREATEST ADVERTIS-
ING MEDIUM AMERICA EVER HAD. THIS COMPANY WILL
PRODUCE AUSTRALIAN PICTURES, WHICH WILL DO FOR
AUSTRALIA WHAT THE MOVING PICTURES HAVE DONE
FOR AMERICA.
NO OTHER AVENUE OFFERS SUCH LARGE RETURNS FOR
MONEY INVESTED.
Big
Opportunity
for Investors
75,000 10 per cent, cumulative
participating preference shares
at £1 each are offered at:
2/- per share on application.
2/- per share on allotment.
1/- per share at intervals of
not less than one month.
As many shares have already
been applied for, it is advisable
to make application without
delay.
In the hands of such a capable
and experienced management,
returns to shareholders will con-
sequently be high.
Phillips Film Productions Ltd. is a permanent organization, and is established for all time to come. No Film
Producing Company has ever been established on more sound, sane, and safe lines than this Company.
Phillips Film Productions Ltd.
Registered under the Companies - Act of the State of New South Wales.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO
Divided into 75,000 10 per cent. Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £1 each, and 35,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each,
DIRECTORS:
FRED PHILLIPS,
Company Manager, Chairman of Board, Managing Director
Phillips Securities, Limited; Founder Motor Credits, Limited;
Director Tasmania Carpet Manufacturers, Limited, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
SENATOR JOHN D. MILLEN,
Director Amalgamated Wireless, Melbourne; Director A.P.A.
Insurance Company of Australia, Melbourne; Director Life Assui-
ance Company of Australia; Commonwealth Senate, Alelbourne,
Victoria.
(Others to be appointed from shareholders.)
BANKERS:
NION RANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
DODDS AND RICHARDSON,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
PETERSON, HAWTHORNE AND BATTYE,
72b King Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY:
H. B. SMITH, A.E.C.A., A.C.1.A.,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICES:
METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Cut out this Coupon and Mail to-day
o^° ••■' ■•■’
V.
CP . <&
®’ v-O-
-•CP
•A'- <>■>
I<? </VV’


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
Kin*
George V |
CHAMPAGNE (
Charles Heidsieck
ling
Austral; slan Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
•ChampagnC
Q»arlesllddaeot
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
cv bncnv
Wentwortti Hotel
The name stands for Perfection
The Hotel
The Social Rendezvous of the Southern Hemisphere.
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/- per day, or Bed and Breakfast from 15/-
per day. Rooms with or without bath, or en suite with private sitting-
room. Air-cooled in summer, steam-heated in winter.
The Cafe
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: BW 1361.
Order all drinks before 6 p.m.
cnbvn
7hp cen/ne> of Queen s /onc/s
at/sZ/ngu/s/ied Socio/ Life.
%cmom
motel
RDTCR
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
nbvmn
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEI
[?]
STOCKINGS
While the suburban housewife has been
grieving because butter has moved up another
tuppence, ten thousand country women have
been anxiously watching black, rolling clouds
that have told of fires sweeping away grass
arid stock and wheat ready for harvest.
Never before has the destruction been so
widespread in the State. A good spring,
following splendid winter rains, had covered
the country with one of its richest carpets
of- grass; then a quick change to a hot
summer had turned the grass to tinder, and
the brightest hopes of hundreds of the battlers
ofi the Outback were wrecked. Maybe the
actual destruction is less than seems inevit-
able when we read of flames leaping along
at 40 miles an hour; but, apart from the
certain terrible losses in individual cases,
it has been a time of terrible anxiety to
thousands of women, and —well, if some of
them get any benefit out of that extra tup-
pence for butter we shall not grudge it.
There’s many a woman in many a flat in
Sydney who wishes she could meet Santa
Claus before lie sets out on his rounds of the
blackened country. He would carry at least
a great load of sympathy.
Three good country women in town have
their sleeves already rolled up to help out-
back sister whom the bush fires have de-
spoiled. They are Dame Alice Chisholm, Mrs.
Fletcher (Dubbo) and Mrs. Jim Ashton.
Their idea is to have a sale de luxe at Bur-
dekin House. All the best people are sending
in frocks and hats and ornaments (not
necessarily new) to make up the stock. The
sale will last over several days, and what-
ever is not trafficked will be made into
parcels and sent to relief-centres in the
country.
Among other organisations, the Feminist
Club has taken up the cause of the victim
of the Bondi outrage. How completely
courts are under man-control is shown by
one little item in this shocking business.
Almost as soon as the case was opened the
Judge (and he is the gentlest of men) sug-
gested that all women should leave the court.
Arid all but a woman official or two of the
police department did leave. Thus the poor
girl was left to face the ordeal of a day
and a half of examination and cross-
examination surrounded by men, most of
them utter strangers to her. The next time
a girl has to face such an ordeal, will Miss
Preston Stanley please organise an army of
100 women who will occupy the places in
the court reserved for the public and sur-
round her with their sympathy? Who be-
lieves that the cross-examination would have
lasted even two hours had it been carried on
under tin; eye ai d within the hearing of
100 women, eager, not for sensation, but
for the protection of the sex? As for the
Bench, will it, when next a woman has to
give evidence in such a case, invite all decent
men to leave the court?
A good part of the Oronsay was turned
into a flower-farm the other night. Against
a : background of palms and flags and in a
cushioned, carpeted and scented atmosphere
that smacked of the Orient, the high priest
of. the line. Sir Alan Anderson, and his lady
cried a welcome to all. No sign of shipping
disaster in the raiment that adorned the
shipping magnate’s better-half! Silver-
shod, silver-grey gloved, silver-brocaded and
dangling the silver-chain bag that is again
the fashion, she hadn’t believed in spoiling
the ship for a ha’p’orth of tar. The com-
pany’s general manager, W. L. Dowdell, and
the ship’s commander did their bit in the
reception act, and a 40-manpower jazz-band
and a great flow of refreshment did the rest.
The Viking had a night out, and came
without either Lady de Chair or his little
daughter to bear him company. Ilis acces-
sory was Major Longfield Lloyd, and he
looked as though an oyster would be garrulous
by comparison. The Gordon Wesches
attended, she wearing Lorlei greens served
with sea-pearls; and Jim Fairfax’s lady
undulated in a sequin sheath. Betty Dan-
gar’s bright cheeks outrivalled the coral
hieroglyphics on her lilac georgettes, and
other ornaments of the deck were Philippa
Stephen and Audrey Hordern. The Tom
Bavins were there, and Althea Glasby in
Lady Macbethish black and silver. Mrs.
Harry Dransfield’s daffodil golds and greens
were a Spring song; and Kelso Kings, Dan-
gars, Knoxes, the Stage, the Army and Com-
merce were on every hand, the same people
disappearing only to recur again like a stage
army.
By the way, do you know that Sir Alan’s
second name is Garrett, and that he derived
it from his mother, one of the most success-
ful pioneers in the modern movements of
women? She was that Elizabeth Garrett
who, proceeding to study medicine in 1860,
presented herself for examination by the
Colleges of Surgeons and Physicians. ‘They
refused; and then began the fight which
didn t cease till all the barriers were thrown
down.
Nearly 1500 youngsters from the poorer
parts of the city were whirled to happiness
and the Ambassadors the other morning when
yellow cabs poured like a stream of saffron
up Pitt-street. Once within, an awed silence
that lasted quite five seconds fell upon the
army of youth as it glimpsed the magnifi-
cently-fruited Christmas-tree and the snowy
citadel of cake awaiting its attack. It took
five chefs to carry that cake into the Palm
Court, and Elaine de Chair nearly got
writer’s cramp cutting it. Battalions of
white-capped V.A.’s ministered to the young-
sters, and formed an impressive guard of
honor for the passing of Lady de Chair. She
enjoyed the party as much as did the kiddies,
and David Stewart Dawson and his lady, who
bestowed on her the freedom of the cafe,
looked as though they, too, had slipped back
to childhood for the occasion. Jolly .Tack
Cannot, .who acted as Father Christmas,
found it impossible to slip back—you see, he
has never really emerged.
Did Nell of Old Drury wrinkle up her
eyes in their old, bewitching smile as she
watched the group of lasses selling oranges
in her name at the Wentworth the other
night? None of them cried their wares in
Nell’s ringing tones, nor resemble that sweet
rogue in appearance. But the cause for
which they worked was a good one—it was to
help on the Cancer Stamp Appeal. Ellen
Pollock came to this party after Svengali
had been dispelled from the Boweryised
“Trilby” at the Criterion, and another sector
of the American stage-invasion, Hale Nor-
cross and Richard Taber, grooved the glad
smile deeper into the night. < One girl at
the party thought she preferred orange in
the bud to orange in the skin and said so,
producing as her reason a nice young man.
►S7te was Calliope Service and he Darrell
Levy ; and her mother gave the parental
blessing at a table on which blue hydrangea
sprouted amid the implements in an unex-
pected fashion.
Church of England Grammar School
Chapel last week smiled on a lover and his
lass. The couple who sought benefit of clergy
were Esme Doddemeade, of North Sydney,
and Bruce Dowling, of Lindfield; and Padre
David Davies administered the oath and the
blessing. The bride’s frock mingled ivory
satin, rare lace and pleated georgette, and
her matron of honor, Mrs. Robert Nelson,
finished her vellum lace frock with a dashing
cape and cluster of red roses.
Say “llow do you do?” to the lady who
will be the civic hostess of the Royal Yorks
when, they come to Sydney. She is Mrs. Jack
Mostyn, whose
husband was
elected Mayor
of the city a
few nights ago.
ago. She is
fond of danc-
ing, gardening
and swimming,
is slimly built,
is prematurely
grey, and has
the complexion
of a flapper
of 17. She has
lived at Koga-
rah all her life,
and, like a
good wife, her
politics are the
same as her
h u s b a n d’s —
and theirbrand
is Labor. This
nlioto comes
from the Charles Lemaire studic.
Old N. S. Wales names got an airing at
a Bathurst wedding the other day when
Elaine,, daughter of the Laurence Browns of
Bathurst, was married to Gordon Edgell of
the same town. All Saints’ hallowed the
vows. Elaine is built on lines that would
not have displeased Tennyson’s heroine, and
the noteworthy feature of her bridal trap-
pings was the honiton-lace veil that had
been worn by her grandmother, Mrs. Douglas
Mackenzie, well known in her day for good
looks and hospitality. The bridegroom is an
oil shoot of the John Keep merchant clan,
and devotes his energies to growing choice
asparagus and such.
The artistic Ellis St. Johns are making a
habit of weddings. They held their third
the other night, when daughter Mabelle
became Mrs. Spencer Brignell, of Narrandera
and Sydney. The test questions were put
to the pair at St. Stephen’s, and both
answered satisfactorily, though the ’groom
might reasonably have been distracted by the
white chiffons and petal-pink that foamed
about the bride. Her two young married
sisters, Mrs. Arthur Heilman and Mrs. Clive
Dunlop, supported her in old-rose taffetas
and hoods of a style much worn by the Capu-
lets of Verona. The Women Painters’ Club
housed the party.
Dr. Cox, of Helensburg, came down to
St. Chad’s church, Cremorne. to hand daugh-
ter Mary over to Herbert Seymour Rowe, of
Cronulla. Padre Creighton, from the coal
pastures of Helensburg. said the words that
will set the home-fires burning in still
another bungalow, and bride’s aunt, Mrs.
F. J. Davey, lent her home at Cremorne for
the reception.
Another wedding notched in the archives
of St. Mark’s was that of Muriel Osborne,
of Double Bay, to Eric Austin, of Remuera
(M.L.).
Elsie Findlay, who will sing the soprano
music in the Philharmonic’s performance of
“The Messiah”
both on Satur-
day next and
on Christmas
night, has a
tradition t o
live up to. The
Phil.’s first
production of
“The Messiah”
was on Christ-
mas night in
1885. Kowal-
ski conducted
and Nellie
Armstrong
(Melba) was
the soprano.
This year’s
singer is a
Sydney girl
who has risen
from the ranks
of the Philhar-
monic chorus,
and is now one of the leading sopranos of
►Sydney. Her first public solo appearance
was with the society as High Priestess in
“Aida.” Sidney Riley made this little pic-
ture of her.
Sidney Alderson, a budding composer and
gifted pupil of Laurence Godfrey Smith, is
giving an evening recital next Monday at
the Conservatorium.
Conductor Arundel Orchard was too ill
to lead the Conservatorium Choir in its
attack on Schumann’s “Faust” last week;
and one can only hope he wasn’t listening-
in to the vocal pitch and toss of the waves
of sound that echoed through the Con. hall.
Besides Schumann, Wagner and Bantock
were gamely essayed by the combined Con.
forces of orchestra and choir, and of the
twain the orchestra was the lesser evil.
Reginald Gooud’s Mephistoplieles was the
outstanding feature of the performance,
though Mrs. Goossens Viceroy and Raymond
Beatty were other soloists whose work was
consistently good.
That fine worker in the cause of Charity,
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, had a great welcome-
back at Burdekin House last Thursday. She
had been on a four months’ health trip, and
the V.A.’s, of whom she is commandant,
entwined the kiss of greeting with garlands
and music. The pocket-edition organiser
showed a cheek glowing with health and hap-
piness under a hat as blue as her own eyes
—and they’re the real forget-me-not.
John Brown, of Newcastle, is starting a
poultry-farm now. He has bought a prize
lot from Lord Dewar, and the new settlers
are already embarked for Australia. Maybe
he has visions of training them to work
his mines—many a suburban gardener knows
how much dirt a few energetic fowls can
shift, even in 10 minutes. At any rate,
John Brown deserves a word of praise;
anybody does who can add a few grains to
the weight of the dwarf breakfast-egg and
an ounce or two to the sparrow-like creature
which masquerades as chicken in the pro-
vision-store. In this matter, as in some
others, Adelaide can show Sydney a few
points. In the best trading circles of the
South Australian capital eggs arc graded,
and the midgets are sold by weight.
In the old days, when Australia was a bit
of Olympus, the garden we know as Queens-
land was the cornucopia of Juno, whose
fruits were brought slung across one glorious
sun-bronzed shoulder to the feast of Jupiter.
Here in the high halls of topaz and aqua-
marine and turquoise the young gods them-
selves marvelled over the fruits that laughed
and glowed therein —granadillas, pawpaws
and mangoes that turned the cheek of cherry,
of peach and of strawberry to the rapt gaze.
Well, the Queensland Government Bureau
is not exactly Olympia, and P. J. Nally,
the chief thereof, may be a poor substitute
for Juno, but the fruits of the North are
as luscious to-day as they were when Cathay
was young. Pineapples that weigh 71b. each ;
bananas almost as large as yellow and green
taxis; banks of mangoes and mounds of
pawpaws, and those strange things the
granadillas, whose greenness is a column of
mosaics, poured the scent and lure of the
tropics throughout Kembla Building last
week. With such fruits of the earth did
Hiram of Tyre ornament King Solomon’s
Temple. But the lucky Australian can pluck
(from the tree) and eat, or be plucked (in
the Dago fruit-shop) and eat, according to
his inclination and his purse.
How utterly drab life can be was illus-
trated in the case of Agnes Davies, sentenced
to seven years for poisoning her unofficial
husband at Rozelle, one of Sydney’s dingiest
quarters. It is no great career for a young
woman to be the mistress of a dissipated and
violent laborer 16 years her senior, and
Rozelle was the finishing point. Sin isn't
gilded in a suburb like that. It is hardly
even kalsomined.
Australians are pretty easy-going. Every
theatre in Sydney is now in full swing, and
not one of them has an Australian leading
man or woman! And it isn’t as though
the important actor and actress are great
stars. Indeed, can anyone remember any-
thing funnier than Moscoviteh and Nat Mad-
ison cast as dyed-in-the-wool English yeo-
man and aristocrat in “The Fake”?
This Letter closes on a loud cheer for
the increasing number of good Australian
things one can send as Christmas and
New Year greetings. The shops are filled
with calendars and cards fragrant with
our bush flowers and rich with our
home-grown verse. What more delightful
calendar could go to friends abroad than the
one issued by Bond and Co. V On every pag<
is an extract from an Australian poet—
though too many of the pages are signed
Adam Lindsay Gordon —and each verse is
garlanded with the wild flowers dear to our
hearts. There’s a series, too, of postcards
in color that the Australian Museum is
responsible for. These are just about perfect
in detail, and nothing could convey a more
cheery greeting than these colorful and
astute bush birds.
Miss Brisbane’s week:—
rrangipanni and big white s haste-daisies decked
All Saints’ for Irene Smith’s change of name to
Mellor. It was an evening affair, and the bride
wore a charming wedding gown of lace over cream
mariette and a long tulle veil banded with broad
satin ribbons round her fair head and a bunch of
orange bloom over either ear. Muriel Burton, in
love-bird green, with a gold turban, ’maided. The
bride’s mother wore black with Chantilly lace, and
a handsome coat. Mrs. Mellor, the bridegroom’s
mother, wore black mariette.
Doris Waraker gathered a few friends at the
Lyceum Club this week, prior to her marriage.
Morning tea was sipped in a room hung with
Gwendolyn Grant’s paintings.
Archgaiters Sharp presided over the prize-giving at
the Albert Hall when the C. E. Grammars gathered
for their annual party and speech day, and there
were almost as many speeches as prizes.
Littleton Groom and his lady had an afternoon
tea in a marquee on the sports oval at the Toowoomba
Grammar. Rain, blessed rain, prevented the intended
cricket match, but nobody cared. Hydrangea and
coreopsis decked the long tables for the tea, and
there were several brass-hats and other important
persons there.
Captain, officers and midshipmites of the Wan-
garatta dressed up the ballroom at Lennon’s with
flags for their dance. The Eric Annings, Elizabeth
Carew Smyth and Stella Bruce-Nichol were amongst
the jazzers.
A concert party from the Oronsay gave an enter-
tainment in the Seamen’s Hall, and the Harbor
Lights committee spread the supper cloth.
Ruby Massey’s dramatic recital lured quite a
crowd to All Saints’ Hall. A fairy play, “The Ring
of Salt,” and a scene from “Romeo and Juliet”
were part of the programme, and little Jean Read,
as a white rabbit, did a pas de seul. A one-act
play and a presentation to Ruby Massey were
features.
Bright-petalled sunshades flitted over the lawns
at Ascot for the races, and the band played under
a cloudless sky. Pat O’Shea had a tea party on the
committee room verandah, his sister hostessing in
burnt-rose marocain. Mrs. Glyn Connolly wore
hydrangea blue with a beige straw capeline. Mrs.
F. Anning had a green-tinted marocain. Mrs. A.
Brown (Winton) was in black and white, Mary
Norton in blue, and Beryl Carvosso in leaf-green.
A pretty, sweet-voiced Toowoomba girl, Mary
Lawrence, is making her first appearance on the
stage, at the Empire, shaping well for one who has
only just dipped the amateur flag.
Poor little Mackay is in for a dull Christmas.
The waterside workers feel the need of another
spell and are taking holiday from Christmas Eve to
January 3, so the port will be closed for export and
import. Many are the vicissitudes of those who go
down to the sea in ships at Christmas-tide in
Australia.
The Glennie Old Girls had their dance in a setting
of red, purple and gold at the Assembly Hall. A
bunch of gerberas was handed to the head, Miss M.
Browne,
At the Royal on Monday and Tuesday evenings
last week A. A. Milne’s play for children, “Make
Believe,” was put on in aid of the Spring Hill
Creche building-fund. Barbara Sisley was producer,
and her co. of youthful performers did her credit.
Features of the show were the dance of dusky
maidens, arranged by Dulcie Dunlop, and the gavotte
for which Thelma Robertson was responsible. Dr.
J. N. Duhig was stage manager and Professor Stable
business manager.


JiAßgr BRQTHERgJJg.
Motor Luncheon Basket
An Acceptable Gift from Hardy’s
Wa
m
Sc
m
m
A Gift that combines the utmost in practical utility and lasting
service is a strongly-woven Motor Lmnclieon Basket, lined and
fitted complete for six persons.
The Basket illustrated contains: (i knives and forks, (5 enamelled
plates, 6 glasses in wicker covers, 2 small jars and 1 butter jar,
1 sandwich box 9Jin. x 6in. x 3fin., 1 sandwich box lOin. x 4in. x
4in., 1 wicker-covered bottle—capacity 2 pints, 2 thermos flasks.
Si/.e of Basket. 24 x 52 x !) inches.
£l2/12/-
Five per cent. Discount allowed for Cash.
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
Melbourne.
BROTHERS LTD.
, Cl n *
£7/be 7/ouse or' Jewcuay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
IJ6-D8
QUEEN ST.
BRISBANE.
1|
□
I 5
t-iO
*vS
1
s^ll>Acceptaßle
A Camera
Box-Form, Folding or Reflex
types from 8/6 to £55.
ENSIGNS, CARBINES,
KODAKS, BROWNIES,
Pathe-Cine, Cine-Kodak.
An Album.
We have 11 most complete assortment
of small and large albums to take any
size photo. Paste-on or Slip-in types
in Art or Leather covers, from
6d. to 30/- each.
A Radio Set
A gift for the whole family, which
will be giving happiness long after
toys and other gifts are broken or
forgotten.
Harringtons
“Popular 3,”
£2/io/-
Deposit an <1
8/0 per week.
Price, with ALL Accessories and Loud
Speaker, with a genuine 12 months’
guarantee,
£22 complete.
Ask for Illustrated Photo or Radio Price Lists.
Sent Post Free.
u?
Photo, and Radio
Warehouses,
Sydney 3SG George Street
Newcastle S 4-86 Hunter Street
Melbourne 2G6 Collins Street
Adelaide 10 Handle Street
Katoomba Katoomba Street
Brisbane •. •. 93 Queen Street
Wellington, N.Z. .. 42 Willis Street
Auckland, N.Z. .. 140 Queen Street
Gifts that Men Most Certainly Appreciate
When in doubt what to give a man, it is always a safe course to decide on any of the special
tobacco or cigarette productions which have won such general popularity since Peapes intro-
duced them three years ago.
These are of the rarest and finest quality, made to Peapes* individual orders, and
obtainable only from them.
All these goods are attractively packed in boxes, cartons or tins of original design, so
that the contents are even more acceptable to the recipient because of the pleasing
guise in which they reach him.
Ml
mi
plug cut
TOBACCO
; U
PEAPES & GO LTD
. St Lf,p Hunter Si
SYDNEY
mm
wm
mmmmm
Pipes.
P.P.P. (Fcapes’ Perfect Pipe) Old French Briar, hard vulcanite mouthpiece
finished by hand, natural finish, silver mount, all shapes ... .. 8/6
P.P.P. (Peapes’ Perfect Pipe) Old Bruyere, unmounted, hand-cut vulcanite
mouthpiece, all shapes .. ••• ••• ••• 9/6
P.P.P. (Peapes’ Perfect Pipe) Well-seasoned Bruyere root, smart narrotu
gold mount, hand-cut vulcanite mouthpiece, all shapes ... ... 12/6
Tobaccos.
loz.
“Warrigal” (Aromatic) Mixture .. ... -/10,
“Burringi” Plug Cut (Coarse Cut Bars) -/9£,
“Burringi” Plug Cut (Fine Cut Bars) .. -/9£,
“ Warrigal ” Cut Gold Bars (Coarse Cut) -/9-j,
“Warrigal” Cut Gold Bars (Fine Cut) .. -/91,‘
“ Pepys No. 1” (Latakia) Mixture .. 1/1>
“ Boomerang ” Mixture (Medium Strength) -/8,
“Warrigal” Golden Virginian Cigarette
Tobacco .. .. .. .. “<. 1/1,
Cigarettes.
20’s 25’s 50’s 100’s 1000’s
“ Corella ” Cigarettes, Standard Size
Virginian .. .. .. .. .. 1/6, 3/9, 7/6, 70/-
“ Warrigal” Cigarettes, Heavyweight Virginian 2/3, 4/6, 9/-, 80/-
“ Warrigal ” Cigarettes, Heavyweight Egyptian 2/6, 5/-, 10/-,
Peapes Pay Postage. *
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s and Boys’ Outfitters
| GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter Street) SYDNEY
Write for a copy of Peapes’ latest Catalogue,
a great help in selecting gifts for men and boys.


SWAUOWi Arieu's,
Plum Puddincs
vnvcn
have a deliciousness all their
own—a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
bvnv
Spring Street, Melbourne.
It Is impossible to secure greater satisfaction in hotel
service in Australia—or elsewhere —than in the comfort and
convenience afforded by the Hotel Windsor.
Sumptuous to a degree, situated amidst the quiet of charm-
ing old-world surroundings and yet within a stone’s throw
of the city’s hub and leading theatres, the Hotel Windsor
is ideal in every way.
Efficient and courteous service in every department and a
par excellence cuisine also add to the pleasure of making
the “Windsor” your home when in Melbourne.
Minimum Tariff
from 22/6 (in-
clusive). Room
and Breakfast
from 15/-
8604
EE523
Mini!!
ii ■**«
MV"
.IHI'.II II
ilfil 1
Telegrams and
Cables: ‘Telwin-
sor,’ Melbourne.
Manager: B.C. Jones.
’Phone Cent. 9260.
cvnbvnm
Melbourne
Chaţer
Buckley's
Elisa bethan
The Rooms
In a very short while those who direct the
finger of scorn at our University and say it
unfits women for domesticity will have to
find something else to point at. Last week
amid dust and heat, Lady Somers laid the
foundation-stone of the Manifold Wing of
the Janet Clarke Hall, which will be a
School of Domestic Economy and Home-
craft. Under terms of the bequest all resi-
dents of . the Janet Lady Clarke hostel must
crown their University career with a course
ill the domestic arts. Dr. Lilian Alexander,
the first woman graduate of the college,
placed within the stone the usual collection
of papers, photographs and coins. His Grace
of Melbourne, whose part was an address
given in the Horsfall Chapel, Trinity Col-
lege, received a mallet as his reward. Stu-
dents in gown and mortar-board formed a
guard of honor and ushered the guests. The
principal of the Janet Clarke Hall, Miss
Marjorie Herring, told the story of woman's
encroachment upon University preserves, a
recital that went back to 1883. After the
Anthem there was tea, a chosen few being
entertained in the cool precincts of the
hostel, while the rest found refreshment at
Trinity College. Mrs. T. A’Beckett, Mrs.
George Landale, Frank Clarke’s lady—-she
a symphony in pastel green tones—and Mrs.
Russell Clarke were noted in the throng.
Owing to the passing of Mrs. Elizabeth
Anderson, none of the Manifold clan was on
hand.
The committee that runs the Melbourne
Hospital out-patients’ canteen —which, be it
understood, is not as other canteens are—
celebrated the end of its fourth year with a
parity at the hospital. Ex-Mayoress Brunton,
who presides over the affair, handed Kitty
Gardner a gold wristlet-watch because she
has been hon. sec. of the thing ever since it
started, and never once has she said a cross
word. *
; The dance at Anzac House to raise money
for the war orphans’ Christmas treat was
a big success. Colonel F. E. Forrest was
president of the engineering committee, of
which Mrs. Fleming Dunstan, who attended
in a sunset-pink petalled gown, was treasurer
and E. L. Devine secretary. Mrs. J. L.
Stein added to the takings with sales of
trifles; and ex-Speaker Mackey’s lady, a
shimmer of black sequins and diamente, Mrs.
Forrest, General Johnston and Dr. J. San-
dison Yule were amongst those who stepped
in a good cause.
Miniature stars and stripes on coat lapel
and on corsage advertised that a frolic held
at Scott’s one evening last week was intended
as a compliment to the U.S.A. The English-
Speaking Union was honoring its American
members. These were headed by the Con-
sul-General and his wife, Mrs. Garrels wear-
ing a inist-blue and silver lame gown with
harmonising lace caught up by a glistening
ornament at one side of the skirt. “The
Star-Spangled Banner” was sung as an over-
ture, and president Donald Mackinnon said
blood was thicker than water. The programme
was jazz and cards, with light refreshments.
Secretary Richard Gipps was in the van-
guard of the entertainment committee with
Ins wife, she in hydrangea blue and flowered
and gold brocade. Others who caught the
eye were Mrs. Mackinnon ; Mrs. Harold Clapp,
wearing soft covering of bois-de-rose hue;
Mrs. Barry Thomson; ex-Commissioner
James Elder and his lady, whose black gown
sparkled with crystal; H. C. Cornforth, of
the Vacuum Oil Co., and his wife; Knight
James McCay and his barrister daughter;
Dr. Plante, who was accompanied by his
wife in the prettiest of soft pink, and Mrs.
Willie Watt, featuring powder-blue geor-
gette.
A fete at Cameron Lodge, the home of
the William Camerons at Macedon, drew
people to the hills on a recent afternoon.
It was a Victoria League affair, in aid of
the Women’s Institute at Macedon. The
Mitchell lady said the opening words, and
was given a nice posy. Bazaar stalls lurked
behind every bush in the garden, and maidens
in early-Victorian attire ensnared those who
dodged the stalls and made them buy Christ-
mas gifts. A tennis tournament was one of
the side-shows.
When the knot was tied between Rosa
Tomlins and Oscar Nell at Holy Trinity,
Kew, the bride was a lily in a froth of
white georgette crowned with a Limerick-lace
veil, parchment-tinted with a hundred years,
sent by the family in England to figure at
this distant young kinswoman's wedding.
Sprays of orange blossom peeped out aloft,
and the priceless old lace cascaded gaily
downwards and formed a train ornamented
with a true-lovers’ knot. The bride’s atten-
dants were sister Viola, in midnight-blue
georgette sparkling with silver, and Dorothy
Nell, frocked in Rose-du-Barr.v georgette.
Both wore floral kail-bands. After the
ceremony Mrs. J. Tomlin received at the
Oriental.
Baritone George Brookes's wooing, which
was sudden and short, ended with wedding-
bells at St. Patrick’s Cathedral on Saturday
afternoon, when the lady of his choice took
her second plunge into matrimony. She was
the widow of T. R. Hardman, a hotel
manager who at one time had charge of the
Windsor. Her wedding raiment was beigo-
lmed lace and georgette, topped by an
almond-green crinoline hat. The marriage
was a private affair, with Ted Cahill sup-
porting liis musical partner, and Mrs. Polil-
man, an old friend, as witness. There was
a gathering afterwards in the leading lady’s
flat at Chelsea-court, the bridegroom's
mother, Mrs. Brooke Smith, and her daugh-
ter, Mrs. Lewis Loughran, being of the party.
John 11. Tait filled the role of heavy father
and stage-manager at the Presbyterian
Church, Toorak, the other night, and his
eldest daughter, Winifred Marjorie, took
the stage as a blushing bride. Thomas Hay
Mitchell, an Englishman, was cast for the
bridegroom. The setting was Christmas-lilies
and daisies, which mingled in nicely with
bridal raiment of silver- and gold-embroidered
ivory satin, shimmering beneath clouds of
Limerick lace. .Clare, Janet and Betty,
bride’s sisters three, wore frocks of graded
yellow and carried posies of delphiniums in
the walking-on parts of maids. Act 11,
Scene I, raised the curtain on the parental
home at Caulfield, where Mrs. John Tail,
wearing glistening apparel that blended the
tones of pink and red roses, smiled graciously
at an array of guests that included the
Charlie Taits.
Marie Burke, in raiment of grey patterned
in red and blue, with a tall hat of scarlet,
took tea at the Women’s Automobile Club
the other day by extra-special invitation.
Her mother, Mrs. Underwood, went along
with her dark-eyed daughter. Words of
welcome were spoken by the president, Mrs.
H. J. Robertson, whose attire was a blend-
ing of mauve and amethyst. Music by Louie
Dunn, Valerie Walsh, Kathleen Fitzpatrick,
May Broderick and Cecil Parkes rounded
out the proceedings.
Norman Bayles is airing his Toorak man-
sion for the return of his wife, small son
lan and step-daughter Ayliffe Neil, who are
expected in January. The family lias been
abroad three years, polishing up Ayliffe.
Theyre Hamilton, the only son of late
Justice Weigall, has announced from London
his intention of taking an English wife —
Linda Douglas, daughter of the H. G. Har-
dens, of Hove.
After 10 or 12 years spent in teaching
Victorian youth the art of intelligent read-
ing and speaking, Eileen O’Keefe, here por-
trayed by Tal-
ma, has her
passport ready
for a year’s
holiday in
Europe. The
talented lady,
who hails from
Bendigo, i s
visiting teacher
at eight of our
big private
schools, and
she runs her
own classes as
well. At rare
intervals she
gives a poetry
recital herself.
On her tour
she will be
looking mainly
for recreation,
but of course
she will collect
books and plays for her library—she couldn’t
help doing that, anyhow. Two of her old
pupils, Dorothy Dwyer and Primrose Spence,
will carry on her work while she is away.
Alfonso Maria Giovanni Filippo Giachitno
Ferdinando Francesco Luigi, Prince de
Drago-Biscia-Gentili, Prince del Alfonso and
Mazzano, and Marquis of Riopeddo and Sant
Agnese, who visited this country three years
ago, has returned for another look around.
He found the clerk who gave him his clear-
ance on his previous visit still entering up
his passport papers.
The youthful Pat Osborne couple will
start housekeeping on their own acreage, a
surprise wedding-gift from father, who built
them a home on the family lot and then
changed his mind. Young Pat, who was
meant to be a soldier, has developed land
ideas since coming home, and he will now be
able to test their value on his own soil. The
new homestead is not within calling distance
of Currandooley, but the newly-weds will be
able to look in for an occasional week-end.
Guy Madden, who went to Canberra to be
present at his nephew’s wedding, has since
been staying with the Stephen Osbornes near
Tumut. The only son of Victoria’s late
Chief Justice has lately lost health, and he
will probably put in some time'at Willaroo
with his sister, Mrs. Pat Osborne, before
returning to his family at Brighton.
The dark-eyed lady who is interested in
something on the left is a member of the
Little Art
Theatre C 0.,
directed by J.
Beresford
Fowler. In pri-
vate life she is
the wife of
McCowan Rus-
sell, and you'll
find him
among the Aus-
tralian verse-
writers who
won a place
in the Christ-
mas Bulletin,
published last
week. On the
boards she is
known as Lucy
Ahon. She has
been particu-
larly success*
fill in Ibsen
roles and is
due to appear as Norah in “A Doll’s House”
on Boxing Night, at the Queen’s Hall. In
the first production in Melbourne of John
Galsworthy’s “Windows,” too, she has been
east for a leading part. Dickinson-Monteath
studio is responsible for the picture.
The Charles Wilsons, of Scott’s Hotel, will
flit abroad in March. After seeing Califor-
nia they will link up with an army of
Rotarians ftom the States bound for a con-
clave in Europe.
Clenching his teeth determinedly, Railway
Commissioner Clapp has begun to run elec-
tric trains to the beaches on Sunday morn-
ings. Two “sparks” were scheduled the first
morning. One flashed between Coburg and
Sandringham, and the other gave citizens
a chance of getting to Mentone before lunch.
Seven hundred passengers travelled, which
patronage is “regarded as satisfactory.”
Chairman Cameron of the Tramway Board
is also reported to be “considering” whether
he won’t chance a few trams on Sunday
morning. With bathing-beauty competitions
and one thing and another life here begins
to verge on the voluptuous.
After wishing Elstcrnwick school-kiddies
a happy holiday vacation, Director of Edu-
cation Tate paternally advised them to keep
out of mischief and not be a nuisance at
home. “Same to you!” yelled the boys. Tate
is still wondering what they meant.
Melbourne’s City Mission makes a claim
to be remembered at Christmastide, and it
deserves to be heard. Groceries, new cloth-
ing, toys and sweets are things the superin-
tendent, 280 Exhibition-street, will say
grateful thanks for just now.
Under the direction of Fritz Hart the
Con.’s dramatic class dropped into farce the
other day and produced “Wholly Matri-
mony,” in which several local allusions added
value to humorous dialogue. Alice Mallon,
Beatrice Touzeau, Myrtle Glanville and
Florence Stach were the players. The piece
formed the second half of a programme in
which Howard Edie’s class gave selections
from “Romeo and Juliet,” these being linked
up by condensed readings of the other scenes.
The same week the class was also seen in
Tagore’s “The Post Office,” a promising per-
formance in which Beatrice Touzeau was the
dreamy boy who wondered what was happen-
ing in the post office opposite his home. Of
the performers Greta Callow, Jocelyn Funs-
ter and Ida Walker caught eye or ear—and
sometimes both. The atmosphere of the
Orient was suggested by draperies and em-
broideries, and Phyllis Webb sang the
Rimsky Korsakov “Song of India.”
Beauty competitions got a trouncing the
other night when speakers from, many
women’s organisations talked about it at
a public meeting. Judging by the attend-
ance, the topic isn’t one of absorbing public
interest, though most people seem to be
fed up with the whole leg-pulling business.
Councillor Angela Booth, who was one of
many forceful speakers, said the contests
gave. competitors a widely exaggerated
opinion of their charms, and beauty and con-
ceit couldn’t run in double harness. It was
resolved to see what could be done to at
least stop the _ demoralising advertising
stunts that certain newspapers have found
so very profitable. But nobody is very
definite about how it’s to be done.
The much-travelled Mrs. I. H. Moss,
leader in many movements, was given a fare-
well party at the Women’s Automobile Club
rooms by the Housewives’ Association on the
eve of her departure on yet another tour.
Mrs. Glencross, principal Housewife, ami
president also of the National Council of
Women, had the chair. Mrs. Moss, whose
black, glittering gown was set off by a
presentation sheaf of crimson blooms, said
she and her husband intended to dawdle
down the Nile and saunter through the Holy
Land before again inspecting London.
Poppy Day harvested £3500, which beats
last year’s crop by £l6OO.
Last week Henrietta Walker introduced to
the notice of Christmas-gift seekers a collec-
tion of articles contrived from the bark of
our bush trees, with raffia, seedpods and
other growths as adornments. Her show in
the ballroom of No. 9 was most successful—
in plain English, she sold a lot. This
enterprise now employs about 30 workers,
many of whom are blind. New materials
are sought far and wide. Window boxes.
seats for deck-chairs and camp-stools, woorl-
boxes, baskets and mats are a few of the
goods fashioned. A weird and wonderful
reptile of the goanna species, which is con-
trived out of bark and dyed flax for the
ornamentation of some of the larger wares,
is a creation of a very old worker, a grand-
nephew' of Captain Cook.
Mrs. F. C. A. Lyons, here on a visit, is
a daughter of the late Chief Justice Iligin-
botbam. She is accompanied by her son.
F. A. Lyons, who is touring in the interests
of the Seamen’s Hospital Society.
The resuscitation of “Primrose” drew only
a moderate house to His Majesty’s on Satur-
day night. Maud Fane has some alluring
dresses, especially the flower-sprigged taffeta
frock worn with lettuce-green shady millinery
in the last act. Floie Allen’s green and
white-checked gown is likely to inspire more
than a few replicas during the summer.
Thurza Rogers's flowing locks stray over
filmy drapery of amber tones. On the firsl
night Margery llicklin, who created the
leading role in the London production,
watched the show from a box with her friend
Mrs. Harry Green.
Old Scotch College in East Melbourne has
been turned into a hostel for girls—the
Presbyterians feel that they need one. Lady
Stonehaven went: along one day lately
and opened it, carrying away as a memento
a golden pair of scissors with which she had
severed the ribbon that barred the doorway.
At the Austral Salon’s gathering last
week, pianist Harold Rodgers, who bad been
constituted a sort of permanent accompanist,
but who has found the lure of America
irresistible, was handed by the president,
Mrs. Thomas Baker, a gold wristlet-watch
and travelling rug, with members’ thanks
and good wishes.
Sister Adelaide:—
Christmas shopping and school speech-days absorb
most of our energies, with inter-collegiate: cricket as
the event of the week in the younger eyes. Stands
were packed as usual, but the fate that rattled down
10 red-and-white wickets in 24 overs awed even
youth into incredulous silence, and there was little
color-waving or shouting of school songs till St.
Peter’s went to bat and play got back to normal,
after the luncheon interval.
Vice-Chancellor Mitchell was at the Conservatorium
students’ final concert when diplomas were handed
out, and Ruth Naylor, the Elder scholar, was the
star performer. There -was a social next evening,
with the Toy Symphony, a song or two, and a one-
act play as preludes to dancing.
There has been dancing, too, in the Liberal Club
Hall—the night, as ill luck would have it, one of
tlie hottest we’ve yet had, and the hostesses a
score of younger matrons who’d bidden their guests
wear fancy dress. Nell Gwyn, Pierrot and Pierrette
in pale blue taffeta instead of the conventional black-
and white, a Columbine all white organdie and pink
roses, and a Gavotte a la Pavlova ran away with the
dressing honors, and there was a French doll all
white tulle and lace.
New York critics have waxed enthusiastic anenl
Merle Robertson’s playing. Her own compositions
have caught their ear, and one paper reckoned her
dfibut to be the most successful (of a woman pianist)
since Carreiio’s.
The Bach Society, under the baton of Dr. Harold
Davies, has given us “The Messiah,” with Fred Stone
as tenor soloist and in excellent voice. Lilian Wil-
kinson, Dorothy Belcher and Arnold Matters also did
well.
Gladys Good, of whose china-painting The Bul-
letin approved when she had a small show at the
Melbourne Lyceum Club last year, has held a suc-
cessful exhibition here. Landscapes and seascapes in
oils and an etching or two are there as well as
china, and in the china some copies of old pieces
have brought orders to fill gaps in many treasured
tea and dinner services.
Henley, with its usual adjuncts of decorated boats,
boat-races and fireworks, took a record crowd to
the Torrens, despite a day that was only bearable
because it was a shade less vile than the one before.
Mrs. Bruce undertook sole responsibility for judging
the decorated boats, and made an excellent job of
it, and the committee gave a huge tea that included
all our day’s and yesterday’s rowing enthusiasts.
The city’s “Corporation” has carried out once
more its pleasant custom of drinking the “health”
of Colonel Light, its founder. The custom has an
antiquity of nearly 70 years, a silver bowl having-
been presented for that purpose in 1859 by London
residents who had made money in the infant province.


A. SAUNDERS’ EXCLUSIVE
XMAS
GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Cake Basket, pierced design,
25/-
A. Saunders’
Crystal Cut Glass
Honey Jar,
A. Saunders’ Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated Al Quality, hand-
burnished, £7/10/-. Others, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A, Saunders’ Milk Jug, Hand
glazed China, Nickel Swing
ing Lid, in three sizes,
15/6, 20/-, 25/-
WB PAY POSTAGE.
mrnmm
-££lFi*rf y<
JS
wm
9 mmss
T
A. Saunders’ Best English Cut Class
Rose Bowl, in two sizes, 30/-, 40/-
WRITE FOR XMAS GIFT BOOK
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —J eweller —Optic ian,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI.
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR AUSTRALIAN TRAVELLERS
TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours From £321
Low-rate Escorted Tours, ••• From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation, Meals while Travelling. Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing. Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February, March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “ TRAVELLER'S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
44
1927.
.Tamtar^
Selections from
January Supplement
For Christmas days and all the glad New Year—here is the
music that will delight you. Each item is a gem of rare merit,
emphasising the supremacy of “His Master’s Voice” Records.
Ask your dealer for a copy of the new Supplement or write
to us direct.
Greatest Artists—New Electrical Recording—Silent Surface
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA—I2in. Black.
D. 1092 —“Twilight of the Gods” —Siegfried’s
Funeral March —Parts 1 and 2 .. Wagner 8/-
ROYAL CHORAL SOCIETY —12in. Black. •
D.lloB—Behold the Lamb of God (“The Messiah”)
Handel
Hallelujah Chorus (“The Messiah”). Handel 8/-
EDNA THORNTON (Contralto) —lOin. Black.
E.423—0n the Banks of Allan Water .. C. E. Horn
The Sweetest Flower that Blows .. Hawley 5/6
REGINALD GOSS CUSTARD, F.R.C.O. (Grand Organ)
—lOin. Black.
E.4ls—The Question Wolstenholme
The Answer Wolstenholme 5/6
DE RESZKE SINGERS (Male Quartet)—lOin. Black.
E. 432 —My Lady Chlo H. Clough Leighter
(Unaccompanied.)
Absent Metcalf 5/6
PAUL ROBESON (Bass)—lOin. Plum.
8.232G —Sometimes I Feel like a Motherless Child.
Arr. Brown.
On Ma Journey Arr. Boatner 4/-
ISOLDE MENGES (Violin) —12in. Black.
D. 109 Op. 21 (Spanish Dance). Sarasate
Berceuse, Op, 16 Faure 8/-
CHURCH ORGAN (C. Whitaker-Wilson) —lOin. Plum.
8.2196 —Christians, Awake !
(a) While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks
by Night.
(b) The First Nowell.
(c) O Come, All Ye Faithful. 4/-
ST. SWITHIN’S CHOIR—IOin. Plum.
8.2159 —Hail, Smiling Morn R. Spofforth
While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks.
T. Est 4/-
8.2160 —Hark ! The Herald Angels Sing.
O Come, All Ye Faithful. 4/-
8.2161 —Good King Wenceslas.
Christians, Awake! ...... J. Wainwright 4/-
AMELITA GALLI-CURCI and TITO SCHIPA—IOin. Red.
DA.7I1 —Un di felice, eterea (Rapturous Moment).
(“La Traviata.”) (Sung in Italian.) Verdi
Parigi, o cara, noi lasceremo (Act 3).
(Far From Gay Paris.) (“La Traviata.”)
(Sung in Italian) Verdi 7/0
A Marvellous Record.
DAME NELLIE MELBA (Soprano)—
12in. Red.
DB.943—“La Boheme” —Addio
di Mimi —Act 3.
Puccini
(Mimi’s Farewell.)
(In Italian.) 10/6
Farewell Speech.
(Recorded at the Royal
Opera House, Covent Garden,
June 8, 1926.)
"His Masters Voice
“His Master’s Voice,”
Registered Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,”
Registered Trade-mark.
JOHN McCORMACK (Tenor) —lOin. Red.
DA. 780 —Through All the Days To Be.
B Melville Hope
A Brown Bird Singing Haydn Wood 7/0
WILHELM BACKHAUS (Pianoforte)—l2in. Red.
DB. Waldesrausehen .. Liszt
(a) Waltz in D Flat, Op. 64, No. 1. Chopin
(b) Study in C Major, Op. 10, No. 7. Chopin 10/0
VLADIMIR DE PACHMANN (Pianoforte)—l2in. Red.
D 8.931 —Polonaise, Op. 26, No. 1 Chopin
Waltz in A Flat, Op. 64, No. 3. Chopin 10/0
PEERLESS QUARTET (Male Quartet)—lOin. Plum.
8.2321 —Good-night (I’ll See You in the Morning).
Roeltger-Small
SHANNON QUARTET (Male Quartet).
Carry Me Back to Old Virginny .... Bland 4/-
PETER DAWSON (Bass-Baritone)—lOin. Plum.
8.2324 —Simon the Cellarer Hatton
The Pride of Tipperary Lockhead 4/-
JACIv SMITH—IOin. Plum.
EA.72—When the Red, Red Robin Comes Bob,
Bob, Bobbin’ Along.
To-night’s My Night with Baby. 4/“
NITZA CODOLBAN (Zimbalon)—lOin. Plum.
8.2109 —“La Ce Leschena’’ (Caucasian Song).
Dizzy Fingers Zez Contrey 4/-
CYRIL NEWTON (Baritone)—lOin. Plum.
8.2151 —Sunny Havana (with Syncopated Quartet).
11. Nicholls
Babette (with Piano and Saxophone).
H. Nicholls 4/-
Complete lists of “His Master’s Voice’’ Instruments and Records
with name of nearest dealer sent on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


m
*
3
pi ' • M y
’ >J*«
f. 4
mi i
M
I
*v:
mm
Mm i
jf
rftA &im«Ki«EGfu S. f>AT err & COunT«"-s ;
isfc on this label
m
C\
r
"Next to myself I like'B.YD.' best”
Greater comfort
Longer wear
MADE FOR THE
BV. D
BEST RETAIL TRADE
Obtainable from all Leading Men’s-Wear Stores
P. B. SHEATHER COMPANY, LIMITED, Sole Wholesale Distributors tor Australasia.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE AND ALL STATES.


EVER-READY
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones,burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
cnbvn
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON,
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, DTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[i.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
soft v
X
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
.T. G. Cameron and John Grisdale, presi-
dent and secretary respectively of the Newcastle
Racing Club, had a good clean-up at Canterbury Park
(N.S.W.) on’ Saturday, thanks to the success of their
mare Tibbie (Mountain King—Lady Mehi) in the
December Handicap, 11 furlongs. First prize was
worth £460, 5 to 1 was always available in the ring
—Tibbie was equal favorite with Lintress and Hin-
chinbrook—and a parcel of sweep money came from
Tasmania. A mare of the greyhound type, Tibbie
looked trained to the minute as she came out to do
her preliminary, and Toohey had a nice ride. Never
farther back than fifth, she was in front a furlong
from home, and was going comfortably at the finish, a
length and a half ahead of the Bowman mare Queen’s
Bow (7 to 1), who was followed by two outsiders, Nan
Kourgan and Real Mackay. Hinchinbrook and Lint-
ress cut up badly ; the latter, a big, awkward fellow
always, was evidently in an ungenerous mood.
Tibbie’s performance was a 'good trial for the
Summer Cup, in which she has 7st. 51b.; and other
noteworthy victories, in view of the Christmas meet-
ings, were those of Shamash (7 to 4), by Sarchedon—
Galtee Maid, in the Nursery Handicap, King Cyllenp
(4 to 1) in the first division of the Flying Handicap,
six furlongs, and Lilah (6 to 4) in the second division.
King Cyllene was backed very confidently by his
party, and he accounted for Woodville and Giggle,
both slick sprinters, in most convincing style. Second
to Fujisan in the 1925 Doncaster Handicap, and
weighted at 7st. 111 b. for the Villiers Stakes, to be
run at Rand Wick next Saturday, he is one of the few
horses thought of by MoShortodds when that person
asks himself what is to beat Vaals, who has 9st. 21b.
The big Valais chestnut has demoralised the Villiers
betting, and he certainly looks a fair thing on recent
form. If an outsider bobs up, as has often happened
in the history of this particular race, it may be St.
Eaton (7st. 121 b.).
• * • •
Punters had their money’s worth at Aspen-
dale (Vic.) on Saturday, as there! were eight events,
the Maiden Plate and Purse being divided. King
of Oude (3 to 1), who had been unlucky ,at Epsom
on the previous Wednesday, took the Park Handicap,
eight furlongs, after a, ding-dong finish with the
favorite, .David Garrick (9 to 4) ; Eric Connolly’s
importation, Little Coon (6 to 1), was a close third.
The winner is a four-year-old gelding by Lucknow —
Auraria’s Daughter, and therefore a half-brother to
Sydney’s old friend El Dorado. He is owned by
J. S. Feehan and trained by E. Fisher. Billy
Duncan, who is right back to form again, had winning
rides on Coolness (5 to 1) in the Plate, a six
furlong affair, and on Willowyn (evens), owned by
Major McCulloch and Charlie Kellow, in the second
division of the Maiden, five furlongs. Two horses
with somewhat distinguished relatives scored in the
divided Purse, Salrak’s brother, Kurmoonah (4 to 1),
getting away with the first division, and Adrift’s
brother Awynner (7 to 2) with the second; Awynner,
who had won earlier in the week, is a good sort.
Sandringham (5 to 1), who is making a habit of it,
just got up in time to take the Jumpers’ Flat by
a head from the favorite, Arroya. Ben Chaffey’s cast-
off carried list. 131 b., and Dinsdale, very hard to
beat in these races, rode him.
* * * *
“Gatwick”: It would seem that, even in
England, the art of “dealin’ with a bloke” has not
died out among jockeys—the variety whose job takes
them “flyin’ in the air,” at any rate. The National
Hunt Club, which officially controls most of England’s
jumping races, started the season with a warning
to steeplechase jockeys to drop their little tricks in
the ruck and in the scrambles at the jumps. These
sportive practices used to be popular in flat racing,
but they have vanished under the modern system of hav-
ing sticky-beaking stewards dotted all over the place.
In the jumping game it is still possible to tip an
unsuspecting colleague out of the saddle with an
adroit toe under his stirrup while you are both in
the air. If he notices it an unavoidable jostle can
be pleaded, and a block or a bump at the take-off
can similarly be put down to one’s mount hesitating
or refusing the jump.
* * * *
“Reformed TTrger”: With indignation I
learn that Papua, one of the few spots on earth
hitherto uncontaminated by horse-racing, has fallen
from grace. Ever since I was warned off for life
at “the ponies” I have realised the sinful folly of
racing and turned a grateful eye on Papua, where
Ike and Mo did not corrupt nor “guns” slip in and
spiel. All that is over, and the earth, from China
to Peru, is now ringed with racecourses, with possible
gaps at such places as Kerguelen and the Crozets.
The Papuan course is some miles out of Port Moresby,
and a programme of seven races was arranged for the
first meeting. As only 14 horses were nominated,
there were beautiful opportunities for cutting up the
money and taking down the mugs—excuse the slip,
but the Old Adant dies hard.
* * * *
A Sydney boxing promoter who is making
headway is Pat McHugh, of Leichhardt. A shrewd
matchmaker with a keen head for business, McHugh
has bought and remodelled an aforetime picture-palace
and a fine area of land at the back, facing Day-street
(formerly Pig-lane), and is wiping off the cost at a
great rate. By the time he has it clear the block
will be a fortune in itself. McHugh’s latest bill-
topper was a 15-rounder between Stan Thurbon (Bst.
7Alb.) and Archie Cowan (Bst. 541 b.), and it was a
really great scrap. Cowan fought with dash and
force, and contrived to burst the bantam champion’s
nose and cut both eyes in the second and third rounds
respectively. But Thurbon’s courage and skill stood
to him, and, though he couldn’t knock out the taller
and wiry Noyocastrian, who had Tom Maguire as
second, he got all his own back and a big interest
over. When referee Elliott gave Stan the verdict
there wasn’t a single hoot from the packed house.
The Saturday-night, affair at the Stadium between
Ted Monson (list. 21b.) and Frenchman Ivan Laf-
fmeur (list. 3lib.) was also a good fight. Watching
Monson’s fierce attack and heavy hitting, spectators
could quite understand that the Westralian’s victory
over Tommy Uren was no fluke. The Gaul was on
the mat thrice during the battle, and several times
Monsieur Ivan went to his chair badly shaken and
short of wind; but he always came out with a. rush
like a Clydesdale, and rarely broke ground unless
discretion made retreat imperative. In the fourteenth
his fortitude and determination had their reward.
I-Je had been leading the right for the body, as is
his wont, and Monson had become less wary. One
particularly hard one landed square on “the mark,”
and Monson hit the floor and lay writhing while
Joe Wallis counted him out.
* * * *
The boxing public generally shows judg-
ment in picking the sheep from the goats, and it
made no mistake in absenting itself numerously
from the Raymond Jansen-Bert Bartlett fiasco at
TAMED.
THE YOUNGER: “I believe your husband was a great tennis playah. Is he quite reconciled
to married life?”
THE ELDER : “ Quite . He now uses a racquet to sift the ashes.”
Melbourne Stadium. Raymond, who hails from
Fiance, has not made much of a name for himself
ii this country, but opposed to the Welshman he
appeared a miniature Jack Dempsey. Bert took
everything that came his way until the fourth
round. Then he wobbled sol ominously after a fusil-
lade of rights that Val Quirk stopped the slaughter.
France weighed lOst.; Wales 9st. 12Jib.
* * * *
“Alwyn” : According to the new “Austra-
lian Encyclopaidia,” the first recorded Australian fight
under English prize-ring rules took place on Jan.
7, 1814, in Hyde Park, Sydney, between John
Berringer and Charles Lipton. The principals were
required to run half a mile before the contest- —a
stipulation that would seriously distress many
pampered pugs of to-day. At the end of 56 rounds,
occupying two hours, Berringer was declared the
winner. The bare-knuckle bruisers of a century ago
sometimes fought for large stakes. As early as May
26, 1827, when Logan beat Young Bailey at Parra-
matta, there was a side-wager of £5OO.
* * * *
It was like old times at Maroubra
(N.S.W.) speedway on Saturday night, with all the
old favorites skimming round the saucer. The one
notable new-comer, Eddie Brinck (U.S.A.), who gets
such wonderful pace out of the Baby Harley, had
hard luck. He won his heat in the Gold Helmet
event, beating compatriot Cecil Brown and making
a new track record for 34-h.p. machines —93 miles
an hour. But in the final the cap of his petrol-tank
worked off and he drove with a blinding spray of
spirit playing over his goggles. At that he ran into
second place, Spencer Stratton, the Maorilander, on
an Indian Prince, licking him by three lengths, with
Cecil Brown about 10 yards behind Brinck —a dose
finish for motor-cycles at 90 miles an hour. In
the car section the most notable happening was Don
Harkness’s skid. His Overland got skittish coming
out of a turn and threw its driver clean out, but
he landed softly. The motor-cycles were once more
faster than the four-wheelers.
» * * *
Tbe only “double” winner on the first day
of the Dunn Shield athletic meeting at Sydney was
C. D. Spicer, of Kensington, who took the high
jump with sft. 9in. and the 120 yards hurdles (3ft.
6in. flights) in 16 l-ssec. Spicer was the “find”
in this year’s N.S.W. championships, and is a leppor
of promise. Another youth to show out well was
Colin Macdonald, of West, who won the mile in
4min. 35sec., only a second behind the figures made
bv Yankee J. A. Power in 1913. N. R. Burns, of
'Varsity (100 yards in 10 l-ssec.), and G. R. Parker
(3-mile walk in 22min. I7sec.) were the only per-
formers who retained titles. Parker was badly beaten
by Sunderland, the Vic. champion, on Dec. 4. and
is out to regain his glory.
* * * *
Ai the N.S.W. Rowing Association's
annual regatta on the Parramatta River, the Mosman
club regained its grip on the State championship
eights. Splendidly stroked by IT. L. Callaghan, who
has succeeded his brother in the position—C.B. has
gone in for sculling—Mosman turned the tables on
Leichhardt; Sydney, whose No. 5 jumped his slides,
followed last year’s champions home with seven oars.
The other star turn of the day, the State champion
sculls, was won by R. Pearce, of the Sydney club,
a son of the famous Harry. Big and powerful, with
a style on which his dad has had an obvious influ-
ence, Pearce won, pulling up, by 20 lengths, with
Goulding, of his own club, second. He may turn
out better even than the old man, who was profes-
sional champion of Australia, though never quite good
enough for Barry or Arnst.
* * # #
On the Rushcutters Bay courts at the
week-end, a N. S. Wales lawn-tennis team (Anderson,
Willard, Crawford and Cummings) soundly defeated
a Victorian combination (Patterson, Fitchet't, Schle-
singer and Teague), winning all four singles matches
and one of the two doubles. J. O. Anderson, whose
final public appearance as an amateur it was, showed
splendid form in downing Patterson, 4—6, 9 —7,
6—2, 6—2. Young Crawford, repeating his fine
Melbourne displays, was twice victorious; he settled
Fitehett in a hot five-set match, and, with Cummings
as his partner, vanquished Fitehett and Teague in
the doubles. Jim Willard was given a special round
of applause after overcoming Schlesinger in straight
sets. Jim has greatly improved the last season
or two without acquiring a swelled head or behaving
like a spoilt beauty actress, as others do.
“Whitewash”: The International Lawn
Tennis Federation has decided to re-admit Germany.
This means, among other things, that Fritz will be
able to chuck his hat into the ring lor next year’s
Davis Cup. He had a strong team in 1913, when
his representatives walloped France, but went under
to the Americans, McLoughlin, Williams and Hackett,
who eventually lifted the Cup from the Britons,
Parke, Dixon and Roper Barrett. It will probably
take the Germans some years to reach that standard
again, but one never knows.
* * * *
Imagine a farmyard full of agitated hens
that a small boy, in a holiday spirit, has harnessed to
his toy carts or saddled and jockeyed with his sister’s
dolls. Imagine the said birds, grown Bft. high,
dragging in all directions drivers who are powerless
to control them, bumping into the enclosure and
knocking palings out, tripping over their own feet,
rolling on the grass and jumping on to neighboring
chariots. Imagine the poultry further frightened out
of their meagre wits by a yelling, booing and
laughing crowd, and you get a notion of the spec-
tacle which L. L. le Cornu presented to Melbourne
Motordrome patrons on Saturday with the 14 ostriches
be brought over from South A us. The only thing the
birds did not do was to stop in the middle of a
race to lay a pensive egg. Otherwise the show was
as ludicrous as any lover of the queer and the exotic
could desire.
“Nakhoda”: I have seen only one form of racing
more futile than le Cornu’s essay with the ostriches
-—the racing of Indian oxen as practised by the
simple indigene of Borneo. The gait of this mild-
looking humped animal resembles that of a poet
composing an ode. The charioteer squats almost on
its tail, emitting loud Ha’s! and stirring it to action
with a forked .stick in a manner most uncomfortable
to the beast. The tortured creature proceeds in short
staccato canters, interspersed with adagio walks,
and, having no sense of direction, generally finishes
in a ditch. But it can buck like a forest devil.
* * * *
Tho Vic.-South Aus. match had a most
exciting finish half-way through the fifth day. On .the
third liymill (142) and Vic Richardson (137) built
up the home score to 481, with a solid lead of 166.
Vic wiped this out for the loss of one wicket; Pons-
ford followed his mammoth 214 with 54, Woodfull
made 84 before being for the second time run out, and
Hendry finely hit 177 ; total 430. Williams, for S.A.,
again completely outshone the international bowlers.
He took 12 wickets in the match (and 3 were run
out); Grimfnett’s horrible total was 3 for 217 ;
Arthur Richardson’s, 1 for 66; Scott’s, 1 for 117.
S.A. had to scratch hard for the 265 required. Vic
Richardson, with 92, had useful help from A. J.
Richardson, Rymill and Schneider, but 8 wickets were
down when the end came, Grimmett batting like a
veteran and adding 33 not out to his previous 29.
Striking things in the match were the complete
failure of the fast stuff, Rymill’s improved defence,
Schneider’s first appearance (69 and 28), and Blackies
wonderful bowling, unchanged literally for hours, and
always dangerous. Roth sides, and especially Vic-
toria, are likely to make some changes in the XI
before the return game. Incidentally, Ellis, though
“keeping” beautifully, again roused the Adelaide
crowd to frenzy by frequent appeals, almost all nega-
tived. He must either be a singularly bad judge him-
self or have incredibly bad luck in the umpires he
meets. The Victorians’ ground fielding was beautiful;
but dropped catches —Vic Richardson was missed half-
way through each of his long scores—undoubtedly
cost them the game. #
The Quecnsluud XI got a great reception
from a sporting Sydney crowd when victory crown.-i
its efforts in its second Sheffield Shield match. Scores:
N.S.W., 287 (Macartney 114, Andrews 67) and 588
(Kippax 182, Phillips 144, Jackson 100, Steele 78) ;
Queensland, 577 (O’Connor 103, R. Oxenham 134 mo.,
Rowe 65, L. Oxenham 60, Gill 54, Thompson 43)
and 5 for 300 (O’Connor 143 n. 0., R. Oxenham 62,
Thompson 31, Bensted 30 n. 0.). Each side had a
stroke of misfortune; illness compelled Macartney
to retire on the second day of the match, after ho
had taken a wicket for 20, while Ronnie Oxenham,
after dismissing Phillips, Steele and Kippax lor
29 in the first hour, strained a leg-muscle and could
bowl no more—a comrade ran for him when he batted
so sturdily. These were easily the best bowlers
on their respective sides (the youngsters tried by
the Ma State did not come off), and Ron Oxenham
proved little, if at all, inferior to Arthur Richardson
as an all-rounder. O’Connor is not so good a wicket-
keeper as Oldfield or Ellis, but is a better batsman
than either. These two men and Thompson, who
played fine, free cricket, should certainly be included
in the Macartney benefit match. Macartney’s innings
was perfect, and Kippax enhanced the great reputation
to which the Australian Xl selectors were so singu-
larly blind last year, while Jackson and Phillios
showed that they will have to be reckoned with
when the next Australian XI is picked. But the
match emphasised the fact that there is a tragic
shortage of class bowlers.
“Bris”: Leo O’Connor, the mainstay of the Queens-
land XI, is also the chief support of Australian-rules
football in the northern ,State. There is no honor or
glory or cash in the Australian game in Brisbane but
under O’Connor’s presidency the Aussie league is slowly
making headway against its Rugby and Soccer rivals.
Off the field O’Connor is chief clerk in the Workers
Dwellings Department.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Maoriland’s first cricket
tour of England will commence with a match against
an eleven selected by H. Martineau, who gave the
last Australian team its opening gallop on his private
ground at Holyport. As the counties have agreed to
use the smaller ball over which controversy has been
raging, the Maorilanders may find conditions awkward
at first. Nevertheless, since English wickets and
atmospheric conditions approximate much more
closely to Maoriland’s than to Australia’s, both
bowlers and batsmen should be happier than on our
concrete-faced pitches. Not that last year’s M.L.
team in Australia —by no means the Dominion’s best
side—did not make runs. Its trouble lay in the
inability of the bowlers to get the other side out
on batsmen’s wickets.
* * * *
The Maoriland Rugby League footballers
have been getting it in the neck again, this time
from Wigan, a Lancashire club that once employed
a number of Australian and M.L. players. It looks
as if the side will return home with little beyond
its unblemished reputation. The L T nion Maoris were
last heard of in France, where they beat a French
XV at Bordeaux, whence comes the vin rouge.
“Bouragi”: London Daily News, in a criticism of
the Maori team now in France, remarks that, while
keen and clever, they “have piroved strangely
indifferent to the tactical side of the game.” But
that has always been true of the Maori as a foot-
baller, save in combination with pakeha players,
though, queerly enough, an infusion of white blood
seems to combine pakeha strategical capacity with
Maori fire or devil. The same characteristic is
noticeable in all the Polynesians, A stark warrior
in battle, the Maori has always preferred direct
action to manoeuvring for position, as the story of
the Maori War makes plain.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : A curious aftermath of the
English Soccer team’s visit to Australia last year has
been revealed in the cables. Whittaker, one of the
full-backs, was a casualty in a match against N. S.
Wales. Little fuss was made about it at the time,
and many N.S.W. supporters of the game were
astonished" when they learned that the Woolwich
Arsenal player had been permanently injured. This
came to light when Arsenal protested because the
English Football Association had induced Whittaker
to accept £350 as final compensation under tho
insurance scheme protecting footballers. Arsenal
gave the poor devil an additional £lOO. If the
Australian authorities, who took £19,000 at th<
gates during the Englishmen’s tour, have thrown
anything more into the hat they have kept uncom
monly quiet about it.
AT PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The retiring Lord Mayor of Sydney (Aid Stokes)
and the Lord Mayor elect (Aid. Mostyn) were among
those who welcomed Governor de Chair to the ponies
at Victoria Park on Saturday.”
A Governor’s job, you must all be aware,
Like de Chair,
A broad, many-sided, inclusive affair
As possibly ever was known is.
You have, to teach Premiers the way they must go,
And grace with your presence both opera and show,
Vice-regally mingle with high and with low
And share in the divers diversions they know,
Not even forgetting the ponies.
The punters at Randwick, of course, and the books
(Gadzooks !)
Will greet you with loyal and rapturous looks,
But the ticktacker- —he who marconis
’Twixt leger and stand by some methods complex
His message—the urger who hails you and checks.
Have just as much right to a glimpse of his Ex.,
So the study-down-under of Georgius Rex
Must take a look in at the ponies.
There are highbrows in plenty a Gov’nor must meet.
The elite
He’s always expected to graciously greet,
A duty, you fairly must own, is
Discharged with precision and scrupulous care
By the suave and the smiling Sir Dudley. And where
Could he find an outgoing and an incoming Mayor
Away from hard graft, with a holiday air
Upon them —except at the ponies?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


RIV A LS THE BEAUTY OF
v cncvn
THE SCARLET TANAGER
PARKER
®*>° Fo ‘4l
?EN
Parker Over-size
Duofold
35/-
Duofold, Jr.
or Lady Duofold
25/-
vnmvnm
“Well, well—it looks as If
everyone wants the
Qbarikerttoofidd
for fllljristmaa!”
rr Yes, of all the Gifts this year, this
BlacK-tipped Lacquer-red Beauty with its Point,
guaranteed for 25 years, is surely the most captivating
Ut x THEN I think how Parker Duofold gives a person
W an appetite for his work, I’m not surprised that
so many people want to have this super-pen to start
the New Year with.
“Anything less a commonplace pen would be
sure to disappoint them.
“So I advise everyone to shop bright and early at the
Parker Duofold pen counters; if they wait too long the
demand for these fine pens as gifts may have depleted
dealers’ stocks.
“Five minutes at a shop where Parker Duofolds are
sold is enough for most of your Christmas shopping.
And these prized gifts are not bulky to carry or to send.
“Sizes for Men, Women, Girls and Boys, flashing
Black and rolled Gold, or Black-tipped Lacquer-red —
all guaranteed, if not misused, for 25 years’ wear.”
Sold by Stationers, Booksellers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores where pens are stocked.
Parker Duofold Pencils to match the Pens
!. 181 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia
Agents : SLADE, ALLAN 8 COMPANY, Broughton House
zmansm ?
It
u l I ,•"• I'®=
& :*
f w 5®
ssljb
\
fc -V
m
m
gl&fg
m
m
i#
<XB
mb
mm
m
mmwz*
,\Vv
ton"*:
ifin'ii m
The Holiday Spirit
Van/.
§£«{? ) Pura
SHELL
li
S*J
One uniform
quality from
the Shell Pump.
ON your holiday tour your
car is your trustworthy
companion. Like you it must
be imbued with the holiday
spirit. Give it the spirit that
covers every mile smoothly
and untiringly—give it Shell.
Go where you will,
Shell Service awaits you.
vnvmn
Motor
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
49 Clarence Street Sydney
THE INKY WAY.
“Yong”: The shortest letter to a daily
I’ve ever read appeared in the Sun Jsews-
Pictoriau (Melb.) a few days ago: ‘Ter-
haps gentlemen prefer blondes because they re
light-headed.”
“lan ,C.”: S. C. Lazarus, Priminister
Bruce’s publicity officer at the Imperial Con-
ference, has changed his surname to ' Leslie,
to the puzzlement of those with whom he
worked as University lecturer and journalist
in Melbourne. As Lazarus he won a Ilhodes
scholarship and left Oxford with the degree
of doctor of philosophy. It is understood
that he is going to have a cut at English
journalism.
,C. E. Sayers, president of Vic. district
of the A.J.A., stands the best chance of being
selected as official publicity officer for the
Duke of York’s visit. He will have work
similar to that performed by Harrison
(Sydney Sun) and Goddard (Sydney Even-
ing News) when Edward P. was here in
’2O. Sayers is the State political man for
the Age; also he is a short-story writer, and
has also turned out two or three novels—
one was run as a serial in the Woman’s
Mirror.
G. F. H. Schuler, editor of the Age, who
died suddenly on Saturday, aged 72, was one
of the old radicals who often wondered what
sort of Frankenstein monster they had helped
to create. He wasn’t the erudite scholar
that his predecessor A. L. Windsor was, and
his writing was never so “literary” ; but he
knew far more about news and journalism —
especially of the older sort —and he had an
exceptional gift for getting swiftly at the
heart of the matter. His mind was very
penetrating. In politics he wasn't much of
a Federalist; but lie was a sound Protec-
tionist. In both these lines of policy the
influence of David Syme was strong upon
him. He had been 48 years in the Age
office, 26 of them as editor; before that
he was chief-of-staff.
“Ilasen”: Melbourne Sun tells of a defend-
ant in a domestic dispute case at the Prah-
ran Court who said, “Although -I sent my
wife a letter in rhyme to say I still loved
her, she would not respond. ... She broke a
chair over my head, got hysterical, smashed
up the crockery and rushed out of the house.
His love he rhymed between two. sighs,
Put she was analytic—
She up and smote him on the vise:
Was it as wife or critic?
“Knib”: E. J. Stock, general manager of
the National Mutual Life Assurance office,
had a new experience the, other day when
he acted as chairman of the Federal council
(commonly called “the tribunal”) to deter-
mine matters in dispute between metropolitan
newspaper proprietors and the A.J.A.
Holtz, g.m. of the Argus, and Syd I learner,
president of the inkslingers, did most of the
arguing regarding interpretation of the Arbi-
tration Court award, and Stock contented
himself with prompt and terse decisions.
Keith Murdoch, g.m. of Melbourne Herald,
who appeared with Holtz, rounded off the
day with a dinner to. the chiefs of both
sides at his home at South Yarra.
“P.N.”: Few men suffered more in mind
during the war than G. F. H. Schuler, editor
of the Age, who died on Saturday. Schuler
was born in Frankfort and brought to Aus-
tralia as a two-year-old ; and there "was no
- better Australian in Australia. But he was
terribly afraid that his German birth would
compromise the Age, and he begged the
Symes to allow him to retire. They would
not hear of it. Later, when Schuler’s only
son died at the war, he felt that he could
not go on; but again the Symes persuaded
him that he would be better at work. He
was not a man of strong physique, and had
few interests apart from his job. Certainly
he did some carpentry, and* indeed, was
found dead in his workshop; but he wasn’t
as much interested in that hobby as his
almost lifelong friend Cunningham, editor
of the Argus. When Cunningham would go
to the work-bench for relaxation, Schuler
was more likely to turn to a Deadwood Dick
or some such reading.
“Morehead”: A curiosity preserved at the
Mitchell Library, Sydney, is a copy of the
Central Australian and Bourse Tele-
graph, of April 22, 1890. It is a small,
three-columned affair printed on calico. The
editorial states:—
We do not apologise for the present small-sized
issue. We know every consideration will be shown
us. Our steam machine is under water. Our stock
of paper, etc., is piled up all round; we work this
issue off on a small “model” machine by hand-
power. Our “comps” have never left their posts;
water is covering portions of the floor in our com-
posing-room and is feet deep all round, rations are
carried in, and the office is our home. The river
now seems almost stationary, and if no further rise
occurs and if our walls hold up. we will endeavor
to publish regularly. We sympathise with our con-
temporary, whose office is feet deep under water.
Two other curiosities of the same period
ought to be added to this remiuder of the
great Bourke flood. Both were printed in
North Queensland when ordinary supplies
were cut off—one on brown wrapping paper,
the other on “rainbow” paper that had been
originally bought for circus posters.
“Oxmead”: Many country papers used to
keep rough woodcuts to illustrate and
brighten up tradesmen’s ads. besides spread-
ing them over a few more inches of space.
The artistry was crude, but the advertisers
were seldom censorious. When the new
butcher opened in our township, old Crotch,
our foreman printer, undertook to find him
an appropriate block to go with the letter-
press. But Crotch was a trifle short-sighted,
and, rummaging among his stock, he got
hold of a pictorial effort intended to call
attention to the activities of auctioneers and
stock-salesmen. There was no great difference
between the works of art except that the
conventional accessory to butchers’ advertise-
ments consisted of cattle, sheep and pigs,
while the block used to stress auctioneers’
announcements included a horse in addition
to the purely food-producing fauna. Garnished
with this, the butcher’s ad. duly appeared
next morning, and the man who came round
to protest against the outrage after the
whole town had had time to assimilate the
innuendo was the most exasperated flesher
I have ever had to pacify.


to
l/ftiMii/i
jjnJ-,
'm
5^
S 3
~«s
#5
1
'9ooc/,
JfeM
C'Ar/smss
II"'
/jjrnMS
-=/ lllllll'/.
n.i' r
m
mm
mm
mm
mMmPm
R? 8
M
rmm
\
YOU can’t go wrong in giving him a useful present such
as a box of Pelaco Collars, a Shirt or two, or a couple
of suits of Pyjamas. But insist on seeing the word
P~E~L~A~C~O (in script) on the label, and beware of
substitutes. He will appreciate your thoughtfulness, for
he knows the Pelaco brand well—and likes it . . . It is a
guarantee of complete satisfaction.
Guaranteed
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
me
kinkit they fit
S 3
liillil/niHiiiiiiniui
»)ll)!/)iM/illlllilli!jl
w!7i
m


Qualify Cteat&d tAe d&numd
Quality 'maintains tAe Sale
Army C
lO for 9d.
CIGARETTES
20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
<?t 5
'! %
a
’ \
CM
m
\ >
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOW’S FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “Is Zat So?”
Palace “Rejuvenation”
Royal “Abie’s Irish Rose”
St. jAiiis “Betty Lee”
Fuller's Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SFIOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Cousin from Nowhere”
Royal Dempsey-Tunney Fight
King’s “The Naughty Wife”
Atiien.eom “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou - Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Musical comedy of Australian origin is a
rare bird, and deserves encouragement.
"Healo,” by Dion Titheradge, music by Ken
Duffield, bad an amateur trial two years ago
in Adelaide, Dufiield’s home. It now gets a
full professional showing at Adelaide Royal.
It has the unusual advantage of a continuous
plot. The first act, in a London office, is on
the familiar American lines of a business
kept afloat by shady methods. Barnaby is
running a patent medicine —though nothing
turns on that except a jolly song and the
title of the piece. With two possible hopes
in view, that his rich aunt may die and that
the millionaire yachtsman Bahgs may take
up shares, he fraudulently uses meanwhile a
friend’s cheque to avert a strike in the works.
Bangs proves hopeless, and Barnaby, remov-
ing his whiskers, bolts (unrecognised) as
cook on the yacht. The next two acts, make-
shifts on an island beach, and a year later
with the cook as its king, are pleasantly
reminiscent of one Crichton, though Barnaby
is in no way Admirable. Finally he has the
option of either wedding the local princess
or forming the chief dish at her marriage
feast. “Here where no harsh light intrudes,”
declaims the priest, when that very thing
happens. Searchlight—rescue party —a
thrilling and effective episode. Back to the
office; aunt dead, business booming, cheque
refunded, everyone happy.
* * * •
The play suffers a trifle from over-
generosity of material. Five scenes are too
many, and the two last might well go, the
rescue party bringing news from home. Simi-
larly with the characters : three comic elderly
men, three fashionable young heroes, two comic
matrons, and so on. The necessary pruning
would be easy. Duffield’s music is delight-
ful (he has several similar London successes
in his past) ; “Lazy Lagoon” and “Come and
See the Animals Fed” and other lyrics are
already being whistled all over the place.
Comments on the acting can stand over till
the people engaged have got more used to
their parts. It is mainly Stigant’s show,
hard-working and funny as financier, cook
and king; also there is much work for the
jolly youthful chorus, wearing, modern
fashion, practically nothing below the belt.
** * *
“Rose Marie,” at Sydney Majesty’s, estab-
lished the record run in Australasia yester-
day, and will continue over the holidays. This
is the last night of “Trilby” at the Criterion.
Abie’s Hibernian-llebrew mix-up is still to be
found at the Royal; the final matinee of
“Betty Lee,” at the St. James, is announced
for next Saturday; and “Is Zat So?” will
shift from the Palace to the Criterion on
the same day. After these farewells the city
will be given up to pantomimes.
❖ •*' -!• $
Little Tich showed no new aspects
of his grotesque art at the Sydney Tivoli
on Saturday, merely repeating the turns
with which he had opened his season;
and one of them, in which he appeared as a
boy, was dull. The public is waiting for his
long boots. Dorothy Lena works hard for
the success of her catchy songs. The
Femina Trio, with violin, piano arid voice,
provides excellent music; but the cleverest
item is Salerno’s remarkable juggling. Don
Alfonso Zclaya, though professing a hatred of
jazz, compromises by finishing his turn with
jazz of the worst type.
Two of the least entertaining of Fuller’s
vaudeville performers in Sydney on Satur-
day were Nick Morton and Harry Cash. The
former, whose voice is only f.a.q., tells some
near-smart stories and then breaks into a
sentimental song, for no apparent reason;
and the feet of Harry Cash—he is billed as
“a black ,;laugli”—are the only part of him
that waken any enthusiasm. The leaping of
a greyhound and the delightful dancing of
Isolde and Alexis were the most graceful
things in a poor first part. The revue,
"Words and Music,” in the second half of
Ihe programme, compensated, however; the
ballets are engaging and bright.
*
At last a picture-show that does not
glorify a flapper! The procession of vapid
heroines with plucked eyebrows whose sole
object is to capture a rich husband has been
interrupted by “Beau Geste,” which tells
the heroic story of three English brothers
m the French Foreign Legion, ending with
the death of two. Though the motive that
sent the three brothers to the Legion is
absurd and incomprehensible, there is in this
play enough adventure, heroism, mystery and
self-sacrifice to make a dozen picture-shows.
Cleverness is shown by the device of giving
the bare facts of the climax away at the
beginning of the play, and in the final scenes
divulging the inner meaning that explains
the mystery of the tragedy. The theme,
brother-love, is one that has been strangely
or stupidly overlooked by the producers—
there are generally more things in picture-
plays than the directors guess. The scenes in
the desert are remarkably fine, and the three
brothers and Noah Beery as a picturesque,
brutal, fine fighter make a manly quartette.
There are -only two females in the cast, and
neither matters tuppence.
* * * :; s
The Showman samples a Swedish pic-
ture :
Apparently a proud contempt for the facts of
history is one of the characteristics of the moiie
producer, no matter -where h e lives. Everybody
knows that the Grand Duchess Tatiana, the second
daughter of the Czar, was massacred by the Bol-
shevists when the Royal family was wiped out.
What does that matter ? The poor girl can
be dug up, can’t she? The hero, born in
America, of course, was a “serf” before the revolu-
tion, and becomes a Bolshevik leader. He allows
poor Tatiana to escape the firing party and forces
her to marry him with the utterly preposterous
intention of making her life a misery. They escape
from Russia, though it is not told how, and next
they are found in a small town in America. The
husband, however, cannot forget that he was once a
serf and that his wife is of royal blood. Though
an American, he cannot get rid of the “serf” complex.
So the poor worm actually goes back to Russia to
announce her survival; but when he brings a com-
mittee to interview her, the girl appears with a
baby in her arms. The possibility of this had
never entered the thick head of her husband. Of
course it overwhelms him; his heart melts and
the Grand Duchess becomes a suburban wife. The
play was made in Sweden, and Einar Hanson, a
Swedish star, and Corinne Griffith are the prin-
cipals. “Into Her Kingdom” is the title and it
was shown at the Strand and Hayinarket, Sydney, on
Saturday.
'l* 'l*
Art shows in Sydney:—
A. H. Fullwood and Gayfield Shaw have a show
of etchings at Swain’s Galleries, Sydney, neatly
timed for the Christmas season; and they are good
enough for it.
Mme. Bresslern Roth, of Gratz, Styria, has a wide
reputation, and not only in her own country, for her
brilliant woodcuts of animals. The show of this
original artist’s work at the Grosvenor Galleries
glitters with bright color, and is full of vigor and
animation.
$ $ * $
“Primrose” will deck the mead at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, until the end of the
present week. The revival of this George
Gershwin trifle is not a musical event of the
first importance, and Maud Fane has small
scope for her energetic personality in the
part of a shy, shrinking damosel condemned
by an irascible father to bestow her lily
hand on Hugh Steyne, while her true lover,
Leyland Hodgson, bawls melodiously in the
middle distance like a calf bereft of its
“ROSE MARIE,” AT
SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Lou Vernon as Emile,
and Stephanie Deste
as Wanda.
dam. As Toby Meopham, the imbecile mem-
ber of the English aristocracy who couldn’t
help his ancestors coming over with William
the Conqueror because he wasn’t there to
stop them, George Gee is almost indistin-
guishable from Frith, the creator of the r6le.
The exquisite dancing of Thurza Rogers and
Robert Lascelles, whose feet seem to fear
the boards, strikes as alien a note in a
modern musical comedy as a Beethoven sym-
phony at a Scotch concert; but it was none
the less gratefully received.
* * * *
The revival of “The Geisha,” staged at the
Playhouse by the Victorian Opera Company,
was an acceptable production. The comedy
was quite well dressed and staged, and the
familiar melodies sparkled with nearly all
their old charm. A quartette of Geisha girls
who sang brightly in their old-gold satin
kimonos made an effective background for
Ida Ashton, who was very nearly at home
in the part of O Mimosa San. Edward Beach-
croft as Captain Katana sang surprisingly
well, and his farewell duet with Mimosa was
the musical hit of the piece. John D. Sul-
livan, as the teashop proprietor, was feeble,
and Dave Rose’s idea of the Chief of Police,
otherwise the Marquis, was monotonous and
devoid of dignity. Alice Mallon did well as
the French lady, and Beatrice Cock, as Molly
Seamore, acted better than she sang. Roland
French, as Reginald Fairfax, played the role
in the traditional manner, and with bis
brother officers made much of the song
“Jack’s the Boy.” The chorus work was
crisp and tuneful. Val Atkinson, producer,
and Hubert Clifford, musical director, have
done well with the almost entirely amateur
matei'ial at their disposal.
“MEET THE WIFE,” AT MELBOURNE
ATHENAEUM.
[?]oris Bellamy (Helen Audiffrcd) discovers
that Philip Lord, the famous novelist
( J. B. Rowe), is her long-lost father.
An actress named Nellie Stewart is to be
an attraction at Melbourne Royal early in
the New Year. She will appear in “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury” for two weeks only.
Ancient playgoers greet this Showman’s
inquiries about the lady with portentous winks
and promise him that he is going to see some-
thing. To-night, at the same playhouse, whence
“Wildflower” has just flown, Dempsey and
Tunney will contest the world’s heavyweight
championship on the screen; and on the
25th Ada Reeve will be on “Pins and
Needles,” which is a revue straight from
the London Gaiety. Boxing Day sees “Puss
in Boots” at the Princess; next Saturday
“The Cousin from Nowhere” will arrive at
His Majesty’s, while “The Naughty Wife”
will be at home at the King’s. The American
comedians are still giving satisfaction at the
Athenaeum.
** * *
“The Naughty Widow,” the seasonal bait
at Melbourne Palace, is a new English farce-
coinedy of a quite familiar brand ; its humor
as subtle as the kick of an army mule; its
situations as machine-made as a suite of
modern bedroom furniture ; and its happy end-
ing as certain to arrive as the magenta neck-
tie from Aunt Jane at Christmas. Neverthe-
less, if approached in the proper festive
spirit, the show is highly entertaining. Rosa
Dugan, as the ingenue, is a personable young
woman; Mona Thomas, as her sister, has
the histrionic gift; and the spectacle of
Frank Neil accidentally exposing himself in
his shirt and underpants to the shocked view
of Charlotte, his inamorata, should prolong
the run another week, if Mr. Edgar, M.L.C.,
does not get legislation passed to put a stop
to it.
5k sk % ,
The bright spots in the programme of
Melbourne Tivoli this week are Nellie Wal-
lace, who is fading away into her last week;
Syd Beck, who claims to be “Australia’s
own comedian,” though there are others;
Jerry and co., who provide laughter; Estelle
Fratus, with her quaint dolls; the joyous
Munro brothers, who improve on acquaint-
ance and now don’t seem to deserve all of
last week’s brick; the Estelle Mark trio, an
excellent musical combination; and Steele
and Winslow.
A small but select collection of scantily-
clad gals on limber stems, a very confiden-
a T-i C i? wn . the other ingredients of
a Fuller circuit revue are present in the
George Wallace show, which is challenging
comparison with Jim Gerald’s late display
at Melbourne Bijou. The Veterans of Vari-
ety are back again and prove as popular
as ever.
Melbourne Majestic’s silent entertainment
includes “The Man Upstairs,” a piece of
genuine drollery shot through with artless
mystery, and “Her Big Night,” a strenuous
farce. Hoyt’s is winding off a Wild West
story called “Born to the West,” of which
all that need be said is that it comes from
the fertile fancy of Zane Grey. “Good and
Naughty” is a comic supplement, with Pola
Negri in a humorous vein.
Some flashes of talent lit up the annual
pace-showing of students of the Melbourne
University Con. last week. Hermia Barton
and her fiddle provided the star turn, a
sprightly performance of the first movement
of the Vieuxtemps Concerto. Almost equally
good was the Delius pianoforte Concerto in
C Minor by Tliirza Wettenhall. The work,
colorful and melodious, had fair orchestral
accompaniment, but Marjorie Trockter and
her fiddle had to struggle against a tonal
background that didn’t synchronise with the
soloist. Isis Williams, who was heard in
the Nile Song from “Aida,” was most
promising of the songbirds.
* * * *
Some noteworthy scratches :
Examples of almost everything that can be done
with the etching-needle are on show at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne. The bustle and confusion of
a railway station are in “Smoke and Steam” by
Joseph Pennell, the American ; the grace and swing
of modern dancing in “Nijinski and Lopokova” by
Troy Kinney; a Rembrandtesque version of the Aus-
tralian bush in the panel by Van Raalte; romantic
beauty in the barn depicted by Gruner; decorative
fancy in Syd Kong’s big contribution; an infinite
delicacy in the heap by Herbert Gallop; a clever
vein of fantasy in the three (printed on satin) by
R. W. Coulter, a new Sydney adventurer in the art.
For sheer virtuosity, however, few approach the
rather lumpy lady whom Anders Zorn has drawn
balancing in the buff on a plank over a stretch of
enamelled water. The strokes in this picture can
readily be counted, yet at a distance the figure
leaps off the wall, the whole scene vibrates with
atmosphere and light, and the reason why somebody
cheerfully disgorged 800 guineas for a specimen of
the Scandinavian’s art in N’York the other day is
made apparent. Just to show thalt the last word
about etching has not been said, Norman Lindsay
creates a new world of panting imagination with a
line more astonishingly facile than that of any
contemporary or dead exponent.
“Wigs”: Tlie author of “The Fake” has
produced two successful plays since that was
written, and is still turning them out with
machine-like regularity. The latest piece
from his pen is “The League of Nations” ;
and, ironically enough, Lonsdale is trying
it first in America.
“Bis”: The stock phrase of landladies to
actors applying for lodgings, “If you’re an
actor, cash in advance,” seems to have died
out. An ancient thespian friend of mine
had touched me for “a coupler bob.” I knew
that he had pulled a nice cheque from “The
Term,” and diplomatically asked its where-
abouts. Landladies rose considerably in my
estimation when my friend explained that
’’" had used it to pay a three-months’ board
bill.
Jornstalk” : Jack Grant, who looks after
matters back-stage at Sydney Tivoli, directed
Hetty King’s first London appearances as a
male impersonator. From him Charles
Austin. Billy Mcrson, Arthur Prince and
Harry Lauder also received their first pro-
fessional help in staging acts. When Lauder
first appeared at the Walthamstow Palace
Grant had a job there. Lauder’s season
ended with a week of five instead of six
nights. Said Lauder, in front of the whole
company, and as if to gain publicity for
his meanness, “Grant, as I have played only
five _ nights this week your fee will be 2s.
6d. instead of 3s.—here you are!” But next
morning Jack was instructed to accompany
his brother-in-law to a well-known hatter’s,
where two hats were waiting for them, paid
for by Lauder. He’s a queer mixture.
“Jacques” (Paris) : The management of
the Opera Comique has put aside its hack
repertoire for the summer tourists to stage
Debussy’s “Pelleas and Melisande.” Three
of the chief roles were given to their creators
at its first production 24 years ago. Time
has left Mary Garden still an ethereal, slen-
der and lithe Melisande. Even if her
voice is now colorless and rather tired,
it goes through the ecstatic and delicate pas-
sages with the sureness and artistry that this
great singer has at her command. Dufranne
remains a very energetic, full-voiced bully-
ing husband, and Yieulle a vigorous and
melodious patriarch. The excellent conduct-
ing was by Andre Messager, also of the
1902 production. The audience was com-
posed, in the best seats, of puzzled but
Politely applauding English and Americans,
and up above of a crowd of enthusiastic, per-
spiring natives.


Q
tv, *
UN
m
%
A
%
c
ft
C
*
mm
:
f®
mmmm
’ l •>■''■
SH';-, ■
■
sill a yif
m ■
3
*•'.**', &«*■>
A • ‘„'V . i
m
m
■
Mi
' • ]
■ ■>;:
WM
#««
• , ; >y ’;-V
■ •
A
m
"S*.
■
Hi
8®
*, Vi'
m i
mm
' V-
' ■
Sfc
~N
m
jmsfa
. •
,. m
m
J
V <' ' ‘“V
wwW
♦
• •
VJ
P
K J
in
________
at
in
Sail
*
a»
often uuondev u?hai tbe
[Vintners but)
One Half so precious
as the Goods
they
mtim fo s.te
Messrs, Thomas Hardy & Sons, Ltd., desire to convey their
Christmas and New Year Greetings to all “Bulletin” readers.


fir*
If
* iM
Li \
jir s^
Bowlers' —
Are biased in lavour of
this long-lasting creamy
lather. It makes their
shave a daily pleasure.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
65.1 179. J. KITCHEN ft SONS PTY* LTD.
w
VELVET
NO STICK
3S
am
U
— ■■■ - :
...Am.
mm
&*s>Braho
CopmFlcur
Legal Notice.
ABSTRACT OF CITATION.
TO SARAH MARY VIOLET AGER formerly of
Perth in the State of Western Australia and to
HARRY WORTHINGTON formerly of the same place
and to each of you.
TAKE NOTICE that Citations have been issued
in the Supreme Court of Western* Australia citing
you respectively to appear and answer the Petition
of Frank Thomas Ager of Mounts Bay Road in the
said State praying for a dissolution of marriage.
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court, and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereto AND TAKE
FLLRTHER NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within 45 days after the date of this publi-
cation to attend in person or by your Solicitor at
the Central Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
in the State of Western Australia and there to
enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
JOSEPH & MUIR, of 20 and 21 Weld Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
[To be advertised once in the Australasian, a
newspaper published in Melbourne, and in The
Bulletin, a newspaper published at Sydney.]
Poverty
Point
THE 0.8. TO HIS Y.L.
U''or The Bulletin—in the Youth-and-Flapper
Morse of the Moment.]
Q.R.K., my dear Y.L. ?
0.8. has got a tale to tell.
I must c u, my dearest, pse;
1 send u heaps of 735;
But Q.R.A.? and Q.R.O. ?
My kisses Q.R.Q. must go!
Ah, no, I cannot say g n!
My.sigs \vl b much stronger when
We meet again—’twill be f b!
Tnx for the hope u give to me!
This weary waiting is too hard.
Pse Q.S.L. to-nite bi erd;
So c u 1! no Q.S.V.;
The dx is not too far for me!
Q.S.U.F., and I’ll reply,
“I love u; c u 1, Hit Hi!”
n.s.w. A. H. A.
“Curtain Raiser”: By 64 votes to 32 the
Melbourne Repertory people have agreed to
let the Taits build them a theatre with Gre-
glm McMahon as selector and producer. Many
members regret the loss of independence, and
believe that better terms could have been
obtained. But the finances of the society
showed that it had no option. On the first
five plays given this year it lost £260; a
further loss is expected from the sixth piece;
and the credit balance of £6OO with which
the year was started will look more like
£3OO when it closes.
“ Jeune Premier” : “ Retired Critic’s ”
special pleading (B. 9/12/’26) won’t wash.
It was J. C. Williamson, Ltd., that gave
Gladys Moncrieff her start, and probably
his brother directors had as much to do
with training the Queensland girl as Hugh
Ward. Certainly after Ward left the Wil-
liamsons he was no friend to local mummers.
He imported all his companies, both musical
and dramatic, from overseas, and, of course,
the plays.
“E.T.” : If the title of the late Rev. George
Walters’s “Joseph of Canaan” (B. 9/12/’26)
A FELLOW FEELING.
THE ACTOR: "When I'm on the stage I see only my part
my audience entirely disappears."
HIS VICTIM : “I don’t blame ’em."
had been altered there would have been no
objection by the Lord Chamberlain’s Depart-
ment to its performance in London. The
British censor never allows the name of
the Deity or any scriptural character to be
introduced in play titles, though they may
be used with impunity by novelists. I once
played in a drama by Robert Buchanan,
adapted from his novel “God and the Man,”
which had a certain vogue. The Censor
passed the play, but not the title. The piece
appeared as “Stormbeaten,” and very few
people knew it had any connection with
“God and the Man.”
“Hamlet, Junior” : In his gibe at Reper-
tory players “Yarra Ben” (B. 2/12/’26)
himself needs prompting. Amateurs do not
always take six weeks to prepare a piece,
as witness the Adelaide Repertory Theatre’s
recent production of the locally-written
“Marty,” which went on after three weeks’
rehearsal by a cast composed entirely of
players who lead active business lives. A
one-time pro. was the only member who
needed the prompter. By the w’ay, the writ-
ing of the play occupied its author, Alex.
Symons, only one week-end, which must be
something like a record for a play of the
calibre of “Marty.”
“Caul Boy”: Permanent grand opera for
Melbourne is the project of George English,
conductor of the Vic. Postal Institute choir,
who recently produced Gounod’s “Faust” at
the Playhouse. He suggests a league which
will give four operas a year, all in English
and one of them British. He wants 500
subscribers at two guineas a year. If the
Government or the City Council or a few
philanthropists provided a subsidy, local
talent would not have to flee abroad to be-
come famous, and music-lovers would not
have to wait for their return to hear them.
Victoria has produced far more notable
singers than she deserves considering how
she treats them.
“R.K.D.N.”: A member of the Melbourne
Repertory Society, opposing the notion to
accept the Taits’ offer to take over the
moribund concern, objected that “the players,
having become associated with a commercial
organisation, would be made to work hard.”
The amateur enthusiasts in the repertory
cause won’t thank their colleague for giving
the show away like that.
“Caul Boy”: Jobs with American film
exchanges threaten to become more popular
with politicians than elevation to a board or
a commission. Following ex-Senator Wilson’s
example, R. T. Burchell has joined the Aus-
tralian executive of the Metro-Goldwyn Co.
in Sydney. Burchell wielded the Ministerial
whip in the House of Reps, once upon a time.
“Bisley”: Sydney needs more picture-
theatres after the style of the Prince Edward,
where films are screened so as to give the
maximum of enjoyable entertainment. Special
productions lose their significance when
shown in the poky little theatres that are
to be found in the city: many of the sub-
urban theatres are far better. A big pro-
duction such as “The Volga Boatman,” De
Mille’s latest masterpiece, has to wait its
turn for a decent city theatre that will do
it justice. First National have a number
of these big productions waiting.
“Crojack”: Why aren’t movie pictures
made to immortalise the stories of the Aus-
tralian explorers? An Ameri-
can said he had asked the
same question on arriving here,
and had been told that there
was not enough dramatic thrill
in them. But look at the
records. When Sturt was in
the desert where it was so hot
the party had to dig under-
ground quarters, there was
enough of the death gamble
in the situation to please any
picture producer. Even more
dramatic was Stuart’s trip in
drays to the Murray, where he
took to his boats to find the
river’s ocean exit, with hostile
blacks to fight nearly all the
way. And his terrible return
trip upstream, again fighting
almost daily—who wants
better drama?
“Bisley”: Spring has come
and gone this year, yet few
touring theatrical managers in
N.S.W. have had the courage
to face the country with
drought hanging over it. Some
of the well-established ones
are out, however. Sorley is in
Newcastle; Coles is playing to
big houses in country centres
not affected by the drought;
and D. B. O’Connor is in the
west. It will be too late now
to go on a tour in the best
of the wheatbelt, for
even Melba, “Rose Marie” or
Jim Gerald could' not drag
friend Cocky from his harvest-
ing.
“Lud” : Gregory Stroud, the likeable bari-
tone who played many parts in Australia
with Hugh D. Mclntosh’s musicomedy cos.,
has secured a steady job in England. After
seasons at the Gaiety and Daly’s, he has
joined D’Oyly Carte’s Gilbert and Sullivan
repertory, which just now is revisiting Lon-
don.
"Lud”: After all, Hollywood seems to be
rather a wowserish colony. Here’s Charlie
Chaplin, a man passionately fond of music
(vide his press-agent), rowing with his wife
because the poor child (she is only 18 and
a bit) brings a jazz-band into the family
mansion at 2 a.m.! Of course, Mrs. Charlie
packed up and packed off. ‘She has enlisted
the sympathy of, amongst others, Harry Day,
an English politician, who has offered her
a six months’ contract to appear in a Lon-
don revue at £5OO per week. Day, as well
as being M.P. for Southwark, is a well-
known vaudeville manager. With £5OO
u r eekly and jazz music all the time, Mrs.
Chaplin should contrive to be happy though
married.
“R.K.D.N.”: Yes, “Rose Marie” is what
pros, term a “cast-iron” piece, all right. It
has made fortunes wherever produced. Hugh
Ward must have thought he had found a
world-beater when
he acquired “ No,
No, Nanette” over
the heads of the
Williamson - Taits.
He would have
done it, too, had
there not been a
“ Rose Marie ” in
the field. Both
pieces started in
London at the same
time; but“ Nanette”
cried a go three
months back, and
“Marie” still packs
the Drury - lane
house. What is the
secret of its over-
whelming success V
Th e totem-dance,
probably. Certainly
that is the costliest
item in the produc-
tion principals'
salaries included.
“Wigs”: Eardley
Turner, as busy a
worker with his pen
as with the grease-
paint, is among the
first mummers in
Australia to broad-
cast plays. He has
for the past two
months been one of
the star turns of
the 3LO co. in Mel-
bourne, playing,
with his daughter,
a series of 12 humorous one-acters, all writ-
ten by himself.
“Smada”: These picture-producers are
more interested in the mere mechanism of
their plays than in the art of them—if they
have any art. “Beau Geste” is a fine play
with a heroic motif; but what the producer
takes chief pride in is his faking. In the
printed programme of the play the write-
up woman carefully explains that the scene
of the play, supposed to be in North Africa,
was set in the Arizona desert —which imme-
diately destroys the illusion. The gallant
Arabs of the picture were cowboys! And
with what pride does the director announce
that 10,000 dahlars’ worth of meat and
25,000 dahlars’ worth of groceries were
transported and eaten by the cowboy-Arabs!
And most of the cowboys, we are proudly
told, could play the ukulele.
“Third Citizen”: Passing His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, the other day, I noticed that the
old verandah had been pulled down to allow
for the erection of a modern cantilever awn-
ing; and there, in raised cement letters over
the main doorway, was disclosed the old
familiar name, “Alexandra Theatre.” Struc-
turally, it remains as when it was built by
Joubert in 1886. It was opened with a
feeble farce-comedy, “Bad Lads.” I remem-
ber only the late Oily Deering and our still
lively friend Bob Inman as being in the
cast. Some gory thrillers were staged in the
old “Alec.” Dampier reigned over it for long
seasons, and first put up “Robbery Under
Arms” there, with Jimmy Atholwood as
Warrigal. There, too, Dan Barry staged “The
Kelly Gang.” Bill Cosgrove first re-
christened it His Majesty’s; but he soon
faded out. In those days, subsidised by near-
by publicans, you could have leased the
“Alec” for a song. It was offered to me. for
£6 a week. Now Phew!
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Dinh Gilly, the Arme-
nian operatic star, who has long been
familiar at Covent Garden and the N’York
Metropolitan Opera, has paid an unusual
compliment to John Brownlee by advertising
in the London newspapers that he is remain-
ing in Paris to coach the Australian singer
for his season at the Paris Grand Opera.
Last year he opened a school of singing in
the West End with Margaret Bruce, the Aus-
tralian vocalist, but it died young.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Louise Jordan Miln,
whom Australia knew only as an actress and
who was in a measure responsible for the
ultimate failure of George Miln’s Austra-
lian season, continues to prosper as a writer.
Her latest popular story is “It Happened in
Peking.”
“F.Y.”: Britain’s Hollywood is going up
at Elstree, 12 miles out of London. Los
Angeles has lost the advantage its sunshine
gave in earlier days: all modern picture
effects are produced by interior, artificial
lighting; and the nearness to the distribut-
ing centre ought to give Elstree an advan-
tage. “Madame Pompadour” is the first
film to be made in the new location.
“G.P.L.Y.”; Modern song-writers are
reverting to old-time melodies to provide
them with airs for their compositions. A
topical song of two or three years ago, com-
plaining of the dearth of bananas, was a
variation of the “Hallelujah Chorus” and
“I Dreamt that I Dwelt in Marble Halls.” At
present “The Prisoner’s Song” is being sung,
whistled and barked by all and sundry. Any
TIME TO KNOCK OFF.
THE NEW PUPIL: “And how long should I practise each day,
Professor?”
THE PROFESSOR : “Well, when the bricks start coming on the roof
stop, Madame!"
old crustacean who has run his easting down
in an old windjammer, when he hears th>'
lament will at once recall the time when
the chief soloist in the fo’c’s’le-head carolled
forth the old sea ditty, of which a verse and
chorus went:—
Then up spake the capt’in of our gallant ship,
And a jolly old capt.’in was he,
Sayin’ “I don’t care a damn for the kettle or the pan
If she sank to the bottom of the sea 1”
Then the stormy winds will blow-ow-ow,
And the ragin’ seas will roll,
While us jolly sailor boys are layin’ up aloft,
And the land-lubbers layin’ down below—below—
below,
And the land-lubbers layin’ down below!
“Dud” : On account of his record-breaking
comedy. “The Farmer’s Wife” (still running
at London Court, where it was produced two
years and eight months ago), Eden Phillpotts
in his old age finds himself much sought
after as a dramatist. A new play of his,
“Yellow Sands,” has gone up at the Hay-
market, London’s premier comedy house,
and another, “Devonshire Cream,” is in read-
iness at the Court whenever “The Farmer’s
Wife” shall quit.
“The Listening-Insect”: The business of
delivering music by wireless to private resi-
dences has become so important that Mel-
bourne University is to conduct researches
into the matter. Melbourne station 31,0
will provide the funds, and the discoveries,
if any, will be made public. Unfortunately
the subsidy is small and the field of investiga-
tion narrow. Inquiries are to be made into
the phenomenon of fading, which breaks the
hearts of listeners in parts of Gippsland and
elsewhere every second evening.
“Hamfat”: The spinal marrow of Aus-
tralia is due to be thrilled in February next
when the Carrolls bring “The Ghost Train”
to these shores—it will be good news to
Australian mummers that there will be
engagements for them with the co. The play
shows the tendency of the stage to get back
to thrills, the thrills in this case being sur-
rounded by a good deal of whimsicality.
Staged at the Prince of W T ales’s in London,
“The Ghost Train” has already established
a record run for that theatre, and seems
likely to do equally well in America.
The commercial side of this office lifts
its nose from its interminable account-books
long enough to report that from the point
of view of distribution (and it hasn’t got a
soul above that) this Christmas Bulletin
is already one of the most successful num-
bers ever issued, and promises to be easily
the most successful when final figures are
in. Of 12,000 additional copies printed to
fill late and repeat orders, there were only
3000 left at noon on Tuesday.


If you are giving
presents this Xmas-
send the
cigarettes
your friend
is certain
to like-
SWE^XPRESS
Now available in Cabinets and
Caskets at prices to suit all
pockets* Ask to see them*
Ay. *
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON.


HI
CtL
St
D
q
M,
•7TV
E
S2
it
o
o
/V**
I
r
a*
i\-;
/
<t'i,
Service of the
MODERN ICE MAN
Burning hot days when the westerly winds scorch
your very skin and dry your throat —days when you
feel hot, tired, disinclined for food and uninterested
in anything—those are the days when the real
worth and service of Frigidaire become evident.
Tempting cold meats, crisp salads, iced drinks, delicious cold desserts,
kept hygienically pure, wholesome and sweet with Frigidaire, are in
delightful contrast to such days.
Frigidaire is much colder than ice and maintains an even, dry tempera-
ture which keeps food in perfect condition for an indefinite period.
Furthermore, it is entirely automatic and makes its fortunate owner
independent of ice supplies, season or weather.
The system is invariably much cheaper than ice, but even if it cost
twice as much to run, the service rendered would certainly be worth
the difference.
To-day there are over 200,000 satisfied users of Frigidaire—surely
that is sufficient proof of the reliability and economy of this electric
refrigerator.
WHY NOT HAVE FRIGIDAIRE INSTALLED ?
Write for full particulars as contained in Booklet B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-11 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., Bourkc Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, QTd.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
W. J. AIREY & CO., Perth, W.A.
W. F. and E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tas,
This modem ‘*lce
Man” calls once....
with Frigidaire....
the ice stays always!
ELECTRICS REFKIGERATI
iiiiniiuiiiiiiimiiiii
iiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii
iiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiini
W
ft.
o
z:m


PLUM
Mr
%
\
an
__
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
THE
HOUSE
OF
Jnoßaker
STEEL,
AteV
FOUNDED
a.d. 1888.
(•xyp*^
w^AUsißf^
iSiXIULD
m
150 — Station or Farmer’s Knife. The
standard favorite of the Australian Hush. tin.
Stag Haft, 13/0; 3|in., 12/0 each.
185 — Improved 5-blade Pocket Knife.
Fine Quality and Finish, 3 tin. Stag Haft.
17/0; 4in., 19/0 each.
m
184 — Baker 0-blade Pocket Knife.
Fine Finish and Quality, 3iin. Stag Haft,
19/0; 4in., 22/0 each.
321 — Fleam Sports Knife. Fine Finish
Stag Haft. Contains 2 Blades, Saw, Fleam,
Rhymer, Gimlet, Corkscrew, Hoof Pick and Nut
Crack, combined Picker and Tweezer, Screw-
driver and Shackle, 34in. Haft, 22/0; 4in.
Haft, 25/-; 4Jin. Haft, 29/0 each.
531 -Strong Grip Stag Haft Skinning
Castrating Blade. 3sin. Haft, 7/0 each.
With Picker and Tweezer, 9/-
Your Name Engraved, 1/-
Any of the Above Post Free for Cash with Order.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Fortunes in Tobacco
810 MONEY is being invested in land in
Southern Rhodesia (Africa’s California).
You should follow.
Meikles (Gwelo) Ltd., Southern Rhodesia,
South Africa, will send details of Land for
Sale at from 10/- to 20/- per acre, suitable
for Cattle, Tobacco, Cotton, Maize and other
crops.
Fortunes made in tobacco this year.
Write now whilst values are low.
‘V
tr-iJfj
s'*'
■ a r
a .
-
v;-r'
3K
m
BENGER’S Food is
entirely delicious,
and always enjoyable.
Delicate and aged
persons find in it the
one Food which never
disagrees.
You prepare Benger’s
Food with fresh new
milk, with which it
forms a dainty cream
of delightful biscuit
flavour.
Benger's Food contains
in a most easily digested
form almost ready for
absorption —all the essen-
tial food elements to
sustain life in health and
vigour.
Prescribed by Doctors
for over 40 years.
For
the
Aged
bnmb
Food
Infants,
INVALIDS and the AGED.
Send for Booklet to-day.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., 117, Pitt Street, - SYDNEY.
Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng.
I! I *
•V ""'
• /.;T\N
ab
t <>d d
k \ s
*C©
l .•*
*s/
P re *N*
•0 Do
* C!
AN
-
4&sfik
: '7
i
< V•?
‘‘nVvn-vC -^ ! S
a»sfc>>
“** .■**. i\ v '
IT
Use "SWAN” ink
nbvnm
iHL.
SOME people put off buying
Christmas presents, hoping for
an inspiration. This is needless
procrastination, for a “SWAN*
Pen will always find a welcome.
There is no doubt that a
“ SW AN ” Pen solves the Christmas
problem. Its beauty and usefulness
appeal to all tastes. It is a gift which
can be formal or intimate as the
occasion demands — never over-
stepping the mark or failing short
of it. There are many styles and
designs from which to choose at
prices from 17/6 upwards.
• 'Swan" Self -filling Fountpens 1716 upwards
"Swan" and “Blackbird” Pens and “Swan” Ink
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Head Office MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London. W.I.
Factory: Swan Works. London, N.W.
Manufacturers’ Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
Broughton House, 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


Nicotine-proof pipes, Guaranteed.
The sweetest on earth. In Prime Briars,
6/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free. Smokers
delighted; write now for copy testimonials.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, 330
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Amusements.
YDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: IS ZAT SO?
PALACE: REJUVENATION.
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction... .Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
THEATRE ROYAL:
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES: BETTY LEE.
FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
1 “ Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
.1 C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DEMPSEY-TUNNEY FIGHT.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE NAUGHTY WIFE.
ATHE N M U M THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People” Co.
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Master Pictures
Present
HELEN COSTELLO and KENNETH HARLAN
in
THE RANGER OF THE BIG PINES.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7700.
IMEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
1 ' Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3261.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* 1 MELBOURNE.
JACK HOLT in
BORN TO THE WEST.
ALSO
POLA NEGRI and TIM MOORE in
GOOD AND NAUGHTY.
Prices as usual.
Public Notices.
Notice.
RETURNS OF INSURANCE PREMIUMS REQUIRED
FROM PERSONS, ETC., INSURING WITH
ANY INSURANCE COMPANY NOT REGISTERED
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
All persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods or
property within the Sydney Fire District and every
other Fire District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910 have been
applied, in respect of which premiums are paid to
an insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to send to
the Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such premiums
paid by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year 1926.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1927; subject to
a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
NOTE: Returns are required only of the proportion
of the premiums properly chargeable in respect of
the Fire Risk during the time such property was
in any Fire District under the said Acts.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales.
11. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
December 1, 1926.
Notice.
RETURN OF INSURANCE PREMIUMS REQUIRED
FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
All insurance companies, as defined by the above
Acts, are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of New
South Wales returns showing the total amount of
the premiums received by or due to such companies
in respect of risks against fire during the year
ending 31st December, 1926, within the Sydney
Fire District and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire Bri-
gades Act 1909 and the Fire Brigades Amend-
ment Act 1910 apply; less any part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under the
said Acts.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1927 ; subject
to a penalty not exceeding Five Pounds for everv
day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required returns
may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
December 1, 1926.
Missing Friends.
C WEN or HUGH MANSOnT or anyone
knowing his address, please communicate
with J. Harvey Hill, Solicitor, Lake Cargel-
ligo, immediately.
M OEL MACDONALD. Christmas greet-
-1 ’ ings. If in N.S.W., will you come to us
for Christmas’ Mrs. H. M. Regan, Tam-
worth.
a.
AMO
TVriting tenth stylut
on soft itonc cf
haute tuollt
»9ttt
In those days when writing was
laboriously done with a bone or bronze
stylus and on house walls instead of
paper, a gift of writing implements
might well have been a questionable
courtesy. It might have been considered
a sentence to hard laborl
How delightful, by contrast, is a
present of a gift-box containing an
Evers harp and IVihl Pen ! They have
the beauty of fine jewellery and writ-
ing qualities which make their use a
pleasure. And theyTl last as long as
the ancient stylus.
diiiiiiiniiimiiiiiin>nminiimmi»nmmniiii
#////////////////;iiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiniiiiiinniumumu\\\\wv
m
m i
M
Sole Wholesale Distributors fof
Australia:
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd.,
Rem ington House. Liverpool Street, Sydney,
THE WAHL COMPANY, NEW YORK, N. Y., U. S. A.
Holds More Ink
mote
**[P©m
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place
THOMAS PE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Luxury (jift
Price:
Half -a-Guinea
E__Cb
>?>
mmm
SS
2>»
/Z" is the price complete of a
1010 Sp ar kl e t C-Syphon (quart
size) which provides an ever-ready
supply of crisp, cooling soda water
at a nominal cost.
JPOR mixing with alcohol, fruit
cordials or milk there is nothing
better, nothing cheaper.
Sams * SNOHdAS
** <*» -■
#]T Demonstrations now proceeding
jU at all leading Stores everywhere.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice {except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Aviator: Can’t give you a f1y....J.R.
(M.L.) : Sorry; too weak.... J.T.T.: None of that
doggerel will appear in this journal weekly—or even
yearly 8.5. M.: Try the Sunday at Home
5.0. L.: Well, the flowers ought to grow on her
grave. You've shed tears enough there to break
any drought.... Bellerive: The ideal contributor —
always so seasonable:—
THE POULTRY YARD.
There was a poultry yard next door to us,
And on a summer day
'Twas cackle! cackle! cackle! when
The noisy hens did lay.
They’d picketh, scratch and chuckle
Tili the sun did sinketh low,
At night and early morning
The roosters quaint would crow.
Strutting members of the clan
About our yard would prowl,
Which often caused me trouble—
I’d dogs-., a-fond of fowl.
’Twas cackle! cackle! cackle! when
The noisy hens did lay—
And drifting clouds of feathers.
On ghastly Slaughter Day.
... .N.C.: Afraid you are not yet up to an Essay
in English.... Billy S.: “Tea” takes too long to
come to the b0i1... .Henmont: Depends on the class
it’s in. If it is a matter of current interest, a fort-
night; if any other, a month.... Dogberry: Nothing
new in it A.S.V.: Thanks; glad to hear from
you... ,D. Bol: “Magnifico” hovered on the edge
and then fell out. He isn’t quite convincing....
0.W.: Give “Passchendaele” another lick.... The
Cod: Well, what do you propose to do for the N.T.
half-caste? There isn’t much in throwing bricks at
even a poor scheme unless you can suggest a better.
... .France M.: Wanders rather too much. Stick
to the main point—the need for improving the
farmer’s help... .W.E.8.: Not even Lena’s legs will
carry it into print... .F.R.N.: Your potted tragedies
will not be on the menu.... Omega: Light weight.
... .M.M.: A moderate-to-poor lot; “Dairy Idyll” got
nearest. .. .S.M.L.: So the whole trouble was that
two owls were blown in by the storm. An ’owling
gale, evidently... ..Miss S. (Brisbane): Your Nat
Goulden story lost whatever chance it had by run-
ning its race in England... .R.W.W. Some dim idea
in “Twilight”; try again... .C.W.W.: Worse than
a S. M. Herald “In Memoriam”... .T.J.T.: Little tale
dawdles dreadfully, and that heavy humor is only
lumber F.A.S. : The drunk verse, just missing the
door, fell downstairs... .T. 5.8.: Surely you did not
take that irony Seriously Gunner G.: The imagery
is overloaded Enid 0.: Both begin well, then
crash... .E.J.E.: Don’t wonder at the surprise of
the wind and gums. Your tears do seem unnecessary.
. ...Koonik: It’s a queer idea that the horse is
badly used because it doesn’t any longer have to
draw the plough... .M.L.S.: Too slight... .E.S.H.:
Overlong; and the reticence of Sloan is unconvinc-
ing... .W.H.R.: Last verse fails to supply the neces-
sary snap Patroclus: We hope they will take
it to heart:—
Now tell us all about the matches,
And why the team returned in batches;
’Tis said they did not well agree,
The truth of which we’ll shortly see.
’Tis strange but true that cricket lovers
Agree not better than all others;
These grown-up sports have much to learn
In ways that are both sure and stern,
And well may copy college boys,
Who give and take in all their ploys.
They show fine spirit in their play,
Their bearing bright, their manner gay;
They know well how to give and take
And play the game for its own sake.
So let us hope th’ Australian team
In future will try to redeem
Their failures of this present year—
Though why they failed is not quite clear!
. ...G.A.P.; “Tank Stream” dry.... Roy: The humor
drags... .S.R.V.: If we turned that loose it would
be taken into custody for wandering... .R.D.: You
turned “thrilled” into “thirled” to get a rhyme for
“world.” That’s only one of several blemishes, and
yet some of it is distinctly g00d.... Go-getter: Too
slight for The B.; try it elsewhere... .Mac: Merely
an inventory... .C.P.: One line, “Avalanche of
sound,” describes it:—
Oh, poet, at such dangers blanch,
Beware that awful avalanche !
....Pat: You can’t shy your brick through these
columns.... Allan: The first verses were passable ;
but after you started riding in motor-cars the road
got very rocky... .W.H.D.: Conclusion so lame that
the yarn is left without a leg to stand 0n....J.K.:
Gay dog !... .C.G.S.: “Hum” and “sun” have never
yet rhymed in The Bulletin Sydney N.: Manu-
script will do, but you haven’t the right goods. The
writer whose every line shouts “Watch me being
funny!” has no chance.... Loti M.: Condemned by
their own heavy sentences.... J.D.K.Z.: Y ?....
Arnold L.: But why do you handicap it with
such phrases as “primrose way” and “magic case-
ments”?. .. .E.J.M.: Probably acceptable to a sport-
ing paper. Too pink for us... .R.H.A.: Name and
address, please... .Ripponlea: Ah, so timely too:
Th’ son at a meal ’oft stretched o’er th’ table to
Pick a good peach as well was he able to.
His father with a knife-handle smartly rapped
And called him an epithet remarkably apt.
“Put down that fruit this very minute!
Before you eat it you must cut it and skin it.
Mine very soul gives a hideous screech,
Should I see a person bite into a peach.”
But he sullenly sucked, this unfortunate boy did,
Else much sorrow’d of been avoided.
.... J.G.J.W.: Your ship was lost in “The Storm.”
....Daphne G.: Sweet seventeen has usually not
much to say, but for a modest beginner you say
it gracefully. Try again, and strive after origi-
nality.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.S.: Jagged and distressful scratches... .R.M.:
One of this week’s wallflowers.... C.W.T.: Outlines
so stiff it’s a wonder the lady can bend- ...R.N.:
No nesting-place here.... F.M.: You only present
half of the man in the chair, but that’s probably
because you’re only half an artist yet... .R.W.:
Sorry, but your version of Don Alfonso won’t adorn
Sundry 5h0w5....A.K.0.: Beach siren with the mis-
placed bosom has got her bathing-wrap tangled
with the clouds... .E.M.S.: Semi-nude prize-winner
has a goitre, a withered left forearm and knock-
knees. .. .8.A.: No wish to be introduced to Rita
and Anne E.H.: One of a long queue that has
visited u 5.... R. W. 8.; Senile joke, unattractive draw-
ing. .. .M.U.M.: Publication of that would be suicide
. ...D.L.M.: The paper that issued that poster has
a queer notion of news values... .M.W.: Finish
your tuition first. .. .J.F.: One an old pun, the other
nauseous... .C.R.: Give them a flutter elsewhere....
J.K.: Decorative daubs and risque humor.


mm
mmmm
wmmm
i $ mm
WMmk
wmm
'wmm,
MM
a JSJAJUL?
m
mmm
m
■:■■■:
am
m
:88
I
■m
fm
wra
8 m
'M
J-.J
&*"S
mm
m
Sii*
“Meet me
al Murdoch's”
Murdoch Sports
Wear of Distinction
LOTHES of the better kind—comfortable, smart and
pleasingly appropriate—are needful to complete the
holiday enjoyment. Appended here are a few
helpful suggestions, and we add to it the pleasant
reminder that you are buying from Murdoch s, the Manufac-
turer —thus saving all costly intermediate profits.
Cream Trouser Special for Men.
A value not equalled in Australia—nor ever approached. This Cream
Twill Gabardine is specially woven by English
Mills for Murdoch’s. Possesses remarkable
service qualities—launders perfectly. Dis-
tinctively cut on athletic lines. Side and lnp
pockets, side straps, belt loops, cuff bottoms.
All sizes. Ready for instant service
13111
In high-grade Cream Woollen Gabardine
Sports Shirts.
White Twill Mercerised Sports Shirts for Men —made from finest
Australian-grown Cotton, lustrous finish, sturdiest of
wearers. New style collar as illustration. Breast
pocket, button wristbands. All sizes
5/11
In Murdoch’s Cream “Fugiluxe” (Reg’d), a silk-like material .
In genuine Cream Fugi Silk. Special value
Blazers.
12/6
15/6
Cut from fine, soft quality All-Wool Australian Navy
Flannel. Edges, pockets and cuffs trimmed with contrasting
colored braid; three patch pockets
30/-
Sports Suits»
In fancy pattern Pure Wool Tweeds of excellent quality.
Coat has four patch pockets, half-belt at back, no vent.
Coat and trousers. Ready to put on
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When ordering by Mail, kindly statesize
andj address your letter to DESK R.
63/-
MURDOCH’S
In Park ST L~ Sydneys
f WeW&rlds LargestMerisi Bops' Wear Store
Electric Light and Power
for Country Homes,
Stores and Hotels.
KOHLER
Automatic Plants
110 VOLTS.
J
n- ■;
1
I
The man in the country who has tired of the old conditions
experienced with low voltage Electric Plants and costly storage-
battery replacements, and who is contemplating bringing his living
conditions as near as possible up to city standard, cannot pass over
the Kohler Plant without giving it his most serious consideration.
The installation of a Kohler Plant makes available to the
countryman every facility to participate in the growing use of all
those electrical appliances which make like easier to mankind.
NO STORAGE BATTERIES REQUIRED.
The Kohler unit starts automatically at the operation of any
switch, in any room, and works only while energy is required.
Steady, flickerless 1 10-volt current is supplied direct from
the generator, without the use of storage batteries.
In cases where a client has an extremely light load over long
periods, a larger starting battery can be supplied to enable an
auxiliary lighting system to be operated.
Send
for
Free
Booklet
9'
s\ ,
m
0 *
1/
Send
for
Free
Booklet
AGENTS:
N. S. Wales: C. A. Banks & Co., 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria & Riverina: G. Murray, 33 William St., Melbourne.
Q’land: Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., 142 Albert St., Brisbane.
Tas.: Lawrence & Hanson Electrical Co., 120 Collins St., Hobart.
Western Australia: Atkins, Limited, 894 Hay St., Perth.


>1
W /JT T.*u^.'<« | sa«*,.Si>4i.' > * v>
Ideal Huts for
/) Shearers cx
By building accommodation quarters for
your Rural Workers completely with
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets, you
will ensure maximum durability and fire
safety at the minimum of cost.
“ FIBROLITE ” is a fire retardant, white anj
proof, vermin proof and permanently durable buil-
ding material for exterior and interior walls and
ceilings. Supplied in big sturdy building sheets
in 36 handy stock sizes, it is easily and quickly
erected. Waste is eliminated. Labour costs are
reduced to bedrock. No painting is required.
And, “FIBROLITE" costs less than weather-
boards and lining boards.
Write for Free Catalogue “ B ”
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd.
\
Cnr. Yqrk & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
/
FIBROUTE
ASBESTOS - CEMENT SHEETS
Who’s That Knocking ?
A Cheery visitor. He speeds the
Old Year and ushers in the New with
merry festivity.
>Ve offer everyone our best wishes for a joyful festive
season and happy, prosperous days during 1927.
Winchcombe, Carson,
LTD.
Sydney and Brisbane.
Needed ForTfiafTrip!|
These One or all of these Marble
Ingenuities will help a lot
t* OUr to make most any outing
trip more fun. Each is a real
wonder for the price.
Madetogive |
service—not to '
sell cheap —
yet they
vnmm
bnmmn
May
Save
Your Life
—this Compass.
Fastens to coat
can’t lose it and\
it won’t err. The
Knife is a dandy—
keen, sturdy, handy
shape—great for dressing
game and camp use.
Great Axe, That!
—Marble’s Famous Safety Pocket
Axe. Guard folds intohandle. 5 sizes,
each handy, practical,staunch, crusty
vnbvn
MARBLE'S
fiAME-fIETTER HUN
is the only all-’round arm of deadly pre-
cision and great killing powers Two
guns in one—upper (rifled) barrel for
.22, lowerfor.44 round ball orshot. 3
lengths. Folding stock. Shoulder hol-
ster free. Praised by guides and trap-
pers. WillsuityoutoaT. Sowillother
60 Marble Specialties-Shown in Catalog
Write for it. Sent postpaid.
Representative:
David Molden, Box 1349, Sydney
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U. S. A.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed . think of
Office*:
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cnlwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
cvnvn
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
1
m
t(C De
—of course *
You too may
join "The Few”
To many a man the smoking of De Reszkes
has been hitherto an almost guilty indulgence of
good taste. One really couldn’t afford it—but
one did! Now here’s an end of that with
De Reszke Virginias—t he famous “ Cigarette for
the Few” at everybody’s price. Get one of the
white - and - green - and - gold packets to-day, before
your tobacconist says “Sold out!”
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class; otherwise
the “goodwill” value of the name—at present beyond
compute -would be endangered. That is your
guarantee that the new De Reszke Virginias will
always preserve their present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced "DE RES-KEY’9
Virginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20‘s, 50’s and 100’s
MILLHOFF & CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sierra”: A vessel of more interest to
Australians than the Yankee hulk Inca was
also employed in the filming of “His Natu-
ral Life.” This is the 66-ton schooner Shan-
non, built of good Australian material on
Brisbane Water 46 years ago. She was the
last schooner to ply on the N.S.W. coast,
and, though she now lies among the pathetic
have-beens in Berry’s Bay, looks staunch
enough for another 40 years’ service.
The Postal Department is appealing to the
public to make its Christmas postings early.
So that gifts may be posted early and yet
remain unopened until Christmas Day, the
department is permitting any package other
than a newspaper to be endorsed with
the words “Not to be opened until Christmas
Bay,” or other words to that effect. The
staff is required to deal with an enormous
quantity of Christmas packets, and if the
postings are not made until a day or two
before Christmas Day, it is an impossibility
to effect delivery before the holidays.
* * * *
“Ginger”: An old squatter, notorious for
his meanness, who often travelled on the
Deniliquin line to Melbourne, never forgot one
trip. He had a heap of luggage, and pro-
mised the porter a tip to “fix it up.” The
train started Off, and as the carriage passed
the porter the squatter gave him 3d. The
disgusted porter told a mate, who rang up
Ecliuca and informed the stall' there. The
Echuca staff turned up and charged excess
on all the genuine luggage; then, finding
a ham and other goods not permissible as
passenger’s luggage, waybilled these at full
parcels’ rates. The 3d. tip cost the squatter
nearly £2 when he got to Melbourne, and
spoiled his holiday completely.
# * * * #
“Thurifer”: Reported from W.A. that the
sandalwood trade is reviving. Practically
the world’s sole buyer is the Chinaman, who
uses a portion of the wood for joinery, but
employs much the greater part of it, after
it has been converted into “sawdust,” for
making joss-sticks to burn before the gods
in the temple and the home. The recent
turmoil in China, which has seriously injured
most other trading commodities outside muni-
tions of war, has evidently boosted sandal-
wood sky high. The Chinese, when in
trouble, pay special homage to their gods,
and consequently a bull-market is evident in
joss-sticks. It would seem a far cry from
the Soviet plotter in Moscow to the lonely
sandalwood-cutter of W.A. and North Queens-
land, but the activities of the one have
poured increased profits into the pockets of
the other.
* * * *
“Retsam”: There may be something in
what “J.D.C.” states (B. 2/12/’26) re
country-killed meat, but it is not such plain
sailing as he thinks. The first drought
knocks the bottom out of the local (country)
markets; stock routes are eaten out and
the railways run to Sydney. If all the meat
for Sydney is to be killed in the bush, the
producer will be hit by the same lack of
competition which exists to-day at Fleming-
SLIM : “Bai Jove, old man, I just saw a
chap down the street who teas the
living image of you! He’s your double
all right.”
SHORT : “You didn’t happen to make a mis-
take and give him that couple of quid
you owe me, did you?”
ton ; the meatworks, as in Queensland, will
simply state what they will give per 1001 b.
delivered at the works. The saving in car-
riage of live-stock would be offset by freights
on by-products being transported to the
seaboard and supplies incidental to the
running of abattoirs being sent to the coun-
try centres. What would “J.D.C.” propose
to do with the waste effluent which has
caused trouble at Homebush to the sewer?
There is no sewer in the bush and digesters
will not take the lot.
* * * *
Bris i At the first sale of Brisbane
town lots, held in Sydney on July 16, 1842,
Queen-street frontages on the block between
George and Albert streets brought what
were then regarded as boom prices. The
block (36 perches) at the corner of Queen
and George streets sold for £230. Then the
bottom dropped out of the boom; the pur-
chaser could not meet his bills; the block
reverted to the Crown, and at the next sale
(June, 1843) it was knocked down at the
upset price of £25. The block changed hands
several times after that, eventually coming into
the possession of the Bank of N. S. Wales.
Now the bank has torn down the old building
(a relic of early Colonial architecture) and
is clearing the site for something new which
is to cost £llO,OOO. Curiously enough, the
original early purchasers, who got the block
for £25 and failed to hold on to their bar-
gain, were surnamed Benjamin and Moses!


The New Method of Shaving
NO BRUSH, NO SOAP.
bvnvn
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years man has been
scrubbing his face with soaps full of soda, and has never reasoned
that under such treatment the skin must suffer? Nothing is more
ugly than a face that looks raw. Shaving soaps are always
the same old method of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered the natural method, where no
brush and soaps full of soda are needed. Shavex is a skin food.
One can shave in half the time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had, and shaving will become a
pleasure instead of a torture. Your skin will look and feel like
satin, and your face under this treatment will look twice as young.
No after lotions are required when using
' SHAVE-X
Large tube, 1/9; larger tube (double quantity), 2/6.
MR. LESLIE HENSON, the famous
actor, writes: —“I use ‘Shavex’ every time 1
shave, and think it is the quickest, cleanest
and most delightful preparation ever invented
for shaving. ”
At all chemists, or from sole Australian
Agents: SALMOKD & SPRAGGON (AUS-
TRALIA), LTD., (Dept. 4), Eagle & Globe
Buildings, 379 Kent Street. Sydney.
Zeekol Manufacturing Co.. London, England.
FREE SAMPLE on receipt of 3d. stamp.
G
Mill
c
c
y
y
*
D
y
y
y
j
j
D
Z>
D
C
D
G
O
iO
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6 d. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
® 3i4
BRUNETTE DOWNS
Subdivision of 6,784,000 Acres
on drought-free Barkly Tableland
The Grazier anxious for good pastoral land—the man
wanting a property for his son —has his opportunity in
the cutting up of Brunette Downs.
Such an opportunity to invest in a large pas-
toral proposition seldom knocks at a man’s
door more than once. No such opportunity
ha* occurred before for the public co become
shareholders in a pastoral proposition show-
ing such freedom from drought. Nowhere
in Australia can such conditions of lease be
obtained in the Pastoral Industry. The suc-
cessful applicant for a block of country pays
no deposit until January Ist, 1928. Up to
five years to stock; no limit to term to im-
prove. Carrying capacity, four acres to one
sheep. Sheep are not an experiment on the
Barkly Tableland, a neighboring Station car-
ried 30,000 sheep for twenty years. There is
no sounder sheep country in Australia. The
finest type of Merino wool can be grown
there. Timber for shade, fuel, and fencing.
Leases expire in 1965. Priority of right for
extension of leases. Fixed low Crown rentals
for full term of 39 years. No resumption.
Fresh lease issued to successful applicant by
Federal Government.
Sheep Country, 2/6 acre. Cattle Country, 1/- acre
with payment spread over 19 years.
Purchase price of Sheep Country, 2/6 per aere.
Purchase price of Cattle Country, 1/ per acre payable in 19 equal annual instalments.
Cost of block to purchaser, including purchase price, interest, survey fee, and rent, works out at an
average of only about l%d per acre over the full term of 39 years.
Water obtainable anywhere in ample supplies by sinking.
Average depth, about 250 feet.
The policy of the Federal Government has been to grant financial assistance, in approved cases, to
bona fide settlers, for well-sinlciog, advancing £l5OO for each successful bore put down, repayable over
10 years; the Government state it is confidentially anticipated that this policy will be continued.
£l5OO will be sufficient to sink, case, and equip with windmill and engine and erect a 250,000 gallon
tank.
Regular and ample rainfalls, averaging 1814 inches.
Transport difficulties are a myth, for produce from Brunette Downs can be landed in Brisbane at
same cost as from Longreach and Winton District, through the Port of Boorooloola.
Railway now under construction from Katherine to Daly Waters, which will bring the boundary of
the property within 120 miles of rail to Darwin.
No Federal Taxation for Primary Producer.
Federal Government are erecting oil storage tanks at Darwin to supply Northern Territory with
cheap fuel.
It is worthy of special notice that the Directorate has been selected to represent the different
branches, which will require special knowledge in such a large undertaking, one for Finance, one
for Law, a Senator, who has had a very wide pastoral experience, and two practical Pastoralists.
Land of equal quality for sheep raising purposes cannot be obtained in any part of Australia with
such easy conditions of lease, such security of tenure, and such regularity of rainfall.
No Government in Australia is holding out such inducements to Lessees, or showing their desire to
assist private enterprise, as the Federal Government of Australia in the Northern Territory.
A grass drought has never been known in this part of the Barkly Tableland and, although within
100 miles of this property a drought has been raging for the last twelve months, “Brunette” has
had 12 inches of rain throughout the year, i p to date.
It is not considered necessary to fence with dog-Proof netting—all open, undulating country. The
company are not wire-netting the 2000 miles which they are holding.
The Directors are so confident of water being obtainable anywhere at shallow depths that they will
undertake to cancel the contract relating to and refund the deposit paid on any of the 73 blocks in
which water in sufficient quantities cannot be obtained within 500 feet, if claimed* within 12 months
from date of acquiring the lease.
As shown in Schedule “A” of the Prospectus, it is not anticipated that if the present issue is fully
subscribed, any further calls will have to be made on the holders of “A” Ordinary Shares.
THE “A" ORDINARY SHARES.
The reason tnat more than 73 shares are offered to the Public is that the Promoters wish to avoid
the chance of the criticism that favoritism might be shown in allotting the blocks. They still run this
risk, if only 73 shares are applied for; but, feeling certain that more than 73 shares will be ap-
plied for, they asked the Government to assist by holding a ballot, making all chances equal. The
holder of "A” Ordinary Shares can convert to 1000 £1 shares after the ballot. The value placed
on the land is based on a minimum value for any block—some blocks are more valuable, and some
have improvements which are not charged for.
In the event of the present issue of shares being over-subscribed, a further issue of Ordinary £1
shares, now held in reserve, will be made, with the object of getting as many as possible interested
in this great National problem, though, in order that the Company may not be over-capitalised,
only so much will be called up on such shares as will be actually required for the development of
this big proposition.
By expressing their desire in this direction, the Directors feel that it will assist those who are sub-
scribing to the “A" Ordinary Shares, with a view of taking up and developing the blocks, for such
subscribers are the ones that the Directors wish to assist.
PROSPECTUS WITH MAPS, PHOTOS,
REPORTS, ETC., AVAILABLE ALL AGENTS
From Stock and Station Agents and Sharebrokers through-
out Australia or direct from the Company, Castlereagh
House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRUNETTE DOWNS GRAZING SUB-DIVISION LIMITED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
W. McRAE, Retired Bank Manager, Head Office,
Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
A. M. HEMSLEY, Solicitor (Allen, Allen, and
Hemsley), Sydney.
W. KINGSMILL, Senator, Federal Parliament
C. J, McCALLUM, Pastoral Inspector. Union
Trustee (late General Manager, Edmund
Jowett, Queensland Properties).
A. J. COTTONj Managing Partner, Brunette
Downs.
Legal Notices.
Eveline Agnes Starkey (Widow)
deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the 27th July
1926 and made in an Action in the Matter of the
Estate of Eveline Agnes Starkey (widow) deceased
(late of Tang Hall in the City of York who died
on the 3rd day of September 1925) Bush against
Brown 1926 S. No. 2387 Whereby the Following
Inquiries were directed viz. : —>
1. An inquiry who upon the death of the Intes-
tate Eveline Agnes Starkey became beneficially
entitled to any real estate of hers as to which she
died intestate and if more than one for what
estates or interests and whether any such per-
sons are since dead and if dead when they died
and who by devise descent or otherwise have be-
come entitled to the real estate to which such per-
sons so become entitled.
2. An inquiry who upon the death of the said Intestate
Eveline Agnes Starkey became beneficially entitled
to any personal estate of hers as to which she died
intestate and if more than one in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are since
dead and if dead when they died and who are their
legal personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiries
are on or before the sth March 1927 to send by
post prepaid to Herbert Leeds Swift of 5 Fenchurch
Street London England their full Christian and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order unless
the Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before Master H. W. Jelf at the Chambers
of the Judge Room No. 315 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London on Thursday the 17th March 1927 at
12 o’clock noon being the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his or her claim
the name and address of a person in England oi
Wales to whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
Dated this 26th October 1926.
HERBERT W. JELF, Master.
Cowling and Swift,
5 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C. 3.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
NOTE; The persons more particularly inquired after
are Lindesay Pace Henty or if dead his issue; the
issue (if any) of Richmond Sandys Henty who is
believed to have died in New South Wales in 1887
and the issue (if any) of Pereival Edward Henty
who is believed to have died at Heidelberg Vic-
toria in 1889. The said Lindsay Pace Henty Rich-
mond Sandys Henty and Pereival Edward Henty were
sons of Richmond Henty formerly of Portland Vic-
toria.
]N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
Ist Insolvency.
The Chief Justice Mr. Justice Macrossan.
Debtor’s Summons No. 6.
IN THE MATTER of “The Insolvency Act of 1874’’
AND IN THE MATTER of an application
by ROSENFELD & CO. (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED against Henry Potts (commonly
known as Henry Alben) of Beatrice Terrace
Ascot near Brisbane in the State of Queensland
Builder and Contractor.
TO HENRY POTTS (commonly known as HENRY
ALBEN) above mentioned.
TAKE NOTICE that a debtor’s summons has been
granted against you by this Court on the applica-
tion of Rosenfeld & Co. (Queensland) Limited a
Queensland company carrying on business at Moray
Street New Farm Brisbane as Timber Merchants and
the Court has ordered that delivery of a sealed
copy of the debtor’s summons to George Kenilworth
Seabrook Manager of the Queensland Deposit Bank
I.imited Brisbane aforesaid and the delivery of a
registered letter containing a sealed copy of the
said debtor’s summons addressed to you care of
the said George Kenilworth Seabrook the Queens-
land Deposit Bank Limited, Brisbane aforesaid and
that the publication of a notice of the summons in
the Queensland Government Gazette the Sydney-
Morning Herald and The Bulletin newspapers
shall be deemed to be service of the summons upon
you upon the expiration of EIGHT DAYS from the
doing of the last of the aforesaid acts AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to appear to the
said summons within thirty days of such service
and if you do not appear the Court may adjudge
you insolvent in your absence.
The Summons can be inspected by you on appli-
cation at this Court.
Dated this fourth day of December, 1926.
F. S. KENNEDY,
Acting Registrar.
Macnish & Macrossan, Solicitors,
London Bank Chambers, Queen and Creek Streets,
Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
IF DOUGLAS CARLISLE McALISTER, who was
1 last heard of as residing at Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, son of Mrs. Margaret Wylie McAlister, late
of Muswell Hill, London, England, will communicate
with Darbyshire and Gillett, Solicitors, 42 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, W.A., he may hear of something to
his advantage.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New. Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home, Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Death to
Flies and
Ants J;
§ll
m
cT ■
W Empty contents
ot tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
ucrCs
FLY & ANT,
XTERMINATOR
k
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
■OHO STRKtr, MttaOUHNt
Built with strong
Seams, two Breast
Pockets with flaps.
Patterns Plain Blue,
Blue with White or
Black stripe. Washes
well. State size.
P I K
BROTHERS LT
In £st#een St., Brisbane
W 0
The
“Stronghold”
Work Shirt
Our Biggest
Work Shiit
Value
10/6
Three for 30/
M ail to Desk “SB"
bnmbm
Legal Notices.
|'o GEORGE PARFITT late of Kingswood formerly
of Barmera in the State of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date the
19th day of November 1926 has issued out of the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the petition of William Stephen
Rodda of 64 Alexander Avenue Rose Park in the said
State Motor Driver praying for a dissolution of his
marriage with his wife Eva Ann Rodda. In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereto. Therefore take notice that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within 20 days from
the date of this advertisement to attend in person
or by your solicitor at the Master’s Office of our
said Court and there to enter an appearance in
manner provided for that purpose.
F. B. McBRYDE.
Deputy Master.
William Alexander Rollison Scottish House King
William Street Adelaide Solicitor for the Petitioner.
’J’O EVA ANN RODDA late of Barmera in the state
of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date the
19th day of November 1926 was issued out of the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the petition of William Stephen
Rodda of 64 Alexander Avenue Rose Park in the
said State Motor Driver praying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you. In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said peti-
tion proved and pronounce sentence in respect thereto.
Therefore take notice that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within 20 days from the date of this
advertisement to attend in person or by your solicitor
at the Master’s Office of our said Court and there to
enter an appearance in manner provided for that
purpose.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
William Alexander Rollison of Scottish House King
William Street Adelaide Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO PETER BROWN, formely of Dunedin,
* New Zealand, but late of Hay, in Austra-
lia, son of Robert Brown, deceased, and to
the issue (if any) of the said PETER
BROWN, and to all' persons claiming by,
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an order made on the Ist
day of October, 1926, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of April,
1927, your claims to the estate of Robert
Brown, who died on the 27tli day of March,
1864, failing which the said estate will be
distributed amongst those entitled thereto,
disregarding your claim.
DATED at Wellington this sth day of
November, 1926.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
RODGERSON (or ROGERSON), ANASTASIA
MYRTLE, about 33 years of age, daughter of
Bridget Teresa Rodgerson, formerly Heffernan, will
hear of something to her advantage by communipaV
ing with National Trustees Co., 113 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. j. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 91 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading' Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of ail general banking business.
Dawson Valley
Irrigation Area
Queensland
(7,000 FARMS FOR 7,000 FARMERS)
Opened for Selection^November 1 , 1926
THE first sections, compris-
ing 373 Irrigated and
attached Dry Farms, are
now ready for occupation.
These include fine irrigated
alluvial areas, and, in com-
bination with the high-level
farms, offer facilities for mixed
farming under advantageous
conditions
Applications Close January 31 , 1927
For General Information Apply
Irrigation and Water
Supply Commission
(Land Settlement Branch)
BRISBANE •• • QUEENSLAND
(®
70 years of
Pipe-making
THE experience of generations of pipe makers is em-
bodied in the latest GBD pipe. From among the
faultless briars which bear the GBD Brand, the
GBD at 12/6 is the best pipe value obtainable. To dis-
tinguish it from the standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears
a small GBD disc, inlaid in the mouthpiece.
The real point of difference however in addition to the
flush silver mount lies in the specially selected grains:
year by year fewer of them are available.
Ask your tobacconist to show you a few and convince
yourself of the beauty of the briar. The quality which
dates from 1855 is unsurpassed.
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
Wl
W 2
Shape No.
3/4373
©
"Uraniao” : The story about an embarrassed
butler ( pro tern.) who announced Charlie
Ryan and his wife as the Sultan of Turkey
and Mrs. Turkey will remind Maorilauders of
what happened when the Jellicoes were touring
Central Otago. The Mayor of one of the
hamlets, with his brain in a whirl, charged
down on the little admiral, and, grasping him
by the hand, exclaimed in sonorous voice:
“How are you, Governor? And how —er —
how is the Governess?”
T. H. Moyes, who becomes secretary of
the North Australian Commission in his
38th year, commenced his career with the
Vic. Railway Department, and transferred
to the .Commonwealth (Home Affairs De-
partment) on the eve of the construction
of the Ivalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway.
After service as chief clerk of the Common-
wealth Railways in Melbourne, he was trans-
ferred to Port Augusta, where he took hold
of the staff in the absence of chief-engineer
Galian.
A man who once enjoyed high celebrity in
two-up circles has just died of cancer in a
Sydney suburb. In the early days of these
institutions the ringkeeper was invariably
the “best man” in the crowd, and the de-
ceased, though in the lightweight class, had
a great reputation as a bare-knuckle fighter.
After making a fair haul he gravitated into
the real-estate and money-lending business.
Naturally smart and a good judge of men.
albeit unable to identify a single letter of
the alphabet, he made few slips and died
wealthy at 66.
“Hamer”: Death has cut short the career
of an interesting old brigand who, when I
first met him, held the license of the Park
View Hotel at the corner of ;East and Bris-
bane streets, Sydney. l % was a native of
Malta and could speak at firsthand of pirat-
ical ships which included slaves —especially
slave girls—amongst their merchandise. He
had travelled for Italian and Spanish wines
in Morocco and thereabouts, but he* reckoned
his most successful piracy was as a Customs
officer in Buenos Ay-res. He declared that
in those days no ship got its clearance unless
its master had handsomely bribed the officers
of the port.
R. G. Nesbit, the old athlete, now S.M.
in Adelaide, inherits the gift of eloquent ex-
pression from his father, Paris Nesbit, K.C.;
and strong language sounds much more so
when it comes from the Bench. On a recent
day, his judgment included various acid
references to “an impoverished person alleged
to be unable to work, and possessed of no
discoverable inclination to do any. The
plaintiff’s lapses into truthfulness were rare,”
he added. Finally the Bench said gravely:
“I have endeavored to restrain myself within
the bounds proper to the expression of judi-
cial indignation; but I confess that in the
face of such chicanery as has been exposed
in the case, I have sometimes found it diffi-
cult to do so.” He should be worth hearing
if ever he really lets himself go.
There are some picturesque touches in the
conditions governing the establishment of an
orphanage at Wanganui (M.L.) under the
will of W. H. Watt. It will be known as
the Margaret Watt Orphans’ Home, in mem-
ory of testator’s daughter, who was drowned.
The trustees are to erect a flagpole on the
highest point of the land, and the flag, of
the pattern of St. George’s ensign with the
lettei’s M.W.O.H. on it, is to be flown every
Sunday from 8 a.m. until sunset, and at half-
mast on the date of her death each year.
Boy inmates will wear blue jackets and
trousers of naval pattern on week-days, with
a variation to white trousers on Sundays.
The designing of a uniform for the girls is
left to the trustees. Any child accused of
a breach of discipline or dishonesty is to be
tried by a jury of six of the eldest children
of his or her own sex, with the principal
or oldest teacher as judge.
Adelaide Uni. is treating itself more
handsomely in the matter of “chairs” than
of old. When in doubt whether to entrust
its new Urrbrae School of scientific farming
to a great agriculturist who knew something
of chemistry, or to a great chemist who knew
something of agriculture, it compromised by
appointing both —Prof. Richardson and Prof.
Prescott. Till Stirling died and Watson
retired, the medical school was under those
two. Now there are three Chairs in Medi-
cine, and a fourth is promised; “Physi-
ology and Bio-chemistry” is to be called
Bio-chemistry and “genei’al” Physiology in-
stead, and a new Prof, of “Human” Physi-
ology and Pharmacology is to be appointed.
Meanwhile, an additional gift from Langdon
Bonytlion (already pledged to hand over
£40,000 for a Gi’eat Hall in 1930) prompts
the ’Varsity to name the Law Chair, held
by Campbell, after the donor, who thus
joins the list of generous benefactors of the
past, Elder and Hughes, Waite, Darling
and Jury.
“Sir Sol”: The hoodoo that hovers over
Federal Parliament House has been at its
dark tricks again. Alf Welland, of Han-
sard, was killed by a motor, and the same
day Bill Law, for 20 years a well-known
figure in the Press Gallery, dropped dead.
Recently the head gardener (Dunlop) was
run down by a motor and killed —the second
member of that staff to meet such a fate.
Sudden deaths are scattered all over the
history of Commonwealth politics. C. Lons-
dale, M.H.R. for New England, was run
over; Senator Bob Guthrie was killed by a
Collins-street tram; and Senator Adamson
was mangled by a train. “Bob” Howe, one-
time M.H.R. for Dailey, was found dead in
a Sydney street, and first Prime Minister
Barton died in his bath. Two members —-
Holder and Alf Roberts—dropped dead
within the precincts, whilst another (Jim
Page) passed away within a couple of hours
after delivering an impassioned speech.
G. B. Edwards, M.H.R. for South Sydney,
was blown to pieces by acetylene gas; T. J.
Ryan was cut down whilst on an election
tour: and E. L. Batchelor dropped dead
whilst taking a walk. Senator Power and
Ilolroyd, M.11.R., died suddenly a few days
after their election, and before, they, had
time to take their seats ; and McGregor and
C. McDonald died in the interval betwee.n
nomination and election-day. The first
librarian (-Bob Church') was found dead in
an outhouse,


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra —V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
87931. 12. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fuse Modei\. Passenger Vessels connect with 'train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COM I’A NY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Briobane Booking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co.. I.td.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 . . £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yaiiwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: E. Aveyard.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threaclneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Donns Fairiuiiin. Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,37 S
GRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances l ,f e< r^ d on * u classes oi
. 1..—. Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture. &c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks ° u Merchandise,
—- Hulls of Vessels, Freights
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, See. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
184.9.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. ... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA . . . 18,600 tons disp. DEC. 16, for Vancouver.
MAKURA . . . 13,000 „ „ DEC. 30, for San Francisco.
MARAMA, JAN. 14, connects with Tahiti at Auckland for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI. 11,340 tons disp. JAN. 27, for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks.
Unrivalled
Cu'isine.
. M -
■
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOB RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
UNION STEAM sHU CO. | W illiam Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO„ Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Inland Trips, occupying about !)\ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
W.™ Britain -
ll t W D1(Id I 11 ■
S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
Sails December 28 and February 8.
Klan/lv*
NjOlOlliUli
S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Sails December 22 and February 2. .v
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
cvbnmvbm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
&K..
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck’Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Anchises. . . . 10,000 tons, Dec. 20
fDeniosthenes 11,500 „ Jan. 17
SMedic 12,000 „ Feb. 15
*Ascanius .. . 10,000 „ Feb. 25
jltunie 12,500 „ March 1.
f Euripides . . 12,000 „ March 14
*First class only. |First and Third class.
J“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
I nterstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, ’Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
' Established 1817. t
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability.
vbnmbv
bvbbv
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. 'General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkeiLs^ 1
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
ST ISAM IS Its TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —from Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I'or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
I'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARUABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOHDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 156701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
RUPTURE J
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queern Street, Melbourne, Vic.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


of Success
Ikenfflaids
NO man in business can afford to look
other than prosperous. A smart, well-
groomed appearance is an asset in itself.
On the opposite side of the ledger to darned
socks trying to hide beneath down-at-heel
shoes, is the spic and span appearance of Bond’s Silken
Plaids. Their silken texture clings to the foot neatly,
smartly. Their colorings indicate alertness and good
tafte. Their designs bespeak a keen discrimination.
And buying by the name Bond’s shows good judgment,
for no hosiery in Australia enjoys such a reputation
for quality and service.
4/6
Your mercer has Bonds
Silken Plaids in two qualities
and many di&in&ive colorings.
5/6
HALF-
Made in Australia by the EMPLOYEES
All States, New Zealand and South Africa
Half-Hose, Underwear, Towels, Sheeting.
HOSE
GEO. A. BOND & CO. LIMITED.
. - Manufacturers of Bond's Hosiery,
. Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.


Sydney Favorites —
Lovely “Rose Marie”
(Miss Harriet Bennet)
and Rexona Soap.
Miss Harriet Bennet, now appear-
ing with such imtrked success in “Rose
Marie,” at Her Majesty's Theatre,
Sydney, is a true Rexona Girl, and
uses only Rexona Soap for her skin
and hair. She writes us as follows:
“To keep your hair and skin in
perfect condition, I consider it is abso-j
lutely essential to use Rexona Soap.
J wouldn’t be without it for any-
thing”
:
P' i IL***
V- ' Wi
. - M
**■, v <>■<♦'
-
" v
Miss
HARRIET
RENNET
(“Rose
Marie”),
a beautiful
Rexona
Girl.
cVo-r Health
ar?c) S eau ty
REXONA
SOAP
Give Chocolates this
Christmas
1'
':'h
iiaii
&
inr&i'
(T^
TM
m
Hi
Preferably
HILLIER’S
“We post them”
Hillier's Chocolates
are something to de-
light the most exact-
ing taste and thrill
the palate with sheer
delicioustncss.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Send your order, and
we will post to friends
the famous Red Bow
to your instructions
with suitable Greeting
Cards.
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
bvbnm
162-166 Pitt Street, and comer of
George and King Streets, Sydney.
“Sold East.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HER sisters on the coast runs
Dipped house-flags as she passed.
The ship that once could boast runs
Which never were outclassed.
She’s left the foam-fringed beaches
And blue Australian seas,
Where in the morning reaches
The gentle-fingered breeze.
Sold East! With strange men steering
And coaling her, she went,
Her old hull disappearing
Where mists with sea-line blent.
Since she, among our steamers,
Was counted with the best,
Like other Rose Bay dreamers,
She’d lain for years at rest,
Ere Jap and Filipino
And Chinese came to buy....
“She go-quick ship ! Pulclirino !
But price is very high.”
Probing her plates and boilers,
In calculating tones,
The hucksters and despoilers
Made bargains for her bones.
Each memory crowds another....
That night off Smoky Cape
She met the south-east smother
With throttle-valve agape.
Past Seal Rocks and the Nobbies
And Nora Head she came,
With green seas in her lobbies
And funnel capped with flame,
With water softly lapping
In stateroom and saloon,
And tail-rods loudly rapping
A brave, old steamer tune!
Since they have found a buyer
For our old ship at last,
They’ve made her funnel higher
And shortened down a mast.
They’ve painted her a color
She never wore before. . . .
We watched her, growing duller,
As she made speed offshore;
And for the name that glinted
In brass, in days agone,
On both her bows is printed
The heathen name, “Sing On.”
The seamen on the coast runs
And offshore waters say
That oft o’ nights a ghost runs,
With bridge-rails wet with spray.
Her headlights, eerie beacons,
Burn in the moonlight dim,
And when the moonlight weakens
And mists of morning swim,
Men hear her whistle blowing,
tier quiet bell-notes chime
To tell the morning, glowing,
She runs by log on time.
The wakes of our old steamers
Across the China Sea
Are like long, lacy streamers
From Flores to Chi-li.
Their whistles’ challenge reaches
From Kobe to Hongkong,
The lonely Kurile beaches
Have heard their engines’ song.
By strange, far coastlines, creaming,
Old steamers, as you roll,
We wish you in your steaming,
Good firemen and good coal!
N.B.W.
WILL LAWSON.
All in the Day’s Work.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CORPORAL BOPUMU elbowed bis way
roughly through the crowd of native
witnesses and hangers-on, and, at
the risk of being committed for contempt,
interrupted the district magistrate as he was
about to pass sentence on a scaly-skinned,
shivering dog-tliief.
“Taubada!” announced the corporal in
a voice vibrant with excitement. “Pokamu
bin kill’m one-fella man!”
The magistrate eyed him coldly. “Speak
to me in your own tongue,” he snapped.
Bopumu swallowed hard. In the old days,
before he had donned the blue-serge, red-
braided uniform of the Papuan Armed Con-
stabulary, he had enjoyed the advantages
of a mission-school education. Could he not
speak the white man’s language with a
fluency and a richness of idiom that excited
the respectful admiration of even Wodari,
the Kiwai sergeant? Could he not sign his
name in sprawling capitals, remembering
always that “B” has two bellies and “P”
only one? Could he not— ?
“I’m waiting, Corporal,” rasped the
magistrate.
Bopumu took a deep breath, clicked his
heels together and saluted. “Taubada,” he
said in Motuan, “Pokamu, who is a thief
and the son of a thief, and hearkens not to
the words of the ‘Gavamani,’ has killed a
man!”
“And the name of the man, Corporal?”
Bopumu cast a furtive glance over the
crowded courtroom and leaned forward.
“Taubada,” he said in a horse whisper,
“Tau-ta!”
The magistrate looked interested. Freely
translated “Tau-ta” means “What’s-his-
name.” No Papuan cares to mention the
name of the dead; but it was disturbing to
find that Bopumu, who habitually affected a
serene indifference to the “New Guinea
fashion,”' lacked the courage to utter the
name of Pokamu’s victim. Bopumu edged
forward and in his eyes there was an expres-
sion of awe.
“Moreover, taubada,” he said huskily,
“there is talk of a pig!”
The white man whistled softly. The
peace and security of a Papuan coastal
village are indissolubly connected with pigs.
Liken a native to a pig, and you pay him a
delicate compliment; make him a present of
a mongrel Berkshire and he is your friend
for life. His wife may desert him, his house
fall down, his garden become choked, with
weeds, and he may still cut a figure in the
“long-house.” But if he has not a.-pig to
his name, then is he an outcast ind/eed and
a thing of no account. An over- talkative
wife may provoke a man to commit murder;
the disputed ownership of land may cause
aa inter-tribal feud. But a disiigrertnent
concerning pigs may well plunge the whole
countryside into civil war. .
"A woman pig, taubada,” continued Bop-
umu with a great depth of feeling.
Pokamu has slain a man! , tt
The magistrate was an old hand, tie
recognised that a situation had arisen preg-
nant with possibilities. He cleared the
court, whistled up the police, and within the
hour was marching into Pokamu s villag .
Save for a crowd of small boys, mother-
naked and grotesquely pot-bellied, arguing
excitedly in the shade of a giant bendora -
tree, the street was deserted. At the sight
of the police the urchins scurried into the
bush; and the magistrate saw that they had
been gathered around the figure of an old
man lying huddled on the ground. The
detachment halted. The old man sat up,
blinking owlisltly and dabbing at a nasty
scalp wound with a filthy rag.
"Where is the man slam by Pokamu.
questioned the magistrate.
"1 am he, taubada,” replied the other
forlornly.
Corporal Bopumu gaped.
"Wka’s matter you no die proper fashion,
hey?” he demanded indignantly. "You try
humbug ’long Gavamani, hey? You try —~
"Shut up!” snapped the magistrate, ibe
muscles of his face twitched, but in the
Corporal’s eyes there was no hint of amuse-
ment. ,
"Taubada,” he exclaimed earnestly in
Motuan. "The man lies. He is in truth
the dead man and seeks to deceive you
by”
He grinned uneasily as he met the magi-
strate’s cold stare.
"You’re a priceless ass!' commented the
white man. .
"Ycssah!” agreed Bopumu amiably.
"T'auk you, sail!”
By this time village people of both sexes,
striving to appear unconcerned, had drawn
near, the women casting admiring glances
at the police, the men fumbling nervously
with their limepots. The magistrate dressed
the “dead” man’s wound and ordered Bopumu
to round up the “murderer.”
Pokamu was a cleanskinned, cheerful-
looking lad. lie was not at all abashed at
the sight of the armed forces of the Crown.
On the contrary, as he approached the
magistrate a suggestion of insolence seemed
to insinuate itself into his bearing. He was
obviously well pleased at being in the centre
of the picture. The magistrate fixed him
with a baleful eye. .
"You know this man?” he barked, indi-
cating the “corpse.”
The prisoner beamed. My word! His
name is Botari, and to-day close up I kill
him with a club.”
“So I observe,” commented the magistrate
drily. “And now I make court because of
the law against fighting in the village. Now,
Pokamu frowned and scratched himself
thoughtfully.
“First, taubada, order that I be made
fast with handcuffs. This fashion” —indicat-
ing his free hands —“is no good!”
The magistrate smiled. Nevertheless he
made a sign to Bopumu, who snapped a pair
of handcuffs on to the prisoner’s outstretched
wrists. The village people gasped their
admiration, and Pokamu, swelling out his
chest, commenced:
“Taubada, twelve moons ago I bought a
pig—a woman pig, taubada, and a prolific
mother of young pigs.”
“From Botari, here?” suggested the
magistrate.
“Not so, taubada. From the brother of
my brother's wife who is a policeman in
Port Moresby.”
“E.r —I see, Pokamu. Go ahead.”
“Two moons ago, taubada, there was born
a litter of six young pigs.” Pokamu's voice
took on a note of tragedy. “And three were
striped yellow and black, which is the proper
fashion, and three were black as bushmen!”
The magistrate nodded thoughtfully. “Sor-
cery !” he muttered to himself. "I thought
so!” Then aloud: “This man, Botari, is
then a sorcerer?”
“Not so, taubada,” protested Pokamu m
alarm, “he is a very good man indeed!”
“Eh? Go ahead!” said the magistrate
hastily. .
“And in the night, taubada —last night—
the three proper pigs were stolen, leaving
only the bushmen.”
“Ah! By Botari?” hazarded the magistrate
feeling that at last he was on the right track.
“Not so, taubada. Why should Botari
steal my young pigs?”
“Great Scott!” ejaculated the magistrate
in a burst of irritation. “Don’t appeal to
me. Go on.”
“And all men laughed, taubada, and taunted
me and sneered when my pigs were stolen, so
that my belly was filled with a great bitter-
ness. And because I could no longer endure
the mockery of my friends, I took my club
and broke Botari’s head.”
“Humph!” grunted the magistrate per-
plexedly. “But where does Botari fit in?
Did he mock you? No? Then why?”
“Fashion b’long him, sail,” ventured
Bopumu brightly.
The prisoner’s face became a blank mask,
and he shrugged his shoulders. “It is as
the corporal says, taubada,” he muttered in-
differently. “Fashion b’long me, taubada.”
Not for the first time was the magistrate
faced with that blank wall of native super-
stition or stupidity called “fashion b’long
New Guinea.” It was all perfectly clear and
reasonable to Pokamu and his friends. Even
Bopumu, now that he had been apprised of
the facts, was ouite sympathetic. The
magistrate turned helplessly to tlft wounded
man.
“You s—Botari! 5 —Botari! Why did Pokamu club
you ?”
The old man gazed at him with lack-lustre
eyes. It was obvious that he was becoming
a little bored.
“Who knows?” he answered.
The magistrate regarded Bopumu with a
thoughtful frown.
: ‘This, Corporal,” he commented in
English, “is what they call ‘thinking black.’ ”
The corporal grinned.
“Yessali!” he agreed affably if a little
vaguely. “I t’ink byemby rain he come.”
"You blithering idiot!” snorted the mag-
istrate. “Take the prisoner, who for the
space of two moons will break stones in
(Continued on next page.)


Accidents WILL Happen!
m
&
to
\
s.'CL
f?,
%
¥a
m
i
t
v>
Balm and Soap
TRIAL FREE!
If you send your request to 0. E. Fulford
(Aus.), Ltd., Sydney, mentioning The I!rr-
LETIN of 16/12/’26, you may have, Absolutely
Free, a sample box of Zam-Buk and a dainty
sample cake of Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap.
Don't lose this opportunity of a free double
trial!
A Handy Box
Costs Only
f //»
X
(FAMILY SIZE 316).
the road, at home, at work you may happen a
sudden mishap. Be prepared with a healing
preparation which, besides taking the sting out of a
wound, will expel any poisonous germs and make new
healthy skin grow quickly over the place.
First-aid for the skin is perfectly performed by
Zam-Buk, which is of pure, herbal origin and really a
concentration of healing energy. The relief is almost
miraculous! If you had the eye of a microscope you
could see Zam-Buk working on a wound, rapidly knitting
the sore edges together by inducing the growth of new
healthy tissue —cell by cell —until no danger or damage
remains.
Zam-Buk is “a surgery in a two-inch box.” Unlike fatty ointments, it
keeps” perfectly, and its soothing, healing and curative powers never vary.
Always keep handy a box of this splendid antiseptic healer. Whenever you
cut, scrape, bruise, burn or sprain yourself you can soon
J eal // wiii
am
tm*
the gaol.” He turned to Pokamu. “Who
pinched your wretched pigs, anyhow?”
“Who can say, taubada?” replied Pokamu
earnestly. “I think maybe some 'devil-devil’
from the bush. What you think, taubada?”
The magistrate gave it up, but he was not
at all satisfied that he had heard the last
of Pokamu and his pigs. When he had gone,
Corporal Bopumu turned to the villagers.
“You heard the words of the Gavamani,
hey?” he asked. “The- strong words of the
white magistrate, hey? ‘You bleeterin’ idioti,'
hey?”
"We heard, Corporal,” they chorused.
“Then take heed!” said Corporal Bopumu
darkly; and he about faced and stalked
solemnly in the wake of the police and their
prisoner.
The magistrate had finished his evening
meal. He was reclining comfortably in a
cane lounge enjoying an after-dinner pipe.
Corporal Bopumu could not have selected a
more inopportune moment for breaking in
on his master’s privacy.
“la, taubada!” exclaimed Bopumu, his
eyes shining with excitement. “Pokamu is
making trouble long village!”
The magistrate turned with a menacing
glare: and Bopumu coughed nervously.
“Taubada,” he continued hastily in
Motuan, “to-day Pokamu lias been sent forth
from the gaol filled with Gavamani food and
faking with him the loincloth emblazoned
with spearheads [broad arrows].”
“What of it, fool?” answered the white
man. His time is finished, and the loin-
cloth is of no account.”
' Bopumu threw a gracious salute.
: “True, taubada,” he admitted; “but to-
night Pokamu demands ‘pay-back’ [revenge]
from Botari touching the matter of breaking
stones, and it is in my mind that there will
be work for the police and their rifles.”
The magistrate looked up with sudden in-
terest. Bopumu lowered his voice.
“Moreover, taubada, in the old days these
people were eaters of men, and who knows?”
But the shrill blast of the magistrate’s
whistle was already summoning the detach-
ment.
As the police party approached Pokamu’s
village, a red glare showed through the trees;
and there came to their ears the beating of
drums—faint at first, then rising slowly to
a pulsing, booming roar, unutterably bar-
baric, hateful, fear-inspiring. Shadowy fig-
ures heaped wood on the smouldering fire,
and soon the flames leaped high, lighting up
fantastically the bronzed bodies of dancing
men.
The magistrate hissed an order to the
police; and dropping on all fours they crept
cautiously through the lalang until they
could command a view of Pokamu’s "pay-
back.”
Bopumu sighed with great satisfaction.
“To-morrow,” lie murmured unctuously, “I
—Bopumu—will be a sergeant, and”
“Be silent!” grated the magistrate; and
nearer and yet nearer they wormed their way
towards the dancers. Suddenly the magis-
trate stiffened as he recognised Pokamu. The
ex-prisoner wore a superb head-dress of bird-
,vf-paradise plumes, his muscular body glis-
tened with cocoanut oil, and around his waist
he wore an unbelievably dirty loincloth plen-
tifully sprinkled with broad arrows. By his
side was a spectral figure, its head and
shoulders completely hidden under a hideous
conical mask.
"Sorcerer!” muttered Bopumu, fingering
his carbine. “To-morrow, I shall surely be
a”
The drums ceased with startling sudden-
ness, and two heavy-fleshed men appeared
staggering under the weight of a heavy
bundle suspended from a bamboo pole—a
bundle of ominous outline swathed in tapa
cloth ; a bundle that suggested
"Botari!” said Corporal Bopumu with
great deliberation. The magistrate’s heart
gave a startled thump as he saw the bearers
deposit their burden at Pokamu’s feet. The
masked man stepped forward and handed a
spear to Pokamu. There came a sharp in-
take of breath from the assembled natives
as Pokamu raised the weapon, and softly the
drums began to throb in a slow, pulsing
rhythm.
The magistrate sprang to his feet and cov-
ered Pokamu with his automatic. “Drop that,
you swine!” he barked. “Quick time!”
The natives uttered a wail of terror as they
saw the levelled rifles of the police and the
menacing figure of the white man. The
magistrate motioned swiftly to Bopumu, who
expertly tripped Pokamu and manacled him.
Pokamu grunted.
“Taubada!” he muttered sulkily. “What
name this fella?”
The magistrate silenced him with a ges-
ture, and, bending down, tore at the lashings
of the bundle on the ground. . Suddenly he
paused, and into his eyes there came an odd
expression. He had heard a sound —a
totally unexpected though unmistakable
sound—an indubitable, full-throated grunt
which could have come only from a pig ab’out
to become pork.
A sickly grin spread over Bopumu’s coun-
tenance, and he squirmed uneasily. He
wished the white man would not glare at
him so! In his confusion his eye lighted on
the sorcerer. Doubtfully he took the mask
in both hands, and with a quick movement
tore it from the man’s head. Bopumu’s eyes
became glassy.
“la!” lie muttered fatuously at last. “la!”
Goo'-day, Botari!”
He turned to the magistrate. How the
white man glared!
“Taubada,” he said feebly. “I t’ink—l
t’rnk you me two-fella fool, hey?”
But the magistrate was speechless.
TAUWARRA.
The Farm in the Wilderness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JUST for a moment I scarcely knew
whether to blame the sun or divers
beers I had taken at the wayside pub
at noon.
Picture a barren, utterly desolate stretch
of country through which you trudge hour
after hour seeing nothing but stunted ti-
trees; bracken; hard, pipe-clayey, infertile
soil—and rocks. A very wilderness of rocks.
Then, as you follow a cart-track which
starts you know not where and leads you
know not whither, a track whose appearance
of long disuse confirms your gloomy convic-
tion that, besides being bushed, you are miles
from food and shelter, you suddenly round
a bend and come face to face with a little
old lady. An old lady who has apparently
stepped straight from mid-Victorian times
or, maybe, from some old picture.
Which would you blame?
I blamed the sun.
I closed my eyes for a second or two,
then looked again. She was still there.
“Good evening, Sir,” she said.
“Er ah good evening, Madam,” I
stuttered, raising my hat. I felt that it
should have been a “stove-pipe” and swept
with a courtly flourish, but as it was only
the old felt I use on walking-tours and my
knowledge of courtly flourishes is exactly
nil I merely removed it —and kept it so.
She was leaning on an ebony stick. Her
dress, which nearly touched the ground, was
of black silk —at least it was shiny and
crackled richly as she moved. Her white hair
was partly concealed by a lace cap, and she
wore mittens.
No vision, this, conjured up by sun or
hops. She was real —and altogether impos-
sible. She informed me, in answer to my
inquiry as to my whereabouts, that I was
nowhere in particular, that the track I had
been following was an old timber road which
ran past her farm and ended somewhere or
other ahead in the scrub, and that Wyong—
my objective for the night—was ten miles
behind me. Then she proffered me food and
shelter.
It was at tea —just the old lady and my-
self, waited on by an oldish maid—that I
first got the impression that things were not
quite as they should be with my gracious old
hostess. She talked animatedly and well of
events, some of which happened before my
time and others I but dimly remembered. A
mine of information concerning Sydney
society of the ’eighties and ’nineties, her
mind appeared to be a blank as to more
recent happenings. At my casual reference
to the war her faded blue eyes became con-
fused, then vacant. Obviouslv she had never
heard of it. I made no other conversational
leads. I simply listened.
She told me of balls in Governor Duff’s
time; of Macleay-street in its heyday; of
the frolics and frivols of a society noted
for the refinement, culture and good manners
it now so sadly lacks. Then, surprisingly
enough, I thought, she touched on more
intimate matters—her marriage, the loss of
their money, the purchase of this farm in
the wilderness, the death of her husband.
And then, while her cheeks, which had been
of the color of old ivory, slowly blanched
to a deathly whiteness, and her gentle eyes,
which had but so lately sparkled as she
spoke of the glories of a generation gone,
filled with tears, she told of the death of her
two children, Jean and Malcolm.
It was most pitiful. If her trembling,
broken voice and anguished face plucked at
my heart-strings, the face of the woman who
waited on us was like to break it outright.
For. you see, I had guessed something of
their tragedy. The likeness of mother and
daughter was unmistakable. She—whom I
knew for Jean —stood behind my old lady's
chair, and never have I seen such yearning,
such Love and such intolerable grief as were
expressed in her face. There before my eyes
was a crucifixion.
* * * *
The sheets smelt of clean hot irons and
lavender. The soft bm*ze which fanned
through the window was perfumed with the
blossoms of many flowers. From the moon-
lit garden came the cry of wagtails, keeping
vigil over nesting mates. A peaceful, lan-
guorous night whose dawn found me still
wide awake. The tragedy of that old farm-
house held me in thrall.
This is the story I gathered from Jean and
Malcolm after the old lady had gone to bed.
I say gathered, because some of it was not
told me in words. We can accurately read
between the lines when dealing with people
who are utterly simple and natural.
After their father’s death, twenty years
ago, their mother’s grief had brought on brain
fever. Mentally, she had never recovered.
She lived mainly in the past and failed to
recognise Jean and Malcolm as her children,
whom she mourned as dead. To her they
were Mary and James, maid and coachman
of the palmy days. They had spent what
money they could raise on doctors, who merely
distressed her. They had done everything
that love could suggest to overcome this delu-
sion and had been repulsed. Gently but very
firmly put in their places.
They were still hoping—after twenty
years.
“Sometimes it is hard,” Jean had said,
simply. “We love her so; and when she
wakes up in the night as she often does and
cries out ‘Jean!’ ‘Malcolm!’ and then sobs
and sobs, it nearly breaks our hearts. There
is nothing we can do, you see; nothing.”
It would be hard —that sort of thing.
Damnably, intolerably hard ! Harder to them,
I should judge, : than the sacrifice and utter
waste of their splendid, selfless lives. Harder
than the pinching and scraping, the unremit-
ting toil of twenty years wringing a meagre
living from this hungry desolation of sand
and rock.
Couldn’t a fellow get to sleep?
I rolled my valise early in the morning, and
before breakfast bade them good-bye. First
the “mistress,” then the “maid” and “coach-
man.”
As I walked slowly through one of the
paddocks I no longer thought of stove-pipe
hats and courjly flourishes. My thoughts ran
more to a pilgrim’s staff and ragged gown.
My boots, which crunched the sparse, dry
stubble, seemed a sacrilege.
For that ground I deemed holy ground.
BUTTENDERRY.


y;.:3fe,
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE 00.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOJLMKS « CHURCH, Hrisbane.
N.Z. Ofliee —98-107 Feathers!,on Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDEBj SMIIH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
a-rco
n MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members ot
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c. ~
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. .... -■
The running cost of an “ACTO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction. is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture. ..
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISH MOWER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
prices. Full stocks on hand. noa ,, lW . «n-
PRICES:—I4in. cutters, £47/10/; 16m., £57/10/; 22m., £B2/10/, 30m.,
£llO each.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Inspect at Stand No. 72 (Opposite Station Exits), Eoyal Show,
REPRESENTATIVES:
D. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-234 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL and BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
= Remington. UMC =
DUCK LOAD
Supplied only in Nitro Club Cases
E
OADED SCIENTIFICALLY to get the highest
velocity consistent with the best pattern, these
ca.
DUCK LOAD
cartridges are “Wetproof”
throughout—top-wad, crimp
and body—positively sealed
againsteveryclimaticchange.
Next time you are going after
ducks, ask your dealer for a
box of DUCK LOAD cartridges
—give them a trial.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
E 24 G. P. O. Box 686 Melbourne, Viet.
• - .... . : >: v -
** But like ir sickness
Did l loathe this food.”
Midsummer Night’s Drea/tl .
Ad IV. Sc./.
57
A
a
a
t
A
Appetite
LaLcJkmg*?
Want of appetite
Is a sign of
Stomach weakness
The best remedy
BEECHAM’S PILLS
They have a corrective
And stimulating effect
On stomach, liver, bowels
They can be relied upon
To remove acidity
Constipation
Indigestion
To stimulate the live*
Cleanse and tone
The entire system
And promote
appetite.
BtedmCswils
BUY YOUR LINEN DIRECT FROM
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
THE House of Robinson & Cleaver has been making
fine linen for 55 years in Belfast—the home of Irish
Linen —and sending it to satisfied customers all over the
world. The beautifully illustrated catalogue offered below
shows you how you save by buying linen direct from this
famous old House. Send for your copy now.
FREE!
This large beautifully
illustrated Catalogue
V£o. C£v °i f‘ ne
- Linens, together with
samples, will be sent
you free and post free.
Wm
Wm
Table, Bed and Household Linen
Our Damask Table Linen is well known for its good
quality, beauty of design and lovely white satin
finish. We stock it in all grades. Table Cloths
2 yards square from 11/3 each with- Napkins to
match 22 x 22 ins. 12/6 per doz. and so on up to
qualities used by Royalty
Prices of all kinds of Linen goods are considerably
down ; for instance, we have good wearing Linen
Sheets for single beds 2x3 yards at 33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases 20 x 30 ins. from 2/11 each.
LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS
We offer only perfect goods, such as Ladies’ Linen
Handkerchiefs, made of good quality pure Linen
hemstitched, measurin'-' about 12 ins square. Ex
ceptional value from 4/9 per doz. In Men’s sizes
from 8/3 per doz. Ladies' Linen Initial handker-
chiefs about 11 ins. square from 5/6 per doz Ladies’
Embroidered Linen handkerchiefs f.om 5/3 per dor.
Any monogram can be embroidered by hand at
short notice.
THE DELIVERY OF ALL GOODS IS
GUARANTEED. ORDERS OF OVER £lO
CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION, OR BY STEAMER
TO PORT OF ‘LANDING.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
NORTHERN IRELAND
The Home of
Irish Linen
O KS
■y
UCE
1
Host BolhrooA Saj/s ~ 1
“Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper —Ah! What a
> delightful bouquet; what
75 amappetising zest.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 p.m. from No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
_ , v Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.; 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries. Ltd.


aB‘£is&-Lii£i -. .*
'*• .
!
g»§
H &
w&
■•.V,'A-
* ,} f; ’ ' '*
m.
sm
;h- :- .* «
1R vv
m i
■ : J
tfi,:
■ j ~. i,A' \ &mm 3
■i ; .1
s
m
1 I
■ WV a|£W,'''l
sg? tMJmI:
'ktr
m-*
m
' *
£ j|j;| |
mm
mm
M
~_„ ■ HI ft
mn
wm J n »
■tf-aas ?>*
sit'-xV
ss* ■”
|&S?K«SS
t ?■#*■
•Ste , C ‘J£ > r J*
«’* if ‘j£
A
,(, •* «i ?‘V '
! , • . -’
i! »&%; w
s*
.
*i; ? . ; 7si., *ll*"'
11 WH!'{ \t J M
1 £ < '.y.i .i
l ml
* ::
8 B
; m
4
Ski-;- -■ ..- rtf .f-.--..,.;
*'* • > 'af” '* ■
1
im m
~:.e m/y/msm. m asa*
L 12
/ >
J;? < : ; jHave you- a
THEN you will appreciate the delicate flavour and fine
qualities of White Horse Whisky as only a connoisseur can!
White horse
!, ScotchWH»SKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY
& COMPANY
Agents.
LTD,
