

Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd.
Mine Owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
■
mm i i :
"»'i 'ia
. i.
m m
ISISIII
A ,
■■• *** ** .
m
v,.
-
VIEW OF BLAST FURNACE PLANT AT NEWCASTLE.
MANUFACTURERS OF
« •
dfg
sdfg
xcv
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2396.
Thursday, January 14, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WHITE for onr Library Catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD..
428 George Street, Sydney.
pss;:
■SaSBS
Iff]
IMMUNITY FROM INTERRUPTION
is secured by employing
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
The economic value of this factor will be instantly appre-
ciated. Rigid selection of only the best hides, allied to a
special tanning process and expert supervision of every phase
of manufacture, ensure this happy result.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Dlreotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY-
NEWCASTLE: Ensrineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., 114 Edward
Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA; W. Tolley, 253 Spring Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA ; W. k G. Genders Pty., Ltd.. Launceston k Hobart
FOR COMFORTABLE SIDECA R R I N G
J
Are you as Careful choosing a Sidecar
xcv
as you are
your Motorcycle?
r T" , OO much depends on the
sidecar for you to be careless
as to what sidecar you use^
"Every Goulding Sidecar, Chassis
Special or Standard, in-
corporates the patented
Goulding floating axle
and scroll spring shown on
the left —the feature which jnsul-
ates the motorcycle from the
movement of the sidecar wheel
over the roughest road.
In most cases a Qoulding costs less than an ordinary Sidecar
GOULDING SIDECARS
Sold by Most Motorcycle Dealers throughout Australasia
A. G. HEALING & CO. PTY. LTD., 354 Post Office Place, Melbourne, 27 Hyde St., AdelaitJ*
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
xcv
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids "digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. ,T. FERNIE, London, states
•‘Cider is not only the most wholesome
and hygienic of all drinks, but is a pre-
ventive of and a remedy for Stone,
Gravel, Gout, Obesity and Fermentative
Indigestion. - ’
RETAIL ALL HOTELS AND
STORES.
Head Office: Melbourne.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
N.S.W.
Tucker & Co., Ltd.; Sydney.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd-,
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Townsville ancl
Cairns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide Vine and Spirit
Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Richard Holmes & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
xcvb
xcv
A SUMMER COLD
Is Often Harder to ; Shake
Off than a Winter Cold.
Still —Always Remember that
Any Kind of Cold or Cough,
or even Bronchitis or Influenza,
CAN BE PROMPTLY RELIEVED?
BY
CHAM BERLAIN’S
COUCH REMEDY
ra?n\
m
r *
V
*
Sold Everywhere.
ar
<#«*
m
•a* Acrw*
MUSTDIE KILLS FLIES
The Red Page
Love Amongst the Glands
Unprejudiced readers of this Page who
refuse to reject a modern author simply be-
cause he comes before his time will like to
hear about The Love Complex fßoni and
Liveright; New York), a novel by Thomas
Dixon.
Dixon is a Baptist clergyman ot the
United States. He is no mere psychologist
of the backward English school. He belongs
to the new academy of physiologists who
attribute all human passions and emotions
to the activities of the ductless glands. The
ductless glands of his heroine. Donna Slier-•
wood, are in a liyper-sensitive condition.
She consults a famous doctor for her nerves,
and while in his rooms encounters Alan
Holt, a young medico. Holt’s glands are the
only organs in the piece which are strictly
normal. He is engaged on researches into
the very phenomena whose obscure workings
are to wreck his future happiness, and js on
the verge of finding a new gland. "This
new gland," In* tells his future bride, “is
the source of tremendous vital forces —forces
that may be used to build or destroy both
body and soul." It “is like the coil of a
radio receiver.” Under the influence of
acute worry it may pour into the blood a
poison so deadly that life itself could be
threatened, “while under the influence of
joyous and inspiring thought it might set
vibrating forces that would build info
strength every tissue of the body." In order
to have freedom to continue his investiga-
tions, he asks Donna to postpone their mar-
riage for two years. " Lost in the spell of
his eloquence,” she consents, and for two
toilsome years he pursues his self-sacrificing
labors. They are crowned with success, and
one night he reads his first paper on the new
discovery before a gathering of distinguished
research experts. “Within two days he was
called to the new lectureship on the Sym-
pathetic Nervous System at the Polytechnic."
He lifts his head “with a new sense of
power” and rushes off to Donna to arrange
the date of their nuptials; but she, affected
by some suicidal perversity of the glands,
refuses to be married offhand. She has had
to wait for him. He must wait for her.
The delay is fatal. Suddenly a shot rings
out. They rush to the window. A man in
the street is seen to stagger and fall in
front of the apartment. They drag the body
inside, and the doctor rushes off for iiis
instruments while Donna draws a chair
alongside the wounded man and studies him
intently. He has a face of extraordinary
strength, a firm jaw and his glands are not
more than 30 years of age. The conse-
quences to hers may readily be imagined.
But what is the reason for this sudden
attraction? It is the (Edipus Complex. “Ii
suddenly flashed on her that he resembled
her father,” and all her suppressed libido
for her dead parent pours itself out on the
prostrate figure on the couch. She tells her
distracted lover. He discovers that the
man is a notorious crook and a murderer.
Donna admits it all, but her hormones drive
her on. A few days later Leopold Banning
is rushing her in his car up .into the moun-
tains-to spend their honeymoon in a boot-
leggers' shanty.
After this the battle of the sympathetic
nervous systems assumes a triangular phase
and an almost epic grandeur. Holt follows,
the runaways to the moonshine depot -and
makes one last appeal to his late- fiancee.
Donna does not‘listen. The glands are ileal’
ns well as blind. She dismisses her form r
lover and runs to greet her husband. But
here again, under the influence,,;of mysteri-„
ous and subtle reactions, the incalculable
happens. When Banning, his hormones mad-
dened by long draughts of bootleg whisky,
confesses to his criminal past and demands
the immediate consummation of their mar-
riage, the scales are stripped from Donna's
eyes, and her blind infatuation turns to
litter loathing. She refuses him. He de-
cides on no half-way measures. He must
crush her opposition, break her. body and
soul. “He had a tremendous advantage in
the fact that it was his wedding night. All
he had to do was to bend her will to his
before lie took her into his arms in recon-
ciliation. The emotional earthquake of her
experiences as a bride would submerge all
other thoughts. She would awake in his
arms with the dawn—his for ever." . He
holds her with his eye, closes his fist slowly
and drops her to the floor with an uppercut
under the jaw. She crawls across the room,
raises herself painfully and hits him a clout
oyer the skull with a heavy stool that sends
him ten feet across the room with a stream-
ing forehead. He leaps tin' table, grabs her
by the throat and drags her towards the bed-
room-door. She hurls him once again across
the room. Then her fingers travel up the
wall and touch a gun resting on some pegs.
They fling themselves on to the weapon simul-
taneously. He rends it from her, throws
it across the room and sends her reeling to
the opposite wall. There she comes in con-
tact with another heavy stool, and Banning
dodges another glorious wallop, only to dis-
cover that she has snatched a butcher’s
knife from the table. He hurls his full
weight at her, twists the weapon out of
her grasp and “then he began to play his
trump card.” Gripping her legs firmly while
she rains blows on his back, lie starts
methodically to strip her. He peels off her
shoes, her stockings, her skirt, her under-
wear. Sln> stands naked before him. But
his victory turns to ashes in his grasp.
She holds his gaze in a steady stare of hate.
His glands collapse, and he creeps crest-
fallen from the room.
Banning returns to his potations, Holt is
upstairs sleeping off an overdose of bro-
mides which he has taken to quiet his out-
raged nervous system, and Donna is sitting
on her bed feeling “the gooseflesh in her
cold legs” and trying to realise she is not
dreaming. A female bootlegger stabs Ban-
ning and Donna rouses her old fiance and
induces him to operate on her husband to
save his life. Banning dies before the opera-
tion is begun, and his murderess disposes of
any trouble with the police by jumping off
a cliff. Chastened by these experiences
Donna consents to return to her former
lover, but before re-entering the ordinary
stream of existence she allows her glands
one final canter. As she looked at the dead
body of her husband “pity filled her heart.
The muscles of his arms seemed woven into
huge cords of white steel. Such bodies were
made to live and make the world a finer
home for man. The sight of the wound
in his chest moved her profoundly.” This
is the last-rally of her libido. “If you’ll
take me back, Alan,” she says, “I am going
to be a very humble girl.”
R. S. Ross and others have lately wrangled
on this Page over Lawrence and his col-
leagues of the Freudian school apparently
under the impression that they are the last
word in scientific novelists. They are not.
I submit the Rev. Dixon. He has written
If! novels arid a play. His new book has
already run into two impressions. In U.S.A,
he is a force.
M.G.S.
W. H. Hudson
In his “portrait” of W. H, Hudson, the
naturalist whose memorial by Epstein has
made a stir in London, the chief aim of
Morley Roberts seems a desire to convince
the world that he has a great man to deal
with. But the portrait, in spite of its color-
ing of hero-worship, shows the Hudson who
reveals himself in the pages of “Far Away
and Long Ago” and other books from the
same pen. Morley Roberts says: “I prefer
to put down Hudson as great and little,
fierce and kindly, chaste of thought yet
passionate, splendid, irritable, wide and
petty, savage and gentle and vain.” But
this is only when, for an instant, the bio-
grapher has taken his eyes from the halo
which, consciously or unconsciously, lie
places round the head of the man with whom,
in spite... ot 40 years of friendship, he con-
fesses never to have been really intimate.
It is perhaps this innate reserve of Hud-
son's which prevents some of his critics from
crediting him with the possession of per-
sonality—one of the seven virtues that go to
make up the orthodox literary canon. Judged
by this highly technical standard, greatness
is denied Hudson; but, even so, he is in the
excellent company of such as Whitman. In
fighting for a recognition of his friend’s
greatness, Morley Roberts challenged the
critics, who, putting Hudson’s work undei
the literary microscope, did not find all the
ingredients necessary to a verdict of “great.”
Yet that microscope has more than once
failed to reveal greatness where greatness
undoubtedly was.
Leaving time to decide this vexed question,
and reading Hudson with our minds un-
biased by either hero-worship of the faint
Praise of some of the critics, most of us
come to the conclusion that, whether or no
Hudson, like Abraham Lincoln, "belongs to
the ages,” his books certainly can transport
ns from the bricks and mortar of centralised
Australia to the vast plains of La Plata or
the. green lanes and fields of England—-an
achievement that is surely allied with great-
ness- It we make an orgy of his work, we
may fin'd repetition that is sometimes tedious,
bitty, sandwiched in between other reading,
one of Hudson's books is like a flagon of
sunlight and fresh air.
Clearness and simplicity are two outstand-
ing characteristics of his work, and his in-
finite capacity for seeing beauty in what we
call common things gives his books a fresh-
ness that conies as a tonic after the artificial
vaporing* ,of some of our--present-day ‘.writers
who juggle with the fetich of realism. Hud-
son’s realism' cannot be. questioned. In
"Minis and Man" lie says, that to see birds
we must see shem emotionally.. Perhaps to
appreciate Hudson’s books ,we must read
1 hem emotionally, though a cold-blooded critic
has confessed (hat he has read with interest
everything Hudson wrote.
, "Far Away and Long Ago," written in
England In a dimly-lighted room during an
illness, is a vivid’memory of the golden sun-
light of La Plata and the sound of "the
everlasting wind. To me this fascinating
book- seams an almost perfect revelation of a
man in the making. The critics may not
enthuse, but they cannot obliterate the clear
foreshadowing of the strange, often unhappy,
Pan-like being who passionately loved life
when it meant Nature, and preferred even
the horrors of Suburbia to the perils of dying.
In the vastness of La Plata a small boy
stands in rapt contemplation of a bird, un-
aware that he is worshipping at a shrine that
will claim the allegiance of a lifetime. He
hadn’t reached his ’teens when lie saw a man
lying dead on the great plains, and never
afterwards lost the fear of death. Trying
to find an escape from this haunting fear,
lie went to his mother, orthodox in her be-
liefs, and, against his precocious judgment,
eagerly grasped at what she told liim. But
this false paradise was destroyed when some-
one lent him a copy of Darwin's “Origin of
Species.” After that the boy was the man
who, denying the immortality of the soul,
believed that “death shut out for ever the
magnificent enjoyment of the natural gods,
the earth and sun and the fruits thereof."
His idea of Paradise „ was life everlasting
under the light ol: the sun, the moon and
Hie stars. He was an animist who doubted
the existence of soul apart from matter.
Perhaps because the child was so eminently
the father of the man, Hudson seems at his
best when writing of his childhood. In
“Adventures Among Birds,” the literary
jewel is perhaps the story of his first anil
last caged bird —the cardinal presented to him
by the clergyman with the “large, clean-
shaved, colorless face that had no friendliness
in it.” Yet his rhapsody on the four whin
ducks on the azure pond is no mean piece
of English. It is in this book that he speaks
of “tile immortal green of the earth.” "I
don't know much about the stars,” he says,
"nor am I anxious to visit them—it is only
the long, green way that fascinates me."
In "A Traveller in Little Things” lie gives
us sketches of beloved little girls that link
(Continued on page 3.)


Jl
m
a
Reliable and Efficient Fanning Aids
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
XTBS.
“WIARD”
MOULDING OR HILLING
PLOUGH.
We can recommend this Moulding
or Hilling Plough for heavy exca-
vating and all kinds of contractor's
and “good roads" work, and in
all cases where great strength and
capacity are re-
quired
85/-
■
XT67.
“WIARD”
ROAD
CON-
TRACTOR’S
PLOUGH.
Tliis Plough Iras groat strength and is adapted to
contractor's work and for tearing up cobblestone or
macadam pavements. Four- or six-
horse.
PRICE
Extra Points.
Price 50/-
XTI2O.
“WIARD” PATENT STEEL BEAM PLOUGH*
Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with coulter and adjustable clevis.
Ploughs 5 to. 8 inches deep, Bto 12 inches wide. eA /-a p•/
PRICE ID “
Extra Cast. Shares, 4/2, Extra Forged Steel Shares, 46/6.
“WIARD” EMPEROR HAY RAKE.
XTIS.
All Emperor Rakes have com-
bination attachment for one
or two horses.
The teeth, being flattened and
chisel-pointed, will not dig,
take up least dust, offer
little resistance, and reduce
the draft. Bft. wide, -4
PRICE .. £l6/10/.
Incomparable value in Farming
Aids is assured the man who
shops at The House of Economy.
Dependability, which is most
important, is the chief attribute
of every Implement sold by
Anthpny Horderns’—and the
prices are the lowest in the land.
JLj
m
• r
■
j
4
XTI9.
EMPIRE STUMP JUMP HARROW.
EMPIRE
STUMP JUMP HARROW.
Similar in construction to
the ordinary U-bar Lever
Harrow, with the addition
of the guards that pro-
tect the end of the tooth-
bars. By throwing the
levers forward, the teeth
are thrown back for trans-
porting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash. Two
sections, with bar, 50
SSfea ....£7/10/-
60 Teeth, including
long bar
£8
Write for
Illustrated Price
List of
Agricultural
Implements. A
copy will be
posted free.
XTIB2A
Rental l’s Chaff cutter,
C.D.Z. — Rising month.
inches wide ; cuts four lengths
—-5. i and
| inch.
PR ICR
£1310/-
RELIABLE PUMPS FOR ALL
PURPOSES.
XT66O.
Myers’ Force Pump, with 6in. Brass-
lined Cylinder, Sin. Suction and dis-
charge (as illustrated). Capacity
5800 gallons per hour.
PRICE
Myers’ Bulldozer Pump, 4x5 inch
Brass Cylinder. 2in. suction and
discharge. Capacity 1300 gallons
per hour.
PRICE
£6O/10/-
£3610/-
XT4O.
Douglas’ Pattern Lifting Pump—
a' very serviceable and reliable
Pump (as illustrated).
Xos 3 4 6
Prices . . 36/- 40/* 70/-
XT41 —The Denning Double-acting
and Lift Pump. Will lift 2000
gallons per hour. Will force water
a distance of about 50 feet from
point of nozzle.
PRICE
£4/10/-
8®
IXstt.’rrTrr'- T
“WIARD” PATENTED STEEL BEAM
PLOUGH.
Steel Beam Two-
horse Plough,
fitted with iron
handles and ordi-
nary Colonial
coulter. Ploughs
6 to 9 inches deep.
10 to 14 inches
wide.
PRICE—
£7/176
Extra Shares. Priee 4/6 each.
XTIOO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440-


Serving the Nation
with Petroleum Products
fcSSr"* «K
•m»m M wv
n
«w m m
....
mnwmmtsm
The New Works of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty., Ltd., at Yarraville, Victoria, covering approximately
40 acres, as they will appear when completed.
OR 30 years the Vacuum Oil
1 Company Pty., Ltd., have been
assisting agriculture, industry and
transportation in Australia by supply-
ing high-quality lubricating oils, motor
spirit, kerosene and other petroleum
products. Gargoyle Lubricants, Plume
Motor Spirit, Laurel Kerosene and
the other brands of the Company are
famous in every section of the country.
Up to the present time about
£1,000,000 has been spent by the
Company in plant and equipment for
the manufacture and distribution of
its products in Australia and New
Zealand.
Now a great forward move is
planned, and is already being carried
out. At an additional expenditure of
about £2,000,000, the Company are
enlarging their manufacturing facili-
ties and extending their bulk distribu-
tion of motor spirit and kerosene to a
great number of country centres,
where tank-stations are to be built by
the Company. Huge storage-tanks
on the seaboard, into which tank-
steamers will discharge their cargo,
railway tank-trucks conveying sup-
plies inland, and motor tank-waggons
supplying the country districts from
the provincial tank-stations will be
the links in the long chain of bulk
distribution.
1 his far-reaching ‘ change over’ ’
from cases and tins to bulk will mean
economy as well as convenience for
the buying public—in the country as
well as in the city. It will help to build
up the rural areas, and it gives practi-
cal expression to the ideal of the
Company to supply the best possible
service as well as the highest quality
products to the whole community.
Vacuum oil company pty. ltd.


V \l
w'
HIP 2t
'■■■Mill
■■■■■■■■l
mmumumr A
mmuMum’-
l«P r
\r
b-et "Ready
yf\\j\y jtoNEs 1
sale:
Less 0J- in the £ for cash
It starts next Monday!
BARGAINS FOR MEN, WOMEN & CHILDREN
him up with Lewis Carroll. “Shepherd’s
Life” introduces us to Lbenezoi
euphemistically known as Sweet \ i ts,
and to Caleb Bawcombe, shepherd.
Though Hudson refused to console him-
self with the idea of personal immortality,
he was no materialist. There is his curious
belief in the occultism of the wind, and
when he makes a pilgrimage to Selborne
-the spirit of Gilbert White, that still, quiet
man with no harm in him. comes from the
grey stones, the long grass and the
ancient yew-tree.” Hudson PracdicaHy
ostracises the name of God G°ui
work: one must not waste strength -
striving toward some unknown and unknow-
able Deity, but must be oneself, and to be
most intensely oneself one must be m sym-
pathy with all living things. A second link
with Lewis Carroll is Hudson s reluctance
to leave a world which, in different ways, was
“crammed with heaven” for both men.
Reading his books, a conviction comes that,
subconsciously at any rate, lie saw m Nature
“the brightness of the skirts of God.
Philosophically and poetically, Hudson is
not a Fabre, but he lias made no slight con-
tribution to the literature of natural history,
which so often tends to take the form of a
catalogue. Like Fabre, he refused to re-
gard a primrose as a primrose and nothing
more, but, unlike the illustrious 1' renchman,
he failed to make confession of faith in a
“Great Geometer.” We may not altogether
agree with Mr. Roberts, but most of us will
wish that the Australian bush had its
Hudson.
IRENE WILKINSON.
Australian Musicians in Europe
For months I have wanted to write about
musical matters in England with special re-
ference to Australian singers and artists.
A new aspect has been afforded by the
advance of many well-known singers. lo
begin with, it ought to be stated that in
May, 1920, over five and a half years ago, 1
advised Miss Gertrude Johnson and Brown-
ing Mummery to go to England and take up
serious study. Botli singers indicated a style
and innate sense of beauty that required a
superior type of instruction. They came.
Both have succeeded, and are in the front
rank in tlieir respective lines. Browning
Mummery lias, much to his disadvantage,
left the British National Opera Co., where
he forged ahead in the best of operatic com-
pany. His coaches were of the highest
calibre. His loss is very great, for he was
receiving the accumulated experience of
many of the greatest artists. Nevertheless his
voice is a fortune-maker, and his concert
engagements are numerous.
The 8.N.0.C. has been responsible for the
advance of two other singers. In my opinion
Australia has never produced an organ like
that of Florence Austral. She has the
finest dramatic soprano voice in existence,
,and she will do more to put Australia on
the musical map than any other woman (and
this includes all of them). I have taken care-
ful notice of her progress, and can say with-
out fear that no voice within living experi-
ence equals that of Miss Austral. No
matter what the orchestra in front of
her, she can drive her brilliant and
sweet voice right through it without
effort. The closing scene from “Gotter-
dammerung” is something that taxes all
voices; but Florence Austral makes a mere
nothing of the excerpt. No wonder she is
to go to America and sing with every orches-
tral organisation in the LT.S.A. and Canada.
Her first appearance at Cincinnati, Ohio, set
musical America wagging. Concert agents
fought with one another to obtain the privi-
lege of booking her. Her first fee in America
is £3OO per concert. What the fee will be
after the first tour—well, you’ll see.
If one may refer to domestic matters, it is
a fortunate thing that two such persons as
Florence Austral and John Amadio are to be
married on December 15. Amadio is perhaps
the greatest flautist living and an exception-
ally brilliant musician, and the marriage is
bound to make a combination that is of the
rarest. Miss Austral is to sing in Berlin
and Vienna, and informs me of her great
desire to make her debut as Isolde. What
a credit she is to Australia! Other singers
have, had compeers. But there is no one able
to approach Miss Austral in her singing of
dramatic soprano roles. She has improved in
her acting beyond measure. Only to-day
England’s greatest musical critic w r as over-
flowing with joy when talking to me of her
voice. Had Wagner lived, she alone would
have been his Brunnhilde. Last night I was
simply transfixed in my seat on hearing her
in Act 111 of “Die Walkure.”
The other singer I wish to refer to is
Fred Collier. From the first time I heard
him in Melbourne, six years ago, I knew that
he possessed an unusually fine voice. He,
too, I advised to get to England with the
greatest of speed. The formation of the
8.N.0.C. saw Collier well in line, but bat-
tling for recognition against the principal
basses and baritones in this country. The
character that gave him his chance was
Klingsor in “Parsifal.” The part might
have been written for him. Yet he was not
advanced in the general order pf things. But
to-day Collier is a real Brutish hope. lie
can sing Wagner and Puccini with equal
facility. Ilis Klingsor roused the enthusiasm
of Langford of the Manchester Guardian,
and to-day Collier is ready to come forward
as the first of British Wotans to give the
part that purely singing quality it has so
rarely had. Several times this past fort-
night I have marvelled at his general ex-
cellence. His Amonasro in “Aida” was a
unique contribution to opera. Collier will
not make the mistake of Mummery, as he
realises that association with men like Robert
Parker means genius at his disposal. 1 hate
to prophesy, though if you cafe to test my
previous venture as a son of the race of
prophets, look up my 1920 views of Miss
Johnson and Mummery. Of Fred Collier I
have hope that he will reach the highest
rung of the operatic ladder. He knows well
that success is attained only by persistence
and perseverance. He is always using spare
moments in mastering something that may
not come his way in the immediate present.
Success will be his in the great roles within
a short time, because there is ..no one on the
musical horizon so well endowed.
The 8.N.0.C. this last week attempted a
production of “The Ring” without cuts. This
has never been done in English before. It
was tried , here in Manchester. In order to
do it the work was performed in six nights
instead of the customary four. The arrange-
ment was as follows: —
First Night: “The Ithinegold.”
Second Night: “VnTkvrie,” Acts I arid Tf.
Third Night: “Valkyrie,” Act III; and “Siegfried,
Act I.
Fourth Night: “Siegfried,” Acts II and 111.
Fifth Night; “Gotterdammerung,” Prelude and Act I.
Sixth Night: “Gotterdammerung,” Acts II and ill.
“Musical Manchester" must he an illusion.
“Rose Marie” booked over £lO,OOO for the
first two weeks. The operas have .received
scanty support, though “The Ring” perfor-
mances have been the best ever heard in
the language.
Yesterday afternoon I saw a splendid per-
formance of Verdi's “Otello.” Frank Mul-
lings as Otello gave the finest performance
in his life, and Harold Williams, another
great singer from Australia, as lago, proved
himself as fine an actor as vocalist. Rarely
indeed has an audience given such a recep-
tion to artists as that accorded these two
singers at the close of Act 11. The duet
has been recorded by the Columbia Co.
The Halle Orchestra, with its famous con-
ductor, Sir Hamilton Harty, and the Halle
Choir, aided by the Besses o’ tli’ Barn Band,
joined in a production of Berlioz's “Messe
Des Morts,” written for the French Govern-
ment and given its first performance in 1837.
A more interesting Requiem can hardly be
heard. The number of participants was m
the region of 400, though this is small com-
pared with Berlioz f s original desire, -the
performance took on an international aspect,
as critics were here from France and Ger-
many, besides scores from the principal Lon-
don and provincial towns. All musical
journals were represented. This was due to
the genius of Bir Hamilton Harty, who is
considered the greatest Berlioz conductor in
Europe. Harty received his knighthood for
his sterling work for music. He has brought
the Halle Orchestra and Choir back to its
old-time condition —that of the finest in Eng-
land. His programme this season includes a
new work at every concert. The Berlioz
“Mass” was “for the first time in Man-
chester.” The concluding—and only other —
item was “The Ivromlin,” a symphonic pic-
ture by Glazounov for orchestra and brass
band, the occasion being “for the first time
in England.” Here, again, the Besses o' tlr
Barn Band played wonderfully. Despite all
so-called contests, Besses o’ tlr Barn
under the conductorship of Harry Barlow,
is the finest concert-band in this or any other
country. For concert performancees the
Newcastle (Australian) Band was a com-
pany of amateurs beside them. And so
are all the other contesting champions.
MANCHESTER.
M. BARITZ.
Burns, the Exile of Erin
I would suggest that the half-hearted
efforts of “C.0.M.” to manufacture an Irish-
man out of Robert Burns threaten to become
ridiculous. His final effort to turn him into
“Robert O'Byrne” is based on the statement
that there was once in Ireland a Hugh
Byrne who wrote “in bad verse and worse,
taste,” and that his brother William Byrne
went to Scotland about half-way between
3700 and ISOO. (The poet was born in Ayr
early in 1759.) Hugh is said, by one Dono-
van, to have doggerelled to the effect that
“brother Billy” was “o'er the water where
he must be a man of Air.” Regarded as
proof that Bill was Robert Burns’s father,
whom "C.0.M.” formerly classified (R P.
26/11/’25) as corning from “some unspecified
place in the Highlands,” and being really
named Burn, not Byrne, this looks a trifle
odd. Why dig up the old man and shift him
around like this? Of course, as “C.0.M.”
suggests, “the Irish origin may have been a
family secret well known to his son Robert.'
This apparently means that any decent
family would naturally be darned well
ashamed of being Irish. I decline to dispute
the point, though it is new to me. As to
“every link in the chain of family history”
being “complete.” it seems to me that there
is no chain at all so far as “C.O.M. is con-
cerned, not even that mythical poor relation,
the Missing Link.
The assurance that the great poet, alleged
nephew of the doggerel man, was Irish even
in form and feature” would carry more
weight if the Irishman ran true to form and
was in a category by himself, like the emu,
which is described as “the sole living species
of the family Dromaiidae.” In reality the
race appears in many shapes, varying from
the pearl-maiden to the process-server and
the informer. I even question the assertion
that Burns's “virtues and vices were ai.ke
true to his Irish ancestry.” Never, so far
as I can find out, did he attempt to become
a politician, nor even a corrupt ward poli-
tician. lie w r as never an alderman, or a
conspirator or a policeman. So far as I
know he never kept pub or shebeen. Though
unsuccessful in agriculture he made no
attempt to shoot the landlord. I believe it
was Shaw-Desmond who described the Irish-
man as being “as elusive as a cat, with the
tenacity of a crocodile and a memory that
is terrible,” or words to that effect. The
Scottish poet didn’t measure down to that
gloomy, brooding standard.
Ireland has done nothing very great m
verse since Thomas Moore fell from his high
estate, such as it was, and, instead of rank-
ing with the half-Scottish Byron, came to be
rated, as a dictionary of biography puts it,
“far below Wordsworth, Shelley or Keats."
It even calls him “soulless.” And Ireland
did none too well during the pre-Tliomas days
in the matter of outstanding writers. When
the subject crops up, or is dragged up, there
are apt to be heated shouts about some
alleged ancestor with a name like Fiach
O’Byrne, who apparently didn’t write verse
at all; but this savors of irrelevance. Any-
how, it is snobbish to quote too many ances-
tors. Erin’s noisiest sons put in a claim
to the island’s ownership of all manner of
notables, alleging that they were partly
Irish, or might have been. I believe they
claim Robert Louis Stevenson, son and
grandson of Scottish engineers, and they are
said to have pinned their ticket on to Bar-
rie and Swinburne, if not Tennyson. Some-
times, as in the case of “C.0.M.,” they set
up a claim that if a writer (Burns, or any-
one else) employs, or is said to employ,
“verse forms” which were alleged to have
been used in Ireland by parties unspecified,
at no date in particular, the island has a
claim to annex that writer, body and soul.
No attempt is made to show that Ireland
either invented or patented the "verse
forms,” and the old Irish writing, Ogham,
with an alphabet of only 20 letters and a
script which suggests an assemblage of
small-tooth combs in reduced circumstances,
seems to tend rather to informality than to
form.
Allusion is made by “C.0.M.” to Burns's
good manners (he was a man of education,
and had a right to manners if he wanted
them), and to the alleged surprise of Edin-
burgh society to find that lie had more the
outward seeming of an Admirable Crichton
(who was Scottish) than of a Hooligan (who
wasn’t and isn’t). To class him as Irish
on this ground is akin to proving an animal
to be a pig by reason of the fact that it
doesn’t grunt but ought to.
J. E.
A Satchel of Books
Scar-leaders, by Dorothy Rawson (Arnold). A
bright little book with no greater pretension than
the excellent one of providing innocent amusement.
Tamar Tales, by Joan Young (John Lane). A
collection of short stories dealing with English
provincial life and marked by simplicity and re-
strained dramatic power. Quite good, if at times
somewhat depressing, work.
The Ways of June, by H. Herman Chilton (Arnold).
An innocuous story concerning a modern untram-
melled Miss who, in adopting the baby of her girl
friend, opens for herself the floodgates of mis-
understanding-. Brightly told.
The Mulberry Bash , by Sylvia Lynd (Macmillan).
A group of short stories, extremely well written,
with a trace of the Katherine Mansfield manner.
Sometimes a little too analytical to be altogether
sympathetic; but. they never fail to attract.
The Glimcrick Book, by S. J. A. Witherspoon
(Putnam’s). Glimericks are neither limericks nor
puzzles, but claim to have the best features of
each. They are said to be popular “because they
pique your curiosity.” A time-killing product of a
time-killing age.
The Dorp Dentists, by Frank Watkins (Philip
Allan). The odyssey of three modern bandits -vho
range over South Africa holding up the out-back
population with a pair of forceps, a trombone and
unlimited assurance. The author invests their adven-
tures ' with a robust humor.
The Skyrocket, by Adela Rogers St. John
(Methuen). The story of a kinema star, disclosing
what appears to be first-hand knowledge of life in
Ilollvwood. All quite in the kinema style of glitter
and ‘ bathos, money and “rough-necks,” though
redeemed by some human touches.
Mr. Sponge’s Sporting Tour, by R. S. Surtees
(Geoffrey Bles). Reprint of a novel that in the
middle days of last century had its vogue, and con-
tains reproductions of the illustrations by John
Leech, a fact that in itself will attract the attention
of booklovers.
(fn e-Way Street, by Beale Davis (Stanley Paul).
A rather tiresome story of a young, upright American
who falls in love with a married lady of beauty but
unfair renown. Falling out of love with her, and
rather tactlessly telling her so, he is embroiled by
her in a card-scandal, from which he is finally cleared
by a beauteous daughter of the aristocracy who loves
him well.
The Pixie 0. Harris Fairy Book (Rigby, Adelaide).
A dainty production which should find a welcome
from all parents who believe in bringing art and
beautv into their children’s lives at an early age.
The letterpress of the story and verse is furnished
by- Lynette Yardley, Eva Lawton, Gwen M. Cock and
Pixie O. Harris, but it is especially to Miss Harris
work reproduced, in color, half-tone and line that
the book owes Its principal charm.
Legation Street, by Lenox Fane (Thornton, Butter-
worth). A novel of atmosphere rather than action
It deals with the diplomatic circles in 1 ekin, and
the author has evidently a close knowledge ot the
cliques that flourish around the different l onsutatos
in a foreign capital. The close-ups ol the \\ alle
City itself are the best part of the book.
Music and its Creators, by Neville IV Ester re
(Allen and Unwin). An amateur’s outlook on the
world of musical art. “This popular music that
dins into our ears is the music of materialism, the
force which will bring us low and destroy our
culture.” He advocates efforts to provide good music
for the public, believing that where bad music can
find its way good music also can do so. One of the
most effective means is, in his opinion, the issue
of cheap gramophone records of good music well
interpreted.
The Economic Record. The society which has set
out from Sydney to investigate economic problems is
making good progress, and its journal promises to
be a worth-while production. In the first issue,
Commonwealth-Statistician Wiekens is responsible
for soipe interesting remarks on the nature and
growth of Australian population. The change in
the occupational character of our people between
1901 and 1921 is shown in a comparison of the
number of breadwinners engaged in the principal
callings per 1000 of population:—
In- De-
-1901. 1921. crease, crease.
Pastoral .. .. 68 61 J
Agricultural . • ■ 169 116 23
Sundry primary occupations,
e.g., mining, etc. .. 89 51 38
Total primary producers 326 258 68
Manufacturing .. 163 191 28
Transport .. . . 15 90 la
Commercial pursuits .. 136 ' 153 1/
Professional callings .. 68 87 19
The movement is along natural lines, says the
Statistician. It may be, but there are other con-
siderations. The drift from primary to secondary
and orofessional occupations suggests growing towns
and active terminal ports. In N. S. Males, where
the borrowing habit has become so chronic that
new external loans are raised to pay the interest
on old ones, the occupational drift .has degenerated
into a rush to the metropolis, there being no othei
terminal port, and because the jingle of loan funds
is heard more plainly ini Sydney than anywhere else
in the State. Most of the country towns have either
lost population or failed to keep abreast of natural
increase during the period in question. Commenting
on the lack of population in the north of Australia
Mr. Wiekens adds: “True, we have an empty North,
but so has Canada; so, for that matter, has Asia,
where the southern half contains 97 p.c. of the
population.” The north of Canada and the north
of Asia lie within the Arctic Circle, are incapable of
supporting a large number of people, and are ex-
posed for the most part to an invasion of polar
bears, musk-ox and a handful of Esquimaux. The
north of Australia lies within the sun-kissed and
fertile tropics, and is capable of supporting a very
large white population, but lacks development and
railwav communication with the South, although the
latter ‘ has been promised for the last 15 years.
Professor Brigden, discussing the tariff, comes lo
the conclusion that the effects of Freetrade would be
to reduce the standard of living. Despite that, he
is not at all enthusiastic about Protection, and after
elaborate argument convinces himself that the appli-
cation of our Protective tariff requires closer scrutiny.
In an interesting analysis of the trade cycle m
Maoriland, A. H. Tocker ascribes normal expansions
in business activity there to increased export values,
resulting in a greater net claim by the public on
the banks. Then the pendulum, he says, begins to
swing the other way. The issue contains a number
of other articles on questions of national interest.


MAKING TYRE HISTORY
SUPERTWIST is doing that in Goodyear Balloons
Most of the earlier users of
Goodyear balloon tyres were im-
pelled to buy them by a desire for
greater riding comfort.
But these users have long since
learned that in Goodyear balloons
this greater comfort is matched by a
quite astonishing increase in service-
ability.
Indeed, in those sections of the
country where service and road con-
ditions ordinarily “burn tyres up in
a hurry,” Goodyear balloons to-day
are making history.
They are piling up mileage totals,
and records for sustained freedom
from trouble, that users say are
nothing short of revolutionary.
Back of the splendid achievements of
these Goodyears is the new cord
fabric SUPERTWIST, developed by
Goodyear to solve the special needs
of the modem flexible-sidewall tyre.
The superiority of this new material
lies in its greater elasticity; it far
outstretches the breaking point of
standard cord fabric.
When a Goodyear Tyre made of
SUPERTWIST strikes a stone, the
elastic cords yield to and smother
the impact, stretching under the
blow like rubber bands.
This unique ability to stretch and
recover under shock minimises any
chance of breakage, insuring utmost
protection against stone bruise,
carcass breaks and similar damage.
If you want the finest kind of tyre
performance, get the tyres that are
made with SUPERTWIST—Good-
year Tyres.
You will be sure then of your
money’s worth in long wear, trac-
tion, comfort and safety—for Good-
year Tyres habitually demonstrate
these qualities.
Goodyear Service Stations and
Dealers all over Australia.
Good Tyres deserve good tidies —Goodyear Tubes .
BALLOON TYRES
Made with SUPERTWIST.
/


PRICED
AS LOW AS
£5O
Burroughs
Saves time and money
o «Q
U
Here’s a way to prove it
without cost or obligation
We want you to prove for yourself that this
Burroughs Adding and Listing Machine will save
time and money for you.
Therefore, we offer to place a machine similar to
that pictured above, on free trial for fifteen days in
your own place of business.
You incur no obligation whatever. We stand all
transportation charges. We assume all risk to the
machine from fire, theft, etc.
All that we ask of you is that you use it on your
own figure work. See if it will uncover any errors
that may be eating your profits.
At the expiration of the fifteen day period, if you
are not entirely convinced that a Burroughs Adding
Machine is a profitable investment—-that it will save
time and money for you and make your work easier—-
then we shall cheerfully remove the machine at our
own expense.
Post the coupon to-day, or phone our nearest office.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk Limited
Challis House, Sydney.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - ROCKHAMPTON
BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN - CHRISTCHURCH - WELLINGTON
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LIMITED
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Without any obligation on my part, you may send
a Burroughs Adding Machine to me for fifteen days’
free trial in my business.
Name
Business
Street
City __
4822
ADDING • BOOKKEEPING • CALCULATING AND DUPLEX MACHINES


f W \ _
S 3”
-1 & - iS; ii ?;
PACKARD SUPREMACY
THE supremacy of Packard motors on land, in the air and on the
water has been demonstrated again and again in recent months.
The engines worked perfectly/’reported Commander John Rodgers when
rescued off the Hawaiian Islands after PN9 No. 1 had stopped only for
lack of fuel.
"The car came through with a perfect score,”wrote Lieut. Wade after driv-
ing his Packard Eight from Los Angeles to New York 3965 miles -
without either car or motor once coming to a stop.
Packard motors drove high power speed-boats into first and second places
in recent American classic speed races,
Packard’s twenty-five years of varied experience is available to all in the
Packard Six and Packard Eight.
Single-Six Touring Cars : 5-Passenger <£B9s. 7-Passenger £945
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
IRA L. §C A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Mark Foy s). Ring M 3348 for demonstration. Write or call for catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd,,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors ,
141 Flinders StAdelaide,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
"ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE”


Man News
xcv
HELMET
Light^.Qool
18/6
'Post—
c 3 l iee-’
For business and better
-tfear. Made of pure Indian
Pitb. Ligkt~cool - healthy-
well "Jentilated. White Drill
coveredUchin size.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
lilj Sysen St., ‘Brisbane^
Mail to Desk "S.B-”
1
3
□
Life
to Linoleum
—this Easy,
Liquid Way
Your linoleum will look more beauti-
ful—clean much easier—and last
years longer if you polish it occasion-
ally with Johnson’s Liquid Wax. It
brings out the pattern and color—
protects the linoleum from wear —
and imparts a beautiful, dry, dirt-
repellent surface which washes off
like glass.
The new Johnson “Easy, Liquid
Way” makes the waxing of linoleum
mere child’s play. Takes only a few
minutes—requires no stooping, and
you don’t touch your hands to floor
or Wax.
YMk ®mon
'.MOSMHOf
xcvb
All you do is pour
Johnson's Wax
on a lamb’s-wool mop
and apply a thin, even
coat to the floor. A
few brisk strokes with
the Johnson Weighted
Brush will quickly
bring it to a beauti-
ful, durable, glass-
like lustre.
It is the new, easy,
modern way to have
beautiful waxed floors.
Takes only a few minutes and is as
simple as running a carpet-sweeper.
The Johnson Wax Mop has a remoAmble
lamb’s-AVOoI swab, which washes per-
fectly in hot suds.
Floor Polishing Outfit
Your dealer is authorised to sell you
This 34/- Outfit for only 28/-
A Saving' of <V-
This outfit is just the
thing for waxing all of
your floors. The outfit
consists of:—
1 Pint of Johnson’s
Liquid Wax .... 5/-
1 Johnson’s LamUs-
wool Wax Mop.. 8/-
1 Johnson’s weighted
Floor Polishing
Brush 20/-
1 Johnson’s Book
on Home Beauti-
fying 17-
Value 34/-
Hh* _
MOpe»
saw**
r JO X**%LZ
WON*
rsffi
S. C. Johnson & Son
Office and Factory:
Queen Street, Rosebery, N.S.W.
Denyer’s Elastic Truss
xcv
A safe and comfortable support.
Denyer's Elastic Truss is designed on
scientific principles and offers the
surest safeguard to ruptured persons.
It is so comfortable you forget you are
wearing a truss. It is so efficient that
your mind is free from the worries of
rupture. Don’t hesitate. If you must
wear a safeguard let it be Denyer s
Elastic Truss.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
Postage extra.
Send to Dept 1 for our Free
Truss Pamphlet.
DENVER
gwft
IS r% V# w ■ 5
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and .Artificial Limbs,
DEPT. 1,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SIMPLE
RELIABLE
EFFICIENT
m
k
Sizes:
12in., 14in.,
16in., 18in.
GRAVIC MOTOR MOWER
GRANT & VICKERY, Barnstaple Road, Five Dock, Sydney.
When appetite fails, drink
ENO
When your system is not clearing itself
of impurities appetite tails ENO aids
the proper functioning of the eliminative
organs, purifies the blood and restores the
conditions of digestion which bring back a
healthy eagerness tor food
FRUIT SALT
The World - Famed Effervescent
Saline
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day. 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and fid.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 lin:s).
Afternoon Tea on Board.
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
at 3 p.m. Steamer from Fort Macquarie,
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
ex
m
TTPj
m
-
m
mmwjmwmmjm
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
BOX PRICES:
6d.
EACH.
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/« (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post tree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club lieil Cigar Factory.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your Name.
Names may be golden-voiced or grey,
Soft-tongued or loud and bold ;
Yours tells of liome-lights far away
Against a dusk's dull gold.
Dear lights which shine through thoughts
and dreams
Across the homeless sea,
Where’er I go their magic seems
Tender and kind to me.
Softly it wings on curving skies
From where the sea-line dim
Leads to the homelands coast that lies
Over the round world’s’rim;
And like a chilled man at a flame
Joyii.g in each warm ray,
1 feel the wonder of your name —
You who are far away!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
Morphia.
She came across the death-swept plain,
An answer to my frenzied cry,
Born of great agony, to God
That I might die.
She came, she touched my shattered side,
She soothed my tortured soul until
The battle drifted far away
And the guns were still.
Sho came an hour before the dawn,
Close to my sleepless bed she crept
With all her sensuous beauty bare —
I loved and slept!
She came to me in open day
In a great city’s crowded street;
And beckoning she fled from me
On soundless feet.
And day by day I followed her
With eyes and lips that seemed to yearn—•
Oh, I was fain to turn me back,
Rut could not turn!
She led me to a land of dreams
Where slow waves drown the misty shore
And, turning, whispered, “Come to me
And strive no more.”
I stayed beside the dreaming sea
Bewitched by her mysterious charm;
Her eyes were like the mists of sleep,
And her breasts were warm.
Is there a world of life and light,
Of birds and winds and running streams?
For me there is nor life nor death,
But only dreams!
N.S.W.
JOHN O'HARA.
Rechauffe.
There’s nothing new beneath a cynic sun.
Of old have lovely ladies smiled and poured
Fresh wine into old bottles, watched it run
Its purple pleasure, elegant and bored,
On their too-perfect lips intransient red
To mock the pallor of their souls long dead.
So disillusion waits for everyone,
For Cleopatra and for Antony—
A thousand times a sudden blaze of sun
Waked them from their repeated ecstasy.
Surely her lips are kind, her eyes are bright
With the same passion every velvet night!
Lo. we who read the riddle of the sky,
Its secret laughter chastely veiled with
tears,
Know that creation is a splendid lie
Fabled by jesters down the mirthful years.
They watched a mystic moon in Paradise
As you and I. God gives no new surprise.
It’s time the tale had ending. Pretty stones
Are given ys who ask a little bread.
And the same lies are told before the thrones
Where truth and loyalty sit robed in red.
The words now burning on our lips were said,
Sighed and regretted by the ancient dead!
MAORILAND.
BETTY RIDDELL.
The Gift.
When others speak to their friends afar,
Where the sea ways stretch or the cities are,
With flowers or gems or gold
And greetings tender and wishes true,
I am sending a glimpse, in a song, to you
Of the hills that we loved of old.
When the black night drops as a cloak may
fall
And the voice of a clamorous waterfall
Calls out to a silent stream,
In a hidden cleft of the rocks asleep.
Where the damp moss clings in the shadow
deep,
They rise from the mists agleam,
Athrill with a thousand nameless things
That the magic touch of the morning brings
When the shadows are all asway;
And down in the valleys of mists are set
The vivid poppies, aflame, dew wet,
Red stars in a sea of grey.
When dawn to a splendid noon has grown
They rise unshadowed, a shining zone,
Meet guards for the valley bright;
And spirits crushed by the sordid strife
And petty cares of a hard-lived life
They lift to their own brave height.
Do you dream of them still, as they drowse
at dusk, , , ,
When the old dreams, wakened from rose
and piusk,
Walk softly in life again,
When, wise to comfort and strong to bless,
They soothe with a long forgetfulness
Of sorrow and lonely pain?
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


xcv
MARK TWAIN,'m his
book “Following the Equa-
tor,” on Page 233, writes
regarding the GREAT
WESTERN VINEYARDS:
* It yields a choice cham-
pagne. . . . The champagne
is kept in a maze of pas-
sages underground, cut in
the rock, to secure it an
even temperature during
the three-year term re-
quired to perfect it.”
mm
7
wmsmmm
m.
m
HE. Hi
r-mt'S
mm
.
m
n
■
H
; -:-‘V
Hi
'.N
m
m
m
m
wm
■
■
.t
v -
, : .: K
VI
■
I
■H
■
H
■
»
■
K
n
H
* :2 ... .. v
■
■ . ■
' iMilllaP
//><///?


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.
Yol. 47.—N0. 2396.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14. 1926.
Pkice 6d.
MAKING SURE OF THE GAME.
“Mr. Lang, the N.S.W. Labor Premier, is proceeding with his measure for the abolition of the Leg. Council.”
CAPTAIN LANG (to Captain Bavin): “Now that I’ve won the toss, I propose that we do without umpires.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbouune Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANV ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly',
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. Cxi.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
months, 13s. Gd.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2321 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
* The contents ot this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Yerse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable lIS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications joi return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e. , any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 15-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C’.l).; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.Jj.E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1)6 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn,
London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street,
London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
llhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Bcnoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1)1)1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, I!.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde ; Post Office
News Co., 33 1 Vest Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City: Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West J/lst Street, New York City.
Washington : Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China.- —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — ll. B. Per era and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo: Wijeratne and Co., Manning Mansions, and
Bristol Hotel, Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. ; Gordon arid
Gotch, 15-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.lj.
F.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: I/oz. to 10os., lid. ; each
additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffuTfyullelm,.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1926.
THE PLETHORA OF TAXES.
The silly cry that the Commonwealth should
. abandon income-taxation to the States is
once more loud in the land. It comes mostly
from fair-weather friends of the Bruce-Page
Government who ignore the essential fact
that the Commonwealth has to shoulder
heavy war burdens from which the States are
exempt. Last year £28,857,201 of the ex-
penditure from Commonwealth revenue —51
per cent, of the total expenditure—was on
account of the war. This year war-interest
and sinking fund will absorb an additional
£823,895 as a result of £67,000,000 of matur-
ing loans having been renewed at a higher
rate of interest (54 per cent, subject to Com-
monwealth taxation, as against 44 per cent,
free of Commonwealth taxation),”and there
will be further demands on the revenue as
other loans are renewed. Wisely or un-
wisely, the Federal Treasurer has made
several cuts which have brought his income-
tax revenue dovyn from £16,790,682 in 1921-
22 to an estimate of £9,650,000 in 1925-26.
If lie tried to get along without this
£9,050,€00 lie would be in trouble at once,
for his 1924-25 surplus—though the revenue
for that period and previous years was in-
flated by overseas borrowing - was only
43,018,876. He would be obliged to get more
revenue from the tariff which was designed to
be protective, and which has done its job
so badly that customs receipts jumped from
£13.705.000 in 1919-20 to £26,405.000 in
1924-25. There are hopes that the tariff
will be made more genuinely protective by
the revised rates brought down last year
and those which should be added when the
new Parliament gets into its stride, in which
case customs receipts Avail steadily decline.
These hopes would vanish if the Common-
vvealth Government found itself in difficul-
ties because of a hasty and unwarranted
sacrifice, and a tariff for revenue would
do manufacturers and others ten times more
harm than the Federal income-tax has done
or is ever likely to do.
Nor would the abolition of the Federal
impost give the genuine taxpayer any last-
ing relief. Everyone who is not blind or
imbecile must realise that the Federal rates
would, -sooner or later, be added to the State
rates by spendthrift Labor Administrations.
The main difference would be that the nine
or ten millions now devoted to war obliga-
tions would be lavished on vote-catching de-
vices like the 44-hour week. Moreover, there
would be an undeserved exemption for rich
investors who have put their money into
loans marked “free of State income-tax”;
and persons drawing considerable incomes
from two or more States would pay less than
their fair share, if they paid anything at all.
So with a certain class of companies carry-
ing on business in the several States. Pre-
mier Gunn recently proposed to tax the S.A.
profits of American film companies, but de-
cided that it could not be done. Premier
Lang has clapped a 25 per cent, tax on the
N.S.W. profits of the said companies,
which have their Australian headquarters
in his State, but there is a possi-
bility of the tax being dodged by the
companies shifting their headquarters to
another State. With a Federal tax on film
profits there would be no such possibility:
also the companies would hav-e to pay on
their Australian profits, instead of those
from one particular State. The income-tax
business is unquestionably overdone, but re-
form should be brought about, not by the
elimination of the one tax which can be
justified, but by the substitution of that one
tax for seven. Instead of the Bruce-Page
Government abandoning the field to the
States, it should induce the States to aban-
don it to the Commonwealth —or compel
them, if necessary, by suspending the 255.-
per-head payments out of surplus Common-
wealth revenue, to which they have had no
legal or moral right since June 30, 1920. In
the result there would be substantial savings
to honest taxpayers—especially those with
interests spread over the States —in the pre-
paration of returns and co'-t of administra-
tion, together with fewer leakages (to say
the least) than there would be if the States
had the field to themselves. Further, this
arrangement would enable the National Gov-
ernment to reserve the income-tax for war-
debt purposes, whereas it would plainly
degenerate into a means of victimising poli-
tical foes of the crowd in office and stuffing
the pockets of political friends if left to the
States. In 1923-24 the income-tax revenue
amounted to £21,478,315, £11,657,555 of
Avhich was raised by the Commonwealth.
This £21.478,315 was £869,439 more than
was required for war interest (£18,383,553)
and sinking fund (£2,225,323). Were the
income-tax restricted to the satisfaction of
Avar demands, the rates diminishing as the
demands decreased, it Avoujd be all to the
good. Nevertheless, the exemption should be
a good deal lower than the £3OO p.a. uoav
obtaining in the Commomvealth and N. S.
Wales. Nearly 40 p.c. of the gross income
of Australians is earned by persons receiv-
ing up to £3OO p.a. Single men who get
from £4 10s. to £5 15s. for a 44-hour week
can afford fo contribute something towards
the cost of the war and the support of those
who Avere maimed or bereft of their bread-
Avinners in it.
The Commonwealth imposes a land-tax
which brings in about £2.000.000 p.a., estate
duties which produced £1,320,911 in 1923-
24, a good year, and a tax on entertainments
which used to yield from £600,000 to
£675.000 p.a., but has been substantially re-
duced. These taxes are vexatious duplica-
tions of State imposts and might Avell be
dropped. The States should not compete
with the Commonwealth in the taxation of
incomes, nor should the Commonwealth com-
pete with the States in, the taxation of land
values and dead men’s property. If the
national authority gave up its land, estate
and entertainments taxes and deprived the
States of income-taxation, with or without
their consent, it would be roughly £6.000,000
p.a. to the good. This amount would be in-
creased by approximately £7.500,000 if the
Bruce-Page Government exercised its right
to discontinue the subsidy which should have
ceased in 1920. By way of consideration,
the Commonwealth could take over, say, 50
p.c. of the State debts, on which interest and
sinking fund (A'ery little of the latter)
amounting to £25,090,952 was paid in 1923-
24. It is now nearly 16 years since the Aus-
tralian people, by 715.053 votes to 586,271,
gave the Commomvealth power to take over
the State debts, “whenever incurred.” How
much longer are they to wait for something
to be done?
LESS WORK, LESS OUTPUT, MORE
PAY, MORE HORSE RACING AND
MORE LOANS.
“The only solution of the unemployed problem is
the elimination of overtime and a reduction in
working hours.” —The voice of a fool.
New South Wales got busy last week in
adjusting itself as far as possible to a work-
ing week of 44 hours, said hours to be
crowded, wherever it can be managed, into
five days. The antiquated decalogue, both
the original in Exodus and the duplicate in
Deuteronomy, orders six days’ work per
week, and puts this command high up on
the list; but that may he a matter of minor
importance. The first object aimed at is that
Saturday shall be a wasted day so far as
production by men or machinery is concerned,
and that trade shall leave off save as regards
such things as fruit, which is perishable, and
grog, which isn't. A five-day week for the bar
and for the handmaiden who serves drink to
many objectionable characters therein might
appear an essential feature of the scheme,
but appearances are deceptive, as usual. As
Saturday must be filled in somehow the
tendency is to supply larger quantities of
expensive and unintellectual amusements of
the horse- or picture-show variety, along
with the facilities for forenoon as well as
afternoon drinking; but no special provision
is in the programme for anybody who wants
to use the free day in pursuit of knowledge.
Perhaps nobody does. “The elimination of
overtime" and of overtime wages is classed
along with “the reduction in working hours.'"
partly because the overtimer shows signs of
ambition, which is contrary to the law that
every worker, unless he takes to politics,
must be bogged, personally and financially,
in his “class," and must be taught to hate
his fellow-men and the solar system and
the universe and the Almighty because he
is bogged. There isn’t much room for the
genuine worker in politics, for when Labor
happens into office the prizes go almost
unanimously to men like ex-master-tailor
Dooi.ey, property-agent Lang and barrister
McTiernan, so lie has every chance to re-
main bogged.
The Lang Government has two separate
attitudes. One is that the cutting of one-
twelfth off the working time will involve the
employment and payment of so tnany more
men on the same-sized bit of work that the
unemployed will all be provided for, the un-
employed being, of course, a monstrous legacy
bequeathed by the previous Ministry. The
other is that the quantity of work done per
man will so greatly improve through more
horse-racing on Saturday that the complaint
of employers (real employers, not barristers,
trades-union secretaries or estate-agents)
about the difficulty of carrying the added
burden is piffle. There will be no added
burden, Ministers insist when they are taking
up this attitude; which means that there
will be no extra employment, and the un-
employed will stay where they are. Dis-
crepancies like this are matters of daily
occurrence. In the very first days of the
new movement it was alleged, in a tentative
and reassuring fashion, that the extra
“hands” required on the railways by reason
of the new system wouldn’t number more
than 800 or so. Last time the 44-hour week
was tried on the Ma State lines the increase
in railway employees was over 3000; in other
words, the number went up in proportion
as the hours went down. And there Avas
a flabbergasted Lazzarini in the Lang
Cabinet the other day when his own em-
ployees, the police, demanded the 44-hour
concession. He almost told them that the
expense would be impossible. When an
exactly similar situation arose in Queens-
land the local Cabinet crawled out by re-
taining the 48 hours so far as the Force
was concerned, but paying for the last four
hours on the abhorrent principle of over-
time. The payment of extra men, it said,
would be bad enough, but the outlay for
extra premises and plant (enlarged police-
stations and more horses, batons, handcuffs,
etc.) would be ruinous. The aggregate fac-
tory-owner, who can’t charge his additional
expenses to the taxpayer, is likewise faced
Avith the need for more premises and more
plant, when he has to accommodate more
men at more pay for doing no more work.
Rut the light-hearted triflers who run the
Labor slioav say that the “capitalist” is an
omnipotent and omniscient sort of cuss avlio
can get over anything if he cares to try.
* * * *
The whole business is a matter of a fool
dancing on a rotten plank laid o\ 7 er an abyss.
If Australia paid for its short hours and
easy conditions out of its own resources it
could map out its own course as it pleased,
and if the course was an insane one it would
liquidate the bill for its OAvn madness. Being
an absolutely unique example of dependence
on loans, anything it proposes to do should
have attached the saving clause, “Creditors
permitting.” The alleged boons which the
Langs and McTieknans undertake to rain
on the community depend almost wholly on
some trustful person lending the needful
funds, and the person relied upon may run
out of money, or trust, or both. He has
lately shown signs of running out of both.
Within the past five years this country’s im-
ports have exceeded its exports by about
£40.000,000. The exports should have ex-
ceeded the imports by about £160,000,000 in
order to pay the foreign interest bill. Im-
portation. instead of local manufacture,
caused unemployment, and local fools in high
places, Avith the most rudimentary knoAv-
ledge of complex industries, propose to meet
the difficulty by manufacturing less. The
wages paid in N. S. Wales factories in the
year to June, 1924, amounted to £29,772,904.
which was a record for the State, and one of
its few signs of solvency. The State’s bor-
rowings in the same time were £26,242,423,
which was also a record. It pointed to the
fact that the bubble-boom can’t last, for the
pace has become terrifying. It pointed to
the other fact that a crowd of youngish ex-
perimentalists with no experience as organ-
isers of industry (though some of them have
organised the stoppage of industry), and
with no knowledge of British finance (which
is the finance they depend on), shouldn’t
promise too much unless their prospective
financier gives his assent in writing. And
there must be a financier, because the new
policy of less work, less output, more pay
apd more horse-racing is even less self-sup-
porting than the old one was.
MUSSOLINI, DICTATOR.
On the night of our arrival in Genoa the
streets were thronged with hurrying crowds,
and the walls of the city placarded with
political notices and appeals. In the Gal-
leria Mazzini there was announced a great
gathering of Pascisti to express indignation
at the plot against the life of “il Duce,”
Benito Mussolini, and loyalty to him as
the leader of a united Italy. Genoa was in
a ferment of excitement. The boyish cara-
biniori, wearing their comic-opera hats and
cloaks, looked placidly on without interfer-
ing. Army officers in many types of uniform
paraded the streets, sabres swinging at the
hip. It is against Italian military regula-
tions for a soldier to appear in public in
civil attire. This gives the military touch
to the Italian cities. I asked one young
officer in the train going to Bologna to show
me the blade of his sword. He could not
draw it from its scabbard. Possibly it had
rusted.
After dinner we went to the Galleria Maz-
zini. It was crowded with Pascisti, the
majority slim, dark-eyed youths in black
shirts with revolvers or daggers stuck in
their belts. The others were in the sage-
green uniform of the Fascisti militia. The
meeting-place was well chosen for the pur-
poses of oratory. The voices rang clear
through the Galleria, and the crowd punctu-
ated the orations with enthusiastic cries of
“Viva il Duce.” “Viva il Re": always “il
Duce” first. The Fascisti ranks are filled by
ydung men and boys, creatures of impulse
and fire who pass easily to the use of vio-
lence, as seen in the recent. disturbances of
Florence. They are recruited from the clerks,
shop-assistants and apprentices of the
Italian cities of the North, to whom the march
upon Rome was a great adventure. Their
activities have been diverted from the revolu-
tion into the carefully prepared channels of
Fascism. The older artisans stand aloof as
much as they dare, but it is a dangerous
thing to be suspected as a socialist in Italy
to-day. There are some, however, who hide
their opinions, hover upon the edge of the
crowd, and watch. They are waiting for
developments.
After the meetings came a parade through
the streets to the tunc of the Fascisti
anthem. From the fifth floor of the Hotel
Isotta I saw the throng of Mussolini’s
supporters form a single file on either side
of the streets. All traffic was held up until
die dithyrambie procession had passed, .aid
the sound of the chant died away in the dis-
tance like the Soldiers' Chorus in “Faust.”
The crowd was obviously Gatin in its’enthu-
iasm. “11 Duce” is worshipped with greater
sincerity by his followers than ever was the
divinity of the Caesars by the pagan world
of the Empire. He is the armed prophet of
Maciiiavelli's “Prince,” his favorite politi-
cal text-book. “All the armed prophets con-
quer and the unarmed are lost. Because the
nature of the people is variable, and it is
easy to convince them of a thing but diffi-
cult to hold them to that conviction. ; And,
therefore, things should be so ordered that
when they have ceased to believe it may be
possible to make them believe by force.”
These words from the political Bible of the
Middle Ages explain the method of Fascism,
which is. after all, a method and not a prin-
ciple. The Fascism of Mussolini and the
Bolshevism of Lenin are alike in their
method of establishing and perpetuating
political beliefs.
Five" years ago Italy was in bitter need
of leadership; her social fabric, the very
nation itself, sick of such erratic adventurers
as D’Annunzio and of the weakness of the
old men, seemed on the point of dissolving
into anarchy. Italians of the middle class
speak with horror of the terrible year 1920,
when factories were seized by the workmen,
trains pulled up anywhere, and strikes and
riots were continuous and almost universal.
The cities were at the mercy of aimed mobs,
and the Red revolution seemed about to burst
like a devastating storm over all Italy. Then
came Mussolini with his gift of leadership
and brutal eloquence, appealing with burn-
ing words to the people of Italy to save the
country. He organised his supporters into
an army devoted to himself and the. cause of
Italy. In October, 1922, came the trium-
phant march upon Rome which placed “il
Duce” upon the throne of the Caesars. He
is the armed prophet of young Italy and
of the gospel of government through force,
discipline and order. He is the incarnation
of the modern anti-democratic mind. The
son of a socialist blacksmith, an associate
of Russian terrorists in Geneva, this quon-
dam revolutionary lias become the forceful
saviour of Italian society. Like all great
men lie has no time for consistency, “the
supreme virtue of the feeble.”
An extension of the leader’s power is to
receive the sanction of the legislature.
According to an article in II Popolo Di
Roma of November 15, “a head of the Min-
istry is necessary to guide and rule the whole
action of the Government. Mussolini is not,
cannot be, a Minister amongst Ministers, an
equal amongst equals. He is more, much
more. The wish of the people, the power of his
genius and fate, and the necessity of the
times have all decreed that 'il Duce’ should
guide.” Against the most fulsome adulation
no critical voice can be raised ; but there are
mutterings. Like Julius C.esak, Mussolini
has crossed the Rubicon from democracy to a
dictatorship, and, it is significant that in his
latest biography there appears a portrait-
bust of him crowned with the fillet ;■ of a
Roman Imperator.
Democracy in the Anglo-Saxon sense has
disappeared from Italy. The State is to be
organised no longer on a Parliamentary but
on a Fascisti basis and principle. The Pre-
sident of the Council can only be removed
by the King interpreting the will of the
nation through organised Fascism, which is
to become the solvent absorbing all other
organisations. Trade unions are to dis-
appear. Boni and Olivetti, as the repre-
sentatives of the Confederation of Industry,
have signed an agreement with Rossoni, as
the representative of the Fascisti corporations,
“that the General Confederation of Industry
recognises in the Confederation of the Fas-
cisti corporations the exclusive representa-
tion of all workers. Henceforth all conflicts
which may occur between capital and labor
will be regulated by the Fascisti syndicates
alone.”
Against this complete organisation of Fas-
cism all constitutional criticism is suppressed
—no effective opposition dares to raise its
head, either in Parliament or in the press.
The situation contains the seeds of a great
danger—the danger of plot and revolution.
The militia must preserve the Fascisti State
by force of arms so long as there, are dissen-
tients in Italy. The militia are the modern
equivalent of the legions of C.esar and the
veteran guard of Napoleon without their
training and victorious prestige. Yet for
the moment Italy seems to be on the thres-


Slip has reached an agrec-
hold of prospenty- stateg for the repay-
ment with and German capital
;"“o>vfni bade into the indnatrlal uml«-
takings of Turin and Milan.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Constitutional Troubles of Hang
and Co.
IN further pursuit of his breathless career
the N S Wales Premier has announced that
the abolition of the Upper 1 loose has been de-
cided upon, and will be attended to forthwith,
provided sufficient of the 99 members prove
willing- to vote that they bo extinguished.
There are certain doubts on the matter (m
fact there are traces of doubt even about
some of the 25 swampers who were sent up
the other day), but in case of need the
appointment of a batch ot really reliable
extinguishers, including some women, is
foreshadowed. Of course, the unhappy Gov-
ernor may refuse to be driven further along
the path, which leads to his own extinction,
among other incidents, and may remember that
he has alternatives, should he be in desperate
need of guidance. For one thing, it was
laid down by the British Government in 1879,
by way of direction to the Governor-General
of Canada, that an Excellency has “an un-
questionable constitutional right to dismiss
his Ministers, if from any cause he feels it
incumbent upon him to do so. Then, if his
new Ministers' find a majority in Parliament,
or go to the country and find a majority
that way, the old Government is done with
—for the time, anyhow. Also an Excellency
has an unquestionable right to dissolve Par-
liament off his own gubernatorial bat, and
thus solve the vexed question whether the
Ministerial policy has the approval of the
country or not. To let a crowd with a very
doubtful mandate and an almost invisible
majority in the elected Chamber (half the
majority consisting of a man who wasn’t
elected at all) do an unlimited number of
weird things without a reference to its
masters, suggests the dumb, driven cattle act.
The question has been raised in the Ma
State before. John Young was Excellency
then, and Charles Cowper was doing one
of his five Premierships. “Slippery Charley"
beguiled the Governor into a swamping with-
out first ascertaining more definitely which
side the electors were on, and the things
which the British Government said to
Young were unusually severe. This paper
would hate to hear them repeated to the
amiable De Chair.
, « .
A Royal Commission and Its
Recommendations.
The Commonwealth Royal Commission on
Health, reporting on the so-called campaign
against venereal disease, states that more
clinics are needed, especially in the larger
centres of population. It recommends that
clinics should be established for seamen at
important seaports, and for females at
women’s hospitals or the women’s depart-
ments of general hospitals, and that syphilis
and gonorrhoea should be treated in separate
clinics, each so staffed and equipped as to
assure every patient of adequate individual
attention. The Commission also suggests
that the Commonwealth Health Department
should have a v. d. division under a whole-
time director, and that, as regards the States,
“the details of administration should be
made the personal responsibility of a medi-
cal officer of the State Department of
Health.” So far so. good. But there are
other recommendations which will be read
in political circles with pitying smiles: —
When the Commonwealth passes legislation in
the exercise of its constitutional powers regarding
marriage and divorce, its measure should include
clauses dealing with venereal diseases, especially—
(a) a clause similar to section 13 of the Venereal
Diseases Act 1918, N. S. Wales, making marriage of
any person suffering from venereal disease in an
infectious stage an indictable offence; (b) a clause
providing that no marriage should be allowed unless
the parties make declarations that they are not
suffering from any contagious or infectious disease.
The Commonwealth Parliament is nearly 25
years old, and during the whole of that
period it has avoided the discussion of mar-
riage and divorce legislation. Nor is there
any prospect of such legislation being intro-
duced in the immediate future, or indeed
(since there are no votes to be gained by
it) during the next 25 years. The N. S.
Wales Y. D. Act certainly contains a clause
forbidding venerealees to marry, but the
clause is never enforced. That is the trouble
everywhere in Australia, although the Com-
mission has neglected to point it out. On
the legislative side sufficient has been done
to enable a decent showing to be made if
the administration were equal to the legis-
lation —every State has passed a V. D. Act
within the last few years—but the ; admin-
istrative effort lags. Medical officers do
their best, but they are ill supplied with
funds and ill supported in other ways. So
compulsory notification, the law in every
State, lias in practice become voluntary; in-
fected persons discontinue the treatment
and are not forced to resume it; they marry,
and perhaps infect their partners and pro-
geny, and are not punished; they are em-
ployed “in the manufacture and distribution
of foodstuffs,” and are never disturbed. The
Commission’s recommendations may _ be use-
ful in a small way, but it is a pity it didn’t
go baldheaded for strict enforcement of the
existing legislation. Without such enforce-
ment there can be no real campaign against
venereal disease—merely a perfunctory de-
fensive on a limited front.
+
Deportation Under Communism.
So much fuss has been made about deporta-
tion —about its barbarity, its contrariness to
all British traditions of fair-play, etc. —that
it is interesting to study how it has been
viewed by Socialist and Communist adminis-
trators. In New Australia, Dane's Para-
guayan paradise, the Communist Administra-
tion found that such barbarous “capitalistic
devices as lines, expulsion and exile (other-
wise deportation) were not only necessary
but actually unavoidable if the settlement was
to keep going on a basis of discipline and
order. Early in the career of the colony
there was friction over the total-abstinence
pledge. Excellent mm was made in Para-
guay, and some of the pilgrims, after battling
for a long day in the monte, began to feel
that a tot would be invigorating. But tots
were strictly forbidden, and, although the
pilgrims had come to Paraguay to get and
enjoy more freedom, they found they were
going to get a great deal less. In Old Aus-
tralia if a man imbibed too freely —the
pilgrims remembered bitterly—a capitalistic
magistrate might impose at worst a 10s. fine
with costs. Often, indeed, for a first offence, he
would discharge the drunk with a warning.
But the three heroes who' had slipped off to
a Paraguayan village and got glorious on
rum were informed on their return that
deportation was to be their' reward. The
community was staggered. Had not Blatoii-
kord’ written: “Drunkenness is a disease just
as much as typhus fever or cholera, and
often arises from similar causes”? Had not
the Apostle William himself remarked in
the Worker: “I deny that the drunkard is
a criminal. He is a poor wretch who should
have been safeguarded against himself”? And
now—expulsion for a first offence! The
community was riven asunder; for the
offenders, who had put all their possessions
into the New Australia venture, would be
turned adrift in a country of Indians, thou-
sands of miles away from their homes. Surely
some mercy should be shown to the back-
sliders ! But no! A Notice of Expulsion
was posted up promptly. For a while it
seemed as if half the community was pre-
pared to leave with the offenders. But the
chairman had been appointed a magistrate
of the State of Paraguay with full executive
powers, and came back shortly from a visit
to the capital with a posse of Paraguayan
soldiers fully armed. The sinners first
begged for mercy; then asked for a return
of their contributions. But all in vain ; off
they went, and then down came Christmas
with its kindly greetings. One of the pilgrims
wrote to the Barrier Miner of that date :
Upon the day appointed for them to leave the
police came down on the scene. It really looked as
if there was going to be bloodshed. It was not as
if the men were an entirely bad lot. Only one was
very bad. Among the rest were some really first-
class workers, and some of the women, too, could ill
be spared." They left peaceably, however, and 1 do
not know who were the most miserable, those who
left or those who remained.
On Christmas Day the settlers sang their
marching song
Shoulder to shoulder, mates,
Shoulders together;
Hands clasped in hands, my mates,
Fair and fine weather.
Hearts beating close, my mates,
Each man a brother;
Building a home, my mates,
All for each other.
After all. there was some “shoulder-to-shoul-
der” business, for several sympathisers left
along with the deportees and faced the perils
of the outside world. Yet there w T as nothing
illogical about this expulsion. The “Revolu-
tionists' Handbook” says plainly: “If the
nation adopted the Fabian policy it would
be carried out by brute force, exactly as our
present property system is. It would become
the law, and those who resisted it would be
fined, sold up, knocked on the head by police-
men, thrown into prison and, in the last
resort, executed, just as when they break the
present law.” So deportation, after all, is
no mere capitalistic invention. The first
Australians to use it were not only Labor
men but Communists —the pure breed. The
clamor against Bruce (on the part of the.
Labor-Communist press') for having been the
inventor of a new and particularly hideous
form of tyranny is merely amusing. Any
tinpot Russian Soviet exercises more de-
spotic powers any morning before breakfast
than all the Tory Governments of Australia
have dared to use for the last 40 years.
Beginning Life Anew.
“Feng-Shiji” : A few 7 months ago I saw off
to England with appropriate honors an old
colleague with whom had uphold the
Empire in divers hells. He was by no means
spent, had a wife, three sturdy children
whom the tropics hadn’t quite destroyed, and
a pension of £1 or £8 a week, and his blithe
eye was moist with visions of the green lane
in Surrey where he was born. He is in
Maoriland to-day. By last mail I got a note
from him. Leaving out the blasphemy, it
said that the Old Country had become a
paradise for white coolies who didn t want
to work; lie couldn't increase his income
there other than by becoming a trades-union
secretary or a director of communist propa-
ganda ; the conservatism of the stay-at-home
Englishman was more freezing than the Eng-
lish weather, and the thought that his child-
ren would soon be old enough to go on the
dole had filled his nights with terror. He
was in Maoriland as the forerunner of a
scheme whose prospectus he enclosed. It
seems to merit the attention of Australians.
Thousands of Englishmen ga into retirement
every year from every corner of the earth
civil servants, soldiers, bankers, merchants.
The scheme suggests, in language that is
enthusiastic if a trifle naive, sending com-
munities of 50 to 75 families of these pen-
sioners to the various Dominions, where they
will be centred round a clubhouse at which
ail meals and recreation will be provided.
In the surrounding grounds will be the sepa-
rate dw T elling-houses. each with its small
piece of ground where the owners may eke
out their income by cockying under expert
advice. Residence in the community settle-
ment is to be on a temporary basis ; it is
to be a testing-ground where the member has
no other obligation but to pay lus rent and
bis club subscription, which will cover food.
The disgruntled ones may withdraw at any
time • for the contented it is intended that
there shall be land obtainable in the vicinity
and a house built thereon on time payment.
The settlement, in fact, is to be a feeder tor
the countryside, a depot w’here the immi-
grant may stop and look about him before
lie plunges with his children into the un-
known currents of “colonial” life. As lie
moves on he will create a vacancy in the
settlement which a fresh recruit will nil.
The committee announces that it has no
financial interest in the scheme, but will
look for the land and buildings it needs to
those in the Dominions far-sighted enough to
realise the potentialities of the settlements.
It would be an easy matter to wax gloomy
ou facetious about the future of the scheme,
but it has several advantages over the Big
Brother movement —a movement which the
energy of one Australian has already put
on a' promising foundation. The veterans
will bring capital with them, they will be
self-supporting while they or their children
are being initiated into the mysteries of
Strawberry or the cultus of the bee, and the
responsibility of the elders to the young
immigrants they bring with them will be
the strongest Nature has yet devised. Any-
body interested in the notion, either as a
prospective member or as a helper, can get
more particulars from the Hon. Secretary.
Empire Community Settlement Committee,
Regent House, 89 Kingsway, London.
■ *
Whisky at the Steering-wheel.
In the last 12 months 109 citizens of Syd-
ney lost their lives in motor mishaps,
most of them at the week-ends. In the best
motoring circles there is a saying that “good
drivers don’t have accidents,” and the core
of truth in the generalisation is that acci-
dents are practically always due to some-
one's error of judgment. The art of driving
is not difficult; the rules are few and easily
remembered —their application soon becomes
instinctive and the average driver, when
sober, would have to do violence to his in-
stincts before he could engineer a crash.
The conclusion that in a great many of these
cases in which people are maimed or killed
on the highways the driver isn’t sober is
hard to escape, and it has been arrived at
long ago in other parts of Australia and
across the Tasman. In Maoriland the police
magistrates are doing their best to belt such
foolishness out of the pctroleers. To be found
draped round the steering-wheel with a hic-
cough and an inflammable breath is now-
adays a sure passport to gaol in the . Shaky
Islands, the term depending on whether some-
one was killed, in which case it may be
seven years, down to three months for just
being “drunk in charge” without trimmings.
Such sentences would cause dismay in Syd-
ney, where a fine and a suspension of license
is tin' usual punishment in even the worst
cases, but in Maoriland everybody applauds,
and the automobile clubs lead the clapping.
The stage has been reached there when a
man has to pluck up more than alcoholic
courage to drive a car in curves along a
straight road. He sees in his mind’s eye a
bleak prison cell, a grim magistrate saying
“Six months* hard without the option,” and
an unfeeling public chorusing “Serve him
right!” with animation. The dice being
thus heavily loaded against the gentleman
who gets too happy to see where lie is
driving, lie forms the habit of not driving
while in that sozzled condition, and the
death-rate grows slimmer. The habit is one
that ought to be encouraged by the magis-
trates of the senior State. A good habit is
better than a fine tombsone any day.
♦
MaoHland’s Thirst for Power.
Thebe used to be a time in Maoriland, not
so very long ago either, when it was possible
to say' that hydro-electric power was a delu-
sion and a fraud and be believed. But not
now. Facts are that the first "big experimen-
tal scheme, at Lake Coleridge in the South
Island, has been such a whopping success
that every other part of the country wants a
similar one and wants it quick. The success
of Coleridge was obscured for- years by two
complications—firstly, the necessity for con-
tinual capital expenditure on expansions of
plant, to keep up with a continually increas-
ing demand for current; secondly, the fact
that all the profits were being made, not by
the Government, whose scheme it was, but
by Christchurch City Council, which had an
incredibly advantageous contract for the
supply of the current it undertook to distri-
bute. Year after year the Government
showed a deficit, which the whole Dominion
knew about, and the Council made a nice fat
profit and didn’t cackle very loudly about it.
Even when the stage was reached at which
the Government made a profit it had to be
content with £7OO, while the Council made
over £23,000 and other distributing bodies
about £12,000. But the distribution of pro-
fits in a public enterprise doesn’t matter so
much. What has mattered has been the pro-
vision to the province of Canterbury for a
decade of light and power at prices ranging
from sd. a unit for the lighting of the small-
est cottage dow n to one-third of a penny to the
biggest power-user. The capacity of the plant
was 4500k.w. at its inception in 1915, raised
to flOOOkw. in 1917; to SOOOkw. in 1922;
to 12,000 kw. in 1923, and this year is to
see a complete duplication, bringing the
capacity up to 24,000kw\ But that is not
all This year and the next, if all goes
according to plan, will see the power sources
of the Dominion increased by at least 50
per cent, through hydro-electric development.
As far as they can be tabulated the present
power-plants of the country are capable of de-
veloping about 230, OOOh.p.—rather more, in
ratio to population, than Australia uses. Or
these plants about 100,000 li.p. are electrical
and about half the'electrical power is w ater-
generated. Bv the end of next year anothei
120 000h.p., all hydro-electric, will be avail-
able. In addition to the duplication of plant
at Coleridge there are the big new plant at
Mangahao, to serve Wellington and district,
32 000h.p.; Arapuni, the ambitious damming
scheme that is to give Auckland 60,000h.p.,
and minor developments in various parts,
estimated to yield about 12, OOOh.p. 1 he ques-
tion that time has to answer is whether this
very rapid development is justified by the
Coleridge success. Coleridge has taken 10
years to get to the stage where it can sell
an output of about 20, OOOh.p. Whether Wel-
lington and Auckland can immediately anu
profitably use very much larger supplies ot
power is doubtful. In Canterbury, under
the influence of cheap power, many new' in-
dustries have been brought into being, and
in other ways the growth of demand has
been attributable to the creative effect ot
cheap power. Time has to be given for that
creative effect to make itself felt, and there
are those who fear that in the meantime
Mangahao and Arapuni will be paying inter-
est on capital charges not nearly justified by
the initial demand for pow r er. As against
that view' it is inevitable that the new
plants, right from the jump practically, will
replace power derived from non-hydro-
electric sources, and there is a big potential
market in that direction all ready to be ex-
ploited. The Maorilanders, xvhile they have
a keen eye to the advantage of cheap power
from a manufacturing standpoint, reticulate
the country as well as the towns, so that
Strawberry in Auckland and Taranaki, as m
Canterbury, will soon be enjoying the de-
lights of electrical milking, the farmer will
peruse the Wangaparangau Advocate by
incandescent light, and the jumbucks will
lose their locks under the suasion of shears
propelled by chained lightning.
♦—
News from the North.
F. C. Übqithabt, Administrator of the
Northern Territory, whose business it is to
sit in an empty land and watch Time rolling
past, has prepared another annual report.
It has not been officially presented, but
some points have been allowed out. The
Territory remains in the old spot. The Ad-
ministrator recognises that it is no use talk-
ing about the importation of nigger labor,
even 4f he wanted to, and he doesn't see
what there is for an imported nigger to labor
at, even if the nigger wanted to. Allegedly
“there has been no industrial strife for about
three years” ; as there were only 70 unionists
in the whole Territory in 1922, and 72 in
1923, so dead had the show become, there
wasn’t much material for disturbance. Still,
two strikes are on record in 1922, and one
in 1924. The total exports in 1923-24 were
£BOOO, but in 1924-25 they had boomed up
to £41,000. (The Federal Statistician put
the figures at £BOOO and £39,1(59.) This
leads to the following odious comparisons:—
Overseas Exports ter Inhabitant.
1923-24. 1924-25.
Northern Territory . . £2 5 0 £ll 711
Commonwealth .. • • 20 15 8 27 12 0
There is nothing rare or ingenious, such as
purple and fine linen, about the exports,
which consisted of common cow, mostly on
the hoof. Manufactures are, as usual, nil.
It is announced that the great Federal pos-
session is eminently suited for the growth of
cotton, and during the year 54 bales were
produced. So the place turned out not quite
an ounce of cotton to each square mile. This
is the only agriculture of which it is seriously
accused, there being, at recent advices, about
I square mile under cultivation out of 523,620
square miles. The remote and petrified
Government at Melbourneberra or Canmel-
bourne refuses to give or sell an acre of
land to anybody, which isn’t helpful; and
there are other difficulties. The temperate
southern part of the Territory, where there
are big ranges and rivers and possibilities
of water-conservation, has no railway, though
the Federal Government has been pledged to
supply one for 15 years, and it doesn’t pay
to send heavy vegetable substances or min-
erals away for export per camel. The warm
northern part has 199 miles of railway, ter
minating in a port from which steamers carry
cows to the Philippines,. but that tropical
land has no need for raw cotton, or any other
tropical produce. The report states that
“transportation facilities are bad,” and that
“railwavs are badly needed,” which is
familiar reading. Also (as the Administra-
tor could hardly say that his Federal chiefs
are the most heartbreaking set of shirkers
under the sun), the document mentions that
the needs of the neglected land are time,
patience, people and money. W ith its tone
of gentle melancholy, this reads like a
medical bulletin to the effect that the
patient seems quite incurable, but that if he
lives long enough and the treatment isn’t
altered lie may, or may not, improve. He
wants time, and if iio doesn’t die first he
will get it.
* :
When Is an Immigrant Not an
Immigrant?
Dear Bulletin, —I wish to propose that a
great deal of premeditated twaddle and much
intentional deception, combined with some of
the guff which arises out of pride in' learned
hairsplitting, have been expended on a minor
aspect of the recent and temporarily abor-
tive deportation proceedings. This arises in
great measure, I suppose, from that tran-
sient degradation (I hope it is transient)
and soul-degeneracy which wallows in rever-
ence for every kind of imported and non-
productive work-stopper, strike-organiser, de-
stroyer of Australian industry and would-be
destroyer of our self-governing institutions.
This nasty Bolshevik craze will pass, like
the mania for being a hermit, or a crusader,
or a flagellant, and other forms of moral
scrofula, but it is unpleasant while it lasts.
One of the alleged discoveries, of which the
morbid sort of Australian is very proud be-
cause it is detrimental to Australia, concerns
the intrusive nuisance who has made his “per-
manent” home here. Because of the per-
manence of his home, it is claimed that lie
can’t be sent away, no matter what his
doings may be. This has been quoted exten-
sively in the case of Tom Walsh, among
others, though Thomas was, by all reports,
actively preparing to leave when his legal
troubles commenced, his return being a
matter of uncertainty. Permanence, in the
case of human beings who are able to shift,
as distinguished from cathedrals which
aren’t, simply means unlikelihood of change,
and a permanent person is one who intends
to remain. I was a more permanent citizen
than many the day after I arrived hi this
country because I intended to remain for
good. Frederick Dabley, though he lived
here during 47 years, and was many things,
including Chief Justice of N. S. Wales for
18 years, was never permanent. He always
intended to go “home” when he quitted har-
ness. When he did so the British New Year
climate met him, and killed him on the
wharf, so to speak. Homicide Bertband,
doing his life sentence, looked permanent, but
the fixed intention to stay was lacking, and
he also left us. Countless examples could
be quoted. The safe interpretation is that
nobody is a permanent resident till he is
dead, and that the imported character is
always an imported character, and that the
immigrant is always an immigrant. I believe
the Law will take this view unanimously
when it collects its thoughts. The idea that,
say, an immigrant Chinaman ceases at some
indefinite period to be an immigrant but
remains a Chinaman seems as foolish as to
sav that he leaves off being a Chinaman but
stays an immigrant.—Yours, Solomon
Mala prop.


n
te
i
The Hotel
fth
Commonwealth
SYDNEY
The
Winter Garden
Sooner or later everyone who counts in the
world finds his or her way to the Winter
Garden. It is cosmopolitan—the meeting-place of the
Southern Hemisphere.
The Winter Garden features a refreshment service of
recognised excellence. It offers delightful morning and
afternoon teas, quick luncheons of quality, and after-
theatre suppers.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden from 2/6.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “AUSTRAOTEL, SYDNEY,”
Single Room with Breakfast from 18/6.
“THE AUSTRALIA,”
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
ms
ms
M&jfl
i
SS9
IH
iim*
m
*
z
©
©
m
O
1111111 l
W
Q
m
<
nl
You are ajjored in every bottle
of thatj-elfjramej'tandard qf
excellence which, haf made
FAMOU/* THE WORLD O'ER
and conceded byconnoijyeurj* to be
iCOTLAND)rJbUNDEfTJTIMULANT
Subsidising' the Export of Rubbish,
Since the war the Australian taxpayer has
made considerable sacrifices to keep the
canned-fruit industry alive. In one way and
another —losses on Government pools,
advances to canneries, bounties on produc-
tion, bounties on export, and cut cargo rates
on the Commonwealth Government line of
steamers, itself a losing proposition- —he has
spent more on the canned-fruit, industry than
would have sufficed to build the railway from
Oodnadatta to Alice Springs. Although
bounties are by no means the costliest form
of assistance (the fruit pools absorbed be-
tween £300,000 and £350,000), consolidated
revenue was debited with £133,477 on this
score in 1923-24. During the present year,
£15,000 was set aside for “special freight
concessions” on the Commonwealth Govern-
ment steamers, which have achieved the dis-
tinction of losing £1,789,650 in a twelve-
month. It is a poor return for these favors
to be told that large quantities of inferior
fruit “supervised” by Government officials
and shipped in a Government steamer have
been unloaded on the London there
to be angrily compared with the Californian
article. Nor does it mollify the taxpayer
to learn that the rubbish in question was
taken from “the pack intended for domestic
consumption in Australia.” It seems that
Weddell and Co., of London, at that time
a good and satisfied
customer, arranged to
buy 142,000 cases of
canned-fruit certified
to be of “first-class
domestic quality.” The
order was for 69,469
cases of peaches,
43,470 of apricots and
27,727 of pears, each
case containing two
dozen 30oz. tins, and
it was received with
enthusiasm, as the fol-
lowing semi-official
statement attests-
Senator Wilson made
representations to the Com-
monwealth Shipping Line,
with the result that a
special freight concession
was obtained in connection
with the shipment. As
the sale of the apricots and
peaches had to be made at
a price below cost, the
Commonwealth, on th e
recommendation of the
Board of Trade, male
available a subsidy not ex-
ceeding 9d. a dozen on
the peaches and Is. a dozen
on the apricots, subject to
the conditions that the
canners paid the growers
not less than £lO a ton
for the fruit. Glad as
the Ministry was to clear
the Australian market and
so prepare the way for the
coming pack, it neverthe-
less took every precaution
to see that the fruit was
sound and wholesome. An
extensive examination was
made, and that it was no
mere cursory examination
is shown by the statement
that during its progress
40,000 tins were rejected.
This inspection not-
withstanding, the pur-
chasers on taking de-
livery of their bargain
in London emitted loud howls of dismay.
Recovering, they decided Upon an indepen-
dent examination, and invited High Commis-
sioner Cook and a representative of the Aus-
tralian canners to be present. The indepen-
dent examiner reports that “2977 cases of
pears, 24,469 of peaches and 11,926 of apricots
were not good under the contract, due to the
large proportion of soft, broken, green, over-
ripe or unripe fruit, apart from irregularity
in the number of pieces in a tin.” Australia
House officials, quoted by the Australian
Press Association, do not cavil at this ver-
dict, but explain that the shipment, “though
inferior to the particularly good fruit previ-
ously marketed in 1925, compared not un-
favorably with average shipments prior to
1925.” The Priminister’s version, which was
published before the foregoing, is that 5127
cases of apricots were “unsatisfactory,” but
that the pears and peaches were up to
standard. “It is regrettable that an episode
of this character should have happened,” says
the ever-polite Bruce. Considering that pub-
lic money is involved, as well as Australia’s
good name, and that the circumstances point
to gross carelessness in some cases and down-
right dishonesty in others, even an urbane
Priminister might have employed stronger
language. Anyway, the public wants to know
what he proposes to do about it.
4
“P. Pintpot” : It is the easiest thing in
the world to be refused accommodation
at a Sydney hotel for any reason except the
real one. Many years ago, to prevent pubs
being run solely for the bar-trade, it was
enacted that there should be a certain mini-
mum accommodation for guests in every
house of call except in neighborhoods
where accommodation was not in demand.
The profits of the bar are really a' gift
made to licensees on condition that they
supply the hungry with food and the weary
with lodgings at all times; yet many hotel-
keepers continue to cold-shoulder all but bar
patrons with stories of full houses. Except
in the few big hotels which cater mainly for
well-to-do visitors, the boarder is regarded
as an unprofitable nuisance, and the average
hotelkeeper does all he can to evade such
custom. Even at seasons when streams of
holidaying visitors tour the streets looking
for places to lay their heads, numbers of
pubs remain splendidly empty except in their
bar quarters. Victoria sensibly meets the
situation by demanding house as well as bar
returns from its licensed victuallers, and the
place winch, on its food and lodging figures,
can claim but slight public usefulness has the
sword of Damocles hanging over its precious
license. As a result, Melbourne pubs com-
pete as eagerly as suburban boarding-houses
for the custom of the paying guest. A
similar provision in Sydney would compel
Bung to look after his full job instead of
only the most lucrative part of it.
4
“N.K.C.”: The Education Department
headquartered in Melbourne is still mid-
Victorian in some of its ideas, and bars the
employment of a married woman other than
in a temporary capacity at a bare pittance.
SETTING OUT FOR THE ASHES.
The Board o f Control has decided that, in order that members of the Australian XI may keep their minds on their work, they may not be accompanied
by their wives.”
N. S. Wales, on the other hand, not only
gives the married woman permanent employ-
ment, but allows her time off, if necessary,
for such maternal duties as no one else can
perform. I am a Victorian teacher, univer-
sity-trained, w r ho crashed on a disastrous
marriage. Still in my twenties, I had to
start teaching again, and found I could only ,
be employed temporarily at £3 4s. a week,
and that on relieving work, because the Act
prevents me being re-classified. Hence I
travel, relieving, from school to school.
Recently my wanderings carried me to the
N.S.W. border, and I crossed the Murray
to have a yarn with a brother teacher.
Together we dug out the N.S.W. regulations,
and found that on my qualifications I should
be entitled to from £260 to £312 p.a. from the
Ma State, which is now advertising for
teachers. He quoted schools all along the
Murray manned, or, rather, w*omaned, by ex-
Victorian teachers. On liis side of the border
I learned that there are over 200 married
women employed permanently by the Edu-
cation Department. Surely it is time Vic-
toria fell into line!
-
“Mayne Stay” : I agree with “ Jesmond”
(B. 7/l/’26) that the sailing-ship w r as never
an outlet for the dead-beat in England. The
sailing-ship sailorman was a skilled worker
and needed to be. With crews cut to the
minimum, unskilled men were a danger as
well as a nuisance. In the days Ernest
Osborne (B. 10/12/’25) writes of (1890
and thereabouts) the supply exceeded the
demand to such an extent that it was entirely
your own fault if you didn’t get a crew of
real sailormen in anything like a decent
ship, although wages were only £2 10s. a
month out of London and £2 ss. out of some
other ports. It was on the passage home,
when you’d lost or run out most of your
original crew, that you liad trouble. A ship
waiting here two or three months for a wool
cargo, and still more at a Pacific coast port
for grain, was bound to lose a good many
men, even when the skipper didn’t try to
get them out. Newcastle used to be pretty
bad, but the) Pacific coast ports were beyond
the limit. Men were forcibly taken out of
ships for the sake of the two months’ advance
and the blood money the boarding-liouse
masters got on re-sliipping them. One trip
in ’Frisco we lost most of our men by the
time the sails were properly furled. The
second morning after, while we were still
waiting for a berth, I saw two of them on
a passing outward-bounder. Thirty-six hours
on shore was all they had for three months’
wages (left behind with us) and two months
advance from the new ship. When it was
your turn to start homeward-bound you bad
to put up with anything the boarding-house
masters could persuade or shanghai on board.
There is the historic case of the ship that
found one of the new crew, brought on board
in the dark of early morning, was a corpse.
Skippers used their power of disrating the
incompetent quite a lot, but to give a bad
discharge for want of ability was risky. A
man could demand trial on a man-of-war.
If lie could splice, steer and furl a sail the
skipper would fall in. After a 150-day pass-
age from ’Frisco, even a hobo would be likely
to pass that test. The steamer, on which
sailorising is not a vital necessity, and where
anyone with a bit of stamina can be made
into a fireman of sorts in a couple of watches,
•altered the position entirely. Still, even in
the “glorified palaces” of the present day,
where nine-tenths of the work of the alleged
sailors is washing paint, there is always a
demand for real sailormen. We take the
others because they’re all we can get.
4
“Kentucky” : We constantly use arsenate
of lead (B. 31/12/’25) on our fruit trees
at the Kentucky (N.S.W.) Settlement, and
I have never seen anything to make me
think it injurious to plant life. The drug
is a first-rate tonic in medicine, and can be
used for months at a stretch without any
harm resulting to the tissues. The Kentucky
soldier-settlers are compelled by Government
regulations to spray all their fruit trees with
arsenate of lead three times in three months.
They use a solution of the strength of
11b. to 40 gallons of water, and on the
ground near the trees grow gooseberries and
potatoes, etc., so luxuriantly that it seems
clear no harm results to the ground. The
first spraying has to be carried out about
the first week in November (that is, within
seven days of the falling of the petals of
the apple-flowers) ; the second before the
calices become closed, and the third about
the first week in January. Of course, you
can see the white arsenical deposit on the
leaves for a day or so, but I have never seen
the slightest trace on the fruit, and cannot
imagine an arsenical solution that will not
wash off.
When Mr. Southenden, of old England,
tore up liis will lie thought that was an end
of the matter. So would most folk. The
gentleman did not allow for the subtleties of
the law. It never entered liis head that a
thing he destroyed could be resurrected, for
that savored of a divine power. Being dead
no one could say positively why, having made
a will leaving all bis real and personal pro-
perty to his wife, lie should revoke it, since
he apparently had no other desire than that
she should possess all that was his. Some
light was thrown on the matter by state-
ments to the effect that lie had been given to
understand that in the event of his decease
it would all pass to her as a matter of course
and that a will was qi ite o mectssary. At
any rate, he tore his will up. Whence or from
whom he gathered the erroneous conception
of the law no one could say. The consequence
was that at his death certain claimants
appeared eager for a bite at the body of the
estate, and it came to court, where it was
held, the judgment being endorsed on appeal,
that, though Southenden deceased bad
when he tore up the document the intention
to destroy it, he had no intention to revoke
it as an expression of liis will with regard to
the disposal of his property. He believed
that intention would automatically be carried
out by the law—as he
misunderstood it. It
was a mistake in law
he ought not to have
made, but did make.
His intention that the
wife should get all
was clear, so the Court
gave it to her. Which
shows that the Law
really can be very sen-
sible.
♦
“W.P.D.”: The Queens-
land Art Gallery is a
standing disgrace to
the State, the City of
Brisbane and a whole
succession of Govern-
ments. The pictures
and sculpture are
huddled together in a
room 120 ft. long by
21ft. broad oil the top
floor of the Executive
Building in George-
street, and Saturday-
afternoon visitors have
to climb 110 steps to
reach it, as the lift is
not then running. The
walls are literally
covered with pictures
mostly indifferent in
quality and jumbled
together. Recently
when Lambert’s
“Walk” (presented to
the Gallery) was hung
three other pictures
had to be packed away
in a store-room to
make space; some-
thing similar takes
place whenever a new-
painting arrives. The
grant to the gallery
is only £5OO a year.
and £450 of this goes in maintenance ex-
penses, leaving just £5O for the purchase of
new pictures. As soon as the present Uni.
buildings are available the collection will
be more suitably housed ; but something more
than that is needed to free the State from
reproach.
*
“Outbacker” : As far as mail services for
the Outback are concerned, the Common-
wealth is a misnomer; such services are
always being cut down on the ground that
they are unremunerative. Birdsville is
Queensland’s extreme western town, about
1000 miles from Brisbane. It is, or was, con-
nected with the capital by mails from Win-
dorah' and Boulia. The former was a weekly
service, but owing to a devastating drought
lias been reduced to a fortnightly one. The
latter, a fortnightly service by car, suddenly
stopped, without any notification beforehand,
85 miles away. We were told we should be
deprived of it for two months, but that
period has already elapsed and travellers re-
port that for some unascertainable reason
the terminus is still 65 miles away in
the bush. Yet the intervening road to Birds-
ville is a good one. Letters to Boulia now-
have to go via Windorah, Longreach and
Winton, which means that it takes weeks
to get an answer. The inhabitants of Birds-
ville number only about 40, with children m
the majority, so obviously there are not enough
votes to interest politicians in our welfare.
The nearest telegraph station is. Boulia, hod
miles distant, and the nearest railway Marra
(S.A.), over 800 miles distant. This is the
way settlement in the interior is encouraged.


o r:
-mmwte
xcv
rhtre-
Look for th* Trademark! Ag*n» Evoryw
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co.{Gt. Britain) Ltd.
16J Pin Street, Sydney
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMUTOL
HAVE VOU
CONSIDERED
the damage
DONE er SMUT
TO VOUR CROPS
USE ,
SMUTOL.
THE GREAT
SCIENTIFIC
PREPARATION
FOR PICKLING
SEED WHEAT
xcvb bulletin
APPLY TO
LOCAL agents
OR TO
MT LYELL
CHEMICAL*
WORKS,
MELB.VG *
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Speaker Dooley is out of favor
with the Lang Government for objecting to
the closuring of the debate on the appoint-
ment of Lang's dummy Leg. Councillors.
Though he owes his job to the Government
he had the courage to say that “the discus-
sion on this important constitutional ques-
tion” should have been “continued for a
great deal longer.” Warming .to his w r ork,
the ex-Premier declared that “the House
should discuss freely every question that
comes before it. Few r er bills and more dis-
cussion would be better.” Dooley is right,
and not only as regards the N.S.W. Assem-
bly. Over-legislation over-hastily passed, by
means of the gag or otherwise, is the ban.e
of Australian Parliaments. They would all
improve a ton if they went in for 50 p.c.
fewer bills and 50 p.c. more deliberation.
After the usual five minutes’ consideration
the N.S.W. Lang Government has decided to
“take over” the Sydney motor-’buses. This
means that a few more millions will be added
to the inflated public debt and a few more
thousands to the excessive army of State
employees. It also means that a pretty good
service will be exchanged for a darned bad
one, and that instead of assisting consolidated
revenue (as they have been doing substan-
tially) the motor-’buses wall contribute to
the deficit. Other blessings will reveal them-
selves when the strike period begins. So
far there have been no motor-’bus strikes,
but Government ownership would be a freak
without them.
The Commonwealth authorities arrested
an alien the other day with a view to depor-
tation. His crime isn’t one of holding up
the country’s business, impoverishing work-
ing men and their families, and conspiring
with other degenerates to bring about a Bol-
shevik Revolution. It is the offence of
allegedly showing symptoms of dementia
within three years of his arrival in this
country. As the man was medically exam-
ined before he was allowed to enter, perhaps
the spectacle of how this country allows
itself to be trampled on by ruffians from
overseas drove him off his rocker. In' which
case the justice meted out to him doesn’t
seem sound or even poetic.
Vic. Parliament has been prorogued for a
month, and the recess will then be extended
every four weeks till supply is needed early
in July. The Ministry does not feel secure
enough to seek an autumn session, and will
let the Bruce-Pages supply Melbourne with
all the Parliamentary diversion it needs for
the silly season—and for some time after-
wards.
Like the Assembly, 'the Vic. Uppah Cham-
bah needs reforming—there are some glaring
anomalies in the distribution of seats. East
Yarra, the centre of which is Hawthorn, has
five times as many electors as Bendigo, and
there are other instances of one “province”
having two or three times more than others.
With approximately 30,000 voters less than
the metropolitan area, the country districts
have nearly twice as much representation.
Eleven rural districts return 22 members and
six metropolitan constituencies 12 members.
While the Ministry is fixing up a redistribu-
tion scheme it had better give the Dreary
House a shake up as well as the other place.
Boundaries have not been touched since
Irvine, under the Kyabramapootra inspira-
tion, fixed them for both Chambers 22 years
ago. A double dissolution, with polling in
equitably divided constituencies, might result
in, a Parliament of better calibre —a much-
needed change.
Wigs, gowns, mace and frills were left at
Vic. Parliament House by Speaker Bowser
and his officers when they called on Governor
Stradbroke to attach his signature to the
Appropriation Bill. If this sort of thing
is persisted in, the rising generation will
have to depend upon the stage for glimpses
of the ceremonial of which their elders pre-
tended to be fond.
Our frank and recent visitor, engineer
George Buchanan, stated in London that the
workers on and about Queensland railways
were “determined to perform the minimum of
work for the maximtfm of pay, and to strike
on the least provocation.” He had been at
ports where it cost 15s, or 20s. to shift a ton
of goods from a ship to a railway truck
alongside. Which is another reason why the
Commonwealth should not break faith over
the South-to-North railway by turning it
SUPERSTITIONS.
“Ignoring the superstition that if a Cabinet Minister has his office redecorated it will be for the
benefit of a successor, the Vic. Government has had the Cabinet room completely refurbished.”
But Premier Allan draws the line at going under the election ladder.
into a long crooked track from Bourke
(N.S.W.) through West Bananaland. Such
a connection would make other States and
territories suffer for Queensland’s sins.
More stop-work meetings are threatened by
Queensland Government railway agitators,
this time to protest against female employees
at the Roma-street (Brisbane) carriage-sheds
being deprived of a 10-minute interval for
morning-tea. As a battle cry, “Morning-tea
for women” will not arouse much enthusiasm ;
but any old pretext is good enough for a stop-
wora meeting.
The increase in the population of Eacliam
(Q.), though not so great as was first re-
ported, is encouraging. The supplementary-
roll shows an addition of 1200 names since
last election; in Chillagoe (a much safer
Labor seat) the increase is only 100. These
figures do not include the floating population
of politicians and carpet-baggers. The Pre-
mier, the Deputy-Premier, the Home Secre-
tary, the Opposition-leader, and a horde of
politicians on both sides are campaigning.
Jones, the Minister for Mines, is left almost
alone in Brisbane as caretaker for the
absentee Government, The election for the
two vacancies (one seat used to be Theo-
dore’s and the other Gillies’s) will take place
on the 16th.
It is curious that the N.S.W. Ministry
should boggle at the idea of a 44-hours week
for the police while granting it with enthusi-
asm to the railway service, unless the reason
be that the force which runs trains mus-
ters over 42,000 votes, and the force which
runs in drunks has less than 3000. There
is great need for more police, and the adop-
tion of the 44-hours system would compel an
increase, though not half so large a one as
the case calls for. But there is no visible
call for more railway servants, who in some
branches are much too numerous already. A
great deal depends on getting a start. While
2900 Cornstalk bobbies may have insufficient
voting-power to get any more bobbies, even
if the community calls, 5800 of them might
have enongh voting-power to get many more
bobbies, whether the community called or not.
The objection of Gwendoline to domestic
service accounts for a short Bill about to
be introduced in the N.S.W. Parliament.
A Church of England home, the Female
School of Industry, was established for the
purpose of catching the poor female of the
species young and training her for house-
work. But the guardians of the home admit
defeat; however carefully trained and im-
pressed with her mission in life, Gwendoline
is incessantly rebelling. As the institution
has had a very hard struggle to live, it has
been decided to pass the income from the
endowment fund over to another home which
merely trains girls for work that seems most
suitable, Without concentrating upon the pro-
duction of Mary Annes. So another attempt
to solve the domestic-service problem goes
by the board.
That the loaves and fishes are fairly well
distributed in Vic. Parliament is suggested
by the fact that 82 members of the Assem-
bly and 16 of the Uppah Chambah are Execu-
tive Councillors. Eight Assembly men and
four Councillors are in the present Ministry
and the others have been in previous ones.
There are altogether 77 Vic. Executive Coun-
cillors, all styled “lionorables” and entitled
to free railway passes for life. The number
includes two Judges and two members of
the Commonwealth Parliament.
Things are warming up in the North. The
official organ of the Queensland Railway
Union cartoons Labor-Premier McCormack
as “Napoleon, the strike-breaking monarch
of the North,” and dubs him also a “poli-
tical charlatan.” McCormack is understood
to be reserving his reply for the Labor Con-
vention next month, when the thermometer
is expected to jump still higher.
The N.S.W. Education Department keeps
a record of the occupations taken up by its
pupils on leaving school. Of 9804 boys who
quitted the primary schools in 1924 524 “left
before selecting an occupation” ; incidentally,
6311 were aged 14 and 741 were 13 or less.
Of the 8776 traced, 101 "began learning pro-
fessions, 140 went into mines, 379 joined the
public service, 276 became clerks, 535 factory
hands and 974 shop and warehouse assist-
ants. For the rest, 1541 were absorbed in
skilled trades (205 in mechanical engineer-
ing, 221 in motor do., 126 in electrical do.,
469 in building and 520 in “other trades”),
1976 followed “agricultural and pastoral pur-
suits,” and 2854 —just on one-third —-found
“unskilled occupations.” Nearly twice as
many budding hewers of wood and drawers
of water as artisans. It is one of the tragic
results of what the fool-politician calls “a
vigorous borrowing policy.”
The marine .job-control question is to be
fought out in the old, untidy, wasteful
fashion. Last August a treaty was signed
between the shipowners and the union that
the malicious hold-up was to cease, but it
rather became worse. When a coastal vessel
is due to sail, some firemen are away getting
drunk. When they heave in sight another
party skips ashore and goes away to get
drunker. The return of the second party is
a sign for a third lot to leave and get drunk-
est. The union might fine the deserters the
first time, and suspend them if they con-
tinued, but it professes tearful helplessness.
So the owners have announced that any
drunk who holds up a ship will be put off
the list of employables. It shouldn't be
necessary for employers to do this; the
Arbitration Courts should have come to their
relief long ago. But these Courts are mostly
a broken reed and a tinkling cymbal, not to
say a squashed jelly-fish.
Grant and Blair, two representatives of
the Yankee financial house of Rigginson,
called at the Yic. Treasury the other day
to inquire whether any dahlers were wanted,
at a price. They weren't rushed. Peacock
said politely that there was a certain Loan
Council representing the Commonwealth and
the States other than N. S. Wales, and that
Page was chairman. If there is to bo any
arrangement for the States, Page will, there-
fore, do the bargaining. But the _ Higgin-
sons have a much better chance of doing busi-
ness with Lang, the 44-hour-week celebrity.
One curious effect of the post-war decline
in monetary values is that the cost of break-
ing the law has become cheaper. Most of
the penalties prescribed for the class of
minor offence dealt with summarily in police-
courts were laid down when the pound
sterling had a considerably greater value
than it has to-day, and in Australia they
have never been revised upwards. Hence
Robbo, of Collingwood, who is fined £2 for
stoushing a policeman, pays 60 or 70 per
cent, less than Fisho, of the same suburb,
whose punched peeler cost him 40 bob in
1913. In England and other countries this
disparity has been recognised, and police-
court penalties have been increased so as to
bring them into line with values in other
directions.
The wrath of Australia’s old American
friend Herbert Hoover over what he pro-
fesses to consider the extortionate prices
charged for British-grown rubber is over-
done. It is true that rubber prices have
soared in the last few months, but neither
British growers nor British anything else can
be held responsible for that: it is mostly due
to the frenzied expansion of the American
automobile industry. There was a set-back
in 1924, when production of cars largely
outstripped sales, and in early 1925 orders
for raw material, including rubber, were on
the conservative side. Then midway through
the year came a finfancial boom and there
was a mad race on, the part of American
tyre-makers to replenish their stocks of
rubber. That Hoovter has more than a glim-
mering of the real cause of dear rubber is
evidenced by his proposal to “prevent Ameri-
can rubber-buyers competing against each
other.”
“Buttenderry”: The recent crash of a
Sydney “poultry and produce c 0.,” Ltd., em-
phasises the necessity for a bill to require
the use of a trust account by produce agents.
The amount involved in this case is some
£3200, and a receiver, acting on behalf of
the debenture-holder, has been seizing money,
received from the sale of produce, which
in normal circumstances would have been
remittee to consignors. Poultry-farmers,
who as a class are always more or less
up against it, are the main losers.
THEIR GUERDON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Premier stated that, after the abolition of
the Leg. Council, provision would be made for the
two Labor Ministers, Messrs. Willis and Coates. All
members, including the recently appointed 25, would
retain the title of “Honorable” and their gold
railway passes carrying them over every line in
the Commonwealth/'
We shall pull down the temple, like Samson,
That long was a shrine for the foe,
But not to be crushed in the ruins
As he was —emphatie’ly no.
He went to his doom with his victims,
The Israelite hero of old,
But we shall emerge from the wreckage
With travelling passes of gold
(TV hat ho !)
To have until death and to hold.
He died with the pillars for tombstones
At Gaza, determined and grim ;
The shadowy crown of the martyr
M r as guerdon sufficient for him.
But we for the rest of our earthly
Career shall complacently don
For the service -we’ve rendered our country
The coveted title of “Hon.”
(That’s that!)
We’ll all have the handle anon.
W T e shall live in the annals of Labor
For ever as patriot souls,
Our sacrifice blazoned on records,
Our self-abnegation in scrolls.
We’ll have liens on each billet that’s vacant
And every lucrative berth,
And the trains and the trams will convey us—
True test of achievement and worth—
(For nix!)
Anywhere between Brisbane and Perth.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


\QNE£/j>
rt
22
SHIO
Used in Factories
all over Australia.
Pioneer Leather Belting is the universally accepted
standard of Leather Belting quality in factories through-
out Australia.
Since 1858 it has been the leader amongst beltings for manufacturing, mining,
industrial and agricultural use.
Obtainable direct from the manufacturers, or from agents in all States of the
Commonwealth.
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Oueen's Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, l'ry. Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: .John MeKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Fort Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Holiart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders Si.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Paterson, Laing and Bruce, Ltd., soft-
goods Warehousemen of London, Sydney and
Melbourne
, Dividends x
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary serves, serves.
1915.. 38,011 21,000 6 p.c. = 15,000 2,011 511
1916.. 44,733 21,000 6 ~ „ 15,000 8,733 9,244
1917.. 45,714 21,000 6 „ „ 15,000 9,714 18,958
1918.. 69,804 21,000 8* „ „ 21,250 27,554 46,512
1919.. 70,499 21,000 10 „ 25,000 24,499 71,011
1920.. 94,105 29,750 12J „ ~ 31,250 33,105104,116
I,OSS.
1921.. 13,746 3b,000 7* „ ~18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 74 „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10 „ „ 25,000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83,390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 7* „ ~.18,750 6,627 90,017
The ordinaries could have been kept at 10
p.c., but it would have mopped up almost all
the profit disclosed. It may be that the
directors took a conservative view of things
before writing in the profit—there are rea-
sons why they should do so. But the falling
away is more likely to be part of the definite
shrinkage visible in the net earnings of Flin-
ders-lane and York-street. This Column had
a word to say on the subject a couple of
issues ago, and I*., L. and B.’s experiences last
year sharpen the point of that comment.
The tendency is the more conspicuous in
view of conditions generally. During the
period covered by the accounts Australia had
one of the most prosperous, or apparently
prosperous, years in its history, for besides
rich returns from wool, wheat, sugar and
spelter and lead, loan money was spent
almost riotously. Conditions were such that
most cos. showed results nearly or quite
equal to those they were winning, or thought
they were winning, at the top of the post-
war boom. Yet. in spite of the favoring con-
ditions, softgoods profits have been slipping
back the last three years, P., L. and B.’s
with the rest. From one point of view, how-
ever, the Prime Minister's old firm is in a
better position than most of them because of
its cheap money. Apart from share capital it
has £230.006 of first-mortgage debenture stock
carrying only 4§ p.c. Its share capital is
£600.000 in 6 p.c. profs (the co. pays income-
tax on £250,000 of it) ; the balance is in
ordinary shares.
Foreign exchange has been jazzing, and
that means uncertainty of values, not only
in the countries involved, but in those
affected by their competition. It means also
that wise managements take a careful look
at stocks before writing the figures in tlieir
balance-sheets —it is unlikely that the experi-
ence of 1921 has been forgotten. This .suits
the public very w’ell, for it is interested only
in this co.’s prefs., and the more reserves there
are, internal and otherwise, the surer their
position is. The ordinaries were issued to
the old firm in 1897, their dividend being re-
stricted to G p.c. until a reserve fund of
£lOO,OOO had been built up. That amount
and more has boon invested outside of the
business for many years. There is, in
addition, other reserves totalling £120,000
plus the undistributed balance ; but goodwill
figures in the accounts at £161,192, and that
has not been taken in as an asset in the
introductory table. Solid reserves are a
handy tiling to have in this business, because
there isn’t much ordinary capital to support
the prefs.
Balance-sheet movements were small last
year, but generally w T ere in the right direc-
tion. Here is a comparison:—
1914. 1921. 1924. 1925,
Ordinarv £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Preference .’. 350,000 500,000 600,000 600,000
Debentures . . 233,642 233,642 233,642 233,642
Liabilities .. 265,313 682,664 475,434 469,170
Freeholds, etc. 248,866 341,901 387,890 391,776
Stock . • 528*012 959,713 799,245 754,933
Book debts . . 224,334 305,085 369,745 397,923
Investments and 124 2n 125>671
Debentures arc redeemable at £llO in 1950.
Liquid and semi-liquid assets at July 21
aggregated £1.278.427. Creditor items (in-
cluding final divs.) amounted to £730,186,
so prefs. could see £548,241 in sight plus
premises and plant, in at £391,< <6. But
recent valuations of. freeholds gave £600,000
as a reasonable figure, so that there is some-
thing like £200,000 of internal reserve in
that. Stocks were £44,312 lighter, but prices
had been falling prior to the balancing date,
and have declined still further since, where-
fore much depends on that item.. Although
the protection for prefs., is nothing out of
the ordinary, average profits over tlie period
covered by the table have amounted to twice
their requirements.
* * * *
Hume Steel. Ltd. (Vic.), a subsidiary of
Hume Pipe (Australia), Ltd., formed to take
over from the inventor the patents of a
process for manufacturing high-pressure
steel pipes, did not get into its stride last
year. Chief retarding influence was the fact
that most of the capital was tied up in one
job. At the formation in October. 1028,
20,000 £1 10 p.c. prefs. were offered, but The
capture of a £lOO.OOO contract from Mel-
bourne Board of Works resulted in the issue
being increased to £50,000. all taken by
Hume Pipe shareholders. Vendors between
them received 249,863 paid ordinaries
approximately 165,000 to the parent co. and
85,000 to W. R. Hume —for world’s rights,
equipment, etc. The big contract is on a
“cdst-p/H.s-commissionbasis. The first
accounts disclosed a profit of £B6, but that was
offset by £lB7l for “preliminary expenses.”
The profit claimed on last year’s operations
was £704. but £1036 further was spent on
patents taken out in Australia and elsewhere
and £144 on preliminary exes, connected
with the attempt to obtain further pref.
capital. Moreover, the £704 profit for the
past year can only be arrived at by charg-
ing up a considerable proportion of factory
and administration exes, to plant account.
Early in the term shareholders were offered
50,000 10 p.c. *‘B” prefs. Like the “A”
prefs., they were to be non-cumulativc, and
were to participate with the ords. in any
div. after the payment of “A” and “B” divs.
Shareholders did not greet the issue enthusi-
astically ; only 2010 shares were . applied
for. More capital must be obtained, de-
clare the directors, who make their case thus:
Release of portion of capital in the second half
of the year enabled the co. to undertake some small
orders. These were not sufficient to provide for over-
head exes, and normal percentage of profit. As con-
siderable business was offering, had capital been
available, very satisfactory accounts might have been
presented. However, further money must be obtained
and shareholders will have to decide whether they
will subscribe it or whether the directors will have
to raise a loan.
It looks as if the Board will have to go
outside; unless, that is, it can issue an in-
terim statement when the big contract is
completed (this month or February), con-
firming its anticipation of a satisfactory
profit. Shareholders are informed that
“contracts for the supply of large quantities
of steel pipes are being considered,” and some
details would probably help them to make up
their minds. The scrip cannot be judged
on the operations of the first and second
years, for it was only in the last six months
that the co. really got down to work. There
may be possibilities of good returns; that
will be easier to estimate after the net
result of the big contract is disclosed. The
most outstanding feature at present is the
overwhelming proportion of capital repre-
sented by patents (£251,800 out of £302,010).
Further, it must be remembered in connec-
tion with this and similar cos. that they are
largely dependent on the borrowings of
State and local-government bodies, and a
restriction of those activities would mean
reduced business, for a while at any rate.
The Rosella Preserving and Manufac-
turing Co., Ltd., of Richmond (Vic.), which
took over a proprietary in 1910: —
To Re- Nominal
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1915. . £13,317 8* p.c. =£8,500 £4817 £20,075
1916.. 10,040 74 „ „ 7,500 2540 22,615
1917.. 10,021 74 ~ ~ 7,500 2521 25,1.16
Sept.,
1918.. 8,607 8 „ „ 7,500 1107 26,243
1919.. 14,724 10 „ „ 11,510 3214 29,457
1920.. 15,721 10 „ ~ 12,500 3221 32,67$
1921.. 13,089 8 „ „ 10,000 3089 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ „ 16,983 1200 36,967
1923.. -24.155 124 ~ ~ 18,750 5405 42,372
1924.. 26,228 15' „ ~ 23,853 2375 44,747
1925. . 36,620 174 „ „ 33,162 3458 48,205
Last year £25,000 of new capital was issued
in order to extend manufacturing to Sydney:
and, though this suggested expansion, the
jump in net profits of almost 40 p.c. was
beyond expectation. These figures tell the
story:—
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1911 .. £27,997 £16,123 £1,842
1913 . . 36,848 21,832 2,293
1915 .. 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 . . 65,811 44,256 6,833
1921 . . 62,524 44.357 5,078
1922 .. 80.226 54,764 7,278
1923 . . 96,883 63,758 8,971
1924 .. 107.235 72,691 8,316
1925 . . 123,648 75,728 11,643
Expenditure was kept in check, the year’s
increase of £3037 comparing very favorably
with the improvement of £16.413 in manu-
facturing profits. The opportunity was taken
to write £11,643 off machinery and equip-
ment —£3327 more than in 1924. Appropria-
tions for depreciation have been substantial
of recent years, and it may be that there is
some internal strength in the item as it now
shows in the balance-sheet —£143,733 at Sep-
tember 30, including an unspecified amount
of goodwill. True, the value of most of the
plant lies in its profit-earning capacity; but
even if looked at from that angle the item
does not seem at all over-stated. Reserves
are qualified by the goodwill which is lumped
in with the fixed assets. But as accumulations
now amount to almost half of original capital
the intangible must have been swamped quite
a while back. Balance-sheet movements
were interesting:—
1918. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO £150,000 £174,258 £200,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 79,689 41,522 58,366 60,046
Property, plant
and goodwill 64,340 94,582 120,270 143,^33
Stock .. .. 100,485 89,067 108,613 113,<90
Debtors and , „ .
bills . . . . 48,608 57,190 68,931 8a,434
Cash, invest- „
ments, etc. . . 11,806 3,409 3,4a^
Doubtless most of the new capital went into
property and plant for the Sydney business.
There were, however, other calls for money;
but of course they were easily financed- —
indeed, the outside debt showed a net in-
crease of only £66SO.
The proposition, which has the backing of
Moran and Cato, an energetic firm of inter-
state retailers, has been a fine thing for
shareholders over the past four years. But
it must be noted that most of the earn-
ings have been distributed. The directors
seem to have a suspicion that present con-
ditions are too good to last; at any rate,
they labelled 5 p.c. of last year's div.
“bonus.” Income has been leaping ahead;
but tliey know well enough that a run of bad
seasons or hard restriction of loan expendi-
ture would clip large slices from it. How-
ever, while conditions remain prosperous
Itosella shareholders, according to present
appearances, will live in clover. Creditors
are so well secured that they needn’t lose
a wink of sleep: liquids and semi-liquids at.
September 30 amounted to more than three
times the total of liabilities.
* * * * *
Commercial op Australia Insurance
Co., Ltd., was sent down the ways in Oct.,
1924. First accounts are now available. The
“Wild Cat” had a kind word to say about
the float, and the opening results go far to
justify the comment. A net surplus of
13107 is shown, an achievement for a young
co. The balance-sheet isn’t, however, quite
free of froth: preliminary exes, account for
£l2lB. But as that includes brokerage
(76,145 shares have been issued paid to 55.)
the management is justified in thanking
Allah that it is not as other young cos., which
have the bulk of their capital represented
by hot-air items like goodwill and establish-
ment account. The nominal surplus has been
placed to premium reserve; and that is right
and proper, too. The aim of the co., accord-
ing to the prospectus, was to get premium-
payers interested as shareholders, and that
still is the objective. While business so
obtained is of the best description in that it
is won more cheaply and the risks, generally
speaking, are better, progress on those lines
is likely to be rather slow. Still, better slow
business that is profitable and sound, than
big figures with heavy losses and an impos-
sible expense rate. .The fact that the co. is
purely Victorian, with its headquarters in
Melbourne,. has had a very beneficial effect
on business, according to the chairman; all
the same, a Sydney office has been estab-
lished, with fair prospects. Losses were light
at 25.7 p.c. of net premium income. It was
a good figure; but it has to be remembered
that all the business of the co. is new, and
that, while the co. has collected premiums
for a full year, only a very small proportion
of the risks have yet expired. Expenditure,
excluding preliminary exes., was 50.2 of pre-
miums ; and that wasn’t at all bad consider-
ing that there were no cheaply-won renewal
premiums in the revenue. On the whole, a
successful start.
* * * *
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney) :
, —Dividends. —■ —\ Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct:,- Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1921 '£3139 £l6OO 24 p.c. - £l5OO £39 £39
1922 2992 1600 Nil 1392 1431
1923 5111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 742
1924 3118 1600 Nil 1518 2260
1925 7631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2591
There was a little fuss at the annual meet-
ing, but the temperature is reported to be
back to normal. One of the symptoms com-
plained of was the shrivelled profit for the
second half of the term. The directors
pleaded unsettled conditions, especially “dis-
location of inter-State traffic” ; and perhaps
there is something in it. Certainly back-
country prospects had been pretty poor, on
the whole, for some months prior to’ October
31. But, striking an average, if conditions
for the Carlton are never worse than they
have been even for the past six months, it
will be one of the luckiest cos. that were
ever registered, and the sooner it puts itself
into a position to meet far less favorable con-
ditions the better. It certainly won’t do it
by dividing almost every penny it makes.
Less than most cos. can the Carlton afford
to divide the cream of the occasional fat
year. Its hotel is a leasehold, with 37 years
to run; and 37 years is no great time in
which to recover all the capital represented
by premises and goodwill; for most of the
goodwill attaches to the premises—very
little of it to the co. which happens to occupy
the premises. Thus far the co. has been writ-
ing down the wasting assets pretty con-
sistently ; for the past year £5305 of the
gross revenue was “written off hotel pre-
mises, etc.,” and provided for depreciation of
plant, etc. This sinking fund is being used,
as far as it will go, to reduce the mortgage
and other liabilities; and the accounts are
balanced by writing down the lumped pre-
mises and goodwill item. This progress has
been made in the past two years:—
1923. 1924. 1925.
Mortgages . . • • £4/,000 £46,000 £45,000-
Sundry creditors . . 3,781 4,337 6,154
Overdraft . . • • 6,295 3,253
Leasehold, furnishings,
idant, license, goodwill 135,(90 133,5(2 129,803
c t L ks ... 2,630 2,286 2,659
Book debt's, etc. .. 1.466 1,366 1,270
Cash •• •• •• 4,016 (94 5,450
The co is really doing much better than ever
it did before. It started off badly, as nearly
all big hotel cos. do: it found it necessary to
spend some thousands on alterations. The
■reatest danger now is that it will ham-
string itself by paying out more than it can
afford, and this danger won’t be diminished
bv acquiring a habit of assuming that the
present era of exceptional prosperity, real
and bogus, is only pretty good—that there is
much better just ahead. There may be better
ahead • but for a country which has borrowed
as hard as we have done, and especially
for a city whose recent abounding pros-
perity has been largely the result of
loan spendings, nothing can be surer than
that tliei-e are also some extra-hard jolts not
far ahead. We could absorb most if not all
of the shock that compulsory loan-stoppage
will some day cause by vastly increasing our
production; instead, however, of setting to
work to do that we are steadily putting on
the brakes, which can only add to the jolt
when it comes.
* * * ' *
The Westport Coal Co., Ltd. (M.L.)
To
Sept. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1918.’. £53,698 10 p.c. = £45,000 £8,698 £68,513
1919 42,114 10 „ „ 45,000 65,632
192 o! ! 49 213 10 „ „ 45,000 4,213 69,845
19‘>1 52 164 10 „ „ 45,000 7,164 77,009
1922!! 79 872 12* „ „ 56,250 23,622 100,631
loifi!! 60’,702 125,, ~ 56,250 4,452 105,083
1924.. 48,279 10 ~ ~ 45,000 3,279 108,361
192 o! ! 68,089 12* ~ „ 56,250 1T,839 120,200
There must, have been a change in book-
keeping methods, for expenses (management
and general charges, directors’ fees, rates and
taxes, etc. ) fell from £03,054 to £.‘11,016. In
1923 they amounted to £75,422, and in 1922
to £64,081. Probably the re-arrangement
affected other sections of the accounts; at
any rate, gross profits from steamers, hulks,
depots, etc., were £24,827, or £2255 better
than in the preceding year, whereas gross
profit, on coal account was not within £12,000
of the 1924 figure. However, the aggregate
result was cheerful; after paying £83,750 in
divs. (the final div. for 1924 and the interim
div. in May, 1925), the position had im-
proved as follows:
1924. 1925.
More or lens liquid, assets . . £551,870 £563,361
Liabilities . . .. . . 233,588 233,880
Surplus . . . . . . £318,288 £329,481
Property . . . . . . 273,824 280,094
Included with the liquid assets is a sinking
fund of £118,750; but in a P.S. to the
account it is mentioned that the sinking fund
has earned £56.655 in interest, making a
total of £175,405. The sinking fund has
been “paid to trustees.” Exactly what it is
doing in the balance-sheet in these circum-
stances isn’t clear. On the other side is an
insurance fund, also of £118,750; and all that
can be guessed is that the directors prefer
to visibly build up the insurance fund, keep-
ing a balancing item on the other side, in-
stead of writing down the assets. But that
would still leave the co. with £56,605 of
sinking-fund earnings invested outside the
balance-sheet —unless, of course, it is in-
cluded "with sundry liabilities on one
side and “investments” on the other.
But that would still leave the co.
£56,655 better off than the accounts suggest,
seeing that it would be merely owing the
money to itself. Property account w T as re-
duced by almost £30,000 at September 30,
1924, but last year the item advanced
£6270 net. As the co. is interested in coke-
making and has other fixed assets in addition
to the mine property and has been ex-
panding, the increase was of little import-
ance ; at any rate, it doesn’t suggest
that the management left off its old
policy of writing down fairly hard to cover
wastage, apart from the provision made
through the insurance fund. Westport has
been a sound, profitable concern from its
early years, and from 1900 onwmrds has, on
the average, paid comfortable divs. The loans
and investments are so substantial now that
the mine gets fine help in earning dividends;
and the shareholder has the comfort of
knowing that when the mine is worked out
there will be something more than a hole in
the ground to represent his capital. Mean-
time its coal is blest with a reputation which
commands for it a market that, as a rule,
needs no hard pursuing and careful nursing.
Blue Metal and Timber Co., Ltd., is in
150,000 shares of £1 each; 100,000 offered
for subscription; 30,000 fully paid to ven-
dors ; 20,000 in reserve. Vendors also get
£6OOO in cash. The co. is being formed to


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
‘The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
"The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane.- —Aim - .
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.—Advt. [2
The general utility of Pioneer Wood Pipe in
irrigation schemes brings much praise from users.
The proprietor of a big market garden at Wagga
writes: “The wood pipe purchased from you seven
or eight years ago for conveying water has given me
good service, and is as sound as when put down
and appears to be a lifetime job. It is clean and
smooth inside; no incrustation to cause friction.
A leading feature in the wood piping is its quick
and easy connection.” Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferry to
Figtree) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
Wizard Lighting Systems have proved that
up-to-date, convenient and brilliant illumination is
within the means of all country residents, for one
of these Australian-made lighting plants can be.
obtained from as low as £2O complete, and the
saving on the running cost is remarkable. Wizard
Lighing Systems provide clear, white light, wonder-
fully like daylight, and also have many special fea-
tures that adapt them particularly to our climatic
conditions. It is well to be very sure that you get
a Genuine Wizard Lighting System to enjoy
these advantages. Sole Manufacturer: Wizard Light-
ing Systems (Established 1914), 55 York Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Px fents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers, hundreds of satisfied users, Concrete Placing
Plant, Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrum Garbage Destructors, “Leplastrier”
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers. “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Pty., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane; 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Collins
House, Melbourne ; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Ivoristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
188 S), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
AS THE NEW YEAR OPENS
—why not relieve yourself of anxiety regarding the future of your
estate by appointing as your trustee
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.?
No individual has the experience or the facilities for dealing with
trust estates which this Company possesses. With over 38 years’
experience in the control of all classes of estate it has accumulated,
knowledge which is invaluable to its clients. Continuous service is
assured until the distribution of the estate. ' The Company cannot
travel, disappear or die, its officers are always available to give needed
information to its clients.
Over one million pounds—the whole Capital and Assets of the
Company—is available for the protection of clients’ interests, thus
ensuring absolute security.
ESTATES UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £10,000,000,
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager. J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
THE ONLY
EVERLASTING PORTABLE
GARBAGE DESTRUCTOR
FOR THE RAPID BURNING OF ALL REFUSE.
TESTIMONIAL—ONE OF MANY SUCH:—
Sydney,
10th August, 1925.
“We have had in constant use at the South Sydney
Women’s Hospital since 1909 one of your ‘Guthridge Garbage
Destructors.’ It has rendered splendid service, is still in use,
and continues to give us every satisfaction.”
(Signed) G. E. Ardill, Director.
Made by GUTHRIDGE LTD., Camperdown, Sydney
CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
exploit a basalt deposit and will timber at
Popran Creek, a tributary of the Hawkes-
bury. It is proposed to carry the metal by
tramway (gravitation) to navigable water,
theDce by lighter to Hawkesbufy railway
siding, 35 miles from Sydney. A Govern-
ment report confirms the claims as to quality
and the possibility, of cheap quarrying. Frank
Oakden, superintendent and consulting engi-
neer to the co., reports that current prices
with “full allowance for contingencies, pro-
vides a good margin for depreciation, main-
tenance, working cost and overhead expenses,
in addition to a highly satisfactory return
upon capital invested.” It is on the basis
of the return from the blue metal that the
proposition must be considered by investors.
With the growth of concrete construction
(managing-director Lewis, of Concrete Con-
structions, Ltd., is on the provisional direc-
torate) and a growing demand for road
metal the co. should be in a position, given
sufficient capital to work the deposit on a
large scale, and providing its estimates as to
costs are correct, to win good returns. Timber
rights are featured and spoken of as “a very
valuable asset” from which good returns
may be expected, but there is room for a
wide difference of opinion there. It is a
pity the two businesses are thrown in to-
gether : there is no reason why the Wild
Cat should have to buy a hank of twine
when it goes in for 21b. of sugar. Especially
in view of this, vendors’ consideration is not
light.
Ffom London : Wiluna Gold Corp., whose
nominal capital is £BOO,OOO in £1 shares, of
which 75,000 have been subscribed for at
par and the remainder put away, has just
bought Wiluna mines from 'the Wiluna De-
velopment Syndicate for £6250 cash and
442,000 paid shares; £5250 of the cash has
to be passed on to the vendors to complete
the cash purchase-consideration, and the
442,000 shares are to be allotted as follows:
As bonus to subscribers of the above men-
tioned 75,000 shares, 75,000 ; to vendors who
gave an option to Wiluna Development Syn-
dicate, 180,000; 'to Wiluna Development
Syndicate. 187,000. Of the Syndicate’s wad
42.000 will be delivered at once and the re-
mainder will be held in escrow and issued
proportionately as and when the shares held
in reserve by the Wiluna Gold Corporation
are unloaded. Approximately £60,000 is ex-
pected to be available after completing the
cash payment to the vendors, registration,
etc., and it is proposed to spend this sum in
opening up the mine and making the task
of providing further working capital an easy
one.
* * * *
Tired of losing money in ventures pro-
moted outside the W r est, Perth business men
are forming a development co. of their own.
They propose to issue 100,000 shares with
Is. paid and make 3d. calls monthly. A
local expert whose opinion is reliable has
agreed to peep at shows on behalf of the co.
and take options on those worth trying that
are offering at a reasonable figure. There are
no free shares, and only Westralians are
eligible to sit on the board.
* * * *
Compared with 1924, Westralia’s shrinkage
in gold-production last year was about
40,0000 z. In 1903 the value of gold won
was £8,770,719. Ten years later it was
down to £5,581,701. Twelve years later
(1925) it ainoijfited to only £1,874,317. The
disappearance of the gold premium and the
dearth of new mines to take the place of
the dead and dying have been the most seri-
ous factors in the falling off of recent years.
There is, as in times gone by, much talk
of a revival, but apart from Wiluna there
is nothing in sight to check the decline. Base
metal mining is in a worse condition than
gold. Apart from the Northampton and
Braeside leadfields, and limited ivork on one
or two copper and tin fields, there is prac-
tically nothing doing.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie was staggered the other day
by a report that the Golden Horseshoe was
closing down, and that all hands and the
cook had been given notice. Later the man-
ager announced that the “future policy of
the co. depended on the results of negotia-
tions with the State Government for a loan
to carry on,” and later still it was stated
that the mine would not close down. In
short, the Government, which a few months
ago guaranteed the co. at the bank for
£25,000, again came to the rescue.
* * * *
With Electrolytic Zinc on the Read-Rose-
bery (Tas.) field as the owner of the Her-
cules, Rosebery and Primrose group, as well
as of the North Tasmanian Copper and other
blocks, it seemed a certainty that Mt. Read
would fall into its hands. When it was
reported from Zeehan that H. W. Gepp had
concluded a deal over the old bi-sulphite
plant of the Tasmanian Metals Extraction
Co. at Mt. Read, shrewd heads knew that
his big co.’s grip had reached to the Mt.
Read mine, over which the Extraction Co.
had an option from the Tasmanian Proper-
ties Co. Electrolytic Zinc now therefore
holds everything desirable at Read-Rosebery.
As it is regularly sending 100 ton lots of ore
from the field weekly to Zeehan for treat-
ment, it looks as if the refractory blende
has yielded to the efforts of the E.Z. flota-
tion staff. If so, Read-Rosebery is no longer
a mining dud but a field of big ore reserves,
with plenty of capital and pluck to set it
running. Mt. Lyell had its chance there,
both Rowes Kelly and Lindsay Tulloch be-
lieving that Read-Rosebery had big possi-
biliries. But Bowes Kelly is not so ybung
as he was (more’s the pity), and Tulloch
Ims gone west • and a wave of doubt or
timidity seems to have come over Mt. Lyell.
Anyway, it passed on the Hercules, Rosebery
and Primrose blocks to Gepp’s crowd, which
now will turn them to account.
* * * *
Manager W. F. Lee, of the N.T. Mica and
Metal Co., Macdonnell Ranges, brought to
Sydney the finest specimens of the mineral
in its raw state ever exhibited hereabout.
Ore-buyer L. Burkhard requested the direc-
tors to ship the samples overseas for hnme-
diate exhibition and assessment of values.
On Lee’s guarantee that the stuff is f.a.q.,
Burkhard speaks of 150 tons a year for his
firm alone. The manager considers that de-
velopments in three shafts indicate supplies
for many years to come far in excess of the
original estimate of 50 tons p.a. No treat-
ment plant being necessary, the main pro-
blem lies in the packing, which must be
done in such a way as to prevent disin-
tegration.
* * * *
As a preliminary to the annual accounts
which will not be completed until next
month, the Mount Isa Mines Board has
issued a report covering last year’s develop-
ment. Some outcropping features :
The leases now comprise 707 acres over a length
of 24 miles.
Amalgamation with Isa Prop, makes possible the
working of the Black Star lode by open cut. For
2000 ft. in length and 150 ft. in width, the lode
will be worked by steam shovel to a depth of 200 ft.
It is estimated that ore from the Black Star will
be broken and delivered into trucks at about 2s.
per ton. Output will be about 1000 tons per day
and the difference in cost compared with ordinary
mining will be 12s. per ton.
Government Geologist Dunstan gives the field a
life of a century.
For the 12 months, work done was 653 ft. main
shafts and 3333 ft. other shafts, drives and crosscuts.
W. H. Corbould, with great earnestness,
advises shareholders to keep a tight grip on
their scrip. In an estimate of profits he
takes wings and says that “a profit of
£500,000, or £1,000,000, or even more p.a.,
can be realised.” But he is talking on lead
prices of £35 per ton, and, despite the lack
of notable new discoveries, a more conserva-
tive basis would be safer.
Fred Brown, in charge of the Queensland
Tin Co. at Koorboora and Gurrumbah
(N.Q.), has things in train for crushing at
the former mill in February. The Two
Jacks shaft has been dewatered, and ore-
breaking commenced. A 10-head battery has
been secured close handy and cheap for this
mine. At the Fairplay the shaft is being
unwatered, and ore should be raised by the
end of this month. Another ten acres of
leases have been booked on the lolanthe and
Millsite areas. At Gurrumbah a scrap of
ore is being broken, timber supplies are com-
ing in, and the mill overhaul is so well for-
ward that the stamps should be dropping by
the middle of February. The co. has now
30-liead of 12501 b. stamps all told, and the
resurrected field should be in full production
by March.
* * * *
Herberton (N.Q.) closed a record year
in tin production, and the prospects are for
still better output this year. Indications
point to the Rainbow, Extenuate and Good
Friday mines entering the dividend-paying
list. Though the Extenuate is not so far
advanced in development work as the Rain-
bow, they are driving on an encouraging-
looking lode carrying fluorspar and occasional
rich specimens of tin. They expect to get
on to the real body of tin soon. This mine
has produced £15,000 to a depth of 100 ft.,
crushing as high as 43 per cent, for tin
concentrates and 75 per cent, for metallic
tin. As far as this lode has been worked,
it is proved that the lens of ore becomes
larger and richer with depth. At the Good
Friday they have started breaking ore, and
good things are expected, as the lode has
the same characteristics as the Extenuate.
* * * *
Bux’s Borneo experience (B. 7/l/’26)
prompts “Kerogen” to 'the following:—
There are two ways of getting into the oil-lands of
the Netherlands Indies by outside nationals, including
Australians. Firstly, it is possible to secure, by
option or direct purchase, oil-exploitation leases
already granted to bona fide Dutch subjects or com-
panies, provided the new purchasing co. has a
local office or agent in the Dutch Indies and some
interest in the new Co. is held by the vendors. The
celebrated Biting concession in Java, granted to
Standard Oil in 1924 through I. W. Wattie and
Co., is a case in point. Usually, areas thus offered
(and there have been some lately in Australia)
have been previously turned down by the Royal
Dutch, either on geological data or because the
price asked has been considered too high. Where
such areas are large (say, 40,000 acres and upwards),
and have definite structure on them and are in
recognised producing districts, then a price of
£lOO,OOO or so is not excessive; but mostly the
areas offered are unsurveyed geologically, although in
possible oil territory. The second method is by
applying for exploration rights over large areas
which may be up to 180,000 acres or so, also
through accredited Dutch nationals or agents. These
are granted, after the licensed prospectors have agreed
to compensate owners for any surface damage, for a
period not exceeding three years, but do not
necessarily give the discoverer of oil thereon prior
exploitation rights. The Dutch colonial Government
views the oil industry in its territory strictly from
a business aspect, and insists that all concessionaires
produce indisputable evidence from geological data
or otherwise that their property is likely oil-bearing
commercially, and consequently its exploitation will
produce the very essential royalty payments. Where,
as in the case of the Bux areas, the oil potentialities
are not favorable, the granting of the converted oil
exploitation rights is held up indefinitely or refused
altogether. Conversion 6f oil-exploratory rights into
exploitation rights for a period of 75 years at
nominal rentals and an average 4 per cent, royalty
payment to th’e Government on all productions cost 3
anything up to £3OOO, and an interval of time
directly proportioned to the diplomacy and influence
of the negotiating agents. A third method adopted
in the past few years in certain cases is for the
Government to develop a concession on a partner-
ship basis with the concessionaire, and for this a
special Act is necessary. Only Dutch subjects or
boards containing a majority of Dutchmen are
eligible, but there are not restrictions governing
the nationality of stock-holders in such partnership
company. A case in point is the exploitation of
the Djambi reserve, Sumatra, containing 27 mapped
anticlines, by the Royal Dutch-Government com-
bination. It is erroneously believed that every
portion of likely oil territory in the Netherlands
Indies is held by the Royal Dutch, or is in reserve.
There are outside independent cosl, and individual
producers, who market their product direct to the
Royal Dutch refineries, much as do the independent
producers of U.S.A., and there is plenty of virgin
country not yet * capable of economical working.
Australians and others should bear in mind, however,
that what is not known about the oil districts of
the Dutch Indies, either by the Royal Dutch staff
locally and at the Hague, or by the equally efficient
staff of the Dutch Colonial Mines Department at
Batavia, is of little value.
* * * *
R. W. Stringer’s Lampeh Siam tin show
wants a £50,000 steel bucket-dredge. So an
issue of 50,000 £1 cum. prefs. is mobted.
Scrip is to carry 10 p.c., be preferential as
to refund of capital, and share equally in
any cut-up of profits after the 10 p.c. is
shelled out to the pref.-holders. Stringer’s
proposal to those who like a flutter is that
they tender for the underwriting of the
issue, advancing £12,500 cash to bind the
bargain. This proposal is a bit of a novelty
in the flotation biz, and its reception by the
Stock Exchange should be interesting.
» * «• «
Ronpibon (Siam) got 47 tons tin oxide
for December from 72,000 yards, average
230 z., against the November 68,000 yards
for 19i tons, average lOoz. The co. has for
many months confined its attention to tail-
ings ou the Ronpibon Extended, in which
the parent holds 15,000 20s. shares. This
resulted in tons oxide from 1,174.000
yards. However, as the dredge dug to 50ft.
over worked ground on which the Extended
plant had a 33ft. limit, much new ground
must have been torn up. The year’s net
profit after paying tribute of £4782 to the
Extended Co. is stated at £26,664. Credit
at P. and L. was raised to £44,509 by addi-
tion of £9OOO in dividends from the Extended
holding and £8925 brought forward. Divs.
(2s. on 85,000 ordinary and 6s. on 50,000
prefs.) took £23,500, depreciation absorbed
£12,108 (£10,957 came off the dredge), and
£8963 remained to carry forward. Two in-
terim divs. of Is. a share since -June have
disbursed £13,500. Over £11,780 in stocks
and stores.figured on the assets side, in addi-
tion to book debts and cash items of £5996,
against which creditors claimed £2341. The
workshop, tools and stores of the Extended
Co. have been bought, and the offshoot will
henceforth have to pay for services rendered.
A firewood tramway, costing £2OOO, has .set
against it £l6BO as estimated annual saving
in fuel handling.
Tin oxide as marketed gave £l5O 16s. 7d.
a ton and costs were £66 Bs. Bd. Tin has
soared since June 30 to over £280; and as
yields keep good, divs. can flow easily. This
should make the Tbalerm float a comfortable
job as soon as details are threshed out with
manager G. A. Miles, who comes from the
claim to chat things over with chairman
I’alfreyman and Stringer.
December yield of Bundi (F.M.S.) showed
a drop of seven tons below the 32 tons in
November. The dredge treated 61,000 yards,
72 hours being lost on repairs. Stiff clayey
ground was responsible. The co. is unfor-
tunate in encountering one obstacle after an-
other. When the submerged timber had been
left behind, shareholders hoped that the fol-
lowing runs would be uninterrupted.
From the spot:—
The search for petroleum in Papua is in an
interesting position with the drill at Popo nearing
3000 ft. —the depth at which the experts expect to
get the dinkum oil. Meanwhile the Cape Vogel Co. is
out to test the possibilities of the n.-e. coast. Most
of the speculative cos. that took up prospecting
leases between the Mambare and the Kikori rivers
have forfeited their blocks. If the Anglo-Persian
Oil Co.’s drill bites into a payable oil-pool the lot
of the Austral-Papuan pioneer will improve materially,
cheap transport of Papuan copra and rubber to the
oversea markets being not the least blessing that the
location of oil in payable quantities would bring.


Once upon a time
A Great Apple tree
GREW BY the ROADj
And the fool who lived
Alongside had a Ladder
of steps To reach
THe TbPMosT Soughs.
BO THE FOOL SAWED OFF
*=V steps*
/ /" You must I
/ / GET TIRED I
* / CLIMBING BO I
/ Many steps*"
! Said a Passer-by;
“ Why donV you
Make it shorter 2”
> "Why Bles>s ms" J '
THE fool said;
* " I CANT REAC.H
i THE BEAUTIFUL
\ Apple s at the top now *'
’* Never mind,” said a neighbour,
"l haven't SAWN OFF N\Y LADDER
AND I'll get them For My Pantr^"
n Yes, and Likely to e>s hungrier"
S*aid the neighbour'' ip vou oo
f n
WHATEVER OTHER FOOLS TTsLLL YOU To,
"&UT Ini Hungry," £>aid the Fool. •
THE FOOL AND THE APPLES.


Acknowledged everywhere as perfi
jpOF6
twiMms
LONDON BY
ARDAtHTTOSACGO bd;: jm
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
u
Ik
X
K
i
m
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Olla Podrida”: During the whirlwind
sightseeing of the Carinthia globe-trotters at
Hobart the line of cars came to a stop be-
fore a centrally-situated hotel, and the fol-
lowing dialogue floated out of a car occupied
by two women : “Mother, is this Hobart?”
The answer came in a tired, toured-to-death
tone of voice. “What day of the week is it.
my dear?” “Thursday, of course; why?”
“Well, if it’s Thursday, it must be Hobart.”
* * * *
“Royelm”: A remarkable story w r as told
in ! a Sydney suburban court the other day
of the descent of a parson. Garbed in
clerical attire, he appeared in a western sub-
urb and introduced himself to tw’o shop-
keepers as a inissioner from Queensland
who was taking over the services in the
local Presbyterian church. He purchased a
few’ trifles and tendered cheques for £lO and
£l2 which w’ere promptly cashed —and proved
worthless to the trustful tradesmen. The
“missioner” next made himself knowm to the
Presbyterian minister, a tough old Scot, and
so plausible w’ere his representations that
he w r as invited to stay at the manse for a
few’ days; on the Sunday he actually w r ent
into the pulpit and preached a sermon on
“Sin and its Sorrows” to an impressed
audience. After getting his host to cash
a cheque for him. the pretender moved his
traps to a local hotel. Here he still retained
his clerical collar, but discarded his holy
mien and frolicked in the bar with the local
lads. He left without paying his bill, and
a few’ weeks later was arrested ; his present
address is Long Bay Gaol, w’here lie has
six months to ponder over “sin and its
sorrow’s.” Inquiries showed that the man
really was a minister in Adelaide up till
tw’o years ago.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A Newcastle man
succeeded in adding another exhibit to the
museum of strange accidents wdien he fell
from the top storey of a hotel and sustained
no w’orse damages than a few’ scratches and
some torn raiment. llow’ he managed to fall
at all is the most curious part of the busi-
ness ; there is a gap of a mere IS inches be-
tween the pub wall and the adjacent build-
ing, and it wms down this slit he slithered
slowly. It must have been a painful pro-
cess, but the absence of the sudden jolt that
terminates most descents from such a height
doubtless had its compensations.
“Der Jong”: I see that Boston (U.S.A.)
University has founded a chair of “Love and
Marriage.” Students will be instructed in
the various aspects
of the subject and.
on graduation, will
be granted the de-
gree of C.B. or
Certificated Bride
(or Bridegroom).
The curriculum is
not divulged, but
presumably it will
follow somewhat
on the lines of the
now vanishing cus-
tom of “oop set-
ting” observed by
every Boer Bea-
trice and Benedict
in South Africa a
generation ago. All
hands save the
swain and the lady
went to bed as
usual at sundown.
A long candle was
lighted, and while
it lasted each cross-
examined the other
on his or her quali-
fications for matri-
mony. Her ques-
tions were mostly
directed to his
capacity to main-
tain a wife; his to
her ability to make
coffee and other-
wise carry out the
duties of hausvrow.
If the lady wasn’t
satisfied she let the
candle go out on
the argument, and
the youth, taking
the hint and his
hat, faded away.
If she was willing
to make it a day,
she blew the sputtering dip out, and they
lived happily ever after.
“G.D.M.”: I have just paid a visit to a
room of remarkable historical interest in the
Cornwall Hotel. Launceston (Tas.). It is
a spacious, old-fashioned chamber, nowadays
used as a dining-hall; in the early days of
Launceston public meetings were held in it.
and here, early in 1835, John Batman formed
an association to send him secretly to Port
Phillip to find out its qualities as a grazing
and farming district. Enough money was
subscribed to buy the schooner Rebecca (30
tons) and fit her up with live stock, food and
implements, also in beads, blankets, tomahawks
and mirrors for the “Indians.” Batman em-
barked with three wfliite men and seven
N.S.W. aboriginals; on arrival he bought
009,000 acres of land from the blaekfollows.
which the N.S.W. Government subsequently
ONE WAY OUT.
“Isn't this my dance?"
“Oh, no—it was the last one."
“Oh, all right. Let's suppose we sat it out —and go on from there."
made him disgorge for a cash compensation
of £7OOO. The old room hasn’t even got a
brass plate on the wall to tell of the history
that was made there 90 years ago.
* * * ' *
“Woorook”: The leader’s of the Toe IT.
movement explain, among other things, that
one of the tenets of the society is “to love
widely.”
Quite so! And you can bet your life
1 tried to do as Toe H. taught me.
It proved a failure, for my wife
Incontinently caught me.
“Schnorrer”: Rabbi Stephen Wise, of New
York, according to the eableinan, has startled
orthodox Jewry by declaring that Jesus
Christ was not a myth. I don’t know how
the statement can be described as startling,
even for a Rabbi; Graetz, whose “History of
the Jews” is a standard work, mentions
Jesus as an inspired aesthetic, and proudly
claims Him as a Jew; many of the sayings
attributed to the Messiah are also contained
in the Talmud. Rabbi Wise, who on one
occasion occupied the pulpit in a Christian
church, was one of the originators of the
“Reform” movement in Judaism, and there
would be nothing to shock the orthodox in
his statement that Jews should “embrace the
teachings of Jesus” ; had he said “the doctrines
of Christianity” it would have been quite a
different thing. Jews claim that many of
these (including the Trinity) are Pauline
addenda, and that for nearly two centuries
Christianity was merely a schism of Judaism,
the Christians still observing circumcision,
Jewish feasts and the Jewish sabbath.
Hebrew sources, by the way, describe Paid
as a small, irascible and dominating person
—a sort of religious Billy Hughes.
* * * if
“Leander”: One of the most novel of
municipal memorials is to be seen on the
handsome traffic-bridge over the Burnett
River at Bundaberg (Q.). It is a penny,
of Queen Victoria mintage, set behind plate-
glass riveted into a copper plate, and en-
closed in a heavy marble slab, which records
that it is the final toll paid for crossing the
bridge. In 1900 Bundaberg city and the
contiguous municipalities of Barolin, Woon-
garra and Goburrum, assisted by the Govern-
ment, built the £40,000 bridge; and, up to
1913 tolls w T ere charged to pay the cost of
the structure. Then the bridge was de-
clared free with proper ceremonial and vice-
regal help, and the last penny paid was
embedded in its glazed setting in the fabric.
“Caesar's Ghost”: Of a man cited as co-
respondent in a recent divorce case the hus-
band demanded: “Where are my wife and
child ?” All the reply he got was: “I’ll see
you damned first!” People fall back on
such irrelevancies in moments of stress. An
actor friend of mine had one stock dramatic
phrase suitable for all emergencies. I re-
member once arriving when he was having
a dispute with his landlady, a rather
shrieky and excitable lady, who remarked that
it was all very well for him to say he had
paid his board, but what about the two and
tuppence for his laundry? “This to a
Mugsby!” he declaimed, and the landlady
wilted before him, just as Jones did when
lie got the same retort to his request for
the return of five bob he had lent my Thes-
pian friend. But it failed to work with the
slavey who slanged him for stepping across
the just-scrubbed floor and talked back when
he admonished her for disrespect. “This
to a Mugsby!” he intoned, as usual. “Yes;
that to a Mugsby; and that, too!” said the
girl. The first “that” was the floorcloth,
which landed in his patrician face; the
second “that” was the scrubbing-brush. As
Mugsby told me later, there are some people
upon whom dignity is wasted.
* * * *
“Matuku”: Apropos the story told by
“Iford” (B. 5/11/’25) about a Yankee boat
which was bound for Gerald ton (W.A.) and
turned up at Geraldton (Q.) —now Innis-
fail. Here is another. The skipper and
barque in this case were from the Baltic,
and the charter was to Rockingham. There
are two Rockingliams on the Australian
map; one is an old seaport south of Fre-
mantle (W.A.), and the other Rockingham
Bay, slightly north of Ilinchinbrook Passage
(N.Q.). The skipper came ashore at Card-
well, in Rockingham Bay (Q.), and after
getting in touch by wire with his co.'s Aus-
A FAIR COMPROMISE.
ANGRY HUBBY: “You never put anything off
on my account!"
SWEET WIFEY : “No, dear. But I put every-
thing I can down on your account.”
tralian agents found out his mistake and
turned back on his tracks. As the ship had
come via the Cape of Good Hope, it must
have passed within no great distance of its
proper destination. This incident occurred
in the early ’nineties.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE LITERALISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jones had a five-crown apple-tree with branches
spreading wide.
He sprayed and pruned it carefully, for ’twas his
secret pride
That never better apples grew since Adam up and
died.
One day a neighbor happened in who gazed with
ecstasy
(While Mrs. Jones stood smiling by) upon that
apple-tree.
“Oh, send your boy ; take what you want.” “Thank
you, I will,” said she.
The locust and the palmer-worm which smote the
Jews of old
Had nothing on that neighbor’s boy, who did what
he was told.
When Jonah saw the ravaged boughs he felt his
blood run cold.
I spent a happy holiday with kind old uncle Sam,
And when I left his thriving farm, loaded with eggs
and ham,
“Now, mind you look us up,” 1 said. “I'll meet
you at the tram.”
“ ’Tain’t often that I come to town,” said Uncle, “but
I will ;
‘l’d like to stay with you and May." “Good oh,”
said I. “And Rill,
And Dave and Jack and Mary, too. Our place is
small; but still”
I never thought another word about the blessed
thing
Until i got a letter, in the tail thereof the sting:
“I will accept your kind invite to stay with you, and
bring
“The Missus, Mary and the boys next Monday for a
spin,
As we’ve three weeks to spare.” And sure as eggs
my kith and kin
Arrived with trunks and carpet-bags when we had
painters in.
MUCH MORE CONVENIENT.
DDREEN: “It's great to hare friends you can trust!”
BILLY: “I prefer friends that trust you!”
When friends admire his apple-tree “Uni, yes,”
old .Tones will say,
“Here’s half a dozen windfalls you can have to take
away—
The Missus made some bonzer sauce from such the
other day,”
When kind old Uncle intimates that he is coming
down
I’ll say, “Good biz, and don't forget one day when
you’re in town
To come to tea with May and me” —nor heed his
puzzled frown.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


THE PIANO SHIFTERS.
"The most important business of the session will be the deportation issue.”
THE BRUOE-PAGES: “Hurry up, Missus, and tell us what to do with it. It's getting darned heavy. "


SB
%
%
“It was good enough for my father—it’s good enough for me! That
is a suicidal policy—the tomb of ambition and the enemy of effort.
Good whisky, however, is the exception that proves the rule. Our
fathers drank and enjoyed “Mountain Dew, and the wisdom of
their choice is demonstrated in every bar.
Young’s MOUNTAIN DEW
Old Scotch Whisky
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Fitzcray”: It avails as little to be an in-
offensive neutral nowadays in Melbourne as
it did about the beginning of August, 1914.
On New Year’s Day a party of gentlemen
boarded two taxis and repaired to a hotel
in Carlton, ostensibly to deal with another
gentleman who had offended the sister of
one of the gentlemen of the first part. Their
quarry was not in the bar as expected, but
having destroyed the telephone to prevent
the calling of the police, the visitors, who
had thoughtfully provided themselves with
batons of red-gum, proceeded to impartially
bash all the occupants of the bar, total
strangers to them, with their home-made
weapons. Nine of the victims went to hos-
pital, but several others were able to walk
home after first-aid treatment. Yet another
gentleman, armed with a pistol, visited the
house of an entire stranger, and demanded
FULL AND SUFFICIENT REASON.
MADAME: "The one thing I can't understand is that you
have no references. How's that?"
PROSPECTIVE COOK: “ Well , Mum, I always stayed at
my places till the people died.”
a wife of whom his unwilling hosts knew no-
thing. After satisfying himself that she
wasn’t there, he violently assaulted the
householder, inflicted some minor injuries on
the mistress of the establishment, and took
his blasphemous departure.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The new British Army order
which raises the height of recruits for the
Guards Brigade to Gft. will gladden the
hearts of hundreds of London housemaids —
that is, if any of the species have survived
the war. The exigencies of the service
lowered the standard after the South African
days to sft. 9in. As a “walker-out” the
Guardsmen once commanded a high price on
Sundays, the fee being 2s. for the afternoon,
with beer, for the infantry, and 2s. (id. (also
with beer) for the Guards cavalry, the
spurs alone being considered worth the extra
THE WAY OF THE WHIRLED.
“All women are rivals when , it comes to clothes.”
“Yes; each tries to outstrip the other.”
sixpence. Cavalry of the line could demand
Is. 6d., while the ordinary Tommy had to
be content with maids-of-all-work and scul-
lery-maids, who could go no higher than Is.
(with beer). Gunners, curiously enough,
were “no class” as escorts, and Highlanders
were considered indelicate south of the
Tweed. North of it no woman could be
seen with a soldier in uniform and keep her
reputation—in the old days.
“Wanchai”: The Chinese
cabinet-maker in Melbourne
who paid a fellow country-
man £lO to do a month for
him (B. 31/12/’25) natu-
rally saw nothing out of the
way in the bargain. There
are natives who earn their
daily rice by acting as sub-
stitutes in such cases. In a
village near Canton I once
saw the yamen (local police-
court) in session. Sentence
of 30 strokes of the bamboo
was passed on a merchant;
immediately he entered into
a spirited dialogue with, a
ragged vagabond, which was
finished by the latter, for a
consideration of about Is. 2d.
in English money, throwing
himself on the ground and
taking the flogging. Cases
where an impoverished family
has sold one of its members
to act as substitute for an
outsider who has been con-
demned to execution are not
unknown. A European, to
understand how such things
are permitted, must compre-
hend something of what is
known throughout the land
of Feng-Shui as “face”—a
ludicrous form of dignity
and honor. The merchant
escaped the indignity of a
public flogging; therefore he
did not “lose face.” And
the law was satisfied because
someone paid the penalty.
“Feng-Shui”: The shooting in Melbourne
of an American because another man
objected to him smoking in a cafe reminds
me. We were waiting in streaming rain
at midnight on Manila Bund for a boat to
take us off to our steamer, when a Yankee,
who introduced himself as “Chief of Uncle
Sam’s Opium-Prevention Service,” intruded.
All adjourned to a saloon to celebrate the
circumstance, and presently our new friend
handed round some contraband cigars. I
passed. “Have a seegar!” he said to me
again. I still passed. “Have a seegar,” he
insisted. I passed again. Pulling a gun out
of his hip pocket he laid it across the box
and repeated “Have a—liic—seegar!” L
have wondered ever since whether the smoke
I didn’t want saved me from unseasonable
ventilation.
“Centurion”: Cabled that the South-
ampton, the • most famous, light, cruiser of
the Great War, has gone to the breaker’s,
hands. Launched in 1911, she was at Kiel
for the yachting week in 1914 with other
British ships, and her “chummy” was the
German cruiser Rostock, which she next met
in action in the Heligoland Bight. After
that the Southampton was in action in
December, 1914; also she was at the Dogger
Bank when the Blucher was sunk. Finally
she was in the thick of the scrap at Jutland,
and, though badly knocked about, torpedoed
the German cruiser Frauenlob, and came
out lamed but happy—the last to reach
Kosyth. She was the only ship in the navy
to take part in all four of the actions chron-
icled. If she had a short life it was cer-
tainly a busy one.
* * * *
“Ilerodot” : The hardest part of the pick-
pocket’s job is to locate the hollow in which
the prospective victim is
carrying his cash; once this
has been done the rest is easy.
Some years ago this problem
was approached with strik-
ing ingenuity by a gang en-
gaged in “working” the
annual Show in Melbourne.
One of them, having removed
his hat and rolled up his
shirt sleeves to give the im-
pression that he was an offi-
cial or an employee of some
kind, selected an elevated
spot and issued a vehement
warning to the crowd to be-
ware of pickpockets who, he
said, were known to have
been operating just previ-
ously. The hands of at
least 50 per cent, of the
speaker’s audience flew in-
stinctively to their pockets to
make sure their rolls were
safe, and the keen eyes of
the orator’s accomplices care-
fully noted these indications
of where the treasure was.
The light-fingered operators
reaped a rich harvest later.
“Wang”: Arthur is one of the garbage-
collectors in our suburb, a somewhat simple
youth, and hence regarded as fair game by
my neighbor Wilson, the busy vet. When
Arthur called at Wilson’s, in the course of
his professional round, the vet. was holding
a post-mortem on a cow. Alongside the
deceased Strorberry lay a defunct dog, await-
ing its turn for diagnosis; Wilson, who had
just cut a slit in the cow’s bingy, seeing
Arthur approaching, deftly shoved the dead
poodle inside the swollen beast. Arthur eyed the
cadaver curiously for a moment. “Cow dead,
Mr. Wilson ?” he queried. He was reassured
on that obvious point. “What did she die
from?” the bright youth inquired. “Swal-
lowed a dog,” answered the vet. unblusli-
ingly. “Garn!” from Arthur; “a cow
couldn’t swaller a dog!” "She did, Arthur;
look,” and the vet made a swipe with his
knife along the cow’s tummy, pulled the gasli
open and yanked out the poodle. The parson
lives across the way, the next port of call
for Arthur. “Just seen a cow what died
through swallerin’ a dog, Mr. Forster,” an-
nounced Arthur on his arrival there. The
parson listened with gentle tolerance, and
then expressed disbelief. Arthur bridled.
Couldn’t he trust the evidence of his own
eyes? With infinite patience the parson
sought to convince Arthur of the impossi-
bility of such a gastronomical feat as he
had outlined. Then Arthur played his trump
card. “Look here,” he cried, “I useter go to
yer Sunday-school and yer've tole me that a
whale swallered Jonah, a big bloke, so why
couldn’t a cow swaller a little mong?”
* * * *
“Copabella”': Though inexperienced in
the possibilities of a stripper-box for honey-
mooning (B. 17/12/’25), I know that it
makes an admirable camp. I used one for
nearly a year. One sleeps with the feet
thrust down into the low portion where the
beaters revolve, and with the head out to. the
stars. The machine has a lofty roof, and
so gives plenty of air. It is waterproof,
and the way in which the door is hung per-
mits the flap to serve as a penthouse for
shade or against showers. Being all iron,
the machine cools quickly after a hot sunning.
It would, of course, be an oven-like camp
in sunlight, but in the country where strip-
pers are used one does not go to camp until
dark. The box will take two occupants
snugly, but the honeymooners would require
to do a bit of gymnastic work at getting-up
time unless they dived out. I know: I had
a mate some of the time in my stripper.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: In granting the same divine
honors to George V.’s portrait as to those
of their own Emperor, the members of the
Japanese Staff College in Tokio showed them-
selves still back in the seventeenth century,
by European reckoning. Time was when
the divinity of English kiiigs was implicitly
believed in and miraculous properties credited
to their touch. Hence the annual imposition
of the royal hands ou those suffering from
the King’s evil, or scrofula. Queen Bess fre-
quently exercised the gift, as a legacy handed
down from Edward the Confessor, and on
Midsummer Day, 1633, Charles I. operated
on a century of victims in the chapel royal
at Holyrood. The second Charles was
alleged to have cured upwards of 100,000,
and his ministrations were so much in de-
mand that on one occasion six or seven appli-
cants were trampled to death in trying to
get near him. Even the ill-fated Monmouth
had clients in the west country. The prac-
tice did not long survive the damper put
upon it by the level-headed William 111.
When the customary crowd of unclean sup-
plicants besieged him he ordered them to be
ABREAST OF THE TIMES.
MR. NEWDOUGH: “What about some goldfish for the
fountain, Elizabeth?”
MRS. NEWDOUGH : “Oh, ’Grace, gold's so old fashioned —
get platinum ones!”
turned away with a dole and the royal bene-
diction : “God give you better health and
more sense.” Queen Anpe, however, seems
to have revived the practice, for Samuel
Johnson was touched by her when he was a
child. After that it was abruptly dropped.
In Japan the royal likeness is sometimes
credited with miraculous powers, and until
recently when exposed in shop-windows it
always had a piece of paper pasted over it,
to prevent its virtue departing. Three years
ago a Japanese schoolmaster deliberately sac-
rificed his life to save the official picture
from destruction by fire. He became a
national hero.
A CATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gentleman, Australian born, under 30, dark,
splendid appearance and dress, property owner
southern suburb, desires acquaintance refined, sensible,
homely young lady, etc.”—Age matrimonial advt.
Truly the sort of goods in market jargon
They call a bargain!
Of all his stock-in-trade he seeks a clearance —
Splendid appearance,
Suburban property and costly raiment—
And asks in payment,
This singularly eligible beau,
Or quid, pro quo,
A bit o’ skirt with usual contents,
A streak o’ sens.e,
Refinement and (just mental, this, I guess)
Some homeliness.
Going for a song—this most attractive lot!
What offers ? What ?
A dinkum Aussie, with a sun-god’s head
(Ouida ’d have said),
One who in beauty-shows for males would follow
Behind Apollo,
And hardly yield the palm without a fight
To Julius Knight;
A gent, who doesn't leave it his intended
To find him splendid,
But, ere they meet, the information cheering
Is volunteering.
Dingy the lilies of the field and dim
Aside of him.
His collars any aide-de-camp would make
With envy ache.
He wears the latest things in coats and hats
And ties; his spats
So speckless and so smooth might bring a smart
To Bruce’s heart.
He throws the cat its whiskers in eclipse,
The eel its hips.
Upon the bargain counter see him lie.
Who, who will buy?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


The New PERSONAL MODEL
PROTECTOGRAPH
(Trade-mark Reg’d)
will cross your cheque and protect it
for any amount, exact to the Pound, in
bold, legible figures, thus
NOT
owe®
fZ"7
WIIIIIP'
(inn»
hr
It is made by TODD to give years of
good service.
At £6, plus carriage, even the small-
est business firms cannot afford to be
without it.
For demonstration or further particulars, address:
The Todd Company (Aust. ),
SIDNEY: MELBOURNE:
G.P.O. Box 1545 DD. G.P.O. Box 885 G
Tel.: City 9506. Tel.: Cent. 6742.
a* **
Guaranteed
Shirts & Collars
xcvb bulletin
c.'l/me ( ~bt
Usher’s Hotel Ltd,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths tie Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
J. A. DUNCAN,
Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT ETRACT
GLOBE BRAND
All that William Henry Warren did not
know about steel might be put into a walnut-
shell. The Professor crossed the bridge be-
tween here and the hereafter on the 9th, at
74, after over 40 years’ service in the Sydney
Uni. The engineering school when he took
WILLIAM BRUNTON, Mayor of Mel-
bourne for a third term, who was landed
with a knighthood on New Year’s Day.
it in hand was not only a poor relation;
it was regarded as a somewhat vulgar rela-
tion, something alien to the humanities and
the pursuit of culture. But Warren changed
all that; he lived to see the engineering
school one of the greatest in the University,
and its graduates—Bradford, of the Bridge,
for instance —among the most highly honored.
Henry Tyron, Bananaland’s Chief Ento-
mologist and Pathologist, who was due for
retirement on the last day of the year, was
the man who introduced Badilla sugar-cane
from New Guinea. Easily cultivated and a
prolific grower, Badilla suited the Queens-
land climate and to-day the great sugar belt
of the North is practically one large field of
this variety.
Frank Bryant', Government whip in the
Ma State's Upper House, who initiated the
recent move for payment of the lords,
cherishes a membership ticket, No. 11, issued
to him in IS9I by. the South Sydney Labor
Electoral League. Long before Labor went
into politics he went into the Labor move-
ment,, and was one of those who founded
the party at a historic meeting of unionists
at Balmain. It was Fred Flowers, nowaday
president of the Council, who moved the
resolution. The second meeting was organ-
ised by Bryant in a little upstairs room
behind the pub at the corner of Elizabeth
and Albion streets. He left a seat as one
of the Government nominees on the Metro-
politan Water Board when Holman put him
in the Leg. Council in 1912.
Owing to the close resemblance between
the late A. R. Outtrim and his brother,
F. L. Outtrim, who was formerly Vic.
Deputy-P.M.G., one was often mistaken for
the other. The man of letters—and stamps
—took a walk around the Block one day
at lunch-time. In Elizabetli-street he met
a man who brought a Maryborough matter
under his notice and asked him to “see it
through.” Said F.L.: “You’re mistaking me
for my brother; I’m only a poor public ser-
vant, not a legislator.” The man apologised,
smiled and declared that he “now saw’ the
difference.” “While returning from the stroll
F.L. encountered the same man, who greeted
him anew as A.R., and proceeded to tell him
of his “funny experience” of 15 minutes pre-
viously.
Peter Low. just dead at Bordertown
(S.A.), was the useful citizen who in 187 H
married the widow of Adam Lindsay Gordon.
She died only six years ago. Low knew his
wife’s first husband really well. “He was
called ‘Long’ Gordon in those days ; he was
tile soul of honor, a gentleman every inch
of him, and a splendid husband,” was Low’s
testimony, and lie liked to tell of Gordon
swimming the Glenelg River, and making
his wife do so too (on horseback), rather
than wait for the punt; of the poet riding
in from Yallum station to Penola to post
letters, “bareback on a pony, and wearing
slippers, with his feet nearly touching the
ground”; and of Gordon as a trooper arrest-
ing Billy Traiuor, the cross-country rider,
for making a disturbance in Burton’s circus,
the pretended drunk who butts into the ring
not then being so familiar a circus stunt as
it is now.
Dr. Henty Smalpage, the young Macquarie-
street man who has made what may turn
out to be an important discovery in the
treatment of t.b., is a 'son of that brave
fellow who was himself drowned while trying
to rescue a drowning woman at Manly-
public subscription raised a monument to
him in the main street of the village. Two
brothers, descendants of the pioneer Henty
family of Victoria, set up the first wholesale
wine-and-spirit store in Broken Hill; the
Manly man was one of them. His son, still in
the early thirties, is a Sydney graduate who
was in the Army Medical Corps, and has
travelled widely. His serum is being made
in the Commonwealth laboratory.
F. J. Sheed, who goes touring with the
Sydney University debating team presently,
will not return. He has just concluded seven
successful years’ work in the law school at
the Uni., where he has made his mark as a
debater, gaining especial kudos during the
visit of the Oxford Union team. In his
pre-Australian days he was one of the lead-
ing lights of the English Catholic Evidence
Society, and established a Sydney branch
by dint of fervid Domain oratory on Sunday
afternoons. He goes back to the Cold Coun-
try to acquire a wife, establish a law prac-
tice, and renew his association with R.C.
activities.
The about-to-be-created £2OOO-a-year job
of N.S.W .Industrial Commissioner is almost
certain to be given to J. B. Holme, deputy-
president of the Board of Trade, who has
a record as a successful patcher-up of indus-
trial quarrels. He was implicated in the end-
ing of the long-drawn-out coke strike at Lith-
gow; and in the 1917 railway and tramway
strike, at the instance of the Fuller Govern-
ment, he arranged the terms of settlement
with the Trades Hall Defence Committee.
A Victorian by birth, he first practised law,
and then farming, after which he climbed the
ladder in the N.S.W. Department of Labor
and Industry to the chair of Undersecretary.
He speaks French, German and Italian, and
was once keen on boxing. Professor E, R.
Holme, of Sydney Uni., is a brother.
The Northern Territory lost an enthusias-
tic booster and black brother a staunch
friend when Tom Lynott lately died at Booro-
loola, aged 76. Tom was the pioneer of the
Macarthur River station, taking the first
cattle over there in the early ’eighties. He
formed and managed the station for many
years, later acquiring a store and hotel in
Booroloola, which he ran until his death. A
friend to many, he w r as a staunch supporter
of anything that seemed to be for the good
of the Territory and backed his opinion with
cash in trying to assist many ventures. The
aboriginals looked upon him as a father,
and many a. gun yah wailed its lamentations
fit his death.
“Mel”: Federal Attorney-General Latham
hadn’t been long at the Bar before he was
picked out as a man who would go far.
I vividly remember an occasion 10 years
ago - when Latham was junior to J. L,
Purves, Iv.C., in a big will case. Purves,
then nearing his end (lie died a few months
later), conducted the case in an erratic
manner, wandering out of court from time
to time. Every time his leader dropped his
brief, Latham picked it up and carried on
SCOTT FELL, the shipping man, who is an
M.L.A. for North Shore, and is at the
moment interesting himself in an attempt
to shake up the Sydney TELEGRAPH.
as though nothing had happened. His un-
ruffled calm and the skill with which he
brought the evidence back to the track after
his chief had run it off the rails were as
remarkable as the forbearance with which
Justice a Beckett treated the old Iv.O.
Just-dead Tom Furse provoked an apoplec-
tic article in the S. M. Herald when he was
secretary of the Meat Trade Employees’
Union. In the course of a dispute the em-
ployers found it expedient to send a depu-
tation to the union office. That was suffi-
ciently galling to the Herald’s ideas of pro-
priety, but what caused a boil-oxer was that
Furse received the deputation leaning back
in his chair, with his feet on the desk, and
remarked that discussion was no good—the
only xvay out was to give the men what they
wanted. “After I had put on my boots to
receive them properly, too!” plaintively re-
marked Tom, commenting upon the Herald’s
furious criticism of his deportment.
The Prince’s Highway is steadily gaining
ii; popularity with motorists. W. M. Hughes
selected this route in crossing from Sydney
for the Federal session and found 550 miles
of fine scenery which compensated for the
680 miles of indifferent road. Along scores
of miles in N. S. Wales some meritorious
enthusiasts have planted the scarlet flower-
ing coral-tree. The ex-Priminister can
claim something of a travel record. For
ten'years he spent his week-ends while Par-
liament was sitting journeying to and fro
in the express between his Sydney home and
Melbourne.
Columbus, a Genoese, found America for
Spain, Cabot, another Genoese, added New-
foundland to Britain, and Magellan re-
warded his alien employers with the Phil
ippines. If Wilkins leads an American flying
expedition to Antarctica and discovers new
territory for Uncle gam, he xvill provide ano-
ther example. Wilkins was a short time
ago in his native Australia, trying to waken
interest in his proposition, but got little
attention, except from Adelaide, where the
exploits of Mawson had created a sort of
vested interest in the South Pole.
_ Scientific men from all parts of the world
will be crawling out of their mosquito-nets
at Benkoelen, Sumatra, this morning with
anxious hearts and eyes on the weather.
To : day the sun has decided to go into total
eclipse, and has selected the little Dutch
seaport, once Britain’s most important settle-
ment in “the East,” as the stage for the
display and the middle of the rainy season
as the time. Barring a miracle, the observers
are not likely to see much. The star-gazer
with most at stake probably is Z. A. Merfield,
research assistant to Professor Lyle, of Mel-
bourne University, who two months ago
started on the long and dubious trek entirely
on his own initiative.
A. Wilson, who succeeds Gurnett as sec-
retary to the Australian Gas-light Co., takes
his place in a line that stretches back to
the year of Victoria's coronation. The first
secretary was the Rev. Ralph Mansfield,
who in 1836 presided at the public meeting
which led to the company’s formation.
Mansfield held office for 43 years, retiring
at the age of 80. . He came to the colony in
IS2O after taking orders in England, and
was stationed in turn at Sydney, Windsor
and Parramatta. lie had a strong flair for
journalism, edited the Sydney Gazette for
a year, was a leader-writer for Dr. Lang’s
Colonist till the Gas Co. was well into its
stride, and a regular contributor to the
S. M. Herald thereafter up till the day of
his death. He was first secretary to the
North Shore Ferry Co., too.
Before the first batch of colonists set out
for Canterbury (M.L.) in 1850 they were
entertained at a farewell breakfast in London
by the Canterbury Association, Lord Lyttel-
ton presiding. When the province celebrated
its 75tli year the other day it was found
that there was only one survivor of the
guests at the breakfast, Mrs. Ellen Bruce,
aged 92. She still laughs over an incident,
at that solemn ceremony. The stern and
pompous father of one of the pilgrims arose
and informed the company: “I am sending
my boy out that lie may earn his bread by
the sweat of his brow.” The next thing
that happened was that the youth in ques-
tion, overcome by the awful prospect, emitted
a bellow of mingled wrath and sorrow, and
had to be led from the table, weeping
copiously.
In Queensland the path of the poor young
aspirant for legal honors is made easy. If
he cannot afford to study and serve articles
in the usual way, he can enter the Justice
Department as a junior clerk and work his
way up, earning his living while he is quali-
fying. Once he is admitted to the Bar, his
department provides him with briefs. The
Department rarely gives them to outside bar-
risters ; Attorney-General Mullan’s bright
young men do all the*work. J. A. Sheehy,
admitted at 21, was Acting-Crown Prosecutor
at 22, and permanently appointed at 23;
to-day, at 25, he has a record like that of
a Iv.C. Ross Pliilp, the principal Crown
Prosecutor, is only three years older than
Sheehy, but he is regarded as a veteran.
These young men have ever gleaming before
their eyes the example of the late Chief Jus-
tice McCawley and the present Justice Webb,
who rose through all ranks in the Justice
Department to the Bench.
The wise youth who enters the public ser-
vice gets as close as he can to the seats of
the mighty. W. R. Hey wood has been in-
stalled in the comfortable job of clerk-
assistant of Vic. Leg. Council at £BOO a
year, and is succeeded as usher by P. T.
Pools, who used to be clerk of the records.
The status of usher is the same as that of
sec. to the Premier, and Akeroyd, Inspector-
General, who is responsible for the safe cus
tody of all the prisoners in the State, gets
no more screw than Heywood.
Although it is only lately that any N.S.W.
Leg. Councillors have put in a direct request
for payment, one impecunious member used
to resort to some
curious shifts to
keep up appear-
ances. Often un-
able- to pay for a
night’s lodging, he
hit op the idea of
utilising his free
railway pass. He
would board a late
B 1 u o Mountain
train, and seated in
a comfortable first-
class carriage
would proceed a -
far as Mt. Victoria,
alighting in time to
catch one of the in-
coming Western
mail trains, which
would land him
back next morning.
J. H. CHAPMAN,
of the South A us.
Country party ,
who has been
elected to the
Senate.
The first M's.P. to receive payment in
N. S. Wales were James Hoskins, Robert
Wisdom and John Bowie Wilson, elected in
1859. In that year an Act gave representa-
tion to the northern, southern and western
goldfields, and the miners decided to run
their own candidates and pay them.
kins was returned for the North, and sat
for 23 years. Wisdom resigned his office of
Gold Commissioner to sit for the West,, and
was in every Parliament from 1859 to 1887.
except the seventh. lie became Attorney-
General under Parkes. Wilson, a doctor,
the son of a parson, and the elect of the
Southern miners, also had a good spin in
politics, and was thrice a Minister. That
was a son of his who helped “the Crown”
in the recent deportation proceedings.
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“According to Lady Drummond Hay, the Milan cor-
respondent of the London Daily Expkkss, Madame
Lupescu, the blue-eyed Jewess for whom Prince Carol
of Roumania is said to have sacrified a throne, ‘is
a divorcee, aged 28 years. She is of medium height,
and plump, thus confirming the theory that history
is never made by thin women.’ ”
No occasion for disquiet,
Dolly Dimples, or for diet!
What’s a waist less sylph-like growing? AVhat’s a
duplicating chin?
There's another way to view it
When you can’t bant down the suet;
Never woman yet made history who was thin.
Sappho, passionate and slender,
Sang of love with pensive splendor;
Sara 8., that matchless actress, wasn’t * much but
bones and skin.
But they set no empires shaking;
Really genuine history-making
Is a sport denied to women who are thin.
Cleopatra one may feature
As a plump and pleasing creature;
Similarly Messalina and the sprightly Nellie Gwynne:
Madame Maintenon captured Louis—
Would she e’er have come in coo-ee
Of “Le Grand Monarque,” d’you think, had she been
thin?
Helen, too, to Troy so harmful,
Must have been a bouncing armful;
Else would Paris ha’ fallen for her and his land ha’
fallen in?
And the beggar maid, I’ll bet you a
Bob, had never mashed Cophetua
If her rags had fluttered round a figure thin.
Cast no lance that sour or sad is,
Then, my slowly widening Gladys,
On the try-your-weight contraptions. Rounded con-
tours aren’t a sin.
History’s made by vamping princes,
And a brief survey convinces
That's a task beyond the woman who is thin.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


More Than Ever
World’s Greatest Values
Everyone Says It—Sales Prove It
r
3
HUDSON 7-PASSENGER PHAETON
Throughout Hudson s long-time
policy of giving greatest value
for the money, this is the lowest
price, the finest Hudson, the
greatest value Hudson ever
offered. Only Hudson’s exclu-
sive advantages of the famous
patented Super-Six principle
combined with the world’s larg-
est production of 6-cylinder cars
make it possible. By greater
margins than ever before, it is to-
day the “World’s Greatest Buy.”
Hudson’s leadership is the result
of ten years’ engineering concen-
tration in refining a great car
around the famous Super-Six
principle. Its simplicity has
always meant a lower selling
price than is permitted in compli-
cated types. No design, however
£495
Hudson
Brougham .. . £595
Hudson 7-pass.
Sedan £665
Essex Coach . . £395
Essex Touring. . £315
Lowest Prices
for the
Finest Motor
Cars
in Hudson
History
costly, has been found to excel
Super-Six smoothness, reliabil-
ity and performance.
The economy Hudson owners
is not only in the big saving of
first cost; they know, also, the
greatest of all operating econo-
mies—faultless service for
months on end with rarely any
need whatever for attention and
at a minimum expense for ser-
vice.
We are sure a personal demon-
stration will give you the same
conviction of unequalled quality
and value held by Hudson
owners everywhere.
HUDSON COACH
£520
xcvb bulletin
Hudson-Essex World’s Largest Selling 6-Cylinder Cars
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan,
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & GO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORCARS, LTD..
Adelaide Street, Brisbane


Australasian
Pigeon Championship,
1925,
WAS WON WITH A
W.W.CREEHER
“EMPIRE” GRADE
CUN
Wholesale Representatives:—
W. P. THOMPSON S CO, PTY, LTD,,
405-407 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
CYANOGAS
(CALCIUM CYANIDE.)
The recognised leader in rabbit extermination.
&
0
’FUMO
BRANb—
cS©
1
P® y
particulars promptly
on request.
Mr. T. C. M. Suttor, “Triamble,” Hargraves, N.S.W., writes:—
“Re Calcium Cyanide, I am using it with good results. It is
very deadly, and rabbits caught in the burrows have not in one
instance dug 0ut.... I have beeu working on about 350 acres
lately, enclosed and badly infested, which I am cleaning up
with the Cyanide, quicker than I had hoped before starting.
A repeat order usually speaks for itself. Will you please let
me have a further supply of 10 51b. tins?’’
Mr. Leslie Clark, “Dulcidene,” Terramungamine, Dubbo, N.S.W.
writes:—
“Please send another ease Calcium Cyanide
Dust. I believe that with one of your
Dust-blowing Machines and the above
powder it is possible to keep my property
free of rabbits. I have done for one
shilling per acre country that would cost
me three or four shillings per acre to
dig out. The fumes are instant death to
every rabbit in a burrow.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Sew South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd.. 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Legrgo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd.. Adelaide
Queensland : Huzacott’s (Q'land). Ltd.. Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris. Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson 6* French, Ltd., Launceston.
Roberts & Co.. Ltd., Hobart.
xcvb bulletin
The NEW Wieneke
xcvb bulletin
Prince
Po ley
Saddle
is the talk of Australia.
The special points are:
1. Big dip in the seat.
2. Poley pads set high
up.
3. Free stirrup bar so
that leathers come
out in case of
accident.
Find out about iny
saddles. I can suit you
best of all.
New Book post free to you.
Jack Wieneke,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney.
Or 434 Queen Street,,Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
Jim Oarew : Years ago I planted a cam-
phor-laurel in my front garden, and last year cut
it down to within a few inches of the ground. To
prevent suekering I bored a hole in the stump and
gave it a liberal dose of strong sulphuric acid. No
suckers have appeared on the stump, but hundreds have
sprung up in my garden. I have cut through the
roots that were near the surface, but that only
seems to encourage them. Can the Council tell me
how I can get rid of them? I can’t grub the lot
out without destroying the whole garden, and I am
loath to do that.
“Melos”: “No bullock when hitched to a
bull can bear the strain,” says “Pick” (B.
iO/12/’2o). This he
attributes to the differ-
ence in the shape of
the animals; but I am
inclined to think that
fear is really at the
root of the trouble. It
fs a well-known fact
that both bullocks’ and
geldings avoid the en-
tires of their respective
kinds; and the mixed
team is consequently
anything but satisfac-
tory. How can an
animal do its best when
terrorised by another
to which it is secured ?
The twisting of the
yoke referred to by
“Pick” is a common
experience in bullock
draught, • for,. , like
humans, oxe n are
divided into the dili-
gent and the lazy, the
diligent grown weary
and the lazy spurred
on with a prod or a
lash—rarely do we find
all doing their bit. I
have seen a bullock of
the nervy class almost
choked in its attempts
to do the work of two
or more, but have not
found an instance in
which the “tiger” re-
fused to stand up to
the collar as a result
of the imposition of a
laggard yoke-fellow.
“Bill O*C.”: Among people who follow
unique occupations is a snake dairy-farmer who has
been pursuing his calling about the swampy, low-
lying lands to the west of Adelaide. He owns a
considerable herd of reptiles, and is always hunting
for more. He feeds them, as a good cow-cocky
would, on suitable tucker—in this case mice, frogs,
sparrows and the like—and at frequent intervals
“milks” them for their venom by pressure with his
fingers on the controlling duct, catching the poison
exuded through the hollow fang in a small phial.
Ihis is said to have a good commercial value,
though where it goes and for what purpose it is
used does not seem to be known. The usual bad
authority says to Germany as an ingredient of some
mysterious explosive. A better one says that the
venom now has its place and use in the pharmaco-
poeia. The farmer’s method of capturing his new
cows is as follows. He seizes the snake by the
tail, draws it quickly backward and dangles it,
tapping the captive on the head with a small stick
every time it attempts to turn and bite. After a
while the wriggler gets tired of this and sulkily
gives up the contest, whereupon the man grabs it
by the neck, thrusts it in a sack and looks for
another. The snakes soon lose their rebellious habits
and get broken in to the bail. The business has
its points. With a big herd the owner probably
has to get down to cocky hours of labor, but there
is an absence of drudgery in the slushy yard with
the temperature below freezing-point; also the mono-
tony of churning and poddying is unknown.
* * * *
“J.H.S.”: The “fever”-tree mentioned by
“Ranger” (B. 10/12/’25) is the native quinine, Alsto-
nia constricta, commonly known on the North Coast of
Bananaland as “bitter bark.” It is a vigorous grower
and one of the hardest
timbers to kill-out or
eradicate, the smallest roo-
left in the ground send-
ing up a new tree in a
couple of weeks. The
medicinal properties of the
tree are well known, but
no commercial use appears
to have been made of
them so far. Early in
1925, at the instance of
a Melbourne firm, I col-
lected about 281 b. of the
bark, and despatched it to
a London drug house.
The same firm appears to
have collected samples of
various “suspected” medi-
cinal barks and herbs in
different parts of the Com-
monwealth, probably with
a view to testing their
values. Our forests and
scrubs no doubt contain many valuable medicinal
plants, and it is up to the authorities to get science
busy in research.
* * * *
"Lp Top”: Queer how native legends
that tally closely with Bible accounts keep cropping
up. The aboriginals have a “Flood” legend, and
the islands also have theirs. In the Banks group
a hero of many legends is the spirit Qat. On Gaua
is a lake and lower down a big waterfall, but where
the lake now is were once hills and forest country.
Qat made a giant canoe from a great tree. The
tribesmen scoffed at him for building such a craft
on high land, and jeeringly asked how he proposed
to drag it down to the sea. He replied “Wait and
see!” The vessel finished, he compelled his wife
and brothers to embark, together with two of every
kind of living thing on the island, down to the
tiniest ant. He next wove a cover over the
boat, enclosing all. Then it rained and rained and
raiped. Gradually the valleys filled until the flood
burst through the hills and foamed down to the sea.
That is where the great waterfall now tumbles.' The
canoe ploughed through the waters to the sea, where
it vanished. The people say that with Qat went the
best of everything on the island, and some day he
will surely return. When Bishop Patteson first
visited the island he was taken for Qat come back.
All over the island are traces of a vanished people
in the form of stone foundations and walls, pointing
to the former existence of a large and advanced
population.
“Nitric”: What is the record for the num-
ber of times a snake has bitten in quick succession
with fatal effect? I once saw a brown snake (a
five-footer) bite three fox-terriers. Two died, and
the third, making straight for water, saved its
life. I noticed that the two dead dogs were the
first attacked by the wriggler. This fact suggests
that the intensity of the snake’s bite diminished
with each successive bite. Yet I have the word
of a S.-W. Queensland cattleman that, after driving
a mob through a gully past a particular rock, 14
died within an hour from the effects of a tiger-
snake’s. bites. He killed the snake as it came for
him, and didn’t trust to luck that its poison-glands
were empty.
HIC!
THE MISSUS : “You told me you’d never
drink again as long as you breathed!”
SWIZZLER: “No, m ’ dcarsh; I said I’d never
breathe again as long as I drank.”
“Doryk Boone”: “Jackeroo's” dissertation
(B. 10/12/’25) concerning the efficacy of the West
Queensland climate on tubercle is one of those half-
true and sweeping conclusions that mislead the laity.
As an M.D. and a t.b., I am doubly qualified to
preach a sermonette on his hymn of hope. First, as
regards climatic conditions. Amongst a lot of de-
siderata the supremely important one is clarity of
air; all other features are subsidiary and compara-
tively unimportant. The anathemas arc dust of all
kinds and excessive segregation from his fellows.
The purest air on the planet will not suffice if good
A TIME FOR EXPLANATIONS.
PRISONER (to policeman) : “Are ycr any
good at puttin’ up a tale? 'Ere comes
th’ missus.”
living conditions are absent. The t.b.’s appetite
must be fastidiously and selfishly studied. There is
no pharmaceutical specific for the malady, so in lieu
of thi? everything must be done to increase the
natural resistance. Let us examine “Jackeroo’s”
Western Queensland. I have tried it and condemn
it utterly. Food conditions, except in a few opu-
lent homesteads, are wretched for the t.b. No fruit,
no vegetables, extreme heat without the concomitant
antigens of civilisation, such as ice and tempting
palatable food. Long stretches without rain mean
dust. No, W.Q. is in much the same position as
Mildura (Vic.) and other over-boomed places; their
fitness is only for a few short winter months. The
majority of the wiseacres of Macquarie and Collins
streets really haven’t the foggiest notion of the con-
ditions of the places to which they dispatch their
patients. W.Q. would be an ideal place for a harden-
ing process once a t.b. focus is entirely quiescent,
but for a sick man it is the height of folly. The
future conquest of tubercle will be biological, not
medicinal. The drugs, dopes and nostrums used in
the war against t.b. are legion, and their multi-
plicity automatically proves the case against them.
Fundamentally, Spahlinger’s mode of attack is sound,
but his ethics are not to be admired, and he has
yet to prove his case before a discriminating body of
scientists, as Pasteur and Jcnner did before him.
“Amyl Nitrite”: For the same reason that “Jack-
eroo” advises t.b’s to “hit out for the mulga” I
remain l in the South. I sampled the near-mulga
atmosphere and found that, combined with the heat
and scarcity of suitable food, it shortened the dis-
tance between me and the coffin. Haemorrhaging is
my long suit, and even in comparatively sub-Antarctic
Melbourne every summer sees a serious depletion of
my life-stream, yet during the winter, when the
blood thickens, I make up the temporary leeway.
But I do this only by eschewing work and avoiding
the institutions where environment takes toll of the
faint-hearted, and by eating the best of home-made
food, denying myself intoxicants and drinking two
quarts of milk a day, hugging the open, waking and
sleeping, and, lastly—this is very important—by
mental uplift.
* * * *
“Gouger”: I noticed in Palestine during
the war years that in some respects its birds, like
our own, took the man-hawk seriously. At the
sight of a ’plane they would swoop to earth, scuttle
among the barley or green leaves of the orange
groves, and there crouch until the winged menace
had sailed past. They seemed to sense a ’plane
fully 10 minutes before we could either hear or
sec it. When camped near trees for any length of
time, the uneasy twitterings and quick apprehensive
flight of the birds warned the more observant of us
that a hawk with egg-laying capacity was drawing
near. Then we, like the birds, became uneasy.
Familiarity, however, soon bred contempt, and birds
whose home grounds were taken over by aerodromes
became used to the whirring machines and treated
their noises with contempt.
(Continued on page 24X
JONES AND THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas a seasonable feeling and a touch of Christmas
cheer
And a kindness that came stealing on a breath of
Christmas beer
That accomplished my undoing in a way that nought
condones
When they started me to suing for the friendliness
of Jones.
(“As thyself to love thy neighbor,” quite a Christian
spirit owns;
But I count it a lost labor —when it comes to loving
Jones.)
I’d a wealth of gracious flowers that he never thought
to praise;
He would toil for weary hours quite the poorest
things to raise.
Oft, I fear, my lips w r ere curling not from irony
exempt
When we stood with hoses whirling and I watched
his w'eak attempt,
While that unasthetic blighter only greeted with
dull groans
My essays to make home brighter. Oh, a soulless
beast was Jones!
So we weeded and we watered, while across the
fence we cast
Looks that really might have slaughtered, winged
sneers that travelled fast;
Even words were sometimes flying like swift bails
that skim a net;
Crude, alas! was my replying. His, I swear, was
cruder yet,
For a mass of filth unwanted, such as rags and
cans and bones,
Upon my beds was planted by the super-bounder
Jones !
POOR OLD BILL.
CURIOUS BYSTANDER: “What are you chaps laughing at?”
NAVVY: “Ole Bill there. ’E don’t know the ganger’s been called
away to the office.”
To the letter I indited he replied ’twas but a slip— •
Said he’d taken it, near-sighted, for a public rubbish-
tip.
So with feelings that were vicious and a dead and
dreadful cat,
I returned his kindly wishes, and just let it go
at that.
But with rubbish and with raging we were neither
of us drones,
And the war was long a-waging ’twixt myself and
neighbor Jones.
Till there came the eve of Noel, when the hearts
of men grow soft,
And my anger seemed to so elude the message from
aloft,
And the kindness to all living by that gentle birth
decreed,
That I burned to be forgiving even Jones and ail
his seed.
And I feverishly sought him, and I begged in eager
tones
For his friendship; and I bought him many beers—
long beers—for Jones.
Till his arms he flung about me, and as brothers
vowed were we,
And another drink he'd shout me, or it might be
two or three;
And it may have been at seven, or at seventeen,
perchance,
That he threw his bat at Heaven and began to sing
and dance.
Then we wept, as one whose weeping for a bitter
fault atones,
On our homeward way a-creeping—hand in hand—
myself and Jones.
And we sat within his garden, while with fervor
there we swore
There was nought our hearts could harden 'gainst
each other ever more;
And I vowed his blowing roses were the best that
I had seen ;
fie declared no place discloses lawns like mine, so
neat and green.
And yet mor e and more we wondered as we sat upon
the stones,
How fine fellows could have blundered as we had,
myself and Jones.
Hut he suddenly went yellow, though the moon was
whiter still,
And with words so thick and mellow said, “I’m
gointerbe ill.”
Swift he passed his garden-edges, passed each bed
and trellised vine,
And, across dividing hedges, he was sick —right on
to mine!
Well, perhaps, a "pig in clover” something worse
in instinct owns;
the’ armistice is over. I’m at war again w 7 ith
Jones.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


im
m
■111!
II !i :
lllliiii
iiii
*§>
a*
KKvtt
v/W-i
m
•ay.;
-v.v
KVv
555?
ill
WAm
WB
m
m
■
m
m
7.0T.V
<e
■
m
SJS
y*Vv»Vw
SB?
v/rr
v.v-.v
1
H
,y,v
wKS
■
ESSv«
H
m&ztrn®
wmmm
$ m"
;%•»:
■:v£:
©
p
W
m
Sa'A
m
■=s
>AV
Lr
W*'
■rt
’<<2.
■aT
i v
uaiiuy'
HARDY’S
WINES
Op
TINTARA
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen 'lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


&
w
m
%6
High caste at low cost ”
Someone aptly put it the other
day, sir, when he said “ Kensitas are
High Caste cigarettes at
Low Cost price/’
xcvb bulletin
Also in Boxes of
SO and 100
Kenoi
HIP
S' sr
>0
Cigarettes
Manufacturers:
T. WIX & SON?, LTD., / ondon, England
“Blatrak” : Is a bag of 72 starlings made
with two barrels a record? It was achieved by a
15-year-old lad who planted himself near a hedge
in a paddock where thousands of this pest were
enjoying their morning meal. The locality was
on a farm a few miles south of Adelaide.
* * * •»
“Midlander”: A blind sparrow lias made
its home in the garden of a friend here in South
Aus. Its senses of smell and of hearing are particu-
larly keen, for it responds to a call and locates the
food without difficulty. Although flying somewhat
slowly, it dodges obstacles and rarely comes into
collision with the boughs of the trees. That it was
reared in this garden may help it.
* * * *
“Nitric”: I can support “Siss” in his
general contention that the hacks in the towns do
not compare in any way with those out back. He
seldom sees a really good ambler among the town
neddies, whereas the cattle horse is a great ambler
and an even canterer and galloper. But “Sigs” is
PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES.
MOTOR ENTHUSIAST: “Hi, shore her in neutral and jamb on the
brakes .”
wrong in saying that these features are not taken
into consideration by the country show’-judge. Points
are deducted for an uneven break into a canter.
The first-class hack can get a lolloping, even swing
from a walk, trot or amble. Furthermore, “Sigs’s”
statement that “the judge must be on the horse’s
back” is incorrect. If a judge of horses can’t see
from a rider’s posture whether a horse is “com-
fortable” or not, then he should be appointed to
another judiciary. Points for a hack are given to
the rider as well as through him.
* * * *
“Keppol” : I've come across two instances
of snakes being caught by a line. A farmer at
Glass House Mountain (Q.) w r as dow T n a well 50ft,
deep when he noticed a snake. Coming up to the
top he baited a hook and dropped a fishing-line
down to the snake, which went for the bait and
was hooked. After some struggling it was hauled
to the top and proved to be a six-foot black one.
Tiie other snake was caught in practically similar
circumstances at Yeppoon (C.Q.). But in this case
the wriggler tugged so much that it tore away
from the hook and escaped, leaving some of its flesh
on the line.
* * * *
“C. Coral’’: The introduction of fibrolite
roofing into the northern regions is having its effect
on the native word-coinage. To the Torres islander
galvanised-iron is always “copper”—he being fami-
liar with the sheets of copper used on the hull
of his boat —but the other day a proud young
man told me that in his particular island the people
were “making collakshun” to purchase some “cement
copper” for re-roofing their church. The “cement
copper,” after inquiry, he explained as being “all
same that new stuff along hospital roof,” which hap-
pens to be the material aforesaid.
* * * *
“Saaedi” : I don’t think water can damage
the contents of pit silos in the manner “Larrapinta”
suggests (B. i7/12/’25), if the pits are properly
constructed. Practical pastoralists are coming to
regard the pitting of green fodder as the most suit-
able means of insurance against drought. Not only is
the method fairly cheap, but the food value of
stuffs thus stored is retained in a remarkable
manner. Pit ensilage will probably prove the
salvation of all pastoralists except in the driest
country.
■****
“A.P.M.”: While in South-West Queens-
land jackerooing a few years ago I was called to
the woolshed, and was thfcre shown a fleece off a
ewe hogget which was about to be put into the
press. Entwined in the wool was a swallow which
had survived the handling of the shearer, picker-
up, wool-roller and -classer. The bird was released
and flew away uninjured.
* * * *
“Gamaoha”: I can add a cobbler to the
group that possesses a superstitious kink concerning
the influence of the moon (B. 10/12/’25). He main-
tains that the leather'he cuts and nails or stitches
any time after the moon’s second octant up to her
full will not wear nearly as well as the leather he
uses during the moon’s other phases.
* * * *
“Veronal”: When listed up it is surpris-
ing what a number of ticks are native to Australia,
each tick having its particular hosts. Included is,
of course, the abhorrent bush tick (Ixodes holocy-
clus), peculiar to the eastern coasts. This tick is
found on dogs, marsupials, man and birds, and the
writer has also known of its occurrence on foxes
and cats. Marsupials, apparently, are tick-proof ; at
any rate one never finds them dead from or affected
by tick poison, but
foxes occur at times
with hindquarters par.
alysed, the effect of
toxin generated by the
tick. Native dogs also
succumb. As regards
man, the effect varies
with the individual.
Deaths of children
from tick bite hat e
been recorded, and 1
have seen an arm ter-
ribly swollen and in-
flamed from this cause.
Some human beings
appear to be tick-
proof. The platypus
also has its tick,
which apparently can
exist under water. A
somewhat sickish and
inert duckbill taken
from a south coastal
(N.S.W.) river had
several ticks of a
whitish color clinging
to it. The platypus
tick is said to occur
also has its tick,
cattle and marsupials.
The bush tick, which
is a smallish flat in-
sect, until it sucks
blood from its victim
and so enlarges its
abdomen, is also known
as the “bottle tick,’’
but that name is like-
wise applied to the
much larger livid-blue
tick found on horses,
also on black cockatoos
and certain other birds.
Snakes too have their
tick: it has been found on diamond and carpet
snakes and on certain deadly snakes. The sheep
tick is, of course, as familiar to those who haunt
the shearing-sheds as coffee and curses.
“C. Coral” : Restriction of birth ideas are
looked upon with a cold eye in Torres Strait
at present, there being much rivalry between various
islands as to which is to lead in population. At
Yorke Island, as a little encouragement to family
folk, the local native council met the other day, and
decided that all newly-born infants should be called
on by the entire population of the island (with
customary song and dance) within the first week
of their arrival, and that a present of food, calico
or cash should accompany the callers. The inter-
island competition has also had its effect on mar-
riages, and there has been quite a run of matri-
monial events. Practically all the islands show an
increase of population over that of a few years
ago, one of the results being the establishment of
new schools. Had Queensland’s Child Endowment
Pill gone through, the Straits Islanders would have
been in clover.
* * * *
“Caesar”’: The yarn about a shark's heart
throbbing for hours after it had been taken from
the body does not surprise me. I have seen a
goanna’s heart beating some time after the reptile’s
death. This phenomenon gives rise to the bush
TRYING IT ON THE
CHARLOTTE RUSSE.
MRS. PINFIRE : “An’ 'owdidger
enjoy y'self last night, Mrs.
Kagan?"
MRS. KAGAN : “Aw, it was a good turnout, Mrs. Pinfire. But, sure, Kagan disgracea
us all, ’e did. When the Charlotte russe came on. ’e tried t blow th’ froth off.’
belief that a snake does not die until after sundown.
A snake’s heart will beat for hours after death, and
if placed in a' solution of salt water may continue
its throbbing for days.
“Mordialloc”: Fourteen months ago I picked up a
tortoise near Millicent (S.A.) and brought it home.
Thinking it was looking pretty sick, 1 decided to
put it out of its misery, and with an axe com-
pletely severed the head and about two inches of
the neck from the body, which I then submerged in
a tub of water. It walked, breathed and swam
up till a few hours of its demise, three and a half
days later. This statement can be backed up by half a
hundred people residing in the township.
“Gaf”: The old shellbacks’ belief that a
shark’s heart when cut out will continue to beat
until sunset, like the similar superstition about
decapitated snakes, is founded on scientific fact.
Both shark and snake have a great amount of vitality,
and 1 have often cut off a snake’s head and found
the heart still beating an hour later. As for the
wriggling of a headless snake till sundown, this is
due to the stimulus of the sun’s rays, though of
course there is a limit to such effects —-the nervous
action would not last, say, from dawn to sunset.
Goannas also have a great hold on life, and I have
dissected a frog whose heart was still pulsating
normally though its owner had been dead half an
hour.
“Black Tracker”: In those days of expen-
sive furs it is a wonder that some enterprising
person has not seen trade possibilities in breeding
those beautiful little claw-tailed chaps known as
bilbies. Some time ago an experimental lot of
skins sent to America averaged £5 ss. a piece, and
a cabled order was received for as many as could
be sent. There should be no serious difficulties in
the way of running a bilbie farm ; and, apart from
the value of their fur, they arc most interesting
creatures. As they are mostly found, in desert
regions, it is thought they can live without water.
“Idaho”: Here is a good way of catching,
or rather killing, old “Jacko” shark. Take a piece
of wood, which must be springy, sharpen both ends,
and bend it so that it fits inside a large tin.
Then fill the tin with melted fat, let it cool and
solidify, and cut away the tin. Attach the lump
of fat by means of a rope to a kerosene tin, and then
chuck it into the sea. The fat will be dissolved on
being swallowed, and the stick will return to its
normal shape, to the detriment of “Jacko.”
♦ * * *
“Pick”: With a board of 16 shearers a
jumbuck-barbering firm this season. cut out 105,000
sheep at Gillendoon station, near Warren (N.S.W.).
The aggregate tally of several of the shearers was
in the neighborhood of 8000 per man, but the
ringer, Jack Kimber, a Bombala gun, bettered that
by 800. At 30 shillings a hundred, his cheque
for 11 weeks’ work was £124 10s., which may be
posted as a record amount taken from any single
shearing-pen.
“Koolamarra”: How many people, bush-
men included, can say that they have ever seen a
young curlew? In my own experience extending
over half a century spent in the bush I have only
once seen a nest of these birds and have never until
to-day seen any chicks; this notwithstanding that
curlews are quite common in every part of the
Commonwealth I have been in. Walking through
the bush this morning 1 saw within a few yards
of me a curlew. It appeared to have both a broken
wing and a broken leg and was making frantic
efforts to get away. I stood where I was and began
a close inspection of the ground near me. Presently
the wounded bird was joined by another; this bird,
being bolder than its mate, came right up to me
and beat my legs with its -wings, wailing low and
hissing alternately. The ground was covered with
dry leaves and pieces of bark, and it was quite
five minutes before I located the first chick, which
was lying close down within a foot of me. Stooping
to examine it better I espied another about 3ft.
further on. On changing my position I found that
I had been almost standing on a third chick.
This little chap had crouched down on top of a nest
of little black ants, and although almost smothered
with them lay absolutely still. It did not move
|as much as an eyelid when I picked it up with
| two pieces of bark and shifted it out of the way
of the ants. In color the chicks are light grey
| with dark stripes running from head to tail, their
! feathers resemble lamb’s wool more than anything
else, and when motionless on the ground the mites
look exactly like pieces of dry stick.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Every year quantities of
young trout are brought from the Vic. hatcheries and
liberated in the creeks running through the Adelaide
hills. The number to reach maturity is very small.
A friend who lives on the banks of Currency Creek,
near Goolwa, tells me that black snakes are the
worst enemy the young fish have. They lie on the
bottom of the pools when the water is clear and
snap up the young fish as they swim past. I my-
self have timed a black snake to stop over 30
minutes under water, and a lot of damage can be
done in half an hour.
* * * *
“Vuniwai”: Recently, at Rarawai (Fiji),
I saw a Fijian throw a stone from the bank of the
Ba River on to a small island well past mid-stream.
It seemed to be a long throw, but he repeated it
without any difficulty. Later I asked a surveyor
friend to measure the distance, which proved to be
138 yards. The “boy” threw with his left hand, and
used water-worn stones rather smaller than a tennis-
ball. Does this constitute an abo. record?
* * * *
“Centre” : Can any member of the Council
give the name of the N.Q. tree whose sap is used
by the abo. for dressing cuts and wounds? I’ve
twice seen the medicine procured and the dressing
applied to knife-wounds, which healed quickly with-
out further attention. The tree —a sapling with a
loin, diameter and a height of about 30ft. —was
gashed with an axe a foot from the ground, and a
clear, colorless fluid with rather a sickly smell
oozed out, and was painted over the wounds, the
edges of which were held closely together during
the operation. The sap dried almost immediately,
forming a thin, tough, transparent film over the
flesh. In both cases three coats were applied. A
peculiarity of the dressing was that, though the
blood was washed away afterwards, the water failed
to disturb the film, which, I was told, would peel
off a few days later when the w-ounds had healed.
THE LITTLE BUSH COTTAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the cottage where love stepped in;
Four small rooms and a roof of tin,
Steps that lead from it front and back
To the garden below and the bushland track.
bet us peer past the open door awhile
Through the windows bright with their secret smile,
As if they know of the presence within
The four rooms under their roof of tin.
There is a little wife small and sweet
All in a hurry on dancing feet,
Dusting the shelves and sweeping the floors,
Ironing his shirts and doing the chores;
Darning the socks in their weakest places,
Busy with work-basket, ribbons and laces;
Lifting the lid of the big flOur-bin
In the way-back cottage where love stepped in.
When the heat of the day has past, and the Nignt
Has donned her wrapper and lit. her light,
Footfalls are heard on the step outside—
His hat is off and his arms flung wide;
He calls her name and pretends to trip
On the kiss she has left on the front-door strip ;
While round and around the windmills spin
Near the neat little cottage where love stepped in.
The water-bag hangs from the rusty nail,
While out in the bush the mopokes wail ;
Around and about shadows stealthily creep
And the tall grass bends where the kangaroos leap.
The moon has garnished the trees with her glimmer,
And made the water-troughs sparkle and shimmer.
There is light on the paddocks and light within
The little bush cottage where love stepped in.
QUEENSLAND.
PAULA FITZGERALD.


ISSSS
A
mmem gj mm |
M IMN
tBmm |
:
■ ; :
BHjM
?»
■
I
~
m 9HH
H
wp?- &
c
■Hi
3
as
■
®v."
V
■
®
■M
li»
mSlsirnM
u
You, too, would be
tempted by foods
Rept in this way.
RELVINATOR
SEND
THIS
COUPON.
Please send me the
Kelvinator Literature.
Name .
Address
xcvb bulletin
LADIES
Send your
address and we
will post you a
free copy of our
book—
KELVINATED
FOODS
LX ELVINATOR is an unobtrusive little machine which
1 v does away with the necessity for ice. Placed in any
position out of the way, it keeps the temperature of the ice-
chest at a uniform degree of cold day and night. It works
itself, and requires no looking after or adjusting. No more
dank, soggy ice-chest odor, nuisance of frequent scouring out,
or dependence on the ice-man.
It is electrically driven, either from a lighting plant or town current. It is small, com-
pact and fully automatic. It stops and starts itself without any attention whatever.
It keeps foods cold really cold and perfectly sweet indefinitely. It provides
ice for table use, more than you can use. It is colder than ice and cheaper.
The Kelvinator is not a cheap article, but adds the finishing touch to the well-
appointed home.
It is a convenience you will later regard as a necessity.
Kelvinator means hygiene; it means economy in cost of food and labor; it means
a better standard of living. It is destined to become as necessary as a bathroom.
Send for the Kelvinator literature. You will find it absorbingly interesting.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
New South Wales. . DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, LIMITED,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
Victoria DOMESTIC ENGINEERS & PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES CO. PTY/ LTD
383 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Queensland QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES. LIMITED,
Bowen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia . . .MECHANICAL SUPPLIES, LIMITED,
79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Western . Australia. . GILBERTS, LIMITED,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
South Sea Islands. . W, R. CARPENTER & COMPANY, LIMITED
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney


Under
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1914.
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
QifcHeikfc
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
Huts!**
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydnay.
The Wentworth
>x>x
m
iii
I
Sydney’s Leading
Residential Hotel.
Rooms en suite with
private Sitting-room,
Bathroom and Tele-
phone, or, single with
or without bath.
Church Hill, Sydney.
mm
i
m
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity —Dining 650, Supper Dances 750,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.50, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666-.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
General Brand had his 22nd farewell
party at the Town Hall, with the Mayor
to say “Here’s luck!” No mgtinee idol
could pull through such a procession of
cream-puffs without severe enlargement of
his cranium. But. the ex-Queensland soldier
takes it all in a day’s march for Melbourne
headquarters. Brand brought home a bag
full of decorations from the war, and caught
his D.S.O. at half-past 4 on the morning
of the Landing. But lie brought back more
than decorations; the genuine affection of
even Iris least illustrious cobbers.
Knight Arthur Rickard and his lady have
been nearly submerged this past week in a
maelstrom of farewells prior to their flight
to England by way of TJ.JS.A., the birthplace
of the Millions Club. S'Arthur is the peren-
nial president of the club, and the other night
the members said their good-bye at the
Ambassadors. Everything sparkled, from
wine to roof-lanterns which suggested clumps
of glowing tulips, the speeches were no longer
than they should be, and the president epito-
mised the club’s gospel in a question: “It
takes 64 muscles of tne face to make a frown
and only 13 to make a smile—why work
overtime?” The ballroom of the Ambassadors
was crowded with those who came to dine
and stayed to dance. A notable among them
was the new Japanese Consul-General, Mr.
Tokugawa, a Prince in his own right and
so mixed up with the Royal family of Japan
it would take a page to explain it. Mrs.
William Brooks, whose husband was among
the speeclimakers, brought the handsome
sobriety of black lace and satin to the gather-
ing, while the Rickard dame shaded pink
georgettes in vellum lace. George Fitz-
patrick, the secretary of St. Margaret's, was
taking his first draught of night air since
bis long sickness, and was watched over by
Mrs. Fitzpatrick, who wore an anxious look
and a black frock. With them were the
Godhard couple, she waving a flame-colored
fan of great dimensions. Mrs. Monte Luke
flew pale lilacs, and the radiant Mrs. Jenner.
who came with the Leslie Walfords, billowed
in a modern edition of ye olde style carried
out in white organdie over plum-bine moires.
Mrs. Ryrie’s raiment assembled turquoise
blue and gold splashings against a black
background.
Staying with eye-specialist Dr. Granville
Waddy and his wife at Culhain. Bellevue
Hill, is Lord Hobart —Lord John Hobart-
Hampden-Mercer-Henderson, to give him all
he’s entitled to; but if you want to appear
“quite one of us” you address him as Lord
Hubbart. He's a tall stripling of 19, sun-
browned from his voyage across. This was
made in the company of the Waddys, who
w 7 ere visiting the lordling’s parents, the
Earl and Countess of Buckinghamshire, at
their Scottish home, Fordell House, when the
Australian visit was under discussion. The
young aristo. is going to jaekeroo in Queens-
land for two or three years and may eventu-
ally settle in Australia. Many years ago
his father spent some time in Melbourne
and Sydney, and the experience the boy will
get on the land here, it is hoped, will, by the
grace of Providence, help him in the man-
agement of the estate to which it has pleased
the same Providence to make him heir. He
is descended on the maternal side from Lord
Duncan, to whom the nation presented Cam-
perdown House in recognition of his victory
at Camperdown; while on his father’s side
he can trace his lineage back to John Hamp-
den, the Parliamentarian. Though it must
be said for him that he was too busy attend-
ing regularly to the bloodstock the Port
Albany carried (racehorses and stud rams
from Wembley) to bother about family trees!
It w r as while listening to embryo stars the
other day at the Conservatorium that Clara
Butt heard the ill tidings of her mother’s
death. An enormous wave of sympathy has
gone out to the singer, who has in the' past
two or three years had her share of bereave-
ments. Clara and Kennerley Rumford are
so pleased -with the quality of the voices
heard in these singing tests that they are
endowing the Con. with a £6O a year scholar-
ship. The Con. authorities will be the judges,
and Roland Foster is the singing teacher
chosen to train the winners. Meantime
Peggy Bell, Dorothy Benbow\ Florence Yates
and Hazel McPherson —the last only 17 and
quite untrained —are some of the lasses who
won special commendation.
Irue to schedule, the Wedding March
pealed through St. Mark’s for Mona Hous-
ton and Lieutenant Tom Taylor, R.N., of
H. Adelaide. Mona, who was con-
\oyed to the altar rails, the waiting ’groom
and Archdeacon D’Arcy Irvine by Uncle
, was in white from veil to
bouquet. The frock of the rippling sleekness
Known as crgpe stella was embellished with
crystal embroideries and a ruched
Chilton train ; while a sheaf of white gladioli
put a dash of Burne-Jones into the picture.
I. ride s sister Dorothy, cousin Alice Milne
:l ', Dorothy Paradice wrung tremendous
effect from a mixture of parchment lace and
sky-after-rain georgettes. They furthermore
carried droopy crinoline hats of blue and
supported cherry-toned gladioli. Best-man
Engineer-Commander Hutchinson and the
thiY“e ushers were in full navals, as were a
sufficient number of the guests to form the
arch ot steel which is as necessary to a
-Navy bride as her marriage linos. Cake and
toasts at Iml worth, the bride’s home in
Boslyn Gardens.
Mrs. Erskinc-W bite, a war widow since
the early days of the conflict, made a plea-
sant memory for hoary St. Stephen’s the
, !- v wlien entered matrimony afresh
with Colonel \\. C 5. McCulloch. iJrothgr-in-iaw
.rohn Osborne gave her away, and brother
<Tiiy Atherton (Melbourne) stood bv. The
wedding garment caused quite a stir. It
was of parchment-hued lace, over which bal-
looned an over-skirt of ivory georgettes
caught in somewhere in the region of the
knees. Her hat was Tuscan and picturesque,
and she flew a shoulder knot of yellow
orchids.
Queensland marched right up to the front
pews in St. John’s at Darlinghurst when
Amy Hall, of Brisbane, and Thomas Logan,
of the same tropic city, decided that one
monogram would do for both. They took
Padre A. C. Lucas into their confidence on
the subject, while blushfully conscious of
approving hosts of friends in the background.
Fairy roses of crystal and silver bloomed on
the bride’s georgettes, and a train, faint rose
and silver like a cloud, cooed an effective
afterthought. Eileen Murphy and Erica
Logan added pale mauves and yellows to the
scene. Activities were then transferred to
the Wentworth. Both the ’groom and his
bost mail, R, O'Carroll, were in the war
from Landing to Armistice; the bride’s
father is one of Queensland’s best-known
architects; and chief-maid Eileen Murphy’s
father was a Northern beer-king in his day.
Since everybody was doing it. one of the
best-known veterans of the Imperial Service
Club, Colonel James George Tedder, deter-
mined to get married, too. He did it at St.
Andrew’s, Summer Hill, with Canon Lang-
ford Smith and Miss Ida Beileiter to help
him. Jean Lumsden ’maided. Captain 11.
Merewetlier best-manned and L. Jaques was
groomsman. The colonel w r on his lieutenancy
as far back as 1801, and was in the
S’African War through 1901-1902. The
Great War found him in Egypt and on Gal-
lipoli. He was appointed Assistant-Director
of Supply and Transport in Cairo in 1910.
and later did the same job in England.
This is Josie Melville, the little “Sally”
who danced and sang herself right into the
heart of Aus-
tralia. Not
yet 20. Josie
embodies the
courage and
the intelligence
for which dis-
c r i minating
people ha v e
told us this
continent is
noted. She
took an enor-
mous part and
carried it
through with
a success that
might have
turned the
heads of much
older actresses,
but Josie re-
mains still the
wistful, ap-
pealing and modest youngster she was when
she danced blithely in the ballet. The wis-
dom of the world is not for such as she, so
she never offended the ear and the fancy by
turning her girl-part in “Good Morning,
Dearie,” “Kid Boots” or “Sally” into the
stage version of the modern flapper. If
Barrie sees her, as he should, he will find
an adorable Peter Pan. and the Grizel of his
dreams. The picture is from Monte Luke's
studio.
Mrs. Griffiths, mother of 'cellist Bessie
and Mrs. Walter Swinson, is paying a fare-
well visit to her other musical daughter, the
wife of Dr. Simpson, of South Perth, before
sailing with Bessie towards London. Almost
at once the dark little 'cellist with tlie_pome-
granate cheeks will be married to her Italian
soldier-count; meantime Perth is mixing in
one grand slam social pleasantries to tbe de-
parting ones and a super heat-wave.
Major Cyril Clowes, who adds D. 5.0.,
M.C., to his name, has been appointed to
the Brisbane district. A Queenslander, he
hails from Warwick, was one of the original
batch of Duntroon cadets, served in Galli-
poli and France, has the White Eagle of
Serbia among his decorations, is one of the
most popular younger men in the permanent
force, and captains both football and liugby
teams in his playtime. After the Great Up-
heaval he was appointed to the instructional
staff at Duntroon, with gunnery and topo-
graphy as his special subjects. Major Clowes
recently acquired a charming bride. She's
Miss Magennis. eldest treasure of the hos-
pitable P. ,T. Magennis pair, of Jeir station,
Yass. The wedding at the homestead, with
Captain George Capes as best man, was
heavily trimmed with youth and beauty.
Popular Belgian Consul Henri Segaert is
back in Sydney. With him returned his wife
and daughter Henricttc ; for the present their
home is at Craigleith, in Coogee.
This is a Falk picture of Stewart Daw-
son. one of Santa Claus's understudies dur-
ing Christmas
week; an <1
now over 10(H)
young sters.
wi t h th e
true observa-
tion of Aussie
eyes, could de-
scribe minutely
the interior of
the glittersomo
A m b assadors,
which is the
D i a in o n d
King’s latest
joy. It was a
kind thought
that prompted
him to throw
open the
glories of the
gold-leaf pil-
-1 a r s, the
marbles and
"the dazzling and changeful lights to these
kiddies of the Red Cross and the Education
Welfare departments; perhaps it was the
party-come-true that he himself had dreamed
about when at f)J, in far-away Scotland, he
left school to learn to be a farmer's boy.
Former Victorian journalist Alice Henry
is emphatic on the point that industrial con-
ditions are better for women workers in the
United States than in Australia. She cer-
tainly knows the American conditions, as
since she left Melbourne, many years ago,
she has busied herself in the interests of the
sewer, the weaver and the spinner in Uncle
Sam's land. When Alice Ilenry and Miles
Franklin first worked together for the better-
ment of conditions in Chicago and the aboli-
tion of sweat shops, they found the greatest
difficulty to contend with was the mixture
of European races engaged in manufacture.
Four or five races were gathered together in
one workroom, the boss of which probably
represented a still different slice of Europe.
To blend their outlooks and make them think
in American conditions was almost as hard
as teaching them to speak English. This
language-teaching, by the way, is now done
in many welfare schools by training the
muscles of the throat, the tongue and the
lips, as is the way when teaching the deaf
to speak. Pronunciation thus attained is
said to be perfect. Women workers have
more avenues open to them in America, Miss
Henry thinks, than they have in Australia —
there, for instance, the woman inventor is
a frequent occurrence. The conditions men-
tioned in such books as “Susan Lennox” are
an exaggeration, and, anyway, are 15 years,
old. (Still, were conditions in Australia,
even 15 years ago, as bad as that?) All fac-
tories in America have central heating, and
hot water at the turning of a tap. What
Sydney factories —or fiats, for that matter-
have any heating but the inefficient radiator?
Miss Henry, who has passed her Sydney stay
between Castle Crag on the north side and
the Women’s Club, goes south again in a
few days’ time, and then on to the U.S.A.
A Sydney woman whose main interest for
years has been hospital work drops the fol-
lowing note :
I’m rejoiced that one pen protested against the
Sydney Hospital appeal to the Corinthians. We shall
be known as a nation of beggars; in both Los
Angeles and-Honolulu on my last trip abroad I
heard unflattgWng comments on the appeal we made
to the Fleet. *• I cannot help contrasting the attitude
of the American hospitals when I made an inspec-
tion of them a year or two ago. The executive
officers rendered every possible assistance, even in-
vited me to reside at some hospitals for a few days,
and simply wouldn’t accept a donation to their
funds, protesting that the upkeep of American hos-
pitals was the duty and the privilege of Americans,
and that the}' were delighted to help Australian
sister-institutions without looking for a gift in
return.
Douglas and Pat Levy and their friend
Ted Yarrow made a trio of bright figures
against an ensemble of black-bearded priests
on board tbe Dupleix last Friday, when they
sqt out for Noumea. The travellers’ pro-
gramme features a stag-bunt; cinema pic-
tures will be taken by Pat, and shown by
him at Roslyndale on his return as bona fide
records of the sport
John Dailey is back in Sydney looking not
at all depressed over the misfortunes of Mel-
bourne Punch. He goes to London at the
end of the month as Melbourne Herald's
representative.
Those two attractive dancing-girls, May
and June Henry (in spite of the months
difference in their names, they are twins),
rushed their ballet shoes into a cabin-trunk
the other day, and made for America. They
intend to spend six months in the States,
studying the latest footwork of the jazz-
hound on his native heath. Mother is in
Hollywood, and the girls intend to take a
look at the screen stars, stationary and in
motion, under her guidance.
The kiddies of this State have a good
chum in Miss D. Wright, head-mistress of
the girls’ department of Chatswood Superior
Public School. She wants a free swimming-
pool, with instructor attached, for every
suburb and every township. One of her
reasons is the old clay pit—the old pit
(sometimes it is a quarry) which almost
every week in every summer proves a death-
trap for some hot and daring youngster who
reckons he can “dog-paddle across, anyhow.”
Mi ss Wright's watchword is that it is every
kiddie's right to learn to swim, as it learns
to walk; she urges that Victoria is far ahead
of us in the number of its municipal baths,
and wants us to wake up.
Every newspaper-woman in Sydney made
for the Wentworth on Friday afternoon to
drink the four o’clock brew in' honor oi
Isabel Gullett. Isabel, who is a sister of
war-correspondent: Harry and a niece of the
well-remembered Henry, has edited the
woman’s section of the Telegraph for the
past year and was for several years in charge
of the social work on the Sunday Times.
Many posies and a mother-of-pearl cigarette
case were handed over to her with murmur-
ings of appreciation. Mrs. Young (a Bris-
bane writer) and her daughter were other
notables at the party.
Mrs. Monty Severn and Mrs. Frank Ben-
nett deserve the good word for their effort
on behalf of the District Nursing Associa-
tion. Tile entertainment, a film frilled with
amateur vaudeville, was given, before Christ-
mas in the Double Bay picture-theatre, and
now a cheque for £l4O is making tbe secre-
tary of the association believe there are
fairies at the bottom of her garden.
The famous Boswell walked his boots off
in attendance on the arbitrary Johnson. Miss
Boswell, of Sydney, is interested in worn-out
boots, too. She knows, and the rector and
council of St. James’s know, how eagerly
boots (decent-looking boots, not too far
gone) are. welcomed by tbe men whose litera-
ture consists of “Situations Vacant.” Send
the boots that are a bit shabby, and the
suit that really is too shiny for the New
Year, to the crypt of St. James on the 22nd.
Miss Boswell, as official receiver, will wel-
come them all.
Marjorie Bennett runs a dry-cleaning
establishment over in Hollywood, and the
social weight of sister Enid and brother-in-
law Fred Niblo is no drawback to the little
business of their plump sister, whose stage
career never seemed to succeed here or there.
Miss Brisbane’s chronicle :
The officers, including the midshipmites,- of the
Oassiope were carried off by special train and Major
Carter (the French Consul) to Southport, where
Chief Justice and Mrs. Jimmy Blair received them.
The John Cameron, Robbins, J. A. Walsh and Ever-
dcll motors were lent to take the visitors round,
and J. Francis kept his Parliamentary eye upon the
party. Commandant and Mrs. Mutton and the
Comte and Comtess de Tournoeur were with them,
and all went merrily.
Went West early in the New Year a good old
Aberdonian, Charles Patterson, onetime Mayor of
Toowong, aged 81. He was a great Red Cross
worker during the war —five sons served in France,
and one was killed at Moquet Farm. At 80 the old
man and his wife journeyed to France to try to
find their boy’s grave.
Died on his 66th birthday, H. L. Groom, a brother
of the late Federal Attorney-General. He was the
same age as Toowoomba city, of which his father,
W. H. Groom, was the first Mayor. Nearly all his
life he was connected with the family Chronicle.
The Seamen’s Catholic Club dressed itself up
'to welcome sailors from the Yedic, Ulysses and Cas-
siope. His Gaiters Duhig spoke words of greet-
ir g, and music and dancing followed. Some natives
of New Caledonia sang songs of their homeland.
The New Year’s race-day 'at Ascot was blessed
with a cool breeze after a week of heat, and there
was a great roll-up. French sailors in pom-pommed
caps struck a new color note against the green
lawns, and the captain of the Cassiope lunched with
the Q.T.C. Committee; Mrs. Isaac Moore, in navy
mariette, had a party to tea on the verandah.
Daughter Eileen was in white and rose, Mrs. Hay-
men wore black, and maid Margaret was in fancy
nlnon. Mrs, Morgan Lane was sheathed in white
and cherry, and fair jean Graham wore lime-color.


HAR.DY B FLOS LTD.
J EWELLE ECS
m
yz>
if?
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Specialising in Engagement Rings, Hardy Brothers
offer values that are not excelled in Australia.
Each ring is made in the Company’s own workshops,
under the supervision of their experts, and is hand-
forged for added strength. None but high-quality
gems are featured in Hardy s Rings, and the settings
all display that delicapy of workmanship and
finish that is associated with the Company’s
exclusive jewellery.
Selections of Rings will be sent to any address on
approval, with finger-size card, at Hardy Brothers
risk and expense.
Five per cent. Viscount, on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will be sent post free on request,
HAFLDY
298*300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE
BROTHERS LTD.
fousc of* SascLuswc UewclUry
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Aurl at LONDON.
ii6-ns
QUEEN ST.
BRISBANE
Harringtons
See Your Picture Before You Take It
with the
ENSIGN POPULAR
REFLEX
IT’S BRITISH.
Size of Picture, 4J4 in. x 3 H in.
The possession of a Reflex
Camera opens boundless possi-
bilities for the amateur photo-
grapher. Many are the sub-
jects which it is not practicable
to obtain with any other type
of camera. To be able to focus
a moving subject right up to
the moment of exposure is to
increase the percentage of
success.
Fitted with Cooke-Luxor
Anastigmat Lens F 4.5 . .
£l5
Other Models, £l6, £lO, £l9/15/-, £3O.
xcvb bulletin
G?
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
386 GEORGE STREET, near G.P.O., SYDNEY.
KATOOMBA: Katoomba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street,
MELBOURNE: 366 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.: 110 Queen Street.
xcvb bulletin
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


M
mini ■
1!
K&f&aidS.
Mill
■miiiil'.ll
lu
I Ilf
The “Windsor” is ideally and centrally situated
at the city’s highest elevation—in surroundings
of quietness and great beauty—yet it is within
easy walking distance of the theatres and
shopping centre.
Artistic, comfortable and complete fuvnishings
throughout, together with every modern con-
venience, including hot and cold water, and
telephones in all rooms, and, above all, perfect
service combine to make your stay a long
remembered pleasure.
Minimum Tariff from 20/- (inclusive)
Boom and Breakfast from 13/6
Telegrams, “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
'Phone: Cent. 9260. Manager: B. C. Jones.
Greater Pleasure and Comfort
Your visit to Melbourne will have enhanced
pleasure and comfort if you reserve your
accommodation at the
JfoteffalncLioi
Spring Street , MELBOURNE
11 <3l
Swallow, Ariell's
Plum Puddings
have a deliciousness all their
own — a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
V
7907
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1532, 1533.
A few naval, military and air folk nicely
arranged on the ceremonial red carpet main-
tained their tableau for nearly an hour while
they waited to give Field Marshal Allenby
and his wife welcome on arrival by the Adel-
aide express, which was more than usually
tardy. A guard of honor, Anzacs all, a
band and many mounted police stood to
attention behind the barrier at Spencer-street
station. But well-laid plans went agley
when the special carriage stopped a long
way from the carpet. Officials unceremoni-
ously tumbled the reception committee off the
floor-covering and bolted with it to the other
end of the train. It was too late,. and the
elect joined in a mad stampede, in which
they had to rub shoulders with shirt-sleeved
workers. So the greeting happened off the red,
the hero of Jerusalem emerging from the
train in grey morning suit and ditto bell-
topper. Lady Allenby, who carried a posy
of heath, had a navy blue crepe de Chine
pleated frock beneath a tan kasha coat, and
a dark blue Bangkok hat covered her grey
hair. General Chauvel’s lady, in coral pink
voile, fur wrap and golden brown hat, ex-
tended a hand of welcome to her. Captain
Curtiss said “Pleased to see you” for the
Governor-General. Sergeant Gamble, a
Crimean veteran in Goldon Highlanders’ uni-
form, who, so it is reckoned, was 10fi this
week, was on hand. Melbourne hung out
no flags for the visitor, but gave a rousing
cheer as the car carried the guests to Govern-
ment House. Ronald Irving, son of Briga-
dier-General Irving, acts as aide to the Field
Marshal during his Australian tour.
The Stradbrokes are spending part of
their last Victorian summer at Government
Cottage, Macedon, the remodelled shack for-
merly owned by David Syme. They are to
leave for England within six weeks, and
the farewells will begin soon. On the de-
parture of the Earl the body of his son
Christopher, who died last year, will be taken
overseas and laid in the family vault not far
from Henham Hall.
The music of Schubert, king of song-
writers, as served up in “Lilac Time,” got a
great reception at the Theatre Royal—
somewhat too delirious from the gods, who
shrieked appreciation spasmodically from the
time Gladys Moncrieff entered her box till
thb last well-known artist appeared. The
feminine dressing of the powder-and-patches
period, and the magnificently-decorative
apparel of mere man, whose tailors’ bills
nnist have been tragedies in great-grandpapa’s
time, were refreshing after the recent clothes
fare. The sweet-voiced Harriet Bennet in the
leading role of Lili made her first appearance
ill a Kate Greenaway mode in lemon hue,
with bows and scarves of delphinium-blue
and roses nestling upon a poke-bonnet. In
the second act the star was a picture in
leaf-green glace silk, sprinkled with pink
roses, an effective foil being provided in the
background by the wdiite silk and lace-frilled
wedding gowns of the two brides and the
pink frocks of the small pantaletted brides-
maids. Lili’s last appearance was, in white
glace and floral ribbon —dress, bonnet and
parasol. Byrl Walkely as the dashing ad-
venturess Marini —a sort of prehistoric vamp
—laid siege firstly in flounces of the palest
pink and harmonising millinery; and later
in almond-green embroidered in gold, with
shaded green feathers tumbling over a head-
piece of the same hue. Marie La Varre’s
fair shingle was hidden beneath the lace cap
of middle-age.
Gladys Moncrieff’s farewell in “The Merry
Widow” was a red-letter night in the history
of the Theatre Royal, and the public did its
best to put another on record the following
evening, which was the first night of “Lilac
Time,” with a new leading lady in the bill.
The departing Gladys, enthroned in a box
bordered with pink and red carnations and
roses, tossed a floral offering to her successor.
There was a flavor of “The Queen is dead,
long live the Queen!” about the proceedings,
for when the pretty, dark-haired Bennet lass
raised her dulcet notes, gallery, circle, stalls
and pit thrilled responsively. It is said,
though the thing is incredible, that some of
the theatrical profession paid for seats so
as to make sure of seeing the last waltz of
“The Merry Widow.” Claude Flemming
declared from the stalls that “Gladys Mon-
crieff is the greatest prima donna Australia
has produced,” which didn’t give Nellie
Melba her usual place on the map. At half-
past 11, a packed audience was on its feet
putting its heart into “For she's a jolly good
fellow” and “Auld Lang Syne.* 1
George Barraud, of the “Polly with the
Past” company, was host at a good-bye party
to Gladys Moncricff after the show on Fri-
day night. Pink roses trailed amid the
viands and crimson blossoms forming the
star’s name, linked with laurel leaves, fes-
tooned the room. There was dancing until
the milkman called. Mr. and Mrs. Moore
did the honors at a dinner at the Oriental on
Saturday, prior to the first performance of
“Lilac Time,” and after the fall of the cer-
tain Claude Flemming did his best to eclipse
George Barraud’s farewell efforts with a
party of his own.
After quarrelling over it, sleeping on it
and looking into it for about a year, the
fathers of the city have got busy upon the
additions to the Town Hall. Swanstou-
street, already in the throes of a tramway
conversion, is now the despair of traffic
policemen and a terror to pedestrians. Aftei*
dodging death upon loose planks at the cross-
roads, one emerges to find oneself looking
into the wearied eyes of Dobbin dragging
from out the Town Hall the ashes of last
year’s fire. It looks as if the council were
afraid to procrastinate lest New Year’s l’eso-
lutions should weaken.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven with their
two small girls and the bit of Society that
is still in town viewed a private screening
of “The Moth of Moonbi,” based on Mabel
Forrest’s “Wild Moth.” Some of Banana-
land’s nicest sheep and cattle stations are
used as background, but the plot includes
an amount of northern villainy that we
southerners would never have suspected.
Crimson roses graced a table at Menzies’
when Ella Shields lunched a number of Mel-
bourne penwomen. Place-cards were at-
tached to posies of pansies or carnations,
and Maryland chicken helped to brighten
the gloom of a cold, rainy day. The popu-
lar impersonator, who sheds all masculinity
in her dressing-room at the Tivoli, wore on
her fair Eton shingle a hat of plum-hued
velvet, over-shading a gown of crepe romain
in the same hue and a coat with embellish-
ment of grey fur. Mary Robson, Ella’s com-
panion, wore a pretty frock of silk block-
patterned in blues and greens melting into
brown, with a small black crinoline straw
hat supporting pink roses. The lady’s pre-
sent tour has revealed a quite uncanny con-
nection between luck, red roses and the
number 13. But it would take too long to
tell that story. Dreading the English winter
Miss Shields longs to settle in S’Africa or
Australia, but not yet. “I don’t want to
leave the stage,” she says, “until I am cer-
tain that it is for good.”
The special matinee performance of “Give
and Take,” at the Athenaeum, the gift of
Harry Green and his associates to the St.
Vincent’s Hospital Appeal, had as its direct
object the assistance of Marie Maguire’s can-
didature as Queen of Sport. The large audi-
ence that braved a wetting found ample re-
compense in the laughs it got from the well-
acted and amusing piece. Especially heart-
felt chortles came from some small boys, who
found it a bonser show and didn’t care who
knew how they felt about it. Receipts were
increased by sales of sweets and flowers:
Nurse Wilson headed a quartette of minister-
ing angels from the hospital who found
buyers for the extras. Marie Maguire, a
typical colleen, was a very active worker, and
looked charming in a frock of bois du rose
cliarmeuse topped by a black crin. hat.
A Rembrandt camera recorded this intense
gaze of Mona Nugent, who hails from Nath-
alia, and is a
diploma stu-
dent of the
Univ ersity
Conserva-
tor iu m. A
gifted pupil of
pianist Goll,
she has just
earned the
right to put
“M us. Bac.”
after her name,
having gradu-
ated with first-
class honors.
Not content
with her
achievments as
a pianist, she
promises to be
a success as a
singer, and of
late has ex-
tended her affections to the viola. Rita
Nugent, who sparkles in the J.C.W. musical
comedy co., is a cousin.
Newly-handled Mayor Brunton and his
genial wife, who have been holidaying in the
Little Isle, hurried back to say “Pleased to
meet you” to Field-Marshal Allenby and his
lady on their dash through Vic.’s capital.
Mary Constance Gorman, younger daugh-
ter of the late Richard Gorman, of Galtea
Park (N.S.W.). has kept her appointment with
Dr. Frank Niall, of Hampton, at St. Mary’s,
East St. Kilda. For the consultation she
wore white georgette, embroidered in silver,
with beautiful Carickmacross and Limewck
lace in veil and train, and a bouquet ot
water-lilies. The filmy floatings were guarded
by two small pages,'arid" sister Nesta, cousin
Rene McNamara and Alice Cussen, a
daughter of knight Leo, 'maided m pale
green georgette embossed in silver, witli nar
monising coiffure and posies of red roses.
Congratulations were said at the Oriental.
Brevet-Major W. Bridgeford, M.C., of
Duntroon, with his wife, left by the Clntrai
for India, where lie is to spend two years
at the Quetta Staff College. In the Great
Scrap he was with Australian H.Q. in
France, and moved on from Lieutenant to
Major during the disturbance.
The Holy City sends along an entry for
the roll of successful Australian playwrights.
Edith Aird, here pictured by Rembrandt, is
all Adelaide
ADVEK tisee
pen - lady
whose comedies
“Behind a
pe 11 i c oat, - '
”V\liose Stock-
ing ? ” an d
“The Boudoir
Cap and Al-
fred" were pro-
duced at the
Prince of
Wales and
Kings’ theatres
in war - time
and made a
lot of money
for patriotic
purposes. The
Nellie Bram-
ley co. hopes
to present dur-
ing its current
season in Adel-
aide her comedy “Wanted —a Baby.” In a
ijew musical comedy, “Yvonne,” Miss Aird
lias collaborated with T.om King and Jack
Fewster, who have penned lyrics and musical
numbers for the piece which is shortly to
be staged at the Theatre Royal for charity
purposes.
Maoriland water-colorist Betty Gilfillan,
who lately studied here under MacNally,
made the prettiest picture of her career when
she stood up in the beautiful memorial chapel
of King’s College, Auckland, alongside
Leonard Delpli, of Cambridge (Eng.). It
was the first marriage in the chapel, and to
add to the importance of the occasion the
knot was tied by a master craftsman, Arch-
gaiters Averill. Betty, whose parents christ-
ened her Birtchnell Bruce, looked like a
blush rose in pink and white chiffon embel-
lished with soft old Limerick lace.
The Mongolia brings back Justice Gavan
Duffy and his wife and daughter Mary from
a year’s tour iiuEngland and Egypt.
Slackness of public business enabled Pre-
mier Allan to indulge his fondness for cricket
when the Crows and the Cabbage-gardeners
met on the Melbourne ground, where he
hobnobbed with Justice Cussen and other
lights of the M.C.C. and discussed the pros-
pects of the Australian XI. in England.
Even on the wet day, when play was im-
possible, he was attracted by the atmosphere
and lunched with the M.C.C. committee.
A word from Hobart
If novelist Marie Bjelke Petersen is not suffer-
ing from swelled head she must be a very com-
posed young woman, for all Hobart has been giving
her the glad eye. The looked-for screening of her
“Jewelled Nights’’ took place last week, and was
an instant success. A few days previously she was
the star guest at a reception given by Mayor and
Mayoress Valentine, and this was followed by a
Mercury leader all to herself the next morning.
She is putting up a big fight to establish a motion-
picture industry in Tasmania, and our little State
can do with it.
The Orama carries off Helen Sargent
White, who has been using a promising pen
in the women’s section of the Countryman.
The Inky Way virus was inherited from her
mother, the late Mrs. Gwen Sargent White.
Recently Helen’s aunt revisited these parts
with her husband, an English parson, and
she travels with them to the Land of the
Dole. Headed by Maisie Maxwell, fellow-
in k-spillers concentrated upon the Lyceum
Club and gave her tea, good wishes and a
travelling-bag.
Camperdown, of the Western District, has
been the scene of much merry-making. The big
peg on wdiich it hung was a ten.njs tourna-
ment, frilled with golf, house-parties, dances
and other doings. The final flutter was a
jazzing, organised by five charming maids
who called in many society folk. The
Arthur Staughtons and the John Manifolds
leavened the younger set; the hostesses were
Elizabeth Staughton, Barbara Buckland,
Rosemary and Elizabeth Bell and Katherine
Thornton.
A tidy £284 was split fifty-fifty by the City
NeAvsboys’ Society and the Theatre Associa-
tion when the final tally was made of the
takings at the amateur performance of “All
of a Sudden, Peggy,” at the Palace. Gaston
Mervale, the producer, and Mrs. Louis Nel-
ken and Mrs. T. Mclnerney, who secretaried
the show, have a right to feel the glow that
comes of a mighty blow struck for a good
cause.
There • are 55 kiddies among the contents
of isolated lighthouses dotted around the
coast of this State, and the devotion of their
parents to the task of keeping the mariner
off the rocks provided a good reason why these
youngsters ought not to be forgotten at
Christmas time by folk who live in less
lonely habitations. Esma Allee last year
made it her business to look after the season-
able interests of these young people, and the
thanks she received was heartfelt enough to
encourage her this time to redouble her efforts.
For a couple of days she has been busy pack-
ing at the Central Lighthouse Office, and
the Lady Loch, which visits the lighthouses
twice a year, has gone off laden to the gun-
wales with the most delectable of stocking-
fodder. Christmas will come a bit late in
the year to the lighthouse children, but it
will "be all right when it does arrive.
T. M. Burke’s tried and untried gee-gees
came under the hammer this week as a
preliminary to the family’s jaunt to foreign
parts. Burke’s interests, as represented by
T. M. Burke, Pty., Ltd., are now in the hands
of Capt. E. M. Wright, who since his return
from the Big Scrap has filled the positions
of Government Secretary of the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea, staff officer for in-
valid and returned soldiers, and secretary of
the Royal Automobile Club. Incidentally,
lie marshals the “ugly meu” of the community
who have placed their features (so to speak)
at the service of St. Vincent’s Hospital.
Dr. V. R. Ratten, head of Hobart’s Gene-
ral Hospital, who is over here with his wife,
is giving our healing institutions the once-
over.
It isn’t only Greek Governments that strike
trouble over lovely woman’s changing habits.
The commander of a recently arrived English
mail was confronted by a deputation of one
and asked if he was not responsible for the
good order and decency of the passengers
on his ship. He admitted that he was.
“Then,” said the deputation, “I must ask you
to compel the ladies to cover their shoulders,
lower their skirts to their ankles and refrain
from smoking cigarettes.” The gallant cap-
tain breathed hard, seized his diplomacy in
both hands and replied: “I quite agree with
you, Mr. Grundy, and when you come to me
with a round robin signed by a majority of
the passengers I will be happy to give the
necessary instructions.” Then he bowed his
visitor to the door and rang for a brandy.
Sister Adelaide testifies :
These be dog-days, and dull at that. Even New
Year racing lured only a small segment of society
from the coolth of hills and coast, and the Bridges
have joined the general exodus to Victor Harbor.
At Angaston the brand-new polo-ground in Lindsay
Park (the C. H. Angases’ property) has been
christened by matches between Adelaide and local
teams chiefly notable for the excellent mounting of
both sides. The C. H. Angases, by the way, are
for Blighty this year.
Motorists are offering up a Te Deum to Haslam,
S.M., who has given a couple of illicit joy-riders—
otherwise motor-thieves —three months of gaol m
which to meditate upon their folly. Fines have
proved useless, and watch-dogs are becoming essential
items of car-equipment. But they have their disad-
vantages, Witness the tale of a woman who went
shopping with a motoring friend the other morning
and, rejoining the car before its owner, was kept
at bay by an infuriated hound so devoted to his
duties that he’d take no chances even with his
mistress’s friends.
The death of William Lowe at Mount Breckan on
New Year’s Eve was a sorrow to many throughout
the State. He had been ill for some time, and
was only just back from an overseas trip that had
been taken by doctor’s orders. Of his two sons
one, who had gained his captaincy and an M.C., was
killed in France. A daughter married Dr. H. C.
Nott, a popular young doctor with a fine war record.
A sheaf of congratulations will go to Miss Phoebe
AVatson, who is to be Women’s AVarden at the
Teachers’ College. The job makes her a kind of
godmother-in-chief to the 200 or so women-students
who are usually in training, and it is laid down
that she is to supervise everything from their health
to their companions, and from their dress to their
boardinghouses. As a matter of fact it is pretty
much what she has been doing voluntarily ever since
she joined the staff as lecturer three years ago.
Now we all know why Van Raalte resigned his
office of curator of the Art Gallery. Two prominent
members of the Board tried not to hurt a lady.
When old George McCulloch died, leaving a widow
and a heap of money made out of Broken Hill, his
widow married an artist; and the lady presented
some of her new husband’s works to the Adelaide
Gallery. Coming this way, she asked to see them.
As it happened, A T an Raalte was holidaying; but
Sowden and Davies, two members of the Board, had
some samples lifted from out of the crypt and put
in the galleries, and there they were for the good,
proud lady to see. AA r hen A r an Raalte returned he
denounced it all as an outrage on Art, or something
of the sort, and resigned. Of course various side-
issues have been introduced; but it all boils down
to this —seeing that a Great Emergency had arisen,
ought the Board to have tried to get into com-
munication with its administrative head before act-
ing?


Hillier’s
Chocolates
are packed in
RED METAL BOXES
&
51b. Box.
lib. Box.
These Boxes are Specially
Suitable for Mailing.
4/-
box
No expense is spared to make ERNEST HILLIER Confectionery the
best. Only the purest materials obtainable are used, and only the
most highly skilled workmen and the most efficient machinery
employed.
Each step in the process of manufacture is guarded with the closest
attention, in order to ensure a result‘as nearly akin to perfection as
is humanly possible.
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY. 5 *
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both price and quality have remained unaltered.
xcvb bulletin
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George:?;
and King Streets, SYDNEY,
A. SAUNDERS’
ENGAGEMENT RINGS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond all
Platinum Ring,
£95.
Smaller Diamonds,
£75, £55.
A. Saunders’ ;
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
I A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,’
18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£2O.
i
k
3
>
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
REAL
PLATINUM
SETTINGS
, A. Saunders’
; ; ' fuliy-euJt;
''Diamond Ring,
' 1 Set. Gold,
■' Platinum v'set,
£3O.
Smaller Diamond,
£25, £2O.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £lO.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O.
m
mm
A. ' Saunders’’
fully-cut
Diamond Marquise
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£5O.
A. Saunders’
\ fully-CUt
Diamond Ring,
Gold,
platinum set,
£l2/10/-
SENT
POST
FREE
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
fully-eirt
Diamond .Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
; Platinum set,
£B.
Ring Book with Size Card Sent Free.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond all
Platinum Ring,
£9O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£75, £55.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Bing,
18ct. Cold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
Larger Diamond,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Cold,
Platinum set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
fully-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£2O.
Larger Diamond,
£25.
Watchmaker-i-J eweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
dfg
xcv
&!
Get More Game this Season—Use
xcv
CLIMAX SMOKELESS
BLACK SHELLS
f IOA DEO W/m DUPONT PQWDEQ %
The shell that hits hardest is the shell that shoots swiftest.
That is the Climax Smokeless Black Shell. Prove it for
yourself. The speed of -a shot shell depends largely
on the strength of its primer. Test the primer of a
“Climax.” Empty the shell of shot, wads and powder,
and with the primer alone shoot a shilling into the air.
How high will another shell primer shoot it. Buy your
shells on the result.
And, remember, that speed and force are only two of
the advantages which make Climax Black Shells the
world’s favorite sporting ammunition. An’other supreme
advantage is that they are absolutely
proof against water. You’ll never
lose your bird through a jammed or
swollen shell if you use Climax
Black Shells.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N, S. WALES: JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD,,
Sussex Street, Sydney.
Victoria: J. Mues, Latrobe Street, Melbourne and Tasmania.
Queensland: Southern—E. Rich and Co., Ltd., Brisbane, T. Me William and Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Central —Denham Bros, (Rockhampton), Ltd.
Northern—Cummins and Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns.
South Australia: Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe and Samlovers. Ltd., Pertk.
Manufacturers Representatives: Gollin and Co., Pty., Ltd.
4*
SB
*Hof
m


© ©
m
m
m
i wmi
m
m
F*
I*
m
Mr
%
Fa
‘M
w
»
#5
■w
M
n
« i
il
iSf A
7.WK4
m
wk Sfa'.
n
M
w
m
DA*
r
9K
r
*
£
%
m,
m * m
m
W
4m
F
BR£>£>Me
m
%
ZM
m.
w
&
m *
m
m
>
w
¥-
%OAiARKA
✓
/
%
BRISSA Hi
W'.*::-' Q^-;-
M
1
nEEKATHARRA
IjgpS
w
*
. f
n
KAU.OOfU.I6
\ 4
PERTH
SYDNEY
.4
F
\ jF
ADELAIDE
EUCL
#
MCLWOU R.N 6^'
Ririht around Australia
O
The picture shows the arrival at Sydney,
where the travellers were welcomed by Mr.
L. J. Salmons, Citroen Distributor, and Mr.
J. A. Gilbert, representing Andre Citroen ,
The first round-Australia trip made by motor vehicle has just been completed
by Messrs. Westwood and Davies, of Perth, in a 7.5-h.p. (Baby) Citroen.
Petrol Consumption averaged 42 miles per gallon
IPS ACHIEVEMENT THAT COUNTS
CITROEN AGENTS:
Salmons Motors, Ltd.,
Flinders Street, Sydney.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Preston Motors, Ltd.,
Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
N.Z. Motor & Engineering Corp.,
Dunedin.
Brisbane Equipment Co., Ltd.
453 Ann Street, Brisbane.
James Tombs & Co., Ltd.,
Auckland.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office :
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Kisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc,, etc.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Dlstribntorss BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and GerahUon
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
“The
Pleasure is
all Yours”
* C T ' --m
Pk?
/ ■
■> -'/? jf
rx
J. KITCHEN & SONS Pty. Ltd.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A.J.C. had a good meeting at Warwick
Farm on Saturday, and the public did pretty’ well,
for three of the six winners were favorites and the
others were not outsiders by any means. W. Kelso
supplied half the favorites, and though Coinage
and Gulgong failed him, his own filly, Cajole (5 to
2), carried 9st. 51b. to victory in the Three-year-old
Handicap. Pike was a great factor in Cajole’s suc-
cess, showing much more artistic jockeyship tha’n
the boy on Avrom (10’s), but the daughter of The
Welkin —Flowery Speech is a game bit of stuff,
and may be Valicare’s most dangerous opponent, in
the Adrian Knox Stakes. The shapely Bernard —
Berceuse mare, Duet (5 s), won the Warwick Farm
Handicap after an exciting tussle with the plodding
Gadamin (7’s), on whom odds were laid after they
passed the post. The slow pace suited Duet—it
took them 2min. 81 see. to run the 10 furlongs
whereas it did not suit the favorite, Gulgong, or
Varney’. The last-named is a quiet tip for the A.J.C.
Anniversary Handicap, in which he has 7st. 21b.
Bred on much the same lines as Stony’, and nor
unlike that once good horse in appearance, Varney
stay’s well but is awkward to handle. Even Toohey’
found him a baffling proposition at the Farm, but
he may do better at Rosehill or Randwick, where
there is more room.
* * * *
On his showing in the Carrington Stakes,
Leslie Wallace looked to have a first-class chance in
the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes, to be run at Randwick
on January 23, with Bst. 91b. He was coupled in
doubles with every well-thought-of candidate for
the Anniversary Handicap, but his supporters burnt
their fingers, for Leslie was withdrawn on Monday.
Which illustrates the folly of ante-post betting,
especially’ in places where a fool-Government assists
McShortodds by vetoing the publication of prices.
“John Baron” and Albert Wood were evidently think-
ing of the Newmarket when they scratched the
Wallace Isinglass—Countess Foote gelding. Now
four years old, the speedy’ chestnut has had five starts
for two wins (in the A.J.C. Nursery Handicap and
Sires Produce Stakes), a third (in Heroic’s A.J.C.
Champagne Stakes), a fifth (in Nigger Minstrel’s
Rosehill Guineas), and a fourth (in Valicare’s Car-
rington Stakes). It might be worth remembering
that one of those who finished ahead of him in the
Rosehill Guineas was The White Diamond, who has
been given lib. above the minimum in a mile Welter
at the same course. The White Diamond failed when
heavily backed for a recent race at Randwick, but
he did not shape badly, and success should come his
way presently—perhaps at, Rosehill.
Among the 10 starters for the Two-year-old
Handicap at Sandown Park (Vic.) were E. M. Pearce’s
3000-guinea colt Valasian (Valais —Burletta) and
Manfred’s sister Valotte, belonging to J. M. Niall.
Valasian, alway’s favorite (3 to 1 at the close),
jumped out smartly and was never headed; he
got there bv three parts of a length from the 50-to-l
shot Radiant Dawn, with Elarby (brother to Spearer)
third. Radnor’s half-brother is a good-looking
fellow’, and may turn out v’orth his purchase money’,
but Valotte’s showing w T as disappointing—though
genuinely backed, she ran last. Taiyin (i fo 2)
proved the best of a bad lot in the Sandow’n Park
Handicap, and Sol Green’s Coogee Bay (5 to 4)
prevailed in the Sandown Plate after a great finish
with Grovene (s’s) and Thunderer (7’s). Sol s
four-year-old was leathered home by Tich >) llson,
who was also successful in another close finish on
Ellaline in the first division of the Trial V\ elter.
Punters just about held their own on the day’.
“Hasen”: Words seem to gather some
queer twists and shades of meaning on a racecourse,
as witness the conversation of two Brisbane sports
at Albion Park. The longer and leaner and more
. gloomy of the two was explaining why lie had backed
a particular also-ran in the race just finished.
“Aw,” he said, “I had to back Too Crimson; she’s
such an honest little mare.” “That goat!” retorted
the lesser. “She’ll never win a race. Tryin’ since
Windbag was a penny balloon, an’ the best she’s done
is a couple o’ thirds.” “Yair,” said the longer,
sadly, “but she’s such an honest little mare.”
“Why, didn’t Slocoaeh put it all over her? An’
Gawd knows he’s no good!” cried the lesser.
“Yair,” said the longer again (it was becoming a
sort of sing-song), “but she’s such an honest little
mare.” At last the adjective seemed to knock
against the consciousness of his companion. “Honest!”
he sneered. “Didn’t she run up a lane a fortnight
ago at Ascot ? And the week before that. Honest!
What about the day”.... Words failed him.
“Honest !” he spluttered. “Aw, well,” explained the
gloomy’ upholder of the virtuous Too Crimson, “I
mean, of course, when she’s trying.”
* * * *
“Bulimba” ; Two great two-year-old rivals
in Queensland last season were Taupo and Tres-
passer. They met in race after race, with Taupo
winning and Trespasser miming second. Tres-
passer did more racing than any other horse of his
age, but he remained a maiden. While he was
drifting down to The bottom of the third division
at Albion Park, Taupo was running well in open
company’, winning the Guineas, and beating the
best milers in tfie State at weight-for-age. Tres-
passer evidently turned over a new leaf with the
New Year, for he won in brilliant style at Ascot.
* * * " *
“Ascot”: Racecourse urgers do not al-
ways pick their marks with discretion. 1 drove
out to Ascot (Perth) one day with the late Bill
Grenike, owner of Flora Mac and other good horses.
Grenike had a horse named Floral engaged that day,
but on the way out he confided that he did not
fancy the animal, as it was not quite ready. On
the course an urger w’ho, for a wonder, did not
know Grenike, came up and told him in a hoarse
whisper; “Put y’our shirt on Floral; it can’t get
beat.” “But that’s my horse,” said Grenike. “Never
mind whose blooming horse it is,” said the urger; “do
what 1 tell yuh.” Grenike put a fiver on it. “These
fellows may know more than I do,” he said. It
looked like that after the race, for Floral won
easily.
“Julian”: Last time I met the late Bob
Ramage (properly Ramadge), he had just come from
the operating table in the Westralian hospital w’here
too much of his time was spent in later years. Our
talk naturally drifted back to the days when Carbine
was king of the track. “A great horse,” said Bob
OVERBURDENED.
ALAMED MISS (at her first meeting ): "Daddy, they're trying to male our horse lose
the race! I heard someone say just now that they're putting a ton on him.”
affectionately. “A really wonderful horse, Old Jack
was. He seemed always to know what was expected
of him. You could have ridden him with a cobweb.”
Bob also had a great regard for Megaphone. He
reckoned he had the devil’s own luck in not winning
the 1893 Melbourne Cup on the Queensland horse.
“Centurion” : The members of the Surrey
Hunt, which had its Boxing Day meet broken up
by a “Workingmen’s Hunt,” made up of local small-
holders, farm-laborers and the like, can take one
comfort. The cables to Australia referred to it
with one accord as “an aristocratic gathering,” and
vivid- word-pictures were painted of the clash between
the proletariat and the old nobility. In fact, the
Surrey’ has alway’s been an object of scorn to pukka
hunting men. Tom Hood wrote a derisive poem
about this very meet, and Surtees made Jorroeks, his
grocer hero, learn the business of ’untin’ with the
“Old Surrey.” It has always been a “capping”
hunt, the secretary’ going round, cap in hand, for
contributions from those present, in contradistinction
to swankier private hunts like the Badminton or
the Fitzwillian, or recognised subscription packs
with their regular habitues. Both these types look
down upon the bourgeois Surrey, like the monkey’
in the story, “with unutterable jicorn.”
There was nothing suggestive of great
possibilities about the announcement that Ted Monson,
of Westralia, and Jim Williams, a recently-arrived
U.S. negro, were to meet at the Sydney Stadium,
and the attendance was only’ so-so. Monson is what
might be termed an occasional boxer. Once in a
while lie contrives to remember what he’s there
for- and what his patrons expect of him, and does
a bit of pretty fair fighting. Mostly he seems to
think he’s got the 44-hour week in which to carry
out his contract, and contents himself with a
moderately-successful defence. His opponent, “Sunny
Jim,” is as black as a western trooper’s boot at a
reception to the Governor; a well-muscled coon with
the visage of a Darktown undertaker’s mute. He
must have been given the “Sunny’” by’ a master of
ironic wit. That he should have been adjudged to
have outpointed Monson merely goes to show what
an indifferent points-aecumulator the Westralian is,
for the black man loafed half the time. Wfien he
decided to fight he landed a number of rights on
Monson’s jaw and head without the slightest notice-
able effect; so he’s not even a hard-hitter. Weights:
Williams 11.5, Monson 11.3.
* * * #
“Schnorrer”: The handicap of noses which
form excellent targets for opponents is not keeping
Jews out of the fight business. At one night’s
entertainment at the London Albert Hall the pro-
moter, Harry Jacobs, the referee, Moss de Yong,
and two of the boxers in the principal engagements
were Yids. One of the bruisers was our old friend
“Kid” Lewis, who lost on a foul, and the verdict
was also given against Harry Mason, the Hebrew
welterweight, in his contest with Brown for the
championship, much to the disapproval of the
audience, which was only pacified when told that
the referee would never be engaged by that manage
ment again. Mason, who may be seen in Australia,
has the “Magen David,” or Zionist flag, embroi-
dered on his shorts, and brings his “Tzitzith”
(pray’er tapes) into the ring. These he kisses be-
fore‘he starts fighting in order that they may bring
him “Mazzel” —the “mossle” of Gentiles.
The committee of management of Mel-
bourne Amateur Sports Ground (formerly the
Friendly Societies’ Gardens) will find itself on
velvet if effect is given to the gazetted order of
MacFarlan, J., for the winding-up of Melbourne Car-
nivals, Ltd. Under clause 20 of the agreement it
made with the company for a lease at £5OO a
year, the Sports Ground management is entitled
to all improvements, free of charge, if insolvency
or liquidation overtakes the concern. The im-
provements, the company asserted some time ago,
cost £39,000. Conscious that it would one day
get the improvements, the Sports Ground manage-
ment (really a trustee for Government) always
thought it liad made a good bargain. In the silly
season last year it was busy defending its action
in leasing the ground for a motordrome, football
oval and the rest. Exactly what it will do with the
ground when it takes over the improvements the
committee does nor know, but it will probably try
for another tenant at a higher rent.
The news that Nicholas Loekyer, late
of the Customs, has acquired a handle to Ids name
will start the springs of reminiscence among Sydney
rowing men of the last generation but one. Nick,
who was a really good sculler and the owner of
the only white cedar Wager-boat on Sydney Harbor
at the time, was captain of the old Mercantile
Rowing Club, and wrote the sculling and swimming
pars, for The Bulletin' sporting page in its very
earliest days. The Mercantile had its lair at
Dawes Point, and the Sydney Rowing Club glared
across at its rival from the other side, where the
P. and O. wharf used to be. The two clubs used to
fight their battles over a course from the head of
Lavender Bay to a spot in the middle of the Quay,
where the pilot-steamer Thetis had her moorings.
A club-mate of Lockyer’s was W. G. Brett, considered
by many good judges of his time to be the equal of
either Hanlan or Kemp.
* * * *
A great 236 (in 407 minutes) from Wood-
full’s trusty bat, and torrential rain which suspended
proceedings for two days and, in the end, soaked
through gaps in the tarpaulin which allegedly covered
the Melbourne wicket, ruined South Australia’s pros-
pects of capturing the Sheffield Shield this year. The
Wheat Staters might not have got the runs required
in any event, but they had no chance of getting
them on a pitch which was bad at one end and
horrible at the other. Scores: Vic., 232 and 604;
S.A., 462 and 87 (Vic Richardson, 27; Hendry, 6
for 30). S.A.’s harsh experience should put an end
to the farce of covering the wicket and the equally
preposterous business of letting Sheffield Shield
matches extend into the ninth day, as this one did;
they should be limited to four days. Coming to
Sydney, Vic Richardson, who has no luck these days
as captain, although he is batting and fielding beauti-
fully, lost the toss to Collins, and the N.S.W: skipper
improved the shining hour by laboriously making
108; with Bardsley (159), who was equally sedate,
he put on 203 for the first wicket. Arthur Richard-
son, battling for a place in the touring team, had the
bitterness of seeing Collins missed twice off his
bowling; at 13 and 22, and each an easy chance.
Coming on again after 50 runs had been knocked off
him, he got Kippax (21) and Bardsley in successive
overs. Kelleway w’as cheered all the way to the
wicket, and he was given another great reception
on reaching his century, and a third on returning
to the pavilion after making a masterly 111. His
batting average in big cricket this season is 109.75,
and his bowling average 24.62. If the Australian
selectors leave Kelleway out of the final XV they
will be the gamest trio in the Commonwealth.
“Hotham”: It was an education in contrasting
styles to watch Woodfull and Alexander at work on
the bowling in the Vic.-S.A. match. The Victorian,
apart from his magnificent eye and clever foot-
work, is one of the least inspiring batsmen in the
world to u’atch, and may’ be said to have elevated
colorlessness to a niche of its own. Alexander,
brisk, wristy’, loose-shouldered, and hitting instead
of pushing the ball, has resuscitated the old drive
through the covers off the rising ball, which the
latter-day batsman lets pass. He has half a dozen
other delightful shots, and as far as cricket is con-
cerned is a throw-back to the days of Reg Duff,
Victor Trumper and others. Yet both are great
pla.vers, and the Victorian is going to bulk big
in test cricket for some years to come.
“Trekle”: Apart from a few of the young fellows,
the fielding has been very bad this season, but 1
have rarely seen worse than that exhibited by some
of the Victorians in the Vic.-N.S.W. match at Mel-
bourne. Nor have I heard viler abuse from the
crowd. Mavne riled the mob by an exaggerated
indifference to his job. When he fell in attempting
to catch Rock, and missed running-out Oldfield by
leisurely fielding and a slow return high over the
’keep’s head, the air went blue. Barrels of gold
would not induce Edgar to face the canaille again.
Tarrant, podgy, slow and heavy-footed, lingers super-
fluous on the sward. His every movement spurred
the sarcasm of the spectators. Blackie, by not back-
ing up, allowed many overthrows. Collingwood, for
once, had no cheers for Ryder; Hartkopf was
anchored and out of condition; and Hendry was
patchy. Three men only were praised without irony
—Woodfull, w’ho made no mistakes ; Love, whose only’
blemish was the failure to catch Kelleway’; and Pons-
ford, who, though overworked, was brilliant.
“Winkle”: In the matter of wicket-keeps who can
bat (B. 31/12/’25), Love is certainly the master of
O’Connor. Given his chance with N.S.W’. while
Oldfield was touring with the Australian XT., he made
43 and 95 v. S.A.; 15, 102, 69 and 19 v. Vic. ; and
23 and 68 for The Rest v. Australia. Since going to
Victoria, Hampy’s opportunities have been limited,
for Ellis gets the preference as the Aunt Sally, yet
his scores have always been respectable. In 1922-23
he got 156 v. Tas.; 192 v. Maclaren’s team; 81 v.
Ballarat; 6 and 70 v. S.A. In 1923-24, 31 and 105
v. S.A. ; 31 and 43 v. N.S.W.. In 1924-25, 22 and
10 v. S.A. ; 54, 5, 40 and 9 v. N.S.W. This season,
63 and 4 v. S.A. ; 3 and 54 for The Rest v. Aus-
tralia ; 115 and 4 v. N.S.W. Though he has never
really failed in a first-class match, Love seldom
makes runs in pennant games, whereas his rival, Ellis,
generally has a good club average and a poor Shield
one. Love’s methods in getting most of _ his runs
behind the wickets (he makes more leg shots than
any other man now in the game) are thought to be
unsuitable for the tricky English turf, and the
selectors want to have another look at Ellis (now
recovering from a broken thumb) before finally
choosing Oldfield’s understudy.
“Mars”: Extraordinary the number of S.A.
cricketers who are first-class footballers. Lance Gun,
the brilliant left-hander, played League football last
year with North Adelaide. Palmer and Wainwright
were club mates in the South Adelaide team. P. K.
Lee was one of the best players in the Norwood team,
and represented S. Aus. in inter-State games. Parry,
the diminutive ’keeper—he is 4ft. lOin. —bogs in
for Torrens, while Walsh, McKay and Alexander were
prominent toeballers for Adelaide ’Varsity. And Vic
Richardson, of course, has skippered South Oss in
both cricket and football. Lastly, Dave Pritchard
plaved a few games with the Port Adelaide League
team.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: A conspicuous figure at the
recent big games at Melbourne Cricket Ground was
old Sam Morris, the colored cricketer who was once
one of Victoria’s mainstays. The veteran, who
became a groundsman on dropping out of big cricket,
was for years caretaker at South Melbourne till
total blindness descended on him. Nowadays he is
to be seen at most of the big matches with his
old-time team-mate Charley Henry, and follows the
game through his friend’s eyes. He was a fine
batsman in his prime, and a useful bowler. His
levee, held during the N.S.W.-Victoria match, in-
cluded pretty well every leading player of the past
and present who found himself in Melbourne that
week.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Jack Sharp, who recently
resigned his job as Lancashire captain because an
Old Trafford crowd passed reflections on his field-
ing, has had an unusual record. He began public
life as a professional footballer with the famous
Everton “Toffee Makers,” and was capped for Eng-
land several times. Then he played cricket for
Lancashire as a pro., and represented England in
that game, too, scoring a century in a Test at
the Oval. When he chucked Soccer he became a
successful business man in Liverpool, and was duly
admitted into the holy of holies of amateurism,
the “Gentlemen’s dressing-room,” in the same pavilion
wherein he once had to pull on his flannels with
the “Players.” Not many have made the change-
over. Richard Daft, of Notts, was the outstanding
example of the past; he was a contemporary of
“W.G.” in the latter’s early prime.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: The first international
Rugby match of the European season was played
between France and Scotland at St. Colombes, the
nation which invented whisky winning by 20 points
to 6. It was a glorious revenge for the defeat of
the previous season, when France’s victory is said
to have moved her entire team to kiss the umpire.
The game itself was a personal triumph for the
N.S.W. player, Johnny Wallace. The Rhodes scholar
scored two tries in the first half, and one in the
second, out of five notched for his side. He will be
back in Australia during the winter and is expected
to play for North Sydney.
THE CRICKETER’S WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Board of Control’s decision that no member of
the Australian team for England will be permitted
to take his wife with him is being hotly criticised
by some of the ladies concerned.”
His sorrows and his joys how can I share,
Applaud him in his triumphs or condole
When things go wrong, unless I’m there
To see him bat and bowl?
In weal and woe to cherish him I vowed ;
Without his comforter he’ll chew the rag
And grind his molars when an Oval crowd
Is howling “Get a bag!”
Skittled first ball by dreaded Tate, mayhap,
So huge of hoof and loose of bounding limb,
He might have laid his head upon my lap
And I’d have heartened him.
How can he clout with confidence sublime
The straining bowlers wheresoe’er he please,
Whence will the inspiration come when i’m
The other side the seas?
What will they mean to him, the cheers that greet
The century-maker from the crowded stands,
Unless I’m there to tap my dainty feet
And clap my wifely hands?
What compensation is there, what rewards,
For sorry failure or for lustrous deeds
To match a spouse with tears on tap at Lords
And hip-hurrahs at Leeds?
W’ho else to high achievements can incite
A husband, or for failure who console?
Board of Control you term yourselves! Too right.
Unnatural Control.
N.S..W
T. THE R.


r
i
y
and
linsanitapy
.Conditions were die Cause
YPHOID! This much dreaded fever, and so often fatal in its
effect, is, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, the result
of unsanitary conditions.
HUME
SEPTIC TANKS
STEEL
REINFORCED
CONCRETE
come as a blessing to those who live in unsewered areas, because
they completely remove the cause of such disease.
In place of the old revolting conditions they provide the same
sanitation as a deep-drainage system of the city—flush closets,
septic tanks, and all.
Yet for a family of eight persons the cost is but £3O, approxi-
mately, and sizes, too, for all conditions may be installed.
Easy Terms, conveniently spread, if desired.
HOME PIPE CO.(Aust.)LTD.
Head Office.
Kinnear House, cr. King & Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Montague Street,
South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Keswick, Mile End.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Ulaisebrook Road, East Perth.
PRICt
BekftY
1-4
mm . mm*
"S
/ //
iwJt m
1
1h I 1
■■■gf
I! i
' ' ' ■ .. : .-
Describe a bearing ideal in
every respect and you have
the SKF Ball Bearing.
The SKF Ball Bearing Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street.
SYDNEY: 45 King Street.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.)
Ltd.
HOBART : Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: W. H. Knight & Peter
Bros.
THE INKY WAY.
The S. M. Herald staff lately began to get
acquainted with the fourth generation of Fairfaxes.
The newcomer in the office is Warwick, son of
.T. 0., who is the son of James, who was the son
of John.
‘•The Pariah” : If the efforts of country correspon-
dents were allowed to pass unsubbed, Melbourne
newspapers would be much brighter. One of the
tribe recently recorded that, “though the local council
had set its face against mixed bathing for over 10
years, now, after structural alterations, both sexes
■will be allowed simultaneously in the fine swimming-
pool.”
“T.R.H.”: “Topee” (B. 17/12/’25) says that
“wowser” is a slang word of sinister meaning in
the English Midlands and that John Norton imported
it. from there. I know the Midlands and the North
of England well, but I never came across the word
before I landed in Sydney. John himself always
claimed the pedigree of “wowser” was “by John
Norton out of emergency.”
“lan C.”: The late Jack Utting was star reporter
on the long-vanished Evening Standard for two or
three years after it started in 1889. Thirty-four
years ago the whole staff went in a body to his
house at St. Hilda to help him celebrate his 50th
birthday. Jack Edgar, whom Utting induced to
desert the Herald to join the Standard, dimmed
Utting’s light, and later became chief of staff.
Before the Standard amalgamated with the Herald
(Ottober, 1894) Utting produced two or three sen-
sational melodramas at the Theatre Royal. -He did
casual Avork for the Herald and then drifted to other
States.
John James Utting, who has passed put at Sydney,
aged 84, will be best remembered by the older
school of scribes and as the father of a family of
journalists. Himself the son of a pressman, he
commenced using copy-paper in London, and was
associated with a number of journals in Maoriland
before coming to Australia, in the ’eighties. For 20
years he used his pen on various papers from
Hobart, to Brisbane, and wrote numerous plays,
several of them produced locally. Four sons are
on the Inky Way. Charles runs a press agency;
Frank, Phil and Ted are on Auckland Star, Dominion
(Wellington) and Argus respectively.
When the S. M. Herald took its family down the
harbor for its annual picnic the other day, it was
proud to have James Henderson aboard. Henderson
had been 61 years on the staff when he retired in
1918. He was the “publisher” for years and
looks back upon times when the price was 3d. for a
four-page sheet, and the Herald was proud of an
“enormous circulation” of 15,000. Once an early
contemporary of Henderson’s, the Rev. F. H. Browne,
was being shown over the premises by “Mr. James,”
and they came upon another old hand. “You
remember Mr. Browne, I’m sure,” said Mr. James
affably to the ancient. The ancient said he did.
“Well,” said Mr. James, “I heard him preach last
night.” “And I hope it did you good, sir,” said
the ancient, and went on plugging away at his job.
“G.M.”; A recent cable recounting how a Russian
poet, before committing suicide, wrote a final poem in
his own blood reminds me that after the Kelly gang
had looted the Bank of N. S. Wales in Jerilderie of
£15,000 Ned Kelly gave the bank-teller the story
of his life, written by himself, so he declared, in
his own lflood. More likely it was red ink, though.
The bank-cleric subsequently offered to sell the
crimson autobiography to Melbourne Argus, but it
was declined. Sam Winter, of the Herald, heard of
the negotiations and offered 10s. for the document,
but my pal wanted enough to buy a new winter
overcoat, and ten bob would only have purchased an
oyster supper for two with stout. It was a very
commonplace history, badly compiled, ungrammati-
cally phrased and with little or no human interest.
Ned was more concerned in abusing the police than
in describing his upbringing and outlining his career.
The gory document disappeared later ancl Avas never
published.
“Macquarie Street”: On the eve of his 60th
birthday, Rudyard Kipling is recovering from his
second severe attack of pneumonia. From the
sloAvness of his convalescence it may be inferred
the disease is broncho-pneumonia, and not the acute
lobar pneumonia, Avhich brought him to the point
of death 25 years ago. Acute lobar pneumonia ends
by Avhat is called “crisis,” there being a sudden fall
of the temperature (sixth to ninth day) if the
constitution of the sufferer has triumphed, Avhereas
broncho-pneumonia drags on for Aveeks, sapping the
patient’s strength by the continued toxaemia. Kip-
ling AA’as very lucky to pull through at 60. It is
likely that he has harbored the pneumococci in
his system since his first attack. Like Kipling, the
famous Professor Osier was infected by pneumococci
at an early age, and suffered from numerous attacks
of broncho-pneumonia—the enemy Avhich noAV and
then makes Randolph Bedford a Aveary man in these
latter days. Osier harbored these germs all his life,
but it Avasn't till he was 70 that they killed him.
“Iford”: The just-knighted Mungo MacCallum, of
(Sydney Uni., is doubtless a massive scholar and I
don’t question his Glaskie accent, but there may be
tAA'o opinions about his geniality (B. 7/l/’26).
Seventeen years ago or thereabouts he Avas university-
extension lecturing in W.A., one of his subjects being
Thomas Carlyle. It Avas a stimulating lecture enough
in its Avav, but a local paper, commenting on the
discourse, expressed mild disappointment that more
than half of it was taken up by the recapitulation of
equal id stories about the alleged cat-and-dog life
that Carlyle led with his wife, and hinted that it
expected "something better of a lecturer with such a
name as Mungo. It was a very angry professor indeed
who began his next lecture by pouring the vials
of his wrath upon obscure journalists Avho had the
presumption to try to teach him his job and the
impudence to charge him with bad taste. But
the neAVspaper had the last word, as usual; it Avas
probably the first chance Mungo’s critic ever had
of telling a ’Varsity don Avhat he thought of him
without the fear of expulsion before his eyes.
“Wealsman”: Hobart News took the final count on
Boxing Day, deeply regretted by its sorrowing
parents and by a large circle of non-advertising
friends. It is considered quite probable that the
abandonment of the wood-pulping project, in Avhich
the News people Avere deeply interested, has had a
good deal to do with the OAvners pulling the neAVS-
paper venture out of Tasmania. At any rate, the
value of the journal as a propaganda sheet in this
connection ended definitely when Priminister .Bruce
declined to budge beyond two-thirds of the way to
the £6 per ton protection on wood pulp asked for.
If he had proved less adamantine the chances are
that the News would have stayed on in Tasmania to
look after its owners’ neAvly-acquired “local inter-
ests” in the shape of the valuable timber con-
cessions, etc., promised by the hard-up State Govern-
ment. Hobart’s last-previous neAVspaper venture, the
Daily Post-World, though it started Avith a pretty-
solid political following, Which carried it as a
morning daily through the Avar period and up to
its fifteenth birthday, is said to have lost nearly
£30,000 during its seven declining- years. _ The
News, though an evening sheet, reached a similar
end by a much shorter route.
“C.Q.”: A letter arrived for me this morning in
an unknown fist, but, being an old telegraphist, as
soon as I lodked at it 1 said “a Cable man!” The
Avriter is a fiew recruit to submarine telegraphy, but
the writing has a long ancestry; 20 years ago its
clear, flowing and carefully differentiated style was
already the hall-mark of the guild throughout the
world, and men of ail sorts and dispositions, not to
mention races and shades of color, wrote in precisely
the same manner. Even the sons of ex-headhunters,
who had been used to scratching their messages on
bone, soon learnt the distinctive penmanship of the
brotherhood. This fact suggests that handwriting
has less to do with character than Avith business
exigencies. The Inky Wayfarer, I take it, Avrites
badly because his versatile brain forms its gems
quicker than he can transfer them to paper, and the
doctor writes worse because his murfibo-jumbo has
always impressed the ignorant the more esoteric it
was kept. In the case of the young cableman a
few smart kicks on the ankle from angry colleagues
soon teaches him the importance of subordinating the
expression of his engaging temperament to the needs
of legibility.


tim t-fS**s&**** ...
& ; x
M ~
i4tl|i "" | """My
#fe&m iyy . fi *MT'm
HSfl «*uj
JStii
IBiw
fe>ssss'.
I• s ,
S?/v| - gjv/’
'> ? f
/ /!
1 >ll i
■M.
m
%ofjk v?'W'W'
m$M, Q, "fm
m
mm ®« w
iiss# ~ *"
1111
'"MW"'"'*
'/■ ft
K'/A'/i
m
•'■■■//, ,/
mm
m
mm
mm%
if#!
Wiia
Be
-rj%:
■m,
‘'A.
m&i :
smß
\ J //r'/A
ff~l
. •0?
M H
M|9Mi
HR
I _
ml
I
(? vi
mmmmwm
@
’//’////////t.O ... . . ''■
L
».
i=J
a
W
111 l I.H
r>
<d
■m
h
DJ
X?
S',
C7>
fc
£
WL
TKe Important Bearing of “SYLIC-ARTO’"
on the Family Purse
THE commendable awakened appreciation of the finer things in life
by every class in the community is reflected, in one direction, by
the general demand for Silken Hosiery.
But Silken Hosiery would still have remained
beyond the reach of the many had it not
been for the discovery of the wonderful thread
that has given to "Sylk-Arto” Hosiery all
the inherent qualities of Pure Silk coupled with
a phenomenal capacity for hard wear and a
remarkable price moderation.
The qenuine economy of "Sylk-Arto” Hosiery,
both as regards cost over the counter and
length of life, enables the housewife with
only a shallow purse, or the young business
girl with but a moderate dress allowance, to
enjoy the immeasurable satisfaction of being
as smartly "hose-clad” as her well-to-do sister.
\\\^
u
Pn
Furthermore, the purchase of Bond s Sylk*
Arto ” Hosiery keeps in circulation throughout
Australia vast sums of locally-created wealth.
It helps to provide lucrative employment for
countless Good Australians.
Thus, both directly and indirectly, “Sylk-Arto”
Hosiery has a most important bearing on
the family purse-on your purse.
Bearing in mind its superlative., qualities and
power to please, you will find it impossible to
make a more satisfactory investment in
Silken Hosiery.
You can purchase Bond’s “Sylk-Arto” from
any Good Australian Draper. Features seam
at back; tops and feet reinforced with fine
mercerised lisle. Obtainable in 80
of the newest shades at . . , .
6/11
t/ O//
'/ ,s~
(<
llj Jh
u - :
I
Sand’s
STIRARTO
(jMi JmproVement- on Jtiffyj
HOSE
For those who prefer Hosiery of
sheer, Pure Silk at a moderate price,
there is now provided the most
delightful of Stockings—
<£)uoSytib
Double Thread for Double Wear, ana
representing at 8/11 per pair far more
service and satisfaction than 8/11 worth.
In all the favoured shades.
Australia by GEO. A. BOND & CO., LfD. All States and New Zealand, and South Africa. Manufacturers of Bond’s Hosiery*
Half-Hose, “Tru-size” Underwear, Towels, Sheeting. Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners.


ore
&
ana Vogue
7Xe
GREYS
SjJk Cut Virginia
20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
O/" all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. LTD., LONDON
Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Leave It to Jane”
Criterion “Within the Law”
Royal “Katja”
Palace “The Farmer’s Wife”
Tivoli ;.. Vaudeville
Fullers' Theatre ... Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Aladdin”
Royal “Lilac Time”
Princess “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Palace “The Music-box Revue”
King's “Polly with a Past”
Athenaeum “Kangaroo Flat”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's . Moving Pictures
Tal Ordell, in composing “Kangaroo Flat,”
the Australian play which was floated last
Saturday at the Melbourne Athenaeum on
considerable rivulets of laughter, folio-wed
the method adopted by the distinguished
author of “The Merry Wives of Windsor”
and cognate works racy of the English soil.
Ilis villains are declared black at the begin-
ning, and they stay black, like the Moeraki;
his plot, which occasionally falls over its ex-
tremities drunk with its own exuberance,
is a forthright conception with no sickly
semitones about it; and his comedy walks
on and off in the naive and hearty fashion of
Falstaff and his cobbers. The narrative con-
cerns a squatter, a mortgage and a girl. The
girl’s father, an honest farmer, is the mort-
gagor, which any honest farmer is entitled
to be but very seldom is; and the squatter
is the mortgagee, which is the proper fate
for every villain. To avoid the inconveni-
ence of recurring quarter-days, he plots to
marry the daughter and enlists the aid of
a female bushranger, who operates on the
of the sinful metropolis. The
metropolis, needless to say, is Sydney, and
the vampirish lights of its million eyes are
used to make the fetching backcloth of Act
111. The hero, a handsome young drover,
weds the girl, and the frustrated villain pro-
ceeds to wreck their married bliss. In one
of those gilded mansions at Potts Point
where unreported murders are committed
nightly, the cocky Machiavelli, in faultless
evening-dress, puts the hard word on the
girl, who has been lured to his apartment,
while the vampire woman sucks her teeth
artistically in the middle distance. Then
a variety of things happen in quick succes-
sion, including the arrival of the hero and
the unexpected straightening of the tangle
in a way satisfactory to all except the vil-
lain. In the interstices provided, Dad, Mum,
a rouseabout, a jackeroo and a cow-doctor,
a sort of Greek chorus in bowyangs and sun-
bonnets, insinuate themselves, meeting in
various hilarious situations, a coffee-stall
proprietor, a larrikin, a female ditto and a
member of the Force.
* * * *
The cast of Australian blokes showed that
they could play Australian parts. C. R.
Stanford muttered through his whiskers with
the dull, expressionless violence of his kind.
To him go the chief laurels of the evening.
Ida Gresham was his amiable spouse. Carl
Lawson villainised effectively; and Hilda
Dorrington. in assisting him in liis nefarious
schemes, disclosed genuine talent for culti-
vated sinning. Norman Carter jackerooed
effectively; Rawdon Blandford as the drover
displayed some histrionic graces, and the
finest Marcelle wave ever seen upon a stock
route ; Edward Landor was called in too often,
but was otherwise an acceptable cow-doctor ;
and Royston Denman, listed as a neighbor,
was a neighbor whom any husbandman would
like to have, especially in a time of drought.
As Jimmy Cork, a comic rouseabout, Tal
Ordell. the man who wrote the play, has
given himself a smaller part than Ginger
Mick, the role he made his own in “The
Sentimental Bloke.” Nevertheless, what lie
did was deft. The piece has no pretentions
to being aught but sturdy melodrama leav-
ened with uproarious farce. It will be en-
joyed by all Australians who like to see their
own country first.
* *
History, which in its role of private detec-
tive in the employ of futurity more often
looks discreetly down the street than through
the keyhole, hasn’t recorded much about the
love affairs of Schubert beyond the fact that
he harbored a romantic passion for an unre-
ciprocating countess. Perhaps the composer’s
warmest mistress was his muse and his real
children were his melodies. These, at any
rate, are the solid material of “Lilac Time,”
the “play with music” which commenced to
chime for Melbourne at the Royal on Satur-
day. The human cast are of the stuff that
dreams are made of, even if some of the
dreams are middle-aged and stout; and their
little life is mainly rounded off with talk.
It is the dead musician’s sharps and flats
which are the real action of the play. John
Ralston is the composer, a soft, comic, sen-
timental German of the type which mysteri-
ously disappeared about the time the Kaiser
christened the Kiel Canal. In Lili (Harriet
Bennet) he sees a sort of animated music-
score on which he hopes to write fresh har-
monies. His friend, Claude Flemming, a
poet, is snugly wrapped jin his accustomed
rOle of a worldly youth who drips sentiment
in judicious quantities because the play-
wright expects it of him, but who keeps one
eyelid lowered at the audience to let them
know his private opinion of the game. The
unsophisticated music-maker expends his
passion for the girl on the composition of
a serenade which he asks the poet to
sing to his love, under the delusion that when
Lili hears the singer she will fall into affec-
tionate holts with the composer of the song.
Infatuated fellow! What flapper thinks of
William Shakspeare when she is surveying
the distinguished legs of Allan Wilkie V
Although the poet, being an honest satyr,
does his best by his friend's music, the prac-
tical Lili falls in love with him.
* * * *
There are bound to be dull moments when
a lyric is drawn out by sweating libretto-
makers to the dimensions of an epic, but
the music of the real Schubert, the backbone
on which the fictitious Schubert rears his
frame, leaves little to be desired. It found
a capable exponent in Harriet Bennet, who,
when she watched Melbourne’s tumultuous
farewell to Donna Moncrieff on the pre-
vious evening, may have had misgivings as
to her own reception. If she had, the audi-
ence on Saturday must have reassured her.
The lady's voice hasn’t the pugnacity of her
predecessor’s, but it has a wide range, is
extremely sweet, and issues from a breast
that throbs with something of a bird’s aban-
don. As Lili she was a dainty little Puritan,
subject at intervals to demoniac possession
by a graceful dancing sprite. Ralston’s notes
have the deep, low timbre of beer bubbling
into a jug. He was a properly flaccid Schu-
bert, who sang his own compositions as if he
liked them. Flemming resounded with his
usual humorous robustness, and Arthur
Stigant extracted the necessary foolery from
the r6le of Yeit, the father of the girl. Byrl
Walkely’s shrieky notion of an Italian prima
donna conflicted with this Showman's recol-
lections of the species, but Leslie Holland
made a character-study of his Danish count.
Herbert Browne added his pretty notes to the
golden shower; and Colin Bell, for paging
brightly and with despatch, deserves a pat on
his small head. None of the other pictur-
esque inhabitants of old Vienna impinged
upon this critic’s sub-consciousness, which,
since the evening’s entertainment was like
turning over an Edmund Dulac picture-book
to music, probably indicates that they were
all properly in their places.
** * *
In the distinguished, though invisible,
company of the Governor-General, the State
Governor and the Prime Minister, this
Showman witnessed the other day ait the
Majestic, Melbourne, a private screening of
“POLLY WITH A PAST" AT MEL-
BOURNE KING'S.
Margaret Darner as Airs. Van Zile; Jackson
Wilcox as Styles, the alcoholic gardener.
“The Moth of Moonbi,” a nine-reel all-
Australian drama of Southern Queensland
produced by Charles Chauvel from a novel
by Mrs. Forrest. This is the first endeavor of
Australian Film Productions, Ltd., and the
statement of the company’s credo, which is
“to produce film attractions built upon in-
dustrial and pastoral backgrounds that will
have both entertainment value and advertis-
ing value to our great Commonwealth,” dis-
arms the patriotic critic whose high-falutin’
notions about dramatic unity and other
literary fal-de-lals are seen at once to be
of small importance beside this larger issue.
The story concerns the advent on a cattle-
station of an English jackeroo whose spe'edy
acquisition of the art of sticking to an 6ut-
law indicates that he has been practising' on
the electric horse on his outward voy&ge.
Other ingredients of the Australian scene
are a scoundrelly overseer and his unsophis-
ticated daughter; some blackguardly con-
federates who specialise in sly-grog selling,
"THE FARMER'S WIFE," AT SYDNEY
PALACE THEATRE.
Townsend Whitting as Samuel Sweetland,
and Susan Richmond as Thirza Tapper,
who scorned his offer of marriage.
cattle-duffing and criminal assault; an abo.
whose good behavior is rather a discomfort-
able commentary on the violence of the
whites ; a township whose pastime consists
of rum-drinking diversified with stoush; a
female vamp who introduces the unsophisti-
cated heroine to the gay and sinful life of
Brisbane in order to deprive her of her
patrimony; and a male vamp who gives a
launch-party at which the participants jazz
in bathers, and an expensive dinner at which
lie attempts unlawfully to kiss the heroine.
The advertising value of all this to our great
Commonwealth will probably be less than the
entertainment value, but it would be unfair
to critiqjse too strongly the producer, who
is confronted with the problem of catering
for a public so long debauched by the moon-
shine brews of Hollywood that it has almost
lost the taste for ordinary beer. There is,
besides, much excellent photography, both
outdoor and interior; some really striking
pageants of the Great Outback in which
3000 head of cattle, driven overland from
the N.T. to Rockhampton, are the chief per-
formers ; a background of mountain, bush
and plain as noble as any country could pro-
vide ; a station-manager of gentle mien; some
genuine Australianisms, including the habit
everybody seems to have in leisure moments
of picking up The Bulletin, and plenty of
good horsemanship. All of these may be
said to carry out the second part of the pro-
ducers’ credo. A grand finale in which the
jackeroo hurls the villain a thousand feet
over a cliff and then, without waiting to hear
the bump, plants the kiss of virtue on the
heroine’s lips, is dramatic enough to seiuf
anybody home contented. In Doris Ash win,
who played the heroine, the producers have
discovered a film actress of talent and
address.
* * *
“The Music-Box Revue” still dispenses
melody and brightness at Melbourne Palace.
* * * *
Though “Polly with a Past” (Renee
Kelly) continues to grill a steak for George
Barraud and Paul Plunket, she shows not
the smallest sign of cooking the managerial
goose as well.
** * *
“Aladdin” continues to perform his magic
at His Majesty’s, in Melbourne, assisted
thereto by sundry feminine gymnasts and a
trick cyclist, all magicians in their fashion.
Walter Nilsson, the cyclist, by the way, first
got a job riding round San Francisco to
advertise the Australian convict-hulk Success.
*{!
“Jack and the Beanstalk,” Afrikander’s
lions, two of which are tigers, and other won-
ders, are still taking young Australia’s breath
away at Melbourne Princess. It is to be
hoped the daily matinee will soon be discon-
tinued to enable the animals and their human
colleagues to get their second wind.
The Veterans of Variety, with a fresh lot
of ancient ditties, and Gayle Wyer’s corps
of revuists with a new and whirling tarce,
still subdivide the evening at Fullers’, Mel-
bourne, into, two equal parts. Violet Vic-
toria, a rather fetching soubrette and dancer
from John Dole’s land, takes what is over.
** * *
Will Whitburn and his Nigger Minstrel
confreres have been persuaded by that
irresistible entity, Public Approval, to blacken
themselves daily for another term at Mel-
bourne Tivoli. Charles Pope is using
nature’s make-up in the same good cause.
Ella Shields is appearing in a complete
change of repertoire, but the same male duds.
The Karreys, four Spanish acrobats, are
defying the laws of anatomy and puzzling
Collins-street, and Corihne Arbuckle, of N’
York, is showing the latest dance novelties
from the great jazzopolis.
** * *
Hoyt’s Melbourne house is being viewed
with grave suspicion by racecourse owners.
No less than three times this week the earth
tears madly across the De Luxe screen,
while'the geegees remain in the same place, mid
the post thunders noiselessly towards them.
The bookies have not yet transferred their
stands to the theatre auditorium, but punt-
ers are believed to be streaming in in droves.
“The Wheel,” a drama of the roulette table
and the racecourse, provides Harrison Ford
with some opportunities for rather stagey
business. “Lost —A Wife” is the support.
At the Majestic a host of stars are engaged
in the pursuit of “A Broadway Butterfly”
amidst the usual trappings that surround the
idle and unbridled rich. Adolphe Menjou.
Conrad Nagel and Eleanor Boardman are
some of the “Sinners in Silk” of the sup-
porting film.
* * *
Forsaking her business of acting as manne-
quin to display the frills of three generations,
which was a large part of her job in
“Secrets,” Muriel Starr last Saturday rein-
troduced “Within the Law” at Sydney Cri-
terion. The lady herself was more convinc-
ing in the first act as the shopgirl smarting
under the injustice of conviction for a crime
she did not commit than, later as an implac-
able pursuer of vengeance who oscillates be-
tween remarkable cool-headedness and hys-
teria ; and lioland Ward, as young Gilder,
did not grow up sufficiently under the stress
of matrimonial trouble to help her much.
Frank Harvey, however, gave distinction to
the nervous Joe Garson, who attempts to
camouflage his shivers when he encounters
“the bulls” —said bulls being capable George
Bryant (Inspector Bourke) and Carleton
Stuart (Detective Cassidy). Daphne Deane
was amateurish as Aggie Lynch; she may
do much better when she learns to make her
acting look less like acting. Harvey Adams
as Demarest, Mary Marvin as Helen Morris,
Sydney Stirling as the business man with
the hard head that has soft spots regarding
his son, and John Fernside as Eddie Griggs
supplied passable work in other parts. The
company relinquishes its grip on the Cri.
next Friday, when Muriel Starr will say her
farewells. On Saturday the rest of the co.
will appear at the Royal in a revival of
“Monsieur Beaucaire,” Mrs. Pitt Rivers,
under her stage-name of Mary Hinton, mak-
ing her first professional appearance as Lady
Mary Carlisle.
❖ * * s!:
“Give and Take,” which opens at the Cri-
terion with Harry Green and Roy Rene next
Saturday, needs no better recommendation
than its Melbourne history. Starting to
rather poor houses at the Athenaeum, it
laughed its way into public favor to such an
extent that its season had to be extended for
a month.
* :!-■ %
In the shuffle of theatrical cards “Ivatja”
transfers from Sydney Royal to His
Majesty’s to-morrow (Friday) night. It
will continue to be a trump.
'fi Jp
Unsophisticated Sydney playgoers get a
nightly thrill at the Palace: they are kept
in dread lest the lady who, from Act I. of
“The Farmer’s Wife,” is obviously Miss
Right should get cut out of the running
by the untimely acceptance of one of the
proposals which the farmer scatters as a
politician does his promises. But the pro-
posals are merely comedy hurdles; the favo-
rite wins in the end, and everybody is happy.
V V ip
The full helping of panto, which goes to
make “Robinson Crusoe” continues to be
served twice a day with Fullers’ Theatre
(Sydney) as its dish.
The glitter of “Cinderella” (“Cinders” to
her best chums) is likely to giit at Sydney
Opera House for weeks to come.
j’-c
Nothing startlingly new has appeared at
Sydney Tivoli since the last remarks were
made about it, but bouncing Lily Morris
adds to her popularity in “The Working
Man’s Wife.” The lady has an amount of
(Continued on page 36.)


S 8
<£
I
n
U
i
a
AS a basis all lines of Mer-
** chandise throughout the Great
Store (except a few
proprietary lines)
have been reduced
m
(2/- in the £)
JN overstocked lines, how -
ever, immense stocks have
been sacrificed to ensure
quick despatch, many lines
clearing
as low as
Half-Price
Commencing on 15th January. ..... Thousands of Pounds
Worth ot Stock ruthlessly cut in price for urgent clearance !!!
£7-7
Suits to
Measure fo
£5-13-5
*y~jl VERY Murdoch Reduction is GENUINE!
In fact, the Value is even greater in this
case—as thesq superb quality Suitings were
secured as the result of a Special Purchase.
The Stock comprises All - Wool Worsted Suitings in Grey,
Slate, Blue, or Brown shades, also Pure Indigo All-Wool Fine
Twill or Herringbone Serges. 3 Garment Sac Suit for Men
faithfully Tailored to Measure for - 13 - 5
There are also £6/6/- Worsted or Serge Suits to Measure
tor £411516, £B/8/- All-Wool Worsted or Serge Suits to
Measure (Hand Finished) for £6/7/6 and hosts of others !
DESK R.,
Murdoch’s in Park-street, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —
Please send me, free of all cost, a complete
range of Suiting Patterns at RED SPOT BARGAIN
PRICES, also frve measure-form outfit.
Name
Address
Jan. 14/26
Send for Patterns.
This Coupon will bring you a
complete range all clearly Sale-
priced and you are under no
obligation whatever.
Secure the biggest selection by
sending the Coupon —NOW.
Send for Sale Catalogue —Here are some of the Bargains !
21/- Men’s “Kookaburra” Felt Hats for .. 17/9
18/6 „ Genuine American Panamas for 11/3
5/11 ~ Zephyr Golf Shirts for 4/6
27/6 „ Black Box Calf Derby Boots for 20/9
12/6 ~ English Flannelette Pyjamas for 9/6
35/- „ Black Alpaca Coats for .... 26/9
I 1/6 Men’s Cotton Tweed Trousers for . . 8/II
32/6 Boys’ Tweed Cotswold Suits for . . 24/9
5/6 „ Cotton Tweed Knickers for .. 3/10
9/11 „ Grey Felt Hats ............ 7/2
8/6 „ Striped Flannelette Pyjamas for 5/II
85/- “Alex. Taylor Autographed’’ Racquet 59/6
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
When writing kindly address your letter to DESK FL
MURDOCHS
IN
PARK
fcT&EEI
A3MQAS
THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND SOYS WEAR STORE'
wm
.
r*


Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
Ko other windmill- is so sensitive to light
C winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
jSror easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
r l ' Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
? -Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
-jftgf'- parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
OVer 50,0 Of) Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft, diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
JAMES ALSTON S SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge. Melbourne, Australia.
*
i.
t
if
% £_ M
/< •' 1
shim
Sold Everywhere
LAUNDRENA
STARCH
The Dainty Woman’s Favourite
FOR EVERY FABRIC
STOUT OR FRAIL
■v Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO. LTD.
Sydney
vitality which reminds us of how much of
it we have grown’’ used. ,1.0 doing without m
vaudeville. The Seven Hollanders- supply a
blend of and comedy, the Melsha
Trio a musical sanative;- and Katrina and
Joan’s dancers charm as well as ever.
Jacky Coogan, with four Christian names
emphasising that his surname is Kelly, bolts
from home as a young business-man qt 11
and enters into partnership with oncbins-
berry as a dealer in old bottles and empty
clothes; Ginsberry takes him to synagogue,
but Jacky Coogan Kelly equalises matters
by taking the Yid to Mass. “The Ragman
shown at Sydney Lyceum, is built upon the
adventures ensuing from this partnership—
ci l<uigh~r<iisinB' film in which the b*ithctic
sentiment is submerged in abundant comedy.
Aaron's orchestra plays the “Kol Noire,
which is something worth hearing. Kroad-
way Butterfly'’ helps to fill out the .pro-
gramme. “Lost a Wife” is a poor sort of story
redeemed in presentation by a good charac-
terisation of a weak, foppish nobleman by
Edgar Norton. Iloyt’s screens this picture,
with “Thunder Mountain,” this week. At
the Crystal Palace Charles Chaplin, trying
to forget that he ever was Charlie, makes
an appeal for tears in a screen story written
and directed by himself. Fortunately he has
not forgotten his comedy, and that in some
measure atones for the slush.
A notable thing in Adelaide pictures this
week is the middle-aged leading character in
“The Goose Woman,” at' Wondergrapli,
where Louise Dresser portrays an old-time
opera singer who has let herself run to un-
tidiness and fat:. At the York. Ramon
Novarro gives all the requisite passion
and thrill to n fresh setting of the b»heiii
motive, "The Arab.” West’s relies mainly
on animals: racehorses contest a Dixie Han-
dicap on the screen, and Abdy s cats and
cockatoos appear in the flesh to do sundry
quaint turns. The kiddies pantomime at
the Prince of Wales show's twice every day.
and Irvine at the Royal is so funny as the
borrowed Aunt of Charles that the run of
the piece hasn’t stopped yet. George Gee
and co. carry on as before at the Garden
Theatre, despite 1 unexpected cold nights; but
Con Moreni is ending his long season at the
Majestic—which is strong on the musical
side just now.
“Athol” : After many years, Sydney is to
have an aquarium again. It once had three
—at Bondi, Googee and Manly—which found
it necessary 'to eke out the interest in fish
with vaudeville and side-shows. The one
projected w r ill be an adjunct to the Taronga
Park Zoo, and will cost £14,000. The
Taronga Park Trust will find a good deal of
the. money out of revenue, for the Zoo,
hacked by nearly £150,000 of Government
money, has flourished 1 since its removal from
the old Moore Turk site. In the old days
i't was always struggling with debt. On one
occasion two underfed lionesses had a fight
to the death, .which resulted in the victor
making a meal of the vanquished. It was
a mournful spectacle, and a member of the
Trust used to shed tears when he recalled
that there were no cinematographers present.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : When Irene Van-
brugh came back from Australia she emphati-
cally announced that she would never again
appear on the stage. The nervous strain
and physical fatigue of her tour had left her
so exjiuusted, she said,'that the mere thought
of, returning to the footlights made her feel
ill; The lady is about to reappear in l a .new
play by C. E Openshav r , “All the King’s
Horses.” It is to be hoped she will have
better luck than Oscar Asciie had with “The
Good (3ld Days,” which; despite all the addi-
tions and excisions that a wealthy organisa-
tion could devise, came to an end in Novem-
ber. “The Silver Fox,” with Lawrence Gi’os-
smith in the role he played in Australia, ex-
perienced a still more inglorious run, and
“Nicolette,” in which some Australians were
interested, had also to put the notice up
after two or three critics had pronounced it
the worst show in London.
“St. John’s” (Lond.) : Cicely Hamilton’s
very clever new comedy, “Old, Adam and New
War,”: which had its first performance at the
Kingsway on November 17, is full of sur-
prises, and drew great applause from the
audience and a witty speech from the author.
At one point she seemed to be convinced
that, war is as unnecessary as it is devastat-
ing. ; Then she took a whimsical turn, and
with humor and satire drove home the moral
that men will fight: under any and all con-
ditions, and that they realise there is some-
thing in life which can only be got from an
enemy. George Coates painted an admirable
portrait of Miss Hamilton some years ago
when she was one of the handsome and dar-
ing, intelligentsia who led the suffragette
movement.
Poverty
Point
“Boaster”: Were the late Phineas T.
Barnum to revisit
the glimpses ot
Broadway he would
be reckoned a back
number as a show-
man by the theat-
rical managers of
those parts. Prior
to opening his New
York season. David
Belasco declared in
the presence of the
indispensable in-
terviewer that Wil-
lard Mack, whose
crude and unplea-
sant "Kick In"
was sampled in
Australia, is “head
and shoulde r.s
above every other
playwright in the
world when it
comes to writing
red-blooded, sturdy
American drama.”
It is hardly neces-
sary to say that
Mack is responsible
for Belaseo’s latest
production, which-
bears the red-
blooded, stu r d y
title, “Canary
Dutch,” whatever
that may mean.
Next Edward Shel-
don, author, of
“The Nigger,” was
referred to. David
has a new piece,
“My Lulu Belle,”
from his pen, and
naturally it is “tjust
about the greatest
play ever written
by an American.”
Seemingly the
Yank hasn’t
changed since
Dickens' satirised
his penchant for in-
troducing his fel-
low-citizen as "‘one of the most remarkable
men in this country, sir.”
“Hamfat”: Josie Melville waved good-bye
to her Sydney friends last Saturday as the
Orama moved from the'wharf; the little
Jady is on her way to London for further
study. Not even. Dot Brunton has a warmer
popularity with stage people than Josie, who,
remaining unspoilt by the quick success
which followed her elevation from the chorus
to play lead in “Sally,” a part that exactly
fitted her, in just little Josie to everyone. As
an artist she has distinct limitations; but m
such parts as Sally and the similar little
lady in ‘?Good’ Morning. Dearie,” she will
repeat her Australian triumphs in London, it
London gives her the opportunity. Anyway,
everybody who has met tli.e natural, warm-
hearted actress will wish her the best of
luck.
“Curtain-Raiser": There is something in
the plaint ot‘ Gerald Pring that the cost o
bringing mummers from overseas maK •
things difficult for the Australian managei.
Godfrey Tearle asked £3OO a week to accom-
pany Dion Boucicault in his forthcoming
Australian tour. As lie already draws aP I
tanee of £2OO for playing juvenile Wads n
London, the extra century would not be un-
duly grasping when the time spent in getnn„
to "theae antipodes and back again is < o
sidered. .
“Flaming Youth": Plumpton Wilson, long
a mainstay of the Allan Wilkie co., left un-
obtrusively for America some time ago. ana
word comes that lie has made a New lorn
appearance in "Hamlet” with W alter Hamp-
den and Ethel Barrymore. In New iork
also is Hugh Huntley, doing a vaudeville act
which he calls "Romeo and Juliet with
Estelle Winwood. And Harry Dimmer is
at the New York Empire in a new play,
“Antonio.”
"Goldilocks”: Old Harry Lynch threatens
to settle down in Maoriland, but the settling-
down will be delayed until the diamond
jubilee of the Lynch Family Bellringers has
been duly celebrated. The family left Eng-
land on its world-wanderings in ISO <, and
three of the five originals are still with it in
\1 L. Harry's experiences include a meeting
with Rudvard Kipling, who in 1883 "wrote
up” the show. It was then at the Adelphl
Theatre, Bombay, and Kip. was on the staff
of a local paper. ‘
"Black Out": “Curtain Raiser” (B.
17/12/’25) might have mentioned Ray de
Vere and Vaude and Verne along with Maude
Courtney and Mr. C. as long-distance per-
formers. I was once standing outside tne
old Empire in Brisbane when Ray de Vere,
then a balladist, was going in to give her
turn. An argument began as to how long
she had been at the Empire, and it was
proved that she had been singing about
roses and mother (“because I have no
other”) for nine months without a break.
But Vaude. and Verne have been in the
steadiest of all vaudeville jobs since Vaude
IN OUR DAY.
“An American broadcasting station will broadcast an Australian programme
by Australian artists in U.S.A., for the benefit of listeners in Australia."
OLD MUMER ( to venerable colleague): “Well, Sebastian, in ow
day ice didn't have to go to America to get a hearing from
our oven people, at anyrate!”
gave up making witty remarks as a West-
ralian auctioneer. That was years before
the war.
“H.K.”: Mention of the appearance in
Australia’s first pantomime of Miss V> m-
stanley (B. 17/12/’25) recalls that the lady
was the first Australian actress to tace
the footlights in London. She went to
England in 1850, and Charles Iveane gave
her the part of Meg in “Guy Mannenng.
She was so successful that her engagement
lasted three years.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: “Drought,” which is to
be given its first fly in America, is from the
pen of Reginald Goode, long known on the
Australian stage. Reginald wrote a play; ot
tluit name while still in Australia, but fallen
to waken enthusiasm in the heart of any
local manager. Most likely he has re-
written it for American consumption.
"Blum": The frank delight of a Sydney
Town Hall audience at Dame Butt's per-
formance of "The Holy City,” which got
more applause than all her other items put
together, wins my respect. It may be rank
musical heresy to say it. but the chanty
that apostrophises Jerusalem is a good song.
The melody of verse and refrain hang well
together, the modulation to the minor is
effective, and the whole thing is singable
enough to entice a higher top not.- out ot
the amateur than he or she might attain
in a score of more esteemed ballads. It must
be now nearly half a century since “The
Holy City” was first published, and it is
sT ill a good seller, and found in every home
that sports a piano. A ditty 7 with a com-
mercial record as good as that must be
allowed some merits.
“Clerk": Vic. Itailway Commissioner
Clapp is one Australian who can run a cinema
without patronising Hollywood. His master-
piece is "The Victorian Railways at Work,”
which, as publicity propaganda, has been
successfully screened all over Victoria, on
open country railway stations in the summer
time, and iii the "Hoso” trains. The corpu-
lent Lord Burnham, who watched it while
travelling comfortably in the Empire Press
Delegation special at 50 miles an hour, de-
claring that he had seen nothing to equal
it anywhere. The film was wholly assembled
in Victoria, and a copy was presented to the
British Special Service Squadron during its
visit here in 1024, while Wembley, the South
African railways and the Yankee universities
have also received a copy apiece.
“T. 0.1.” : January 11 was the 60th anniver-
sary of the wreck of the steamer London,
which went down in the Bay of Biscay with
G. V. Brooke, Professor Woolley, of Sydney
Uni., gnd 218 others. As the engineer's
boat, with 19 bn board, left the ship’s side
one of the stewards, Gardiner by name, in-
vited Brooke to join them. The tragedian
refused, but asked Gardiner to convey his
farewell to the people of Melbourne, where
Gardiner had a hairdressing business. On
Gardiner’s return George Coppin got hold
of him, and it was announced that Brooke's
message would be delivered from the stage
of the Theatre Royal. I _ was among the
crowded audience, but Gardiner was so over-
come by emotion, or something that the
“turn” was a fiasco.
“Bris" : Harrington Reynolds, now trying
his. luck in India, made tons of money at
Brisbane Royal in partnership with Eddie
de Tisne, but thrdw it ‘away with both hands.
“We were ruined by too much credit,” he
explained afterwards, recalling hectic nights
of champagne suppers on the stage. “No-
body would let us pay for our pleasure until
we had nothing to pay with.” After the
crash Reynolds took a company to North
Queensland, but the tour was a failure; so
was another venture at the Royal with the
stranded members of “The Fatal Wedding.
Then it was that lie told an interviewer:
“My company hasn’t paid since the Ballarat
gold rush.” In spite of his misfortunes he
is as cheerful as Mark Tapley and as hope-
ful as Micawber.
“T.R.11." : Somerset Maugham has been
telling the. Yanks that “the Americanisation
of the English stage is a good thing.” Per-
haps the gentleman’s opinion would be dif-
ferent if he hadn’t had seven plays running
in New 7 York at the same time, plays which
had all been turned down by London man-
agers. I had a job in the London Daily
Mail office when Maugham—known in Fleet-
street as “Cider” —was on the staff. The
future playwright could never do anything
to please Filson Young, then editor of the
Mail. The only man of authority in Car-
melite House who recognised Maugham's
ability w 7 as Charles E. Hands. It was he
who advised Maugham to take his rejected
manuscripts to New York.
“Hamer”: Jimmy Sylvestre Ryan, who
as “Narranghi Boori” w r rote some very fair
verse before he left Australia for America
many years ago, and was, incidentally, an
actor of considerable talent, president of the
first Actors’ Union formed in Australia,
brother of Marie Narelle and hero of more
yarns than any other man in Sydney’s
Bohemia, has dropped into a steady job in
the United States. He is on the publicity
staff of the Ford works.
“C. Ockney” : Albert Drinkwater, original
producer of Eden Phillpott’s "Farmer s
Wife” for the Birmingham Repertory
Theatre (B. 7/l/’26), was the father of the
better-known John Drinkwater, who married
Daisy Kennedy. John’s plays w 7 ere all
written for and staged by the B.R.T. Drink-
water pere, w 7 ho died a few years back, was
himself a w r riter of plays, many of which he
produced and appeared in during a long
career on the professional boards. John, by
Ihe way, has just published his latest bio-
graphical piece, “Robert Burns,” which will
be tried on the Birmingham public anon. It
is likely to cause a good deal of discussion,
for the hero is shaped in accordance with
Drill kwater’s odd theory that Scotland s
national bard was a humorless duel, and
peevish withal.
THE FOOD OF THE GODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘There was a Gallery Girls' Club in-Melbourne,'
said Miss Marie Tempest., speaking at a gathering ot
Gallery First Nighters in London, ‘the members ot
which were most devoted to her —so devoted that
they used to take a journey of 500 miles in order
to be present at her opening:' performance. Tpat
was her proudest. b.oast.’ ”
Where are the gods' who' once reigned in the gallery,
Passing their judgment on good and oh bad.
Made Hamlets turn 'neath their grease-paint all
yallery,
Or with applause rendered Romeos glad l
Vanished and gone in a new age’s swirl.
Swept from their seats by the gallery girl!'
Woman has soared, not on wings but in bodices,
Near unto Heaven as the show-place’s root :
Humbly the gods have made way for the goddesses—
Theirs is the giving of praise or reproof.
Come, as the mummers deliver their pearls,
Giggles and squeals from the gallery girls.
Playing—it’s easier .now —to the gallery,
Gaily the Thespian trips through his part,
Takes his ovations and snavels his salary,
Nor ever deplores' the decay of his art.
Shows that are padded with tosh and with twirls,
, These are the goods for the gallery girls.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


REX-PYE, packed in 1 lb. and
hygienic cans, in a delicious jelly, is the
tastiest treat cooked ready to serve,
and the most economical meat meal you
can obtain. You will find, as thousands
have found, that each tin is consistently
of the same outstanding choice quality.
This, due to the facts set out below,
accounts for the triumphal march of
REX-PYE into popular favor.
msz
, m
■ ■:
lpfc . \ \|
<HH3S333i
v. ' .- 3^
«aarac3ia
H
/
r
EJ* j
IhbS
m
please use the
new name
»
SE
This is why we claim that REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world:
1. The tin itself is unique, being stamped out and seamless; hermetically sealed without
solder (lead) or soldering flux—it is the perfectly hygienic container.
2. The meats (raw materials) are perfectly wholesome, being choicest quality, carefully
selected. Visitors from abroad, inspecting our works, have said that the meats are
superior to those used at any other factory in their experience.
3. The spicing by a recipe in our sole possession and the excellent jelly help to produce
the delicious flavor characteristic of REX-PYE.
4. The cooking en casserole preserves all the wholesome meat juices, and retains the hign
food values.
All these facts combine to produce a meat product of unrivalled quality. Thus we account
for that delicate ajronia as you open the tin, and that delicious flavor when the dainty is
eaten.
REX-PYE
Ask your Grocer for REX-PYE
—the finest meat in the world.
Look for the attractive label.
Imitations are offered for sale, but
they are decidedly not REX-PIE.
Its delicate oaroma and delicious flan at
distinguish Ht from all other meats.
FOGGITT JONES LTD
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon,
and
Packers of the Choice REX Canned Delicacies,


he
gft*T/SH BUILT
ENGINES
For 1926
New Sizes! Improved Patterns!!
Increased Efficiency!!*!
The Improved Lister Junior Engines
are now available. They are fitted with two flywheels and Lister
Standard Pattern Crankshaft Carburettor, Fuel Feed, etc., Automatic
Lubrication, and are in every way a “Lister” Quality Engine—" Sound,
Strong and Reliable.
A New 6-h.p. Petrol Engine
will shortly be here. 1 his Engine has a detachable head and a new
design of combustion chamber, and constitutes a further advance in
Petrol-engine manufacturing.
The New 8-h.p. Twin-cylinder Engine
in Petrol and Kerosene Patterns is specially designed for general-purpose
duty and electric lighting, and is a very fine product. It is not intended
to replace the heavier 7-h.p. and 9-h,p. single-cylinder Engines, but to
give users a larger choice when selecting an Engine of this horse-power,
A\
12-8.f1.F. Twin Cylinder
Stationary Type.
The Lister Portable
Type.
Lister ideas and manu-
facturing methods
7i ever stand still! The
whole Lister organisation
is daily working to keep the
“ Lister” Engines “second to
none”—not merely “good
enough.” “ Listers” intend
to continue making
TEE WORLD’S BEST
ENGINES.
• :
*-• -v-v.
s*:„
mmmm '
mmmmmmm
M
.
Vi
V-
if
ill
'.■■Vi-:: : .SV":
*
VfV
91 B|
m
m
m i
Vv ■ ■;
m
1
r
a
«■««««
Jgplll
mmH
"s&>
v /Vv ■ i
/ V
■7/
.
i
s
. ;
■llll
■
vv-:
v i\' fsr
-v;
.
liSfS
. :
Automatic
Lubrication.
Send for Catalogue “B” and full
particulars from the Agents
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street.
BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footsorav.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.,
Bank Street,
ADELAIDE, S. AUS.
Malloch Brothers,
William Street,
PERTH, W. AUS.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
HOBART, TAS.
i Levin & Co., Ltd.,
I WELLINGTON, N.Z
J
xcv
Manufactured btf
R A. LISTER 6 CO LTD.
n.n. if?*,.. - ENGLAND
du nslc y


•‘Bis Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
of Supremacy
“ Gramophone "
Regd. Trade-mark.
Amusements.
c ii i e 1 I 11 EAT u 14 *■
w
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
LEAVE IT TO JANE.
CRITERION: WITHIN THE LAW.
ROYAL: KATJA.
PALACE: THE FARMER’S WIFE.
dICUAIiDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pDLLERS' TII EATRE, SYD N E Y
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
TIIIC WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
C WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOU It Mi
ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S:
ALADDIN.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
H
UGH J. WARD’S MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS THEATRE:
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
PANTOMIME.
.PALACE THEATRE:
THE MUSIC-BOX REVUE.
THEATRE. M E L II O U It N E
K ,N<!
A
Miss RENEE KELLY in
POLLY WITH A PAST.
TII EAdi U M I’ll EAT RE, MELBOURNE
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Three-act Australian Play,
KANGAROO FLAT.
By TAL ORDELL.
Plans at Allans.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
ADOLPHE MENJOU in
LOST A WIFE.
THE WHEEL.
WITH AN ALL-STAR CAST.
Prices as usual.
If any Illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Amusements
(VIEW BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
*’* Twice Daily. 2.30 and 8.
THE VETERANS OF VARIETY.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
gyj.A.IEsTIC THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
PAMPERED YOUTH.
AND
UNDER THE BED ROBE,
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
-Box Plan at Allans or Theatre. ’Phone 7070 & 7790
Legal Notice.
'J'O ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
.k. MATATUA and s.s. AMERICAN MERCHANT.
WHEREAS in, connection with a collision which
ocurred in the River TMmes between the steamship
MATATUA and the steamship AMERICAN
MERCHANT on 24th March 1924 an action was tried
by the Admiralty Court of the High Court of
Justice of England AND WHEREAS the said Court
found the AMERICAN MERCHANT to be solely to
blame for the said collision and condemned the
said steamship in damages in respect of her improper
navigation, which finding was upheld by the Court
of Appeal and the House of Lords; AND WHEREAS
in lieu of an Action of Limitation of Liability the
Owners of the AMERICAN MERCHANT have paid
over to the Shaw Savill and Albion Company Liniited
the Owneys of the s.s. MATATUA the amount of
the statutory limit of liability of the AMERICAN
MERCHANT (hereafter called “the fund”) in ex-
hange for an Indemnity in respect of any claims
arising out of loss or damage to ships, goods,
merchandise or other things arising out of the
said collision; TAKE NOTICE that all persons
having any claim upon the fund in respect of loss
or damage to ships, goods, merchandise or other
things caused by reason of the said collision must
forward their claims together with vouchers and
documents relied upon, and all necessary particulars
IMMEDIATELY to the Company’s Solicitors:
Messrs INCE, COLT, INCE t& ROSCOE,
St. Benet Chambers,
Fenchurch Street, London, E-C-3.
and in any event so that they shall reach the said
Solicitors not later than the 24th day of March
1926, after which date the fund will be distributed
amongst the claimants entitled to share, and no
Mother claim of any nature whatever will be
allowed.
SHAW, SAVILL & ALBION CO., LTD..
34 Leadenhall Street,
London, E.C.3.
Missing Friends.
THE lawful brothers and sisters of CHARLES
1 NURDEN, late of Trefoil, near Mudgee, in the
State of New South Wales, deceased, or the children
of such brothers and sisters, are requested to com-
municate immediately with:
ERIC R. DANIEL,
Solicitor,
Mudgee, N.S.W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
| Contains everything a woman needs to know
Tempting Meals
and Frozen Dainties
with, the Thermometer High
o
■O'
1
\
\
“ISKO” gives the far-out country
home the same facilities for delicious
provisioning that are available in the
most up-to-date city hotels
and restaurants.
The “ ISKOFIED ”
home can have meat hung
long enough to be tender,
fresh fruit and vegetables
kept juicy and crisp in-
definitely, milk, cream,
butter and eggs always
sweet and delicious, cold
puddings, throughout the
hot weather, iced drinks
always ready, ice-cream
desserts with the daily
meals—all foods kept in
a state of perfection.
“1SKO” provides con-
venient cubes of ice for
table and sickroom use.
“ISKO,” which may be attached to any ice-chest, connects
with the house electric service, and uses very little current.
It may be supplied either air or water cooled—we strongly
recommend the latter as being much more efficient.
“ISKO” is safe, silent and foolproof—uses no ammonia
nor other dangerous substance—it is extremely simple, having
only two moving parts.
“ISKO” is manufactured in various sizes for household,
hospital, confectioners’, hotel, club or butchers use.
When in town, call and see it working, or write for particulars,
ISKO DISTRIBUTING DEPOT,
412 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
54 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland Distributors:
CHAMBERS, DUNNE & CO., 82 Turbot Street, Brisbane.
We are also manufacturers of Refrigerator Cabinets.
GREATEST ARTISTS,
FINEST RECORDING.
GRAM)
v.s. • »
The Symbol
.His Masters Voice
Your confidence is never betrayed when you select
“His Master’s Voice”
These Instruments are recognised
everywhere as the standard by which
all others are judged. They are the
final achievement.
They represent the ideal combina-
tion of science and art. Perfect
powers of reproduction in cabinets
of beauty and worth.
MODEL
Studio Grand.
Height 431 in. Internal “floating'’ horn of special metal, which enhances
the tone. Automatic lid stay. 11 in. double-spring spiral-drive motor, 12in-
turntable, speed regulator and automatic speed indicator and brake. Mis
Master’s Voice” No. 2 soundbox of new and improved design, record-
storing chamber (horizontal shelves), for 120 records. -p^Q/1
Oak or Mission
Maple or Mahogany finish
Zonophone No. 5.
Height 12iin., nickel-plated and enamel fittings, internal horn, Single-spring
motor, 10in. turntable, playing lOin. and 12in. records. Graduated speed
regulator “Exhibition” type soundbox. For those whose outlay is strictly
limited, the MODEL FIVE offers the most
wonderful value. English made. £9/10/-
Mahogany £ll
Bungalow Model.
Height lnternal “floating” horn. Record-storing chamber (horizontal
shelves), ljin. double-spring motor, lOin. turntable, speed regulator, His
Master’s Voice” “Exhibition” soundbox, automatic brake. Q/1 A/
Mahogany or Maple finish £32/10/-
Model 107.
Base 15iin., height 12iin., depth 18*in., nickel-plated and enamel fittings.
Single-spring motor, lOin. turntable, playing 10m. and 1-m. records.
Graduated speed regulator. “His Master s
Voice” “Exhibition” sound-
b o“ k £l2/10/-
Mahogany
ZONOPTiONE
■ v N<? 5
Many other models at many other prices.
TERMS ARRANGED.
Write for Catalogues, Record Lists and name of nearest dealer.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
MODEL 107
m
•■= ■


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
pmn: rubber.
The Wonderful Lock-Grip Wire Strainer.
An Australian Invention
1610/16
Simple, Powerful, Rapid.
Tj'ASILY the best strainer ever invented ; thousands
-*-V sold and still going strong; positively the most
effective for all classes of fencing. Guaranteed non-
slipping even on the hardest steel wires. Hours
saved on a job ; joins, tightens and repairs. Scores
of once popular strainers are being scrapped for the
LOCK-GRIP. Manufactured in England of fine
forged steel by the World’s best toolmakers. A
treasure to motorists, bogged cars instantly extricated.
Weighs only 41b. Absolutely guaranteed against
breakage. A week’s free trial given.
30/- each. Victorian postage 1/6. Interstate 2/8.
(Add exchange.)
Distributing Agents:
S. Cohen, Sons & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
xcvb
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices .outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THOMAS HARDY.
.Human Shows: Far Phantasies:
Songs and Trifles. By Thomas
Hardy, O.M. 7s. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN'S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW VOLS.
Portrait of a Man with Red Hair.
By Hugh Walpole.
Sunday Times : “Mr. Walpole’s story of a
night of horrors in a Cornish village, with a
monstrous madman for its central figure and a
young American, bent on rescuing beauty in
distress, for its hero, may be gruesome and
melodramatic, but it is also fine and gracious
and subtly invigorating throughout.’’
My Tower in Desmond. By S. R.
Lysaght.
Daily Chronicle: “Amid the rush of feverish
fiction, Mr. S. K. Lysaght’s quiet work may be
overlooked by the seeker after the latest novelty.
Yet how astonishingly effective his method may
be is shewn in ‘My Tower in Desmond.’ ”
The Mulberry Bush and Other
Stories. By Sylvia Lynd.
Broken Ties and Other Stories. By
Rabindranath Tagore. 7s. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN’S 3/6 LIBRARY.
NEW VOLS.
3s. 6d. net. each.
For the Term of His Natural Life.
By Marcus Clarke.
Tlv Cathedral. By Hugh Walpole.
Christopher and Columbus. By the
author of “Elizabeth and Her German
Garden.”
The Forest Lovers. By Maurice
Hewlett.
The Queen’s Quair. By Maurice
Hewlett.
Mr. Isaacs. By F. Marian Crawford.
To bo Obtained from aft
Booksef/ers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C .2.
xcvb
There is only one
Genuine
Bosch Horn
MELODIOUS IN TONE WITH
A
DEEP, RESONANT NOTE
THAT
PENETRATES ALL TRAFFIC NOISES.
6 OR 12 VOLT.
SINGLE OR DOUBLE NOTE.
All Genuine Bosch Products
are
Fully Guaranteed.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
256-258 Latrobe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supi>ly & Service Co. Pt.v., Ltd.,
199 Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart ......... 1). J. Nettlefold & Co., .Ltd.,"26 Elizabeth Street,
New Zealand.... J. J. Niven & Co., .Ltd., Wakefield
Wellington.
NOT
GENUINE
WITHOUT
xcvb
THIS
TRADE-
MARK.
of Australasia Limited.
Capital Paid up£4,000.000
Total Assets 1914
xcv
1925
X 41.177.775
All classes of banking business conducted at
299 branches and 170 agencies in Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts, Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Tiavellers’ and Merchants’
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTING
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the- British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High I-lolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
'Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Kent: Do something off your ow r n bat.
The person who merely potters round making re-
marks about somebody else’s remarks is apt to get
very tiresome... .AiM.G.: Your letter forwarded to
writer, who may supply .the required information
Jim O.: Tried them on a shearer who was never in
a shed till five years ago, and he knew all but one
of those alleged obsolete terms... .W.D.F.: Some-
how, with its “gun,” and “partner,” and all that,
it doesn’t read like Australia... . Acconio: You take
far too longgetting there. .. .M.A.: Another on
the subject was in hand.... Havelock: “Lions led by
asses”—H. H. Champion is supposed to have in-
vented the phrase in the early ’nineties.. . .W.E.8.:
“The Alibi” doesn’t make a yarn... .W.F.: The
sentimental burglar doesn’t make us believe he's
real... .K.W.C.: We had that yarn before. The verse
is not attractive... .Iv.P. (Marrai) : Not enough there.
J.S.L. (Cooran) : You don't make much of the tale.
....J.S.L.: The blind man is a bit artificial....
A.L. (Unle.y Park) : Not the goods wanted.... J.M.J.W.:
Truth doesn’t alter the facts that the yarn is un-
pleasant and not very interesting... .W.D.T.: Doesn’t
strike us hard enough, though it isn’t without merit.
... .N.E.R.: The conclusion is too obvious....
R. Me.: Not bad, but the same sort of thing has
been done so often... .Z.S. (Yeppoon) : All are some-
where on the way, but none of them arrive. Put
more elbow-grease into them The Ghost: The
verse is far too rugged to carry it....J.M. (Haw-
■ thorn) : The only ones that might pass have a look
of being used before... .L.O’N.: It makes a noise,
but says very little. The second stanza appears to
have something left out... .Jas. B.: They haven’t
enough in them... .H.K.W.: It doesn’t quite say it.
. ...A.L.P: The maddest collection of alleged rhymes
we have seen for some time... .F.M.S.: “The Secret
Path” is manufactured loosely on an old rec-jpe....
W.E.8.: A sad, thin tale.... A. Scot: Horrible....
George D.: That rather tame story has been told
over and over again and the tedidus method of des-
cribing each drink of beer doesn't improve it. .. .
Keith B.: Not up by a long, long way... .Connie E.:
Very mild sort of mirth... .G.N. (Windsor) : Very poor.
F.C.M.: Not enough story in “Michael”.... Lovebird :
Not well enough done... .Richard H.: Goes rather
heavily... .K.E.M.: Convincing enough, but doesn't
make muc h of a yarn. .. . Rippbnlea: “New Poem
in the Minor Key” is original in style and method:
The Sun. Moon. Star.
Elements. Animal Life.
Friendship. Marriage. Strife.
These things most indubitably are.
As it exists in its peculiar Type
Everything Is on these Terrestrial Plains;
Whether ’tis common, as passions or pains,
Or rare, as bones in Tripe.
As we fail or progress this Orb upon,
We weep or mayhap •we smile;
And after remaining awhile,
Get out. Go on.
Are you worried ? Put .about ?
Take things as they come. Not by force.
Is the glass empty? The core coarse?
Turn it up ! Cut if. out!
. ...M.8.H.: Nothing striking there... .0.H.8.: They
all miss by some distance L.A.M.: We cannot
give opinions by letter. The lines have a hint of
music, but they follow a well-beaten track and say
nothing fresh... .E.L. (Croydon): Poor thought and
some very bad attempts to make impossible rhymes.
. ...M.L.F.: Pleasant enough verse, but without any
sort of distinction.... Eva L.: The verse couldn’t be
much worse... .F.G.H.: Misses by a good mile....
T.A.W.: “Loyalty” is thin, l'ame verse of a poor
kind. ... J.C.K.: Leaves us .very c01d.... Brady’s
Lookout: The verses haven’t quality enough to
stand on their singing alone, and the matter is slender
in interest... .E.F.W.: Rather loose and rambling.
. ...M.H.H. ■ “Friends” is too slight in idea and is
not very convincingly handled.... Paul R.: “Jimmy”
is not at all exciting. .. .F.W.G.: No place available
for it in this crowded sipenn’orth. ... A.B. (Nelson):
It drags its weary length to a miserable ending....
Whyte L.: You don’t make the best of the materials ;
try it again... .H.A.Y.: Doesn’t strike us... .M.8.H.:
The yarn is pretty horrible even for a piece of pure,
imagination E.M.E.: “The Elixir” must go back.
It wants feeding up.... P. 0. Mae.: More or less we
approve of the sentiment, anyway:—
Hark! Ye Fords, Buicks, Rolls-Royces,
And Chevrolets and other brands !
’Tis time we fools lifted our voices
And, protesting, uprais’d our hands!
Nay! We must not blame your drivers
(Poor lambs they do just as you will) ;
Still we object in places divers
’Gainst hurried exit “o’er the hill.”
. A.W.W.: Rather bumpy commonplace.... Sisy-
phus S.: Sorry, but you should answer the paper in
its own columns Taharangi: Certainly. Ask for
the manager... .R.B. (S.A.) : Off our beat... .F.F.F.:
Just dull, that’s all....Fanta C.: Frankiy, we
haven’t much inclination to throw a brick at the
co. for charging vehicle passengers carried per punt.
If passengers had been even reasonably honest
hitherto, or if they could be trusted to be reasonably
truthful in future, it mightn’t be necessary.,..
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.T.: Petrified study of an esteemed contributor
regretfully refused C.N.W.: You can do better if
you try hard enough. .. .C.C.: Boy, policeman and
the joke all belong to another part of the world.
Give us something Australian; but learn to draw
first... .J.8.F.: Always advisable to erase pencilled
comments by other editors before submitting to us.
V.M.G.: Strengthen your linework and strive
for more freedom... .J.C.C.: Confusedly labelled
cartoon with the appearance of an astronomical
chart. Crushed to death F.J.K.: Is there room
for improvement? Yes; a thousand rooms, with
two skyscrapers and an army-barracks added....
A.H.: The car is a menace to traffic and the scenery
an insult to nature.
Sir Basil Thomson, who has fallen foul
of the London police over some matter in
Hyde Park in which a woman was mixed
up, has had as pleasantly varied a career
as any parson’s son could wish. The parson
in this case was that Archbishop of York who
was always proud to recall that he was the son
of a street apple-woman. Among other jots’
young Thomson had after his life at Eton
and Oxford was a term in Tonga as acting-.
Prime Minister, and he has written half a
dozen books about the South Seas. He lost
his job as Assistant-Commissioner of London
Metropolitan Police, it is said, through his
failure to guard against the assassination
of Field-Marshal Sir Henry Wilson, v


Reasons why you
should choose a
8.5. A. 3.49h.p. O.H.V. Model.
Highly efficient O.H.V. engine, B.S.A. 3-
speed, clutch, kick-starter, enclosed valve
gear, shock absorbers, grease gun, Terry
spring seat saddle, etc.
B.S.A. 4.93h.p. Model 5.26
B.S.A. 3 speed, clutch, kick-starter, all-chain
drive, grease gun, mechanical lubrication,
etc.
mmm
m
B.S.A. 9.86h.p. Colonial Model.
B.S.A. 3 speed, oil-chain drive, clutch, kick-
starter, grease gun, mechanical lubrication,
quickly detachable and interchangeable
wheels, etc.
TRADc
1
I
Motor Bicycle
YOU GET the greatest motor-cycle value for money.
The choice from the most comprehensive range ever
offered by one firm (2.49h.p. to 9.86h.p., six engine
capacities in 13 models).
A steel forging at every vital point in the frame, giving
the maximum strength and rigidity.
Valves made from unburnable steel, to prevent pitting.
A Motor Bicycle that is guaranteed British Manufacture
throughout.
A machine that is made throughout in the B.S.A.
factories, and is backed by 70 years’ reputation for
the highest quality materials and workmanship.
A comprehensive specification, which includes many
refinements usually only found on much more
expensive machines.
The benefit of a vast organisation, comprising seven large
factories and over 33,000 employees, giving the
most efficient Spares Service in the World.
Every component guaranteed perfect and inter-
changeable.
A motor bicycle which has established a world-wide
reputation for reliability and long service under the
most adverse conditions.
PRICES FROM £57-10-0
You will be interested in the B.S.A, Catalogue send for copy,
and for Particulars of Easy-Payment System,
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. |BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDj 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA—FINLAY BROS., MOTOR
CYCLES, PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.—J. N. TAYLOR & CO.,
LTD., 121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS.—MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA—SIM KING,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
BJELA, Sub-Agents Throughout Australia,
Factory Representative :
D, Y. RENNIE, AP A. BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE,


Build Better
Walls and
Ceilings!
Save money and build real charm
and beauty into your new home
by using “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets for lining all its wails
and ceilings.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than lining-
boards and is Fire Retardant, White-ant
Proof, Hygienic, and Improves with Age.
The big sturdy sheets are easily and
quickly fixed without waste.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York Sc Wynyard Streets
BRISBANE: A.M.P. Buildings, Cfceen St.
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Co.lins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 103 Collins Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Nathan’s Buildings,
Wellington.
s -
Fat
Stock
Cattle, Sheep.
Lambs, Pigs,
Calves.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sa lesrnen, ® •
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
The firm is successful because the work effected
mem! success.
FOR LIGHT*
SUPPERS
Your guests will all eryjjsy the
appetising flavour of Ancho-
vette. Dainty Sandwiches
made with this delicious Fish
Pa£te are always popular,
and a tempting meal can he
prepared in a few moments.^
ffieck
xcv
JJlwatjs keep a jar
in the Pantrg for
emergencies
P 29
[RUPTURE!
A FREE TRIALt
If yen in troubled with the complaint, write hi and
we will tend yon our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springe, giving a feeling ol ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under ell conditions
To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men. women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Streets Melbourne
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
fk Clyde Engineering Company limited
Granville, N.S.W.
locomotive, agricultural, mining and general engineers
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
“Now, good digestion wait on appetite,
And health on both !*’
Shakespeare knew the value of a good digestion —
knew that it's not what you eat , but what you digest
that lays the foundation of health
But of all the distressing complaints that attack human beings,
Indigestion »* by far the most commonplace. This depressing,
devitalising ailment is the deadly enemy of health and happiness,
for you can’t feel well when the digestive organs fail to function,
denying your body the necessary nourishment from the food you
eat. In this condition lassitude overcomes you, a morose, irritable
disposition sets in, your breath becomes offensive, the skin dry,
hard and withered : That’s Indigestion. But you can get
well—and quickly too —by the use of that Medical Gem
One or two doses will convince you that you are taking the right
medicine. You will feel the difference as the stagnant secretions
are expelled, as they must be if you take the genuine Kruse’s
n*q
m
This searching, though non-irritating aperient, more like a so rkling mineral
water than a medicine, is healthful to people of all ages; and so pure that
it can safely be given to young infants
DO IT NOW. Pot your digestive system in good trim by taking
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Bottled in 3 sizes (the half-crown family size will
be found relatively cheaper), and Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON , GRJMWADE & Co Prop. Ltd., Melb .
Buy your LINEN direct from
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
LINEN SHEET-
ING. By the yard
LINEN DAMASK
By the yard
PILLOW CASING
LINEN
TOWELLING
==«•
iwsiiiMi!
robihsom
BELFAST
OUR Catalogue No. 531 is full of beauti-
ful Irish Linen illustrations. You can
order with perfect confidence from this
old established firm, knowing that your wishes
will be interpreted correctly. We are contin-
ually receiving letters of appreciation from all
parts of the world.
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by the yard. Excep-
tional quality for good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 10/6
go „ „ » ». i3/v>
Bleached pure Irish linen double damask by the yard.
Any iengih cun A very fine heavy make which will give
good dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/11
54 .. » » » 8 / 6
72 „ „ „ u/3
Bleached linen pillow casing. Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 >• » -> - 5/3
54 »> >» ”
Extra heavy bleached linen huck towelling. By the
yard. A quali y you will be deughted with.
y 26 inches wide per yard 2/6.
Extra heavy unbleached all linen buck towelling. By the
var( j. 17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 » >» »» ” I ' B
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE
WITH SAMPLES, POST FREE
Delivery of goods guaranteed
ROBINSON &
CLEAVER Ltd
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘‘"Cowes”: I’ve bit upon a way of prolong-
ing the life of typewriter ribbons. As benzine
dissolves the ink on the type, and as I employ
single-color ribbons, I thought it might be
used to run the ink from the unused centre
of the ribbon on to the strips through which
the type prints. I put a teaspoonful of ben-
zine into a tobacco-tin, closed the ribbon in
it for half an hour, then let it dry. It typed
perfectly when put in the machine and shows
little sign of faintness after a fortnight s
use. Is this an old ideaV If not, it is worth
passing on.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”; How comes it that the
descendants of Drake and Frobisher, now
thronging the factories of this fair land,
cannot make a toy sailing-boat that will
float? Thousands of pounds, probably, have
been spent by parents this Christmas on
yachts that fall dumbly on their sides when
put into the water. Even those that stand
upright will usually collapse when their ill-
proportioned sails get wet. Even the expen-
sive article is full of landlubberly devices
that move the yachtsman to unmanly tears.
This is the sort of thing that makes the
Navy so unpopular.
“Green Light”: Ten of Vic. Railway
Commissioner Clapp’s express locomotives
are to be equipped with about £lOO worth
of electric headlights apiece. This is quite
an innovation in Victoria, where the British
practice of oil lighting has hitherto been in
vogue. The oil headlights merely served to
indicate that a train was approaching and,
to a trained eye, what kind of a train it was;
the electric ones throw a powerful beam
hundreds of yards ahead and enable the
driver to see what’s doing, in front, which
ought to mean safer travelling. Each of the
ten locomotives to be so fitted will carry a
small steam turbine and a generator, and
there will be better lighting in the cab
itself and around the running gear under
the boiler.
* * # #
“Two Seas”; Re the statement (B.
31/12/’25) that orchard land sprayed with
arsenate of lead over a number of seasons
may be “completely poisoned and rendered
incapable of bearing more than a meagre
sward of poor grass for a century to come,”
this par is written within sight of a large
orchard that has been sprayed with Paris
green and arsenate of lead for the past 40
years, yet it still easily carries five sheep to
the acre on a luxuriant sward of rye grass
and trefoil. With regard to
sprays capable of killing the codlin-moth
grub, none of my friends who have been
growing apples all their lives has ever heard
of one, although all would like to. If there
are such sprays the formula should be well
advertised, as no fruitgrower would handle
poisonous sprays in preference to harmless
coneoctious.
* * * *
“Stephen R.”; I am continually seeing
spotted-gum, water-gum and all the rest of
the gums boomed as handles for tools. They
may be all right for an axe or a hammer
which only delivers a straight blow,, but for
a coal-miner’s pick-handle, wrenching and
tearing at coal all day long, there is only
one wood that stands up to it, and that,
I’m sorry to say, is American, hickory. I
cannot buy hickory handles fin the local
stores, but will have to find soine somewhere,
as I have got tired of turning the air blue
down below. I bought tv r o water-gum
handles down the Coast, took them into the
mine and broke one the first day and the
other the next day. From the same store,
in Balgownie, I bought a hickory handle
and used it two years in tlie Metropolitan
and for a further period in the Sydney Har-
bor Colliery. English ash is not bad, but
where I came from Durham they all
used the product of Virginia.
* * * *
“Papua”: Rubber at 4s. 6d. a pound
makes the Austral-Papuan feel good when
he remembers that for three years he never
got more than Is. 6d. for his output. The
result of the buoyant market is reflected in
the volume of trade : exports were nearly
£1)1,000 in excess of imports for the quarter
ended September 30, 1925. The principal
exports were:—
Copper .. .. 2887 tons £57,457
Rubber .. .. 186 tons 58,767
Copra . . . . 1946 tons 47,882
Gold . . .. 4086 oz. 10,586
Cotton . . . . 83 tons 2,551
Hemp . . . . 166 tips 6,361
Tro< bus shell .. 56 tons 2,535
Pearls . . . . 202 carats 1,000
Becbe-de-mer . . 7| tons 1,224
Sandalwood .. 5 tons 250
Gum .. .. 8 tons 162
Total exports for the quarter, £191,707. Im-
ports totalled £lOO 403. In the foregoing
list Papua shows what it can do in mining,
agriculture and.fisheries, not to mention the
sandalwood and gum from its forests. . An
encouraging position, but wdtli competition
in overseas shipping and a reduction in, ex-
port freights, the list would show several
other items, among them mangrove bark,
canes, maize and sugar.
» * # •
“Overseer”: The stage thunder of Senator
Hennessey, of Massachusetts, U.S.A., in
filing a bill seeking reprisals against Britain
for the alleged financial hardships imposed
on American rubber-users through restric-
tion, will not be taken seriously in Malaya,
where the bulk of the world’s supply comes
from. Restriction, owing to the high prices
ruling, has already been practically re-
moved, and any future shortage will be due
not to any efforts of the growers to starve
the market, but to the fact that there is a
shortage of coolie to do the tapping. Most
of Malaya’s labor comes from China, and
wfith the best will in the world the planters
could not meet the extraordinary demand for
some time to come. In any case, the British
industry will heave a sigh of relief wdien the
restriction scheme is finally abolished. Re-
striction produced a lot of unpleasantness
between the small grower and the big, and
the determinetion of the natives not to
submit has filled the gaols of Malaya with
smugglers. The one thing that stands out
from the much-discussod scheme is that
Malayan estates have tided over a period of
bat} prices without disaster, that the trees
are healthier than ever, and that the planta-
tions are now in good condition to expand.


Sss
L
m
! ' j*
//
✓ /
The Wor Id's Fastest Selling High-Powered Car
Sludehaker Big Six 7 Passenger
Duplex-Phaeton
127 m, W. 8,, 75h 9 p, from £685,
Studebaker Alone
offers One-Profit Unit-Built
Values in the fine car field
In the fine car field, no car can success-
fully compare, point by point, with
Studebaker, because —
Of all fine cars made in America, only
Studebaker is built complete by one
company. Ford enjoys this same ad-
vantage in the low-priced field.
Studebaker is a One - Profit car because
Studebaker makes all its own bodies, en-
gines, clutches, gear boxes, differentials,
springs, axles, steering gears, gray iron
castings and drop forgings in its own great
factories, Other manufacturers, buying
bodies and parts from outside suppliers,
have to include the profits of these out-
side makers in their prices, yet nothing
is added to their cars in quality or value.
With One-Profit manufacture, there is
also the advantage of Unit-Built Con-
straction. Each part is designed, en-
gineered and manufactured so that it co-
ordinates perfectly with all other parts.
This explains the greater endurance, the
longer life of Studebaker cars. Stude«
bakers are breaking in when other cars
are breaking up.
Studebakers ‘ *No- Yearly-Models" policy
stabilizes the value of Studebaker cars,
safeguarding them against artificial de-
preciation.
The Big Six Duplex=Phaeton (illustrated)
is the fastest selling high -powered open
car in the world, No car offers higher
quality, Only seven American cars pos-
sess greater rated horsepower, according
to Royal Automobile Club and Society of
Automotive Engineers statistics, but
they sell for from two to four times its price.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors » 5
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD,, 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROTHERS, 396=400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY-, (Q) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street. Perth
DUNCAN AND FRASER LTD,, 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, Ltd., Hobart
Adams, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
KB-70*
®|fl
STUD E BAKER
BUILDERS
years
7 3
OF QUALITY VEHICLES
FOR


Five New Patented Features
a
fiim
\b^‘
9^V
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully.
SECURITY
Cheque Protector
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Prices —including tube acid-proof ink—
Gent.’s, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ladies’, SO/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Registered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib preferred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
I J
Cuticura
Preparations
Unexcelled in purity, they are
regarded by millions as unrivaled
in the promotion of skin and hair
health. The purifying, antiseptic,
pore-cleansing properties of Cuti-
cura Soap invigorate and preserve
the skin; the Ointment soothes and
helps to heal rashes and eruptions.
The freely-lathering Shaving Stick
causes no irritation but leaves the
skin fresh and smooth. The Talcum
is fragrant and refreshing.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modem Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO, 5 Est 1853
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£lO,OOO IN PRIZES.
The Biggest thing ever attempted in
Australia.
The NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES ART
UNION on behalf of the Hospitals and Charities of
the State. Sanctioned by the Attorney-General.
TICKETS ONE SHILLING.
First Prize, Fiat Motor Car valued at £l3OO ;
second, car £1210; third, car £935; and 156 other
prizes ranging in value from £795 to £5, valued
in all at £lO,OOO.
24 TICKETS FOR £l.
Two or more tickets—result slip forwarded.
Address applications to Hon. Secretary N.S.W.
FIRE BRIGADES ART UNION, Circular Quay, Sydney.
Write plainly. State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
FORTUNE FOR A 808.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secuied separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
xcv
As long ago as 1893 C.A.V*s were making accumu-
lators, and since that day their productions
have become world famous. The latest
C.A.V Batteries DRY CHARGED
ready for immediate service
Sole Agents for Australasia:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD
284 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C-A-Vandervell 5.0;^
london.w. 3.
a
0
&
/
JZ
Sfc
Ss
x***'
•*& >4
Ohe Major
\A
W/^~
Every month
the demand grows
|HE smoking public grows more and more enthusb
astic over the UNEQUALLED VALUE of
ARMY CLUB cigarettes—more and more appre-
ciative of their quality and packing —of their unrivalled
all round excellence and purity. ARMY CLUBS were
inspired by a desire to meet the demand for a cigarette at
a reasonable price with qualities that hitherto belonged
exclusively to high priced cigarettes.
The phenomenal sales indicate that ARMY CLUB cigarettes
have more than satisfied the craving for a better cigarette.
Army Club
CIGARETTES
10 for 9d.
50 for 3/9
20 for 1 /6
100/or 7/6
CAVANDERS Etd,
Est. 1775
Pioneers
of Hygiei
iic Cigarette
“ELK.”: Brief names? A smallgoodsman
in Woolcott-street, Darlinghurst (Sydney),
gets himself into three letters —D. Re.
“Verri” : My contribution to the numeral-
name argument (B. 3/12/’25) is Twelves,
borne by a family of Greek origin in Maon-
land.
“Chancery Lane”: In a Melbourne divorce
case recently, the petitioner’s affidavit, get-
ting nearer the truth than it thought,
recorded that “the mirage took place in
1918.”
One of the oldest tombstones in the
cemetery at Echuca. (Vic.) bears the name
of Henry Curwen Wordsworth; he was a
son of the Rev. John and a grandson ot
poet William.
“T.R.IL”: There is an older imported
church than the couple of iron ones in Vic-
toria which were brought from the old coun-
try in sections (B. 17/12/’25). This is the
tin tabernacle in use as a place of worship,
concert hall and dormitory at the Rookwood
State Hospital, Lidcombe, near Sydney.
Robert Wall, of Wall and Sons, Sydney,
claims to be the world’s oldest living builder,
lie is 88, has been building in Sydney for
over 40 years, and still takes a keen interest
in his firm’s business. Culwulla Chambers,
Usher’s, Dalgety’s and the Government
Savings Bank (Moore-street) are some of his
Sydney monuments.
P. Keenan, an old Hawthorn (Vic.) resi-
dent, sticks manfully to a quaint custom he
lias followed for more than 30 years. As
the Town Hall clock strikes the last hour of
the old year he stands at a street corner—
always the same corner —and strikes up
“The Holy City.”
T. E. Meek, sec. of Vic. Treasury (£lOOO
a year), will get £250 additional for the first
year and £l5O for the next four years for
acting as chairman of the new Superannua-
tion Board. The other three members,
Laughton, McDonald and Richardson, will
(iraw £2OO a year each for 1926 and £lOO for
the four succeeding years.
“Stellsby” : Melbourne taxis are assuming
all the colors of the rainbow. During the
hearing of a police-court case featuring a
brawl between two rival drivers of the Yellow
•and Black-and-White companies a witness
was asked what lot he belonged to. “Oh,
I’m a Brown-and-Black man,” he replied;
“but a Red-Top bloke saw the scrap, too.”
Died lately in his native Germany
Michael Balling, the Wagnerian conductor
who in 1911 succeeded the famous Dr. Ilaus
Richter as leader of the Halle Orchestral
Society, and held the job until the war. The
end found him editing a complete edition of
Wagner’s works. For many years he lived
in Maoriland, and in the ’nineties ran a
musical academy there.
“P. 8.”: At our court the other day when
an assault case was in progress the S.M.
interrupted the Police Prosecutor. “There
is'one thing you haven’t asked the witness,”
he said, “and it is most important that it
should go into the records.” Then (turning
to the witness) ; “Did you or did you not
give him permission to strike you with that
paling?” For general information he added :
“You may think it funny, but it is essential
to prove the assault illegal.”
“Mevagissey”: Perhaps the most remark-
able voyage ever made to Australia was that
of the Newlyn, Cornish “pilchard driver,”
commanded by John Hocking, which arrived
at Melbourne in 1846. She was a half-
decked boat about 30 feet long. On the pas-
sage across from the Cape she had to lie at
a sea-anchor for several days in a heavy
westerly gale, but otherwise had no trouble.
Hocking actually brought mails from Cape
Town to Melbourne in the tiny craft.
Martin Carrick, who as permanent batman
to Sydney’s Lord Mayor indites those realis-
tic reports about the Artists’ Ball and similar
orgies, recently celebrated the 38th anniver-
sary of his first appointment. He entered
the S.M.C. when the pay-sheet contained a
mere 60 names—it has over 8000 to-day. His
first job was connected with the regulation
of the thin stream of traffic that then dribbled
through the city streets. Handed his pre-
sent post when A. J. Riley was Mayor
(Lord Mayors didn’t arrive until 1902), he
has served under 22 heads and 6 town clerks.
In 1922 George Taylor submitted a pro-
posal to the Town-Planning Association (Syd-
ney) for marking the completion in 1930 of
the greatest arch-bridge in the world by hold-
ing a world exhibition. The suggestion was
adopted, and preliminary steps were taken
to put it into effect. Mr. Dash, the organiser
of Commonwealth loans, has now come for-
ward with a somewhat similar proposal,
being apparently unaware of its predecessor,
and has fixed the event for 1929 —that is,
a year prior to the completion of the bridge.
Steps are now being taken to unify the pro-
posals.
“ILK.”: On Christmas Eve 87 years ago
there arrived in Sydney from Ireland five
Sisters of Charity, two of whom had studied
hospital work in Europe. For some years
the little band toiled among the women at
Parramatta; in 1857 they were installed in
a building at Darlinghurst which subse-
quently became St. Vincent’s Hospital. After
the original institution had been converted
into a school, the present St. Vincent’s was
opened in 1870 and enlarged in 1886; further
additions were made only recently. During
the year of its establishment St. Vincent’s
had 13 in-patients and 81 out-patients.
During the just-concluded 12 months over
4000 in-patients and approximately 50,000
out-patients were treated.
“B.B.”: Tenders have just been called
for the roofing of St. Mary’s Cathedral, Syd-
ney. Apropos, the following advertisement
appeared in the Sydney Gazette, April 21,
1821: —
Wanted an allotment of ground in Sydney as a
site for a Roman Catholic Chapel. Any written
proposal which shall describe the most eligible situa-
tion, and mention reasonable terms, will be received
and immediately attended to by William Davis,
Charlotte-place, Sydney. The extent of allotment
required must be at least 120 ft. by 90ft.
Archbishop Kelly’s appeal for £50,000 for
towers and spires is the final effort in a
century’s endeavor to complete the first R. C.
Church in Australia. When finished, St.
Mary’s will be the largest cathedral in the
southern hemisphere and the finest example
of Gothic architecture.


__ Shipping, ___
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
OKAMA 20,000
ORONSAY 20.000
OTRANTO ... 20,000
ORMONDE ... 14,850
ORMUZ
OKVIETO ...
OSTERUEY ..
ORSOVA
Tons.
14.588
12.133
12.129
12,041
REGULAR SAILINGS.
First Saloon and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra- “Ventura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
S1 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA —Every Saturday, 9 p.m. ; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday, 10 p.m. ;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggi-gate Assets at 30th June, 1925.. £15.395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, O.B.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Ztaland. and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS
on A list ml in, Few Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Kosciusko
Concession Ticket.
Available Ist September to
30th June.
First-class
Return Rail.
Return Motor.
Cooma-
Kosciusko
(50 miles).
3 M Days’
Accommodation
at Hotel
Kosciusko.
With One Day at
Canberra,
£9/18/6.
■lnin
BOOK AT
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney,
Shipping, &e.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA ....... 18,600 tons disp. JAN. 14, for Vancouver.
MAKURA ..... 13,000 „ „ JAN. 28, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI .... 22,000 ~ ~ FEB. 11, for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 ~ ~ FEB. 25, for San Francisco.
‘•Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
ill
, m .
/ |,*»sf' i -
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTKKCIIANGEAISJLE FOR RETURN
15V OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
-xx
\ m\
-S
fcwßfci'
V
-
PASSAGES TO ALL PARTS
OF THE WORLD.
®teamer tickets issued to—
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
JAPAN
CHINA
INDIA
JAVA, BURMA
BY ANY ROUTE.
ALL STEAMSHIP LINES
AND IN ALL CLASSES.
No extra charge.
TRAVEL to JAVA (The Garden of the East.) and _SINGAPORE
by the popular steamers MARELLA and MON TORO, monthly
sailings from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Round Eastern and Around the World Tours arranged.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland and Wellington, N.Z.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
NESTOR
ULYSSES
®NEAS
Tons.
. 14,500
. 14.500
. 10,000
Tons.
10,000
10,000
ANCIIISES ..
ASCANIUS ..
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O'Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
xcv
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCUES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
12,500 tons
* DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1317.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
■nifejjsflaa
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors; A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. ? en Z al M * ria « e !\ : OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E C. 2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. , ,
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foieign Bills negotiated
and collected, Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS.
Brisbane, Maekay Townsville and Cairns (tran-
shipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg
and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
Huddarf ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIST PARKER LIMITED,
Co lins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug anti Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilaekheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern &' Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Be wen.
11H OS. COOK AND SON,
I RAILWAY AND STEAMSHIP AGENTS.
IS4I. Established 1841.
150 Offices Throughout the World, 150.
PASSAGE TICKETS ISSUED BY ALL LINES
AT TARIFF RATES.
Sailing Lists, ALL ROUTES, Post Free.
Passengers’ Baggage Insured.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
CONDUCTED TOURS IN EUROPE.
Leaving Sydney March 10 .... £325 0
Leaving Sydney March 17 .... 220 0
Leaving Sydney March 31 .... 445 10
Leaving Sydney April 14 615 0
0
0
0
0
PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
THOS. COOK AND SON,
Challis House, Sydney. 8W6348.
Also at Melbourne, Auckland and Wellington.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances V‘ 1 ’ e .?*: d °n an classes of
- Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ” p n W °°j> Merchandise,
. Hulls of \essels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” in an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
.jmst!'s%, Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
lolicies of over .. .. .. £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds £55,800.000
Annual Income £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W< APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


t,
r-
<£s>■
Wjf
SI 3
-as-
X-sV
:
fi
u
I
Ki
G. VERN BARN ETT
"Responsive action and sympa-
thetic quality of tone . . . charac-
terise the New Beale Piano.”
1 m?
.
FRANK HUTCHENS
"The New Beale Piano .... you
have every reason to be pro'ud of
such perfection."
mm
HENRY PENN
the New Beale Piano
rarely have I felt so well pleased
with an instrument.”
ANDRE SKALSKI
"I find the tone of the New Beale
piano rich and full and of striking
volume,”
TOS OF
as^RS
TpHE latest distinguished user of the Beale
JL Piano is Her Majesty Queen Mary, who re-
cently purchased at Wembley Exhibition a Beale
Piano for Buckingham Palace. In a letter to the
London representative of Beale 5C Company, the
Queen’s treasurer stated :
"Her Majesty is much pleased with the tone of
the instrument, and greatly admires the work-
manship of the beautiful case.”
The excellence of the Queen’s judgment in pur-
chasing a Beale Piano is confirmed on every hand.
Not only has the N.S.W. Conservatorium —-
our highest musical authority—bought 19 Beale
Pianos ; not alone are they largely used by prin-
cipal colleges, but they are chosen by eminent
pianists as the finest medium for the expression
of their genius.
The New Be ile will respond fully to every artistic and mech-
anical demmd. Its remarkable tone—in point of delicacy or
volume is a stimulation to the player as it is to the hearer.
Over 60,000 Beale Pianos are now in use.
Beale Pianos and Player-Pianos are encased in genuine rose-
wood, walnut and oak. Special rare timbers, such as sycamore
and satinwood, to order.
Sold on a liberal extended payment plan; used pianos accep-
ted in partial exchange.
Descriptive literature post f ree on request.
BEALE e- company
Showrooms:
G EOFLGE ST.
SYDNEY.
iIMI T E O
f Head Office JL Factories:
41*47 TRAFALGAR, ST,
AN NAN DALE.
B RAN CUES: New South Walts: Bathurst, Lismore,Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria :
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launces-
ton. South Australia : Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd,
Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE S’ COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90 Queen Street (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns,
LINDLEY EVANS
"The tone-quality of the New
Beale Piano is excellent and un-
surpassed by pianos of foreign
origin.”
m
u
E. BENNETT NORTH
"For cone, touch and finish I con.
sider the New Beale Piano un«
equalled.”
HENRI STAELL
"I hope I shall always have the in.
spiration. of a piano as good as
the New Beale.”
m
mm
WILFRED ARLOM
"The delicacy and control of tonal
gradation so easily obtainable on
the New Beale Piano .... make it
always a pleasure to play on V< v tf
instrument.”
Smif'h £/Ju(ius
studios


Be Pretty!
Be Dainty!
Be Attractive!
Be a
Rexona
Girl!
S 3
Ms
3
%!w<cr^
w*®.
i
v*y///}m
■XXft-Z&J//
mmm<
mmmw"
wPiCT
hm?
I*
'-’iry/
MX
cQ
jgfC
mmmm
til t,m
N>
/■C.3
umßmmf
Ov.i
H i iTfm
m
Intel
7$
Miss RUTH
CLIFFORD,
a Beautiful
Rexona Girl
appearing in
“The Torna-
do,” a Uni-
versal Jewel
Pro duction,
to be released
shortly.
A Noted Universal Star
says “ Rexona Soap is
the Best Ever.”
Miss Ruth Clifford, the perfect blonde, who, with the title of M.P. Star,
attributes her remarkably fair skin to the use of proper soap. “What soap
do you use?” was asked by envious fellow-workers. At a recent Fashion
Show, at which Miss Ruth Clifford participated, the secret leaked out when
a cake of Rexona Soap was discovered to
be a most important part of her equipment
in removing make-up. “It’s the best ever,”
says Miss Ruth. This beautiful Movie Star
is "small, very fair, and possesses
wonderful big blue eyes. Her
complexion is perfect, and she is
considered one of the most beauti-
ful of all Bathing Beauties.
Rexona Soap
for Health and
Beauty
85
mm
c. 0%
C.^
. •• •
o^-
1/-
tteisTtui*
tltot MAUI!
Guaranteed.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
fiWßlSropjje^
- e * GL **i 0 'Si
2*l •
Rustless and Stainless
TASLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVER3HEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable Never reauires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Raker & Longhmst
60 York Street. Sydney
The “Fx i r
Watch
From the north-west of N.S.W.
the owner writes :
‘‘Dear Sirs, —•
“You may not believe me, but the
enclosed watch which I am sending
you for repairs I purchased from you
over 20 years ago.
“The watch in question, I consider,
breaks a record, for it has had
nothing but hard, rough wear and
hundreds of falls, and this is the
first time 1 have sent it away for
repairs. I kept getting .glasses put
on it until about 9 years ago, and
since then it has had no glass, only
earned about in a case.
“On winding it up last Saturday I
felt the soring go, and you will notice
the small hand, from old age, has
rusted to pieces. 1 will ■be glad if
you wil.l let me know' if it is still
worth retaining, and what the cost
will be, and 1 can remit the amount
by return mail.
“In knocking about the bush I am
last without it.”
Here’s a fine tribute to
“FX & R” Watch, 15-jewelled
lever
In Oxidised Steel Case .... 66 / -
In Sterling Silver Case.. 84/-
The original letter can be seen in our showrooms. The only necessary work
be done to the watch was new main spring, cleaning, new hand and glass.
plain figures, cash only.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
25 &£5 Hunter Street Sydney
Chant Royal of the Men Who
Dreamed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BROTHERS, to no high note our chant
• is keyed,
Nor yet can resignation fit our
theme;
We are of life’s illusions long since freed
And joy not much, nor grieve, for no
extreme
Of passion or of purpose we demand.
Our peaks are passed, our gulfs are over-
spanned ;
To circumstance we give our ready yea.
If chance be fate, ’tis chance that we obey,
And neither good nor ill may now accrue
Where gain or loss are equal, come what
may;
For life’s a dream that never yet came true.
Of loss and gain each one has had his meed,
Who now is half-way journeyed down the
stream
To where the dark makes jest of every deed
And where alone vast silence is supreme.
With us all claim to mastery is banned;
Our chant is of acceptance, not command—
And yet not servile—nor do we inveigh
Against our doom, but rather do we say :
“If life’s a riddle we have found the clue
Where time no more shall front us nor
affray;
For life’s a dream that never yet came
true.”
Our barren garths were sown with sterile
seed;
A writ of ruin outran every scheme.
Before us dancing, always to mislead,
Was hope, a Jack-o’-lanthorn light agleam
To lure us on past hail or help of hand,
Where never more our feet found firmer
land,
And then went out, when we had gone astray.
And some are left and lost in yesterday,
Crying on wraiths that hear not when they
sue.
One word they cry that echoes back as
“Nay!”—
For life’s a dream that never yet came true,
Vistas of dust and might-have-beens decreed
Youth may not know, nor yet that time
shall seem
Substantial only while youth’s visions breed
Their splendor flimsy. Age may only
dream
Time’s past mirage and dimly understand
The while youth sees fulfilment as ’tis
planned, t .
Nor marks how time’s foundation slips away
Beneath the cloud-built domes of shadow-
play.
Yet age may see but ruin wrought for rue—
The withered bloom already on the spray—
For life's a dream that never yet came true,
The world of farce and fantasy we heed
No more ; we are not of it, we who deem,
In courage of our unsuccess agreed,
That nought but calm is worth our small
esteem.
We learned, as each receding year we
scanned.
That all our marks were made in sliding
sand ;
Yet no regret shall make these moments
grey.
We pity not ourselves, nor weep, nor pray.
One truth alone must every heart imbue —
Our gain and loss an even balance weigh.
For life’s a dream that never yet eatme true !
L’Envoy.
Brothers, in life's illusion, though we stay
Awhile to come, hope shall no more betray
And time no more shall cheat ns of our
due.
’Tis all phantasma—all that feels decay —
For life’s a dream that never yet. came true!
MAORILAND.
DICK HARRIS.
The Twin-bed Dialogues.
THE END OF ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
sighed Babette from the aloof-
| ness of her own twin-bed, “all the
romance of life seems to be peter-
ing out. When I was a girl, before I mar-
ried you, dearest, all the world was full of
romance. It was waiting for me on the
street at every corner; every man I met was
a being full of mystery and excitement;
every dance had its moments of adventure.
•And I lightly passed it by, hardly caring.
But now—here I am in my little bed, and
there you are in yours, and we’re boresomely
married, with two children growing up with
a frightful rapidity, and we’ve settled down
to a kind of pleasant dulness. You know,
old dear, anybody who knows you as well
as I do couldn’t possibly regard you as
romantic. I’ve never heard of any wife who
thought her husband romantic ;t and I some-
times forget whether I’ve kissed you good-
night or not.”
I reminded her, though it certainly took an
effort to remember.
“All the chances I missed!” Babette
sighed again. “And now that I really need
some romance in my dull life I can’t find it.”
I mentioned some of the strictly decorous
affairs that Babette had had with strange
men—at least, I hoped they had been as
strictly decorous as she had told me—but
Babette pooh-poohed them.
“Yes, but I am still, I fancy, an attractive
woman,” she complained; “yet somehow
nowadays men seem afraid of me. Of course,
they know I’m happily married, hopelessly
married; but they’re frightened of me. Oh,
no, dearest, they are not afraid of you. It’s
something in me that puts them off. I’m
sure I don’t know what it is; but 1 often
feel, just when I’m getting along nicely with
them, that they shy off and become merely
polite. Why, nobody has asked me to elope
with him for the last three months. Of
course, I wouldn’t go-; but it would have
been a compliment to me, wouJdri’t it? I
don’t count men who drive me i home from
a dance in their cars. What else could the
poor chaps do? No; I’m afraid they merely
suggest such delightful possibilities out of
mere politeness. You must talk about some-
thing when you’re alone in a car with a nice
man. And even when they’re fiercely silent,
and pay the attention to their driving that
they should be paying to me, I can’t pretend
that their feelings are too deep for words,
and that stern attention to the carburetter,
or whatever it is, is due to the wicked
thoughts in their excited brains. No ; they
are dreadfully polite, and never, never exceed
the speed-limit! If only one of them would !
“I’ve seen them at a jazz making fierce
love to some sweet young thing that looked
as innocent as a baby, though I’m sure she
wasn’t. But they’re scared of me. I must
have a danger-signal somewhere about me.
“I’m sure it can’t be you, old dear. There’s
nothing of the jealous husband with a stiletto
and a gun about you. You look perfectly
tame. No; it’s not that. They’re not fright-
ened of you ; they’re not frightened of me —
they’re frightened of romance !
‘ When I’m dancing with a nice man who
admires me, and who has a jealous wife
somewhere at home, does he take advantage
of his chance by flirting w r ith me? No; he
keeps strictly on the polite path, and makes
conversation about my children. He puts
me deliberately back from a jazz-partner to a
mother of two. ‘Safety first,’ is his motto,
lie is so polite!”
“My dear,” I protested, “you don’t really
miss much. The other night at that private
little dance at the Biffs’, when you were
jazzing in the arms of that tall fellow with
the moustache and somebody switched out
all the lights in the ballroom, I bet lie got
a kiss or seven in the darkness. And. I
bet you considerately helped. Anyhow, I
know I did from that luscious little brunette
thing I -was dancing with—and she liked it.
Don’t tell me any man with red blood in his
veins would miss a chance like that!”
“Oh, that!” disdainfully murmured Bab-
ette. “What else could a gentleman do?
Anyway, I hate a moustache! And I noticed
tliat immediately after that dance his wife
insisted on taking him home. If he
had been a real man he wouldn’t have
gone. Scared! I really believe he was only
too glad to escane from me. No, thei-e’s no
romance left. It’s grown middle-aged. I’ve
only got you, old tiling.
“Of course, I’ve had my trip, dear. It
was nice of you to let me off the chain for
that fortnight in the Mountains.”
“Yes,” I reminded her. “And -when I
offered you that trip, with Mildred to keep
you company, you said, ‘Don’t be a fool,
dear!’ ”
“Well,” said Babette, “you weren’t a fool,
after all, letting Mildred and me stay on
our own at that hotel. But that wasn’t my
fault, was it? I really meant to have a good
time —so that you wouldn’t be disappointed;
but the money was really wasted. I’ve told
you how horribly dull it was, how perfectly
polite the men were that I met, and how
nicely they looked after my reputation.
There’s no romance in the Mountains. I
might as well have stayed comfortably at
home!”
It wms only after a long pause that Bab-
ette resumed. “I told you about Eric, didn’t
I ?”
“You mentioned somebody of that absurd
name, dear,” I replied. “He danced nicely,
didn’t he? And told you you looked stun-
ning in your new sleeveless dress, and
admired your vaccination-marks. That’s
about all about him, wasn’t it?”
“Urn—yes !” murmured Babette. “He was
quite keen, but was too polite to make any
discrimination between me and Mildred.
Danced with each of us in turn, and doubt-
less said the same things to each of us. Nice
things, too. And when dear Mildred had
to hurry back to her home at an hour’s
notice —there was really nothing much the
matter with her youngest, though, of course,
she wouldn’t stay—l thought that, being
by myself, something might develop be-
tween Eric and lonely little me. But he was
much too honorable to compromise me by
dancing with me all night. As if you could
compromise a respectably married woman!
Even when we sat out in the moonlight—
well, he needn’t have chosen the moonlight,
need he? There I was, in my most melting
mood ; and there lie was. a foot away, talk-
ing scenery. Insulting. I call it! And then
lie became solicitous about my catching cold,
and hurried me back to get me an ice. I
thought of you, dear, spending all that money
to give me a good time; and there I was
wasting hours and hours of it. It didn’t
seem fair to you. No, it wasn’t that he was
married; it never seems to matter whether
they are or not. And any wife feels safer
with a married man. And wdien we said
good-night—well, we just said good-night!
“Next morning I heard that he had gone
back to town, but was returning in a day
or so. And there was nothing else on the
horizon for me. Every man seemed hope-
lessly married; and they were obviously
scared of a lonely female. I told you, didn’t
I, that, after Mildred had fled, they moved
me into a different room? Kind of them,
I’m sure; but the manageress thought I
mightn’t like sleeping, now that I was by
myself, in a room so far away from the. lift.
They changed my key and shifted my things.
As I was going aw r ay early next morning, I
packed up everything except what I wanted
for the night, which I had in my attache-
case. I hate leaving my things about.
“Well, it wms only a little flutter that I
had that evening; there was a new man,
rather nice; and it wms auite late before I
went up to my room. I thought of you,
dear. There were tw-o lights in the room,
one at the far end in front of the mirror
and the other over the big bed, for reading
by. I didn’t trouble to turn on that light,
as I was too tired to read in bed. So I
slipped off my frock with a sigh; it wasn’t
even crushed. Of course, I had a long look
at myself before I took it off. I wondered
if the mountain air .had made me put on we : ght.
I couldn’t see any signs. Then I took off
my slip, and had another good look in the
mirror. I always think that in just my
underthings I look quite attractive; and I
remember wishing, just for a moment, that
somebody might see me like that. Oh. just
a discreet glance, of course! You always
tell me that with those few things on I’m
more exciting than when. I have less. If yon
hadn’t told me that I would never hjave
known. Anyhow, I have nice legs; and I
(Continued on next page.)


ft
fit
SSI
/
v mt
vytf,
' .u
m
/x,
■2T
5T
s'
//,
Wa
ff
y
A HOLIDAY NEED
E 7 E out of doors —work or play—is sure
to bring accidents and irritating skin
conditions such as burns, cuts, bruises,
sprains, sunburn, insect bites, blisters, etc.
Prompt treatment of the right sort for
these troubles saves pain, worry and
expense, not to mention danger to life and
limb.
There is nothing so often in demand on
holidays and in the home —especially
where there are children —as a safe all-
round healing balm. Not a fatty salve
that has gone rancid and lost its potency
by the time it is wanted, but a pure, sooth-
ing, antiseptic healer well and carefully
made. Such is Zam-Buk, a preparation
that is always safe and dependable and
innocent both of pore-choking animal fats
and coarse mineral drugs.
ALWAYS KEEP HANDY A BOX OF ZAM-BUK
Zam-Buk soon takes out the fire of
bad places —it soothes and relieves smart-
ing pain and itching—it allays inflamma-
tion and swelling in its own irresistible
way. After having drawn out all impurity
Zam-Buk actually stimulates Nature to
grow new healthy skin.
The absolute dependability of Zam-
Buk, its ever-ready character, and its
power to heal quickly and cleanly—that is
what makes this famous balm indispens-
able at home—at work—and at play.
WHY NOT TEST ZAM=BUK FREE !
The proprietors of Zam-Buk have such confidence m their unique
preparation that they invite every Bulletin reader to make a tree
test Simply send request to C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., Sydney.
Mention this paper, and a trial sample will be sent to you by return
free and post paid.
4
1/6 per box and 3/6 family sine—all chemistsand stores.
could not help sitting down and feeling the
smoothness of my Milanese stockings.
“Well, I hated taking all those pretty
things off, so I took my time. There was
no reason for hurry. And when I'd got
everything off I picked up my nightie
from my attache-case —and found that it
Avasn’t my nightie. Awkward, wasn’t it,
Avhen I Avas like that? I had put in the
wrong things, and I stood there Avondering
which of my suitcases I had put the
honeymoon nightie in. I tried to open one
of them, but it wouldn’t open. And when I
looked at it I made a dreadful discovery.
It Avasn’t mine!
“They had put the wrong luggage into, my
new 7 room. I hurriedly looked at the other
suitcases ; they Averen’t mine, either ! Dread-
ful, wasn’t it? Well, there w 7 as nothing for
me to do then but to Avash myself and do
my hair and brush my teeth in the bath-
room and slip into bed. I felt horribly
uncomfortable wandering about in that state,
but I said to myself that even in my evening
frock there was a good deal of me on view.”
I made an expostulatory murmur.
“No,” said Babette, “I couldn’t ring the
bell, because there was only the night porter
up at that hour; and I didn’t fancy myself
whispering through the keyhole, explaining
things, if they could be explained, to a male
person on the other side. And I was begin-
ning to get quite shivery all over. I don’t
know whether it Avas the awful feeling of
being just my own self, or whether the
mountain air was cold. There was nothing
for it but to cover myself up under the blan-
kets of the big bed under the mosquito-cur-
tains. So I switched off the light over the
dressing-table and groped across the room
in the dark.”
“Well,” I murmured, “that’s all right; and
now, if you don’t mind, dearest, I'll get to
sleep.”
“Oh,” said Babette from her twin-bed,
“that’s only the beginning! Fancy, dear!
There was somebody asleep in that big bed!
A man!
“I hadn’t crept into bed. as I do when you’re
asleep and I come home late. I had jumped
into that bed. Now, do you imagine any
ordinary man not feeling the disturbance
when a woman of ten-stone weight flops into
bed, thinking that all the goblins are after
her in the dark? The man was too suspi-
ciously asleep. Of course, thinking it over,
I can’t be too sure; but I am conA 7 inced that
he was wide awake and shamming sleep
hard. The brute! I am as sure of that as
I am that I am lying here.
“So he was wide awake,” Babette con-
tinued. “But the awful question that I
think about is how long the brute was
aAvake!
“No,” Babette went on after a pause, “if
he was awake at all, he must have been
awake for quite a time. And to
think I stood there pirouetting before
that brute’s eyes makes me blush even now.
llow horribly mean of him! He could easily
have coughed or something, but he lay there
Avaiting for revelations!”
“But what did you do?” I angrily asked.
“What else could I do, dearest? Very
gingerly I edged away from him —oh ; I
Avas very, very careful not to disturb him;
and at last, without a stir from him. I
slipped out of bed. Then I tiptoed away
in the dark, gathered up my things, put my
evening frock over me anyhow, snatched up
my little attache-case, sneaked out of the
door, and fled along the corridor to my oAvn
room. I had forgotten to give up my old
key; it was in my purse in the case; so I
unlocked the door, and found the room empty.
I don’t know what I would have done in that
absurd rig if there had been another man
in that bed! And there were my suitcases
still in the room. I got out my forgotten
nightie and put it on and hurried into bed.
But I didn’t sleep much —and, oh, how I
wanted you to be there!”
I sighed my relief at Babette’s tragic reci-
tal. “And in the morning?” I asked.
“Oh, that Avas all right, dear,” said Bab-
ette. “I explained to the maid that I’d gone
to the other room they had given me, but
as I had found the door locked I had come
back to my old room. But when I took out
my things from the attache-case, there were
some of my garments missing. I had left them
in that man’s room ! I wondered what he’d
do with them! And what the brute would
think! Well, I decided, he could keep them;
I wasn’t going to claim them.
“Well,” she went on, “do you know what
happened? After breakfast—l was up early
and nobody else was down—l was finishing
packing up when the maid came in with a
neat little browi paper parcel, addressed to
me. I knoAv at once what it was; but how
did he know my name?
“That settled it,” Babette decided. “I
thought I recognised the man in the bed.
It was Eric!”
“Did you see your Eric again?” I asked.
“Oil, yes,” sighed Babette. “He came up
to me quite casually, and hoped I would
have a nice journey home. Not a sign of any
recollection of that awful night! Not a
quiA'er! Not a regret! Not a blush at
having so neatly folded them up!”
Babette was indeed indignant. “It’s what
I’ve always said,” she went on ; “men nowa-
days have forgotten romance. We perfectly
respectable wives give them every opportu-
nity and they don’t take advantage of them.”
“But, my dear,” I protested, “what on
earth could the poor man do?”
“Why, he could do almost anything, James !
He could have turned sleepily over, as if he
had mistaken me for his wife, and put his
arm around me. He could have started up
in a pretended fright and said in a thrilling
a nice. ‘My God!’. and kissed me good and
hard. He could have explored the strange
person in his bed Avith a gingerly toe, and
Avhen he found me nice and soft he could
have said, ‘That you. wifey? You’re dread-
fully late. Had a good time, old girl?’ I
s'pose Eric has a wife, anyhow.
“Of course,” Babette reluctantly con-
tinued. “I would have indignantly protested,
rid all that sort of thing, and fiercely ex-
plained how I’d got into that bed;
and he would redden and turn away, and
burying his face in, the pillow he would let
me escape; or else he would spring like a
startled fawn in pyjamas from the bedclothes
and rush from the room, to sit all night in
the bathroom, and take the first train home
next morning, and cut me when ho met me
in the street afterwards. In the old days
when a man rescued a damsel from the
dragon he didn’t just raise his tin hat and
leave the- poor girl sorry that she had eloped
from the dragon. A dragon is better than
nothing.”
Babette was near to tears of vexation. I
went across the room jmd found her weep-
ing. Poor thing! I tried to comfort her;
but it w T as no use. “1 must be getting
middle-aged, old dear. I’m wasted in a world
of conventional politeness. And the insult!”
she angrily sniffed.
“But,” I comforted the poor girl, “he didn't
insult you,, after all.”
“No-o-o-o,” she waveringly sobbed. “That
was the worst insult! I’d have slapped. his
face, of course, if he had —you know T that,
don’t you, dearest? —but at least any chival-
rous man would have given me the chance!”
JAME JAMES.
Fleurette.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE train gave a convulsive start and
came to a standstill again ; I turned
from the window where I was
searching the swarming platform for a last
glimpse of friends, picked up a suit-case that
had fallen over my feet and began adjusting
parcels. “This is luck,” I thought, taking
stock of the apartment. “Only one passen-
ger ; a whole side for Babs and me.” I turned
back to the window to watch the platform,
which was now being withdrawn from our
train as we glided out with imperceptible
movement. The passenger opposite was
kneeling at the window, her hand clasped
under the fingers of a young man, who ran
by the side of the carriage saying in a com-
forting voice: “Bear tip, dear, and take care
of yourself.” The slender black figure
drooped back into the corner, and not caring
to seem inquisitive I continued to look out
at the great magic jeweller’s window that is
Sydney at night.
Presently a soft voice made me turn, and
I looked into the pathetic face of my fellow-
traveller. Dark rings encircled forget-me-
not blue eyes, and drooping lips, red as a
waratah, accentuated the pallor of a perfect
little face. A gauzy black travelling-cap sub-
dued but did not hide a shingle of red-gold
curls.
“Do you mind if I put this hat up on
your rack?” she was saying. “There doesn’t
seem room on mine.” I glanced up at the
opposite side, which certainly was stacked
with luggage, books and magazines, and I
could glimpse a fine box of chocolates. “They
are so apt to come, down on one’s face at night,
aren’t they?” she said, referring to the ab-
surd little black hat I was trying to perch
on top of my suit-case. “And sometimes get
blown out of the window.” I took the hint,
and, pulling my own out of its snug corner,
carefully tucked the stranger in its place.
“Yes,” thought I, “here am I weakly
being bounced by this small person, and my
whole comfort will be spoilt just because
she is wearing black and an appealing ex-
pression.” I had had time to notice the
mourning, her only ornament a little ebony
comb slung on a sombre ribbon round her
throat. “Are you going right out to
Bourke?” I asked.
“Bourke?” she faltered. “Oh, no, I am
going to Mt. Victoria. And, oh, dear! I
do feel so lonely and helpless without my
husband.”
“You do look tired,” I said, now com-
pletely melted; “how about letting me tuck
you in until Katoomba?” As mine w r as the
comfier cushion 1 slipped it under her head,
undid her shoes and folded the rug neatly
in.
She looked up wnth grateful eyes. “Ah,
that was so like, my own mother,” she sighed.
“You have just lost, her, then?” I asked
gently, though really she Avas rather tactless,
considering I could easily have been her
elder sister.
“Oh no, mother lives in Manly,” she re-
plied.
Disposing of that possibility of her tragedy
I turned to fix up. my small daughter, who
had dropped off to sleep, her head on a bag
of apples, legs dangling in space. The train
whistled sharply, and, starting, _ she sat up
wide awake.
“Mummie! Mummie!”
“Yes, dear,” I said, “it’s nothing. Lie
down and Mummie will find your doggie.”
1 pulled out the Avoolly little toy Pom. and
put it in her arms, having found that a
never-failing comfort in times of stress. But
on the other scat, raised on her elbow T , the
little passenger was gazing at us with a
stricken face; then, collapsing, she sobbed
out: “Oh, this is too much, too much! So
like my own darling Fleurette!”
I stood horror-struck, and then I was
down on my knees by the little figure. “My
dear, my dear,” I said, “don’t, don’t grieve
so.” I felt like a monster of selfishness,
owning that chubby little being sleeping now
with her doggie clasped tightly; while this
tender young thing knew the greatest tragedy
of life.
I stroked and soothed until the convulsive
sobbing died away, and presently I noticed
the Avet lashes resting against her cheeks:
then I knew overwrought nature had had its
way and she slept, dreaming, no doubt, of that
precious little life so recently hers. I
watched over the sleepers, my heart warm
with my blessings and tender to all mourners.
The hours passed, and near Mt. Victoria
I roused the girl and was putting her rugs
into straps as the train steamed in.
It was cold, and a fine drizzle saddened
the night. “You are sure you’ll be all right?”
I inquired, holding the hand that' sought
mine.
“Yes,” she replied, “and, oh! you have
been so sweet to me I can never forget.”
She hesitated, and then, drawing something
from her bag, whispered: “It is her photo.,
taken just before”- , and not trusting her-
self to further words she thrust the packet
into my hand and slipped out of sight.
I sat for long enough, almost dreading lo
look; then, drawing a long breath, I turned
over the card, and there, on a great black
cushion, lay a little Pomeranian!
CHRIS CASTLE.


xcv
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—•
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
WEST. N. S. WALES.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
A THE"ATCCf
PETROL
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Sold in two sizes—l6-inch cutters, £7l; 22-incli cutters, £lO5 complete.
Printed matter supplied vrith pleasure on application.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
1 276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
17 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prt«e Medals.
xcv
Wortcai Qirming<hami England)
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of ft
•oft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
Remington. UMC
DUCK LOAD
Supplied only in Nitro Club Cases
lOADED SCIENTIFICALLY to get the highest
J velocity consistent with the best pattern, these
|7ca. LSgtßa
It .nimu' I AAf
DU OK LOAD
*=sm.
cartridges are “Wetproof”
throughout— top-wad, crimp
and body—positively sealed
against every cl im a tic change.
Next time you are going after
ducks, ask your dealer for a
box of DUCK LOAD cartridges
—give them a trial.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
E 24 G. P.0.80x 686 Melbourne, Viet.
WHY
Do women need
medicine more than men
xcvb
\.
They’re more highly
strung
Nerves more delicate
Bodily functions more
complicated
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Greatest Help
To Women
Tried, proved, trusted
Banish Biliousness
Relieve Indigestion
Remove Constipation
Clear Complexion
Promote Health
Beauty comes from
Health.
r
Sold In boxes
1/* and 2/6.
3fynttu Tiue~cificJi ulyiilg
™ E PLUM
km
xcv
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 b GEORGE ST
SYDNEV-
SAUCE
J
Host Holbrook Says-
“A* good brew of Worcester-
shire Sauce improves with
age. I mature my sauce in
huge vats before bottling.
Ah! It makes the whole
world hungry.”
For
all engines
in
all climates
under
all conditions
there is no sparking: plug: equal to a
LOOSE
The name LODGE on a sparking
plug is a definite guarantee of its
inherent high quality and efficiency.
Made in different models, and obtainable
from all accessory dealers, garages and
stores. State make of engine when buying.
Illustrated in standard model (Cl)
for nearly all engines screwed metriet
PRICE 5/6.
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
LODGE


xcvb
Patent applied for a
New Features
in
Storage Battery
Design.
JHIS new cell, Type D.8.G., has been
specially designed for use with small
Domestic Lighting Hants, of which
many types are now on the market.
It is extremely robust, and embodies many
new features, including:
LARGE MUD SPACE.
EASY INSPECTION.
SIMPLE ASSEMBLY.
HYDROMETER IN PILOT CELL
FOOLPROOF CONNECTIONS.
xcvb
ELECTRICAL STORAGE
COMPANY LIMITED
CLIFTON JUNCTION, NEAR MANCHESTER.
Further particulars obtainable from any of the undermentioned agents, or from E. H. SHARPE, IS Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Australian Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Edward
and Charles Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Rhdio Ho_: , 308-587 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 MafFra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Jlgents:
W. Crosher & Sons, Ltd., Edsons Building, Queen Street, Auckland. Watkinson & Kennett, 261-265 Tuam Street. Christchurch,
