

RESCHS
■3 :
DINNER ALE
m
sa
; r-
-e==3
3
s
7/
m
&
.
•'Hill I
HPBHHBH
t-rtmimirfmniurn-ii
a
%
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2408.
Thursday, April 8, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for our Library Catalogue and
vv lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
DYMOOK’S BOOK ARCADE,, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
V
z
C ? U ’S ferldsßestValue
in Underwear-
NO matter what make of
Underwear you are now
wearing, try one Wolsey
garment, and you will agree that
it is the cheapest in the end.
Wolsey is made in England, from
the best selected soft, pure wool. It
is strong and durable, yet comfort-
able to the end. It never shrinks
in wash or wear, and it keeps its
shape. If you want the very best
underwear the world produces,
try Wolsey 4 De Luxe,’ ‘Hardwear,*
or ‘ Fashioned/
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
/
TM
Ols£
If this Trade
Mark isn't on
the garment -
it isn’t
WOLJSEY.
Wolsey Pure Wool Hose for Men,
Women and Children , is just as
reliable as Wolsey Underwear , and
each pair is guaranteed unshrinkable.
Agent.
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
1C.F.H.1
1 POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes —is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
BOSTOCKS
* Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes —is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6 d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
(Jfc 3)4
Fivn\
7
*
MUSTDIE’kiim
FLIES
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
A Shelf of Translations
It is with mixed feelings that one runs a
linger along a shelf of translated books.
Many books that are being translated now
are excellently done: the standard has defi-
nitely risen. As w r e read them, we can “sit
at ease in Zion,” feeling sure of every phrase.
On the other hand, old bad translations of
earlier books are being reprinted freely in
standard editions. We feel that the level of
the books on the shelf has been determined
by nothing but dubious chance.
A really good translation soon makes it-
self evident as we read. It can be tested in
various ways. If I had no other person’s
guarantee for it, I should still know that
Scott-Moncrieif had succeeded marvellously
in his recent translation of Marcel Proust’s
immense series of novels —“Remembrance of
Things Past,” as the English version has it.
The way I know is this. I have not compared
the French version and the English, as I had
not the copies side by side. What I happened
to do was to read the first volume in Scott-
Moucrieff’s English. Then I read the second
volume in French. Looking back, I honestly
cannot feel any break between the French
and the English volumes. It is all sheer
Proust. The translator has been able to
carry Proust across the Channel, “those
perilous narrow seas,” without spilling a
drop of his most subtle essences. One re-
markable thing, too, is that Scott-Moncrieff
writes, so far as I can remember, every
word in English, without any of those easy
lapses into French phrases and italics that
arc sometimes supposed to make a book look
interesting and "foreign.” He seems to have
said, “Proust’s book was in unbroken French,
so my English version must be clean.” A
good old rule, a simple plan, yet one that
is rarely followed! This translator’s suc-
cess with the heavy-laden sentences and the
sub-intentions of Proust leads one to trust
in any such work that he may choose to
undertake, and it is interesting to hear that
he has just made a new translation of the
letters of Abelard and Heloise.
Very often, of course, one cannot test a
translation by access to the original. Usually
we use a translation precisely because we
cannot read the original. Even then, though,
we can soon find out if the translation we
are using is sound or not. Sometimes we be-
gin to read in perfectly good faith, when sud-
denly we become aware that for some time
we have been abominably uncomfortable. If
we are reading in a train, we think it wants
mending: if in a room, it wants airing. It
is something wrong with the book, of course.
The villainous translator has made even the
winged ease of Turgenev into something that
creaks and groans. We go on reading, all
the time with a but and an if; never quite
sure whether Turgenev meant his Mariana
to speak in that stiff way. or whether it
is the translator who has failed to render
her delicate firmness. Many, indeed, are
the translators who seem full of the con-
viction that “foreigners” are bound to talk
in a rum sort of a way, and so do not trouble
to make the conversation idiomatic and
natural. Sometimes there will even be a
footnote to some very heavy, dull phrase,
saying that what the person literally said
was such-and-such a racy proverb, quite clear
and appropriate—but expunged from the
text!
The fault of some translators is that
they want-'' to know too much about their
authors, more than the authors themselves
knew, more and worse. This false paternal-
ism was practised by William Archer to-'
wards Ibsen, whose work he imbued with his
own London brand of rationalism. In an
average German version, for instance, Ibsen
reads and acts in a far less tcndencious ant
dogmatic way. Then there is Aylmer Maude’
treatment of Tolstoi. Maude has the approva
of Shaw and other Fabians, but they did
bad day’s work when they gave it to him
Those who are impassioned for the work o’
Tolstoi the creator must rebel at Maude’
constant assertion of Tolstoi as doctrinaire
His version of “War and Peace,” even, i
distorted by irrelevant comments and by
straining of the text. When he comes t
handling an argumentative book, of course
he is at last in his pure element, and ends
by over-proving Tolstoi’s case. The wors:
example is in “What is Art?” Tolsto
attacks Verlaine and quotes him: Maud
quotes him in Maude English. Lines from
the famous “Art Podtique” are quoted:—
Rien de plus cher qui la chanson grise
OO 1’ IndScis au Precis se joint?
This Maude renders
Dearest is the song that’s tipsy
Where certain and uncertain meet.
The argument thus runs : Verlaine-according
to-Maude writes insanely, therefore Verlain
was wanton, therefore Tolstoi was right
If someone would permanently save Tolsto
from his, friends, as Gorki has tried to do!
Returning to the bookshelf, Constance Gar
nett’s translations of Tehekhov’s stories shine
out for us. She puts the reader on firm
ground all through. Luckily her version ir
1U volumes lias been widely accepted am
read. Her translation of Turgenev seems to
be out of print, and the earlier versions of
his novels reprinted in the Everyman Library
art not happy. For Dutch and Belgian work
we have often had to thank the famous trans-
lator of Maeterlinck, Texeira de Mattos.
“Tex” did may novels by Louis Couperus,
including the “Small Souls” series, creating
group-life at the Hague. The broadly-primi-
tive works of the modern Dane. Nexb,
have found adequate and sympathetic treat-
ment at the hands of Asia and Rowland
Kenney, who did the “Ditte” trilogy.. The
work of De Maupassant is in most versions
badly done, in others atrociously: nearly
always anonymously. A small bunch of his
shortest stories has lately been issued in the
Cheap American Little Blue Books. As a
translation it is readable enough—except
for the misprints, which are enough trf lame
a reader. When a book in an uplift scheme
is being printed in myriads, it might be wise
to hire a proofreader for half a day now
and then.
Almost all those books are novels. Poetry
is. of course, almost untranslatable, especi-
ally the simplest kinds, like Heine’s, which
cannot endure the least displacement of
phrase. Essays, next to poetry,' lose most im-
mensely by being uprooted: they depend on
their own idiom. The difficulty in translat-
ing Anatole France is that his quality is per-
sonal, like that of an essayist. Novels and
stories are hard enough to manage, but a
measure of success has been reached some-
times. History and, still more, science are
exportable, and suffer little sea-change, except
in the case of a “literary” history. Looking
at the_ novel-shelf again, it seems best to
weed it out, leaving only the masterpieces
of sure rendering. Only a small percentage
is left! This would not be serious, if we
felt sure that some guiding intelligence was
going to arrange for a better De Maupassant,
a better Turgenev, next year. Unhappily,
though, a bad translation is only too like a
bad photo—always unlovable but uncommonly
hard to shake off. The bad translations be-
come fixed, immutable and endowed with the
power to reproduce themselves in future
editions. All that any human being—apart
from the super-human publisher—can do, is
to seek out and admire and use the good
translations, which are almost in the nature
of creative work.
NETTIE PALMER.
Let’s Talk of Graves
An Oriental looking at Western litera-
ture might be pardoned for concluding that
monumental masonry was the most thriving
industry of the Western world. Where
would many of the works of our poets and
novelists and librettists be now if at some
remote period in our history the practice of
graveyard burial had given way to the Orien-
tal custom of cremation?
Shakspeare’s Richard 11. talked of “graves
and worms and epitaphs.” Some of the best
things in “Hamlet” are in the graveyard
scene, and “Romeo and Juliet” depends for
everything upon the tomb. Dickens drifted
often to the cypress groves. One recalls
Oliver Twist in the coffin-shop, Pip and the
convict in the churchyard, and the cemetery
scenes in “The Old Curiosity Shop.” The
most terrific lines in Thomas Hardy are of
the same category. One remembers Tess
burying her baby, the sleepwalker Angel
Clare laying his living wife in the coffin, Sue
in “Jude the Obscure” vainly trying to re-
open the grave of her three children, the
funeral of Fanny Robin in “Far from the
Madding Crowd.” The most hair-raising
scene in Victor Hugo is that in which Val-
jean, with the aid of his friend, the convent
gardener, escapes by being buried in the
stead of a dead nun. This story had a foun-
dation in fact. Charles V., desiring after his
abdication to see La Plombes for the last
time, had her carried in and out of the
monastery of St. Juste in a coffin. In
L’Histoire Comique” Anatole France, at
his best, chuckles through the funeral of the
comedian Chevalier, recording the gossip of
the mourners while the priest chants the
Requiem. Theophile Gautier’s “The Romance
of a Mummy” is a tomb story written in
1857, but curiously apt to these Tutank-
hamen days. A royal Egyptian tomb is
opened m the prologue, and its chill horror
enshrouds the story to the end. Tolstoi has
a grave-story in “How Much Land Does a
Man Require?”
P° e > the American, has the cheerful little
Premature Burial” and “Ligeia” and “The
Cask of Amontillado” and a dozen others.
Nathaniel Hawthorne does it, and so does
llarte. Mary Lamb has a sob-story
m Mrs. Leicester’s School” of a little girl
who learns to read from the letters on the
headstone of her mother’s grave. It is amus-
ing to find Oscar Wilde following in the foot-
steps of Mary Lamb, of all people; but Oscar
t^ lls ta . le ’ in “The Canterville Ghost,”
ot a little girl and the Garden, of Death “far
away beyond the pinewoods,” where “the
yew spreads out its giant arms over the
? le epers.” Wilkie Collins had his “Woman
in White, and Stevenson tells of a strange
burial and resurrection in “The Master of
Ballantrae.” The essayists are equally
guilty—witness the “Meditations in West-
minster Abbey” and “Urn Burial.”
Gray’s “Elegy,” by so many still pro-
nounced the glittering cupola of the temple
or English literature, stands, at any rate,
“rst among graveyard poems. Most of the
poets have wandered at some time or another
to the place where the rude forefathers of
the village sleep, and in nine cases out of
ten the result lias been only more or less
maudlin rhyming. “We Are Seven” would
not win the laureate’s bays for Wordsworth
to-day Browning has something much
more distinguished in “The Grammarian’s
huneral. Every, schoolboy has buried Sir
John Moore at dead of night. Rossetti has
given the world a beautiful thing in “Strew
on her roses, roses”; and in his poetry, as in
his novels Hardy goes to the graveside, a
characteristic example being the well-known
.\ Womans Fancy.” Coleridge has “The
“After Death 3 ” a “ d Swinburne the Srisly
The trashy sentiment which was the domi-
nating note of most early American litera-
ture produced an enormous number of tomb-
stone lyrists, not least of whom was Cullen
~n7 a o nt i He 7 1 ' ote l mar \ v "things badly and
not a few extremely well, as, for instance,
hanatopsis, of which our grand-dads used
to quote:—
So live that when thy summons comes to join
The innumerable caravan that moves
lo the pule realms of shade, where each shall take
His chamber m the silent halls of death,
ihou go not like the quarry slave at night
Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.
Elsewhere Cullen Bryant speaks of the hills
and the rivers and the woods and the seas as
but the solemn decorations all
Of the great tomb of man.
Typical of the temper of those times are the
concluding lines of the once-popular “Some*
body’s Darling,” the author of which left
(Continued on page 3.)


a
A Velour Topcoat Ensures Cosy Winter Smartness
when Chosen a t ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Smart women everywhere are familiar
with the virtues of Velour. Especially
when Winter brings its coldest days do
Coats of this fabric command their cosy
selves with the double appeal of charm
and comfort.
These low-priced examples will attract
your attention with their obvious economy
—yet they are only typical of a wide
assortment at Anthony Horderns .
POST YOUR
ORDERS.
Orders by Mail will
receive the prompt
attention of a
Specially - trained
staff of assistants.
The utmost satis-
faction is guar-
anteed with
every order.
am
pricy
59n
m
y
I X2£l . 1X255
□
1X204
lx 21b
1X264.—-Excellent quality Velour
is used to fashion this Winter Coat,
the distinguishing feature being the
full flare. The sleeves are set-in and
have deep gauntlet cuffs, and a cosy
finish is the Coney Fur Collar. Half
lined Brocaded Art Silk. Colors:
Tan, Nigger, Putty, Mole,
Caramel, Russet. Price . .
59/11
1X22 I.—Smart Winter Coat, made
from all Wool; plain or cut Velour,
and designed on straight lines with
two useful pockets; it fastens at side
with one large button. The Black
Fur Collar is cosy, and buttons to
throat if desired. Half-lined Bro-
caded Art Silk. Colors: Tan, Nigger,
Putty, Russet, New Brown,
Mole, Price
59/11
1X25 5.—-The illustration shows a
very smartly-cut Coat of English
Velour, in plain or ribbed Cloth, The
collar is convertible and has Coney
Fur. The side flare, which is finished
with fancy button, is most effective.
Half-lined Oriental Silk to tone. In
warm shades of Mole, Tan, Putty,
Nigger* Russet, Caramel,
Brown. Price
59/11
1X216.—A11-Wool Velour Cloth
Coat, fashioned on new full lines.
The back is straight, while a smart
flare appears from the fancy em-
piecements on front. The collar has
Black Fur to give necessary finish.
Half-lined flowered Art Silk. The
Colors are: Tan, Nigger, Russet,
Cinnamon, Caramel, Mole.
Price
59/11
(Fashion Salon—Third Floor.)
We Pay the Carriage on Fashion Goods and Family Drapery in N.S.W., and to the nearest Interstate Port.
These New Dress Goods
MAY WELL BE CHOSEN
—for with the merit of utmost
practicality, they combine the
smartness that every critical
woman demands in her Frocks.
Anthony Horderns’ offer
Newer and Better Dress
Goods at lower prices. Pfbve
it by comparison.
Dress Flannels, featuring the smart
Kasha finish. Plain colors and check
designs, in Smoke, Stone, Caramel,
Cyclamen, Delph. Blue, Fawn, Navy,
Sphinx, Bois-du-Rose, Oyster,
Dutch Blue and Black. A 1 11
Double width. Price, yard, *Z/11
Floral Silk Mixture Marocains —
something entirely new in Dress
Fabrics, showing in Almond, Wine,
Rust, Cyclamen, Oyster and
Delph. Blue ; 36 inches wide. C / 11
Price, yard «l/ll
Fleece Cloth, in Checks and Cordu-
roy effects. Available in all new
shades —a wonderful range
to select from; 54 inches
wide. Price, yard
9/11
Repp 4 clours, soft velvet finish, in
all the new shades: Rust, Bracken,
Fawn, Nayy, Grey, Cinna-
mon, Smoke. Bottle, Delph.
Blue; 54 inches wide. Price, lAI £L
yard li!/ V
All-Wool Check Corduroys —aj
French weave, smart for ensembles
and Suits. In the latest Rust,
Bracken and Devon Red
colorings; 54 inches wide. 01/
Price, yard fcrl/“
(Dress Material—First Floor.)
Maids’ School Attire
LOOKS WELL, WEARS WELL
-—and endows the wearer
with the satisfaction of being
well dressed. All at a very
low cost, too, when chosen at
Anthony Horderns’.
FXIOO. — Natural Fuji Blouses.
Can be had with shirt collar or Peter
Pan collar; long sleeves and into
elastic at waist.
Busts ... 28 and 30 in., A 3 to 38 in.
Prices . . 13/6 13/11
FX7OO. — Tailor-made Schoo jl
Blazers, in good quality Dark NdVy
Flannel, edged Gold, Red, Blue and
White cords.
Busts . . 24--6 in. 28-30 in. 32-38 in.
Prices . 13/11 15/11 16/11
Better Quality Flannel, beautifully
bound Gold, Red, Blaqk or Navy
braids. Busts 28 to 32 in.
Prices 21/-
FX622l.— Girls’ Well-made Fine
Navy Serge Regulation School
Tunic, cut on generous lines, with
three box-pleats back and front.
Lengths, 24im 27in. 30in. 38in,
Prices 18/11 21/- 22/6 25/-
Lengths, .... 36in. , 39in. 42in.
Prices 27/6 29/6 32/6
FX6360. — Fine Navy Serge Frock,
suitable for school wear; roll collar,
long inset sleeves; skirt,is very finely
pleated on either side; plain panel
back and front, finished p£ttch pockets,
buttons and bow at neck. Lengths,
36 and 39 inches.
Price 32/6
(Maids’ WearI—-Third 1 —-Third Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


Petroleum Products
and Australia
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd. presents facts
about its business which motorists and
citizens generally should know.
N view of statements that have been published on the oil question, we desire to give the public some
facts in connection with this organisation in Australia.
. This Company has always maintained the policy of selling highest quality products, backed up
by years of manufacturing, laboratory and engineering experience; of giving an unequalled service
to the public through an efficient, highly trained and contented organisation; neither boasting of what it has
done nor making misleading statements or telling half-truths in an endeavor to influence either goodwill or trade.
This Company is incorporated under the laws
of Victoria, Australia.
It is the oil company that has individual
Australian shareholders. Hundreds of Australians
have invested their capital in shares of the Company.
This Company has a most liberal life-insurance
plan, a policy which grants a generous pension
scheme for old and ailing employees, and sick
benefits, ail of which are free of cost to the
employee.
It has specialised in welfare work for both
office and warehouse staffs. It takes a pride and
a personal interest in its employees’ welfare.
This Company provides free instructional
classes for the education of its employees.
2563 employees are on its permanent pay-
roll, of whom 2561 are British subjects.
Casual labor has also been employed, totalling
43 7,600 hours per annum, which is equivalent to
a further 200 employees engaged on full time.
This Company is the pioneer oil company of
Australia, and has been in existence in Australia
for 31 years. It was the first oil company to erect
its own warehouses and to bring ships to Australian
ports direct from overseas, thus eliminating high
transhipping charges. The merchants of Cairns,
Rockhampton, Townsville, Newcastle, Geelong,
Portland, Hobart, Launceston, Burnie, Port Pirie
and Bunbury appreciate what this service has meant
to them, not only in lowering the costs of petroleum
products, but enabling them to land more cheaply
other general merchandise, plus having ships avail-
able at their ports to carry away Australian primary
products.
British ships bring the greatest proportion
of our shipments of case and barrel oils to Australia.
To-day tank steamers are being built for us in
British shipyards on the Clyde.
This Company has three large manufacturing
plants in Australia, situated in Sydney, Melbourne
and Fremantle, where tens of thousands of barrels
of grease and lubricating oils are manufactured and
blended each year by Australian workmen, many
of whom are shareholders in the business.
Yes! this Company imports the biggest per-
centage of its Petroleum supplies from the United
States of America. We cannot procure Petroleum
products from British sources, because only small
quantities are produced within the Empire.
Government statistics show that barely 1 \ per
cent, of the world’s total production of oils is
produced within the British Empire—this 1£ per
cent, being produced chiefly in India, Egypt,
Trinidad, Canada and British North Borneo.
Approximately 97 per cent, of the world’s
production of oil is obtained in North America,
Russia, Persia, Dutch East Indies, Venezuela and
Roumania.
Remembering the Great War, which of these
countries’ products would you prefer to use?
It was due to the efficiency of this organisation
and its manufacturing plants in Australia that the
Australian railways, the majority of our steamship
services, and most of the large manufacturing plants
were able to keep their wheels running during the
years of the war period.
The policy of the Company is to purchase
locally in Australia everything that can be procured
here, where commercially possible.
For many years past we have had manufac-
tured by Australian tinsmiths an average of some
2,000,000 tins per annum.
This Company has expended many thousands
of pounds in employing highly-trained geologists to
search for oil in Australia, and all tHte reports and
conclusions of these experts have been made
available to the Commonwealth Government
gratuitously.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PH- Lm


Hi
1
W
I
y
w:
m
m
m
: SS SSf :
i yi* ** y yyi
0;
A
---
2K-:
Box Call Shoes,
Our Special Value
29/i>
The triumph of Shoecraft embodying finest materials and expert
workmanship. Tan Willow or Black Box Calf Boots or Shoes.
Built for comfort and guaranteed to wear. All sizes sto 10.
DAVID JONES’
the name of Marie Lacoste behind when she
departed to make damper the damp clouds of
Heaven: —
Tenderly bury the fair young dead,
Pausing to drop on his grave a tear ;
Carve on the wooden slab at his head.
“Somebody’s darling slumbers here.
The English counterpart is in such bright
little ballads as G. R- Sims used to write
—the “Dagonet” of “Billy’s dead and gone
to glory.” Give the Devil his due, however,
the Yewnited States produced Max Adeler s
exquisite "Bury Bartholomew Out in the
Woods” series—the gems of Out of the
writer of popular songs for the draw-
ing-room has not been able to resist the temp-
tation to sit in the family vault to string his
lvre. Too well we recall the heartaches or
Claribel of 40 or 50 years ago. It stands
to the credit of her legitimate successors,
the purveyors of jazz, that they have not
presumed so to disturb the slumbers of the
departed. “Yes, We Have No Bananas,
and “Don’t Bring Lulu” are infinitely prefer-
able to, say, “Wanna Be, Wanna Be a
Nundertaker” or “I’m a Fast, Fast Gal I
Wanna Motor Fu-ner-al.” These would no
doubt be the modern equivalent of the atroci-
ties of the “Elsie’s Grave” order with which
our mothers were wont to liven up dull
parties. Some of the oldtimers do not de-
scend so quickly to the tombs they tell about.
“Massa’s in the Col’. Col' Groun .. is still
above the turf, and “Belle Mahone" pushes
up the daisies only lyrically-speaking, and a
tenor and baritone will always be forth-
coming in choirs and places where they sing
to discuss in jaunty converse “the grave
which no glimm’ring star can light” in
“Watchman, What of the Night?” High-
brow music is no exception. In fact, some
of the best graveyard scenes arc in the operas
—for instance, “Lucia” and “Aida.”
The Australian bards have proved equally
facile in digging in the churchyard mould.
Banjo Paterson craves to be wrapped up
in his stockwhip and blanket and buried deep
down below; Gordon is equally cheerful in
similar circumstances; Will Ogilvie tells how
“God has laid His own wildflowers on the
lonely graves out ■west” ; and in the tenderest
lines of all Kendall spells
The letters of two lovely words,
A poem on a stone.
ALLAN W. DAWES.
The Poet-Laureate’s Experiments
arrangement of the stresses varied. A subtle
music and delicate rhythm was sometimes
achieved. An experiment surely?
But Mr. Lofting goes most astray when he
compares these scraps with the section
quoted from C. J. Brennan’s “Wanderer.
I, too, have long been an admirer ot tins
fine poem, and it was with deep regret that
I found it dragged in so unnecessarily, hor
why should any such comparison be made.
Professor Brennan’s poem bears no resem-
blance in subject to either of the poet-
laureate’s fragments, and to the second frag-
ment none in metre. It bears a slight re-
semblance in metre to the first fragment in
that both are written in six-stress verse;
but there the resemblance ends. Professor
Brennan’s verse has many more unaccented
syllables and for the most part lacks the
central hiatus. In any case, why should Mr.
Lofting object to Robert Bridges experiment-
ing with a six-beat unrhymed line m
because C. J. Brennan used such a line m
1902 any more than he should object to
Brennan exploring the possibilities of that
line in 1902 when Bridges had already used
it in “The Feast of Bacchus” in 188,) or
earlier? So on ad infinitum.
Incidentally, I think Mr. Lofting is faulty
in his analysis of the metre of Professor
Brennan’s poem. He says that it has an
.exact and patent tliree-beat inner form. I
fail to see how
Ye have built you unmysterious homes and ways in
the wood
can be spoken with only three beats. At a
stretch four could be made of it; but the
reader would be out of breath long before the
end of the poem was rea hed. There are
obviously meant to be six stresses. The
verse is* an extension of. the Alexandrine,
other modifications of which are used else-
where in “The Wanderer.” Variations ot
the same line have been used successfully
by a host of poets; but it would be none the
less an experiment if Mr. Lofting himself
were to use it the day after to-morrow.
Although I have not yet had an oppor-
tunity to read Robert Bridges’s "New
Verse” I feel convinced that Hilary Lofting
is mistaken in his attitude (R.P. 18/3/’26).
His objection to the word “experiment” is
a mere quibble. He seems to consider that
a metrical experiment must necessarily lie
an innovation. Such a contention is, of
course, ridiculous; one may experiment in
verse-forms that have been used many times
before, not only in utterly new discoveries.
Blank verse, the most fluid of all forms, and
even the heroic couplet, the most rigid, can
hardly be regarded as new discoveries; yet
they are still open to the experimenter and
are capable of revealing unexpected inner
rhythms, novel cadences. Indeed, as often
as any writer attempts to superimpose the
natural music of his vowels and consonants
upon the inherent drum-beat of metre and
the fluting of rhyme, just so often do we
have an artist experimenting with his
medium, be the actual metrical pattern old
or new.
Even if one uses the word “experiment”
in the narrower sense implied by Mr. Loft-
ing, one must grant that Dr. Bridges is an
experimenter, perhaps more so than any
other English poet. He was one of the first
writers of importance to appreciate fully
that the stress rather than the foot is the
principal factor in English prosody. He has
closely examined the values of time and
quantity and has given these items particu-
lar prominence in his verse, preserving never-
theless an even balance with the rhythms of
ordinary syllabic verse. He has made a
careful analysis of stress and accent and
has examined the distribution of forced
stresses, giving consideration to the natural
rhythms of prose. It would be impossible to
go fully into these matters here. I will not
be so foolish as to attempt to do so. It is
sufficient to state that Dr. Bridges has made
a profound and advanced study of English
prosody and has experimented with Ins un-
orthodox theories to a more than consider-
able extent: his work almost invariably
flouts tradition. At his best, he is more-
over a glorious poet. His admirers —they
are many—may regret that he has occupied
so much time with theories which are per-
haps, after all, mere playthings; but I doubt
if it has ever before been suggested that he
is not an experimenter.
Though some of this laboratory verse is
amazingly successful and at the same time
inspired poetry, much is, as one would ex-
pect, exceedingly weak, and has been pub-
lished, one imagines, chiefly in illustration
of the possibilities opened up by the scien-
tific investigator. The scraps quoted in the
article criticised by Mr. Lofting are un-
doubtedly weak and trifling in the extreme,
none the less they are interesting metrically.
They are too short for one to be dogmatic
about them ; still they may be analysed.
The first appears to consist of unrhymod
six-accented lines, each line being divided by
a faint hiatus between the third and fourth
stress-groups; the accents, though somewhat
irregularly placed, fall for the most part on
alternate syllables :
A blaz||ing af||ternoon|j in splen||dor of mid-||Julyll
Kate|] and mv eld||er sis j jtcr and I|| trudged down[|
the street[|
A simple enough metre and by no means an
innovation, though probably quite unortho-
dox in its distribution and juxtaposition of
stresses; moreover, sufficiently uncommon
to be experimental anyway.
The second piece, I should say. depends
for its scansion on quantity, the length of
line being governed by the number of syl-
lables, just as is Chinese verse. The lines
are alternately of six and five syllables,
irregularly stressed: —
Reading the Odyssey
In my rock garden.
Dr, Bridges has written this type of verse
before, though the last specimen I saw had
six syllables in very line. The number and
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
The Bar Sinister
It is strange that the only thing which
the average person knows about heraldry is
that a “bar sinister” is a mark of illegiti-
macy. And the average person’s one piece
of heraldic information is quite inaccurate,
because there is no such charge as a bar
sinister known to heralds. Sinister, ot
course, in the language of blazonry has no
perverse or malign significance. It means
only left-handed, and is applied to that side
of the shield which would be the left to a
man carrying it—that is, the right side for
an observer. A bar is a band which runs
horizontally across the shield. Obviously it
can be neither sinister nor dexter. “Bar sin-
ister” is probably a mistranslation of the
French “barre sinistre,” which in the lan-
guage of English heraldry means bend sinis-
ter. A bend is a band which runs diagon-
ally across the field, a bend sinister running
from the sinister chief corner through the
centre of the shield to the dexter base. ’I his
is the charge often called by T novelists a bar
sinister. Many of the writers who have used
the expression ought to have known better.
It occurs frequently in Henry Esmond, and
the mistake has been made even by Sir
Walter Scott, who sometimes used carelessly
his antiquarian learning, which, moreover,
was not always exact.
It is really by no means certain that the
bend sinister is usually a mark of bastardy.
In the times in which heraldry had its origin
legitimacy was an accident and bastardy no
reoroach. An illegitimate branch of a noble
family was proud to bear the paternal coat,
with such differences as were necessary to
distinguish it from the legitimate branch ; in
just the same way cadet branches used the
paternal coat differenced by marks of
cadency. The importance of these marks of
difference is more apparent when we remem-
ber that use of arms was formerly evidence
in peerage cases. The bend sinister was not
originally adopted as the principal means of
distinguishing an illegitimate coat. There
are undoubtedly cases where it has no such
meaning; yet there was at least one mediaeval
instance of a dexter bend used for this pur-
pose. Indeed, all kinds of devices were used.
One son of the Black Prince proclaimed his
paternity by a shield on which lie bore
simply a bend dexter emblazoned with the
famous white feathers of his sire. Gradu-
ally, however, the bend sinister, and especi-
ally its diminutive, the bendlet sinister, a
narrower bend, came to be regarded as the
proper distinguishing mark of those families
which were more certain of their ancestor’s
nobility than of his marriage.
But other marks were also used, especially
by Scottish heralds. A border on the shield
is common, especially the bordure compony
or the bordure wavy. In more fastidious
times these were preferred as being less con-
spicuous than the sinister bend. A border
might mean nothing at all, and required no
explanation. The baton sinister, which was
a short bendlet, is in English heraldry the
charge borne on the arms of natural sons of
the Royal house. Charles 11., by his gay
adventures, enriched the peerage of the king-
dom by more than one noble family which
bears this gentle reminder. The Dukes of
Grafton and St. Albans still show in their
coats the royal arms of England debruised
by a baton sinister.
V. W.
Universal Civil Service
Prescott. in his “History of the Conquest
of Peru” —a book which enthralled our fathers
—relates in detail the system of socialistic
government which was carried out under the
Incas before the Spaniard came. A faint
echo from the past reverberates through the
pages of Fritz Wittels's “Die Yernichtung
der Not.” now translated into English under
the title An End to Poverty (Allen and
Unwin). The author belongs to a new
school of socio-political reformers whose doc-
trines are founded on the teachings of Joseph
Popper (or Popper-Lynkeus). who died in
Vienna in 1921 at the age of S 3.
Popper was a child of the people to whom
the subsistence question appealed directly
through a bitter personal experience. He
was by nature a man of intellectual endow-
ment, but endowment cannot become opera-
tive where all its attempts at activity are
dogged by questions of meat, raiment and
shelter. Fortunately his talent as a mechani-
. cal engineer enabled him at a later period
of his life to secure some degree of leisured
opportunity for the cultivation of the more
purely intellectual side of his nature.
Numerous philosophical and sociological
writings came from his pen, the most notable
of which is the book whose theme is the sub -
ject of Wittels’s presentation. To Popper
Civilisation connoted an organisation of
humanity which would enable the full fruit
of human effort to be garnered for the com-
mon good. During the Great War he was
an anti-militarist, but the idea of universal
conscription for purposes of destruction sug-
gested very naturally the basis of a system
of national conscription for purposes of con-
struction. If all must give service to kill
why should not all give service to live, and
the “duty to furnish nourishment” be as im-
perative as the “duty to bear arms”? That
indeed is the basic idea of universal civil
service as a solution of the social problem.
That also, it may be said, is the basis of all
socialistic schemes, but the essential differ-
ence in the Popper-Lynkean system is that it
is antagonistic to any “discontinuous social
change,” that is, change by violent revolution.
It is to be a movement “matured among the
great masses of the people” before being
launched. Not by direct action but by evo-
lution must the great change come.
The object to be aimed at is the establish-
ment of a “minimum or subsistence army” to
produce or procure “all that physiology and
hygiene show to be absolutely indispensable
to human welfare.” In addition, this sub-
sistence army should supply whatever may
be requisite over and above bare necessaries
to make life comfortable, but not luxuries.
The minimum of necessaries would be sup-
plied in kind, not in any form of money, and
would be distributed unconditionally to every
member of the community. Every able-
bodied member of the body politic would be
required to serve for a specified number of
years in the subsistence army. High and low
in social degree would meet shoulder to
shoulder in the years of conscripted labor.
The minimum, as defined by the promulgator
of this scheme, would include not only food,
clothing and shelter but necessary articles
of furniture and such services as medical
care and skilled nursing. All and everything
that did not come within the definition of
“minimum necessaries” would be excluded
as luxury, and within that domain “the free
economic system of to-day based on private
ownership, individual enterprise and free
contract will continue.” On this point the
author comments: “Indeed, when the supply
of a minimum subsistence has been guaran-
teed, there will be even less reason for inter-
fering with superfluities than there is to-
day.”
An interesting theory but, like so many
theories that are purely intellectual children,
exceedingly difficult of application. One out
of many objections that might be taken to it
is the problem of getting it accepted peace-
fully at any stage of culture in a society
where the “secure” or well-to-do are deter-
mined to hold what they have and the “in-
secure” or poor are equally determined to
get what they have not. Another obvious
difficulty would be to get anything like an
equality of effort and output in the indivi-
dual members of this universal civil service
—and that is a problem inherent in human
nature. To win the dole of minimum sub-
sistence by a minimum of striving would
speedily become a solid plank in the platform
of the universal civil service,
T. B. C.
A Satchel of Books
Pon , fe for Choirmen> by John Newton (Heffer).
crisp booklet written to help choristers in render-
ing church music.
In the Beginning, by Eva Erleigh (Heinemann).
The author of this book for children offers it as
a framework of history into which the child may
later fit a comprehensive picture. Lady Erleigh
bag a^en a keen interest in educational movements
and, having noted the lack of a suitable world-
history book to read to young children, produces this
attractive publication.
Committee Procedure,, by Eleanor C. Lambourn
< Allen and Umvin )- A handy little book being a
guide to committee procedure and the work
o{ tho offlce rs of a society or club.” The compiler
i s the organising secretary of a ladies’ council of
education, and its publication suggests the extent.
°f Jhe movement of women into the business me
0, r the during ««• Pi«*nt
Esau , by Victor MacClure (Harrap). As the name
RU gg e sts, Esau war- a hairy man, a big, bluff,
robustious, loud-spoken, tender-hearted creature—
the type that delights the pit and the gallery and
finds a sneaking regard in the stalls. It is “his
caliph-like peregrinations”—to quote the sub-title—
(hat niake the movement of the story, though
its eentral interest lies in the character of the man
himself, cleverly limned by the author. A genial,
kindly book.
James Devaney has the last, word
After reading A. H. Chisholm’s latest comment
(p.p. n/3/’26), cne can only conclude that the
recent discussion about Australian birds and bards
is ended. What chiefly amazes me is that such a
worth-while, controversy could not be carried cn
with any amount of vigor without trailing off
weakly into the merely personal and peevish. But
the complete dropping of the debate itself to hunt
around for something offensive to say never hurts an
opponent, and is but an ungracious confession of
defeat. I am sorry for Mr. Chisholm’s brutum fnlmen.
We had much in common as nature lovers and farers
of the Inky Way, and if I have learnt nothing from
him about the native poets, I have learnt much from
his delightful writings about the native birds.
J. B. Higginson to Mr. Walker, F.R.G.fc.:
1 have carefully re-read the review of C. A. W.
Monckton’s book to which Mr. Walker takes exception
(R.P. 25/3/’26), and am astonished at my own
moderation. Nowhere can I find a suggestion that,
Monekton was not an efficient official. But I did
take exception, and do again, to the flamboyant
posturing that made him, in his day, the laughing
stock of his contemporaries in Papua, official and
otherwise. I admit cheerfully that he had many good
and likeable qualities, to (which his incurable
tendency to theatricalism and exaggeration were tne
only set-off usually in evidence. But if the many
Papuan magistrates of later days who have done as
g° od work or greater had had their doings chrome ed
in the same key > we wou \ on r ago , have a , c . a
Papuan Symphony more deafening than anything
evolved by Richard Strauss.


j O meet that constant need to flex and flex,
to take those sudden shocks and jars evenly
and easily on low air pressure, the need is for a
supremely strong and flexible body.
SUPERTWIS f, the newly discovered cord material
used exclusively in Goodyear Balloon Tyres, has proved
in actual tests that it far outstretches, far outflexes, far
outwears all other cords.
Next Time Buy
mom>oTKjm
BALLOON TYRES
Made with SUPER TWIST


Reduction in Price
A substantial reduction in the price of
“EXIDE” Batteries for all four and
light six-cylinder cars is announced.
i *
1 n making this announcement we wish
to state emphatically that none of the
well-known qualities which have
always characterised “fcXIDE”
Batteries has been sacrificed to make
this reduction possible.
The same materials and the same high-
grade workmanship which you have
always associated with "EXIDE”
Batteries will continue to feature their
construction.
They arrive DRY and are assembled
in Australia as and when required.
This is why every “EXIDE” user gets
a brand new battery.
BATTERIES
Ask for Prices.
Jlustralian Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., 472-474
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd..
Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queens Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.
We handle only genuine Exide parts .


□
/SS
y
Priced as
low as
The name
* ‘Burroughs”
is the mark
of a quality
product*
True Economy
The Burroughs Automatic Bookkeeping Machine represents
true economy for any business because it:—
1 — Saves valuable time.
2 Reduces bookkeeping costs.
3 Gives accurate buying, selling,
paying and credit facts daily.
This machine posts ledgers and writes customers’ statements
(both original) at the same time; it extends the balance auto-
matically after each posting; it proves each day’s work; it
automatically prints date, folio, ciphers and punctuation. Enter-
ing amounts on the keyboard is the same as writing them in
your ledger—pounds under pounds, shillings under shillings
and pence under pence. No manipulation—no guesswork.
We have prepared a booklet which shows the work that
can be done on the Burroughs Automatic Bookkeeping Machine.
We shall be pleased to forward a copy to any business man
interested in economical bookkeeping. Write to our nearest
office for your copy to-day. There’s no obligation.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LIMITED
CHALLIS HOUSE. SYDNEY.
1,000,000 Burroughs
Adding, Bookkeeping,
Calculating and Duolex
Machines have been
purchased to date by
business men in all
parts of the world.
4488
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - ROCKHAMPTON - BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN - CHRISTCHURCH - WELLINGTON
ADDING
800 K K EEPING - CALCULATING AND DUPLEX MAC HINE S


a LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
J\_ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
Add Life
to Linoleum
—this Easy,
Liquid Way
Your linoleum will look more beauti-
ful—clean much easier—and last
years longer if you polish it occasion-
ally with Johnson s Liquid Wax. It
brings out the pattern and color—
protects the linoleum from wear—
and imparts a beautiful, dry, dirt-
repellent surface which washes off
like glass.
The new Johnson “Easy, Liquid
Way” makes the waxing of linoleum
mere child’s play. Takes only a few
minutes—requires no stooping, and
you don’t touch your hands to floor
or Wax.
JOHNSONS
LHQunp wa:
zxcvb
All you do is pour
Johnson’s Liquid Wax
on a lamb’s-wool mop
and apply a thin, even
coat to the floor. A
few brisk strokes with
the Johnson Weighted
Brush wflll quickly
bring it to a beauti-
ful, durable, glass-
like lustre.
It is the new, easy,
modern way to have
beautiful waxed floors.
Tabes only a few minutes and is as
simple as running a carpet-sweeper.
The Johnson Wax Mop has a removable
lamb’s-wool swab, which washes per-
fectly in hot suds.
Floor Polishing Outfit
Your dealer is authorised to sell you
This 34/- Outfit for only 28/-
A Saving of 6 -
This outfit is just the
thing for waxing all of
your floors. The outfit
consists of:—
1 Pint of Johnson’s
Liquid Wax .... 5
1 Johnson’s Laml-'s-
wool Wax Mop.. 8
1 Johnson’s weighted
Floor Polishing
Brush 20/-
1 Johnson’s Book
on Home Beauti-
fying 1/-
,0«HSO
HWNS
>%*
Value 34/-
S. C. Johnson & Son
Office and Factory:
Queen Street, Rosebery, N.S.W.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
is
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
STOCKOWNERS! Use Denyer’s
zxcvb
Veterinary Instruments.
They represent the finest obtainable in
quality and most up to date in construe,,
tion.
Triple Crush Emasculator
—an instrument that has stood the test of service for many years. It is easy to
manipulate, safe in use, quick in action and always reliable. Made from hand-
forged steel, nickel-plated. Has three distinct crushes and regulating screw.
The most modern instrument for its purpose.
PRICE 55/-. Postage Extra.
Write for our Catalogue of Veterinary Instruments and Supplies.
TVT "V r? D D O C Veterinary Specialists,
UtilMlt-K dKUj,, Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
2 [P©ffl
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
W///MSSSS////////////SSS////S//SSS/////fS////S/SS////////*Mk
Holds More Ink
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 BunhiH Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK-Best for all Pens.
1 *
- &
'
Cl
IT
The Cigar of generous size
Supreme in flavor and
and weight,
aroma.
At all good hotels and
_ tobacconists.
zxcvb
Bos prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
1
1
ft p
l. i
■
II
9
H
8
a
IB
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
The pipe with
a pedigree.
zxcvbn
First made in
1860.
*T he Finest Pipe in the World!
W/HEN you buy a GBD you are getting unsur-
W passed value for your money.
First manufactured 65 years ago. these pipes are
famous wherever men smoke.
Made of natural briar root—fitted with the very best
quality vulcanite mouthpiece, and Hall-marked silver
mount, obtainable in all the favourite shapes;
they cost no more than ordinary pipes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Trade enquiries are invited to —
Box 765 G.P.0., Sydney.
zxcvb
JL
iBQ
Shape No. 2/909
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sea-gate.
Wide for ever, and yet forbidden —
Sandstone pillars and sapphire floor —
Gods and heroes that way have ridden
Out through a miracle-door.
High on wonderful foam-white horses,
Rank by rank they passed to their plac<\
Beauties and splendors, faiths and forces,
Viking-fair in the face.
Out and out, from bounded to boundless—
Morning, time’s last-born, saw them go.
Half the sky was a rapture soundless,
Calm as the floor below.
Ah, that threshold of azure streaming
Into the infinite deeps! I must
Cross it! The hoofs have tossed up gleaming
Spirtles of diamond-dust!
I must ride with a rein loose-swinging,
Like a waker who follows dreams,
Out where the spray-white flowers are
springing,
Watered by green-blue streams.
Broad and beautiful doorless portal,
Paved with sapphire for viking-steeds,
Bearing youth on a quest immortal
Into eternal meads!
Gate of the plains the heart desires
As the wild deer the water-springs!
Sunrise and sunset fuse their fires —
End and beginning of things!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Peaches.
Some men delve in the tombs of kings
For alabasters, jars and rings;
Dig down where treasure trove is laid
And turn the past up with a spade.
I disinter you with a knife,
Who never saw you in my life.
And yet I swear, to shut my eyes
And taste a peach will make you rise
Shaking the powder from your hair
Upon the green leaves everywhere
And letting through the orris fold
A rift of bright, plebeian gold.
We find no silver fruit-knife there
Nor table set with gleaming ware;
We have no right to taste at all
The treasure of the Abbe’s wall.
The summer suns have ripened these
Furred, damask things for monkish ease—
Fecund Julys of fruits and flowers,
Their ardors cooled by sudden showers
That left the grasses wet to stain
Your silken ankles’ trim disdain,
That smudged your satin slippers so
That, by the bergamots below.
The Abbe pacing with his book
Detects the culprit in a look.
I cannot think he means to scold —-
Court powder cannot hide the gold
That does such radiant youth express
Above the stiff brocaded dress.
Swaying behind you in the fret
Of trellis-nails a glimmering net
Swings like an opal from the rain.
The jade-winged fly that fights in vain
To free itself can only be
A body loaned at usury.
The eight-eyed spider, sure of loot,
Enjoys your relish of the fruit!
X never saw your face, God knows!
And yet, as ro,se is kin to rose,
All lovely women have to me
The impress of your witchery.
If one should give me brush and paint
And whisper “Limn a maiden saint,”
Straightway your little face would rise,
The fine pink mouth, the subtle eyes;
Yet did another, laughing, press
His choice for that white wantonness
Of a king’s mistress —death to kiss—
I know I’d use your face for this;
Make poison lily of a rose.
Here is your straight, clear-nostrilled nose,
Each eyebrow tinted like a mouse,
Even the old wine-colored house
That made the background of the scene
(Can I believe it has not been f),
The pale green tremble of the vine,
Your pupils black as beads and mine
Aching as though they faced, a light
Too vivid for a mortal’s sight,
The iris violet-dark, your brow
Full at the temples! Show me how
A man can rifle from the dead
The life his bold ancestors led?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Long Ago.
Love, who had been my sorrow, came grey-
eyed
Out of a shadowland and looked at me;
And we sat down together, side by side,
Eating the sweet bread of eternity.
It was so long ere I was grown aware
Of my dear home beside the greenwood
shrine,
Of the red rose, the ribbon on my hair
And my love’s hand so lightly holding
mine.
But when we rose and walked a little while
And saw afar the hills, the azure sky,
I knew again the step, the sound, tlio smile
Of sunny childhood singing gaily by.
This was so long ago. Love, look at me!
From that eternity we fondly share
This kiss, this touch, this wilding ecstasy
Under the silken shadow of my hair.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


Hi sill
mm
m
m
I: V’’*
mm
r
■8
mm
> '**mm*
m
• I i
I ?
HM
is ■
mm
.
f,v
t*
■
• :, Vf*-:
■ t I s
1 MHM
MS I
■
ill; |
d, 11/j
■
■hm
j
■H
«
■
. i j
i i
mm tmmi
;
-
ISn
-i -*-E- :?»:
:' i i
S H
I
J
iHI
a
■ t
■
1
ill 1 I I
Hi 11
■
-
■ wm
■■
I*
sap
H
I f ’•H'** ** *
■ • ..
m -
V
m
m
r
Gr eat Western
WT.WX^
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
7
c>m
/7


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 47 No. 2408.
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 1926.
Price 6d.
LIFE IN A FREE COUNTRY.
“A free motor-’bus, besides a travelling-time allowance, has been granted to Sydney City Council workmen employed at the Bunnerong power-house, Botany, who,
under the vicious principle of aldermanie patronage, live in the city in the wards of the aldermen who nominate them for employment.”
THE TAMMANY MAN: “There you are, my boy; and when you finish, drive back here and have a couple of drinks.
It’s all free, my boy—our friend here pays.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, ot
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australaria, weekly;
12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.: 3 months, 7s.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Boa 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs.
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be return'ed or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Blacic and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photogiaph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid foi same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i ,e.,any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a.
suggestion only. The conditions under which sue
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
K, St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, lo-
ll) Farringdon Street, London, E.C.L.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.li.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1)6 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn,
London, W.C,I; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street,
London E.C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., k\l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Rost Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 10k Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.—A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising liepresentatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 15-19 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.k.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: koz. to 10oz., lid,; each
additional koz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: koz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 1926.
ODDS AND ENDS AND CENSUSES.
Maoriland, like South Africa, takes a
census every live years, and so do France
and Germany when a war doesn’t get in the
way. Most countries have a count every
ten years, except Ireland, which suspends
the business during rebellions. Spain and
Russia have a reckoning when they have no-
thing better to do. Israel had its census
every 473 years, and there was the male
parent of a shindy over the second one. Aus-
tralia is badly advised in not adopting the
quinquennial system. This country requires
to be confronted oftener than once in a
decade with details of its hideously over-
grown cities, and its stationary or decaying
minor towns, and its many unprogressive
rural districts. That is the species of ghost
which should walk frequently. It is pro-
posed to add some valuable frills to the
Maoriland census, and probably some more
might, be appended with advantage. Every
return is to include a statement of the num-
ber of days lost, presumably during the pre-
vious year, through sickness, accident and
scarcity of employment. This should have
some value, though th.e records will be
erratic and forgetful, and unless they in-
clude time lost through strikes and volun-
tary loafing they will be incomplete. A valu-
able idea is the demand for a statement of
the current income of every person aged over
16, though this might be extended with advan-
tage, as some babies have incomes. So have
many absentees who don’t appear in the
census, and it would be well if those who
collect for them were required to furnish
separate details. A complete statement
(complete bar lies and evasions) of the
national income, brought up to date at short
intervals, would be of value for many pur-
poses—taxation among the rest. Sketchy
calculations are made, based on the elusive
probate returns of the dead and on the
income-tax returns of the living, some of
whom don’t tell half the truth, while others,
though wealthy, contrive for a long term of
years to tell no truth at all. An income
census would at least drive these persons to
the risk of positive perjury, which may seem
more dangerous than negative reticence.
* * * *
The taking of a census of incomes may
lead in time to the abolition of the secrecy
of the income-tax paper, a superstition which
has already been scrapped in the United
States without the innovation being blamed
for more crime or for extra divorce. There
is also talk of scrapping it in France, in the
hope that publicity, curiosity, suspicion and
the tendency of people to believe the worst
of each other and mention the fact to third
parties may at least doublethe tax revenue.
The law objects to secret marriage, secret
burial and concealment of birth. It should
object to secret caucuses. It violates. the
privacy of factories, restaurants (especially
dirty ones), and even of private lunatic asy-
lums, back yards and dilapidated homes. It
pries into wage-sheets and rent-books; .it
makes diseases notifiable; it states in print
the civil servant’s salary; and it publishes
how much the deceased left, before he has
properly settled down in the short home
where he expects to stay a long time. In the
circumstances it might be as well to lift
the veil in a general way, and have practi-
cally no secrets left except the ballot. One
desirable side-line of advantage might accrue
if generous publicity was given to the names,
addresses and professed incomes of tax-
payers, quite apart from the excitement
which would arise when the absence of “our
respected fellow-townsman” from the pay-
sheet was noted. A feature of political life
is the passionate statement of one hon. mem-
ber that another was, previous to his elec-
tion, short of two coppers to make discord
with on a tombstone, and had to enter poli-
tics in a borrowed suit; that he was a mem-
ber and a Minister for a comparatively short
time; and that his subsequent wealth was
marvellous, especially for a man of obviously
low intelligence, with a retreating forehead
and chin like a hen’s countenance. A cor-
responding feature is the reply that the
maker of such insinuations is unfit to carry
offal to the lower animals. Some row of this
.sort befell only the other day. Free inspec-
tion of the hon. member’s schedule might
clear up the mystery, or deepen it, or bring
a rush of details from informative quarters,
or do something.
* * * *
If publicity is to do all the good it is
capable of, however, it will be necessary
to abolish the income-tax on joint-stock com-
panies except as regards that part of their
stock, if any, which is held abroad. It
should be abolished in any case, being a
stupid and unjust device, which certainly
saves trouble to lazy men and possibly brings
in some extra revenue, but which also fosters
much thick-headed delusion and declamation
about “capitalism” and the like. Assuming
that each shareholder was separately taxed
(if sufficiently l'ich to be liable) on his own
bit of profit, a semblance of equity would
be arrived at. Companies are, to a great
extent, combinations of men and women who
lack the means, even if they had the desire,
to be individual profiteers, and the easy ex-
pedient of levying a flat rate on company
profits means that the very rich, the very
poor and the intermediate have to contribute
on the same scale. Even gigantic and much-
abused corporations are apt to be deceptive.
A recent overhaul of 25 joint-stock British
concerns, with capitals ranging from £600,000
to £406,000,000, revealed that in the very
biggest of the lot there were 308,028 share-
holders, and the average wealth of each, so
far as this company was involved, was £1319.
In the most exclusive corporation on the list
the average holding was £1644, and in the
least exclusive it was £123. This isn’t capi-
talism of the Henry Ford sort, or of any
particular sort. The joint-stock company is
really something which calls for special con-
sideration, instead of highway robbery and
contumely. It represents co-operation in its
most complete form, and it calls for a cer-
tain amount of mutual trust, some hope and
occasionally a little charity. Joint-stock
enterprise requires, too, that people shall
observe the amenities of civilised life, and not
perform like a drove of hogs, or like a subur-
ban Premier sidestepping an awkward ques-
tion about a breach of faith. For these and
other reasons it is advisable that companies
should be removed from the income-tax list,
their individual shareholders being put on
instead, and that the list, which would then
have .some value, should be made available
annually to all the world and his. wife. A
probable result would be the dissipation of
much pi*econceived rot to the effect that the
rich grow richer and the poor poorer, the
disqualification of much revolutionary roar-
ing and a surprising amount of popular en-
lightenment. In addition there would be
amusement —almost as much amusement as
would ensue if the Labor caucus was thrown
open to the press, which is another matter
calling for attention.
THE TOBACCO TRUST.
“The Tobacco Trust monopolises the Australian
market. Prior to its formation, the trade was in
the hands of American, British, and Australian im-
porters and manufacturers. Amalgamations took place,
and a. holding corporation, a child of the Anglo-
American alliance, wart set up in 1903 with a capital
of £5,000,000.... Prices went up, but the increase
was not accompanied by any grant of higher rates
to the Australian grower. Lower and lower prices
were offered, growers were driven out of the industiy,
and the percentage of Australian leaf used in factories
fell from 27 p.c. in 1902 to 11 p.c. in 1913. The
holding corporation declares a regular £500,000
profit, but the profits of the constituent cos. are-
hot divulged.” — Professor H. Heaton, in “Modern
'Economic History.”
There have been three editions of Heaton’s
useful book, and the quoted paragraph seems
to have been written in 1920. In the fol-
lowing year the British Tobacco Co.’s pro-
fits were declared at £582,979, and an addi-
tional £628,591, the accumulation of some
years, came from the subsidiary cos. for dis-
tribution as bonus shares, in the proportion
of one to eight. Since then the admitted
profits have averaged £772,803 p.a.; what
the unrevealed profits amounted to only in-
siders know. A point in the Trust’s favor is
that it treats its employees well-—is, indeed,
a model employer. It pays, half their contri-
butions to friendly societies, maintains
dining-rooms at which they can get a three-
course meal for eightpence, has introduced
educational classes for the juniors in work-
ing hours, and is building houses for the
seniors on the credit foncier plan. Above all,
it has a profit-sharing scheme in which
adults may join after two years’ service and
youngsters after four years. But it ex-
hibits no conspicuous liberality in dealing
with the Australian consumer or grower. In
the shops under its control there were mas-
sive increases in price during the w T ar period,
and the subsequent reductions have been
trifling, albeit there are cut-price kiosks at
which the Trust’s shilling packets of cigar-
ettes can be bought for tenpence, and so on.
And although a show has been made in
recent years of encouraging growers the re-
sults are lamentable.
* * * *
Importations of tobacco-leaf during the last
five recorded years tell their own tale: —
lb. £
1919- .. .. 16,224,600 2,441,498
1920- . . . . 21,954,700 3,437,204
1921- .. .. 17,104,300 2,178,765
1922- . . . . 15,755,500 1,897,094
1923- .. .. 26,234,400 2,854,897
Over 90 p.c. of this leaf came from Aus-
tralia’s bad customer, the U.S.A. Of the
total imported in 1923-24, 25,204,4251 b.,
valued at £2,721,631, was grown in that
country. Australian production in the same
year amounted to 1,709,5891 b., the area un-
der crop being a beggarly 2783 acres. Yet as
far back as 18S8-89, when the population was
only half the present figure and the skirted
sex hadn’t taken to the fag habit, Australia
had 6641 acres under the weed; indeed,
“tobacco-growing,” as the Commonwealth
Statistician notes, “promised to occupy an
important place among the agricultural in-
dustries of Australia.” especially as “the
soil and climate in all the States where its
cultivation has been tried appear to be very
suitable for the growth of the plant.” As
the promise has not been fulfilled, the Tariff
Board has been commissioned by Customs
Minister Pratten to ascertain the reasons
and suggest remedies. Its instructions are
to report whether “the decrease in the quan-
tity of Australian leaf is due to insufficient
tariff protection or to other causes.” At
present there are import duties of 2s. per lb.
on unstemmed leaf and 2s. 6d. per lb. on leaf
stemmed, partly stemmed or in strips, while
there are excise duties of 2s. Id. per lb. on
hand-made strand tobacco, 7s. per lb. on
tobacco cut fine, suitable for making cigar-
ettes, and 2s. 4d. per lb. on other manufac-
tured tobacco. The Australian-grown tobac-
co, or most of it, is taxed at the 2s. 4d. rate,
and the board will probably take the view
that this impost should be reduced, if not
removed altogether. But it will need to
examine the Tobacco Trust with regard to
the “other causes.” Its inquiry will be a
farce unless the concern which monopolises
the buying of leaf is called upon to justify
the sending of £3,000,000 in one year to
a country which purchases comparatively
little Australian produce and gets away
with far too much Australian gold. It is
estimated that 10 acres of tobacco land
cultivated by a man who knows his job
will keep a family in comfort. Therefore
the £3,000.000 unnecessarily spent on im-
ported leaf would support from 10,000 to
15.000 Australian men, women and children,
chiefly in the northern parts of the con-
tinent, where soil and climate are most
suitable (incidentally, Queensland had 1061
acres under tobacco in 1895) and population
is most required. And the local demand
would, df course, increase with the popula-
tion, while there would be a fair prospect of
establishing a market in Britain, seeing that
the preferential rates of duty on unmanufac-
tured tobacco are three-fourths of the full
rates, which range from Bs. 2d. to 9s. lOd.
per lb.
* * * #
Labor politicians, some of whom now pose
as Nationalists, used to be keen on what they
called “taking over the tobacco industry.”
A notable advocate of the taking-over policy
was the present Minister for Home and
Territories, the agile I*eakce. The subject
has been dropped of late years; but when
the bottom falls out of the loan boom and
the Australian Governments are at their
w r its’ end for revenue, it will almost certainly
be revived. Nationalisation would no doubt
prove a calamity in this case, as in nearly
every other, but the only consideration that
will occur to the political gentry, who learn
nothing from their failures, is that here is a
concern which has shown that it can make
the best part of a million a year, if not the
whole million, without turning a hair. When
that situation arrives the Tobacco Trust will
need friends. It will gain a mere handful
of them by making and dividing large pro-
fits ; it will make none at all by sending
£3,090,000 or more p.a. to America for to-
bacco-leaf. It has opportunities for national
service such as offer themselves to no other
Australian company of which this paper has
knowledge; and self-interest if not gratitude
should prompt it to make full use of them.
THE SICK HOSPITALS OF SYDNEY.
This is one of the seasons of the year when
the Sydney hospitals make known their
troubles with more than usual energy. The
Royal North Shore has made a start by ex-
plaining that its expenses last year were
£43,511, or slightly more than £4 per patient,
and that to meet them it had gathered
£14.(519 from the public and £6430 from
those patients who paid a little towards their
upkeep. Even with £18,953 subsidy from
the Government—which is more liberal to
this hospital than to most others, because
it has the burden of caring for the sick in a
very extensive district —this leaves it a
little further in the financial mud than be-
fore. But the Royal North Shore is not in
as bad a position as many others. Every
public hospital in Sydney is carrying on
upon an overdraft and the faith of its
bankers that a civilised Government can
never allow it to go absolutely broke.
The financial anaemia lias many painful
results, including an inadequacy of accom-
modation which makes a really serious epi-
demic a prospect of horror —it would turn
a condition of mere chaos into a nightmare.
Even under normal conditions the struggle
to keep the work going is bad enough. In
the Prince Alfred, for instance, there is a
long list of patients requiring treatment who,
their cases being classed as non-urgent, may
have to wait for months before beds are
available: and they continually find their
prospects of relief from painful maladies de-
ferred by the arrival of new urgent cases.
Everybody knows that prompt treatment of
disease is desirable, but the conditions _of
this and other hospitals, which are all doing
their best, make it impossible; and some-
times there is a tragedy and an outcry when
a patient, turned away as non-urgent, incon-
siderately dies.
When the patient at last finds a spare bed
to lie in he experiences another effect of the
starvation of finances—his own semi-star-
vation. Taking the Prince Alfred again as
fairly typical, he will get, unless he has
friends to look after him, merely one decent
meal a day, with a long night of hollowness
between the early afternoon meal and the
one that comes belatedly in the morning.
Each of those meals is little more than a
dull repetition of plentiful bread and un-
plentiful butter and tea and a choice between
sago, gruel and arrowroot. That it is in-
adequate is admitted by the hospital’s readi-
ness to prepare for the patients any suitable
food that friends may bring—in effect, the
hospital in its hard-upness relies upon the
friends of patients to feed them, and especi-
ally to provide those temptations to the appe-
tite which convalescents so much need. The
friendless have to go without.
On top of these conditions, which more
particularly affect the patients, is the sweat-
ing of the nurses; the North Shore Hospital
committee mentioned gratefully that, in
order to help things through, its nurses had
refrained from asking for the reduction of
hours to which they are entitled.
It is all very appalling, and the only step
that has been taken of late to rectify matters
has been a request tq the Canadian hospital
expert Dr. McEacharn to inspect the hos-
pitals and give his opinion about improve-
ments. His report is not likely to touch
the struggle for life which the institutions
and their patients and would-be patients are
undergoing. Apart from Government con-
trol, and under that control making complete
provision for all needs —and, in view of recent
experience of Government control in other
concerns, the old movement for this most
desirable system has almost faded out —it
should be possible to secure a co-ordination
of hospital services which would, in a great
measure, relieve the strain. Medical know-
ledge and surgical skill have do7ie a great
deal. For example, the appendicitis case
used to lie in hospital for three weeks, but
is now discharged to home-convalescence in
ten days, bar accidents; and thus the
accommodation which formerly met the
needs of 17 patients uoav suffices for 33 in a
year. The majority of cases in hospital to-
day, however, do not need nursing in the
strictest sense of the word, hut are merely
retained because there is nowhere to send
them. A system of convalescent hospitals,
where a comparatively small nursing staff
would be required and the expenses all round
would be less than in a general-treatment
hospital, would greatly reduce the strain on
the latter. There should certainly also be
more intermediate hospitals, which might be
made almost self-supporting once the build-
ings were supplied, and would be a boon to
poor but proud professional people who now
feel themselves forced to mortgage their souls
to pay heavy fees in private hospitals, as
well as relieving the public hospitals of many
patients willing enough to pay fees for their
treatment if those fees were reasonably
within their reach. Such institutions would
provide a large measure of relief.
But there would still remain some financial
problems, for the public appears to be grow-
ing increasingly reluctant to provide the
funds needed in the shape of direct contri-
butions. In the Golden Casket lottery
Queensland has found a way of helping sub-
stantially its hospital finance, by a method
of levy which, as those levied upon are all
volunteers, produces no objection from any-
body but those who have an abhorrence of
gambling. The system is not one for a com-
munity to bfe proud of; that no better alter-
native offers is indeed something to be
ashamed of. Worse than all, though, is the
neglect of the sick; and it should be possible
to overlook even a little not very harmful
gambling in order to banish the suffering of
delayed treatment, the semi-starvation and
the sweating which at present disgrace us.
H. M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Loans in Aid of Revenue.
There was a bright spell in Sydney when
it was announced, almost in one breath, that
the big Federal loan on behalf of the States
had closed with great eclat; that the N. S.
Wales £4,000,000 London loan had proved
a dazzling achievement; that the Ma State
is about to resume the sale of stock (no limit
mentioned) over, the Treasury counter; that
the Sydney Citjt Council is about to borrow
£3,000,000 for the great electrical undertak-
ing around which scandalous tales are accu-
mulating ; and that the same body proposes
to raise a further £1,500,000 for resumptions,
etc. In the matter of the big loan raised
in London by N. S. Wales at a discount, the
exultation of Premier Lang amounted to a
hosanna, lie hailed the float as proof that
the British capitalist approves of his Min-
istry, and of all its sayings and doings, and
would really prefer it to any other kind of
Ministry. It was something of an anti-
climax when news arrived that £2.50D,000 of
the £4,000,000 responsibility had been left


on the underwriters’ hands, and that the
stock, issued at £9B for each nominal £lOO,
was selling 17s. 6d. below that figure. Lang
will get the £4,000,000 (less charges) just
the same, but these inferences follow: (1)
That there is no enthusiasm even over a
N. S. Wales stock carrying good interest and
no admiration of Lang’s policy; (2) that
the underwriters, who must have found a
considerable hole in their anticipated pro-
fits, are liable to demand harder terms next
time; and (3) that if the loan had been
offered in the old way, direct to the subscrib-
ing public, without the costly middleman,
the tenders would probably have amounted to
£lOO or so. The natural or voluntary money
market failed long ago, and the artificial
or cultivated one depends on a single finance
machine. There was a time w’lien the occa-
sional misfire of the Australian lOU “at
Home” only caused a temporary stringency,
but now the result would be staggering. The
State Governments have between £15,000,000
and £20,000,000 of bills payable in gold
annually to the Old Man in London, and
they liave no assured means of getting any
gold at all save by borrowing more of it
from the Old Man. So far the real lenders,
otherwise the great mass of people to whom
the persuasive underwriters sell our cargoes
of paper on commission, have probably not
begun to seriously inquire how far the mil-
lions of paper which are spent on “works”
in Australia are invested in real “works.”
Very likely the magnificence and vastness
of the all-pervading syndicate which sells
our bonds for a commission and gets rid of
them with all possible speed serve, like the
large front of a medium bank, to prove the
soundness within. But it will one day be-
come a matter of general knowledge that a
very large and increasing amount of the new
loan money goes into revenue, or (which is
the same thing) that a large and increasing
number of wholly unproductive outgoings
which used to be and should be charged to
revenue account come out of loan account;
and what will happen then? Even the dark-
est secret and the deadest corpse are apt to
leak out in time.
♦
Brisbane’s Light and Power.
FEom a man on the inside of things :
There has been considerable discussion of late in
Brisbane journals regarding the new (Greater) Bris-
bane City Council’s proposal to establish a power-
house to provide electric current for its tramways
system, and for the extensive suburban services of
light and power reticulation for which it now buys
current in bulk from the City Electric Light Co.
under agreements which expire at short intervals
from 1927 onwards.
As the old Brisbane Tramway Co. could not obtain
an extension of its franchise and carried on during
its later years under continuous threats of extinction,
it spent as little as possible on maintenance and
renewals, with the result that, when the State Gov-
ernment eventually caused the enterprise to be
acquired on terms involving expert valuation, and
handed it over to a Trust representing the metropolitan
local authorities in whose area it operated, the price
that had to be paid was an amount that painful
experience has since proved was three-quarters of a
million too much. The new' Trust has had to
renew most of the tracks, and found that the generat-
ing plant was so inefficient that some curie lit had to
be purchased from the City Electric Light Co. It
accordingly proposed to build and eejuip a new'
pow'er-house on a new site. Southern experts were
engaged to investigate and report on the' project,
and, as an alternative, the City Co. offered to supply
all the required current. The experts reported that
during the first few years the proposed new power-
house w'ould not generate current at a cost as low
as the price the co. offered, but that over a period
of 10 years its own plant would be the cheapest
proposition for the Trust. The State Government,
however, refused the necessary permit for the Trust
to go on with the project, mainly in view of the
contemplated establishment of a Greater Brisbane.
In June last .year the new Greater Brisbane
Council—which, by the way, did not actually take
over control of its huge area of 384 square miles
till October I—affirmed the necessity for controlling
the generation of the current required for the tram-
ways and its extensive services of light and power.
Negotiations were opened up with the City Electric
Light Co. and several conferences were held with
the directors. The directors persistently declined to
put a price on their undertaking for a straight-out
sale, but constantly urged the Council to resume and
allow the price to be settled by expert valuation
and arbitration, or to agree to buy on condition
that the price should be the value of the physical
assets as assessed by experts, and goodw'ill as deter-
mined by arbitration. As the Council’s legal advisers
had reported that under its Act the Council could
supply and sell electric energy in any part of its area
irrespective of a franchise held by any other body,
and as the bulk current for most of the area was
being purchased from the company under agreements
which expired w'ithin a few years, and as, if it had its
own power-house, the Council could meet the in-
creasing demands by adding fresh generating units
from time to time, the Council could not see that
it was called upon to pay much for goodwill; and
so the aldermen refused to be drawn into any such
agreement. The sorry experience of the tramway
resumption acted as a deterrent.
The City Electric Light Co. is building and
equipping a new power-house on the river bank at
Doughboy Creek, and it is known that the present
power-house at William-street will be scrapped when
the other is ready. Among other disabilities, coal
has to be carted to William-street in drays. T.he
City Co.’s plant generates at 5000 volts, which is
not now the standard pressure, and there is a mixture
of direct and alternating current in the central city
supply area. Recognising that much of the co.’s
plant and its present power-house are out of date,
the Council expressed a preference for setting up
its own establishment, with standard-type generators
and all layout and equipment according to modern
practice, and instructed its officers to prepare esti-
mates of what that would cost, ready to take the
whole of the load of the tramways and power and
lighting within the Council’s area. That estimate
amounted to about £1,110,000. The Council accord-
ingly offered to purchase the co.’s undertaking for
£1,500,000 conditional on the new station now under
construction being handed over with one turbo-gen-
erator of 12,500 k.w. complete. The company replied
with a demand for £2,500,000 plus any sums paid
on account of capital expenditure after March 1.
So the Council called tenders for sufficient plant to
take over the tramways load and that of the area
of South Brisbane (the eo.’s order-in-council for
South Brisbane is due for renewal or take-over by the
local authority in February, 1927). Thereupon
ensued a campaign of abuse of the Council led by
the Brisbane Courier. The Council was called upon
to negotiate further with the co., and the citizens
were threatened with appalling disaster if the Council
persisted in the project of setting up a new plant
rather than pay to the co. for an old plant more
than twice the sum an entirely new plant would cost.
The Council eventually received tenders for the first
instalment of plant it would require, and then
somewhat weakly offered to defer accepting tenders
if the co. would agree to join in a request that
the Governor-in-Council would extend the period
during which the Council had to give notice of its
intention to take over the South Brisbane area by
the time required for further negotiations. This
suggestion was peremptorily refused by the co., which
sought to have the Council involved in such delay
as would prevent it from getting its own station
ready in time to take over the South Brisbane load,
and so allow the co. to retain its rights over that
area for a further period of five years. The Council
thereupon, with only one dissentient, resolved to
authorise the M ay or to accept the tender recommended
by the Council’s engineers; but the Mayor announced
that he would defer actually accepting the tender
for a further three days to give the co. a last chance
to submit an undertaking to extend the time for taking
over the South Brisbane area. The co. gave the
required undertaking; but the Courier’s campaign
of abuse has not ended, and may yet consume the re-
mainder of the remarkable patience which the Mayor
has displayed.
It is well known that several of the Gov-
ernment’s friends and supporters own shares in
the co., and speculators were buying at up to 28s.
6d. in anticipation that the Council w’ould be forced
into purchasing or resuming from the co. at a price
equivalent to £2 per share. These speculators got
a knock when the Government approved the Council s
request for authority to borrow the requisite capital
to install the first sections of the proposed new
station.
If the co. had succeeded, or should yet succeed, in
getting the Council to pay anything like £2,500,000
for the City Electric Light Company’s plant, Brisbane
will not get electric current at reasonable rates during
the next two generations. The City Co. charges 6d.
per unit less 10 per cent, discount, plus a consumer’s
charge, for lighting current. The charges, in Sydney
and Melbourne are much lower. The maximum charge
in Melbourne is 3sd. per unit by the Melbourne
City Council, and that authority has to pay 355.
per ton for its coal, whereas coal costs only 225. per
ton in Brisbane.
There has not been a case of more shameful mis-
representation and abuse in an effort to make the
many suffer for the aggrandisement of the few than
the alleged leading papers of Brisbane have exercised
in their attempts to stampede the City Council.
♦
This Solidarity.
The gods, after dowering J. T. Lang with
the obstinacy of two mules and an amazing
amount of political luck, cut short their bene-
factions and left the poor man without a
sense of humor. Surveying the N. S. Wales
Labor camp and finding it a seething mass
of vendettas, dogfights and double-crossings,
with a Ivilkenny-cat flavor scattered over the
tout ensemble, so to speak, the Ma State’s
catastrophic Premier has issued _ one of his
periodic statements to the press, in which he
explains the turmoil thus: —
The most valuable asset of the Labor party is its
vitality. Labor conferences meet to discharge
serious business and to discuss important public
questions. Being composed of men and women hold-
ing strong convictions on industrial and political
issues, clash after clash of argument naturally pre-
vails.... Of course the next Labor conference will
contain factions. But when it is all over the old
solidarity will remain.
That kind of thing could be said 20 years
ago without anybody sniggering. The moral
strength and the political weakness of Labor
in those days was its capacity to get all
worked up over abstract principles and high
ideals. To-day its political strength and
its moral weakness is its ability to shove
ideals and principles into the remote back-
ground while it quarrels about the loot. The
principal thing that will be decided at the
conference which began on Good Friday,
as everyone inside and outside the Labor
army knows, is whether what their
Labor opponents call the “crafty, auda-
cious and desperate gang” now in charge
of the affairs of the A.L.P, is to be
kicked out and replaced by gentlemen who,
in the opinion of a not inconsiderable section
of the party, are not one whit more disin-
terested. It is not “important public ques-
tions” that concern the Labor leaders of
to-day, but only the question of which par-
ticular set of practical-minded persons is to
receive the many and varied pecuniary bene-
fits arising out of control of a well-organised
industrial-political machine. The only
offence against morals and principles that
matters twopence in these days is the offence
of being found out, and too often even the
clearest conviction of proficiency in the
management of ingenious ballot-boxes and
the preparation of perjured testimony is
more productive of admiration than of sur-
prise. An instructive little illustration is
the Walsii-Johanson shindy. The Devil
quoting Scripture for his own purposes is not
half so diverting a spectacle as Tom Walsh
eulogising the principle of compulsory arbi-
tration. and Jacob Johanson getting
purple in the face about the rights of the
matlows to control their own union. But
Lang is right on one point. When the
smoke blows away and the battle is over,
“the old solidarity will remain.” There will
be nothing to stop it. Whether the payers
of union dues are bossed by the old gang or
in the clutches of a new set of exploiters
they will be solid, for the same reason that
sheep remain in paddocks instead of climb-
ing telegraph-poles and swimming rivers.
♦
An Effective Tonic.
Pointing out how foolish it would be for
Australia to start manufacturing its own
motor-cars instead of getting them made at
Kalamazoo (Kan.) or Oshkosh (Wis.), the
Argus recently told its readers that about
the only thing that would happen would be
that the total Australian motor-trade would
diminish, and that hundreds of people who
used to currycomb, shampoo and ehauff the
imported cars would be out of Work. One of
the reasons why this paper does not fear
such a result is that experience shows that
such things don’t happen. When Uncle
Samuel commenced to stick petrol-waggons
together for himself instead of paying Henri
and Gaston to do it, there wasn't time even
to talk of unemployment. But to come a
little nearer home, there is the case of Father
Bull. Under the tutelage of Reginald
McKenna, Father Bull agreed to try a
little dose of Protection, and one of the in-
dustries it was applied to was motor manu-
facture. It is true that the McKenna duties
were taken off for a while by Philip Snow-
den, and that Priminister Baldwin had
some trouble in getting them back, but they
have stuck there most of the last four years,
with a bit of a discount to the overseas maker
under the British flag. Passing over certain
benefits gained under this arrangement by
Canada, the effect on Father Bull is rather
astounding. This is how his exportable sur-
plus of motor-vehicles has been mounting:—
No. of Cars. Value.
1922 .. 3,041 £1,955,625
1923 . . 6,254 2,843,721
1924 . . 15,596 4,861,060
1925 .. 29,051 7,412,592
That is the effect on the domestic industry,
and it seems to be a good and desirable effect.
But according to the Argus theory there
should, during this period of expansion of
the local trade, have been a marked falling
off in imports. The fact that a 33-j per cent,
duty has been whacked on the foreign-made
article should have ensured that most in-
fallibly. But it didn’t and it hasn’t. Here
is the tale of imports for the same years,
and it is a steadily-rising tale: —
No. of Cars. Value.
1922 .. 22,832 £4,041,089
1923 .. 29,826 4,578,477
1924 . . 27,449 4,787,748
1925 . . 50,334) 8,526,564
Changes that influence movements of trade
are somewhat tardily reflected in British
Board of Trade statistics, and it may be that
the temporary check of the stream of imports
in 1024, the year in which the McKenna
duties were suspended, is not a direct con-
sequence of that suspension. But the Argus
could not have chosen a worse field for the
demonstration of the theory that Protective
duties are bad for trade.
♦
White Sister and Brown Brother.
Dear Bulletin, —i,,, White Women’s Pro-
tection Ordinance recently passed by the
Papuan Council is necessary for reasons
other than those mentioned by “Bouragi”
(B. 4/2/’26). As far back as five years
ago residents spoke to me on the subject, and
predicted trouble. One of their chief worries
was the lowering of the white woman’s pres-
tige by some of her own sex. As in
South Africa, white mistresses have thought
no harm of letting the male portion of their
domestic retinue see them reclining in bed
with disarranged clothing when morning tea
was brought in. An open nightdress gives
a houseboy much opportunity for play of
the imagination. Moreover, actions which
the white man regards as innocent, the native
looks upon as highly suggestive. Kissing,
for instance, he regards as the prelude to
other things, and for a girl to behave with
too much vivacity in his proximity is taken
to indicate that she is quite ready to permit
any advances he may make. “Bouragi,”
while blaming the missions, does not mention
the moving-pictures. Repeatedly I have been
asked by boys returning from the picture-
show, where they perhaps saw some specially-
suggestive examples of Hollywood smut,
whether “white people he always do that
fashion.” And films in which Asiatics or
white actors, got up as sheiks or some other
brand of nigger, save the white heroine and
are affectionately rewarded help to persuade
the colored spectator's, who applaud these
dangerous productions heartily, that in real
life the color-line is not so rigid as they were
led to suppose. Other factors which have
had their share in lowering the natives’
opinion of the European female of the species
are obscene postcards and photographs cir-
culated by decadent white men; also the
yarns told by men who ought to know better
to native boys with whom they may happen
to be in working contact —on luggers, for in-
stance —concerning their own amatory
affairs. Then there is the knowledge, gained
by experience as well as hearsay, that there
are white demireps who are 'by no means
averse from numbering colored boys amongst
their clients. Like the islanders of the
Torres Strait, Papuans now visit some Aus-
tralian ports, and when they return to their
own cocoanut bower they are not ignorant
of the subtleties of “white man fashion.”
It was a colored youth who told me, after
a trip to Townsville and Cairns, “When
you want woman, white woman he more
cheap.” He went on to compare the relative
tariffs of Japanese and white lydies with a
gesture of contempt for the cheaper white.
As a final point, I have known white girls—
own sisters to the film-doped and jazz-crazed
young loafers to be encountered in Melbourne
and Sydney, who take a pride in announcing
that they are “shot” —to make advances to
colored boys, with results that can easily
be conjectured. The saddest feature of this
lowering of the white woman from her pedes-
tal is that it is generally the innocent who
become the unfortunate victims of the black
man’s lust. —Yours, etc., Coconut.
*
Where is My Birthright?
“Two Seas” : No one save union officials
will deny that Australia is in sore need
of desirable immigrants, particularly skilled
tradesmen. But the whole energy of our
drummers is devoted to luring “farmers”
and would-be tillers of the soil from the
crowded cities of England and dumping them
in the cities of Australia, where they are
left to find their way to farms that don’t
exist except in the imaginations of immi-
gration agents. The representations made to
prospective migrants by these agents range
from slight exaggerations to plain lies. Here
is one sample clipped from the Times de-
scribing the farm-training college in Norfolk
run by H. W. Potts, formerly in charge of
the Hawkesbury College. After describing
how the intending Australian settler will
have the opportunity of “watching the fell-
ing of trees,” which is the principal job on
an Australian farm, the writer adds: —
With this minimum amount of capital ( £250)
it is calculated that the student will be able to
take over a farm of 160 acres, and will then be
entitled to Government loans lip to three times the
amount of his own possessions. Bigger holdings
may also be obtained if the settler decides to farm
on a big scale at once. For mixed farming he will
be able to get tip to 2000 acres, and for stock-
raising up to 10,000 acres.
The six months’ training at Lynford Hall
“will be accepted by the Governments of the
Australian States as a guarantee of a stu-
dent’s fitness for a farm, and with a certi-
ficate from the principal he will be able to
obtain land without formality.” So far as
N. S. Wales is concerned, the student will
haunt our Lands Department until his capi-
tal is expended, and then take a job in the
city. He would, at least, earn the basic
wage there, which is more than hundreds
of small farmers can do even though they
started with five times the capital of the
young migrant. What sense is there in de-
luding him into believing that he can succeed
with so little capital and experience when
there are hundreds of men of lifelong experi-
ence on the land and with capital up to £3OOO
who have been trying in vain to get Crown
lands upon which they would have a reason-
able chance of success? A neighbor who
has £3OOO available to give his son a start
applied to the N. S. Wales Lands Depart-
ment, stating the fact that his son had worked
on the land all his life and wanted about 2000
acres of grazing land suitable for sheep. The
Department replied by posting him “Crown
Lands Gazetted Available.” The greater
portion of the contents is devoted to descrip-
tions of abandoned “farms” that were taken
up by optimistic city men and returned sol-
diers. There is also a long list of farms
for sale by the Savings Bank —mostly ridi-
culously small areas upon which the owners
struggled vainly to make a living until the
bank foreclosed. The abandoned “Settlement
Purchases for Sale” have the significant note :
“No advance under R.S.S. Acts will be made
in respect of this farm.” Here is a fair
average sample of what the Department
thinks it worth while advertising:—
Land District of Grafton.—Block A of about 1700
acres. The capital value is £7OB 6s. Bd. ; the
annual rental, £8 17s. Id. ; and the survey fee,
£22 13s. 4d. Tenterfield, 30 miles north-west.
Steep, mountainous country, granite formation;
sandy soil; rough, rocky and inaccessible in parts;
timbered thickly with gum, stringybark, box, black-
butt and scrub timbers, also patches of vine scrub
and jungle in gullies; water is sufficient in Malara
Creek ; the country is sound and suitable for grazing
only. Rainfall, about 34 inches. No promise of
monetary assistance under the R.S.S. Act can be
made in respect of this block.
As a matter of fact, the Department has no
Crown lands to offer intending settlers that
would attract a practical man of experience,
or if it has it keeps the whereabouts a close
secret. Even where the Government acquires
estates for subdivision they are cut up into
such small blocks that only newchums would
waste time and money on them. But fool
politicians, even in the face of the immense
losses sustained through putting unsuitable -
men on unsuitable acres, still pour forth the
old drivel about “breaking up big estates and
putting them to better use” —the “better
use” resulting in a dozen city farmers starv-
ing and ultimately bilking the taxpayers on
a dozen small blocks that formerly kept a
couple of families in comfort, and enabled
them to pay their interest and taxes. There
are plenty of such “farmlets” on offer now
that have cost the Government twice the
amount at which they are offered, with no
takers. It never seems to strike the fool
who wants to settle every migrant on a
farm that good grazing land isn’t necessarily
good farming land; consequently a lot of good
grazing land is spoilt by ploughing it up in
a vain attempt to raise a payable crop on
it. Left alone, the land torn up by the new-
clium farmer would seed and raise a much
larger amount of forage “on its own” than
the farmer could raise by the sin, sweat and
sorrow process of the plough ; and the worst
of it is that when he has abandoned his hope-
less proposition, the native grasses that fat-
tened stock and showed a profit to the ori-
ginal owner will take years to grow again.
If the Government is sincere in its promise
to give the primary producer and the man
who wants to be a p.p. a fair opportunity,
it should make provision for settling those
men on the land —mostly the sons of
pioneers—who have the cash and the experi-
ence to take up enough land to run two pr
three thousand sheep. Wheat farming is
overdone. Previous Governments have lost
hundreds of thousands in demonstrating that
fact. The small wool-grower has never been
catered for. It is time he had a look in.
♦
America and “Hands Off!”
Wiiat becomes of Uncle Sam’s Monroe
Doctrine, enunciated 103 years ago and
cherished as a sacred thing ever since, in the
light of Brazil’s recent interference, with ad-
mittedly marked and generally resented
results, in the affairs of Europe V Oughtn’t
it to cut both ways? If the United States
can say to European Powers “We won’t have
you intervening in American affairs, even in
Central or South America,” shouldn’t it
logically restrain or forbid its coffee-colored
proteges from spragging the wheels of an
international conference in Europe in which
Uncle Sam himself declines to take a hand?
Of course it may be suggested that Brazil,
like every other Power, first-rate or any old
rate, was invited to join the League of
Nations and take part in its deliberations
and doings, whereas no European Power has
yet been invited to help straighten out South
American tangles. But isn’t the very exist-
ence of the League, albeit it owed its genesis
to Woodrow Wilson, a direct challenge to
the shadowy Monroe Doctrine? The more
South American republics that join it and
consent to be bound by its decisions, the
sooner will come a time when the League,
located in the heart of Europe and with
European influences predominant, will have
the moral and legal right to settle, say,
a boundary dispute between Peru and
Bolivia into which the Washington Govern-
ment, not being a member of the League,
would have no conceivable excuse for butting.
If that is conceded, what becomes of the
Monroe Doctrine? Merc doctrines don't
amount to much, anyhow, except as articles
of national opinion, but it looks as if Uncle
Sam could only have kept his most quoted
one in a semblance of working order by not
only keeping out of the League himself, but
by keeping every, independent nation on his
continent out of it as well.
Queensland’s Drought Insurance.
“•Tackeroo” : Twenty-odd years ago P. .T.
Leahy, then member for the Warrego (Q.),
drew Parliament’s attention to the urgent
necessity of linking up the three main trunk-
lines. He pointed out that the stock saved
in a single drought would more than pay
for the construction of these link-lines. "Since
then this matter has frequently cropped up,
but droughts come' and go, stock perish, and


The
TURKISH BATHS.
Open to the Public.
Luxuriously appointed, and under the direction of
qualified masseurs, these baths are meeting a long-felt
want in Sydney.
A special feature of a Turkish Bath is the massage. Its
splendid benefits are widely acknowledged, and “The Aus-
tralia” attendants, both male and female (white only), render
a service equal to that in any other part of the world.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “AUSTRAOTEL, SYDNEY.”
i Single Room, with Breakfast from Hf-
TMustralia
(Paid-tip Capital, £422,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
lilil
I
mm
Miiiiii
V
m
■Muy’**#) =Bg
jji&OTe&ty |@|
=•* :I:S
mi
I If I
: zz 5
k£
nsaf!
SV73
boJP
>1
'S~'in c
Scotch
the
zxcvb
graziers are ruined, and nothing is done.
Now R. C. Piiilp, chairman of the Queens-
land Cattle Growers' Association, advocates
the construction of these lines. He recently
visited the area of the Cooper in the worst
drought ever experienced by white men. Ho
travelled 1000 miles and never saw a blade
of grass, but there were dead and dying
cattle and sheep everywhere. The drought
was accentuated by the extreme heat day and
night—he once met a temperature of 127 deg.
Near Windorah he saw birds dropping dead
from the trees on account of the intense heat.
Kangaroos, emus and even goats failed to
survive. Crows and hawks were the only
things that thrived. Graziers throughout the
central districts have also been having a ter-
rible time, and many of them have had to hand-
feed their sheep for months. Appalling losses
of sheep are reported from these districts.
(Bountiful rains have since fallen practically
all over the State.) During the drought
agistment country was rushed. It always is.
But the best agistment country is practically
valueless if stock, particularly sheep, have
to travel long distances over bare, dusty
stock routes to get to it. And the routes
are generally bare when agistment country
is sought. Hence the crying need of these
link-lines. Some day a far-seeing Govern-
ment will complete the western railway, con-
tinuing the Quilpie line on to Ei-omanga, and
striking from there north-west to Camooweal
and connecting up the central and northern
lines with this section. The construction of
these lines would be the greatest insurance
against loss of stock in times of drought
that could be provided in the State. A
drought is seldom general, and stock could
be quickly removed to more favored areas.
Apart from a half-hearted attempt to link
up Longreach and Winton, nothing has been
done, while millions have been wasted on
lines of no developmental value. We Aus-
tralians are a casual lot of cusses, and look
upon droughts, prickly-pear, rabbits and bad
Governments as something to be expected.
But recognising what these droughts cost
the country, surely it is up to the politicians
to do something statesmanlike and help the
graziers out back, who are up against fire,
drought and flood, and who, in spite of all
the setbacks and taxes, are producing the
biggest percentage of the country’s wealth.
“Croson” : The other morning fines totalling
over £2OO were inflicted on law-breaking motor-
ists in one Melbourne suburban court. If magis-
trates had more regard for the public safety
they would give every reckless or drunken
driver a term of imprisonment without the
option. His license would then be really
suspended. Only the other day a constable
noticed a motor-cyclist making extra-fast
time along St. Kilda-road, and, jumping in
a passing car, started in pursuit. He put on
pace and his speedometer showed 40, then
50 and even GO m.p.h., but the cyclist was
faster. Up Wellington-street they sped ; near-
ing crowded Chapel-street—between 6 and
7 p.m.—where four tramlines cross, the
motorist slowed down, not wishing to maim
or kill people, but the cyclist sped on re-
gardless. When he was apprehended, which
he wouldn’t have been unless he had un-
guardedly returned on his tracks, the Law,
instead of locking him up for a dangerous
madman, merely handed him a summons—
which lie casually ignored—and the beak
fined him a tenner and suspended his license,
which hasn’t been produced and may not
exist at all, for six months. At this rate he
may possibly contribute £IOO or so to the
revenue before he speeds himself into eter-
nity, but meantime a dozen persons may be
maimed or killed —and they are mostly worth
more than a tenner apiece.
♦
“S.E.C.”: J. Ingram, manager of Vie. Hard-
wood Co., accuses “M.G.S.” of being “pain-
fully one-eyed” in his description of Powell-
town after Black Sunday. I too visited this
hamlet and a number of others in the Yarra
Valley a day or so after the fires. “M.G.S.”
might have made his description tell a worse
story of badly-built, insanitary habitations
and haphazard town-planning. Mr. Ingram
defends the hamlet, or what is left of it,
by saying the cottages owned by the Hard-
wood Co. compare favorably with those of
any Vic. milling township. His statement
is unanswerable. But this question is not
one of degree. Nor is it a reply to “M.G.S.”
to say that Powelltown boasts “one of the
largest and most up-to-date sawmills in the
State.” It was only because of the bowling-
green that this very fine mill was saved, and
the lives of the inhabitants; not because of
the lay-out of the township. Powelltown,
it is true, is typical of a dozen such hamlets
in the Yarra Valley—a haphazard collection
of huts: inside, many of them made very
comfortable; and because it is typical it is
a menace. The houses are matchwood, and
they have no clearing around them. The
authorities, if they are going to profit by the
lessons of Black Sunday, should make" this
rich company and others realise that a con-
tinuance of the present state of affairs .is
not to be tolerated. They should be com-
pelled to make ample provision for park and
recreation areas which would serve as safety
zones. If this is not done a few years will
see a recurrence of the awful catastrophe.
Mr. Ingram might take the lesson to heart
himself and persuade his co. to create a vil-
lage at Powelltown that will be a model for
every sawmilling community in Victoria. He
would thus confer a blessing on the great-
hearted people who have to live and work
in such places.
4
A controversy about suburban subdivisions
in Melbourne, started by ex-State Treasurer
William McPherson, has obtruded some
startling facts on the public notice. No-
body need take his life in his hands to go
slumming in Melbourne, plenty of squalid
little homes set in pocket-handkerchief allot-
ments being visible from any of Mr. Clapp’s
suburban electric trains. But it is alarming
to learn that subdivisions sufficient for a
population of two million people have already
been made in and about the present con-
glomerate of under a million. These sub-
divisions were made on the vicious principle
that to give the working-man a decent
amount of light, air and space would in-
crease the cost of living for him, gas, water
and other services being proportionately more
expensive in a widely-spaced suburb. The
notion that a city which can only afford to
accommodate its citizens in hovels or apart-
ment-houses lias outgrown its proper limits
has not penetrated to the directors of Mel-
bourne’s destinies.
A PIG IN A POKE.
“The opinion has been expressed, both in the House of Commons and the city newspapers, that
when they float loans in London the Australian States ought to make a frank and complete statement
of their financial position.”
John Bull: “Take it out of the hag, please . I never saw a pig with a tail like that
before.”
Motoring doctors charged with exceeding
the speed limit generally offer the excuse
that they were on their way to attend a
patient, leaving it to be inferred that if the
law was broken it was done with the laud-
able object of saving or prolonging life. Fire
brigades, too, enjoy a sort of prescriptive
right to tear along the streets at a pace that
would get anyone else into trouble, and have
exercised it from the days when Hood made
his satiric reference to “the firemen a-swear-
ing at a man they’ve run over and killed.”
No doubt there are times when ordinary
rules should not stand in the way of rescue
work but the Melbourne City Coroner judi-
ciously reminded a witness the other day
that, though the Fire Brigades Act stipulates
that firemen must go where they are wanted
with all possible speed, and while it is un-
written law that they should have a free
course, “that does not allow them to kill a
man.” In this case it was a fireman who was
killed through a collision, but that only shows
that a hose-carriage approaching a busy in-
tersection at a pace estimated at nearly 40
miles an hour is taking chances which it
shouldn’t be allowed to take. Neither a
doctor nor a fireeart-driver is entitled to
endanger lives in the street to save one in
a house, and in the case of firemen it is
generally only a case of saving property.
“Percy Pawnticket” : The Costs fraternity
in Sydney is disturbed by an action of Judge
Cohen at the Darlinghurst Quarter Ses-
sions ; he allowed a man who was neither
barrister nor solicitor to act as advocate for
an accused person, his brother. Such an
action breaches the citadel of legal privilege,
the strength of which is based upon the Law’s
requirement that a gent, one must be hired
by any party to a court case who feels unable
to speak for himself. The Judge’s action
may not be legal; but there is some common-
sense in it. The Law, in limiting the right
to appear as advocates to licensed legal prac-
titioners, pleads that it merely desires to
save the ignorant from legal quackery ; but
—well, take this case. When Mrs. Pawn-
ticket was sued by a discharged servant
for money already paid, I, who had to foot
the bill, was faced with the position that,
as the defendant would be incapable of put-
ting her case coherently, I had to either pay
an unjust claim or pay a solicitor a fee,
which would be irrecoverable even though
the defence was successful. Actually, a way
round was discovered on that occasion. I
have some knowledge of the way in which
matters can be worked in the lower courts,
wherefore, whilst the magistrate was explain-
ing that he could not hear anybody but the
defendant herself or a qualified legal repre-
sentative, I was able to press forward points
which the P.M. might easily have overlooked
had they not been put to him. The case,
therefore, was dismissed without any costs
being incurred. The rule that a husband
or any other relative or friend who is able
to state a case in court has no right to be
heard is, as I think this experience shows,
unfair, helping no one but the wolfish person
who has been given the legal authority to
harvest costs in the courts of more or less
justice.
4
That Germany has learnt nothing from her
experience of colonial government appears
from the suggestion of one Herr Schacht,
president of the Reichsbank, who advocates
that his concern should be granted, by whom
not stated, the right to establish settlements,
the locality not revealed, in the form of
chartered companies, with private capital.
Teuton currency and police administered
under some form of home rule. Acclaimed at
Berlin as a new idea, the notion is as old
as robbery with violence, and as discredited.
Most French, British and Dutch colonies
were first administered by chartered com-
panies. The objects of their solicitude were
rescued from their clutches when the scandal
came to smell so strong as to be readily
discernible in Europe. India was taken from
a British company and Java from a Dutch.
When the competition for new markets bc-
came acute about 1880 the method was tried
again. North Borneo, the Niger, East Africa
and South Africa were burdened with Brit-
ish companies; East Africa, New Guinea and
some of the Pacific islands had German syn-
dicates wished upon them, and the famous
Congo enterprise started on its nefarious
career. The British and German East
Africa companies went stony in 10 years
and handed their charges over to their re-
spective Governments; the German New
Guinea Company was dead and damned
by 1899; the Royal Niger Company was
bankrupt by 1900, and the lid was taken off
the Belgian Congo abomination after the
demise of Leopold. The British S. Africa
and the North Borneo companies alone sur-
vive. The former has had to delegate its
powers to the colonists themselves, while
the latter has ceased to meddle with trade
and strives to balance its budget by taxa-
tion alone. The usual abuses, such as
stringing natives up by the thumbs to stimu-
late their profit-making capabilities, were
alleged against it in former days, but it is
now a respectable though unprogressive por-
tion of the Empire. While the Federated
Malay States, under Government supervision
and with the co-operation of their native
chiefs, have been transformed into the big-
gest producers of rubber in the world, North
Borneo, equally well situated, has languished.
The Germans got an expert opinion about
their notion two years ago, when a syndicate
approached the Dutch Government for per-
mission to turn Dutch New Guinea into
a plantation for Teuton shareholders. The
answer was a prompt and rude refusal.
4
One of the Allan Government’s first jobs
when Vic. Parliament reassembles will be
to put through the bill already prepared
for the censorship of films. The bill em-
powers the Federal censor to scan on the
State’s behalf all films to be shown in Vic-
toria, whether home-grown or imported.
Australian-produced advertisements will also
be inspected. If the Censor considers films
to be unfit for juvenile consumption he will
have power to rule that children under 16
may view them only if accompanied by
adults: and parents are to be warned that
such films are unfit for their youthful pro-
geny. The device looks clumsy, since the
bare fact of such an announcement will
draw attention to a picture that would
otherwise excite small comment, and some
showmen will take advantage of the fact.
At the present moment Melbourne exhibitors
are drawing attention to an alleged film
version of Boccaccio’s “Decameron” with
toothsome posters announcing that the thing
is unfit for younglings. But the bill takes
a definite step in the right direction with a
clause providing that, after a date to be
fixed, at least 1000 ft. of British or British
Dominions film must be uncranked at every
soiree. The weak spot there is that the
date isn’t fixed by the bill.
The mutiny of the few remaining prisoners
at St. Helena, the island prison in Moreton
Bay (Q.), will do some good if it helps
to close the establishment. Moreton Bay
and its foreshores are the natural playground
of Brisbane, for all the city’s watering-places
except Southport are dotted round the bay.
There are two fair-sized islands within it.
St. Helena and Peel, which are capable of
being converted into ideal pleasure resorts.
One is the site of a prison, the other is
divided between the leper station and the
Dunwich Home for Indigent Ancients. St.
Helena is high and fertile, lies in the heart
of the bay, and is thronged in the season
with sailing craft and camping parties which
are forbidden to even approach the island.
Restrictions are almost as rigid at Peel.
Only 34 prisoners and 6 warders are now
on the settlement, once the biggest thing
of its kind in Australia; and to hold the
public off in order to maintain such a paltry
establishment is carrying the dog-in-the-
manger business to an extreme.
Canada, while professing abhorrence of a
niei’ger with the United States, is showing
a continually-growing outward antagonism
to the Empire-over-all ideal. This is marked,
not only in French Quebec, but in the con-
servative central provinces and in the West,
where immigration on a large scale is bring-
ing the anti-imperialist Laborite to the fore.
Lately one Wordsworth, a Labor member
for Winnipeg, tabled a motion “that Canada
refuse to accept responsibility for compli-
cations arising from the foreign policy of
the United Kingdom.” As Meighen, leader
of the Conservatives, made it an election
issue that Parliament should be consulted
as to whether Canada should take part in
the next war in which Britain may be in-
volved, and that a general election should
be held on the question of sending Canadian
troops abroad, it looks as if the disposition
to jib is fairly general. Still, if Canada
should refuse to take any active part in a
war wherein the mother country was en-
gaged, and if Britain’s enemies declined to
accept Canada’s plea of neutrality—as they
most certainly would —Our Lady of the
Snows might find herself worse off as a
neutral than she would have been as a
combatant.


condor
For good cheer and
lasting economy al-
ways ask for CON-
DOR LAMPS. The
concentrated spiral
filament of the mill-
type adds extra ordin-
ary long service to
their brilliancy.
"The little lamp
with the big light ”
CONDOR LAMPS
(Australasia) Ltd.
143-5 York Street - Sydney
493 Collins Street, Melbourne
16 Chess r Street, Adelaide
fcxton Hse., Queen St , Bris.
King’s Chambers, Willis St.
Wellington, N.Z.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The Labor Daily’s description of the fac-
tion that has swept the A.L.P. conference in
Sydney is “a combination of the Baileyites
and the Communist-dominated industrial-
ists,” which seems about right. The mem-
bers of the Lang Government have dissoci-
ated themselves from “Baileyism” and the
Communists, so that what was most dis-
tinctly the Ministerial party in the confer-
ence has been decisively beaten. So, besides
being in power on a minority vote in the con-
stituencies, Lang’s Government is now de-
clared to be unrepresentative even of the
movement to which it belongs.
The N.S.W. Labor Conference decided em-
phatically that political fingers should be
kept out of its pie; btit apparently it has
no objection to the dictation of others. Bit-
terly frank because of the defeat of its own
faction, this is the admission made by the
Labor Daily :
From an elevated vantage point in the public
gallery Mr. J. Howie openly directed the tactics
of the groups, and from a near-by point at the open
windows of the Conference Hall Mr. Garden actively
eo-operated with him. With Mr. Bailey as their
spokesman, they played one part after another, until
the proceedings ended on a motion that the Con-
ference adjourn.
It will be useful for electors to remember
that the executive body from which Labor
politicians will in future have to take their
■instructions was selected according to the
direction of three men not officially in the
movement at all —one of them expelled for
reasons regarded as good and sufficient, and
the other two the official representatives in
Australia of the Red Internationale.
Queensland’s 23rd Parliament dissolves to-
day, and the election campaign will be
opened to-night by Opposition-leader Moore
at Toowoomba. McCormack follows with
the Labor policy to-morrow night at Cairns.
Nominations close on April 16, and on pre-
sent indications the field will be the largest
on record. The position of parties at the
dissolution was: Labor 43, Opposition 29.
The Opposition must thus win eight seats
to get a bare majority, and Moore cheerfully
declares that it may win 22. On the Gov-
ernment’s awful financial record the Oppo-
sition ought to win the whole 43 ; but a party
that has had the run of the Treasury for
a dozen years will take some shifting.
After the date of the election had been
announced, the Queensland Cabinet dis-
covered that Cairns is in urgent need of
a new State school (to cost £10,878) and a
new ambulance building (to cost £9730).
Premier McCormack is M.L.A. for Cairns.
W. Kelso, a member of the Queensland
Opposition, is doing a little private-detective
investigation of the Mungana mystery.
Mungana Mines, Ltd., took over the leases
from Frederick Reid a month before that
lucky individual offered the option to the
Government. The co. was registered on
November 20, 1920; the option was offered
to the Government on December 16, 1920 ;
the sale for £40,000 was completed on Feb-
ruary 24, 1922. Mungana Mines, Ltd., had
a nominal capital of £20,000 in £1 shares;
10,000 shares were allotted to F. Reid as
vendor, “or as he may direct.” In the offi-
cial list of shareholders filed at the Supreme
Court, Brisbane, appears the name of Wil-
liam McCormack, 388 shares; Frederick
Reid, mining manager, Chillagoe. is set down
as the holder of 4800 shares. No returns of
shareholders, etc., have been filed at the
Supreme Court since 1921, although annual
returns are required by law; and there is
no record that the co. has been wound up, or
liquidated, or has otherwise lawfully gone
out of existence.
All that the Queensland railway leaders
Ry'mer and Moroney have got out of their
row with the Labor Government is the pros-
pect of losing their jobs. The controversy
has brought to light the fact that the State
conference of the union, which appoints the
chief executive officers, has not met for six
years. A special conference is now being
called at the demand of branches, and its
first business will be to appoint new officers.
Rymer seems to have done his dash as State
president, but Moroney (State secretary)
may be given another chance now that he
lias humbly signed the anti-Communist
pledge. J. W. Hayes, the dismissed secretary
of the south-eastern division, is touring the
State addressing meetings of railwaymen,
and the voting suggests that he has a large
majority of A.R.U. members behind him in
the revolt against the present control of the
union. Labor politicians are backing the
rebels.
Platitudes had a fine airing in the
speeches of Premier Allan, Upper-House
president Clarke and Labor-leader Prender-
gast at the Parliamentary so-long to Lord
Stradbroke. Not wishing, apparently, to out-
shine the dull spokesmen for his hosts, his
Ex. ding-donged in the same fashion. Once
or twice he seemed on the point of letting
himself go, but managed to restrain himself.
He got as far as saying that school-
teachers were a force in the community and
those in authority should “encourage” them,
and he pleaded for tolerance in politics, at
least to the extent of giving the other fellow
credit for honesty of purpose. But the most
impressive thing of all he said was that
youth desirous of serving the public should,
instead of being snubbed, be welcomed by
those of maturer years, as a leavening of
energy, hope and optimism is greatly needed.
And that is worth printing in large letters
and hanging in every party-machine room in
Australia.
"FOR MEN MU FT WORK.”
“Country-party Ministers refrained from voting when an amendment of the Tariff Bill was before
the House.”
MRS. BRUCE PAGE : “That's right, darling; you finish the scrubbing — I’m going out to
have a little fling on my oxen.”
There is nothing for Australia to be glad
about in the overthrow of Tom Walsh by
Jacob Johanson, for Johanson is far the more
dangerous man of the two ; but there is some-
thing to be glad about in the fact that the
old struggle between the two has come to a
head. Perhaps more than half of the troubles
which the seamen have laid upon the
shoulders of Australia during the past three
years have been due to the contest between
these two ; each tried to outdo the other in
showing what a devil of a fellow he was.
Even Johanson alone isn’t likely to be as
mischievous as Johanson and Walsh in com-
petition.
As a result of the row between their two
archangels, members of the Seamen’s Union
are beginning to see where the money goes.
It is time a general inquiry was made into
this matter. There are about 700,000 union-
ists in Australia. To put their contributions
at sixpence a week would be a ridiculous
under-estimate. Yet sixpence a week would
mean just upon a million a year paid in
ordinary contributions, apart from special
strike and other levies. A million takes a
lot of spending. Where does it go?
With an eye for the grandiose, the Bruce-
Page Government proposes to spend
£20,000,000 of Commonwealth money on
road-construction, which is the State Gov-
ernment’s job, conditionally upon the States
spending £15,000,000 on their own account.
Particulars were forwarded to the State Pre-
miers last month, and within a few days
“Mr. Bruce was expressing gratification at
the fact that the Queensland Government
had already intimated its concurrence, and
had said that it was prepared to sign the
agreement.” The explanation is that the
Queensland Government has an election com-
ing on, and would be charmed to debit the
Commonwealth with part of the cost of
silencing the unemployed and sending trusty
hands into doubtful electorates, should there
be time. The S.A. and Westralian Labor
Governments will likewise have to face the
electors next year, and the N.S.W. crowd
is only safe while Parliament is in recess.
They also would be delighted to have the
handling of Commonwealth funds for elec-
tioneering purposes if the Bruce-Pages are
stupid enough to let them.
Nine or ten months ago John Wren
offered the Sydney City Council £50,000 “for
street-resumption purposes” if it would drop
its plan for resuming the south side of Park-
street, on which he owns a theatre. When
the proposal came up for consideration, a
Labor stalwart, in a voice broken with emo-
tion, protested that the offer was a foul
insult to an institution w 7 hose petals of
purity had never been tarnished by the
breath of suspicion, and there was some
talk of sending Mr. Wren a lawyer’s
letter. Instead of that it has been
decided, soniewhat tardily, to do the resump-
tion job in three sections, of which the
George-Pitt-street block is to be tackled
straightway, Elizabeth-Castlereagh in 1627,
and Pitt-Oastlereagh (middle section and the
one in which Wren is interested) in 1933.
Meantime the Council is to push on with a
new scheme for pulling down the Union
Club, which, according to Bertram Macken-
nal. is one of the few architectural treasures
of Sydney. Wren doesn’t belong to the Union
Club, nor do the Union Clubbers vote the
Labor ticket.
The tender-hearted S.A. Labor Govern-
ment, which has opened the prison gates to
numerous guests of George V. long before
the expiry of their sentences, will have to
let four more out presently. The four were
convicted at Adelaide of assault and robbery,
and were staggered when Parsons, J., said
that he had no alternative but to inflict a
life sentence, that being the only punishment
provided in the Criminal Law Consolidation
Act for their method of making war on capi-
talism. The measure in question was one of
67 bills passed in S. Aus. last year, 10
others being shelved and 10 defeated. In
the previous session 80 bills were shoved on
the Statute Book. This craze for multiply-
ing laws (all our Parliaments are bitten with
it) naturally results in blunders, nor are the
ill-effects confined to gentlemen of the crimi-
nal class.
A statement that Sydney employers were
circulating a black-list of workers who had
gone on strike recently lashed the Trades
Hall to fury; and in the non-Legislative
Assembly Minister Baddeley denounced the
conspirators and threatened to deal with them
and all their kind when discovered. Mel-
bourne Bakers’ Union has just dealt with
two brothers who handed in their resigna-
tions from that body. It was resolved that
if they again attempted to enter the union,
the entrance fee charged each of them should
be not less than £2O each. Copies of this
black-list have been sent to every branch of
the Bakers’ Union in Australia, so Bad-
deley should have no trouble in getting to
business.
The Federal Arbitration Court can he
very clumsy. Take the case of the basic-
wage computations for timber-workers.
Twenty country towns were selected, four in
each of five States. The average figure fixed
the wage for all. Thus Tasmania, West-
ralia and South Aus. must pay the same
wages as are awarded in the country towns
of N.S.W. and Victoria, where the cost of
living is far higher. The local or district
advantages of cheap foods and rent are
denied the employer in these three States.
Is it any wonder Tasmania’s sawmilling
languishes, seeing that it is denied its natu-
ral advantages, while it must put up with
its natural disadvantages?
Eight George Towm (Tas.) Justices of
the Peace the other day declared the Bench
“black” and declined to sit thereon. It was
their way of entering an “effective protest”
against the appointment of a new man whom
the old hands considered unsuitable; they
asserted that the Attorney-General ought to
have consulted them before making a new
appointment. Attorney-General Ogilvie
promptly terminated the strike by accepting
eight resignations and appointing a new
batch of eight—the original cause of the dis-
pute having meantime removed to another
district. Reporting the occurrence to the
Assembly, Ogilvie gravely expressed a hope
that the “settlement” of the strike would
prevent the spread of this brand of job-con-
trol to, say, the Supreme Court Bench.
The struggle in the Labor movement be-
tween the industrialists and the politicians
has been going on for the last 20 years. The
adroitness of Holman kept back the growing
determination to destroy the power of the
politicians on the A.L.P. councils, but since
it fired him out the movement has lacked a
first-rate tactician on the political side. The
final blow for the destruction of the poli-
ticians’ influence w T as struck when the pre-
sent A.L.P. riot decided by an overwhelming
vote (175 to 130) that the rules prohibited
members of either House of Parliament from
holding office in the governing council of the
movement. The effect of the resolution is
fliat the Labor member is now not merely
a vote-registering puppet moved by strings
wrnrked by an outside organisation; he is
deprived of the power of even having a say
about the manner in which those strings may
be worked.
Fearing it might at some time have said
too much about over-borrowing, the S. M.
Herai.d hurriedly took up the orthodox atti-
tude (30/10/26) that the unlimited loan
leadeth not to destruction. Further: —
Any investor would consider a loan secured on the?
revenues of a State of the British Empire a better
security than a loan secured on the assets of an
electricity or water undertaking.
“Any investor” wouldn’t necessarily do any-
thing of the sort. Some would take the view
that the undertaking might be seized for debt
—if it is on British soil, anyhow—while
State revenues can’t be. As a case in point,
a private-enterprise British railway-train,
when just about to start, was once taken
in custody.
In reply to a Tasmanian member troubled
by rumors of another sea-strike Prime Min-
ister Bruce gave assurance that, in the event
of necessity arising, whatever action the
Government thinks necessary will be taken to
ensure an adequate service across the Strait.
Good —but the islanders think the Govern-
ment takes a durn long time to recognise a
necessity, and they would like to know what
action it thinks it would think necessary if
the familiar, not to say hackneyed, circum-
stances do arise.
THE HARDY PERENNIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Government has called for a report on the
working of the third-rail system.”
The arms that gleamed at Marathon
Are copper mould and rust,
The men that marched to Marathon
Are only names and dust:
But Marathon, great Marathon
Is still a trumpet’s cry
Blown shrill and free by land and sea—
A voice that cannot die!
The rails that gleam at Albury
Declare a broken gauge.
The men that swear at Albury
Swear on from age to age.
But Albury, sad Albury
May block a nation’s way.
And statesmen baulk and three-rail talk
Goes on till judgment day !
N.S.W.
C. O. M.


$
d
ISHIO
THis Trade-mark Stands for
Belting Quality
Nearly three-quarters of a century of manufacturing' quality beltin<>-
and .practical experience in belting engineering stand behind th°
Pioneer trade-mark.
Our service to belting users is twofold; the supplying of a belt that
measures up to the highest standards of quality, and the technical
advice necessary for the selection of the correct size and tVDe of
belt for every drive. 1
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
will serve you well on every drive.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (£L SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros.. Ltd.. 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street. Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoe}', Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons. Timpson Street. Port Adelaide.
\\ EST AUSTRAI,IA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd..
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards A
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Chrlstctiurch.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
hadfields (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Prefits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1915.. 20,368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,168 27,886
1916.. 20,394 1200 10 „ ~12,000 7,194 35,080
1917.. 30,465 1200 11} „ ~13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 . . 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
191 q ( 31,096 1200 .15 „ „ 21,000 8,896 47,727
1 Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
I Internal reserves disclosed and other ]
I Q9Q I additions to reserves, £32,721. ( . nl .
' ) Reserves capitalised, £36.000 f
(28,766 1200 124 p.c.=27,000 566 J
1921.. 40,612 1200 124 „ ~27,000 12,412 17,426
1922.. 41.338 1200 124,. ..27,048 13,090 30,516
s ‘ 36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923.. 46,600 1200 124 p.c.=31,642 13.758 44,274
1924.. 49.464 1200 124 „ ~31.805 16.459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 „ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
It’s a wonderful money-spinner. Particular
merit attaches to this latest achievement
because early in the term the co. purchased
the big city freehold formerly occupied by
Ball and Welch, a transaction which took
most of the ready money the co. had at
December 81, 1924. In all about £lOO,OOO
was involved. It speaks volumes for the
management that it could carry that load, in-
crease stocks, and emerge at the end of the
12 months with £8378 more profit than for
the previous year. The eo. now has an expanse
of show windows and shop space, and is
handling some of the business which in the
past it had sent to other retailers. The
aim is to win as much of that business as
possible, but its “cash orders” will still find
favor among its customers and bring it nice
returns in the discounts from the firms con-
cerned.
The accounts are modest in their claims
as to profits, additions made to reserves dur-
ing the year being ignored. These amounts
are, however, included in the introductory
table. Here they are since 1915
Profit as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Dee., Account. Reserves.
1915 £15,111 £5,257
1916 15,133 5,261
1917 15,895 14,570
1918 22,644 7,542
1919 26,132 6,964
1921 29,682 11,430
1922 29,800 11,538
1923 34,125 12,475
1924 36,669 12,795
1925 39,479 18,364
That such a substantial amount w r as added
visibly makes one wonder wliat was slipped
away quietly. In 1920 £29.000 or so was
produced from a safe hiding-place, and two
years later £36,000 was brought into view
tfnd issued in the form of bonus shares, the
fifth of those pleasant incidents within a
decade. It would seem rash to lay down
limitations so far as Gordon’s is concerned
in view of the figures quoted, but capital
at December 31 was £276,168 (£275,005 in
1924) and visible reserves £81,647, which
will make any future gifts—the market is
quite confident that there are more to come
—relatively less than earlier issues. Also
there is an end to the process even in the
case of remarkable money-spinners. Inci-
dentally, it is worth noting that the co. now
has a big building which calls for consider-
able stock, and, while recognising the facts
of the past year, some of that stock may
move slowly in dull times: the co. cannot
carry live lines only.
However, the gloomy bits do not dominate
the picture. On its t.p. business, providing
the weekly payments are maintained, the
co. makes about 25 p.c. p.a. apart from its
discounts from other traders, profit from its
own sales and income from its investments.
Most of last year’s profit came from trading:
investments were eaten into for the freehold
purchase. The movements are made plain
in this comparison :
1920. 1924. 1925.
Sundry creditors, etc. .. £39,915 £40,815 £32,083
Overdraft 12,849 19,182 6,559
Property and plant .. 28,399 14,152 112,961
Stock and hire agreements 72,090 107,376 164,337
Book debts 82,887 84,867 63,815
Shares, debentures and short
loans 62,813 123,046 ) nQ .
Mortgages . . . . . . 43,445 85,525 j 95,4b0
Government securities .. 19,895 19,744
Cash, etc 200 274 349
Liabilities (reduced by £21,355) were cov-
ered several times over by liouids other than
stocks and hire agreements. The increase
of £56,961 in the latter item was due chiefly
to heavier stocks, but hire agreements also
increased. The first 12 months in the new
premises augurs well for future earnings,
particularly since much of the co.’s trade
comes to it in lean times no less than in the
fat.
* * * *
The Emu Bat Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Loss, dends. Assets).
1915. . £295,000 £198,099 £1,960 Nil £98,287
Profit.
1916.. 295,000 201,494 401 Nil 97,886
Loss.
1917.. 295,000 203.169 9,061 Nil 106,047
1918.. 295,000 208,961 2,718 Nil)
Renewals written off, £10,750.. j ’
1919.. 295,000 244,212 7,785 Nil |
Renewals written off, £10,000.. j
Profit.
1920.. 295,000 260,263 887 Nil) ...
Renewals written off, £8900.. j
Loss.
1921.. 295,000 271,357 12,781 Nil 158,994
1922.. 295,000 282,815 10,703 Nil 169,697
1923.. 295,000 293,693 10,849 Nil 180,546
Asset reinstatement £2546 .. 178,000
Capital written down, £78,000 .. 100,000
Profit.
1924.. 300,571 397,964 11,310 Nil 99,921
1925.. 300.571 397,574 11,150 Nil 99,996
Electrolytic Zinc has taken over the Read-
Rosebery mines, and says it is going to buy
crude ore from other shows in the district.
So there is more cheerfulness in the Speck’s
wet west than there has been for years.
Although the crudes will be treated on the
spot, the development will mean something
for Emu Bay Rail; it may mean much. But
the heart was hammered out of most of those
connected with the concern years ago. Ordi-
nary shareholders gave up the ghost first;
the ghost was about all they ever had to give
up. Prefs. were a good second. Even some
of the debenture-holders finally waved good-
bye to their hopes of regular returns. It’s
a wonder how the concern lived at all: at
times it seemed that even the three financial
heavyweights who have seen it through—
John Grice, William Jamieson and Bowes
Kelly—would find the job beyond them. But
here is the 29th annual report, and the co.
is still limping along on its task of paying
interest on debentures, some of which have
emerged into their present form after pass-
ing through many vicissitudes.
The re-arrangement in 1924 cleaned things
up somewhat, but it was chiefly untidiness
that was displaced. Here are last year’s
figures compared with the array of gloom in
the 1923 balance-sheet: —
1923. 1925.
Debentures .. .. .. £172,000 £397,573
Pref. capital 100,000 183,571
Ordinary capital .. ~ 195,000 117,000
Deferred rent and interest .. 41,100
Deferred debenture interest.. 55,964
Interest and unpresented coupons 2,487 8,378
Funded div. certificates and interest 22,142
Arrears of pref. divs. . . 40,000
Sundry creditors .. .. 2,571 7,081
Accumulated losses . . .. 80,545 —•
There are two lots of irredeemable deben-
tures : £130,900 of 4J p.e., issued to the
debenture-holders of the old Emu Bay and
Bischoff Railway Co., from which this co.
leased 48 miles of line; and £266,673 of 5
p.c. issued to replace the co.’s own deben-
tures and interest arrears. The 44 p.c. debs,
got their interest last year and in 1924, but
the 5 p.c. received only 2 p.c. each time. It
was provided in the re-arrangement, how-
ever, that interest on the 5 p.c. was to be
non-cumulative for two years from January
1, 1924. The prefs. are non-cum. —not that
that matters much perhaps. Ordinary capi-
tal showed its usefulness in the 1924 re-
arrangement when it was written down to
balance the accounts.
For long, dreary years the only hope was
that Electrolytic Zinc would tackle the Mt.
Read-Rosebery belt and bring business to
the dead area. This at last may be done.
But whether Zeehan will be made the centre
of activities is doubtful. It is believed that
the temporary treatment plant at Zeehan
will not be the location of the new works;
that economy in working will result in their
erection near the mines. Previous borings
were estimated to have proved ore reserves
worth £16,000,000 in the mines taken over;
the diamond drill is now at work to make
a wider and closer examination. W. L. Bail-
lieu (chairman of E.Z.) recently led his
co-directors over the field, and he declares
that reserves greatly in excess of the origi-
nal calculations have already been proved.
All this implies large-scale operations and
general activity. But whatever it may re-
present to Emu Bay Railway lies in the
future, for the Electrolytic Zinc Board is
going to move slowly. That the creation of
a miniature Broken Hill at Rosebery (or
Zeehan) will impel the Tasmanian Govern-
ment to take over the railway system is very
much to be doubted.
. ™ me f° r 1C year showed an increase
ot £5906, but expenses mopped it up. At
December 31 liabilities, apart from deben-
ture debt, amounted to £15,459, against which
was cash (including fixed deposit), £16,711 •
book debts, £4523; and stores and fuel,'
£15.020 The railway was down at
Hw 5,563, and the railway manager reported
the various sections in fair to good order.
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd. (when the
Combine cos. were formed in 1915 the assets
of this co. were written up—apparently by
£67,228 net) :
i Dividends Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
Feb., £ £ £ £
1916.. 7,473 10 p.c. = 1200 10 p.c. = 6071 67,438
1917.. 4,267 10 „ ~ 1200 5 „ ~3035 67,470
1918.. 8.224 10 „ ~1200 10 ~ ~6071 68.423
1919.. 6,022 10 „ ~1200 5 ~ ~ 3035 70,210
1920.. 5.219 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~3035 71,194
1921.. 10,076 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ ~6071 73,999
1922.. 7,214 10 „ ~1200 10 ~ ~6071 73,942
1923.. 6,243 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~3035 75,950
1924.. 6,224 10 „ ~1200 10 ~ ~6071 74,903
1925.. 6,136 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ ~ 6071 73,768
1926.. 9,779 10 „ ~1200 10 ~ ~6071 76,276
The co. holds shares in General Film Co. of
Australasia which appear at £87,616 (43,808
shares each in Union Theatres and Austral-
asian Films) ; has debentures amounting to
£11,700 representing loans to General Films ;
and Union Theatres is down for a debt of
£4209 and General Films for a further
£4OOO. The money is certainly kept in the
family. All things considered, this concern
has done only moderately well for its share-
holders—an average of 81 p.c. over the past
12 years, and that has been possible only
because Amalgamated did not expand its own
capital when the hot air was pumped into
its assets. Instead, it created a capital real-
isation reserve “to provide for any fluctua-
tion in value of shareholdings.” Other assets
of more substantial nature keep at fairly
even levels:—
1915. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Mortgages.. ..£15,500 £3,000 £2,500' £2,500
Creditors .. . . 456 1.051 1,086 1,560
Freeholds . . .. 8,455 6,906 6,565 6,401
Leaseholds .. 31,597 34,288 34,288 34,288
Shares and deben-
tures . . . . 103,034 103,316 103,316 103,316
Book debts . . 10,354 5,180 4,810 9,203
Cash, etc. . . 6,892 11,964 11,462 10,984
Book debts increased by £4393, of which
£4209 was owed by Union Theatres. The
freehold is the St. Kilda Theatre, which has
been steadily written down; the leasehold
is the Melbourne Majestic; and the co. is
interested in thr’ee shows outside Melbourne.
The Majestic is run by Union Theatres,
Amalgamated collecting the rent. The co.’s
total earnings and expenditure are here com-
pared over a dozen years:—
Properties. Divs.,etc. Expenses.
1915 .. .. £3798 £10,658 £2836
1920 .. .. 4468 2,452 1306
1922 .. .. 4752 4,465 1570
1923 .. 4820 3,533 1675
1924 .. .. 4888 3,038 1267
1925 .. 4963 3,679 2072
1920 . . .. 4949 7,501 2238
Increased provision for taxation accounts
for the rise in exes. Nothing is said in the
report in explanation of the 100 p.c. leap
in the amount received as “divs. from sub-
sidiaries and interest on loans and deben-
tures,” but as the same thing has happened
twice before it probably has no great signi-
ficance. The 12,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs. are
well secured, cash and securities, book debts,
freeholds and leaseholds amounting to
£00,876, which, after allowing for all liabili-
ties, including final divs.. was equal to £4
Bs. 7d. per share, plus whatever could be
wrung out of the watered combine stock and
other picture interests.
* * * *
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, hardware
merchants and general importers at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1915 ..£21,890 15 p.c. = £lB,OOO £3,890 £22,198
1916 .. 25.021 15 „ „ 18,000 7,021 29,219
1917 .. 28,342 15 „ ~ 18,000 10,342 39,561
Transferred to capital . . 30,000 9,561
1918 .. 28,980 15 p.c. - 22,500 6,480 16,041
1919 .. 30,071 10 „ „ 15,000 15,071 31,112
Transferred to capital .. 25,000 6.112
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up, goodwill
included at £65,000 and seven £1 fully-paids in
new co. issued for every four in old.
Net To Reduce
Profit. • Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1920 ..£32,279 10 p.c. = £17,5751
(6 rnos.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 !-£5,704 £59,296
Employees’ bonus, 3,000 J
1921 .. 26,588 6i p.c. = 21,963 4,619 54,677
Loss. Added.
1922 .. 39,425 2* „ „ 8,787 48,212 102,889
Capital written off, £52,725 .. 50,164
Reserved for bad debts, 8,836 . . 59,000
1923 .. 2,900 Nil 2,966 61,966
1924 . . 4,674 Nil 4,674 66.640
Reserves.
Cnpit°l witter off C 70.087.. .. 12,447
Reserved for bad debts, contingencies,
etc., £12,447 . . . . ■ . ,
Profit.
1925 . . 11,830 Nil 11,830 11,830
This is the co.’s second move backwards —
largely due to the fact that it moved forward
too fast. In 1018, carried away by the big
profits it seemed to be earning, it capitalised
£30,000 of reserves, notwithstanding that
handsome divs. had been paid from its first
appearance before the public 11 years earlier.
Two years later it raided accumulations for
a further £25,000. And on top of that it
was decided to reconstruct. Shareholders
were handed seven fully-paid £1 shares
in the new co. for every four in the
old. It took some doing, for the two gift
issues had mopped up most of what w r as
lying around. However, a visible £23,300
was swallowed, £65,000 was put down for
goodwill and assets were written up by
£61,700. Needless to say the ship was carry-
ing far too much water to stand heavy
weather, and the break in the post-war
boom made it obvious that some had to go
over the, side. Three shillings was written
off each share in 1923. It was not enough:
last year another 4s. 6d. went, reducing capi-
tal by £79,087. The cleaning-up included
the expulsion of goodwill, £59,000 (it was
not at any time considered an asset in the
introductory table) ; the writing off of £7640
accumulated losses; and the reservation of
£12,447 for depreciation, contingencies, etc.
The only notable change after this latest de-
watering is the disappearance of the intan-
gibles. Nothing very radical appears to
have been done to other assets: —
1009 IQOO 1Q94 IQ9£
Liabilities . . £174,618 £161,257 £153,765 £146,61’2
Premises,
plant, etc... 151,988 145,474 143,797 137,458
Stock . . 220,328 199,134 193,601 201,594
Book debts . . 49,031 48,429 45,959 45,798
Cash, etc. . . 2,143 5,359 2,931 1,876
With ship chandling still in eclipse, and
hardware prices uncertain where they are
not actually .weaker, the increase in stock
calls for attention; and in that connection
it has to be remembered that last year’s pro-
fit is governed by the accuracy with which
stock sheets have been made up. Whether
stock has been written down sufficiently
since 1922 is known only to those inside,
if to anyone: balance-sheet movements cer-
tainly do not make it obvious. If the values
are solid the co. is in a position to move
ahead. Gross profits on trading and sundry
earnings last year were £81,680, compared
with: 1924, £74,180; 1923, £73,814; 1922,
£51,930. Working costs (£69,850) were re-
duced by £9004 compared with the previous
year. That is the most reassuring visible
feature of last year’s operations. The dis-
closed profit might have paid a 5 p.c. div.,
but the Board was well advised not to do it.
It seems fairly plain that the co. possesses
little if any internal resources, and something
needs to be built up if it is to face the
future without trepidation.
*.* * *
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd., hardware
merchants, of Fitzroy (Vic.), who do a big
mail-order business. The present co. paid
£10,937 for goodwill, and spent £1146 on
preliminaries :
Towards
Net r~ Dividends ■, Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£12,083
1923. .£9,913 8 p.c. S p.c. £6,133 £3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 ~ 11,600 2149 3,020
1926. . 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Trade was distinctly dull in Victoria in the
second and third quarters of last year, and
one almost wholly Victorian bank, the Royal,
thought it right to declare its profits at about
one-fourth less than the average for recent
terms. There was nothing outstandingly
wrong with the State either; certainly there
was some uncertainty about tlie f wool market,
but beyond that all that could* be said was
that gold-mining got steadily poorer, the big
Yallourn electricity scheme didn’t come up
to expectations, and the cocky community
had largely made up its mind that a poor
season was due. But as the year drew to an
end not only did the wool market manifest
its strength, but the wheat-stripping, though
nothing out of the way, was better than had
been threatened.
This co., whose connection is largely with
the country, suffered beyond the average:
and, though the directors declare now that
‘•prospects are bright,” the Wild Cat has
some doubts whether trade will be very
brisk for a while. For the truth is that
the farming community has been bitten more
than most by the time-payment bug. There
have been almost as many “travellers” as
rabbits in most districts. On a recent morn-
ing in the wheat country a Wild Cat man
making inquiry into these matters met travel-
ling agents for pianolas (the machine was
being carried round in a motor-truck),
“suburban”' allotments (2), wireless equip-
ment and gramophone, besides the usual farm
tractor and insurance and share-selling pro-
pagandists. The Government’s offers of
farms on long terms have set private sellers
going the same way; the same Wild Cat
man found one such farm sold on 30-year
terms. Clearing-out sales are now being
conducted on the same principle, from three-
to five-year terms being offered even for
livestock. One man cheerfully admitted that
he had acquired £2300 worth of implements
and sundries, including a motor-car, with
£2SO of cash. There is only a small living
on his farm (a leasehold) under fair condi-
tions, and the conditions in the district are
not always fair; so it looks as if somebody
will have to go short there within the next
five years. And it also looks as if. the
country having largely discounted its future,
firms like I). and W. Chandler will find trade
less brisk than it ought to be.
However, this co. has worked itself into a
comfortable position. It.s lay-by has amounted
to £6231 since 1922, when the old family
concern was changed into its present form,
besides wiping £1146 off preliminaries and
£3OOO off goodwill. The latter now stands


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
"The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane. —Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos Covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it
is used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Aijvt. [3
Many hundreds of miles of Pioneer Wood Pipe are
installed all over the Commonwealth, and from every
quarter have come glowing tributes of its extra-
ordinary adaptability. It is faithfully serving mining,
industrial, irrigation and water-main projects, and
proving an excellent investment from every point of
view. Its lightness means lower transportation and
labor costs, its non-corroding properties allow the
safe carriage of acids and alkalis without damage
or deterioration, and its upkeep is practically nil.
In most instances a very substantial sum can be
saved by specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe. Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
Natural daylight is reproduced in a remarkable
manner by the Wizard Lighting Systems. The clear,
white illumination, splendidly restful to the eyes
at a running cost definitely less than electricity,
coal gas, acetylene or kerosene. Country people
everywhere appreciate the convenience of the cooking-
stove or gas-ring that can be used as part of the
system. Many special features suitable for our own
local conditions are included in this made-in-
Australia product. To be certain of obtaining the
genuine, write direct to the Sole Manufacturers,
Wizard Lighting Systems. New Address: 283 George
Street (opp. Hunter Street), Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
« * * *
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers, hundreds of satisfied users, Concrete Placing
Plant, Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrmn Garbage Destructors, “Leplastrier”
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers, “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Ptv., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane; 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Collins
House, Melbourne; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering, works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Itoristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
THE SAFETY OF YOUR ESTATE
depends on having every detail carried out by Trustees who are
specialists. For the sake of your dependants you cannot risk placing
your estate in the hands of an inexperienced trustee.
Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
controls estates exceeding £10,000,000 in value, and has had experience-
in Trusteeship not attainable by any individual.
Arrange an interview at your convenience, or write for booklet, setting
out the advantages of appointing the Company.
ALFRED G. MiI,SON.
JAMES MOIR.
DIRECTORS:
F, N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
O. E. FRIEND.
THOS. BUCIvLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Everlasting Never-leak Blow-off Valve.
2 YEARS' GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth.
Made only by—
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
at £7937, so that only £1706 of capital is
now unrepresented by physical assets. Its
balance-sheet figures have moved as follows:
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £12,363 £15,741 £?1,432 £30,806
Freeholds .. 25,966 25,933 27,394 27,516
Plant etc .. 12 616 13,313 16,531 17,604
S .. 66,743 73,628 91,119 86,741
Book debts .. 19,046 24,302 26,584 26,901
War Loan cash, etc. 12,004 8,324 2,401 2,594
Total liabilities were thus almost covered
■ by book debts and cash alone. Capital is
£125,000. The old proprietors took £70,000
ords., 20,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lO,OOO
in cash, the public subscribing 25,000 prefs.
and 10,000 ords. Prefs. are well secured,
there being net tangibles of £2 14s. 9d. for
each share. Stocks were lower, and with
more than two-thirds of the capital repre-
sented in the item and prices still far from
stable, much depends on the attention given
the sheets on January 15. The directors, as
already remarked, are cheerful, and with a
round half-century of experience behind the
management that should carry some weight.
* * * *
Union Club Hotel, Ltd., is being floated
to acquire from Walter Williamson his
options over the Union Club Hotel, situated
at the corner of Collins and Market streets,
Melbourne, and adjoining blocks for the pur-
pose of erecting a hotel to be known as the
Cecil. Capital is £250,000 in £1 shares,
75,000 being 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and 90,000
ordinaries; 10,000 fully-paid ords. go to the
vendor; 75,000 held in reserve. The
vendor receives no cash, but the 10,000-
shares is adequate consideration for the
options and “for his services in the promo-
tion and flotation of the co., and in arrang-
ing the mortgage.” The new structure will
be erected in sections in order that revenue
from the present bar trade shall not be im-
paired. Capital expenditure is set down at
£435,000, so that £270,000 will have to be
raised by mortgage; arrangements for this
have been made. Estimates appear to have
been carefully compiled, and divs. of 124
p.c. on ords. are mentioned. Old-established
first-class hotels are comfortable proposi-
tions, although the capital of several of them
has at various times been written down hard,
and in Melbourne the recently modernised
Windsor is still struggling with arrears of
pref. divs. Practically everything depends
on management. Investors should satisfy
themselves on that point first ; and investors
will also note that, though the issued share
capital is only £175,000, there is to be a
debt of £270,000 calling for first attention
and carrying cumulative interest.
* * * *
Davys Proprietary, Ltd. (Sydney), is
offering 100,000 £1 ordinaries. Nominal capi-
tal is £250,000 in 20,000 10 p.c. cum. first
prefs. (participating with ords. over 10 p.c.),
10,000 10 p.c. cum. second prefs. (partici-
pating with ords. from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.) and
220,000 ordinaries. Of the first prefs. 19,500
have been allotted : of the second prefs. 6750 ;
the remainder of both classes are in reserve.
Of the ords. 32,500 have been issued for
goodwill, agency agreements, goods and mer-
chandise and lease of premises, etc., of the
Davys Indent Co. (amounts not itemised) ;
40,281 have been subscribed; 47,219 are re-
served. The £lOO,OOO now sought is to
finance the expansion of British Thread
Mills (Australasia), Ltd., in which the co.
has a 96 p.c. holding: £30,000 for plant;
£21,000 for increased stocks; £lO,OOO fur-
ther raw material; £39,000 to cover increased
book debts and flotation and general exes.
British Thread Mills is expected to make an
annual net profit of £11,436, of which Dayys
would get £10,979 plus £7819 net as selling
agents, a total of £18,798, or 19 p.c. on
capital of £99,031. As the chief object of
the new capital is to increase output, results
are expected to exceed the 19 p.c. Dividends
of “not less than 10 p.c.” are spoken of.
Imports of the lines manufactured are said to
approximate £750,000 and the new Tariff
affords adequate Protection; in any case the
co. is reported to have agreements with the
British Combine which safeguards its local
market. The quality of the goods produced
is highly reported on by users; and, as the
market is large and growing, the proposition
is worth investigating. The investor should
satisfy himself that the estimates of expen-
diture are reasonable, and especially that
the overhead is not excessive. He should
also satisfy himself that there is good and
sufficient reason why the financial results of
the operations thus far of British Thread
Mills (Aus.), Ltd., are not disclosed.
* * * *
The English-owned Midland Railway Co.
(W.A.) is getting on. Traffic receipts in the
last three years have increased from £143,982
to £173,744, and net receipts, after paying
working expenses, from £70,987 to £96,127.
In the same period the land sold has totalled
about 350,000 acres. Sales for the past 12
months were the highest since 1909, and those
for the current year promise to be even
better. Settlers along the co.'s line are
agitating, as they have done periodically for
years, for the compulsory acquisition of the
co.’s property by the State. They labor under
disabilities and are denied advantages which
settlers served by the Government railways
enjoy. They cannot participate iii advances
from the Agricultural Bank, land cannot be
acquired on the same easy terms, and,
although passenger and freight rates are
about on a par with those charged by the
State, anomalies and slight but. vexatious
differences exist. The co. is willing to sell,
and the Government wants to buy, but. will,
riot pay the price asked. Twenty years ago
a sale could have been effected on terms
satisfactory to the then Government, but a
hostile Parliament and public prevented it.
The legal right of the Government to compul-
sorily acquire the property now, as suggested
by aggrieved settlers, is open to grave doubt.
What is wanted is someone to bring the
parties together and a deal.
Dr. Edwards, a youngish Englishman sent
by Boulder Perseverance to show Kalgoorlie
mine managers how to save money, is finding
the job harder than he thought. He left
London with the impression that there was
plenty of lOdwt. ore available for treatment
along the Golden Mile, and arrived to find
that the cos. will soon have to fall back on
ore pennyweights below the half-ounce aver-
age. While he believes that it is risky to
spend a large amount of capital on remodel-
ling plants in order to cheapen production,
he thinks the owners should take courage, in
their hands. He reckons that oil. flotation
offers most promise of saving the industry:
but in the case of the Boulder Perseverance
it would only lift operations from the level
of loss to a small profit.
* * * *
A new syndicate has got hold of the Little
-Wonder, at Diorite King (W.A.). This show
was first worked by ,Cutmore and party in
1894. The first ton or so of stone broken
was taken to Southern Gross by pack-horses
and yielded nearly IOOOoz. Many thousands
of ounces were afterwards extracted down
to a shallow depth, and the shoot then cut
out. Several unsuccessful attempts have
since been made to pick it up.
* * * *
The W.A. Mines Department is out with
a boring programme. At the northern end
of Kalgoorlie a contract has been let for
1000 ft. of drilling, either in one lump or in
two 500 ft. sections. Sites have been selected
at Coolgardie and on the Murchison at spots
approved by the geological branch of the De-
partment. At Eradu, 34 miles from Gerald-
ton, on the Mullewa line, a bore will be put
down in the hope of locating a payable coal
seam.
* * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, is again in the
limelight. Years ago. its Italian owners
struck rich ore carrying a fair quantity of
telluride of gold and a lot of telluride of
silver, and in a year or two took £70,000
out of some shallow workings. Then the
shoot became poor, and the Italians, after
doing a lot of unprofitable work, abandoned
the show. Now another party is reported to
have made a rich strike a little nearer the
surface than that from which the former
owners made their pile.
* * * *
United Mount Painter Radium Co., whose
chief mine is about 86 miles east of Gopley
railway station, 408 miles north of Adelaide,
has issued a glum balance-sheet and report.
Work is being carried on with a bank balance
of £364. The route from mine to railway is
mountainous, rocky and waterless. The haul-
age is usually done by camels and donkeys,
and they had been driven off the track by
scarcity of feed. Work at the three open-
cuts is necessarily slow, yet at one of the
workings 1000 tons of ore is paddocked.
At the Dry Creek works, near Adelaide, 2%
tons of concentrates produced 7-01 milligrams
of radium in the form of radium bromide;
2.41 milligrams realised £4l. It is all very
slow going.
The tax-hounds are in the office of the
liquidator of Mt. Isa Prop., and until they
have had their bite, or the Court has denied
them the right, the distribution of Mt. Isa
Mines scrip to Prop, shareholders is held. up.
The Federal claim is £3430, with an intima-
tion that more may be asked for; the Queens-
land claim is £12,516. In both cases the
assessments are based chiefly, on the differ-
ence between the cost and selling price of the
leases sold by the Prop, to the big co. Un-
fortunately the co. didn’t get any money from
the sale. All it got was another co.’s scrip
for its own scrip.
Sardine Tin (N.Q.) is. maintaining its
recent progress. Two shipments from
Townsville (March 25 and 291 amounted to
37 tons of black tin, worth £6BOO.
* * ■* *
“Kerogen”: Before accepting Dr. Jensen’s
conclusions respecting the commercial pros-
pects of the Walloons and permo : carb. for-
mations of Bananaland for oil I will add the
following:—
(1) The official log of the Roma bore shows gas
struck in Assured shale and not in a true sand. It
might, therefore, only represent a residual gas pocket
remaining after the underground waters had swept
the main oil and gas contents (if present) away.
(2) The Longreach oil was very waxy and inspis-
sated. It was also met with very deep down—not. a
good sign.
(3) What evidence is forthcoming that any marine,
deltaic or estuarine conditions obtain in the jurassics
of Eastern Australia ? Are they not all fresh-water
and lacustrine rocks?
(4) Apart from the coals and carbonaceous shales
upon which the post-mesozoic foldings have had little
dynamic effect, where are the possible “source
rocks for oil in the series?
Re carbon ratios. These have been worked
■out in detail for the Appalachian and, mid-
continental regions of the U.S.A., and apply
generally over the coal- and oil-fields studied.
It is dangerous, however, to deduce similar
probabilities for the coal measures of Eastern
Australia unless the tectonic movements have
been on a similar scale —and they haven’t.
The question of depth pressure also enters-
as a factor, and of this we know nothing.
Altogether the best that can be said for the
series under discussion is that oil indications
are present in them, and they are folded,
more or less. Experience in drilling them to-
date, however, indicates that the water condi-
tions are likely to offset their chances of ever
yielding commercial oil.
* * * *
Ajax North (Vic.) concentrates upon two
leveis. At No. 7 the flat make provided any
quantity of stone but little gold. So the
men have been withdrawn. On the Middle
reef No. 4 rise went up 75ft. and carried odd
splashes of gold and plenty of formation, but
cheaper labor is wanted to make it pay. To
the south work is to be done to test the old
diggers’ yarns that gold went underfoot from
the upper levels. It isn’t often that yarns
of the kind yield much, but the statements
are so definite that the pick is to be used to
prove or disprove them. The other level
on which attention is mostly directed is No.
10. The east crosscut went out 362 ft., pass-
ing through a belt of lode material 32ft.
wide. Driving north on this a run of stone
from sft. to 7ft. wide and well mineralised
is being opened up; but, like most deep for-
mations of Daylesford, it keeps below the
pay-line. The shoot lies within the belt of
slates which have carried payable quartz
higher up in the mine, and as they were best
in the western run of slates w’here they got
close to the sandstone there is a chance that
as the reef bears towards it more gold will
make. It is a nice bit of theorising and
worth the test of the work now being done.
An echo of the Badak bubble of 1920 was
heard in the High Court in Melbourne the
other day when a young man appealed
against his income-tax assessment being
raised from £1 16s. 6d. to over £2OOO on
account of a flutter in those gilt-edged securi-
ties. For one share acquired from his father
for £3O he received 1000 shares in the re-
constructed co. He still has most of them,
and they are worth only about 7s. now;
but for 94 which he sold he got £8300; and
it was mentioned that the little group to
which father belonged cleared up about
£BO,OOO over the business, or whatever it
was.
A start is to be made at Manna Hill, near
Stuart Town (N.S.W.). A 10-head battery
bought at Forbes is in course of transit, but
the recent heavy rain has interfered. Por-
tion was still at Forbes a week ago, and por-
tion at Stuart Town railway station. To
within half a mile of the mine the road is
good. From the road a track has been pre-
pared by mine-manager Mclntyre, but
although the show is thus more accessible
crushing still lies well ahead.
* *
Tingha Tin (N.S.W.) grade becomes
steadily poorer. Yardage for March, 11,000,
differed little from February, but production
fell from 51 to 3f tons. The show needs to
do much better than that if it would get
within coo-ec of the wealth visualised in its
prospectus.
# . * * *
Flagstone (N.S.W.) should at last be
within measurable distance of production, the
boiler, the continued absence of which had
given MacKenzie a few headaches, having
been landed on the mine just before the
drought broke. Every expert who has had a
look pronounces the show the goods and
something over. Another school shakes its
head sadly, apparently on general principles.
The first month’s operations with 10 head
will therefore be watched with keen interest.
Adelong Gold Estates continues the best
gold-producer in the Ma State. Although
the co. is perilously near the end of its
tether so far as Adelong is concerned, the
yields keep scrip about 3s. 6d. March 25 week
gave 1520 z. in" 92 hours, and the previous
run 1320 z. in 110 hours. In 1925 the two
dredges recovered 54730 z. and enabled the
75,000 shares, mostly Victorian-held, to col-
lect divs. 21 and 22 of Is. each on 11/9/’25
and 12/l/’26 respectively. The co. has paid
245. in divs., and the shares, with a face
value of 255. each, have had 235. 6d. of it
called up. The last call was Is., due
10/6/T4, so that, if holders have not become
rich, they have at least not been harried.
Bundi, Trengganu (F.M.S.), got only 20
tons oxide for March from 63,000yd5. The
usual yarn about old ground and submerged
timber accompanied the drop of nine tons on
the February yield. This story has been told
with rather monotonous regularity during the
18 months the plant has been operating.
although the prospectus did not promise sub-
merged timber or 12oz. yields. For the first
half of 1925 the co.’s record was 158 tons
oxide from 295,000yd5., a monthly average
of 26£ tons from 49,000yd5., going well over
the pound, though yardages were too low.
The second half gavq 177 tons from 393,000
yards; the monthly average being just under
30 tons —25 tons in December the worst, and
32 tons in November the best. The average
was just above the pound, but yardages were
still too low. As the co. holds 2000 acres,
however, it should escape from the delays of
old timber before all the original holders get
out. The 85,000 issued shares have seen
505., but present values are about 355.


The Opf&primc, or the champion ram hear tvie news of ms V'cto«/
” A SPECIAL PRIZE OF i 100
Will Be Paid To THE Owner.
CHEATING* THE AUSTRALIAN
Pecord for the mc.M Jump”
ff
*' AuLTROTTtNO E«e«ts Tto F'NISH OPPOSTE OUTTOR SjTANQ,
Am SAsy vimmsr. ,
Takje it A. vsi A*y ,
GftT MO CLASS FOR Twat &OBt OF" '
S»ut, Midter., its a most 4.pfectionate
Amimal’ 1
" All Riders and drivers
IN MUST BE
DRESSSC IN (JockEV costums ”
* Am E ahiQitoc 2>\nE-ARS a '
"^VMO S'X'JBfe.RS Its I^ACrT,
Am CAU ,
’OUR MISTAKE, B.UU, I T W uNi<. | •
VM inner. OF The
HEAvy Draucimt
,
AT THE SHOW WITH A NOTEBOOK.


■tweW goodness
ipycvciits
" Immphs /
ap
Vo
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD
HO
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE BLOT.
FRIEND: “Doctor, did you ever make a serious mistake?”
DOCTOR: “Yes, only once. I cured a wealthy squatter in three
visits.”
“Ex-Dig.”: The name of a curate recently
appointed to a N. S. Wales living sets me.
thinking of a war-time episode. A Digger
was known among his cobbers as “Bad Bill.”
Enlistment had let him off the chain of a
rigorous parental control; and although
there was a good deal of youthfiil bragga-
docio about his exploits, he certainly made
the pace a welter, considering his upbringing.
Suddenly there came that curious psycholo-
gical reaction known as “sudden conversion.”
The battalion was going into the line with
the prospect of an immediate hopover, the
move forward commencing on Sunday night;
and the padre took the opportunity of having
a last service in. the darkness. It was rather
an eerie ceremony: although the enemy was
miles away, the singing was almost in whis-
pers ; it suggested a requiem service held
in advance. An interlude was a prayer
by Bad Bill, who promised the Deity in
faltering but quite distinct tones that if he
came out alive he would mend his ways and
dedicate himself to religion. To most of us
it w 7 as merely an indication that Bad Bill
had the wind up; and his subsequent refor-
mation surprised us. He is the curate whose
name revived the scene for me.
“Runa”: Luck isn’t always against the
parish priest when there’s a raffle on. At
a recent R.C. bazaar in a Sydney suburb
the priest was persuaded to take the last
ticket in a raffle in order to let the draw'ing
proceed, and, all unaware of what he had
gone in for, he was presently acclaimed the
winner of a bride’s trousseau. After one
astounded look at the box of frills and lace
of w T hich he had become the owner, he
sportingly announced that he would present
it to the next bride he tied up. The effect
was immediate.; three competitors hustled
round next morning to make early dates for
a wedding.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A lady who appeared before
a Sydney Court the other day 7 protested in-
dignantly at an inference that she was in-
toxicated at the time about which she was
giving evidence —actually it was more than
an inference, for the questions fired at her
directly suggested that she had fallen
downstairs, assaulted a neighbor and finally
gone to sleep on the scullery floor.
“Y’Honor!” she appealed, in the face of these
evidences, “it’s downright wicked to say I
was drunk. I was as sober as a Judge—
begging your Honor’s pardon.”
“C.F.M.” : The easier it becomes to move
swiftly to the farthest ends of the earth, the
harder it threatens to become to induce the
Courts to “presume death” in the case of
persons who have mysteriously disappeared.
Lately a case has been interesting some
police-officers in England and Maoriland.
About four years ago a woman went sea-
bathing on the Devon coast, leaving her
clothes and powder-puff in a heap on the
sand. There they stayed until somebody
came on them and scented a tragedy; and
a thorough search by the police failed to
bring to light any trace of the owner. In
due course the Probate Court presumed death
and an insurance co. paid out close on £3OOO
to the next-of-kin. But the lady happened to
have left behind a photo which, coupled with
advice from Scotland Yard, led the chief ’tee
of Christchurch (M.L.) to proceed to an
up-country station near Rangiora and put
some leading questions to the squatter’s iady-
cook, who coyly admitted that the lingerie,
etc., had been hers. An unimaginative beak
has asked her to await further instructions
from Scotland Yard.
* * * *
“Schnorrer” : One of the few kosher butch-
eries in Sydney is threatening to close down
for lack of custom.
The general belief
that Jews are very
strict in the observ-
ance of their
dietary laws doesn’t
seem to have much
to sustain it in the
Harbor City. A
Shecliita Board
supervises the
administration of
kashrus, and issues
licenses to kosher
butcheries. A
Shamus has to be
appointed to super-
vise the killing and
to certify the meat,
and this means an
extra charge, which
may help to ex-
plain w T hy Jews are
not enthusiastic
when a shop is pro-
vided which will
rob them .of the
excuse that there
is no convenient
jilace where kosher
meat can be
secured. There are
only half a dozen
kosher licenses
issued in Sydney,
including some
poultry licenses, and the shop which threat-
ens to put up the shutters is the only one in
the Randwick district, which swarms with
Jews.
* * * *
“M.L.A.”: I was a bit new at the game,
and have already laid up for myself gallons
of trouble at the next election. One con-
stituent asked me to get him a pair of Gov-
ernment blankets, as he wanted to start
away to a job the following night. I told
him it couldn’t be done in the time, but I
would rig him up with a Wagga rug.
Apparently he had never heard the expres-
sion, for when I presented him with a pair
of cornsacks sew r n together he became vio-
lently personal. I have since been informed
that my prospective opponent has a photo-
graph of my gift awaiting my next nomina-
tion, with some remarks appended to the
effect that cornsacks are regarded by me as
ideal bedclothes for workers. Then there
was the case of Bloggs. He had a pair of
fowls sent him from up north, and on a
Sunday morning he rang up and asked that
I get in touch with the Railway Commis-
sioners and request that they communicare
with some s.m. en route and get him to
delay the train and give the fowls a drink.
I told him I couldn’t even get a drink for
myself on a Sunday, and for my flippancy
I learn that I have been reported to the
S.P.C.A. as a monster who refused a
NO TIME FOR MATHEMATICS.
"This is the thirl or fourth time I have called you.”
“I cannota sa y—so beezy to-night I loosa the count.”
drink to a hatching hen. Finally—this is
all a true bill —there was Ginger Noggs,
who wanted a pension. I told him I wms
afraid he wouldn’t get it, as he looked lit to
fight Jack Dempsey. Before I could expos-
tulate, his belt w r as unbuckled, one garment
hobbled him round the ankles while another
set w T as elevated round his head to impress
on me that he wore the harness specified
for hernia. For this I have been described
as a heartless cow who insisted a man
stripping himself in the street before I’d
give him a reference for a pension. A man
w T ould be safer in the Upper House.
* * * *
“Bruiser”: How many people, after wel-
coming in a New Year, have had the chance of
stepping back to say a last good-bye to the
Old Year again? It came to me in 1917-18,
when I was one of a trainload of Diggers
journeying from Taranto (Italy) to France,
Leaving Turin late in the evening of Decem-
ber 31, we entered the Mont Cenis tunnel
at the Italian end a few minutes before mid-
night, according to Italian time, and some
minutes later we celebrated the passing of
the Old Year. On inquiring the time at a
station on the French side of the tunnel some
half an hour afterwards we found that the
French clocks had put us back in the Old
Year, with about 20 minutes of it still to go.
* * * #
“M.A.”: Here is a coincidence to mateh
“.lass’s” (B. 25/3/’26). During 1916 the
graziers in Australia donated many thou
sands of sheep-pelts to the Red Cross. These
were made up into rough sweaters with the
wool inside, and w ? ere sent overseas to the
A.I.F. in France and Belgium during the
1916-17 wdnter. While in waggon-lines near
Dickiebush (Belgium) my unit received an
issue of these vests, handed out to the Dig-
gers as they filed past the q.m’s. joint. One
driver on receiving his issue found that it
bore his father’s registered brand inside. The
driver was Darcy Wearne, son of W. E.
Wearne, N. S. Wales M.L.A.
* * * *
“Black Tracker” : A leading Adelaide hotel
was sheltering two titled visitors from the
old country w r lio had retired early, as was
their wmnt. A little past midnight the man
came down greatly pertui’bed. His wife, who
was subject to sleepwalking, had disappeared
and he had no notion of her whereabouts.
Just as the nightwatchman was about to
search the premises, a policeman arrived
leading the lady by the hand, as if she were
a little child. She wms still sound asleep.
Thrown across her shoulders, in place of a
wrap, was a towel with the name of the hotel
marked on it; and it was this that had given
go up.
the constable his clue. The husband gently
took the lady’s hand, but before going turned
to the two onlookers and first touched bi»
pocket, then his lips, indicating thereby that
the lady would remember nothing and was to
be told nothing, but that he wouldn’t forget.
Two flO-notes changed hands next morning.
# * * *
“Gage Roads”: Governor Stradbroke con-
fessed to a very English delusion w r hen he
remarked the other day in Melbourne that
he had been sur-
prised to find that
acquaintance with
the horse was prac-
tically non-existent
in Australian cities,
and even in the
country it was get-
ting rare. I was
once released from
hospital in the Gold
Country to enable
me to see a dentist
in a neighboring
town. The champ-
ing steed and dog-
cart belonging to
the institution were
brought to the
door. The groom
climbed down and
handed the reins to
me, the nice young
nurse wdio was to
look after me got
in, and off we
started. My com-
panion admired the
w T ay I rattled along
the country lanes,
tore across the
level-crossings, and
negotiated the ex-
traordinarily per-
vasive traffic of
that rural centre,
through which a
perverse War Office
had thought fit that
day to divert a
fleet of London’s
’buses en route
for France. The
horse was a con-
siderate equine,
and w 7 e got home in
safety. “What a
good thing you
are an Australian,”
remarked the
matron, “for I couldn’t have spared the
groom !” It was the first time I had handled
the ribbons in my life.
“Light Horse” : That story of the padre in
Palestine who was pained by a trooper’s
comment on the prospect from the Mount of
Temptation (B. 25/3/’26) recalls another
who got a different sort of setback. It was
at El Menevah, on the Sea of Galilee, and
our spiritual guide had identified it with
the site of Gadara, where the devil-possessed
swine bolted downhill into the sea. One of
the roughest of his audience seemed inter-
ested, and the padre asked if he liked Bible
stories. “Well, I dunno,” was the reply.
“Some of them Old Testament furpliies ain’t
too bad. But what I was thinkin’ was did
th’ owner of them blanky pigs git any com-
pensation !”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: He talked to us all
the way from Sydney to Katoomba, loosing
torrents about how much better everything
was done in Coolidge’s country, until a train-
smash would have provided a welcome diver-
sion. “I came tah this yah Alistralyah
aftah petrolyum,” he announced after a
pause, apparently starting a new theme;
and then it was that the man in the corner,
who appeared drowned in the flood, took a
ha'nd. “You must be one of those oil
bores we read about,” he drawled.
* * * *
“Clerk” : For the past four years Vic. Rfiil-
way-Commissioner Clapp has been running
a fine dining-room at the Newport workshops
which supplies the men with a hot, well-
cooked, three-course meal for 3s. 6d. per
week of five days—less than 9d. a meal.
The room will hold 1200 diners, and when
it was first established 1100 used to patron-
ise it; but although the menu has
been improved and the staff increased
to 3500, the number of daily diners
has dwindled to 750, so that the nomi-
nal charge now fails to cover actual
cost. The four workmen who are elected by
the workers to run the show have turned
distractedly to Clapp for assistance, and the
Slogan King has been printing posters and
dodgers urging the men to support an insti-
tution which is conducted for nobody’s benefit
but their own. The great bulk, however, still
display an enthusiastic predilection for jam
sandwiches eaten at the wmrk bench (where,
incidentally, they can play cards at the same
time), and indications are that, unless the
number of diners can be increased to a thou-
sand daily, the tariff or the shutters must
(Continued on page 19.)
THE NIGHT PATROL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Several witnesses in the Hodgson divorce case
testified that they were employed by the Night Patrol
Co. of Sydney.”
Fall in, the Night Patrol l
And off, each trusty soul,
In your allotted role
' - Of lynx-eyed sentry
O’er fickle wives who may
A tendency display
To let their fancies stray
To other gentry !
Forward, the sleuth brigade,
For espionage or raid !
I’ faith, a wholesome trade,
My band of brothers,
To stalk your prey, and spot
Kisses with passion hot
On lips that, if they’re not,
Should be for others.
Accoutred, are you? Heeled?
Equipped to take the field,
To lurk by dunes concealed,
To skulk in porches ?
Your cameras —see they’re sure
To snap the evildoer.
Put them in order, your
Electric torches.
Fall in, the Night Patrol!
But not for battle’s toll,
You worm bv lane and knoll
Your devious courses.
Yours to enable folk
Who groan and chafe and choke
Beneath the married. yoke
To get divorces.
Forward, the Night Brigade!
Is there a man dismayed
Or doubts he’ll make the grada
With something spicy
Enough to give the Court
No option but to snort
The sentence sharp and short
That ends with Nisi.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


DASHED INCONSIDERATE.
“The reluctance of Melbournites to go to the assistance o f the police when the latter are in tight corners is provoking a great deal of comment.”
PEEVISH MELBOURNE HOUSEHOLDER: “Here, this won’t do, you know. Take him a bit higher up the street —you’re waking' the baby."


wSvv« sf
GRAMP’S
Orlando Wines
Orlando Vineyards, S.A.
Were Awarded
PRIZE FOR MOST SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITOR,
CHAMPION and TWO Ist PRIZES FOR PORT,
at the
R. A. SHOW, 1926.
Agents! GATTINO &. COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Adamascus”: It isn’t only comps, who
may be driven •by the heat to work out of
doors (B. 18/3/26). In Western Queens-
land a solicitor used to do all his work
in the open air. Originally he had a poky
little room, which became intolerable in
summer. Then he saved rent and made him-
self more comfortable by installing a table in
the main street under the shade of a big tree.
He had an arrangement of pigeon-holes to
hold his papers, which at night he moved
to his hotel. He worked in full public view,
and clients discussed their business with him
sitting in easy-chairs.
* * * *
“Talbragar”: The hardy old Dubbo dis-
trict (N.S.W.) pioneer had the whole bar-
room for an audience the night after he was
nearly drowned in the recent floods. He
told his story feelingly, and like an artist.
“When) I sank for the third time, the whole
of my life came before me like moving-pic-
tures.” It was the old fellow at the domino-
table who broke the pause. “Didn’t happen
to notice a picture of me lendin’ you a coupla
quid, did yer?” he demanded with deadly
emphasis.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Looking at the Shakspeare
memorial in front of the Mitchell Library
in Sydney set me wondering anew why the
two golden ages of English poetry should
have been those in which men let the hair
on their faces grow, and the two barrenest
periods—we are well into the second now
—those in which they didn’t. The sixteenth-
and seventeenth-century bards, whose voices
echo still, were mostly moustached and Van-
dyke-bearded men, that being the way of
their world. Followed the clean-shaved eight-
eenth century, when poetry, “shocked with
license, shuddered into rules” —rules so
cramping and rigid that it ceased to be
poetry. There were no lyrics and less in-
PROFESSIONAL JEALOUSY.
HIS HONOR: “This is a case of simple theft.”
THE CULPRIT (who has pleaded not guilty): “Simple,
was it? I’d like to see yer Honor do it!”
spiration ; the precise couplets of Pope, sawn
into lengths and packed with wit and anti-
thesis, were applauded as the best sort of
poetry and sedulously imitated. Burns, in
Scotland, was the first to break away from
the artificial style and express himself natu-
rally, possibly because he wasn’t required to
shave and wear a wig. Presently came the
Lake school, with side-whiskers sprouting
faintly, and a new note —that of Coleridge
and Wordsworth—to re-animate English
poetry. A little before them, of course, were
Byron, Iveats and Shelley, and I question if
they were as clean-shaved as the rhymed-
couplet crowd whom they displaced. But it
was not till Tennyson arrived, splendidly
hirsute, and Matthew Arnold, with his sym-
metrical “sideboards,” and the rest of the
Victorians, with facial upholstery of various
sorts, that English poetry flowered again
and had a glorious renaissance. And now—
has there been a genuine poet since Swin-
burne died in 1909 and the razor resumed its
sway over men’s faces?
THE MAN FOR THE JOB.
THE ENTHUSIAST ( barracking for a wild-cut scheme): “Yes, gentlemen, it is indeed a
glorious undertaking. But where in these degenerate days shall we find the
man to undertake it?”
THE CYNIC: “Oh, it’ll find the undertaker all right.”
“X2X” : A queer feature of tlie dengue epi-
demic in parts of Queensland and the coastal
districts of N. S. Wales is that men are
attacked far more than women, the propor-
tion of male to female patients being four
or five to one in most centres where the
disease has been prevalent. In some places
the discrepancy is even greater; there are
towns where only one woman lias been
affected- for every 10 or 12 men. This may
either be due to some natural protection
against the disease possessed by the female
system, or because the average woman is
less exposed to infection by the anopheline
mosquito, the carrier of the scourge. The
former is the more likely explanation; for
in many tropical countries it has been found
that women are much less liable to contract
malaria, although the sexes’ chances of infec-
tion by mosquito bites are about the same.
* -* * *
“Recherche”: Next year will mark the
centenary of the first direct relations between
'Australia and Japan, but it
is not likely that there will
be any celebrations. • While
the brig Cyprus was becalmed
in Recherche Bay (Tas.) in
1827 the 50 convicts whom
she was carrying to Mac-
ouarie Harbor took advan-
tage of the fact that some of
the guards had gone fishing
to seize the brig. They ran
over to Maoriland and then
stood northward to Japan.
When they sighted the coast
seven of them took a boat
and went ashore, reckoning
that they would be safer
there than anywhere else.
The others went on to Can-
ton, and there the Law
tapped them on the shoulder.
Some of them were tried in
London for piracy and sent
back to Van Diemen’s Land.
Of the seven who went
ashore in Japan nothing
more seems to have ever been heard.
* * * •
“Mars”: It is not only in the bush
that the “surprise party” may have an
untoward ending (B. 25/3/’26). Some
years ago I was one of about 30
persons filled with foie de vivre who de-
scended, about 8 p.m., with much giggling
from the girls, upon a house in the outer
suburbs. To our disappointment the place
was in darkness. It looked as if our pros-
pective host-guests had gone to a show. One
bright spirit proposed we should enter and
await the couple’s return, and so give them
a real “surprise.” After a little struggle
Jones succeeded in removing the wire screen
from a window and clambered through with
the expressed intention of opening the front
door for the rest of us. Suddenly from within
the house there came a crash and the sounds
of a violent struggle. Presently there was
quietness, and the lights were flashed on.
Looking through the window, we saw Jones
stretched on the floor with a perfect stranger
standing over him with upraised walking-
stick. Explanations followed while Jones
was being revived. We had come to the
wrong house.
* * * *
“Pat Busliie” : The handcuffs from which
the N.S.W. police have refused to be parted ,
may be objects of scorn to some offenders,
but there is a variety of darby which is ,
not. This is worked so that one piece swings :
on a pivot back through the other half, and
can thus be closed down to any size to suit
the wrist it embraces. When it is closed
down to a tight fit there is absolutely no
escape without the key. These are. the
bracelets which should be supplied all round,
for, after all, the ’cuff is the most humane
method of handling a resisting prisoner. The
trouble about ours is that they are obsolete.
In the Yank cities, now that the darbies
are banned, a man who has been arrested
is told to march ahead of the officer to
the lockup. If he resists, the loaded cane is
used, and then the patrol is whistled up.
We don’t want this barbarous method in
Australia.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” : The long arm put in some useful
work a few weeks ago at Gloucester (Eng.).
A woman there 'was tidying the matron’s
room at a hospital when her eye fell
on an inquiry in a London paper for the
next-of-kin of a man who had died in Westra-
lia. The man was her husband, who had
deserted her before the war and who, being
in Australia, had enlisted with the A.I.F. On
his return he had set up in business as a baker
in Guildford (W.A.) and made money for
which there seemed no claimant when he
died. Advertisements, however, were pub-
lished to try to trace the widow and family
whose existence his papers seemed to suggest.
The deserted wife had been forced, with her
four children, into the workhouse, but she
had managed to get on her feet again, and
finally obtained a job as hospital servant.
The chances were about a million to one
against her coming upon the one item in
a mass of waste paper that was of special
interest to her; but that is where coincidence
comes in.
* * * *
“Murkali”: It was at a miner’s funeral
in the boom days of the Palmer (N.Q.). The
coffin was of candle-cases roughly bound
with strips of iron that had previously held
a case of whisky together, and occasional
straps of greenhide. In lowering the melan-
choly freight a rope slipped, turning the
coffin over, so that, as one of the mourners
put it, “Jack bottomed on his face.” There
was some doubt if the emergency casket
would stand the strain of raising and turn-
ing, and the crowd looked inquiringly at the
deceased’s mate to see how he would take it.
“It’s all right that way," he reassured them;
“Jack always slep’ on his stomick.”
“Mudurup”: The longest surname to be
found in Australian directories is alleged to
be Featherstonliaugli; the shortest, or there-
abouts, is Ey, for nobody can be reasonably
expected to put up with a single letter. Ihe
quaintest-looking surname I ever met in
this or any other English-speaking country
is borne by a Westralian family. It 18
spelled Frieee, pronounced something like
Frere, and reputed to be of Scandinavian
origin. Can anyone show another English
word, whether it means anything or not,
with three “e’s” (or any other vowel) in a
row?
* * * *
“Spare Corporal” : An ancient hash-house
in London about to disappear is Birch’s, in
Cornhill, where Captain Cook was banqueted
before setting out on the voyage which re-
discovered Australia. Many Diggers in
search of historical spots visited it.
“I wonder,” said one meditatively, as a small
party of us took a war-rationed meal there,
“what Captain Cook would say if he could
see the war-machines of to-day.” “I wonder,’
chipped in Bill, “what he would say to bully-
beef.”
* * * *
“X.D.” : Wireless is laying new traps for
the lawbreaker. The N.S.W. police have
under consideration a system which is giving
excellent results in New York. There a
special system of radio-sets enables a wire-
less ’phone call to be sent out to 186 sta-
tions when the apprehension of a suspect is
desired ; and as it is likely to include a full
description of the fugitive from justice the
chances of escape are reduced to a minimum.
There is no need for the officer-in-eharge of
the station to wear a head ’phone until re-,1
or green signal lights notify him that an
urgent message is waiting for him.
* * * *
“Julian”: In the thriving days of Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) some well-meaning citizens
started a Good Templars’ Lodge, but the
climate was against it. The lodge soon got
into financial difficulties and disbanded, leav-
ing the Temperance Hall to be sold for un-
paid rates. It surely was the bitterest irony
that the Brewery Employees’ Union, being in
want of a meeting-place, should have come
along and bought the lodge-room. They re-
moved it to a central block, where for years
it was the scene of jovial and hospitable
gatherings. Instead of opening and closing
their meetings with prayers, as the Templars
had been in the habit of doing, the malt and
hops brigade began and ended their delibera-
tions with beer.
* * * *
“Iford” : The old superstition about the
luck that attaches (or should) to a seventh
son was revived in a recent Sydney lawsuit:
some people, it seems, are quite ready to
credit such a one with the power of healing,
in addition to other desirable attributes. I
A BRIEF SPAN.
THE WORLD'S WORST DANCER: “I’d like to
dance with you all my life.”
HIS FED-UP VICTIM: “That wouldn’t he for
long. I’d soon he trampled to death.”
don’t remember ever hearing that Hickson’s
middle name was Septimus, but if he had
made such a claim it would doubtless have
added to his mana. The number seven, I
remember to have read somewhere, first came
into favor as a luck-bringer because two
eyes, two ears, two nostrils and a mouth
make seven apertures in the human skull.
But the most likely chap to back winning
trebles is the seventh son of a seventh son.
If I have met one of these he never men-
tioned it, but there must be some of them
about. A thirteenth son, one may suppose,
would start life considerably handicapped in
places where the unreasoning beliefs of old
days die hardest. AVliat might happen to, or
be foretold for, the thirteenth son of a No.
13 beggars conjecture, but in these days of
dwindling birth-rates he must be a very rare
bird.
A FASHION-DRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The rich, rare colors of wme and absinthe have
been splashed on to fabrics; and all shades of _ wine,
from Burgundy to diluted claret, are utilised in the
autumn hocks showing at Lassetter’s Absinthe-
green makes fragile evening frocks and hats.
The fashion notes are now to me
A literature of pure delight;
I find a liquid ecstasy
In reading what was worn last night.
To thirsty souls the thought is fine
Of dainty ladies robed in wine.
“The sloe-eyed Mrs. Bangs,” I read,
“Moved stately in her gown of stout,
Over a creme de menthe” —indeed
A garment one might rave about!
“Miss Mona Byle glowed splendid in
A subtle shade of Plymouth gin.
. “Miss Blithers in a robe of beer,
With frothy trimmings neatly flounced,
Looked most bewitching; Lena Deer,
Whose coming marriage is announced,
Struck many envious women dumb
By her distinctive frock of rum.”
The ladies who in champagne go,
Or claret for their garb employ,
Or float around in curacoa,
Appeal to me as draughts of joy.
I conjure them before my sight
A mental cocktail of delight!
N.S.W.
ROMEO BOOSEY.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
f U<xjuU -need.
Guaranteed
Shirts. Collars.Pyjamas
* r 7Ae<j Jit~ .
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
;ERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAMO
Major-General Glasgow, who is a hot
favorite for the Defence portfolio when
Neville How r se takes the High Commissioner-
ship, has been a Queensland Senator since
1919. He was a Gympie bank-clerk when he
went to S’Africa in 1899 as a lieutenant in
the Ist Q.M.1., there to collect the then
rather rare D.S.O. Crossing to Egypt in
command of the 2nd Light Horse in 1914,
he served all through Gallipoli. Transfer-
ring to the infantry, he went to France as
a Brigadier, eventually commanding the Ist
Australian Division. For a long time past,
when not busy with things political, he has
followed the family occupation of grazier in
the Mary River district in Queensland, where
he was born.
The news that G.-G. Stonehaven has
ordered an aeroplane in England for his
private use in Australia, officially denied a
little while ago, is now officially con-
firmed. The machine is a De Havi-
land 50, with a 230-h.p. Siddeley “Puma”
engine, and it has interchangeable under-
carriages. so that it can be launched
on either land or sea. His Ex. has already
MARTIN STAINFORTH, the horse-painter
—the only portrait-painter in Australia
whose subjects don’t criticise the artist’s
work.
made several flights in Australia, and lias
had at least one narrow escape from a dis-
astrous crash, but he likes it. The machine
he has ordered is of the same type as that
in which Colonel Brinsmead made his 7000-
mile flight around the continent.
Errol G. Knox had his proud day at the
official opening of the new Evening News
offices in Elizabeth-s-treet, Sydney, last week.
Knox is “dated” by liis first name, which
recalls the picturesque little hero of Frances
Hodgson Burnett’s most popular book. Knox
fits the name well, being a sort of Little Lord
Fauntleroy of journalism. When the old
Evening News, seeking monkey-glands for a
decrepit old age, reconstructed, with the help
of the Melbourne Herald and a big re-
tailers’ association, it discovered Knox, who
had held a commission in the A.I.F. and had
made a hit as war-loan publicity organiser.
Knox rapidly moved up from editor to man-
aging-editor, in which capacity lie has
directed both business and editorial policy.
Langdon Bonytlion, of the Advertiser,
has again come forward as a benefactor to
Adelaide University. His new offer is
£20,000 to endow the Chair of Law, which
was one of the ’Varsity’s earliest foundations.
An earlier gift of £40,000, made in 1921,
comes due in 1930 • this is for the building of
a Great Hall, the University having nothing
of the kind except the Elder Hall, which pro-
perly is part of the Conservatorium. Bony-
thon has made many valuable gifts, also, to
the adjacent School of Mines, of which he
has for many years been president.
Under its superannuation scheme, sanc-
tioned by Parliament last session, the Metro-
politan Board of Works (Melbourne)
proposes to give Carre Riddell, its chairman,
£lOOO a year when he retires. He has been
a member of the
Board for 35 years,
and succeeded
White Knight Fitz-
gibbon 19 years ago
as chairman. He
is 66. To qualify
for superannuation
he will be required
to contribute £l5O
a year (10 per
cent, of his pay)
for the balance of
his service.
DUNCAN
HUGHES, M.H.R.
for Boothby
(S.A.), the gentle-
man who damaged
his chances of
becoming an Hon.
Minister by tear-
ing tip a pair of
pants in the House
of Reps, the
other day.
Australia lost a genial pressman, and
poet Rod Quinn a brother, when Patrick
Edward Quinn died in Sydney on Saturday
—Marjorie, the verse-writer, is a daughter.
Quinn turned from law to journalism in his
youth; but he interlarded his journalistic
career with a six years’ term in the N.S.W.
Parliament as member for Bligh, and there-
after, in 1912, went to the United States as
Deputy Trade Commissioner for N. S. Wales,
which job he held until 1917. His last
billet was on the staff of the Sydney Tele-
graph, which he joined on his return. He
wrote some good verse and many short stories
for The Bulletin; and he also prepared
“The Art Reader,” which is used as a text-
book in the public schools, and, in conjunc-
tion with Delaney, organist at St. Mary’s
Cathedral, wrote the cantata “Captain Cook.”
Although he lost the sight of both eyes
just before the Armistice, Dudley A. Tregent
has just taken final Law honors at Melbourne
Uni. He did it in the minimum time, too.
Harold Kershaw, the rifleman who won
this year’s Victorian King’s prize and the
Syme £lOO aggregate, employs his time usu-
ally in the sweeter-smelling atmosphere of
rose-culture, being member of a firm of
nurserymen and rose specialists at Hornsby
(N.S.W.). His grandfather, W. A. Kershaw,
was a crack rifleman in the ’sixties.
A 12-year-old boy who used to sell papers
in Melbourne streets, and who is at present
in a convalescent home' suffering from ab-
cess on the lung, is to become a living memo-
rial to a dead young aristocrat. As soon as
he is released from the sick-bay he is to go
to the French Riviera and Switzerland and
there receive all the advantages and training
of a rich man’s son. His fairy godmother is
Lady Stradbroke, who lost her own son
during her sojourn in Victoria. The lucky
lad’s mother is a hard-working widow whose
husband died in the influenza epidemic.
Labor is having a new brand of trouble
in Port Curtis (Q.), and a writ lias been
issued by the Queensland central executive
of the A.L.P. seeking an injunction to re-
strain three citizens of Gladstone from pub-
lishing advertisements announcing F. W.
Paterson as the Labor candidate for the
seat; also to restrain two men from holding
themselves out as the president and secretary
respectively of the Q.C.E. of the A.L.P F.
W. Paterson is a Queensland Rhodes scholar
who returned to Queensland three years ago,
and it is claimed against him that he has
in the past identified himself with the Com-
munist party. The point is interesting—-
what rights (if any) has anybody in the
word “Labor”?
Following the death of Captain Charles
McKinnon, Sydney had an unusual funeral,
although few who saw the tugboat James
Wallace steaming down the harbor knew
that it was a funeral. Notwithstanding that
he had been a long-shoreman for 25 years,
the old salt's last wish was that lie should
be buried in open ocean. Heavy storms de-
layed the funeral for days, but eventually
the body was sent in a weighted casket to its
last home.
Information about the estate of Septimus
Miller, chairman for some time and com-
mitteeman of the V.R.C. for 40 years—his
home gave the name to the Cantala Stakes —
was furnished in the Vic. Practice Court
on a motion for direction concerning the
interpretation of his will, which, incidentally,
is the longest document of the kind remem-
bered in local history. The son of “Money”
Miller was known to be wealthy; it turns
out that his estate, including liis interests in
M. was valued for probate at £494,700.
The upkeep of Cantala House ran away
with £4OOO per annum, it was mentioned.
John Allan, Vic.’s Premier, was 60 the
other Saturday, and he had dinner with the
family at his farm, Wyuna South, to cele-
brate the occasion. He has a holding of a
couple of square miles there which he earned
by his own efforts.
William Plunkett, the fireman who was
killed when a hose-carriage crashed into a
tram at Prahran (Vic.), had some distin-
guished ancestors. On his mother’s side he
was related to W. E. Gladstone, and on his
father’s he belonged tp the noble Irish family
of Plunkett. He was also related to Lord
Dunsany, writer of queer plays, and John
Hubert Plunkett, first Attorney-General of
N. S. Wales.
The new position of Public Solicitor in
South Aus. goes to a junior, E. E. Sandery,
of the Crown Law Department. The duties
are to look after civil and matrimonial
causes for anybody who can prove that he
(or she) hasn’t more than £lOO in the world ;
also (for the two branches of the profession
are united in S.A.) to defend any accused
person and conduct criminal appeals if
necessary. Sandery, who is only 27, went
on from Stratlialbyn school to the Christian
Brothers’ and Adelaide University. He got
his early law experience in the office of Vil-
len euve Smith and Alderman.
“C.Q.”: Gipsy Smith, the evangelist, went
to Pentridge (Melbourne) one day last week
to talk and sing to the prisoners. He led off
with “There Is a Green Hill Far Away.”
As a counter-weight to some men who have
50 jobs in one year there is T. Denby Glass-
cock. who has had one job in 50. He is
council clerk at Glebe, Sydney, whose service
he joined as a boy of 14 on April 1, 1876 ;
he became council clerk when he was 22.
Glebe was newly incorporated then, and
Wigram Allen was Mayor. There still was
bush in parts of the big Allen estate, which
was not cut up until 30 years ago.
A genial rough diamond, Tom Hoskins,
M.L.A., is one of the kingpins of the Sydney
Show. As a coachmaker Hoskins began to
be an exhibitor 30 years ago, and has missed
hardly a day of the Show since. Twenty-five
years back he became a member of the R.A.S.
Council, and now on its behalf goes through
the money taken at the gates. He is a great
deal more careful over that job than over his
own coin. After he got into Parliament the
election committee of his Labor opponent,
Arthur Jones, found itself in difficulty, as
its expenses exceeded its revenue, and the
election enthusiasm had petered out. But it
was not in difficulty long when Hoskins heard ;
of the trouble. His cheque covered the
deficit and left something over towards a'
testimonial for his opponent.
Bishop Arundale becomes the new general
secretary of the Theosophists in Australia,
that being apparently the job that brought
him with Bishop Leadbeater after the recent
Theosophical convention at Adyar, India,
Arundale, an M.A. and LL.B., has lately
sclioolmastered in India; his wife, also an
ardent Theosophist, is an Indian. The split
in the ranks of Theosophy leaves two
societies —the other is now considering a
world-union of independent societies, and is
gaining adherents.
“Big Bill" Baillieu is off again to Europe.
Four years ago he let his seat in the Vic.
Uppah House go because he had decided on a
similar tour, and he has not bothered about
politics since. The House of Landlords has
been weakened by his retirement, and its
calibre now is hardly equal to that of the
Melbourne City Council.
Frederick Weld, a civil servant, who died
in London recently, was the second son of
Sir Frederick Aloysius Weld, one of the
founders of the Flaxbourne estate, Marl-
borough (M.L.). F. A. Weld was Premier
of Maoriland ’way back in the twilight of
the Shivery Isles’ history, after which he
was Governor of Westralia, and later of
Malay States. The Welds claim descent
from Edric, son of Alfric, who drew a long
bow on Canute’s invaders in 1016. Edric
slammed bricks and javelins at the Normans
on the Herefordshire border with such gusto
that he was named Wylde, which later be-
came Weld. The family are pillars of the
R.C. faith, at least one cardinal figuring
in their history. A brother of Frederick
Weld is a well-known farmer in Canterbury
(ML.).
Victoria's new A.N.A. president, WILLIAM
SLATER, M.L.A. for Dundas, Attorney-
General in the late Prendergast Govern-
ment.
Jack Fitzpatrick, just-retired outdoor
superintendent of A r ic. Railways, can tell a
hundred good tales of his long and valuable
service. One of them is about the mouse-
plague period, when tarpaulins were very
scarce and strict instructions were issued to
s.m.’s to keep them moving. Coming into
Rainbow one evening, he saw what appeared
to be a tarpaulin covering a wheat-stack, and
at once taxed the s.m. with permitting this
heinous offence. The latter denied it; so
they went off to inspect it. The covering
disappeared like magic as they approached; it
was tens of thousand of mice feeding on the
wheat.
After Montague retires early in May the
chief of the Vic. C. 1.8. will be Campbell,
who is next in command. Up till five months
ago he was a first-class sergeant, and was in
charge of the plain-clothes police. On being
moved up to his present job he was made
a sub-inspector, and it looks as if he will
take a hop in quick succession to inspector
and superintendent. Warren is also due to
drop his bundle on April 27, and it will not
be surprising if the position of inspecting-
superintendent, which was revived to give
him a special status under Blarney, will
again become dormant. The Police Com-
mission of 1925 suggested a chief of staff,
which would be much better.
To perpetuate the memory of the late
George Crouch, a Ballarat pioneer, the
family, through a son, the ex-M.H.R., is
offering the local art gallery a yearly £lOO
for a prize for the best oils or water-color
done by an Australian artist or by a non-
native who has lived in the country 20 years,
the winning picture to be the property of
the Ballarat Gallery. It isn’t likely that the
offer will be turned down.
“K..T.M.”: Passing along Seaview-road,
New Brighton (M.L.), recently. I was in-
trigued by the gilt lettering on the window of
a hardware store which read “Geo. B. Cull and
Daughter.” On the pretence of buying a
tea-strainer I sallied in, curious to discover
what type of man would publicly link a mere
daughter’s name with his own in business.
I gathered that Miss Cull was really the
live-wire of the establishment, and was away
at the moment buying stock. Mr. Cull claims
that the partnership existed 12 months be-
fore Lady Rhondda advocated that fathers
should give their daughters the same oppor-
tunities as their sons in commercial enter-
prises, and advertise the fact.
“Gipsophile”: In spite of Gipsy Smith’s
smashing attacks on parsons, he is himself
possessed of at least one qualification for
the profession. He has called attention to
it himself in one of his books (“Gipsy Smith.
Ilis Life and Work,” by Himself. Tenth
edition, 60th thousand). The extract: “For
years my father had greatly added to his
ordinary earnings by fiddling to the dancers
in the public-houses at Baldock, Cambridge.
Asliwell, Royston, Bury St. Edmunds and
elsewhere. Even after my mother’s death,
though his fiddling led him into great tempta-
tions, my father continued this practice, and
he sometimes took me with him. When he
fiddled I danced. I was a very good dancer,
and at a certain point in the evening’s pro-
ceedings my father would say, ‘Now, Rodney,
make the collection,’ and I went round with
the hat. That is where I graduated for the
ministry.”
IN EXCELLENT HEALTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lang, speaking of the A.L.P. conference, said
that there was no healthier sign of a political party’s
soundness and energy than conflict of opinion expressed
with vehemence.”
[Extracts from pre-conference amenities appearing
in a single issue of the S. M. Herald : —“Unscrupulous
gang of usurpers”—“dastardly devices” —“piecemeal
roguery” —“reckless rascality”—“crooks”—“boodlers”
—“bribe-takers” —“Tammany,” etc., etc.]
Up, comrades! Range yourselves in your respective
Factions about to clash with howl and hiss.
Bespatter one another with invective,
Or folk may think there’s something gone amiss
And Labor’s growing tired and ineffective
And showing symptoms of paralysis —
An imputation that would send a pang
Through the anatomy of Mr. Lang.
If you have differences, ventilate ’em,
Not in the mealy, periphrastic ways
Of chaps who manicure and use pomatum
Or in the tones protesting curates raise.
If you have rivals —and who hasn’t? —slate ’em
In some robust, intelligible phrase.
There’s no embargo upon pungent slang
In the bright lexicon of Mr. Lang.
When insults fly, be quick upon the trigger ;
Bethink, as envious tongues their charges spit,
A good retort to “Liar!” ’s “You’re a bigger.”
Rude? Well, perhaps. Unseemly? Not a bit.
Such brisk exchanges are a sign of vigor,
A signal proof the party’s keeping fit
To fight its weight in wildcats and to bang
Opponents endways —vide Mr. Lang.
Up, brothers, up and show the humble dingo
The way to howl, the football fan to yell;
Remembering the foam is on the stingo
The tale of quality below to tell,
And that the more pernickety the lingo
The less the confidence that all is well,
And the more deafening the sturm und drang
The happier you’re making Mr. Lang.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


fff
r m.
§
t ' j •t "
I '
s 11 \ )
f I
rir ,
I • ''
' ~ 'I
liW
7
> H
Al|f< •
b//yj
ft
vNVWtf;
ss
HAROLD
melsonl
M 2
K*
3?T
Sw<>.
THE SPIRIT OF POWER
Power is the very life’s blood of progress. For behind its sure shield happiness,
science and art can alone develop. Power gives mankind a chance to show its
best and so does
DEWAR’S


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
IS
m
m
m
m
■m.
m
W. W. CREfNlfi
COMAKERS, BIRMINGHAM?
Australian Representative! (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
CYAN OGAS (Calcium Cyanide)
DOESN’T GIVE THE RABBITS A CHANCE.
&
FUMO
BRAND
&
$
$
A
P/S)
Full particulars
promptly on
request.
Blown into rabbit warrens in the form of a fine dust, with the
Fumo Dust Blower—Cyanogas gives off deadly fumes which destroy
every rabbi't. Every opening of the burrows is shown up by a
dust cloud.
Cyanogas gives off a deadly gas for more than twenty-four hours,
but after that leaves a harmless residue. There is no danger to
the worker in using it.
Mr. Geo. Langley, of River Farm, Albion Park, writes, 23/11/’25:
“My experience with Flake Calcium Cyanide
is that it kills every rabbit in the burrows
no matter how large the burrows are. I have
dug the rabbits out of my farm (200 acres).
I used the 51b. I bought from you in the largest
burrows, and after digging out the smaller
ones I decided to dig out the large ones, and
in every instance found the rabbits all dead.
I got as many as 32 in one burrow. I can
recommend it to anyone who wants to get
rid of rabbits.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
{EXHIBITING AT R.A.S. SHOW—STAND No. 52).
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
IVest Australia: Burris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
xcv
Babies
thrive on
xcv
“ 'I '
it IS so
nourishing and
easy to chyest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Frontignac”: The vagaries of lightning
were demonstrated recently in rather a new fashion
at a North Coast (N.S.W.) town, A bullock-team
was pulled up during a storm, when suddenly one
of the animals was seen to stagger. Subsequent
investigation led to the discovery that one of its
horns had been carried away. The only explana-
tion is that the team-chain had been struck by
the electric current —the waggon showed marks of
its passage—and that at the time the bullock had
his horn resting on it.
* * * *
“Soda”: “Ah Gee” (B. 11/3/’26) quotes
the dictum of Sir Win. Crooke that, consequent
upon the removal of nitrogen from the atmosphere,
the oxygen content would increase, with the result
that animals would become short lived and the
world grow hotter till ultimately it burst into flame.
Crooke’s statement has been long disproved. The
explanation is simple. If nitrogen is removed from
the air, it becomes converted into nitrogenous com-
pounds. In industry these compounds would be
utilised and, like all other matter, decomposed.
Sooner or later they must return to the elementary
stage. Thus the nitrogen filched from the atmosphere
is returned to it. It is interesting to note that
since the use by man of fixed terrestrial nitrogen
in the form of saltpetre, etc., the air has become
richer in that gas.
* * * *
“Shed Hand”: “Trapper’s” beer-drinkers
(B. 25/2/’26) have some mates in Groperland. A
consignment of bulk-beer went “cloudy” at a country
centre and was returned. Bung engaged a lorry to
carry it to the railway-station, stipulating that the
job had to be done in one load, as the train was due
bright and early; The lorry having been loaded to
its utmost capacity, it was found that one kilderkin
(16 gallons) still remained. “Oh, drink it, if you
can,” snapped Mr. Public-house when approached
on the subject, “find send the empty on.” The carrier
dashed off and dug up two mates. The trio ran
the contents of the kil. into a tub and absorbed the
liquid before they set out for the station, the exas-
perated publican looking on. It was the only vessel
he had not tried, and the ale was as clear as crystal
and carried a healthy foam.
* .* * »
“Bouragi” : Not long since a man returned
to the Riverina from a tour in America. His
clearest impression of that country
seems to have been its eagerness
to buy Australian birds, particu-
larly cockatoos. As a consequence
he set trappers to work, and hav-
ing collected 1200 live cockatoos
despatched them to America.
Allowing for trapping casualties
and the young birds which perished
of hunger when their parents were
caged, this would represent a loss
of at least 2000 Australian birds.
A lot of people are under the
impression that our laws forbid
the export of our fast-vanishing
wild birds. This particular shipper
does not, however, seem to have
been hampered in his export acti-
vities, in spite of the noticeably
large consignment. It would be
interesting to know how he
worked it.
* * *
“Jim Carew”: You can’t
beat Young Australia for
labor-saving initiative. I know
one eight-year-old Hawkesbury
River boy whose duty it is to keep
the ground beneath a row of
guava-trees hoed. Whenever the
job comes up the boy ties a pig
to one of the trees. The grunter
noses round after the fallen guavas
and roots up the earth. When
the boy considers it has done
enough there he takes the porker
to the next tree, and so on along
the row. When the pig has done
his share he is returned to the
sty, and the boy, with his hoe,
finishes the job. The pig is a
slow worker, but usually loosens
the earth enough to save the boy
several hours’ hard toil.
“Sorlright”: Dehorning has become a com-
mon practice amongst dairymen in the Gympie (Q.)
district. The cows are dehorned in cool weather.
It is an easy operation. A dehorner and a supply
of tar are all that are needed. Immediately the
horns are removed the places are tarred. The cows
feed and milk as well as usual afterwards. In about
two weeks the places have healed completely. The
removal makes the animals easier to handle, and
they cannot rip and tear one another when standing
in the yard. One man here dehorned his own herd
of 35 cows and another herd of 25 in one afternoon.
“Moe”: The par. by “Molokilii” concern-
ing the New Guinea native’s habit of carrying human
relics about with him (B. 25/2/’26) brought to my
mind the memory of a “boy” at Madang, in the
Mandated Territory. Expecting visitors, among whom
were a number of ladies, to tea at our bungalow
ALREADY PROVIDED FOR.
“How much would it he to get hitched, boss?”
“My fee is two guineas, the banns one guinea, and”
“If yer can. cut the band out? Ale cobber's coinin' with his
concertina.”
one night, and being a houseboy short, we pressed
the nig. in question into service to wait at table,
after he had had a wash and been given a new lap-
lap. Shortly after the meal started everybody became
aware of a highly unpleasant odor pervading the
atmosphere. Suspicion centred on the substitute,
and finally on a small grass bag he was wearing
on a string round his neck. Reaching out, somebody
took hold of the bag and turned it upside-down over
the table, whereupon there rolled out a comparatively
fresh but smelly human eye. Fortunately the ladies
present, with one exception, were accustomed to the
ways of the country and took the incident calmly.
The exception, a lady writer from Melbourne, seemed
to lose her appetite. Subsequently it was explained
by the “boy” that the original owner of the eye
had been a dear friend of his, and that the habit of
carrying the relic not only was a tribute to the de-
parted, but served to ward off evil spirits as well.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: We were making back to
Broome with a good load of shell, and while becalmed
put in time opening a few oysters. My mate
came upon a pearl, a beauty, and in his excitement
tried to spring to his feet to examine it more
closely. He slipped, and dropped the pearl, which
rolled into the scuppers and through a hole into the
sea. Within 10 minutes he was in full diving-kit,
and found the pearl in less than a minute after
reaching the bottom. Luck was all with us, as
we were right on top of a soft mudbank. That
pearl brought us just on £2OO each —the one bright
spot in the season’s toil.
* * * *
“Australian”: Thousands of pounds are
lost annually by N.S.W. North Coast dairymen
through persistently neglecting to emasculate their
male calves, which, in many instances, they retain
for 12 and 15 months before submitting them to
auction. When they are sold they probably realise
at least 10s. less per head than do steers of che
same age. Scores of cockies, who fear to perform
the operation on a calf, do not hesitate to castrate
the more valuable piglet. This seems difficult to
understand, considering that it is almost impossible
to kill a calf up to six months of age by any fair
treatment, even under the surgery of a raw new-
chum. Is it then any wonder that Australia’s pro-
duction per cow is so low, when these nondescripts
are allowed freely to propagate their species? Even
men of long standing and experience, who appreciate
the value of a pure sire, are at times offenders in
this respect.
* * * *
“Dingo”: Can anyone tell me what became
of Underwood, of snakebite-antidote fame, whose
name was a household word along the N.S.W.-Vic.
border towards the end of last century? The bush
folk there to a man believed in him, and claimed
that he was the first white to see the goanna, after
its battle with the tiger-snake, nibble the mysterious
life-saving weed. He was also said to have been
the hero of “Banjo” Paterson’s poetical skit on the
venerable tradition. In quite recent years what was
claimed to be the last existing bottle of his “cure”
was sold in Albury (N.S.W.) in aid of charity, and
realised quite a decent sum.
“P.X.”: There used to be about a score
of “killers” to help the whalers at Tw'ofold Bay
(N.S.W.) ; but only five are left. They all have
their names, and one of them is Hooky. In the
old days the boats’ crews were mostly abos., and
they reckoned themselves fellers of some consequence.
Their idea was that
when a Binghi who had
pulled an oar in a
whaling boat died he
jumped up a killer,
and they were dead-
sure about it when
Hooky turned up. He
was a killer with a
deformed fin, and he
first ai rived shortly
after the death of a
Binghi who had lost
an arm in an argument
with a whale. But
the last black crew
has disappeared. Old
George Davidson used
to keep them in tucker
and ’bacea during the
whaling season, and
give them a share of
the proceeds, after de-
ducting the cost of the
keep. Gradually, how-
ever, the catches got
less, and if the season
was a bad one, black
brothers got into the
habit of clearing out
before it was over—
they reckoned that if
they staged there would
be nothing more com-
ing to them. So on
the rare occasions when
a boat chases a whale
now, it has to do it
with a scratch crew of
whites picked up in
Eden. What’s become
of the killers that have
disappeared. Twofold
Bay doesn’t know; but
it reckons that the
Norwegian whalers who
operate in the Ant-
arctic, which is prob-
ably the killers’ head-
quarters, haven’t done
them any good. Killers
are only a nuisance to them.
* * * *
“Roma” : A cocky in south-west Queens-
land was in the habit of telling his family at short
intervals that he intended to commit suicide, and they
were very fed up with taking razors, carving-knives
and poison from him. One day he came into the
house with a gun and anr.Oi.nced that he really
intended this time to put an end to his troubles.
After a number of trials with his fvt and a piece
of string attached to the trigger of i.i.e empty gun,
he picked up a cartridge and proceeded to a shed.
In due course a report was heard, but after wait-
ing about half an hour, and no one turning up,
Dad made for the kitchen. When he found his family
busy at dinner, and no meal dished up for him, his
face was a study. “Now I know what yer think of
me,” he wailed. “Yer wouldn’t give a blanker if a
man had shot himself.”
ON THE LIST, TOO.
DETECTIVE ( making inquiries about bur-
glary): “You say there are twenty
watches and ten diamond rings gone?
Now is there anything else missing?"
SOLOMON: “Yeth! The bloke vat pinched
’em.”
“R.D.D.”: Out near Mt. Sturgeon, in the
gorges at the head of the Flinders River (Q.), there
are great red-brown sandstone cliffs, and high up on
these are caves. These caves are full of native
wall-paintings, and it would be difficult to say how
old they are or what was the method of painting
or stencilling them. The paintings are all of boomer-
angs and hands; and the strange thing is that they
are all (with two exceptions) left handa pointing in
the one direction: the two exceptions are right
hands pointing the other way.
(Continued on page 24.)
DAWDLING DOWN THE DTAMANTINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Travelling down the Diamantina, pack-bags full
and the horses fat,
Swanking as only a Western bagman swanks when
he owns a show like that,
Back where the dancing, shimmering hazes jazz with
the whirlwind’s spiral coil—-
Oh, come with a cheque-proud, carefree bagman out
on a dry spree, scorning toil!
Girls and lights and laughter beckon only a few
days’, ride away;
But all that the inside world can offer I’ve lived
right through in a night and day,
Longing to answer a horse-bell’s tinkle, clear in the
early morning cool,
Thirsting to gulp down the night-chilled nectar
dipped from a Diamantina pool!
Dawdling down the Diamantina, freed from a mus-
terer’s dull routine,
Set to the step of a chestnut’s amble, hoofs neat
shod and gear all clean;
Dozing off in the noonday swelter deep in a green
bauhinia’s shade,
Wrapt in the spell of an isolation far from the
noisy ways of trade!
Dawdling down the Diamantina, humming an air
in the evening hush,
Over the downs on a short-cut canter, into the
sunset’s saffron flush.
On as the dusk-light quickly deepens, over the green
of a half-mile rain,
Out where the silent Diamantina waits for the roar
of the flood’s refrain.
Watching the red coals fashion a picture filming a
bar-girl’s business smile—
Only a sordid mulga message, blacking out in a
little while!
Out in the night the chestnut whinnies, waits for
her wandering colt’s reply;
These, with the bell on the bay mare tinkling,
croon me the bagman’s lullaby.
NO CAUSE FOB
ANXIETY THERE.
“And does your sister have any other gentleman to see
her ?”
“Yairs. But he don’t see her—she always turns the light
out when he comes.”
Gliding down through its shady channel, westward
a. billabong wanders round,
Fringing a pear-shaped, vine-clad island, all of its
grey trunks creeper-gowned ;
Far it flows to its horseshoe ending, freighting a
lazy swarm of flies,
Clean through a gauze of glistening silver swung
from a big bush-spider’s guys.
Dawdling down in a back-wash silt-bed, where now
a melon vine has spread,
Carving a wedge of the pink-fleshed wonder —what
could a bagman wish instead?
Away with the whine of a west-born “blazer”
bleaching the brown earth’s flimsy clothes;
Making a drooping chestnut yearling jog in the
shadow the pack-mare throws.
Dawdling down the Diamantina, squandering days
■where the deep pools chain,
Scorning a sheep-king’s straggler-shearing, bulging
the packbags once again!
Scrape the ash from a big blonde brownie! Watch
where the damper starts to rise!
This is the home of a free man’s fancy—Paradise
in a bagman’s eyes!
N.S.W.
L. A. SIGSWORTH.


mm
mi
m
ft * \!
f . \
!
* ,
i '!
■'■A'AA'?A'A'A\-.:
mmm
m
1
MM
m
mm
m
WmMk.
mm
mm 1
SS?S
MS
tiii?
w
M
mm
Wm
mm
■iiit&WmS&si'-
mms
m
mm
A
mmw
MEN’S Cotton Gabardine Raglan Shower-
proof Overcoats, Fawn shade. Smartly
cut as illustration A, with or with-
out full belt. Check - lined
throughout
55/-
xzcv
Murdoch’s for
Overcoats and Coat Sweaters
THE integrity of Murdoch Workmanship, the patient, pains-
taking attention to every detail of the weather-resisting qualities
of these Coats render them impervious to the elements—even
after long and constant wear.
A “Mill to Wearer”
Overcoat
A VALUE outside the compass of com-
parison in all Australia. In latest
All - Wool Blanket Tweeds, grey
shades. Smart Raglan style as illustration
A, with fly front, vertical pockets, and
strap cuffs. With or
without full belt.
MURDOCH'S Price,
xcvb
THE Genuine Tasmanian Bluey, fashioned from
this ideal warm Winter Fabric in Raglan style,
as illustration A, or with convertible col-
lar. Dark Grey shades. With
without full belt
or
59/6
r*
I
k
/
Kindly address all letters to
DESK R .
The Famous Murdoch-
Made Coat Sweater
without weight. Will save its
V * cost times over. A sure protection from
Winter’s lurking chills. As Manufacturers
Murdoch’s can offer you absolute superiority in
workmanship—at the lowest price, because all
Middlemen’s profits are avoided!
MEN’S ALL-WOOL HEAVY-
WEIGHT COAT SWEATERS, in
shades of Fawn. Slate, or Grey,
Oyster Brown, Navy and Fancy
Heathers. Fancy Rib Knit. V Front,
style as illustration C, with close knit
double cuffs, flat
seams, taped should
ers ' Size S.M.,
xcv
Sizes: Men’s 21/-, O.S. 22/6, X.O.S. 24/-
Coat Sweaters require mention of Chest and
Height measures when ordering.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
v$S
i
; 'V>;
1
r.f:
m
Si'lW
pyitMWKW*!.
PFT'W;
m
mm
&
4, &s«*!•;s.'£
R*il
SfWi#?*;*
v.v
r m
V/
PI
Sr'S*!
PS'STSif
a •
sseai
■.•?reivrlBfitin
hiil:siibf
'!/?
///,
iTvSiTM
//
%
I
When ordering
Overcoats please
state size round
chest (over vest),
height, also
weight
in Park St, E* SYDNEY:
“The World's Largest Men's and Boys' Wear Store 99


\
itfis
TAND
SI 1*
ftci?
2 %6
Also in Boxes
of 50 and 100
Memories and anticipations
To a gentleman, sir, Kensitas are like
cheerful yesterdays and confident to-
morrows —the last is something to think
about; the next, some-
thing to look forward to.
xcvb
The unique quality of
Kensitas Cigarettes is
only possible at the popu-
lar price because in the
case of Kensitas that
price has not to cover the
cost of Pictures, prize
schemes or any other
inducements.
Cigarettes
zxcvb
Manufacturers:
J. WIX & SONS, LTD., London, England
“Jesmond” : A ‘station-owner in Victoria
can thank rabbits for saving his property. His station
is completely netted, and right round the fence
there is a track, in some places up to 3ft. wide, worn
bare by bunnies running round looking for an open-
ing. During the recent grass fires this pad saved the
station three times, the owner not losing a single
post, while many of his neighbors were completely
burnt out.
PLEASURES PAST.
“I wouldn’t think of assisting you, you impudent man. I can smell
drink an you now.”
"Alas, not on me, Madame —not on me; in me!”
“Rum” : Let me state Maoriland’s experi-
ence or ragwort and its sheep-fattening properties. If
“Croweater’s” sheep fattened on it are still fat
they should be sold at once, as the seeming plump-
ness is only temporary. Our bitter experience is
that the weed causes a disease of the kidneys which
makes the sheep overeat, causes temporary fatness,
then poisoning, and finally death, if left on it.
Annually large numbers of cattle are lost through
eating only a small quantity of the vegetable.
“Cuchulain”: Many of the n.-W. Queens-
land station-owners have been passing through an
anxious time with their stock, and agistment land
has been in urgent demand. An owner in the
Winton, Mackinlay and
Cloncurry dis t r icts
heard of some good
unstocked land round
the Lower Flinders
River (Gulf of Car-
pentaria), which had
been blest with IT
inches of rain, and was
being held by well-
known sheep-owners.
He decided to inspect
this country, and be
quick about it. The
’plane was pressed into
service. After flying
from Winton to Clon-
curry by aerial mail
he took a taxi-aeroplane
to Normanton, the two
trips (465 miles)
occupying only five
hours. The last-named
town provided a Reo
speed-truck for the 40
miles to the property
under consideration.
Arrangements were
made for the agistment
of 30,000 sheep, and
another block further
up the Flinders was
secured the same day,
the latter being in-
spected by air, there
being no time for any-
thing else. This air
reconnaissance was a
remarkable one, as the
pilot biought the ’plane
down to within a few
feet of the ground, the
party asserting that
they could see the seed
on the Mitchell grass
and all the waterholes
and other salient char-
acters. On the way-
back to Cloncurry an
examination was made
of the stock route, and
waterholes were noted
so that a detailed
account could be given to the drovers. The owner
and inspector arrived home just three days after
they had left, having travelled 930 miles.
* * * *
“Ragar”: There is a small stone-fruit
much in favor with the natives in the Torres Strait
islands that would well repay cultivating and im-
proving. Known there as the “wongai,” its reddish-
purple fruit is about the size of a damson. The
flavor is distinctly pleasant, but uncultivated there
is rather more stone
than flesh in it. It
is good when stewed,
and makes excellent
jam and chutney. The
natives sun-dry and
store it against the
lean time of the year.
As an ornamental tree,
growing to a height of
from 15 to 20 feet,
there are few to beat
it, the small dark
glossy-green leaves, set
very thickly, over
spreading branches,
affording a grateful
shade.
* *
“Keppel”: In a
fight between a croco-
dile and a sunfish,
which would Abo.
readers back ? A
majority would prob-
ably support the croco-
dile ; but in a recent
fight near Darwin, the
sunfish, after a close
contest, came off best.
The fight took place
near the shore and
lasted half an hour,
with occasional inter-
vals for the principals
•to have a breather.
The sunfish proved to
be the more agile and
at times threw its body
completely out of the
water, landing on the
crocodile. When the
fight ended both com-
batants were exhausted,
particularly the crocodile, while the sunfish had
great lumps torn out of its hide.
‘Tick": Feud and friendship are both
apparent amongst the creatures of Bushland. Kan-
garoos and wallabies fraternise on every possible
occasion, and will lick each other’s lips affection-
ately when they meet on their feed-flats; but if a
wallaroo lopes into the assemblage the wallabies will
hastily depart, while the bucks of the ’roo class
at once resent the unwelcome presence with harsh
g-r-r-r-s and menacing attitudes. Hates and tabbits
are bitter foes, and though the latter are the light-
weights in a fight they are on top every time. So
NOT MUCH OF A JOB.
BAGSBY : “Yes, sir, I’m a self-made man.”
SNAGSBY : “That so? Then what interrupted you?”
great, indeed, is their mutual dislike, they will not
remain on the same territory together. The hares
trek immediately a cottontail submits his claim
to a homestead area. A never-ending vendetta exists
betwixt the dingo and the wombat. The murder of
the latter inoffensive fellow, perpetrated whenever a
capture is made by the yellow’ fiend, is from purely
vindictive motives.- No portion of the slain is eaten.
To the snake —dreaded and hated by most creatures —
the spiny anteater is indifferent, if not friendly.
Each will sprawl across the other’s recumbent body
with unconcern and without use of w'eapons or violent
demands for right of way. Bandicoots, too, will
occupy the same hollow’ log with a snake and cheer-
fully push past, his coils when entering the tenement.
The crowding is borne by long ’un with a friendly
sufferance; but if a ’possum seeks ingress he is
attacked and outed forthwith. The goanna is the
Ishmael of the wilds. No animal, powerful or timid,
tolerates him. In his peregrinations he is con-
stantly subjected to attacks from hosts of feathered
foes, and even to meet one of his ow’n reptilian kind
means a battle to the death.
“A.E.E.” : Tlie statement made by “W.R.”
that the English skylarks liberated on Bibbenluke
station over 40 years ago by H. T. Edwards, the
manager, did not increase is quite erroneous. They
did well, and increased very considerably, spreading
for miles round. In the Burnima paddocks, four
miles away, there are still numbers of them, and
no doubt they would be even more numerous had the
seasons been favorable, but there have been many
dry years in which there has been little food for
smaM birds. As to no nests having been found, the
skylark makes its home on the ground, as does our
Australian ground-lark, and it would probably be
impossible to distinguish one ne.st from the other.
Larks are quite short-lived, so the idea that
the birds which now sing on the flat near Bibbenluke
woolshed are the original skylarks liberated 40 years
ago is untenable.
“Gilroden”: At Darwin (Tas.) in the
early mining days old Davy Muldoon, the local
butcher, ran the post-office as a side-line. The P.M.
did not have any great regard for red tape, and,
when the contingency arose, w’ould cheerfully lend
one of the mailbags to a customer to carry aw’ay
his purchases. The bags were always returned, but
trouble arose because the smell of stale meat clung
to them and made them unpopular at other offices.
The butcher was accordingly asked to “please ex-
plain.” The request didn’t cause Muldoon any
concern; in his reply he merely suggested that the
odor was due to the number of “dead letters” carried
to his office.
* * * *
“Up North” : Queensland’s mango crop lias
been abundant, but almost all of it has had to be
fed to stock. It is strange that a larger market has
not been W’orked up. Shipment cannot be the obstacle,
for as far back as 1897 mangoes reached London in
splendid condition; and some of the fruit appeared
on the Queen’s table. The trees grow to great size,
need no attention, and at maturity yield an enormous
crop. For centuries the mango has been the prized
fruit of India. A mango delicacy of that country
which I have not seen in Queensland is amsath.
Ripe mangoes are peeled, and the juice expressed
into shallow pans coated with lard or butter. Placed
in the sun for a few hours, the mess, when dry, is
made into candies that will keep for a month cr
more. Certainly many Queensland housewives peel
and dry the fruit. There is a world-wide market for
dried apricots and apples, and why there should
not be one for the deliciously-flavored mango beats me.
In India even the kernel, when roasted, is considered
a delicacy. In Australia we thi-ow yearly tons upon
tons of this health-giving fruit to the pigs.
“Sylvester”; I wonder the mango-tree has not been
made more use of as shade for stock. There is not
a better shade-tree grown in Australia. It requires
no care, is free from pests, and cattle will not eat
its foliage. I have sown mangoes about the pad-
docks with merely a stake or two to prevent the
cows from walking on them when young. They
should be planted where they are to remain, as they
are difficult to transplant successfully.
, * * ■» «
“Rustic”: Re destruction of bandicoots.
Scatter freely on the lawn for a few nights grains
of unripe maize or, better still, sweet corn. Then
place in a circle, on, the green, spring rabbit-traps,
secured to , stakes by dark-colored cord. Cover the
traps with grass or fresh bush leaves. P.S. —Don’t
forget that baked ’coot is a table luxury.
* * * *
“Centre”: Bracken fern has other uses be-
sides those mentioned by “Pick” (B. 11/3/’26). The
very young fronds and the upper portion of the
roots when properly cooked make a good substitute
for asparagus. In Europe it is. cut regularly m
early autumn* dried for a few days in the sun, and
then built into stacks, to he used through the winter
for bedding-down purposes, in cow-sheds, stables and
pigsties, and is considered by many to be better
than straw. It is used by nurserymen and berry-
growers as a light thatch to shelter from the sun
their seedlings and delicate plants; and it is also
woven into wire fencing as a wind-break. Throughout
Australia it is cursed as a pest—and left alone to
flourish.
* * * *
“D’loo” : Can any of the Abo. Council tell
me what will shift or, preferably, kill red meat-
ants ?
* * * *
“Kirk” : To catch the wily dingo, kill a
dog and boil the body for some hours till it is a
jelly. A kerosene-tin makes a suitable boiler. Add
more water and give a further boiling. Then strain
off the residue and bottle the fluid. This decoy
may be poured on any projection or grass close to
a pad the dingoes use. Set a dog-trap beside it and
await the result.
* ♦ * *
“Black Tracker”: I knew one case in
which “pointing the bone” didn’t work. A Northern
Territory constable, when on the tracks of a black
murderer, had some trouble with his “boy.” Just
when the pair were hot on the scent, one of the
murderer’s friends managed to point the bone at the
tracker. The result was disastrous, for the boy
deserted, and sought a place in which to die. A
lubra who was in love with him led the constable
to where he lay, determined to die from starvation.
He refused to touch the food provided, and objected
to move. The constable did not argue the point, but,
producing a rope, tied a slip-noose in it. Throwing
THE DESCENT OF MAN.
THE COW COCKY : “ Gripes, Mum, look at
that! I s'pose we was cows ourselves
once!”
one end over a branch, he slipped the other over the
black boy’s neck. “What you do along me?” he
cried. ‘‘Only hang you to tree for dingoes to eat,”
said the constable coolly. This was too much for the
boy, and he cried for mercy. The constable pointed
to the food. “Which you do —eat that or hang on tree?”
The boy quickly decided, and was soon on the track
of the murderer, more keen than ever. He himself
later boasted of having beaten the bone.
THE THANKSGIVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gracious rain of yesternight
Has left the heavens blue;
It cleansed the air of dust and smoke
And washed it through and through;
Because of it, in tree and bush,
The birds make much ado.
With pretty prattling flow the creeks
O’er bed and lapstone bar,
While feathered folk in grove and glade
Make joyance near and far—
All busy folk, all happy folk,
All singing folk they are.
The first to wake me at the dawn
It was a singing thrush ;
A liquid song, a lovely song,
A song I would not hush
For all the gold in all the world,
It raised at morning-blush.
A little while, a rosy while,
That thrush sang on, and then,
As though to cheer the waking world
And hearten weary men,
A flock of kookaburras laughed,
And laughed, and laughed again.
Then came the magpies with their song
That richly, roundly flows,
And he that thrills to harmony,
And he that music knows,
Will guess the rapture that was mine
When their rich warbling rose.
Now near, now far, now soft, now 1 low,
In music strangely choice,
Due thanks, thanks full and deep and warm,
All seemed, each seemed, to voice;
Melodiously in jubilance
They sang Rejoice! Rejoice!
Thereafter, calling as they flew,
There ccme a peewit gang;
And then with minor minstrelsy
The green, wet leafage rang—
Yon piped a shepherd bird, and yon
A honey-eater sang.
Sweet sounds the night-rain on the roof,
And sweet is hearthside mirth,
But sweeter still' are bushland birds
That sing at morning’s birth,
When rosy skies look down upon
A cool rain-freshened earth.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Oke un&eath* i
toft weiykt‘fpt


Under
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage 1914.
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE <
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE,
'-WlesHcidsiecfc
Reims
Wjll) '* e ” fn
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
j^^entwo
THE IDEAL CAFE.
Unparalleled for its dinners from 7.30 each night.
Famed for its Cuisine.
Unexcelled for its suppers from 9 p.m.
Charming Ballet.
THE ELCA TWINS.
ZELDA and JOHN JUAN.
MISS MARIE CROWTHER.
THE WENTWORTH BAND.
All without extra charge.
The meeting-place of Sydney’s Social World.
The Last Great Nights of the Gala Race Festivities.
Every Night a Late Night.
BOOK NOW.
'PHONE: BWI3GI.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 67-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
The Show, visibly swollen in every way
since last year, finds its 67 acres hard
pressed. On Good Friday the turnstiles
creaked themselves dry long before the last
of the 150,000 humans had entered the city
where the snake-charmer and the glass-
blower dwell side by side and the wind-
mills whir incessantly and the best of every-
thing produced in the State can be gazed
upon at close range. Governor-General
Stonehaven gave the Show its opening bene-
diction midway through the week; but of
course the real country people and judges
knew the little world down to its last Granny
Smith long before that. The vice-regal speech
and President Sam Hordern’s address, de-
livered in front of the members’ stand, were
repeated from many loud speakers hung
about the grounds. One amplifier above the
ring made direct appeal to the shorthorns
and some beautiful creamy cows with land-
scapes dappled upon their sides. They lis-
tened with the blase ear of one who is hear-
ing a tale oft told by his grandsire, and
were quite unmoved by the fact that three
Governors and their ladies, the Priminister
couple and four Show secretaries were
among the group on the bunting-hung plat-
form.
Dressing even among these plenipoten-
taries was of the furry or coat-and-skirted
order. Of the furs the most to be purred
over was the seal outfit of Sam Hordern’s
lady. W.A.’s vice-reine ran not a bad second
with a coat of sable. Elaine de Chair and
the Hordern girls put a sparkle of youth
into the group, and Aide Coote smiled peir-
sively at the Clydesdales with their flax-
draped hooves. Even the Apocalypse couldn’t
do justice to the moving glories of the ring:
ponies and hunters, alert and sensitive, cream
bulls and black bulls, cattle that were beef
to the ankle, prodigies of flesh that, Genesis
or no Genesis, never could have got into the
Ark. Proudly, almost pompously, they
circled the ring, while on the outer cinder
track moved ceaselessly all sorts of turn-
outs, including milkcarts of smartness to
make you rise at 4.30 for the aesthetic
pleasure of seeing them dash to the front
gate.
The two outstanding women personalities
of the Show are Mrs. Jim. Scrymgeour, a
shorthorn expert who hails from Warwick
tQ.), and Mrs. A. A. Laidlaw, of Ararat
(Vic.), who has entered 16 horses. The
chestnut jumper Lookout and the white
hunter No Doubt are two of her beauties.
A day like champagne inhabited by women
in every tone of red wine; emerald lawns,
and raiment of green in every tint; stands
crowded to the teeth with exotic and arctic
frocking; vice-regals by the handful, and two
pairs of Russian boots —these were the chief
components of the A.J.C. Easter-egg. Eighty
thousand people motahed or yellow-cabbed or
blue-cabbed out to Randwick; about 50 per
cent, of the women had retained their reason
and arrived in lightweight frocking, though
a few had deemed it the propitious hour for
embedding themselves in furs to the chin
and in blanket cloths that would cause
comment in a Maori pah. Everything wore
bead or batik embellishments, and embroideries
in bold designs called attention to many
marocain and ci’epe-de-Chine constructions.
Hats were of the cuddle-down variety as
far as crown is concerned, though many
swept into fronts like a Greek Ikon. The
jumper suit that we loved during the summer
has spent its own doom ; nine out of every ten
women wore it on Saturday in green or in
rosewood, and of course with it sported the
little snug-fitting, cut-away-at-the-back felt
hat that shows up every slip of the potter's
hand in nose construction.
Came the Governor-General and his lady
to their first Randwick meeting. Lady Stone-
haven was in chiffons shaded from primrose
to deepest orange. This softness she covered
by a black repp coat, and topped it off with
a black hat wide and flat. The State Exes,
had quite a party for the midday nibble,
among them the Governor of Westralia and
Lady Campion, the Chief Justice Knox
couple, Deputy-Premier Loughlin and his
wife, the General Bruches and a group of
uninteresting-looking men who hold interest-
ing jobs. Lady de Chair flashed a superfine
coat in Burgundy repp; and a hat in the
same warm wine tones and a string of corne-
lians added color to the vice-regal box. Lady
Campion was mostly fringe and feathers-'-
tlie fringe on her ivory marocaius, >the
feathers on her black hat. Elaine de Chair
faced the day iii bottle-green tailorings and a
cream hat.
Of the local peerage who did the handsome
thing by sable drapings were the Fuller,
Hughes, Hordern and Knox ladies. Moira
Brady, in leprecliaun-green, caught the eye on
tlie official stand; Margaret Osborne, with
father, mother and the just-returned and
much-bepearled Mrs. Kell, smiled under an-
upturned velour liat that matched the sand-
color of her marocain frock. Tall Rosemary
Osborne, in powder-blues, was one of the suc-
cesses. Mrs. Colin Stephen brought daughters
Helen and Philippa in wide-brimmed millinery,
and Barbara Stephen, from England, who
wore fashion’s latest color-whisper, which is
grey, and got. a more or less ethereal effect
from an injudicious mixture of lace, tulle and
crepe de Chine. An English Hon., Mrs.
Hope Morley, was unobtrusive in black tailor-
ings that murmured to a string of pearls;
and Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, almost Juno-
esque amidst the liungry-looking majority,
glowed even as the mulberry, while the palm
for the unusual in gamps went to Mrs. Eva
Wunderlich. Hers was the last word in
■Chinese manifestoes, and came from Paris. Its
handle is of ivory, and carved into a man-
darin’s head. On this is painted vivid lips,
wicked-looking eyebrows, and a long, droop-
ing moustache. From the crown of the head
emerges a long, black silk cord, just like
the once-worn pigtail. The ferrule of
the umbrella are the gentleman’s two tiny
slippered and crossed feet. A handbag
woven of a tapestry similar to that of the
chairs on which Madame de Maintenon
seated her royal callers added its richness
to Mrs. Lachlan Beaton’s well-gloved hands;
and the just-departing Mrs. Vivers smiled
farewell to Randwick over a woven coat
that suggested Chinese embroidery.
The new G.-G. and his lady are at their
best with kiddies. All the children’s hostels
they have visited since they came to Sydney
will be pleased to see them another day.
The last of the institutions to be looked-up by
Lady Stonehaven w r as the C. of E. Home for
Girls at the Glebe. Here lace-making is one
of the arts taught the youngsters, and the
girls take an enormous pride in the reputa-
tion their work has gained. Her Ex, was
quite impressed with the standard of designs
and workmanship, and said so over a large
bunch of golden dahlias tied with the home’s
colors —scarlet and gold.
Muriel O’Malley, the latest contralto to
face Europe with determination in her eye,
hails from
Longreach, in
Q u e ensland,
and since she
was 13 has
been gather-
ing diplomas
an d creden-
tials. At 16
she was an
associate o f
both London
an d Trinity
colleges of
music, and
also held a
r u dimentary
pass in the
art of teach-
ing. She is
now a Licen-
tiate of the
London Aea-
dem y. Last
year her sing-
mg teacher, A. R. Richards, of Randwick,
entered her for the Ethel Pedley scholarship,
and the winning of this has been the prin-
cipal inducement to her to venture abroad.
The scholarship entitles her to two years’
tuition at the Royal Academy and £5O a
year. She is now verging on 18.
Even as the rewards that are laid up in
Heaven are the dividends of the Country
Health and Happiness Co., Unlimited. Share-
holders are assured of “a permanent divi-
dend of continuous pleasure in the know-
ledge that joy, comfort and assistance in
time of need have been brought within reach
of the out-back pioneers.” The Country
Women are the promoters of the company,
whieh was launched bv Lady de Chair last
week. The Adyar Hall was the pit, but a
very decorous one. No bull or bear rushed
in and tried to corner the market, and, in
spite of Mr. Cohen’s strenuous stockbroking,
most of the 100,000 shares are still avail-
able. Given a theatre with full orchestra, a
vaudeville background and a musical-comedy
actress to auction the lots, the shares might
have been whipped to a premium. But the
Adyar Hall turned a cold, whitewashy eye
on the proceedings, and a kind of inertia
crept over the half-filled rows of chairs.
Lady de Chair did her best; Elaine smiled
like a sunburst, and Thomas Henley sounded
like a trumpet call; but even as the sluggard
the gathering seemed to mumble “I must
slumber again.” President of the Associa-
tion Mrs. Studdy, Dr. Harvey Sutton and
Professor David's lady were others who
raised their voices in the just cause of the
mother out back. The honor of taking up
the first lot of shares went to A. B. Triggs;
his little parcel contained 400.
Popular St. Luke’s Hospital, started in
1919 by a body of Anglican men and women
for patients of all creeds, has simply kept on
growing till now it threatens to burst out of
the spacious garden that grew about the
original institution. A new block is about
to be added, and this will mean an extra
50 beds. In addition, X-ray and massage
rooms equipped with last-minute notions will
be installed, and it will take £30,000 to clear
the bill.
This is a May Moore picture of Rex Shaw,
the man who wrote “The Radio Girl,” which
is to be pro-
duced by the
Bankers’ Op-
eratic Society
this month. As
a youngster in
R o ckhampton
he studied the
violin with
D’Hage, and
li e was a
violin- and
viola - player
with very
early Peter-
sham and Mos-
man musical
societies. He
is an orches-
tra enthusiast
who has organ-
ised nearly 100
of them for
Red Cross
shows. Among
his best-known songs is “Men of the Dar-
danelles,” written for war funds ; A.E. Y. Ben-
ham is featuring several of his later works
at the Dunedin Exhibition, When he isn’t
composing music he gives his spare time —
he is an architect —to mechanical invention,
and already has a folding-bed and a pianola
record-cutting device to his credit. “The
Radio Girl” was written during the Christ-
mas vacation.
Tondeleyo was the wanton of a West
African beach. She lived with whatever
man could buy her an armful of bangles and
a few rolls of gay silk; she was a liar and
an attempted murderess. Yet nearly a dozen
naive Sydney girls and actress Marie Burke
leaped at the chance to impersonate her the
other night at the Ambassadors. Certainly
there w 7 as a prize offered, and of course
there’s always the good old adage that to the
pure ail things are at least whitewash.
Clever publicity man and playwright Leon
Gordon brought his whole company after
the theatre —to see themselves as others
see them from the front. Percy Stewart
Dawson was an absolute replica of the
cheery cockney engineer, and Jean Barnett,
Pauline W T att and Betty Lamb and eomedian
Jim Gerald were among the Tondeleyos. Dr.
Bill McKay brought a party that included
Mrs. Hugh Gordon and the Grahams from
Christchurch (M.L.). A party from Samoa
caught the eye with beautiful dancing; and
singer Rene Maxwell twirled a pink tulle
scarf.
St. Philip’s was chosen by Josie Seaton,
only daughter of the D. N. Seatons, of
Waverley, for her linking up with Ben, son
of theatrical knight Benjamin Fuller, last
week. Canon Bellingham did the smithying,
and the Ambassadors served the wedding
feast. The frocking was of the rich and rare
variety; the bridal outfit of white satin
looked as though it had been caught in a
smart shower of gold and pearls.. The skirt
fell in dazzling panels over an underdress of
chiffon, and the train was of cloth of gold
heavily fringed and sprayed with orange-
blossom. A filet of silver held the tulle veil
in position and an armlet of golden orchids
emerged from a .void frill. Rene James and
Joyce Howes rippled in the bride’s splendid
wake with the effect of a cool green wave
in their georgette and crystal frocks. Silver
and green, too, were their hats, while pink
roses cascaded from their arms. The bride’s
mother, in rose du Barry chiffon velvets em-
bossed at the hem with plump velvet roses,
was eye-arresting at the reception, and Ben
Fuller’s lady kept up her son’s end in silver
lam 6, gold-embroidered, crowned by a head-
dress of gold and diamente.
Singing-girl Mini Shelley shone vividly
from a mist of tulle and silver-beaded geor-
gette when she said “I will” to Chris Baily
ai St. John’s on Easter Monday. The Dar-
linghurst church wore all its Easter decora-
tions, and Ren6e Devereaux and Betty Pol-
lock aided the pretty tableau at the altar
in fuchsia georgettes and head-dresses of
fuchsia and gold which flowed into scarf-
like veils. The bridegroom, who comes from
London, was till recently growing rubber in
the Malay States.
Pretty Glory Bohrsmann hostessed the first
party at the new cafe run for Sydney Hos-
pital. The volunteers of the Macquarie-street
refuge have taken over the dining-room of
the Country Women’s Club, and here Glory,
who is a leader of the hospital’s young
auxiliary, dispensed smiles and plump pink
ices to battalions of friends. The “No, No,
Nanette” company having also been lured
to the Bligh-street rooms, Elsie Prince, in a
jumper suit of rosewood marocain, jazzed on
attractive pink legs with Jimmie Godden;
and tall young actor-chaps in natty blue
shirts and socks to tone stepped with dainty
voluntaries in their fetching caps and uni-
forms, or, taking a ’busman’s holiday,
twirled ladies of the company like May
Beatty and Madge White to the strains of
“I Want to be Happy.”
Ivory panne velvets encrusted with silver
flowers, and a veil of Limerick lace, enfolded
amateur-actress Lily Long in her wedding
scene with Sidney P. Byan last week. The
bride, a graceful blonde, caused quite a stir
as she entered the Church of Mary Immacu-
late at Manly. In her train were sister
Shelagh and Fanny Donnelly, in primrose
georgettes splashed with daffodil gold head-
ings. The subsequent cheerio was at Dun-
gowan. Canberra will be the new Mrs.
Ryan’s home.
Sydney isn’t a bit surprised to hear of
Eileen Waley’s engagement to her cousin.
Captain Ronald Waley. The two clicked
from their first meeting after the young man
arrived from London. Eileen is a pretty,
slim creature with an instinct for clothes
and jewels. The marriage will take place
in Paris, before the end of the year; mean-
time mother takes Eileen and twin-sister
Cecile on a grand tour that will include
Canada and a Royal Court.
M.L.C. Coates said “Bless you, my child-
ren,” in his mellowest accents when son
James announced that Grace Hughes, of
Glebe Point, had said the right word.
The wife of Ley. late M.L.A. and now
M.H.R., was not allowed to leave Hurst-
ville without a cheer on her own account.
On a night last week the Masonic Hall was
crowded with enthusiasts anxious to say fare-
well to the lady, who goes off to Paris and
the International Women’s Congress in May.
She will take with her as souvenirs of Hurst-
ville two de-luxe travelling-cases, besides a
gold fountain-pen and other such trifles.
The scholarly Professor Charles Badham’s
scholarly daughter was headmistress of the
C. of E. Grammar School for Girls from its
foundation in 1895 to 1920. Her memory is
cherished by her old girls; and the Edith
Badham Memorial Chapel, which is to be
dedicated to-morrow r by Archbishop Wright
at the school her learning and devotion made
famous, is to be her material monument.
Johnny Gonsalves, the acknowledged
humorist of the law in Sydney for something-
like a generation, is off to England on six
months’ leave, at the end of 40 years' public
service—chiefly in the Crown Law Office.
Gonsalves is in great demand at festivities,
which he is liable (if the circumstances suit)
to convulse with anecdotes and imitations
of Judges; the imitations being so good that
a Judge has been surprised to hear himself
speaking. The joker is a sick man, however;
and when he gets to England he is going
to make an early call on Harley-street.
Although spats were fairly plentiful
amongst the elect at the opening of the
Show, they w T ere absent from the ankles of
the Bruce, who has apparently abandoned
the articles the cartoonist so delighted to
honor. In fact, they had got so much on
tiie minds of some papers that the Sydney
Telegraph, reporting one of the tours of
the Prime Minister, declared that “when the
party reached the bridge, it found the river
in spats.”
Miss Brisbane chatters mostly of farewells:
The Queensland golf champion, Miss Hood, is
going to the Cold Country. Muriel Henderson goes
with her. Miss Hood won the putting championship,
in conjunction with McGubbin, on the opening day
at Yeerongpilly links last week. Amongst roses,
dahlias and gerberas tea was spread in the club-
house, the blossomry coming from the gardens of the
J. E. Trades and J. G. Petries.
E. M. Myers, the architect, laid down his T-square
for ever on Match 30. Born in Adelaide, he came
to Brisbane in ’67, and was one of the old Normal
School boys. He was some years president of the
Institute of Architects, and was the Hebrew congre-
gation’s treasurer.
Campbells were coming in full force on a recent
evening to Isedale, Clayfield, to attend the dance
given for Errol of that ilk before his marriage to
Zoe Sparkes. Old gold was the keynote of the
decorations. The verandahs were screened with flags,
and pink and mauve tulle and African daisies adorned
the supper-tables. Apple-green decked the hostess,
and daughter Eleanor was in deep-yellow brocade.
The bride-elect wore pink mariette.
John Casey, of Ipswich, the legal light who mar-
ries Ruth North this week, had a presentation from
the Irish National Association of two comfy and
handsome armchairs. Monsignor Byrne made the
presentation.
Judge Lukin, his wife and daughter Beryl are
back after a long holiday in the South and the
Cold Country.
Rosemount Hospital is losing both a matron and
a nurse. A shivoo was given for the two brides-
elect in the nurses’ quarters, Matron Langford being
in rosewood floral georgette, Nurse Ida Smith in
black, with kingfisher-blue. There have been several
presentations, too.


HAILDY BR.OS LTD.
J EWELLE R. .S
ift
. .
£ Sail*
■"’■:*
i:- !
7tz: r *- :
m*
m
HT
k :
»■> > -
HARDY’S make a special feature of Loose Pearls
for enlarging and improving existing Necklaces. A
large selection is always available, at prices which
are unapproached in Australia for such high-quality
Pearls,
An expert Restringing Service is maintained on the
premises, and the Company’s experts will at all times
gladly submit suggestions for enlarging and improv-
ing existing necklaces.
Five per cent, discount allowed for cash,
Hardy's Catalogue will l)e sent, post free, on request.
H A F^DY
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE
BROTHERS LTD.
S&T’/ousc oP VewfJLenj
13 HUNTLR STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON
116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
02
Radio Brightens Your Home
\
I!
/- ■ v\«
m
Y
£5
DEPOSIT is all you need pay to have us install
in your home one of the famous
Harringtons “Popular” Radio Sets.
3- Valve £27/10/-
4- £32
5- £4O
Complete with ALL accessories, including “Thorola” Speaker and carrying our
1 12 months’ GUARANTEE.
CUT THIS COUPON OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Please send me, Post Tree, Illustrated Booklet of Radio Sets.
NAME
ADDRESS
B.
zxcvb
Radio and Photo.
Warehouses,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Established 37 years.
KATOOMBA: Katooniba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street,
MKMiOI'ItXE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Ilundle Street.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
xcv
By appointment
to H.M. the Kin
Crossley Motors Ltd. f
England.
It’s here!
—The New Crossley.
Abort
Murfic
PRICES
15/30-h.p. Model,
15/30-h.p. Model.
Australian Body.
£495
Let a British Car reflect your pride of ownership.
—a proven top-gear
performer.
T T is the realisation of our ambitions to
l give to the Australian public a car
that has been designed for Australian
conditions.
A Top-gear Crossley
Straight from the Assembly Depot without a
chance of being run in, this magnificent 15/30-h.p.
New Model Crossley was tested up the steepest
grades in Sydney.
Surely, swiftly, smoothly this car climbed all hills
on top gear.
We have promised the public a hundred-per-cent,
car, and we now conscientiously offer what we
consider the best motor value to-day!
A car luxuriously appointed, that has won distinc-
tion and pre-eminence by the merit of this one
performance. A car that will meet the approval of
every motorist in Australia.
A car that possesses just that difference —and is
a record of investigation, discovery and triumph.
The New Crossley Models are completely equipped
with Four-Wheel Brakes, Shock Absorbers, Lug-
gage Carrier, Rear Windscreen, Aim Strangler,
Automatic Windscreen Wiper, Gabriel Snubbers
Front and Rear, Standard Track.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LIMITED, 87 William Street, Sydney,
CROSSLEY DISTRIBUTORS PTY., LTD., 116 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.
!'By appointment to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
Let a British car reflect
your pride of ownership.
m
SduO '4
jJfcnn *4Lm*t
Ajjmutt* ■
pH
4k


\
I
u
$1
□S3 L2
For the lasting good of
your Complexion, use
POMEROY SKIN CREAM
all Australian Stores and Chemists, or from the
1 OMEROY DEPOT (Ripley & Simpson), Macdonell House, SYDNEY
Swallow* Arieus
Plum Puddings
IWnTTITTTW
have a deliciousness all their
own—a deliciousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
The Stradbrokes ended the - week in a
flurry of farewells directed at them by the
young people of the State. At the Exhibi-
tion over 5000 boys and girls, selected from
metropolitan State schools, were marshalled
m solid phalanx, and 1300 youngsters raised
their fresh trebles in song. Other little folk,
emulating the great Pavlova, pirouetted their
good-byes. Next afternoon the Governor,
donning his uniform as Chief Scout for Vic-
toria, and Lady Stradbroke, in her official
garb as State Commissioner of Girl Guides,
took the salute of 5750 Boy Scouts and 1800
Girl Guides at the Exhibition oval.
His Ex. collected the most unique of ad-
dresses from the troops, packs and patrols
of Scouts, Cubs and Hovers, tlieir friendly
sentiments, inscribed upon white satin, being
mounted upon a beautiful ’possum-skin.
Along with this was a tooled leather writing-
case made by Rover Derrick, of the First
Camberwell troop. . General Chauvel’s lady
as Deputy District Commissioner read the
suede-covered address of the Guides to their
departing head. There was an interchange
of gifts, the Governor presenting a silver
cup for yearly competition among the Scouts,
and his countess giving a similar trophy to
the companies of G.G.’s ; also his Ex. handed
to the First North Fitzroy troop the silver-
cup for fisticuff proficiency for 1925-26, and
decorated Scout Tallintyre with a medal for
bravery, the reward for rescuing a comrade
from drowning. This bright-looking young
Australian put his troop, the First Camp-
bell’s Creek, well in the limelight. Not on
the official afternoon’s programme, but im-
mensely appreciated by Lady Stradbroke,
were personal presentations made by two
Cubs who, quite unabashed, handed her
brown-paper parcels containing small vases
and a cruet. _ Autograph albums circulated
around the vice-regal enclosure like gum-
leaves in an autumn wind, and none was sent
empty away.
Of course the Governor and Lady Strad-
broke had to make speeches, the Countess
giving a parting motto: “A little thing is a
little thing, but faithfulness in a little thing
is a great thing.” The youngsters were
bucked to learn that Victoria now leads the
continent in the numbers of its Scout cohorts.
Society swarmed out of South Yarra and
the other naicest suburbs to the number of
400 one night last week, and wandered up
and down the Persian-carpeted staircase of
ivurneh, the home of Norman Brookes, when
the wizard of the racquet and nis wife served
a farewell set to Governor Stradbroke and
his lady. Easter daisies and salmon-pink
dahlias decorated the reception-rooms, and
the ballroom was a sort of Chinese fairy-
land, lit by gorgeous lanterns, and furnished
with the fantastic bric-h-brac of the Orient.
Within a big marquee pink shaded lights
shed radiance over the supper. The hostess’s
gown of foxglove mauve was glorified with
opalescent sequins, and there were twinkling
stars around her coiffure. Black satin with
a narrow embroidery' of brilliants clothed
Countess Stradbroke. Mrs. Harry Emmer-
toms numerous ropes of opals were worn
with a gown of black satin georgette and
jet. The return to popularity of the bandeau
\vas marked by the appearance of crowns
or velvet loaves and many scintillating
diadems. One of the prettiest adorned the
graceful head of Mrs. Frank Clarke—an
affair of silver tissue petals outlined with
diamcnte, worn with a crystal-embroidered
white gown. There was almost a full roll-
call of Melbourne’s knightage and companion-
age, as Burke quaintly calls them, and their
womenfolk were much in evidence. Ivniglu
William Irvine, who will handle the rubber-
stamp during the interregnum, came with
his pleasant-looking lady, whose black satin
sparkled under a sprinkle of diamcnte. Big
tassels of the sort usually associated with
wundow-curtains and the ends of bolsters
were employed to confer a fresh note of
color on several frocks.
A member of the Ladies’ Needlework
Association who worked under the super-
vision of Mrs. E. A. MacDevitt was re-
sponsible for the most beautiful specimen
of needlecraft that Lady Stradbroke takes
home with her. This, commissioned by a
personal friend as a parting gift, was a
writing-book bound in a finely-striped silken
fabric of shot blue and leaf-green hue, em-
broidered on one side with gum-tips and
gum-leaves in natural colors, the finest of
wools and silk being The reverse
side has the recipient’s monogram and coro-
net in gold.
Lady Stradbroke left her packing on
Wednesday afternoon to distribute life gov-
ernorships of the Q. V. Hospital to the heads
of the various branches of Auxiliary workers.
Mrs. Norman Brookes, the president, had
bidden all hands to Kurneh for the ceremony,
and likewise to say aw revoir to the depart-
ing vice-regal lady, who is the institution's
patroness. A big marquee on the lawn com-
fortably housed the over-300 present. A
boomerang-de.-Z«®e with an opal inlet and a
life-gov. ’s certificate were also handed to the
Countess along with words of well-wishing,
very graciously acknowledged.
When Lady Stradbroke gets back to her
home town she will be able to hold quite a
little exhibition of Australian art. Both
she and the Governor have been good cus-
tomers of Australian painters, and they have
had a lot of pictures given to them as
souvenirs of their stay in this colorful con-
tinent. Some young men who desired to
show their appreciation of Government
House hospitality presented her Ex. with
water-colors by B. E. Minns and Daryl
Lindsay, and one of Blamire Young’s auda-
cious fantasies is. a memento of Melbourne’s
innermost feminine circle. It was handed
over at a most terribly exclusive tea-party
at the Harry Emmerton home.
On Thursday night, through the generosity
of Hugh Ward and the brothers Fuller, the
Sailors’ and Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers
were bidden to the final dress rehearsal of
“Mercenary Mary,” of which the public was
to get its first glimpse at the Princess on
Saturday. For 12 years now this firm has
given the pleasure of witnessing every dress
rehearsal of musical comedy to these ladies,
and Mrs. Victor Sellheim and Senator
Pearce said the thanks of the big audience.
Mrs. Hall-Thompson and daughter Rosemary
and Mrs. Pearce and Marjorie were among
those at the private showing.
The staging of the new piece is charming.
The curtain rises upon a red-roofed home
set in a garden all aglow with blossoms, and
wistaria dangles from big trees in the fore-
ground. An interior in gold and blue, with
golden peacocks wandering over cobalt-blue
curtains, makes the second setting; and the
final arrangements for living happy ever
after are fixed up in more lovely garden, with
an expanse of river beyond. The leading
lady, Mai Bacon, who is not of fairy form,
recalls Lee White a little, is dark of hair,
blue-eyed and wears lots of nice clothes.
One would like her better if she wore stock-
ings ; saving that, more lengthy lingerie. The
lady’s bareness hits the eye all the harder
because the ballet and other principal lassies
are so exceedingly well shod and stockinged.
Mai smiles upon us in a georgette frock with
sparkling embroidery, a coat trimmed with
white fur, and crinoline millinery of the
same hue. More scintillation trails over a
very faint pink gown; and an evening coat
of varying shades of pink chiffon velvet with
lining of mauve and some silver lace caused
gasps of admiration. The ballet displays
at least one memorable bit of dressing of
Dolly Varden nature —shot pink taffeta of
bouffant effect finished with fussy apple-
green frills, scattered with shaded pink
flowers. A bevy of housemaids in the smart-
est of flared black taffeta apparel and doyley-
like caps tied on with black velvet at a
rakish angle is a delightful memory of a
Mary that is not so mercenary, after all.
The maiden whose cheerful expression has
been caught by Stuart Tompkins is Ermyn-
trude Avery,
whose story-
concerts for
children have
given her quite
a unique place
in musical
M e 1 b ourne.
She was a
student of
Edward Goll,
an d decided
to pass her
knowledge on
to the younger
generation. At
\V a n nington
School, Ring-
woo d, her
stories of the
composers and
their works
proved so suc-
cessful that
for some years
now she has regularly given these fascinat-
ing talks, through which her juvenile audi-
ences have become quite well acquainted,
some of them, with the history of music. The
lady has, besides pianistic ability, a charm-
mg voice, and the gift of making the infants
think she’s just a darling.
Eastertide festivities centre around Gee-
long and Barwon Heads, where the annual
tennis and golf tournaments draw most of
the best-known people who haven’t been
tempted to Sydney. With beautiful weather
there was this year an extra influx to the
seaboard town, hotel and boarding-houses
put out the house-full sign, and even the
private dweller took the risk of displeasing
Mary Ann and cast i-vitations freely. The
season’s jollos led off with a dance at the
Corio Club on Thursday night. Mrs. Vin-
cent, the hostess, was in a black gown with
jet and soft .pink beading; she and her hus-
band had the help of the T. B. Hawkes
pair—-Mrs. Hawkes is a daughter; she was
in shimmering raiment that glowed with
moonlight and opalescent sequins.
Pavlova’s artistry is so intensely feminine
and instinct with such unfailing good taste
that it passes comprehension how she can
tolerate the undress of her male partner,
Laurent Novikoff. On Saturday night his
hefty form, in a diminutive green silk tunic,
was a discordant and displeasing note in the
beautifully-set ballet, “Flora’s Awakening”—
an idyll of Mount Parnassus, with maidens
whose tresses were unbound and who wore
flowing draperies of figured silk. Pavlova,
with a white diadem and floating raiment
scattered with crimson daisies, was fascinat-
ing as usual, especially as she stepped it
with “Aurora”—Thursa Rogers, gold-
crowned, above gold-and-blue gown. Novi-
koff’s solo turn was received in cold silence,
followed tardily by very mild applause.
A Syrian dance effectively demonstrated,
1 avlova’s lovely slimness,, her limbs being
cased m gold tissue glistening through purple
tulle ; her headpiece a tall affair of black,
tasselled and gold bedecked. Wonderfully
brilliant costumes and setting were seen in
a ballet of Russian folklore. Anna was a
Princess under a spell—half woman and half
bird—-a dazzling figure of orange-hued
ostrich plumes mingled in with gold sequins
and tulle. Later she donned a Russian court
costume of pink and silver with a jewelled
head-dress and floating veil.
Though she hails from Southport, in the
grey north of England, Mrs. Bess Golding,
whose talents
have found
expression in
the delicate
work of the
m i niature-
portrait
painter as well
as in land-
sea p e s in
water - color,
has been long
enough in
these parts to
be looked upon
as an Austra-
lian arti-st.
Eleven years
ago she came
here with her
architect hus-
band, who
died shortly
after arriving,
leaving he r
with, a small boy and girl, Since then Mrs.
Golding, who had studied in the Liverpool
Art School and later at South Kensington
and the Slade School, has taught, and has
gained a reputation as a miniaturist. At
the Royal Academy and Liverpool art shows,
as Bess Lawrence she was a well-known
exhibitor; and recently, with Margaret
McLean, she held a very successful show
at the Oriental. She once had four brothers,
but their names are inscribed on the honor-
roll of Southport with a star against each.
Joyous Gard, the home of Dr. and Mrs.
Springthorpe, has just housed an exhibition
of the work of our star potter, Merric Boyd.
It had long been his wish to hold a show in
such a setting, its proper one—a beautiful
room, amid other articles of vertu. In open-
ing the show, which contained some of the
best pieces yet made by the artist, Dr.
Springthorpe gave an interesting dissertation
on pottery, from the days of the canopic
vases of early Egypt to the present time.
Lea was served to about 150 patrons of
the_ arts by Mrs. Springthorpe—she’s an
artist, too, whose canvases are well known.
Among the most noticeable of the exhibits
was a large gourd-like jar of majolica-green
hue with a gum-tree rising from the base, and
spreading wind-swept branches and foliage
around the whole vessel. Upon a green jug
also a gum-tree clung as a graceful handle.
Though the potter believes he had never
done anything, so good as the first-mentioned
it would be difficult to find a piece so beau-
tiful as a large ewer decorated with a bunch
or black grapes and vine leaves in the first
stage of their autumn glory.
The mating of Joan Glapperton, eldest
daughter of the Norman Clappertons of Ky-
wong (N.S.W.), with Ronald Forbes, son
of the late D. W. Forbes and of Mrs. Forbes
of South Yarra, was made a week-end society
flutter. The b,ride’s pink satin frock and
tram were splashed .with velvet roses of the
same hue, and a pink silk net veil flowed
down from a bandeau of pearls. Sister Rose
and Barbara Hamilton, each in blue witli
pink-rose bedecked millinery, were attendants.
Mrs. Clapperton afterwards received the
guests m a black gown with a posy of red
roses and a head-dress of gold tissue at No. 9.
. At All Saints’, East St. Kilda, on the last
night of March, Cynthia Taylor, daughter
of the late Frank N. Taylor and of Mrs.
Roy Ada 1, of Bringalbit. Kyneton, made her
promises to James Carr Hunter, of Moerlong
\\ tii i agul. 1 lie pretty young bride wore
trapuings of silver lace and white crgpe geor-
gette, with a froth of white tulle and a sheaf
of pink-and-white lilies. Shell-pink frocks with
same-liued millinery adorned the two brides-
maids. After-rejoicings were staged at No 9
amid pink blossomry and Easter daisies.
Things are moving promisingly at the uni-
versity Con., where the new Ormond Profes-
sor, Bernard Heinze, is taking under his
direction a special class for the study and
practice of chamber music. He also announ-
ces a scholarship for violinists who have com-
pleted a musical course such as is required
for a diploma or degree. This Bernard
Heinze Scholarship is tenable for 12 months;
tuition being given by the Professor him-
self.
Much improved in health after two
months’ stay here, George Fairbairn is on his
way back to London to continue Agent-
Generalising for another 16 months and to bhg
the knighthood he will get at the end of his
term. He and his wife will have agreeable
company on the Comorin; among others,
W. L. Baillieu and three members of his
family are aboard.
When invited recently to lecture at St.
Paul’s Chapter House on “Christianity in
Politics,” Treasurer Alex. Peacock asked
a group of Education officers what he ought
to wear. Would a sac suit do? Director
Tate rushed to the rescue. “Oh, no,” he
said —“wear your surplus.”
A re-union was arranged by Mrs. Roy
McDonald of the members of that clever
amateur organisation of the war days, “The
Girls Who Stayed at Home.” They were
invited to Scott’s to drink tea with their
founder, Mrs. Heaton Smith (Mollie Carew),
who returns shortly to her English home.
She married an Englishman, and has blos-
somed into a successful composer of songs.
Mrs. Russell Gabb, after a two-years’
absence, is returning home in August. At
present she ,is at Lausanne, where daughters
Marie and Gene are receiving a Continental
polish. Mrs. Gabb will presently join Mrs.
I’. G. White; and this expert pair of frock-
ers will visit the fashion-centres and fill their
suitcases.
A few notes from Hobart:—
Actress, novelist and war-worker Rosamund Rees
stepped off the Port Denison the other day to say
‘How do” to Hobart. The lady has spent most of her
time since the war in Maoriland, where she wrote
‘‘The Lake of Enchantment,” and is tripping to
London to talk to her publishers about it.
Mrs. Jack Kennedy launched the first of many good-
bye tea parties to Mrs. Stourton, president of the
Victoria League, vice-p. of the National Council of
Women, and prominent in several other feminine
activities, who has packed her hold-all for a trip to
Europe. The energetic lady is following in the
footsteps of her mother, the late Mrs. Donald
Cameron, who for about half a century made a
yearly trip to the land of haggis and heather.
Bernard Haines, the pet of the Caulfield Military
Hospital, where he has been a cheerful cot case
since 1917 and on the operating-table 40 times,
has answered the last roll-call. Enlisting when only
14, he was at once called “Baby,” and “Baby” he
has remained. During his time in hospital he
took up wood-carving and leather-work, and became
something of an expert worker in each.
Sister Adelaide chronicles an exodus: —
The Bridges were at the A.R.C.’s meeting at
Victoria Park on a day that divided femininity into
the comfortable, who wore the glad rags that had
seen them through summer, and the modish, who
sweltered in new winter fripperies. There was a
good-bye dinner to the Campions at Government
House in the evening, to which the Lance Stirlings,
the Justice Pooles, knight Prank Moulden and F.
H. Downer were bidden.
The Kyffin Thomases, bound for England, have been
farewelled by the Register staff —speeches and supper
and a dance at the Liberal Club Hall, and a leather
traveliing-case into the bargain. The English-
Speaking Union has been saying good-bye too, with
the Angas Parsons and George McEwins, all booked
for, England, as its guests at luncheon.
The Government’s announcement, for the nth time,
that Government House is to be moved, has stirred
City Council members to renewed questions as to the
chance of getting a corner of the grounds for a new
Town Hall; but Mayor Bruce is non-committal.
He is “not yet satisfied” that the block would be
the best site for a Town Hall, but promises that
the Council shall have a chance of discussing the
whole business in a week or two.
Mrs. Bruce bade delegates to the Commercial
Travellers’ Conference to tea with her the other
morning, with city councillors and local business
magnates to meet them.
The older generation mourns the death of Miss
Overburg, who long ago was arts mistress in some
of our best private schools. She herself was one
of the first students at the School of Arts when it
was opened by the late H. P. Gill.
How is this for an unsolicited testimonial? In
a New Universities Dictionary, lately published in
the U.S.A., this item occurs under the letter Q:
“Queen City : Adelaide, Australia, renowned for its
beautiful architecture and scenic surroundings.” We
have often been reproved for over-modesty, and have
certainly never claimed a world’s championship.
Yet here is an American authority giving it, not as
a matter for argument, but as an admitted fact.


SPORTS
TROPHIES
Special Prices
Quoted* for
Clubs and
Schools.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Cricket Medal, £2.
A. Saunders’ . Silverplated Sports Cup,
handsomely embossed.
4-pint size, £lO/10/-
6-pint size, £l2/10/-
We Excel in All
Presentation
Trophies.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Football Medal, 25/-
15ct. Gold, £2/5/-
y
m
A. Saunders’ Silverplated Afternoon Tea Set, plain design, £5/10/-
SENT POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
LEARN TO DRAW
And Earn Money as a Black-and-White Artist
THE WESTON POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING teaches
you thoroughly because it has been prepared by the man
who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and
each student has the helpful stimulus of Mr. Weston’s
PERSONAL CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his work.
IT TEACHES YOU TO DRAW—NOT TO COPY !
The fascination of drawing is very real. Apart from commercial
considerations, you can provide endless pleasure and amuse-
ment for your friends by bright snappy sketches.
Send three stamps to cover-
postage, and we will forward
Mr. Weston’s booklet —
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
—which tells all about the
course, and gives examples of
lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
41 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
Q
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


5Z3
A
xo
N\M
p/i
%Tv
IN
I
nrnn
Sfc
You will enjoy playing
THE
WuRLIIZER
You will enjoy the beauty of its rich, full
tone —the ease with which it is operated,
the ability of the instrument to render
expressively the music of the masters or
the gayest and most popular pieces.
The “Wurlitzer” gives you the key to the
vast treasure house of the world’s best
music—it gives you the technical attain-
ments of an artist.
Made by the Rudolf Wurlitzer
Manufacturing Co., New York—■
builders of the celebrated orches-
tral organs installed at the Prince
Edward Theatre, Sydney; Arcadia
Theatre, Chat swo o d; Winter
Garden Theatre, Brisbane; and the
Capitol Theatre, Melbourne.
You can hear the “Wurlitzer” at most
high-class music stores, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty, please communicate
direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co.,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
And 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
mm
m
W
swim I fm
m-
vmm .»'■
ft
: : :
• ■
Si
■
mBBMi
ft
i
i &srr m
*<pHCz§
-
:f. A- ■
ALL-BRITISH CARTRIDGES.
Obtainable All Gunsmiths and Dealers.
Wholesale Only:—
the Fdfia,Ordiani«r^^ea
ft is an idea! sise*wißgfo
its lightiecoil- m the use
of Ladies, Bows an4Gtris.
380 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
NOBEE
Ammunition House,
277 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
New Zealand: I* H. Labone, 17 Resolution Street, Ryall Bay, Wellington.
Act Imperially!
Buy
MOTOR OIL
„ WAKEFIELD
Every Time You Buy “Castrol”
You Support the British Flag.
Every share of “Wakefield” stock is British-owned.
“Trade within the Empire” was always a wise slogan and a
sensible policy. But to-day it is vital. We should—WE
MUST—support British Capital and Industry up to the hilt.
Every penny profit made on “CASTROL,” from the
refinery to the consumer, goes to the Empire.
It is true that the crude oils from which the Wakefield
lubricants are manufactured are not of British origin, for the
simple reason that Great Britain has no crudes. Therefore,
the products of other countries are exploited for British trade.
Pennsylvanian crudes are used; they are the finest in the
world. These, compounded by master chemists in the great
Wakefield laboratories, eventually become the perfect
product, “CASTROL.”
“CASTROL” is directly specified by 200 manufacturers
of British Cars and Motorcycles.
It is recommended by the great General Motors Corpora-
tion of America, by Willys-Overland, Crossley, Ltd., Dodge
Bros. (Great Britain), Ltd., and by Hudson and Essex (Great
Britain), Ltd. It is used by experienced motorists and by
intrepid airmen whose lives depend on its faithful service.
“CASTROL” does not fail.
Ask for it-—it is British-owned and costs no more.
OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING GARAGES.
C. C. WAKEFIELD 8 GO., LTD.
The All-British Firm,
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
Head Office for Australasia:
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
TEL. 337465-6.


xcvb
J:
WSMS
mmm
Lmlc fa* thk Trademark I Ag.iua Everywhere.
rite for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Q>. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Gerald ton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sols Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
“T he
Pleasure is
all Yours/*
i’A,
/ ■
V
v\
J. KITCHEN & SONS Pty. Ltd.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Randwick has never looked brighter than
it looked on Saturday, and it has rarely held more
people, but the A.J.C. round began inauspiciously
for punters, very few of whom backed Royal Howard
(Lord Howard—Vernonia) in the First Hurdle. Edward
Moss’s gelding won the Queensland Cup in 1923,
but he was a dreadful disappointment subsequently
on the flat, and though he showed some aptitude for
hurdling last winter, his recent form had not been
encouraging. His quotation was averaged at 20 to 1,
but a Victorian bookmaker vainly offered 100 to 3,
and the tote returned £lO 12s. for 10s. —there were
two other dividends. However, those backers who
stuck to Windbag got even in the Autumn Stakes,
and when Valieare had broken up her field in the
Doncaster Handicap, and established a weight-carrying
record for a three-year-old filly, the public was a
bit ahead of it. The pleasure was fleeting, for
Rampion, favorite at 5 to 4 for the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, obliged the bookmakers by tarrying at the
post (as Manfred did last year and Heroiq in 1924),
and though Cyden, the winner, was second favorite
at 5 to 2, Victorian punters lifted a lot of the
money, which was also the case when Poitrel’s son
Belgamba (5 to 4) led Tibbie (3 to 1) and Eridanus
home in the St. Leger. Then Shrapnel put MeShort-
odds well ahead by overcoming Naos, Night Heron
and 15 others in the To'cal Handicap. The Spearhead
—Folly Queen gelding was one of the outsiders of
the party; even his owner-trainer, Marsden, who had
backed him substantially at Warwick Farm a week
before, let him run loose. Quoted in the ring at
20 to 1, he figured at 25] to 1 on the grandstand
tote, which declared three dividends.
The Autumn Stakes .showed that Windbag was
back to almost his best form, but the bookmakers
could not have thought so, or they would not have
offered 5 to 4 in a field of five. Pilliewinkie was
firm at 7 to 4, and Heroic, who was produced in
superb condition by Holt —Randwick has never seen
him looking so well—was supported at 7 to 2 and
4 to 1. David, whose rich owner persists in racing
him though he is rising nine and a stallion, was
190 to 1 in some places and 200 to 1 in others.
The poor old beggar, who was entering upon his
sixth Sydney Cup meeting, was allowed to set up
a lead of several lengths, but Windbag was galloping
alongside him at the home turn. Quickly disposing
v..the veteran. Windbag went on to win comfort-
ably by a long neck from Pilliewinkie, who never
looked like catching him, with Heroic, who ran his
race in snatches, the same distance away third and
Pantheon a fair fourth. Munro rode Windbag very
confidently, and the champion galloped the 12 furlongs
in 2min. 34Jsec.
In the betting on the Doncaster, Valieare was at
0 to 4 for a time, but when it was seen that she
had drawn the rails position the price shortened
until it was 5 to 4 on, and not much of that.
Robespierre and Fuji San were second favorites at
10 to 1; then came Irish Prince at 12 to 1, Val-
doona, Jimmie B. and Wedding Eve at 20 to 1;
Leslie Wallace, Perspective and Brimming at 25
to 1; and the others (there were 18 starters) from
33 to 100 to 1. Valiant was the first to move, but
1 alieare had the lead at the seven-furlong post,
with Valiant, Jimmie 8., Brimming and Golden
Voice nearest of the others. The Valais-Courante
fuly was timed to run four furlongs in 47sec., five
in 58]sec., and six in imin. lOlsec. Whether these
figures are correct or not, she made the pace so
solid that they were all tired a furlong from home,
at which stage Valieare was well clear of Valiant,
with Jimmie B. struggling to retain third place and
Irish Prince, who had got away badly, coming with
one of his belated runs. Pat Osborne’s wonderful
bit of horseflesh won her sixth race by a length and
a half from Valiant, who was nearly two lengths
ahead of Irish Prince, with Jimmie B. fourth, Per-
spective fifth and King Cyllene, Fuji San and Val-
cioona most prominent of the rest. The mile was run
in lmin. 37Jsec., which time has been beaten twice
(Whittier registered lmin. 36Jsee. in 1924), so if
Valieare really did run six in 1.104, the last two
furlongs took her 27]see. She was all out at the
finish, but she proved herself a great filly, and great
were the public’s cheers. Munro rode her well, and
Bailey Payten, the trainer, had her in fine fettle.
Valicare’s div. on the 10s. machine was 17s. 6d.,
almost equal to the starting price 5.0.; Valiant’s
was £6 Is, 6d., and Irish Prince’s £1 Is.
Rampion’s misadventure spoilt the Sires’ Produce
Stakes for his stable and a legion of supporters, but
Cyden (Cyklon—Deneb), Lady Constance (Chrysolaus
—Lady Rylstone) and Cromwell (Woorak—Mettle-
some) fought out a spirited finish, necks separating
them. The last-named will probably turn out the
best of the three next season; he is not so forward
as either of the Allies. More should also be heard
of Belgamba next year; he scored very easily in the
St. Leger and is obviously improving. He recalls
his sire, both in appearance and action, and if he
furnishes into a Cup horse few will be surprised.
It was 7 to 2 Caserta, 8 to 1 Naos and Johnnie
Jones, 10 to 1 Dion and Virgin Gold, and 12 to 33
to 1 others for the Tocal Handicap, which brought
out a held of 18. Night Heron (16’s) made the
early running, but Shrapnel headed him at the
entrance to the straight and won by a length and
a quarter from Naos, who was three parts of a length
in front of Night Heron; while Johnnie Jones, who
proved too much of a handful for his jockey, beat
the others. Caserta never threatened danger, and
none of the other Cup candidates —Valbee, Valwyne,
Prince Minimbah, Highlander, Dion, Varney, Samoan
or Murray King—ever looked a possibility. The 12
furlongs were galloped in 2min. 33sec.
The feature of the Sydney Cup betting at the
course on Monday was the strong support for Heroic.
Pilliewinkie, who had been favorite from the time
the weights came out, held his place at 7 to 2, but
C. B. Kellow’s chestnut, a late-eomer in the market,
firmed to sto 1, Tookarby receding to 6 to 1. Of
the 18 others, Naos -was 8 to 1, Shrapnel 14, Irish
Prince 16, Valbee 2D, Answer and Gungool 25,
Caserta, Player and Highlander 33, and Murray
King, Varney and Samoan, the three rankest out-
siders, 200 to 1. Heroic’s jockey, Cairns, drew
No. 1 marble, and though the chestnut was slow
to leave the barrier, he moved up so smartly that,
passing the public grandstand, he was running sixth.
The leader then was Murray King, who was. followed
by Prince Minimbah, Pilliewinkie and Tookarby;
and at the mile post it was Murray King, Pilliewinkie,
Dion, Naos; at the half-mile, MuiTay King, Dion,
Pilliewinkie, Heroic. Near the three-furlong post
Valbee fell, and it is alleged that in the interference
thereby caused Pilliewinkie, Tookarby and Heroic
suffered materially. Whether they did or not —it is
difficult to get absolutely trustworthy evidence in these
eases, when everyone is excited —Murray King led
into the straight from Naos, Dion, Pilliewinkie and
Heroic (on the rails), with Caserta coming fast on
the outside. At the leger Naos looked like winning,
but Murray King kept plugging on, and an intensely
exciting struggle over the final furlong, resulted in
the 200-to-l chance beating Caserta by a neck and
Naos by another head, while Heroic’ was a close
fourth, Tookarby fifth and Valamita, sixth, Pillie-
winkie, Gungool, Player and Valwyne following in
that order. Murray King is owned by E. J. .Gorman
and T. J. Gaffney, neither of whom witnessed the
race, and was ridden by E. S. McNamara, who is
apprenticed to the trainer, George Price. A five-
year-old brown gelding by Comedy King—Lady
Cantala, he was reputed a decent stayer when trained
in Melbourne, but the best he could do in Sydney,
previous to Monday, was to run second to Greendale
in a 10-furlongs race at Moorefield. Incidentally,
the same Greendale beat Scarlet in a handicap at
Moorefield a week or so before she w T on her Sydney
Cup. Murray King’s success was very welcome to
the peneillers, who not only showed tremendous
profits on their ante-post and course books on the
Cup, but got out of all their doubles. A week
before the meeting began they were offering a whole
8 to 1 about Valicare for the Doncaster and Pillie-
winkie for the Cup; and the event shows how mad
a thing it is to take these short-price doubles.
Caserta was probably the unlucky horse of the race,
for he was well back when Valbee fell, and Toohey had
to take him round the prostrate horse, but it was
a capital performance to lead nearly all the way
and finish stoutly, as Murray King did. His
time for the two miles was 3min. 26sec., and his
tote div. was £34 2s.
The other winners on Easter Monday were Metellus
(12) in the Flying Handicap (he* won the first
MAX KROGER, of the Geelong Guild
Harriers. Winner of the Vic. Decathlon
championship.
division of the corresponding affair last year) ; Rose-
neath (10) in the Easter Stakes; Prince Arim
(10) in the Steeplechase; Quince (14) in the
first division of the Nursery Handicap; Count
Richmond (6) in the second division; and Gaelic
Maid (10) in the High weight Handicap. Not for
years has the Sydney public experienced sd disastrous
a day.
“Harold Hardupp”: Jimmy Munro earned £143
4s. for riding Valieare, besides what the owner
threw in for good measure, and he might have got
more. A bewhiskered outbacker, flushed with victory,
breasted the Leger bar and, having received his
whisky, demanded to know if “the bloke who rode
Valicare’s bin in ’ere yet.” The answer being in
the negative, he said: “Well, w’en ’e comes in, give
’im a drink —an’ you can ’and ’im the change.”
And, planking another florin on the counter in
the manner of one who makes a generous return for
favors received, he walked out.
* * * *
Mares annexed the principal handicaps at
the Melbourne Easter meetings. At Epsom on Satur-
day the Buckwheat —Spring Note mare Corncrake, who
had run a good second to El Dorado at Caulfield on
the Monday, won the Epsom Handicap easily from
Batteryman and Ouragan. Formerly raced in Sydney
(as was El Dorado) and now owned by R. P. Mc-
Farland, Corncrake went out at 2 to 1. At Williams-
town on Monday Lady Warwick was favorite for the
Easter Cup, 12 furlongs, having won over the same
distance at her previous start, but the race proved
a good thing for Little Millie (8), who took charge
at the entrance to the straight and won, running
away, from Lycurgides (15) and Anan Louise
(8) in 2min. 34£sec. Little Millie is by Bronzino
-—Posadena, and used to race on the pony courses.
She is owned and trained by F. Garland and was
ridden by Cusdin. The favorite had a bad run and
did well to finish fourth.
THOSE WERE THE DAYS.
FOOTBALL ENTHUSIAST : “ Gripes, the game
muster bin tough in them days!”
Haoma, who is getting old, had another
shot at the Great Eastern Steeplechase at Onkaparinga
(S.A.) on Easter Monday, but the weight of years
and lead (he carried 12st. 71b.) proved too much
for him. He finished third to Mount Cooper and Merri
Mae, Mount Cooper, who is owned by F,. J. Coffey
and was ridden by Sheppard, paid £lB 6s. on the
£1 tote, Merri Mae returning £4 Ss. J. H. Flan-
nagan, Haoma’s owner, had a success in the Hills
Railway Stakes with Bright Poppy, and the Onka-
paringa Cup went to the well-backed Eringa, whose
tote price was just on 4 to 1.
* * * *
“Hasen” : Visitors to the Kedron (Bris-
bane) races the other day found some added enter-
tainment in the form of a manhunt. A pickpocket
made such a clumsy job of it that the excited
uproar of his victim drew all eyes on him before
he had gone a dozen yards. Two things were re-
markably well illustrated in what followed: the
survival of the pack instinct (in a wonderfully short
time fully 80 p.c. of those present had deserted the
other “registered” robbers, who stand on boxes and
bawl aloud their evil designs, to join the hue and
cry after this unethical one) ; and, secondly, the
utter aimlessness (and cowardice) of a crowd. It
•was a faint-hearted effort at escape, so much so that
one disgusted punter-onlooker insisted that the fugi-
tive was “dead” ; but quite 10 minutes passed before
any of the 200 or so bold hunters laid hands on
the easily-reached quarry, and then the fat khaki
of the law was encouragingly handy, anyway. In
fact, from all points of view it was a thoroughly
depressing sight.
* * *
“Nonest”: At Warwick (Q.) recently
Margaret Morris, by Eudorus—Bob Cherry, and there-
fore a full sister to Eurythmic, started a hot favorite
for a hack race. She carried the minimum weight,
7st. 101 b., and finished second in a field of two.
Margaret must be the bad girl of the family.
* * * *
“Taupo” : Chain-stepping competitions are
popular at bush sports meetings in M.L. Ruka, the
15st. daughter of Hori, my neighbor, had won. four
chain-stepping competitions and might have won 40
more but for a sad accident. After the last com-
petition, which she carried off in her usual style,
pacing the distance to an inch, she unwisely sat
down on an overturned barrel. The barrel rolled,
and Ruka landed head and back on the ground, with
her enormous legs waving in the air. And there, for
all the world to see, was a tape measure tied
from one brown knee to the other.
* * * *
“All Four”: Rain having fallen, grey-
hounds are being towed about Centennial Park
(Sydney) and other open spaces in preparation for
the opening at Rooty Hill next month. Sydneyside
coursing is an uncertain circumstance. Each season
it starts off with a rush like the Newmarket
Handicap. This lasts till the second meeting. There-
after the rush assumes a more dignified, even glacial,
aspect. The third meeting over, the aforementioned
impetuousness becomes as gradual as a caterpillar
with 17 sprained ankles. And every year the rot
sets in slightly earlier. Last season it seemed as
if the fourth, meeting would have to be abandoned,
dogs were so scarce. The trouble is that the speed
of the animals soon becomes known and, there being
ho handicapping in coursing, betting is paralysed.
Attendance and nominations rapidly dwindle. Chas-
ing a small defenceless animal for' its life is a poor
sort of “sport.” If the ancient and cruel business
survives three more seasons, this scribbler will be
astonished.
* * * *
It was the height of folly to expect that
the elderly Waddy, though called Australian heavy-
weight champion, would be a reasonable match for
an exceptionally strong young fellow like the American
negro Tiger” Payne. The coon scaled list. 741 b.
•when on Saturday night at the Sydney Stadium,'he
gave vv addy exactly a stone in weight and several
inches in height and knocked him out in the first
minute of the first round. A crowd of about 5000
witnessed the fiasco. Waddy rose slowly when
the bdl rang, and did not appear to realise that the
light was on till Payne was close up, making hostile
gestures with his gloves. Then the old ’un stopped
tumbling with his shorts and threw himself into a
boxing attitude. Payne hurled himself, with flying
fists, at the ancient. He got home with a left
swing to the cheekbone and a right to the jaw. In
tailing, the old gentleman’s head bumped the floor,
and he lay prone till counted out. For once Payne
really showed a touch of what earned him his first
name.
* * * *
.. “Neville”; Martin Denny, great Austra-
lian featherweight of other days, returned from
America not long ago and has taken a hotel on the
fringe of The Rocks, whose pride he used to be.
j a uJ ln , V' as a protege of “Smiler” Hales, who
dubbed him the Pelican Pet.” Just before leaving
tor England, on a tour that was to take up half
'V s . metime, Denny fought a 25-rounds draw with
Gnffo, and gave Griffo a harder tight than ever
iVicAuliffe or George Dixon did. After a brilliant
ring career he made money in the saloon business at
Seattle and ban Francisco till prohibition closed
the bars.
* * * *
Harry Stone made his reappearance in the
Melbourne ring on Saturday night, his opponent
being Jack Josephs, who, at lOst. 81b., was 741 b.
heavier than the New Yorker. Judging by his antics,
,?£' c thought the turn highly comic, but the crowd
differed and counted the pair out. Referee Quirk
declared the infliction a draw. In the other contest,
Johnnie Taylor (9st.), who is no relation to the
cricket international,, knocked George Waters (9st.
lib.) out in 10 rounds. There was no thrill in this
argument till the final round, but Taylor is a boy
who should go far.
South Aus. Rowing Association has modi-
fied, and improved on, its distinctian between the
Adelaide clubs and those of the Murray. A difference
of style would probably, and distance would cer-
tainly, prevent a combined crew for the State getting
together from the two sources, and lately Murray
Bridge has mostly provided a South VIII on
its own. Other crews are coming along, however,
and Pfeiffer, the “Bridge” stroke, has been allowed
to strengthen his support with a hefty 6, and 7 from
Mannum, a bit further up the river. This com-
bination comfortably won a recent test, although it
was rowed on the salt water of the Port Adelaide
River, and it will represent S.A. at Brisbane next
month. Another Murray boat, Renmark, finished
second, and the combined city crew was last.
“Shrewsbury”: N.S.W. notably lags be-
hind Queensland, Victoria and South Australia in
the encouragement of country rowing clubs, but
there are obstacles in the way. An official of the
N.S.W. Rowing Association recently Visited the
Northern Rivers, where clubs are plentiful, but the
inevitable amateur status was a stumbling block
to negotiations. Most of the inter-club matches are
for cash prizes, as are sculling matches, while
many raw oarsmen compete for cash at countrv
athletic or cycling meetings, or play football for
cash considerations. Till this difficulty is got over,
and proper coaching methods are instituted to polish
up the rough stuff, there is little likelihood of
N.S.W. turning out country crews of the calibre of
Murray Bridge or Wendouree.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : Professional sculling, which
once gripped Australia by the wool, has fallen from
its old estate. That is why Major Goodsell, world’s
sculling champion, is going to the U.S.A. after his
match with Tom Saul on May 3. Sculling has
boomed in America since Yankee amateur Hoover
did so well at Henley, and good pros, are in
demand as coaches. Goodsell has contracted to give
a series of exhibitions with George Matterson, son
of the famous Neil, at a weekly rate the pair could
never hope to hear of in this country. If Hoover
turns pro., as he proposes to do, Goodsell has been
promised a match with the American champion,
and he may also meet young Barry, who is going
across from England.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : Last season, with its
substantial deficit, has sadly shaken the confidence
of the N.S.W. Rugby League, and its press-agents
are offering all excuses but the right one. Which
is that, somehow, the League has been unable to
rear up players of the calibre of those who seceded
from the Rugby Union and made the League’s for-
tunes, as well as maintaining them for years. The
same position exists in the English Northern Union,
but there the professional game has no schools and
hardly any juniors to draw on. It recruits its
strength by hiring Rugby Union stars, chiefly from
Wales, when it can get them. ’But the N.S.W. League
was fortunate enough to have its game foisted on a
number of the primary schools, thanks to enthusiastic
Ministerial approval. That was some years ago,
but there are no champions coming out of the
wilderness as yet. The Rugby Union’s revival, with
its attractions of Maoriland and European visits,
has practically closed the League’s best recruiting-
ground against it, and even its monopoly of the
Sydney Cricket Ground does not make the years
ahead look any rosier.
* * * *
T. S. O’Halloran, K.C., has been formally
elected chairman of S.A. Football League; he has
occupied the chair a lot recently in the absence
in England of A. J. McLachlan, now a Federal
Senator. His first official act was to re-admit the
North Adelaide club, which apologised for its con-
tumacy in not passing at its annual meeting a
raised subscription-rate the League had declared
for. Some fine points of law were raised and decided
on a motion that this membership-ticket clause shall
be repealed, and ultimately it was ruled out of order.
The League has a strong fancy for lawyers at its
head, and Millhouse, the S.A. Crown Prosecutor,
becomes vice-chairman.
* * * *
Cricket in Adelaide will drag on till the
middle of April. University and Sturt stood right
out from the other clubs on the whole season, and
the former, coming with a late run, just headed the
list. In the so-called final, it made 311 (Alexander
100, McKay 61; Scott 4 wickets, and 4 men run
out). Sturt made 312 for 6 wickets (Gould 96,
Bartlett 54 n. 0., Vic Richardson arid Willsmore
48 each). So, Uni. having a right to challenge,
a real final has yet to be played.
HINDROREMOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When the barrier was lifted, Rampion’s hind-
quarters were in the position that the other end of
his anatomy was looked for. It was a bitter dis-
appointment.”—S. M. Herald.
He missed the 'bus. Where should have been a head
Eager to skallyhoot along the trail—-
Or so direct the legs, I should have said—
Was just an irritably swishing tail.
Hind end a-front, exasperating cuss,
He missed the ’bus.
The equine bow or bowsprit, so to speak,
Was ranged amid the sterns-- a discord rare!
His Omega—it sounds more chic in Greek—;
Obtruded where his rivals’ Alphas were.
What wonder, when he faced the starter thus,
He missed the ’bus.
Up went the gate. And he, the fleetest classed,
Stayed at the post while angry punters cursed.
How could the front of him be aught but last
(Seeing the latter, baser end was first?
'Mid groans and imprecations blasphemous
He missed the ’bus.
A moral spoiled! But here’s a moral, too;
When Fortune comes a-knocking at the door,
As, soon or late, the lady’s bound to do,
Forbear to. go and meet her hind-before
Or you may realise lugubrious
You’ve missed the ’bus.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


xcvb
*r an t®
fyor SV N $
K2>
ii--:
h
'fci
Motorist: "What’s all this flutter in the motor spirit trade
these inspired articles —pamphlets and sinister suggestions ? ”
Garage Man : " Nothing new. Same old story. The success-
ful company is always open to be fired at by its rivals.”
Motorist: “But it is rather like hitting below the belt, and
not likely to succeed with Australians.”
Garage Man: “Well, I suppose the huge success of Shell bulk
distribution has proved a severe blow to competitors.”
Motorist: “That’s right, but even Shell has to be imported,
hasn’t it?”
Garage Man: '“ Why, of course. All petroleum used in Aus-
tralia at the present time has to be imported. It is quality and
service that count. Shell relies on performance—not on words.”
xcvbn
MOTOR SPIRIT
& MOTOR OILS
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED
49 CLARENCE STREET - SYDNEY
S 165
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Why China Sees Red. By PUTNAM
WEALE, author of “The Re-shaping
of the Far East,” etc. With Illustra-
tions and Maps. 12s. net.
The Spectator: “It is a pleasure to have
such a capable, well illustrated and clearly-
written narrative of events in the Far East at
this time.”
Evolution. By J. GRAHAM KERR,
F.R.S., Regius Professor of Zoology
in the University of Glasgow. With
2 Plates in Color and 53 Illustrations
in the text. 12s. net.
This is a book for beginners. Its object is
to provide a sketch in outline, approximately
correct in its proportions and not overburdened
with detail, of the evolutionary science of
to-day.
The Novels of Hugh Walpole.
Pocket Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. net.
Leather, ss. net each.
THE DUCHESS OF WREXE.
THE DARK FOREST.
THE CAPTIVES.
THE YOUNG ENCHANTED.
The Works of Shakespeare. Chrono-
logically arranged. In three volumes.
With Introductions by CHARLES
WHIBLEY, and with 40 Illustra-
tions. Cloth, 7s. 6d. net. Half
Morocco, 10s. 6d. net each. Vol I,
COMEDIES ; Vol. 11, HISTORIES ;
Vol. 111, TRAGE'DIES.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne & London, W. 0.2.
Missing Friends.
jyjcMAHON, FRANCIS JAMES, formerly of Rich-
mond, Victoria, last heard of in Bourke, New
South Wales, about 25 years ago. Would now be
aged 65 years. Any person knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with DUGDALE,
CREBER & SIMMONS, Solicitors, 84 William Street,
Melbourne.
Lf ATE RYAN, aged about 60, born in
Foilaclera, Co. Limerick, Ireland, daugh-
ter of William and .Toarina Ryan, is sought
by her sister, Mrs. NORA M. RYAN, 2122
S. Ridgway Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
Missing Friends.
FRANCIS ERNEST ROUNDING.
WILL FRANCIS ERNEST ROUNDING, formerly of
Harpham, E. Yorks, England, afterwards of
Sydney and West Maitland, N.S.W., Tailor, last
heard from on Ist February, 1914, in Sydney, com-
municate at once with his Wife or Mother at
Harpham.
Application is being made in the Probate Division
of the High Court of Justice in England for leave
to presume the death of the said Francis Ernest
Rounding on or since 14th May, 1914, and any
person who can give information with reference to
him is invited to communicate with BLAKESTON
and BROWN, Solicitors, Driffield, E. Yorks, England.
E2L »*” S3®
aKr
SKF
|!> ,V
64-17
/ ~X"
T.E.-3/26.
i
Power and Lubricant are Valuable
Save Them
by following the sound lead of the world’s foremost
manufacturers. Instal
SKF
TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
step Engineers will gladly submit Plans for a Change-over.
The SKF Ball Bearing Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street.
SYDNEY: 45 King Street.
ADELAIDE: Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Unbehaun i
(VV.A.), Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: W. H.
Peter Bros., Ltd.
Johnstone
Knight and
HOBART: Charles Davis, X.td.
THE INKY WAY.
“Julia Jongbolt”: In the Melbourne
Morning Post’s announcement claiming a
net sale of 41,396 after four months’ opera-
tions it was stated that the Sun Pictorial
figures once got down to 30,000-odd. Wrong.
The Pic’s lowest mark was 56,000.
Roy Bridges, novelist, historian and jour-
nalist, left Australia last month for London.
Now 42, Bridges has written about a dozen
novels in the last 15 years, mostly on his-
torical subjects. His latest is now running
through the Hutchinson press, and he takes
the MS. of another yarn with him.
The Vie. Education Department’s publica-
tions have a new editor in Gilbert M. Wal-
lace, who for many years sub-edited under
the many-sided Charles R. Long. He be-
longs to a literary family, his brother John
M. having been a valued contributor to
The Bulletin in the days of Archibald.
Tom Clarke, who came to Australia three
years ago from London Daily Mail to the
Melbourne Herald, is leaving Australia in
June to become managing editor of the
London Daily News. Clarke has been very
popular with Australian pressmen and will
leave Australia with a bunch of good wishes
to, in his own words, become the member for
Australia in Fleet-street.
“Newsboy”: On March 26 Melbourne
Morning Port, which started four months
ago in the countryman’s interest to win the
suffrages of the city, reached a net circula-
tion of 41,396. Considering the obstacles this
is a very .fair achievement. Being a half-
penny cheaper than its three morning rivals
didn’t help it much, if any, either: the aver-
age vendor has been treating it with all the
cordiality usually extended to a poor rela-
tion.
“Taiaha”: The M.L. country newspaper
proprietor is having a hard struggle to meet
the competition of the metropolitan journals:
improved communications with the provinces
have made it possible for these wealthy con-
cerns to push their sales in territories hither-
to served solely by the country sheets. The
wiser ones among the smaller fry are con-
centrating on district news, adopting up-to-
date methods of presenting it, and, inciden-
tally, straining their equipment and staffing
in the process.
“Buttinski” : Despite “Pat Bushie’s” pro-
test (B. 18/3/’26), the black-and-whiters
are quite correct in attiring John Hop in a
helmet when he is in court. Like Tommy At-
kins, John H. is not officially dressed without
his headgear, and being on duty he keeps it
in its proper place. If he sits down, or is
called upon to give evidence, it must be re-
moved. but afterwards it is replaced. Inci-
dentally, a soldier attending a court is not
bound to remove his hat, but out of defer-
ence to the Court usually does.
Jim Walsh, a young Victorian who left
Australia a year ago to try his luck in
Fleet-street, has had a fair run of luck. In
his first London season he placed four novels,
one of wliicli has run into a second edition,
and a film co. has accepted another. Latest
reports of him are that he is not only becom-
ing known, but his work is being sought
by London publishers. Walsh started his
career by winning second prize in the De
Garis novel competition, and has often had
his name in the back pages of The
Bulletin.
The A.J.A. at its annual conference in
Adelaide picked Syd Deamer, of the Mel-
bourne Herald, as its general president,
with R. W. Kenderdine (Federal Hansard)
and Paddy Bennett (Herald) as vice-presi-
dents. Kenderdine has been for three years
general president, and stood down only be-
cause he has to go to Canberra; Bennett
has held various offices in the A.J.A., includ-
ing the highest, since its inception 14 years
ago. He is one of the long-distance press-
men of Melbourne, having been for 35 years
State political roundsman of the Herald,
and has attended every annual conference of
the A.N.A. for 32 years.
“Bill Bowyang”: Two well-known press-
men who w T erc at Croydon (N.Q.) in the
days when sensational crushings were an
every-day occurrence are still toiling with
printer’s ink. Humphrey David Green, prin-
cipal shareholder and editor of the Towns-
ville Daily Bulletin and N.Q. Register.
was a reporter on the long since defunct
Golden Age in the days when fortunes were
being made out of the True Blue, Mountain
Maid, Iguana and Lady Mary. A. E. Joseph,
who as secretary of the Country Press Asso-
ciation has placed that concern on a firm
footing in Queensland, was a reporter on
the Croydon Mining News, which still
scratches' out a living on the deserted field.
THE POWER OP PERCY BINKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little man is Percy Binks,
In manner shy and tame;
And no one cares what Percy thinks
Except when in the name
Of “Pater,” “Facts” or “Cleanliness”
He writes his letters to the press.
Behind the counter where he serves
Pyjamas, socks and ties,
He seems a servile bunch of nerves;
There’s meekness in the eyes
That with defiant frenzy glow
When he’s “Pro Bono Publico.”
At lunch or on the train or boat,
Where larger voices boom,
The words that rise within his throat
Can find no elbowroom;
But, work all done, he grabs his quill
The flood of pent-up thought to spill.
As “Patriot” Stanley Bruce he slates,
As “Loyalist” rails at Lang;
Incisively, as “Justice,” states
Why certain men should hang;
“Father of Six” next he deplores
The garb of bathers on our shores.
The cost of living may incite
“Peeunia” to appear ;
On modes and morals falls his light,
On politics and beer;
He may, too, in most rev’rent ink
Outline the thoughts that God may think.
Then, as he sits in boat or ’bus
In dreams, with glory dressed,
He pictures men as they discuss
The views he has expressed
On sewers, and trains, and Bobbie Burns,
And everything that man concerns.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


rs
£
GS
§B,
fofYourSuture
Mail This
Coupon To-day
Please supply fur-
ther information
regarding “ T h e
Forestal” timber
investment.
Flame
Address
B. 8/4/’26.
Invest without delay in the
Forestal Timber Co.’s Pro-
tected Tree-planting Bonds.
The wisdom and safety of such an in-
vestment is without question. Bond-
holder’s interests will be watched by
The Public Trustee of New Zealand—
money invested will be as safe as it
would be in a Bank—and will be given
the opportunity to grow into a small
fortune as well.
Plant Trees—Grow Money.
Think of it! The sum of £22/10/- buys one Bond and secures
you the profit from one acre of timber, which on present-day
values should be worth £5OO in from 20 to 25 years. This figure
is net and with prices of timber on the up-grade may be regarded
as conservative. It may be added that for pulping purposes the
timber should be ready in from 8 to 1 2 years.
TERMS OF “FORESTAL” BONDS.
Each One-acre Bond is for an
amount of £22/1 0/- and pay-
able as follows—
£l/5/- on application.
£l/5/- one month after appli-
cation.
£1 each month thereafter until
the sum of
£22/10/- has been paid.
Each Five-acr-e Bond is for an
amount of £ll2/10/- and
payable as follows—-
£6/5/- on application.
£6/5/- one month after appli-
cation.
£5 each month thereafter until
the sum of
£ll2/10/- has been paid.
Timber Co. Ltd
BARRACK HOUSE, Barrack and George Streets, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W6773.
You always
know —
m
WESTINGHOUSE
BATTERY
a car with a
Westinghouse
Battery. Just the
slightest press-
ure of the foot—
and there’s an
answering purr
from the engine.
In hail, rain or sun-
shine, you can rely
on the dependable
Westinghouse giving instant
ignition.
The very name of Westinghouse is
a guarantee of public service and
safety. When you next renew—be
sure and ask for a Westinghouse
Battery,
WESTINGHOUSE
8 BATTERIES.®
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd&Co„ 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co., Ltd.. Launceston. ,
NEW ZEALAND : North Island: Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
Canterbury etc,. Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dunedin.
jJB®
MS*- .
\Vt^°
*»st£
w
-c»>^ : l
<*S£>' S
C^
■PBOOS
cso^
*sp
XrfL
9V
L
i'
JV
JJL
Z'
S
s
U
I=3
y
y
1/
/
i
“I am glad to hear you
say so, Sir. While we
take credit for the shape
and finish of the boots,
I am bound to admit
that the shine is due to
‘Nugget Boot Polish, *
which we not only recom-
mend but use ourselves.”
Made in
Black , T an, Light Tan ,
Dark Tan, Nigger Brown,
Red Stain, Patent and
White.
boot POLISH


\v
TAe/10/oj'. '
NOdNOI oil sa3CJNVAVD
S3AA3HVOID
..qnio fiuuv..
9yl o/ 03 ;6 ”01
i/zifncf zm, pdyjm, aym/ufi
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Katja”
Criterion “Roily with a Past”
Royal * ■ “White Cargo”
Palace “Give and Take”
Titoli Vaudeville
Fullers’ Theatre ~ Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome ~. Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COIMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s :.. Pavlova
Royal “Lilac Time”
King’s : “Quality Street”
Princess “Mercenary Mary”
Atiienjeum “The Sport of Rings’’
Tivoli ~ Vaudeville
BiJOU Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Renee Kelly was introduced on Saturday
night to a Sydney Criterion audience big
enough to bring the happy management a
fine for overcrowding. “Polly with a Past”
is very light American farce-comedy, which
is all the time running away* from a shallow
plot to have a game of chasings with comedy:
and, after a long epidemic of near-the-knuckle
and sex-weighted plays, it comes like a breath
of fresh air. In an attenuated first act, re-
lieved only by the brightness of Polly, who
(when the cook is absent) fries the steak in
the flat of a pair of prosperous young bache-
lors, the innocence of whose existence is only
tempered by whisky, the discovery is made
that the serving-girl is a young person more
deserving to be waited upon than to wait.
This discovery comes in conjunction with
the consideration of the problem of the flat-
tifes’ friend, the wealthy young Rex Van
Zile, who has a hopeless pash for a girl,
Myrtle Davis, too interested in the rescue
of the fallen to have any time to spare for
a young man painfully short of vices. Polly,
brought into the council, having suggested a
way to rouse Myrtle’s interest, is pressed into
the part of an adventuress with a past; and,
having all the accomplishments, including
acquaintance with French, she shocks and
terrifies Van Zile’s female friends and relatives
when, in the gay garments of Sin, she an-
nexes the straight-laced youth. According
to prognostication, Myrtle’s rescuing in-
stincts are aroused; but there is a twist in
the story when young Van Zile does not
want to be rescued, and there is a whirl of
disjointed complications before complete hap-
piness is established —except for Myrtle,
who, though quite a nice girl, doesn’t seem to
count.
* * * *
But for consistently good acting on the part
of the two piost important characters, the
dialogue would be a trifle cheap, and some
of the situations are unreasonable; but the
acting saves it and gives an enjoyable night’s
entertainment. The vivacity of Renee Kelly,
with her occasional fleeting moods of pathos,
won the audience from the start. Antony
Holies, who was Rex Van Zile, turned a
rather milksoppy young man into a likeable
character. Rousing all the more laughs be-
cause he did not strain to get one, the in-
gratiating grin of a young man very unsure
of himself helped him to make plausible a
character whose change from simplicity to
manliness created serious difficulties. George
Burna .d showed an early tendency to treat
his lines as matters of no interest to the
audience, but gave thereafter an easy repre-
sentation of Harry Richardson; Hylton
Allen’s polished man-of-the-world helped the
thin plot; the Stiles of Jackson Wilcox was
an excellent character sketch; and Beatrice
Day (who got a special ovation) did well
as the mother-hen of the somewhat disturbing
chicken Myrtle (Dorothy Fane). Reginald
Wykeham was boisterous as Commodore
Barker, and Margaret Darner’s agitation as
the stately mother of Rex Van Zile was arti-
ficial. A first-rate titbit was the last-act
appearance of Gaston Mervale as a foreigner
justly indignant at being reported dead.
❖* * *
Early’s spendthrift wife (Madge White)
releases the truth to the audiences which are
thronging to see “No, No, Nanette” at St.
James’s —to wit, that “the only way to keep
a husband straight is to keep him broke.”
Curiously, the loudest laughs at that are
masculine; while the assertion of the
straight-laced lover Tom (Oliver McLennan)
that “no really good woman owns 200 dol-
lars” appeals most to the women.
%* * #
After Wednesday Sydney Majesty’s is to
be garnished for the incoming of Pavlova
on April 20. Meantime “Katja” reigns.
❖ & :!= *
“Give and Take” still draws laughter at
Sydney Palace; but it is due in Brisbane on
April 17.
** * *
The Sydney public showing no inclination
to declare “White Cargo” black, the story
of the African West Coast still prevails at
the Royal.
❖* & *
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” was revived on
Saturday at Sydney Grand Opera House at
a matinee—and it was the sort of matinee
that maketli glad the heart of managers. The
night performance was, of course, crowded
out; and crowds will continue to see a per-
formance which is best described as melo-
drama set to revue. It is a queer assort-
ment —negro melodies and “spirituelles”
strung on a thread of melodrama of a crude-
type. The audience liked that, too. the
rounds” following the discomfiture of vil-
lainy recalling the days when it was legiti-
mate to throw oranges and hisses at the vil-
lain. The flight of Eliza (Nellie Bramley)
across the ice was a well-arranged picture:
and the audience felt for its hanky when
little Eva, having delivered her message, flut-
tered to Heaven. The lines of the infant are
spoken as intelligently as the circumstances
allow by little Mollie Nailor. Best amongst
the mummers were George Cross as Uncle
Tom, Gus Neville as Phineas Fletcher, and
Nellie Ferguson as a quadroon girl. Millie
Doris, who wa.s Topsy, was lively, and de-
serves better material than is given her in
this production ; and Rutland Beckett made
Degree a grotesque . villain. Though many
things may be forgiven, Abraham Lincoln’s
portrait really ought to be taken from the
drinking saloon of a period long before he
was known as President, and the incongruous
banter by the auctioneer at the slave-sale
should be suppressed.
$* $ *
The Sydney Conservatorium orchestra
opened its 1926 season with a remarkably
fine interpretation of “The Planets.” Again
the Jupiter movement proved the most popu-
lar, while the elusive final word, Neptune,
was a triumph for Arundel Orchard, who
conducted this second offering of the Gustave
Holst masterpiece as he did its first in Syd-
ney last December. Beethoven’s Eighth
Symphony, Rimsky-Korsakoff’s piano con-
certo in C Sharp Minor, and the “Oberon”
overture completed the menu. Myrtle
Meggy attended to the solo work in the
Rimsky-Korsakoff concerto with her usual
brilliance.
* * *
Clara Butt and Ivennerley Rumford
finished their farewell Sydney season in a
blaze of glory and a garden of flowers at the
Town Hall on Saturday night.
** * *
“Beetles and crickets alive, alive-o!” is the
song of the brothers Capek in “The Insect
Play.” The moral is further pointed by the
ant and the butterfly, with a philosophic
tramp to expound the lesSon to the feebler-
minded. Of course it was Duncan Mac-
dougall who produced the play for the first
time in Sydney. The tiny stage of the Play-
box reverberated to the fiittings and flirtings
of the butterflies, and of these Isobel Gawler
was the most flittersome and attractive. A
lady cricket also got into the blue-ribbon
class; while Duncan himself, as the tramp,
w-as clear-spoken, and absolutely at one with
his part.
4= * * *
Variety in Sydney becomes less various
at Easter, when there are assured houses
without new' turns; and the Tivoli changes
are minor. The quaint trick cartoonist,
Holbein, is back again; so, with far less
“THE NERVOUS WRECK,” AT
MELBOURNE PALACE.
Frank Nil as Henry Williams in the name-
part; Rosa Duggan as Sally Morgan.
reason, are Reeder and Armstrong. Dollie
and Billie will be_ sadly farewelled this week,
and a lady who is alleged to have become a
mermaid will flow under the bridge next
Monday.
* * * *
The patrons of Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney)
greeted the Veterans of Variety with loud
cheers, and were quite ready to join in the
choruses of the old favorites they revived.
The artists were naturally a little faded, but
they were easily forgiven that. Lily Bur-
nand, who originated “Two Little Girls in
Blue.” sang it again; and it was probably
tiie most popular event of the evening; but
“Goodbye, Mignonette,” “The Lily of
Laguna,” “Dolly Gray,” “Daisy” and a
number of others which the early milkbov
used to whistle, had their backers. Jake
Friedman, Arthur Slater, Florence Hinton
and George Campbell, besides the lady men-
tioned, were the veterans who roused the
echoes of the past. Jim Gerald, digging not
so deep as these, resurrected “For the Dura-
tion,” and there is popular stuff in that, too.
MELBOURNE MAJESTY’S.
M . Dolinoff putting the spring into Strauss’s
Voices of that amorous season.
At the Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus con-
tinues to attract children of all ages, and it
is not only the programmed items that pro-
vide amusement. There are, for instance,
the ambitious efforts of those of the audience
who think they can win 10s. by keeping
aboard the Ducking mule for one minute.
If that 10 bob is ever won it will be well
earned.
❖ * * *
Whilst “The Iron Horse” keeps busy at
the Prince Edward (Sydney) the horse that
used to do the work is being shown in “The
Pony Express” at the Lyceum ; it is a pic-
ture of 1860, when it took eight men and
400 ponies 10 days to carry the mails from
Missouri to California. A good sentimental
story is woven into the history. “How Bax-
ter Butted In,” which supports it, is a de-
lightful story of a mild man with heroic
dreams. Hoyt’s shows in “A Son of Ilis
Father” a picture of thrill which gets away
from the ordinary Wild-West story; and
Bessie Love provides some delightful work as
a fresh Irish girl. The other half is “Con-
quering Blood,” a mucli-as-usual Tom
Mixture.
* * * *
Contrasting art shows in Sydney:—
Lister Lister’s show at the Hordern Gallery is
expert - orthodoxy helped by very little imagination.
There are 19 oils and 42 water-colors, and the
artist is much happier in the oils than in the other
medium; many of the water-colors are hurried, almost
breathless. The coolth of a mountain path, shadowed
by the overhanging cliff, can be felt in “The Majestic
Glory of the Mountains’’ (No. 1), which is the
most pretentious of the oils. The outlook is upon
trees which catch the fall of the sunlight and are
backed by mountains melting- into mists. It is
well done; but there is a better effect in “Megalong
Valley, Blackheath” (No. 5), where the eye is caught
by a bold cliff and then, travelling beyond it,
comes on to a spreading landscape of sun and shadow.
No. 2, “The Trees Their Lengthening Shadows Oast,”
has some notable work in the fall of sunlight through
a roof of leaves. Usually there is real movement
in the artist’s seas, although into most of them
some designing person has dropped dyes to spoil their
natural color. A show with limitations, but offering
to art patrons pictures that at least are all decorative.
The eye is prone to such delusions that it is pos-
sible to vision nearly everything we see as something
else; but, in this critic’s judgment, there is no real
reason why our delusions should be painted. Roy
de Mestre, who won the travelling scholarship of the
Society of Artists in 1923, thinks they should be.
He has been caught by the French neo-impressionist
school, and evidently believes it to be his duty to
uppercut orthodoxy whenever he can. His revolt has
all the raw edges of youth, with vigor and intense
purpose as its redeeming features. In his exhibition
at the Macquarie Galleries he pictures buildings
which seem to have been builded out of blocks
given to children; but there is such a mastery
about the use of shadows and lights that one would
like to say that the success achieved in one or two
pictures—for example, No'. 24, in spite of its back-
ground of pyramidical mountains—is general. But
it isn’t; and although “Fisherman’s Harbor, St.
Jean de Luz” (No. 11), which the artist is pre-
senting to the Society of Artists, has truth in its
atmosphere, one looks to a time when Roy de Mestre,
undoubtedly gifted with originality, artistic percep-
tion and fighting spirit, will see the truth less bla-
tantly. At least one of the portraits is worthy of a
libel action. One has a feeling, nevertheless, that
the time may come when an art patron will be
proud of having purchased this painter’s early work.
** * *
Pavlova’s robes of a Greek goddess in the
opening ballet of Saturday night at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s scarcely became her, but
not. even a nun’s habiliments could have
chained her limbs’ delight in movement. As
the hibernating Flora in a mythological
romance by Drigo, she awoke to find the
ever-faithful Novikoff already in attendance
before a futuristic landscape in the new
style of Rupert Bunny. As the god Zephyr
he was muscularly a full mainsail breeze,
but it was a breeze that was as much at
home in the upper strata of the atmosphere
as any wind of Heaven. Miss Mather was
a dimpled Cupid who added to the language
of the foot and wrist some telling phrases
provided by a neatly-moulded neck. “If you
scratch a Russian violin you get a tom-
tom” was the impression conveyed by
Tscherepnine’s semi-Asiatic music in the
second item, in which Pavlova, summoned
by a sorcerer to be the bride of an octo-
genarian but hedonistic Czar, dances her
way instead into the heart of the heir-appa-
rent, Novikoff. After the fat old reprobate,
his father, has gurgled a few staves of dis-
appointment, all the rights in the entrancing
vision are ceded to the son, and a scene full
of quaint color, barbaric forms and comic
interludes ends with a nuptial march. Out
of the savage rhythm of a Syrian dance by
Saint-Saens Anna and four of her colleagues
then made an Edmund Dulac picture gone
harmoniously mad; Miss Stuart and Yar-
zinsky provided a million tableaux in a
minute to a melody by Grossman; and with
“Les Ondines,” Cataloni’s tone-picture of the
water-spirits who acquire a soul if they can
only have a baby by a mortal man, the even-
ing closed on an uncanny note. The pretty
Miss Rogers, who hails from Wellington
(M.L.), caused a diversion -which has had
no precedent during this Melbourne season.
She danced so nicely with the Englishman
Lascelles that a hungry audience refused to
allow the programme to proceed until she
had retraced her steps.
** * *
“Mercenary Mary” is Hugh J. Ward’s
Easter contribution at Melbourne Princess.
It is the customary compost of farce, ath-
letic dance, thin melody and song. The
singing is perhaps reedier than usual, owing
to the absence in the principals of the melo-
dious gift and the unimportance in the
general scheme of the noises provided by the
chorus. In what passes for a plot the lady
of the name-part is anxious to obtain a
divorce from her husband because he can no
longer keep her in iced eanteloupes and
Hispano-Suizas. They therefore invite a
friend to “compromise” her. Mercenary
Mary is, on the whole, an acceptable indis-
cretion. She is Mai Bacon, a lively English
requisition, and certainly not from the lean
end of the flitch. The rest of the cast don't
particularly matter, although Jack Morrison,
as Mary’s miserable husband, contrives to
be funny in his woe; but his funniness is
not so frequent as to deserve to be called a
habit. The pretended defect in his voice,
which the playwright doubtless thought hilari-
ously comic, set this commentator feeling for
his critical meat-axe early. Florence Hunter,
another importation, combines a nice presence
with a light voice and an uneasiness about
her hands; Eddie Jaye is a grandfather who
gets inexplicably excited about the chorus,
and Tony O’Brien is a hero of not much
personality but a tuneful throat. The con-
coction is bright and colorful, and as full of
action as the Flinders-street intersection at
afternoon peak hours. The staging contained
valuable hints for home gardeners, and was
as good as anything Hugh Ward has done.
Dick and Edith Barstow were the willy-willy
dancers. The former takes an unfair advan-
tage of the shorter-legged member of the
species by dancing on his toes.
❖* * *
On Saturday, at Melbourne Palace, Frank
Neil presented “The Nervous Wreck.” This
is a farcification of E. .T. Ratli’s bestseller.
The Wreck is a pathological museum who
is advised by a New York doctor to escape
from his nerves by buying a flivver and going
west. He follows the prescription, has
numerous adventures on the way, and eventu-
ally, with the aid of a girl whom he picks
up, overcomes his disabilities and slaves
happily ever after. The playwright appa-
rently lifted all the hon mots from the book,
dramatised a few incidents of a more or less
literary flavor, and then cemented the whole
edifice together with the sort of fun which
seems so thoroughly worth while in the act-
ing, and which looks so painfully silly when
set down next day in print. It must be con-
fessed that, despite this dubious analysis, the
thing remains a hilarious success. If there
are dull moments in it they escape notice
in the general uproar. Contributing to the
uproar are Harry Fenwick, Jefferson Taite
and Victor Fitzherbert. Purveyors of humor
and sentiment are Frank Neil as the Wreck
and Rosa Duggan as the girl. Frank Neil
succeeds in being consistently funny, and
Rosa Duggan in looking consistently pretty.
(Continued on papc 36.)


ESSEX «
COACH
ii
mmIML
min
in'“
9
All Closed Car Comforts
and at Open Car Cost
For any closed car you will pay
almost as much as the Essex Coach
costs. So why accept any perform-
ance short of a “Six” ? In Essex you
get qualities of the “Six” not found in
any “Four.” And, equally important
you get the famous Super-Six advan-
tages exclusive to Hudson-Essex.
Essex is a “Six,” built by Hudson on
famous Hudson patents. In design,
materials, quality and workmanship
they are alike.
Quality made Essex, with Hudson
the largest-selling “Six” in the world.
That volume permits economies,
which are passed on to buyers in a
price way below any rival.
ESSEX PHAETON £315
Hudson Coach - - £499
Hudson 7-Pass. Phaeton - - - £4BO
Hudson Brougham £565
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan - - - - £625
sdfgh
a
!l
II
5 t
I
e
>
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney,
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.


EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
‘The Essence of
Hospitality 0
cMARTELL’S
for A&e and Quality*
From the Cognac District
of France only .
%
lift
Paul Longuet, a rather superficial young
man, nevertheless provides mild amusement
in a burlesque of psycho-analysis.
=!= : ! : =l= *
The brightest and freshest centenarian ever
seen at Melbourne Royal that’s “Lilac
Time.”
** * *
“Quality Street” at Melbourne King’s is
comfortably crowded nightly.
❖* * *
“The Sport of Kings” is still a big attrac-
tion at Melbourne Athenajum.
$ $ $
Billy Judge’s sea-lion pal is still the main
attraction at Melbourne Tivoli. Bob Al-
bright's cowboy humor savors more of Broad-
way than of Bret Ilarte, although it is true
that he was photographed with both legs
across a horse in the Botanic Gardens the
other day. The classic dancing of Katrina
and Joan is found to be quite worth while
watching, even after an evening of Pavlova,
which is high praise.
*# * *
“M.G.S.” goes to a revival :
Gipsy Smith has been drawing large crowds in
Melbourne. Invited here by several Protestant
denominations, he had the honor of speaking from
platforms on which sat Archbishop Lees and other
church dignitaries who purvey a quite different
brand of religion from that acclaimed by the Romany
preacher. The Gipsy’s attitude towards his reverend
sponsors was much the same mixture of arrogance,
contempt and wheedling that a drill-sergeant shows
to a crowd of raw recruits. His theology, camou-
flaged though it sometimes is in poetic imagery, is
the theology of the old school which was accustomed to
got converts by painting a picture of Hell alongside
which the horrible conceptions of the Chinese Budd-
hist are mere abstractions. “Hear,” one of them
used to scream, “that popping as of corks. It is
the eyeballs of innocent (unbaptised] children ex-
ploding with the heat.” The evangelist who has been
trying to stampede Melbourne proclaimed his belief
in the existence of devils and adumbrated torments
for those who insisted in continuing on their evil
ways. It says much for the commonsense of the
community that only a neglible minority consented
to be stampeded. Many of the others voiced their
indignant or humorous protests in the daily papers;
but the daily papers slavishly recorded and even
commended the visitor’s buffooneries, instead of
bracketing them with the corybants of primitive
religion, the whirling dervishes and the naked yogis
w'ho insure everlasting felicity in the next world
by sitting on 6in. nails in this.
* * *
At Melbourne Bijou Irving’s Midgets are
exerting a itull out of all proportion to their
height, which averages about 3ft., and their
weight, which, in the case of one of them
at least, is stated to be not much more than
that of the baby she brought into the world
a twelve-month since. The Murfaynes, the
Cavanna Duo and the Four Little Kellys
help to make the rest of the programme a
good mixed bill.
** * *
Melbourne Majestic patrons this week are
sampling “Faint Perfume,” a divorce-court
drama in which a man and woman struggle
forr possession of the child and a strange
woman unexpectedly arrives and carries off
the man. “The Bandit’s Baby,” containing
some fine horsemanship, and “Trouble Brew-
ing,” in which Larry Semon is satisfactorily
funny, are the supports. At Hoyt’s Thomas
Meighan, in “The Man Who Found Himself,”
is nightly being jugged for someone else’s
crime. This Page extends its sympathy to
Thomas. There are a lot of screen heroes
it would like to see permanently in quod,
but Meighan isn’t one of them.
❖ * * :Jj
An Old Master :
Melbourne Art Gallery’s latest acquisition under
the Felton Bequest is Goya’s “Portrait of a Lady.”
“Portrait of a Landlady,” it should be. Probably
Goya’s landlady. She is obviously asking for the
rent without any expectation of getting it, and her
hard eyes, as she sweeps the poor fool-artist —he was
a gay and dissolute young fellow—and his silly stock-
in-trade, are simply withering. Her nose is instinct
with a sinister life of its own, and will probably
redden with the approach of winter. It is just as
well Goya did not get the £5500 the National
Gallery gave for the picture. He might have paid
his rent (hat week and futurity would have lost a
masterly portrayal of a universal female.
* * * *
Prominent in Adelaide pictures is “The Gold
Rush” of one Chaplin, who had a season at
the York and a second innings at Wonder-
graph, the former house having switched to
a quaint modern version of “The Lady of
Lyons.” West’s has a good mixed pro
gramme varying from the breezy to the heart-
clutching, with two xylophone youngsters
appearing in person. Renee Kelly has passed
on after a successful season at the Royal—
good acting in pleasing but moderate plays.
At this house Gilbert and Sullivan
brought in a joyous mood for Easter. At
the PHnce of Wales, on the other hand,
an Anderson co. has the weepy “Uncle Tom,”
in which humorous songs and impersonations
jostle more or less sacred melodies for front
place. The Majestic has added to Clem
Dawe’s fun some good music, Tscliaikowsky
ami so on. It is the best bill this house has
had for years.
Poverty
Point
“S.G.”: It is now 15 years since I saw T
Pavlova at the London Empire. I forget
w’hether it cost me two bob or three, but
it must have been
two —except on ex-
traordinary occa-
sions, such as when
I separated myself
from a half-crown
to hear Melba at
Covent Garden, two
bob was my limit
in those days. The
ladies of the Em-
pire promenade
were present in
force and boister-
ous spirits. One,
sitting behind,
would persist in
giving me affection-
ate little kicks in
the small of the
back, and other's
were equally spor-
tive. I never had
so much female at-
tention for two bob
in my life. To-day
I read, on the
authority of the
gentleman direct-
in g the Gipsy
Smith enterprise,
that Pav. will take
£20,000, out of this
my country, and
when the lady
comes to Sydney
the management
TWIN SOULS.
MUSIC-LOVER: “Maestro Rhntti is undoubtedly marvellous on
hymns, hut I think I like his marches best.”
THE BRUTE: “So do I His hymns take longer."
will permit me to
hire a first-night gallery seat for 11s, 6d.—
if it has any left. I suppose the press-agent
would call it “the triumph of time.”
“Curtain-Raiser”: There are two new
plays for Australia which producers are keep-
ing in their boxes. Maoriland is to be
allowed to first pass judgment on “Seventh
Heaven,” a queer drama which the Firm is
bringing out; it deals with the under-
world of Paris. Another is “Outward Bound,”
which the people now playing “The Sport
of Kings” at Melbourne Athenaeum have up
their sleeve. To be appreciated properly it
should he seen twice—at any rate, it needs
to be read twice. The entire action occurs in
the smoking-room of a liner. A crowd of
average citizens assemble for the voyage, and
it turns out at the end of the puzzling first
act that they are all dead, the vessel is
owned by Charon, Ltd., and its destination
is Hades. The finale will be either a dra-
matic triumph or a dud, according to the
competency of the performers.
“Hamfat”: The latest Australian film,
“Should a Girl Propose?” has the initial
fault of being cheaply imitative of the Ameri-
can article. It has a swimming-pool scene
where the characters use their costumes to
jazz in, and a moonlit terrace with cigarette-
puffing and cocktailing flappers. The un-
healthy atmosphere isn’t in the least bit Aus-
tralian ; and this sort of production is more
likely to kill the ambition for Australian pic-
tures than help it.
“Say Bo” : Hollywood methods of publicity
are Steadily invading Australian newspapers,
but the Melbourne Herald has made the
most spectacular surrender to date. That
paper, reviewing an American picture,
printed two columns of sustained applause
headed “When the Cowboy Ci'ied Should
He-men Weep?” Bob Albright, “the great,
big, loyable cowboy comedian, now so popular
with Tivoli Theatre patrons with his irre-
sistible he-man personality,” viewed the show',
it appears, and, coming out, was photo-
graphed by the movie ad.-man. The result
is appended. The he-man is seen with a broad
trickle of what looks like Conan Doyle’s ecto-
plasm emerging from his eye and reaching
to his chin ; and the expression on his face
resembles stomach-ache. The two she-women
who accompanied him are similarly afflicted,
but without the stomach-ache. The tears,
the reader is assured, are no stage-tears, but
the genuine article. The next step will be
eagerly awaited. It will probably follow the
lead given by a new movie enterprise in
U.S.A. At the opening ceremony a parson
offered up prayers for Divine protection—
presumably of the profits.
“C.Q.”: The bell tolled for Robert R.
Lynch the other day in Melbourne. He was
the second of five brothers, whom the last
generation knew as the Lynch Family Bell-
ringers. Henry, their father, founded the ori-
ginal company at Geelong in 1867. Robert
later formed liis own crew—two sons and a
daughter—and they rang their bells in
Europe, Asia, Africa, America, and most
parts of Australia.
“Flaming Youth”: The Sydney Criterion
Theatre was thought to be doomed owing to
the City Council’s programme of resumptions,
but the Council has suspended the sentence
until 1938, and anything may happen before
then. The pretty little theatre has had its
share of tragedies. There was the plague
epidemic, which caused the death of Sally
Booth and Ada Lee, recently mentioned in
The Bulletin ; and it was while playing a
ruinous season on its boards that the Dacres
committed suicide. Also, a stagehand once
hanged himself from the “flies.” Poverty
Point, too, except for very occasional short
periods, has been on the Criterion corner,
and Poverty Point at one time was an almost
continuous tragedy. But for a decade or
more the playhouse has prospered exceed-
ingly.
“Hugh Stone”: Harold Mercer says (B.
25/3/’26) that permission was first sought
to play the Kelly Gang drama at the old
Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street, Sydney. That
may be so, but certainly it was the Queen’s,
in York-street, where it was actually an-
nounced to be played. Henry Parkes refused
to sanction the performance. I know, for
I was one of the young men who struggled
through the crush to get a place in the old-
fashioned pit, and I suppose I was one of
those who hooted when the curtain went up
on something else than the bushranging thing
we had paid a hard-earned bob to see. I
had to wait nearly half a century before I
saw the Kelly exploits stage-performed—in
a tent theatre in Newcastle, with a long
Bathurst-born native, Edgar Kenna, playing-
one of the gang. By the way, it Was in the
Queen’s, in the ’seventies, I saw Maggie
Moore in “Struck Oil” ; there also I met the
Georgia Minstrels, with whom came to Aus-
tralia Ilosea Eason, the negro who played
Uncle Tom when that drama of slavery days
was produced at the theatre.
“Tabra”: The Commonwealth film-censor
says that the advertising matter which comes
from America with the pitchers is less por-
nographic than it used to be, but I notice
little change. A picture showing in Bris-
bane is billed as containing “all the spice
of a Frenchy musical show.” “She went to
Paris to learn just how they do it— and she
learned.” One of the things she learned,
judging from the poster, was to hold up
her skirt so as to show all her underclothes.
“The Way of a Girl,” as depicted by another
poster, is to pose half-naked before apprais-
ing males. The business of life, one learns
from such posters, ranges from fighting and
flirting to murder and adultery. And the
Amurkan film-fabricators talk through their
noses of their “high moral aims.” They
must be rotten shots.
“Ilamfat”: Three Australian playsmiths
omitted from the Red Page chronicle of
“Australian Commercial Plays” (B.
18/3/’26) were Walter Cooper, a Sydney
lawyer, who wrote “Foiled,” “Sun and
Shadow,” “Hazards” and another; Harold
Stephen (son, I think, of Alfred, one-time
N.S.W. Chief Justice), whose contribution
was “Euchred” ; and Gill, who was respon-
sible for “Wrongly Married.” The Red
Page article did not claim to supply a com-
plete list, but these three writers seem worthy
of mention. Their plays were all produced
successfully.
“Phyllis Stein”: Lemare’s Andantino,
which has been jazzed into “Moonlight and
Roses” (B. 4/3/’26), was played at the
christening of the organ in Wellington
(M.L.) Town Hall on March 8. 1906. “One
of the most popular of the English organist’s
compositions,” the programme called it. A
few months later Lernate himself visited tlfe
Maoriland capital and played his own com-
position on the organ. All musical Welling-
ton flocked to hear him. Now, if you walk
through Lambton Quay, you will find sur-
viving members of that audience with their
ears plugged with cotton-wool to keep out
the strains of “Moonlight and Roses.”
“Wodgil”: Our Great Australian Man-
agers’ preference for the imported mummer
(B. l/4/’26) is mentioned by Seymour
Hicks in his book, “Hullo, Australians!”
Says Hicks, a good actor and a shrewd
critic:—
The country is probably chock full of talent, but
the Australian proper doesn’t get a chance. The
managers here seem afraid to encourage their own
people. They prefer to pay expensive fares and'
inflated salaries to, in most cases, very second-rate
English and American artists.
Still, our Great Managers employ some Aus-
tralian actors and actresses. Their plays
are all imported, every line.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The oldest existing play-
house in Sydney is not quite 40 years the
senior of the new St. James’s Theatre; the
Criterion was opened on December 26, 1886.
Where the Royal now stands there has been a
theatre, off and on, since 1854, but one house
was burnt down in 1860, another in 1872
(each was known as the Prince of Wales)
and a third in 1892. In that year the pre-
sent Royal, which was remodelled a couple
of years ago, was built. George Rignold
opened the old Her Majesty’s in 1887, but it
went up in smoke in 1902; it was over a
year before the present show-house was
erected. The Palace, built largely with money
in hand from uncollected Tatt.’s prizes,
opened its doors to its first audience in 1894.
The Queen’s, in York-street, which has be-
come part of a warehouse; the Victoria, in
Pitt-street, where MeCathie’s is now; and
the Standard, in Castlereagh-street, which
was demolished two years ago, were amongst
the favored playhouses of a previous genera-
tion.
“Centurion”: Let “Lounge Lizard” (B.
l/4/’26) harbor no illusion as to the origin
of the tune of the old larrikin song “ ’Tis
the Rocks.” The air is taken, not from
Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, as “L.L.”
thinks, but from a blither-ballad once popular
with amateur bassos, “The Old Turnkey.”
“A.G.M.” : If George H. Clutsam suffered
any privations in his early Australian days
he certainly has no cause for complaint now.
Copyright fees on operas, songs and other
compositions bring him in a generous income,
a large slice coming from “Lilac Time,”
which is now successfully running through
its fourth revival in London, and there are
two touring companies out. At the moment
Robert Courtneidge is going through pre-
liminaries for the London production of
Clutsam’s musical comedy, “Gabrielle,” which
has already done well in the “provinces.”
“Cluttie” and his wife, Minna Fischer, have
their artistic home in Hampstead.
“Goldilocks” : Will Driscoll, one of the ori-
ginals of “On Our Selection,” who still plays
his part of Uncle Rudd when called upon,
is not satisfied with that dreary proceeding
known to mummers as “resting.” There is
always a job waiting for him on the house-
Staff of the Melbourne King’s, and he makes
no bones about taking it. Driscoll has had
a stage career of nearly 50 years. In 1880
he appeared at the Queen’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne, with Mr. and Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis’s
juveniles. Another member of the co. was
Mary Weir, who was to become Mrs. J. C.
Williamson.
A UTILITY VOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Her voice is so surprising that people simply
stare when she sings.” —Cable re a new singer.
When she warbles the people sit still
And draw in the breath with a hiss;
A wond’ring surprise is shown in their eyes
As they speculate what is amiss.
“Has a train lost its way in the fog?
Is it someone deep anguish outflings?
Is it murder most foul, or a dog’s dying howl?”
The people all stare when she sings.
A voice with such instant effects
Both fortune and fame should assure;
’Twould find a good trade as a medical aid
IV here shock is the basis of cure;
Or gramophone records might be
Secured, to be worked by some springs—
Fine whistles for trains might be made of the
strains
That make people stare when she sings.
There are fire-brigades well might employ
That voice as a life-saving help;
Where the red flames, a-leap, boarders wake from
their sleep,
They could put up that singer to yelp;
The siren that hoots she’d excel
And the bothersome banshee that scares;
The boarders could then, both women and men,
Climb down from the roof on their stares.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


'A
Js.
Vi
V -s/\ w M./'.v_A\_ACAw, 1
ii/, /vj^u^v
\
hi
n
t
M,a\
fsh
life-
p
n
M G
li
rr^
6-U-
-y<
"3E*fS
r
V-
A Health Message
for Holiday-Makers
RELAXATION should be your keynote this holiday—relaxation
in all but the vital matter of precautionary health measures.
In this should still more rigid adherence be observed. Change of
habits, different drinking water, strange foods —all these have an
upsetting effect on the system that calls for a corrective such as
Wolfe’s Schnapps, with its wonderful diuretic properties.
“One Wolfe's Schnapps a dap
for pouf Health's Sake"
is the precept of experience that you should put into practice during
this holiday season. You’ll probably find it most suitable to make
your last drink at night a Wolfe’s and Soda. If you are travelling,
the quarter-sized bottle, so convenient to slip into your bag, will
make it easy not to forget.
Wolfe's is obtainable at all race-
course and showground booths.
i '
rfh
1 CV>
5 F-
TO
'cskSJ^.
AROMATIC SCH 1E DAM
HNAPPS
'Q Blessing to Humanity"
I
y wt
V M
r*y


A Super-Sports B.SA
nF you want a motor bicycle that will combine speed with exceptional reliability,
the new B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. Super-Sports O.H.V. model will suit your requirements
exactly. Designed after considerable experiment and research, to meet the
requirements of those riders desiring specially tuned-up machines for speed work,
the B.S.A. Super-Sports machine will easily attain a speed of 70-75 m.p.h. and
maintain its tune.
Amongst other successes, this machine climbed all the test hills in the recent
International Six Days’ Trial, and at the final Speed Test at Brooklands (after
1000 miles of very difficult country) averaged over 60 m.p.h. for 66 miles, in heavy
rain, incidentally making the fastest time of the day irrespective of class.
The brief specification below will give some idea of the outstanding value offered
in this Motor Bicycle.
B. S. A. 3.49-h.p.
Super-Sports O.H.V.
with high and low
compression pistons
S 3
6.5. A. 3.49-h.p.
Super-Sports O.H.V.
specially tuned at
factory
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. Super-Sports O.H.V. Motor Bicycle.
3.49-h.p. Super-Sports 0.H.V., 72 x
bore and stroke. Roller big end bearing, engine
mainshaft mounted on ball bearings. All valve
gear enclosed and lubricated by oil mist. Two
pistons, one high compression (6.8 ratio), the
other low compression (5.2 ratio) ; 26 x 2^-inch
heavy cord tyres. Terry Spring Seat Saddle or
Brooks T.T. type to order. Specially selected and
run-in gear-box. Sporting or Racing handlebars
to order, with Andre Damper. Mechanical lubri-
cation to engine and grease-gun lubrication to
hubs, fork links, etc.
Motor Bicycles
are world-famous for their quality, reliability and value. In the comprehensive B.S.A. range, from
2.49h.p. to 9.86h.p., there is a machine to suit every purpose, for touring or speed work, solo or side-
car.
Prices from £57110/-
Writo for the B.S.A. Catalogue, including leaflet describing the new 3.49-h.p. Super-Sports O.H.V. machine ,
also for particulars of Easy Payment System.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. 1
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT <& WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney •
VICTORIA-™^* Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.— «/• N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WFST AUS —MORTLOCK BROS.,
WMI AUO. Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA— KING PTY., LTD.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
xcvbn
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative ), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


Amusements.
gtDNEJ’S C lIIEF TIIIS A T RES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: KATJA.
CRITERION: POLLY WITH A PAST.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
PALACE: GIVE AND TAKE.
RI CKAIt D S' TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
PULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre.
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
MatinSes—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays
at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE
HUGH J. WARD’S GREAT ATTRACTION,
MERCENARY MARY.
Brilliant Musical Comedy.
|£ ING’S THEATRE, MELISO U It N J
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
QUALITY STREET.
II ENASC M THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
Joseph Cunningham’s
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO
IN
THE SPORT OF KINGS.
Laughable Farce Comedy—Not Drama.
Plans at Allan’s.
SVJEYV BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily. 2.30 and 8.
IRVING’S IMPERIAL MARVELLOUS
MIDGETS.
Popular Prices Plan Cen. 3251.
Missing Friends.
gATTYE, SYDNEY D. —Information is required
concerning the whereabouts of Sydney D. Batt.ye
at one time of Forbes, Drover. A Reward will he
paid by the undersigned for information which will
result in ascertaining his present address, or if he
is dead the date and place of his death.
A. J. McLACHLAN AVESTCARTH & CO.,
Solicitors,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PAVLOVA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
Amusements.
IyjAJISSXIC THEATRE, MEIiItODICNE.
MY WIFE AND I,
Featuring IRENE RICH and HUNTLEY GORDON.
SO THIS IS MARRIAGE,
with ELEANOR BOARDMAN and CONRAD NAGEL.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Box Plans at Allan’s or Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
Amusements,
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THOMAS ME toil AN in
THE MAN WHO FOUND HIMSELF.
THE SKY RAIDER.
Featuring JACQUELINE LOGAN,
Prices as usual.
MAXIMUM
VISIBILITY!
ALTERED
PETROL
II I ISKRVC
32
iW
Xi
B f
tICT-
K
r * A
&TTT
& 4
o:C
£ s=p-
©
Most people like to see what they buy. That’s why
motorists, when buying petrol, are so strongly attracted to
the Wayne 492-F Petrol Pump.
The large, plainly visible quantity markers on two sides
of the bowl is proof conclusive that customers get full
measure.
Moreover, the patron gets every drop of petrol that he
sees. Once petrol is pumped into the large, visible
container it is trapped and cannot get back to tlje
underground storage tank unless the valve is opened for
that purpose.
But, this visibility of the Wayne Model 492-F Pump is
but one of its many superior features.
Its beauty of line and finish is unapproached by any
other petrol pump in the world. Whilst its accurate
measurement, speed and operating economy assures satis-
faction to both operator and customer.
Passed and approved by the Department
of Weights and Measures of
Hew South Wales and all other States.
Wayne pumps ars also built in a large variety of
other styles and sizes—A measuring pump for every
purpose. Complete literature on Model 492-F (or any
other Wayne equipment for the storage, measuring
and pumping of Oil and Petrol) sent on request.
Hawkins Equipment Go., Ltd., 160 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Melbourne:
Shipman, King & Co., Peacock House, 4Bo-490 Bourke St.
Adelaide :
Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street
Perth s
Arthur H. Christian,Bos Hay St.
Brisbane:
Hawkins Equipment Co., Ltd.
WAYNE TANK & PUMP COMPANY, Fort Wayne, Indiana, U. S. A.
Factory Representative! ROBERT F. LEE, 160 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Models:
I'l/Jtfh.p., 20/60h.p.,
30/90h.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted, with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for i
British People •
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the fastest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supermoeo , London.”
e
Lom!*s^ ,N hnclano
sr£u
iMEplum
m,
m
1!
v
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/0 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/0 ~
Ileal Ivory Handle . . . . 21 /- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/0
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
-
■
Perfection
piisk: rubber
Books on the Old Country
Its Topography, History and Antiquities.
An enormous stock of second-hand books at very
low prices.
We hold over 1,250,000 new and
second-hand volumes on every con-
ceivable subject.
Twenty-one departmental catalogues issued.
New English Books are always supplied
at English Published Prices plus actual
postage only.
Write for Catalogue 93a, mentioning definite
requirements and interests.
FOYLES, THE BOOKSELLER,
121-125 Charing Cross Road,
London, England.
FOR LIGH
Your guests will all enjoy the
appetising flavour of Ancho-
vette. Dainty Sandwiches
made with this delicious Fish
Pa£te are always popular,
and a tempting meal can be
prepared in a few moments.
xcvbn
xcvb
Jllways keep a jar
in the Pantry for
emergencies
xcvb
P 28
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
if w w troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance doei away with all cumbersome
■prints, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove wbat we Mete
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it. and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men. women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
I 104 Queen Street. Melbourne
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The * Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
What Insurance Do You Carry?
Fire? Flood? Burglars? Accident?
Death? But have you insured the Comfort
of your Home and the Health of your
Family?
SEWAGE
OXIDATION
Is Best Policy.
Water-Flush Your House. Remove Pau, Cesspit, Filth, Smell,
Blowflies and Danger. Place Your Suburban, Seaside or
Country Home on the level of the Water-sewered City Residence.
USED IN 7100 AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Send to Nearest Address for Free Booklet describing Sewage Oxidation Plan.
Your 'Name
Your Address
DESK
Bn.
SMI
Price Complete
from £SO up.
SYDNEY: Hoskins Buildings* 3 Spring Street. MELBOURNE: 187 a Flinders Dane.
BRISBANE: Queen Street. ADELAIDE: Bennett’s Buildings* Currie Street.
PERTH: Economic Chambers* William Street. [S.B.
SIOBCARRIMO
FOR COMFORTABLE
xcvbn
Are you as Careful choosing a Sidecar
as you are
your Motorcycle?
nPOO much depends on the
sidecar for you to be careless
as to what sidecar you use
Every Goulding Sidecar, Chassis
s> -7J
Special or Standard, in-
corporates the patented
Goulding floating axle
and scroll spring shown on
the left —the feature which insuh
ates the motorcycle from the
movement of the sidecar wheel
over the roughest road.
In most cases a Qoulding costs less than an ordinary Sidecar
GOULDING SIDECAP.S
Sold by Most Motorcycle Dealers throughout Australasia
A. G. HEALING & CO. PTY. LTD., 354 Post Office Place, Melbourne, 27 Hyde St., Adelaide
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Casserole Dish, in heavy silverplated stand,
capacity, 14 pints. Round, 54/-
Oval, 57/6
Entree Dish, both halves of which
as separate dishes when required, llin.
lOin. size, 75/-
can be used
size, 88/-
From
the
new
FAIRFAX
Dinner
Table
Service
Simple, gracious dignity of design, beautiful
finish, and solidly good quality are the outstanding
merits of the “Fairfax” table service. Every piece
bears an extra heavy deposit on silver on the best
hard white metal. The prices quoted above are
typically moderate.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRFAX&ROBERTS L T f
Z5&2.5 Hunter Street Sydney
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.G.S. (Carlton) : One of several ex-
amples in the Talmud is in Sabbath, 31: “Do not
unto your neighbor that which is hateful to yourself.’’
Hillel, the Hebrew teacher, who had reached his
greatest fame when Jesus was a boy, made “What
you wish not to be done to yourself do not unto
others” the starting-point of his moral code. The
“Literary Remains” of Emanuel Deutsch, who had
a lifelong connection with the British Museum, con-
tains two articles on the Talmud which show
(with chapter and verse) the Talmudical origin of
much of the gospel of Jesus; Gerald Friedlander’s
“Jewish Sources of the Sermon on the Mount” con-
tains also many quotations.... Sulieman : But surely
you wouldn’t hobble “Ripponlea’s” graphic muse to
the hard, narrow lane of fact! The man who wouldn’t
give “Ripponlea” a license to make snakes slimy
if he wants to has no 50u1....A.D.M.: That paddock
was pretty well harvested a few months ag0....
Houdaille: The ending doesn’t quite satisfactorily
explain things... .P.F.D.: The verse goes very
stodgily... .Phil H.: A dreary narration in wooden
verse... .F.E.R.: It wallows along heavily, and its
mirth is not conspicuous....Leamingtonj Good idea,
but the screed would stand improvement. Try it....
D. : “Actually happened’’ doesn’t necessarily com-
mend a yarn. Many a dull thing has happened....
J.R.L.: Try' again; but not with attempts to rhyme
“off us” with “office.” And avoid “doth” ;' doth
very seldom does.... Don H.: “Telephone” not worth
tuppence. You might get on another line... .L.F.:
Nicely rhymed, but throws no new sunlight in a very
old garden... .Ida G.: You treat a light theme as
if it was an epic... .S.T.: In spite of the old- phrase,
genius is not an infinite capacity for taking Barry
Pain’s... : Although the light of “The
Candle” is not bright enough for The Buiaetix,
it might do elsewhere... .N. 0.: Exactly... .K-Nick:
The only satisfaction we got out of “Downing
Downey” was the knowledge that you eventually got
away “to supper, bed and home.” Did you supper
and bed in the bush?... .W.S.G.: Watch your feet;
in the verses you send you trip over them...
J.D.: Not bad; but your swagman’s trite thoughts
tramp too far.... Miss A.T.: Does “Sydney town”
really abide in your thought “veiled in chill rain
drifting down,” or is it merely that you want a
contrast for . that pink . Island sunlight ? Make
vour thought sincere and you may win.... Badman
Bill :■ The finish of “The Boundary Rider’s Daughter”
's certainly dramatic: —
He loved them both, Rich Ruth and Poor Pearlie,
And the lovemaking went on like fun. .
P’raps he loved most the moneyless girlie,
But still it was doubtful which’d be the One.
He was led like a lamb to the slaughter;
After all he made Money his bride,
For he married the rich squatter’s daughter,
And the boundary rider’s lass took sheep-dip and
died.
.... V.M.M.: Those early days you tell about must have
been pretty dreary... .V.A.E.:-Avoid bathos and study
the poets.... Aileen: No man searching for a cow is
allowed to do it in 80 lines.... Flexmore: A little
exercise in rhyme is a good remedy for the complaint
from which your verse suffers. .. .G.G.: You were
going somewhere, apparently'. Wherever it was they
are still expecting, you... . J. 8.: Pretty, but what does
it mean? “Countless the thorns standing forth in
her duty” beat us... .P.L.8.: Thy tender songs
resemble the flutings of a sob-voiced tenor. Natheless
they are being kept in rose-silk for further com
sideration. .. .W.P.D.: Yarn finishes somewhere just
past the middle.. Try it again... .R.F.T.L.: Regret
quite unsuitable... .Account Sales: Never mind,
Digger; you might have married her... .Nameless:
The heart throb moves us not. Still, it’s the
first heart throb caused by the fag-end of a paper
streamer yet received in this office, so you can con-
sider yourself a pioneer. .. .D.C.: Alas, it is only
too true:—
Off they go to the races
In quest of the bookmaker’s gold,
Where they may throw off the traces
To gather wealth untold.
True punters, they come from the Northland,
And they also come from the East;
They speak and spell of “things that’s well,”
On the “books” they’ll surely feast.
But, alas, how the jockeys bungle,
How the crowd get down in the mouth!
Some wish to be back in their jungle;
Others dip further down South.
It’s the same this -world over,
Men will ever be the same;
Fropi the hardy country drover
To the shrewd city “neveragains.”
. ...G.L.: The opening promised thrill, but the cork
never popped. Send along the others, but don’t
forget the champagne E.G.T.: Album verse only.
. ...R.A.R.: The death-scene of the war-crazed
Digger is merely pitiful; it has no story interest.
... ,C.P.: Sorry; we can make no use of them....
Stan R.: Proved a dud. If it had only lived up to
the opening fizzle it would have shattered the office.
.... Dave R.: That little trick has been played on
readers too often.... A.N.F.: You waste many words :
and, anyhow, it is all unreal. .. .H.G.8.: Overdone;
but it,’s a capital ending C.H.W.; All unsuitable.
....Bill B.: “Circumstantial Evidence” is too thin.
Button D.: Have you taken to the pictures?....
A.W.D.: One is too ragged and the other too extrava -
gant. .. .Posco: Well done; but of only local interest.
....Catherine J.F.: The conclusion wants better
handling; that done, we’ll be glad to reconsider it.
....Jim G.: “Seven or Eight” wants a little more
cultivating. The idea is all right... .Miss Smith:
Can’t find a place for it.... Mona T.: Well done;
but it rather spoils the historical story—it was the
chief’s own child that did not cry again... .Pib: Too
screechy... .R.G.H.: Sorry, but “Education” has
been squeezed out until the time for it has passed.
....Kiloline: Yes, there’s a point there which ought
to be hammered in.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.T.: The motor-’bus should have been allowed to
complete its gory deed. .. .R.J.K.: At any rate you
are an amiable sinner and deserve absolution....
E. : Keep the raw products chained up....H.C.:
Fair attempt; continue the attack.... L.C.M.: Into
the abyss H.0.R.: The lady has a withered leg
and her partner’s ear has slipped. .. .C.0.T.: It is
tangled where it isn’t blotched.... G.: You’ll never
achieve greatness here by worshipping Yankee comic
strip-artists T.G.Iv.: What, Bruce in a crumpled
hat, creased suit and busted boots! As well furnish
an archangel with a hip-flaslc and a two-headed penny.
F.A.: Worst of the large flock of desolate draw-
ings that have descended upon us since the recent
bush-fires.


Daily Mishaps/
Make ZAM BUK a Daily Need /
A
\
7
7
%
f
A
First wash away any dirt or grit from the
woundf cover it with a piece of lint or any
bit of dean rag on which Zam-Buk has been
spread. Rub gently with Zam-Buk for
bruises and sprains. Then cover up
(especially in burns and scalds) and let
nature and Zam-Buk do the rest.
TEST
FREE
The proprietors of Zam-Buk invite you to
make a free test before buying. Simply
send your request to C. F. Fulford (Aus.),
Ltd., Sydney, and a trial sample will be
sent you by return mail free and post paid if you
mention The Bulletin of 8/4/’2O.
ACCIDENTS in the home occur when least expected—the slip with
the knife or tin-opener—the hot oven door against your bare arm
—the kettle that boils over —the bruises and bumps of play, and the
children’s cuts and hurts.
Injury to the skin means a
breaking of the protective layer
and the admission of hordes of
harmful germs that set up a
kind of local poisoning. There-
fore, be ready to apply at once
to any injury a piece of lint
or clean rag smeared with
Zam-Buk, and keep the place
covered up.
This antiseptic balm kills
disease germs, draws out all
poisonous matter, soothes pain
and quickly ends what is a
peril to even healthy people.
■ If you had the eyes of a microscope
and could see Zam-Buk knitting the edges
of a wound together you would witness
one of Nature’s miracles—the creation
cell by cell of new living tissue. You can
always feel safe in accident or skin trouble
with a box of Zam-Buk close at hand.
It is important to select Zam-Buk for your
regular home first-aid and healer, because Zam-Buk
means “safety first.” Unlike ordinary ointments
Zam-Buk contains no coarse mineral drug or rancid
animal fat to corrode or harm the skin. Zam-Buk
has proved as wonderfully effective in cases of
eczema, pimples, rashes, poisoned sores, ringworms,
piles, ulcers and deep-seated disease as it is sooth-
ing and healing for cuts, burns, scalds, etc.
Obtainable of all Chemists and Stores at 1/6 per
box, or 3/6 (family size).
uk
am
ENSURES SAFE, CLEAN HEALING
The protection of pure, Australian utool
m
f; k s
-M
E
M
I
■8
Australian wool, recognised as the worlds best,
is the ideal protection during the Winter months.
When utilised so admirably as it is in Peapes 5
" W arrigal” Undertuear, it gives the utmost
comfort and warmth, and in addition forms a
perfect barrier against chills and colds.
Peapes 5 “Warrigal 55 Underwear
is offered under the guarantee of Peapes’ otun “Warrigal**
trademark, as a warrant that it is all Australian and
unshrinkable
Light weight Pure Wool
Undershirts, f sleeves
Light weight Pure Wool
Underpants, full length
Medium weight ‘Warrigal*
Pure Wool Undershirts,
| sleeves
Medium weight ‘Warrigal’
Pure Wool Underpants,
full length
Winter weight ‘Warrigal*
Pure Wool Undershirts,
| sleeves .
Wint r we ght ‘Warrigal*
Pure Wool Underpants,
full length
Peapes pay postage
Please state chest and waist measurements
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s & Esoys* Outfitters
George St. (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
Exclusive English Smoking Mixtures at Peapes* Tobacco Department


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
**aas
xieawws®^
S 3 3
By building: your new koine with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIB ROUTE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Roofing with "FIB It O-
UTE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write lor Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Building’s, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
He is worth
what he will fetch at market. But his sale
at top values is certain if this step is taken.
Truck Your Fats,
Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs,
to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY OK BRISBANE.
[2
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at. once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO,, Est 1853
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Public Trustee
Established Ist January, 1914
(Under State Guarantee),
ACTS AS
Executor - - Trustee,
Administrator,
Attorney or Agent,
Trust Funds Available for
Loans on City or Suburban
Freeholds.
Full Particulars Furnished
on Application.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
(C. 1315,)
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
xcvbn
xcvb
WHAT YOU NEED
TO SWEETEN YOUR BREATH
Is A Preparation That Will Cleanse
Your Stomach, Stimulate Your
Liver And Regulate Your Bowels.
In Short, What You Really Need
IS A COURSE OF
chamberlain’s tablets
Wonderful for Biliousness, Constipation and Bad Breath.
tino
impteto/afotit
No closely-guarded secrets surround the
manufacture of this famous Emulsion. HYPOL
contains 50 % of Cod Liver Oil, a pure natural
oil, rich in health-giving Vitamins, and endowed
with nutritive and healing qualities that no
mysterious formula can equal.
■n
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
•
HYPOL has proved itself the great-
est specific ever submitted for the suc-
cessful treatment of Chest AilmentSm
A short course will improve the appetite,
promote growth, vnr/t'ease the weight,
preven t rickets, aid convalescence, and
restore vitalitij.
Those in search of health should try
HYPOL. A genuine, palatable, health-
promoting Food-Tonic strongly recom-
mended by the Medical Profession.
Commence to-day to take HYPOL
Sold everywhere. Made by Felton, Grimwade &C Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Battery
Sole Agents, for Australasia.
Bennett & Wood,
CAVandewdl
WARPLt Wav.ActonXondon W 3
1
1
C.A.V BATTERIES with THREADED
RUBBER INSULATION are made to
the correct specification to ensure
the full reserve of vitality
necessary for a ready start and
brilliant lighting at al* times
284 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Business Robbery, etc.
"Ben Zine”: The Canadian Govern-
ment steamer Canadian Spinner has just
brought to Joseph Coates’s land a cargo of
4500 motor-cars and tractors, of a value of
£850,000. And even this isn’t quite the
worst on record; it has been exceeded once.
* * * *
“Bris” : Australia’s most careful buyer has
been discovered in Brisbane. She was buy-
ing a suburban cafe, and took stock with a
particularity that roused the ire of the sellers.
“She even counted the peanuts,” one of them
complained bitterly. But, notwithstanding
all this care, there was a slip somewhere,
and an action for misrepresentation followed.
* * * *
“Sturt”: One unexpected result of the
water famine at Broken Hill was a shortage
of beer. - The South Aus. Brewing Co.'s
local branch has been carried on for year*
at either a trifling profit or a distinct loss.
It seemed to have turned the corner lately,
but when water became scarce the manufac-
turing was shut down, and supplies sire to
be sent up from headquarters in Adelaide.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Melbourne consumed
24,000,000 feet of Californian redwood last
year, and Sydney 11,000,000 feet. And even
this doesn’t content California, which recently
sent a quartette of smart “lumbermen” here
to try to push trade further. Meanwhile
lots of Victorian mills are shut down, and
many sawmillers have big sawn stocks of
which they cannot dispose.
* * * *
“D.R.” : lie cemetery real-estate (B.
25/2/’2O). I know of one second-hand grave
that changed hands at a good profit. The
seller, a woman, owned a section a.t a popu-
lar God’s-acre near Sydney. Three deceased
relatives occupied the lot. Land being
cheaper at a newer location opened for burial,
she had the trio transferred to it. and sold
the lately occupied section at a profit of £GO.
* * * *
“Ah Gee” : I am one of those pre-Adamite
folk who think there is too much gambling
in this land of boundless racecourses, so the
occasional receipt of a book of art-union
tickets with a request to dispose of the same
gives me no pleasure. But when the other
day a bunch came for my 12-year-old son, I
am moved to a protest. Even the fact that
it was for a worthy benevolent institution
is no excuse for this deliberate temptation of
the young. How do the promoters get hold
of youngsters’ names and addresses’:
* * * *
“Billy See” : The member of the Kerrison
family who recovered his R. 11.5. medal from
the slot of a Victorian railway-carriage win-
dow (B. 4/8/’2(j) was dead lucky. In my
time the Newport carriage-repairers used
to look on the window bumping-pads as a
source of income—and possibly they still do.
Ladies indulging in fond farewells often
drop brooches and trinkets into the window-
slots. The removal of a couple of screws
exposes the pad, -and when the carriage has
been in action for a long time a good haul is
often made. Sometimes the brooches are a
trifle bent, but 18-carat stuff is always worth
having.
* -X- * *
“S.T.S.”: The item (B. 25/2/’2G) as to
ostrich feathers being out of demand re-
calls an imaginative story by Barry Fain
on a similar slump in diamonds. These
precious stones simply go out of fashion,
and two ruined merchants disgustedly jetti-
son their stocks in a London park—-and are
at once compelled by a constable to “clear
all that rubbish away.” This tragedy, and
a real tragedy it would be for many men who
are wealthy by the artificial standard of
gems, might happen any day. An ostrich
feather really is beautiful, while a diamond
has absolutely nothing about it except the
false value the world has for the moment
agreed to attach to it.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The character of a Melbourne
man has been triumphantly vindicated in the
S.A. Supreme Court. A country Court at
Gladstone had given the visitor three months
for “insufficient lawful means of support” on
evidence that lie travelled by train a lot and
had not been known to do any work. His
statement that he was over for the races, and
was “a man smarter at cards and understand-
ing the game better than others,” did him no
good at all. However, on appeal, the sen-
tence was promptly quashed. A bank pass-
book in the visitor’s possession showed over
£5OO to his credit. And Chief Justice Mur-
ray ruled that “even in South Aus. winning
at cards is not necessarily unlawful ; it
depends on the circumstances.”
* * * *
“Home Town”: “Clerk” (B. 11/3/’2n)
eulogises the mail-order system whereby the
Victorian Railway Department delivers goods
to country residents and collects the cash
payable, charging the vendor 24 per cent,
commission ; but there is another side to it.
The new scheme is hard on the country store-
keeper. One in a fairly big farming town
tells me that his customers run up bills for
groceries and ironmongery and the like, and
save up their cash to order dresses, clothes
and luxuries from Melbourne. They pay
cash on delivery for silk underwear, hats
and flimsies, and let the grocer’s bill for
necessaries stand over. Why should the De-
partment order its S.M. and staff to act
as debt-collectors? The city shops can easily
ask country clients to send money-orders for
goods; the railways would still have the
goods to carry.
* * * *
“Kriz”: The foreshore of Roebuck Bay
(W.A.) and the creek wear a deserted
appearance, for the “lay-up” has finished
and the pearling fleet, after refitting, has
proceeded to sea. Last year there were 195
iuggers working out of Broome; this year
170, with their one white man per boat,
streaked out. In 1920 there were just twice
this number of vessels working. It is only a
matter of a few years and all those left
will be owned by big cos. with the cash to
pay the big “lay” asked for by the divers
(this is increasing each season 1 and the
ever-rising wages demapded by divers’ ten-
ders and all indented labor. One by one the
small men are being forced out by the high
cost of working a boat: one such who has
been in the business for 25 years and knows
it from A to Z recently sold his lugger and
went south to go in for pig raising. He
reckons that there is more profit in pigs than
pearls.


xcvb
There is only one explanation of the new low prices announced
in January by Graham Brothers.
That explanation is— overwhelming demand 7
Such demand calls for expansion. Expansion means greater
production. Greater production means savings in manufacturing
costs.
Graham Brothers have expanded tremendously, both in
buildings and equipment —and are now passing the savings
on to the buyer.
Business men all over the world demanded and received 24,119
Graham Brothers Trucks and Motor Buses in 1925.
This year, with Graham quality at its peak and their prices at
the lowest point in history, demand is even greater.
Dodge Brothers Dealers all over the world are prepared to
supply it.
Ask your nearest Dodge Brothers dealer for the new
reduced prices on Graham Brothers Trucks and Buses
GRAHAM BROTHERS
Detroit, U.S.A.
A Division dr Demise Brothers, Inc.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’ 8 Terrace,
Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
8/4/'26.


Five New Patented Features
ft
ft
<&>
0^
5^
G
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully.
SECURITY
Cheque Protector
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Prices—including tube acid-proof ink—
Gent.’s, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ladies’, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Registered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib preferred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—•
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Cuticura
Heals Irritating Rashes
Don’t suffer with itching, burning
rashes, eczemas or irritations when
Cuticura Soap and Ointment will
quickly relieve and heal. Bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water, dry
and anoint with Cuticura Ointment.
Nothing quicker or safer than Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment for all
skin troubles.
Soap Is.,Talcum Is. 3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
[ dress: “R.Towns&Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Dy Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
BRITISH MADE
VENttr
QUALITY PENCIL
mss
NO w£) EACH
GRADATIONS
SOLD BYALLSTATIONERS.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq ; , Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. DAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
iHau
xcvbn
xcvb
<6he “ SANTWILL ”
WORK SHIRT
There’s no doubt it is the finest Work Shirt
made for the money. Made of a light
strong twill in color. ,
Has two breast pockets to button Big, J f
roomy, comfortable and wears like
can-Oas. eMail o-day.
3 for 22/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In £2yeen Street, 'j
KINDLY STATE SIZE
MAIL TO DESK
MONEY TO BURN!
A Good Cigar, A Bob for an Art Union Ticket,
The Fire Brigade watching that it does not burn
a hole in my pocket, A Chance in £lO,OOO worth
of Prizes and the world is indeed a pleasant place
to live in.
J
xt
flilwWM
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADE’S COLOSSAL ART UNION IN AID OF
THE HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, and CHARITIES OF THE
STATE (by Permission of the Attorney-General).
FIRST PRIZE, MOTOR CAR VALUED AT £1,300
AND
FIFTEEN MOTOR CARS AND MOTOR CYCLES
143 Other Prizes.
The drawing takes place at Sydney Town Hall on May 13, 1926.
TICKETS ONE SHILLING
24 TICKETS FOR £l.
Two or More Tickets, Result Slip forwarded. Apply to Hon. Secre-
tary, N.S.W. Fire Brigade’s Art Union, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write plainly. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
“Eggsact” : Tlie monotony of going through
some hundreds of addresses was suddenly
broken up when I came on “Lookabootye”
(Vic.), followed closely by “Uppanatit”
(W.A.). Seems to be slogan material here
for both States.
“Senojo” : The post-office thief who special-
ises in letters containing bank-notes has his
failures, like other specialists. A dexterous
flick of an envelope conveys a crackle that
indicates bank-notes; and any letter so re-
sponding is promptly nailed. But this is
where the disappointment has crept in. The
crackle is often produced by the neat folds
of crisp butter-paper placed in an envelope
by some postal sleuth.
“ Joph”: Add this to the collection of
strange tragedies. Miss Campbell, of Dun-
troon station, now the Military College, was
dared by another girl with whom she shared
a bedroom to perform the feat of placing her
toe in her mouth. She did it, but burst a
blood-vessel in the effort and died a few
minutes later.
“Strict Veg.”: The world’s most easily-
discouraged motorist has turned up in Mel-
bourne. He was driving a car down
Racecourse-road, nlemington, when another
petroleer ran into him. He drove on a few
yards and then got out and walked off.
Neither car was badly damaged, and nobody
was hurt; but when the police got in touch
with the shy owner he told them he did not
wish to claim his chariot. So the machine
now decorates the police-station.
Trades-unionism has broken out in a new
direction in Adelaide—the Fire Brigade sec-
tion of the Government Workers’ Association
has circularised the unions with a protest
against their members acting as volunteer
firemen. The Bulletin lives in hopes of
yet hearing of the Union of Judges and
Stipendiary Magistrates asking the Trades
Hall to see that none of its members black-
leg on the profession by becoming Justices
of the Peace.
The throng that goes to make up Friday
night’s scenario at Paddy’s Market (Sydney)
has had a new thrill provided. This is a
torchlight procession that starts from Christ-
church St. Lawrence, in Railway-square, and
with a box and an organ obeys the injunc-
tion to go into the market-place. The inno-
vator is the Maoriland-born, Sydney-educated
and Bananaland-experienCed John Hope,
who, at 35, has become rector of Sydney’s
“highest” high church.
Of the 15 membei’S of the reconstituted
governing body of the Vic. A.N.A. four —
Wise, Moir, Davine and Slater —are lawyers.
Slater, the new chief president, after taking
a hand in the Big, Scrap and getting badly
knocked about, returned in 1917 to find him-
self member for Dundas in the Vic. Assem-
bly. For four months in 1924 he was
Attorney-General in Prendergast’s Labor
Ministry. He is the first M.P. to be A.N.A.
chief since Lemmon held the job 14 years
ago.
Dr. Grace Boelke, who is taking a long
trip through “the East,” was, with Dr. Mary
Booth, the pioneer of women physicians in
N. S. Wales. It was in 1893 that she got
her M.B. and Ch.M. (she was Miss Robinson
then) ; Dr. Booth, who graduated B.A. at
Sydney in 1890, went to Edinburgh for her
medical degree. Both ladies were in the fore-
front of the fight for the suffrage and other
women’s rights once fiercely disputed. Dr.
Booth plunged into war-work when the world
had its big upset; and, long after, she was
the main prop of the Sydney Soldiers’ Club.
Dr. Boelke’s interests are more in general
welfare movements.
“L. Kee”: This was how the race problem
was presented to me in S’Africa in 1913,
and I doubt if it has improved since. Saw
a suit-case in the window of a Durban shop
and decided to acquire it. A pleasant Hindu
took my order and requisitioned a colored
boy to retrieve the article. A girl (race un-
ascertainable because only her eyes were
visible; but they had a suspicious blue
Chinee tint in their whites) typed the sale-
note, and an aged white man with a strong
flavor of dop about him took my cash. Finally,
a Zulu, dressed like Beelzebub, ’rickshawed
me and the case to the pub. Each addressed
the other in a different lingo, and no two of
them smelt the same.
“The Pariah” ; One of Vic.’s most thriving
by-industries is the spoliation of the wrecked
or broken car. Should one be left unwatched
for half an hour on any of the main roads
there will be little left except the paint.
Recently a Vauxhall went over the East
Ballan bridge, and its two occupants were
hurried by the police to the Ballan Hospital,
each with a foot on the golden stairs. A
near-by farmer took charge of what he con-
sidered the movable fittings, but almost on
the tail of the procession to the hosoital a
motor-cyclist went through the town with
two bumper-bars from the derelict in his
side-car. That night the hood and generator
disappeared, and the boot was rifled.
RACIAL STRENGTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The fumes of a cargo of Maoriland cheese over-
came two officers who entered the hold of the steamer
Suffolk to make investigations. A search-party found
them unconscious.”
Since first the gorgonzola cried
Its dreadful menace in the night,
Or stilton, trembling like a bride,
All other flavors put to flight,
No cheese has made so great a stand
As this consigned from Maoriland.
■The strong men faced it with a smile;
No weapons in their hands they held.
Their eyes were open to its guile;
They did not heed it when it r elied.
But when it sprang their senses reeled;
• The cheese w 7 as master of the field.
With stamp and roar above them there
The wild, tumultuous odor swept;
Its fierce hands gripped them by the hair,
Intent to murder, till there crept
A gas-masked rescue-party stout
Into the hold and dragged them out.
Ah, when we read that cheese is high
In market cables, pause to think!
The British race can boldly die
And still more valiantly can drink;
But what high strength of purpose goes
To eating this with open nose!
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra— V entur a
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981 - 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE,^BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
'Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class A 3 jo/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., Ltd.
THOS. COOK & SON
Beg to Announce
A SELECT ESCORTED TOUR
IN JAVA.
Leave Sydney June 23.
14 DAYS’ MOTOR TOUR IN
BEAUTIFUL JAVA.
Hotels, Sightseeing, Couriers and
All Fees Included.
Fare £l5O First-class Throughout.
Programme on Application.
THOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £2,634 560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June,, 1925. . £15.’395.’937
Dilectors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman;
fIUNK N. Yarwood, F.O.P.A. ; Duncan Carson;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly. LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HLAD Ol' I ICR, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney'.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: It, T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World,
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Few Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares 3,750,’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3 088,299
BRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS a *L“K.,S
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Hotel Kosciusko
Winter
Snow Season.
Ski-running - - - Tobogganing
Ice-skating - - - Ice Carnivals
Luxurious Accommodation
Open Log Fires
Nightly Entertainments
Dancing
Seasons Opens Ist July.
Bookings direct with Manager.
i ull information and rail concession
certificates at
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping:. Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and San Francisco.
AORANGI 22,000 tons disp. APRIL* 8, for Vancouver.
LA HIT! 13,000 „ „ APRIL 22, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ MAY 6, for Vancouver.
MAKtRA 13,000 „ „ MAY 20, for San Francisco.
’’•'Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly eqnipped
steamers usin«
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
„ 1
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
tickets to the united kingdom intekchanoeaijle for return
liV OTHER LINES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
IWilliam Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3z to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —■
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
XX
M'J
1C
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPT.ES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydnev by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1526.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, 1„
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Bo ° lc early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.’
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
NESTOR
ULYSSES
/ENEAS
Tons.
. 14,500
. 14,500
. 10,000
Ton 3.
ANCHISES .. 10,000
ASCANIUS .. 10,000
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 136701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
BALRANALD .
BARRABOOL .
BALLARAT ..
BARADINE ..
BENDIGO ..
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd,, Adelaide.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa
REGULAR sailings of the fine’and
POPULAR STEAMERS:
m vtr lIC 18,500 tons
soFvrr 12.500 tons
tmtotm-o 0 • • 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service between Australia and
Southampton, London and Hull,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
’SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
’DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181?.
Paid-up Capital
Beserve Fund
Beserve Liability
cvbn
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S, Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Directors ;
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie. Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—Ge°rge Streep Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, EC 2
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand Fiii Panua and Tnndnn
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. * J ’ apUa ancl London -
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn «i. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world. 8
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraitll,
M cEacharn’s Li ne,
01 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith.
Ltd., Kembla Big.
iMargaret St.
Howard Smith.
Ltd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
Huddart Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
Mellwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
Howard Smith.
Ltd., Kembla Big.
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
t Brisbane, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParltcrLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to ITobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lSlaekheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, I„td.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., I.td. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ilain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messagevies Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding lleversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. ~ ~ £55,800,000
Annual Income £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every <llass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
the;
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL, - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances effected on ail classes ot
1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise.
— Hulls of V essels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BAKTIN HATCH. General Monaster.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.


KEROSENE ENGINES
Kerosene is the low-priced fuel, and when used in the
“Lister” Engines makes Power very cheap.
The New “Lister” Patent Kerosene Vaporiser is very
simply constructed, yet it gives greatest efficiency with
remarkably low fuel consumption. It does away with all
taps and water-drip arrangements.
All old Kerosene Engine troubles are eliminated because
in the “Lister” the fuel after vaporisation in the hot
chamber mixes with cold air as it enters the cylinder, thus
forming a cool elastic mixture allowing easy compression
without “knocking.”
The “Lister” embodies many other features to give
efficiency with economy and easy working.
The cylinder head is easily and quickly removed; this
makes the cleaning of the piston, valves, etc., when
necessary a very simple matter.
IT OILS ITSELF.
The System of Lubrication fitted to the “Lister” is auto-
matic. All the bother of poking round with an oilcan
or filling and regulating sight-feed lubricators
is done away with. All that is required is to
fill the reservoir (on the side of the crankcase)
and let the Engine do the rest for the next
couple of months or so.
This system does not use a quarter of the oil
necessary for sight-feed lubricators, and, more-
over, it is obviously impossible to under-
lubricate or over-lubricate while there is oil m
the reservoir.
mm
: T
a
fi-T
■:/
II
Lister” Patent Kerosene Vapounser
I
MiP
01
.x/' ;
r
s“7and 9 B.H.P
* PORTABLE MODEL
m
9
\
m
ilk
■
: 9^
N
x
r-*
X
W
■ ■ +
■
n
■Hi
m i
; ™ ■
■ ■
••• ;
m
-
BH
-
-
m
m i
i
f -■■
Ml
M
,
: ;,s r .
Sitßll®§lg
EJ3
'Slu.dt.os
IM
Send for Catalogue “B” and full
particulars from the Agents:—
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street,
BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.,
Bank Street,
ADELAIDE, S. AUS.
Malloch Brothers,
William Street,
PERTH, W. AUS.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
HOBART, TAS.
Levin & Co., Ltd.,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
12 B.H.P. TWIN CYLINDER
STATIONARY
I I
I
.s.
7 AND 9 BH.P.
STATIONARY MODEL
SMiiEBE
I Manukactured. btf ;
R A.LISTER & CO LTD.
DUIXSLE* - ENGLAND


Girls! Shampoo Your Hair
with Rexona Soap—
Makes the Hair
Bright, Soft
and Silky.
MISS NEELE DEAN, an
attractive Rexona Girl,
writes: “I use only Rext'nu
tSoap, for I find it absolute-
ly the best soap for the hair.”
cvbn
Do you know that in less than ten min-
utes you can double the beauty of your hair?
It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant and
appears as soft, lustrous and charming as
anyone could desire, after a simple wash with
Rexona Soap. A delightful surprise awaits
those wdiose hair has been neglected, or is
scraggy, dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust,
dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments
you have doubled the beauty of your hair.
Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates
the scalp, for ever stopping itching and fall-
ing hair. If you care to have pretty hair,
and lots of it, get a tablet of Rexona Soap
to-day.
MISS U. EVERITT, a lovely
Rexona Girl, writes: “7 al-
ways use Rexona, Soap, tor I
find there is nothing to equal
it for keeping the hair in per-
fect condition.’’
Rexona
Soap
It’s Medicated !
m.
w
%
h/a
sKS
m
F A
V/
ust*
sSIi
nO
PUB'
7M
m
W//.
WA
Hillier’s
Chocolat
by mail!
Carefully packed in strong
RED METAL BOXES.
No matter where you live in Aus-
tralia you may be sure of them
reaching you in a perfect condition.
es
dfg
Manufactured, Packed and
Mailed on the same day
your order is received.
N.S.W.
Otlier States.
1/2
1/S
2/2
2/8
3/2
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
i4UIU\
102-166 Pitt Street and er. fieorge
and King Streets. SYDNEY.
The Old Red Roads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THROUGH Parramatta, up and down,
By Castle Hill or Campbelltown,
In summer’s heat, in winter's cool,
By Bossley Park and Liverpool,
They wind throughout a pleasant land,
The* old red roads of Cumberland.
The western mountains, ever blue,
At times in seeming nearer drew,
On summer mornings after rain
When distant prospects cleared again
And freshly blew the breath of morn
From green, sweet-briar and whitethorn.
Be-drunken with the draught divine
Of youth’s new blood which wfirmed the wine
Of comrade hearts that now lie still
By Campbelltown and Castle Hill,
We rode or drove with four-in-hand
Along the roads of Cumberland
By orchards where the trees were bright
With springtime blossom pink and white;
Past orange groves in green and gold
And eastward slopes where stood of old
“Colonial” mansions built of stone
With each a story of its own;
A wrinkled crone, a greybeard lean,
Recalling days that then had been,
Could tell with quaint, loquacious pm...
The doings of that countryside,
Where dwelt in rural manner grand
The early squires of Cumberland.
Some wedded, and —alack a day !
Some died or drank or went away.
Though still mayhap the land was green.
These times were not as times had boon,
When rum was stronger, cheaper ale.
And Johnston lord of Annandale.
The old Cowpasture road was then
As rough and full of ruts as w’hen
The teamster strode, a proper man.
Beside his bullocks, span on span.
And forced a horn&d team to pull
To Sydney Cove Macarthur's wool.
In age and youth wo backward glance
To look for story or romance;
The roads 7 love, that best I know 7.
Are roads of thirty years ago—
These red. red roads that yet command
The winding ways of Cumberland.
By bush and clearing—dreaming still —•
I ride or drive from Prospect Hill
In summer’s heat, in winter’s cool.
Through Smithfield on to Liverpool,
And when at length my goal I win
I quench my thirst in some old inn.
While boon companions yarn and “shout,”
I watch the play of life without.
And through my head run simple rhymes
And simple tales of bygone times,
A scent of lilac in the air.
And peace and plenty everywhere.
The mottled shadows longer grow 7.
A hundred springs w 7 ill come and go;
For generations yet unborn
Will bloom sweet-briar and whitethorn.
And through a sweet and pleasant land
Will run the roads of Cumberland,
The old red roads of Cumberland.
VICTORIA.
E. .T. BRADY.
The Myall Pioneers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[N the year 1824 a number of gentlemen
interested in the development of Aus-
tralia—and their own fortunes—came
together in London and established the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Company, an important
corporation which still functions, and has
been by no means unsuccessful during the
century of its existence. It has done much
hard pioneering, had a good deal of luck,
been usually directed with skill and astute-
ness, and, on the whole, has been of consider-
able benefit to this country, whilst it has
never forgotten to be of the greatest benefit
to itself.
In 1826 it began its operations on the
western shores and in the hinterland of Tort
Stephens, and the history of that sadly-
neglected harbor was the history of the A. A.
Company for many years. With undoubted
right to recognition, the company has claimed
that its organisation pioneered the great port
20 miles northward of the mouth of the
Hunter River, and is backed up in this con-
tention by the existing records. But the
records that do not exist tell the tale of an-
other company, never incorporated, that
pioneered Port Stephens at least five years
before the A. A. Company squatted there on
its enormous grant of land. It is to be be-
lieved or not, as the reader pleases.
Messrs. Timothy Pawl, Michael Cassidy,
Angus Maclean and Ebenezer Polwarne were
four settlers upon the Lower Hunter who
had gone there, because they could not help
it, at different dates between 1817 and 1821.
Condon, Cork, the north of Scotland and
Cornwall might have claimed, had they been
so minded, the dishonor of being the places
of origin of this as remarkable a quartette
of scoundrels as ever came to Newcastle in
New South Wales. That is to say a good
deal, but is no exaggeration. Individually
they were notoriously dangerous; collectively
they were more than dangerous. How any
of them had come to leave Britain alive was,
said Major Morrissett, the Commandant at
Newcastle, _ a perpetual puzzle to him. How
they had since escaped hanging in the colony
was almost a puzzle to themselves. How-
ever, on the morning when we come first
to make their acquaintance, each one of them
was well aware that a loose noose was
now about his neck, which would inevitably
be tightened should he ever again come into
contact with such civilisation as then existed
m Australia. The events of the previous
evening made so much as that a practical
certainty.
Away to seaward the sun was just rising
behind them, as they wearily pulled the boat
that they had pirated towards the entrance
to Port Stephens, across the long swell that
came rolling in against Tomaree and Yacaaba
from the south-east. Against the yellow'
horizon a tall, gaunt woman —the unmarried
spouse of Angus Maclean —leant against the
steer-oar, and chided them obscenely upon
their flagging efforts. She was a lady with
a broken nose, a squint, red hair and an
expression of face that may only be described
as baleful. But the poise of her vigorous
body, the muscular brown forearms that
grasped the hand'e of the long oar, and
the supple alertness displayed in her carriage
as she swung and swayed to the pitching and
rolling of the boat clearly indicated that, if
she was not beautiful, she had very nearly
as much of strength and activity as any of
the men who pulled at the oars.
“Ye s,” she screeched at them ; “ye're
a nice lot o’ crawlers for to get a woman to
come wi’ ye when ye go a-buslirangin’, ain’t
ye now? Put y’r backs into it! Sink me
soul, I’d do better wi’ a crew from th"
Fact’ry at Parramatta —wi’ a set o’ wenches
but jest sent out, so I would. You, Angus,
can’t ye make them pull? ’Twill be on them
rocks w'e’ll be afore w T e know anything, blast
ye!”
She pointed to the great basaltic bluff —
riven in its seaward face by a huge cavern
into which the sea surged as the swells broke
against the perpendicular cliff —that forms
the south head of Port Stephens. It was
glowing with golden light as the sun rose
above the rim of the sea, as was Yacaaba
over on the northern side. The little island
of Bundelbah stood out blackly, seaward,
against the glowing nor’-east.
The big bearded man, pulling at the stroke
oar, lifted his head and swung his broad
shoulders slowly round until he could see
the men behind him and bestow a scowl upon
them.
“Aye, lass,” he growded, “ ’tis tired an’
drouthy we be, ev’ry mon Jack; but pull, ye
wastrels— pull! ’Tis a muckle beltin’ I’ll
gie th’ mon that doesna do his fair share —
so soon’s we land —that I will. An’ nane
o’ ye’ll hae bite nor sup unless ye put y’r
backs intil th’ rowin’. Now, then, d —n ye,
mak’ th’ boat move. We’ve nae sae far to
travel. Come, then, pull!”
Mr. Timothy Pawl, at the bow-oar —being
a Cockney, and therefore argumentative
and a little disposed to be quarrelsome-
took exception to the manner rather than
the matter of the exhortations of Red Angus
and his mate, Cock-eyed Carry. Like the
great chartered company that was to succeed
it, this smaller firm of Angus and Company
was not wuthout its early dissensions. But
it is safe to say that no grumbling amongst
the A. A. Company’s shareholders was ever,
in its hundred years of existence, dealt with
so summarily, so drastically and so effec-
tively as w*as the complaint of Mr. Pawl.
“Aw h —1!” he observed disgustedly. “Ain’t
Angus th’ super o’ thishyer gang? Ain’t we
’greed for to tike borders from ’im? ’E’s
a man, ’e is—not a cross-heyed slut wot
’adn’t houghter bin ’ere at all. ’Oo th’ ’ell
you talkin’ to, Sally Carriek, ye DYtford
trollop? Hif you’d bin a-luggin’ hat these
hoars hall night you’d ha’ w r anted a minit
or so’s spell, damme. Stiffen me, a cove’d
think ye .was Gawdamighty for to ’ear ye
talk! Come off it, blast ye !”
Never again in this world did Mr. Timothy
Pawl lift up his voice in any sort of protest.
The woman in the stern-slieets let go the
handle of the steer-oar and stooped down.
When she straightened herself up again a
musket was in her hands—the weapon of
the unfortunate sentry over the Government
boatshed at Newcastle who had paid with
his life on the previous evening for his oppo-
sition to the execution of the migratory plans
of the little pioneering company. From about
its lock she unwound a rag, without haste,
cocked the hammer, assured herself that the
priming was dry, and raised the musket to
her shoulder. It covered the head of the
tactless Mr. Pawl.
Below her tall figure the hairy face of Red
Angus gaped up at her in dumb astonish-
ment. The two men on the seats between
him and Mr. Pawl crouched down over their
oars, out of the line of fire, agape with fear.
In the bows, wide-eyed and pale with sudden
terror, the Cockney stared at the hole in
the end of the musket’s barrel, which was
steady and unwavering as it stared back ex-
actly between his eyes. The gentle swaying
of the boat in the swell had no effect upon it.
Before the bullet came it sped the torturing
shaft of doom into his cringing soul.
“Tim, ye runt,” she said quietly, her face
contorted into a devilish hideousness that
almost made its normal ill-looks beautiful.
“I never thought ye was worth bringin’.
Well, ye’re easy got rid of.”
The condemned man rose unsteadily to
his feet. There was a crack and a puff of
white smoke that drifted rapidly to leeward ;
he tottered a moment and then fell across
the starboard bow, his arms hanging in the
water, the back of his skull a welling fount
of blood. Ilis cap floated six feet away from
the boat, on the other side. Fair and square
the heavy bullet had caught him in the face,
lie never moved again—until presently his
trembling comrades heaved him. at Cross-
eyed Carry’s command, into the lifting
waters.
The woman sat down, picked up a soldier’s
cartridge-belt from the bottom of the boat,
extracted a charge and a bullet from each of
the two pouches attached to it, withdrew the
ramrod from the back of the musket’s barrel
and proceeded to load the piece again. Red
Angus continued to stare at her in fascinated
amazement. In deadly silence the boat heaved
UP and sank in the troughs of the slight swell,
drifting slowly closer and closer to the
towering yellow' seaward face of Tomaree.
Presently, the loading completed, the woman
stood up again, the musket held across her
body. She spoke to the man furthest for’ard.
“Mike Cassidy,” she said, “are ye going to
row' y’r best au’ strongest till w r e get inside?
Are ye too tired, Micky?” She grinned at
him in a not unfriendly fashion. But there
was no mistaking the deadly earnestness of
her question, or any ambiguity as to what
the consequences of a refusal to acknowledge
her authority might mean to Mr. Cassidy.
TTe made no mistake.
“Carry, darlin’,” he replied hastily, “ ’tis
not tired I am at all, at all. Nary a bit of
(Continued on next page.)


His Master's Voice
“The Symbol of
Supremacy
“His
Master's
Voice”
Instruments
and Records
“So drive dull care away”
Let music be your fairy wand to drive dull care away. With a
“His Master’s Voice” Instrument you can forget the humdrum
things of life and listen to the world’s greatest musical artists. It
interprets accurately all those delicate shades of tone that hold you
enthralled. “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and “His Master s
Voice” Records bring to your home the widest range of musical
expression—song, dance, chorus, instrumental or orchestral music,
gems of opera from the world s repertoire. Faithful reproduction
brings unalloyed delight.
GREATEST ARTISTS - - - - FINEST RECORDING.
MODEL ZEALAND
BIINGAIOV
MODEL
THE BUNGALOW MODEL.
The Bungalow Model is a popular
favorite. The simple dignity of its
aspect makes an instant appeal,
which is ably reinforced by its per-
fection of reproduction and
beauty of tone. Height 39Jin.,
width 1 7in., depth 20in. Inter-
nal floating horn. The Bungalow
Model has a 1 }in. double-spring
motor, 1 Oin. turntable, speed
regulator, “His Master s Voice
“Exhibition” soundbox, auto-
matic brake, horizontal shelves.
Oak or Mission . . . £29/10/.
Maple or Mahogany finish,
£32/10/-
Model Zealand,
Oak Cabinet, base 15£in,, height
1 depth I9in., nickel-
plated and enamel fittings. Inter-
nal “floating'* horn. Sunk needle
bowls for new and used needles.
Automatic lid stay fitted to lid,
enabling same to be fixed into
position and released by using one
hand only. Double 1 iin. spring
motor, 1 Oin. turntable, playing
records up to 12 in. diameter.
Automatic brake, speed regulator
and automatic speed indicator.
“His Master’s Voice” ball-bearing
tapering tone arm fitted with
“gooseneck.” “His Master s
Voice” No. 2 soundbox of new
and improved design.
Oak or Mission . . £2l
MANY MODELS AT MANY PRICES. TERMS ARRANGED.
Illustrated catalogues of instruments and records and name of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Company Ltd.
"His Master s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone”
Eegd. Trade-marie.
it. I cud pull this dam’ oar for a whole
wake, so I cud!”
“D’ye take y’r Bible oath ye’ll do as I
tell ye, from now on?”
“Me Bible oat’—may I rot in Purgat’ry
if I won’t!”
“An’ you, Eb? Ye’ve heerd wot I been
askin’ Micky. Does you swear likewise?”
Gulpingly, and in manifest terror, Mr. Pol-
warne made affirmation.
She looked down at the big man crouching
below her, his fascinated blue eyes goggling
up at her ugly countenance in unchanged
astonishment that was not unmixed with
something of admiration.
“Angus,” she said with slow deliberation,
“you are my man. I’ll not ask ye what I’ve
asked these others. But God help ye, me
man, if ever ye forget y’self!”
“Carry,” he muttered, “ye’re a wonder!”
For a moment or two she stared up at the
sunlit rampart of rock that almost overhung
the boat, and then her eyes turned their dis-
torted gaze towards the north-west, where,
behind the massive pile of Yacaaba, the fore-
shores of the north-eastern poi'tion of the
great bay curved in a low-lying line of white
sand and dark-green scrub towards the west,
behind the corner of the south head under
which they lay. She seemed to be pondering
their situation.' Presently she stooped and
laid down the musket, pulling the handle of
the sagging steer-oar towards her, and stand-
ing stiffly and imperiously erect. She barked
orders at her crew.
“Over with that dead meat, Mike Cassidy.
It’ll make a meal for th’ sharks. Tip him
over.”
With a little splash the remains of Timothy
Pawl were committed to the great deep that
lies below Tomaree.
“And now pull, ye hounds o’ Hell— pull!
We’re nigh on th’ rocks. I’m agoin’ for to
make across over there inside that nex’
point. Up this here bay, I’ve heerd tell,
there’s a guard o’ redcoats at a place they
call Sojers’ Point, for to cut off them that
gets away from Port Macquarie. ’Twill do
us no good for to come acrost them gentry.
None at all. So we’ll give ’em a wide berth.
Mebbe there’ll be a river or creek over yonder
where wfe can rest an’ hide. But ye’ll not
stop a-rowin’ till we make that shore. So
pull— pull, now !”
Thus clieetingly exhorted, the three men
urged the heavy boat away from the pyramid
of Tomaree, and presently opened up the
long vista of what is truly our most beautiful
harbor.
* * * *
Captain Sir William Edward Parry, R.N.,
the recently-appointed superintendent of the
Australian Agricultural Company in New
South W T ales, accompanied by Mr. James
Ebsworth, his second-in-command, and Mr.
Charles Hall, the stock superintendent, to-
gether with three convict servants, set out
from Port Stephens in June, 1830, upon an
exploring expedition of the eastern portion
of the company’s one-million-acre grant—
an immense tract of forest and mountain
lying between the Ivaruah and Manning
rivers. The famous Arctic voyager had suc-
ceeded the first superintendent, Mr. Robert
Dawson, as Governor of this territory within
New South Wales, and was desirous of in-
vestigating for himself its worth and its
worthlessness in the only fashion from which
satisfactory results might be looked for.
The little cavalcade, its impedimenta trans-
ported upon packliorses, began its arduous
journey by following up the right bank of
the Myall River, from near the point where
it flowed into Port Stephens, northward to-
wards the lakes —now called Grasswater and
Broadwater —into which the upper waters of
the stream discharge themselves. Nowhere
in Australia does more beautiful scenery
exist, and although the timber-getters have
been at work thereabouts for a century, you
may look upon it to-day much as it locked
to them in the days of William IV.
That placid stream, winding through dense
forests of eucalyptus, ti-tree, fine, big, impos-
ing ti-trees nearly as tall as bluegums—river-
oak and cabbage-palms, is one of the most
picturesque water-courses in the continent.
Sometimes the forests open out into wide
and verdant stretches of rolling downs or
broad swamp lands, across which the blue
peaks of the ranges slumber in the sunshine
over further forests. Generally the long
reaches stretch through shady arcades, from
bend to bend, between low banks covered
with fern and flowering shrubs. The aro-
matic scents of the Australian bush rmiko
the air fragrant and invigorating, birds sing
in the trees, an occasional old-man kangaroo
sits up to stare at you as you glide by up-
stream, and fish slide underneath the keel
of your craft in the transparent depths of
the clear waters.
It was at a point far up the Upper Myall,
as the sun sank towards the crest of the
long line of ranges stretching north and south
to the westward of their route, that Captain
Parry gave the order one evening to halt
and make camp for the night. Over across
the stream, so close that its shape was re-
flected in tiie still waters, the imposing peak
of Bullahdelah—the Alum Mountain —ter-
minated the short range that is one of the
geological freaks of the world.
Bong shafts of golden sunbeams turned the
foliage of the tall forest into a splendor of
lights and soft shadows as they unsaddled
and hobbled the horses, tired and weary after
a long day’s journey. The smoke of the fire
kindled by the cook ascended, straight and
blue, in a thin spiral against the high-flung
treetops and the yellowing sky. The super-
intendent sat upon a fallen trunk, whilst he
busied himself with bis notebooks and the
results of his observations of the day’s march.
Mr. Hall had taken his double-barrelled gun
and sneaked softly down to the riverside in
hope of bagging a wild duck or two for
supper. The servants were busy with pre-
parations for the evening meal, and in pitch-
ing the two small tents that afforded shelter
to the expedition, wdicn a sudden yell of
astonishment from Mr. Ebsworth, engaged
in grooming his horse at the edge of the en-
campment. brought its leader to his feet.
“Great George, Sir Edward, look here!
Holy smoke —look here! A red-headed black
gin—as I'm a sinner.”
His arm was outstretched towards the edge
of the little open space in which their
bivouac was situated. Captain Parry
turned his gaze in the direction it indicated
and beheld the most astounding apparition.
He saw a tall, bronzed woman, a long spear
in her right hand, standing beside a tower-
ing redgum—a woman with a hideous face
and eyes' that looked two ways. A deep
copper color she was, with dark red hair
that fell tangled about her shoulders. Her
breasts were flat and pendulous, and from
head to heel no fragment of clothing veiled
the nakedness of her muscular thin body.
Strong and active she looked, but gaunt and
bony and underfed.
For a few moments the five white men stood
petrified whilst the woman’s distorted vision
roamed from one to the other. Jimmy
Byrnes, one of the servants and a pious
Catholic, involuntarily crossed himself, mut-
tering hoarsely but audibly: “Gossave us—
the evil eye /”
The sound of his half-wliisper reached the
woman and stirred her into guttural strange
speech—as of one who practises a forgotten
language.
“Evil eye be -d! I’d send this lance
through ye for that, ye little freckled frog,
if I didn’t wanter have a bit o’ talk wi’ white
folk. Who th’ devil are ye, an’ where d’ye
come from?”
“God bless my soul, Ebsworth,” said _ Sir
Edward—“heavens above, I believe she is a
white woman. Pray, then, my good woman,
and who may you be?”
The naked woman walked towards him.
unashamed, and seemingly unconscious of
her nudity. A couple of paces from the
leader of the expedition she halted and made
reply. To the day of his death the gallant
sailor used to say that he never forgot that
strange scene. The deepening twilight in
the tall forest, his astonished companions,
the laughing of kookaburras back in the
dense timber—even the horses seemed to gaze
at this unearthly apparition with something
of amazement in the*ir long faces. And the
strange speech she made to thembefore she
vanished as silently as she had come! The
whole incident, he used to say, seemed like
some queer nightmare, strange and incredible,
and wholly outside the bounds of possibility.
“Who am I?” she said in her peculiar
gutturals—“who am I? Why, I’ll tell ’ee,
then, Mister. I’m Carry Carrick, o’ Milton-
street, in Bristol, an’ at th’ Coal River I
used for to be Red Angus Maclean’s woman.
We stole a boat—Angus and Tim Pawl an’
Micky Cassidy an’ Eb Polwarne and me.
Th’ sentry we killed ’tin an’ took un’s musket.
An’ I killed Tim Pawl be th’ big rock at
the harbor-mouth —an’ then we come up th’
river. An’ th' black ’uns come at us, an’
speared my man Angus, and he died. And
then they knocked Eb on th’ head, him
howlin’ like a babby. An’ Micky, too. An’ I
shot three on ’em —an’ I’m sorry for’t. They’s
better folk than all you whites. I’m one of
’em now. God strike me, I wouldn’t go back
to your sort for all th’ tay in Chinee. But
lookee, Mister, I’ve something to ask ye—
a sort o’ favor like.”
“Yes, yes, my poor woman,” said Sir
Edward bewilderedly. “Pray, what is it?
Every assistance, you know —we’ll do any-
thing we can for you, my poor creature.
Pray, tell me what you want.”
“Poor creature be damned, ye white-faced
whipper-snapper! I want nothing from ye
for myself. What I want’s for them that’s
bin good to me these years past. I want ye
to let ’em alone. They’ve let ye alone these
three days past—an’ ev’ry day we've bin in
spear-shot of ye. I know ye’ve come to take
their land from them. ’Tis th’ way of you
white folk. Ye’ll never treat us fair.”
“But, poor woman, you are one of us.
Why do you speak as if you were a native?
You’ll surely return to civilisation with us.”
She broke into a horrible cackle of laugh-
ter, her ugly face wrinkling into deeper ugli-
ness.
“To h —l wi’ ye ! Me go back —no fear !
But will ye promise for to let ’em alone,
mister?”
Captain Parry nodded. He could find no
words to fit into this strange dream.
And then it seemed to them that she van-
ished. She disappeared into the dark forest
quicker than their eyes could follow.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Wanderer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dear heart,” he said, “here I cannot stay;
Mine must be ever the wanderer’s way,
Tlie windy shore and the long, lone road.
The care-free mind and the lightsome load
Out under the sparkling sky.
“Mine must be ever the vagrant track,
The red night-fire and the old, worn pack,
The glimmer of dawn across the dark,
And the waking song of a raptured lark
Somewhere high up in the blue.
“The plaint of the wind in the slender trees
Blent with the break of the distant seas,
A river of blue and a cloud of white, _
A great star quivering through the night—
These things my recompense are.
“Sometimes,” he said, “when the bright
hearth-flame
Leaps and you softly speak my name,
Think of the rush of the brimming rills
Through the dark, where, hung in the silent
hills,
My lantern swings in the gloom.”
But I made no sign that would call him back
As he whistled along the mountain track.
I trimmed the lamp and I bound my hair;
For what should I know of the vagabond air
That blows by the secret hills?
Yet on stormy nights when the fire burns low
And the great winds down from the mountain
blow,
A vigil I keep lest he come again—
His lantern a-gleam in the driving rain—
Through darkness and murk to mo!
Tf.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— ■
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
. factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
tj Queensland Agents—’HOLMES & CHCRCH, Brisbane.
I N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
I Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
its: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2f-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Sold in two sizes—l6-inch cutters, £7l; 22-inch cutters, £lO5 complete.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
17 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular PointecJ
Pens.
Seven
Medals.
ale.
Works c OirmingHam, England
fgh
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pendL
assorted Sample Box.
= Remington. UMC -
DUCK LOAD
Supplied only in Nitro Club Cases
LOADED SCIENTIFICALLY to get the highest
velocity consistent with the best pattern, these
OUCKLOAD
£
vsjfpjs£gf
cartridges are “Wetproof”
throughout—top-wad, crimp
and body—positively sealed
againsteveryclimaticchange.
Next time you are going after
ducks, ask your dealer for a
box of DUCK LOAD cartridges
—give them a trial.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
E 24 G.P. O. Box 686 Melbourne, Viet.
WHY
Do women need
medicine more than men •
They’re more highly
strung
Nerves more delicate
Bodily functions more
complicated
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Greatest Help
To Women
Tried, proved, trusted
Banish Biliousness
Relieve Indigestion
Remove Constipation
Clear Complexion
Promote Health
Beauty comes from
• Health.
Sold
boxes
and
fgh
Buy your LINEN direct from
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
LINEN SHEET.
ING. By the yard
LINEN DAMASK
By the yard
PILLOW CASING
n
LINEN
TOWELLING
•r 5 *- Pricelist
IRISH UH|H
HOBIMSONICLfcAVeR
u %sJsr’
OUR Catalogue No. 334 is full of beauti-
ful Irish Linen illustrations. You can
order with perfect confidence from this
old established firm, knowing that your wishes
will be interpreted correctly. We are contin-
ually receiving letters of appreciation from all
parts of the world.
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by the yard. Excep-
tional quality for good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
■ 72 inches wide per yard 10/6
90 ~ i) i» n i'3/9
Bleached pure Irish linen double damask by the yard.
Any length cut. A very fine heavy make which will give
good dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/11
54 „ .. » » 8/6
7* „ >, » .. *i/3
Bleached linen pillow casing. Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 „ ~ » <• 5/3
54 .» - 6 / 6
Extra heavy bleached linen huck towelling. By the
yard. A quality you will be delighted with.
26 inches wide per yard 2/6.
Extra heavy unbleached all linen huck towelling. By the
yard. 17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 „ 1, .) n */8
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE
WITH SAMPLES, POST FREE
Delivery of goods guaranteed
ROBINSON fif
CLEAVER L™
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND.
&
: «
-'.•S
8U
Ho
1
\
UCE
Host Holbrook Says ~
“Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper —Ah! What a
delightful bouquet; what
aimappetising zest."
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day,
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY ** 3
Tels.: 86276 (4
1/6, ChihTtren, 1/- and 6d.
Afternoon Tea on Board,
p.m. Steamer ‘front Fort Macquarie,
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


BOTTLED HISTORY
The History of
Scotch Whisky
is the History
of
cm
o
■
i'jSTh
o
La
i ififljifaia
D
If you knew as much
as years
of experience
taught us, you wou
flatly refuse any su
stitute for Johnn
Walker.
The perfect maturity of every single
bottle of Johnnie Walker is guaranteed.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
&
m
$\
' vS
mmm
a:
wX
llilS
s®
lllf 11
m ■:
is: :s
¥
X »£s«:
•X-X-X
Born 1820-
Still
Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotlai
