

/
/
%
YA
ft
M
%
V/
'
'//'■
%
K
7.
/
LORD BURNHAM
In a speech in London before the Royal Colonial Institute, Lord Burnham,
speaking of Australia, said “It is only by fostering the Secondary Industries
that Australia can hurry up the movement of population. Australia can only
absorb an immigrant population in direct ratio to her own well-being.”
There is no other Secondary Industry which is capable of absorbing male
labor to the same extent as the—
IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRY
If all the Iron and Steel Products imported from abroad were made in
Australia, employment would be given to 30,000 workers who would earn
more than £7,000,000 per year.
The best way to attract Immigrants is to provide work .
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2412.
Thursday, May 6, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaper.


w
RITE for our Library Catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCTTS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 Qeorge Street, Sydney.
CHAMBERLAIN’S
Is the name to remember when you
want a good reliable cough medicine.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has
long been famous as the most suc-
cessful medicine for coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis and whooping cough.
Contains Nothing Injurious.
ĵ
i
iOj/ears
of smooth
running
have
made
the
Siie !
Self-fillint
•SWAN'
17/6
SWAN
POUNTPENS
Best of all
presents for
every gift
occasion.
'firm favourites
"/or all who write.
j
Self-filling “SWANS" from 17/6.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd.. Swan House,
133/5 Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Managing Agents: Phipson & Company, Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ĵ
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes, You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they ,%re “just as good” as Hudson’s Eutnen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation* of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers. Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney
For Coughs, Colds and Sore
US
*
G*
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lunge.
The Red Page
Love
At no time in history has sex love played
'-uch an important part in human lives as
at the present day. This is partly due to
the social and economic emancipation of
woman, which gives to her a freedom of
choice never before enjoyed. To-day she is
free to let her heart go with her hand. An-
other reason for love’s “coming of age” has
been the attainment of leisure, through the
application of science to industry. Love,
someone has well said, must have leisure to
dream; it cannot live on the remnants of
one s time and personality. But, apart from
these obvious and recent influences, a variety
of causes have gone to the intensifying of
sex-love, and its enlargement to include the
hitherto degraded masses.
Though the subject has been considered
almost ad nauseam, several significant points
have never been sufficiently stressed, and
some have been entirely overlooked.
To begin with, the popular illusion pro-
mulgated by poets and others that love is
an “old, old story” must be discarded. Love
as we know it is more intense and exten-
sive than the love the ancients knew. The
democracy of to-day is a very different thing
from the democracy of the Greeks of 2000
years ago, and it is likewise with love. It
may be taken for granted that love could
not develop strength nor be generally experi-
enced where a lowly feminine status existed.
Amongst Asiatics there is a noticeable lack
of sex love as we know it, and it is signifi-
cant that there is also a noticeable- lack of
initiative as we know it.
Putting the social evolution aside for a
moment, however, a basic physical evolution
unique, in the animal kingdom claims con-
sideration. It is widely recognised that there
must have been a time when feminine sexual
desire was confined purely to the purposes
of procreation. After the manner of other
mammals woman's periods of sexual desire
must have been rare indeed, and entirely in-
effective as a binding force betwixt her and
the male, while she retained inviolable rights
to her own body. The history of the world
would have been entirely different had she
retained such rights, the ordinary sanctity
observed between the sexes of all wild things.
But man, losing with the first awakening
of intelligence the mechanical morals of
other mammals, commenced to claim woman
both in and out of season. He enslaved her
for the gratification of his lusts, through the
possession of superior physical power.
Viewed by itself, this was easily the most
abominable page in human history, yet
viewed in the light of consequences it was
fraught with bright possibilities. What hap-
pened was that, through the sexual servitude
she suffered, the feminine sexual reaction was
speeded up to something approaching more
nearly to mutuality of desire with the
male. Sex love as we know it. with all its
infinite rainbow dreams, with all its mani-
fold promises and prophecies, was made pos-
sible. It would be absurd, of course, to
claim that this one alteration in physical fact
made sex love as known amongst cultured
peoples inevitable, but it must be claimed
that such love could not be conceived with-
out this one variation. Distasteful though
it must be to idealists and sentimentalists,
the fact must be faced that love was made
possible through the sexual servitude which
femininity suffered in the early stages of
our history. The soul of goodness in things
evil was never more strikingly exemplified.
What the raising of love to its present
intensity has meant to humanity it would
be difficult to overestimate. The manner
in which it has invigorated and illuminated
all our thoughts, how it lias curbed the
troubled turbulence of the male and estab-
lished the beauty and security of home life,
is too well known to need elaboration. Art.
music and literature breathe of it; in fact, it
would be difficult to conceive of them breath-
ing at all without it. When the work of a
painter or a musician shows lack of warmth,
it is customary to question if he has ever
been in love, 60 impressed are we with the
importance of this experience to vitality of
expression. Generally, however, artists' are
remarkable for the intensity of their love
affairs. Not so the philosopher, who has in
the main appeared to lack the capacity to
love. The philosophical temperament un-
doubtedly has its compensations, but the
philosopher is fated all his life to tramp
cold, dark streets and see through half-
opened doors brightly burning fires and
happy people gathered round.
In the evolution of love Christianity and
clothes have played an important part.
Christianity carried out an age-long offen-
sive against the sex instinct, and in so doing
strengthened that which it hoped to decrease.
All the taboos and repressions initiated by
the. great creed turned traitor in the end.
It is true that we would never have learnt
to love liberty so well had suppressors of
liberty been less numerous, and it is like-
wise with sex. In particular Christianity
invested sexual curiosity with all the magic
and mystery involved in the idea of sin.
Sexual hypocrisy played a better hand for love
than ever sexual truth could have done. Clothes
assisted Christianity in intensifying sexual
curiosity and investing sex with entrancing
mystery and charm. In days when feminine
modesty was the fashion, clothes and man-
ners mostly had the effect of emphasising
ihat which ostensibly they sought to deny.
We sometimes nowadays hear moralists de-
clare in horrified manner that nakedness is
the ultimate objective of feminine fashions
in clothes. Our dear, disgruntled brethren
need not disturb themselves. Some girls
might show to advantage as Providence
planned them, but the majority realise that
they need the dressmaker’s art to make them
interesting and effective. Sexual perversions
and immorality generally would certainly be
lessened were nakedness the fashion, but,
on the other hand, love would certainly be
lessened also. And this association seems
to suggest that, apart from the soul of good-
ness in things evil, there exists the possi-
bility of evil in the greatest good. On the
whole, if is probably best to keep our illu-
sions and put up with the perversions.
T. JASPER.
History and Spectacles
LS history ? The schoolboy will pro-
bably tell you it is a dry-as-dust collection
of dates, battles, kings and queens. It is
that to him or little more. All dead as
Julius Cassar.
Broadly speaking, the extension of scien-
tme thought in the last century had the effect
of sucking from history the last few drops
of its blood. The historian set himself to
the task of tabulating its bones with meti-
culous care. Never were the musty contents
of the Records Office more diligently searched
for data, never were the ashes of tin 1 past
more patiently raked and sifted. The col-
lection of facts, big and little, significant
or insignificant, wa.s piled up and sorted
out in the research of “scientific history.”
John Morley, not then obsessed- by the poli-
tics which fitted him like an ill-tailored gar-
ment, nor yet flown from Fleet-street to a
peerage, wrote of history in those days that
there were signs of it becoming narrow,
pedantic and trivial. “It threatens,” he
said, “to degenerate from a broad survey of
great periods and movements of human
societies into vast and countless accumula-
tions of insignificant facts, sterile knowledge
and frivolous antiquarianism, in which the
spirit of epochs is lost, and the direction,
meaning and summary of the various courses
of human history all disappear.” Over-
stated a little this may be, but still in sub-
stance true. Historians such as Stubbs, of
Oxford, once bishop of the ancient city of
Chester, whose quaint old houses and covered
rows seem. to breathe the atmosphere of
the past, aimed at and nearly succeeded in
producing an objective form of history that
would have all the precision of an automa-
ton. All subjective influences were to be
eliminated by this scientific process. His-
tory was just dead material to be sorted out
and catalogued.
In The Art of History (Methuen), J. B.
Black, a professor of modern history in the
University of the very utilitarian city of
Sheffield, tilts at this school of objective
historians. . You can never reduce history
to a scientific statement, he holds, for it is
in its very nature not only a record of facts,
but a vehicle that brings us the subjective
environment in which it is recorded. In
brief, you read the historian and his period
in the history he presents. You cannot get
a naked view of the past: it comes to you
as the historian sees it through his tinted
spectacles. The Whig-tinted spectacles of
the picturesque Macaulay color the pages of
his History of England; and into that of its
Constitution the ponderous Hallam gets the
same pigmentation. Becky couldn’t keep liis
political views out of the pages of his Irish
history any more than Lingard could his
religious faith out of liis History of Eng-
land. Each, to use the words of this author,
had his standpoint and his controlling ideas
of which lie could not divest himself any
more than he could escape from his skin.”
AH history, then, if it is not to be a platter
ot bare bones without nourishment, must
have the meat of the historian’s own men-
tality and environment wrought into it. “To
mount up from men’s actions to their
motives, and to descend again from their
motives to their actions”—such, according
lo Hume, is the purpose of the true his-
torian. He illuminates and explains the
past—supplies the meat for the bones. To
illustrate his own view. Professor Black
takes four outstanding historians in the
eighteenth century: Voltaire, Hume. Robert-
son and Gibbon. The standpoint of that cen-
tury “was simply an exaggeration of that
which, every historian must adopt if lie hopes
to write a complete account of any histori-
cal event. It attempted to penetrate the
labyrinth of the past by exploring it in the
light of ideas current in Europe at the time:
and despite all its sins of omission it accom-
plished its task with great brilliancy and not
a little success.”
In advocating a return to the historical
spirit of the eighteenth century and the
abandonment of the purely objective school
with its will-o’-the-wisp pursuit of a “science
of history,’ the author does not seek a re-
turn to the practices aiid methods of that
day “The vast apparatus-of research, the
steady multiplication of reliable documents*’
of to-day, all this is irrefragably established.
Ao one in liis sane senses would for a
moment think of asking that it should In
altered, any more than he would advocate
a return to the age of the hand-mill or tin-
hour-glass.” It is on this constructive part
ot the historian’s work, after all available
material has been supplied to him, that his
argument turns. “All that is suggested is
that the pragmatic note might with advan-
tage be more explicit than it is in the his-
tones that are being written to-day. There
is, in short, a need for the reintegration' of
history and philosophy and the reintegration
ought this time to come from the historian’s
side rather than the philosopher’s.”
T. B. C.
The New Russian Peasant
A writer in an English review stated
some time ago that “the Greens”—using the
word to denote the country dwellers of
Russia—were not yet alive to the situation.
.Now comes an illuminating report on Peasant
Conditions in Russia, 1925. bv Jean Efrem-
off. who was Minister of Justice in the Pro-
visional Government which followed the
Revolution—a report which shows that there
has been a pretty thorough awakening.
The struggle lies between the individualistic
tendencies of the peasant and the desire of
the communists to create collective exploita-
tion of the land. Tanin was wise enough
to see that: liis agrarian programme could
not be put immediately into action, and he
sought to temporise by offering seductive
baits. Traditional aspirations prevailed,
and from the beginning of 1925 the Soviet
Government, alarmed, found itself obliged to
consider the wishes of the country districts.
This stage was not reached without a
struggle. The situation was felt to be critical.
The ruin of the small rural industries and
(Continued on page S .)


JL
ace
Incomparable Value in Billiard Tables at
Ui
i
1 A
3*
w.
w
f
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
Anthony Horderns’ Billiard Tables
have reached the highest state of
perfection, for skilled craftsmen
and modern methods have made
possible the creation of these
splendid Tables at prices impres-
sively low. They are made at our
Redfern Cabinet Works, and can
be obtained in all desirable sizes.
COTTAGE BILLIARD TABLES
CAN BE SUPPLIED IN MAPLE OR MISSION.
- The Beds are of Slate, covered with Genuine Billiard Cloth.
Fitted with fast, low built-up Cushions and brass-mounted Pockets, three Balls,
two Cues and Rest, Marking Board and Chalk. Rules, etc., are supplied with
each table.
Size over all— Size over all—
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in £2B/10/- Sffc. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with
four 6in. legs £43/12/6
9ft. Sin. x sft., with six
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin £34/15 - 6in. legs £56 10 -
Special. 9ft. sin. x sft. Table, with deep panels, nickel Pockets and
Patent Built-up Cushions , £ i
FULL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLES
Handsome Maple Frame of Superior Quality
and Finish, on eight massive tapered 7x7
inch legs, full hand polished, best Portu-
guese Slates, bolted and dowelled, heavy
Maple Cushion Rails, fitted with Mosely’s
Best Black Rubber Built-up Fast Low
Cushions, Patent Ring Pockets and Brasses,
Superfine Heavy Billiard Cloth, etc.
The Complete Table, including the following fittings: Ten Butted Cues, One
Half Butt, One Long Butt, One Long Res:, One Short Rest, Brush, Iron, Wall Cue
Rack, Spider, Roller Scoring Board, Benzoline Balls and Rules.
PRICE
£lBO
Miniature Billiard Table Tops
On six adjusting legs, to stand on an ordinary Dining Table.
These Billiard table Tops have Slate Bed, covered with genuine
Billiard Cloth, fast Rubber Cushions, brass-mounted Pockets,
and are complete with three Balls, two Cues, Marking Board,
Chalk, Rules, etc.
price £23/17/6
price £29/10/-
price £35/12/6
price £43
Size over all—
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in.
7ft, 4in. x 3ft. IQin
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in.
9ft. Sin. x sft. .. .
Combination Billiard and Dining Tables
A covered Dining Table convertible in a few moments to a
Billiard Table, on which Pyramids, Pool, Snooker and other
games can also be played. Fitted with Semi-Auto. Lift and
Adjusters and QUEENSLAND MAPLE Leaves. Complete with
three Balls, two Cues, Rest and Scoring Board.
Size over all—
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in PRICE £35/12/6
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin PRICE £43
Bft. 4 in. x 4ft. 6in., with four 6in. legs—
price £53/12/6
9ft. sin. x sft., with four 6in. legs. PRICE £65/15/-
“TRIUMPH” BILLIARD AND SNOOKER BALLS.
HIGHEST GRADE. TESTED AND GUARANTEED ACCURATE. COLORED RIGHT THROUGH.
1 fin. 1 iin.
£B/10/-
Snooker Balls, sets of 22
Billiard Balls, sets of 3 . .
Bonzoline Balls, sets of 3
27/-
30/-
376
2 in.
£l2
35/-
50/-
2 1-1 6in.
£l6 set
47/6 set
67/6 set
Write
for Illustrated Price List of Billiard Tables, Billiard Accessories and Sports Requisites. A copy will be posted free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712C.
Telephone: City 9^


ESSEX
ii
rr
COACH
111 l Hi
Hill
M
mm
is
/r’j
Built on the Famous
Super-Six Patents
This is a year of Sixes. The trend is more irresistible
than ever. Hudson-Essex are the largest-selling “Sixes.”
And to-day they are lower in price, finer in quality,
greater in value.
In ten years of value leadership Hudson Super-Six
performance, quality and price have never been so
outstanding.
And in all advantages of design, workmanship and
materials Hudson and Essex are alike.
Thousands turning from “Fours” find
the Essex Six in price, appearance,
quality and performance the car of
greatest appeal. And Hudson, among
higher-priced cars, has no rival in
value or sales. In the fast increasing
Six market Hudson-Essex are win-
ning an ever wider acknowledgment
as the World’s Greatest Values.”
ESSEX
PHAETON
j
ĵ
HUDSON-ESSEX
World’s Largest Selling “Sixes”
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEAI/S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street. tyrtnev.


The Best Suit Value in Sydney
> V' :
Our “Service” Suit
TO-MEASURE
£6:6:°
Correctly styled and faultlessly tailored to youi
own measurements. Eighty patterns to choose
from in All-Wool Worsted or Tweeds in mid
or dark greys or navy. Checks, stripes, Her-
ringbones or plain. Also fine Navy Twill oi
Cheviot Serge. To order in fourteen days.
Price £6/6/c
DAVTD
JONES’
the loss of farm wages had spelt disaster.
Before the Revolution the peasants had
earned annually a billion roubles by their
labor on the great estates. Now this income
had disappeared with its source. The aim
of the Bolshevist regime was economic
equality. The small peasant farms were
increased, the large ones diminished, The
administration of the villages was placed in
the hands of the poorest. But the conflict
turned less on the land itself than on the
cattle and farm machinery. These were so
reduced that, to quote the Pbavda, three-
fourths of the peasant industries are poverty-
stricken, destitute of cattle, horses and
farm machinery. The poor peasant gives up
his last pennv to pay for the ploughing ol
his bit of land. They have the land and
cannot work it, as they have no cattle, there
is no one in the country to employ them
because our policy forbids agricultural capi-
talism. They possess their acres only to
pav taxes."’ In addition to State taxation,
a torrent of local taxation flooded the
country. There were taxes on cats, on new-
born babies, on the social gatherings of young
villagers. Exorbitant prices were asked tor
such necessaries as shoeing a horse or re-
pairing a ploughshare. _ These arose from
the heavy taxation of private industry. When
taxes are not paid, land, cattle, even the
peasants’ fur garments are seized. Entire
villages have been driven to concentration
camps or to forced labor.
The peasants saw their country reduced
to a state of misery never before witnessed.
La Revue Economique said that, in spite
of the heroic efforts made by peasants, the
soil is unproductive,” while the Biednola
( Jan.. 1925) made the startling announce-
ment : “The ruin of the peasant is complete.
Can we feel any surprise on reading Jean
Efremoff’s statement that at the be-
ginning of 1925 “discontent m the
villages was general”? hue peasants,
realising that their deplorable situation
was due to the Bolshevist Government, began
to unite political claims to their economic
complaints and demand a share m local self-
government and even in the general policy
of the country. The elections that followed
resulted—it may surprise many Australians
to hear—in the defeat of Communism. The
Government was compelled to pass an agri-
cultural Jaw permitting individual farming
and the employment of wage labor on the
land. In return the Government assumed
the right of converting the harvest into
money. What was the result? Although
the harvest of 1925 was exceptional, the pea-
sants. owing to ignorance of the wheat trade
and lack of proper machinery and trans-
port, obtained a poor result, lhe Govern-
mental organisation of trade failed to meet
the demand. The peasants wished to make
use of the good harvest to acquire in ex-
change the manufactured goods they needed.
But these were not forthcoming. The
Pbavda points out the danger looming ahead
for the Government, as the irritated pea-
santry may refuse to sell tlieir wheat if the
necessary goods do not arrive. It makes
the suggestion that “to relieve the intensity,
of the merchandise famine from which the
country suffers, all local industrial forces be
mobilised to deliver their products to the
villages.” “The Soviet Government, says
Efremoff, “is travelling in a vicious circle.
In order to import foreign goods, wheat must
be exported. In order to buy wheat from
the peasants, foreign goods must be supplied
to them. But foreign credit seems to be
lost.” , ......
The Pbavda’s cry of alarm is .trustified
by the condition of the peasants in Soviet
Russia. The nation complains it cannot
reap the benefit of the exceptionally good
harvest of September, 1925. So a new wave
of peasant discontent and of economic and
political demands threatens the Government.
There can be no longer any doubt that the
Greens” are fully alive to the gravity ot
the situation. Nor must it be forgotten
they form 90 p.c. of the population.
LAURA BOGUE LUFFMAN.
None but the Brave
Frederick Augustus. Duke of York and
Albany, was the favorite son of George 111.
He is immortalised in London on a stone
column that looks down on the portentous
gloom of the Athenaeum Club, the Horse
Guards’ parade and Whitehall. To him the
Sandhurst establishment owes its existence
and also an “asylum for educating one thou-
sand children, the legal offspring of British
soldiers” —more familiarly the Duke of
York’s School. He was, perhaps, the first
officer of high rank to recognise the “fiesh
and bloodiness” of the ordinary soldier. And
it was through the initiative of 11.8. H. in
1804 that the War Office Library came into
existence. F. ,T. Iludleston, its librarian to-
day, has passed his official life amid the re-
cords of soldier-heroes of all time; and in
Warriors in Undress (John Castle) he lays
bare the foibles and weaknesses of some of
them in an endeavor to show liow the great
ones appeared to their contemporaries.
The first study is the Iron Duke —King
Arthur, as he was facetiously dubbed by
George IV. A fine old specimen of the
noblesse disoblige, he loathed the rabble, and
his soldiery were “scum” who could only
be refined by flogging, lie never confessed
to being either wrong or mistaken. He joined.
Crockford’s Club in order to blackball his
son ; and when his own brother died he ex-
claimed : “An agreeable man—when he had
his own way.” Of his amours we have
numerous records, in light of which his own
admission that no woman ever loved him
appears confusing. But he never lost a gun,
and he had the same sort of belief in religion
that lie had in War Office regulations. And,
somehow or other, his name will go on
through history linked with the greatest
military genius of all time.
Of Frederick, Duke of York, “the soldiers’
friend,” the librarian has kinder things to
say. With the exception of Mr. Forteseue,
who describes him as “the best commander
the army ever had,” historians have been
niggardly in their praises of the Duke. He
initiated the abolition of the purchase of
commissions, and lie humanised the army by
friendly contact with all ranks. He was
careful of the amenities of war, but lax in
regard to the amenities of bis private life;
it may be due to his entanglements that tlm
moralists who write history have withheld
their praise. He certainly proved himself
an influence for the army’s good.
Louise Napoleon disliked the Czar because
he called him cher ami instead of bon frerc.
Queen Victoria agreed that this was very
Icleinlicli and inconsistent.” Lord Aberdeen
liked the Czar. The Sultan hated everyone.
Gladstone disliked war, but Palmerston did
not. Such complexities at the opening ot
the Crimean War were enough to start any-
thing; wherefore Albert the Good drew up
a long memorandum to the Cabinet pointing
out that “the first thing is the absence of
all information as to the Crimea itself. St.
Arnaud, who commanded the French Army,
was so concerned with weighing various
points of view that he could never make up
his mind. Raglan traditionally disliked the
French, and could not rid himself of an old
habit of referring to them as “the enemy.
Their endless trumpet-calls evoked the re-
mark to Lord George Paget: “There they go
with their endless too-too-tooting—“that s the
only thing they ever do.” But when Raglan
died the rugged Pelissier broke down and
cried. The Battle of Alma Heights was
won in spite of a singular lack of co-opera-
tion among the allies. On the Russian side,
according to an officer who was present. No
orders were given, but everyone did as they
thought best.”
Balaclava came, arid it was Captain Nolan
who conveyed the order and made the ges-
ture that led to the charge. It was Bos-
quet. turning to Layard. who made the his-
toric remark, the words of which, according
to Canrobert, were: “ C'est su-perhe, main cc
n'est pas la guerre. C'est de la jo lie.” Rag-
lan was succeeded by one Simpson, who, in
his. first letter to the Secretary of Stare,
remarked that the weather was cool, the
allies embarrassing, and he himself threat-
ened with gout—“in spite of all the care I
take.” It was poor Simpson who was awak-
ened at midnight to receive the telegraphic
message: “Lord Panmure to General Simp-
son. Captain Jarvis has been bitten by a
centipede. llow is he now?” And it was in
regard to the inactivity of the torpid Simp-
son that Queen Victoria was moved to sar-
casm. “When he [General Simpson] tele-
graphed that he must wait to know the inten-
tions and plans of the Russians, the Queen
was tempted to advise a reference to St.
Petersburg for them.”
It is a most agreeable sort of composite
biography. One feels doubly indebted to
“Frederick, the soldiers’ friend,” for if he
had not founded the War Office Library per-
haps no one would have bothered about “the
formation of a deposit for military know-
ledge.” In which case we would never have
had access to the information which Mr.
Hudleston so interestingly offers.
GERAID DILLON.
Ariel
While there has been little development
in the novel in the past 20 or 30 years, the
art of biography has reached something like
consummation. Certainly there are a few
biographers whose naive single-mindedness in
shunning stucco sainthood for their subjects
seems to make them forget at odd moments
that death deprives its victims of the pro-
tection of the Libel Act. The present genera-
tion, however, lias no monopoly in this re-
spect. A contemporary, writing to Swift
after Mr. John Gay’s death, said: “Curll
(■who is one of the note horrors of death)
lias been writing to everyone for memoirs
of his life.” Shelley, by no means “the
beautiful but ineffectual angel,” swiftly re-
covered from Matthew Arnold's oddly prudish
attack, and has since succeeded in eluding
the Curlls in a way not altogether to he
expected of a man whom feverish admirers
once delighted to describe as “ethereal.’
Beauty of body and mind has an uncanny
power of disarming critics. Even Byron
looked on Shelley as less of an egoist than
any man lie had ever known, and by all
reckoning Byron should have been a judge.
It is natural that Shelley should have fared
well at the hands of Dowden, whose scholar-
ship was bolstered by broad humanity and
a happy instinct for converting gossip to tin
best of all possible uses. In many ways, foi
the man who can read, the finest cornmentarj
on Shelley is Shelley’s letters —though on<
might make exception of a work of sue!
highly-wrought beauty as Francis Thomp
son’s essay, which is written with a light
that can only be shed by one great lyrk
poet on another.
Shelley's latest biographer is M. Andre*
Maurois. He claims that his “Ariel” is i
novel rather than a biography, although
Shelley is not permitted a word or a thought
but is warranted by his letters, poems or tin
memoirs of liis contemporaries. In the
interests of art M. Maurois foreshortens t
little, guiding us at the same time on a
very piquant sentimental journey. He writes
with fantasy and wit, an impish humor held
in check by large humanity. He gives us all
of Shelley, untrammelled by preconceived
ideas, and Ins colorful portraits carry gener-
ous conviction. Shelley, the young rebel at
Eton, standing with blue eyes ablaze, hit
back to the wall, baited by his blackguardly
but quite normal schoolfellows, is unmistak-
ably the Shelley of “Prometheus Unbound.’
The queer friendship with Eliza Kitchener
with her Roman profile Eliza, learned
romantic and “misunderstood” —is not only
credible, but almost to be expected ol
Shelley, brilliant, unhappy, something of i
knight-errant and not yet out of his teens
Shelley is madly in love with Harriet. Tin
dazzling young demi-god with his wild ideas
has taken possession of her heart that never
before beat for anything more ambitious
than a dashing “redcoat.” He reconciles
himself to matrimony, reassured by the fad
that bis hero. Godwin, has married twice
and also beguiled a little by Harriet’s eldei
sister, who has no doubts as to his eligibility
Harriet, aged 1(1, and Shelley, three year;
older, with no future but high hopes for tin
regeneration of the world, set out for Edin
burgh like two children in a fairy-tale--
Shelley entirely captivated by Harriet’s
flower-like beauty and her love of good books
especially “improving” ones. Shelley dab
bling in chemistry (alchemy would have beei
more to his taste) : Hogg arid Shelley a 1
Oxford; the dinner with Mr. Timothy
Shelley (apocryphal, perhaps, but very ilia
ruinating) : with Hogg, more amenable to s
good dinner and old port than young Shelley
—these pictures are as unforgettable as that
of Eliza, his dear friend, who will help him
“mould" Harriet, for which purpose sin
is invited to share the honeymoon in Edin
burgh. The meeting with Southey, the first
poet he had ever known in the flesh, is a
further piece of self-revelation. Southey does
not believe in Catholic emancipation and
professes Christianity, which also taxes
Shelley’s tolerance. And Southey’s wife,
who mothers the young couple, cheats poetic
expectation by appearing “much more like
a housekeeper than a Muse.” The crash
comes when Shelley learns of iSouthey’s official
(and regrettable) admiration for George 111.
To all the Godwin daughters Shelley is the
king of the elves, but. it is Mary, with her
attractive pallor, her smooth hair and grave,
nut-brown eyes, her brains, her proud sad-
ness and courage, her fineness, that draws
Shelley. M. Maurois very neatly crystallises
the difference between Mary and Harriet
when he says that “Harriet bought hats with
enthusiasm. Mary with condescension." 11
is to Shelley’s lasting credit that he realised.
Emilia Viviani notwithstanding, that it is
given to few, even men of genius, to wed
with the Marys of this world. Mary, not
altogether rightly, fancied that Shelley
understood fairies better than he did women.
She was well schooled in the Platonic ideal
of love and beauty, but when it was a
matter of Emilia she would have been more
pleased if Shelley, like Dante, had never seen
his Beatrice, as M. Maurois remarks with
some point. As it was, her wisdom and
imagination were sufficiently practical to
induce her to join him readily on most of
his visits to his beautiful Italian.
Picturesque figures flash like gay-colored
parrots across the drab landscape of the
Shelleys’ lives, shadowed too often by pain
and death. La Fornarina, Junoesque in fig-
ure. splendidly animal and vivid, amusing
and unbridled, is absurd in the fine gowns
and impossible feather bonnets that Byron
threw in the lire. Byron, the worldling,
theatrical and clever, incredibly hard and
incredibly sentimental by turns, dwindles in
stature compared with the gentle strength of
Shelley, the selfless dreamer. For, with the
exception of Mary, even his loves are ab-
stractions. Self, in the material sense, does
not touch them. Yet Byron the libertine
is shocked by what he calls Shelley’s blas-
phemy and unorthodoxy. Perfect as was
the understanding between Mary and Shelley,-
life took heavy toll of him. “Death must
seem to hftn like waking from a nightmare,”
said Jane Williams, who knew him well.
In a good many respects the most import-
ant contribution to Shelley literature in this
century is the Tngpen Letters. Clutton-Brock’s
well-balanced essays, critical and penetrating,
achieve unusual distinction of thought. Francis
Thompson’s essay in its impassioned beauty
has plucked at the heart of Shelley much as
Trelawney did at the funeral pyre by the Bay
of Spezzia. But M. Maurois makes Shelley
live, especially after he and his strange
household have shaken tin' dust of England
from their feet—dust that called to them,
and before all to Mary, to the end. The
bibliography that is wedged in at the close
of the book would do honor to a much more
stolidly ambitious work.
M. Maurois makes Shelley live for us by
his insight and aloofness, his freedom from
insularity, his very charming prose, compact
of a kind of humorous felicity and imagina-
tion that is enhanced bv its Gallic symmetry.
E. M. L.
A Satchel of Books
Where There Ain’t A’o Ten Commandments, by
Henry Holt (John Lane). “East of Suez” stories.
Falls short of approaching the high standard set
by John Russell in “Where the Pavement Ends.”
but it has merit. The author possesses dramatic-
qualities and a flowing pen, and gets his atmo-
sphere without labored description.
The Hounds of Spring, by Sylvia Thompson (Heine-
maiin). An over-ambitious attempt to contrast three
social periods; before, during and after the Great
War. But despite evidence of immaturity, the
character-drawing makes it a vivid and arresting
piece of Action—the story of an English family into
which an Austrian element has been introduced by
marriage.
The Call of Empire, by Alfred Bigland (Cecil
Palmer). How to lighten the British war debt by
one-half without taxation during the next 50 years
is the problem which the author, who was an M.l’.
and Controller of' Fats and Oils during the late
war, has set himself to solve. Taking the year 1922,
it is estimated that the nation spent £676,000,000
in food. Of this the kingdom itself produced
£305,000,000 worth, and had to import
£■371,000,000 worth. Of the imported stuff the
Empire dominions contributed £115,000,000. The
other £250,000,000 worth, the author believes,
could with organisation and development be fur-
nished by the Empire. To crystallise his views,
Mr. Bigland has drafted a bill for a “British Com-
monwealth Finance Act,” complemented by an “Em-
pire Settlement Act.” Imperial finance is to be
utilised by the guarantee of interest on dcbontuiv
bonds or stock issued by corporations and com
panies, incorporated within the Empire, for thesv
developmental purposes, and for assisting emigrants
to and in overseas possessions. A book of interest
to all who realise the difficulties which face the old
Mother of Nations.
Currency, by A. S. Baxendale (Cecil Palmer).
This plea for the abandonment of the gold standard
and the substitution of a more elastic currency based
on productive securities that would expand and con-
tract with trade requirements is urged as a, remedy
for the ills of British industry. Movements in the
Bank of England rate are traced since 1846 and a
wealth of statistics furnished to support the conten-
tion that rising rates result in industrial contraction,
falling off of exports, a rise in prices, and unemploy-
ment. The author’s opinion is that the price paid
by British industry for the present high value of
sterling exchange is too great. He claims that the
regulation of the Bank’s gold reserve by purchase of
the metal in the open market would be from one to
500 times less expensive to industry, but much less
profitable to the Bank, which is accused of acting
rather selfishly. On the latter point the Bank is
showing a tendency to broaden its traditional policy,
and industrial magnates have of late been appointed
to the directorate. “It is truly significant that the
only period when actual stability of exchange between
American dollars and sterling ever existed was in a
period of immense strain under which gold had given
way to paper.” That may he so, but such a con-
dition, brought about by “pegging” the exchanges,
or a continuous funding of excess imports, could
only continue so long as the exporting country was
able and willing to continue the credit. Also, the
question whether Britain gains or loses by the
repayment of foreign loans in appreciated sterling
depends upon whether the debt is liquidated in the
foreign unit or not. On the other hand, appreciation
as affecting internal borrowing tends to get the
borrower into the scrape of repaying more than he
borrowed. The conclusion that repudiation is the
inevitable end of Britain’s present monetary system
is too drastic a speculation to carry conviction
when rested on the influence of the bank rate on
industry.
“Theologian”: Thus Jack Lindsay, in his own in-
troduction to his own translation of Aristophanes’
“LysiStrata,” just issued: “An obscure Hebraic deity,
whose name for the moment eludes me, has apparently
taken it upon himself to claim the creation of the
earth.” One can imagine Jehovah turning to the
-wall and woenintr bitterlr


■
M>mM^mHMHOTi
■
M
jm
■
HI
. #
If *&'<*&MMBm
Pi / X
MHBI
ik.: 3
_ t V
i' H
■H
IBS
. ■
1
m
a
:: ' '
Where Steel must be the Best
it must be VicKers
■
PAT-my -yAcHfisp
GRO i '
w
X
IRCULAR Saws, Drills, Files—any steel
implement bearing the name “Vickers” has
the highest possible hall-mark. Contractors to
the British Government for many years of war-
time and peace, Britain relies on Vickers. You,
too, in your work, may rely on Vickers for steel
that is the strength of Empire.
Planer Knives in Vickers Steels.
“Ozara” Turret Lathe Tool Holders.
Vickers Rustless
Golf Clubs.
Call to see the display of
Vickers Golf Clubs. Heads of
Rustless Iron. Best quality
English Shafts. Fulford Grips.
The finest Golf Club there is,
w\4
HR!
I:?
Sole Representatives for Vickers of Sheffield:
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LI M ITED_/
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Waymouth & Morphett Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Bank Chambers, Bolton Street.
t-avaHsar


Price
A substantial reduction in the price of
“EXIDE” Batteries for all four and
light six-cylinder cars is announced.
In making this announcement we wish
to state emphatically that none of the
well-known qualities whuch have
always characterised “fcXIDE”
Batteries has been sacrificed to make
this reduction possible.
The same materials and the same high-
grade workmanship which you have
always associated with “EXIDE”
Batteries will continue to feature their
construction.
They arrive DRY and are assembled
in Australia as and when required.
This is why every “EXIDE” user gets
a brand new battery.
BATTERIES
Ask for Prices.
Australian Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., 472-474
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.
We handle only genuine Exide parts•


The Studebaker S*m'dai d-Six Sedan
£528.
h our doors; completely equipped,
luxuriously finished and the
most powerful Sedan of its size
and weight in the world.
m
855555^
\
The Lowest Priced Sedan Ever
Offered by Studebaker
Savings effected through One-Profit
manufacture and volume production
make it possible for Studebaker to sell
the Standard Six Sedan
at the lowest price ever
placed on a Studebaker
sedan model.
By making all vital
parts bodies, engines,
steering gears, clutches,
gear boxes, differen-
tials, springs, brakes,
axles, grey iron castings
and drop forgings—in
its own factories, Stude-
baker saves the profits
Tv/enty-eight Ameri-
can five-passenger en-
closed cars with less
rated horsepower than
the Studebaker Stand-
ard Six Sedan cost (in
the U .S. A.) from $lOO
to $lB9O more. The dif-
ference in price is even
greater in other coun-
tries.
of outside body and partsmakers.
These savings enable Studebaker to
use finer materials and highly skilled
[workmanship.
As all parts are designed and made By
Studebaker, each functions in perfect
harmony with every other part. Thus
Studebaker is a Unit’*
Built car —perfectly bal-
anced, perfectly coor-
dinated.
Being independent o f
outside manufacturers,
Studebaker keeps its
cars constantly up-to-
date. Improvements are
made as soon as their*
worth is definitely estab-
lished’ instead of being
saved up to give colour
to extravagant advertisements an-
nouncing so-called “New Yearly Mod-
els”. This policy stabilizes Stude-
baker values.
(Four wheel hydraulic brakes and disc wheels are optional)
KB-717
DEBAKER
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
BUILDERS OF QUALITY. VEHICLES FOR
74 YEARS


4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
\ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and neivs of Australians m
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
fa
3
SO
□
w
Add Life
to Linoleum
—this Easy,
Liquid Way
Your linoleum will look more beauti-
ful—clean much easier—and last
years longer if you polish it occasion-
ally with Johnson’s Liquid Wax. It
brings out the pattern and color—
protects the linoleum from wear —
and imparts a beautiful, dry, dirt-
repellent surface which washes off
like glass.
The new Johnson “Easy, Liquid
Way” makes the waxing of linoleum
mere child’s play. Takes only a few
minutes —requires no stooping, and
you don’t touch your hands to floor
or Wax.
9
j
All you do is pour
Johnson’s Liquid Wax
on a lamb’s-wool mop
and apply a thin, even
coat to the floor. A
few brisk strokes with
the Johnson Weighted
Brush will quickly
bring it to a beauti-
ful, durable, glass-
like lustre.
It is the new, easy,
modern way to have
beautiful waxed floors.
Takes only a few minutes and is as
simple as running a carpet-sweeper.
The Johnson Wax Mop has a removable
lamb’s-wool swab, which Avashes per-
fectly in hot suds.
Floor Polishing Outfit
Your dealer is authorised to sell you
This 34/- Outfit for only 28/-
A Saving of 6 -
This outfit is just the
thing for waxing all of
your floors. The outfit
consists of:—
1 Pint of Johnson’s
Liquid Wax .... 5
1 Johnson’s Lamh’s-
wool Wax Mop.. #
1 Johnson’s weighted
Floor Polishing
Brush 20
1 Johnson’s Book
on Home Beauti-
fying 1/-
Value 34/-
m
J0H«»
RWNt
S. C. Johnson & Son
Office and Factory:
Queen Street, Rosebery, N.S.W.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
j
ĵ
SCHUTE,
BELL Sc Qua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Sireel, Sydney.
Write or call for all
instructions.
Truss Pamphlet Free in plain
envelope sent closed.
YOU FORGET YOU’RE
WEARING IT—
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
for the Ruptured.
Fits like a glove, gives to every movement,
gives perfect protection. In brief, that s
DENYER’S ELASTIC TRUSS.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
Postage Extra.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
j
The Standard All British Fountain Pen
SELF-FILLING. CANNOT LEAK.
THE
You can regulate the flow of ink
to suit your handwriting.
When you have finished writing,
a twist with the finger and thumb
seal-* the reservoir so that the
ink CANNOT escape until you
yourself release it.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Obtainable everywhere.
I
IS
§
an
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Bos prices:—
10 Cigars. 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23 / J))
100 ~ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS
CLUB REIL CIGAR
FOR
FACTORY
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Hov
will you be
at „
Mother looks as
y ° Un Vou^r!
■
*iPV
D'.B. Aliens
A
E
UTSWi
“Whv she looks as young and charming as her daughter.” How
often have’ you heard these words spoken about women who have retained
their o’irlish appearance while their family is quickly growing up around
them” Have you ever stopped to think what the real seeret of their
vouth'is? The turning-point of youth to early middle-age comes when a
little silvery grev creeps in amongst that crowning glorv of women--tnoir
hair No matter the youthful bloom upon the cheek, or the figure it, easi
•Tiriisli form the hair appearance is the mmoi ot. the ago.
Stop for a moment and think of the really smart women that von
know - they do not allow those tell-tale grey hairs the unmistakable symbol
of advancing years, to creep in and spoil their beauty. ,
Grev hair can never be fashionable —it is the .first sign of old age. A
• t__ oc oo v, P —but a woman is as old as noi lian.
man D? ‘Allen’s^Mexican Walnut Stain has enjoyed the confidence of women
for 25 vears-it is perfeetlv harmless, easy to apply, immediate in action
t 0 j “°w. ~11 undetectable Carefullv carry out the instructions and let
and vouth'will walk in at your door.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Autumn.
The leaves are falling softly one by one
From elm and poplar, brown and yellow
leaves
Grown beautiful beneath the autumn sun,
The April sky. Alas, my spirit grieves
To know that Aveary winter draws so near
In slow and sure approach. This splendid
state
And pomp precede his coming. Loud and
clear
His herald sounds the summons at the gate.
The crystal air is echoing with tone
Of music sweet from silver trumpets blown.
Before him autumn bears a blazoned shield.
His arms are glittering and burnished
bright.
The frosty blue of azure skies for field ;
In chief, a dazzling burst of golden light,
An emblem fit of clear sunflooded days;
In fesse, erased, in gules and vert, device
Of falling leaves; in base, ivliite waterways
Emblazoned argent, glassy, smooth as ice;
Surmounting all, against a wintry west,
Wind-bent and stark, a sable tree for crest.
With banners flying, shining panoply,
And tossing plumes, brave autumn gaily
comes
And goes. Too soon this gorgeous pageantry
Will pass. Too soon the roll of muffled
drums,
The beat of rain, will drown the trumpet
sound.
The songs will die; the glory fade; the
gold
Grow dim among the mists. The sodden
ground
Will lie ’neatli chilly waters, dank and
cold.
The leaves are falling. Autumn soon will
pass.
Grey winter, grim and old, will come, alas!
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
Telling Tales.
When around the fire
Side by side we sit
In the chilly weather.
While the shadows flit
Chased by ruddy gleams,
What is it we talk of,
Friend and friend together?
'Tis not much of men
Or their ways we talk,
Jiy the red fire sitting,
While, as white as chalk,
Lie the roads-without,
And grey, hooting night-birds
'Neath the moon are flitting.
Telling tales we sit,
While the wind goes by
With a voice that varies
Twixt a shriek and sigh :
Warming hands and knees,
Ghosts, at times, we talk of,
And, at times, of fairies.
Tales we tell of raths
liaised in ages old
Where dead kings lie sleeping,
While, with fingers cold,
Underneath the door,
Making chill our marrow.
Comes the black frost creeping.
’Tis of things afar
And of hidden things
That we do be talking—
Ancient groves and rings
Sought by fairy-folk;
Yea, and ghosts white-shrouded
On lone highways walking!
Thus around the fire
Side by side we sit
In the chilly weather,
While the shadows flit
Chased by ruddy gleams,
And the frost comes creeping,
Telling tales together.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Question.
I was happy till you came
With your heart’s unquiet flame,
Like a crimson torch that gleams
Through the silver dusk of dreams.
Now no more my spirit roams
Moss-green highways of the gnomes,
Climbs no more, past midnight’s bars.
Hills of Heaven sown with stars.
I whom Fate has mocked with dreams,
You wnose beauty is, or seems,
Fairer than day’s flame above —
Are we worth each other’s love?
Ah ! I know not, neither know
Why the gods befool us so—
We who fashion, as we must,
Crumbling idols of the dust!
Yet life holds no more than this,
Nothing dearer than your kiss,
Ere we pass and cease to be
Shadows on eternity.
So forgetting seas where shone
Lonely lights of Avalon,
AH that was before Love came—-
Caring not to praise or blame—
We will climb, past midnight’s bars,
Hills of Heaven sown with stars.
Though we strive with sobbing breath,
Colder than the pride of Death.
We will climb, and we may learn,
Haply at some brown eve’s turn,
When the bells of magic call,
Whether love be worth it all.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


a
&
Ch
■b
mm ■
SHP*
i
' s v
■
M
i i
m
iP^
~ 1 «2 ■-' **i
!Y ?!
«
? I r^s
£ ¥#T
~r
h^h
■HHH
1 BR3B
■v ■
I?
ii
< v’4-1,4?^S v '' *i ’ 1 m sjf f7^PSf■.*3jlPl ■' : ;
mm
mm
HH
I
mm
ISIS
il
a
;
■I
V
1
■
Ml
■
m
m
■'s
: >V v-‘
■
mm
m
.
■■■
m
■; ;.i
mm
m
:
i',
/
H
HHE
H
H
I E
-; .:
■
mS I
■ MM
: \ l
H
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
Wi


The Bulletin
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 47.—N0. 2412.
THURSDAY, MAY 6, 1926.
Pbice 6d.
THE PASSERS-BY.
“Owing to public thriftlessness and the Increased cost of everything, the hospitals of New South Wales are in a deplorable financial condition, and are
unable to admit patients who are badly in need of attention."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
‘‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address is Aus'i’ralasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To an? address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, ir,s. fid., - S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2321 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words. are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
ivitliout stamps for return it will be understood thc.i
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or tiny interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin's” representative in is
1.. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 AVardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
can be obtained from him or
Hall at Australia
i^° llse ~ Also from Messrs. Gordon and notch, 73-
79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.h.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, h.C.Jf.; L. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and Sew Zealander,” 31 High Holborn
London, 1 V.C.1; F. Algar, 38 Gracechurcli Street’,
London E.C.3.
South Africa. The Central Sews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg,- Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban-
Rhodesia Sews Agency, Salisbury: Benoni Sews
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C,
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 1C 1 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Dost Office
News Co., 33 I Vest Monroe Street. Chicago. Sew
York: Brentano’s, 3th Avenue and 27th Street, Sew
lork City; Schultz Sews Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and !,2nd Street, Sew York City; Hotaling’s
Sews Agency, 20S I Vest I,lst Street, Sew York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, Sah Francisco;
Wallace. The Sew Orleans Sews Man, 103 Royal
Street, Sew Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and Sews Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., St Sanking Road,
Shanghai , China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, So. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 73-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.
.. Boland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
iV. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) -.—Commonwealth, Sew Zealand and Fiji-
-1 r ?- united Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
&£~SBxzlletM,,
THURSDAY, MAY 6, 1926.
A REMEDY FOR THE ELECTION-
DAY GHOST.
The Federal Committee on Electoral Re-
form showed no great surprise when an ex-
Labor organiser testified that there were
5000 dummy Labor voters or ghosts on East
Sydney roll at last election; that there were
1.) electors, all or mostly dummies, purport-
ing to reside in one small house in a mean
street; that 50 electoral ghosts dwelt in a
single lane; that one woman (not a ghost
woman, but flesh and blood and clothes) was
said to have voted 29 times on the same day.
There was nothing to be surprised about
so far as the morality of the business was
concerned; important Laborites, when they
quarrel like fishfags or back-fence cats at
A.L.P. conferences or similar gatherings
accuse one another of worse doings several
times in an hour. But most of us at least
hoped that the Commonwealth managed a
little better, and that these wild happenings
were State monopolies. The finding of a
complete remedy for these ghosts is diffi-
cult and perhaps impossible, for the country
is large and the population thin in many
places. But it is quite possible to imagine a
drastic cure for the thickly-populated ghost
—a cure which would make East Sydney’s
haunted spots impossible. To this end it
would be advisable, but not essential, to have
one roll for Federal and State purposes, with
Federal officials in charge, so that there
would be only one list to watch. It may
be assumed, however, that the present typo
of N. S. Wales Government, being the Nark
it is, will refuse absolutely to amalgamate,
though a man like Premier Lang, who wants
one Parliament of one House for all Aus-
tralia, shouldn’t object to one electoral roll.
Still, there is no reason why the Federal
Government shouldn’t move without State
concurrence, and set a bright example, and
put its own house in order.
* * * *
A device applicable to cities and towns
and even large villages would be to have the
electoral roll in two sections after the
manner of a directory, which is both an
alphabetical and a street directory. No
elector would be allowed to vote until he
was looked up and verified in both sections.
Then the record for that house in Brown-
smith-street where the 19 qualified adults
were said to hang out would read in a way
that couldn’t escape notice, and might em-
body a volume of Dickens :
No. 0001 (3 rooms and kitchen).
Setii Pecksniff Sarah Gamp
Charity Pecksniff Elizabeth Prig
Mercy Pecksniff Marcus Tapley
Thomas Pinch Montague Tigg
Ruth Pinch David Crimple
Anthony Chuzzlewit Oscar Buffum
Martin Chuzzlewit Jefferson Brick
Jonas Chuzzlewit Ginery Duniile
Chevy Slyme Julius W M. Bibb.
Jane Todgers
With all these electors in a three-roomed
house, and even without making reasonable
allowance for aliens, children and new
arrivals who hadn’t yet qualified, it would
be obvious that No. 0001 was far too much
populated. If the Commonwealth owned a
well-paid and well-organised Electoral De-
partment, and also paid successful informers
at a reasonable rate, it couldn’t help being
informed of 0001. Then, if it had its own
police and minor courts, as it ought to have,
it could get busy on one or both of two
counts —roll-stuffing and overcrowding in a
way that outraged both decency and sanita-
tion. Large blocks of. flats are less definite
than self-contained homes, and some simple
extra precautions might be necessary to pre-
vent them serving as harbors for polling-day
spectres. With a view to the purity of our
electoral system, a sample entry in the street-
directory section of the roll might begin
Samson Flats (24 rooms, 8 kitchenettes, S baths).
No. 8 (3 rooms, kitchenette, bath).
Peter Moses
Patricia Moses
Paul Moses.
That wouldn’t be too much, but if there were
nine more adult Moseses in one flat, or 96
electors of all denominations in eight flats,
the suspicions of the Department, or, failing
that, of its informer, would be roused, and
investigation would follow and the beds be
counted. It should be possible to make the
sham elector a homeless ghqst, save that he
imght overcrowd in shacks where roads were
lonely and the street-directory roll imprac-
ticable. But in time he might be traced even
there.
* * * *
The penalties for breaches of the law
would have to be adequate, which is a reason
why the Federal authority should have its
own police, its minor courts and its own
prisons, as well as its informers and Elec-
toral Department. A minimum of three
months gaol for getting sham voters on the
list, or helping to keep them on, would be
none too much. In addition, the criminal
who put ghosts on the roll might appro-
priately be taken off the roll for a term of
years himself. Barring very definite proof
ot innocence, disqualification should fall to
the lot of the keeper of the house where the
spectres nominally resided. And it would be
simple poetic justice if, after a second con-
viction, the house itself was disqualified
t6r a considerable period, meaning thereby
that residence in it would be a bar to voting
For a time the premises would lose their
license, the same as an ill-kept pub This
would seriously reduce the letting and sell-
ing value, and in consequence landlords and
house-agents would take a new and lively
interest in the honesty of the electoral sys-
tem. These changes might not wholly abate
the activities of ladies who vote 29 times in
one day, but they would be considerably
hampered, especially while leading member’s
ot the organisation were away doing their
regular three months. Governments of cor-
rupt and blatant narks might continue to
keep the State rolls separate and putrid for
a while, but with the Commonwealth’s alpha-
betical and street directory making its
annual appearance, the situation would be
more difficult for the roll-stuffer. And if
he devised a new method of stuffing and cir-
cumventing the law the obvious course would
be to devise new law.
LAZZARINTS THOUGHTS OF FISH.
With the bubbly self-confidence of the breed,
a Ma State Labor Government once set out
to show the nefarious capitalist how much
he didn’t know about catching and selling
fish. The venture was abandoned by an
anti-Labor Administration after £220.000 had
been lost m trading; and the realisation loss
was just on £lOO,OOO. As a rule, half the fish
caught, sometimes more, was tipped back
into the ocean to feed other fish. The landed
cost of trawled fish, plus purchases, for
which a market was found reached 9.64 d.
per lb. one year, and other charges brought
the amount to 15.05 per lb. Sales averaged
7.1 Id. per lb. throughout the year, which
meant a loss of just under Bd. per lb. Another
feature of the experiment was a coal con-
tract negotiated by certain parties (among
them a Labor M.L.C.) with the manager
ot the Government trawling “industry” and
the Labor Minister’s private secretary, who,
though classed as temporary Government em-
ployees, acted without reference to the Min-
ister the permanent head of the department
or the Stores Supply Board, which gener-
ally arranges Government contracts. Know-
ing nothing about contracts (their own state-
ment to the Royal Commissioner), these two
officials rushed into an agreement which
bound the Government to buy a five-years’
supply of coal, at 6s. a ton more than the
ruling price, from an obscure agency co.
which was not required to lodge a deposit
or pay penalties for breaches, and which
was authorised to charge extra for any rise
in wages, although the Government was not
to have the benefit of any fall. It came out
at the inquiry that the private secretary had
received £6Bl 19s. 6d. from a director of the
coal agency co., through the Labor M.L.C.,
for 750 shares in a Maoriland moving-pic-
ture co., but the private secretary and the
Labor M.L.O. were positive that this trans-
action had nothing to do with the coal con-
tract. It likewise transpired that the man-
ager had banked £1473 in two years, £B6O
of it in 12 months, his salary for the two
years having amounted to £1750. He ex-
plained that £5OO was the savings of six
years which he had kept “under the carpet
in my sittingTi-oom,” having at that time
no confidence in banks.
* * * *
Since the curtain was rung down on this
socialistic revue, six of the trawlers which
contrived to lose £72,797 in one year under
Government mismanagement have been
operated by capitalistic concerns in N.
S. Wales waters. Not having public
money to chuck about or ward bosses
to _ chuck it for them, the represen-
tatives of the effete capitalistic system
have succeeded where Political Labor failed.
Last year they showed profits on fish for
which they received an average of 3d. per
lb., whereas in the closing year of the Gov-
ernment enterprise, when Carlo Camillo
Lazzarini was Minister and the gentleman
who kept £5OO under the carpet was man-
iiger, there was a loss of 2.63 d. on every
pound of fish sold, trawling expenses of fish
handled being 3.053 d. per lb. And the State
Government is, of course, getting its share of
the profits—company profits are taxed 2s. 6d.
If 1 the £—instead of bleeding the taxpayer for
£40,000 to £70,000 a year to keep a Labor-
Socialist burlesque going. It has recently
occurred to two companies controlling six of
the former Government trawlers—in one case
the Koraaga, the Brolga and the Gunundaal,
and in the other the Durenbee, the Goonam-
bee and the Bar-ea-Mul—that they would do
still better if they amalgamated. One of
their objects is the establishment of fac-
tories at which unsold fish and inedible
varieties taken in the trawl may be con-
verted into oil, meal, fertiliser and the like.
Another is the disposal of catches on the
wharf they have leased at Woolloomooloo.
At present they are obliged to send all fish
intended for Sydney consumption to the City
■Council’s markets. This means, among other
things, that they have to put up with any
disability that the remarkable Municipal
Less-Labor party elects to impose on them,
from closing the markets from Friday to Mon-
day downwards. There would be no objec-
flon fo. the municipal-market monopoly were
it efficiently controlled, but under existing
circumstances it is subject to “the munici-
pality for the municipal laborer’’ policy and
the whims of individuals like Alderman Mictc
Burke. The companies would naturally
prefer to be independent of such gentry, and
to market their fish in their own way.
***•*
But the negotiators of the amalgamation
reckoned without Carlo Camillo Laz-
zarinl, who is back in his old billet of
Colonial ’ Secretary. That gentleman, on
learning what .was proposed, said that it “was
rather pleasing to see that Private Enter-
prise is finding a lucrative field in our deep-
sea fisheries” wherein his own crowd sunk
±810,900, but showed in the next breath
that he wasn’t a bit pleased. He asserted
that the companies were prospering “at the
cost of the estuary fishermen whose catch
is being crushed off the market.” This objec-
tlon ou ght to have occurred to him when
the Government was operating—and it oper-
and on a larger scale than the companies
and for three times as long—but the story
then went that there could be no conflict be-
tween the trawlers and the estuary men
inasmuch as they caught different varieties
of nsh. The idea is to eliminate competi-
tion is another Ministerial wail. But
surely two companies in the same line of
business have iust as much right to amalga-
mate as two for more) trade-unions, a thing
which is constantly happening; in any case,
there are trawlers working in other inter-
ests on the N. S. Wales coast. As regards
the sale of fish at the wharf, “the Govern-
ment will not stand for it.” In marketing
matters the companies must remain at the
mercy of the Municipal Labor caucus, which
turns down British motor-cars for tin;
Italian article, though fawning on Britain
for loans. The Government nevertheless is
going to meddle in a business of which it
made a frightful mess when in full control.
According to Mr. Lazzarini, it will “adjust
the situation” arising from the alleged com-
petition between trawlers and estuary fish-
ermen; and he himself is preparing a scheme
or country distribution.” having hopelessly
fallen down on the job of country distribu-
tion when he was Minister in charge of the
Government undertaking, with all the re-
sources of the Railway Department at his
disposal and the help of the manager with
the odd habit of planting half a year’s salary
under the sitting-room carpet. It is quite
possible, m fact, that Lazzarini’s crowd
SHa/w? °^ er the trawlerß and lose another
£BlO.OOO. Its record shows that it is fool-
ish enough for anything.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Supplying Drink to the Children.
Now that the announcement of Tasmania’s
financial situation has made it impossible to
ignore the fact that there is a situation, it
would be a good time for the Brtjce-Page
Cabinet to consider its own attitude in the
matter. The confusion of State and Federal
money matters has become a wonderful thing.
Lp to September, 1925, since when things
have become worse, the Commonwealth had
lent to the States about £92,700,000 for
settlement, for permanent, temporary and
unproductive works, and for other obiects.
Of this £22,000,000 came out of the profits
of the note issue, which might perhaps have
been better employed. The other £70,000,000
the Commonwealth borrowed, thus making
itself responsible for a very big item. It
made itself indirectly responsible, too, for
floft- no• for , 11 helped the States to
o foreign loans to meet interest on
fonns winch it had previously helped.
a Federnf r° ° d Umted States precedent,
r-nvSn™ 1 [ iovernmeilt “ay watch its State
Governments go into insolvency, and neither
coerce the States to pay, nor allow
their creditors to coerce them; but our Fed-
f™ 1 Government appears rather to like back-
i?? bl “ s - having got the idea that one of
W j S tlat , of teaching the children
d J mk and supplying liquor on credit, it
£3S<WoOO «f lS w , Considering that over
?f Westrahas record debt of
ib0,000,000 (£l4B per inhabitant) was in-
curred with the aid of the Federal parent, no
one can dispute the vigor. A minimum of
supervision, or none at all, was exer-
cised to protect the interests of the people
by seeing that these huge sums were well
invested. The Commonwealth Statistician
made an estimate of the value of properties,
including Crown lands, owned by the State
Governments in 1015, and again in 3021.
There has, apparently, been none since. lie
reckoned that the assets increased between
. < t,.f wo antes by 74 millions, of which 15
millions was estimated addition to the value
ot Crown lands, and the rest increase in
railways and tramways (88 millions) and
in buildings and other property” (21 mil-
lions). The State borrowings in the same
period amounted to 1154 millions, so the
man of figures failed to find anything tan-
f° set against a considerable heap of
liability. Since 1021 not only has the pace
kept up, with Commonwealth aid, but the
addition of 41 millions to the item “Land
i urchase for Settlement” has made the
value of the investments look even more dubi-
ous. In all this busy time the Common-
wealth was grossly neglecting its own direct
responsibility, the Northern Territory, where
a common everyday railway, of no great
price, w r ould have opened up land without
any costly repurchase, and where it could
have supervised expenditure itself—whatever
its supervision is worth. It has been alleged
that Tasmania was a reckless little creature,
which increased its debt] by 180 per cent,
since the beginning of tile century—that is
to say, that it owed £2BO in 1025 for every
£lOO due m 1001. But N.S.W. added about
210 per cent, and Westralia about 330 per
cent, to their aggregate mortgages in the
same time, and the six States’ average in-
crease (with much Federal assistance) was
close on 190 per cent. The island certainly
cut down its borrowings very hard and sud-
denly last year, possibly lacking the heart to
lot more “permanent and reproduc-
tive” lunatic asylums or land purchases into
a loan schedule, and the sudden scarcity of
money to meet liabilities, especially in Lon-
don, was a shock ; but whatever its present
troubles may be its past wasn’t much worse
than the common. The Federal Government,
having helped so materially to create a rotten
position by supplying drink to the children,
is due to show that it has some definite ideas
about a remedy—not a patch or a postpone-
ment, but a cure. The only way to prevent
the States constantly floating gold loans
abroad, and to prevent its disreputable self
doing the same, is to make sure, in some
way however violent, that exports exceed im-
ports by at least sufficient to cover interest
and any other liabilities payable abroad.
Neither the lending nor the giving to Tas-
mania or any other embarrassed member of
a pile of paper money as high as the Blue
Mountains will help the foreign situation in
the least.
♦-
The Wave of Mush.
This country is beginning to suffer from
chronic inflammation of the lachrymatory
gland. The Americans who supply us with
nine-tenths of our amusements have seen the
tendency or trouble from afar, and, with
customary business acumen, have set to work
to cater for it. _ An old charge made against
their moving-pictures, that they portrayed
violence and brutality, is no longer up to
date, and is only made by those who went
to their last picture a dozen years ago. The
entrepreneurs of Los Angeles have long found
out the superior pecuniary benefits to be
derived rrom appealing to the softer impulses
of the uman ’eart, and, donning umbrellas
and goloshes, they have plunged into the
f ray. No banality of tearful emotion is too
crude * or ie man with the megaphone.
Hundreds of advertisements are nowadays
exclusively addressed to the mood of miser-
able happiness that finds relief in copious
discharges of the sympathetic system. The
promise of an infinitude of sobs, of an even-
ing of continuous lamentation, is sufficient
to fill any picture-palace to the chandeliers.
I romment people are photographed emerg-
ing from the wailing-place with tears
streaming down their cheeks, and the'picture
is hurried off to the evening editions of the
papers. The effect of this orgy of emotion
would be of little consequence if its effects
lasted no longer than the elevation created
by a glass of beer. But there are plenty
°f indications that it is steadily softening
the fibre of the race. Clubs for the airing
by hard-headed business men of vague feel-
ings of pity. and goodwill for all mankind
are a peculiarly American invention; but.
they are spreading to this country. The
Elks, the Iviwanis, the Knights of Pythias
and the. Shriners are organisations which
even this country cannot stomach yet; but
they are as certain to arrive as quarter-day.
The introduction of the cheapest forms of
emotional appeal has been a feature of
recent elections. In the last Federal frenzy
one party made a bid for the votes of thous-
ands of sick people by promising to bring
an unproven European cure for phthisis into
everybody’s home. But it is in the sphere
of law that the worst effects are seen. Dis-
charges under First Offences laws have'
become so much a matter of routine that
young men are growing up in the belief
that at least one lapse from grace is the
right of every freeman. Recently in Mel-
bourne there were three cases in one day
wherein cool and deliberate murder seemed
fully proved; yet the juries reduced the ver-
dict to manslaughter. The 12 good men
and true do not seem so much to be in
sympathy with crime as to be out of sym-
pathy with any form of punishment. Five
disagreements amongst juries occurred in
the last Melbourne Assizes, a record which
one Judge declared had never been approached
in his 19 years of service. So difficult has
it become to obtain convictions in clear
cases of guilt that many jurists are demand*


iug tile abolition of the jury system and
the handing over of the administration ot
the law to some competent body which lias
the courage to face facts. W hether such a
body can be found seems doubtful. Even
Tudges are afflicted with a vision of society
which suggests frequent visits to a movie
theatre rather than a daily rough-and-tumble
with reality. The possibility of this country
breeding a generation of sentimentalists at
the complete mercy of unsentimental crooks,
and finally dissolving in a flood of tears
and gore, seems to be by no means remote.
# —-—
Election Prospects in Queensland.
The Queensland election on May 8 promises
to be “a close-run thing.” Opposition leaders,
counting their chickens before they are
hatched, reckon on 20 to 25 breaking the
shell, in addition to the 29 already in the
yard. As the House consists of <2 members,
this will give them a substantial majority.
On the other side, that incurable optimist.
Theodore expects or says he expects to re-
tain every one of the 43 seats now held by
Labor, and to gain seven more. It would be
safe to lay odds against any of these predic-
tions being fulfilled. Labor was defeated by
54,613 votes (Senate figures) at the Eederal
elections last November, when 14 State dis-
tricts held by Labor members gave Nation-
alist majorities; but a State election, with
the jobs of 40,000 State employees at stake,
is a different proposition. Labor is certainly
slipping in Queensland. The old enthusiasm
has departed, and little remains but cupboard
love. The present Premier, McCormack —
the fourth head of the Continuous Govern-
ment which lias held office since June, 1915
is a dull, heavy man, lacking the prestige of
Theodore and the personal popularity of 1.
J. Ryan. He lacks also the stirring battle-
cry—“no dictation by London money-
lenders” —which won the 1923 elections for
Theodore. McCormack’s policy contains
nothing new and nothing inspiring—only the
stale old promises which have been served
up at election after election. Even a Labor
paper recalls that child endowment, which is
put in the forefront of the Government's pro-
gramme, was promised by Theodore, ‘‘at an
early date,” before the 1920 elections; pro-
mised again by Theodore in 1923 and by
Giixies in 1925. With the memories of the
railway strike, the shipping hold-up and
the Mungaua scandal still fresh in the
public mind, Labor cannot expect to do as
well as it did in 1923, nor even as well as
it did in 1920, when the visit of the Prince
of Wales (according to J. A. Fihelly)
helped it to gain a majority so narrow that
it had to resort to proxy voting in Parlia-
ment. The electorates were gerrymandered
for the 1923 election, enabling Labor to gain
a majority of 14 seats on a minority vote of
15,000. The Opposition policy put forward
by Arthur Moore contains nothing spec-
tacular, aud cannot be said to have aroused
public enthusiasm. Still, it is a plain, honest
programme, and Moore himself is the most
impressive leader the dispirited anti-Labor
forces have had for many years. Labor is
too well dug in to be seriously shaken in
the out-back electorates (five of these are
uncontested), but the Opposition will poll
well in the coastal towns and on the Darling
Downs, and will do best of all in. the metro-
politan area. At the Greater Brisbane elec
tions, held on the State rolls in February,
1925, the United party (anti-Labor) polled
majorities in six of the ten metropolitan
electorates held by State Labor members.
The same six electorates (Bulimba, Ithaca,
Kelvin Grove, Maree, Merthyr, South Bris-
bane) gave Nationalist majorities at the
Federal elections last November. Merthyr
and South Brisbane may be counted certain
Labor losses; and the Opposition will be un-
lucky if it does not win at least one other
of these seats. On the Federal figures the
Opposition ought to win Ipswich, and pos-
sibly Bremer and Toowoomba. Labor’s
coastal seats right up to Townsville are very
shaky ; nearly all'of them went Nationalist
at the Federal elections. The one the party
is most likely to lose is Port Curtis, where
a fierce faction fight is in progress. Any-
thing may happen in such electorates as
Bowen, Queenton, Cook, Fitzroy and Ken-
nedy. Eacham, where the Labor majority
was reduced to near the vanishing-point at
the by-election in January, has since been
“made safe for democracy” by additions to
the rolls. Herbert may cause a surprise;
it does not look very hopeful on paper (the
Labor majority was 1584 in 1923), but the
Digger candidate, N. 11. Mighell, is putting
up a remarkable fight which lias commanded
the publicly-expressed admiration of Mc-
Cormack. The only Opposition seat which
looks really doubtful is Lockyer, where there
will be a split vote. To sum up, the Oppo-
sition looks fairly certain to capture six or
seven seats ; but that will not be enough :
a gain of eight seats in required for a bare
majority, nine or ten at least for a working
majority. It may not be possible to win the
few extra seats required. The issue will pro-
bably turn on a few of the northern seats;
and it may be two or three weeks after the
elections before Queensland knows definitely
whether the Labor Government is to stay
with a reduced majority or go out altogether.
4
The Happy Way of Righting Wrong.
They do things differently in more enlight-
ened lands. There on May Day Labor
asserts its dignity by crowding into th< %
public squares, where, a few thugs having
provided themselves with lethal weapons, it
is easy to start a row. An. unoffending
policeman is presently bashed on the head
and the Government’s machine-guns begin to
talk; then in due course Labor is driven back
into harness with battered skulls, a number
of bereavements in the family and a sense
of wrong in its soul. This method of cele-
brating Labor’s emancipation from its
chains hqs a wide appeal. In India Moham-
medan and Hindu join in a solemn pere-
grination, watched over by fellow-country-
men armed by a thoughtful Government with
fixed bayonets in case the devotee of Kali
should end by pulling out his Moslem fellow-
slave’s beard. In Canton the portrait of
saviour Lenin is placed beside the pictures
of the ancestors on the ancestral shrine and
incense burnt to it; whereupon the worship-
pers go forth and bait a missionary. In
Japan, where a trades union of unskilled
workers which was floated recently lived
24 hours, the eelebrator may be dimly seen
fleeing across the landscape pursued hy a
cloud o£ policemen armed with swords. In
Moscow, where the triumph of the pio e-
tariat is only a little less conspicuous than
its ribs, the fancy of the banner-makers is
allowed full rein, provided they coniine them-
selves to criticism of the Governments ot
other countries and refrain from aught but
laudatory reference to their own. Australia,
owing to its regrettably insular position, lias
been kept out of this great international
advance. While the Labor movement else-
where has been satisfying' its thirst toi
power by an annual massacre in which the
casualties are all on one side, the movement
here has been forging chains tor itself with
wages boards, arbitration courts, preference
for unionists and universal adult suffrage.
And when Labor in Melbourne set out to
hold festival on April 26 (instead of May
1), the Grocers’ Union was represented by
a skeleton with a label attached stating ‘ He
tried to live on a grocer’s wage. ’ It raised
a laugh. Perhaps, after all, a laugh is
better than a whiff of grapeshot. But, better
or not, it is the Australian way. Hus
country doesn’t dynamite wrongs. It laughs
them out of existence. No doubt the Kus-
sian would do it, too, if he knew how to
laugh. But he doesn’t, and he can’t—especi-
ally at himself.
The Shingle Short.
“Though actually 22 the accused has the
mind of a child of 10,” was the testimony
given in the Victorian General Sessions by
a medical man in the case of a prisoner
charged with a sexual offence against a little
girl. The doctor went on to express regret
that there was no suitable place in the State
to which people of undeveloped mentality,
such as this young man, could be sent. ‘'They
are,” he said, “lit inmates for neither gaols
nor asylums.” In this opinion Judge VS IL-
HAMS concurred, and expressed a hope that
much time would not elapse before a suit-
able place was established for the reception
of such cases. What use, he asked, could
imprisonment serve in such a case? As the
question of this offender had to be solved
one way or another, his Honor took what
may, in the circumstances, have been the
best course, but certainly is not one that offers
any hopeful solution of the difficulty. He
released the young man, on a promise having
been given to the Court that he would be
kept under strict supervision, on a bond oi
£lO to come up for sentence when called
upon. There was a day when such an
offender would have been dealt with by
flogging or even hanging, for until recently
all the grades of mentality that lie between
the imbecile and the normal criminal were
unexplored. The advance of psychology has
laid bare a wide field whose importance in
relation to criminology it would be difficult
to over-state. Mental deficiency has for over
10 years been specifically recognised by
Statute as a condition distinct from idiocy
and calling for special treatment not to be
found either in the asylums for lunatics or
in the gaols. The class was defined as com-
prising “persons in whose case there exists
from birth, or from an early age, mental
defectiveness not amounting to imbecility, yet
so pronounced that they require care, super-
vision and control for their own protection
or the protection of others.” In N. S.
Wales the Fuller Government was seized
with the importance of attacking this ques-
tion at its root —that is, in childhood—and
a sum of £30.000 was appropriated to pro-
vide a school for men tally-defective children,
boys and girls. This building is now com-
pleted and awaits the appointment of a first-
rate professional psychologist as its head.
So far excellent: but in N. S. Wales, as in
Victoria and other States, no decisive steps
have been taken to deal with the case of the
adult deficient —the class referred to by
Judge Williams and the medical witness.
With them, since admittedly they are not
cases for the gaol and cannot be classed
with the complete imbeciles in the asylums,
there appears to he no other present alterna-
tive than the one taken by his Honor, and
that is a course whieih does not help the
mentally-defieient offeiider on the way to
scientific treatment that might turn him
into a harmless and useful citizen, but puts
him under a loose guardianship where he
remains a latent menace to society.’
— —♦
Compulsory Service Next Time.
As his contribution to Anzac Day oratory,
the N. S. Wales Premier;said it would be Aus-
tralia’s greatest pride “that the supreme
effort which Australians made in the Great
War was an entirely voluntary one. Liberty
was their watchword, and in the interests
of liberty they fought an*l died." Still, many
people have taken to wopdering whether tie-
voluntary principle in tlw army is any more
essential to the cause of freedom than the
voluntary principle in trades unions. Tin-
men who fought for liberty didn’t find much
of it waiting for them when they came hack,
for all manner of shady characters had
stayed behind to lay hands on the political
machine, and had done it with such success
that many of them hang on yet. Next time
there may be a much stronger tendency to-
wards compulsory sen-vice, so that shady
characters will go. also, and share the im-
perishable glory—and also the mortality. It
would have been some satisfaction to think
that the hard who wrote gleefully of the
dead Australians that “they lie with putrid
faces, turned stinking te the sky,” or words
to that effect, was taking his chance of a
bullet with the rest. After years of struggle
to make up leeway, the ex-soldiers still
notice that Labor portfolios aud Govern-
ment billets and Upper House nominations
are reserved with a good deal of exclusive-
ness for individuals who let the blessed cause
of liberty go hang, and often urged all others
to do the same, and that even in civil life
tiiey have been distanced, to a great extent,
by men whose advantage is that they didn’t
waste the shining hours on the nniddy battle-
field. but made hay at home. Plenty of ex-
soldiers had no vocation for “going on the
land.” Plenty who took a chance and went
there found that there was too little land
and too much mortgage, the soil having been
bought, in many instances, at a boom price
from canny folk who had avoided military
ambitions. It may be pleasant to be told
by persons who didn’t volunteer that Aus-
tralia was a glorious exception to the com-
pulsory devices employed by allies and
enemies alike, and that it should be equally
glorious next time, in which case individuals
of the same type may stay at home again.
But, after all, should another occasion un-
happily arise, this country might as well
share the disgrace of “conscription” with
England, Scotland, Wales, South Africa,
Maoriland, the better part of Canada and the
rest. Why be righteous overmuch?
4
“The Interests of My Friend.”
Labor politics at Sydney Town Hall (or
some of them, anyhow) have cast off the fig-
leaf of reserve and pawned the skimpy bath-
ing-suit of concealment. Recently it was
proposed to buy half a dozen new motor-
cars with the ratepayers' money. It is
alleged that 577 new employees, all favorably
known to Labor aldermen, have been put on
the pay-list during 1926, and with a fast-
growing staff another squad of cars may
seem in order. How many of these vehicles
the Council possesses now isn’t known to the
public. The Council’s officials recommended
British cars at £312 each, but the ruling-
gang changed all this, and decided on Italian
cars, made by lower-wage and longer-hours
labor, in a country where trades-unionism
is rare. The price of the Dago vehicles was
to be about £660, even after discount was
taken off. The charge was made quite
openly that bribery was at work, and there
w as a remarkable lack of any clear explana-
tion, apart from the bribery one. But accord-
ing to the daily-paper report, this amazingly-
frank statement w\as made:—
Alderman English: “By way of personal explana-
tion, I desire to say that I have every right to
further the interests of my friend who is in the motor
business, and I am not ashamed of my association
with my friend. I say that the sooner the aldermen
clear the Council of the dirty innuendoes flung about
in debate the better it will be for the Council and
the aldermen.”
Nobody can possibly object to an alderman
or anybody else furthering the interests ot
his friend at his own expense, even if the
friend is really himself; but if this is a claim
to the right to do so with the ratepayers
money, it is something rare in the way of
moral nudity. It would be interesting to know-
how the friend, whatever his name, came
to -pass. Sometimes a pal is acquired, as
Damon accumulated Pythias or as David
harpooned Jonathan, through the mutual
gravitation of great souls. At other times
the two come together as Burke and Hare
did, to make pi-ofit . out of third parties.
(Burke and Hare sold the remains of the
third parties for dissection, but that was an
extreme proceeding.) In such cases it is
a partnership rather than a friendship.
Meanwhile, pending the arrival of the infor-
mation, tiie impression deepens that Sydney
City Council is due for abolition and replace-
incut by a board of commissioners, either
permanently or pending a clean-up and com-
plete reorganisation.
Churchill’s Second Budget.
But for the coal subsidy Winston Church-
ill would, as he promised, have had a sur-
plus at the end of his first complete financial
year as British Chancellor of the Exchequer.
As it was, he wound up with a deficit of
£7,900,000. And the industrial outlook is
such that he finds himself unable to continue
the annual reductions of income-tax to which
J. Bull, while manfully bearing his bur
dens has looked forward since the standard
rate’was 6s. in the £ —it is now 4s. In-
deed, the devoted Bull is warned that if
“a prolonged industrial paralysis arises I
perforce will call for supplementary taxa-
tion” : and the coal strike for which the Red
fools have been working is now on. All the
same, Churchill’s Budget is not without
its bright features. The policy of debt re-
duction has been steadily continued, and
the deadweight debt, which reached
£7.878,607,000 on March 31, 1920, has got
down to £7,616,000,000. The re-imposition
of the McKenna duties, which the Foreign-
Trade Labor Government stupidly abolished
(w 7 ith the result that a number of motor-
car factories closed down and others had to
shorten hands), has given a great impetus
to the manufacture of motor vehicles, and
a similar revival is probable in the case of
films. The silk tax was abundantly ridi-
culed by Freetrado Laborites and Liberals,
but it has yielded a revenue of between six
and seven millions, in addition to providing
more work for British factory-hands, nor
has the British flapper, intent on showing her
legs at all hazards, been reduced to casing
them in cotton stockings. Moreover, the
Imperial preferences have benefited Britain,
in one way and another, as well as the
Dominions, so much so that the 10 years
guarantee conceded last year to sugar-plant-
ers is to be extended to growers of fruit,
berries, wine, tobacco-leaf and all the other
articles subject to preference. Then the
French Finance Minister has promised a
payment of £4,000,000 this year. It is not
much, considering that France owes Britain
£630,000,000, but it will help. One of
Churchill’s new revenue proposals is a o
p.c. tax on the turnover of racecourse and
shop bookmakers. This impost has been de-
nounced by Snow-den, the Labor finan-
cier, as “an outrage on the most sacred
feelings of a vast number of people,” and
McShortodds. of course, protests that he
will be Rooned. Each line of criticism has
vastly amused the sporting N. S. Males
Laborite, who knows that Sydney starting-
price bookmakers pay their agents 2s. in
the £ and flourish.
Maoriland’s Railway Problem.
One of the things the Reform Government
of M.L. went into office to reform. 15 years
ago, w r as the management of the railways.
They were to be put upon a business-like
basis and made to pay. That was a new
policy. The Liberals, during the hard
regime, anyhow, took the stand that it didn t
particularly matter whether the railways
made profits or not. WARD fixed a low 7 in-
terest rate —3J per cent.—-known sis the
“policy rate.” If the railways earned that
percentage on their cost, all w 7 as w 7 ell, if thej
leaned on the Consolidated I und for a few
thousands, it w 7 as still well. The Reformers
came in to alter all that, but they have had
no luck. During the late war and post-war
vears the railways, like similar uiulcitakings
all over the world, made heavy losses.
Coates, the present Priminister, has had
them in hand for the last three years, and
has found the nut hard to crack. In the
financial year ended March of last year his
surplus of revenue over running expenses
was about £120,000 short of paying even
Ward’s “policy rate’-’ of interest. Fares
and freight charges were bumped up, and
there was a great flurry of reorganisation,
with expensive experts flying everywhere and
reports and recommendations as thick as
flies in a butcher’s shop. The name of every-
body’s job was altered, and various new
jobs were created. Now another year’s
accounts have been totted up, and they show
£700,000 more revenue and £650,000 more
expenditure, with the service still, appa-
rently, leaning on the taxpayer for support.
Coates aimed to make the railways pay 4J
per cent.; —which is about what the money
is costing—in respect of Public Works Fund
money, and £5 Bs. 9d. per cent, on recent
and future borrowings for “improvements,”
under special legislative authority. There
were plans for building up reserves and
ascertaining clearly the financial position of
the undertaking—in the past obscured by
strange book-keeping methods —though it was
not disclosed liow reserves were going to be
manufactured out of annual deficits. But
evidently even the faith of Coates, the
author and giver of most of these good
things, is waning, for his latest deliverance
on the subject is pessimistic. He has been
investigating various branch lines —mostly
built with the aid of a political pull—and
finds that the only way to make them pay
is to reduce operating costs; and that isn’t
a way either, because it would be necessary
to lop 57 per cent, off before accounts
would balance. Wherefore he is commenc-
ing to talk, discursively and tentatively, and
with a wary eye on the cat, about State
subsidies for branch lines, “on the Canadian
principle.” As the worst of the bad branches
are up Auckland way —his own locality—
and the rest of the country is getting very
jealous of Auckland, the need for delicacy
and finesse is obvious. The irony of the
thing is that the proposal should come from
the party pledged to make the railways pay
their own way. Really, that is a simple
problem; all you’ve got to do is to build
only railways that will pay. There is no
other way of doing it.
+
Privilege.
An illuminating scrap of news was contained
in a cable giving the result of a big Russian
trial. It was a trial in bulk, 96 Judges and
lawyers being convicted of bribery and cor-
ruption ; one of the accused was said to be
known as “the King of Liberators” because
of his higlily-successful traffic in selling free-
dom to guilty people who had the money to
pay for it. But the most interesting part of
the cable was that which explained the sen-
tences, ranging from two to ten years’ im-
prisonment—“the absence of death sentences
was due to the offenders’ proletarian origin.”
This is a point which groups itself naturally
with sundry happenings in Australia, rang-
ring from the Lang Government’s attempt
to deprive members of “loyalist” unions and
workers who prefer to remain outside unions
altogether of the right to earn a living, down
to the payment of,a suburban alderman to
win a concession for a party to a local suit.
This is the first age in which the proletariat
has been allowed off the chain except in brief,
hectic periods like the French Revolution.
There have been democracies, of course, but
they were democracies in which recognition
went only as far as skilled artisans, ignoring
altogether the right to a share in govern-
ment of the slave masses —to-day’s prole-
tariat. Yet through all the ages there has been
a fight against privilege; the war of democ-
racy has been fought by people belonging to
the same class as the privileged, and the acts
of the privileged were usually limited by the
knowledge that excessive transgression would
rouse hostility from the watchdogs who were
invariably members of the intelligent and
educated classes. Bit by bit these champions
of democracy curbed the power of privilege
and altruistically gained advantages for the
masses of the people, their actuating force
being their ideals of the principles of human
justice. It was supposed, in a general way,
that the people were behind them, and so.
no doubt, the educated and intelligent were.
Occasionally, however, some enlightened
tyrant managed to assert special privilege
against all their efforts, by practical recog-
nition of the belief that the lower masses, if
they did not love the man who owned the
heaviest boot, at least admired him most.
The use of power and privilege was the one
thing they could clearly understand. The
champions of democracy hoped that educa-
tion and enfranchisement would enlarge their
ideas and fit them into the scheme of the
ideal democracy; but the progress has pro-
bably been too rapid—the unleashing of the
proletariat in ignorant Russia has certainly
been too sudden—and it finds the proletariat
still insufficiently educated to be true demo-
crats, and still clinging to the old admira-
tion of privilege, which they now have the
power to exert to their own benefit. As a
consequence, a new era of privilege and cor-
ruption, more viciously bad than that ol: any
previous modern period, has commenced. _ In
Russia men guilty of the crime of selling jus-
tice are excused with light sentences because
they belong to the privileged proletariat; in
Australia the right to work (once claimed
by Labor as the right of all men) is to be
the gift of unionists of a certain brand; and
the privilege of officially-placed Labor leaders
to extort bribes and blackmail is winked at
by a movement which, in other matters, has
proved itself well capable of disciplining its
members. A hope for Australia exists in the
possibility that in a land where education
has been universal for two generations
(although the education is left, for the main
part, crudely unfinished) the mass of the
people may have got sufficiently far away
from slave origins to have ceased to be a
proletariat and become a real democracy, to
which privilege and corruption are abhor-
rent. There is not much evidence of it at
present; but perhaps it is merely that leaders
for a cleaning-up campaign are being awaited.
Until those leaders appear the Australian
people, whose sympathies are mainly demo-
cratic, will be 'compelled to regard Labor
as a party that is proletarian rather than
democratic, and, hating proletarian privilege
as well as aristocratic privilege, will give it
a decreasing support. When it begins to


tenve
‘The Australia,” favored by leaders of world affairs—-
the centre of the social world —offering to every
traveller all that is best in comfort and service.
fable. Wireless and Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 14/-; Luncheon and
Dinner, from 4/-; Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, ° ti
T^e
(Paid-up Capital, £422.100.)
THE HOTEr OF THE
COM MON WEALTH.
SYOiNEV
j
r
rr>:
I OTVfcuO
The TOP NOTCH Scotch
SsyWflES Man!!
m
i
S4F
cs-:
purify itself tlie Labor party will also begin
to regain its old place in the regard of that
large intelligent and educated body whose
struggle against privilege alone made the
party possible.
*
The Trouble in the Coal Trade.
It was formally announced last week that
the coal industry of N.S.W., Victoria and
Tasmania was due for a complete stoppage
on May 8 unless the demands of the Engine-
drivers and Firemen’s Association were com-
plied with and their wrongs righted before
that date. Along with this warning came
a statement of the case which enlightened
many persons previously mouldering in
darkness. It was general-secretary Hibson
who explained:—
For over six years we have followed constitutional
methods, and these methods have unfortunately
landed our members in the position they find them-
selves in to-day. The position is that, while in
metalliferous industries highly-skilled craftsmen,
namely, winding engine-drivers, are paid from 33
to 50 per cent, above the rate paid to laborers, in
the coal-mining industry they receive only it;-; per
cent. more.... It is this state of affairs that the
men have deliberately decided they will no longer
tolerate.
It is an unfortunate situation, and it came
about in a remarkable way. In the three
States _ named, and also in the two coal-
producing States (Queensland and Westra-
lia) where no strike is threatened, the man
who drives the engine on top of a coal-mine
is an aristocrat in the matter of pay com-
pared with the man who drives the engine
on top of any other mine. So is his laborer.
This is not because they work harder, but
because the unions have the key of the
situation. Furthermore, 83 per cent, of
Australia’s coal is raised in N.S.W.; and it
has long been a sort of policy with I'hS.W.
Laborites to push up the wages of the un-
skilled worker and odd-jobber as close as
possible to those of the skilled man. Thus
the last Federal “Labor ileport” shows
that the coal-mine engineman collected
from 6s. to 17s. per week more than the
metal-mine engineman; but it also shows
that the coal-mine laborer was paid from
9s. to 275. per week more than the
metal-mine laborer. The difference be-
tween the engine-driver and the laborer in
the coal country is thus much less than it
is in the metal country, not because the
coal-engineman gets less than the metal-
engineman, but because the coal-laborer
gets more than the metal-laborer. Hav-
ing established _ this position and found
it “intolerable,” it is now demanded
that the coal-engineer shall be put still
further ahead of the other engineer to
prevent his own laborer overtaking him:
but as the coal-laborer will doubtless de-
mand a corresponding rise when the engineer
has got his, the trouble may be expected
to recur. The allegation of the skilled men
is that the unskilled rabble isn’t sufficiently
inferior. If they carry their point, the
natural allegation of the unskilled rabble
will be that the skilled men are too dashed
superior; whereupon the humbler brethren
avi 11 try to improve their status. And so
the thing goes on. Curiously enough, it
doesn’t seem to be made a point that the
wages are inadequate, either for the work
done or in proportion to the paying capa-
city of the industry. It is a matter of
making the lower class keep its distance.
♦
“M.B 1922”: Why ail this fuss about
dengue? Even a definitely-proved case is
not in the same class as influenza for gravity.
Flu can be a fatal disease, and will fre-
quently leave grave sequelae, heart and chest
affections particularly. Dengue-has no ill-
effects beyond discomfort, and there has
never yet been a fatal case reported.
is dengue? Osleb tells us briefly that it
is a very rare disease. The symptoms are
most indefinite and do not conform to type
m the various cases. It is an extremely diffi-
cult complaint to diagnose. The causal
organism is not known, though the mosquito
is undoubtedly to blame as the transmitter.
I have never seen a case of dengue, and I
am confident that very few other people have
—in N. S. Wales, at all events. But I have
seen plenty of ’flu. Few medical men how-
ever, in a “dengue” town to-day will diag-
nose influenza in a patient complaining of
feverishness and perhaps lassitude, with
aching of the limbs; the people have heard of
dengue, and insist on having it. A doctor
.1° calls it ’flu is regarded as behind the
times and las practice suffers. Even the
carrying mosquito is in doubt. Osleb says
Vulex fat if/an s, and other authorities to-
day say variously Anopheles and Stegomyia
fasciata, or another variety of Mean-
while. while all this fuss occurs for such a
n i in P. r complaint, the two old arch-enemies
of the race, tuberculosis and syphilis, are
carrying on their deadly work. Still, if the
dengue scare does anything to awaken autlio-
my and the public to their duty as regards
abolishing the übiquitous mosquito, and
thereby preventing afflictions wmrse than
dengue, particularly malaria and vellow-
lever, getting a foothold in the Ma State
some good wflll come from it.
Nature is unobtrusively doing' its share in
repairing the damage done by the Vic-
torian bush-fires on Red Sunday (Feb-
ruary .14). Judicious grass-seed sow-
ing and the bountiful rainfall have
woven a rich carpet which is blotting
out the blackness the flames left behind
them. Meanwhile the Cabinet Relief Com-
mittee (which is a sort of agent for the
Lord Mayor’s Committee) is pushing ahead
with the restoration of homes, fences, etc.
Instead of a few hundred applications, it has
had 1600. and dealt with the bulk of them.
Most of the applicants wanted seed, fencing,
furniture, implements and the like. The
balance asked for houses. Along with de-
serving cases, there has been a big percentage
ot supplicants who have suffered little —some
who were not within miles of the fires. Ex-
asperated with a string of such applicants,
the committee asked the police to prosecute
one as an example. It was estimated that
800 claims dealt with would absorb £60,000,
and that as much would be required for the
other 800. With incidentals, purchases of
annuities for the permanently disabled and
provision for children who were orphaned, it
is expected that the £150,000 raised will just
about go around comfortably.
4 _
Melbourne is one of the few cities of the
world which can stage a national occasion
fittingly. It has a wide approach in Bourke-
street to its Houses of Parliament, and the
fine front resembles the seats in a Roman
amphitheatre. The effectiveness of the spec-
A GOOD-NATURED DEVIL, TOO
"Anzae Day spechos by returned soldier representatives made it evident that many returued men
who are suffering as a result of war service, or delars or mismanagement in fuliling promises
made to them, still have gricvances."
THE DEVIL OF INDIFERENCE: “The toast is ‘Ansae,' Gentlemen."
tacle on Anzac Day was great, and when the
whole open space was packed with people
and the cenotaph was bedded in wreaths,
even the undress of the Diggers, the pouring
rain, the umbrellas of the spectators and
the applause of those who took the show
for a jingo military pageant, instead of a
memorial service to the dead, failed to de-
tract from it. Some form of simple
cenotaph, not necessarily just like the Lon-
don model, should be made permanent in
this situation. Various people have sug-
gested that it should be something anthro-
pomorphic. But the country is already
covered with buglers in white icing blowing
their silent calls, and few of them express
much beyond the zeal and lack of imagina-
tion of the sculptors or their employers. The
Melbourne cenotaph on Anzac Day had four
living statues, in full marching kit, with
arms reversed, thin faces, hawk noses and
boot-heel chins. No known sculptor, dead
or alive, could have improved on them.
+
A Government department can always be
trusted to wait for a super-tragedy to stir it
to action, and the Vic. Railway Commission-
ers got it last weeek. One of Mr. Clapp’s
speedy trains dashed over a level-crossing
at Ferntrce Gully, just at a spot where a
busy main road cuts the track at an acute
angle, and overtook a motor picnic-party
going in the same direction, killing nine of
the merrymakers and seriously injuring 10.
The line is known as a notorious slayer.
Last year at a similar death-trap an electric
parcels van cut down another party of eight,
killing the lot. Admittedly there are faults
on both sides. There are born fools in motor-
cars as well as in Government departments.
Certain observations taken last year of the
degree of care exercised by petroleers in
crossing railway-lines showed that out of
1321 vehicles noted 889 failed to slow down,
571 looked neither way, and a bare 400 looked
both ways. The argument of the Commission
is that the cost of complete security would be
prohibitive. But a simple device could be
applied to the rails at all crossings. The
approaching train would automatically close
a couple of contacts, and a bell would ring,
a flag wave, or a signal go up along the
roads leading to the line. The cost of in-
stalling some such affair on the 3GOO level-
crossings of the State would not strain the
coffers of the Government.
+
“Centurion”: One of Australia’s oldest ex-
port trades, which brought her into high
esteem, is falling on evil days. Over a cen-
tury ago this country began supplying
India and “the East” with blood horses;
time was when the fact of being a “Waler”
added 50 per cent, to a horse’s value. Most
of these exports went to the Indian cavalry,
in whose ranks Australians had an oppor-
tunity of recognising compatriots during the
Palestine campaign. Driving-horses for car-
riages and carts were also in brisk demand,
and a great trade was once done with buyers
in Batavia, Singapore and Hong Kong,
where wealthy European and Chinese mer-
chants vied for the possession of well-
matched pairs. The latest reports from
lodia show that only the “gunner” holds
his own. The artillery still banks on Aus-
tralian horses, but the aeroplane is causing
the reduction of the cavalry establishment,
and with it the demand for high-class “troop-
ers. The supreme ciuality demanded of
these in the days when cavalry were the
sole means of long-distance reconnaissance
is no longer needed where that work is done
by the ’plane. Moreover, the Indian breed-
ing establishments are being improved and
extended, and before long the once-despised
‘country-bred” will entirely supplant the
VValer as a charger. What the aeroplane
has done for the warhorse the motor-car has
done for the hack, the buggy-horse and the
once much-desired steppers, and this is as
true of India as of Singapore and the China
coast.
♦
"Bouragi”: It is to be hoped the Federal
Ministry will not continue in the habit, to
which its predecessors were addicted, of hir-
ing any strange and wandering expert who
happened to turn up from nowhere to investi-
gate and report on matters of importance to
Australia. The case of an alleged Arctic
explorer who drew a fee for giving his valu-
able opinion on the icy wastes of Alice
Springs is fresh in the memory. Another
casual adviser was Colonel Ainsworth,
boomed as a recent successful administrator
of Kenya Colony, in East Africa. This per-
son. having had something to do with Bantu
negroes in a temperate climate, was seized
unon to advise the Federal Government as
to the proper administration of the Mela-
nesian toik inhabiti/g the tropic islands of
I\ow Britain and New Ireland. His report,
beyond faintly damning the White Australia
ideal, and suggesting the importation of
Hindu or Chinese labor, had no new ideas
to impart. The echo of his footsteps had
hardly died away before Australia heard of
grave troubles in Kenya arising out of the
reckless importation of the cheap Hindu.
Now, on top of that, has come a series of
charges against the past and present adminis-
tration of Kenya, made in the House of
Commons. The Hun charges against the
Australian administration of New Guinea
before the League of Nations were nothing
like as comprehensively damning as these.
Indeed, in view of the Australian care of
native interests in New Guinea, and especi-
ally in Papua, it might do Kenya no harm
if an official was borrowed from thereabout
to advise the Kenya administration how to
give Black Brother a fair spin.
The story of W.A. State War Memorial Com-
mittees effort to raise enough funds for a
worth-while monument in King's Park.
Perth, makes sorry reading. Coming into
the arena belatedly, after evei\V town and
hamlet had erected its own memorial, the
State committee found itself up against
exhausted enthusiasm. So £3OOO was all that
trickled into the collecting-box, and nearly
one-fifth of it came from the Masonic bodies
—through the influence of Archbishop Riley,
who did his bit at the Front.
"Gregor": Many of the country hospitals
of N. S. Wales are in worse straits than
the big metropolitan ones where accommoda-
tion and equipment are concerned. There
are inland hospitals where the maximum
accommodation is a dozen or so beds in a
centre where 50 would hardly meet the
demand; and would-be patients are
brought in long distances only to be
turned away on arrival. Within the
past few weeks I have seen a northern
X. S. Wgles institution in which even
the drugs had to be cut down by the medical
staff when prescribing. It will always b<>
an extremely difficult thing to induce the
public to dig into its pocket to relieve dis-
tress which it cannot see, and so long as
hospitals are left to “charity” so long will
they be starved for funds and crippled in
their utility.
♦
“M.G.S.” : The silver lining to the big cross-
ing smash at Boronia (Vie.) last week was
the behavior of 21. Scout Rovers and some
Salv’army Boy Scouts who happened to bo.
on the train. Anybody who has been in
similar affairs knows how an undisciplined
collection of average civilians behave. The
trained lads took the initiative from the
start. They cut up the hood and woodwork
of the wrecked van for stretchers, rendered
first-aid to the injured, and when no job
offered stood at attention and waited for
instructions instead of crowding round to
satisfy their curiosity. The Salvo lads hailed
from North Fitzroy, and the Rovers from
places as wide apart as Camberwell, Kew
and Moonee Ponds. Incidentally, the Scout
movement in Victoria is starved for adult
leaders for the squads of fresh recruits
waiting to join up. A couple of hundred
trainers could easily be absorbed.
_ +
As part of a plan to make flying popular,
Sydney is to have a flying club. The De-
partment of Civil Aviation is lending the
Mascot aerodrome and a couple of light
“Moth” ’planes, and the club undertakes to
teach novices the art of aviation. It isn’t
very expensive, either, considering—a little
over £4O should suffice in the case of the
lad or hiss of average intelligence—and.
after obtaining a pilot's license, membership,
with the right to use club machines, can be
retained for three guineas a year. Qualified
pilots get in on those terms from the jump,
plus an entrance fee of three guineas. The
same sort of club is being formed in other
Australian centres and in various parts of
the Empire—for fairly obvious reasons of
State.
*
“X2X": The recent death in Sydney of a
child from complications induced by an acci-
dental overdose of morphine illustrates the
risk that always attaches to the present
archaic and out-of-date system of pharma-
ceutical symbols. Several of these signs
closely resemble each other; for instance,
the conventional ounce-mark in a prescrip-
tion is simply the drachm symbol with an
extra loop on its top, and if written hurriedly
or clumsily it is quite easy for the one to
be mistaken for the other. There is not tbe
slightest reason why the awkward and dan-
gerous system should not be superseded by
the scientific metric method, which is sim-
plicity itself. In most other countries the
old signs _ and symbols have long been
scrapped in favor of the metric measure-
ments, and even England is fast to
them, although in Australia not one prescrip-
tion in 5000 is written according to the new
system.


For perfect, soft light without
glare ask for a Condor " Opalite”
lamp and safeguard your eyesight
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street
16 Chesser Street
. Sydney
Adelaide
493 Collin* Street, Melbourne
Exton Hse., Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
f
VA
" The little lamp
•with the big light*
fgf:
*
*>
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Before the Tariff proposals were intro-
duced last September,” said Customs Min-
ister Pratteu two mouths ago, “the textile
industry was in a parlous condition; the pro-
portion of unemployment was never greater.’
As for the engineering industry, “several im-
portant establishments were on the point of
closing down.” The engineering shops
and textile factories are therefore par-
ticularly affected by the N.S.W. 44-
liour week: with one accord employers
say they can’t afford to concede what
amounts to 26 more holidays p.a. for
every employee and stop their machinery
from Friday till Monday. Lang, who is a
house-agent, McTiernan and McKell, who
are lawyers, Lazzarini, who is a _ tailor,
Mutch, who is a journalist, Loughlin, who
was a school-teacher, Willis and Baddeley,
who w T ere coal-miners till they became union
officials, and other Ministers with an equal
lack of knowledge, say the manufacturers
can and must. No doubt they could it the
Customs tariff was high enough and there
was a tariff wall on the N. S. Wales borders.
But there isn’t; so the Ma State’s 44-hour
men are up against the competition of every
other State’s 48-hour men. And the result
of that must be lost work and unemployment.
N.S.W. Premier Lang’s way of meeting
the industrial crisis brought about by his
fatuous Forty-four Hour Week Act was to
leave a message for the newspapers that he
had gone electioneering in Queensland.
When the parties to the British coal argu-
ment had finished conferring they were prac-
tically agreed on one point. At present
prices the industry can’t pay the present
wages out of the average production of 4|
tons per week per employee. (The Austra-
lian miner averages over 8| tons.) The
owners suggested that the production should
be increased, even if the 42-hour week was
expanded a little, but the miners wouldn’t
agree to that. Both parties were willing that
the Government should postpone trouble by
continuing the big subsidy, but it replied that
this would involve new taxes, and that other
industries where the pay was sometimes
worse than in coal were beginning to ask
for subsidies likewise. Then the strike
started. But it won’t settle anything. There
is only one way—to do something hard to
the importing craze and get the factory fires
burning more brightly. Until then the fuel
business must be a cheap-labor industry, and
a million strikes won’t alter the fact.
Australia, in its remarkable attitude to-
wards Tatt.’s, isn’t the only Pecksniff on the
beach. British Chancellor of the Exchequer
Churchill, being in dire financial straits,
proposed to make bookmakers pay a license
fee and to levy a tax on their transactions.
Whereupon the Nonconformist conscience,
which is to a great extent Liberal, Labor
and Freetrade, raged bitterly and said Win-
ston was committing “an outrage on the
most sacred feelings of a vast number of
people.” But if this vast number has no
plan for putting down MeShortodds, or
no courage to make the attempt, then they
shouldn't object to him being counted,
licensed, inspected and made to pay some-
thing. The class which objects to the re-
cognition” of betting because it is a curse
is, as a rule, equally solid on the fact that
drinking is a curse. Yet if the Conscience,
for the sake of consistency, admitted that
it had no plan for the extinction of drink-
ing, but proposed to allow the sale of liquor
by unlicensed persons only, and remove the
drink taxes, it would probably be driven to
admit, when it stood before the glass, that it
was looking at the reflection of a fool.
An increasing grumble goes round in
Queensland that too many prominent Labor-
ites (not laborers) seem to be too affluent,
too suddenly affluent, and too unaccountably
affluent. It is also more and more remarked
that they are the only people who have made
any visible profit out of the “movement.”
What the community has to show is the
heaviest taxation per head, the least amount
of available factory employment in propor-
tion to population, and the lowest factory
wages on the continent, also the biggest rail-
way deficit, and the least cultivation, both
in proportion to the number of acres and of
inhabitants, in the whole Commonwealth.
Sweeping success at last general election
has made M.L.’s Reform party so popular
that Parliamentary aspirants crab each
other’s —and the party’s—pitch. That is
what happened at Eden by-election, caused
by Chris. Parr’s shift to London as High
Commissioner. The seat has been a Tory
stronghold for 39 long years, but it now has
a Labor representative. Despite that all
candidates for Reform nomination have to
sign a pledge promising to stand down if not
selected, two lie-
formers went to
the poll Jimmy
Gunson, Mayor of
Auckland for many
years, and Miss
Melville, a lady
who has carried
the party’s banner
at more than one
election and shown
a lot of pluck and
intelligence. The
knight was
selected, though
the lady had the
moral claim to the.
nomination. She
got a big sympathy
vote and Labor got
the seat.
KING LOG.
“The city section of the Vic. Nationalists who are in revolt against the leadership of Premier
Allan are being earnestly requested to stay their hands and not to raise the question of the leadership
until the party managers have conferred with the Country party.”
THE KING: “I wondcr why he’s complaining? I'm quite comfortable.”
The Queensland A.L.P. succeeded in its
application for a Supreme Court injunction
to restrain F. W. Paterson, the wild young
man from Oxford, from billing himself as
Labor candidate for Port Curtis. But it
may live to regret that it ever took proceed-
ings, for more reasons than one. In argu-
ment with Brennan, .T-, the A. L. P.'s counsel
maintained that expelled members of that
organisation had a right to appeal to the
Court. If so, many conscriptionists who
were expelled in 1917 and who have not
joined another party have that right. And
they could maintain that, in supporting con-
scription, they broke no existing A.L.P. rule,
and that Westralian advocates of national
service, notably Angwin, now Minister for
Lands, and Walker, the present Speaker,
were not expelled.
A Vic. farmer with £l5OO has, he says,
applied for land in more than 200 ballots
in N. S. Wales. For one block there were
2331 applications. In 1925 he filled in 150
fruitless applications for blocks, for which
there were 15,500 applications in all. “My
applications,” he concludes, “were refused be-
cause they were not from an immigrant.”
There is something pretty rotten somewhere
when a trained Australian farmer cannot
purchase a farm, and when newcomers are
given preference in allotting Government
land to buyers.
Melbourne will pay £410,000 more a year
in future for the privilege of straphanging in
its trains and trams. That is nearly the
amount of the joint deficit of the Tramways
Board and Clapp’s concern. Increases will
be levied only where trams and trains com-
pete. The spectre of private ’bus competi-
tion elsewhere prevents a more general on-
slaught on the public’s pockets.
The United States, having cultivated tin
law-breaking habit, provides plenty of sen-
sations nowadays besides Arctic expeditions
which get lost several times before they
start. In Chicago recently State Attorney
McSwiggin was talking in the street about
a murder with Doherty and Duffy, described
as notorious sly-grog dealers, and with two
other men, probably
Burke and Dooley. Along-
side them drew up a cur-
tained car containing an
unknown number of men,
not counting Mulligan,
and bristling with wea-
pons. The inmates slew
McSwiggin, Doherty and
Duffy by machine-gun
tire, bolted unaccountably
with the mortal remains
of McSwiggin and Doher-
ty, and then abandoned
the corpses and outlit and
disappeared. At latest
advices the police were
arresting everybody un-
connected with the offence,
and were under suspicion
themselves.
South Africa has been making radical
changes in its defence system. The Citizen
Force scheme, somewhat on Australian lines,
is to be replaced by the old Boer commando
system; but Colonel Creswell, leader of the
Labor wing of the Pact Government, pro-
mises to improve greatly on the old com-
mando organisation. Opponents of his coali-
tion with the Ilertzog party would be pleased
if lie could get one old commando rule can-
celled—the one that gives to every member
sole charge of his rifle and ammunition.
Every Australian who has noted the eager-
ness of the Labor (Communist in this coun-
try to incorporate a similar provision in his
scheme for Australian “defence” can guess
why.
The demonstration by Vic. Liberals against
the Premier ended in a fizzle. If Allan
didn’t shift, the Libs, were going to withdraw
their six representatives in the Cabinet and
leave him and his five fellow-Cockies high
and dry. Farmer John wouldn’t budge; and,
afraid of what he might do if driven into a
corner, the Libs, climbed down, and asked for
a conference of half a dozen of their number
with six Cockies to discuss “matters of
general policy,” with the question of the
leadership barred. Allan agreed to convene
his little party to consider “such a civil re-
quest,” and the shadow-sparring stopped.
Private Enterprise in N. S. Wales is mak-
ing a success of the trawling, of which the
State made only a muddle and a bad smell;
and now Lang is looking with a jaundiced
eye at the enterprise which, whilst, earning
profits, is able to keep the wholesale market
well supplied with fish at about 3d. per lb.
(for flathead) —that middlemen then proceed
to double and treble the price isn’t the
trawlers’ fault. The Premier is muttering
vaguely that he may have to “take action.”
And from his point of view he is right. It
is a crime for Private Enterprise to make a
success, especially if the public benefits.
Reminiscent of Abe Lincoln's Gettysburg
speech was the peroration of William Irvine,
Lieut-Governor and C.J., to the Diggers of
Melbourne on Anzac Day:—
How best can you honor the memory of the dead
with whose blood the title-deeds to this continent
have been sealed? By resolving that neither the
temptations of prosperity nor the seductions of
pleasure will make you forget that for which your
brothers died; by resolving that this country, this
dear country, this Australia of ours, shall not be
allowed to become a prey to faction or a spoil to
greed; by resolving that, so far as lies with you,
Australia as it glows in influence and power will, above
all the other nations of the world, be the home of
peace, combined with goodwill, order and discipline,
of liberty which will never degenerate into license,
and of good laws which, shall secure to all equal
right and equal justice.
The best of these beautiful generalities is
that you can always feel very good while
you listen —it’s just what you believe in.
The appointment of the N.S.W. Com-
missioner who is to supersede the Arbitra-
tion Courts has been attended by some queer
happenings. Chief of these was the early-
door rush by union executives to file claims
for increased wages and improved condi-
tions. Some of these claims, .it is stated,
have been purposely delayed in the expec-
tation of Piddington being appointed Com-
missioner. Others are being, submitted
which, according to one authority, no one
would have considered lodging with the
Arbitration Courts. It almost seems as if
union secretaries have had the impression that
a Commissioner appointed by the Lang Gov-
ernment would be ready to give the toiler
anything lie asked for. The Commissioner
can’t, however, be blamed for that quaint
notion, whoever else may be.
There was a time when any M.L. poli-
tician who was suspected of a desire to tam-
per with triennial Parliaments would have
wished wolves had stolen him from his
cradle at birth. Then the upsetting war
came along, and it was decided that Parlia
ment had a perfect right to suspend or
amend any Act it had made. So five years
elapsed between elections then; and now it
is being whispered, and not very softly
either, that the Reformers are going to use
their big majority to revert to quinquennial
Parliaments. Implored to contradict the
rumor Priminister Coates remarked that he
had “always been in favor of a five-year Par-
liament.” He added that this “might not
necessarily” reflect the view of the Govern-
ment; but the disclaimer raised more pertur-
bation than it allayed. It is up to somebody
to suggest that, if the blow does fall, it shall
be accompanied by the recall—a little refer-
endum pad that might prevent much harm
being done.
Labor publicity agents are jeering at the
Opposition proposal to restore the Queensland
Leg. Council on an adult-suffrage basis as
a dodge to get free gold passes. The gibe
comes badly from a crowd which not only
makes full use of its own free passes, but
charges up big bills for travelling expenses
as well. Queensland Ministers among them
collected £6lOO for travelling expensesi last
financial year. Brennan (now a Judge i
topped the list with £862; Gillies and Stop
ford drew over £7OO each; McCormack.
Jones and Forgan Smith were in the £5OO
division, and Theodore, Mullan and Lar-
combe were 400-pouncßrs.
A Randwick (Sydney) alderman told his
council last week that municipal carters,
now enjoying a 44-hour week, were working
for their own hand on the vacant Saturday
morning. But there was nothing in it to
make a song about: the practice is general
in every trade where the 44-liour rule applies,
from electrical fitting to painting. That’s
why the shortened week is so popular, especi-
ally with City Council employees who may
be culled specialists in the game.
THE BUMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Something has fallen in Europe—
We heard the bump from afar.
Is it the crash of a pure hope,
The wreck of a silver star?”
“Nay, ’tis a prince on the hunting track
Who has slipped again from his horse’s back!”
“Surely that sound of thunder
That rolls over land and sea
Was more than a fleet steed’s blunder
Or a hunter bruising a knee?”
“Well, it may be the franc is down
To a baker’s dozen for half a crown.”
“No! The sound was not like the slither
Of paper that runs to seed,
Where credit on credit may wither
Unless it is backed by deed”
“Oh —that crackling, talkative, snuffling sound ?
That’s a new French Ministry pushed to the
ground 1”
“Not that, not that! It is louder —
Like a packing-case breaking in half,
A noise mixed with wheels that grow prouder
And looms that are starting to laugh.”
“That racket! Why didn’t you say so before?
That’s the dumping of nciv German goods at
the door l”
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


o\ONEfB
H
$
THis Trade-mark Stands for
Belting; Quality
Nearly three-quarters of a century of manufacturing quality belting
and practical experience in belting engineering stand behind the
Pioneer trade-mark.
Our service to belting users is twofold; the supplying of a belt that
measures up to the highest standards of quality, and the technical
advice necessary for the selection of the correct size and type of
belt for every drive.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
will serve you well cn every drive.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QCEFNSLANI): Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
EdWard Street. Brisbane;
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Tlmpson Street, Fort Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards ft
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
ft Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Provincial Assur-
ance Association, Ltd.:
Towards
Re-
Oct., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Deficit.
1910. . £56,846 £4,790 £44,088' £7,908 £22,621
1917.. 100,619 10,268 77,771 12,580 10,041
Nominal
Dec., Reserves.
1918.. 164,925 22,434 121,938 20,553 10,512
Southern Insurance Co.’s funds
transferred.. .. .. 5,896 16,408
1919.. 209,103 33,378 125,378 50,347 66,755
Premium on shares . . . . 100,000 166,755
1920.. 391,102 33,873 168,575 188,654 355,409
Premium on shares . . .. 65,438 420,847
1921.. 375,163 55,332 238,044 81,787 502,634
Written off Life funds and
general reserves, £158,356 . . • • 344,278
1922.. 389,266 74,112 231,092 84,062 428,340
1923.. 417,503 70,798 205,151 141,554 569,894
1924.. 445.628 54,055 214,970 179,603 749,497
1925.. 357,213 69,196 149,190 135»,827 ? gS3 324
Superannuation Fund, £5OOO .. \ ’
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9369; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086 ; 1925,
£20,316.
As at December 31 the liabilities under
policies as valued by actuary Doyle were
£892,436, while the co.’s funds (apart from
share capital) were :
Life assurance fund .. .. .. £892,436
Special reserve . . . . . . ■ • 150,000
Sinking fund for purchase and establish-
ment accounts . . .. .. .. 21,500
Undistributed balance .. .. . . 28,101
£1,092,037
Less
Establishment account .. £110,099
Purchase account. . .. 84,502
194,601
Tangible assets .. • . •• £897,436
From that amount £5OOO voted for a super-
annuation fund must be deducted, which
leaves £892,436 —equal to the actuary’s valu-
ation. The position, therefore, is that
the close of its fourteenth year saw
the A.P.A. with its capital intact for the
first time. It must be remembered, however,
that much of the capital was issued at stiff
premiums. These ran as high as 100 p.c.
and amounted in all to £165,438, every
penny of which has disappeared. The situa-
tion that the co. has now reached is there-
fore much less of an achievement than
appears at first glance. When it is further
remembered that the A.P.A. was one of the
few new cos. for many years, that it wrote
much of its business before salaries, etc.,
started climbing skywards, and that it is
only now finding its feet, the dulness of the
outlook for most of the “1920” cos. can
be realised.
The A.P.A.’s position to-day is due
chiefly to its founder, Selby Wood, who died
last year. He made mistakes, but when he
returned to control in 1922 after a two
years’ illness he cleaned up a tangle of
trouble that threatened to wreck the co. He
did not live to clear away all the rubbish.
The present management has apparently set
out to finish the job, and it should find a
basis solid enough to build on successfully.
The figures of the introductory table, by the
way, vary a little from those given later:
included in the first table is £11,205 reserve
for unexpired accident risks, while the 6 p.c.
div., which calls for £20,316, lias been in-
cluded with exes.
The income last year was much less than
in 1924 —was, indeed, the smallest since
1919. High costs made it advisable to let
some business pass; changes and adjustment
of staffs followed the 1924 purchases; and
Selby Wood’s impaired health and the re-
organisation necessary under a new manage-
ment played their part. T. W. Rapley, who
was the co.’s g.-m. in Maoriland, has been
handed the reins. The directoi’S are definite
as to the outlook: “Latest returns disclose
that a great recovery has taken place.” There
will he plenty to attend to if the improve-
ment is to he maintained. Last year £21,500
was put aside towards the liquidation of the
establishment and purchase accounts. It is
the beginning of an overdue policy. Of
establishment account £83,489 originally re-
presented the costly adventure in Fire, Acci-
dent and Marine (reduced to £60,099 in
1924). Inasmuch as establishment and
results and everything have disappeared (tin-
department was sold in 1923) the present
amount represents a P. and L. deficit, and
the last two divs. can more easily be justified
from the angle of winning the goodwill of
shareholders than any other. The co. showed
wisdom in its sale of the F., A and M. busi-
ness. and also its S’African connection. Its
purchases appear to have been well made. The
Westralian business of the Queensland Pro-
bate and that of the Australian Probate
(Sydney) were taken over, while the Co-
operative was purchased for cash. The co.
owns all but a few shares in the Life Insur-
ance of Australia, tlie holding representing
most of the “shares in cos., £215,011.” Last
year’s disorganisation was reflected in the
L.C.A.; whereas the A.P.A.’s 1924 accounts
benefited solidly, any assistance was lacking
on this occasion. The good things forecasted
for the current term cover the L.C.A. Im-
provement is necessary, for last year’s slide
was uncomfortably large
1923 1924 1925.
First premiums . . £55,769 £70,572 £42,181
Sum assured.. .. 1,606,719 2,067,220 1,272,750
Renewals . . . . 205,058 216,732 230,683
Income . . . . 417,503 448,628 357,213
Expenses . . . . 205,151 214,970* 149,190*
Claims.. .. .. 70,798 54,055 69,196
including divs.
Expenses in the Life Department amounted
to 35 p.c. of income—about the same as for
the previous year; it was 41 p.c. in 1923 and
over 50 p.c. in 1922. New business exes.,
owing to the sharp contraction in volume, in-
creased. On the assumption that new busi-
ness costs 10 times as much as old, the rate
was 172 p.c. compared with 147 p.c. for 1924
and 178 p.c. for 1923. With every 20s. of
first-year premiums costing 345. 6d. to win,
the management should not have to be told
that the office axe wants sharpening.
The assurance fund expanded by £114,134.
The A.P.A. assumes that funds will earn 4
p.c.; older offices work on a 31 p.c. or 3 p.c.
basis. The more conservative the assump-
tion the greater must be the fund. The fact
that the office refrained last year from lift-
ing anything from the L.C.A. resulted in
figures which show to disadvantage along-
side those for 1924. Life revenue benefited
that year by interest, and divs. and rents
(less interest and “property expenses”)
£72,423. In that was included the £22,500
(office figures) from the L.C.A. Last year’s
net total was £50,613. The management
explains that it has been considered best to
get things in order even at the expense of
the appearance of the 1925 accounts. With
that decision tlrere will be little disagree-
ment, but the payment of a div. shows that
the policy has not been taken as seriously as
it might have been.
Here is a comparison of assets over the
last three years :
1923. 1924. 1925.
Public securities .. £733,812 £649,199 £639,473
Properties .. .. 191,489 187,685 186,397
Mortgages .. . . 105,288 300,599 414,357
Shares in cos. . . . . 2,253 235,008 215,011
Loans on policies, etc... 11,775 15,504 16,303
Outstanding premiums. . 36,251 45,359 45,173
Book debts, etc. . . 71,531 59,392 73,642
Cash 11,913 21,252 26,977
Other assets .. .. 16,162 16,136 13,056
Of tangible assets of £1,630,389, over 40 p.c.
was in public securities and in cash. Liabilities
(excluding premiums paid in advance and
in suspense) totalled £360,492. During the
term mortgages on the eo.’s freeholds
amounting to £59,644 were discharged, and
agents’ balances were cleaned up, the latter
item at December 31 being £6OBO compared
with £23,356 in the previous year. Inci-
dentally, the scrutiny showed that most of
the balances were of doubtful value, which
at once indicates past laxity and present
keenness. Deposits at call were slightly
heavier at £247,717, and hank overdraft went
up £19,064 to £84,404. The A.P.A. uses its
deposits to good advantage. The only move-
ment of note in the assets was the increase
of £113,758 in loans on mortgage. Approxi-
mately 25 p.c. of tangible assets is repi-e-
-sented by the item. Although; that isn’t the
best in the world for an insurance co., if the
security be good and the margins adequate
it means relatively high interest earnings.
The young co. cannot follow the more con-
servative lines of the old offices; it seeks
returns which will help to pay quickly for
the wild oats it sows so freely in its first
years.
Shareholders this time get 6 p.c. To most
of them that will represent 3 p.c. or 4 p.c.
on their premium-burdened scrip. Even at
that they should consider themselves lucky.
Policy-holders are fully protected, being
covered by funds adequate on the assumption
that the future interest-earning of funds will
be 4 p.c., plus the £300,000-odd of share-
holders’ capital which is intact. The latest
accounts indicate a serious attempt to put
the house in order. But either a greater
volume of business must be written or ex-
penses cut heavily if the bright anticipa-
tions of the board are to be realised.
* * * *
Britisii-Australian Wool Realisation
Association, Ltd., better known as
B.A.W.R.A.
A year ago it seemed that Bawra was
nearly through the legal maze. But the
tangle of horsehair was tough, and the last
few threads seem only now to have been cut
-—by a decision of the High Court (March
16) refusing the Skin-wool parties leave
to appeal to the Privy Council. The associa-
tion’s legal advisers are confident: they con-
sider that “a stage has been reached when
they can recommend that action be taken to
put the co. in liquidation as a primary and
formal step towards the distribution of accu-
mulated funds,” and the necessary meetings
have been called. The last of the wool
handled by the co. having been disposed of
in 1924, present accounts are practically a
statement of income and expenditure. The
former consisted of interest, £295,889, with
£3586 from other sources; total, £299,475.
Expenditure consisted of administrative
exes., £92,828, and £1926 depreciation
allowed on the co.’s freehold. The surplus
for the year was thus £204,721. Of the
exes., £68,873 went in wages, directors’ and
audit fees, and Costs and Co. ate £12,789.
During the year the Skin-wool case occu-
pied the board’s attention, with the ultimate
result mentioned just now. In addition the
Skin-wool interests in Queensland issued a
writ claiming payment for their scoured
skin-wool “sold and supplied during the, years
1916-20 at a price fixed on a flat-rate
price-basis of per lb. for greasy skin-
wool manufactured into such scoured skin-
wool.” Later they withdrew the case against
Bawra, proceeding with the action against the
other defendants—the Commonwealth, the
Central Wool Committee and its individual
members. The application was heard by a
Queensland Full Bench on February 17, and,
after hearing, the Court reserved judgment.
Under the original agreement Bawra' indem-
nifies the Commonwealth Government, which
includes the Central Wool Committee. It
must _ meet all the committee’s expenditure,
and, in all litigation arising out of the wool
scheme in which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has been joined as a party, has to in-
demnify the Commonwealth Government
against loss.
Interest is centred on the amount which
will result from the liquidation. Liabilities
amount to £115,168; a further £372,182 is
provided for contingencies, “including taxa-
tion, if any,” and not much of that is likely
to be called for. Assets aggregated £6,525,786,
or £6,410,618 net. In addition are the trust
funds, £1,900,856. This latter total includes
692,403 Bawra shares (542,470, portion of
Skin-wool Trust funds, and 149,933, portion
of Wool-selling Brokers’ Commission Trust
funds) in at their face value, £34,620. The
balance-sheet shows assets equal to 10s. 9.8 d.
per Bawra share. Trust funds (£2,241,200),
equal a further 3s. 9.4 d., make the total
assets 14s. 7d. per share. But those esti-
mates are based on the whole of the amount
set aside for contingencies being available for
distribution, and assumes that the trust funds
suffer no diminution, and that 8.A.W.R.A.,
Ltd., shareholdings under the trust deeds
will represent the value stated. In other
words, no unfavorable factor has been con-
sidered in arriving at the estimate. Larger
figures may be realised here and there, but
the sums involved are small. Thus the pre-
mises, in at £25,237, will probably realise
more than that.
On the other hand, one serious reduction
is possible. The annual report suggests that,
of the surplus, £500,000 (nearly Is. per
share) be set aside “for national purposes”:
(a) £250,000 to assist the children of men
who fell in the late war; ( b ) £250,000 to
found a “Captain Macarthur Research
Laboratory” to carry on research in connec-
tion with pastoral pursuits, Maoriland
growers allocated £210,000 out of their sur-
plus of £1,600,000 for the children of men
who lost their lives while serving in the mer-
cantile marine during the war. This, of
course, is a matter for shareholders to de-
cide. There will he opposition for a variety
of reasons, the chief being that hundreds of
investors purchased scrip at its full value,
so far as that could, be ascertained. Inas-
much as shares are now held largely by in-
vestors in no way connected with the pas-
toral industry, who did not participate in the
splendid results which accrued to growers as
a result of the War Purchase scheme, and.
later, of the control and marketing by Bawra,
the worthy object would be better achieved
by the pastoralists taking action through
their own organisations.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne)
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Mar., 191 S. . 25,250 8 p.c. = 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918.. 26,180 8 „ „ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Afar., 1919.. 29,413 S „ ~12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept., 1919.. 41,489 9 „ 22,500 18,989 352.300
Mar.,. 1920.. 46,696 10 „ ~ 25,000 21,696 373,996
Sept., 1920.. 55,230 10 „ „ 25,000 30,230 404,225
Premiums on new shares, £40,000.. 444,225
Mar., 1921.. 59,194 10 p.c. = 37,500 21,694 465,919
Sept., 1921.. 58,216 10 „ „ 37,500 20,716 486.635
Mar., 1922.. 58,722 10 „ „ 37,500 21,222 507,857
Sept., 1922.. 58,392 10 „ 37,500 20,892 528,749
Mar., 1923.. 60,913 10 „ „ 37,500 23,413 552.162
Sept., 1923.. 61,644 10 „ ~37,500 24,144 576,306
Mar., 1924.. 62,196 10 ~ „ 37,500 24,696 601,002
Sept., 1924.. 62,533 10 „ „ 37,500 25,033 626,035
Mar., 1925.. 63,363 10 „ „ 37,500 25,863 651,898
Sept., 1925.. 48,170 10 „ „ 37,500 10,670 662,568
Mar., 1926.. 52,968 10 „ „ 37,500 15,468 678,036
The result, though better than the previous
term’s, was still relatively poor. Conditions
throughout Victoria were largely responsible,
and slimmer earnings from exchange played
a part. An improvement has, however, fol-
lowed a change for the better in the country
districts. The 10 p.c. div. was never in
uoubt, of course, taking but little more than
70 p.c. even of the reduced profit. Addi-
tions 'to reserves brought the latter to
£078,030, very solid compared with capital
of £750,000 there are 120,000 £4 shares
fully paid and 270,000 paid to £l. Inci-
dentally, it looks as if holders of the con-
tribs. will have to defer their hopes of some-
thing further being called, although the very
solid. position makes it pretty certain that
there will be no difficulty about the 10 p.c.
when it is finally decided to make a move
for more capital. The bank is excellently
situated to expand when it imports a little
more hustle, into things:—
Liabilities,
Mur.,’24. Mar.,’2s. Mar.,’26.
Notes .. .. ,£B4O £B4O £GBB
Bills, etc 298,349 399,363 415,551
Free deposits.. .. 1,997,072 1,977,249 2,048,762
Fixed deposits . . 2,774,763 3,085,670 3,208,186
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,884,688 2,194,310 2,618,609
Advances . . . . 4,419,338 4,550,810 4,362,713
Premises, etc. . . 155,500 157,400 157,400
Deposits have flowed in well, but advances
have not moved proportionately and are
actually less than in March, 1925, and that,
too, doesn’t encourage the idea that contribs.
are likely to receive any very early call.
Furthermore, despite the growth in deposits,
the bank still holds less than £4 of the pub-
lic’s money for each £1 of its own, and from
that angle also additional capital doesn’t
appear to be necessary. The Itoyal, in fact,
seems to concentrate on safety first to the
neglect of speed, in its search for advances;
and in view of recent and present prosperity
and general industrial expansion, this sug-
gests a lack of enterprise or a very conserva-
tive policy—or both. Balance-sheet figures
indicate the latter, and more than hint at
the former.
Still, while steadily accumulating strength,
the bank has paid regular 10 p.c. divs. since
1920, and that is very good. The fact that
profits showed little variations during the
affluent years when exchange brought in big
money may be accepted as a sign that the
internal resources were also attended to. So
the Royal is in a splendid position to attract
more deposits; it has the means to largely
expand its borrowing connection; in fact,
it is well placed to do much better than it
is visibly doing at present.
* * * «
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Writ-
Feb., Profits Dividend Tax. ten off. Reserves.
1916.. £25,426 6 p.c. = £16,887 £6539 £5,669
1917.. 22,630 6 „ „ 16,79 7 5 833 5,669
1918.. 25,118 7 „ „ 19,599 4519 6,669
1919.. 25,066 7 „ „ 19,599 4467 7,669
1920.. 26,235 7* „ „ 19,698 5537 8,669
Reserves disclosed, £80,220 .. .. 88,889
Reserves capitalised, £88,889 ..
1921.. 26,941 74 p.c. = 24,138 2803
1922.. 23,054 6" „ „ 22,666 388
Reserves disclosed, £29,289 .. 29,289
1923.. 24,675 64 p.c. = 24,555 29,409
1924.. 28,353 7 „ „ 26,444 31,318
1925.. 30,427 8 „ „ 29,332 32,413
1926.. 23,550 8 „ „ 28,443 27,520
There lias been a new issue of shares since
the close of the accounts, 118,518 £1 ordi-
naries being offered at par to shareholders —
one to three. They rank for div. as from
the beginning of the current term. The
new money is to buy freehold hotel proper-
ties and more plant. Towards the end of
1925 proposals to amalgamate the three
Brisbane cos.—Perkins, Queensland Brewery
and Oastlemaine and Quinlan-Gray—had
reached what looked like completion when
a hitch occurred and the scheme went phut—
for the time being, anyway. Perkins shares
slumped then, and have not since recovered
to par, the highest point touched being 10s.
9d. Recent sales have been made at 18s.
4|d. Last year £5OOO extra taxation affected
the figures, and the item will not be
recurrent, according to the. report. _ But,
throwing that in, the balance-sheet is not
impressive, although the accounts of brewery
cos. are so notoriously secretive that the
market’s opinion is doubtless based on what
it knows or guesses is going on inside. In
presenting the 1924 accounts the directors
said there was a reserve of £lOO,OOO in
“freehold properties, machinery, plant, etc.,”
but neglected to state how much was due
to over-provision for depreciation and how
much to appreciation of values. In any case,
even the directors could not swear to the
exact amount of the contingency reserves
unless they knew what the war with the
Dry army was going to cost them in the
years ahead. Much obviously depends
on the internal reserves, for the amount
visible is very small. Shareholders, of course,
may find some comfort in this fact: for more
than a decade divs. have averaged not quite
7 p.c., and there has been a 30 p.c. bonus
issue, and on two occasions reserves have
been brought to light. That policy may still
operate, although last year’s div. of 8 p.c.—
the second of its kind —hasn’t impressed the
market.
The construction of the new hotel on the


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes. Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney ; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane. — Advt.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. 11
* •* * *
Before making any recommendations for conduit,
progressive engineers find it necessary these days to
seriously consider the suitability of Pioneer Wood
Pipe. The service rendered by this adaptable conduit
is unique, whilst its lightness stands for simplicity
of handling, easy transport and an economy of
installation that cuts down expenses enormously and
permits of a big extension of the scheme. Pioneer
Wood Pipe ' stands for hygienic cleanliness, as it
never fouls nor corrodes. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
GrifiiUi & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers, hundreds of satisfied users, Concrete Placing
Plant, Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrum Garbage Destructors, “Leplastrier”
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers. “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Ptv., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane: 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Collins
House, Melbourne; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1S88), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
EVERY MAN’S DUTY.
It is every man’s duty to safeguard the interests of his dependants
by making his will and appointing an experienced executor.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
offers unparalleled advantages in experience and security. Incorporated
by Special Act of Parliament in 1888 to act as Trustee and Executor,
Attorney and Agent, it now has under control estates exceeding
£10,000,000 in value.
All its capital and assets —over one million pounds—are liable, by
Act of Parliament, for the protection of clients’ interests.
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED G. MILSON.
JAMES MOIR.
F, N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
O. E. FRIEND
THOS. BUCKLAND.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
The Dirtiest Oil Made Clean and Usable
Again in a Few Minutes.
Williams’ Patent Filter
Does the Trick.
Ii not, return it at our expense. Automatic. Lasts a Lifetime.
Manufactured only by
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Sydney,
10 Paramatta Road, Camperdown.
Bulletin on request.
site of the old Globe —it is 011 c of Brisbane s
best —and probably some plant additions in-
creased liabilities, and still further reduced
the liquid surplus. This ; comparison cover-
ing four years shows the movement: —
1922. 1924. 1925. 1920.
Stocks .. £94,048 £86,923 £88,662 £ 89,066
Loans, book
debts, etc... 137,369 213,052 219,516 216,<13
Cash, etc. .. 22,825 10,413 2,185 10,971
£254,242 £310,388 £310,363 £316,750
Liabilities .. 78,950 204,507 251,320 292,653
Liquid surplus £175,292 £105,881 £59,043 £24,097
Liabilities are uncomfortably heavy, and
even if the whole of the new capital were
used in reducing them they would still be
£174,000-odd. But further purchases are
spoken of; and plant additions. These latter
are essential if a brewery is to keep pace
with developments in beer-making; they also
are expensive. In the ’nineties Perkins’s
was hard hit by the collapse in property
values; and, although the conditions of those
hectic days are not likely to be paralleled,
there is this similarity: property values
again are high, and the co. once more has
borrowed to do its financing. Cold Tea in
the North seems to be weaker with every
expression of opinion, but that does not
remove the necessity of providing against
a possible revival. Profits disclosed last
year were less than the amount distributed,
which suggests that the 8 p.c. isn’t very
secure. Of course ample provision may have
been made for depreciation and something
slipped away for contingencies, but the
figures don’t suggest anything portly.
* # # *
Australian Securities, Ltd., is still an-
other co. which wants to finance sales of
motor-cars, machinery, player-pianos, etc.,
sold on the hire-purchase system. Capital
is £500,000 in £1 shares, 400,000 being
offered for subscription. The promoters are
to get brokerage on all shares sold by them
and an option (no time-limit stated) over
100,000 shares at par. The usual precau-
tions are to be taken, according to the pros-
pectus, to guarantee the security of advances.
The Wild Cat can add nothing to what it
has said regarding similar ventures. Good
profits are to be made out of the time-pay-
ment habit—or mania—if full precautions
are taken as to security, and the manage-
ment is good. The business is likely to be
pulled up sharply, however, by a restriction
of Government borrowing or a succession of
bad seasons. The investor needs to consider
these aspects. He also should satisfy him-
self as to whether both motor and general
financing are not already adequately pro-
vided for. At the same time, he is entitled
to note that the board of this co. and its
“managers and secretaries” are experts of
good standing.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines is kicking
against the amended Workers’ Compensation
Act, which compels owners to provide for
certain additional risks. The Government
has agreed to parley, and in all probability
some concession will be made. Meanwhile
a case is being prepared to show that, fail-
ing relief, the mining industry will get into
Queer-street, with Kalgoorlie mines leading
the mournful procession.
* * * *
The Collier Government’s offer to sub-
scribe towards the cost of a central electrical
station on the Golden Mile provided the
mining cos. agreed to take all their power
from it, has fallen on stony ground. The
local Chamber of Mines seems indifferent
and London directors are not enthusiastic.
It is the latter who have to be convinced of
the need of scrapping plants in order to make
room for the big central one, and in most
eases they will oppose anything of the kind.
They prefer to let things slide. That doesn’t
disturb shareholders so much as a whole-
sale policy of scrapping might. On the
other hand, if the cos. won’t let the State
help them in its way, it may presently turn
an arctic shoulder to appeals for help in
their way.
* * * *
Westralian papers are getting more than
their share of letters from Mararoa share-
holders inquiring what is wrong and why,
despite official stories about a continuance
of good prospects, and calls are still being
made. The Bulletin has said over and over
that the chances of shareholders getting any-
thing are remote, and that opinion still
holds. In other hands the show might have
turned out differently, but it would never
have been the sluccess its share-pushing'
admirers claimed for it. The directors prob-
ably wish they had held on to the old Mar-
aroa at Norseman a bit longer. Since it
was abandoned by the co. for “distant fields,”
several thousand ounces have been won, and
the present owner has just installed a new
plant.
* * * -
Two Westralian gold mining cos., Mutooroo
and Orinda, have decided to send out pros-
pecting parties. The former intends to try
the Northern Territory and the latter an
area north of Kalgoorlie. In the last year
or two Mutooroo has turned down many shows
both in the east and the west, while the Orinda
luis rejected a few. Their decision to look
for something themselves is a striking com-
mentary on the dearth of known prospects.
* * * *
Slightly better news for oilseekers comes
from the Point Addis Co.'s bore at Comaum,
north of Penola (S.A.), not far from the
Vic. boundary. The borehole has gone
through solid strata from the surface to 750
feet, the tertiary rocks being on a series
of sandstones, sands and shales of different
colors, with very little water, and slight
occurrences of gas in the dry beds of sand.
This hole differs from any other so far
drilled in S. Aus., because the sands and
clays are all consolidated as hard rocks, mak-
ing an excellent impervious cover through
which no petroleum could get away. The
Commonwealth and S.A. Governments have
arranged that a proper geological survey shall
be started immediately, the former Govern-
ment finding the money, and the States pro-
viding the surveyors and equipment. The
survey will begin at Comaum and be carried
south to the sea.
• * * *
W. F. Lee, of the N.T. Mica, continues to
unearth high-grade mineral from widening
faces. Marketing probabilities, however,
don’t seem quite so rosy as they did, and 3d.
calls are an unwelcome substitute for con-
signment cheques.
* # * *
Amalgamated Zinc report and accounts
to December 31 indicate that the board has
definitely decided to withdraw the concern
from the Tasmanian paper-pulp scheme.
Broken Hill activities are now confined to
despatch of the concentrates remaining on
hand. Formalities incidental to reduction
of the face value of the co.’s 500,000 20s.
shares to Bs. by distributing the 300,000
Electro. Zincs held by the co. on a tliree-
for-five basis are proceeding. Accounts
show that in 1925 £23,008 was received in
dividends and £7729 from other sources. The
net half-yearly balance of £28,383 plus
£18,071 brought forward made £46,454 avail-
able. Dividend No. 38 of Is. absorbed
£25,000, leaving £21,434 to be carried over.
Since the closing of accounts £23,512 has
been received from holdings as dividends,
£lB,OOO being from the Electro. Zinc and
£5512 from Minerals Separation and De
Bavay’s Processes, Ltd. Surplus liquid assets
at December 31 amounted to £234,742. Other
assets, mostly holdings in other cos., were
valued at £413,630.
* * *
Golden Lily (Vic.) failed to run up to
form at its first trial spin, 400 tons averaging
only 9.35dwt, at the battery; 50oz. was
scaled from the plates, and the pyrites saved
carry another 30oz. Totted up and averaged
the yield falls a lot short of the ounce fore-
cast. As Walhalla gold is low grades it
will be a hard squeeze to make a profit un-
less the tailings run high. Not many folk
are hard hit, as the co. is small—3o,ooo
shares held by a group of enthusiasts whose
ardor, however, is now near zero. Smashes
at the Walhalla field have been historic,
particularly North Long Tunnel, alongside
which the Golden Lily disappointmnt is as
nothing. Now there comes a lot of talk of
systematic sampling. The Walhalla way is
to let the battery speak rather than to rely
on the assay chart, and it is unlikely there
will be any departure from that plan.
* * * *
Another osmiridium find has been made
at Beaconsfield (Tas.). Nothing much is
known about it so far, but the Government
Geologist is to inspect. There is a large out-
crop of serpentine rock in the vicinity—
generally a fair indication of the presence of
the white metal, though not necessarily in
payable quantities.
* « * »
Osmiridium diggers of Adams River
(Tas.) have revolted against the prices paid
for the metal by local buyers, and have
formed themselves into the Tas. Osmiridium
Producers’ Co-op. Association, Ltd. They pro-
pose to market their own metal, and will
make representations to the Federal Govern-
ment that export of osmiridium be prohibited
except through the pool. The Common-
wealth Bank is prepared to make advances
of 60 p.c. against the London price of the
metal under the Rural Credits system. This
move on the part of the diggers is an out-
come of the visit of Mines Minister Lawson
to Melbourne on their behalf.
* * * *
The effort to control the water in the
main shaft of Coorabin Colliery, Riverina
(N.S.W.), exhausted the capital, and the
mine is in the hands of trustees for the de-
benture-holders. The latest move was to
empower the trustees to negotiate elsewhere
with a view to amalgamation.
* * * «
Bribbaree, the only N.S.W. reefing co.
showing the color at present, is up against
the almost universal failure of Ma State
gold shows to live down. “The winze at No.
2 s.-e. level was deepened to 20ft., where the
reef pinched out.” This is the keynote of
all recent reports from the show, and it is
emphasised by the remark that “only 20 tons
of ore were hauled during the last fortnight.”
All active attention underground has been
switched off to the tributary show carrying
the heartening title of the Bonanza, with
what warrant hasn’t been demonstrated.
The attempt to float it having proved a fail-
ure, from which the “underwriters’’ beat a
precipitate retreat at the psychological mo-
ment, the parent co, has nominated the pup
as the show proper, and has punched the
vertical shaft down 150 ft., at which level
a crosscut is being made south in the hope
of picking up something worth while. It is
an outside chance.
* * * *
C. R. Mackenzie reports from Flagstone
(N.S.W.) that he is well pleased with de-
velopments, “and, as soon as crushing has
been commenced, results wall prove the tniue
to be all that has been reported of it.” Brave
talk, anyway, in view of the grievous delays
which have depressed the market almost out
of existence. But the show hasn’t shaken
off the hoodoo altogether—“although good
rains have fallen all around us, we have had
none on the mine, and still have to cart
water for the concrete work, which is neces-
sarily retarding progress.” This month,
however, should hear something from the
battery.
* * # *
Shares in the Northcote Antimony Mines
(N.Q.) moved to a premium of 400 p.c. last
week apnarently on the allegation that
holders of the 60,000 contribs. paid to Is. are
“solid,” and that Jensen is personally direct-
ing operations. He has been hustling de-
velopment, and has exposed so much good
ore on the Black Bess lode that he wired
Sydney for 1000 bags. The stuff will, how-
ever, take some carting over the 20 miles to
Mareeba, unless tbe roads have improved.
Nevertheless, early Pitt-street bears have
struck trouble.
* # * *
A new find at Gurrumbab (N.Q.) starts at
the grass-roots underneath a tropical scrub,
and samples shown in Sydney improve the
prospects of the Queensland Tin Co. Fred
Brown says that already 500 tons have been
quarried for treatment at the battery.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford writes:—
To supplement my statement (B. 22/4/’26> that
Isa board has “given away blocks of shares for
leases which by and bye it would have had for no-
thing,” there is the purchase of the Isa South Co.’s
leases, which certainly could not have been got for
nothing, but were greatly overvalued for purchase.
The board’s sense of proportion is measurable by
the fact that while it was buying for 3250 shares
(or £65,000) the south leases (being one of five
chains of outcrop, two alleged deeps and three
other leases on the eastern or foot wall side of the
lode channel) it was offering the Isa Proprietary
2000 shares (or £40,000) for two of the best
key leases of the field and three others, and was
asking also that we should throw in £13,000 of
capital.
* * * *
It is nearly three years since Austral
Malay issued the Thabawleik prospectus,
and once again the date of tin-production
has been put back. In estimating the period
when the United Engineers, Singapore, would
have the plant ready for a trial, due allow-
ance was supposed to have been made by the
Freeman stable for the fact that this was
the first serious venture with Sydney capital
to exploit a Burmese proposition. The 3360-
acre property held by the co. is about 70
miles up the Tenasserim River from the
port of Mergui, in South Burma. Though
assisted by the Burmese Government to some
extent in road- and bridge-building, the co.
lias expended large sums in excess of origi-
nal estimates and later revised estimates.
The £65.000 mentioned in the early stages as
sufficient to start the dredge must have been
licked up lohg ago. because the balance-sheet
at December, 1924, showed cash balances
of only £8939 and unpaid calls £lBOO, while
£l3OO remained outstanding in other direc-
tions. Arrangements for borrowing money
to carry on were spoken of then, and 16
months have passed. Heaps of trouble have
supervened. It was hoped (l/4/’25) to
have the pontoon ready before the seasonal
deluges in May; but a cable on 27/7/’25
announced the necessity of suspending work
on dredge-construction “because of flood con-
ditions.” It was thought that work would
be resumed about the end of September.
Since then information has tailed right off.
Of the 160,000 shares issued, 60,000 paids
went as part payment to the Austral Malay,
and 40,000 contribs. are held in reserve.
These will, presumably, be used to assist in
liquidating the debt which has mounted up
and seems likely to continue to mount till
the end of the year. Accounts to the end
ot 1925 have not been made public, but Pitt-
street has knocked shares back from the peak
price of 525. to under 455. in the belief that
the debit at p. and 1. has run to £70.000. It
means that much more capital, or dividends
deferred. The plant will (or, rather, should)
treat 100,000yds. a month, the 651 acres
proved going from to 21b. with an aver-
age depth of 15ft. The shallow ground favors
slick working, but it is believed that the area
is less friable than similar areas in the
F.M.S. One condition, therefore, may coun-
terbalance the other. The abiding faith of
those behind the show keeps scrip well above
100 p.c. premium.
From an old Wild Catter who knows the
country:—
Wolfram is one of the few metals consistently
mined in China. The ore, chiefly detrital, is found
among the mountains forming the boundary between
the States of Hunan and Kwantung and Kiangsi, and
is easily won. With the present price of over 20s.
per unit, a production of 4000 to 5000 tons can be
maintained, but the obstacles are civil wars and
local transit-taxation called “likin.” The price last
year has induced more exploration work, despite the
many factors which raise the price of the ore before
it reaches the ship’s hold at Hankow. China can
produce wolfram ore more cheaply and plentifully
than any other country. Of other mining activities
(apart from antimony, in which China has for long
dominated the world’s market), the most important
are manganese and tin. Manganese is abundant, but
as it is not dressed the grade is low —around 36
p.c. About 30,000 tons per annum are taken for
Japanese steelworks. Tin is exported from the Ivochiu
district of the Yunnan province at the rate of about
6000 tons per annum. Recent good prices may in-
crease this to 9000 tons, as the deposits are still
very large. No white man has been allowed to visit
these mines, and the nearest a few have approached
is the smelting centre at Kochiu. From Kochiu a
narrow-gauge line transports the ingot tin to the
French railway running to the port of Haipong, in
French Tonkin ; thence it goes by steamer to Hong
Kong, where it is refined to “Chinese tin” and ex-
ported.


“STOP! LOOK! LISTEN!!!”
The question of adequate warnings for motorists at railway crossings might be settled if a few of those who will take risks were buried on the scene of their exploit.


The finest tobacco
grown!
You’ll find it in —
o,0
XV
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO LTD
St«TE (kpress
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“C.Q.”: Our parson isn’t hilarious over
the popularity of radioed sermons, as shown
by recent plebiscites. “I’ll believe that wire-
less was sent by Providence,” he said, when
someone invents a method of broadcasting
the plate.” ,
“Adam’s Apple”: The Australian nipper
takes very little on trust. The youngster
next door had been going to schoot only a
week when his mother was horrified to see
a policeman escorting him home to the
accompaniment of' lusty bawling. Inc
John Hop explained that her angel clulu
had laid himself down between a set of
tram-rails and had been plucked from under
the wheels of one of Fraser’s juggernauts
with only a split second to spare. The con-
stable had failed to elicit from the infant
the reasons for what appeared to be one
of the earliest attempts at suicide on record,
but his mother managed to coax it out ot
him. It seemed that the teacher had illus-
trated a sermonette on obedience with the
story of the stationmaster’s children who
were crossing a line when an. express came
thundering down on them. “Ue flat between
THE COMPLIMENT.
WELL-MEANING HOSTESS : “Now, Mr. Jenkins, you need never
again tell us you can't sing! We know now.
the rails!” roared the father. One child
did, and lived to tell the tale; the other dis-
obeyed, and didn’t. “But,” said the nipper
as he finished his explanation. “I didn t be-
lieve teacher, so I thought I’d see for my-
self.”
* * * *
“Kenneless”: There is no Rotary Club in
the establishment where I work, but the
snirit of communal service flourishes, and
for years past “Rcdicerlus” Freddy has been
supplying his mates, myself among them,
with really excellent tea-billies made from
baby-food tins. Long Paddy seemed hurt, as
weli as surprised wdien the other day Freddy
announced that they were off. “How s
that?” he asked. “The last baby’s grown
out of ’em,” was the reply. ’Struc t But
there’s another one comm , ain t there t _
—no more.” Paddy was genuinely aggrieved.
“Strike me pink, Freddy! said he. xou
ain’t goin’ t’ turn us down like that, art
yer?” § , # .
“Sixenate”: The Privy Council has had
the last word in the remarkable Scales case.
A Sydney stonemason died and lett ±ou,uuu ,
his widow, Mary Scales, who wasn t men-
tioned in the will, claimed that it was her
money, she having provided the cash tor
her husband’s profitable investments. The
judgment is that £4OOO which the lady
handed her spouse in 1907 for investment is
hers with all it has since earned: how much
that’ is will be the subject of further inquiry.
The manner in which the fortune was accu-
mulated is the strangest thing about the case.
Mrs. Scales, a hard-working woman, started
a laundry to help the family fortune, the
husband, so she alleged, doing little more
than to collect and deliver the washing:
when lie wasn’t doing that he traded in
empty bottles, rags and sundries, Mrs. Scales
supplying the necessary backing. The money
saved from these ventures was buried m a
hack yard until it was wanted for invest-
ment. Later the lady set up as a fortune-
teller and faith-healer until the police
stopped the profitable business.
* * * *
“Doric”: Touching quaintly-worded tele-
grams handled by operators (B. 22/4/2b).
The one that will linger longest in my
memory announced simply: ‘‘Mother dead:
father cheerful/’ -
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” : The pathos of the real Anzac
Day parade is provided by the soldiers
mothers, who turn out in battalions, sol-
diers’ fathers have tired of the parades, and
ex-Diggers themselves prefer to stay at home :
but an amazing number of women with
mothers’ badges pinned to their breasts
carry wreaths or flowers to the memorials.
Many of them are very old; some so poorly
dressed that their tributes must have cost
them real sacrifices. And the age-old con-
flict between the mother and the daughter-
in-law is in evidence, too. One grey lady
with whom I talked mentioned it a little
bitterly. She had lost three married sons
in the war, she said. Two of her daughters-
in-law had remarried ; the third —“well, she s
all right, but she thinks the children are all
that matters. She wouldn’t think of coming
here with a wreath; it’s only a mother who
feels she must do that” Pathetic it sounds,
but there was just a touch of triumph in
her claim, too. First she had her sons taken
from her by other women; then war took
them completely; but_ the memory of them is
hers above everybody’s.
• * * *
“ Jass”: Few Digger stories have had such
a vogue as that about the officer who said to
the recruit on early-
morning parade,
“Ha, ha, no shave
this morning,” and
received the prompt
reply, “He, he, no
bla n k y razor.”
Every Groper would
tell you it happened
at Blackboy Camp;
Croweaters we r e
equally positive it
occurred at Mit-
cham ; the Vies,
and Cornstalks per-
sonally knew both
officer and recruit,
and could point out
the very spot where
the dialogue took
place at Broad-
meadows and Liver-
pool respectively.
Only amongst
Queenslanders was
there a difference
of opinion, one
school maintaining
that Enoggera was
the place, whilst
the other plumped
for the “Germicide”
Camp of Billy
Hughes’s Conscrip-
tion Army. I sup-
pose to try to fix
the “honor” at tins
stage would be
rather like seeking
to settle whether Tut. liked his mushrooms
grilled or stewed. # ,
“M G S.” : “Herodot” reports the case of
a baby with the distinct outline of a snake
on its body, due to the mother having got
mixed up with a reptile before the infants
birth. Another observer relates that he haa
met a man who attributed his slanting eyes
to frequent contemplation of Chinamen
having been subject to the same influence
myself for many years, I rushed anxiously to
the mirror when I read it. Contributors to
the Woman’s Mirror report similar marvels.
One states that a friend who underwent an
operation gave birth to a child wflth a mark
exactly the same as the scar on the mother
and in the same place. Another mentions a
well-defined bunch of cherries which swells,
darkens and fades with the fruit season;
ALL SQUARE.
“I’ve decided not to get married until I’m twenty-nine
“Really! And I’ve decided not to be twenty-nine until I’m
married.”
still another says that a relative who broke
a little finger became the father of two child-
ren, each with a little finger bent at a pecu-
liar angle. Now, I would hate to cast cold
water on this renaissance of wonder, but in
view of the increased risk of future
mothers being bumped by motor-cars
and the numbers of one-armed and
one-legged Diggers who are prospective
fathers, I think the matter should be
cleared up. For myself I shall not have any
peace till the scientific experts give us the
latest findings on the subject.
* * * **
“Glen A.”: Many years ago the five-year-
old offspring of a Newtown (N.S.W.) resi-
dent died and was buried in the Devon-
shire-street cemetery. On the resumption ot
that ancient burial-ground the mother aad
the infant’s remains taken, up and removed
to Rookwood. To a visiting pressman the
other day she produced from a crumpled
envelope a number of small molars in .a per-
fect state of preservation, remarking: bee,
here are the dear little fellow’s teeth ! .As
a sample of undying affection this gets into
class A. The remains were removed from
Devonshire-street 25 years ago, and the dear
little fellow was buried years and years be-
fore that.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: At the Sydney Cen-
tral .Court a defendant, asked why there was
beer at the simple revel he had declared to
be a “sing-song,” and whether beer wasn t the
sole reason for the night’s gathering, said
that “you can’t sing without beer”: —
A proposition some may scout
Who nightly golden notes unsling;
Withal it’s true beyond a doubt —
Beer makes you think that you can sing.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: For the first time in the
history of tne Australasian R.C. Church, a
bishopric has been abandoned. This is
Geraldton (W.A.) established nearly 30 years
back. Three years ago Richard Ryan, a Tip-
perary native and a well-known Vincentian
missionary in N. S. Wales and Victoria, was
appointed to the distant see, but found con-
ditions so unsatisfactory that he success-
fully applied for the bishopric of Sale (Vic.),
which had been vacant since Bishop Phelan
died in Ireland some time ago. Geraldton
will now be linked up with the far-north
vicariate of Kimberley, which is manned
mostly by Spanish monks under the Abbot
Coppu.
“Ranar”: Speaking of dream tortures (B.
22/4/’26), I remember a patient in our Mel-
bourne hospital who was recovering from a
not very severe
operation, and used
to dream every
night that he had
fallen off the earth
and was frantically
chasing it as it
whirled along on
its course through
space. Generally
he woke up just as
the planet was get-
ting out of dis-
tance, and his
frantic yells of
horror during the
last few seconds
used to awaken
every other sleep-
ing patient in the
ward. We tried
everything, from
potassium bromide
to veronal, without
success, and in the
end he had to be
moved away to a
quarter where no-
body would .be dis-
turbed by his cries.
The curious thing
about it was that
the dreamer was an
uncouth person of
practically no edu-
cation and, as it
seemed to me, quite
unimaginative.
* *
“Flagwagger”: I
suspect that a good
deal got past A.I.F.
censors. Before I
left Australia i n
May. 1915, with
the 23rd Battalion.
I arranged with a
brother who ha d
been rejected for
service a method of
sending him real
news. I always
used ruled note-
paper, and would
place some, letters
upon the line and
the remainder
slightly above it;
the latter conveyed
the hidden message.
Of course it had. to
b e condensed in
every possible way, but it was always in-
telligible. By such means I sent home an
account of the torpedoing of the transport
Southland between Egypt and Lemnos.
* * *
“Connertop”: I, too, know a hero who re-
fuses to wear his M.M. (B. 15/4/’26), and
is doing his utmost to forget that in,
possesses it. He was driving an ammuni-
tion limber and had a forbidden heatin„
stove warming his feet. It upset and set
fire to some straw on the limber. He was
making every endeavor to hide up his wrong-
DIPLOMACY.
“What do you mean by saying you thought
Gladys more or less pretty?”
“Oh — cr — she’s more pretty than most girls,
but less pretty than you.”
doing when a brass-hat drove up in a ear
and demanded his name and unit, rle tuliy
expected a severe reprimand. Imagine ins
surprise on being notified that the Military
Medal had been awarded him for extinguish-
ing a. fire on an. ammunition limber at great
personal risk.”
(Continued on page 19.)
AUTUMN LEAVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Autumn leaves will keep for a long time if they
are damped and pressed between sheets of blotting-
paper until they are quite dry. They will retain
their brilliant coloring.”
The flowers of Spring we lightly take
And leave them as their petals fall,
For Spring has flowers enough to make
A long, triumphant festival.
The Summer, too, has wealth to spare
And none for wasted beauty grieves;
But ere comes Winter, dull and bare,
We must preserve our Autumn leaves.
The pageant of a lusty youth,
The light loves of maturer years,
Old thoughts of Mabel, Anne and Ruth
Hold sweet regrets, too faint for tears;
But the affection that may hold
When plund’ring time our vigor reives,
This must we hoard as precious gold—
Oh, we must keep" our Autumn leaves.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


' ' I M'J || ' V \\''\V\\\\Y
"The City girl. indulges in a little poetry op motion on the way to business ,
Mary Jane brings in the Bacon an© es<*s
with the cioosE step.
I.U-LU GIVES VENT TO HER F6EUNGS WHEN
DISPLAYING UAZ.Z MATERIALS
JONES NEW TVPISTE INTRODUCER a BUOYANT
Atmosphere into the office .
PC.4-Q OK POINT OUTy
Even THE CV-OTHES A>RE EFFECTED
E>X THE UUKDRy MWO'S EKA,KPLE,
But Dear Pa thinks its an overrated v=»as.t\me.
THE PAVLOVA INFECTION.
“It is not sufficient that the art of dancing should be preserved on the stage, It should be taught in the schools, so that the workman and the work
girl may get more happiness in their lives.”— Pavlova."


2$
Wo
to
X °4
THE SCOTCHMAN SAID
“It’s a verra guid whisky.” The Australian, being a good,judge, readily endorsed the Scotchman’s
opinion, and told his friends, who told their friends—so the popularity of Mountain Dew is daily
growing larger and wider.
Aye, it’s a verra guid whisky indeed I
Y oung’s
MOUNTAIN DEW
Old Scotch Whisky
PURE AND MATURE.
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Quack”: Life has been revived tor a
period of anything up to four days by lieart-
pnlsation, but it remained till the other day
for medical science to discover a means of
re-starting the heart s action without cut-
ting open the thorax. A patient in London
—i, x the usual meaning of that term —
whilst undergoing an abdominal operation.
The doctors at once passed oxygen down the
throat, massaged the exposed diaphragm,
and, by means of a needle, made an injection
in the heart, which restarted its action.
Forty minutes later the operation was eom-
A NEW THRILL LEFT.
“Am I the first hoy who ever ashed you for a hiss?”
“I think so —all the others just took them.”
pleted, and the patient sewn up; and when
he came to he had no idea that he had been
dead. He recovered; the recovery of a
patient under the method of heart-pulsation
with the hand has yet to be achieved.
•**•**
“Gouger”: Outside picturesque Duran the
Palestine Imperial troops built a tremendous
supply-dump, with edible stuffs and rum for
its valuable centre. It would have taken a
brigade to guard it, and the 0.C., who looked
on all Australians as born thieves, hit
on a little device of his own. Immediately
the fatigue parties had drawn rations, the
guards would rake a circle around the vul-
nerable supplies. Thus, any Australian
boots” would be seen on the soft sand at
davlight, and the Tommies reckoned there
would be no difficulty in tracking the depre-
dators. (They had heard quite a lot about
tracking—from Australians.) But though
stores mysteriously did disappear, the guard
o’ mornings could never detect any sign ot
the Australians having invaded their master-
piece. It was only last night that some old
pals and I had a reminiscent laugh about the
row our q.m. kicked up over missing a miser-
able hand-rake.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: An amazing story was told
by W. Casbolt, one of the sleuths of the Vic.
Railway Department, the other day. Parcels
of ham and bacon have been mysteriously
disappearing from a locked louvre truck be-
tween Bendigo and Melbourne. Casbolt got
himself locked into the car, and spent the
first part of the night lying on the hams
in darkness. While the train was travelling
slowly uphill towards a tunnel the door
opened and a man got in. When the light
of a match betrayed the ’tec, the marauder
jumped out and, joining another man who
was walking beside the train, ran towards
the engine. A revolver-shot pulled them up,
and Casbolt recognised the driver and fire-
man! A train can’t be allowed to wander
unattended on its way, even if its crew
is suspected of theft, so the policeman
allowed the men to clamber back on to the
engine while he went home to prepare for
further action.
* * * *
“Herodot”: Sydney broadcasting concerns
are beginning to feel a bit doubtful about
the wisdom of transporting their patrons to
the ringside. When there is nothing to
divert attention from the “sabre-cuts of
Saxon speech” indulged in by the frenzied
partisans of pugilists, the effect is liable to
be startling. While one Sydney family of
deeply religious tendencies was sitting
around the loud-speaker recently -the fight-
broadcast was suddenly turned on, and the
first thing to come over the ether was a
paralysing exhortation as to how to deal
with his opponent shouted to one of the
gladiators by a forthright friend. Eve"
since then the wireless is turned off in that
household on the nights when fights are
loose.
* * - * *
“Hasen”: A Mornington (Vic.) resident,
to safeguard a good crop of mushrooms dur-
ing his absence for
the day, hit on the
scheme of releasing
a bull in the pad-
dock and posting a
big “Danger” notice
about it. When he
returned he found
the bull tied to
the fence and the
mushrooms gone.
It reminds me of
old Bill’s tale about
his neighbor,
Plumb, who laughed
at Bill’s notion of
burglar insurance.
A good dog was in-
surance enough for
him. Kept an out-
size in Airedales
roaming ’round the
garden. “The week-
end he went to Bal-
larat he asked me”
—that is, Bill —“to
chuck it some food
over the fence, ‘if
it doesn’t catch a
nice, plump burglar
first.’ Well, when
he came back they’d
made a real job of
Plumb’s house —left
practically nothing
except a letter:
“Thanks for leav-
ing the dog. H e
took fancy to me
straight away. I
must ’ve been a bit
careless, because I
i.M'f/a’.'window open
, and if'cop got sus-
picions' arid started
to‘come in. But
the dog fixed it —
chased, him half-
way home to the
station. He’s _ a
good dog, Mister.’ ”
“Riwaka”: One night not so long ago, in
a shunting-yard in Mid-Victoria, a man
appropriated a side of bacon from a truck.
One of his mates who had seen him threat-
ened to tell the foreman unless he was given
half the booty. The first pillager raised diffi-
culties, pointing out that they had nothing
to cut it with; but the other quickly solved
that problem by holding the bacon under
the wheels of a truck as it was shunted past.
Seizing his section, he then left for his home.
The other picked up his share and started
out to get even. Running through back
streets, he hid in a dark lane, and as the
blackmailer passed, he put a hand on that
evildoer’s shoulder, and in an assumed voice
said, “Show me that parcel.” In another
moment the second piece was lying at his
feet, and the other thief was going for his
life.
HUSBANDS ARE SO UNFAIR.
“Hullo, why so glum?”
“Why, I wrote to my husband for money to pay my dressmaker's
bill, and the wretch went and paid the bill!”
“Chattis Pultan”: Long-remembered tele-
grams-—is that the subject for the evening
(B. 22/4/’26) ? In 1918, when all leave had
been stopped in northern India, I was
aroused at 3 a.m. by my orderly, who held
a hurricane-lamp while I tore open an en-
velope and read: “Your wife is marrying
another. Come at once.” It was addressed
to a jemadar in my regiment, and I had been
too sleepy to note the fact. But even he
could not be granted leave “on urgent
private affairs,” for the Afghans crossed the
frontier two days later.
* * * *
“Bio”: The psychology of the reckless
car-driver deserves study, not for his own sake
only, but for that of the general community as
well. There is the moderate drinker, knowing
his capacity to a nip as long as he is going
home by train or tram, but ignorant that the
rush of fresh air coming to the man at the
wheel gives alcohol a second wind of its
own. He is lucky—and so, probably, are
other people—when he escapes with a tine
for being drunk while driving. A more
serious and curious case is that of the
normally careful and often well-up-iii-years
business man who, behind the wheel, is sud-
denly transformed into a foolhardy person on
whom neither pleading nor protest lias the
slightest effect. Rushing through the air, he
seems to revert to some early prompting;
the moment he is out of the car he becomes
his careful, cautious self again. I know, or
knew, three of these latter temporary speed-
lunatics. One has smashed himself and a
car full of friends; the undertaker is still
waiting for the other two.
* * * *
“Kir” : Speaking of absent-minded corres-
pondents who make curious deposits in
pillar-boxes (B. 15/4/’26). A preoccupied
mortal wandered into a Sydney jeweller’s
shop recently and stood for a couple of
minutes staring abstractedly at the clock.
He then put a letter down on the counter
and drifted out again. Glancing at the letter,
the assistant saw it was addressed to some-
body in Queensland, so he sprinted up the
street after the man. “Haven’t you made a
mistake?” he said —“you left this on my
counter.” “Er —what, what!” grunted the
other in a vague sort of way. Then he woke
up. ‘‘Good God!” lie gasped, clapping his
hand on his pocket, “I’ve posted my watch.”
* * * *
“Carbon”: The old idea that members of
the Devil’s Brigade enjoy immunity from
the attentions of
the professional
criminal is being
rudely shaken ir.
Melbourne. In two
recent cases the
thief actually broke
into the robing-
room locker of his
victim whilst tli e
latter was carrying
on in an adjacent
court-room of the
same building. An-
other barrister had
left his coat in liis
own office whilst
engaged in a brief
conference with a
colleague in an ad-
joining room : lie re-
turned to find it
bereft of a wallet
full of bank-notes.
The T h i e v e s’
Union is bei n g
urged to discipline
its members, for it
would be a terrible
thing for the pro-
fession —the illegal
o n e—i f juries
observed counsel
putting his tongue
in his cheek every
time he drew a
moving picture of
the innocence of the
poor darling in the
dock.
* *
“M.A.G.”: Pluck
and resource and
a few other things
were shown by an
Adelaide pair a few
days ago. Seeing
a kid of six or so
clinging to the floor
of a swaying trolly,
t o whi c h was
attached a bolting
horse, the couple
gave chase in a car,
one of them on the
footboard. After
several n arr o w
shaves the driver
got alongside the
bolt, and the man
on the board per-
suaded the terrified
youngster to crawl
over to his side of
the troll y. He
then lifted him clear in the best style of
Tom Mix. Having transferred the lad to
safety, he set out after the reins of the run-
away, and managed to get them after an-
other mile or so.
* * * *
Meeting Governor Hercules Rob-
inson one day, Canon Smith pleaded for his
partially-completed church _in George-street
West (Sydney), and, incidentally, alluded
THE MORNING AFTER.
MBS. PECK: “You want me to suffer in
silence, I suppose!"
MR. PECK: “Oh no, I don’t my dear! I
only ask yon to let me do that.”
to a rumor that his Ex. had plunged on a
coming event at Randwick. “It’s true.” said
his Ex.; “I’ve backed the double, and if I
win you’ll have 5 per cent.” The Governor
collected, and the money is invested in St.
Barnabas’s.
THE GOOD FIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Vic. Prohibition League Conference the
Key p Forster said an annual prize of £25 should
he given to University students lor a treatise on
p 6 hihPioii Said Mr. Forster: ‘I believe they are
luostlv thoughtful young fellows. But I know they
nuiillv want money and if a first prize of £2O
and prize of £5 were offered for a treatise
on prohibition, we would arouse interest in University
circles.’ ”
Come, on with the fight for the right,
And down with the demon Ruin!
Though the method we use
May not meet with the views
And the ethical notions of some;
We know the pecuniary plight
Of students who seek a degree,
So we’ll offer a prize—
To that bait they will rise,
Whate’er their convictions may be.
fci halls academic, we hear,
Stark poverty often may stalky
And the classical brow
Is most wrinkled, we trow,
By a dread that the ghost will not walk;
So let’s make the most of their fear,
Though purists may call it a bribe;
it’ they, haven’t a “tray
They ’ll be reas’ liable —eh ?
Howe’er their opinions may jibe.
We’ve done it with heathen before;
A score of good quids pro quo,
That have each an appeal
For the “stude” down-at-heel,
Make a quite irresistible show.
A wealth of prohibit’ry lore
From every college should ooze;
In our ranks will be bliss—
If the winner, that is,
Doesn’t bust up the proceeds on booze!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
illuming hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of .service, comfort
ami cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
There’s
Nothing Smarter
Nor more comfortable than
these Semi Soft Collars.
They are made in Australia
and sell at 1/6 each.
See that they’re labelled--'
Guaranteed
Semi Soft
WEBBING COLLARS
“ They Fit "
Tltt IT HON-U7BD DENMA.W
GOV. GEN. OF THE •
OMUafMAITHofAUfTKAUA
ZstaJbtisßed JSB3
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
* TAILOR-MADES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
T. A. Coghlan, who died last week, was
the high authority on statistics not only of
the Mother State but of Australia. No
department of public service is more useful
to the politician, and it brought him in close
touch with administrative affairs. Men in
high Parliamentary office got in the way of
relying on the shrewd little diplomat, and
for his part he served all Governments alike
with a complete though cynic-tinctured loy-
alty. Thus much fish came to his net. As
a commissioner he inquired into the falling
birth-rate of N. S. Wales and condemned
artificial control as vehemently as such con-
trol is to-day extolled. He piloted the old-
age pension system till it was handed over
to the Commonwealth, and settled the fates
of scores of hapless clerks when the Reid
Government determined on service retrench-
ment. When anything unpleasant, unpopu-
lar or momentous was in hand, the Govern-
ment rang up Tim. He found a way in or a
way out; —whichever was needed. Coghlan
played life on a chessboard, and used men
as pawns with a subtle skill—so subtle that
they still hoped when hope had vanished.
The manner of the death of N.S.W. Agent-
General Timothy Coghlan and that of his
brother Cecil, M.L.C., the Sydney solicitor
with Labor sympathies, was much alike.
Cecil was going about his ordinary daily
round when he collapsed and died in his
office. Timothy passed out as suddenly in
London in the midst of the day’s affairs.
Rut there was very little sympathy between
the. brothers in their later days, and a law-
suit between them was undecided at the time
of Cecil’s death.
Westralia’s new .Justice Dwyer had an
experience which hasn’t come the way of
many Labor-appointed Arbitration Judges:
the State’s press didn’t say a word of disap-
proval, and the leading members of the Bar
offered their congratulations. Most of this
is no doubt due to the fact that Dwyer,
although, not a veteran, has had exceptional
success in appeals of late years. In 1024
he appeared in five Full Court cases and
lost only one; and in 1925 of seven appeal
cases so far reported he. won the lot. Pre-
sumably he still has his old Labor sym-
pathies, though he ceased to be a Labor
M.P. in 1914; but in his case, if liis appoint-
ment is questioned when Parliament meets,
the Government will not have much difficulty
m showing that he has a lot in his favor
besides his politics—if he still has any.
A .Japoon (N.Q.) timber-mill owner who
played a joke on Opposition-leader Moore
was hit by the rebound. He invited Moore
to take a motor drive with him one morn-
ing, drove him out to the mill, and then
rounded up the men and sprang a demand
for a speech on the visitor. Moore, although
taken by surprise, turned off one of his neat,
good-humored speeches, and concluded by
telling the men that their boss had decided
to give them the rest of the day off on full
pay. The boss hadn’t decided anything of
the kind, but he was too good a sport to
spoil the joke.
Osborne Smith, a young Australian, is to
get 100.000 rupees p.a. as managing director
of the Imperial Bank of India. Smith, who
joined the Commonwealth Bank in 1912,
when it was first established, goes to his
new job from London, where he has been
acting manager; he rose quickly to tliqt posi-
tion from the management of the insignifi-
cant Canberra branch. The appointment
may do Australian banking “heads” some
good. There is not one who draws anything
like as much as Smith is to get (17000-odd) ;
only two—Russell French and Dibbs—ever
got within coo-ee of it. Insurance managers,
all things considered, are much better paid.
B. .T. Kearney, just admitted to the South
Aus. Bar, has the qualities of a climber.
I Hiding the job of blacksmith’s striker more
strenuous than lucrative, he sat for the
Railway clerical examination, and was soon
using a pen instead of a sledge-hammer. A
few years later he was transferred to the
State Children’s Department to help the
Prosecuting Officer with his work. In a
short time he became a familiar figure in
the lower courts of Adelaide, eventually tak-
ing over the bulk of the department’s court
work. His evenings were "devoted to prepar-
ing for matriculation, so that he might enter
on the law course at the ’Varsity. That
done, he made short work of his legal sub-
jects, and is now practising in Adelaide. A
few years ago he was a prominent League
footballer, and now is a leading figure in the
Adelaide Repertory Theatre.
At an age when Judges and Government
officials in Australia arc declared to be unfit
for further work and are shelved, Australian-
born Henry Howard has been invited to the
pulpit of the Wealthiest Presbyterian Church
m the world —in New York’s Fifth-avenue.
Howard, who was born in Melbourne in 1859
and trained at Wesley, is a Methodist with
a John Stormish eloquence which has moved
congregations in Victoria and South Aus.
He left Australia in 1921 to be near a
Rhodes-scholar son, and has since been
mainly occupied with theological and ethical
works; but since September last he has been
“guest preacher” at the Fifth-avenue church.
In lighter moments he has written verse and
other Bulletin matter.
The death of William Moses last week
plunged the princes of the Kingdom of the
Horse in Australia into grief. With his
brother F.A. he owned the famous Ai ■row-
field stud, whence came the mighty stayer
Poitrel, beloved of the public, and such
other champions as Lady Medallist, Valicare,
Manfred, Heroic, Moorilla, Belgamba and
many another. The brothers’ importation of
\ alais put a fresh complexion on Australian
bloodstock breeding, and though such great
sires as St. Alwynne also stood at Arrowfield
the latest luminary outshone them all. The
famous stud was dispersed two years ago
and with it seems to have gone a good deal
of William’s interest in life.
“Dags” Kilgour, the brainy Scot who has
guided Fort-street (Sydney) High School for
-1 years, is due to retire this month. Bap-
on e< L^! ex l ander James in Edinburgh on May
29, 1861, he came to N. S. Wales at 12, and
entered old Fort-street as a pupil. His first
appointment was away in Goodooga, on tin*
Bananaland border, but he returned to the
city in 1891, and began attending the even-
ing classes at the
University, taking
his degree and lay-
ing the foundation
of his present vast
store of classical
learning. “Work!”
wa s always his
motto; and as he
qualified as a bar-
rister in his spare
time, the Bar may
be the next scene
of his labors.
JOHN EARLE,
the Speck's first
Labor Premier ,
now doing his bit
in making it clear
that the little
island State can’t
carry on without
special assistance
from the
Commonwealth.
Australia lias had many kings—cattle,
pearl, wool, banana and so on. There is
now a claimant to the title of sultana king
- —Harry Thowell, of Renmark; his yard,
which contains over 160 acres of healthy sul-
tana vines in full bearing, is probably the
largest in Australia.
“T.P.”: The late Professor Ren tool had
the courage of his convictions when he fought
the kirk, and, incidentally, the majority of
Australians, by maintaining with The Bul-
eetin that the Boer War was unrighteous.
Indeed “Larry” had the courage of his con-
victions about most things. He believed it
good to water his plants at certain hours,
wet or fine, and passers-by were often sur-
prised at the spectacle of a cleric plying a
hose industriously and holding an umbrella
over his head the while, and he was always
perfectly willing to argue the question at any
time with any gardener, professional or ama-
teur, even if he got more soaked in the pro-
cess.
The N. S. Wales Cow Country has lost its
oldest Anglican parson, F. R. Newton. Gen-
erally known as “Father” Newton, he was
present at the dedication of the first church
on the Richmond River, over 60 years ago,
and his first curacy saw him travelling on
soul-salvage as close to Brisbane as the Logan
River. Death called him to that other great
authority on flocks and herds, Father Abra-
ham, at 85.
These days Irvine, C.J. and Lieut.-Gover-
nor of Victoria, going in, is always liable to
meet himself coming out. The other day it
was his job as C.J. to preside in the Court
of Criminal Appeal while it was decided that
there was no misdirection in regard to the
case of Knopp, the ship steward who was
found guilty of murder at Collingwood at
the end of January. So, that being the only
ground, the appeal was dismissed and the death
sentence stood. Then it came the turn of
the Executive Council, and it was the duty
of the same Irvine, as Lieutenant-Governor,
to accept the advice of his Ministers and
sign an order that the death sentence be com-
muted to 15 years.
Artist Max Meldrum, who won the Vic-
torian travelling scholarship in 1899, has
dropped his guerilla warfare with Australian
artists and art critics and gone back to
Europe. He probably will live in France.
Meldrum gained a number of disciples,
especially amongst the younger artists who
were impressed by the dogmatic little man
with the big beard; but many of the young-
sters, as they gained experience, abandoned
his methods. Meldrum has painted good
pictures,, but his idea that he has a gospel
to preach, growing with opposition, has
handicapped him with the art-buying public.
JOHN CURTIN, editor Westralian WORKER,
who recently represented Australia at
the Geneva Labor Conference.
On May 9 the Commonwealth Parliament
will celebrate its silver jubilee, and probably
its last anniversary in Melbourne. During
its 25 years there have been eight G.-G.’s—-
Hopetoun, Tennyson, Northcote, Dudley,
Denman, Ferguson, Forster and Stonehaven.
There have been 10 Parliaments and 15
Ministries. Of the latter Hughes led
four; Deakin and Fisher three each; Bar-
ton, Watson, Reid, Cook and Bruce one
apiece. Fisher and Cook came from the
mines, Watson was a compositor, the other
five were barristers, though Bruce never
practised. Altogether 349 persons have been
in the members’ seats and 86 of them have
gone beyond the sound of division bells.
Gilbert Casey, the stormy petrel of the
waterside workers of 35 years ago, went off
with Lane’s New Australians and is still in
Paraguay. He is an old man now, but is
still full of ginger, and when any of the
Marooned Australians want the Paraguayan
officials shaken up—they need a lot of it —
Gilbert Casey is always put on to the job.
Injuries in the Boer War cut short the
military career of John Mitchell Dougall,
who, after being educated in Melbourne, got
a nomination for Sandhurst, and was a
lieutenant in the 79th Cameron Highlanders
when Buller started the box-on in Natal.
He was twice wounded, and, returning to
Australia, joined up with Birt and Co., of
Sydney. But when the bugles blew the “fall
in for the Big War he led his company at
the Gallipoli landing. He was invalided a
couple of months later, but after spelling
as O.C. 13th Training Battalion in England
he went to France with the 49th Battalion
as Major in time to be caught in the
slaughter on Menin-road, where he gathered
wounds that put him out of the argument.
Heath, which had been so near him several
times, called again last week, and this time
was not denied.
E. W. Foxall had a kind of birthday the
other day—it was 26 years ago that he
became English Secretary at the Japanese
Consulate in Sydney. He went out of un-
easy politics to the quiet job that has pro-
vided the long certainty. Foxall w r as a
member of the council of the Single-tax
League, formed after tin; publication of
George’s “Progress
and Poverty’’ in
1889. Others still
surviving are .Tack
Dobbie, once best-
known of Sydney
University coaches
and still carrying
on in spite of deaf-
ness, Frank Cotton,
W. E. Johnson.
M.H.R., James
Ryan, M.L.C., and
A. G. Iluie. But
Huie is the only
one who remains
bound hand and
foot to the old
faith.
H. W. HARRI-
SON, organiser of
Melbourne's
million-pound
International
Motor Show.
The headmastership of one of Maoriland’s
tomest public schools, King’s College, Man-
gere, where the sprigs of Auckland’s Anglican
aristocracy are sent to learn the Cambridge
accent, goes to a Sydneysider, Henry Kings-
ley Archdall. He was born at Balmain 40
years ago, and earned laurels as a scholar
and an athlete at Sydney Grammar and Syd-
ney Um. Then he went to Cambridge, where
he became dean of Corpus Christi. For the
last seven years he has been headmaster of
Arnudale School (N.S.W.). He is, of
course, a parson ; in fact, a canon.
The ages of Mrs. Mullins, who died at
Dayborough (Q.) last week, and her hus-
band, who died nine years ago, totalled 210
years; and 114 of them belonged to the old
lady. Though that age has been exceeded,
the double tally must be at least an Aus-
tralian record.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : If Tom Walsh should
carry out his intention of visiting England
he would find himself in a very uncongenial
atmosphere in the circles where his mother-
in-law, Mrs. Pankhurst, is a popular and
even revered figure. At the dinner given
to welcome her back to London after a long
stay in America, there were a score of peer-
esses, mostly of ancient pedigree and great
wealth. Even in her most militant days
Mrs. Pankhurst, who is a woman of wide
culture and handsome presence, always
looked distinguished, and dressed with
notably good taste. Her brilliant daughter
Cliristabel, who has lately been a successful
religious missionary in America, is expected
soon to join her mother in England, where
they own a beautiful country residence pre-
sented to them by a grateful public in recog-
nition of their wonderful fight for women’s
suffrage,
.Two of the leaders of the big N.S.W. coal-
miners’ strike of. 18 years ago are enjoying
the companionship of bears and alligators
at Taronga Park. Peter Bowling, the miners’
president of the time, an honest and sincere
man who sought to remedy real grievances,
has a steady job on the Sydney Zoo staff:
and one of liis colleagues is .Tack Cochrane,
ex-M.L.A. for Darling Harbor, the best sec-
retary the Sydney Labor Council ever pos-
sessed. Most Laborites regarded Cochrane
as the likeliest Minister for Labor in the
first Labor Government; but he was pushed
out of the movement instead.
“Berkeley”: John Dow, a 99-year-old pen-
sioner, living at Limestone Creek (Vie.),
walks once every fortnight the 15 miles to
Benambra to collect his income, and walks
back the following day with his provisions.
He says he would do it in one day if he
didn’t suffer from corns. John is a keen
politician, reads without glasses, and still
insists on paying his dues to a union that
did something for him donkey’s years ago.
“L.M.”: A S.A. girl motor-driver equals
the achievements of Miss Rosser, of Warwick
(Q-) (B. 15/4/’26). Miss Birdseye runs her
father’s motor-mail between Mannum (River
Murray) and Adelaide, GO miles. In smart
khaki uniform and tan leggings this 22-year-
old girl drives in all w r eathers, and handles
mails and passengers’ luggage without help.
Nearly half the trip is through Rills, but she
drives her ’bus with wonderful nerve and
skill.
BOTANICAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Enthusiasts of flowers and the Labor movement
will agree that it is only fitting that the Premier's
name be given to a flower worthy of him. I have
raised a cactus dahlia that in, my opinion meets the
case, and have decided to bestow upon it the name
of Jack Lang. In color it is golden brown with an
extra strong stem. I now claim this name through
your paper.’’ I —Letter to Sydney Labor Daily.
The cactus has a spiny, green,
Unfriendly superficies,
And there are genera eighteen
And quite a thousand species,
As you are possibly aware,
Among them being the prickly-pear.
The dahlia’s of the aster tribe;
Eschewing terms that bristle
With Latin spikes, you might describe
The flower as a thistle;
Or to the thistle still allied,
Howe’er transformed and glorified.
And this is golden brown in hue
(Like cakes King Alfred saw burn)—
Doubtless a sly allusion to
Our sweet suburban Auburn.
A Premier’s neck, a flower’s stem—
Yes, there are common points in them.
It seems a dubious compliment.
Mayhap some joker gaily
Has set himself with fell intent
To feed the caucus Daily
With cactus dahlias and the rest.
The thing may be a heartless jest.
Well, roses bear a hundred names,
In and without Australia,
Of kings and queens and knights and dames.
No reason why a dahlia
Its head should any lower hang
For being christened Johnny Lang.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


A Pure Wool Indigo
Serge Suit of Superb
Quality for —
To Your Measure
TREMENDOUS buying facilities such as
Murdoch’s enjoy alone achieve such a
purchase as this. Bought for instant cash
—at a figure far and away below their actual
cost —the benefit comes to you. For absolute
proof of the Quality and Worth of these Serges—
SEND for samples without delay 1 You will have
the opportunity of examining the quality of these
superlative Serges. Only by so doing will you
realise that this purchase brings
to >ou a Serge Suit of the most
expensive type—at this remark ibly
low figure
98/9
HE. Serge is genuine All-wool in F ine Twill,
also fine or medium Herringbone weaves.
Thoroughly guaranteed pure indigo dye.
Irreproachably tailored to your individual
wishes, and backed by
the Murdoch unfailing
guarantee for
98/9
Postage Paid to Your Door
Cut out and send this
Coupon, and a complete
range of Suitings, includ-
ing these special Serges,
will come to you by re-
turn mail, without any
obligation whatever.
\
\
\
\
DESK R,
\
\
Murdoch's
in Park-street,
Ltd., Sydney j.
\
\
\
J
Dear Sirs,
Please send me, free of all cost, a
complete range of Suiting Patterns, \.
including the Serge Special at £4/18/9, \,
also simple measure outfit.
N amc
Address
#:ss
X
X
s?ss**;
H
‘ ,w va%v.vwWaw
Guarantee
We guarantee this Suit against flaws in making or against
any imperfections in the fit, and if not satisfactory we will
make another Suit free of charge or refund the full purchase
price. ( Sgd .) Murdoch's in Park-street , Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
... .......... . . . . A ± A AA
m
Wm
m :
7/?//.
■■i "■
1 i


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
s
m
m
m
y m
mm
W. W, GREENER, LTO.
6UNMAKERS. BIRMINCHA#
Australian (Wholesale only) :
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.
LTD.,
405*7 Lons dale Street, Melbourne.
RABBITS WON’T WORRY YOU IF YOU FUMIGATE WITH
CYANO (jf (Calcium Cyanide) *
a
FUMO
BRAND
%
P/o)y Cj
Thousands of practical farmers who had tried every other method of
rabbit destruction now fumigate with Cyanogas (Calcium Cyanide).
The rabbits cannot survive where this treatment is used. Blown
into the burrows with the Fumo Dust Blower, the deadly gas it
gives off for 24 hours kills every rabbit. After giving off the gas
it leaves a harmless residue. It is quite safe in application for
the worker.
Mr. J. M. Graham, of Baan Baa, writes, 17th
November, 1925: “I have just completed five
days’ work with the ‘Fumo,’ which a friend
lent me to try for myself. I used six tins
in Jive days. The first tin l used too freely,
but found that one 51b. tin lasted me a full
day. The result was most satisfactory.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Neiv South Wales: lluzaeott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victorias A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Fanners’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland; Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia:' Harris. Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French. Ltd., Launceston.
Roberts & Cg., Ltd.. Hobart.
ĵ
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Wax”: “D’loo” (B. 8/4/’2G) can take
his choice of two proven methods for the destruction
of red meat-ants. (1) Punch a number of holes about
IB in. deep into die nest. Put a tablespoonful of,
bisulphide of carbon into each hole, and close
immediately with earth. After treating each hole
in this manner, place a coating of earth six inches;
deep over the nest and beat down smoothly with a.
shovel. This method is very sudden; but don’t
strike matches near the carbon bisulphide. (2) Mix
loz. of sugar with the same quantity of honey and
add a teaspoonful of arsenic-powder, stirring well..
Place the mixture in perforated tins in a shady
place close to the ants’ foraging track, giving the-
mixture a stir from time to time. This method
takes about two months to do the trick, but is sure.
“Pick”: Keep the red-ant mound covered with bags;
or an old tarpaulin. As the ants cannot remove the:
obstruction, they will eventually abandon the home.
The trek may not be far, but they can again be:
moved on by a repetition of the process. To eradi-
cate a colony, set them at war with soldier-ants.
Take a large, green, fleshy bone and place it near
the meat-ants. When they have started devouring-
the feast gradually remove the bone to the soldier-
ants’ territory. The war usually ends in the com-
plete extermination of one of the combatant armies.
* * * *
“N.M.H.”: “Anaf” (B. 18/3/’26) is
wrong when he says that the distance the human
voice will carry depends entirely on how rarefied
the atmosphere is. Certainly the distance a parti
cular sound will carry varies directly with tin
density of the air, but the most essential factor is
homogeneity. Experiments and general experience
show that sounds travel farthest in fogs, etc. This
no doubt is due to the fact that air holding fog-
particles is particularly homogeneous. The reason
why in mountainous country a voice may frequently
carry great distances is that the sound-energy, instead
of rapidly spreading, is being continually
deflected from side to side in a narrow path, and
thus becomes much more concentrated. The prin-
ciple of the speaking-tube illustrates this. All
sound-waves travel at practically the same speed, but
may take varying paths; so that waves travelling
the longest distance will reach the observer last.
Quick speaking would thus not be conducive to
clearness, as a portion of one word might arrive
simultaneously with one later despatched.
* * # *
“Veega”: “Snutlier” Hogan, a well-known
character on the Darling River, was employed by
a Mr. Broome, whom he constantly referred to as
plain “Broome.” The boss stood it until he thought
Hogan was due for a “chip,” and remarked:
. “Shuffler! .'l’ve got a handle to my name.” “Good-
oh! Broom-handle—l’ll remember,” was Snuffler’s
rejoinder.
* '-■;:/&» f * *
“Eau-de”: “Borom” gives very poor ex-
amples in his attempt (B. 25/3/’26) 'to refute my
statement re aborigi-
nal letter-sticks. “Six
dots and a wavy line, ’
he said, mean, “six
men are camped near
a fire.” It may, but
if “Borom” carefully
investigated such a n
instance he would in-
variably find that be-
fore the tribe left on
a walk-about it had
been agreed between
the parties that, should
they separate in the
course of their hunting,
they would make
smoke-signals, and send
a stick carved in such
a way to the chief to
let him know how many
men there were at
each camp. Again,
“Borom” said: “The
sticks were not only
legible to natives of
the tribe by which they
were carved, but could
be- fluently translated
by members of other
tribes.’’ Even the
novice in aboriginali-
ties knows that the
natives speak many
dialects, -so how could
people speaking differ-
ent languages decipher
one symbol to mean the
same thing in each
tongue ? “Borom” has
probably been led
astray by the coinci-
dence of the natives in
his district, on differ-
ent occasions, using the
same symbol for an
identical purpose. I
challenge him to name
one tribe with a definite basis of symbols.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: A well-known station-
manager tells of a case in which he was asked to
arbitrate. One of his men owned a highly-regarded
young dog for which a neighbor offered a fiver. The
owner refused to take less than £6. While the point
was being argued in the kitchen attached to the
men’s hut the would-be purchaser, hoping to clinch
matters, threw a £5 note on the table with “Here’s
the money; let me take the dog.” A puff of wind
came through the open doorway and the note fluttered
into the pig-bucket, whence it was retrieved in a
somewjhat greasy condition. After being washed, it
was iflaced on a stool before the fire to dry. The
dog, (crouched under the table, got a whiff, and,
unobserved, started to lick the note. It was appar-
ently to its taste, for the disputants suddenly
•caught sight of the document disappearing down the
animal’s throat. Had they retained their presence
of mind they might have had a chance to recover
; it, but their cries scared the dog out of the kitchen,
■and it was half an hour before it could be brought to
heel. The verdict was that, as both were to blame,
they should each lose half, so the dog’s owner had
to part up 50 shillings.
EVIDENCE MOST CONCLUSIVE.
“What’s the charge—attempted suicide?”
“Yus, yer Worship. He was drunk and offered to fight me.”
“D.F.”: John Underwood, the snakebite
antidote man about whom “Dingo” was inquiring
• (B. 8/4/’26), died in Tasmania many years ago.
*Tha story runs that he went to catch a snake at
Wattle Hill, near Sorell, one day when he had not
hlis antidote handy, was bitten, and died. His
family, or some of them, moved to M aoriland
still made the antidote. At least, long after
ijfnderwood’s death they posted a small bottle of it
ha my father—he liad known Underwood, and had
ajlways kept some of his stuff in the house, though
We never had occasion to use it-—asking that it
should, if possible, be given a trial. Unluckily the
(Postal Department broke the bottle. Underwood
used to say that the stuff of which he made his
(remedy was common, and that people saw it every
day. It has been hinted that the bracken-fern had
something to do with it. The stuff was volatile,
and evaporated rapidly.
“X2X” : The brew prepared from prickly-
pear by “Jim Carew’s” friend (B. 15/4/’2fi) must
be of extremely weak alcoholic
strength. The chief obstacle to the
use of prickly-pear for making
spirit of any kind is that the
sugars .in it available for fer -
mentation are so small in quantity
that the stuff is hardly worth
• treating. The bulk of prickly-pear
consists of woody fibrous matter,
• with a total of about, 5 per cent,
of sugars and other carbohydrates.
Tests carried out by the Bureau of
Science over 10 years ago showed
that of about 30 common Aus-
tralian substances from which
i alcohol could be obtained, pear
gave the smallest yield. Such tests
would be made by efficient tech-
nical processes and methods, so
that a home-made fermentation
would be likely to yield a still
smaller return. The Mexican
drink mentioned by “Jim Carew”
is made from a different variety
of pear altogether, and owes its
potency not so much tq the ethyl
alcohol in it as to higher and
! more complicated alcohols and
other substances Which possess an
almost narcotic action- —one of the
reasons why insanity is frequently
induced by its use.
“Alastor”: That the fruit of
prickly-pear makes good wine is
undoubted. I knew a Frenchman in
Central Queensland many years back who had an
illicit still and turned out excellent' wine made from
it.
“Ex-Skin-collector” : The 'possums are to
get another gruelling in Bananaland this winter,
after enjoying a respite of two seasons. Although
trapping is to be permitted for two months only,
.June and July, the snarers and shooters will be
busy for at least five months, as once it is known
the ban is to be lifted no time will be lost in
getting into action, and there will be no slackening,
unless game gives out, until the last sale, which may
not take place till September, or even October.
Agents assist the law-breakers by delaying sales as'
long as possible, late collections being sent in along
with wallaby and kangaroo pelts when the time-
limit set by the Government for the acceptance of
consignments by the railway has expired.
» * * «
“Northern Woman”: A farmer in the
North built his house some 3ft. from the ground.
This afforded a dry sleeping-place for his numerous
dogs and still more numerous goats, while saving
the expense of a shed. A Government official, in
the course of his duties visited the farm. He was
a big man, weighing over 16 stone. Witli bush
hospitality the farmer begged him to remain the
night. He did so. The fleas, scenting new blood,
crept up through the cracks and feasted gloriously.
The guest tossed, turned and scratched, but all to
no purpose, and arose a weary and much-marked
man. He made no complaint, but departed promptly.
Two years later duty again brought him to the
well-r'emembered spot. This time, however, lu
declined the invitation to sleep there. “Last time,”
he remarked, “the fleas”— “Yes, yes,” hastily
interrupted his host, “but since then I’ve put up
wire-netting to keep them out.” The visitor’s eye?
opened wide. “Good-bye,” he said hurriedly.
“Here! listen a moment —to keep out the”
“Good-bye,” called the .bulky man as he let down
the sliprails. “To keep out the dogs and goats!”
roared the angry farmer.
* * * *
“Bouragi”One of the most curious end-
ings chronicled for a long time occurred near Cairns
(Q.) recently, when a lad was kicked to death by
A LIKELY PLACE.
THE BOSS: “Where you going, Flourbag?”
THE BINGHI: “Mine tinkit going at th’ plumy knees,
Boss.”
a cassowary which had been bailed up in the scrub
by the youngster’s dog. The boy’s neck was snapped,
probably by the forward and downward drive of the
powerful bird’s muscular leg. The ostrich and emu
are both ugly customers at bay, and, like the cas-
sowary, arc especially dangerous in the breeding
season. • South Africa can show a long list of ostrich
casualties, and the writer has seen a kangaroo-dog
split open by an emu defending a flock of chicks.
There is a Papuan case 6f a magistrate’s cook-boy
who was chivvied back to camp by a cassowary on
which, he. had intruded when going to fill his billy-
can at a creek.
(Continued on page 240
LOOKING BACKWARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The prehistoric human skull unearthed at Cohuna
(Vic.) in November last by a contractor constructing
an irrigation channel is claimed by Professor Colin
Mackenzie as the oldest in the world. The jaw and
palate are the largest ever recorded. Were his habits
nocturnal or diurnal, asks the Professor, and what
was the secret of the magnificent dental arcade of
the race to which this man belonged?”
Have you heard of the find at Cohuna,
A fragment of primitive man
’Twixt Eden and whem’s a lacuna
That science is powerless to span ?
Of feature prognathously horrid,
Long centuries sooner he bloomed
Than the chap that from Piltdown they quarried
Or the bloke in Rhodesia exhumed.
He rises, confuting the stigma
Of newness our land was beneath,
And savants assault the enigma
Contained in his mouch and his teeth.
Tutankhamen to him was a baby,
And Adam no more than a kid ;
A thousand o' centuries, maybe,
He lived ere Deucalion did.
With the shimmering plain and the grey dell
For hia naurts, and the glades and the glens,
Who knows but what Vic. was the cradle
Ot the homo yclept sapiens?
He’d a' Pantagruelian palate,
An anthropozoical mug
And a jaw like a pile-driving mallet,
The cove from Cohuna they’ve dug.
Were they happier, he and his cronies,
Sans things that humanity has
Nowadays In abundance—the ponies,
Loud speakers and movies and jazz? .
Deprived of the ballet and chorus
Of rotary clubs and the rest,
Did chasing the plesiosaurus
Afford them more infinite zest?
Was it Sol that he waited or Luna
Its light on his footsteps to throw,
When he went to his job at Cohuna
A million summers ago?
THERE WAS A WIG IN THE WAY.
“An’ so you’ve got married at last? Wot was your idea in wait-
ing so long?”
“’Twasn’t our idea, Mrs. Maggs—it teas the Judge’s."
Did he roost in the gums and the beeches
With the birds, or in cliffs with the goats,
In the seons that fled before breeches
Were thought of —or clinics —-or votes?
And the grinders that seem they could gnaw rocks,
Such sharpness and strength they combine,
Were they tested on bones of the aurochs ?
Could they crunch through a mastodon’s spine ?
With that jaw—what a spruiker was wasted!
With those teeth —what an earbiter, too!
In the homo existence who tasted
When the heirs of the ages were new.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


am
Wik
■ :
i**tr*U8l W»*v* *v
H&nTiditt&Z!
ae
/'•/ ///«/#«* ;.**
Mute
m.
wmiM
mu
•V.-y
wMm
./ - .
mmm
1
■ ; ■ B ■ J
• V.
rV-v.yv/^.-AAv;
H
f§®P
■F
a
. .
.M
if
ssz
;
fi
!a
&
11
V?
'
SR
5®
I
v>
f*V/*A
M
H!
mm
m
m
m
m
■
m
M
mm
> :, ;•■
mmmm
w
1 •*.*: */.*.•? • ■‘Si.'-'
/
f'OODYEAR Balloon
vJ Tyres are perfected —
thoroughly tested and
completely developed to
deliver the utmost in easy
riding and every other
advantage of the low-
pressure, flexible sidewall
tyre.
4
~n<r


CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
■m 2
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Children
enjou
j
it makes them
tVeil and strona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
“Sticky Tape”: Persistently recurring
faults in telephone-lines entering the underground
cable at Norton-street, Leichhardt, Sydney, were
recently worrying the mechanical staff of the Peter-
sham exchange. Examination showed that a small
insect had made its home in the cable-head, or fuse-
HIS ADVANTAGE.
MOSES ( collector for the Chevra) : “Mr. Isaacs, you haf giffen the
society life hounds, bud your son haf giffen fifty. Doan'
you think"
ISAACS: “Veil, vy shouldn’t he gif more than me? He haf a
very wealthy fader.”
box, and was open-circuiting the lines by gnawing
the fuse-wires through. A portion of empty cocoon
in the end of each fuse-tube suggests that the insect
lies there until it emerges from the chrysalis state,
and then crawls in and does the damage. In its final
stage it is a harmless-looking black beetle about half
an inch long and very hard; the caterpillar which
precedes the beetle is, under the microscope, a hairy
customer with a spiked tail. It may be that he
alone causes the trouble. Departmental entomologists
realise that if the pest spreads it will present a
grave menace to the telephone service, but are unable
to say what it is or whence it comes. Can the
Council supply any information?
“M e P h i s t o” :
There was an enthu-
siast-most people re-
garded him as a crank
—in W.A. a few years
ago who wrote yards of
letters to any paper
that would publish
them advocating the
importation of bats to
lay the mosquito pest. A
friend of mine at
Westwood (C.Q.)
always sleeps out on
the verahdah, and
about a month ago he
was startled to find
something flitting back-
wards and forwards
just above his head.
He discovered that it
was a small bat, and
lay quiet for some
nature-study. It never
touched him, but coin
tinued flying to and
fro, sometimes only a
few inches from his
face, and has done so
every night since as
soon as he gets into
bed. He says that he
has not been troubled
with mosquitoes since
it appeared, but
whether the bat fiies
around for amusement,
and incidentally keeps
the mosquitoes away,
or whether it performs
its aerial antics ex-
pressly for the purpose
of catching mosquitoes,
he is not prepared to
say.
“Ller”: A South Grafton family had a
magpie that used to whistle “There is no luck about
the house.” Ultimately a cat put an end to his
whistle, and at once the luck of the family changed.
The father struck a thousand pounds in the Golden
Casket, and the eldest son hit Ikey for a hundred
over the Caulfield and Melbourne Cup double.
* * * *
“Nitric”: “Zulu” asks the old puzzler why
billy tea gets smoky (B. l/4/’26). It is generally due
to the fact that, as the
water boils, the escap-
ing steam produces an
air current, with the
result that suction
occurs at the top of
the billy, the smoke
then being absorbed in
the surface of the
water. But I do n’t
know why it is that it
is impossible to re-
move the billy with
the bare hands before
the water boils with-
out being burnt, where-
as it’s easy to do so
once the billy boils.
Can any Abo.-scribe
explain this in face of
the fact that the tem-
perature of the boiling
water (100 deg. centi-
grade) must be greater
than at any time pre-
ceding the boil?
“Two Seas”: Putting
the lid on will keep
the smoke out, especi-
ally when the billy is
dumped in the middle
of smoking fires. In
the old days we put
our “quarts” on the
edge of the fire, and
in lieu of a lid, after
we had lost it, we laid
a stick across the top
of the quart to keep
the water from getting
smoked. Don’t know
if it really had that
effect, but it was flat
blasphemy for any new-
chum to argue the
point.
“Aza”: Here is my
explanation of smoky
tea. An ill-fitting lid, or one not properly put on, allows
the smoke to get under it and mix with the steam,
which, on being condensed, drops into the billy and
causes the trouble. An open billy will not produce
smoky tea.
“Hayband”: It’s the imprisoned smoke that does
the damage. Tea made from water boiled in a
billy with a, tight-fitting lid, or with no lid at all,
is never smoked. “Zulu” says he has seen billies
in the middle of smoky fires yield good tea. So
have I—and they were lidless. Which to my mind
proves that free smoke doesn’t matter. Wherefore
if your billy-lid doesn’t fit tightly, dump it.
THE CONSIDERATE HUSBAND.
“Ah, Pat, Pat! If ye persist in gain’ in there ye’ll he lost!”
“No, yer Reverence. Bridget’ll find me wit’out any trouble.”
“Ettie Rout” (Lond.) : Civilised man lives
mainly on meat, white bread and ‘jam; pre-
historic man lived mainly on roots and herbs. Pish
and bird formed an occasional variation, but the
staple articles were roots and herbs. The principal
root was the sweet potato, and the most valuable
sweet potato is the taro. _ The migrations of the
brown race —the dark-whites —could be traced by
this root alone. But there pre-
historic migrations would obviously
have been impossible without
ample supplies of portable foods,
or foods which could be readily
grown and harvested and pre-
served. When the prehistoric navi-
gators sailed round Africa and
pulled up periodically to grow
supplies of food for a further
stage of their journey, what did
they grow ? Obviously roots or
tubers, for we find traces of pre-
historic terrace gardens— e.g., in
Nigeria. And they must have been
able to preserve these tubers.. How
was that done? I have asked
the Maoris, and this is what
they tell me. The: taro (the
whites’ “sweet potato”) has been
a staple article of diet for the
Maoris and their ancestors for
thousands of years. The Maori
brought it from Peru. It
should be grown, he holds, in
terrace gardens or pit cultivations,
because it requires provision
against spreading—that is, it
wants a hard bottom and hard
surrounding walls. This provision
ensures the multiplication of a
few large tubers without small
attachments. In the civilised
sweet-potato fields of Queensland
and other places, the crop is
badly grown, according to the
Maori. Taro fields should never
be tilled—that is a mischievous
waste of effort. Of old the irri-
gated terrace and pit gardens pro-
duced the best tubers, and their
young leaves and shoots were used
as pot-herbs and salads. They
were harvested when the leaves
had become a very dark green.
Sun-dried tubers were stored in
cool, dry, dark caves—stored care-
fully on a bed of dry leaves, and
the caves sealed up for months,
and even much longer, the taro
keeping perfectly. But once the
cave was opened the taro must be
used up quickly. Much was also further preserved.
Unpeeled taro was cooked in the ground-ovens (that is,
it was steam-roasted), then sliced in halves, or smaller,
and sun-dried on the thatched roofs. The tubers
were not allowed to get damp—they were gathered
in at night and in wet weather. Sometimes the
tubers were smoke-dried (after cooking). Thus
prepared, taro was very like dried bananas. It was
strung up. Sometimes these tubers were soaked ■in
warm water, but usually they were eaten dry. There
can be no doubt whatever that in these preserving
processes much of the starch of the sweet potato
was turned into sugar, and thus the tubers became
more nutritious and more palatable.
“Roma”: Many silent out-back bushmen,
when induced to say anything at all, have a unique
way of expressing themselves. A grazier of this
class is a trial to his stately wife, who wisely
endeavors to retain a youthful appearance. She
had been in indifferent health for some days—the
trouble later being diagnosed as pyorrhoea—and on
her husband coming in from the run one day, said:
“Look, dear; I think I know what is wrong. My
gums seem to be shrinking, and there are little
white spots on them.” He had a look. “Oh, that’s
nothing, girl,” he drawled. “All the old ewes
go like that.”
* * * *
“Mayne Stay”: It is stated (B. 11/3/’26)
that 14 years ago the first herd of moose was
donated to Maoriland. As a fact, moose were in-
troduced in 1899. The old Aorangi shipped 10 in
Vancouver. During very bad weather between Cape
Flattery and Honolulu seven were killed or died of
fright. The Aorangi came to Sydney in those days,
and the three survivors were transhipped at that
port and arrived safely in Maoriland. When being
landed at Flood’s Wharf, Sydney, one got away
and dashed off down the back of what is now Burns.
Philp’s wharf. It got as far as the gates that were
then at the Quay end, where it jibbed at the traffic,
turned back, and was roped in. After a week on
board, the moose quite tame, and were walked
about the deck every day for exercise.
* * ' * •
“Tamornie”: I agree with “Sylvester” (B.
8/4 / ’ 2-6) that the mango-tree makes a splendid shade
for stock, but he is wrong in stating that they do
not eat its foliage. There are a number of huge
mango-trees at Rum Jungle, on the Darwin-to-
Catherine line (N.T.). Their lower branches are
trimmed off as if with shears, where cattle and goats
have chewed them. I have not noticed any com-
ment on the fact that as many as seven sprouts
may shoot from one mango-seed, and that each
sprout, when about 9in. in length, may be separated
and, with reasonable care, will strike successfully.
The mango’s chief enemy in the N.T. is the termite,
which eats out the stem in young trees, leaving
only a thin shell of wood and bark.
* * * *
“Discord” : The Darwin coal-lumpers had
a queer experience a few months ago when coal was
imported by a cattle freighter from Borneo for the
use of the N.T.’s coastal shipping service. The
little lot arrived in bags and stop-work interludes
were frequent, for the stuff contained a small ant-
like insect with the bite of a wasp, the speed of a
cockroach and the smell of the house bug. Happily
a few hours’ exposure in the strong sunlight seemed
to be fatal to the pest. Anyone name it?
FIRST OFFENCE.
“Poor old Bill's got three years!”
“What fer?”
“Sneezin."
“Sneezin’?”
“Yes, ’e woke the watchman up.”
“Two Seas”: Old-time teamsters were ex-
perts at tapping beer-barrels en route from the rail-
head to the bush pub. I remember one bush boniface
telling me: “I wouldn’t mind the blighters helping
themselves to the beer on a hot day if they left it
at that instead of filling up the vacancy with water
and giving my beer a bad name.” The trick was
to knock up a hoop, bore a hole, fill a bucket, plug
the hole, and then drive the hoop home. In the
’nineties one teamster, bringing the Christmas beer
to Bingara from Tamworth, camped on the way and,
with the aid of his mates and passing 'swaggies,
drank the whole consignment and then returned the
empty barrels to the astonished brewer.
BUCOLIC ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Maoriland law governing art unions and raffles
stipulates that prizes must consist of works of art
or mineral specimens. The committee of the Auck-
land Winter Show has at present before it a proposal
to raffle 50 bulls, valued at £l5OO, in connection
with its June show.”
There was something of commotion when The Duke
received promotion
From the boredom of the stud-farm with its sur-
plusage of tart.
He assailed the highest fences with alarming conse-
quences—
He went drunk with exultation when declared a
work of art.
Then he bellowed for his harem in a tone that
wouldn’t scare ’em ;
All the duchesses went trooping to the lord of each
one’s heart.
“Lovely ladies! Though it grieve you, I must kiss
you all and leave you ;
I’m no bull at all, they tell me, but a bonny
work of art.”
Poor old Strawberry and Daisy became lacteally lazy,
And they chewed the cud of sorrow till his time
came round to start.
Then they wept in mooing chorus: “We have lonely
days before us,
But we’re not' the only women who've been sacri-
ficed to art.”
All the yearling steers and poddies licked emaciated
bodies
As they gazed in liquid mirrors, like an actress
in a part.
“If they think so much of father, w'e’ve undoubted
chances, rather,
Of selection for a raffle as examples of his art.”
Though I haven’t heard who drew him, if they
mounted, framed or slew him,
Or returned him to the paddocks fit to make a
second start,
I have heard it whispered slyly that he wasn’t prized
too highly
As a drawing-room example of the pastoral forms
of art.
N.S.W.
CLEMENT R. D’UPPE.


WHITE
mm
m
m&mm
*'.'«- ?;
■
» m
*.
a
•/...
*"'**■!
m
m
m
mm
■
■
■
*kj
; '-■' *Bm
■
n
m
mm
%
s
m
y
mm,
mam
* -■«*
fw
..
ms
m
m
u
:
1
m
lj
l
■I
m
m
u
* «
»
i
H
II
1
m
H
;
a
■ i
*
fl
II
m
I
BP
■
■
/■\
mm
m
m
m
i is
;
&
n
■
:
■
■
?3
i f
■
v'-V
i Hf
«
H
9SK
■^i
d *
m m
M
mil
E
la
N
I i
m
fM
mm
Wm
m
•«*r;
IS
SCOTCH WHISKY
HAS THE HIGHEST REPUTATION FOR ITS
CONSISTENT STANDARD OF QUALITY.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


Under
Royal
Warrant
j
To H.NL
George V
Vintage 1914. (
CHAMPAGNE <
Charles Heidsierk
sains .
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
<-HampaCKE
Uj ariesHeidsiecfc
Reims
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerrts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
m
i* it*
S5*
Make your reservations 8W1361.
W&ef worth Cafe
The name stands for Perfection
The Hotel
The Social Mecca of the Southern Hemisphere.
Mon., Tues, Wed. and Fri.—Dinner from 7.30
Supper from 8.30 7/0
Thursdays and Saturdays are Gala Nights.
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Supper from 8.30, 12/0.
A band plays divine music till l a.m. on these occasions.
And a complete cabaret delights the eye.
Afternoon Teas from 3.30 a feature of Sydney Life.
... 12/0
The Cafe
Order all Wines before 6.
»
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 750.
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.80, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
Sydney went down to the sea in ships on
Saturday and had a strenuous Head-of-the-
liiver holiday. Twenty ferry-steamers and
umpteen-hundred other craft bore down upon
Gladesville, freighted from top-deck to gun-
wale with flower-shows which on closer in-
spection turned out to be humanity—mostly
dapper, and gaily arrayed. The foreshore
at Gladesville and thereabouts was similarly
decorated, the flower-bed appearance being
diversified by a large dark patch on which
were assembled all the motor-cars of the
world. A bright sun and a cool, fresh breeze
made conditions ideal for the oarsmen, who
were urged on with hoarse roars and silvery
squeaks of “Shore!” “High!” “Joey!” or
“New!" as the case might be. Every lad
and lass wore school colors, and nearly
everyone had a megaphone of tin or card-
board. The racing was, of course, thrillingly
exciting, though nobody, even on the official
steamer, saw as much of it as she wanted to.
Some of the craft that constituted a floating
town at the finishing point got in the way
or the rowers in the first two races, and
the last race of the day, the contest for the
Headship, was marred by some idiot who let
off a cracker near the end of the race, caus-
ing some of the boys to slacken up, thinking
it the gun. Sydney High, holders of the
honor, won again. They were a fine,
hefty body, and Heaven is still often kind
to the big battalions.
It has become the fashion to bite hard
into the Women Painters every time they
dare to hold au exhibition of their art
divorced from that of man. Hut while the
great critic is sharpening his fangs he
sometimes misses the quiet beauty that mere
people catch upon the walls. For instance,
m the present show, take Gloria Sim’s
ore ie Storm” and Miss Armstrong’s
‘ Double Geraniums.” The State Governor’s
lady opened the show on Friday, and the
dressing of her part was more dazzling than
the book thereof. Her frock was a cinna-
mon softness topped by a hat of the large
and picturesque type, and her hands were
adorned by a cluster of golden wattle and
blue daisies—these handed over by the
society’s president, Ethel Stephens, whose
trig raiment suggested a female demonstra-
teoll of Forging Ahead in Business, rather
than the arty draperies the layman attributes
to the studio. Mrs. Hartland Hutchinson,
m silky brown, accompanied Lady de Chair
m her navigation of the gallery.
Professor Mungo MaoCallum’s lady set
the example with the plump white ostrich
feather she is so fond of; and, following the
president’s lead, plumes fat and lean basked
and nodded on many a matron’s head at the
National Council lunch last week. But one
lady, Mrs. Isaacs, just from England, broke
away from the rule and wore a toque that
looked twin to any of Queen Mary’s. Not
unlike a corner of a Spanish street brooded
that bit of Church Hill where the white-and-
green Wentworth, drenched in the mid-day
sun, perspired in view of the tiny green
reserve and the spires of St. Philip’s
and St. Patrick’s. Up to the doors
or the palm court marched or mean-
dered ladies with chins determined to
set the world right, and ladies with chins
that seemed to steer a happy course between
softness and firmness. While still the bur-
ble of meetings rustled the decorous palms
came the G.-G.’s lady, who was the guest of
honor. She was black georgette as to frock
and hatted in black crinoline, and was at-
tended by the faithful Miss Gillette.
Hundreds of Victoria Leaguers turned up
to the annual meeting on Monday night,
lhe assembly-room of the Women’s Club
was jambed tight with chairs—the league
lias now 1000 members, and gone are its
days of _ exclusiveness. Some even came to
Monday s meeting in hats and topcoats! Ex-
Lhief Justice Cullen had most of the argu-
ment to himself, and darted lightly from
trouble m the coal-mines to the beauties of
England, Wales and Scotland, with never a
glance at Ireland. But this didn’t save him •
prominent leaguers suspected him of Bolshie
tendencies when he declared that our Aus-
EnSand hSt ad b " n shippc<i t 0 ” s fr 0"“
Cranbrook School is bursting into two
entertainments in the merry month of May
lhe first will happen at Double Bay Theatre
on the 12th, and will be a songandance given
by the dashing Cheer-oh Girls. The second
is the Cranbrook Old Boys’ dance at the
school on the 14th. The function is being
stage-managed by Geoffrey Carroll, and will
be the same cheery hop as heretofore.
The two vice-reines were at the Austra-
V, a “e other morning in the interests of the
Red Cross appeal for £25,000. Judging by
the hosts of financial heavyweights, theatrical
managers, mayoresses and military brass-
hatB w i sat on that war-council, the poor
old g.p. has as much chance of not handing
out the amount as water has of not flowing
through a sieve. The G.-G.’s lady who,
among other gauds, assumes the presidency
of the Red Cross for the continent, fired the
gun, and the argument was in full stride.
Lady de Chair, who is president of the N. S.
Wales Branch, had much to say of Boding-
ton, the mountain home for T.B. soldiers:
so had Russell Sinclair and Chief Secretary
Lazzarini. A. L. Blythe, too, and Hugh
Ward raised their voices in the cause.
Nancy Bakewell, a grand-daughter of the
man who built the large ramble of masonry
near Bradley’s Head first called Bake-
well’s Folly and now Leadbeater’s Palace,
was married last week. Nancy’s father,
Alfred, squired his only daughter up St.
James’s, which was prinked out with a full
set of choristers, tulle bows and pink and
white chrysanthemums. Bruce Ryrie Camp
bell was the ’groom—lie’s a son of the Jack
Campbells of Goorianawa. Into the bridal
array was gathered the usual shimmer of
satin and pearl misted by tulle veiling, while
an armful of forced lilies-of-the-valley looked
pathetically at the world into which they
were born too soon. Two small trainbearers
and two full-grown ’maids added pictorial
effect with billows of pink and white geor-
gette. The Australia provided the bread
usual to such occasions: bride’s aunt, Mrs.
John Holme, hostessed in black velvet mil-
linery mixed with silver lace frocking.
Hardly was the ring warm on the new
Mrs. Campbell’s hand when chief bridesmaid
Alice Norton and best-man Beresford Plav-
fair announced the glad tidings of their
engagement—this to the assembly at the
Australia.
Dr. Norman Kater’s upstanding heir,
Henry, went in off the deep end of St.
James’s the other afternoon, and married
his English-Australian girl, Christina Atkin-
son. Canon Lea blessed the vows, while the
high lights in the medical and law worlds
looked on from the front pews. The bride,
who is a grand-daughter of Mrs. Hugh Mae-
neil, had as the greatest distinction among
her trappings her grandmother’s wedding
veil of silk net, exquisitely embroidered.
Ivory chiffons and a train like a rosy cloud
wearing its silver lining outside were some
of the other parts assembled in the bridal
path. Ena Macneil (from Bowral), Madeline
Macrae, Dora Burfitt and Margaret Osborne
’maided in chiffons that trembled between the
yellow and copper hues of autumn; and a
small trainbearer, Margaret Forster, was a
fluff of daffodil softness. The Rose Bay
Golf Club served the meats under the
management of Mrs Hugh Macneil,
On one of Timothy Coghlan’s last visits
to Australia his old friend William Macleod,
whose artistic
’lobby of the
mment was
odelling in
lay, made a
mst of him
md caught a
aithful like-
iess. Cast
•iter in bronze,
t was added
o Coghlan’s
ery fine pri-
ate collection
f art treas-
ures in London.
Lor Coghlan
was a great
leal more than
5 1 at i s tician
uid financier.
Le had a fine
irtistic sense;
here was a
brief time, in-
deed, when J. F. Archibald looked upon his
friend as his own most likely successor in the
chair of The Bulletin. The little picture
herewith is a photo of the cast that Mr.
Macleod made.
Of interest to Queenslanders was the wed-
ding last week of Gwen Thompson and
Gerald Cadden. Gwen, who is a daughter of
the late E. J. Thompson of Townsville, met
her Mosman young man at the Grahame
Memorial Church in Waverley, and Padre
John Macaulay saw to the rest. To the
tulle, ivory georgettes and orange blossom of
the bride’s raiment sister Clare added the
support of apricot-hued taffetas.
Solicitor Grafton Purves, as this Letter
gets into her pink overall, is abjuring a
fairly long-cherished bachelorhood at St.
Philip’s. The bride is Irene, only sister of
pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith. A feature
of the wedding-dress of ivory georgettes is
its top sheath of Irish lace of very advanced
years—in fact, 200. Bride’s cousin Iris de
Cairos Rego and niece Morey Smith are
attending the bride. Covers are laid for
100 at Petty’s. The ’groom got an M.C.
in the late war; he was in India and Mespot
with an English regiment. He is a son of
late genial Jock, of the old auctioneering
firm of Batt, Rodd and Purves.
A covey of eight wliite-satined and silvered
debs, made their curtsey to the big world at
the Autumn ball last week. The Wentworth,
garlanded with chrysanthemums and dahlias
and autumn leaves, pretended that winter
was nearly upon us, but Mercury and the
Moon laughed at the idea. The dance, which
was to swell the building fund of St. Anne’s
Church, at Bondi, drew its multitudes from
the surfing suburb. Good-looking Mrs.
McNiven, the president, was handsomely up-
holstered in black marocains charged with
brilliants; Florrie Howard and Miss Don-
nelly were the hard-working secretaries: and
to Florrie, in turquoise-blue and gold rai-
ment, also fell the task of introducing the
fledglings to the social world by way of
the presidential handshake.
With the name he should have been a poet,
but Alan Treloar is a lI.Sc. in the section
of Agriculture
who covered
himself with
honors during
a brilliant
passage
through Syd-
ney Univer-
sity. Lately
he plucked the
Farrer Mem-
orial scholar-
ship, and left
by the Tntrfi
last month
f o r Minne-
sota Univer-
sity to plunge
into special re-
search work on
the flour values
of wheat. This
is the one sub-
ject the young
, . T man grows
lyric over. He will spend 12 months in the
States and some months in Europe; then
back to more work at Sydney Uni., with the
hope of multiplying the loaves that lie within
the ear of wheat. Alan is a product of the
North Sydney High School, and is one of
the Treloars of Gordon—there are six
brothers to carry on the clan. Sidney Riley
is responsible for the picture.
Sevenoaks, at Darlinghurst, another of
Sydney’s historic homes, falls into the hands
of the flat-builder. In recent times it was
Bland Holt’s Sydney residence; lie sold it
only after he had fully made up his mind to
remain in Melbourne. Australia’s second
Judge, who was afterwards Chief Justice
Dowling, occupied it for a time: the royal
coat-of-arms let in abowe the drawing-room
mantelpiece may have been placed there by
him, or it may be a relic of some previous
tenancy. It is all misty, for the Judge
died in 1844.
Agnes Murphy writes from Nice:—
On the Riviera, whose wattle now challenges
Australia’s for profusion and beauty, there are many
reminders of a still sunnier south. The eucalyptus,
the Moreton Bay fig and the camphor laurel all
flourish exceedingly. And at every turn along the
wonderful road from Marseilles to Genoa one meets
visitors from the Commonwealth. At Nice, the
home of many of her great successes, I saw Lalla
Miranda, looking very debonair. At Cannes, Andre
Skalski, who gave up his post as director of the
Carl Rosa Opera, was giving lecture recitals on the
same lines as those with which he delighted Sydney
at Beale’s Studios. E. J. Tait, with his wife and
daughter, thoroughly enjoyed a visit to Monte Carlo,
and the Ramaeiottis were often out on the enchanting
Upper Corniche-road. At Menton Miss Critchley
Parker was an interested spectator of the tennis
contests. Other familiar faces on the Cote d’Azur
were Mrs. Quinnell of -Melbourne, Mr. Harold Cathie
of the same city, and Miss Nell Barker of Coogee.
Mrs. Brown Potter has a beautiful home on the
heights of Monaco, overlooking the Condamine and
Monte Carlo, which is only about a thousand yards
away. It is called the Villa des Marguerites, and has
a perfectly enclosed courtyard on the mountain side
where she can contemplate those phases of Eastern
philosophy in which she is now so deeply interested.
A near neighbor is Mrs. Langtry, who has named
her abode Villa Fleur de Lys. The two are good
friends and are often seeh together on the terrace.
Lily Langtry’s hair, by the favor of her coiffeur, is
still honey-colored, and she does not look her generous
years. I called on Mrs. Potter, whose hair is snow-
white and Lobbed, and found that her eyes have yet
the star-like beauty of her youth. All America has
lately been agog over the reconciliation of her
daughter (Fifi Potter) with her multi-millionaire
husband, James Stillman, from whom she had previ-
ously won the largest alimony ever awarded in any
court. Last year Mrs. Potter’s adopted daughter
died, and from the shock of this bereavement she has
/not yet recovered. She is one of the most sought-
after personalities on the Riviera.
(( The house which greeted the revival of
“Lilac Time” on Saturday night was given
to bestow another greeting
,$ e lights went up, after the first act,
c,^ lsCOV<^ e< i Toti dal Monte sitting,
with Signor Beuf and the Italian Consul, in
T,ri^n Pr0 ™ Pt x ' r^le applause started
*l, r *PP*f (probably a managerial shove-
on), but when the audience woke to the
presence of the robust little lady, charmingly
bowing her response, it cascaded its welcome
from packed gallery and equally packed
circle, and made a fountain of it from below,
loti arrived in the darkness after the first
act bad commenced, and, having received
her tribute, vanished before the second act
concluded. Perhaps she had greetings to
gather elsewhere.
The girl was small and shrinking, and the
grey eyes under her black Tam reminded one
‘iT-i° ve . s She mounted the stairs
at Alilson s Point rather languidly, for the
hour was midnight. The conqueror gave
a hitch to his pants that displayed another
i? , his devastating socks, turned on his
\ alentmo tooth-display, and cooed in her
Do y°u mind if I walk up the road
with you? The little thing turned, looked
at him reflectively, and said: “Why? Are
you frightened?’ The conqueror stepped
back suddenly, like a stag at bay, and the
girl with the dove s eyes pursued her languid
way.
Another petticoat (if that nowadays means
what it used to) will thrust itself into the
business of collecting Costs when Elaine
Shorter completes her articles with solicitor
Alfred Mitchell. She has been attending
the law school for the last four years, and
this year secured her Laws degree and also
the Rose Scott prize. She belongs to the
Parramatta Shorter family, and her earlier
education was at the Burwood M.L.C.
From the blazing sunshine of the streets
into the viuior-bath of the Repertory rooms
came on Friday Renee Kelly snugly em-
bedded in a fur coat and a lilac felt hat.
ihe sight made everybody reel in a bath
ot perspiration, but the hostess, Mrs. A. G
1 nomas, recovered sufficiently to murmur
the right smile above her own diaphanous
brown georgettes. Pirie Bush was the aide
ot the occasion, and graceful Beatrice Day
added dignity to the group.
The Maccabean Hall, established four
years ago as the war memorial of the Chosen
in Sydney, had settled down to carry the
burden of a building debt when A. M. Loewen-
thal became president last year. He wasn’t
satisfied. By personal effort he dredged half
the amount of the debt, £5OOO, from the
pockets of the Children of Israel.; and when
amidst loud cheers he was a few days ago re-
elected for a further period, he was able to
announce that he had promises of £3OOO to-
wards the balance. Mr. Lowenthal, who
writes “big business” for the A.M.P., was
born at Grafton, a district which once had
a big Jewish community.
Miss Brisbane’s chronicle :
Arnold Weinholt had arranged to address an Anzac
Day meeting at Toogoolawah, but just at the
appointed time a big fire started'in the township, and
it looked for a time as though the whole place was
going to be a cinder. As it was, 10 shops were
burnt out. Weinholt took off his coat to it, and,
battling with the best, helped to save the Town Hall
where the meeting was to have been held; but the
talk was, of course, postponed.
There were “roses, roses all the way’’ for the fare-
well at the Women’s Club to Mrs. e! B. Harris and
her daughter Noela, who are going to England. Mrs.
Wedd presented the full-blown flowers to Mrs. Harris,
and an early-Victorian posy of their buds to Noela.
Mrs. Harris was in black chenille; her daughter in
black and crimson. The president (Mrs. Wedd) chose
black satin charmante. A charming innovation was
the dressing up of members to represent characters
from Nursery Rhymes; Jean Moore, Martha Burns,
Gwen Hughes, E. Marchant, H. Hill and Mrs. J. H.
Pollard took part in this. There was also a bon-
voyage charade. Mabel Zillman and Grace Gordon
did the musical part. Mrs. Herring and Freda Bage
were amongst the audience.
News comes from Paris of the illness of Mrs.
A. H. Whittingham, who recently went to the Cold
Country and got scarlet fever. Latest reports are
encouraging.
John George Cribb, for many years master at the
Boys’ Grammar, has gone over the hill. He won a
scholarship at the school in ’76 and the John West
prize at Sydney Uni., where he graduated M.A. He
leaves three sons and six daughters. One son is
a doctor, and two girls are nurses. He did much
for education in Queensland and especially for the
Uni. extension lectures.
When the Uni. students had their commem. day
Queen-street was the headquarters of the callow fun.
Cumbrae Stewart (who always has a merry twinkle)
came in for his share of the ragging, and the
newly-formed Health Board for the pursuit of the
tiger mosquito was largely caricatured. Even the
Strong Man of Bananaland did not escape.
Augathella has a supremely useful war memorial—
a concrete operating-theatre, fitted with every modern
convenience. Finely situated, too, with hospital
and doctors’ quarters near, and overlooking a street
fringed by magnificent bottle trees. Financially,
the Augathella hospital is one of the soundest in
Queensland; though the town is small, the district
is extensive, the next nearest towns with medical
stations being Tambo, 80 miles to the north, and
Charleville, 100 miles to the south.


haTrjdy blos ltd.
J E WELLE R~S - -
.
m
m
''3&lsBpF
p>
Si
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Specialising in Engagement Rings, Hardy Brothers
offer values that are not excelled in Australia.
Each ring is made in the Company s own workshops,
under the supervision of its experts, and is hand-
forged for added strength. None but high-quality
gems are featured in Hardy’s Rings, and the settings
all display that delicacy of workmanship and
finish that is associated with the Company s
exclusive jewellery.
Selections of Rings will be sent to any address on
approval, with finger-size card, at Hardy Brothers
risk and expense.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will be sent post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
'ZfUWous*. aPQ«Uusux.3eu>e&y
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-IJS
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
Have You Considered the Advantages
of a Reflex Camera?
Press Photographers Invariably Use One.
The Ensign film Reflex
combines the advantages of a Roll Film Camera
and a Reflex, and brings Reflex Photography
within the reach of every amateur.
With it you see your proposed “snap full size
right up to the moment of exposure, and you
can focus it with absolute certainty. It takes
the standard No. 120 spool, which costs 1/1
Pictures are 3 -4- x 2\.
With
T., T. & H.
Luxor
Anastigmat
Lens, F.7.7
£4/12/6
tfcVER MOVEMENT
TOR SETTING MIRROR
AND SHUTTER.
SILENT FILM
WINDER
NEW TYPE
Bkl SHUTTER
ĵ
■ DEEP FOLDING HOO»
-FOCUSSING DEVICE
T.T.BM LUXOR
'AHASTI6MAT LEMS
With
Ross
Anastigmai
Lens,
£5/15/-
LT?
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Established 37 years.
KATOOMBA: liatooniba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street,
MKLIiOUBXE: -(ifi Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.: 140 Qneen Street.
By appointment
to H.M. the King.
Crossley Motors Ltd.,
England.
o
PRICES
15/30-h.p. Model,
£545
15/30-h.p. Model.
Australian Body.
£495
Let a British Car reflect your pride of ownership.
FOR the first time in history the journey
from CAPE to CAIRO has oeen
accomplished by motor-car. Once
again the apparently impossible has been
achieved by CROSSLEY CARS. No other
car in the world has ever completed this
gigantic task. Thirteen thousand miles througti
unknown country where no roads exist, through
veritable seas of mud, across rivers and over
the desert. More than once the cars were
completely submerged, but the journey always
went on to its final triumphant conclusion.
This is the kind of service all Crossley Cars are
built to give. They succeed where other cars
fail. In this Cape-to-Cairo journey they have
demonstrated again their extraordinary quality,
their soundness of design, and their strength.
All Crossley Cars are built to one standard—
the highest. Whether you are interested in
the popular 15-30-h.p. (R.A.C. Rating • )
from £495, or the 19.6 (the car which broke
al> R A.C. Certified Trial Car Mileage Records)
from £B9O, it will pay you to ask for details
of Crossley models at once.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LIMITED, 87 William Street, Sydney.
CROSSLEY DISTRIBUTORS PTY., LTD., 116 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.
By appointment to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
Let a British car reflect
your pride of ownership.


Don’t lose your Good Looks
Left to itself your skin will gradually but
inevitably lose its clearness and fine texture
and become wrinkled and otherwise blemished.
But if every night you give your facea Pomeroy
massage,then,despite ad vancingyears and the
strain of life, you will keep it wrinkle-free
and youthful looking. It is the nourishment
in Pomeroy Skin Cream that accomplishes
this wonderful work of rejuvenation.
POMEROY
SKIN CREAM
(Formerly Pomeroy Skin Food)
Obtainable from all Australian Stores ajid Chemists,
or from the POMEROY DEPOT (Ripley & Simpson),
Macdonell House, SYDNEY.
j
Fi
It
MM
m
Swallow* ARinfs
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious-
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
\\
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
To-morrow and Saturday will be wildly
happy days for the flapper and her big
brother at school, for on those days the
struggle for the glory of Head-of-the-River
will take place. For the last fortnight every
afternoon the banks of the Yarra by Prince’s
Bridge have been thronged by pretendedly
critical but really admiring crowds to watch
the training of the crews. The fight will
be keen this year; and considerable gaiety
has been arranged in connection with the
great event. Beside gala nights at His
Majesty’s and the Ward theatres on Satur-
day, both nights are ticked off for smart
dances.
Had a tally been taken of stalls and d.c.
at the first showing of “The Yeomen of the
Guard” on Saturday night the sterner sex
wotild have been found to be in a very
large majority. There was a full house,
but the atmosphere was not as cheerful as
it might have been, the weather forecast
containing such phrases as “very cold,”
“rain,” and “snow on the hills.” And even
when women came in evening apparel they
did not discard fur coats and wraps, for the
’flu germ was suspected to be lurking in
every corner. There was a glad welcome and
many a posy for Strella Wilson as Elsie
Maynard. She is looking somewhat plumper
than of yore. As the strolling player she
wore a bright-green flowing head-dress
with a white chemisette and brightly, be-
ribboned brown skirt. A pretty garment was
her wedding-gown, chiefly featuring narrow
white satin ribbon. Mabel Gibson as
Phoebe made quite a hit, recalling Maud
Fane’s handling of the part. She looked
uncommonly pretty in a tan and re.d-striped
frock with a ruby feather mount upraised
upon saucy velvet millinery. The brave
Yeomen of the Guard seemed, in contrast
to the sombre dressing of the house, more
gorgeous than ever in the crimson uniform
and black velvet flower-wreathed hat of the
Beefeaters. The chorus of maidens in varied
hued skirts and bonnets, with laced velvet
bodice over white blouses, faded into insig-
nificance before such splendor. Judge and
Mrs. Williams were there, very proudly
looking upon their daughter, now in the
"i-ront row of the chorus.
Moonee Valley, fashionably clad in the
brightest of green after the rain, drew sports
a-plenty for the Eight-Hours’ Day meeting.
Winter coats, furs and felt hats constituted
the dressing of most fair patrons. Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens wore an ensemble of snuff-
brown with harmonising hat; daughter
Eorna, a beige hat above a suit of natural
Kasha cloth. Mrs. Rogers Thomson had
with her daughter Kathleen, who will be a
deb. this season; mother had a tailored turn-
out of cinnamon tone. A visitor from the
Apple Isle, Mrs. Hunter McKay, wore a
black velvet hat and a black cloth suit
brightened with Oriental touches.
Britain’s future hearts of oak fraternised
with our most charming maidens when the
E.S.U. arranged a dance at Scott’s for the
cadets of the training-ships Makalla, Devon
and Kentucky. The brass-buttoned navy-
blue uniform of the 50 guests made a first-
rate foil for the dainty apparel of their part-
ners. To get all the lads and lassies
acquainted, a change of partners after each
dance was made the rule. Mrs. Richard
Gipps, whose husband secretaries the E.S.U.,
bad a good deal to do with the proceedings.
She wore ivory faille scattered with rose
posies and gold leaves. Mrs. Walson Robert-
son, whose golden-brown robe had em-
broidery in beads of red and green, brought
daughter Elspeth, wearing a mauve frock
with blue petals. The Hennessy dame was
accompanied by her two daughters. Mrs.
Eric Hewett came in a flaj-ed frock of ivory
satin, upon which gold butterflies rested
above an edging of fur. Mrs. C. W. Wilson,
who lent much help, wore a gown of coral
pink that was punctuated with cerise. Ali-
son Clarke was a charming lassie in almond-
green taffeta scalloped over ivory lace ; Dr.
Ethel Osborne’s daughter Audrey also danced
in a green frock; and Peggy Swanson was
a study in silver and powder blue, worked
out in lame and lace.
This year’s International Motor Show at
the. Exhibition Building is notable for the
artistic and convenient arrangement of ex-
hibits. To the feminine visitor who knows
little of a car’s inner workings, all makes
look much alike; and she is more ex-
cited over a Ford touring-car dressed in grey
picked out with bands of sapphire blue than
over the fact that a Rolls-Royce limousine
has various bits of its internal machinery
silver-plated. A radio-set, part of one car’s
equipment, made less appeal than the pro-
vision of sundry snug nooks for brushes and
vanity-cases provided by the thoughtful de-
signer of the same model. Not only the
whole of the Exhibition Building, but almost
all the Aquarium as well has been comman-
deered for the show this year. There are
cars parked even iu the “art gallery,” their
background a weird collection of religious
and secular paintings and plaster casts of
famous statues. Commissioner .Clapp’s de-
partment illustrates with quite a large model
engine and motor what so often happens
when a motorist recklessly dashes over a
level-crossing. Many new Clappisms appear
upon gay posters to supplement the horrible
example. The Civil Aviation Department
pushes in, too, pointing mankind to the skies
with a Moth ’plane and a model of the
Widgeon flying-boat.
Ballarat, which had expected a show at
the wedding of its Archbishop’s daughter,
suffered a grievous disappointment. The
ceremony was quietly got through at the
Bishopscourt Chapel. Dr. Gumbleton,
assisted by the Vicar of Warrnambool, tied
the knot which converted his daughter Mar-
garet into Mrs. Lester-Garland. The bride,
who was escorted to the altar by her
brother, Captain Maxwell Gumbleton, M.C.,
was surrounded by ivory brocade glinting
silver through a precious lace veil, an heir-
loom that has seen considerable service. Miss
Lester-Garland, the bridegroom’s sister, cut
short a Tasmanian visit to walk in attend-
ance. Captain Arthur Lester-Garland, M.C.,
Ist Punjab Regiment, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Lester-Garland, Batliford House, Somerset,
England, received his bride from her mother.
After a short honeymoon Captain and Mrs.
Lester-Garland will sail for India and their
home in the Punjab.
Frank Tate, Director of Education, gave
his younger daughter, Winifred Margaret, to
Dr. J. J. Scarby, of Woodend, at Christ
Church, South Yarra. The bride, who is
an Arts graduate of Melbourne Uni., wore
a silver-embroidered georgette gown, with a
train of silver lame over which fell the long-
veil of tulle. Efiie Richardson attended her
in a coral-pink frock inlet with godets of
gold lace. The bridegroom is the second son
of the Kew Searbys.
When Beatrice, elder daughter of the F.
W. Fischers, of Queen’s-road and one of the
prettiest of last year’s debs., changed her
name to Long, St. John’s, Toorak, was
beautified with autumn foliage and blossoms,
and a merry peal came from the belfry. The
bridegroom is an Apple Isle flying-man, and
lias to his credit the pioneer flight over Bass
Strait. The bride’s array caused a flutter,
for her mother’s wedding-veil, which ran to
about six yards of beautiful Limerick lace,
formed a train over a short gown of white
velvet girdled with silver and pearls; a tulle
veil fluttered from beneath a lace cap. A
quartette of maids glittered in gold lace and
lame frcks, with millinery of gold tulle.
Jack Cross came from the Western district
to support the ’groom in his flight; and three
hundred guests assembled at the Windsor
afterwards.
Here is Lafayette’s new picture of the
wife of Chief Justice Irvine, Lieutenant-
(fovernor of
Victoria. Since
the Str a d-
brokes put out
to sea, the
Chief Justice’s
lady, though
she has never
courted social
limelight, has
played her
part of first
lady in the
State, and
played it very
g raci ously.
Her interests,
apart from her
own home, are
centred in giv-
ing the Aus-
tralian baby a
fair chance to
grow up a
good, healthy
citizen. Her own little family consists of
one son and two daughters. Before her mar-
riage but that was 35 years ago—she was
Agnes Wanliss; father was for years and
years one of Ballarat’s best-known citizens
and an M.L.C.
Isa Edmeades, who went to India at the
end of last year, there to collect her cousin,
Mrs. Hudson-Eastwood, for a European
ramble, has cancelled her return ticket. Her
marriage will take place at Nice this month.
Captain J. P. D. Dickie is to be the happv
man. Bride s father is T. A. Edmeades, for-
meriy Chief Inspector of the National Bank,
who has rushed off to Europe to meet the
new son-in-law and lend his support to the
ceremony.
The Science Congress, which will pre-
sently assemble at Tokio, has invited George
Pitt Rivers to attend and read a paper;
and Oxford University has rewarded his
scientific labors by conferring on him an
honorary B.Sc. Anthropology is the hobby
of our late G.-G.’s son-in-law. Oxford
apparently thinks more of his work than
the hard-heads of the Islands do.
The Women’s Club raised £4O for the
.Lust Melbourne Foundling Home by a bridge
party at Scott’s; Mrs. T. P. Man'gan, Mrs.
l>. R. Mackie and Mrs. C. Bridgeman were
responsible for the arrangements. The club,
which lately held its fourth annual meeting,
has its quarters in Bourke-street, above the
Causeway. Suburban and country members
make a lot of use of the rooms, which are
right in the shopping centre.
Archibald Colquhoun, who after some
years as chief • pupil in the Max Meldrum
school took
his eager pal-
ette and
brushes to
Paris, lately
came back. In
his studio at
the top of the
Austral Build-
ing in Collins-
street he is
busy complet-
in g sketches
and studies
made during
his couple of
years abroad,
and soon he
will hold an
e x h i b i tion.
Arriving in
Paris, he dug
himself into
the new Latin
quarter of
Montparnasse, painted regularly in the
Louvre, and toiled and toiled. Incidentally,
he adopted the beard of the Continental
painter, faithfully depicted here by Broo-
thorn. Working at portraiture, still life and
landscape, the artist had pictures accepted
and; hung at the exhibition of the Societe
Artistes Franqaise, 1924, Salon d’Automne,
1925, and the Royal Institute of Oil Paint-
ers across the Channel. Two other Meldrum
students, Justus Jorgensen and Colin Cola-
han, still in Paris, were represented also at
these art shows.
The Social Service Auxiliary of Melbourne
Hospital rendered an account of its second
year of activity at the institution last week.
Though hampered by want of funds these
women take in hand much of the after-care
of patients, and also relieve the hospital of
a deal of financial outlay. Unfortunately,
owing to financial difficulties—including
garage rent —the auxiliary has had to put its
car aside for awhile. This ’bus was used for
the transport of patients leaving, and also
for out-door patients receiving treatment who
were unable to travel by public vehicle. Mrs.
G. G. Henderson, president of the District
Nursing Society, suggested that the auxiliary
should let the world know what it was
doing; in which case she w T as sure that funds
would pour in generously. Mrs. Edgar Dye,
who raised over £lOO by only one of her
efforts last year, was elected president in
place of Judge Quick’s earnest lady, who re-
tains her interest in the work as patroness.
There were jazzy sounds and the rhythmic
shuffle of many feet at the Women’s Auto-
mobile Club when members had another jolly
little dance, chiefly engineered by Mrs. Mau-
rice Patkin, whose attire was dull gold and
bronze in hue. The president, Mrs. H. J.
Robertson, had some touches of gold upon
her black velvet, and secretary Mrs. 11. S.
Patterson wore black georgette embroidered
in gold and crystal.
Arthur Streeton’s canvases now adorning
the top-floor walls of the Fine Art Gallery
were privately viewed on a recent afternoon.
The prices for Streeton’s works (not given
on the catalogue) are a bit startling. In-
quiry. revealed that quite a modest-seeming
still-life study was calculated to fetch 80
guineas, and that “Mount Dandenong,” a
wonderful, glowing bit of bush with the
bluest of blue haze thereon, was 250 guineas’
worth. Mr. and Mrs. Streeton were there
to hear the flattering comments and the
vain regrets of impecunious art-lovers. She
wore black, with a deep collar of ermine
and grey fox, and a black hat with swoop-
ing feathers. Mrs. Pitt Rivers, in a one-
piece suit of bottle-green with upturned felt
hat, was in the throng.
The new Quamby Club will, it is said,
cause even the members of the very exclusive
Alexandra Club a pang. From its present
rather cramped quarters in the Centreway
it will be transferred, with all its goods and
chattels, to a more spacious perch in the
new buildings of the National Bank in
Collins-street. Quamby henceforward is to
have the extra attraction of residential quar-
ters, and bids fair to be the swankiest club
of its kind in this fair city.
The Victoria League in Victoria has got
in early and secured the promise of the
Governor-Designate a(nd Lady Somers to
attend a ball at St. Kilda on July 9.
Clever little amateur actress Isabel
Handley, who when she is not poring over
ledgers in an office at the Town Hall is
writing sketches and plays, has taken upon
her shoulders the production of Shaw’s
“Devil’s Disciple,” by the Repertory Society.
This will be the lirst performance here of
the play. Saturday night will see the pre-
miere of the week’s run. Miss Handley has
a place also in the big cast, which includes
Helton Daniell, Norman Simpson and other
well-known amateurs.
The Queen Victoria Hospital is to reap
the benefit of the first performance of Mona
Mcßurney’s opera “The Dalmatian,” based
on Marion Crawford’s novel. The com-
poser has had many disappointments
over the production of this work, but at
last we are to hear it in its entirety on
.June 25 and 26 at the Playhouse. The
first meeting in connection with the event
was called by Mrs. Norman Brookes, presi-
dent of the hospital, at her home, and lots
of help was offered. Miss Michaelis and
Mrs. Drake Brockman will be secretaries to
the venture, other workers including the Best
and Tallis ladies, Mrs. W. M. Robins, Mrs.
Norman Falkiner and Mrs. Clarence Mar-
riott. Business over, there was tea, and
song by Dr. Bartolini and William Murison,
and Mrs. Pauli Carter did things at the
piano.
Edward Goll faced the keyboard of a some-
what unresponsive pianoforte with a loose
pedal at the Assembly Hall on a recent
evening. The popular pianist, who does not
memorise his offerings, had the pages of the
works of many composers turned for him.
He was most successful in a Cesar Franck
number, and four Ravel pieces found n*,ich
acceptance. The older classics were repre-
sented by a Schubert “Fantasie” poetically
played.
The turning of Canberra into a habitable
city is making some progress. Mrs. Lane
Poole has been engaged to use her talents
upon the interior decoration and furnishing
of Federal Government House and the Prime
Minister’s dwelling. It has just been dis
covered, by the way, that the vice-regal
accommodation is quite inadequate— apart
from the fact that there is no ballroom!
G. B. Post met with a chapter of acci-
dents at a recent matinee of “The Bad Man.”
First the ’flu seized upon his dresser, and
the actor’s rococo attire and swarthy com-
plexion had to be placed upon him by some
mere outsider. Then, when the great man
was ready for the stage and pranced in at
the end of the first act, yelling “You are my
prisoners,” down came the monogrammed
red-plush curtain, and with it thunderously
clanged the seven tons of safety curtain'.
Flash went all the proscenium fuses, and as
the electricians pronounced it a three hours'
job to restore the lights the audience got its
money back.
The Shakspeare Society had a special enter-
tainment at the Assembly Hall in honor
of the birthday of its hero. Excerpts from
various plays were interspersed with song.
The Nyallo Players gave scenes from “Henry
VI.” and “The Taming of the Shrew.” «T.
Beresford. Fowler and Ruth Conabere
appeared in the best offering of the evening,
the wooing scene from “The Taming of the
Shrew,” and Howard Edie’s items were from
“Hamlet.” Mrs. Alberto Zelman and Morti-
mer Pettigrove sang some Skakspearean
lyrics, and Constance Ziebell was there with
her fiddle. Professor W. A. Osborne, the
president of the society, spoke quite kindly
about immortal Bill.
Sister Adelaide’s account of her doings:—
Visitors to this village have included Miss Simpson,
Sydney’s Monvessori expert, who is full of praise
for our State schools, especially the infant sections,
and finds their “tone, standard of merit, and attitude
of teachers and children towards their work” un-
excelled in any part of the world. Local educationists
met her at tea at the Wentworth, with Mrs. McCoy
as hostess and Mrs. Guy Jleresford to help her mother
do the honors.
The engagement is announced of Portia, second of
the R. H. Pulliene daughters, to Morgan, elder son
of the Claude Lucases, of Anlaby, Kapunda.
Unless somebody develops an extra punch, there
will be hard words and tricky driving on the night
of the Government House reception for the Stone-
havens. The main entrance is still blocked by scaffold-
ing and mortar, and all coming and going- is by
the side gate that opens into narrow Kintore-avenue
• —usually an exit only when anything big is afoot.
The said avenue is a blind one, too, blocked by
posts where its further end abuts on the parade
ground. When all our cars and most of our taxis
try to get in and out by the same gate, and to
disentangle themselves in the roadway afterwards,
there should be something doing.
Gawler is adding a maternity wing to the Hut-
chinson Hospital, the bulk of the funds again coming
from that generous bequest. Lady Bridges, with Girl
Guides as her guard of honor, tapped the foundation
stone into place.
Anzae Day, cold and-grey and stormy, was marked
chiefly by the admirably arranged parades and the
services at the Women’s Memorial Garden at Penning-
ton-terrace, and in Elder Park. For the parade
there was one of the biggest musters of returned men
since the war, and there was an extra big attendance,
too, at the R.S.A. dinner. The Governor had a
special word of appreciation for the spirit in which
this State celebrated the Day.


A. SAUNDERS’
r.&'ji
8.322.
Grandfather & Grandmother
CHIMING CLOCKS.
VERY ATTRACTIVE DESIGNS.
Guaranteed Movements.
8.322 Small Model Grandmother, deep-tone strike, Mission Oak
Case, #-‘lO. Similar design, f Westminster Chime,
£l2/10/-
Full -size Grandfather and Grandmother chiming Westminster,
Strikes Litchfield at the hours. Mission Oak Cases,
£2O, £2l, £25, £3O £4O.
Inlaid Mahogany Case, £3 ( /10/-
With combination Whittington and full Westminster Chime,
£45, £55, £75.
All CLOCKS
are
thoroughly
tested, oiled
and
regulated
before leav-
ing our
Showrooms.
HALL CLOCKS.
B.323—Mission Oak Cases.
■*7*~*!*
A
•v
5
H
9.
8.323.
Striking hours and half-horns, accurate timekeepers, £3/10/*, £4/4/*, £4/10/*, £o.
Walnut Case, f Westminster Chime, Strikes Litchfield at the hours, bevelled-glass doors,
£B/10/-, £lO.
Similar designs, carved Oak Cases, full Westminster Chime, £lO.
Handsomely-carved Oak and Mahogany Cases, bent glass sides, high-grade movement, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—J eweller—Optician,
805*813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
LEARN TO DRAW
And Earn Money as a Black-and-White Artist
THE WESTON FOSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING teaches
you thoroughly because it has been prepared by the man
who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and
each student has the helpful stimulus of Mr. Weston’s
PERSONAL CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his work.
IT TEACHES YOU TO DRAW— NOT TO COPY !
The fascination of drawing is very real. Apart from commercial
considerations, you can provide endless pleasure and amuse-
ment for your friends by bright snappy sketches.
Send three stamps to cover
postage, and we will forward
Mr. Weston's booklet —
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN’ -
—which tells all about the
course, and gives examples of
lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
§ll
«.x
<
& >•
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
41 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
tmm
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


Dodge that
Pot Hole!
and show up the bumps in the road with
a clear beam from your headlights.
Now that the long winter nights are here you
will appreciate the brilliant illumination made
possible by your Westinghouse Battery. Every
ridge, every bad patch in your path, is vividly
distinct, and easv to avoid.
i 1
3-:
There’s no chance of
a failure at the wrong
moment. Westing-
house thoroughness
has seen that every
detail of its battery
construction is worthy
of your service and
its good name.
So for your comfort’s
sake insist on a Westing-
house Battery at the next
renewal.
WESTINGHOUSE
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne'.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd & Co„ 22-24 Divett Place and Rtiper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Geo.Geard & Co., Ltd., Launceston, andßobt. Nettlefold, Pty. Ltd,Hobart
NEW ZEALAND: North Island: Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street. Wellington.
Canterbury etc.. Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street. Dunedin.
r.
□
<a
N
\
Make slippery
roads safe
WHENEVER you drive on wet, slip-
pery pavements, be sure to have
Weed Tyre Chains on your wheels. Weed
Chains are accident insurance. They grip
and hold, and reduce to a minimum the
tendency to skid.
Weed Chains take you over the worst roads and
back. They furnish traction- —stop power loss
and save petrol. They make driving easier, safer
and more comfortable.
Insist upon genuine Weed Chains. You
can easily distinguish them by their brass-
plated cross chains and red connecting
hooks with the name Weed stamped ,
on them.
Made for all tyres—cord, balloon, fabric
—for passenger cars and trucks in Reg-
ular, De Luxe and Extra Heavy styles.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
WEED TYRE CHAINS
ĵ
j
On
the
When game is “on the wing” that is the time a
RELIABLE cartridge MUST be used if a good bag
is to be secured.
ELEY GRAND PRIX
All-British
CARTRIDGES
Are Sure Game Getters.
Loaded with Smokeless Diamond” powder they
are “Marvellously Quick” and sure killers at well
beyond the average range.
o
Oi
NOBEL 1
Loaded at NobeFs
Australian Factory.
Wholesale Only:—
Ammunition (Nobel) Proprietary, Ltd.
380 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
New Zealand:
L. H. Labone.
17 Resolution Street,
Lyall Bay,
Wellington.
QUICKER PLOUGHING-—MORE GROUND COVERED BY
THE TRACTOR—SO PER CENT. LESS OIL USED AND
NO LOSS OF TIME THROUGH FAULTY LUBRICATION.
The wheat-grower who lubricates his tractor on “AG ItICA STROL”
finds a fourfold saving over the man who is content to save on the price
per gallon and spend in other ways.
WAKEFIELD
a
J/
FARM TRACTOR OIL
IS SPECIALLY MANUFACTURED FOR PARAFFIN-
DRIVEN VEHICLES
and overcomes all the troubles present in the “hit-or-miss” lubrication of
the ordinary so-called “cheaper-but-just-as-good” oils.
“AGRIOASTROL” enables the engine to develop its utmost power, thus
getting a greater distance covered per day.
It seals the pistons and is not subject to dilution by the fuel as ordinary
oils —therefore goes longer without needing to be renewed.
It ,saves, the beamings—-big ends do not seize, and all moving parts main-
tain the rhythmical running that is the ideal condition of a perfectly
working tractor.
It saves wages by enabling the driver to do more ploughing per day and
prevents all the interruptions due to having to make the mechanical adjust-
ments and repairs that are inevitable with faulty lubrication —and —
It lengthens the life of the tractor by eliminating the friction which,
sooner or later, destroys the engine.
“AGRIOASTROL” is recommended for the following tractors: —
BRITISH-WALLIS (Ruston Hornsby, Ltd.)
CASE
CLETRAC
FIAT (Garratts, Ltd.)
FORDSON
HART-PARR (Gibbs, Bright & Co.)
McCORMICK-DEERING (I. H. Co. of Aus.)
PETERBOROUGH (Farmers’ Co-op. Implement Co.. Ltd.)
RONALDSON TIPPETT (Moffatt-Virtue & Co.)
TWIN CITY (Dangar, Gedyc & Co., Ltd.).
C. C. WAKEFIELD 8 CO.. LTD.
The All-British Firm ,
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
' " : " TEL. 87465-6.


Lo*k foe the Trad r mark J
Writ* for illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Prrtli and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED. Redfern, Sydney
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
863.
SON!
TAKE MY
ADVICE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The presence of Night Heron in the field
and the doubts of many punters as to whether Loquat
could stay 11 furlongs enabled supporters of that
gelding, who is by Eudorus —Dessert, to get 3 to 1
about his Canterbury Cup chance. And 3 to 1 is
reckoned a good price at these Sydney suburban
courses, where McShortodds takes no liberties —except
with the truth when he tells a confiding scribe “I
lawst two thousand.” The doubters had forgotten
that the long-striding bay had won the A.J.C. Mem-
bers’ Handicap, 10 furlongs, as a young three-year-
old (he is four now), and 11 furlongs at Canterbury
Park is no trouble to a horse that can see out 10
furlongs at Randwick. As it happened, Loquat, w r ho
was capitally ridden by Charlie Barden, made ail
his own running and had his field settled a long
way from home. Chris and Rhymond were nearest
to him at the finish; Night Heron, who looked
rather weary, was never prominent, and Murray King,
after trailing Loquat for a time, was passed by the
two outsiders in the straight. Apparently he will
run only one good race a year, and this year the
Sydney Cup happened to be the race. Father’s Voice,
who won the V.A.T.C. Futurity Stakes (with Bst. 51b.)
as a three-year-old, showed a return to form in. the
Flying Handicap, in which he beat everything but
King Cyllene (10 to 1), after covering more ground
than any of the other 16 horses engaged. He ought
to be a good thing for a suburban sprint or two at
the weights he is getting.
* • * •
The in-and-out Sir Diglilock (Sir High ton
—Charlock) had a very easy victory in the 10-
furlong handicap, at A spondaic Park (Vic.) on
Saturday. Going out at 5 to 2, he-rushed to the
front and stayed there, winning by four lengths
from Bombard (2 to 1), with Englefield (5 to 2)
another five lengths away. The opposition was
nothing to write home about, for Englefield, now in
his ninth year, is not the horse he was when he
won the A.J.C. Dangart Handicap with 9st. 41b., but
Sir Dighlock showed a fine turn of speed, and could
have knocked seconds off the time —2min. Bsee. T.
M. Burke had a success in the youngsters’ race
with Winning Ticket (5 to 1), who beat two better
backed juveniles in Achilleid (7 to 2) and Master
Trillion (5 to 2). Winning Ticket is by Three —
The Blank.
* * * *
“Bris.”: The stewards at Kedron Park,
Brisbane’s principal unregistered course, make free
use of their powers to change or caution jockeys
before a race. When a field is lining up tot start, a
whistle is blown on the stewards’ stand, the clerk
of the course rides back helter-skelter for orders, and!
then returns with the suspected horse. Sometimes
the stewards order the jockey to stand down, and
put up their own) rider; at other times they content
themselves with warning the original jockey. In a
recent race, as soon as the whistle blew, the con-
nections of a horse that was drifting in the betting
jumped in and backed it. The horse won all right;
the stewards saw to that. Reporting a later race,
“Sirdar” Austin of the Daily Mail remarked casu-
ally : “I almost forgot to mention that before the
start Kenilshot was recalled and her rider was
cautioned by the stewards.” Kenilshot won in a
cakewalk. The stewards’ action does not always
bring results, as the Kedron “shrewdies” know other
ways of stopping a horse besides pulling it.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Irish Free State Gov-
ernment beat Winston Churchill to the betting-tax
hurdle. All betting in the Free State is now under
Government control, £lO being charged for a course
license and £2O for one to bet in a house. There
is also to be a 5 per cent, tax on sums paid or
collected, the O’Rook being required to furnish
certified returns. As a recompense for his sufferi'igs,
the O’R. is given a monopoly within the Free State,
it being an offence to bet with anyone outside the
Free State. The post-office is to attend to this side
of the matter by jamming betting wires and tele-
phone messages for outside odds-layers. It doesn’t
seem half a bad scheme, provided provision is made
for preventing the monopolists from murdering the
odds, and for general disciplinary measures.
* * * »
The short-priced candidates for the King
George Whisky Stakes at the Liverpool (N.S.W.)
Coursing Club’s meeting last week were downed
by Happy Bachelor, a 20-to-l chance. The final was
delayed for about half an hour, it being aUeged
that a “sport” had been detected “assisting” the
other dawg left in, a lady. But when she ran she
gave no sign of having been interfered with: a
“fired” hound when the dope has died is a depressed
circumstance. Instead, she contested bitterly a long,
hard-working course. But the bustling Bachelor was
not to be denied and duly hoisted the flag. Hares
were a shifty lot. A dog called The Squib nailed
the only one that, in two days’ coursing, failed
to elude the nightmare just astern.
There has been some attempt by garrulous
press-writers to feature Collins and co. as a team of
super-cricketers; their opening match on a Berkshire
village green against a Minor Counties team suggests
a doubt whether they are likely to sustain that
character on well-soaked pitches that are drying
rapidly. Possibly little importance should be at-
tached to what was no more than a picnic game,
with play limited by rain to a single day, but any
honors that were collected didn’t go to the visitors,
THE REGRETTABLE OMISSION.
PUNTER: “ They've taken the race away from our nag.
Jockey lost his weight-bag in the straight!”
MRS. P.: “How frightful! Why didn't the little beast
carry spares?”
for only Bardsley (42) and Ryder (43 n. 0.) made
decent contributions to the total of 179. The rest,
almost without exception, failed in playing conditions
of which they have naturally seen little, as the game
has been played in Australia of recent years, but
of which they may see a lot before the present tour
is out. Such honors as were garnered went to the
home skipper, Falcon, who took seven wickets for
42, a remarkable performance, even on the trickiest
of wickets, for a bowler whose. pace is his best
asset. The Counties replied with 115 for 4 wickets,
shared by Gregory and Richardson, on an improving
pitch. After which some English papers hurled their
hats into the air and declared that the Australians
were anything but invincible, and other critics
wagged their heads sapiently and announced that any-
one who tried, to get a line on the team’s coming
performances from the exhibition of batsmen woe-
full}' short of practice on a ground like that was
several sorts of an ass. Both propositions may prove
sound.
Leicestershire generally finishes among the ruck
in the first-class county tables—last year it was
12th —but it is seldom without one or two bowlers
of merit. The Australians faced the Midlanders
on Monday, rain having prevented a start on Satur-
day, and Collins won the toss. Everett and Andrews
replaced Woodfull an.l Richardson, with Mailey, Hen-
dry and Ellis still lookers-on. Collins and Bardsley
opened cautiously, the latter’s 33 taking 80 minutes
to make, and the skipper’s 43 nearly twice as long.
Macartney, Taylor, Ryder and Andrews all went
cheaply, and with six wickets down for 150 things
looked very middling; but a partnership by Gregory
and Ponsford, who came together just before the
tea interval, quite changed the aspect of the game.
Gregory, after opening shakily, hit hard enough to
place the first century of the tour to his credit,
and Ponsford played steadily for 56, the total being
305 for nine at the close of the day’s play.
* * * •
A great crowd of flappers and cockerels
and older birds saw Sydney High School repeat its
last year’s victory on the Parramatta River in the
final of the G.P.S. eights. It is strange how excited
Sydney gets about these schoolboy races while inter-
’Varsity and inter-State events are comparatively
neglected. On Saturday the excitement took a
hoggish form, for skippers of river craft—motor-boats
for the most part—forgot their manners and obstructed
the course. There was a considerable delay, and in
the end, after the officials had threatened to post-
pone the big race, little more than a narrow lane
was left for the competing crews, *ln future the
harbor authorities will have to insist bn the mooring
of all boats in a certified space on such occasions.
They might easily have done this on Saturday, but
their arrangements went to pieces—if they made any
at all. A stiff westerly was blowing when the four
crews left in the eight-oared race were despatched
on their mile-and-a-half journey, Sydney High, the
lightest of the four, set out to break up the opposi-
tion, and after the first three-quarters of a mile was
two lengths clear. It was this rush which decided
the contest. Past Tennyson, St. Joseph’s and Church
of England Grammar (“Shore”) made a series of
dashes, and at Cabarita there was only a length
between the three boats. It was stroke for stroke
over the final 200 yards, but “High,” digging their
oars in deep, lasted long enough to win by two
feet from “Joey’s,” with “Shore” only three feet
away and Newington some lengths astern. High was
stroked by K. C. Robinson, an list. 91b. lad, who
occupied the same position in 1925. Considering
that all the boats were waterlogged at the finish,
the time (Bmin. 381 sec.) was good. Both the fours
went to King’s School crews; and St. Paul’s captured
the Uni. inter-college eights. The river-hog made
his presence felt in all these races, and the coxswains
would have put kerosene in his cocktail with all
the pleasure in life.
* * * *
Tom Saul, challenger for the world’s scul-
ling championship, suffered a greater handicap than
the 161 b. extra weight of Major Goodsell, who is a
very muscular 11-stoner ; in his imperfect acquaintance
with the Parramatta River course; but, in any case,
the brilliant miler (Saul holds the light-weight mile
and open mile championships of N.S.W.) was no
match for Goodsell over 3 miles 330 yards. Saul
led off well, and at the mile had a length’s advantage,
but when Goodsell let himself go he soon overhauled
the tiring lightweight, and, taking advantage of his
knowledge of where to find smooth water, he paddled
home, quite undistressed, seven lengths to the good.
The time for the 21 miles was 19min. 56sec., and
for the full distance 23min. llsec. ; and there is
nothing marvellous about that. Old Bill Beach, who
acted as umpire, covered the course in 1885 in 22min.
lsec., and Dick Amst registered 19min. 46sec. in
1911. However, wind and water were unfavorable
in Monday’s race.
* * * *
“Hasen”: At the last Moonee Valley meet-
ing I witnessed the discomfiture
of one common racecourse pest-
the unlikely liar who was invari-
ably on the second horse that lost
by a whisker. Berribee had just
won the Steeple, and, of course,
the pest had 15 to 1 about
Master Mariner, beaten by a neck.
“Talk about stiffness!” he wailed.
“Why, in the two-vcar-old I was
on the second and third. Yes,
backed ’em both—Sky Prince and
Lady of Lille.” Undoubtedly,
the excitement of not having any-
thing on any of tha placed horses
had confused him, because Sky
Prince had certainly won the
two-year-old by a head from
Donace. Somebody mentioned this.
But he was a thorough liar. His
lamentations grew painful. “Good
Lord!” he cried. “I thought
Donace ’d won. And now I’ve
tom up my Sky Prince ticket.”
Here a quiet bystander butted
in. “You needn't worry about
that,” said he; “I’m the betting-
steward here. The bets will be
entered up. Just point out the
bookmaker you went to, and I’ll
see that you’re paid.” The un-
lucky one hesitated, grew notice-
ably redder and then faded un-
comfortably away. Incidentally,
that quiet bystander was also a
liar (as to his stewardship), but
in a good cause.
“Nisi Prius”: These G.P.S. boat-races are
not true tests of supremacy. The twists and turns of
the Parramatta, together with the vagaries of wind
and tide, are such that almost every year the crew
drawing a certain position has a great advantage.
The normal conditions are a light north-easter with
an ebb tide, in which case No. 4 position is worth
two lengths tb the crew sufficiently lucky to draw
it, if steered by a cox. knowing enough to keep in
close to Gladesville wharf. There his tiring crew
will get just the encouragement they need from the
sheltered millraee sweeping out of the bay round
the point down to the alignment posts. If the
races were held up Iron Cove to the Leichhardt
canal, conditions would be equal for all, and inci-
dentally, the whole of Sydney could see the finish
well, and much more cheaply than at present. The
distance, admittedly, would have to be reduced to
one mile in the eights, but there is a large body
of competent rowing opinion which has advocated
this reduction for years. The change would obviate
the increasing difficulty of keeping the course clear,
and the race would be a real indication of the
merits of the crews.
* * * *
Having recently imported “Midget” Kil-
burn (fist. 111 b.), who is a ’Frisco Italian or some-
thing like that, the Sydney Stadium management
pitted him against that representative Australian
featherweight,- Gavino Deleon (9st.). As there was
blood in plenty, continuous fighting by one contestant
and pretty hard hitting by the other, the small crowd
left satisfied that it had had its money’s worth.
Deleon was the better boxer, but he was cruelly
handicapped, from the ', third round, by copious
bleeding from the tongue, the result of “Midget”
having absent-mindedly lifted his head when it was
under the brown man’s chin in a clinch Later
stiff-arm swings to the mouth burst Gavino’s under
lip and added to the flow. So great was the loss
of blood that, although the Filipino landed often, his
Wows did not carry sufficient weight to do damage,
lti the fifth round ‘ ‘Midget,” his wits still wandering
slung the other heavily to the floor, and in the
seventh Gavino was a target for weighty left swings
that sent him reeling and all but out.' But Deleon
has the courage of a bulldog and he aroused hurri-
canes of cheering by suddenly becoming the attacker
in turn. After that he frequently hunted a tiring
foe to the ropes and dealt out a lot of punishment,
winning rounds 9 to 15 inclusive. The 16th was
equal, but hilburn contrived to win the 17th and
18th ; Deleon took the 19th. Instead of the usual
shake and step back,” Kilburn simply bumped the
proffered gloves and tore in to open the 20th- but
Deleon staged a big finishing spurt and won the
round—but not the verdict. Evidently Wallis con-
sidered that the visitor’s early lead had not been
wiped off bv the Filipino’s aggressiveness and fre-
quent effective blows in the later rounds
* * * •
There was more wrestling than boxing in
the controversy to which Jack Cameron (lost 61b )
and “Buddy” Saunders (lOst. 11b.) were parties at
the Melbourne Stadium. Saunders, a coon from
Panama, has an awkward crouch which puzzled the
Victorian, who could never get going. Frequently
the pair met in mid-ring, and without a blow being
struck fell into a clinch, which lasted until the
exasperated Quirk dragged them apart. Saunders
landed innumerable heavy rights behind the ear and
in the vicinity of the spine. These gradually
weakened Cameron, who went to pieces in the F3th
round, and, after a visit to the canvas, seemed about
to be knocked out. Recovering after a fashion, he
swung his right hand wildly. The blow landed below
the belt, and the referee indicated that Saunders
was the winner.
* * * •
The Melbourne football season opened in
wintry weather, but the damp didn’t keep the crowds
away, some 30,000 viewing the chief imbroglio,
between Fitzroy and Collingwood. The Magpies have
apparently been practising liberally and their system
was in going order, whereas the Maroons seemed like
Collins’s men, short of work. ’Roy has recovered
its former goal-kicking celebrity, Bob Merrick, which
was fortunate, as the great John Moriarty’s foot
has lost its cunning. ’Wood has also acquired a star
in Beveridge, from its own juniors. Scores were
’Wood, 94 points ; ’Roy, 55. Another notable scuffle
occurred at South Melbourne, where the locals were
routed by Richmond, with 85 points to South’s 77.
The Tigers have captured the ex-Carltonian, Boromco,
who was a notable factor in their victory. On its
gwn ground Geelong made a painful exhibition of
’Scray—93 points to 27. Essendon administered a
like dressing-down to North Melbourne—lo 4 points
to 53 ; and Melbourne comfortably accounted for St.
Kilda, with 92 points to 63. The once mighty
Carlton Blues, who have of late advertised their
certainty of getting into “the four,” started on the
long road by walloping Hawthorn, 70 points to 50,
but the feat doesn’t justify any undue elation.
“G. 0.8.”: The battle for champions seems likely
to cause a split between the Victorian League and
the country clubs affiliated with it. Metropolitan
teams have always built up their ranks with
stalwarts from the tall gums, and in recent years
country clubs have retaliated by paying fancy wages
for city stars who brought a system with them. Now
that clearances and permits must accompany migra-
tory players, bush officials complain that League
delegates legislate for the benefit of their own teams
only, and do not pay in kind for the players they
take. Thus, after an undignified scramble by touts,
athletic sleeper-cutters and well-sinkers join city teams,
who, in return, will transfer only their has-beens and
rejects. To counteract this, and preserve their
interests generally, country bodies are working to form
a country League which will enable them to progress
without help or harm from Melbourne.
* * * *
The South Sydney-Eastern Suburbs game
in the second round of Rugby League matches was
fast and attractive. South won by 9 points (all
tries) to 4 (penalty goals), after East had led at
half-time; the premiers’ back division, with Blair
leading, was particularly efficient, while the combina-
tion between backs and forwards in the open work
was excellent. Wearing scored his customary try,
but he was well marked by Byrne, a speedy and pro-
mising youngster. In the other games, Newtown beat
Western Suburbs (10 —8), Balmain outed North Syd-
ney (22 —17) and St. George put University down
(15 —9). An interesting tussle between Glebe-
Balmain and Eastern Suburbs ushered in what pro-
mises to be a very prosperous Rugby Union season.
The Scottish international threequarter, A. C. Wal-
lace, re-appeared for Glebe-Balmain, last year’s pre-
miers, who triumphed by 17 to 9. Wallace’s elusive-
ness, pace off the mark and splendidly accurate pass-
ing confirmed all that had been written of him by
British judges. Granville, by beating Annandale-
Leichhardt 3 —o, retained its position at the head of
the Soccer premiership table, but Balgownie, Corri-
mal, Woonoona and Thirroul, four clubs from the
South Coast colliery country, all had wins at the
expense of city teams. The Australian-rulers are
playing under new conditions; the old club system
has been thrown into the melting pot, and a district
scheme adopted. Newtown and South Sydney had a
ding-dong go at Erskineville, Newtown winning by
41 (6 goals 5 behinds) to 28 (4 goals 4 behinds).
Attendances were encouraging, especially at Erskine-
ville, where the home-grown game has a solid follow-
ing.
A. C. WALLACE, sometime Scottish inter-
national and now of Glebe-Balmain.
Adelaide’s inter-collegiate sports (still
confined to the two oldest schools) went this year,
for the fourth time running, to St. Peter’s, 79 points
to 40. For half-way the contest was equal, Young
and Hallett, the rival captains, being well matched
in the sprints; but Saints had a decided advantage
in the longer events. An unusual feature was that
Ellis, a boy of 15, son of St. Peter’s sports master,
won the under-16 quarter-mile easily, and then had
to be scratched for the open mile because it came
next; naturally it had not been supposed, when the
programme was framed, that the same boy could be
in both races. This youngster is said to have
broken, in practice, the inter-collegiate mile record.
THE BITER BIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Adelaide inquiry into allegations of bribery
made against members of the police force, Samuel
Lampard, a bookmaker, gave evidence that to his
knowledge the bribing of police on racecourses not to
molest bookmakers had been going on for 10 years.
The first time he bribed a policeman himself was five
years ago. The break with the police followed his
refusal to increase the amount of the bribe.”
To nobble a jock is a terrible thing:
The notion would curdle the blood of the ring.
Good name is an asset to them, as to you,
And a ’scutcheon unstained they must show to the
view.
But where their vocation perforce they must ply
So as not to obtrude on authority’s eye;
Where odds are just whispered, not yelled at your
top,
It’s often essential to stiffen a cop,
And his vigilant op-
Tic he’ll drowsily drop,
That is, if he’s properly stiffened, the cop.
A trainer from probity’s paths to allure
Would never occur to a bookie, be sure,
For the lamb in a number of ways he can skin
Without making a bid for the wages of sin
Dispensed by the stewards. But Ikies and Mas,
When they’re lilies who field, as it were, ’neath the
rose,
Will sooner or later go off with a pop
If they take no precautions to stiffen a cop.
He must have his sop
Or the game he will stop—
A Cerberus, but coaxable, too, is the cop.
Quite a number of rules must the penciller keep,
But unless he can sow there’ll be nothing to reap,
And the ethics that hold about rider and horse
Aren’t meant to apply to the uniformed force.
A tap on your shoulder, a word in your ear,
And your pitch will be queered, ’tis abundantly clear;
Your brow any moment you’re liable to mop
Unless you have kept the right side of the cop.
Without his co-op-
Eration you’ll flop,
So it’s up to you, plainly, to stiffen the cop.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Shell Red Can
Until the appearance of the Shell Red Can,
motorists desiring to carry an emergency
supply of motor spirit had to purchase a
4-gallon tin at packed price. Now, however,
the Shell Red Can enables the carrying of a
2-gallon reserve of Pure Shell at BULK PRICE.
Get the Shell Red Can to-day !
U
Have
when
it
need
it
you
$l5B
Foi Sale.
MINING CLAIM,
Shotover River, N.Z.
FOR SALE BY TENDER.
'"TENDERS will be received by the under-
signed up till May 31, 1926, for the
purchase of a Special River Claim in the
Shotover River, Otago, N.Z., known as Gates’
Claim. Admeasurement 66 chains 85 links,
or about 15 acres by recent survey.
Intending tenderers are requested to make
a personal inspection of the Claim or appoint
an expert to do so. The owner of the
Property will be on the ground for the pur-
pose of giving all information, terms and
conditions to bona file applicants.
A deposit of 1 per cent, must accompany
tender. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
W. H. GATES,
C/o Lake Wakatip Mail,
Queenstown, N.Z.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds !
are lost annually in Wild Cat com- j
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per anmmy
If any illustration in The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ĵ
THE
RIGHT BEARING
IN THE
RIGHT PLACE
THE SKF BALL-BEARING CO., Ltd.,
Melbourne 595 Bourke Street.
Sydney K; n „ Street.
representatives
IN ALL
STATER
j
THE INKY WAY.
Cascade”: A departure from Melbourne
Sun’s staff recently for Fleet-street was
Jack Davies, a youth who joined the Even-
ing Sun and so impressed the heads in the
few months before its collapse that he was
retained by the Pictorial when the ’Urdle
took over the morning sheet.
Cashed in last month at St. Kilda (Vic.),
Alec Macrae, for 33 years a member of the
staff of the llawklet. He used to recall with
regret the palmy days when Norman and
Percy Lindsay did the front-page illustra-
tions. Macrae was a great punter, and man-
aged to make money at the game. His other
hobby was Greek and Roman history.
“Hamer”: The abandonment of Dickens
by a mass of even fairly-read people makes
the quotation of his characters hazardous.
Still, I got a shock when a school-teacher
said this: “I noticed in a Bulletin para-
graph that a mention was made to Mr. Pott
of the Eatanswill Gazette. I wonder if
that’s the same man who was on one of the
papers in Armidale when I was teaching
there?”
“Aleikum”: The ghost of the Lindsay-
Slessor quarterly. Vision, was raised within
the austere precincts of the Public Library
of. V ictoria the other day. A nice young
thing asked the attendant in the periodicals
room for a file of the deceased. “Madam,”
said the official glinting stonily above his
horn-rims, “that publication was prohibited
bv the trustees.” The nice young thing felt
like a rebuffed inquirer for Havelock Ellis’s
‘ Psychology of Sex.”
“F.S.”: The cable staffs of Australian
dailies seldom include foreign experts; hence
Chinese generals become towns and depart-
ments become generals whenever there are
messages to decipher. Melbourne Age added
a new complication to Persian affairs the
other day by inventing the Crown Prince
Llema. Still, nobody is any the less happy.
Doubtless Persian papers periodically tell
their readers all about the latest legislative
acts of the Australian Prime Minister. Mr.
House, of Representatives. And Persia still
survives.
Just dead, a valiant crusader of the pen,
W. J. Davey, who gave Bulletin readers
many pars, and verses. Returning from
France as a T.B. case, he threw what re-
mained of his shattered strength into the
light for securing justice for his T.8.-stricken
fellow-Diggers. For years he was the pub-
licity officer of the T.B. Association in Adel-
aide, and as such issued the Bedford Call —
the yearly magazine issued by the T.B. Aid
Society. In better days he w T as the editor of
the Horsham (Vic.) Times. And only 32
at the finish.
“C.”: All the pars. I have seen about
the late Moors, of Samoa, omit to state that
he merely supplied the information about
Stevenson for the book published over his
name. Even that modest Sydney pressman
W. Farmer Whyte, in his reminiscences of
the old trader, keeps the real authorship
quiet; actually, it was he who wrote the
book, during a six-months’ stay with Moors
several years ago. Moors, shrewd man though
he was, was no writer. And, after all. he did
not supply any worth-while material about
Stevenson, now I read the book again.
_ “Oxmead”: A par. (B. 29/4/’26) men-
tioned that the new Bishop of Christchurch
(M.L.) was recommended by “Randall Can-
tuar”; at least it tried to say so, but the
surname somehow got altered into “Cantab.”
Which recalls that a long line of archbishops
used an even shorter moniker. Came a
time when a somewhat unpopular divine
got the job and a satirical bard of the period
came at him with doggerel which suggested
that the name fitted him—“ Thomas Cant.”
His Grace thereupon made it “Cantuar,” and
his successors have stuck to it.
“The Listening Insect”: A new terror will
be added to daily newspaperdom if the beam
wireless service which expects to be in com-
munication with Britain by July lets itself
out for the purpose of transmitting pictures.
Lately a cheque was cabled across the Atlan-
tic and cashed within an hour by means of
radio photography, and a manuscript of the
late Robert Browning followed. Doubtless
the day is not far distant when Hollywood
and Collingwood will be in direct communica-
tion, and the tear trembling on the eyelashes
of Mary Pickaxe will simultaneously create a
thrill in audiences as far apart as Tibet and
Algebuckina.
“Bill Bowyang”: Some of these Yankee
fiction writers really do visit the places they
write about. John Russell, who earned some
celebrity with his “Where the Pavement
Ends.” visited the South Seas and N.Q. with
a U.S. film co. that took snaps of abo. life
at Yarrabah mission station. Albert Richard
Wetjen, hailed some time back in U.S.A. as
“the new Kipling,” visited Australia twice as
deckhand on the freighter Matatua. Her-
man Peterson, a prolific contributor to the
20-cent fiction magazines, lived for a time
in Tahiti. Hubert Roussel worked his way
across the South Seas in the stokehold of
a Yankee tramp, and for a time was em-
ployed on the A.U.S.N. Wyandra. Robert
E. Hewes, who recently passed away in
’Frisco, is- still remembered at Thursday
Island, where he resided in 1912.
A GOOD MAN’S OBITUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under this stone there is a man.
A fair and godly race he ran;
To aid distress his hand was swift;
He gave, nor ever missed the gift.
He went by roads made broad and straight,
i’o no appointment came too late;
And never by one. act would stray
t rom stiff convention’s chosen way.
He read what he was told to read,
He bowed to the most useful creed ;
And all he said from year to year
Was what his hearers wished to hear.
He had no pride, he feared no fall.
He never seemed to think at all;
But one clear duty filled his mind—
He never failed his watch to wind.
And when he died they laid him here,
In solemn pomp without a tear,
’Neath carven granite wrought to show
That from his corpse no grass should grow.
N.S.W.
C. O. M.


J NOBaker'
THE
HOUSE
OF
STEEL,
FOUNDED
A.D. 1888.
BKtlfL
afS9.il!
i •»jiani4ia«iaßiinmsw pawn
mWfflmmilinmmißfflßt Mlßmuimmaw. mmrr g
in
tn.iii i l! I lii ill I s
Si
il
■»■■ !»■■■■ 'fTifi-,wi i-t 1 ;
|Miiiiiiiiii;wiiiii
ti r ■■■ ■■ : • :
705
696
704
407
705—W. Jno. Baker Stainless Steel, Square
Grained Xylonite Handle, Plain Finish. Table
Knives, 16/- ; Desserts, 14/- per half-dozen.
Post free.
696 —W. Jno. Baker Stainless Steel, Oval
Grained Xylonite Handle. Well finished. Table
Knives, 18/6; Desserts, 16/6 per half-dozen.
Post free.
704—W. Jno. Baker Best Stainless Steel, Best
Grained Xylonite Square Handle, Round End.
Table Knives, 25/-; Desserts, 22/6 per half-
dozen. Post free.
407—Best Stainless Steel, Highly Finished,
Grained Xylonite, Bevelled-edge Handle, Octagon
Bolster. Tables, 35 /- ; Desserts, 32/6 per
half-dozen. Post free.
H
■SB
iB
bs b aaa
no— W. Jno. Baker Presentation
Cabinet.— l Drawer; Polished Wood Case.
Size about 18 x 11 x 6 in. Containing W. Jno.
Baker Stainless Cutlery.
6 Stainless Table Knives; Extra Fine Fnish,
Bevelled, Gained Xylonite Handle, Octagon
Bolster.
6 Stainless Dessert Knives; Extra Fine Finish,
Bevelled, Grained Xylonite Handle, Octagon
Bolster.
1 Stainless Meat Carver; Nickel-plated Fork,
Self-acting Guard.
1 Stainless Poultry Carver; Nickel-plated
Fork, Self-acting Guard.
1 Sharpening Steel
6 Table Spoons.
6 Table Forks
6 Soup Spoons
6 Dessert Spoons
6 Dessert Forks
6 Tea Spoons
Spoons and Forks Plated
with Sterling Silver on
Fine Hard White Metal.
A 1 Quality Spoons and
Forks.
Cabinet and contents, £2l complete.
Other Cabinets from £lO/10/- to 55gns.
Engraving initials on Table Cutlery from 1/9
per half dozen.
Illustrated Catalogue of Table Cutlery,
Post free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
THE HOUSE OF STEEL,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W.
Winter Garden. Palm‘Court.
Louis Seize Drawing-room.
Lounge. Dining Saloons.
Billiards and Dancing.
Central Heating. Gas Fires.
Single Rooms from 4] guineas.
Double from 8 guineas.
New Extension now ready.
Telephone, Park 2765.
Also
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, LONDON, W.
Thoroughly up to date. Newly decorated.
Extension now ready. Double 54 guineas,
Single 3 guineas. , lonn
Telephone, Paddington 1800.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
Missing Friends.
pAUL OSBORNE COOKSLEY (late A.1.F.), lasi
known address Grong Grong, N.S.W. Brother
inquires. Communicate with W. T. SNOWDEN,
Solicitor, Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
gRIDGET MULLARKY, or MULCAHY, daughter of
Thomas Walsh, or any person acquainted with her
whereabouts is requested to communicate with E. J.
PAYNE, Public Trust Office, 07 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
l/'ATE ItYAN, aged about 60, born in
Foilaclera, Co. Limerick, Ireland, daugh-
ter of William and Joanna Ryan, is sought
by her sister, Mrs. NORA M. RYAN, 2122
S. Ridgway Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, TJ.S.A.
gEARBY. —The Advertiser is anxious to get into
communication with Mr. Searby who some years
ago was employed at F. F. & I. Co.’s shop at
lvatoomba, N.S.W. Box 1775 (K.) G.P.0., Sydney.
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
Old Way! Rubbing
Soup made with Soda
into skin
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
I
' g New Way:
' Smear lightly
over face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of
years man has been scrubbing his face
with soaps containing soda, and has never
reasoned that under such treatment the
skin may suffer? Nothing is more ugly
than a face that looks raw Shaving
soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered SHAVtA,
the natural method, where no brush and
soaps containing soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE!
One can shave with Shavex in half the
time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had,
and shaving will become a pleasure. Your
skin will look and feel like satin, and
your face under this treatment will look
twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a
skin food as well.
1/9 large tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sola Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
f EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
Best the World produces
WOLSEY Undergarments are
made in England by highly
skilled workers, and guaran-
teed unshrinkable. The
pure Wolsey wool is specially selected
for its softness, strength, absorbency
and elasticity, and gives a degree of
comfort and durability which cannot
be obtained from any other make.
wti
If this Trade
If ark isn't on
the garment-
it isn’t
WOLSEY.
WOLSEY HOSE AND SOCKS.
Wolsey Pure Wool Stockings for Ladies. Hal f -Hose for
Men, ard J H se and Socks or Children offer the same
wonderful service as Wolsey Underwear, and are all
guaranteed absolutely unshrinkable.
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Agent:
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane. Melbourne.
C.F.H.I
This Sweeper
Saves Work & Carpets
WOMEN who take pride in
keeping their homes spotless
are devoted users of Bissell Carpet
Sweepers because with a Bissell they
can do their sweeping in half the time
and do it better. A few minutes’ use
and rugs and carpets are speckless.
Dirt, dust, crumbs, litter vanish like
magic before it.
The Bissell is a time saver; pays for
itself many times over in broom cost
and puts into the discard the dust
clouds, tired back and weary arms of
old-fashioned broom sweeping.
An exclusive Bissell feature, “Cyco”
ball bearing construction with four
sets of specially mounted bearings in
the wheels where they are needed,
make it run easier, last longer, sweep
better; and, for good measure, into
each Bissell Carpet Sweeper goes the
experience of 49 years. It’s real purse
economy to insist on a Bissell.
Little Bissells for little girls at trifling cost
mak e useful gifts and happy children. Sold
by leading merchants everywhere. Write for
booklet.
BISSELL
CARPET SWEEPER CO., GRAND RAPIDS, MICH.. U.S.fl.
Carpet Sweepers
jjIBENGERSfe
" FOOD ®
,tr ,nf ard » h *
VO'..aK
SBfc,
Light diet when
“out of sorts.”
Benger’s Food is widely used for
infants and for illness, but mothers
should not think that it is only a
food for babies, nursing mothers
and invalids.
Benger’s is really the finest general
light diet anybody can have when
feeling “ out of sorts,” or suffering
from slight indisposition, absence of
appetite, over-tiredness, etc.
Benger’s Food is always dainty
and delicious and fully nourishing.
For a change it can be taken in
tea, or it may be flavoured with
chocolate or coffee.
% '
Food
Dainty Recipes for light diahe* ia
Benger’a Food Booklet. Post free from
BENGER’S FOOD. Ltd., 117, Pitt Street. SYDNET.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturer* —-
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
I,JSS •
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.


1
y:
10 for 9: 20/oAfo. 50^3/9
"Army Club"
CIGARETTES
CAVANDERS L T ? LONDON.
T 4e/lajoA *
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Pavlova
Criterion “Polly with a Past”
£ OYAL “Lilac Time”
lalace “Keep Smiling”
livoli Vaudeville
luluer1 uluer s Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Yeomen of the Guard”
ft OYAL “The Bad Man”
jj ING 8 “The Admirable Crichton”
Frincess “Mercenary Mary”
Atiienjjuji “The Best People”
Auditorium Toti Dal. Monte
1 layiiouse “The Devil’s Disciple”
i IVOLI Vaudeville
Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
” OY,r 8 Moving Pictures
. A little of the minor music is surpris-
ingly tinny; yet "Lilac Time,” which bloomed
before a full audience at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night, is charged with melody,
daintiness and charm, and Andrew MacCunn
saw to it that his orchestra made the most
of the melody. Wedded to the music is a de-
lightful story, with a happy ending tinged
by sadness, and opportunities for delectable
dressing and dances, the latter fitting in with
the development of the story; but on»Satur-
day night the company failed to speed up
the performance, and it dragged here and
there. It dragged, in fact, until 11.15. In
such circumstances the shyness of the musi-
cian became rather an irritation. Yet Jack
Ralston’s work in the part is one of the
outstanding performances in light opera on
th§ Australian stage. In displaying his en-
gaging voice, he made his audience feel also
the sensitive spirit, and brought sympathy
instead of laughter for Schubert’s absurd
shnn kings.
. * . . * * *
Stiff feminine principals destroyed the
charming opera’s chances at the first pro-
duction, three years ago, at the Criterion;
in Harriet Rennet, who on Saturday had to
get over an early tendency to lack repose, an
adequate exponent of Lili has been secured.
The dark-haired newcomer’s voice is on the
light side, but rounded and sympathetic as
well as musical; she portrayed well the hero-
worshipping girlish love for Schubert, starv-
“THE BAD MAN,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
O. B. Post as a good bad man, and Winning-
ton. Barnes as a bad good man.
ing on inanition, turned to an amatory flame
for his friend Baron Franz von Schober
when that Romeo shows how love should
be made—Ahe inability to explain this change
spoilt entirely the story in the previous pro-
duction. Claude Flemming was, as usual,
robust in the part of the Baron Franz, whose
noisy friends were well done by Herbert
Browne, Harry Ratcliffe and Noel Allen;
Byrl Walkely succeeded, in spite of vaude-
ville Italian, in making Flammetta Marini
a living personality, and Leslie Holland did
what was necessary to bring the story to a
successful end in his last-act appearance.
Arthur Stigant, cast for Christian Veit, was
absent through illness—the first occasion on
which he has disappointed his public in 11
years; and although Alfred Haigh, who filled
the gap, was not all that might have been
expected of Stigant, he did very well, help-
ing Herbert C. Walton and Katie Towers to
supply the comedy.
* :I: $
The story of the girl who, being born
that way, did her best to relieve her father
of his disappointment that she was not a
boy, was told again at the Grand Opera
House (Sydney) when “Paddy the Next
Best Thing” made its appearance on Satur-
day. The story is a likeable one, full of
bright situations; and it remained so in
spite of the worst that some of the players
dia to it. George Cross was the most sur-
prising offender; he was ill-east as Laurence
Blake, the man Paddy regards as a villain
until she learns his virtues. His inability
to leach the lightness the part calls for cost
the piece a good deal of its proper effect.
Ps elite Bramley, although she only thinks
that she can speak Irish, made Paddy an
entertaining package of tantrums and humor;
Kurland Beckett, who played Dr. Davy, obvi-
ously surprised some of Saturday night's
audience by, for once, not being a villain;
the two patients who visit his surgery, Mrs.
Dingle and Mrs. Putter, were well done by
rJ ore nee Lewis and Nellie Ferguson; and,
although pretty Sylvia Clifton was amateur-
ish and the others rather colorless, the pre-
sentation apparently satisfied an audience
which had plenty of loud applause and
laughter to spare for it.
* * * sss
Pavlova in lilac and silver flirting with a
great feather fan. Pavlova in an amazing
poke bonnet and an empire frock twirling
in a gavotte, partnered by a gentleman gay
as a galah. Pavlova in a cuddlesome cherry-
pink pelisse taking a bevy of beaux out
Christmas shopping! As variable as the
moods of a dozen of the sex was the dancer’s
programme on Saturday night. As fluent as
water was the slim body, and as gay as sun-
light. But the outstanding beauty of the bill
was the Snowflakes” ballet. To the “Nut-
cracker” music by Tschaikowsky, in a setting
by Joseph Urban, this fairy story of the
land of the Christmas-tree ran g*ay as a
chime. Thursa Rogers, the Maori land girl,
w l a ‘‘Ln!; l ae delightful and mischievous heroine
of The Magic Flute,” and made a tremen-
dous appeal by her youth and grace. Men-
tion, too, must be made of Miss D’Arcy’s
savage interpretation of Grieg’s Anitra’s
Dance, and Novikoff was magnificent in the
Bow and Arrow dance.
** * *
“No, No, Nanette,” is going as strong as
ever at the St. James’s (Sydney).
A* Sydney Criterion “Polly with a Past”
still throw's a proud American family into
consternation by her arrival—until the dis-
covery is made that she is really Renee
Kelly. Renee Kelly would reconcile any
family to a daughter-in-law.
»t» *!• ‘Ji
The public’s smiles keep “Keep Smiling”
smiling at Sydney Palace.
$ * * . *
As (1) an Arab has recently given an
order for a 25-roomed house with electric-
light and -power plant and a hot-water ser-
vice, and as (2) Wirths’ Circus doesn’t live
under canvas, it w'ould be inexact to say
that the Hippodrome show is about to fold
up its tent like the Arab and silently steal
away. But, anyway, Wirths’ are announc-
ing that their season will end next week, and
the parent whose small boy has not yet taken
him to the gloriously compounded show will
have to hurry up.
The arrival of Jacky the Seal added an
amusing circumstance to Sydney Tivoli’s pro-
gramme on Monday. The animal can sing—
almost as well as at least a few vaudeville
artists—laugh, hold conversations with his
master, and use his nose as the human
juggler does his arms. Jacky is eight years
older than when this Showman last saw him
in London—unless Billy Judge has trained
another seal to the identical tricks but
he shows no grey hairs and the same dog-
like devotion to his master. The freak art-
ist Holbein is back, and, although the altera-
tion is slight, he has found a way to vary
his turn.
** * *
The appearance of the nimble pair who
won the Glaciarium £lOO dancing con-
test is the star turn in the vaudeville half
of Fullers’ programme this week. They dis-
play, among other leg-throws, the Charles-
ton, as tripped on either side of the Atlantic,
and the rhythm of them set this Sundry
Showman murmuring:
Who can’t be beaten
Where play and change
Of lithe limbs sweeten
One’s optic range ?
Why, Billy Heaton
And lima Strange.
Arthur Aldridge, tenor, and the classically-
posing Romanos earn and secure their meed
of appreciation, and Jim Gerald’s new re-
vue, “It’s All Yours,” is adding to that
estimable comedian’s popularity.
* ❖ H= *
In a very interesting Radio Exhibition at
Sydney Town Hall there is a suggestion
that the citizen lying luxuriously in bed may
presently prepare liis bath by tuning-in to
the bath-heater and grill his morning chop
by wireless. But the batli-heaters, cookers
and electric-cleaners, which make a good
part of the show, are not operated by wire-
—not yet. They are merely there to
indicate what- can be dope by electric appli-
ances to make life—especially domestic life
—easier; and that seems everything. Most
of us who visit this show will be satisfied
that we are still living in barbarism. The
exhibition really looks like an educational
opportunity offered to people who want to
avoid being regarded as cave-men or cave-
women next year.
That fantastic melocomedy, “Seven Keys
to Baldpate,” rather benefits by being turned
into a screen story, with an uproariously
laughter-raising introduction in which the
writer-lover is shown in an idiotic state of
joy as, on a ship making good pace to New
York, he anticipates the meeting with his
sweetheart by sending wireless messages every
20 minutes. Douglas Maclean plays breezily
the man who is smitten with love-idiocy.
Hoyt’s, which screens this fine comedy, backs
it with a powerful, somewhat sombre story
in “The Road to Glory.”
“NO, NO, NANETTE,” AT ST. JAMES'S
THEATRE, SYDNEY
Jimmy Godden ships “I Want to be Happy”
and Charlton Morton as Billy Early.
“The Yeomen of the Guard” was put on
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday
night. The temptation to sharpen Gilbert’s
wit by timely allusions to the Spencer-street
bridge or Harold Clapp must be great; but
it was rigorously suppressed, and the purist
who sat next to this Showman checking the
utterances on the stage with a dog’s-eared
copy of the original script was probably un-
rewarded by a solitary lapse. The music
purveyed by Harry Jacob and his orchestra
likewise comes in for enthusiastic comment.
Sometimes almost rising to the starry
heights of grand opera, its all-pervading
rhythm made the absence of terpsichorean
exercises, usually expected in plays of this
nature, scarcely obvious. Perhaps Gilbert
omitted the accompaniment of feet and legs
for a particular reason. Frivolous and
merry as is the accompaniment of incident,
the undercurrent of satire on Merry Eng-
land in the reign of bluff King Hal, as en-
acted under the saturnine shadow of the
Towel*, sometimes touches on the grim. That
shadow falls across both acts of the piece,
and it is an additional tribute to the genius
of the playwright that, he is able to while
away an evening in front of one and the
same bit of scenery without incurring any
accusations of parsimony or poverty of
invention.
*.* • •
The highly improbable Colonel Fairfax,
who is condemned to be separated from
the handsomest head in England for
practising the black arts, w*as portrayed by
James Hay adequately as to the singing side
but somewhat stiltedly as to the histrionic
section. The combination of acting talent
and vocal excellence hasn’t been often seen
smee the departure to the Elysian meadows
of lamented Charles Kenningham. Strella
Wilson, as the strolling player who, as an
act of charity, marries the condemned man
on the eve of his execution and is later
presented with him all in one piece, plus
his wide estates, has a voice that would
draw three souls out of one haberdasher;
but she lacks the insouciance that is de-
manded by the part. Mabel Gibson was
better placed. A glib and gay Phoebe Meryll,
she covered vocal deficiencies with cunning
artistry. Charles Walenn was Jack Point,
the woeful jester whose demise at the final
curtain-fall gives a note of gentle melancholy
to an ending which otherwise would be as
conventionally happy as any modern pro-
ducer could desire. Sydney Granville made
up for an average performance in the pre-
vious piece by being a sound and efficient
assistant tormentor in this. It must be ad-
mitted that Sullivan’s music didn’t get as
generous treatment from some of the prin-
cipals as it deserved, but there was nothing
lacking in the melody provided by the chorus.
The Beefeaters in particular were a nest of
nightingales, as well as a quaint collection
of bygone fashion-plates.
❖* * *
Consideration of the style of entertainment
provided at Melbourne’s chief playhouses
HY/t Y e °k, sl J ggests that tragedy went out
Y urpi 8 aair ant * drama with ankle-skirts,
in Ihe in orvoas Wreck,” at the Palace, no-
uiing more serious than a punctured motor-
yre occurs to break the spell of continuous
cachmnation. I n “The Bad Man,” at the
Koyal, plums of a platitudinous philosophy
are occasionally to be found in the pudding
or fantastic nonsense. “The Admirable
Crichton, at the King’s, indulges in satire
so gentle as to be accepted without misgiv-
lags,.as farce even by the dourest minds.
At the Athenaeum “The Sport, of Kings.”
described as the wittiest comedy ever staged,
concludes to-night, and on Saturday will be
succeeded by “The Best People,” described also
as the wittiest comedy ever staged. At His
Majesty s The Yeomen of the Guard” is
being taken seriously only by historical re-
search parties ; and at the Princess “Mercen-
ary Mary continues to merce to music of
the lightest and humor of the Sunday-supple-
ment order. Even the Repertory Theatre,
which can generally be trusted to serve a
dish or two of gloom, has basely ratted on
the melancholy-minded. It is starring “The
Devil's Disciple” at the Playhouse on Satur-
day. Pshaw calls this product of his genius
a joke in bellowdrama.
* sj: * sfc
At the Auditorium on Saturday the Dal
Monte will commence to warble to Melbourne
her native wood-notes wild, some of them in
English, that language having been added to
her accomplishments, according to her opti-
mistic publicity agent, during her sojourn in
America.
*$ * *
At Melbourne Tivoli Gautier’s hounds
continue to look as melancholy as members
of,the 1.W.W.; and Fulvio, the balancer, is
doing things with beer-bottles which are
being viewed with incredulity by that sec-
tion of the community that calls in at the
jug-and-bottle department on its way home
on Saturdays. Ben Nee One, the Chinese
comedian, departed from the scene after com-
pelling this Showman to revise first hostile
impressions of Benny's humor; but lie re-
tains the same poor opinion of the gentle-
man’s efforts at song. The champion axemen
are inviting all-comers to hack with them for
stakes or just for chops.
** * *
This critic finds it difficult to be polite
to many of the striving souls who are at
the moment endeavoring to amuse Melbourne
Bijou. The cold reception accorded to Keith
Connolly’s Syncopating Jesters suggests that
the blaring of negro funeral marches through
instruments whose natural untunefulness is
not improved by the addition of things like
frying-pans and pepper-casters is beginning
to lose its charm; also, that jesters whose
sole equipment for raising laughs is the pos-
session of pancake feet have outstayed their
welcome. Moon and Morris arrive with
a revue company on Saturday. Until then
the box-office carpet is likely to be daily
stained with fresh managerial teardrops.
“THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD," AT
MELBOURNE MAJESTY'S.
James Hay as the handsome Colonel Fairfax,
and Sydney Granville as his gaoler.
The chief distraction at Hoyt's Melbourne
house this week may suggest to interested
people another reason why the Australian
aboriginal should not be allowed to dis-
appear. One thousand Red Indians provide
two hours of thrill—it’s about that period in
Uncle Sam's history when the delivery of
letters was subject to delay owing to the
postman having had his scalp removed en
route. Ricardo Cortez is the star—for the
most part a shooting star. The Majestic
is busy straightening the tangle Fate ar-
ranged for Warner Baxter when as a soldier
in France he married a sweet young nurse,
shell-shock having caused him to forget he had
a prior engagement at home. “His Forgotten
Wife” is of the opus. “Barriers
Burned Away’’’ records how somebody upset
a lamp and, incidentally, burned down Chica-
go.


The Personal Touch of
the Craftsman—
TA7HEN our great-great grandfathers
* wanted to buy a piece of furniture
for their homes, they would drop in at
the shop of the village carpenter
and cabinetmaker, and have a good
heart to heart chat with that worthy. The latter
would then give of his very best in workmanship,
advice, and service for the sake of the comfort and
convenience of his neighbour. The business trans-
action was personal and friendly.
The world has moved a long way since then. The
quaint workshop has grown to the huge industry.
A customer deals with an organisation rather than
an individual. And yet, although the friendly contact
of the village workshop has gone, the desire for it
still remains.
Although the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. has,
in the thirty years of its history, grown into a nation-
wide organisation, with its original staff multiplied
by thousands, it has a personality by which it is
known to-day just as it was known in the early
days of its activities.
It still has a great pride in its products, and a
keen desire to assist all its customers. Its attitude
has never been merely "Here are the goods—use
them.” Rather, it has gone great lengths in carry-
ing out the principle "Here are the goods —Here’s
how to use them”.
Correct Lubrication and Correct Fuel with us are
not just catch phrases. Every motorist, every farmer,
every engineer. must be told what we have learnt
after many years of experience and ceaseless re-
search in the oil business.
Hence the extensive service literature published by
the Company. Hence our highly trained technical staffs
always ready to contribute their practical knowledge
and advice to clients. Hence our Gargoyle Mobiloil
Chart of Recommendations and our other Charts
to guide users of our products.
Vacuum service is something more than quality
products, nation-wide distribution, prompt delivery,
courteous treatment. It is also that personal touch
of the old village craftsman applied to our large
community.
Write for our Folder No. 3
THE PERSONAL TOUCH OF THE CRAFTSMAN
m
fM
i
■:-•■■•
*?*
Products marKeted by the
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
PLUME MOTOR. »? SPIRIT
LAUREL KEROSENE
V O C O P OWE R KEROSENE
GARGOYLE MOBILOIL
GARGOYLE LUBRICATING OILS
and other weII-Known products
VACUUM OIL COMPANY, PIX L,TR


What Insurance Do You Carry?
Fire? Flood? Burglars? Accident?
Death? But have you insured the Comfort
of your Home and the Health of your
Family?
SEWAGE
OXIDATION
Is Best Policy.
Water-Flush Your House. Remove Pan, Cesspit, Filtli, Smell,
Blowflies and Danger. Place Y'our Suburban. Seaside or
Country Home on the level of the Water-sewered City Residence.
USED IN 7100 AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Send to Nearest Address jor Free Booklet describing Sewage Oxidation Plan.
Your Name
Your Address
DESK
Bn.
j
Price Complete
from np.
SI'DXEV: Hoskins Buildings, 3 Spring Street. MEI.ItOt’KXE: 187 a Flinders Lane
BKISK.VXE: Queen Street. iOELAIiIE: Bennett’s Buildings, Currie Street.
I’ERTH: Economic Chambers, William Street. [S.B
101
L_>
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
SADDLES
ensure a long lease
of cycling comfort.
R. V. BRISTOL & CO. (PTY.), LTD.,
S'enchurch Buildings, Pitt. Street, Sydney,
Let your dealer know you know
J. B. BROOKS A CO.. LTD..
Criterion Work*. Birmingham. En*
Poverty
Point
"Caul-boy": The worshippers who saw
Dot Brunton's name on a London outgoing
passenger-list and assembled with dowers to
see her off the other day were disappointed.
She had signed, a last-moment contract with
C. B. Post. The first piece ahead is an old
familiar with a singing part called “The
Climax.” Florence Young, Dion Tithcradge,
Atholwood and Reg Roberts did the thing
12 years ago as a matinee show in Sydney.
“Hamfat”: By way of gratifying an am-
bition which drags at the heart of nearly
every young woman who has made a hit
at handing round light theatrical fare, Dot
Brunton is to serve thick soup and solid
steak with Guy Bates Post. Dot's friends
will hope for the best, but it is difficult to
imagine her making the sort of change-over
that was accomplished by Nellie Stewart. 1
have sorrowful remembrances of a bright young
soubrette who, when due for big recognition
in roles which suited her. insisted on throw-
ing her dumpy little self, with elevators in
the heels of her shoes, into characters like
the name-part in “The Queen of Crime.”
She pleased the multitude fairly well, but
those of her friends who began to shed tears
at the grave of her theatrical promise were
prophets.
"S.G.”: In Melbourne “upper circle”
(t.e., gallery) seats “for the gala night
only” of the Pavlova season were advertised
at 10s. 6d., plus tax, the tax being 24d. on
admissions at 2s. 6d. and id. for each 6d.
in excess of 2s. Gd. In Syduey booked seats
in the gallery for the opening week
of the season were at first offered at
11s. 6d., tax included, but after the
first night the price was 7s. 6d., plus
tax, the same as in Melbourne. Pre-
sumably the anticipated rush didn’t material-
ise. In Melbourne hundreds of gallery seats
(200 on most occasions and 300 now and
then) were advertised as available at 35.,
plus tax. In Sydney tliree-bob seats were
mentioned in the April 15 announcements,
but ss. was substituted two days later, and
I haven’t seen any reference to them since.
Pavlova has suggested that this country, be-
ing young, is without art. She really ought
to read the Pavlova box-office literature.
“Hamfat”: Imported vaudeville artists,
consigned to the Tivoli, who have found Aus-
tralia good have cheerfully forfeited their
return tickets and hitched their stars to
the Fuller waggon, which gives them a long
circuit; but the traffic isn’t all one way.
There was a heavy deal when the Tivoli took
over June Mills from the opposition. The
lady, who makes a joke of her fat, was
brought here for the Fullers’ “Cinderella,”
which opened in Melbourne the Christmas
before last. The Firm has captured others,
including some of the Fullers’ best dancers,
and it now has “Mo” (Roy Rene), who may
make another appearance in vaudeville, this
time on the Tivoli circuit. “Mb” has been
a sick man for many moons, however. It
was illness which caused him to drop out
of “Give and Take” and stay in Sydney when
the farce moved on.
“Flaming Youth” : Our attitude towards
muscular freaks exhibited for vaudeville pur-
poses smacks of hypocrisy. Along with
other portions of the Empire, we prohibit
the training of small children as contortion-
ists, and, to be consistent, we should veto
turns which have meant the torturing of
youngsters in countries possessing laws less
nice; but, of course, we don't. Yet the ban-
ning of such acts would be welcome to the
spectators. In ages that lacked excitement
they may have induced thrills, but among
people who have grown used to being nearly
run over every day they only set the teeth
on edge.
“Ugmug”; “Stellsby” (B. 22/4/’26), cor-
recting “S.G.” (B. 15/4/’26), asserts that
“Melba nights at Covent Garden were never,
even in the cheapest seats, a half-crown
touch.” It is “Stellsby” who is wrong. I
heard Melba for 2s. 6d. on July 29, 3.901.
Nellie was Juliette, Salignac was Romeo,
and the mighty Plan con was Frere Laurent.
The programme (free) is before me now.
Boxes ranged from £7 7s. to £1 Is.; balcony
stalls were 155.; amphitheatre stalls, 10s.
6d., 7s. 6d. and 55.; and amphitheatre (un-
reserved), 2s. 6d. The stage seemed about
a quarter of a mile from where I sat in the
"gods,” but. like “Stellsby,” I could hear
even the softest of Melba's notes with almost
uncanny clearness. And all for a half-crown !
“Caesar's Ghost”: Lee White*gives a vision
of her early brightness at Sydney Palace.
Although she kept the smile going when
she was in Melbourne months ago, it was a
bravely-forced smile. The Melbourne season
petered out, and while the eo. was “resting”
Fee had to enter a hospital. Then came
bankruptcy proceedings. The co. has been
going round the world for two years drag-
ging a mortgage and a load of difficulties, in-
cluding the results of a London failure; and
the burden was too great. In Brisbane Lee
White, Ltd., was formed with a capital of
£2OOO. A good Sydney season is following
an excellent one in the northern city, so
the amiable American has something to smile
about.
‘-'Topee”: I, too, was in the old Queen’s
Theatre pit when the production of the
Kelly Gang drama, “Ostracised,” was for-
bidden by the N.S.W. Government (B.
22/4/’2f»). Going into Foley’s for a reviver.
I found Larry bewailing the decadence of
the legitimate drama and Ministerial taste.
"Gimme a good five-act tragedy.” he sighed;
“they’ve got four intervals for dlirinks.”
SUCH NASTY THINGS THEY SAY!
“What character has she got in the new
revue?”
“My dear, she hasn’t got any- — she’s in the
chorus.”
“Tuart”: Rupert Julian, who produced
“The Phantom of the Opera” film, is himself
a product of this country. Thirteen or four-
teen years ago he was a very minor member
of the Julius Knight co. In appearance and
manner he was rather like Grant Ilervey
when Hervey was in his youthful prime.
Julian’s salary with .T.C.W., Ltd., only
ran to 30-bob pubs, with special rates for
actors. Nowadays, I suppose, it would run
to champagne baths.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Extraordinary in-
terest is being centred on the forthcoming
first production of Puccini’s last opera,
“Turandot,” a Chinese fantasy, which will
be presented at La Scala, Milan, under the
direction of Toscanini. The libretto has
been constructed from one of the fables of
Charles Gozzi, the Venetian playwright of
the eighteenth century, arranged by Puccini’s
friends Simone and Adami. It is well
known among artists that the music was
written and re-written many times before
the composer was satisfied, and the same
with the libretto, which owes a good deal
of its present human interest to the sugges-
tions of Puccini, who insisted on the aboli-
tion of the masks and other fantastic fea-
tures. The story is set in the China of long
ago, and deals with the Emperor’s daugh-
ter, who promises her hand to the suitor
solving three enigmas of her choosing.
Failure of solution means death, and how
the favorite loses and the unwelcome wins
is a point very brilliantly treated both in
the drama and the music.
THE FLIGHT.
"Do you think it would be best to dance off
or walk off after my song?”
“ Can’t you run, darling?”
“R.K.D.N.”: It is unlikely that Australia
Mull see ‘‘The Cradle-Snatchers,” a New
York comedy which Mas announced a short
while ago as a J. C. Williamson acquisition.
Ihe piece n 7 as to have been done in London
during the present spring, but the Lord
Chamberlain has intervened and refused a
license for its English performance the
fourth American play lie has banned during
the last few months. Norma Mitchell, a
smart comedienne who paid us a visit some
years ago and played “seconds” to Muriel
Starr, claims part-authorship of “The
Cradle-Snatchers,” which naturally is rak-
ing in the dollars in the land of its origin.
“Centurion”; The critics, commenting on
Pavlova’s airy grace, do not seem to have
estimated the steel-wire and whipcord of
muscle and sinew underlying it. In this
connection Mrs. Thorne, daughter of Henry
Arthur Jones, the playwright, tells a story
in some recent theatrical reminiscences.
Introduced to Pavlova, she Mas amazed at
the grip she received from the slender hand.
Speaking of this at a subsequent luncheon-
party, a pretty girl opposite agreed. “You’d
have said so indeed if she liad slapped your
face, as she did mine at rehearsal this morn-
ing.”
“Storky” (N’York) : Irma Caron has been
presenting, in character costume, an original
show at the Central Park Theatre here.
Irma talked about Australia, Maoriland
and Java, brightening her information with
songs. There were eight Maoriland num-
bers, five composed by Alfred Hill, two by
Doreen Walsh and the other by Te Rangi
Pai. Aussie W 7 as represented by an abo.
chant heard in the N.T. by Frank Brown,
now of Stadiums, Ltd. Irma sang this num-
ber unaccompanied; in the others Evelyn
Grieg, of Sydney, M r as at the piano. The
James Elders, Florence Austral, John
Amadio and other Aussies were there, and
an Australian flag hung from the balcony
facing the stage.
"Lud”: The Australian-born William
Archer, ndio before he died had the felicity
of knowing that he had written a world-wide
success in “The Green Goddess,” left behind
him another play which has just been pro-
duced with every sign of favor at the Kew
Theatre —adjacent to the famed Botanical
Gardens —London. The piece, though it
bears the innocent-looking title “The Joy
Riders,” is an exaggerated, almost farcical,
melodrama Mdiich has to do with a lonely,
mysterious house, criminals, detectives and
revolver-shots galore, but with plenty of
comic relief. One critic pronounces it better
than “The Green Goddess.”
i V urtain-Raiser” ; Binglii’s esoteric gam-
boiungs, aimed at increasing the supply of
yvichetty grubs and wombats, may yet be
included in a Pavlova ensemble and per-
formed to European audiences. Algeranoff
(an Englishman, by the way), w r ho learnt
his Indian dance from a Hindu lad in Paris
and acquired inspiration for another in
Japan, has been making inquiries in Mel-
bourne, but without success. It is difficult
to know where he would get information ; no-
body could tell him more about it than Dr.
Basedow, of Adelaide. Here is Basedow’s
description of a ballet of the Katherine
River (N.T.) :
As each of the dancers hops forward in a straight
line, with her heels together and her feet turned
outwards, she jerks her body in mid-air and whacks
the muscles of her thighs together, an act which
produces a loud, sharp sound. In this way she moves
both forwards and backwards, making a similar
noise with every hop, whilst her feet make a track
in the sand, which is to represent the female turtle
coming on shore to lay its eggs.
Tliis seems to be in NovikolFs line, except
the laying of the eggs.
“Goldilocks”: Orange peel and Auckland
seem to be a fatal combination to people who
have survived thrills in other parts of the
world. Bobby Leach, an old chap who came
to Australia some years ago with a film
showing how he went over Niagara Falls
in a barrel, stepped upon a bit of rind in an
Auckland street, and lost his leg—-and then
his life—as a consequence. Less than 20
years ago a man named Hansford, who had
included hunting lions and elephants in
Africa and tigers in India amongst his adven-
tures, ate oranges in bed at an Auckland
hotel. Getting up suddenly he stepped on
some peel he had dropped on the floor and
broke bis neck.
“St. John’s Wood” (Loud.) : Henry Ain-
ley’s production of “Much Ado About No-
thing,” in which Madge Titlieradge was a
fascinating Beatrice, failed to catch the
public fancy. Sybil Thorndike was a bit
more fortunate with her elaborate presenta-
tion of “Henry VIII.,” the tremendous busi-
ness of the early weeks saving her from
financial loss. However, Sybil’s public showed
less devotion than the crowds who have been
going to see Edith Evans as Rosalind at the
Old Vie. St. John Ervinc, after lamenting
the abuse of the word “wonderful” in theat-
rical parlance, says there is no other word
to describe this new Rosalind, “who talked
as Rosalind herself talked, with her mind
and her happy heart.” And Sinjin rarely
praises anybody.
“A.G.M.” (London) : William Mollisou’s
success as a producer seems likely to rob
the London stage of an accomplished actor.
Clayton and Waller, who entrusted “No,
No, Nanette” and “Mercenary Mary” to
Mollison’s guidance, have also placed their
new Lyric show, “The Best People,” in his
hands. As Mollison took a financial interest
in all three, he is well on the way to becom-
ing a rich man. But he makes no secret
of the fact that his preference is for acting.
“Flaming Youth” : The man who can claim
experience as a seaman has always a recom-
mendation when he asks for a job as “fly-
man” in a theatre; and that is how George
Rogers, who keeps the stage-door at the
Sydney Palace, came into the business. He
was in charge of the “flies” when the Bris-
bane Opera House was opened in 1888; in-
cidentally, Wilson Forbes stage-managed the
production of “Human Nature,” and Edwin
Geach played the part of a sporting young
man. Rogers was only 26 at the time, but
lie bad been sailor, ship’s mate, pub-keeper,
club steward, bricklayer and many other
things. In the theatre lie found a life that
appealed to him. Electric-liglit switches,
telephones and a score of modern duties have
altered the job of stage-door keeper from
the days when it was reserved for theatrical
pensioners, and Rogers is an alert citizen in
spite of his stoutness and his 64 years,
“Sheng Fui”: A queer reason was ad-
vanced by the Japanese police the other day
for censoring a movie depicting the acces-
sion to the throne of the first ancestor of the
present Emperor. They objected that the
actors impersonating the Imperial progeni-
tors looked like ordinary men instead of the
gods they were. As the Censor was unable
to tell the producers what a god should look
like, the promoters have decided to leave
ancient history alone in future.
“Schnorrer”: The Chosen have as big a
grip upon the film business in America as
they have on that of the stage. The man who
gave his name to Fox’s films was thought to
be of English descent, but he revealed his
racial origin when he consented to act as
chairman for New York Jewry’s “drive”
for funds in behalf of various Hebrew causes.
Fox handed in a contribution of 250,000
dollars; and at his request the quota his
committee is seeking was raised from four to
six million dollars. Australia supplied a
portion of his 250,000 dollars.
“Peters”: In the long, list of the trades-
men who supply everything from shoes to
shampoos for the performers in “Ivatja” at
the Gaiety, London. I noticed a mention of
“Hosiery by Husbands.” It being a Gaiety
show, the good old traditions are evidently
maintained.
THE UNPARDONABLE SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M;icßuskin? Pray spare me, if you are my friend;
Though some folk from adverse remark are exempt,
Mac Buskin, for reasons you’d not comprehend,
Pills me with utter, supremest contempt.
Popular? Yes, if you go by the cheers
Of the groundlings, a thing that no artist should
seek;
Though my Uncle Tom once drew laughter and
tears
From two record houses at Cockatoo Creek.
The sensation of years, sir, they talk of it still,
For even our landlord wept into his hat
M hen he bade us God-speed and collected his hill.
Tou spoke of Macßuskin. Could he achieve that?
A good fellow, too? Well, I’ll candidly own
He’s advanced me odd money, of course unsecured;
But his smiles and his favors can never atone
For the slights 1 have suffered, the wrongs I’ve
endured.
Macßuskin? i play with him —know him too well.
May he have his deserts; 1 could wish nothing
worse.
Were I armed with traditional candle, book, bell,
I’d have nothing for him but my blistering curse.
May eagles devour him, the bones that remain
Be trodden by hordes of stampeding giraffes,
And his soul stay in torment with Judas and Cain,
For (the base-hearted villain!) he treads on my
laughs.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


A Commercial
Object Lesson
t
77
REPUBLIC
Good trucks with
the broadest market
“Republic” has the Rigid I-Beam Rear
Axle, built to carry body weight, free
from driving strain and torsion.
“Republic” has Long, Wide Springs of
Special Alloy Steel; The load and
truck mechanism are specially pro-
tected.
The arrangement and size of Trans-
mission Gears give the “Republic”
extra pulling power, wherever hard
pulling is encountered.
Such things as these make for
“Republic” Superiority, and engender
the satisfaction and enthusiasm
evinced by “Republic” owners the
world over,
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NfW SOUTH WALES: Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., 114-122
Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: George Mason & Rasch, Ltd.,
6b Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Gilberts, Ltd., 896 Hay
Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Inglis Bros. & Co„ Ltd., Taranaki
and Cable Streets, Wellington.
ĵ


wins
th
Colmore Cup
Phil. Cranmore and the B.S.A. 3.49-h.p.
O.H.V. and sidecar on which he won
the Colmore Cup outright.
Mr. Phil. Cranmore, riding a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p
O.H.V. and sidecar, won the premier award
in the first English classic event of the year,
the Colmore Cup Trial.
2 Special Gold Medals
were also won on B.S.A.’s (on 2.49-h.p. solo
and 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. and sidecar machines
respectively), and TWO SILVER MEDALS
and a BRONZE MEDAL were gained by
other B.S.A. riders.
4
Motor Bicycles
further proved their consistent reliability in the 1926 PARIS-NICE TRIAL, three B.S.A.
3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Motor Bicycles gaining THREE GOLD MEDALS and, for the
Third year in succession, the Team Prize
As a proof that, in B.S.A. machines, speed is combined with reliability, at the Longmore
Races, Tasmania, a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. machine obtained two First, one Second and
two Third places; a B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. one First and one Second place.
A B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. also won the Southern Tablelands Championship at Newcastle,
N.S.W., and a similar machine won the £BO All-Comers Handicap at Maitland, N.S.W.
Motor Bicycles that are capable of such outstanding achievements are the machines that
will give YOU the most satisfactory service.
PRICES FROM £57/10/-
Send for the B.S.A. catalogue and booklet on the B.S.A. Bwlch-y-Groes climb,
also for particulars of Easy Payment System.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT <& WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA” FIN LA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY. f LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUS. -MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth .
TASMANIA -sim king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston .
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Colmore Cup,
won on a 8.5. A,,
awarded for the best
performance of the
day in the Colmore
Cup Trial, a classic
English event.


Amusement a.
VI) N K V’S Clll E 1' TIIEAT It E S
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: PAVLOVA.
CRITERION: POLLY WITH A PAST.
ROYAL: LILAC TIME.
PALACE: KEEP SMILING.
ICli A It I) S’ TIVOLI T 11 BATHES
Lessees; Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEV.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
pDLLEItS’ THEATRE, SYDNEV
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S REST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre.
w
IRTHS’ HIPPODROME,
HAYMAIIKET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIR.FHS’ CIRCUS.
MatinCes—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays
at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., Mlil.ltOliliM
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE BAD MAN.
pitINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE
HUGH J. WARD’S GREAT ATTRACTION,
MERCENARY MARY.
Brilliant Musical Comedy.
ING’iJ THEATRE, M E hit O U R N »
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
THE ADMIRABLE CPTCHTOW
Tll E N AS> (J M X'ilßAlUh,
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
The Merriest Play of the Day,
THE BEST PEOPLE.
Three Acts of Joyous Comedy Interpreted by an
Entirely NEW AMERICAN COMPANY.
Plan! at Allan’s.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTER>
AUSTRALIA.
No. 38 of 1926.
(Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.)
BETWEEN THOMAS RUSSELL Petitioner versu.-
JESSIE STEIN RUSSELL Respondent.
TO JESSIE STEIN RUSSELL formerly of Clare-
mont Western Australia TAKE NOTICE that a
Citation has been issued out of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of THOMAS RUSSELL of Perth in the
State of Western Australia Asylum Attendant pray-
ing for a dissolution of his marriage In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed to hea:
the said Petition proved and pronounce sentence is
respect thereof THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE tha
for the purpose aforesaid you are within 30 days
from the date of this advertisement to attend ii
person or by your Solicitor at the Divorce Registr
of our said Court there to enter an appearanc
in a book provided for that purpose.
Dated this 23rd day of April 1926.
F. T. DAVIES, Registrar.
This Abstract of Citation was extracted b
CHARLES GREIF, of Warwick House, St. George’
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO BE ADVERTISED in one issue of The Bulleti-
published in Sydney, New South Wales.
Amusements.
-I* HE MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
* will present
THE DEVIL’S DISCIPLE,
A Melodrama in Three Acts,
By G. BERNARD SHAW,
AT THE PLAYHOUSE,
OPENING NIGHT—SATURDAY, MAY 8,
And the Season will Close on the Following
Saturday Night.
Box Plan Now Open at Glen’s.
AC I> ITOIt I U ML MEI.ItO U R N E.
Direction, J. and N. TAIT.
COMMENCING MAY 8.
TOTI DAL MONTE.
New iji.ioi; theatre, Melbourne.
Twice Dailv 2.30 and 8
MOON & MORRIS REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
Amusements.
ft/I A.I iSSTir TII MAT 15 E M ELBOURNE.
Commencing - on Saturday.
WARNER BROS, present HELENE CHADWICK and
CLIVE BROOK in
THE WOMAN HATER.
Also AILEEN PRINGLE in
WILDFIRE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Box Plan at Allan's and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790
O Y T ’ S D E LUXE THEATRE.
MELBOURNE. j
RICARDO CORTEZ and BETTY COMPSON in
THE PONY EXPRESS.
Prices as usual.
'/M* w m.
Vi
1
&
ffi
W'm
W--
■ V
JENKYN UP!
AT THE
BUTLERS’ ANNUAL
DINNER
4 fellow butlers, they say I am too
restrained over these Kensitas ! Would
you have a man of my years become
hysterical ? *
‘ Shame! Jenkyn! *
‘Shall I wave my arms and shout—
‘Don’t harm the throat’; ‘The best
in the world’; ‘Rice paper’; ‘Photo
of Little Bogglesby by moonlight in
each packet ’ ? ’
* Never! *
«I will not. Does a butler analyse its
virtues as he serves a ’47 port? I shall
always content myself, gentlemen, with
that terse but truthful expression—‘As
good as really good cigarettes can be.’
(Loud and prolonged cheers )
10 KENSITAS COST 9d. 20 FOR 1/6
CLUB SIZE, 10 FOR I/- 2$ FOR 2/6
m
Quality!
:gbd
♦THE first thing a man asks of a pipe is
- 1 - shall smoke well the second that
look well.
that it
it shall
j
A sweeter, cooler pipe than the
GBD, or one that bespeaks
quality more definitely in its
shapely polished exterior and
fine grain, it would be impos-
sible to find at any price.
Yet the GBD is obtainable in
all the popular shapes silver-
mounted with vulcanite mouth-
piece at 12/6.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Trade enquiries- are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
mb
Shape
No. 2/4387
T^PLUM
3
SI
St
The morning shave is never a trial if .you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . • • 21 J- »
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-;
per set of 7 Razors.
Ivory 140/>
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and Jin.
Post-paid Prices—
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
Red Spots in Three Cities.
A sheaf of Melbourne shows: —
Henry Fullwood, who is showing oils and etchings
at the New Gallery, is a phenomenon as well as an
artist. He is a survival from a past epoch and
none the worse for that. While the modern school
holds itself up as a mirror to Nature, Fullwood makes
the dame stand and deliver what she carries of the
pictorial and the picturesque. Sometimes the two
eras struggle together in his breast and he produces
No. 45, a vivid study of an Australian river; but
he drops a swaggie into the left-hand corner to
indicate that he hasn’t really sold his pictorial soul
to the impressionistic devil. Reverence for eld forbids
too close analysis of some of his designs, but enthu-
siasm can be wholehearted in front of No. 82, a
monochrome. No. 55a, Port Royal, which hung in
the Royal Academy, is a satisfying picture, in
the grand style. An album of etchings will repay
study.
It would be nicer to walk along Arthur Streeton’s
inviting “Lane” than to eat his “Mushrooms.”
Otherwise this latest show at the Fine Art Gallery
reveals his usual solid craftsmanship, retrieved from
prosiness by a sound decorative sense.
Mr. and Mrs. John Farmer, just back from the
Cold World, have spread an extraordinary melange at
the Athenaeum. Onp well-painted copy of a Rembrandt
and several bad replieas of other antique masters;
one or two delightful landscape poems and a whole
epithalamium of pictorial doggerel; some delicate
lyrics in the Japanese style of decoration and some
still-lifes admirably painted but composed in such
a way as to exhaust the most athletic eye—these make
up a show at which the viewer’s pianissimo crows of
pleasure alternate with con fnoco curses.
** * *
A show of women’s art, etc.:—
Sixty artists or thereabouts have spread 281 oils,
water-colors and drawings over the walls of the
Education Gallery (Sydney) to make the show of
the Society of Women Painters. It is an exhibition
in the main pleasing, if not very exalted, with a
few exhibits that give the impression of having
been left on the doorstep and taken in out of charity.
One of the many-picture contributors is A. Hedley
Parsons, who, with some curious failures, strikes a
fair average and charms especially with a water-
color, “The Freshness of Early Morning.” Constance
Moser has worked considerable warmth and charm
into “Seaside Pasture,” and has a number of
other successes ; and Gloria Sim’s “Before the Storm,
Bronte,” throws the salt tang of the coming tempest
in the face. The most ambitious venture is by
M. Barling, but in her large “The Camels and the
Captives” the k more-than-usually siek-looking beasts
have got the hump'over the liberties taken with
their shapes. Ethel Stephens is ambitious in a
portrait, “The Countess Montemerli,” but the lady
is rather lifeless. A large flower-picture, “Arums,”
suggests a funeral somewhere; Ethel Stephens suc-
ceeds better in some smaller exhibits. The floral
offering is a large one; Marion Jones’s lively
“Zinnias” stands near by the deathly “Arums.”
Generally, the flowers are well done; E. Cusack’s
“Waratahs” is exceptionally pleasing. Jessie Traill
shows her usual strong draughtsmanship in “Old
Church”; Florence Fuller has a severe “Portrait”;
Alice Norton is occasionally effective, but frequently
blatant; A. M. Parsons gives spaciousness to “The
Wide River,” but is apt to be lithographic. M. K.
Smyth indulges in impressionism which is merely
grotesque, except In “Basque Cottage,” where the
method is not only successful, but pleasing. The
black-and-white section shows Ami Zimmerdahl mak-
ing curious experiments, some good monotypes by
A. M. Parsons, and Grace Hoy making “Dailey’s
Castle, Manly,” look like a real castle of romance.
The craft section is very strong, the hand-wrought
jewellery of Rhoda Wager being, as usual, especially
attractive.
* * • *
Hans Heysen comes to town:—
Some artists will paint a quarry because it pre-
sents what they call “a problem in paint.” Hans
Heysen does it (No. 11, in his exhibition at Farmer’s
Gallery) because he has seen beauty in his subject,
which he duly 1 delivers in wonderful color-harmonies.
It is by no means the best picture he is now showing
Sydney, but it suggests immediately the reason why
the artist’s work is so ajjpealing. The National Art
Gallery has pounced upon two of the 16 oils exhibited:
“The Track to the Farm” (No. 13), in -which the
hayrick in the foreground stands out boldly against
the delicately-wrought distant countryside, and “Del-
phiniums and Lilies” (No. 4) —most of the oils
are floral studies. Heysen gets £l5O apiece for
them; and E. W. Knox, intending to present it to
the Gallery, paid £7O for the water-color “Polly
and Jack,” a couple of plough-horses at rest, and
standing out against another glorious background.
The lie about the sombreness of Australian landscape
is denied joyfully in nearly every one of these pictures ;
even in “Travellers”—which shows a drove of sheep
moving in red dnst —-a suggestion of joy in the stark
sunlight over-rides the implications of weariness.
JjC 5jC '!* v
From an Adelaide critic: —
Dauvergne Boxall, at close on 30, is going to
Europe for two or three years to get wider experience
in his art. His farewell show in the Dunster Gallery
is mainly landscape, though there are a few clever
etchings and the self-portrait which lately took a
Melrose prize. Much of the recent work is the
result of a Sydney visit, and the Harbor appears
in various moods and weathers. He is likely to come
back from Europe an artist very seriously to be
reckoned with. In the practical detail of sales,
this show broke the local record; not for cash, the
prices being modest, but for the unanimous way in
which the crowd, as soon as the brief “opening ’
by Mrs. Frank Fisher was over, bought up everything
in sight.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
SJBgLgL
:
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
RUBBER
m
Mark Your Linen
Before Sending io the Laundry with
CASHS«®NAME
Saves loss and annoyance— imparts
individuality. Any name woven in fast color
“A few stitches and they’re on. ”
■UllllilimilMllininiiiiiiimimnutmmmiiinmiiiiinin.ii
trnriiinmiiiiiinij
Prices: 1 2 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. GASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne.
FOR UGH
SUPPERS
Your guesfts will all enjoy the
appetising flavour of Ancho-
vette. Dainty Sandwiches
made with this delicious Fish
are always popular,
and a tempting meal can be
prepared in a few moments. 1
**
yilwaijs keep a jar
in the Pantry for
emergencies
P2B
Public Notices.
FLYING INSTRUCTION.
AUSTRALIAN AERO CLUB,
N.S.W. SECTION.
REPLICATIONS are invited by persons
over 18 years of age desirous of learning
to fly at Flying Club approved by tlie De-
partment of Civil Aviation and shortly to be
opened at Sydney. Applications will be con-
sidered in the order in which they are re-
ceived.
Full particulars of fees and form of appli-
cation can be obtained from the Secretary,
Australian Aero Club, New South Wales
Section, 26 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Position Vacant.
Public Library, Museum, and Art
Gallery of South Australia.
REPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
Curator of the Art Gallery. Salary £5OO to
£560 a year, duties five days weekly. Full par-
ticulars obtainable from the undersigned.
HATELY W. MARSHALL,
General Secretary.
North Terrace, Adelaide, April 23, 1926.
Missing: Friends.
IF HENRY ROBERTS, known as Harry
» Roberts, son of the late John Harris
Roberts, Would communicate with 11. B.
Platt-Hepworth, Solicitor, 54 Pitt Street,'
Sydney, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
THIS COFFEE
SET is in heavy
hall-marked Silver
in a handsome case,
as illustrated.
Price
£2l
ĵ
ĵ
Wedding Silver.
Beautiful Novel and of Moderate Price.
We are justly celebrated for the quality and range of our wedding silver, for
we take special pride in keeping the entire department on the very peak
of up-to-date development.
\ou will find in it all the latest and most fascinating designs of desirable
articles, the quality of which is unquestionably the highest iri Sydney at
a minimum of price.
' PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIREAX&ROBERTS D?
Zb&Zb Hunter St reel Sydney
l ■ 8
Illlll
1
mi
d
FOR
SIOBCARRINO
COMFORTABLE
J
Are you as Careful choosing a Sidecar
V '•
as you are
your Motorcycle ?
r | 'OO. much depends on the
sidecar for you to be careless
as to what sidecar you use
Every Goulding Sidecar, Chassis
Special or Standard, in-
corporates the patented
Goulding floating axle
and scroll spring shown on
the left —the feature which insul-
ates the motorcycle from the
movement of the sidecar wheel
over the roughest road.
In most cases a Qoulding costs less than an ordinary Sidecar
GOULDING SIDECARS
Sold by Most Motorcycle Dealers throughout Australasia
A. G. HEALING & CO. PTY. LTD., 354 Post Office Place, Melbourne, 27 Hyde St., Adelaida
Manufa&urers and Wholesale Distributors
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Hame and address must appear on the MSS. * No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C.A.8.: Of coarse. Tlie only rare thing
about that car-lady was the extent of her journeyings.
... .John R. L.: You don’t seem to have an intimate
acquaintance with that subject; and there are con-
tributors who have... .G.M.0.: Harshly-phrased and
haltingly rhymed.... Bellerive: A very vivid picture:
Pedestrians for shelter
Did rush here and there;
Cart horse’s pranced;
Hats sailed thro the air;
With violence the winds
S wept swiftly around ;
Building’s were damaged.
Hoof’s blown to the ground;
Trucks were capsized,
And a billposter’s wall
Did creaketh and .sway,
And did heavily fall;
Fierce raged the gale
Thro the heart of the town,
When the horizon darkened
And the rain pattered down.
....Leamington: All bumps and barnacles... .P.S.
(Cottesloe) : It doesn’t get there, but is some distance
on the road.... Eileen B.: “Night” is not virulently
bad, but there is not enough in it.... James F.: The
verse is almost as terrible as the fire.... Adamas:
Too slight Lottie C.: A bit thin M.D. (St.
Kilda): Such a mild little adventure... .M.L.C.:
There isn’t enough story; but you shouldn’t have
difficulty in finding better material... .M.M. (Surrey
Hills): None quite up P.T.0.: The lines run
easily, but say very little Billy Cann (M.L.):
Poor material; but even if it were good your
garrulity would spoil it Roger H.: “Danny”' has
points; but he’s beaten out too thin... .Seapoint:
Too obscure. There’s meaning in it, no doubt, but
it’s as hard to find as crocodiles on Kosciusko....
G.W.8.: Interesting of its kind, but this is a poor
market for that sort of thing G.M.P.: You start
to tell one yarn and then fall off into another....
Brozy: The conclusion is not convincing... .Ripponlea:
A bucket or two of blood would have helped it out,
but it has a mild appeal to tender hearts:—
Shunning all human intercourse did he wander,
A grovelling, quaking, scoundrelly, scurrilous ab-
sconder.
All his miserable life had he tried to fleece men.
He was now being hounded by two mounted police-
men.
Through dishevelled undergrowth he groped weakly,
While all th’ time, o’er his . shoulder, there gazed
obliquely
His eyes, that were blear’d like those of a haddock.
He came to a timber-mill i’ a clear’d paddock.
Where a circular saw revolved somewhat like th’
sun,
And attracted him by some subtle magnetism to
where it fiercely spun.
He paid for all his sins, did that wretched wreck,
When those speeding teeth slid slippery through
his neck !
His head bounced grinningly, inverted, along th’
ground.
His decapitated body flounder’d awfully around.
. ... J.R.P.; Pretty, but weak G.V.K.: A good
idea not well worked 0ut.... Ernest L.: The general
idea is poor, and the lines are tagged out with too
many print-worn phrases 0.G.W.: Thin, foolish
verse with the old, cheap, conventional gags worked
in to add to the irritation... .A.L.M.: Poor yarn
poorly t01d.... Bronson E.: Not for us. .. .M.J.H.:
See if you can’t add a little more feeling to it. It
would be worth while then... .W.D.F.: The back-
ground of the yarn is not satisfying.... Anti-Leg-
Pooler; No g00d.... V.C.W.: The horror is not in
our line.. ..S.S. (Moss Yale): Doesn’t add anything
to the sordid history.... Frank G.: Not enough in-
terest. .. .C.J.F.; Misses... .A.C.W.: Tedious read-
ing. .. .T.N.T.: You missed your chances... .G.R.C.:
You work old themes in the old way ; try to think
up something fresh. .. .Marjorie P.: Pretty, but
anaemic.... A.T.A.: Not quite well enough done....
Jacques: Some thought, but hardly earns its place
in this crowded sixpenn’orth. .. .O.L. (Roseville):
Misses. .. .A.M.8.8.; The elfins must run away home.
. ...T.O’R.: Begins weakly, but with some show
of skill, and then goes all to pieces .1.A.R.:
The verse falls very far short. .. .A.R.D.: A re-hash
of old stuff Jimmy P.: Doesn’t strike us hard.
. ...F.J.H.: It falls too often over its own feet....
H. J.L.; The poorest sort of verse.... G.M.C.: No-
thing to recommend it except the wonderful hand-
writing.... Helen Z.: Dreary.... Pearl H.: Not very
bad, yet not well enough done... .M.M.S.: A fair shot;
the target isn’t far off W.H.D.: The lines seem
tired... .F.J.A.; The mirth is too deeply hidden for
an impatient age Jan S;: Pleasing idea of a
small sort, but the verse won’t carry it.... Ted L.:
There have been many worse first attempts, but it
is still below standard... .D.D.A.: No use to us.
Colonel H.: Very bad. .. .N.E.R.: Too frail. .. .Elsie
R.: It fluttered feebly, and seemed glad to find even
the basket... .M.A.Y.: The verse keeps the beaten
track without saying anything worth while....
H.M.J.: A rather tedious journey to get to a small
point... .Dac: You don’t make it clear what hap-
pened. .. .E.M.E.; You spoil your lines by leaving
out the articles. Verse can’t be written like a
telegram. .. .J.S.G.: The serpent wriggles in vain.
. ...J.H.L.: You start off brilliantly:—
The Port of Sydney is the chief resort
Of those that wish goods foreign to import;
It’s chiefly known and called “Hub of Australia,”
The goodly land that nothing knows of failure.
And then you peter out.., .X.R.A.N.: “Dan Maloney”
is almost bad enough to serve as a shocking example.
. ...A.T.W.: The interest in that sort of thing died
years ago. . . .Cato: Sorry the space isn’t there.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.C.M,: We don’t want to hear about poor old
George. ...K.F.: The figures bulge in the wrong
place and the “wash” is streaky.... U.0.R.: Strongly
suspect it was done by a tar-spraying machine....
S.C.M.: The close season for jumping-cheese humor
has a few years to run yet E.S.: The tramp’s
outline seems bent upon obtruding into every corner
of the room. ... C.A.P.: Promising, but close-ups
of a man and woman merely conversing are not in
much demand... .D.C.: No good at a11....L.A :
Don’t take to cartography. You'd turn a map of
the Vic.-S.A. border into a likeness of the Norwegian
coastline... .N.S.: The lady is the nearest approach
to the covering that shelters a moth in the cater-
pillar stage that we’ve seen for a long time.
“Astern”: We were mending the wire in
No Man’s Land when Fritz put over a burst
of machine-gun fire. Our hardest case
was making for the nearest hole, but the
sergeant stopped him. Next burst: he col-
lected a stray, and started upbraiding his
n.c.o. “Got it through you!” he grumbled.
And for once it turned out to be the literal
truth. The bullet had passed through the
fleshy part of the sergeant’s arm before giv-
ing the Dig. a blighty.


< ~Why you need
Bek
aID
always
at hand /
jl. Because to neglect simple injuries or
skin affections is the shortest road to
serious trouble. Poisonous disease
germs soon swarm into any fissure or
break in the tissues.
2. Because a dressing of Zam-Buk is re-
markable for its power to expel this
germ danger, eradicate disease, and
cause the growth of new healthy skin.
3. Because Zam-Buk is ready for instant
use with its superior healing, soothing
and antiseptic properties. Zam-Buk
soon takes the fire out of a wound,
reduces swelling, and allays irritation
and inflammation.
4. Because Zam-Buk has opened up a
new era in skin-healing with its herbal
origin and its notable freedom from
lardy fats and coarse or insoluble
mineral drugs. Zam-Buk is termed a
“complete solution and is thus readily
absorbed by the pores.
5. Because Zam-Buk is a complete sur-
gery in a two inch box.” Use it for
superficial injuries and deep-seated
skin disease, and “rub-it-in” where
directed for sprains, colds, chills,
rheumatism, and any other embroca-
tional purpose.
6. Because Zam-Buk attains the 100 per
cent, standard of healing efficiency.
First-aid experts have known and
trusted Zam-Buk for a quarter of a
century.
7. And, finally, because the regular use
of Zam-Buk by every member of your
family means better skin health all
round. Safeguard your own health
and your children’s by taking advan-
tage now of the Free Sample offer
mentioned below or by getting in a
supply of Zam-Buk.
samPl F FRFF Selld name antl
L£. r address t 0 the Pro-
prietors, C. E. Fulford (Aust.). Ltd., Sydney, and
a Free Sample of Zam-Buk will be posted to you
by return. There is no charge ichatever, but be
sure you mention Bulletin of 6/5/’26.
Zam-Buk Balm, 1/6 and 3/6 1)ox. Zam-Bulc Medicinal Soap, 1/- per cake.
Of Chemists and Stores everywhere.
/UU
Wi |,M If V. -V" J
*
r/)
w'm
Uf
;
/; * s
r
v
\ \^N
RWa
=U,¥ lA£
7~<x^
Uni U
/' /•
(f —II
r' u
*4
- *»»»“>\ .
/> ''*T3
A
'■S!
%
k
I:®
i
W' Is - ' i
' lilli
■l ..
: i.
■" >
■
I
*• '
These superior Worsteds and many
other distinctive new suitings are now
on view in the Second Floor Showroom
Patterns and self measurement form
will be posted promptly on request.
Peapes pay postaga
Atl-iuool Worsteds
Tailored to Measure
£7/15/- at Peapes
These fine Worsteds, exclusive to Peapes 5 , introduce
a weave never before applied to this type of suiting.
The fine wool texture, of a weight admirably fitted
to Winter needs, shows a cross diamond effect,
like the weave of a basket.
The colours comprise a splendid assortment of
Greys over which a fine silk stripe of harmonising
tones is woven at half-inch intervals, adding the
unobtrusive touch of colour so popular this season.
These Worsteds are also available in neat stripe
designs and plain colours.
Their moderate price does not entail any departure
from that perfect standard of workmanship
characteristic of Peapes 5 tailoring.
Each suit is made an individual study by Peapes 5
expert cutters and finishers.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
MEN’S & BOYS’ OUTFITTERS
GEORGE ST. WSL) SYDNEY
Exclusive English Smoking Mixtures
At Peapes’ Tobacco Department.


Build Better
Walls and
Ceilings!
Save money anil build real charm
and beauty into your new home
by using “MIIROUTr Asbestos
Cement Sheets for lining all its walls
and ceilings.
FJBROLITE” costs less than lining-
boards and is Fire Retardant, White-ant
J. root Hygienic, and Improves with Age.
ilie big sturdy sheets are easily and
quickly fixed without waste.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
BRISBANE: A.M.P. Buildings, Queen St.
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE
HOBART .
.. 30 Currie Street
103 Collins Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Nathan’s Buildings,
Wellington.
One Sheep
may follow another. Mankind has frequently
been criticised for taking the same action.
-But the man who grows wool and follows
this advice takes a sound step which gains
general approval.
Send the Clip to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane,
13
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
of y t o hl ar L^ Ul,tUri i d wr j te at <®<* *or full particulars
forfihll M^ de “ ln^ nt ; on . Liglit, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS; GUYATT & CO, Est . 1853 .
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Public Trustee
Established Ist January, 1914
(Under State Guarantee),
ACTS AS
Executor - - Trustee,
Administrator,
Attorney or Agent,
Trust Funds Available for
Loans on City or Suburban
Freeholds.
Full Particulars Furnished
on Application.
E. J". PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. ro . wir, a
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
m
THE
Batte ßy
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hypol is a friend indeed to the precious
little folk. It chases away gloom and anxiety,
by restoring sick Children to the bloom of health.
For racking Coughs and Colds, the prevention of
Rickets, or for keeping up the strength of Children
who are growing rapidly, there is nothing so reliable
and sustaining as
Delicate Children should be given Hypol during the wtntei
.months. It will build up resistance to illness and disease,
and improve their condition generally.
There can be no failure with HYPOL. Try a Bottle
Sold Everywhere at 2/6 per Large Bottle
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE 6C CO. PTY. LTD.. Melbourne
f I* <
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6 d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere,
® 314
A C.A.V. BATTERY with THREADED RUBBER
o
<0
<p
a:
50
INSULATION, with ordinary care
and attention, will last as long
as the car itself— and do its work
the whole time. C.A.V. Replacement
Batteries f r most British, Cent nental and
American cars—bached by service.
Sole Agents for Australasia: BENNETT* WOOD, Ltd.,
234 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C. A VA'Oi’JVELL & Co, Ltd., Aston Vais London Eng.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘Clerk” : Loud-speakers were used for the first
time at Spencer-street (Melb.) station during
the Easter traffic. The Man in Grey barked
information regarding train arrivals and de-
partures into a microphone in his cabin, and
his remarks were transmitted to loud-speak-
ers placed at various points on the different
platforms. The arrangement has been ten-
tatively continued since, but its permanent
adoption has not yet been authorised.
* * * *
“Coot" : Ballarat is not the only Victorian
town which has covered its old alluvial work-
ings with pines (B. l/4/’26). Bright is
surrounded by such plantations, now from
twelve to two years old, and as far out as
Harrietville the hillsides and the old dredged
areas are planted with Finns insignis. On
other portions of the river fiats wattles are
being grown extensively, and all traces of
the “devastating dredge” are rapidly dis-
appearing.
* * * *
Bris. : After long and anxious cogita-
tion, ex-Premier Gillies, now Queensland’s
price-fixer, lias scheduled the lawful charges
for bobs, shingles, semi-shingles and bingles.
Ihe maximum for the first operation is 35.,
wirh Is. 6d. for subsequent trimmings. These
prices apply to the beauty-parlors as well as
hairdressing-saloons of Brisbane and Ips-
wich districts. Only a few of the fashionable
beautifiers were charging more, and they will
easily get round the regulations by “extras.”
* * * *
P.M.”: The country storekeepers who
complain that customers run up bills for
groceries and then, with the assistance of
Mr. Clapp s staff, get their drapery from
Melbourne (B. 8/4/’26) are themselves
largely to blame. In one town 150 miles from
Melbourne I priced various items of
drapery; the total cost, after deducting 5
was £l4 10s. I sent to
Melbourne for the same, things, and, including
freight, postage and cheque exchange, the
total cost was under £7.
u .* * * *
‘Jim Carew”: There is money for some
enterprising Australian who starts a fish-
farm here. There arc dozens in America/and
they pay big dividends. Pools are made
along the banks of some fast-moving stream,
carefully netted in and stocked with fish—
usually trout. The mobs are fed, and with
care each pool will carry an almost incred-
ible numbeiv When an order is received a
net is used m the pool, and fish of the re-
quired size are extracted. As orders are
received when this food is out of season,
they realise fancy prices.
* *
Gregor : If “Nitric’ knows of anybody
who is conducting an illicit still, no matter
how small, all that he need do is to inform the
Excise authorities, who will attend to the rest
and pay "Nitric” a reward of a hundred
pounds as well (B 15/4/’26). Nowadays
theie is very little illegal distillation in Aus-
tralia. Spirit from a private still is so raw
and fiery in taste that if sold over a bar it
would be instantly detected, and it is im-
possible to disguise its rawness even bv
blending. I erhaps one might make an excep-
,,t ie , case of . tlle sugar districts of
the North, where quite tolerable rum is still
made from the molasses. Some years ago
a Brisbane firm sent to a northern town a
whbPn of a ne y type of bathroom heater
which worked with gas. There was soon a
brisk demand for these heaters and when
requests for them started to arrive from gas-
less towns curiosity was aroused. Investi-
gatjon showed that they were being used as
■stills, the copper coils with which they were
ntted being specially suited for this purpose.
*
“Wollard”: Tasmanian .sawmillers find
the competition of Baltic and Oregon pines
so keen in the weatherboard trade that they
have practically abandoned that branch;
most of them are running on blackwood and
leaving hardwood alone. Scantlings of hard-
wood are sold at two-thirds the cost of pro-
duction m the hope that the deficit will be
made up on the sale of the better portions
ot the log when cut into furniture timber,
lore again, however, overseas competition
in the rorm of Japanese oak is .seriously in-
terfering with home industry. The freight
charged by Japanese shipping cos. to bring
this timber to Australia is actually less than
that charged from north-west Tas. to the
mainland ports. Junk timber (12 x 6) ’’s
i aaded 111 Australia at a tariff of Is. per
10 J super, feet, a rate of Protection insuffici-
ent to pay the difference between the freight
t rom the Baltic to Australia and that from
the speck to the mainland. Tas. sawmillers
are forced to export, very little of their
product being required within the State
and they find it harder and harder to show
a pro t.
u*. * * *
Orehardist”: My neighbor’s small boy
came to say that his father would like to see
me at once. I skipped over, surmising some-
thing had gone wrong with the new car and
was promptly introduced to “Mr. Dash an
insurance-agent, who wants to know some-
a£?ut “»?• Tell him what you know.”
" elk Harry here owns 40 acres,” I began,
worth over £lOO an acre and a house that
wasn t built tor £lOOO, besides” “It
nsn t that at all,” chipped in the agent He
looked at me hard for a minute, then went
on: It s this way. Your friend here wants
to insure his new Vauxhall for £6OO. and—
.well> M ,ore are two or three gangs in Mel-
bourne that specialise in destroying cars to
order. Say your car is insured for £4OO •
it wouldn t bring £2OO if sold. You give
the , gang s go-between £2O or £3O, and the
car s number, and leave it at a certain place
at a certain time. Then you go round the
corner. Two or three of them hop in, drive
it out to a lonely road in the country, strip
it, burn it and return in a car that has fol-
lowed them. You’ve gone to the police
course, and reported your car stolen. It’s
round in a day or two, worth tuppence or
less. Ihe gang makes from £5O to £loo'
you get the insurance; we pay—that’s ali
there is to it. That’s why none of the com-
panies- will insure a car for anything like
its value unless the insurer is known. Now
you see.” It solved a mystery that had
puzzled me—why so many stolen cars are
burnt in the outer suburbs.


World Leadership
Brings Low Prices
World leadership for Graham Brothers Trucks is more than a phrase.
It is a vital, practical thing that means satisfaction and money to buyers.
It means satisfaction because public demand is based on satisfaction,
and the demand for Graham Brothers Trucks is growing greater every
day.
It means money to buyers because large demand means large produc-
tion —and large production is the secret of low prices.
Graham Brothers are the largest exclusive truck manufacturers in the
world. By that fact the buyer profits.
He profits by the quality that created the demand—and by the
astonishingly low prices that demand made possible.
NEW PRICES
1-Ton Chassis ~ ~ ~ " £350
I J-Ton Chassis £435
IJ-Ton Chassis (Bus) £490
GRAHAM BROTHERS
Detroit, U . S . A .
A Division of- Dodos- Broths-rs. Inc.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd
199 St. George's 1 errace,
Perth.
•>
I
I
I
A
A
j
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
S/B/’Se.


Five New Patented Features
Bn
ifflPg
<s
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully.
SECURITY
Cheque Protector
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Prices—including tube acid-proof ink—
Gent.’s, 30/., 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ladies’, SO/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Registered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib preferred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Why Suffer With
Itching Rashes
When a warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and applica-
tion of Cuticura Ointment
will afford immediate relief and
point to permanent skin health
in most cases when all else fails.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad- 1
dress: “R.To'wns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a icoman needs to know.
BRITISH WADE
m»s
UALITY PENCIL
(
NOW EACH
BLACKLEAD - 17 GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
n,,,™™J nC A rP r< rat i ed under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—A. 0. Luya, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G HAYMEN
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
Nnrth h ern ffi pTvs L K d « n ’Av e l lbom ' 1 ? e ’ Sydney ’ and 92 branches in Queensland and
Aortnern Rivers, R. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
ties tlt for o The o^rfl I r^p J thfn ral f Sia ii and the I Wolld ’ this Rank offers the fullest
ties for the tiansaction of all general banking business.
Man
g| js
<0
“TUGGERAH ”
25A pair
TWO PAIRS 46/6
Beaver Mole ma a d d e t '
Riding Trousers
Made of tke genuine Beaver Mole-cut for Rid-
ing-finished with loops for Belt~ Cross Pockets-
Buttons outside. Strongly made. Launders well
and will vJear like saddle cloth. ~ c 5\.1l Sizes
Pike Brothers
LIMITED
In Queen Street, "Brisbane
STATE SIZE
MAIL TO DESK
ĵ
Oh! Daddy,
what a „
Smooth face.
Try
COLGATE’S
for a
Better Shave
Antiseptic,
Beneficial
to the Skin
Secure Satisfaction in Shaving
BY USING &
COLGATE'S
RAP(O SHAUE CREAMor STICK
HEN you use Colgate’s Shaving Soap
(cream or stick as you prefer),
you have comfort and satisfaction,
Colgate and Co. have been making fine soaps
and toilet requisites since 1806. From the
outset they have used only the best ingredients
obtainable. No false claims are made for
Colgate’s no exaggerated or misleading
statements appear in their advertising. For
fifty years Australians have known the sterling
worth of Colgate’s shaving preparations, and
have proved their merit by constant daily use.
With hot water or cold, with soft water or hard,
Colgate’s makes a copious, fragrant lather which
softens the beard at the base, where the razor's
work is done, It makes shaving easy, and leaves
the face cool and refreshed.
COLGATE 8C CO.
Established 1806
RlO4
m
“Pat Busliie”: Re surnames long, short or
startling, a man at Oessnock (N.S.W.)
struggles along under the name of Csisz.
“R.E.”: I can quote another surname with
three “e’s” arow (B. 8/4/’26). The pro-
prietor, whom I knew, came from Stockton
in Yorkshire. He spelt his name “Eeet” and
pronounced it “Eat.”
Charles Wilson, who has just retired from
the job of rate-collector at Collingwood,
thought that his 51 years of municipal work
was a record for Victoria. But he was
wrong; S. J. Masters, rate-collector for Mel-
bourne City Council, has a tally of 52 years'
service, and a fellow-employee, Harry Walk-
ling, has 51 years.
Kennedy Allen, of Rockhampton, littera-
teur and barrister, takes with him to London
a book on English composition which will
probably be published by Harrap. Allen
studied under Prof. Dowden in Dublin, is a
Slxakspearean scholar, and his critiques of
Allan Wilkie’s performances, published in
pamphlet form, are the best yet done in
Queensland.
G. A. Moir, head of the Melbourne legal
firm of Gillott, Moir and Ahern, is off on
May 4 to the Cold Land via U.S.A. When
not collecting costs he is a pillar of the
A.N.A., of which he is now Federal presi-
dent. In London he will pick up as many
points as he can on national insurance, re-
garding it as one of the biggest, problems
Australia has to face.
“Glen A”: A two-wlieeled gig used in
England over 140 years ago, and now housed
in the Technological Museum, Sydney, was
the first mailcoach in Australia, and was
last used to carry mails between Parramatta
and Gosford. It is still in an excellent state
of preservation, except for a splintered axle-
box, and was presented to the museum by
Mrs. Rock Davis, sen., of Brisbane Water
(N.S.W.).
Sydney Uni.’s latest batch of “quacks”
is strongly flavored with sport. It includes
11. O. Rock, a batsman of Test-match size;
Otto Noth ling, the representative Rugby
full-back and cricketer; and J. V. Garner,
on his day one of the Ma State’s deadliest
left-hand bowlers. H. C. Finn, the Univer-
sity and State League half-back, is a fourth;
and Colvin, the tennis hope, a fifth.
Dr. J. W. S. Laidley, of the Sydney Medi-
cal School, gets the first fellowship in the
new department of urology at the Sydney
University. Laidley picked up some of the
big prizes at Sydney Grammar, and carried
liis habit of being first into subsequent Uni-
versity examinations. The new “kidney”
department, which was given a start by the
gift of a Sydney doctor, shows how special-
isation in medical research is developing.
Bananaland Labor’s preference for a lay
Attorney-General, even when a lawyer is
available (as Brennan was when Mullan was
appointed), has turned all the gents one into
the other paddock. Not a single lawyer is
standing on the Labor side at this election.
On the Coalition side are three barristers
and two solicitors. If the Opposition wins,
barrister A. D. McGill will become Attorney-
General. Solicitor R. M. King (deputy-
leader) is also pencilled for office.
“Alwyn”: Included among the advertise-
ments featured in a Sydney directorv for
1843 is the following:—
Anthony Hordern,
Bonnet and Drapery Warehouse,
No. 12 King Street.
Anthony Hordern begs to acquaint his numerous
customers that he has just opened a large stock of
ladies’ and children’s stays of very superior quality
and improved shapes.
That was in the days when the founder of
the business flourished in King-street, near
Truth-lane, on a site subsequently occupied
by the Star and Garter.
“S.T.S.” : The old theory of a man being
responsible for all his wife’s acts (the axiom
which made the henpecked Bumble say that
the Law must be “a hass”) has been neatly
stood on its head in Adelaide. A licensee
was charged with supplying drinks by her-
self or her servants at a prohibited hour.
She pleaded firmly that her husband, who
did the deed, was no servant of hers, but
an employee of a firm named. Being her
husband, he had borrowed the bar key to get
some cigarettes for himself, and while there
he might have committed the crime alleged ;
but that was no fault of hers. And the
Court accepted the explanation.
“Bluefix”: I nominate Peter Aldridge, of
Cairns (N.Q.), as the oldest open-air
speaker of the Commonwealth. He claims
that he recently passed his 100th milestone,
and he still_travels from town to town talk-
ing on social and economic questions. I
first came across him 13 years ago on the
bank of the Russell River a few minutes
after he had made a second unsuccessful
attempt to cross the swollen stream on foot.
He refused with disdain my offer of a ride
across. The only help he would accept was
a lift for his swag while he hung on to the
stirrup-iron. He has lived nearly half a
century in the North.
The out-back electorates in Queensland are
so huge that it takes an earthquake or a
revolution to shift a sitting member. George
Pollock, Chairman of Committees, who repre-
sents the biggest electorate (Gregory—
-106,360 sq. miles) has a walkover. Ran-
dolph Bedford is another— his territory
(Warrego) covers 70,800 sq. miles. Darby
Riordan, of Burke (66.600 sq. miles), John
Payne, of Mitchell (28.800 sq. miles), and
Frank Bulcock, of Barcoo (25,020 sq.
miles), have also been returned unopposed.
All five are Labor men. Their electorates
aggregate 298,480 sq. miles—not very far
short of half the State. The only National-
ist returned unopposed is 11. F. Walker, of
Cooroora, quite a small constituency of
1120 sq. miles.
A Sydney dentist lately complained to a
Bulletin man about the great difficulty
experienced in collecting accounts, whereupon
the writer drafted a formula to be attached
to the invoice when too long overdue. It
read:—
Many eat too much, and dig their graves with
their teeth.
Many of them dig their graves with their own
teeth.
Too many of them dig their graves with my teeth,
and die without paying the bill.
It has been calculated that the mortality among
people with their own teeth is 10 per cent, less than
among those with unpaid-for teeth. An early settle-
ment might save your life.
Great results are hoped for.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma —Sierra—V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
lit Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.-15 p.rn.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.rn.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail—£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Two Select Escorted Tours.
Organised by Thos. Cook and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Pees included.
JAVA. —Leaving Sydney 23rd June,
per s.s. Tasman; 14 Days’ Motor
Tour in lovely Java. Fare £l5O.
JAPAN.—Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Maru, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Fare, £227/14/-
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application.
TIIOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
Banking, rubliic Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925. . £ 10.’395.’937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Ay eyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney - .
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares-.. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares 3.750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
BRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS *j
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Hotel Kosciusko
Winter
Snow Season.
Ski-running - - - Tobogganing
Ice-skating - - - Ice Carnivals
Luxurious Accommodation
Open Log Fires
Nightly Entertainments
Dancing
Season Opens Ist July.
Bookings direct with Manager.
Full information and rail concession
certificates at
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping-, &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 tons disp. MAY 6, for Vancouver.
MAKURA ........ 13,000 „ „ MAY 20. for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 „ „ JUNE 3, for Vancouver,
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ JUNE 17, for San Francisco.
Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
V& 1 :
t 'fc/
/ fe&ffgggr.asa “ ■
' *' v -, ■■ '
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO TIIE UNIXKO IvINODOM INXEIiCHANUEAHTE IOR RETURN
BV OTHER TINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of §2 to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
sr —
1
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare;
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500 I ANCIIISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES .. 14,500 ASCAN1US . • 10,000
/ENEAS .. 10,000 I „
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. B6701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills, Gilchktst & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12.5U0 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service between Australia sud
Southampton, London and Hull,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCEES 12,500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Eatablished 131 V.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve 'Liability
Directors;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq,
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping-.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone.)
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
t Brisbane, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerUm
iVlagnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—Erom Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blaclcheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Seottisli Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Ilain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messagevies Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest mul Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428.000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Olass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances
oi'i'ected on all classes ot
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” in an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.


FT
9
* > i v
N
-
*
\ ,v
r-
.' ; V v .V‘,^
SI>V ’ v * I
y r
'A
V
88
JK
iii
. *J \\ v\N
■ :■ f‘ Jv
Si
** * v
m.
ill! II h.
s~
» ,--
-./
III!
2§S!5
. '* % !&*■ ' .
' irv : > v,; »
fll
- > M
» 1/
**
- o
1
i
r<
r.
> ~ i», N •_ -,'».%. .
%
5rX-T -
r ' IF*
•v-. *
vK»-
rr>\
m
42
Vx»
ST ‘V»jv*
fr - I.?"-.”^-.A'
s
J
v. X .
30
> A
ft
*v
r .
r>N
< i' 1
1
, %
* *>V.s
XT
*~
« «
s’ >'..-• ' f
I
r<
h
lli *1 < r,i
K
T
*l9®
A >JI
S£
V&k.*'- I
\ V
..v
✓ ...'■‘V
>r
/♦
/
r
0
'A s
- at//£r
4m£z m
Efficiency
in>
Lighting
lants
I
1 I
V-.
mssm
m mm
m
-r m
1 il
II
ojgrz3> m *
! * *
1-k.w. Belt-driven Plant on Girders.
THE DIRECT-COUPLED
“LISTER LITE”
THE superiority of this plant is unquestioned. It
includes the robust Lister Engine, with all its
dependability, and a heavily-made, strong generator.
Many years of useful work is guaranteed without
the least probability of a breakdown. Consider
this against the time when your house is full of your
friends and the load is heavy.
2-k.w. Direct-coupled Plant.
0
Fullest information and quotations free
with Catalogue “B” from the Agents:
Oangar, Gedve & Co.,
Ltd.,
Young Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Wincheombe, Carson,
Ltd.,
Eagle Street,
BRISBANE. Queensland.
Mallocli Brothers,
William Street.
PERTH. W.A.
A. P. Sutherland,
2 Maffra Street
(Queen’s Bridge),
SOUTH MEL BOURNE,
Victoria.
Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd.,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
A. G. Webster & Sons,
Ltd.,
HOBART, 'I'AS.
Levin & Co., Ltd.,
WELLINGTON. N.Z.
1 %-k.xv. Direct-coupled Plant.
THE BELT-DRIVEN “LISTER LITE”
EQUALLY dependable and suitable for smaller lighting
schemes. The same high-grade Lister Engine and generator.
The “Lister Lite” not only lights! It runs your iron, your
fan, your ice machine, your radiator, and makes your life
worth living in the town or on the land.
j
R A.LISTER
m
©
m
m
wm
Mm
I
:
£
m
;/
ee S Cc*-Clv.OS


If You Have a Bad Leg
u
m
3
2
□
L
r
x
CD
cX
i
■n
Mr.
R. 11. ROWE,
from, a photo.
Use
Rexona,
It Heals!
“Ten years ago I knocked
my leg and the wound turned
to blood poison. I was treated
at the hospital for some time
and my leg healed up, but 1
was unfortunate enough to get
it knocked again, and tor
seven years it did not heal up.
I went to two specialists and
iheir treatment did my leg
good for a while; then it
seemed to be at a standstill
till at last 1 tried Rexona
Ointment and Rexona Soap on
the wound, and in four months
the wound was almost healed.”
(Sgd.) R. 11. ROWE,
“Brenda,”
England Avenue,
Marriekville, N.S.W.
Rexona—a Medicine
Chest in Itself!
The Best Treatment for
Bad Legs, Varicose Veins,
Ulcers, Piles, Eczema,
Ringworm, Cuts, Sores,
Bruises, Scalds, Burns,
Sores on the Head, Fail-
ing Hair, Dandruff,
Rashes, Chilblains,
Chapped Hands, Cold
Sores and all Skin Erup-
tions.
f Cooling
joolhinq -
Healing
/6
3/-
flnliscplic Omlmem
niirn ies k Absolutely
* m Heals Reliable
%
H2E3
mumn
r A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of fhe sl<in. Eczema. Sores. Gils.
Bums Bruises. sores. Sciatica. Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP SHELDON DRUG C° L td SYDNEY
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Hillier’s
Chocolates
by mail!
Carefully packed in strong
RED METAL BOXES.
No matter where you live in Aus-
tralia you may be sure of them
reaching you in a perfect condition.
W-V
/2
vu-CS
cs
r/>
j*v
2^f.
Manufactured, Packed and
Mailed on the same day
your order is received.
per lb.
4/-
N.S.W.
Other States.
1/2
1/8
2/2
2/8
3/2
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
162-136 Pitt Street ami cr. George
and King Streets. SYDNEY.
The Bird.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AniRD woke in the quiet wood.
I heard it in the spring;
I lie-li in the boughs of golden bloom
1 heard the. strange bird sing,
When dawn was flushing rosily,
And winds were whispering.
Dew twinkled on the trembling grass
And the young, opening dower;
The gentle stir of morning held
The dim and tranquil hour,
Viul faintly came the jasmine scent
From a far garden bower.
\ lark’s lilt filled the open sky,
The thrush extolled the day,
V blackbird whistled clear and shrill
Mis joy ous roundelay,
\nd suddenly the strange bird sang,
Rocked on a slender spray.
His song was like a bugle-call,
High-toned with ecstasy,
Or like an elfin clarion,
As light and sweet, and free,
And in the song I heard a note
That called and called to me.
Deep in the silent, piny grove
He flew on amber wing.
And down the path I followed fast,
By wild ways hastening
There was no track too rough to take
To hear the strange bird sing.
Oh. soft and dreamily lie sang
In the still warmth of noon,
His song a drowsy lullaby.
As watching mothers croon ;
I could but listen yearningly
Lest it should end too soon.
He fluttered by dim woodland ways.
He flew between the hills,
Where there were daisies on the slopes
By swift sun-dappled rills,
And little cottage homes where musk
Bloomed on white window-sills.
Amidst the sun’s red westering
Pale planets shone revealed,
The moon climbed up the starry steep,
And through a cloudy shield
Cast down her silver witchery
On grove and sleeping field.
And suddenly the strange bird sang.
A wild and poignant strain,
Wherein was nothing left of joy,
But only fear and pain;
Across the midnight flowed the song
Again and still again.
I fled across the moonlit hills
Where ghostly night winds stirred,
By marsh aud wilderness I prayed
As one who seeks a gird:
"Dear God, let me not hear again
The heart-song of this bird!”
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMDUILLE McKAY.
The Thirteenth Tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f MHE first time I saw old Swezel was
I when we were getting ready to fumi-
gate Jim Enderby’s mandarin-trees. It
was during the afternoon. We were sorting
out the fumigation sheets, great spreads of
calico like circus tents, preparatory to com-
mencing the work that night, when a thin
voice suddenly grated : “No one ever yet fumi-
gated those mandarins, and no one ever will.
We turned sharply. Swezel, the old
croaker, was leaning over the fence as though
he had been there for hours, days, years.
He was a weedy, pinch-faced creature, with
sly eyes, small and scarcely separated by
an unbelievably narrow beak of a nose.
“Nobody ever yet fumigated those man-
darins,” he repeated. “Mr. Vane, who had
the place before you. had to give it best. He
was the last to try.”
“Anyway, we’ll give it a go,” replied Jim.
“You don’t know why those trees are planted
so close together, do you?” continued Swezel.
We did not. They were the closest-set
grove in the district, the foliage of the larger
trees interlacing.
“It was old Mardon who did it,’ explained
Swezel. “When he planted that there bed
the fumigation was a new idea, and he didn’t
approve of it.” Old Mardon never had ap-
proved of anything. He was a legend oft
cussedness.
“Well,” continued the equally-perverse Swe-
zel, “lie swore no one ’d ever fumigate his
trees, and he planted them close so that
if anyone tried they’d get poisoned because
the fumes ’d have no getaway. I know—l
was with him when he died, and he swore
he’d haunt those mandarins if anyone ever
fried to fumigate them.” We laughed and
lie snarled :
“All right—laugh! But you’ll see.”
Fumigation is not difficult, but it calls for
care. The tree is covered completely by a
tent or sheet of calico, which is hoisted
over and into place by means of two long
poles. The bottom edges of the sheet are
then tucked close down on the ground, and
even weighted with soil if need be, to pre-
vent any fumes from escaping. One corner
of the sheet, however, is looped temporarily
over a branch to serve as a doorway until
the fume-charge is applied. When the sheet
is ready this charge, consisting of sulphuric
acid and water in an earthen vessel, is
placed inside the tent close to the tree-
trunk, after which a certain quantity of cya-
nide of potassium is dropped into tlio vessel.
The mixture at once sizzles up. the result-
ant fumes being prussic acid, the suddenest
of all poison-gases possible. The speed and
unanimity with which all pests on the tree
die is ample testimony to the deadly nature
of the brew, and it must be remembered
that they are in a position to know.
The operator who crawls under the tented
tree to add the cyanide naturally does not re-
gard the occasion as one for loitering. He usu-
ally holds his breath and scurries out with
a rapidity seldom achieved under our wage-
system. while his mate immediately drops
the fold of cloth which had served as a
doorway and the tent is sealed. The fumes
pervade the whole of the interior within a
few seconds, and after some time they gradu-
ally filter through the calico, the outside
air, however, diluting them to innocuousness.
We were working with twelve sheets of
three sizes to suit the varying sizes of the
trees. As soon as one tree was covered,
charged and sealed, we would proceed to the
next until a line of twelve was completed.
Bv that time the first tree would be sulfi-
eiontly fumed and the sheet was then swung
forward to the first tree of another row.
Advancing thus, a dozen at a shift, we pro-
posed to traverse one half of the mandarin
bed and come back through the other halt,
the bed being roughly twenty-four trees long
with an uneven edge at one end. The work
has to be done at night time to avoid scorch-
ing the trees, and calm weather is essential,
as even a slight breeze flaps the tent and
causes irregular fumigation. . .
Our commencement was propitious. A
beautiful February evening, still, and just
nicely warm. We got the first two shifts
completed without a hitch, but just as we
were about to start the third row a thin
voice from the darkness announced “That s
about as far as young .Tones got. Then he
gave it up.”
Swezel came toddling among the trees and,
peering along the lines of white tents as
they stood close and gigantic in the darkness
of the close-set bed. he added: "lake
ghosts, ain't they? Twelve of ’em! And
1 11 bet old Mardou's ghost is hanging round,
too, by this. That'll make thirteen.”
The breeze freshened, and for two hours
we sat watching those twelve great white
apparitions standing there, their sides, heav-
ing as though they were breathing excitedly.
Then came a south squall, with rain in tow.
The night was hopeless, and we had to retire
with three rows done instead of an expected
eight.
At sundown next day we were again on
the job when Swezel appeared from nowhere
as before, leaning over the fence and looking
as though lie had never moved from it.
“Won’t get much done to-night,” he grated.
The sky was clear so far as we could see.
We worked fast, flitting about the darkness
of the grove with hurricane-lamps and vessels
of multitudinous death. But we had not
completed a row before a cloud-mass came
lumbering over the tall bloodwoods which
hid the sky to the west. It became a huge
shadow leaning over us, peering down on us.
Lightning was darting about, like angry
searchlights, and thunder growling along the
ridges. Then came rain, sudden, torrential.
Within a couple of minutes the ploughed
ground was a bog, the tents waterlogged and
unmanageable. We had to leave them on the
trees. , ,
One way and another, that bad luck per-
sisted for over a week. Then, as though to
confirm Jim’s fancy, there came a perfect
night, and so it chanced that old Swezel
for once had not been in evidence. We
succeeded in finishing the first half of the
bed. Next evening we were ready for the
return journey through the other half, the
portion with the irregular end, completion of
which would bring us out to a grove of
widely-spaced and rather small siletta orange-
trees that adjoined the mandarins.
Once more old Swezel appeared: “This is
where you’ll strike real trouble. Long
enough getting through t’other end,- weren’t
you? But this’ll take you longer.”
It did, owing chiefly to the unseasonal
windiness.
The moon was on the increase, but its
radiance seemed rather to accentuate the
darkness among those big, close-set trees.
The job was beginning to get on my nerves.
It was as though we had been struggling for
ever within that hoodoo grove.
Jim was even more nervy. llow much
more I did not guess until one night when
we had forgotten to take with us a fresh jar
of sulphuric. I started back to the shed
for it, and had got half-way across the cow-
paddock when he caught up with me.
“Thought I’d give you a hand with it,” he
said.
“Righto!” I replied.
“Righto be damned!” he ejaculated. “Fact
is I couldn’t stay by myself in that blasted
place with all those ghostly sheets staring
down at me—l’d start thinking of a thir-
teenth ghost.” Then, in sudden defiance, he
added: “But I’ll finish that bed if I dam’-
well die in the effort.”
Later on that week we had another perfect
night. It was too perfect—dead still and
heavy. Even outside the mandarin patch
there was not a lift in the air, and in among
the trees it was suffocating. The fumes of
the cyanide hung thick, scarcely diluted,
as though incapable of diffusion into that
soggy atmosphere. We developed intense
headache and nausea, and at about three in
the morning, with only three rows of trees
to finish, we had to cease work for the night.
Jim could scarcely stagger across to the
homestead. He looked thoroughly ill.
The following evening was equally fine,
but we had scarcely started when Swezel
arrived with an incredulous query: “Still
sticking to it?”
“You didn’t think we’d let it best us, did
you?” retorted Jim.
By nine o'clock we had worked through
the grove and out to the last twelve trees,
the line on the edge facing tj>e silettas.
The effect was exhilarating, to come at
last from the gloom of those crowded man-
darins, a gloom through which we had been
fighting adversity—fighting invisible adver-
saries, it almost seemed—through endeless
nights, and then to win out suddenly to the
fresh air and clear moonlight and wide spaces
of the silettas. Jim grew almost hilarious.
We had nearly finished that last line when
we discovered a miscount. There were
thirteen trees in the row. The irregular end
of the bed had tricked us. It meant only
one more tree, yet it disconcerted Jim and
he muttered: “We’ll never finish. The bed’s
hoodoo a thirteenth ghost. .. .now a thir-
teenth tree.”
It was just on ten o’clock when we started
on that last tree —the thirteenth. The sheet
available was a thirty-six footer, but the
tree had a wide spread and the edges of the
sheet barely reached the ground. We weighted
the hem with a liberal shovelling of soil and
it just held, the calico being stretched taut.
I then held a fold aside while Jim crawled
under, applied the charge, and slid out
quickly. We dropped the sheet-flap and
heaped soil on it, after which Jim. dropping
the shovel and with a sigh of relief, ex-
claimed: “Finished it —at last!”
As he turned away, however, he must
have caught sight of an apparition which at
the same moment made me gasp and stare,
(Continued on next page.)


“His
Master's
Voice”
A Prodigious Achievement!”
The New “His Master’s Voice” Instruments
Acclaimed by Master Musicians.
A remarkable chorus of enthu-
siastic approval has greeted the
New “His Master’s Voice” In-
struments.
Theyare so much in advance of
anything previously attempted
that they astonish every music
lover. Such perfect reproduc-
tion is a triumph indeed. Every
note from highest treble to
deepest bass is clear and dis-
tinct. Tone value is undimin-
ished and there is a roundness
and a mellowness which de-
light the ear.
Ask your dealer for a demon-
stration and judge for yourself
the wonderful advance in musi-
cal reproduction heralded by
the New “His Master’s Voice”
Instruments.
Greatest Artists,
Terms arranged—lllustrated Catalogues of Instruments
and Records and name of nearest dealer on request.
A few of the Models:
Portable Model:
CIO! £l2
Table Grands:
Oak £l4
Mahogany .. £l5/10/-
Oak £lB/10/-
Mahogany . . £2l
Oak £29
Mahogany . . £33
Cabinet Grands:
161.. Oak £45
161 . .Mahogany . . £52/10/-
511.. Oak £7O
511.. Mahogany . . £7B
Model as illustrated:
251.. oak £52/10/-
251 . .Mahogany . . £6O
Finest Recording.
103. .
103. .
109. .
109. .
126. .
126. .
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'His Master's Voice," Regd. Tradc-marh.
'Gramophone,” Regd. Trade-mark.
a i
g§U f ji i I J&
' HIS MASTER'S VOICE’
made my flesh wrinkle and my soul freeze.
From the shade of the nearest siletta a
white face was peering at us, a ghostly face,
unreal, malignant, and distorted by the
splashes of moonlight and shadow —horrible.
My nerves must have, been jumpy. In-
voluntarily I stepped back. So, evidently,
did .Tim Enderby, and in doing so he caught
his heel against tin? shovel. There was a
clink of metal, and I turned. ,
.Tim had stumbled against the insecure
wall of calico, which gave way under his
weight, and overbalancing backward, clutch-
ing vainly at the cloth and merely dragging
its folds over him, he fell into that en-
closure of instantaneous death beneath the
thirteenth tree. His head must have gone
very close to the newly-charged vessel.
Crouching low to the ground I reached his
foot, which projected from under the tent,
dragged him out, and carried him from the
danger zone.
I was trying artificial respiration when a
voice close behind me croaked: “I knew he’d
never finish that bed. ..the last tree isn’t
finished... sheets all lopsided and fumes get-
ting away. I told him Old Mardon’s ghost
"d do something.”
Glancing backward over my shoulder, I
asked: “You were squatting under that
siletta, weren't you?”
“ ’Course I was,” replied Swezel. “I wanted
to see what Old Mardon’s ghost ’d do. . .
specially when I saw there was that thir-
teenth tree.”
Artificial respiration was useless. Jim
had inhaled a dozen deaths.
Mrs. Enderby put the place up for sale
at once. She could not. endure the thought
of remaining there, and partly because of
her natural panic, partly because people
began to think that there must be some sort
of hoodoo on the place, she received only
one offer. Although it was ridiculously
low she accepted it.
x\fter the deal was closed she learned who
was the real buyer. It was Swezel.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
A' Thousand Head.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Long Harry took to whisky it
was not long before he lost his job
on Yankadina, and he went west,
over the border of the Territory, towards
Camooweal. What hurt him most was that
he had to leave his wife and baby behind.
Though ho was one of the best stockmen on
the Four Rivers, the fact that he had been
“fired” from the job of bossing No. 5 muster-
ing camp because whisky kept him too busy
to attend to his job was likely to prevent
him getting a permanent position.
For a week before he departed he spent
most of his time walking up and down with
the child, a laughing, fair-liaired, blue-eyed
boy of a year, clasped tightly in his arms.
The baby loved the pose, and always pressed
his little head and face against his father’s
neck, with his firm, broad little chin on the
big shoulder of the man who carried him.
Long Harry crooned to him and wondered how
long it would be before he would be able to
make a fresh home for the woman and thebaby.
Then he saddled his flea-bitten grey,
loaded his packhorse, kissed the woman and
the baby and rode away at sun-up, leaving
them in a cottage rented from a small holder
who was away in Charleville for six months.
It was a hard fight Long Harry put up
in the Territory, but he won—and they gave
him the boss-musterer’s job when a six-year-
old cleanskin bull put its horn through the
chest of “Darby” Wilson.
Not a drop of whisky had Long Harry
tasted in three months. So he saddled his
flea-bitten grey, loaded his packhorse, rode
through two hundred miles of scrub, crossed
the Four Rivers, and once again drew near
Yankadina, in the hilly country, to arrange
for the transfer of his family.
Riding on to the Ironbark Plain after
climbing the zig-zag track that skirts the
edge of the Half-mile Precipice, he met two
horsemen and halted to boil the “quart” and
spell his horses for an hour or two. They
were riding towards Wondina township,
slightly “pickled,” and feeling sociable.
They had, half an hour before, been dis-
missed, with a week's pay in lieu of notice,
by the same owner of Yankadina, for endeav-
oring to start on the road with a thousand head
of fats destined for Muswellbrook while in pos-
session of two bottles of whisky and one of rum.
“The shilly ol’ man,” said one, “sheems ter
shink a drover has ter be able ter shay
ninety- (hie!) nine or (liic!) shtand on hish
head (liic!) —excliuse me!—ter find out
whether —I say, can you shing hymns? If
yer can (hie!) yer dead right for a job of
drovin’. There they are —the cows! Slice
em—over on the flat where the fire is.
They’ve got a newclmm that carries a port-
able ladder to get on his horse, with a couple
of others —well, I dunno. If the cattle
rush to-night an’ they’re headed towards the
moon —well, it’s over the Half-mile Precipice
for the thousand head of ’em.”
The drovers produced the liquor, which,
they explained, they had rescued from being
smashed across a log at the risk of their lives.
They hobbled out their horses for an hour
and shared a meal and the grog with Long
Harry. Then they departed in the night,
singing, towards Wondina.
The grog Long Harry had consumed was
stirring his blood, and he brooded over his
dismissal by Mr. Symes, the owner of. Yanka-
dina. Symes was a prohibitionist.
“To. Hell with him, anyway!” thought
Long Harry as he neared the camp, where
he could see three figures on the other side
of the fire. “I hope a limb from one of them
dead trees the silly fools have camped them
amongst falls on the' cattle and they rush.
With a bit of luck they might go clean over
the Half-mile Precipice, and then good-bye
to a few thousand pounds’ worth of Yanka-
dina fats. The crows and dingoes and foxes
will have Christmas. To Hell with”—*—
A sudden thought struck him like a blow.
He stopped his horse and sat looking at the
sleeping cattle, across the dim bulk of which
he could see the cook’s cart, with two tents
yellow in the firelight. The watchman was
riding towards the fire—evidently to light his
pipe, for to strike a match near the cattle
would mean a stampede. With the idea
flooding his brain like a drug, Long Harry
sat and observed the man on first watch
get down from his horse, take a stick from
the fire and light his pipe.
Long Harry leaned from the saddle, caught
the end of an upturned dead branch about
three inches thick and four feet long, and sat
upright. Three whirls in the air, and the
dead mulga-limb spun out over the sleeping
cattle, struck the dead tree-trunk and fell with
a series of startling cracks right amongst the
thousand head of prone beasts. There was a
roar like the breaking of a big wave on the
beach, and the cattle were gone. The motion
seemed too quick for the eye to follow.
Long Harry sat in the shadow at the edge
of the scrub and laughed softly as he saw
the horse of the night-watchman, who was
madly trying to mount him, bound away
after the cattle, leaving the would-be rider
on the ground.
“You fergot yer ladder, mate,” Long Harry
muttered in his beard and his eyes,
brightened by the grog, dashed with malice
as he dropped the lead of his packhorse and
struck his mount with the spurs.
When the stampede was headed straight
for the low moon, setting early in the west,
and had arrived within a few hundred yards
of the edge of the cliff. Long Harry sat up-
right and pressed the rein on the neck of
the flea-bitten grey. He saw that which
sobered him and made his hair rise on his scalp.
Between the fear-maddened cattle and the
moon, and, therefore, between them and the
cliff, towards which they were rushing, a
horse drawing a sulky was being flogged
right across the path of the stampede. Fran-
tically a dark form leaned out over the dash-
board and slashed the horse with a whip, and
the animal, doubtless well aware of the
danger, was making a good pace of it. But
the spread of the cattle must be near half
a mile across, and, horseman as he w r as, Long
Harry knew the driver could never make it.
Long Harry was vengeful, but he was no mur-
derer ; and the shock had driven the effects of
the grog from his brain, as though by magic.
Without hesitation he turned his gallop-
ing horse inward and scudded across the lead
yelling “Hey-up, there ! Whoa, boys ! Whoa !”
and cutting them in the faces with the biting
cracker of the short, heavy stockwhip. One
slip and—death ! That did not worry him—
it would mean the death of the driver of the
sulky if he failed.
For fifty yards he made no impression, but,
cool, swift, competent, he raced in front of
the leaders and flogged them in the faces,
shouting the while and working them to the
right. At a hundred yards he had them
wheeled at an angle of 30 degrees, and at two
hundred they were thundering towards the
scrub on the right. The sulky-driver was saved!
On swept the racing, floundering cattle
into the scrub. The branches crashed and
the hooves thundered, and, level with the
leaders, rode Long Harry, the finest scrub-
rider on the Four Rivers. Sober and peni-
tent, he was now bent on keeping with the
cattle until they began to tire and then ring-
ing them on the frst plain. For when a man
has escaped killing another by so close a
margin and has a wife and baby waiting
for him at home, an hour or two’s smart
cattlework is little enough in the way of
atonement.
Smytlie and the three newcliums had
caught up on the other side and were work-
ing the lead in towards him by this time.
A blackfellow had ridden up behind and
was helping him. Soon the leaders dipped
into a gully and reached the bottom; the
riders had the cattle ringing in a cul-de-sac
or the low hills, with clashing, rattling horns
and bellowing mouths and a roar like
tumbling surf coming from their feet.
When daylight came there was a bloody
sight. Horns were missing, great gashes,
red and bleeding, showed in the bodies of
the beasts; the faces of the newchums were
scratched and bloodstained; all were hatless.
The owner of the cattle was practically
naked. He had been asleep in his pyjamas
when the roar of the-stampeding cattle woke
him, and the branches in the scrub had torn
the flimsy cloth from his body in strips,
taking some of the skin with it.
Amazement and deep gratitude were in the
eyes of the station-owner as he recognised
Long Harry and shook hands with him. Un-
conscious of the cause of the stampede, he
was only concerned with the magnificent
horsemanship he had seen, and what he de-
scribed as a great service to himself.
“I certainly did think they were going
to rush you over the Half-Mile Precipice,”
he exclaimed, working Long Harry’s hand
up and down. “I never imagined a man could
do a thing like that. What a damned fool
I was to let you go! I’ve regretted it ever
since. Come back to the station with me
and I’ll sign you on as overseer, with a
pound a week over the regular rate. And
they tell me you have given up the grog, too?”
At Yankadina homestead, when the owner
and Long Harry arrived, there was a motor-
car outside the office —the Wondina doctor’s
car. The two men stopped their horses in
surprise.
Small and smart, grey-suited and spec-
tacled, the little doctor stepped from the
doorway and approached them smilingly.
“It’s all right, Smythe. None of your
folk,” he said; and then he recognised Long
Harry.
“Ah ! Long Harry Simmons, isn’t it? Am
I right?”
“That’s my name, Doctor,” said the horse-
man.
“Very fortunate, very fortunate indeed.”
The doctor rubbed his hands and beamed.
“It’s a good thing you came here instead
of going home. Your wife is inside —suffer-
ing only from shock; she will be quite well
in a day or two. She was afraid the baby
had scarlet fever, and drove the little chap
over to the station, ten miles, last night.
Coming across the Ironbark Plain, abreast
of the Half-mile Precipice, it appears, a big
mob of cattle stampeded, and the little
woman had to make a race of. it. She just
got through, thanks to somebody who man-
aged to wheel the mob in the nick of time.
The child is all right—prickly-heat only.
There is nothing to be afraid of at all.”
“ What time did you say she was crossing
the Ironbark Plain?” demanded the station-
owner, looking from the doctor to Long
Harry, who was sitting upright in his saddle,
his jaw hanging and his eyes wide.
“Just before the moon set —I should say
about nine o’clock,” answered the doctor,
looking inquiringly at both. “Did you see
any sign of the stampede?”
Long Harry looked from the doctor to the
station-owner.
“God’s truth!” he whispered.
A. E. YARRA.


jtes|
rnmn
m.
iii
mm
SiSl
m
(2sK»
c mm.
e
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatlierston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. »
South Australian A stents:' Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
P& PROW
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golt, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members oi
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2s-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low r . An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yafds: of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Sold in two sizes—l6-inch cutters, £7l; 22-inch cutters, £lO5 complete.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
17 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
PH*e Medals.
»»<«.*&
cSgSvtSS*-
Works: 3irmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
Soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for a a
assorted Sample Box.
Remington.
Pen and Pocket Knives
"They cut keenly”
IN choosing a penknife, the important
thing to know is how good it is,
not how little it costs.
Scientific heat treatment, hardening
and tempering produce the fine blades
in all Remington penknives.
ĵ
To be certain it’s
a Remington, look
for the mark of
quality stamped on
every blade.
Stocked by first
class dealers.
s/a
No. Rl5
Ballet
Knife
f/Jl
m 2
vi.
Vl
N0.R6713
Stag Handle
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Refiresentotive-G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
j
WISE REASONS
■For taking
Beecham’s Pills.
THE RELIABLE MEDICINE
Easy to swallow
Handy to use
NOTHING BETTER
If you suffer from
Disordered liver
Sick headaches
Biliousness
Indigestion
Constipation
In Beecham’s Pills
You’ll find relief
A dose at night
Will keep you right.
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
Sold In boxes
!/• and 2/6.
Send to Robinson & Cleaver for
your HOUSEHOLD LINENS
ROBINSON -& CLEAVER of Belfast, noted for
their Irish Linen, will be pleased to send
the readers of this paper their new Illustrated
Catalogue No. 534 of Household Linens. Com-
pare their prices and quality and you will find it more
satisfactory to buy direct from the manufacturers.
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Irish linen double
damask by the yard. Any length
cut. A very fine heavy make which
will give good dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/n
54 „ -
72 ~ ~ ~ ~ ii/3
SHEETING BY THE YARD
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 10/6
So .. ~ ~ 11/6
LINEN FACE TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all
linen huck towelling. By the
yard. Will give endless wear.
17 inches wide per yard 1/4
24 .. „ .. .. x/8
LINEN PILLOW CASING
Bleached linen pillow casing.
Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 5/3
54 .. .. .. 6/6
In-ice list
IRISH IINEN
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
linen Manufacturers
BELFAST
WRITE FOR i
OUR CAT A- :
LOGUE WITH I
samples!
POST FREE !
We guarantee :
delivery of all i
goods and carry I
out your orders j
intelligently |
and promptly, j
ROBINSON & CLEAVER L™
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND
#r
'S
A
&
Ho
iL2
RO OKS
UCE
i
/fost ffolhrookSays -
“Shake the bottle, remove
the stopper —Ah! What a
\ delightful bouquet; what
3 an appetising zest.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Port Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Halt-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Hoard.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 from^Fort^JUacqnarle.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


wWtmsim
- v. . y<
■: >
tm
>■
jHMKgjil!
f v,'v
MiHl
“* £ v
•'.'V:
« *:•{ •■:
-•'V :>••
rnMmm.
%iiir.
-•>
R«
m m
m
.
~•' ..vr..
tTtir 7
%>■
•> -----
1*
gwfa&v-' •
wfcr:-. •
ft-.'-K;;.':
«?£
Hit /' VS
••
1
i V«- .a
>*> '
-•.•'■*:•'
!««&»* $Ss
r^i *i;V v rf <>•'•-'’lOjaas?,
«6
' '|ii' 1 ijittK^iT
■
vsiSSAm
Z
TkeiY Last Match
Luckily one oP
BRYANT i NAYS
When the last match is
reached and its use de-
manded it is good to
know that it is a “Bryant
and May’s.” That means
that it will do all that a
match should do—light
and stay alight till its job
is done.
