

m
mm
n
n
MxMWki
OVAL - HEAVYWEIGHTS.
M
Tins oF 25
Tins oF 50 2^9
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 244
Thursday, December 23 ? 1926.
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IL.YSAGHT
o
?
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
H [STORY—to read with pleasure:—The Romance
ot Exploration; Stories of Castaways: Stories of
Bushrangers; The Struggles of the Pioneers—these
are some of the subjects dealt with by the late 11.
M. Suttor in his fascinating book
AUSTRALIAN MILESTONES.
Two handsome volumes for £2/2/-
JOHN ANDREW & CO., and all Booksellers.
of the proceeds from this book go to
the Blinded Soldiers’ Fund.
Quality Durability Economy.
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
Is the best golf ball you can play.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:—
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [1
GBD
£\V
vc:l
<4& ! ? hebk fy
GOOD fortune will not always come a man's way; but
any smoker may be lucky if he will. A GBD will
prove a winner every time, and the one to back con-
sistently is the new Silver-mounted GBD at 12/6. To dis-
tinguish it from the Standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears a
small GBD disc inlaid in the mouthpiece. The real point of
difference, however, in addition to the flush silver mount, lies
in the specially selected grains • year by year fewer of them are
available. Ask your tobacconist to show you a few, and
convince yourself of the beauty of the briar.
In all popular shapes-sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are
invited to Box 765,
G.P.0., Sydney.
ytruj
Shape No.
2/4387
ytujh
hjhg
* k
Models:
li/lfOh.p., 20/60h.p:,
30/90h.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted, with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for f
British People ■
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability,
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supermoco, London
Works, Wolverhampton.
KILL/ THAT FLY,
MUSTDI
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
(CARRIERS OF,
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
yţ
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
.Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
Australian Literature
[The Red Page prints this with some diffidence.
But, after ail, it seems only' a fair thing to the
Australian writers who are mentioned and others
who might be mentioned.]
‘‘The toast is ‘Australian Literature,’
gentlemen!”
We have read much lately in the “Red
Page” of the poor quality of Australian
literature, and the reasons why authors leave
home. I have agreed with a great deal that
has been written, and, until the.last week did
not have a very high opinion of most of the
matter printed in our so-called magazines;
but I am converted. Now anyone who
says that Australians cannot write, and can-
not produce a decent magazine, I shall refer
to the Christmas Bulletin . " There he
will find his argument shattered beyond ques-
tion, and it will remain shattered whilst such
writers as E. J. Brady, Geo. S. Beeby, Cecil
Mann, J. H. M. Abbott, Bartlett Adamson,
Randolph Bedford, Bernard Cronin, Hugh
McCrae, Vance Palmer, W. D. Flannery arid
others continue to write, for the unapprecia-
tive and unworthy Australian public, stories
and verse that hold their own against all
comers, both in technique and art. There can
be no hesitation in saying that the fare
offered in this issue makes it the best six-
pennyworth in the world, in both quality and
quantity of reading matter, not even except-
ing the Saturday Evening Post, and is far
superior to most of the magazines handed
out at Is. or Is. 6d.
If this could only be repeated week by
week, or even month by month, instead of
year by year, what a prospect, what a feast
for the reader —the reader who is not look-
ing for overseas tripe, but for stories equal
to the best, with an Australian atmosphere,
breadth and outlook; not only of the slums
and the darker side of life, which many
writers seem to choose for their field, but
of every phase of the life so characteristically
Australian! Stories not over-optimistic nor
unnecessarily morbid, but portraying us as
we are—on the whole, a healthy people,
brimful of fun and tragedy, pathos, drama
and humor all mixed together.
Take the widely different subjects por-
trayed in “The Ghost” by J. H. M. Abbott,
“Poetic Justice” by Bartlett Adamson,
“Boundaries” by Geo. S. Beeby, “The
Lamp” by Bernard Cronin. “The Eyes of the
Children” by Vance Palmer, and “After
Two Years” by W. D. Flannery. All different
and yet all agreeing in the excellence of plot
structure, technique, knowledge of human
nature and art; and true to life inasmuch as
no one trait of human nature is overworked,
the characters acting like rational human
beings, not as depraved beasts in a morbid
world.
I have to thank the Christmas Bulletin
for displacing rank pessimism for the future
of Australian literature with a healthy opti-
mism. If the writers I mentioned are not
appreciated by the masses, then the masses
should be criticised and educated, not the
authors. “So the toast is ‘Australian Litera-
ture,’ gentlemen. Fill up!”
R. S. PANTON.
The Nature of Fiction
When the early story-teller sat down to
entertain a circle of listeners either in the
dust of an Asiatic street, on the oaken bench
of a Western fcasting-hall, or on the stone
steps of an /Egcan temple, he knew exactly
what was expected of him. Behind him lay
countless records of human life, and in his
wanderings he had picked up all the local
color necessary to form a background for
the yarn he was to spin. He knew that
enormous latitude would be allowed him in
the handling of his material, that time was
a mere plaything in his hands, and anachro-
nisms were of less account than the choice
of Ills prepositions; but he. also knew that
there were certain things demanded of him
that he must not ignore. The story might
begin where it liked and end where it liked,
but it must be complete to the point of giving
satisfaction to his hearers.
It is not so very easy to say in what
this completeness consisted. It was an
elusive thing, yet very definite. Geometri-
cally, it could be represented by the circle.
Every tale must make one complete revolu-
tion of the wheel of life, whether the loop
of words was a long one or a short one, and
all ragged edges, tangents and loose lines
must be avoided. These were bad art. not
because he had considered the nature of his
art, but because they might induce people
to throw bricks at him instead of coins.
Early criticism was apt to be well-aimed and
hard.
But a complete circle of life and action
did not necessarily mean the tracing of the
tale from birth to death. Such an attempt at
satisfying the demand for completeness might
not satisfy at all. A tale might easily begin
with the pedigree of a hero and end with the
slaughter of himself, his family and all his
friends and yet make no complete circle. The
matter was _ much more subtle than this.
Physical action, mental development, moral
attributes, hates and loves, misfortunes and
successes must all run round the entire loop
together. The tale might be thinly painted
or deeply carved, it might deal with the
lightest comedy or the darkest tragedy, but
it must go round the whole way and it must
go round as a whole.
Like the nature of logic, of rhythm, of
poetry, of thought, of arithmetic and of life
itself, it was exceedingly difficult to define
this thing demanded of the story-teller, but
it was not so very difficult to grasp the actual
practice of the art. The tale-builder himself
felt the need of that all-round movement,
with the click of the climax where the two
ends of the circle joined, just as much as
any of his hearers; and while the modern
world has lamely tried to describe the pro-
cess as a dealing out of poetic justice, the
person who first wove fiction only knew that
a story was a natural object as shapely in
its way as the leaf of a tree or a bubble of
water on a stream.
Every young child, unspoiled by notions
caught from its elders, has the primal feel-
ing for the story. It knows that the story
mnst go round all the way, and only in such
stories does it find satisfaction. Story-tell-
ing is a game that can never be played by
arbitrary rales. The laws governing it are
as old as the beating of the blood and the
circular shape of the eye; and •it is through
failure to recognise this that so much alleged
fiction of our own time goes wrong. You
may load up the description of the art with
all the terms of psycho-analysis and erudite
philosophy, but the foundation ideas are not
changed, and the satisfaction or dissatisfac-
tion of the reader remains as of old.
There is, of course, no reason why a
pseudo-fiction should not be used as • an
adjunct to the lecture-theatre or the dissect-
ing-room, nor why a book which begins to
tell a tale should not end by merely stating
a problem. All sorts of things may be done
with a pen on paper and the intention may
be altogether noble; but the trouble is that
many of these things are not fiction, and in
pretending to be fiction they let the reader
down Badly. The writer may develop char-
acters, make the situations credible, intro-
duce exquisite descriptions or to splen-
did flights of rhetoric and still miss all that
matters in that he has no tale to tell.
To all this there' must be natural excep-
tions. There are modern works which are
not tales, but contain tales —some of them
more than one. These must be regarded as
somewhat in the nature of Shaw’s plays,
where a small amount of drama is often
accompanied by an enormous mass of ex-
planation and preface ; but Shaw’s work has
the advantage in that it places the explana-
tion, apology and all the other raw vege-
tables in one dish-and serves up the actual
meal in another. Possibly the publisher is
a good deal to blame. He demands a book
of a certain size to sell at a certain price,
and thus makes an arbitrary rule which
interferes with natural law. Nothing is more
common than to find a tale which is fully
developed in the first 30,000 words lapse
into a long drag of rather pointless incident
and conversation to pull itself together for
a final spurt in the last two or three chap-
ters. As R.L.S. said, it is the distance that
lulls. At 35,000 words the tale would have
been good; at SO,OOO it bears evidence of
having been tortured on the publisher’s rack.
But the chief complaint about the modern
fiction-writer is that, as a class, he is suffer-
ing from a peculiar kind of swelled head.
Given the largest space in literary advertise-
ment, he imagines that he is Literature, Art,
Science, Politics, Poetry and Prophecy, all
with capitals and all in one. He foffgets
that even if lie were all those things in the
subtlest blend ho would still not be greater
than a simple story-teller who feels his art
in its true relation to life, and neither poses
nor proses, but goes quietly on with his tale.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
“I Have Borne Much”
I often wonder which of the two great
passions of life, love and hate, is the more
active. And if with regret I am sometimes
driven to the conclusion that the balance
goes down in favor of the latter. I can only
find consolation in the surmise that the out-
ward appearance deceives. More than ever
am I tormented by this great human problem
since I have mapped out for myself a cam-
paign such as Archer, Shaw and Grein fought
in the early ’nineties for the purpose of
bestowing on the English-reading world the
gifts of Ibsen’s genius. I, a decidedly much
more than less unknown quantity in the
world of literature, who might despair of
success in this altruistic venture had I not
succeeded in winning to my side such stal-
wart backers as ]). H. Dawrence, “G. B.
Stern,” and even Shaw—l have already in
my first efforts on a new field of battle en-
countered so much opposition from many in
the nation of my birth who should be on
my side that it would probably dismay one
younger than myself in vicarious experience
of this kind. As, however, I am not dis-
mayed, let me without further suspense pro-
claim my cause to the readers of The Bul-
letin, which is the same thing as saying the
readers that count in the country which for
many years was that of my adoption, Aus-
tralia.
The heading of this article is no plaint of
mine. It is the translation of part of a
line from Horace’s Epistles, “Malta tulit.”
This extract was, in a deliberately mutilated
but more musical form, “Multatuli,” adopted
as but too terribly apposite a nom de plume
by one of the greatest thinkers and writers
produced by the Nineteenth Century, Edward
Douwes Dekker, born in Holland in 1820,
and midway in life “cradled”—with a slight
variation of Shelley’s apt phrase—“into”
authorship “by wrong.” It was the crimin-
ally cruel oppression inflicted by the Dutch
Government of his time on the native popu-
lation of Java which compelled him at the
age. of thirty-six to resign his responsible
position as Assistant Resident (Vice-Gov-
ernor) of a province of that rich colony, and
to formulate an indictment of the guilty
authorities so fiercely, so powerfully moving
that I look in vain for its equal in the whole
range of literature.
When his book, “Max Havelaar; or the
Coffee-sales of the Dutch Trading Com-
pany,” appeared in 1860, he was at
once recognised as an artist of the first
magnitude. His picture of the natives’
suffering had, as one member of Parliament
expressed it, “sent a shudder through the
land.” But Holland in those days had a
Government democratic in name alone. The
vote was possessed exclusively by an oligar-
chic clique, and that clique, being interested
m the huge profits made out of the exploita-
tion of the subject populations of the East-
ern islands, callously refused to take notice
of the damning accusation that branded their
Government as a gang of ruthless pirates.
Instead of being supported by the majority
of the nation, as “Multatuli” naturally had
hoped to be, he was made the victim of the
most disgraceful slander on the part of his
(Continued on page S .)


k
r a<je
Gifts that Last are Gifts that Please
Choose Yours at Anthony Horderns’
W' ( ***' ht **
Suits of Quality & Distinction
for the “Man Who Cares.”
Careful tailoring, combining your personal style preferences with the accepted decrees of
Bond Street,’ is guaranteed, providing your order is placed with Anthony Horderns
Write to-day for self-measurement form and patterns, posted free on
request, and select from New Spring Worsteds in Greys and Brown,
showing Herringbone, Plain and Check designs; also Navy Indigo-
dye Serge. Price
£6/61
Anthony Horderns’ will turn you out a Suit to your measure that will give you complet
satisfaction and prove a revelation in Tailoring Values.
M
m
M
rtf
1
a<
»*'W‘
Distinctive Headgear
The Famous “Tree” Brand Australian Fur Felt
Hats (as illustrated). Brims arc 2-1 and 2f inches
wide, with bound edge; fitted with greaseproof head-
leathers. In the newest shades of Slate, Steel,
Mid Grey, Fawn and Light Grey. -| //?
Price
“Qualitie Special” Brand.
Fine Fur Felt Hats, made in Australia. Brims are
21 and 2f inches wide, with bound or unbound edge.
A variety of shapes to choose from. The colors include
the new shade of Fawn, also Slate, Steel,i n/l 1
Zinc and Light Grey. Price 1 A
(Hats —Ground Floor.)
X4OOJ.
Very Neat and Cool.
X4Ool— Plain Cream Fuji Silk Golf Shirts (as illus-
trated), V -Cased front, double cuffs, detached -| Q //?
collar to match. Price
X4OO3 — Men’s Golf Shirts, in heavyweight Fuji Silk,
smart stripes on light ground, Y-cased front, Ol /_
detached collar to match. Price
“valE'T
~A>W* azor ,lllloll
i&S
CX494,
CX49 4— V alet Auto-
Strop Safety Razor,
complete in Leather
o r Nickel - plated
case, with 12 blades
and Velvet
Hide Strop.
Price
Valet Razor Blades.
5 for 3/-
Valet Strops . . 3/6
F 42. —Collar Box, as illustrated,
in shades of Tan, fastening with
strap and buckle. Quality BX,
smooth hide, lined cloth.
Prices Tin. 6/6; Sin. 7/6
Quality 88, Smooth Hide, lined
leather.
Prices .... Tin. 7/6; Sin. 8/6
HXloo— Manila Cigars:
Perfectos, Box of 10 .... 67-
Media Regalia, Box of 10, 4/0
Perlas, Box of 10 5/-
HXI37 — Monopole Magnum
Cigars. Pkt. of 4, 2/-; Box
of 10, 5/6; 25, 12/6; 50, 24/6
La Corona, Half a Corona
Cigars. The cigar that every
man appreciates. Box of 25.
24/6.
La Corona Castelares Cigars.
An ideal gift for the man who
appreciates a medium-weight
cigar of fine quality Havana.
Box of 25, 28/6; 50, 567-
House of Lords. A popular
cigar for the man of average
taste in blended cigars. No. 1,
Box of 25, 12/-; Box of 50,
24/-. No. 2, Box of 25, 13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440,
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.


The New
UDSONS
4
I,
V
/s
t: A'
7
» *
The BROUGHAM, £545.
With New Lines and
Colors and an Even Greater
Super-Six Chassis
The SEDAN, £595.
The COACH, £4BO.
The PHAETON, £450.
With new lines and colors the
beautiful new model Hudsons
are not only the most striking
and distinctive cars in Hudson
history, but they present even
greater advancements in the
finest Super-Six chassis ever
built.
Hudson’s always brilliant per-
formance is bettered. Power is
greater. Pick-up is quicker.
Reliability is increased. Motor
life is lengthened. Repair
needs are even more infre-
quent.
For more than 1 1 years the
patented Super-Six principle
has given outstanding per-
formance and reliability to
over 900,000 owners.
This long experience and vast
production have brought about
not only a much finer car in
every particular, but also have
resulted in economies of manu-
facture and distribution that
give amazing price and value.
These new models are com-
manding a greater attention
than any preceding model be-
cause they far excel any pre-
vious achievement of our
history.
PRICES AT SOME POINTS SLIGHTLY HIGHER.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.


P/IRIS CARTERS
No metal can touch you
re made for you
Men of Australia
/ a
' -V)
PARIS '
mi
■ /
Imitations:
You know that imitation
is the sincerest flattery.
PARIS GARTERS are
crudely and widely imi-
tated—more so, perhaps,
than even our human
desire for praiseworthy
approval invites.
At no time could a man better afford to insist upon
getting the genuine PARIS GARTER than to-day. A
substitute is too costly at any price.
Sold by Men’s Stores Everywhere.
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
50 York Street, Sydney
326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
This is the PARIS
trade mark
gĵy
P/IRIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
It’s your guarantee
oi garter quality
enemies, and the ignorant masses were
deliberately and systematically set on against
him. By sheer poverty and misery he was
forced forward on the road of martyrdom
trodden by so many ill-paid authors among a
small nation. But from the bitterness of his
soul, the voice of genius now spoke with ever
increasing eloquence and power, and like a
burning torrent of lava his inspired writings
poured prophetic wrath over the nation that
had so shamefully deserted, disowned and
persecuted him. He felt, however, that the
rSle of a mere public castigator was not
worthy of his better self, unless he could
impart to it the more beneficial effects of
his educative powers as a thinker. And so
he gradually formulated in his subsequent
works an infinitely varied statement of his
critical opinions on philosophic, ethical, poli-
tical and artistic subjects. That statement
was interspersed with imaginative writings of
the highest artistic order. All these works
are written in a style so surprising by its
force, beauty, originality and wit as to be
wholly inimitable. Great Continental critics
have pronounced him distinctly the superior
of Nietzsche.
As the younger generation of the Dutch
began to open their minds to his arresting
words, there is no doubt that he rapidly be-
came an influence on his people greater even
than once Rousseau had been on the French.
The nation seemed more and more cleft in
halves, the followers and the haters of
“Multatuli.” He not only reformed the
thought of his people, but made their very
language fit for the uses of a full-fledged
modern literature. Those who have best
understood his writings are well aware that
his ideas are still to this day in advance of
our time. Therefore, when a prejudiced
Dutchman stated for the benefit of Mr.
Shaw that “Multatuli” began to “date,” I
felt wholly justified in enlightening the doyen
of modern English literature by more cor-
rectly remarking that “Multatuli” had
“dated” his writings so far forward that
most of us had not yet come up to him.
This great philosophic thinker and artistic
author, then, I have undertaken by transla-
tion into English to introduce to the world.
“Max Havelaar,” his first great work, is
about to be published by A. A. Knopf, both
in New York and London. It will be pre-
faced by Mr. D. 3. I aiwrenee with a most
thoughtful and penetrating introduction. A
novel with a purpose, but a purpose that
holds the reader spellbound, it is an artistic
work of amazing brilliancy, one of the great
books of the world’s literature. I feel con-
vinced that the intelligent portion of Aus-
tralia’s public will respond to the effort of
bringing within its reach so noble a gift as
the thought and art of this strikingly original
and stimulating word-artist.
ITALY.
W. SIEBENHAAK.
Walt Whitman—Man and Poet
Nettie Palmer (R.P. 25/11/’26) seems to
think that by quoting one rather passable
verse by Walt Whitman she has proved
conclusively that he is a great poet and
that she has put me completely in my place
for daring to say a word against his powers.
But one verse cannot make a man great,
otherwise a few hundred worthless scribblers
would be now lounging securely on the slopes
of Parnassus. As it is, this verse is by no
means genius; it is simply a good passage
worthy of the pen of well nigh any minor
poet, concluding with this line; “Or the
radiant sisters the Pleiades.” over which
both Nettie Palmer and her authority, John
Bailey, join in clasping their hands together
and chanting in religious fervor “What a
line !” But there is by no means anything
marvellous in those half-dozen words; they
are only made to sound charming because of
the use of “Pleiades,” a favorite poetic term,
like “autumnal” or “hyacinthine,” which
immediately adds rhythm to the most leaden
phrase. Earlier in the same poem Whitman
himself makes better use of the word when
he writes “Swim the delicate sisters the
Pleiades.” Here “swim” gives an effect of
the stars in a liquid sky, although of course
it has often been used in this sense; and,
at any rate, “delicate” is not quite so banal
as “radiant.”
It is well that Mrs. Palmer quoted only
the conclusion of this poem, “On the Beach
at Night,” and none of the beginning, for
there we find such a really atrocious line as
“Amid a transparent clear belt of ether yet
left in the east.” Gould anything worse be
imagined than the joining of “yet” and “left”
in this fashion? The two words, following
“ether,” clash cruelly and jar the mind.
This is only very bad prose, and has nothing
to do with poetry; and it is all very well
for Mrs. Palmer to gloss over such absur-
dities by insisting that for all his faults
Whitman occasionally did write something
worth while. A great poem by a great poet
should be completely great and devoid of
childish faults that a schoolboy wouldn’t
make.
Bailey, in the volume quoted by Nettie
Palmer, is a bewildered soul. He potters
around Whitman with a full realisation of
all his bad points and making feeble excuses
for them. The result is that he decides
that Whitman is greater as man than he was
as poet—he surely couldn’t have been worse.
He speaks of him as a personality, as the
spirit of America, and quite a lot of other
vague things. But surely this is no excuse.
This does not make him a poet. Dr. Frank
Crane is a personality, and Elbert Hubbard
is a personality, and both represent the spirit
of America; yet nobody presumes them to
have any literary value or anything what-
ever except half a dozen cheap cracker-
mottoes and the outlook of a hodge-podge of
Savonarola and Babbitt. Why, then, should
the fact of Whitman’s sincerity and meander-
ing portrait of-himself be of any value when
theirs is not?
Mrs. Palmer accuses me of intending “to
take the reader’s breath away,” but I can
assure her that nothing was further from
my mind. I wished to place my perplexity
on paper; and her arguments have done
nothing to clear it up. I still can see no
reasons whatsoever why Whitman should be
taken seriously, and can only repeat that
to me he is a wearisome burbler. a garrulous
old gentleman who is continually interrupt-
ing himself with unnecessary parentheses and
diseursions. He is hard to read, and is full
of unexpected jolts and meaningless para-
graphs. Here, from the same poem as before
mentioned, which has received such lauda-
tion from Mrs. Palmer and John Bailey, is
an absurd redundancy: “And nigh at hand,
only a very little above.” This is what
Quiller-Coueh would denounce as jargon, for
if the stars are “nigh at hand” they are
naturally only “a very little” way above.
And, again, lines like these would seem
to have been written with the deliberate
attempt to bewilder the reader: —
From the beach the child holding the hand of her
father,
Those burial-clouds that lower victorious soon to
devour all,
Watching, silently weeps.
For the moment you are not sure whether
the child or the clouds are watching, and
the next minute perplexed as to who it is
that weeps. And this is from the poem
of which Nettie Palmer speaks so highly,
mentioning its “grace and intensity” and
the “simplicity of the theme.” She is cer-
tainly right in the last term, for the theme
consists of an addle-pated parent explaining
to a neurotic child that storms do not last
for ever. A very obvious thought to expend
such energetic verbiage upon.
But Whitman is always doing that, wast-
ing words on silly subjects. There is hardly
a poem in all his immense repertoire that
has any deep thought as its basis; there is
also hardly a poem without some glaring act
of vulgarity or unconscious humor. And it
is no good attempting to excuse him on the
plea that he is a strong figure; history has
many strong figures, and Whitman has no
very high place amongst them.
L. PHILLIPS.
Fiction’s Fascination for Woman
Why are women more omnivorous readers
of fiction than men ? If you ask a woman
why she reads she will answer, nine times
out of ten, that she does it to “kill time.” A
pathetic confession of incapacity for living,
but indicating that the speaker lias not pon-
dered her real reasons for reading. For man
has at least as much leisure from labor as
woman, yet he has not the same need for
novel reading. Moreover, he is more easily
bored and cannot find the interest in triviali-
ties that she most happily discovers. It is
true that he is more absorbed in sport and
business than she, but against this may be
matched her greater interest in social affairs,
dress and decoration. For the rest her mind
is not so constitutionally restless as his. So
it is difficult to see that woman has any more
time to kill, or inclination to kill it, than
man. We must therefore seek elsewhere for
the answer to this question.
It seems as if man’s powers of self-realisa-
tion have been greater than woman’s. He is
the spiritual seeker, and has invented all the
principal philosophies and religions of which
we have record. These philosophies and re-
ligions were rather revelations of the indi-
viduals who created them than of truth.
But with a few notable exceptions, woman’s
powers of spiritual initiative have been
scanty; she has been more prone to accept
and to imitate than to assert and innovate.
She is, therefore, particularly susceptible to
suggestion, and is always, subconsciously at
least, seeking for something to imitate. This
something she finds in highly satisfactory and
comprehensible form in her novels. Possibly
environmental exigencies might prevent her
from ever imitating her heroine in real life;
but, even so, while reading, she can live, as
man can rarely live, the lives of the shadow
people that throng the pages. Woman enjoys
losing her ego in the egos of individuals of
fiction (a strange metamorphosis for the
maternal instinct of self sacrifice!). But
man rarely surrenders wholeheartedly. His
egoism is proof against anything.
T. JASPER.
Music and the University
The first library equipped with a pianola
and phonographs is being opened at the Uni-
versity of London. The objective of the
library is the cultivation of good music.
Frivolous music is banned.
Our own University of Sydney has not
hitherto recognised the cultural value of
music. But signs are not wanting that
music is making a sturdy effort to enter its
kingdom. The University Glee Club has
taken a new lease of vigorous life, and a
Musical Study Circle, sponsored by Dr.
Brose, has come into being. In connection
with the latter, weekly lunch-hour recitals
have been given throughout the year. In-
teresting lecturettes explaining the works
performed were a feature of these recitals.
They took place in the Philosophy Room —
one of the most charming lecture-rooms at
the University.
A Cyril Monk recital—the last but one of
the current year—proved particularly de-
lightful. It was an unusual setting for a
concert; the audience sitting at ease in the
long desks; the violinist standing beside the
professorial rostrum ; behind him a pictured
Socrates; not far away Bacon surveying the
scene from his place on the wall; visible
through the Gothic windows the paw of the
rampant lion that guards the entrance to
the Fisher Library, and, more distant, the
Medical School. Cyril Monk played—a
Sonata by Tartini; two numbers by Schu-
bert —one the lovely Serenade; “Chanson
Hindu,” hauntingly beautiful, and the
“Orientale” of Cesar Cui, fragrant with
the mystery of the East. A programme
Socrates had never heard before—and.
musingly, he seemed to enjoy it. The violinist,
who had so generously given his time and his
art to the cause of music within the Univer-
sity, had a thoroughly appreciative audience.
But it was much too small. Still—an indi-
cation of greater things to come.
The Carillon is another sign of the times.
When it is an accomplished fact, the Uni-
versity will possess a unique form of music;
and magnificently has every faculty sub-
scribed to procure this beautiful war
memorial.
Then there is the long-established Busby
Scholarship, one of the privileges of which
is the use of the organ in the Great Hall.
But there is no Chair of Music. The Mus.
Bac. degree is not procurable in the State
of N. S. Wales. The Ancient Greeks had
high regard for the cultural value of music;
and many moderns would like to see the
germs of musical activity grow to maturity.
The University of London is providing an
antidote for jazz mania; thereby it sets an
excellent example for our own great centre
of culture.
PAULINE MCQUILLEN.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a committee
nominated by the Associated Booksellers of
Australia and Maoriland. It is issued to
serve as a reliable guide to new fiction of
outstanding merit: —
Books of Literary Merit. —Lord Raingo, by Arnold
Bennett; The Other Door, by “A Gentleman -with
a Duster”; Harmer John, by Hugh Walpole; Young
Anarchy, by Sir Philip Gibbs; Far End, by May
Sinclair.
Books for Popular Reading. —The Old Bridge, by
William J. Locke; The Voice of Dashin, by “Gan-
pat”; Moonflowers, by Margaret Peterson; Un-
quenchable Fire, by Joan Sutherland; Elope If You
Must, by E. J. Rath ; Gabrielle, by W. B. Maxwell;
The Bat, by Mary Roberts Rinehart and Avery Hop-
wood ; Kindling and Ashes, by George B. MeCutcheon ;
Joanna, by H. L. Gates; A Deputy Was King, by G.
B. Stern; St. Helios, by Anna Robeson Burr; Labels,
by A. Hamilton Gibbs.
A Satchel of Books
Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, by Hugh Tuite
(Geoffrey Bles). No educational curriculum is now
complete without a course in Auction Bridge. In
this elementary handbook a godfather, as part of
the duty of his office, undertakes to teach his god-
child the points of the game. If the young lady
profits by the lucid exposition given in these pages
she will have learned more than is good for sweet
seventeen.
Essays of To-day and Yesterday (Harrap). Two
recent additions to this excellent series of little
books for odd hours are the essays of A. G. Benson
and 0. E. Montague. The late Master of Magdalene
College, Cambridge, endeared himself to many readers
by “The House of Quiet” and “From a College
Window,” and the selections from these, “The Altar
Fire” and other less well-known works will be
welcomed by many.
Winnowed Wisdom , by Stephen Leacock (John
Lane). Of all the crafts to Which men link their
lives, that of the professional humorist must be
the most soul-destroying. To rise cheerfully at
morn and be suddenly smitten by the thought “This
day I must write two columns of humor” must cast;
a gloom upon the most optimistic nature. Mr.
Leacock seems to be feeling the strain, though it
is remarkable how well he manages to stagger on. His
last volume shows further marks of the workshop,
and the buoyancy of spirit and crispness of his
earlier work is not here. Still he gets the urge
to laughter time and again.
Love in These DaySj by Alec Waugh (Chapman and
Hall). AVhen the author was 17 he published an out-
standingly frank novel of English public-school life,
and an impatient public has devoured his half-dozen
or more later books in the hope that each was the
brilliant novel that critics predicted he would write.
As the title implies, the author analyses the pursuit
of the fair sex as practised by certain modern cava-
liers. That the game is - not played as it was when
crinolines and hansom-cabs were in vogue has been
stressed by countless novelists, but none in the manner
of this author. Waugh moves his characters about
like a draughts player in a hurry to finish the game.
The impression he gives is that the modern suitor
conducts his dalliances with a cigarette between his
lips, a cocktail in one hand and a telephone in the
other, a menu-card before
outside. It cannot be denied that the autho
his types, but the title is a misnomer. Mot an
day’s sweethearts are like this.
The Fight for the Ashes in 1926, by P. F- garner
(Harrap). The author reviews this years Auit al . ,
cricket tour with the authority of an
selector and arrives at the conclusion that hnglana
won the decisive Test because she had slightly bette
batsmen and undeniably better bowlers. On y
wicket-keeping does Warner hand it to OUI ' T J nl 'f l ’ H
ranks Oldfield as the equal of Blackham. If all the
Tests had been played to a finish, Warner thinks that
England would have won four out of tiv , e " - .
author is too fond of superlatives, but the book
readable enough.
Pin Iron, by Charles G. Norris (Murray). Readers
are never disappointed with a new novel by tnt
author of “Bread,” “Brass,” .“Salt,” and other studies
of contemporary American life. ‘ Pig 110n >
the others, is very long, detailed, and well written.
It is the love story of Samuel Osgood Smith, a
Massachusetts farm boy who gets into the lion
mongery trade and mixes with a religious set m ®
York — and a lovable little dancer of not unassailable
virtue. The strong vein of satire which runs through
the book is broadened at the end, and one feels
thankful for an author who can handle emotional
scenes without plunging into sickly sentimentalism.
The C.asuarina Tree, by W. Somerset Maugham
(Heinemann). Maugham has mastered the technique
of the short story to such a degree that his tales
proceed as efficiently as a smoothly-running auto-
mobile. Characterisation, atmosphere, dialogue and
plot converge with such perfect smoothness into a
complete unity that the critic is almost moved to
point out that, although it reveals clever craftsman-
ship, it is not true to life, were it not for the shrewd
philosophy that lies concealed beneath the pageant
of vivid incidents. The gathered half-dozen short
stories here presented move around the lives of traders
and administrators in Borneo and the Malay Penin-
sula, and the discerning reader will detect a thread
running through the whole.
Combinations in Restraint of Trade, Dr. W. A.
Sanderson (Law Book Co, of Australasia). It is
hardly the custom for tomes of legal lore to be
interesting, but Dr. Sanderson’s is an exception.
The writer quotes over 400 lawsuits involving about
as many statutes, and the people who made or helped
to make these statutes include Zeno, who ran a
distracted empire badly at Byzantium in the fifth
century; and Lenin, Trotsky and co. of Russia up
to date. From the earliest and darkest ages it
appears that man practised “engrossing,” “fore-
stalling” and “regrating” on his fellow man, and
the law, especially under Edward VI., set its face
against these doings. Then for centuries the Courts
tried to decide whether a man who had sold his
business with a covenant that he wouldn’t resume
trade in the same locality or country for a certain
time could immediately resume in the same street
because the agreement amounted to “restraint."
For a while it was held that he could, and then it
was wisely concluded that he couldn't. But no luck
attended the mean attempt to procure the cancella-
tion of a bond whereby the co-respondent bound
himself in the sum of £3OOO, payable to the
petitioner, that he would not lurk within 10 miles of
the respondent (or at least her house) for 15 years,
by which time she would be too old to signify. It
was held that this was not restraint of trade, for
the lady wasn’t trade and the co-respondent didn’t
propose to sell her any merchandise. The writer
glances in passing at old Arabian mercantile legisla-
tion, designed to prevent an unsophisticated caravan
being waylaid and hoodwinked by wily city specu-
lators, outside the city wall, and he says a good
deal concerning trades unions. “Restraint of
Trade” is a fascinating subject when handled by a
master.


t. -Jp
1
Lb
''Nr
I
~w
L/
Spend your
leisure on a
B.S.A.
Fittings Bicycle
UT-OF-DOORS men, and sportsmen generally will find the
B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle invaluable for journeys to the golf links,
tennis club, football, cricket, etc.
Leisurely spins along the open road, in the peace and beauty of the
country, will also prove considerably more enjoyable on a comfort-
able, easy-running B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle.
To get the maximum amount of enjoyment and service from your
bicycle be sure that it is built with B.S.A. Cycle Fittings, world-
famous for over half a century for their consistent reliability and
durability.
If you want a bicycle for speed work, specify B.S.A. “Austral”
Racing Fittings for your new mount. Designed in response to
requests from the world’s leading track- and road-racing cyclists
they are made to the usual B.S.A. high standard of quality. The
B.S.A. “Austral” set of racing fittings includes special tubing,
resulting in a frame l\lb* lighter than the average racing frame,
without loss of strength; B.S.A. drop-out rear fork ends and other
special B.S.A. features.
The EADIE Coaster Hub,
manufactured throughout by the B.S.A.
Co., combines a perfect brake with a
frictionless free wheel. The positive
drive, a special feature, prevents all
possibility of slipping. Have an Eadie
Coaster Hub fitted to your bicycle, and
the steepest gradient or thickest traffic
will not worry you.
The positive drive of the
Eadie Coaster Hub
I
BUILD THE
Fittings
PERFECT BICYCLE
Bicycles built of genuine B.S.A. Fittings are procurable
from all retail cycle traders throughout Australia. The “Best
is Cheapest” is a very old saying—but a very true one. When
ordering your next bicycle you should, therefore, specify
B.S.A. Fittings. They are available for both touring and racing
machines, and are all British throughout.
All B.S.A. Fittings are branded with the world-famous
letters 8.5. A.” You should, therefore, carefully inspect each
component and look for the brand.
The B.S.A. Handbook contains a wealth of information
concerning B.S.A. Fittings; where to look for the brand, etc.
It is post free on request, and you should have a copy before
you purchase your next cycle.
WRITE FOR COPY OF THE B.S.A. CYCLE FITTINGS HANDBOOK AND
‘‘AUSTRAL” LEAFLET
D. Y. RENNIE
(Factory
Representative
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne


PLUME IS FAMOUS FOR
PERFORMANCE
Evenj Round AurtrotfaTfip b] Motor
The Onk) Seaplane Fliq’nt 'Round Aurbalto,
VOnbiAeropWW'RoundAu^
Humerouc Mer*>k
V/orU's- PebolMdead
<*pLUM&
Motor
Es! ,St..«-8 s ""
PlMMEiga
He'*'
Are ALL
6PIB.
ALL Australian Records! Records accomplished
under the identical conditions you meet with
vourself. That is worth bearing in mind when you
buy Motor Spirit. And that is
why you should always
Look for the PLUME Disc
on the Kerb Pump
PLUME
Svus
III: ;ii
wii Hi
m 1
tM
ill'll
Plume Motor Spirit is
procurable only in
Australia and New
Zealand.
How to Drive for High Mileage.
Use choke no more than absolutely necessary for starting. Do not start the car in motion
mi til it is possible to do so without choking or priming the engine. Don't let your engine “run
unnecessarily.
Discrimination in the use of gears saves motor spirit and the car as well; use the gears that
stem most efficient for your speed and load; do not allow the engine to labor in high gear nor to
race in second or low. Never open the throttle wider than is required to secure the desired speed or
hill-climbing power. „ . . , . .
For greater economy drive at a moderate and even rate of speed—fast driving eats up more
motor spirit. Don’t use your brakes unnecessarily; anticipate stops and coast, allowing the engine
to gradually check the speed of the car rather than depend on violent application of the brakes.
When using the engine as a brake on hills the throttle should always be in the closed position.
Write for our 64-page free booklet, “The Care of Your Car,” which contains many valuable
motoring hints.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PH.- Lm


The
IMPROVED PACKARD-SIX
pitpmi
riMMMNi
U
mm
PACKARD SINGLE.SIX FIVE.PASSENGER SEDAN IS ILLUSTRATED
THE RESTFUL CAR
PERFECT performance, ease of control and luxurious comfort, even at
high speeds are the gauges whereby a car is judged. Packard has long
excelled in all these attributes and now offers still greater refinements in the
improved Packard-Six. Greater power, giving speeds far in excess of ordin-
ary requirements, adds a degree of reliability and reassurance that means a
great deal to the man at the wheel.
We can assure you that a trial spin in one of these improved models would
be the greatest experience in your motoring life and we cordially invite you
to ride in and drive the improved Packard-Six whether you intend to buy
one or not. Ring BW 1517 for demonstration.
The price of the Improved Packard Single-Six Five-Passenger Sedan has not
been increased and to the man who desires to own a fine car at a moderate
outlay this car is ideal.
IMPROVED PACKARD-SIX
FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN
f
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: Berk House, 72-76 William Street, Sydney.
Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd., The Universal Motors Ltd., S. A Motors (Packard) Ltd., H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., Denny Bros. Ltd.,
206 Russell St., Melbourne, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. 141 Flinders St., Adelaide, Hobart, Tasmania. 439-447 Murray St., Perth
PACKARD
<A s k C J h e (Man C W h o Owns One


Cuticura
Preparations
Unexcelled in purity, they are
regarded by millions as unrivaled
in the promotion of skin and hair
health. The purifying, antiseptic,
pore-cleansing properties of Cuti-
cura Soap invigorate and preserve
the skin; the Ointment soothes
and heals rashes and eruptions.
The freely-lathering Shaving Stick
causes no irritation but leaves the
skin fresh and smooth. The Talcum
is fragrant and refreshing.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment ls.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Fortunes in Tobacco.
BIG MONEY is being invested in land in
Southern Rhodesia (Africa’s California).
You should follow.
Meikles (Gwelo) Ltd., Southern Rhodesia,
South Africa, will send details of Land for
Sale at from 10/- to 20/- per acre, suitable
for Cattle, Tobacco, Cotton, Maize and other
crops.
Fortunes made in tobacco this year.
Write now whilst values are low.
7 'o be healthu-
drink
yjhyj
the finest
tonic food
In 4 sizes drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbetsome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint, it will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
' r
GLOBE
TIMBER MILLS C?
5:. FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE i
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
Lowesf Prices, Highesh Qualify, Prompf Service
Suitable Gifts for Men
BUY GIFTS FOR MEN where Values are the
Best in Australia —at Stewart Dawson’s; where,
also, Selections are the largest and most compre-
hensive. Our huge Buying Organisation—for
Eleven Branches —enables us to secure the Latest
Goods at Keenest Prices in the World’s Markets.
And our customers reap the full benefit.
BSfi
,
7:
m
Inspect the Gift
Displays at both
our City Shops.
82570 —Nickel Smoker’s Set, consisting
of pipe-rack, ash tray and match-box.
Suitable for motor-car or launch. Price,
15/6.
Write for Stewart
Dawson’s Latest Cata-
logue of J ewellery,
Diamonds, Silverware.
Watches, etc.
For Your Motor-car.
Cl5O4 —Best Silver-
plated Flower Vase, for
motor-car. Price,
15/6.
Suitable Gifts for Men
in Cigarette Cases, Tobacco Boxes,
Ask Trays, Match Boxes, Shaving
Sets, Cold Pencils, Gift Knives,
Smokers’ Companions, etc:
■v i
Solid Nickel Match-box, to hold safety-
matches. Price, 2/-.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS' WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N.S.W.)> I/TD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
free M gtcafd
r i
i
27
If
3
/
j4 l
%
r*
sllh
fJjO
m
m every
AM AM I
(Shampoo
picturing a
charming Amami user
We feel that the Amami story
can best be told by pictures of the
girls who use it. So we have
made a number of their photos
into attractive postcards, which
you will find peeping through
the outer tissue of all Amami
Shampoos. Showing hair of
beautiful texture, bright with
vitality, they testify to Amami
more convincingly than any
words. Prove Amami for your-
self. All the Chemists, Hair-
dressers and big Stores are selling
it, 9d. per Sachet complete with
the Special Amami Lemon Juice
Rinsing Powder.
CUnanUnufkt
A mami No. 1 for DARK HAIR.
A mami No. 5 for FAIR HAIR.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
3UYTHIS RAZOR And sharewith thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
■HßSßHwwwgM-ne.ss brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
mm
yutyjhg
Sy=to
to
v
Guaranteed
in order for two years free .
CRAIG & AITKEN 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evening.
I saw the evening sun.
Like a bright daffodil,
Light up a country lane
And a small emerald hill.
I saw a ploughman cross
A brown field —his work done.
He seemed not of the earth,
Glorified by the sun.
He sought a friendly house
Down the long golden lane;
The evening sun had lit
Each polished window-pane.
His wife smiled from the door
In a comradely way,
Glad for her man’s return
At the end of the day.
N.S.W.
IVY GIBBS.
Stormy Evening.
Darkness of scudding cloud;
Sobbing of wind;
Fright-cries of fluttering birds
Striving to find
Shelter on tossing trees;
Waves lashed to foam.
But, in my heart, what peace
When you come home !
S.A.
L. M. MANDER.
Grieving Song.
I was the lover oi green woods, of stars in
the evening sky
Breaking in flower together, and the green
tide risen and high
On lonely and lovely islands; and, as in a
dream, the white
Bain over saffron lilies took glamor for my
delight.
I was the lover of silver dawns and darkling
against the grey
And rose and green of the after-glow trees
in the dimming day;
Song I wrought but of all these things—
stars and the dawn and eve,
The shining rain and the sighing tide; and
now I may only grieve!
For I who was lover of these, all these, I
who was wild and free
As a white sea-bird, as a wand’ring wave, a
green wave lost in the sea,
Am bound in the chains of a bitter love —
oh, you who passed careless by,
Only your image is in my soul; and beggared
of dream am I!
FIJI.
A. SMITH.
T.B.
You’re the latest, greatest pirate,
Bloody Jack,
And many a lordly vessel
Lies a derelict in your track;
Many a noble heart is breaking
For the toll that you are taking,
The red havoc you are making,
Bloody Jack.
You have followed me and harried,
You have boarded me and carried,
You have driven my best hopes to bitter
wrack;
The end’s plain as plain can be,
For against the gaping sea
The ready plank is jutting grim and
black.
And yet wEen all is spoken,
You can take this song for token
Of a heart you have not broken,
Bloody Jack!
N.S.W.
A. S. T. ALLAN.
Dissonance.
I thought I knew, but what is Love
That haunts my heart like some strange
song
Woven of night and stars above?
I thought I knew, but I was wrong.
She is not beautiful, men say;
To me it seems a splendor shines
About her, though the skies be grey;
No heaven but her my soul divines.
The little house wherein she is
Is poor and drab, the blind ones, deem;
Fools that they are to see not ’tis
The turret of a golden dream.
All that love is methought I knew
Until I glimpsed those happy eyes;
So steadfast were they and so blue,
My heart forgot that it w r as wise.
I sought her long, for this was Fate;
Yet when she gave her lips to me,
Ah .! was it love or was it hate
That wrenched my soul with agony?
I thought it was a simple thing
To love and to be loved again,
As though some bird of dreams should sing
And sing till life had lost its pain.
Alas! How sad it seems, and vain
That love and hate should thus be kin,
Like mingled colors in the skein
Wherewith the Fates for ever spin!
This I know well: she loves me. (Clear
’Tis mirrored in deep eyes of blue.
But all my heart is cold with fear,
Lest haply she should hate me too!
What wills God with us, I and she?
To love but a discordant song
That mocks us with its irony?
I thought I knew, but I was wrong.
Yet I reck not what doom descends.
Dear, I will hold Love’s very pain;
Her eyes, her lips, that make amends,
Each happy dusk gives me again.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


9
1 /
i
I
h
■
nr
i
m mm.
v
- w
/ M
* * '
Wsi- \ I


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2445.
December 23, 1926.
THE EMPTY STOCKING.
“Contrary to almost universal expectation Mr. Industrial Commissioner Piddington, K.C., refused to disturb the basic wage in N. S. Males, but urged that legislation
should supplement it with child endowment."
SANTA, K.C.: “Nothing: for you this time, mother; but I’m building you a beautiful castle in Spam."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
I’ostcd to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, las. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., winch should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Bditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return , all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Huiletin’s” representative in Ijondon is
f - St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
UllL-illijjft' ll ” oi>n be obtained from him or
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 10111
ll 1 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon Home, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.I/.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/0 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 1/11/-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1V.C.2; F, Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
lihodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel Home, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada . — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street , New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 101/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street. New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
51/11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A.-— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies, of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, Nerv Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
ffie'ffiulle&ft,.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1926.
THE LANG GOVERNMENT AND ITS
PIDDINGTON.
There is no merry Christmas for the N. S.
Wales Labor members who more or less
humbly follow Premier Lang. Their hearts
(and tails) are depressed with cares. Melan-
choly has marked them for its own. Dejected
as these Labor members were when the
Loughlinites revolted and the Government
declared upon its honor that it would go to
the country in March, there was one ray of
light which pierced the gloom of their
thoughts, one hope to which they clung.
Their industrial dictator, Piddington, K.C.,
as chairman of the Standard-of-living, Com-
mission with which they replaced the old
Board of Trade, was about to fix a new
basic wage for 1 adult male workers. A dash-
ing increase on the existing £4 4s. a week
would be gratefully remembered by most of
their constituents if there had to be a March
election. It might even save them from a
March election. It would certainly make the
cordial understanding between the McTier-
nans and Flannerys of the Ministry and
Skelton, the “Protestant” Labor member
for Newcastle, more cordial still.
And, since the Piddington conciliation
committees have, distributed rises among a
shoal of unions, it was taken for granted by
both employees and employers that the basic
wage would be increased. By practically
everyone, in fact, except the head of the
Government. That gentleman mentioned in
his Budget speech that the 2s. a week added
to the basic wage in August, 1925, had cost
the Government “over £300,000“ for the
balance of the financial year which closed
on June 30, 1926. But although he knew
that the Piddington determination was due
7 overdue, in fact —he did not budget for an
increase in 1926-27. For once in his career
lie was right. Instead of the ss. a week for
which employers were prepared, the 7s. or
*a S ' ' vec *k predicted by the newspapers, and
the 10s. to 15s. a week anticipated by poli-
ticians and union secretaries, there was no
increase at all. Seizing liis fountain-pen with
the enthusiasm of the man with a fixed idea,
the good Piddington wrote that the present
living-wage system was “futile, an endless
traversing of. the vicious circle”; that it
obliged N.S.W. employers to pay for 973,000
non-existent children; that child-endowment
xt ol c! x£ a y e to ma( l e an adjunct in both
A; Wales and the Commonwealth, in N. S
Wales “not later than July 1”; that by this
means 307,000 married men would get rises
and 166,000 single men (most of whom
vote Labor) could go without; that in the
meantime the basic wage would remain at
i v- s ' i ll s l lor t> the Labor politicians were
looking for something to catch votes with,
and they were handed a packet of political
dynamite instead.
* * * *
Chagrined unionists immediately referred
to the omission, from the Budget speech, of
which the Premier was pointedly reminded
at the time, and suggested that “Lang knew
something.” Whether he “knew something”
or not, lie should have known liis Pidding-
ton. Child endowment has been an obses-
sion with that gentleman for years. The
Government, in appointing him, might have
.oreseen that he would take the very first
opportunity of presenting it with a cut-and-
dned scheme, regardless of its craving for
votes. It could hardly have been ignorant of
Ins adventures as a child-endowment mis-
sionary in Queensland. Also, it could, and
should, have read the report of the Common-
wealth Basic Wage Commission, 1920. In
that document Mr. Piddington announced,
being the head and front of the Commission,
that, as the cost of living then stood, nothing
less than £5 16s. a week would cover the
needs of a family of five, man, wife and three
dependent children. But if the £5 16s. a week
were granted to all adult males, “the in-
creased burden on industry would make the
labor cost of things produced 62 p.c. higher
A s ’”, That, he admitted, presented
a difficulty, but it could be overcome:—
An alternative scheme, enabling every employee to
na\ e the standard of comfort prescribed by the
Commission, could be prepared on these lines If
w , ere to £4 to each Employee
(1,000,000 altogether) and a tax of £27 18s per
year—los. 9d. per week per employee—the latter
would bring m the necessary £27,900,000 a yen-
tor the endowment of 90-0,000 children. The Com-
monwealth could then pay to the mothers of families
1.25. per week for each child. The total obligation
of the employer would be £4 10s. 9d., wage and
tax. The effect on prices would be about 6 p.c.
increase.
The author was of opinion that his plan was
as simple as ABC, yet even the Hughes
Government callously turned it down.
* * * •
It is interesting to compare these 1920
proposals with those placed before the Lang
Government. Mr. Piddington said £4 a
week was “enough for a man and wife” six
years ago, although the N.S.W. basic wage,
as he pointed out, was then £4 ss. lie now
adds 4s. a week to what he reckoned sufficient
in 1920. Yet there has been an unques-
tionable decrease in the cost of living
(exactly liow much will not be known
while there are 1926 reports to come in,
but in all the Commonwealth Statistician’s
cost-of-living comparisons 1920 figures
as the peak year), together with an
83 p.c. reduction in working hours—at least,
in the industries and services to which the
Forty-four Hour Week Act applies—while,
m the gentleman’s own words, employers
are “compelled to pay for the upkeep of
1,425,000 children,” the actual number in
“families of male wage- and salary-earners”
being 452,000. The good Piddington would
condemn the employers to go on paying for
“973,000 non-existent children,” paying in
inflated wages (the drift of his own argu-
ment) to those who have no children; and
finance a child-endowment scheme as well.
However, he proposes to reduce the weekly
bonus from 12s. per child, his 1920 figure, to
6s. per child. And, instead of coming down
on the employer for a tax of £27 18s. per
employee, the Treasury, he suggests, could
get along with “six per cent, on the wages
bill.” “Six per cent, on the wages bill”
would be a sentence of death to hundreds of
struggling businesses, but the enthusiast
says nothing on that score. Neither does he
mention that State direction of a child-
endowment scheme affecting nearly a million
and a quarter people for a start would neces-
sitate an immense addition to the number of
Government employees, already so numerous
that they can make and unmake Ministries.
The moral effect of so much State regula-
tion on (1) those who will get the dole and
(2) those who won’t is also left out of the
argument.
OUTSIDE THE WEDDING-RING.
According to Blackstone, a bastard is
“one that is not only begotten, but born,
out of lawful marriage.” The unfortunate
child thus brought into the world was not,
under the ancient law of England, allowed
at any time to come within the fold of the
white lambs born in holy matrimony. As
far back as the days of the Emperor
Constantine the Roman code had been
amended to admit of such a child being
legitimated by the subsequent marriage of
his or her parents, and the ecclesiastical
authorities, then under the shelter of the
imperial wing, adopted the principle, and it
was embodied in the canon law. That' was
all very well in Rome, but when, later on,
the bishops carried their canon Jaws to
England and proposed to introduce this
principle in the ancient body of Anglican
law, the earls and barons, a very obstinate
body of Tories, refused to have anything
to do with it. To them, once a bastard
always a bastard; and though later on this
extreme view was somewhat relaxed, yet even
unto a modern day it took a special Act of
Parliament to legitimate little Samuel or
Jane. The case of the bastard was a shame-
ful one, and his name passed down the
centuries as a by-word and an epithet of
insult. So far as the poor victims were
concerned, they were as innocent of sin or
law-breaking or wrong-doing as the children
born in wedlock; yet they had no claims on
their natural parents except such as statute
law gave them by way of a maintenance
order, nor any claim to the succession of
their parents’ lands or goods.
* * * *
It seems almost incredible that such a
cruel social handicap should have been
allowed to continue for centuries in English
law. In Scots law it was not so, due partly
to the influence of the civil law and partly
to the fact that marriage could in Scotland
be inferred from the public actions and rela-
tions of the parties without any formal
ceremony or documentary commitment. But
in England, to this day, the law refuses to
accept the doctrine that a bastard child may
be legitimated by the subsequent marriage
of his parents. The far-distant parts of the
Empire have, happily, repudiated the worst
of the handicaps and obstacles left over
from a harsh and brutal age. In
1902 N. S. Wales passed an Act making
provision for the legitimation of children born
before marriage on the subsequent marriage
of their parents. Now all the Australian
States possess similar legislation. The N.S.W.
Act provided that any child born before
the marriage of his or her parents, whether
before or after the passing of the Act, should
on their subsequent marriage be deemed, on
the due registration of the child, to have been
legitimate from birth and be entitled to all
the riglits of a child born in wedlock. At the
same time a proviso was inserted to the effect
that nothing in the Act should have the
effect of legitimating a child if at the time of
his or her birth there existed any legal im-
pediment to the inter-marriage of the parents.
Now a cable from England announces that
at last similar legislation is before the House
of Commons.
* * * *
So far as can be gleaned from the little
information the London message contains,
the English measure when before the Lords
was , amended in the direction of the proviso
above indicated. The effect of it would bo
as _ with us—to shut out from legitimation
a child whose father or mother was married
to a third person when the child was born.
In such a case there would exist at the time
of the birth a legal impediment to the mar-
riage of the parents—namely, the fact that
one of them was already married. Why
should there be a differentiation between the
illegitimate child of two persons who might
have married before the birth of the child
and the offspring of two persons one of
whom could net have married by reason of
being already wed? Why should the one
child be privileged and not the other? Would
it be a check on the immorality of a wife or
husband to know that if either had a
child by a lover or a mistress, as the case
might be, the offspring could never hope to be
legitimated? And, if the embargo is intended
to thus appeal to the morals of men and
women, is that a sufficient answer to the
plea of the child? In the opinion of the
Commons it is not, and it is time an amend-
ment was made in our own State Acts —such
of them as contain the odious provision
which the Commons refused to accept.
SALVATION BY VOTING.
Voting, and particularly voting by compul-
sion, is to-day the universal cure-all. It
having been discovered that a nation can be
reformed, and made diligent or prosperous or
sober by voting, it naturally follows that
casting your suffrage should be made compul-
sory. And as voting is to be so made, then
logically enrolment must also be made so,
and the method of voting also prescribed,
and penalties duly provided in case of
default. So that, as matters stand, I, who
live in Queensland, may be gaoled:—
(1) If I do not vote Federally;
(2) If I do not vote at State elections;
(3) If I do not enrol Federally;
i (4) If I do not enrol provincially;
(5) If I do not vote on a Federal referendum;
(0) If I do not vote on a State referendum.
This system requires only two more pro-
visions to make it a thing of beauty and a joy
for ever. In the first place secret voting
should be abolished; and, secondly, it should
be forbidden, under pain of further gaoling,
to vote for anybody but the accredited party
candidate, Labor or anti-Labor. This is
required to make the triumph of machine
politics complete. First reduce the number
of party machines to two with a view to
ultimately bringing them down to one. With
one machine and one candidate the one mil-
lennium cannot be far distant, and the haven
of Salvation by Voting will have been
attained.
In this matter of compulsory voting the
Law is attempting to do a thing intrinsically
rotten and immoral. If Fagin, who is of
the scum of God’s earth, be put up to repre-
sent Propputy, as against Sikes (also scum),
on behalf of Socialism, then no law of human
making should ever compel an honest man to
vote for one or the other. Yet this is pre-
cisely what the Law attempts to do. An
elector may object to the politics of the aver-
age Tory candidate just as vehemently as he
does to the views of the average Labor can-
didate, yet he is driven to vote for one or
the other.
Take, again, the matter of a man’s personal
morals—his mores, in the old Roman sense.
Jack Jennings is fond of beer—sometimes
unduly so. In place of remonstrating with
Jennings and contenting ourselves with set-
ting him a good example, we essay a more
complicated process, i.e., we attempt to cure
him of his failing by voting him into sobriety.
By an infinite complication of machinery we
so contrive it that an issue shall be raised
known as Prohibition, and then we compel
our people to approach the ballot-box and
vote as to whether their neighbors shall be
allowed to drink plain beer—or presently, it
may be, plain tea. If the question put to the
voter were “Shall your neighbor be allowed
to select his own meat and drink?” ridicule
would laugh the thing right out of the coun-
try. But we are bulldozed into believing that
we are essaying a great reform, whereas what
we are really doing is interfering in a piti-
able and pettifogging fashion in the common-
est essentials of personal liberty.
We have been told a thousand times, “It
is a man’s duty to vote, and if he does not lo
so he should be compelled.” But I am pre-
pared to maintain that it is, on the contrary,
a good many people’s duty not to vote under
any circumstances, inasmuch as mental in-
capacity and (more frequently) dense igno-
rance concerning public matters should form
an insuperable barrier between probably 5U
per cent, of our electors and the ballot-box.
The really ignorant man, left to himself,
would probably never attempt to vote at all,
but, under the spur of party fanatics and of
Little Peddlington busybodies, he is driven
to deface the ballot-paper with his illiterate
mark —a result which is hailed as a signal
triumph of Democracy! Some day, when we
are really enlightened, it will be made a
penal offence for certain classes of citizens
to attempt to vote at all, inasmuch as igno-
rance can never do so much harm as when it
attempts the task of governing a nation. Just
as long as one adult one vote, regardless of
qualifications, is the basis of government, we
should probably attain as good results by
choosing as our representatives the indivi-
duals who come out at the bottom of the
polls at election times; at any rate, we could
not achieve much worse results than we do
at present, and the experiment would be
decidedly interesting.
Considering that over half of Europe has
run away from Salvation by Voting and gone
bald-headed for something dangerously akin
to despotism, it behoves us to ask ourselves
whether the boon of popular suffrage has
proved a popular blessing or mere popular
claptrap. Italy’s answer to the question is
—Mussolini.
P. AIREY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Other People’s Railways, and Ours.
Judge Breuy : “Your suggestion was that Australia
is bankrupt because she has such a big debt.”
Mr. Lewis: “We did not say that. We do not
cry stinking fish.”
Judge Beeby : “You started by referring to our
enormous debt, and comparing it with other coun-
tries, but other countries have not built their
railways on debts, and Australia’s real debt is only
£200,000,000.
There is something weird about the spectacle
of liis Arbitration Honor butting into the
44-hour case as a heated partisan and giving
evidence before himself without being sworn,
but the ex-Labor politician has a way which
he shares with the judicial gentleman in
“Trial by Jury.” Labor, on whose behalf
Mr. Beeby conducts a campaign in between
the fragmentary addresses of counsel, has
set itself up as the Australian loan party
in the most definite fashion. No very agitat-
ing symptoms of economy or solvency are
manifested by any other party, but only
Labor declares that Australia is so rich,
and produces such a surplus of goods with
which to pay its way, that it can knock
four, or eight, or even 18 hours off the
working week with impunity. As a defence
of loan-mongering there is altogether too
much ignorant recitation of the gag that
Australia, by reason of its State and Federal
railways, is in a category by itself, and
can pile up lOU’s promiscuously. In
reality public ownership of railways is com-
monplace, and, in proportion to its size
(though not to its population), this country
is rather backward. Some more or less
odious comparisons may be quoted:—
Miles
of Publicly
Area in Owned
Square Miles. Railway.
Russia .. .. .. 8,186,144 45,044
Germany .. .. 181,257 32,148
India 1,094,300 32,028
The Commonwealth .. 2,974,581 24,845
Canada . . . . .. 3,603,909 about 20,000
South African Union . . 472,347 11,061
Poland 149,915 10,537
Italy 119,624 10,237
Japan 147,657 7,341
Roumania . . , . 122,282 7,246
Egypt, Norway, Finland,
Switzerland, Austria,
France, Jugo-Slavia,
Belgium, Czechoslova-
kia, Palestine, Maori-
land and Chile, con-
jointly .. ..
And there are many others. Therefore, when
the Great Australian Borrower says for the
millionth time, “Ah, but look at our State-
owned railways!” as a justification of all the
money that is owed and the great amount
more that he hopes to owe, he is a prize
example of the national lack of education.
The Commonwealth, in this matter, is only a
unit among a multitude. But it isn’t exactly
lost in the multitude, for it has characteris-
tics of its own, some of them being as
follows:
The Australian railways are under seven different
managements, with seven different political inter-
ferences thrown in.
The publicly-owned lines are of five different
gauges, and including private lines there are eight.
Three of these represent such minor scraps of line
that they don’t really count, but still there are
eight. Not one of the States has its railways built
absolutely to one measurement. The cost of uni-
fication was guessed a long time ago at £57,000,000.
It would now probably amount to £100,000,000.
This liability should come off the nominal value.
The whole arrangement, as a glance at the railway
map will show, was built with a lack of system
which amounted to genius. The number of dead
ends is legion, and the perversity with which good
ports are left unserved is marvellous.
The State (not Federal) railways were, at June,
1925, £317,000,000 short of representing the amount
of the State debts. Nothing has been paid off.
The shortage is only kept down to £317,000,000 by
putting in old and dilapidated lines at cost; and
when the whole system is capable of failing to pay
its way by over £4,000,000 in a year, it shouldn’t
be put in at cost.
Still, news travels slowly, and it is quite
possible that some hundreds of thousands
or some millions of Australians will live
and bring up their children and die in the
illusion that this country invented public


railway ownership, and that it has kept
the patent. Therefore, it is blessed among
nations and the ordinary rules of arithmetic
don’t apply to it. Even Judge Beeby may
pass away under a misapprehension, though
everyone trusts he may be long spared to us.
A Child’s Wool Vest.
Dear Bulletin,—The S. M. Herald has
relapsed into the most primitive form of
Foreign-trade —the arboreal or treetop variety
practised by our hairy ancestors before they
learned to shave and know arithmetic. As a
natural consequence, its columns offer a con-
genial and leafy haunt for “James McMahon,
president of the Town and Country Union
of N S Wales,” though why a body with
a mime like that should hate its own
country’s industries so badly is hard to under-
stand. I have endeavored to reply on more
than one occasion, but my efforts never
appeared in print. I suppose they were sup-
pressed because they were incontrovertible
and calculated to put the president in a
hole This is an extract from the most
recent effort of his that came under my
notice: —
Tlie following figures may help to enlighten the
mind of the general consumer as to the effect of the
now tariff in raising the cost of living:
Children's Wool Vests—British Made.
Price Price
to Consumer to Consumer
Under Old Tariff. Under New Tariff.
Size 2 2/3 6/3
Size 3 2/6 6/0
Size 4 2/9 6/9
Size 6 3/- 6/11
But, to cease quoting figures, the pith and gravamen
of the whole subject and situation is that high
tariffs inevitably increase the cost of living, and
exploit the pocket of the general consumer for the
benefit of the few.
All this caused me to be profoundly
interested, so I disguised myself as a gen-
eral consumer, though 1 didn’t look the part
too well, being out of practice, and put
some money in my pocket to be exploited,
and went out to consume a child’s wool
vest. I afterwards gave it to a small but
liighly-intelligent girlette of my acquaint-
ance. The cost was 2s. (Id. I asked why
in thunder it wasn’t 6s. 6d., and beguiled the
owner of the premises into conversation.
He said the article was made in Australia,
and that he had no other kind, and that no
better kind was in existence. He admitted
having heard that there were some fossilised
back numbers about who held that a vest
was no good unless the wool went all the
way to Europe, and the finished article came
all' the way back after furnishing employ-
ment there, but he hadn’t met any of late.
There were, a year ago, 439,949 persons em-
ployed in this country’s factories, and I
don’t think the figure includes those who
manufacture flour, butter and cheese under
the fostering influence of the tariff; at least,
these articles are not included among our
manufactured exports as they ought to be.
I suppose the aforesaid 439.949 people, who
turned out goods worth £380,843,986, and
their dependants are the “few” to whom
Freetraders habitually allude. There is
urgent need for an increase, no matter how
arrived at, both in numbers and production,
for Australia is still importing much more
than it can pay for except with the help of
big loans. If the president of the Town and
Country Union of N.S.W. attempts to
reply to this in your columns, please tell
him to send his communication to a Free-
trade organ, or else to arrange with that
organ for more reciprocity.—Aours truly,
Clifford Snook.
A Merry Christinas?
“A merry Christmas!” But is it? Are we
Australians a merry people, even at this
annual festival? In Old England, the
country of Charles Dickens, there was an
air of festivity and jollity at the approach
of this season. It was an occasion of huge
feasts and mighty libations. Our grand-
fathers revelled in the festival. But here
in Australia is a people diverging from the
parent stock, acquiring new characteristics
and discarding many old ones. We are not
naturally merry. The word “merry” as
used in Australia implies a condition induced
by a few too many toasts. Gilbert’s “inno-
cent merriment” has been lost on the journey
overseas. We are not jolly or gay or up-
roariously happy at any time. We may
grin, but we rarely laugh outright unless
there is a liquid reason for the outbreak.
Laughter with us is severely moderated. We
are not hail-fellow with everybody—few of
us are hail-fellow with anybody. Even our
politics are different. The House of Com-
mons conducts its weighty business in an
agreeable tone and with a due appreciation
of the other side’s feelings;. Here our
politics are imbrued with a deliberate antag-
onism and an ingrained dislike of the other
side; there is little give-and-take; each side
glares at the other side ; few amenities are
possible. Christmas cannot break down these
ingrained asperities; it might do better if it
came at some other time of the year—almost
any other time would be better. Happily,
however, and notwithstanding that the season
comes at the worst season of our year for
large hot meals and indoor pleasures there is
one element of the population which keeps up
the old Christmas tradition —the children.
Christmas is just as real to them as it was
to our grandmothers. But one wonders
whether nine-tenths —or nineteen-twentieths
—of that is not due to the cunning and the
energy of the trader. Indeed, if it were not
for him, we might find ourselves presently
asking “Is it worth while?”
♦
How an Industry Was Saved.
W. M. Jardine, U.S. Secretary of Agricul-
ture, recently published an interesting!
account of the measures resorted to by the
raisin-growers of California when over-
production menaced them with ruin. Before
the war the raisin output of California
amounted to about 75,000 tons p.a. “Due. to
high prices and a short-sighted production
programme,” the output was increased after
the war to more than 200,000 tons, and the
situation became desperate :
This quantity was far in excess of the normal
needs of the American consuming public. Certain
banks and business interests were placed in a pre-
carious position. The Raisin Co-operative Association
was faced with maintaining the very existence of
several thousand families and the disposal of a
tremendous over-production of a specialised com-
modity. It set out on a comprehensive programme
of widening the markets. Several thousand tons of
raisins were turned to new markets in Japan and
China. Thousands of tons, through voluntary agree-
ments, went to 20,000 bakers in this country by
popularising Wednesday as Raisin Bread Day. Other
channels were opened, including the manufacture of
raisin 0i1.... In the face of nearly insurmountable
odds, the Co-operative Raisin Association has saved
the industry it represents.
The earlier American experience has been re-
peated, to some extent, in Australia. In the
pre-war years 13,000 tons was reckoned a
good yield of raisins and currants for the
whole Commonwealth. The war set up a
boom in prices which lasted well into the
repatriation period and naturally attracted
the attention of the repatriation politicians.
Those gentlemen, who never troubled their
heads about the possibility of over-production
in any of the industries on which they laid
their fatal hands, drafted so many Diggers
into the business of growing grapes for dry-
ing purposes that in 1923-24 production
reached 44,735 tons. That was the year in
which the bottom fell out of the market, the
44,735 tons being valued at £768,300, where-
as 21,221 tons packed in 1919-29 were valued
at £1,569,500. There has been a price
recovery since, though not nearly to the
1919-20 level, but production is still increas-
ing as Digger-planted vineyards come into
bearing, and, although the Commonwealth
Government has made advances to growers,
secured tariff concessions in Canada and
Britain and appointed a board to control
exports, the outlook is still uncertain. The
Canadians indeed arc buying very little, more
of our raisins and currants than they did
in 1924-25, when they imported a whole
£10,897 worth. On the other hand, Father
Bull has substantially increased his pur-
chases of both articles, and of dried apples,
peaches, apricots, pears and prunes as well
—so substantially that if Australian pur-
chases went up in the same proportion the
over-production problem would disappear.
The possibilities of the Australian market
have been strangely neglected. There is no
idea of manufacturing raisin-oil, nor has any
concerted effort been made to popularise
raisin-bread. It is estimated that 13,009
tons of dried fruits, all varieties, will be
consumed this year, the population being
about 6,100,000, whereas a population of
less than 44 millions consumed in 1911
10,000 tons of raisins and currants alone.
In short, the consumption per head has
actually decreased. Yet if the facts were
placed squarely before the Australian people;
if they were told that they could cat a lot
more dried fruit with benefit to their health
and that of their children; if they were
assured that the growers are asking no more
than a fair price for a first-class article, and
that the fortunes of a thousand Diggers are
in their hands, the Australian Government
might soon be able to say, like the American
gentleman, that the dried-fruits industry has
been saved.
The Casual Fire-fighters.
Dear Bulletin, —During the past month
the wheat area from Orange to Condobolin
and south to Albury (N.S.W.) has been
ravaged by fires. In the district where
I write we have had a weekly outbreak; a
few days ago, fanned by a hurricane wind,
one advanced 40 miles in a day and left tragic
desolation behind it. Three farms were
totally destroyed, and some of the crops
were not insured. But there is nothing novel
in that—it happens year after year. It will
go on happening year after year until wheat-
farmers wake up and look for advanced
methods of combating a terror that takes
enormous toll annually. We have made our
transition from horse-power to the tractor,
and yet half of the fires originate from a
carbon-spark from the exhaust. We write
indignant letters to the press about the
culpability of the engines of the Railway
Department, and never trouble to instal
efficient exhaust-covers on our tractors, or to
carry fire extinguishers. We institute local
laws prohibiting the use of wax-matches
during harvesting—and do not trouble to
enforce them. (The other half of the fires
are caused by careless smoking in the pad-
docks. ) We plough ridiculously narrow fire-
breaks around our crops which a fire in a
high wind can “jump.” In short, the wheat-
cocky makes conditions as favorable as
possible for the beginnings of a fire. And
when the black smoke in the distance pro-
claims that a crop is alight the entire district
rushes to the scene of the outbreak. It is
magnificent, this great Cobbership of the
Bush —but what a tragic waste it all amounts
to! Perhaps 100 men will be beating at the
flames and starting breaks within half an
hour, but most of their efforts are useless
because they lack organisation and leader-
ship. They are split into groups, and one
group has no idea how the other group is
faring. And when the fire-fighters have
dispersed and taken up their day’s work
again nobody bothers much to see that every
burning log and fence-post is dead out.
Consequently, in a few days’ time (often
after a fortnight) a whirlwind catches an
ember from a smouldering tree and carries it
somewhere else. Years ago, when Big
Burrawang station comprised a colossal
tract of country extending, roughly, from
Forbes to Condobolin, the Edolses had
sentries posted at the top of outlying moun-
tains. There was actually a telephone
installed on one hill, and the sentry’s job
was to warn the main homestead of a fire
and give its approximate location. The
same thing is being done in the great
Canadian forests even aeroplanes are
utilised —and the same thing could be done
to-day on the very mountain that Mr. Edols
used. It is the exception to find
efficient local fire-brigades in the wheat
areas, yet here is a plan of incalculable
importance. It is almost impossible, of
course, to do anything with a big fire, but
with local outbreaks a local brigade,
properly organised, could divert the fire to
less dangerous parts very quickly. There
should be brigades every 20 miles, with some
competent man definitely in command and
lieutenants on various farms to give warning
of an outbreak. There should be a motor-
drawn water-cart, well equipped, with its
tank always full, ready to be driven to the
threatened quarter. The expense, if contri-
buted by everyone, would be nothing com-
pared with the toll a fire takes. But Cocky
needs so much convincing. A prominent
farmer who has foresight called a meeting
here lately to form a brigade. Hardly any-
one attended. A week later we were all out
fighting desperately without order. Smoking
should be absolutely forbidden to harvest-
hands in the paddocks, and tractor-owners
compelled to include a proven fire-
extinguisher in their kit. When all this
has been done the wheat-farmer will find
that his yearly terror is not robbing him of
as much sleep as hitherto. But until he
understands how vital the prevention of
fire is the splendid responses and sacrifices
of his neighbors will be largely in vain—
and the country will suffer in proportion.—
Yours, etc., Gilbert Mant.
*
Small Sister’s Numerous Bumble.
The Lyons Ministry is making a serious
attempt to reform the Speck’s quaint system
of local government. It is about time. Out-
side Hobart and Launceston there are no
fewer than 47 little municipal kingdoms,
each with its warden and councillors and
clerks and inspector of nuisances and dog-
catcher and dignity and pomposity and other
attributes traditionally adhering to village
bumbledom everywhere on earth. Some of
the 47 hardly raise enough revenue to pay
the council clerks salary (which isn’t much
of a salary) and the poundkeepcr’s and the
dog-catcher's (which generally total less than
the clerk’s). A few of the 47 do very use-
ful work under difficulties, but the majority
of them are compelled to expend most of
their energy in urging the local member of
Parliament to secure Government help for
roads and bridges and the roadman’s wages
which ought to be paid out of local rates.
Perhaps half a dozen of the 47 are com-
petent enough to mend the, local culvert pro-
vided the money is available; most of the
other 41 can hardly be trusted to spend their
own rates wisely, and if by chance or the
heroic persistence of the local member a
windfall of Government money is made avail-
able for urgent road jobs or the rebuilding
of washed-away bridges, it is generally found
advisable for the Public Works Department
to send its own men and equipment to do
the work. Outside the two cities of Hobart
and Launceston, the average adult popula-
tion per municipality is very little over a
thousand. The obvious result is that tin-
system is costly as well as ineffective. The
overhead charges eat up more than one-
fifth of the local rates. To reduce this
ruinous state of things, the Government is
putting through a Municipalities Reduction
Bill, under which a Commission of three
men are to rearrange boundaries. The
measure has struggled through the Assembly
despite the furious opposition of the parish-
pump section of the House. Whether this
well-meant attempt to place the Speck’s ex-
pensively lackadaisical local government on a
better business basis gets past the Leg.
Council or not, the fact that the Lyons
Government has pushed it through one
House is something to its credit.
Disarmament and the Pacific.
Too much disarmament has its drawbacks.
Japan, being invited to join with other
Powers for the protection of foreigners in
China, is said to have replied that it would
do so if Britain abandoned the idea of a
naval base at Singapore and left Nippon
mistress of all the Pacific which isn’t Yankee,
At latest advices there were 320,829 foreign-
ers in China, and 198,206 of them were
Japanese and 85,766 Russians. Compared
with the eight or nine million Chinamen
who live abroad, the real Europeans in China
are very few ; but they have done so much
building that they are often mistaken for a
multitude. Having so many of its nationals
to protect, and so many ambitions, it is
assumed that Japan will interfere in a large
way if the Bolshevik trouble becomes bad in
the regions where its interests mostly lie;
but apparently it will play a lone hand and
annex things for itself unless it is paid for
being sociable. Singapore, with India on
one side and Australasia on the other, is
distinctly a British concern, and it is so far
from Japan that the islanders’ claim to
object is sketchy. Of course Singapore isn’t
so very far from some of the outlying Japan-
ese possessions, such as Formosa, but that
place hardly counts in the argument. The
British were in Singapore 76 years before
the Japanese were in Formosa, and, for that
matter, the British were in Australia, and
Sydney was a growing place, 50 or 60 years
before Japan scrambled out of the old feudal
ways and began to be modern. But Britain
is not the outstanding naval Power it was,
and people begin to give back-talk. By
reason of the struggle to pay its own foreign
debts and the intense difficulty experienced in
collecting foreign debts from other people,
considerable economy has been exercised in
the British Defence Department, and some
of the appearance of power there is arises
through the retention on the active list of
ships that have become more or less passive.
A first-class dock in the Pacific wouldn't
make the Old Man’s navy any larger or
any younger, but it would make it a great
deal more serviceable. Wherefore one at
least of Britain’s friends seems to object,
possibly holding that as Britain has become
second rate it should continue so or become
more so.
♦
About Politics.
“Blum” : Ranking probably second in im-
portance after golf is the game of politics.
Politics is a round game that may be played
by any number of persons. The more players
the merrier, but the fewer parties the better
fare. The game was invented by a gorilla
who was born with a crooked spine and other
reasons for detesting hard work. He origi-
nated the slogan: “I care not who makes
the country’s laws so long as I nominate
them.” It was discovered over 100 years ago
by men whose names are now to be found on
street-corners that the essentials of the game
are a party of Progress, composed of men
who wish to get rich; a party of Standpatism,
composed of men who have got so rich that
they tremble; and (in some foreign country)
a gang of cut-throats who have assassinated
all the kings and queens and pawnbrokers
in their territory, and are now looking round
for clerks upon whom to wreak vengeance
upon what is technically termed the bour-
geoisie: The value of the term bourgeoisie
in the game of politics can hardly be over-
estimated. Used at the right moment by
either side it is worth at least 100 points
a sort of Grand Slam. There isn t any
reply to it. Jock Garden, a dear old
friend of mine, who really leads an almost
blameless life, trembles and turns pale when
conversation is steered in the direction ot
the bourgeoisie. Free Love used to he a
good scorer, but you couldn’t look at Jock
and believe him capable of trying to wreck
the family and the home. But you say
‘‘bourgeoisie” to him and he begins to have
doubts whether lie’ll ever be elected to repre-
sent anywhere. He has resigned from every-
thing that might connect him with the Com-
munist party and stands before the electors
to-day as something-or-tlie-other that he
hasn’t yet had time to invent. A pure victim
of “bourgeoisie.” But they all have their
crosses to carry. Say “Wait and sec to a
Liberal and he’ll say something derogatory
about Asquith, whose only fault, after all,
was that he supposed something had to oe
done about wars and other troubles that
beset elderly lawyers, a>id early in the
game found‘that he could choose between
losing the war and offending duchesses. Like-
wise, and in the same spirit, say “Cuckoo to
a Conservative and he will explain that the
only way the old traditions can be main-
tained is by keeping in power the crowd
that came over with William the Conqueror
or William Hughes, and that the only
way to keep in power is to dish the higs
—preferably by demonstrating that no
darned Whig can beat a good Conservative
at the fine old national game of dishing.
Then there is the third party—a recent inno-
vation. It says it is Labor, but its leaders
already know a few tilings about Rolls-
Royces, and the lad who comes a-wooing
to the daughter of Ted Finnerty, late secre-
tary of the Carpenters’ Union, had better
be careful about his parentage and his
father’s bank-account. The game of politics,
like every other game, is one in which
people seek to win something. It isn’t
worth winning, but nine out of ten poli-
ticians are there to win it. The tenth
either sinks out of sight or makes history.
And it is bad history nine times out of ten.
Politicians are a nuisance; but, even so,
why repine? They can’t be avoided. As
a matter of Law, which is a serious thing,
one has to vote for them. It is no use
saying to one’s self “That man is a confirmed
politician. lie tells me I have griev-
ances that I never knew I possessed, and
he promises me remedies that lie is not at
all likely to supply. I dislike him bitterly
and I shall not vote, for him.” Your only
alternative, most probably, is to vote for
some individual who most obviously ought
—from your point of view—to be locked
up for about 10 years with an English Gram-
mar and Jevons’s tiny little brown book
about the principles of political economy.
What is one to do?
♦—
Broadcasting Money.
By dint of much pressure and some law
expenses the Federal Government will evi-
dently achieve its grotesque purpose of
forcing £20,000,000 (£2,000,000 per annum
for 10 years) on the States to make roads
with, the States adding £1,500,000 a year of
their own. Some results, unless the silly
business breaks down early, will be that the
States will get more roads than they can
afford to keep in order, and these roads will
help motor-cars to do more damage to the
railway revenue, and the States will borrow
a little more with which to pay their share
of the road-making. And before five years
are over, let alone 10, it is almost certain
that the Federal Treasurer will be scratching
for a crust himself. Imports must needs go
down at least one-third, for Australia can t
continuously add £42,000,000 a year to its
foreign debt, as it did in 1921-22, or
£28,000,000, as in 1923-24, or about
£40,000,000, as in 1925-20, with which to
pay chiefly for foreign luxuries. As
imports go down, Customs revenue will
do the same. If it drops even one-
third the Treasurer will be short nearly
£10,000,000. He will still have as big an
income from this source as his predecessor
had in 1920-21, but the midsummer madness
has gone so fast that the ways of 1920-21
seem as remote as those of the Early-Vic-
torian neriod. It has been impressed on
Australia by startled financial authorities in
England that by some means or other an all-
round sinking fund must be provided to pro-
tect Australia’s sinking credit, and it has
been impressed on the Federal Treasurer
that he is the only man to tackle the job.
When he tries to provide even one or two
millions for sinking fund and two millions
for State roads out of a revenue which has
shrunk by 10 millions, he may be driven
to wish that his revered chief had sold his
spats and bought some foresight with the
money. ■
The Missionary in China.
“Feng-Siiui” : That sturdy Imperialist
Lord Inch cape says he would not give a
penny to missionaries. The Christian mis-
sionary has always been the steward or hand-
maiden of Western imperialism, so this
sudden discovery of his obnoxiousness re-
quires explanation. It is probably to be
found in a recent and subtle change of front
amongst some of the foreign missions in
China. The change has not been reported
in the home field, where the eleemosynary
threepence is still collected on the assump-
tion that it will continue to be spent to the
glory of God and the strengthening of the
Empire; but on the spot it is being furi-
ously debated. Several great missionary
organisations have discovered that the
Chinese national movement, which aims at
making China independent of foreign control,
is approved by the Sermon on the Mount.
Some of them have joined the most extreme
members of the Kaomintang in demanding
the abrogation of the unequal treaties, the
handing over of foreigners to Chinese courts,
and the return of the foreign concessions
to the Chinese Government if and when that
elusive organisation can be located. The
British merchant accuses these renegades Of
being corrupted by the same Bolshevik influ-
ence as the Cantonese, and points out that


r JL'lie first puff convinces
of the superior quality
of
io
for
9 a
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
tn pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
TO
*
I
m
>/
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN
tliey owe their present privileged position
ir. the country to the unequal treaties. It
is noteworthy that most of the missionaries
who have seen the new light hail from
America. Uncle Sam owns no concessions
iu China or fortified bases like Hongkong.
Although his traders enjoy the amenities of
the foreign settlements maintained by
Britain, France and other European Powers,
he avoids as far as possible backing up his
nationals by armed demonstrations. He pre-
fers the method of quiet economic penetra-
tion. His refusal to participate in any
measures of intervention is due partly to this
and partly to the pressure brought on him
by the powerful and immensely wealthy mis-
sionary organisations in U.S.A. But the
American missions are not likely to gain any
advantage from their new attitude. The
Chinese nationalists have looted their pro-
perty and chased their workers with the same
heartiness as they have looted and chased all
the others. Meanwhile the very small tale
of native Christians have formed the Chinese
Christian Church, which has rapidly de-
veloped violent and sadly un-Christian
nationalistic tendencies. I venture to pre-
dict that when China has caught up to
Japan, as eventually she will, the white mis-
sionary will be as hard put to it to find a
job in the Flowery Land as Lord Inchcape
will be to find work there for his liners.
♦
White-Collar Education.
“P.L.” : Apropos of a recent Bulletin article
on the above topic, the following comments
by the Rev. W. P. Morris, M.A., of the
Brisbane Church of England Grammar
School, are of interest: —
A man would be a fool who did not realise the
magnificent work that the State schools of this
country are performing. Without them we should
have an illiterate and uneducated people..., The
State is not so fortunate in its efforts to give
secondary education. Its system of scholarships is
such that very many are encouraged to go to secondary
schools who would do much better with manual and
technical training; many are awarded scholarships
whose parents could do very well without them; and
many are kept at State schools waiting for scholar-
ships. .. . There is no honor at all in winning a
belated State-school scholarship.... It is quite
clear what the Government should d 0.... It should
discriminate between the State scholars and select
or allow to be selected the State scholars most suited
for secondary education.... This would mean that
many of the State seb«l»rs would be diverted to
technical colleges, agricultural
colleges and trade schools....
Almost all headmasters and
educationists here are involved
in the system and can hardly
criticise, and so it falls to a
humble outsider to say that
the present system is by no
means satisfactory. Hundreds
of indifferent scholars are be-
ing. made and hundreds of good manual workers are
being spoiled.
Mr. Mop.kis might have gone further, and
said that the present tendency in Australia
to abandon country life and rush into
the cities is largely the result of our mad
system of education. In Queensland particu-
larly the secondary curriculum consists
almost entirely of subjects that fit boys for
professorships, for civil-service jobs, for
lawyers’ offices, for accountants’ desks, for
commercial callings—for all those avocations,
in fine, that are pursued within sound of city
trams and within hail of city pubs. Mr.
Morris is by no means the only cleric who
has drawn attention to this phase of our
educational developments; Archbishop Duhig
has also commented on the satoie tendency.
The sooner the Queensland Government
wipes out 80 per cent, of the present scholar-
ships and turns its educational energies in
the direction of encouraging technical educa-
tion and getting its boys trained in vocational
schools, the better. The Australian High
School system is becoming an incubus on
the community.
*
The Allied military experts who looked into
the matter have reported that the Hun hasn’t
disarmed according to agreement, but that,
instead, he is loading up afresh, and also
conducting a brisk trade in arms and muni-
tions with his Bolshevik neighbors. Konigs-
berg is specially mentioned as a place where
miles of new and ultra-modern fortifications
have been put up. If such works could
escape detection until complete at a place
almost, within sight of the sea, there should
be plenty of possibilities in the interior.
Ivonigsberg is on the detached bit of Prussia
which lies to the north-cast of Poland, and
with the Hun on both sides'the Polish situa-
tion is precarious enough. The Hun army
consists nominally of 500,000 men enlisted
for 12 years, which isn’t much in the way
of disarmament, even if the figure isn’t
largely exceeded, as many believe. It is
quite certain that Soviet Russia, with its
compulsory military service beginning at the
age of T 9, isn’t disarming. Nor is Japan, with
its compulsory service and with 216,000
men under arms and vast reserves; and with
Russia and China just across the way it
possibly wants these forces. As for China,
it is only getting its gun properly loaded,
and this applies in a less degree to Turkey.
The best present samples of disarmament
are Britain and Australia. With a standing
army 1740 strong, for a continent and some
islands, the Commonwealth is a pathetic
spectacle of inoffensiveness.
♦
The leg of the average visitor is easily
pulled, and if Providence hadn’t fastened it
on well he would go away without it. This,
deftly extracted from the new "British
Government Migration Agent in Australia,”
was typical:—
After a tour of 2000 miles through the south-
western district of Westralia, Mr. Amery expressed
amazement at what had been done. Although the
group-settlement scheme had been in operation onlv
four years, there were now 2330 farms, all carved
out of dense scrub and timber. Fully 50,000 acres
were already under pasture. The population, includ-
ing children, was about 9500. All of these people
had been brought from Great Britain in families,
and a large proportion of them were city people.
But doubtless the migration agent wasn’t
urged to note that Westralia added
£13,000,000 to its net debt in four years,
which was £5579 per farm, or £1368 per
settler, “including children”; and though
there was a handsome increase of 900,000
acres in the State’s total area under crop
in four years, still £l4 10s. of new debt
for every new acre is a good deal. The
fact that the sons of townspeople may be
turned into farmers has been noted before;
but as Australia badly needs more manu-
factured goods and doesn’t require more
wheat, it would be better if the bulk of
the new people available could be employed
at skilled trades. Then the next generation
THE TYRO ,
“Has the new hand been long at the game?”
“Less'n a week. He's never been in a strike yet.”
might go a-wheating and do it at less than
£5579 per farm.
— ♦
An organised attempt to cut into the chilled-
beef export trade, now almost entirely in
Argentine hands, is at length to be made.
Save for one or two experimental shipments,
this country’s meat has hitherto gone to
Europe in a frozen condition, arid competi-
tion with the Argentine chilled meat, carried
over a much shorter route and handled from
farm to market by an up-to-date and almost
perfect organisation, was impossible at any-
thing like equal prices. An Australian
company which claims to have evolved a
chilling system to suit Australia’s needs is
tackling the problem. Already there have
been successful trial shipments, though the
ordinary freezing-rooms were utilised —the
shipping companies cater for freezing, as
opposed to chilling. Arrangements have
now been made with the 0. and D. Line
to have special cliilling-rooms fitted on one
of its steamers in accordance with the
experimenting company’s plans. The beef
will be prime topped-up Southern Queens-
land stuff, 500 hindquarters, prepared by the
Swift Australian Co., of Brisbane, an auxili-
ary of the U.S; company of that name. The
steamer will go direct to London, and, if
success is achieved there, other ships will be
fitted up for a service to the continent of
Europe and Japan. Apparently Australia’s
entry on a new phase of the industry is not
to be made_ under completely Australian
auspices. Still, none but the brave deserve
the business, and if the enterprise succeeds
it will greatly benefit this country’s harassed
cattlemen.
Carriers as a rule are embittered and taci-
turn men. Furniture-removers —or removal-
ists, as they call themselves in these enlight-
ened days—especially distinguish themselves
in this way ; but the whole transport business
is one in which there isn’t much politeness
wasted—or, for that matter, used. One
wonders why the railways in particular don’t
set the people they employ a better example
in the matter of being pleasant to customers.
They devote a great deal of their wall-space
to horrible threats against the public—mostly
unnecessary. Until the idea was put into
one’s mind by the sort of brochure that the
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners have
printed on broadsheets to decorate the walls
of their stations, one would hardly think of
spending an afternoon-off in the pastime of
uprooting sleepers, placing dynamite under
locomotives, or garrotting stationmasters or
signalmen engaged in the peaceful execution
of their duty. It is as if a grocer should
decorate his shop with notices not about the
excellence and cheapness of his goods, but
that lie intended to cleave with a chopper
any customer who kissed his wife, and that
he had a large shotgun, loaded to the brim,
ready for any dastard who was game to
unscrew the cash-register and try to get
away with it. Public service ought to imply
some measure of goodwill on the part of
public servants. But the people who run pub-
lic services seem to do their best to impress
upon all their subordinates the idea that the
public, even in moments when it is neither
criminal nor lunatic, is a nuisance.
*
“Wilbba” : The “galvanised burr" was un-
known in Australia until a few years ago.
Its first appearance was at Wollerina
station (W.Q.), about 40 miles north-west
of Hebei. At that time it was called the
Woollerina daisy, and was said to have been
imported with horses from India. The bush
somewhat resembles the familiar roly-poly,
but is covered with thorns which are often
strong enough to penetrate a man’s boot.
Under the microscope a seed can be seen at
the base of each of these prickles. The
seeds remain in the ground until rain comes,
and then produce prolifically. The only way
to kill the plant is by burning it. In the
Goondiwindi and St. George districts thou-
sands of acres are now covered with this pest,
and the appalling part of the business is
that this country formerly grew beautiful
blue and Mitchell grasses, whereas no grass
whatever is now to be seen, but only a sere-
colored landscape of dry galvanised burr.
The Darling Downs are becoming infested,
too, and although some shire councils are
half-heartedly attempting to remove it it is
making rapid headway. Large patches of
it are to be seen along the line as far as
Roma and Taroom, owing, no doubt, to the
seed having been carried in by mobs of
travelling sheep and cattle. Considering the
large numbers of starving. sheep that were
placed on agistment this year, it will not be
surprising to find the coastal areas thickly
infested with the burr during the coming
season. Unless vigorous efforts are made to
rid the country of it, this burr will, in the
opinion of many western squatters, prove a
greater curse than prickly-pear.
O
“Hadley Prop,sting” : Judge Beeby asks:
“If in 1890 Australia had 97,000,000 sheep,
why does she not carry as many now?” The
simple answer is “The feed is not there.” In
1890 human nature was the same as it is
now, and stockowners made as much money
as they could. With 97 million sheep, the
fodder plants got no rest. As soon as the
grass was cut out. there was the wonderful
natural fodder bushes, deep-rooted, bringing
the underground water to the surface in the
form of succulent leaves, -containing all that
was necessary to keep stock in healthy, fat
condition. Then a drought or two came
along, and, the grass being non-existent, the
fodder plants were the piece de resistance,
and in no time, with 97 million sheep living
mostly on them, they were also soon non-
existent. The pastoralist, looking for more
food for his stock, saw the myall plains.
Previously the trees had been useful only
for shade and fence-posts. He fell on them
with his axe, and now there are no myall
plains. Meantime the rabbits had arrived
and added their mouths to the 97 million
other mouths. Rabbits do not like dry food,
so they dug up the roots of the salt-bush
and bulbous grasses and ate the bark of the
myalls. Where perennial grass grew only
annual grass now grows, helped by what
is known as herbage, luxuriant in fat
seasons and sparse in lean. And these axe
the reasons why we cannot now run 97
million sheep.
O
“Country Ped.” : It is a weary task, this
marking of exam, papers, lighted up only by
glimpses of unconscious humor whenever
some wori-ied child makes a “howler.” We
laugh then; of coui’se we do. But should
we? Confronted by similar torture, would
we adults do as well? There is no such
thing as general knowledge. I know next to
nothing about the engine of a motor-car, and
less about wireless; yet more than one of
my scholars exhibit a surprising knowledge
of both contraptions. But they are not
above writing that Magna Carta was a sneak.
But why should there be this opportunity
for the annual manufacture of “howlers”?
Is it necessary? Recently four teachers
leaned over the table at an examination
centre and stared at columns of figures.
“Look at it!” said one who was running his
finger up and down and across. “Every
child with a high Intelligent Quotient got
his merit or qualifying certificate easily.”
“And the average youngster,” said the
second, stabbing his finger at the paper, “the
95-to-100 group—they passed; and that’s all.
Below 90 I.Q. failed.” “Yes,” said Number
Three, “and the lower the I.Q. the worse the
failure.” The four straightened up, while
the fourth pounded the table with his fist.
“Why should we force children to struggle
to pass exams, which we know they haven’t
a possible chance of passing? It is abso-
lutely conclusive that, so loixg as they do a
satisfactory year’s work, intelligence tests
will tell us the rest, without recoui’se to
such expensive, wasteful and confounded
foolishness. It’s a shame.” And so it is.
♦
“Fitzwilliam” : The longer I live in the
country the worse my opinion of the intelli
gence of the cocky. But he is surpassing
himself just now. He has only to refer to
several thousand trade-unionists in Sydney,
or, if he can’t do that, lie will learn from
almost any daily paper that a man can do
more work in a 44-hour week than by working
long hours. But, in spite of all the evidence
available to him, the poor ignorant farmer,
who knows that it is a matter of the utmost
urgency to get his crop in quickly, to avoid
the chance of summer storms and to get the
high price while it lasts —in spite of this,
the idiot .insists on working 12, 14 and even
16 houi-s' a day, and seven days a week
at that. And it is not only the farmer
who makes such a fool of himself, but every
man who owns a lorry or a waggon is falling
over himself to get contracts for drawing the
wheat, and goes on working from five in the
morning until ten at night. Only last Satur-
day afternoon I went out on to a farm
and pointed out the economic fallacy at
some length— at least, I would have gone to
some length, but they chased me off with
swingle-bars, and one wage-slave got me
across the legs with a long whip, so that I
cannot sit down with any comfort. However,
I have the moral satisfaction of knowing
that he is ruining himself, anyhow.
+
Dear Bulletin, —If “L.C.M.” (B. 2/12/’26)
knows anything about Koch’s postulates she
must know that the first of them disproves
the first case she mentions, that of tubercu-
losis, where the “specific” germ is seldom,
if eveiy found until the disease has pro-
gressed for some months ; and that both the
first and the second disprove the theory in
diphtheria. No amount of grand verbiag“
will alter this. The first time the specific
germ was proved to turn into another germ
was in 1914, when, under violet rays at the
Pasteur Institute, the anthrax rod-shaped
bacillus was turned, or, rather, turned it-
self, into a round coccus. The thing is done
constantly. Live cultures have been swal-
lowed several times—by Rienstock, who
took tetanus germs for three weeks; by
Klein (cholera) ; by Dr. Thresh (typhoid)
all without causing any particular incon-
venience. Dr. Powell had all the most
deadly germs stocked by the trade injected
into him, and he never turned a hair.—Yours
etc., Helena MacDougall, Hon. See. Mel-
bourne Branch of the British Union for
Abolition of Vivisection.


The Federal Mutual
O(V) , \7Q3£&
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 I’itt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. A. MANZIE, Manager and Secretary
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
11. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
CommonweaUb lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POLITIAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Premier Lang, who was saved from
defeat on Bavin’s no-confidence motion by
pledging his Government to go to the coun-
try within four months, who obtuined four
months’ supply on that express understand-
ing and repeated the pledge while the money
was being voted, now says he will choose
his own time for going to the country. He
adds insult to injury by proclaiming this
betrayal “an obvious duty.” N. S. Wales
knew already many things about its Premier.
It will soon know whether his word is
worth anything at all.
Thus Foster, the man who represents
N.S.W. in the 44-hour case: —
The greatest blow ever given to employers in
industry was received by them when the basic wage
was advanced 28 per cent, in 1919. Industries sur-
vived it, and they would also survive the 4 4-hour
week.
Lest their Honors should be deceived, it
may be mentioned that the N.S.W. basic
wage went up both in 1919 and 1920, but
it came down in 1921 and 1922. It never
rose again to quite the 1920 level. When
it was found that a year’s progress con-
sisted in the addition of 185 men and 3690
women to the industrial army a reduction
was probably inevitable. And there was
hardly so much slow-going on the job then,
nor was taxation ouite so high, and nobody
attempted an all-round 44 hours.
The W.A. State Government has decided
that it won’t part with any of its 975,920
square miles. By reason of the crazy Clauses
123 and 124 there is no direct and lawful
means by which the Australian Government
can prevent a State Government keeping
one-third of Australia empty, neglected and
defenceless. Of course the W.A. Premier
asked what use it was to entrust more of
Australia to the incompetent loafers who
have made such a failure of the Northern
Territory, and until the railway is built
and settlement begun that well-earned dead
cat will be thrown regularly.
Piddington’s basic wage award in N. S.
Wales has done Lang no good. The Com-
mission’s decision to leave the wage un-
touched was quite unexpected by most mem-
bers of the Labor Caucus; but you can’t
get them to believe that Lang didn’t know
what was coming. They suspect that he
doesn’t trust them; and a lot of them don’t
trust him.
If the new Vic. Assembly is elected on
Saturday, April 9, as is now suggested, it
will be called together for a brief session
on April 20, or thereabouts, to pass an
address of welcome to the Yorks. There
is historic precedent of a kind. Fifty-nine
years ago the struggle between the two
Houses over the Governor Darling grant
was suspended to admit of a special session
being summoned to fire an address at Alfred,
Duke of Edinburgh. The session was over
in an hour, and Alfred said lie was deeply
impressed. There have been troubles in Vic.
Assembly since last July, but compared with
those of ’G7 they have been as tame as a
shire council meeting.
A municipal milk scheme on the Welling-
ton (M.L.) model having been turned down
by a tired Government, the Melbourne Milk
Supply Board has recommended new regula-
tions permitting the sale of three grades of
cowjuice, a “special quality for infants,” an
“A” quality and a “B” quality. The special
nutriment for babes is to cost a penny or
twopence a pint more than the “B” grade,
and anybody who imagines that the children
in the poor districts, where the highest
mortality rages, will be fed on it is an opti-
mist. There should be one quality only, the
best. And if distribution were properly
organised it could be sold at the price pro-
posed for the poorest grade, and leave a
larger prefit for the cow cocky than he gets
at present.
The only thing it is safe to base wages on
is the amount and quality of work done. To
introduce the breeding of children or cats
or crocodiles into the computation is to
dabble in irrelevancies. The value of Mr.
Piddington’s opinions and judgments, for
instance, is not affected by the number of
children he has; and if the barber who has
been cutting Bill Smith’s hair for ninepence
puts the price up •to lOd. because his wife
lias had another infant, Bill will want to
know what for. If the barber makes it lid.
because it is twins, Bill’s language is likely
to be painful.
In thrusting his latest child-endowment
proposals on the thankless Lang Govern-
ment, Industrial-Commissioner Piddingtou
repeated his old wail about “the nation’s fail-
ure to populate.” “The excess of births over
deaths,” he moaned, “is steadily declining.”
So it is in practically every country that
publishes statistics, but the decrease is very
much smaller in Australia than elsewhere.
The “Commonwealth Year Book” has a stand-
ing paragraph to the effect that the Aus-
tralian rate of increase is high. For the five
years 1921-25 it was 14.4 per 1000 of mean
population, which was exceeded by only two
countries (S’Africa, 17.4, and The Nether-
lands, 15.2) among 25 quoted. The Japanese
rate for 1920-24 (Mr. Piddingtou mentions
the fecundity of Japan with awe) was 11.9
per 1000.
The S. Aus. legislative mill ground out
59 new enactments last session, in addi-
tion to 14 bills rejected by the Second
Chamber or shelved. In less than three
WHERE THE “ B ” QUALITY WILL GO.
“The Vic. Milk Supply Board recommends the adoption of regulations under the Milk Act for three
grades of milk, viz., (1) Special quality for infants; (2) “A” quality; (3) “B” quality.”
years the Labor Government has shoved
200-odd measures on the Statute Book, and
it is estimated that quite five were necessary.
Lang, whose heart was recently in his
boots but has risen again, is going on with
his tax on publications. Given a little
encouragement, his Government _ will revive
the taxes on windows and chimneys. If
pillory and stocks are added, with chain
gangs for persistent critics of the Adminis-
tration, N. S. Wales will be right back in
the good old days.
Victoria wasn’t without a Christmas-box.
It had its brown-coal trouble. The Gov-
ernment spent a mountain of loan-money on
a scheme for brewing electricity from brown
coal to supply the State in general, and just
when the State was feeling good and com-
fortable, it was told that the fuel a little
way down was 65 per cent, water and hardly
ranked as a combustible. Then a strike
interfered with the supply of comparatively
dry surface coal, and a stoppage of factories
for lack of electricity followed. As a sort
of bonus or coupon it had a deficit of
£250,000, which is large for Victoria, and
another one is promised for next year. An
effort was made to square the accounts by
means of a betting tax, but it was thrown
out. The Allancocktail Ministry is ’umble,
and put the shortage into the public debt.
A cabled description of the arrival of Soviet
emissary Borodin in Hankow suggests that
uplifters of the proletariat in these parts
could get a lot more excitement out of the
business if they went to China. The Red
person rushed from the railway to his hotel
in a fast-travelling car through streets lined
with armed troops, while four Canton gun-
men with drawn automatics stood on the
running boards. The uplifter himself carried
a rifle. As a brother to the world at large
Mr. Borodin seems a trifle apprehensive.
Charity covereth a multitude of sins, and
so can a snip of poetry or something that
looks like it. Dr. Argyle, Vie. Chief Sec.,
faced a tough job the other day: as one
who had hotly opposed compulsory voting,
he had to sponsor a bill introducing it. lie
got over the trouble by saying that he
would never be “the first to try nor yet
the last to cast the old aside.” It sounded
terribly wise, but if we had elective Min-
istries the Argyles wouldn’t have to pre-
tend to think exactly the same as the Allens
and the Peacocks. We can’t expect honesty
in politics when our whole Parliamentary
system is built on dissimulation and hum-
bug.
By recent sensible legislation the M.D.
authorities are empowered to deal drastically
with the man who takes up land and then
retires abroad to live until the value of the
surrounding country has been increased by
hard-working neighbors. This neglected land
is often a nuisance because of the noxious
weeds it encourages; wherefore A. D.
McLeod, Minister of Lands in M.L., is being
escorted to various districts and shown con-
vincing reasons why. he should make use
of the legislation.
The manner of disposal of the expropri-
ated German properties in New Guinea
certainly might be a lot worse. Acting
Prime Minister Page’s latest assurance is
that of the 82 properties in the second batch
“about” 46 have gone to Australian soldiers
and five to “other” soldiers. That gives
the A.I.F. a trifle over 51 per cent. No
information is vouchsafed as to the five
“others.” but it may be presumed they didn’t
serve under Ludendorff. The third and last
batch will be offered early in the New Year.
If the four tramway lines which the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have decided
to tear up are torn up, somebody should see
that they no longer figure among the assets.
In other words, if they are scrapped they
must be charged up to working expenses and
paid for out <of revenue. Probably the
revenue won’t be sufficient to wipe them
out the first year; that being so, t - course
they will go to swell the deficit. But in
that case we shall know there is a deficit.
There will be one without our knowing it
if the capital cost of the lines as it stands
in the Department’s books is allowed to
remain there.
Sydney’s civic garage enterprise has
earned an adverse report from the Town
Clerk, if it hasn’t earned much else. Capi-
tal invested is nebulously described as
“large,” but, as last year’s profits are only
£2lO, that adjective won’t fit the return on
the ratepayers’ capital. Debts are also
“large,” and the report ascribes this to
many persons sending in motors for re-
pair “because of the extended credit.” It
might be interesting to find out how many
of these extended creditors are in the proud
position of being able to call an alderman
by his Christian name.
Australia’s old friend the Turk has given
fresh evidence of his desire to become a new
Ottoman. He has decided to pension depend-
ants of victims of aeroplane accidents, rather
numerous in his realm owing to the native’s
habit of leaving too much to Allah. Funds
are being raised by docking one smoke from
each packet of fags, while a monopoly has
been granted to the Air League of sales of
playing-cards, and all wild boars are to be-
come the property of the League for sale or
disposal. Australia might get a hint or two
out of that. We have no wild boars to speak
of, but plenty of motor hogs. The power of
fining these adequately would give an Aus-
tralian Air League a chance to crisscross the
continent with air-lines.
Commonwealth Oil Refineries, in which
the Australian Government and the Anglo-
Persian Oil Co. are partners, showed a profit
of £4600 in 1925-26, which is “a marked
improvement,” the directors say. Unfortu-
nately Australia does not share in the parent
co.’s profits—Hughes, when he made the
refinery arrangement, did not think of that.
Much wiser was the British Government,
which about the same time took up 3,000,000
ordinary £1 shares in addition to the
2,000,000 it acquired in 1914. For the year
ended March 30 Britain’s dividend was 171
p.c., and out of a reserve fund of £5,163,129
came a bonus of one share for every two
held. The market values the holding at some-
thing like £27,500,000. In short, the invest-
ment in Persian Oil is in every way com-
parable to Disraeli’s great deal in Suez Canal
shares. Father Bull has some uncommonly
shrewd advisers.
The Age weakened its campaign against
the Allancocks’ redistribution scheme by
representing Labor as a champion of the
one-vote-one-value principle. It forgot the
case of Westralian Labor, which gained office
by virtue of an arrangement of electorates
which is a mockery of the one-vote-one-
value principle (the party was in a decided
minority of votes), and lias taken fine care
not to alter the thing. According to the
latest available enrolment, there were 206,680
qualified persons in the 50 Westralian
Assembly electorates, and there would be
4134 in each if every vote had the same
value. But in 26 divisions (a clear majo-
rity) there were only 48,626 electors, from
324 in Menzies and 459 in Mt. Margaret to
3573 in Bunbury and 3968 in Kalgoorlie.
Labor holds 18 of these seats and held three
of the remaining eight in the previous Parlia-
ment. On the same enrolment and the same
percentage of voters to electors as in 1924
(66 p.c.), it would be mathematically pos-
sible for the same crowd to get back by
polling 8 p.c. of the votes on the roll. Col-
lier’s troubles about one-vote-one-value!
Affable Priminister Bruce laid himself out
to gratify the people of Bristol by “vigor-
ously attacking the tendency to collect mosft of
the imports in London.” Still he admitted that
Australia has no great record for decentrali-
sation, as he reasonably might, seeing that
in 1924-25 Sydney represented 381 per cent,
of the overseas trade of the entire Common-
wealth, and 97 per cent, of that of N.S.W.
It was the worst instance of One Big Port
monopoly, though the other States had some
pretty bad ones, and no one remembers that
S. M. Bruce has done anything to mend the
case.
Voicing what he knew was a pretty gen-
eral feeling, Hogan, Labor-leader in Vic.
Assembly, advocated higher pay for himself
and fellow members. Old (Cocky) and
Toutcher (Nat.) were quick to join him,
and if the others who think likewise had
been bold enough there would have been 47
more “ayes.” The Allancocks did not reply
right away, but on the following day said
it was a matter for the electors. Before
screws were raised from £3OO to £5OO p.a.
five years ago the people were consulted.
Some members want £625. So the matter
will be “put to the country”—along with
937 other matters; and the electors will say
yes-no, and then everything will be quite
plain.
COME INSIDE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We are doing our best to improve the conditions
of our primary producers, and farmers have nothing
to lose and everything to gain by supporting our
party.”— Mr. Lang.
“Will you come into my parlor?”
Said the dingo to the sheep;
“I am sure that you will like it
If you'll only take a peep.
“It’s arranged just for your comfort,
And is made so free and wide
That you’ll find it cool and restful
If you’ll only step inside.”
“I don’t doubt you,” said the jumbuck—
“Very restful and quite cool,
For you’d pick my bones at leisure
When you’d stripped me of my wool.”
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


Metrovick” Products Include
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
M*K2rgN
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Road-Maker
and Crop-Raiser
The Martin Ditcher
Builds, Repairs and Maintains
Roads; Ditches, Terraces, Grades,
Levels, Fills In, Reclaims, Irrigates.
Extori House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.T. BTgs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
i'yt
Write
to
Desk B.
MIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWiTgE
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Victoria Absorbed. The
absorption of the Bank of Victoria by
the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
as from January 1 next, is the biggest thing
of the sort in our history. The Commercial,
which was established as a co-partnery in
1834, was the sixth to set up in business
in Australia, and four of its predecessors
have since disappeared from the field. It
opened a branch in Melbourne in January,
1853, a few months after the Bank of Vic-
toria was established. That branch was
taken over by the Bank of N. S. Wales five
months later, and the Commercial has since
confined its activities to N. S. Wales and
Queensland, with a branch in London. Its
shareholders have received a regular 10 p.c.
p.a. since the beginning of this century.
It was in the early days of the Victorian
gold-rush—in October, 1852 —that the Bank
of Victoria opened its doors in Melbourne,
and has never pursued business beyond
its own State. It reconstructed in 1893,
depositors receiving 20 p.c. of their claims
in 5 p.c. pref. shares. The balance of old
deposits were released in 1900, and paid
capital has since been steady at £1,478,010
in 41,676 fully-paid £lO non-cum. partici-
pating prefs. and 212,250 £lO ords. paid to
£5 each. Distributions have crept up from
24 p.c. to the ords. in 1900 to 7 p.c. all
shares in 1919. The rate was lifted to 9
p.c. p.a. in 1921, and for the 12 months to
June 30 last 10 p.c. was handed out with
comfort.
The Commercial buys the business for
£2,217,022, of which £1,478,010 in cash will
provide a return of capital to shareholders
in the Victorian co., and 59,121 new £25
Commercial ords., paid to £l2 10s. each (the
other £l2 10s. is a reserve liability), will
be issued for surplus assets. Thus Bank of
Victoria shareholders get back their capital
and two new C.B.S. ords. for every five of
their prefs., and one new C.B.S. ord. for
every five ords. Meantime the Commercial
is to create 200,000 new ordinary shares of
£25 each, and offer 40,000 of them at par to
its own shareholders in the proportion of one
for seven held. When all the money comes
in on that issue and the purchase allotment
is complete, paid capital will stand at
£4,739,012. Only the Bank of New Zealand
and the Bank of N. S. Wales have figures
greater than that. Here is the disclosed
position of the C.B.S. and the Victoria, and
the combined figures, at June 30 last:—
Commercial Bank Combined
of Sydney, of Victoria. Figures.
Paid capital . . £3,500,000 £1,478,010 £4,978,010
Reserves . . . . 3,055,296 889,056 3,944,352
Notes .. . . 8,230 6,276 14,506
Bills . . . . 1,821,498 1,070,753 2,892,251
Deposits . . . . 38,539,205 12,240,852 50,780,057
Liquids . . . . 20,311,893 5,689,628 26,001,521
Advances . . . . 25,844,831 9,627,345 35,472,176
Premises, etc. . . 942,505 441,875 1,384,380
Though the Commercial has made a satisfac-
tory deal, on market values the Victorian
co.’s shareholders receive more than they
give. Following the announcement, Bank
of Victoria’s ords. rose sharply from £9 13s.
to £lO 55., and the prefs. were previously
offered at £l9; the C.B.S.’s scrip moved up
55., to £27 10s. Thus five ords. in the Vic-
torian co. worth about £5O will be ex-
changed for £52 10s. in cash and shares, and
worth £95 will be exchanged for
£lO5 in cash and shares.
The Victoria will continue business under
the old sign; its directors become local direc-
tors of the C.B.S. and its staff will be taken
over. To compensate for loss of office g.-m.
Champion de Crespigny gets 12 months’ leave
on full pay and £7OOO. The deal enhances
the. prospects of shareholders in each insti-
tution, and, of course, strengthens the protec-
tion for depositors.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Bept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves
1915 .. £45,155 17 p.c. =£34,001 £11,154 £179,304
£100,003 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 79,301
1916 . . 46,758 12 p.c. = 30,000 16,758 96,059
1917 .. 47,918 10 „ „ 30,000 17,918 113,977
1918 .. 52,546 15 „ „ 45.001 7,545 121,522
1919 .. 40,204 10 „ „ 30,001 10,203 131,725
1920 .. 48,539 124 „ ~ 37,501 11,038 142,763
1921 . . 46,497 124 „ „ 37,501 8,996 151,759
1922 .. 1,713 74 „ ~22,501 130,971
1923 .. 43,117 10 „ „ 30,001 13,116 144,087
1924 .. 50,072 10 „ ~ 30,001 20,071 164,158
1925 .. 65,071 124 „ ~37,501 27,570 191,728
1926 .. 57,080 124 ~ „ 37,501 19,579 211,307
This is another good Australian co. that is
taking the wrong turning and negotiating
for the sale of itself to an English co. On
its prospects it looks like a selling out of
exceptionally fine opportunities of profit-
making. When one considers what insurance
cos. like the Queensland and the United have
done, one wonders what investment the
shareholders of this co. can find that will
give them as good prospects with such
small capital risks. No doubt a big price
will be paid; but, then, a big price will have
to be paid by shareholders for any other in-
vestment of anything like equal value. Had
the offer come a few years ago the Wild Cat
would have been a little less sorry to see
the directors coquetting with it, because at
that time the co. had got into a backwater
and little progress was being made; but of
late years much more energy has been put
into the business, and the new vigor was
certainly telling. Look, for instance, at this
table: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
3895. . £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51.5 „ 33.7
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 „ 40.8 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 „
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 416 ~
1915.. 210,313 90,604 86,626 43.1 „ 41 1 ,
1920.. 248,898 117,548 105.444 47.2 „ 42.4 „
1921.. 323,705 175,656 123,489 54.2 „ 33.1 ,
1922.. 265,000 163,103 123,480 61.5 „ 46.6 ,
1923.. 261.060 119,614 119,153 45.8 „ 45 7 ,
1924.. 266,908 111,724 130,823 41.8 „ 49.0 ..
1925.. 311,779 133,854 138,264 42.9 „ 44 3 ,
1926.. 336,660 163,204 142,921 48.4 „ 42.4
In the past three years the net premium
income has increased at an average rate of
very nearly 10 p.c. p.a.; and the expense
rate, which was much too high, has been
brought down admirably. Certainly the loss
rate has moved up, but that has been a
common experience, and it is very doubtful
whether it can be taken to mean that the
co. has been accepting poorer business for
the sake of larger business. And, anyhow, a
10 p.c. underwriting profit is not a bad aver-
age.
The co. increased its capital bv transfers of
reserves much too liberally in the old days
and was so greedy for dividends that the lay-
by was usually insufficient; but in the past
three years, after paying one 10 and two 12i
p.c. divs., a tidy £67,220 has been put by,
equal to over 7 p.c. p.a. Last year interest
earnings were £25,411, which paid two-thirds
of the dividend. And the assets were a satis-
factory lot:
, 1921 N , 1926
p.c. p.c.
Public securities & cash £394,699 73.0 £306,593 52.0
Freeholds, etc. .. 62,863 11.7 188,029 31.8
Shares in other cos. . . 37.251 6.8 48,354 8.2
Mortgages .. .. 12,000 2.2
Sundries .. .. 34,144 6.3 47,590 8.0
Freeholds have been added to very substan-
tially ; but they have been well bought and
are large rent-earners. The reserves men-
tioned in the first table include a reinsurance
fund, £60,000; to that extent the reserves are
perhaps not earned profits. But the position
is nevertheless sound from the policy-holder’s
point ol view: the net assets could pay losses
three times greater than last year’s, and they
were exceptionally heavy. There is a seller
of the 20s. shares at 525. At that price the
return to the investor is under 5 p.c.; but
the buyer at anything like that price is
thinking of the probable sale. At 525., the
whole undertaking is worth £780,000. which
means £268,000 for goodwill and undisclosed
reserves, equal to 18s. ner share. Assuming
that the co. is earning 171 P.c. on its capital,
the undertaking is worth £807.000 on a 61
p.c. basis, or say 545. per share.
* * # »
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.:—
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1916. . £68,228 7* p.c. = £45,375 £22,853 £68,958
1917.. 81,186 10 „ „ 60,500 20,686 89,644
1918.. 90,571 121 „ „ 75,625 14,946 104,590
1919.. 100,866 12* „ „ 75,625 25,241 129,831
Premiums on new shares. . 6906 136,737
1920.. 123,365 121 p.c. = 91,595 31,770 168,507
1921.. 92,109 12* „ „ 91,595 514 169,021
1922. . 103,948 12* „ „ 91,595 12,353 181,374
1923.. 135,395 13§ ~ „ 100.754 34,641 216 015
1924.. 139,941 13 J „ „ 108,917 31,024 247,039
Premiums on new shares.. 17,084 264,123
1925.. 132,639 13J p.c. = 122,782 9,557 273,980
Preiums on new shares. . 17,403 291,383
1926.. 139,796 13J p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Maoriland is the latest field to be invaded.
During the year two important businesses
were acquired, the consideration being part
cash, part shares. The operation is reflected
in an increase in share capital of £14,394
and in premium capital of £17,403 and move-
ments in balance-sheet figures. The latter
suggest that a sum considerably in excess of
the year’s premium and capital receipts was
involved in the transaction. Thus at
the 1925 balance subsidiary cos. owed the
parent £47,404; at latest the parent owed its
children £12,058. Also the chief assets item
—on this occasion, the only entry—“lnvest-
ments at cost: shares and interests in jam
manufacturing and fruit companies and tim-
ber mills in the Commonwealth of Australia,
South Africa, New Zealand and England,”
is down at £1,309,016, an increase of
£107,145. Henry Jones Co-op, is a holding
co., and like most holding cos. it considers
that it is under no obligation to give other
than a skeleton balance-sheet. Which means
that shareholders have to simply back the
management. In this case there is a string
of handsome divs. to encourage the belief
that there is little danger in doing it. And
strong support is available in recently-
published accounts of Henry Jones and Co.
of Hobart, a subsidiary of the big concern.
Of its capital of £290,000, £289,993 is held
by Henry Jones Co-op. This subsidiary’s
profits in the four years 1922-1925 amounted
to £184,667, of which only £115,451 (approx.)
was distributed. Reserves at September 30
last amounted to £163,384, which, if distri-
butions were on the same basis as in 1924,
would be added to by a further £14,000-odd
from last year’s profits. The co.’s assets posi-
tion at September 30 would be approximately
325. 3d. for each £1 share. If the parent co.
has those shares in at cost —which is almost
certain—then there is a reserve in that hold-
ing alone of £177,000. It is unlikely that
all other subsidiaries are as comfortable, but
it is a reasonable assumption that a well-
managed concern like Henry Jones Co-op.
pursues a pretty even policy.
From its start in Tasmania the co. spread
to the mainland and overseas, and, although
it relinquished the American business —“at a
satisfactory price”—in 1925, its latest acqui-
sitions should prove profitable: it has been
long enough in the business to know what’s
what. The Maoriland purchase was the only
operation reported for the 12 months. In the
previous term the Stanmore Preserving Co.
of Sydney was taken over and an additional
factory bought in S. Africa. The export
trade is a bright feature of the business, and
profits from that source are steadily increas-
ing. Of last year’s net £139,796, £23,548 was
earned outside the Commonwealth, and this
supplied p.c. of the 13J p.c. div. The fact
that the co. is handling a necessary com-
modity makes legislative interference a pos-
sibility, but the tendency is so vague nowa-
days as to be ignored by the average inves-
tor. Still, there is a risk.
The margin between profits and distribu-
tion last year was comfortable, and, with the
£17,403 obtained as premium on the shares
issued in part payment of the M.L. purcahses,
increased reserves by £32,031 to £306,011.
All that, of course, is bound up in the busi-
ness, but it is a fine support to capital, par-
ticularly since it is fairly certain from the
example available that the subsidiaries do
not divest themselves each year of every
penny of profit. Fearing that the late Henry
Jones’s holding might be unloaded, the mar-
ket lately sagged; but there are buyers at
485., the purchase yielding just under 5f p.c.
The quotation is a fine vote of confidence in
the men Henry Jones left behind him to
carry on the business. He indeed had great
good fortune in his early associates, Palfrey-
man and Aslibolt, and, later. T. B. Nossiter;
and upon the flotation of the co. it had good
fortune too in becoming associated with the
Flacks —still the co.’s consulting account-
ants. That came about through the Howard
Smiths, who gave a hand to get the co. ofl
the stocks.
» * * *
A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., sawmillers and
timber merchants, of Sydney and elsewhere:
To He- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916 .. £6,840 8 p.c.= £6OOO £B4O £8,029
1917 . . 4,523 6 „ „ 4500 23 8,052
1918 . . B,its 7i „ „ 5625 . 2550 10,602
1919 . . 7,738 74 ~ „ 5025 2113 12,715
1920 .. 10,995 10 „ „ 8750 2245 14.960
1921 . . 5,065 74 „ „ 7500 12,525
1922 . . 4,528 6 ~ „ 6000 11,053
1923 . . 7.239 6 „ „ 6000 1239 12,292
Loss.
1924 .. 10,841 Nil 1,451
Deficit.
1925 . . 15,133 Nil 13,682
Profits.
1926 . . 1,335 Nil 1335 12,347
Competition still is keen in the timber trade,
and the co. didn’t do so badly to record any
profit at all for the year. Even when the
price-cutting was at its worst the manage-
ment held its share of the business, and
that at least is something to build on, now
that conditions appear to be getting back
to normal. Chief cause of the trouble was
the heavy reduction in prices of Oregon in
1924. This and low rates for other imported
lines demanded drastic writing down of stocks
on hand in that year, and the continuance
of the competition has made recovery slow.
Trade in small hardwood sizes has been
affected; in most local timbers, for that
matter. Early in the term the Pyrmont
business was transferred to Rhodes, and the
directors expect material improvement from
the transfer. Needless to say, balance-sheet
figures are not impressive:—
1914. 1920. 1922. 1924. 1926.
£ £ £ - £ £
Liabilities . . 34,068 25,050 28,785 59,966 65,990
Fixed assets . . 61,398 57,687 63,700 63,213 69,760
Stocks.. .. 24,028 52,115 45,662 44,242 33,469
Book debts . . 27,002 28,026 32,306 50,092 46,419
Investments . . 4,000 3,500 3,300 3,450 3,675
Cash, deposits, etc. 939 3,683 870 420 320
Even when the timber trade was reaping
rich profits from the war and post-war boom
expenditure on building—Government and
otherwise—shareholders received only poor
returns. The report is cautious as to the
outlook, and, on present appearances, im-
provement will be a slow process. Shares
fell to 3s. 6d., but at latest had recovered to
ss. 6d. There is an association in the trade,
but it isn’t always a happy family: the last
break-away was when an attempt was made
to bring members into line after the N.S.W.
Workmen’s Compensation benefits had been
announced. There are times when the big-
gest firm in the trade thinks it’s the dog and
the association the tail; and then, of course,
there is trouble when the question arises
who should do the wagging.
* * * *
The Union Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :—-
Net Added to Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1916 .. .€5236 8 p.c. = .5_3821 £1414 £12,580
1917 . . 5228 8 „ „ 3930 1292 13,872
1918 . . 5435 8 „ „ 3976 1459 15,331
1919 .. 5340 8 „ „ 3994 1352 16,683
1920 . . 5782 8 „ „ 3997 1785 18,468
1921 .. 5705 8 „ „ 4000 -1705 20,173
1922 .. 5767 8 „ „ 4000 1767 21,940
1923 . . 6924 8 „ „ 4000 2924 24,804
1924 .. 7015 8 „ „ 4000 3015 27,879
1925 . . 6840 9 „ „ 4500 2340 30,219
Premiums on new shares, £4993.. 35,212
1926 . . 8702 9 p.c. = 5716 2986 38,198
Early in the term 5000 new £5 shares were
issued at a premium of £1 (£4149 unpaid
at July 21), which gave some much-needed
funds for advances. An additional £12,200
of deposits was obtained, and the whole
sum (less £l4BO reduction in overdraft) was
promptly lent out on mortgage. Permanent
capital and reserves are £100,063 (there is
also £23,053 of terminating and pref. capi-
tal) ; so liabilities are still very reasonable
in proportion :
Deposits, Loans, , Assets
July, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Liquid Assets.
1915 .. £62,731 £127,668 £lO
1920 .. 58,142 139,439 1454
1921 . . 54,942 138,359 2921
1922 . . 65,669 165,152 10
1923 . . 82,340 176,667 10
1924 ’ . . 97,046 180,132 10
1925 .. 93,771 181,680 Nil
1926 .. 104,456 222,533 Nil
Additions to reserves of recent years have
been quite liberal. After the latest 9 p.c.
had been paid there was £2980 to lay by,
equal to a further 44 p.c. The loans are
on conservative margins, and all going well
there should be something better than 9 p.c.
in it for shareholders later on. Buyers seek
the shares at £0 3s.
* * * #
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.,
wholesale book- and news-agents, paper and
printing-machinery merchants, advertising
contractors, etc.: —
, -Dividends Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,625 35,766
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 . . 52,646
Sept.,'24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. = 16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261160,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 15,422145,643
Reserves included above are: General,
£.140,193; contingencies, £4000; leaseholds,
£306; unappropriated profit, £1144. In addi-
tion there is a reserve for taxation, which
has been drawn on a little during the half-
year, but still stands at £25,102; it looks
as though some of this is stored up profit,
seeing that “provision for taxation” is
charged direct against the half-year’s earn-
ings. Depreciation on plant, fittings and
fixtures is also charged ; and it can be taken
as certain that included in this are amounts
spent on modernising some of the co.’s ex-
tensive properties. A few years ago the
co.’s position was not comfortable. Since
then the organisation has been greatly im-
proved—the co. is a re-amalgamation of busi-
nesses which had become separated—and it
can be safely assumed that profits are nov.’
at any rate not over-stated.
The following movements can be traced:—
Sept.,’2s. Mar.,’26. Sept.,’26.
Paid capital .. .. £576,457 £595,726 £600,000
Mortgages . . . . 27,500 27,000 69,575
Sundry creditors . , 157,253 154,062 142,406
Rank overdraft .. 141,478 50,152 116,622
Liabilities . . . . £326,231 £>231,214 £328,603
Freeholds .. .. £129,559 £132,520 £174,902
Leaseholds .. . . 26,085 25,917 25,762
Plant, fixtures, etc. . . 47,316 45,479 44,688
Stock 350,905 312,764 334,671
Rook debts . . . . 370,399 352,378 404,442
Other assets .. .. 15,544 17,851 20,810
Tangible assets .. £939,808 £886,909 £1,005,275
Freeholds are a comparatively large item:
but some at least of them stand in the books
at much under their true value. Recent
expenditure has been chiefly in Brisbane,
where a new warehouse is getting its final
touches; and the Adelaide home has been
remodelled. Liabilities are still hefty, not-
withstanding that £lOO,OOO of new capital
has been got in during the past 18 months;
they stand practically where they did before
this new money was got in. Of the new


Want Some Advice?
GET
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for December.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
AVe stock -f GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
# # * *
The possibilities of Pioneer Wood Pipe are unique.
Immune from frosts and electrolysis—from rusts,
fungus and tubercles—quickly freighted, transported
and installed, it is unequalled for permanent pipe
lines. Of expense-free upkeep, and consistently main-
taining maximum delivery, it is the ideal conduit
for use in almost every class of water scheme —and
is practically indestructible. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane 1 Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * # *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
S3l-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CopiasoN & Co., 483 Collins St-eet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. AVrite, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
The Pacific Cable Board
HIC ST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
2/6 1/3 9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
GREAT \
BRITAIN f
Week-end "id. (minimum charge 12/6, 20 words)
FRANCE ’
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
Nil
2/6 1/3
CANADA .. 2/- 1/- 7d. (minimum
11/S. 20 wards)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND.
. 4Jd.
f N.Z. Night Letter
J Rate minimum charge
1 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 77ai.
Queen’s House, Queen Street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
e*
YG
pOORD&SOiy
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
•ft.
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
You Need Have No Anxiety
concerning your business affairs whilst you are on a trip abroad if you have
appointed Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) your attorney. Its wide
Experience and Reasonable Charges ensure capable attention at a minimum o ; .
expense.
Trust and Agency Funds now under the Company's control exceed £27,000,000.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO. (Ltd.).
WRITE OR CALL FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Managing
Manager:
Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
11. V. DOUGLASS.
capital and tlic very substantial additions
to reserves approximately 40 p.c. has gone
into premises and 60 p.c. to finance the
growth of the business. There is an old
objection, of course, to trading cos. spending
large sums on bricks and mortar; but those
that can’t conveniently carry on business
outside city limits have been driven to
become their own landlords by tlm rapid
and great increase of rents. In this case
results have justified the directors’ policy.
Stock at £334,671 looks heavy. But a good
deal of blue-pencilling has probably been
done; so, though the business has certainly
grown, this item has been reduced in the
12 months. In two years visible profits have
been £79,146 more than enough to pay the
8 p.c. div., and that on the present ordinary
capital (£500,000) is equal to just under
another 8 p.c. p.a. The margin is, therefore,
excellent, and the probabilities of something
better than 8 p.c. are good. But goodwill stands
in the books at £118,074; and, as the man-
agement is plmmly working for safety, the
upward movement of dividends is likely to
be slow —as it should be. Last sales of
ordinaries were at 265. 3d., which gives a
return of about £6 3s. p.c.; visible value of
assets, after providing for prefs. and writing
off goodwill, is a shade over 21s. Prefs. are
worth 235. 6d., and yield very nearly 7 p.c.
They are exceedingly well protected.
* * • «
The A.P.A. —The management of the
affairs of the Australian Provincial Assur-
ance Association was lately considered at an
extraordinary meeting in Sydney. The
chairman proposed that the present admin-
istration be approved, and after a long dis-
cussion, in the course of which a great deal
of very dirty linen was exposed, but not
washed, shareholders on a show of hands
defeated the motion. The position is most
unsatisfactory. The board is riven by in-
trigue, and it seems doubtful whether any
director is quite satisfied that a single
one of his colleagues is quite fit for the job.
Some of them certainly believe that others
are not to be either believed or trusted; and
there are even suspicions of bribery and cor-
"Ption —this in connection with loans of
,'ie association’s funds. One matter that
, uglit to be cleared up and probably never
will be relates to an advance of £7450 on a
bundle of securities. Apparently no check
valuation of these securities was made by
the co.’s valuator or any outside firm; but
the borrower seems to have had interviews
with directors individually. F'ollowing the
granting of the loan one of them received a
memo, from the borrower: “You have been
allotted a share in the above syndicate, and
in the event of sale or realisation you will
be paid the sum of £1000." One director
says this £lOOO was to be split up between
two of them; the borrower (a solicitor) says
that, in view of the fact that the loan was
a substantial one and quick action was neces-
sary, the £lOOO was a sort of bonus, not
to any director or directors, but to the co.
The memo, is not addressed to the eo. nor
to anyone as a director of the co., but to
“Mr. W. Northam.” Mr. Nortliam says that
he wasn’t going to benefit by it personally.
Mr. P. R. Higgins, another director, says
that Mr. Northam left the memo, on his
(Higgins’s) desk, and “I promptly annexed
it.” There is here no positive proof of
bribery and corruption; but there is a nasty
smell. Other matters —many other matters
—want overhauling. There is, for instance,
the matter of the L.C.A., which is owned
by the A.P.A. In connection with this there
is at least a grave suspicion that the value
of the L.C.A. business has been over-stated
in the A.P.A. accounts, so that total estab-
lishment exes, may be under-stated. Gen-
erally, however, the stability of the co. is
not called into question at all; in fact, it
is astonishing that so little actual damage
can be seen. But unless things are cleaned
up, it will be seen presently all right. The
A.P.A. isn’t the A.M.P.: it would take a hurri-
cane to blow most of its policy-holders away
from the A.M.P.; a mere breath of suspicion
will shift many from the A.P.A. Nothing
that the A.P.A. can do is therefore half so
important as to secure a small board of men,
preferably widely known, who are beyond
suspicion.
* * * *
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd., re-
cently left the stocks with a nominal capi-
tal of £1,000,000; half 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
half ords. The idea is to provide Sydney
with a new picture theatre and a shopping
arcade of 11 storeys: all to go up
on the Evening News old site (free-
hold), Market-street, and round the corner
in George-street. The public has taken
350,000 of the prefs.; the vendors, Union
Theatres, Ltd., are to lift 47,000 ords. for
cash, and take 128,500 fully-paids for the
property, valued by H. W. Horning and Go.
at £326,875, but carrying mortgages total-
ling £145,000. The balance of the shares,
324,500 ords. and 150,000 prefs., are in cold
store. Outlay on the theatre is set down at
£lBO,OOO, including £60,000 for equipment,
and £217,000 is to go into the arcade portion
of the proposition. Stuart F. Doyle figures
net income from the theatre at £26,000 p.a.,
and Hornings put net rentals at £30,246.
After allowing for administration, taxation,
etc., accountants Smith, Johnson and Co.
reduce the total to £31,358, or £3358 p.a.
more than the pref. div. will call for. More-
over, the Perpetual Trustee Co. is to look
to the interests of pref. holders, whose div.
and capital have been guaranteed by Austral-
asian Films, Ltd., and Union Theatres, Ltd.
The combined average net profit of these two
concerns for the last three years was
£93,015, and excluding leases and goodwill
(£599,767) their net assets totalled £323,653
at July 31 last. Thus the prefs., which are
to be listed, are well protected.
* * # *
Things went wrong at Tongkah Harbor
during last campaign. Chairman Ashbolt
says straight out: “The directors regret to
record their dissatisfaction with the year’s
work.” Of Bidor there is a growl because the
permit to start work was delayed so long that
operations could not begin till September.
When the dredge started it would not work
satisfactorily, and “it was only on Novem-
ber 26 that the board learned that the man-
agement had fitted jigs only instead of jigs
and classifiers, with the result that further
alterations are required.” These are not all
the wigs on the green. Bang Tao, of which
great things were expected, didn’t dredge up
to check-bore results. The two dredges have
to work back to the sea, to be towed again
to Tongkah Harbor; and the agreement with
the Bang Tao Co. has been determiued. Such
a chapter of misfortunes hasn’t been written
since the infantile troubles of the co. brought
tears to Teddy Miles’s weather-worn cheeks.
But the co. hasn’t done badly so far, and
it still has stout props to lean against. Out-
put of oxide so far is 17,848 tons, which has
been sold for £2,173,940, while divs. aggre-
gate £640,000 or Sss. a share. Last three
years’ results compare thus: —
1924. 1925. 1926.
Dredged, c, yds. 2,530,100 3,208,600 2,679,600
Oxide won, tons 564 598 652
Yield a c. yd., lb. 0.498 0.417 0.462
Value output .. £78,306 £88,670 £89,388
Price oxide a ton £l3B/18/7 £l4B/4/2 £l6l/16/2
While Bang Tao failed Chalong Bay did
well. No. 6 dredge there treated 784,300 c.
yds. and supplied 277 tons of oxide, or about
50 p.c. of the year’s yield. Costs were 5.512 d.
ac. yd., the return 13.786 d. Therefore, the
paddock gave £45,053 out of the co.’s total
output of £78,306. One of the two Bang
Tao plants is to test the Tarua Bay area. It
contains 200 acres and is thought to be a
possible supplier of 15 to 20 tons oxide from
the dredge a month. The other Bang Tao
plant is to await a new area or be sold. No.
3 is to go to the foundry to provide spares.
To fill up gaps the co. is getting two big
plants, each to handle 130,000 c. yds. a
month. Their cost at work will be £104,000,
provided out of the late issue of shares, made
luckily before Bang Tao failed. Holland
got the job of making the dredge. Dutch con-
tracts are (alas!) 30 p.c. below those of any
Australian firm, and delivery is guaranteed.
After all, dredging costs at 5.192 d. a yd.
were fair, but a yd. went tor prospect-
ing, royalty and Bang Tao royalty, so that
profits shrank to £6048. This was with oxide
averaging £l6l 16s. 2d. What if it had been
at the 1923 figure of £lll 9s. 5d.? Changes
in the staff due to E. T. Lewis resigning
make Roy Elliott of the Pioneer general
manager, with J. C. Masterton as his second,
the assistant general manager, Symonds, hav-
ing also chucked up his job.
• • * *
Thabawleik (Burma) has its dredge keyed
up to three shifts, and the problem of stiff
ground appears soluble. A further area is
expected to be added, but this will most likely
be lighter in tin content. Shares hold at
about 645.
* # * *
Malim Nawar South reports that the
dredge is digging to a depth of 85 feet, or
five feet more than Malcolm Newman pro-
mised. So far so good, and the Pitt-street
engineers will now cease proclaiming the
impossibility of dredging 80ft. But Newman
has one more stile to get. over—values, to
wit.
* * * *
Directors of Austral Asiatic Tin have re-
ceived a cable from Mining-Engineer A. C. S.
McLeod reporting that he has secured an
option over two areas, about 10 miles from
the co.’s Tarua site, totalling about 300
acres. The ground is good garden land, and
from 25 to 35 feet deep. Portion of the
area is being worked by gravel pump and
as an open-cast mine. The open-cast is
showing good values.
* * * *
Takuapa’s recovery in the first fortnight
in December (11 tons from 55,000 yards)
was affected by abnormal conditions. The
dredge lost time in getting to work in the
river, where it will be kept during the rest
of the dry season, and during that period
much overburden with little or no tin con-
tent will have to be dealt with. Such con-
tingencies. are always cropping up; whether
they are always allowed for in production
estimates is another matter.
* * * *
There is a bit of a cloud over Broken
Hill. It has been the custom of years for
vunners-out, bracemen and platmen (i.e..
the men who push the trucks into the cage,
the men who see them safely caged and
give the hoisting signals, and the men who
receive them at the surface) to be paid a
bonus on all ore raised over a certain ton-
nage. As these men are classed as under-
ground workers, their week consists of five
shifts of seven hours each. The winding
men, who claim that even if their work is
lighter the nervous tension is more severe,
have been finding that, although the other
men have to depend on them to obtain the
bonus, they themselves have to work niue
hours a week longer for £ 1 a week less.
There have been several conferences between
managers and engine-drivers on the claim for
the same bonus as the shaft men, but the
cos. have refused on the grounds that the
custom has existed all along the lode as long
as any of them can remember, and that the
drivers did not make the claim before sign-
ing the existing agreement, which does not
expire until the end of next year. The
enginemen propose to limit hauling to the
point where the bonus becomes payable to
the other men, and the future depends on
how the cos. meet the move.
* * * *
George 'Blakemore’s old show, the C.S.A.,
Cobar (N.S.W.), made a net loss of £990
in its last year, pushing un the debit balance
at p. and 1. to £23,746. Against expenditure
of £lO2B the co. received £3B in rents. The
co. still has a few pounds more or less liquid
—stores £5536, deposits £1023, bank balance
£lO7l, and ore £387. Disposal of some of
the plant at Cobar and Kandos assisted in
paying off the overdraft and placing £l5OO
at credit. The mine cannot restart while
copper remains as low as at present.
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) won
43980 z. from 303,000yd5. during the October
half and showed a net result of £8796 against
£5837 during the previous six months. Two
shilling divs. absorbed £7500, and left £4594
over against £3299 brought in. The ground
worked gave l3.Sd. a yd., and working exes,
were 6.3 d. Outside liabilities are £15,380,
against which there are liquids, £19,472. The
subscribed capital is £88,025 in 75,000 shares
paid to 235. 6d. Divs. amount to 265. a
share. Ahead yields may be irregular owing
to twists in the lead.
* * * *
There are rumors in London of the Boulder
and Horseshoe amalgamating. They should
have done this long ago. They produce
similar ore and are connected at several
levels. Had they amalgamated before the
rich patches were extracted, hundreds of
thousands of tons of ore now below pay
limits could have been profitably worked.
Tiie Bulletin long ago predicted that some
concealed rich dabs, pockets and small veins
would be uncovered when tributors were
allowed to come in. Since then a few tri-
butes have been let and one party working
near Waddington’s shaft has just obtained
two small crushings of 3oz. and ore,
and is bagging rich stuff. And that in ground,
which, except for a little blind stabbing with
bores, has scarcely been touched since the
early days. On the strength of this, Boulder
shares have appreciated in value far beyond
their worth.
• * * *
Glenelg Hills (W.A.) has been given
a lift by the announcement that 4oz. ore
has been exposed at 60ft. down in the Glen-
elg Queen. Jack McDermott, formerly boss
of the Ivanlioe, has an option on this show,
and has strong backing.
* * * *
When Taranaki Oil slipped off the stocks
it had a barnacle or two already clinging.
Underwriters of the issue of 150,000 shares
got a two years’ right over a second 150,000
at a premium of 15s. a share. Last year,
when more cash was called for and 154,750
shares were floated at 205., the then under-
writers got a similar call to mature on March
31, 1928, but on the basis of one share for
every two underwritten. The date of the
original option on 150,000 shares was ex-
tended to March 31, 1927. Now some of those
who underwrote shares want the option ex-
tended because (a) work on the field has
taken longer than was anticipated; (b) there
are new areas to which attention should be
given before locating well sites, and (c) as
a consequence less actual drilling work will
have been done than was anticipated when
the options were granted. But the new
ground widened the chance of a strike and
the plant wouldn’t have been sent away from
Taranaki if it had been thought that it could
have been better employed at Taranaki. As
to “c,” this is uncertain. The rule is that
where options are extended something is put
up for the concession or something is lopped
off option rights. That isn’t proposed here.
All the giving is to be by the shareholders,
many of whom may have bought scrip sold at
a stiff profit by some of the early outs when
the market was on the jig.
* * * *
The Caird-Clark stable _in Sydney has
launched Pratten Goldmines, about 20
miles from Warwick (Q.), with a nominal
capital of £25.000 in 200,000 2s. 6d. shares.
At present 100,000 contribs. are on offer
and 50.000 reserved, while 50.000 vendors
and £l2OO in cash go to J. H. Morris, holder
of 25 acres of leases at Pratten. These leases
are in four groups up to eight miles from
the Pratten centre. C. Lonsdale Smith re-
ports favorably on the prospects, and agrees
with R. L. Jack that the' rocks are of the
Gympie series. It is a far cry from_ the
Mary to the Condamine, but Smith believes
that the black slates of Gympie are related
to those at Pratten. The district has been
mined spasmodically since 1864.
“Yarraman” on N.T. tin propositions:—
There is a mild boom in mining in the Territory,
especially on the old West Arm and Bynoe Harbor
tinfields, where there is talk of putting in a bucket
dredge. Old hands know that there is much mineral
there —many of them would give six months’ wages
to get a chance to go back to the place again—
but they believe that bucket-dredging will be a hope-
less failure. The country is too hard and too stony,
and is intersected with ironstone ridges. There are
places on the Arm where a hydraulic sluicing-plant
might succeed. It is not an alluvial field; all the
old mines, worked in 1906-08, were reef. One can
wash and get fair indications of tin anywhere on
the field, but it has all come from the reefs, and
in many cases is old stuff, lost by careless or in-
efficient methods of working, or washed away by the
heavy storms that occasionally sweep over the place
in the wet season. I remember one time, in my days
there, when nearly a ton of tin was washed away
from one claim —reef tin, that had been crushed,
washed and left ready for bagging. A week of heavy,
continuous rain set in, and that tin was never
recovered. Prospectors have before now come across
a pocket of this stuff, and thought, quite honestly,
that they had struck an Eldorado. To an old hand,
one who knows where to look, there are many such
places. One site that has been chosen! for a bucket-
dredge is an old abandoned claim that returned its
owner about 3cwt. of tin for three years’ hard graft.
And some mean dog stole even that small harvest,
so the net result of his three years’ work was nil.
At Bynoe Harbor, another place picked on as a good
field for a bucket-dredge to operate, there are
several feet of mangrove mud to be gone through
before any tin-bearing country is reached; and that
place, too, has its record of several lots of tin washed
here and there by storms and floodwaters, to be
swept into pockets, and afterwards found by new-
chuins, who judge the whole district by a few
potholes. Those now interested do not know the
Arm, nor Bynoe Harbor. That there is tin in those
places no one will deny; that it will one day be a
big mining district I have long believed; but it is
not an alluvial field.
It is to be regretted that the diamond drills, three
of which are stored at Darwin, having been idle for
the last 10 years, have not been put into com-
mission again and sent to thoroughly test these old
fields.


He mav take the family fishinc, f
(AND THEN <VTTEND A Sm:REO COMCEI?T (
Amo Hame a look at the qac-gs
w
OR FOR A MOTOR TRIF»^
OR STAY quiETL/
at home ,
£ - > HE M/vy sneak, ofp e>y Himseup
But*"whatever HE does, he is soumd To Teuu
BRME Lies ABOUT How He EhJoved himself
HOW THE FAMILY MAN MAY SPEND A HAPPY CHRISTMAS.


Q/fie gift
that never
disappoints
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.. LTD.
LONDON.
5we(|press
CIGARETTES.
9/1 JO J OZ
n KvptUaa? xof qz pup qj /o suouvo t
\\v iins 01 SdDUCI 1
?qsvo puv siouiqvo owospuv
2[qv\ivav mou 9jlv smoxvSj
ucfxg 2iWS f° spuvxq n\
7n gift cabinets
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
A CHRISTMAS TRIOLET.
[Fob The Bulletin. 1
"With these few lines, this Ohristmastide,
My wishes go as gifts, too, dear.
May health be yours, with joy allied!
With these few lines, this Ohristmastide,
I fain would send much more beside,
As was my wont but yesteryear.
With these few lines, this Ohristmastide,
My wishes go—a gift’s too dear 1
N S w ' THE IMMATURE MALE.
* * *
“ Stavanger ”: Not long ago a well-
respected citizen died intestate in an_ Austra-
lian capital, and lawyers, going into his
affairs, made the startling discovery that
the woman with whom he had. been living
for the past 20 years was not his wife. The
deceased had put by the comfortable sum of
£9OOO ; he also left a daughter, a pretty girl
of about 16, who had never known —and
doesn’t know yet that her father and
mother were unmarried. By the law dealing
with intestate estates, both the “wife” who
wasn’t one and the daughter were out of
the picture as far as the £9OOO was con-
cerned. But the lawyers who made the
interesting discovery were kind-hearted, and,
largely through their representations, an
Act has been put through both Houses of
the State Parliament to authorise the Public
Trustee to pay the girl half the estate on
the understanding that if no relatives come
forward —it is believed there are none
SHORT AND SWEET.
“Don't you think my costume's a poem?"
“No, dear one—an epigram!”
she’s to get the lot. A very strange thing
about it all is that the old boy was on, his
way to a lawyer (for the first time in his
life) to make a will when he had a seizure
and died.
* * * *
“Wanchai”: The story still circulates
throughout the Snowy River country. It
happened about 60 years ago. Feeling the
need for an alcoholiday, he mustered about
40 fat bullocks and overlanded them to Mel-
bourne. Then, with the proceeds of their
sale in his pockets, he commenced a glorious
jag which Lasted for about a fortnight. At
the end of that time he must have felt in
the mood for practical joking, because he
consulted a doctor with a request for the
latter to examine his throat. After a care-
ful examination the doc. confessed that he
could find nothing wrong with it. “Nothing
wrong with it?” exclaimed the cattleman.
“A fine sort of a blanky doctor you are!”
There are 40 fat bullocks gone down there,
and you can’t track a blankard of ’em.”
• * * *
“Retsam”: The children had an exam, at
school the other day on general knowledge,
and one of the questions was: “Give the name
of a great Polish patriot.” One youngster
w r rote “Nugget.”
**• » *
“Black Tracker” : A well-known brand of
sauce got a cheap advertisement under
strange circumstances. When the Teetulpa
(S.A.) gold-rush broke out the Post Office
hurriedly sent up an officer with equipment
to start operations. In the rush much was
forgotten, including the date-stamp. The
postmaster, however, was a man of resource,
and, when looking for a substitute, his eyes
fell upon the glass stopper of a sauce-bottle.
As the letters were raised, it responded to
the > inkpad’s impression and made a good
show. As all letters bore the stamp, the
name was circulated far and wide.
* * * *
“Veracity”: These bush fires often start
from causes which are hardly credible.
Everyone familiar with Sunshine harvesters
knows that they have a balance-wheel on the
off-side of the peg-drum, which revolves at
a few thousand revs, per minute. In a field
of wheat at Dukin (W.A.) the other day
this wheel came off whilst the harvester was
working, and, spinning merrily through the
air, landed on some flinty stones. Seventy
acres of crop were burned before the flames
thus started were subdued.
“Strict Veg.” : The other day a Melbourne
surgeon had his appendix removed under a
local anaesthetic. He wanted to hear the
operation described as it went along. Half
way through he began to blaspheme terribly.
It had suddenly occurred to him that if a
series of mirrors had been arranged he would
have been able to actually see the fun instead
of merely hearing about it.
“Ci Coral”: In
Sydney recently I
put in a Saturday
evening with a
highbrow friend lis-
tening to the Town
Hall organ. During
the second number
I asked him to
glance round the
house and take a
note of the uncov-
ered heads of the
ladies. “Why,
they’re almost all
long-haired!” h e
whispered; “looks
as though the shin-
gled girls don’t
come to these turn-
outs. It bears out
what I’ve often
heard, that the
people who wear
their hair long have
the musical and
artistic sense more
highly developed.”
It was a lady to
whom we were
passing on our im-
pressions the next
day who destroyed
this interesting
theory as to the
close connection be-
tween long tresses
and music. “Why.
the girls simply had
their night hair
on!” she. remarked
with obvious scorn
for our ignorance.
“They were pro-
bably all shingled,
but they keep the
coils and put them
on at night when
the head is on view
minus the hat.
Didn’t you know
that?”
‘Trivateer” : What is one man’s poison is
another man’s meat all right. It was in a
bootshop in Hobart. He had just come in
from out back, and wanted a pair of boots.
The bootmaker cast a glance at his feet, and
showed him several pairs that should have
suited. Each pair was carefully examined by
the prospective buyer. He looked at them
from all angles, and then bent the soles, as
far as those soles could be bent, but they
were all rejected. “I want a pair like yer
sold me larst year,” he said. The boot-
maker made renewed efforts on other lines,
until half the shop was on the counter. But
it was no use. “I wanted a pair like yer
sold me larst year,” was the parting remark.
“They had a bonzer squeak.”
HER GUESS.
HUBBY: “Look what I’ve got, darling; something for the one I love lest.”
WIFEY : “What is it—a box of cigars or a bottle of whisky?"
“McDuff”: A couple of youthful Mel-
bourne joyriders will be mighty careful the
next time they borrow a car. Two of them
annexed a double-sea ter from in front of a
south-suburban town hall wherein a fancy-
dress ball was being held. They hastily
scrambled into the front seat and setioff along
the sea coast. Nearing Frankston they
heard strange voices in the rear of the car.
Glancing back they saw a shape with horns
awry peering at them from the rear seat.
The car was nearly upset when, from the
floor, another shape appeared and thrust
a hooded head in between them. VVith terri-
fied yells they scrambled out and disappeared
into the scrub. A little later a devil, with
a cowled monk sitting beside him, drove
back to the town hall. It was the owner
of the car and a friend, who, overcome by
the cocktails, had stolen out of the hall
and gone to sleep in the car.
“Kayeff” : One yarn that was pinned on
to the late “Plevna” Ryan was that of the
Digger who came before him and complained
ot poor eyesight. “Now,” queried the M. 0.,
“just what are your symptoms?” “Well,
Sir, I can’t see things plainly, and unless
it’s a big object I can’t see it at all.” “Can
you see this?” asked Ryan, holding up a
plate. “Yes.” “What is it?” “Looks like
a thrippeny bit, Sir.” “Good,” said Ryan,
marking him A class. “When you get back
in the trenches, a Prussian Guard will look
to you no bigger than a bantam.”
“Midford”: Westralian “Airways,” which
runs a ’bus between Perth and the Far North
of the State, is wiping space out so far as
people on the continent’s western rim art'
concerned. Its passengers recently break-
fasted at Carnarvon, lunched at Port Hed-
land, 505 miles farther north, and dined at
Derby, after another run of 420 miles. The
time spent in the air was under 10| hours,
and the average speed 90 miles p.h. A young
girl who needed urgent surgical attention
and travelled with her leg in splints was
taken aboard at Carnarvon at 5.30 a.m. and
landed at Perth, 530 miles away, exactly
eight hours later.
* * * *
“P.X”: We’ll never get bored stiff so long
as we have the N.S.W. Workmen’s Compen-
sation law to give variety to life. You
never know when it’s going to fly up and
hit you next; and as often as not when you
think it’s a hit it’s a miss. The law says
that employees making their daily or periodi-
cal journeys to and from work are to get
the benefits of the law if they are acci-
dentally hurt while travelling. The other day
a woman was engaged by Mrs. Redd-Tyle
as a cook, and it was arranged that she
should start work on Monday morning. When
she did turn up, late, it was with a sprained
ankle and other injuries which she said had
been produced by a fall from a tramcar on
the way. A doctor was called and he said
it was a case for a hospital. Then the hos-
pitals were called. One after another they
THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT.
WIFE: “It’s easily seen you’ve been enjoying
yourself."
HUSBAND : “Only in ‘spots,’ my dear. Only
in ‘spots’!”
replied that the patient could recover under
the Compensation Act and therefore it wasn’t
a case for a public hospital—she could afford
to go to a private hospital. The insurance
co. concerned said it didn’t know, but it
didn’t think the woman’s engagement started
until she had reached the house; and the
Commission, being appealed to, corrugated
its forehead and said “That’s so—no
liability.” So cooks and charwomen had
better see that no accidents happen to them
on the morning they go to a new job. On
the second morning it will be worth pounds
more to them.
A BEAUTY SPOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The flapper element is here, and Sunday morning
trains will intensify the trouble, as it is not the
family man who will use the trains. We are tending
downwards morally. Though I regard St. Hilda as
a plague spot, it can be cleaned up.”— Mr. Edgar,
M.L.C.
We frown at Pagan pleasures,
Parisian delights,
Denouncing Grecian measures
And Roman appetites.
But there’s more to bewilder
The wowser at St. Hilda
When Harold goes with Hilda
These amorous summer nights.
With saucy looks, and mocking,
Bold minxes now intrude
In bathing costumes shocking
In their ineptitude.
A few stray threads and spangles,
With ineffective bangles,
To emphasise the angles—-
A study in the nude.
With cigarettes and cuddles,
When black-bat night has flown,
And bottled beer that fuddles,
They picnic in the zone.
Behold intriguing glances
The leering moon enhances.
Light songs and lighter dances,
Around the gramophone!
What admonition reaches,
What words of mine may catch,
These sirens of the beaches,
And bold bad boys to match?
There goes the he-man dapper
With arm around his flapper!
Some moral handieapper
Must bring them back to scratch.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


HAVE YOU EVER PELT LIKE THIS?
“Modestine”: Hori is moving with the
times. At a recent big tangi at Kaiwhaiki
pah, Wanganui, several new features were
introduced for the benefit of the younger sor-
rowers. One was a tent for jazzers, where
the tunes from a gramophone competed
fiercely with the mournful strains of the
willow-trimmed “wailers” in an adjoining
enclosure.
* * * *
“Strict A r eg.”: A new record has been
established for determination in the matter
of attempted suicide. A big, powerful man
was rescued from the Yarra at and near
midnight recently no fewer than five times.
It took almost the entire crew of a ketch,
plus a hastily-summoned police officer, to
quell the giant and keep him dry.
# ** * *
“Kir”: That dusky bride who declines to
exchange her primitive bush gunyah for the
comforts of her abo. husband’s modern sub-
urban brick bungalow (B. 9/12/’26) recalls
a notable pair of old-time Sydney Harbor
cave-dwellers—old Billy Taylor and his wife,
who enjoyed quite a lot of celebrity in their
day. Mrs, Taylor was quite as respectable
as if she had lived beneath the red-tile roof
of a Mosman villa, and was accomplished in
numerous respects. But she couldn’t per-
suade her husband to live like other people,
and she stuck to him in spite of his eccen-
tricities, not allowing a small thing like
refusing to dwell in a house to come between
them. For just on a quarter of a century
tae strange couple shared a cavern in the
vicinity of Watson’s Bay.
* * * *
“Bullwhanger”: Evidently some Sydney
firms have been bitten by Henry Ford’s ideas
as set out in his latest book' “The Great
To-day, the Greater Future,” and a few of
them have installed psychology experts in
their factories with a view to finding out
what job their hands are best suited for. Our
boss, a budding captain of industry, who is
always being attracted by some new “sys-
tem, approved of the scheme, but refrained
from,, bespeaking the assistance of an “ex-
pert,” and consequently obtained somewhat
mixed results. He issued a questionnaire to
be filled in by all hands. After the usual
name, age and service questions came
this one: “What other occupations could you
follow?” One bright young apprentice, with-
out the slightest hesitation, answered “Works
manager.” Particulars were demanded
about military service and the number of
mill employees who were ex-colonels and
regimental sergeant-majors must have stag-
gered the interrogator. Nearly everybody
plumped for golf as his favorite recreation,
although one man admitted a weakness for
whale fishing and another for big-game shoot-
ing. When asked how they travelled to and
from their place of toil most of the chaps
intimated that they came in Rolls Royces,
but others reckoned that brewers’ waggons
were good enough for them. Only a few of
the employees answered the paper seriously
(most of them elderly men) and some didn’t
bother with it at all. The Yank operative
may take the scheme seriously, but the Aus-
tralian will have to get a good deal more
used to it before he does.
* * * *
“Ben Zine” : The little village ofTeNamu
(M.L.) is doing its bit to solve the problem
of what to do with our girls. Whilst Henry
Dugg saws at the breast-bench, his daughter,
aged 18, “tails out” for him. Dad, the
owner of the mill, fillets, stacks, and is
general factotum. Molly, an 18-year-old,
saws her own timber, fires the boiler and
runs the engines ; Cissy, aged 16, is “slabby”
and sawdust walloper. Some energetic brides
are waiting here.
* * * #
“C.Q.”: The fuss made about Melbourne
University getting subjects for vivisection
purposes from the Lost Dogs’ Home reminds
me of the way a professor of former days
kept his class supplied and public opinion
soothed at one and the same time. He used
to take a quiet walk in the evenings round
the streets adjoining the University, absent-
mindedly trailing a piece of over-ripe pluck
on a string. Having acquired a satisfactory
following of assorted canines he would turn
dreamily in at the gates and close them. All
dogs found in the University grounds, as a
notice were liable to be destroyed.
“Lao-dah”: Commenting on the fact that
Colonel Brinsmead flew 2000 miles to meet
him, airman Cobham in his book on his
recent flight says that Australians think
nothing of distance. I think he must be
right. My daughter, aged five, accompanied
by her grandmother, aged 65, travelled from
Sydney to Fremantle to meet her parents
returning from England. It was the infant’s
seventh crossing—twice by boat and five
times via the Transcontinental.
“P.R.” : Other men, other manners. One
night, when we were behind the line, our
brigade doctor received an urgent call to visit
a French woman. When he arrived he found
that a young »>oilu was expected at any min-
ute. He began his professional preparations
by telling the husband to make himself
scarce. Monsieur flatly refused. He said
he had been there when the preceding five
arrived, and made it clear that he proposed
to see the business through. He did, too.
and the doc. was the only one who regarded
his presence as a bit unusual.
* * * *
“Wang”: It was in a Melbourne subur-
ban court. The lady in the case had sum-
moned her husband for assault, and
exhibited a bandaged hand and a black
eye as circumstantial evidence. The
Bench, while inclined to be sympathetic,
asked the nature of the injuries to the plain-
tiff’s. hand, and found her singularly uncom-
municative. All she would say was that it
had been badly lacerated. Then the defendant
spoke up. “She ain’t game t’ tell yer, y’
Worships. It’s all her rootin’ through me
pockets at night when I’m asleep. Ev’ry
time I come home with a few bob I find it
gone in th’ mornin’. So th* other night I
fixed up. some string an’ fish-hooks inside
me trousis pocket. It wus th’ on’y pair of
trousis I had. an’ next mornin’ I couldn't
go ter work; she had ter take them with her
t th’ doctor’s. An’ when she comes home she
starts ter roust on me fer not goin’ t’ work,
and I'll admit, y’ Worships, I went crook.”
The lightness of the fine was significant.
* * * *
“Puna”: There was more than met the
eye in the request of a convicted prisoner
at the Sydney Quarter Sessions a few days
ago that the Judge should declare him an
habitual criminal. According to the penal
regulations in N.S.W. prisons, criminals
who have.been “declared” may earn wages
while serving their sentences, and that on a
scale proportioned to their ability. More-
over, the longer hours which they spend in
the workshops mean less time locked up in
their cells, which is really the hard part of
the average criminal’s sentence. “Hahituals”
have emerged with sums up to £5O in their
possession; moreover, some of the cash which
they earn can be spent on luxuries not
ordinarily included on the prison menu. Since
the indeterminate part of the “habitual”
sentence has generally lost its terrors, the
average crook who knows the ropes has no
particular objection to be “declared.”
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Irrigation is practised much
closer to Melbourne than Mildura is. Every
night at Heidelberg I am lulled to sleep
by the chuf-chuf of Tong Ah’s three electric
pumping-stations. Tong cultivates vegetables
in the old bed of the Yarra, the richest soil
in Vic., and he gets his power from Yallourn.
Hence he is not only independent of droughts,
but benefits by them, for they help to put
up the price of bis stuff. Every year he in-
dulges in a silent contest with Archbishop
Lees, although that high ecclesiastic is pro-
bably unaware of it. His Grace prays for
rain while Tong burns joss-sticks for a
drought. Last year the joss sticks won,
hands down, but it is not always so. Everv
three or four years a flood sweeps the fruit
of Tong .Ah’s incessant labor into Hobson’s
Bay. Still, he starts again with a soil made
richer by a new deposit. In the last 20
years he has earned enough to pay five visits
to his wife in Canton. P.S. —He tells me
proudly that he has five children.
“Nuces”: Little bush Aussies are the
gamest kids that live. Recently I saw half
a dozen school-youngsters lying on the
ground round a fair-sized hole. Suddenly a
10-year-oldster darted his hand into it and
hauled mit a 4ft. goanna by the tail. He gave
it a quick despatch by swinging it over his
shoulder and banging it thud on the ground.
A few days later I came across a little fellow
of seven watching a bush. In answer to
my inquiry he said he saw a big snake go
into it, and was watching till someone
came who would kill it. My search dis-
closed a brown snake, which was duly killed
and then measured with the boy’s ruler—
-sft. 2in.
* * * *
“Oxmead”:. Verdicts of guilty are always
hard to obtain in arson cases, because not
once in a thousand times is the incendiary
actually seen at work, and circumstantial
evidence must be damning indeed before the
jury will accept it as absolutely conclusive.
But I remember one instance where the
panel professed itself satisfied of its conclu-
siveness without leaving the box. A citizen
owned some tenements in a decaying W.A.
goldfields town which he could neither let
nor sell. Accordingly—or so it was surmised
he hired a needy retainer to incinerate his
property so that he could collect the insur-
ance money. The other chap accepted the
engagement with alacrity, took the next
train for the scene of his labors, alighted at
the station, purchased half a tin of kerosene
and a packet of matches at the nearest store
and inquired of several persons the exact
situation of the doomed, premises. After that
he faded from public view, and the premises
duly disappeared in smoke soon after night-
fall. When the case was heard, his Honor
drily remarked that if the jury wanted any
clearer evidence of guilt than that of the
kerosene and matches and the artless , request
for directions they must be hard to
satisfy. A tender-hearted Labor Attorney-
General subsequently remitted most of the
sentence on the - ground that a man who
could set about arson in such a downright,
matter-of-fact way couldn’t be quite right in
the head.
, “Q-Q-” •' I was in an Australian camp
uunng the early days of the war when the
sergeant-major required three men for some
job he evidently regarded as needing brains
—l’ve forgotten what it was, probably clean-
ing up the horse-lines. Anyway, he called
for volunteers. None came forward. Very
well, he would take the first three men on
the right on parade. They happened to be
three pals. “Number One, what’s yer name?”
Smith, sir.” “Occupation in civil life?”
‘Headmaster of the High School.” A
snort of disgust from the s.-m. “Number
Two, what about you?” “Professor in the
University of , sir.” The s.-m. looked
mor «», “Number Three, what are
you? “Vice-warden of College in the
University of .” I was near enough to
, 10 exasperated non-com.’s comment.
Gawdstrooth,” he said, “ain’t there any
blinking men in this ’ere blinking camp with
any blinking brains?”
Abacus’: The bank allows its officers
first-class expenses when travelling. A clerk
recently transferred to Sydney from a coun-
ty branch decided to go second and save
the difference. It was bad luck for him
that one of the bank’s higher officials should
have boarded the same train and recognised
the clerk and noted that he was travelling
second. A few days later, when the new
arrival applied for a refund of his travelling
expenses he received a note reminding him
that the bank only allowed a refund of the
money actually expended. Would he kindly
submit a claim showing the exact amount of
the money he had spent? Pie did so and the
bank was mean enough to pay it and no
more.
,** * *
Black Tracker”: In the ’sixties a young
German farmer with his newly-wedded' bride
left Angaston (S.A.) for the South-East, a
distance of! 340 miles. They had a “German
v aggon bunt to carry their belongings.
They selected a fertile block on arrival and
prospered Quite recently they retired and
had a clearing sale. Amongst the imple-
ments-offered .was the same old waggon,
after doing daily service for 60 years. It
brought £l4 after spirited bidding.
**# ' *
Adam s Apple ’: Sarah had got up in a
particularly unpleasant mood. Over the
breakfast table she upbraided her brother
Joe tor his chronic untidiness and her
caustic tongue kept going till he escaped
to the back verandah. There he met Dad.
who had just come down from the top nad-
dock to see what was keeping Joe from
making a start with the ploughing “Ye-
know. .Toe, time waits for no man.” said the
old cocky through his whiskers. Joe heaved
a grunt. . ‘I dunno, Dad,” he said ; “there’s
tw a ma n - Cro o k t V n » waitin ’ for the bloke
that marries Sarah.
THE HAWK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hawk had marked his pigeon down
High in the dancing tree;
He swept sheer from the mountain’s crown,
Plain for the eye to see;
And I—l watched as liis beak grew rod,
And he gave a toss of his proud young head,
And to myself I softly said:
“There is a hawk with a beak all red,
Hawk with a toss of his fierce young head—
■ Hawk that is waiting,
Waiting, waiting,
Hawk that is waiting for me!”
The hawk he screamed as a throat he tore
Up in the dancing tree;
This was one of a murdered score
Slain by a falcon free.
Such is Life in the treetops gay,
Where each sweet bird is a wild one’s prey,
And such is Life where the free winds play,
And to myself I softly say:
“There is a hawk and a doomful da 3^ —
Hawk that is waiting,
Day that is waiting,
Hawk that is waiting for me!”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
THE SOBERING THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is but grief in a triolet
For summer beer intended;
With merry maids one may forget
There is but grief. In a triolet
A maiden sipped is a maiden yet,
But ale once quaffed is ended •
There is but grief in a triolet '
For summer beer intended.
VICTORIA.
MACRSS.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Cbe Equitable Cife
flssce.
Co
o U
Coy.
of
Australasia Ltd.
Hoad Office:
Parbury House, Ksiitle Street, Brisbane
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. BGO Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment. Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Prodv.cers with good records .)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
f . f'l
tu
f m
„L\P
//
1
1
' r ' '
• C Y
V*.
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Pel” : Speaking of novelties in wedding-
cakes (B. 9/12/’26), one that was specially
made for the King of Tonga in 90 is still
remembered in Maoriland. His dusky
Majesty was determined to do the thing
properly, and his order to an Auckland firm
of confectioners simply stipulated for “the big-
gest cake ever made.” The firm rose to the
occasion with a massive structure of seven
tiers, weighing several cwt. The display of
it necessitated the taking out of the main
windowpane of one of Auckland’s largest
shops. Unlike “Modestine’s” baker's effort
it was a teetotal cake —Tonga being a very
dry area. After Tonga had consumed all it
could, bits were sent to most of the world’s
royalties by the bridegroom.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: Kindness to alligators
is misplaced, and some other _ objects of
benevolence are similarly disappointing. The
Westralian Government is interested in the
ease of one Surridge, who murdered his wife
in 1913, and after serving nine years of a
life-sentence was released in 1922. He was
lately found to be living on the proceeds of
the immorality of a terrorised woman, and
was sentenced to four months for vagrancy.
No doubt he will terrorise the same or some
other woman when he comes out. Queens-
land has chronic troubles of the same sort.
Among the present ones is a Muscovite who
A MISTAKE SOMEWHERE.
“Would you like a piece of bread and butter, Tommy?”
“Bread 'n' butter — yarn! Ain't this a party?”
has been allotted an insufficient two months
for a ferocious assault on a woman. This
pleasant citizen, it seems, was sentenced to
death in 1922 for a very brutal murder. But
as he ruined one eye in an attempt at suicide,
the Law, not having the heart to either
execute or detain a one-eyed man, who
was probably an orphan to boot, turned him
loose to damage his fellow-creatures. Exactly
what they do keep men in gaol for in Queens-
CONFIDENCES OF THE SEASON.
“Marrjed?”
“No.”
“Widow?”
“No, decree nisi.”
land is obscure. Perhaps you have to be
quite blind to qualify.
-X- w # *
“8.D.R.”: In our district is an elderly
grazier of Scotch extraction who some
months ago purchased a new car “the
verra latest, ye ken.” Happening to meet him
en route to kirk last Sunday, I noticed he
was driving in his socks. He explained to
me later, without the faintest embarrassment,
that the pattern might wear off the foot-rests
under the pressure of boots, and thus take
the newness off the car.
“Fana”: In the
bigger Australian
gaols news is circu-
lated through the
“gaol telegraph,” a
system of communi-
cation in which
each letter of the
alphabet is denoted
by a number of
taps. Messages are
sent by rapping on
the iron doors of
cells or on the
pipes which run
through a row of
cells, and the speed
with which news
can be transmitted
is surprising. A
scrap of conversa-
tion between two
warders overheard
by a prisoner will
often be wirelessed
in a few minutes.
Try as they will,
the authorities can-
not suppress the
“telegraph”; and,
besides, it has its
uses. More than
one crime has been
cleared up as the
result of a “tele-
graph” message
overheard. But as
most warders can
understand the ordi-
nary code, private
codes are occasion-
ally substituted.
“Uramao”: A Maoriland motorist has
made a discovery. Short skirts and silk
stockings protect flappers from the motor
juggernaut. His observations have con-
vinced him that, whatever else the motorist
fails to pick up in the dark, he never misses
a light-colored pair of silk stockings. It
certainly is remarkable that girls rarely
figure in motor accidents at night. For
women who do not follow the fashion, a
shield of silk on the back of the skirt, and,
in the case of men, a posterior patch of
light silk might be worth embodying in the
by-laws.
* * * *
“X2X”: Speaking of the medicine-chests
carried by the
old windjammers
,(B. 2/12/’26),
the bottles were
often numbered in-
stead of being
labelled with the
names of their con-
tents. Accompany
ing the chest was a
handbook in which
various series of
symptoms were set
out, each with a
number against it,
so that all the skip-
per had to do was
to pick out the com
bination of symp-
toms and then dose
the patient from
the bottle with the
corresponding num-
ber. Naturally this
led to some experi-
ments which would
hardly be endorsed
by the medical fac-
ulty. A retired
skipper told me
that once he found
a patient suffering
from the symptoms
numbered 12 in the
book. No. 12 bottle
was empty, how-
ever, so he gave
him a blend of Nos.
10 and 2. “He
must have been
pretty far gone,”
my skipper added,
“because the poor
devil died that
night.”
“Narara”: The last 12 months’ history of
a Sydney suburban hotel makes interesting
reading. For the previous 14 years the
license had been held by a widow, who,
although her place was particularly suitable
for after-hour trading, sternly set her face
against it. She sold out for £950 and was
well satisfied with the price. Her successor
immediately inaugurated an after-hour trade
and sold out two months later for £l5OO.
He was a wary bird, however, and would
only break the law for customers whom he
knew. The man who took his place, being
more daring in his methods, doubled the aftei -
hour trade, and the record of his turnover
enabled him to sell out for £3500. His suc-
cessor soon realised that the_ trade shown in
the books was largely an illegal one, and
by threatening an action managed to get
some of his purchase price refunded on the
ground of misrepresentation. Now, at the
time of writing, the woman who first started
the ball rolling is trying to get the place
back again at the price she sold out for.
* * » *
“Carisbrook, Junior”: Recently Uncle
Ben, bedtime prattler of 4QG, Brisbane,
amused the children by dropping an ordinary
pin in an empty glass. Seems a childish
prank, perhaps, but what an illustration it
offers of the advance of science! The fall of
the pin in Brisbane was heard as far north
as Cooktown and Port Moresby, and as far
south as Maoriland. In ordinary circum-
stances the sound would be inaudible at even
10 yards, yet this carried 1500 miles.
* * * *
“Detonator” : I notice correspondents pour-
ing derision on the story that certain IrisU-
Australians have only just heard of the
death 60 years ago of a relative who had
amassed a huge fortune in Chicago (U.S.A.).
Such things may happen ; hear my tale. My
great-great-grandpa, a noble of Prance, heed-
less of the guillotining of many of his family,
stuck all his life to the revolutionary prin-
ciples he had embraced in 1789. On the
other hand, his titled first cousin became an
Emigre officer, and fought against the Republic,
ending his days loaded with entailed lands
and honors in Russia. Apart from disagree-
ing politically, the two cousins engaged in a
single combat with cavalry swords at the
battle of the Moskowa, leaving each other for
dead on the snow, which left a decided cool-
ness between the elder and cadet branches
of the family. After my dad and two brothers
had died on active service, I duly became
head of the French branch, and, noticing the
gap in the elder branch’s filiation on the pedi-
gree chart, wrote asking to be put in touch
with descendants of the 6migr6, thinking
time would have healed the breach. I was
informed tersely and officially that the
dmigrFs son had died in Siberia for dabbling
in socialism in 1868, and that his son, un-
married, was shot for the same offence in
1885, the French title and Russian entailed
lands thereupon passing (unknown to them)
to my great-uncle, and at his death, 10 years
A GOOD WAG WASTED.
NICE PARSON (to boy who is crying): “Hullo, sonny, what's the
matter with you?”
POOR BOY : “I bin waggin' it frum school all th ’ week an ’ on’y just
remembered that we've started the Christmas holidays .”
later, to my dad, so that at the latter’s deatu
in 1917 I succeeded to the title dc jure.
However, owing to no claimant appearing for
the entail, when the elder branch failed in
heirs male in 1885, the estates reverted to
the Russian crown, and were handed back to
the Dowager Countess. When that lady was
pogromed by the Bolshies of Kief in 1918
her estates once more reverted to the Gov-
ernment. Hence my only hope of recovering
them and the accumulated interest of then-
revenue lies in the restoration of Czardom,
the Soviet Government not recognising feudal
tenure. I imagine that my chances of win-
ning the Golden Casket are less remote; but
one never knows.
FANNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She fanned me. with a gesture coy,
That few, I think, could have withstood.
She asked me if I’d be her boy;
With eagerness I said I would.
She seemed so maidenly and good—
The world without was dull and drab —■
And then (alas for womanhood !)
She fanned me in a taxi-cab.
She fanned me with apparent joy.
“Could I?” she asked. I said 1 could.
Pure gold I deemed her —no alloy.
A girl. I swore by mass and rood,
Upon a higher altitude
Than mine. No miss of gush and gab.
But when, enraptured, I pursued,
She fanned me in a taxi-cab.
She fanned me. Nor did it annoy
When music rose in strains subdued;
Her shy caresses failed to cloy—
Perhaps I was a trifle stewed.
I still recall her attitude
As with her fan she’d dart and dab.
I worshipp’d her. And what ensued ?
She fanned me in a taxi-cab.
She fanned me. Possibly I shoidd
Have known that she was on the grab.
I whistled —mad beatitude !
Before I got outside the wood.
She fanned me—-in a taxi-cab.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Wmnom Wotel
cph/pp of
Quppnc/an do
‘Di'shnpuished
Social Li/b.
hkg
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
hkĝhj
TELErGR AMS & CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE
TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
Dainty, Reliable Gold Wristlet-Watch,
Very Special Value at £7/7/-
Yery capitivating in its slim, clean-cut. distinctive little gold case is this charming-
lt is somewhat smaller than the average model, but by no means so tiny
as to impair its perfect time-keeping qualities. The case is of heavy gold, the
watch movement is a fifteen-jewelled lever made by one of the most famous Swiss
watch manufacturers. It is guaranteed for 15 years and will be kept in order
breakages excepted, for 12 months. ’
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
Some January birthdays:—
Prof. Gilbert Murray, 61, and David Watterston
(Melb. Argus) , 82, on 2nd; Col. T. E. Y. Hurley,
C.M.G., M.D., 39, on 3rd; S. Aus. Minister Kirk-
patrick, 79, on 4th; Bishop Newton (New Guinea),
61, Fred Young (ex-South Aus. Agent-General), 51, and
Dr. Floyd (organist of St. Paul’s, Melb.), 50, on
sth; Edmund Jowett (ex-M.ILR.), 69, Dr. Alexander
Marshall (Scots’ Church, Melb.), 78, on 6th; artist
Neville Cayley, 41, on 7th ; Sydney Ure Smith, 40,
on 9th; Captain Albert Jacka, first V.C. in Big
Scrap, 34, on 10th; Queensland Speaker Bertram,
52, and R. D. Meagher, 61, on 11th; Emeritus Prof.
Howchin (Adel.), 82, on 12th; Archbishop Spence
(Adel.), 67, Prof. Chapman (Syd.), 48, on 13th;
Federal Minister G. F. Pearce. 57, and E. W.
Hawker (S.A.), 77, on 14th; Dr. Broiriilow (ex-
BENNO
SCHERER,
Melbourne's
well-known
musician.
Methodist missionary), 70, and J, H. Starling (Gov.-
General’s Official Secretary), 44, on 15th; Brig.-Gen.
Foott, C. 8., 51, on I.6th; Prof. Radcliffe-Brown
(Syd.), 46, and J. J. Garvan, 54, on 17th; Clifton
Love (Syd.), 59, on 18th; naturalist H. J. Burrell,
54, on 19th; George Fuller (ex-N.S.W. Premier), 66,
on 22nd; Prof. Wood-Jones (Adel.), 48, and D. 1).
Braham (West Australian), 52, on 23rd; W.A. Chief
Justice McMillan, 69, Brig.-Gen. Blarney, 43, E. H.
Macartney (Q.), on 24th; D. F. Denham (former Q.
Premier), 68, on 25th; W. J. George (former W.A.
Minister), 74, on 25th; artist Julian Ashton, 76, and
Prof. Cumbrae-Stewart (Q.), 62, on 27th; A. Gren-
fell Price (St. Mark’s Coll., Adel.), 35, and Bishop
Feetham (N.Q.), 54, on 28th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Forster,
61, and journalist Guy Innes, 45, on 31st.
A knighthood for John Bowser, Speaker
of Vic. Assembly, is expected to arrive on
New Year’s Day.
One_ of the advantages of a Protective
tariff is. that it makes Mahomet come to the
mountain. Amos Nelson, a titled Lancashire
spinner and chairman of a textile-machinery
firm, is in Australia just now, looking into
the matter of factory sites for cotton- and
silk-spinning and considering whether it
mightn’t pay to manufacture looms and card-
ing machines here. He got up the other day
and said that Australia had all the raw
materials it needed to become a self-con-
tained nation, and British manufacturers
must realise the fact and take their industries
to Australia. It struck Amos Nelson as
idiotic for this country to send its wool to
England to be made into tweed that was
shipped back again. What they’ll do with
him when lie’s back t’ Bradford doesn’t bear
thinking about.
Jean Philippe Worth, the Parisian who
first set out on the grand scale to correct
the mistakes of nature as encountered in tlm
female form, is dead in Paris. Big and
burly, with velvet coat and flowing cravat,
Ins white hairs crowned with the Basque
beret which is so fashionable now with the
London knuts, the genius dressed the part
to perfection, and played it autocratically.
In his heyday lie would see no one without
influential introductions. When the presence
at last was reached, the suppliant was per-
emptorily dismissed if the great man didn’t
like the look of her. He was one of the few
since Bluebeard who have known how
to Keep Woman in Her Place.
The order made by Mann, J., in Vic.
Supreme Court the other day granting an
extra £125 a year to the widow of a Ger-
man farmer worth £15,000, who left her only
£2 a week, recalls that Donald Mackinnon
was the author of the Act under which
disinherited or unfairly treated widows and
children have a remedy. Donald piloted the
lull through when he was a private member
of Vic. Assembly—long before he became
Attorney-General. His mentor in such mat-
ters was the great George Higinbotham.
It is 27 years since Belle Golding, the
gentle sister of those militants, Mrs. Kate
Dwyer and Annie Golding, received her first
appointment as an inspector under the Early
Closing Act in N. S. Wales. She had been
a teacher in Lithgow (N.S.W.), where the
coalminer comes out on strike if anyone
looks sideways at him. Since then it has
been her task to beard in his gory lair the
butcher who worked liis employees over-
time, with excursions into the fastnesses of
the. baker and candlestick-maker. She has
seen the working week come down from 120
hours to 44, and the basic wage rise from
7s. (Id. to 84s. a week. And now it is time
tor her to retire under the service’s age limit.
Percy Hunter, new general manager, was
the hero of the Pacific Cable Board's cele-
brations in Melbourne over the duplication
of the All-Iled route. But of course it wasn’t
he who laid the foundation of the board’s
success. When Britain, Canada and Aus-
tralia decided to lay their own cable in
1002, submarine telegraphy was a dark
mystery to Government post-offices. They
made up tlieir expert stall' mainly from dis-
gruDtled employees of the private companies,
lhere was one neglected genius so employed
wno, in return for an invention worth thou-
°f. pounds to his firm, had been offered
a £2O rise. He resigned, and a few years
later perfected a device which enabled the
I acific Cable Board to carry thousands of
pounds worth of his late employers’ busi-
ness.
Billy Angwin, Minister for Lands in the
W.A. Labor Government and now Agent-
General, is one of the lucky survivors of the
head hunt conducted by W.A. anti-conscrip-
tionists, who swore to oust every Laborite
who advocated conscription. Angwin’s forte
is diplomacy, otherwise he would have been
guillotined by the machine which politically
killed Jack Seaddan, “Mulga” Taylor, George
Eoley, Rufus Underwood, the late Jack Mul-
laney and others who followed Hughes.
John Bell Condliffe-—“Condy” to his stu-
dents—who has been Professor of Economics
at Canterbury College (M.L.) since 1919 and
was the first graduate of the college to
fill the chair, leaves the job to become chief
research officer of the Institute of Pacific
Relations at a screw above the dreams of
professorial avarice. Condliffe, who is only
95. has proved a good teacher and is pro-
bably the most popular member of the Cant.
Coll, faculty. He was a sergeant of the
N.Z.F.F. in France. His successor in the
chair is his side-kicker. A. H. Tocker. the
author of a theory of Maoriland banking.
“Condy” will have to go to Honolulu to live.
There are 800 varieties of Australian ants,
and the man who knows most about them is
John Clark, just appointed to the job of ento-
mologist at Melbourne Museum. Clark was
assistant Government entomologist in Perth
and acquired his taste for termites while fol-
lowing the careers of the tiny beetles which
lodge in ants’ nests for their own good and
their landlords’. He is no mere catalogist
but a genuine observer, gifted with some of
the imagination of a Henri Fabre.
Melbourne has a Chinese barrister. Ah
Ket, who is an eloquent pleader and agile
cross-examiner. Incidentally, his grip of
the English language with its idioms, and
the Aussie lingo with its slang, almost puts
him in a class of his own. Two sons are
following in father’s footsteps at Melbourne
Grammar, and both were well to the fore
on the year’s prize list.
Dr. Norman White, of the League of
Nations Health Organisation, the first
member of the League’s administration to
visit Australia officially, has devoted his life
to the League’s service. Before the war
as a member of the Indian Medical Service’
he specialised in the study of tropical epi-
demic problems. After war-service he led
DOCTOR NORMAN WHITE. League of
Nations delegate to the International
Pacific Health Conference in Melbourne.
the League’s Health Commission in the fight
against the famine epidemics in Russia. Now
he has a roving commission. Last year he
surveyed East Asian, Indian and African
quarantine conditions, and as a result the
League now broadcasts news of epidemics
from a bureau at Singapore.
South Aus. has lost two good pastoralists.
11. S. Dunn, of the old milling family, held
land at Burra, at Narracoorte and finally at
Mt. Barker, finding time for a lot of public
duties as well. He was 71 at the end. Donat
Bowman, of Mintaro, was only 41. He was
the eldest son of Edmund Bowman, famous
as stock-breeder and polo-player long ago.
The Bowman family started raising sheep in
lasmama a century back, and a branch of
it is still there; but another strong
branch moved across to South Aus. as soon
as that province was founded.
Dave Harvey, manager of Tattersall’s, has
completed 41 years’ service with that insti-
tution, and looks good for another 20. By
the will of the late George Adams, Harvey
and his offsider Elliott Grant, together with
politicians Braddon and Fysli, were named
as principal beneficiaries, arid continued t >
run the money-making concern. Prior to his
association with Tatt.’s, Harvey was a tram
conductor.
One of the ‘'heads” of racing in Maori-
land, and one who in a quiet way promoted
many reforms in the sport, was W. 11. E.
\\ anklyn, for 30 years secretary of the Can-
terbury Jockey Club, who died a few days
ago in Montreal. He got his job as the
result of a series of newspaper articles
advocating the tightening-up of racing con-
trol, and was almost immediately after his
appointment given an official position on the
Racing Conference. The formation of the
M.L. Jockey Club, the central controlling
authority; the setting up of an appeal
board, the revision of the Rules of Racing
and the publication of the M.L. Stud Book
all were largely due to Wanklyn. He began
life as a bank clerk and then became a
public accountant.
Taking long-service leave from next March
1 as a preliminary to retirement, W. S.
Mowle will wind up a service with Parlia-
ment that has lasted 42 years. He got his
appointment as a junior clerk on the Parlia-
mentary staff at the age of 16 from “Toby”
Barton, and wound up as Clerk of the Assem-
bly. His father, who arrived in N.S.W. m
1836, was Usher of the Black Rod. Mowle
the second has seen 17 Premiers come and
go, and has served under 12 Speakers.
One of the oldest Victorian pioneers folded
her hands at Jeparit (Vic.) the other day
when Mrs. Smith ended a life that was
VPnr« ed o? b(? 011 ly a month short of 106
L. . ' ~e was a Glasgow lass and came
"® traha as a child of 12. Marrying in
1.',, PJ a J- age of 25 she. with her lius-
Dand made overland to Adelaide. The party
m waggons and the journey took seven
, 1S ; Before it was ended her first baby,
Ug i ter ’ was born—the first white Aus-
nauan-horn girl to cross the river Darling.
' .daughter is still alive and has been
married more than GO years.
. "*\k° u gh Sydney Uni. has been turning out
graduates f or donkey's years, the
. Sentlemen of the Senate find it difficult
f) e^ leve fbat the degrees it confers are
h much. Anyway, when it wants pro-
fessors it usually imports them. The latest
o be beckoned to Parramatta-road is John
Anderson, who conies to fill the chair of
Ihilosophy. Psychiatry will be taught in
iture by Dr. 1\ illiam K. Dawson, who
comes from a London mental hospital after
- inerlean experience. But neither case is
quite so dreadful ns the appointment of a
young gentleman in S'Africa to the chair of
Anthropology while the Australian Dr.
Basedow was available.
I' rederick Bridgman has returned to Adel-
aide as manager of the Adelaide Steamship
Co., succeeding the late Edward Northcote,
after an absence of 25 years in Melbourne
he is 52 now. Me started business in the
Port Adelaide office of the co., and had
worked up to be its chief accountant in
S.A. when he was transferred to Vic.
The Cotter trickle in the Federal Terri-
tory, which is to provide Canberra with
its water supply, bears the name of its
discoverer. About 1840 Garrett Cotter took
up some land near Michelago.. Later he ven-
tured into the mountainous country to the
west in quest of pastoral land, and came
across the stream, which was named after
him. Garrett Cotter returned to his Michel-
ago holding, and his descendants still live
there.
Three ex-teacher members of Vic. Assem-
bly have been hit hard by the adoption of
the redistribution scheme. A. A. Farthing,
Chairman of Committees (Lib.), lias had
his electorate abolished. He will have a
shot at Caulfield, one of the new metropoli-
tan seats. Torcliy Bond, who now represents
Glenelg, and ex-Digger Hughes, the choice
of Grenville, have also been rendered home-
less. Both are Laborites. Bond may try
conclusions with Bailey in the pre-selection
for Port Fairy-Glenelg, and Hughes may pit
himself agin Hogan. But Bailey and Hogan
are not worrying.
11. H. Newton. Clerk of Vic. Parliament
and Clerk of the Uppali Chambah, will retire
o.i December 31, but will carry on the job
of State director of preparations for the
Yorks’ visit. Newton began in the Regis-
trar-General’s Department, and has served
the State for about 47 years. His dad was
I’.M.G. for a month in the Nicholson Gov-
ernment, 6G years ago, a few months
before the son was born. Newton will be suc-
ceeded by Tom Gilchrist, Assistant-Clerk of
the Assembly, formerly an Inky Wayfarer.
Answered the last roll-call, Major John
Daniels, born in Adelaide in 18G0, and keen-
est of volunteers from the age of 17. He
was for years hon. sec. of the local Naval
and Military Club.
BRINGING HIM BACK TO EARTH.
"Darling, I'd go through anything for you.'”
“How much hare you got to go through?”
Mick Canny, the Vic. railways 43-year-
old general superintendent of transportation,
is to have his salary put up from £ll5O to
£l5OO. Though an office man throughout
his 28 years’ service, he has nevertheless a
good grip of practical railroading, and was
one of the first of his men that Harold Clapp
sent to Yankeeland. He was personal secre-
tary to several Chairmen of Commissioners;
and went through the mill as outdoor super-
intendent. There were many who tipped
him as a certainty to beat the elderly Mol-
omby for the Commissioner’s chair vacated
by Miscamble in 1924.- and if a Labor Min-
istry hadn’t happened 'to be in temporary
power they might have been right.
CHINAMAN’S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Chinese gardeners, it was stated in evidence
before the Garden Employees’ Board, breakfast at
3 a.m. and work every day in the year except the
Chinese New Year’s Day.”
Oh you who grumble at Adam's curse
While you mop the sweat from your aching brow,
Pause and reflect that it might be worse
As you belt the mullock or guide the plough,
As you swing the Kelly or pump the cow,
And give to your gods a benison.
Aye, thank your stars that you aren't a Chow
To graft all days in the year but one.
Grievances many you doubtless nurse,
Crosses you carry, mayhap, enow.
But none shall harry you or coerce
From noon on Saturday, anyhow,
Till Monday’s sun is on beach and bough
And another working week’s begun,
Though the patient Pong, without plaint or row.
Toil ev’ry day in the year but one.
Holidays come with their lures diverse—
Dozen or so in a.year, I vow—
Cares begotten of toil disperse
And off you go with the kids and frau,
Deep content at the helm and prow,
To take your fill of frolic and fun,
While the Chink is left in his age-old slough
To work all days in the year but one.
Envoy.
Chinaman’s luck, we may all allow.
Still, I put it to you, my son;
How would you like it—tell me now!—
To graft all days in the year but one?
N.s.w.
IFORD.


T
O^'
WOLFES
L
3C £
I
'>l
CHIEDA
Ou
2
fi
m
* 0
a
<2SX®>4E>
I
ORODUCT OF HOLLAND.
jm>-'A~* s*
THIS -
TIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
actured exclusively in Holland, and
;ited not only pure from every injur-
>erty and ingredient, but it is also of
©fusible quality.
|||s|tention of Agents and Purchasers;
Upfo the Signature and address oa 1
»|§pnd to the Title of this
H*£ordial, embossed on the sides of'
|ttpas protection against inferior and'
isg/lmitations.
N
rz
w^eee^/" >
W YORK & ROTTERDAM
Wlf
every attempt at infringement will
scrutinised and the infringers vigorous
ET: 1 PINT 6 FL. OZS.
-jinn* 1
7
Whatever reason you may have for taking
an occasional drink
—social
—business
—or just to quench
your thirst
you should have
“One Wolfe's Schnapps a day
for Your Health's sake"


o
TSs
8-
DC
o
DC
0
7
SB
xjo
SB
w>
hkg
Look Cm (hi Trademark! Agent* Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
"Good Pfellah
Christmas Gifts ”
i
r.
Change Your Name
if vou like, but you cannot change your
REPUTATION.
FOR THE PAST 40
YEARS Jack Wieneke has
had the reputation for
making the FINEST
SADDLE in AUS-
TRALIA.
That’s saying some-
thing !
Write to-day for a
copy of his new
colored book showing
how he did it.
Experience always tells.
Yours truly,
dmssz
/
■
§Bgjt
Jack Wieneke,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OR
432 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Emel” : Sheep-dip requires careful hand-
ling. Recently in the Horsham (Vic.) dis-
trict a lad of 19 helped to clean out the
dip preparatory to using it for the newly-
shorn sheep, and in doing so got his feet
wet with the liquid he was bailing out. Two
days later, although he had changed his
wet socks as soon as possible, he
appeared to have a cold, and com-
plained that he felt pains in his shoul-
ders. His mother administered medicine,
and, next day, as he had been vomiting
through the night, and seemed worse, though
he felt no pain, he was motored 11 miles
into Horsham, where he arrived too ill to
be examined, and was admitted at once to
TAKING TIME BY THE FORELOCK.
DAD (beaten for another toast at the wedding “breakfast”): “Well, we mightn’t see each other for years, so
while we’re here we might as well wet the head of the baby!”
the hospital. The end came a day later,
the lad sinking into unconsciousness
towards the flast, and, although there was no
visible scratch on him, his hands and legs
to the knee had turned black.
“Venturino”: Re the clockwise spinning of
a whirlwind noted by “J.D.C.” (B.
25/11/’26). The heated moist air in the
equatorial belt, being light, is forced upward
by the cooler, and therefore heavier, air
moving in from the north and
south. These cooler winds,
coming from the slower-moving
part of the earth, cannot keep
pace witl* the earth’s move-
ment at the equator from
west to east, and so slide or
drift toward the west, and con-
stitute the n.-e. and s.-e trades.
Face the north and you will
notice that a deflection toward
the west is a left-hand deflec-
tion. The heated air at the
equator cools as it ascends, and,
flowing toward the north and
south, descends in the latitude
of the thirties. It has now be-
come a fast-moving air de-
scending to a slow-moving part
of the earth, and in its descent
south slides toward the east —
again a left-handed deflection.
All our weather in southern
Australia travels from west to
east, on account of this drift
of air, known as the anti-
trades. A whirlwind is a minia-
ture cyclone or low-pressure
area, formed by winds blowing
in toward a centre. If “J.D.C.”
draws a number of arrows to
represent the winds blowing to
a centre, and then adds to
each point a slight left-hand de-
flection, he will notice that the
swirl is clockwise. Similarly, if
the arrows are drawn to repre-
sent winds blowing out from a
centre (anti-cyclone or. high-
pressure area), with a left-hand
deflection, the circulation will
show counter-clockwise.
“Yong” : If “.T.D.C.” wants to
see anti-clockwise whirlies, he
should come to the Victorian
inallee, where they don’t seem to
mind which way they spin. The
first one I saw in the Nyali dis-
trict after reading “J.D.C.’s”
par. was anti.
“S.N.R.”: I killed a small brown snake
yesterday out in the bush. Round where his
“shoulders” should be he wore the two
closed endless halves of an ordinary wax-
match box. A good fit, too. But whether
the appurtenance was intended as an orna-
ment or a cholera-belt I cannot say.
“Fitz.”: F. D. Manwarring, of Khata-
bundah, near Wingham, dropped across an
outsize in carpet-snakes the other day. He
was doing some clearing work in Frank Som-
merville’s paddock, and thought at first he
was about to handle a bough of a tree. How-
thf U n > en l y j VlanWamng g ot
tnnewL Ut ’ I- o ** e* n |? ded ma ®Y more to
knock the snake out. From north to south
it was 13ft. 11m. Also present: H. A.
THINGS WE HAVE TO PVT OF WITH.
FIRST COOK: “I got sacked at Bringalong 'cos the boss found one of his wife’s stockings in the soup.”
SECOND COOK: “ Blime, some blokes are jealous cows, ain’t they!”
Wallis, George Manwarring and Jim Ede.
Wallis remarked that “the carpet” was one
of the fattest he had ever clapped eyes on,
and suggested a post-mortem. The reptile
w T as when a full-grown grey wallaby
was found sitting on its haunches, apparently
quite happy—and certainly quite dead.
“Maske” : The crows
in the Wooramull dis-
trict, between Gerald-
ton and Carnarvon
(W.A.), have quaint
nesting - places. For
hundreds of miles the
main Perth-Wyndham
road follows the over-
land telegraph line,
and wherever it passes
under the line extra-
tall iron telegraph
poles are used to clear
a space for the wool
teams. On these tall
poles the crows erect
their nests, one nest on
each pole. The trees
and foliage thereabouts
are stunted, and the
height of the nest from
the ground gives the
tenant a commanding
view of the country.
The nests are works of
great ingenuity and
skill, inasmuch as the
line consists of only
one wire and bracket,
while the country is
wind-swept for months
by the n.-w. cockeye-
bobs, which blow with
hurricane force. A
remarkable feature of
these homes is that
they are all built on
the southern side of
the pole. Notwith-
standing that every six
months the linesmen
knock them down in
hundreds, the crows
are undaunted, an d
immediately the in-
spection of the line is
over nests are again
erected on the same
posts.
“X2X” : “Wingella” can rest assured that
there is nothing in the theory that persons
who do not eat salt and sugar are less likely
to be attacked by mosquitoes and other
insects (B. 25/11/’26). When salt enters into
the human sygtem it is promptly split up
into its two constituent elements of sodium
and chlorine, the Tatter recombining to form
chlorides and free hydrochloric acid while
the sodium mostly goes 'nto thf blood as
different organic salts. The sugar becomes
subject to oxidation, a part of it being stored
up in certain vital organs in another chemi-
cal form, while the remainder also reverts
to its original constituents of carbon, hydro-
gen and oxygen, and is so distributed
throughout the whole system. The point is
that an excess of salt or sugar does not add
to the human system anything that was not
in it previously, while complete abstention
from the two substances would not take
away anything from it. Another point is
that since sugar and salt occur more or
less in about 90 per cent, of the foods
which the average person eats, it would be
necessary for one to pretty well starve in
order to refrain from the two compounds
completely.
‘■Emel”: The theory advanced by “Win-
gella” is not borne out by my experience.
I, like the great McGlusky, like “saut to my
meat,” take sugar in my tea, and have a
very hearty appetite fpr sweets; yet, while
other persons are present, mosquitoes do not
bite me unless they are exceptionally numer-
ous. On the other hand, a young sister who
never adds salt to any cooked foods is
bitten freely, as is also another sister whose
consumption of salt and sugar equals mine.
Indeed, the latter is peculiarly subject to all
kinds of insect-bites.
* * * *
“Bill It.”: “Wang’s” growing fence (B.
2/12/’26) is not the only one that has
sprouted Heavenward. In the wet season
of 1895 a Merilla (N.S.W.) farmer enclosed
a 10-acre cultivation paddock with a six-
wire fence, its posts being cut from the
Wollondilly willows. These posts immediately
struck roots in the damp soil, and the pad-
dock still defies the inroads of Strawberry
and Dobbin. Though the posts were erected
in straight lines, the erratic growth of the
trees pulled the wires awry, and it is nowa-
days a very crooked bit of fencing.
* * * *
“Ento” : Nearly two years ago “Wink” drew
attention to oleander blossoms as traps for
flies. I have now discovered the Chinese
creeper Trachelospermum jasminoides, inap-
propriately called Cape jasmine, plays similar
tricks on the insect world. Whereas the
oleander holds the short fleshy proboscis of
flies securely wedged between its rigid sta-
mens, the trachelosperm does the same for
the long, hard proboscis of a cutworm moth,
a butterfly of the kind known as “skippers”
and a fly of the family Bonbyliidae (bee
flies). As none of my botanical or zoological
friends know of the plant in the role of
insect-catcher, this may be an unrecorded
habit.
HARVESTIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t mind the sweat, an’ I don’t mind the flies
As is buzzin’ all ai'onnd me, an’ stickir.’ in me eyes;
I don’t mind the dust, an’ I don’t mind the heat.
W’ile I’m sittin’ on me stripper an’ she’s rollin’
through the w’eat!
W’eat! W’eat!
A-slidin’ past me feet.
It’s singin’ through the winnowers
A song- that’s hard to beat!
It’s hot enough to frizzle up the leather on the seat,
But 1 don’t seem to mind it
W’en I’m slippin’ through the w’eat!
I don’t want a drink, an’ I don’t want a smoke—
Least, I kids meself I don’t, though I’m dry enough
to choke ;
I’m as hungry as a dingo but I don’t want to eat,
Not until we've stripped this paddock o’ the last
grain o’ w’eat!
W’eat! W’eat!
(That makes another street!)
The bags is nearly bustin’, but they’re sewed up.nice
an’ neat.
Twenty bushels to the acre, w’en we’ve got it off
complete. ...
Then another year of graftin’
For another crop o’ w’eat!
S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.


i i
!%»
IV.
/sA<^
'” ,A: ''' Av w i fiiVf : ii |
[S|tylBKji|j
-
■
I»*>XtshE!
y.n
a VK
*> 485382
-TW? ■■
««S5
: -,-v
ilv-"v' ,r -l
MO
*
*iji
i ■ ,
A 1-
i
gi ■'
v":
'*<■
wi
.
■
1
\ 'hM
-ifc.
\
Hi
;
■
1
■
li'!*'
.'... . .;
■
!m
:
/ . :■
m
\
■ :
■ ■ :/
:i: '■ :'V'
mm
I
m sbb
mm ■
'
msmm
■
i
~
This illustration depicts What "Dunlop tyres had
to contend With during Norman Smith's recent
record drive from "Brisbane to Sydney (643 miles)
in 16 hrs. 5 mins. The photo shows the "‘Chrysler’*
climbing the dreaded Spicer’s Cap (Queensland )
during the recent drive. The average speed from
Capital to Capital Was 40 miles per hour.
STAND HARD
DRIVING
A striking feature of Dunlop
service is the manner in which
□
withstand many thousands of miles of
of travel over the roughest of Australian
roads and tracks. You can always
depend on Dunlop quality and work*
manship standing up to the severest
of road tests. The reason is they are
specially constructed to ensure the re-
quisite strength essential to Australian
road conditions. You can be sure of
tyre satisfaction when your car, truck,
or motor cycle is shod with the de-
pendable “Dunlop.” Garages can supply r
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
of Aust. Ltd.
All State*
and N.Z.


j
djy
m
■
tug
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere •
«Wi4
jkil;u
ytijdghnjghj
TheTOP-NOTCH"Scotclv
Vp- at “StyWBEH Min If
c
1 •
!
“Hi Makai”: “Up Top” (B. 25/11/’26)
recalls the thrills of my youth when shooting
scrub-bulls in a somewhat similar fashion.
In our part of the Maranoa the waterless
wastes of prickly-pcar land in the back
country were the homes of hundreds of
scrubbers. The cows seldom came into the
frontages with the branded tame cattle.
JUST IN TIME.
THE NEW HAND : “I’m sorry to have wakened you at this time of
the morning, sir. The train should have arrived at ten
last night, and it didn’t get in till one.”
DAD SHORTHORN : “That’s all right. I’ll turn in again as soon as
I’ve started yer on th’ milkin’.”
Scrubbers can live and thrive entirely with-
out water provided they are on good scrub
country where they can pick young and juicy
pear. Bulls were as numerous as cows, so
the younger bulls were driven out by their
seniors to wander among the station cattle,
where cows were plentiful and bulls few.
These adventurous males we used to shoot
for their hides and also because we did not
want them to adulterate our stock. On the
grassy creek flats we would soon strike a
mob of cattle with one or several scrub
bulls among them. The bulls were
quick of eye and keen of nose and were
always on the alert when out of the cover
of the dense pear scrub. Sometimes we man-
aged to get in a fatal shot before they broke
for the scrub, but more often this first shot
was just off a vital spot, and then would
begin a break-neck gallop for the scrub. The
bull had a start and one had to ride at a
terrific pace to get close up on his rump to
start shooting at close quarters. We used
short-barrelled .32 Winchesters, and a tough
bull often survived a good half-dozen direct
hits before giving up his hide. Galloping with
the reins over one’s arm through trees and
fallen logs, both hands occupied with the
rifle, was to risk death every second from
a falling horse, a flying limb or a swerving
toss from the bull. It was then one knew the
thrill of the chase with a quarry worthy of
a man. Sometimes the bull reached the
scrub badly wounded, and then came the
risky job of following him to a finish, which
we usually did in the manner described by
“Up Top.” Cattlemen seldom attempt to
throw a scrub bull on account of his great
strength, weight and readiness to charge, and
also because they could not hold him down
when thrown. Of course the calibre of our
rifles was the weak noint, but the chase was
really a sport with us and we could not
afford the weapons of the buffalo hunters of
the Territory.
# * * *
“Saaedi”: If “Laen” (B. 2/12/’26) wants
to catch crows, let him build a netting yard
about Sft. long and wide and 6ft. in height.
The top of this enclosure he must cover also
with netting, leaving in or about the centre a
small entrance big enough for a bird. Finally,
“Laen” should leave inside the enclosure a
number of dead rabbits or a dead sheep.
If lie follows out these instructions he will
get all the crows his quaint gun-club requires.
* * * *
“AdeL.”: The wild pigs referred to by
“Rizzle” (B. 7/10/’26) are not the only ones
in Australia which are little deteriorated. A
pig-fancier who had
selected in the
Cooper country
(S.-W.Q.) went
broke during the
’94 drought. His
herd of pure-bred
pigs, being left to
its own devices,
was none the worse
for it; multiplying
and spreading all
along the numerous
channels of the
Cooper Creek, it
has till this
moment preserved
almost all its pure-
breed characteris-
tics. But unlike
“Rizzle’s” pigs they
are no good as
tucker unless fed on
clean food for some
months before kill-
ing. Perhaps no-
where else in Aus-
tralia are so many
wild pigs to be
found as in Cape
York Peninsula,
bu t these have
degenerated to a
mongrel breed use-
less for human
food. In the
Gregory River
cane-grass swamps
and over the black-
soil plains in the
vicinity thousands
of good - looking,
short-snouted black
and white porkers
range. When
caught young they
make great pets,
following their
owners wherever
they go like faithful
dogs and travelling
great distances over
any kind of country.
If left to their own
, devices about one’s
home an d partly
fed on kitchen
refuse they grow
rapidly to a great
size and make
splendid baco n.
But where sheep
have been depas-
tured ' they tear and eat alive the lambs
under the eyes of their mother ewes.
* * * *
“Belyando Bill”: The reason why Bill
Nutting (B. 23/9/’2G) was always changing
his hands was a simple one—-they could not
light. I knew Bill 35 years ago when he was
managing Surbiton station (C.Q.). The run
was traversed by the main Aramac-Clermont
stock route, and any drover who could use
his fists and was willing to do so didn’t have
to drive his mob the legal 10 miles per day.
Any passer-by who would put the gloves on
with Nutting was made a welcome guest at
THESE SELFISH WOMEN AGAIN.
“Wot did yer leave yer missus for?”
“She got it into ’er ’cad that I oughter he gain' to work.”
the station. I remember him visiting Rock-
hampton about ’93 when a Professor St.
Clair was giving boxing exhibitions in the old
Theatre Royal. A few of us witnessed a
willing go one morning, privately, between the
pro. and the cattleman, and the pro. got a
bad drubbing. That afternoon the city of
sin, sweat and sorrow was deluged witty
dodgers announcing the fact that a well-
known squatter would fight 20 rounds at the
theatre with St. Clair. Nutting, who had no
intention of fighting in this public manner
a,nd was wild at the unauthorised announce-
ment, was eager to go round to the pro.’s
pub and clean him up. However, we per-
suaded him otherwise, and that night the
Professor apologised for the absence of the
squatter, telling the “house full” audience
that a wire to return to the station immedi-
ately had been received by his opponent. It
was then we had the greatest difficulty in
restraining Nutting, as he was one of those
present.
* * # *
“Jack Dowic”: It happened in the days
when the old Goldsborough (N.Q.) mine was
in full swing. A prospector had died and
it was three days before his body was found.
The police, on being informed, came out
and sewed him in his blanket. A hole' was
scooped out near the Mulgrave River and
the services of another prospector were
obtained to assist in carrying the body
thither. On nearing the grave the unpleasant
job got the better of the policeman and he
dropped his end, letting the corpse slip head-
first into the hole, with its feet about 6in.
from the top. The grave was then filled in,
the policeman remarking that the deceased
would rest just as well that way as any
other. And certainly it didn’t matter, be-
cause the next flood swept the corpse into
the sea.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: Is there anything in this
so-called fascination or hypnotism said to
be practised on birds by snakes? According
to the Director of the Melbourne Zoo it is
a myth. He says he has repeatedly seen
birds given to snakes for food perch on
the reptiles’ backs and pick up scraps in
front of their mouths. To a certain extent
I can bear this out. I saw a brown snake
crawl by a bush in which was a willy-wag-
tail’s nest. Both birds objected to its pre-
sence and attacked it, flying at its head,
and on one occasion settling on its body.
Instead of hypnotism there was a display
of fear as the crawler made for shelter.
“Pick”: A favorite haunt of the porpoise
is the four-mile stretch of sea that swirls
between Montague Island and the mainland
of N. S. Wales. There on any day troops
of the acrobats gambol ahead of passing
ships or line out on sentry-go to watch for
travelling salmon. The porpoises are resi-
dents. Some of them have been long known
to the fishing fraternity of the coast, and
one ghostly snow-white fellow is named
Shroud. When salmon schools or mackerel
attempt a passage of the fairway, packs of
the dingoes circle them in the deeps and
gradually manoeuvre them into the narrowing
estuaries of the Bermagui and Wagonga
rivers or the rock-bound channels of
Mystery Bay. There yarded, the frantically
struggling fugitives are harried and torn till
the foam in their wake is blood-red. Once
at Bermagui when a king-tide receded
hundreds of tons of mackerel, driven in by
porpoises, were stranded on the mud-flats.
The stench of their rotting bodies remained
for months, and for the time being the village
ceased to be a popular resort.
* * * #
“Kaipara”: On the west coast of Maori-
land a farmer and his wife pay for the
top-dressing of their farm by searching for
ambergris after every storm or heavy sea
along a 20-mile beach. In the hunt they
are assisted by three sheep-dogs, trained
for the purpose. No piece is too small for
these dogs to find, their keen scent doing the
trick. The ambergris is sent to the Cold
Country.
THE SOFT ANSWER.
THE NEW COP : “What arc you putting my name
down in your hook for?”
THE NEW COP: “Sure, ’tis me duty. Didn’t
the sergeant tell me to make a note of
anyone I had me suspicions I might he
wanting!”
“Eureka”: What is the record time for
a cow to remain in milk after having a calf?
A dairyman in the Bega (N.S.W.) district
has been milking a jersey continuously for
81 years and she still gives a quart a day.
TO GRAN’DAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The aeroplane and motor-car have killed all
Romance in the West. ... Nowadays the traveller out
back takes no risks and the thrills of the ‘good old
days’ have vanished completely.... Poets sing no
more”. ... —Brisbane daily.
You have sung your song right well, Gran’dad
(And you are eightv-three),
In endless praise of the coaching days,
Of men there used to be;
Of the Warrego and Cobb and Co.,
Of shear-blades cutting free,
And the old-time West in splendor dressed;
But listen now to me.
There’s thrill to spare when you ride the air
In “Quantas” ’planes flown high,
And the same West’s seen, rolled out and green,
Beneath the same old sky.
What risks are ranked with a ’plane oft banked
To meet the Storm-God’s breath,
When mailmen fly in a hail-swept sky
And wrestle there with —Death?
If tears you shed for a Thrill-God dead,
A new one rides the plains
On the purring steeds that science breeds,
With tempered steel for reins;
Should you thither fare, nor find him there,
Nor on the shearing board,
By winging laps he’s gone, perhaps,
To dine with Henry Ford.
You have sung your song right well, Gran’dad,
In ringing line on line;
Why shelve the pen with the old song when
The new one’s just as fine?
Just pluck a lance from the new Romance,
And sing a verse with me....
Yet I s’pose I’ll sigh for the days gone by
When / reach eighty-three.
QUEENSLAND.
ROB P.


. gjggggu
■ ■ .1' .*•' . ~' '-'WSi
fill
fe g|
■
. '
aSH
lip '' 'laK®
IST *
nHi 5
1.1
H
::
m
IMP
J
■
g 1 jggl
■ ■ ' . . ' . ' • !
mM
“ vj.
gfi
Us
!«» . i IH
IBBIIiHHBKHHif
■■■,-
:••••
Mi
M’: ij
r rf
8 j v' y •
'W ■ ff:«sf
wmm
1
>r.
V : -
v
H
Ml
:
v
lf§
- • 5 ■’ v$M
,r-. . '
A -
••%• >•
I MM
Ite,
y 4;
•v;-\ :
IP '77^
tewlvS Ji
i
yjdghjty
In the van of
PROGRESS
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Pi*est,on Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co.,
Ltd., 905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Republic ...a moder nip
engineered truck!
f EADERS in every business activity, men
who recognise and demand lower trans-
port costs —merchants, packers, oil companies,
contractors and municipal councillors —con-
tinue, in ever-increasing numbers, to make
Republic their preferred trucking equipment.
These big, experienced users have positive,
convincing proof of the added efficiency and
economy of this modemly-engineered truck. And you will
have experience of these advantages through all the years
Republic will serve you. Make an appointment with your
local agent for a demonstration.
Republic has more
trucks in use than
any other exclusive
truck manufacturer
The right model
for every haulage
need —
5 tons capacity
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowie House, Castlereagb Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
Kin*
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
■lbxbcb
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qjaileslleidsico^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE WENTWORTH
Xmas and new year’s
Carnival.
CN
Gifts for Everyone.
Exquisite Dinners De Luxe.
Symphonic Dance Orchestra.
TIIE QUINTESSENCE' OF QUAINTNESS,
“BUTTONS,”
A SUPPER-TIME REVUE,
Featuring MAY and JUNE PIENRY. H. CARL THOMAS. MAIDA
JONES, FRANK and FRANCES LUIZ, IVAN GORSKI.
SPECIAL NIGHTS: XMAS EVE. XMAS DAY (Dinners), BOXING NIGHT
NEW YEAR’S “SURPRISE” EVE, NEW YEAR’S NIGHT.
Ring 8W1361 for tables.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Tw 0 hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines uefore 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Perhaps because of the cabled decision of
the Duchess of York to ban red from her
Australian trousseau, red and fuchsia tones
were flaunted on every side at Randwick on
Saturday. It looked as though everyone had
determined to wear out the bright-hued rag
before Royal eyes could be offended thereby.
But red is a beautiful color for our bright
lights, and perhaps before she leaves Sydney
the Duchess will become a convert. Cer-
tainly nothing could have been more bewitch-
ing than Betty Wilson in a coat the pink-red
of an old tile, and the red-hatted girls looked
cheery as the cherries in a cocktail as they
bobbed up and down on the waves that
rippled and surged about the stands and the
totes. The vice-regals were absentees, as
were no end of the fashionables, and top
coats and macintoshes were the general wear
—a chilly breeze blew over Randwick. Mrs.
John McCaughey was one of the rare com-
binations of warmth and smartness —all
white fox furs and black satins. The newest
thing in high-crowned millinery topped Mrs.
Colin Venn, who lias just returned from
Europe. Judith Anderson, the “Cobra” lady,
slung a whole generation of squirrel tails
around the coat of her Kasha ensemble, and
her oval face was charming beneath an ideal
pull-on hat. The handsome MacCormick
lady came with her daughters Morna and
Mrs. John Martin, and another handsome
wearer of good clothes was Mrs. Spencer
Brunton in burgundy silk repps.
Sydney seems to have billowed along on
balloon tyres this last week, and this Letter
strongly suspects that the cause of its light-
heartedness is tlie thousands of Christmas
carols and shouts of delight that rise every
afternoon and niglit from the kindergartens
in the city ways. Little Citizens, Golden
Fleecers, Blue Birds and the kiddies of
Miller’s Point have circled Sydney with a
smile so happy over their gifts that Santa
Claus, just for good measure, will probably
draw a rainful and therefore happy Christ-
mas from his stocking for the Outback. One
or the joys of Christmas is to see the beaming,
earnest little faces turned to the tree that
not only holds a present for the babies from
Santa, but gifts for father and mother and
teacher made by the babies themselves. The
youngsters even remember the dustman, and
of course the postman is a person of great
honor. Of toys there is no end, and the
thrilling escape of tjje monkey in Farmer’s
window who tries to snatch the orange out
of the crocodile’s mouth never fails to excite
first trepidation and then merriment in eager
window-gazers from five to fifty. So Christ-
inas is upon us, and every country will cel-
ebrate in its own way. Even Roumania,
they say, is to have its Carol.
The Assembly Hall of the Teachers’ Train-
ing College has been enriched by a Lambert
portrait of Alexander Mackie. For 20 years
Professor Mackie has been Principal of the
college. He knew it in its early years when
the odorous if not scented Blackfriars was its
home, and it was through his untiring efforts
that it is placed so pleasantly now within
the University grounds. Lecturers, ex-stu-
dents and students of the college threw into
the fund that was to commemorate him whom
they honor and respect, and nothing could
be more fitting than that the memorial should
be this lifelike portrait of the long ascetic
face and the slim, active hands that bespeak
force allied to imagination. Holman, K.G.,
and Dr. P. R. Cole, the vice-president of the
Training College, were the chief orators at
tlie unveiling, and a large concourse of
enthusiasts cheered further tributes to their
hero paid by Vice-Chancellor of the Uni.
Mungo MacCallum and Peter Board, one-
time director of Education. Then amid a
tumult of applause the subject of the por-
trait tried to put tlie blame for the college’s
success on Emeritus Prof. Anderson, Peter
Board and Mungo MacCallum ; and so with
amity and tea all round the party ended.
The boys aren’t to have it all their own
way. From June 7 to 14 brother will take
a back seat while Girls’ Week Ims the head-
lines in the papers. The first meeting to
discuss details was held at Beaumont House
one night last week, and the president of the
City Girls’ Amateur Sports Association put
the case for the girl. The appeal behind
an exhibition in the Town Hall, sports dis-
plays and a Pageant of Womanhood is for
£15,000 to provide a sports-ground for the
business girl. This is the first public call the
association has made, and if enthusiasm at
an initial meeting means anything then the
playground is already assured. Some land
at the Glebe is under consideration, and part
of it will be reserved for children. Lady
de Chair and Elaine were among the inter-
ested listeners, and so were two representa-
tives of nearly every women’s organisation in
the city. Her Ex. is patron, Mrs. M. Watts
president, and Miss E. Mallard treasurer.
With Warrant-Officer Garland as Daddy
Christmas dashing up in an early Roman
chariot, and General Bruche as official godpa
of the party, over 600 kiddies of the Per-
manent Forces (military and clerical) are
having their annual Christmas spree in
Victoria Barracks while this Letter is be-
ing gummed up. J. E. Hardyman has been
the hon. sec., treas. and genera* rouseabout,
and Colonel Wilson (Ordnance) bustled
back from annual leave to hand round the
cake. The inner parade ground is a tented
field, and the battle of Agincourt was a cir-
cumstance to the raids of the Light Infantry
on the victuals and the frozen drinks —all
enlivened by the voluntary support of the
Fire Brigade Band.
President Ethel . Stephens’s hat took a
jovial tilt as she joined in tlie revelry that
closed the Women Painters’ year. In their
long studio, under the roof of the old Q.V.
building, surrounded by Christmas-bush like
little pink stars of Bethlehem, Mrs. Jarley’s
Waxworks did their dash (the Sketch Club
was responsible) on the dais usually dedi-
cated to the artists’ model. Amidst a
tornado of applause, Miss Stephens handed
out a few rewards of merit to Bessie Boult-
bee (who was Mrs. Jarley), Winifred
Caddy (Sketch Club), and a clock to the
society’s little secretary, Miss Macdonald.
The Congregational Church at Killara
looked like a Hardy Wilson inspiration for
the linking of Doreen North and Francis
Colbeck Ibbott. It was massed in pictorial
confusion with blue hydrangeas, amid
which the bride moved in white georgettes
crusted with crystal, misted over with a
Honiton-lace veil of such an area that it
frothed into a train. Two ’maids, in golden
raiment from their caps to their sheaves
of gladioli, put a further glow into the
proceedings. Bride’s mother and father, the
A. H. Norths, later on made the Killara
Golf Club the h.-q. for congratulations.
Perhaps a brotherly feeling engendered by
“Abie’s Irish Rose” is responsible for the
increasing number of marriages between
couples, who bring mixed Jew and Gentile
names to the trysting-place. Last week
Gwen Marks, one of Sydney’s smartest
flickers, and John Throsby, son of the
Throsby Park household, swore life-long
allegiance. Tlie knot was tied pianissimo
at tlie bride’s home at Potts Point.
May Moore presents Mrs. F. Evans, who
was Fay Hornby. This lady has an inti-
ma t e know-
ledge of the
family life and
social happen-
ings of Austra-
lia of the days
when Sydney
first extended a
civic welcome
t o Captain
Cook that:
would be in-
valuable to the
Mitch ell
Library. A t
any rate, hun-
dreds and hun-
dreds of little
children who
saw what hap-
pened to “Tin*
Bo y Who
Sailed with
Captain Cook"
will testify in
her favor. Mrs. Evans wrote the play for
Farmer’s, and when the good ship Endeav-
our cruised right on to the stage, the kiddies
went wild with delight. Evidently local
color isn’t lost even on babies. Mrs. Evans
has written and produced dozens of these
plays for children. She is widely known
in Melbourne as a teacher of elocution and
in Sydney as a former welfare worker in
Anthony Horderns’.
Alice Graham last week stepped into
St. Stephen’s, proud of the century-old
lace that formed her veil and the train of
her shimmering satins. Eric Wilkinson, of
Bondi, was the young man who waited for
her, with padre Hugh Paton ready to throw
the noose. Brother Norman squired the
bride, and Mrs. Gordon Gartrell, in blossom-
like lilac and powder-blue georgettes, followed
bearing an armful of pink roses and del-
phiniums. The wedding feast, accompanied
by a floral outburst in tender pinks and blues,
was eaten at the Carlton, bride’s mother and
married sister Mrs. Stanton, from Welling-
ton (M.L.), presiding over the division of the
loaves and fishes.
Two well-known wine-growing families
were concerned in a North Shore wedding
last week. The bridegroom was Charles Linde-
man and the bride Joyce Holden, and Lyn-
ette Caldwell was a bridesmaid along with
Joan and Nell Holden. Both leading man
and lady belong to Killara; the Lindfield
kirk blessed the vows, and the Killara Hall
saw the confetti and heard the flurry of
congratulations, with the bride’s father and
aunt Henderson Wood as M’s.C.
That Chantilly lace and silver lame make
an effective wedding garment was proved by
Constance Symons, of Mosman, who chose
St. Andrew’s Cathedral for her change of
name and address. When padre Ernest
Cameron was finished with her she was the
wife of Dr. H. Hunter Jamieson, of Lane
Cove-road. A bouquet of pink roses and
a sweeping tulle veil that fell into a backwash
of train were accessories deserving mention.
The Ambassadors spread the feast, and
there the bride’s mother, Mrs. A. A. Symons,
did tlie honors in a beige-pink and blonde
lace ensemble.
This pretty creature is Altliea Glasby, a
Sydney girl who went to London in 1919 to
try for fame
and fortune on
the English
stage. By
determination
and the excel-
lence of her
work she
mounted step
by step till
she was play-
ing lead in
Shakspearean
productions at
the Old Vic.
In her time
she has done
everything
from melo-
drama to Ib-
sen ; and she
hopes early
next year to
appear in some
new plays by
Raul Fnrniss, a nephew of the caricaturist
Harry, who.se Pears’ soap advt. still con-
tinues to put a laugh on the face of the
world. Before Mr. Fnrniss turned his hand
to producing lie was a member of Du
Manrier’s cornpany.
A doctor grandson of Rolf Boldrewood
claimed his bride at All Saints’, Woollahra,
while this Letter was rouging its face. She
is pretty Barbara Laidley, daughter of the
Shepherd Laidleys, of Double Bay, and the
bridegroom a son of the late Cedric Street.
The gyves were also slipped early in the
week on Kathleen Retallack, of Queanbeyan,
and Neville Campbell Nelson, of Quirindi.
Bridal raiment of note that rustled through
last week was worn by Sheila Wood, of Bur-
wood, a daughter of the dour Scotsman who
looks well after the finances of the Presby-
terian kirk in N. S. Wales. She was pad-
locked for life to Alan Lloyd, barrister-at-
law, at St. Stephen’s.
And Billie Curtis is married. He did the
deed during the week-end in the rain. St.
Michael’s at Vauclnse heard the vows be-
tween the K.C. and his attractive girl bride,
Lalla Moss; and Padre G. Searcy, precentor
of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, threw the matri-
monial lasso.
The competition for a suitable design for
the Henry Lawson memorial results in a
win for George Lambert, with N. Leslie
Bowles runner-up.
Labor troubles don’t groove so many fur-
rows in the brows of Beale’s directors. No
doubt a music-house should be more har-
monious than an emery-paper factory, but—
seriously—a firm whose employees stay with
it for 20, 30, 40 years is more than a mere
curiosity—it’s an institution worth looking
into. These thoughts arise from a dinner-
party at the Wentworth when Beale’s held
their Long Service Association corroboree.
The firm, headed by Octavius, who refuses
to look the patriarch he is, has a pleasant
habit ot handing out loving-cups to employees
with 20 years’ faithful service behind them ;
and this year it became necessary to give
the silversmith an order for 11.
Eighteen years ago artist Fred Leist went
to London, and exactly eight months after
his arrival he had established a reputation
by having his “Old Editions” hung at the
Royal Academy. Roses all the way (as is
the immemorial custom) banked the famous
■•'airway between the galleries on that occa-
sion—and they have never been equalled (or
so it seems to him) for magnificence and
fragrance. The remaining 18 years he has
steadily painted for an ever-widening circle
of buyers. His popularity at the Chelsea
Art Club, to which all Australian color and
line men belong, is proverbial; and his popu-
larity as special artist to the Fifth Division
of the A.I.F. was proved by a get-together
at Paris House on the night of his return to
Sydney. From Macquarie-street and Phillip-
street, medicine-men and law-brokers —old
A.1.F.-ers —hurried, and tall, lean Fred didn’t
get home till they and he had stood silent
upon a peak in Cremorne, watching the
dawn break over the Pacific.
The Frank Albert couple, who keep a wing
spread over the Naval College at Jervis Bay,
entertained another hatching of cadet mid-
shipmen last week. First came a dinner and
theatre party at which all the embryo
admirals were present, and next day all
except three who had to rush away to Tas-
mania and Westralia answered the roll (or,
anyway, toyed with it) at a long lunch-
table at Farmer’s, where their hosts of the
night before again presided. Cadet-Midship-
man Sly is this year’s holder of the Otto
Albert Challenge Cup on the aquatic side,
and the runner-up is Chief-Cadet Storey.
This 11th batch of midshipmen from the
college will leave by the Demosthenes for
England in January, and after four years’
training there will return to Australian
ships.
Lyster Ormsby’s rooms above Hunter-
street are blazing with color and pulsating
with sentiment. Draping old pieces and
turning doorways into a bit of the Orient
are shawls colored and painted by Mary
Edwards. Each shawl bears a name and
each name is an index to the design. For
instance, “A Road in Japan” shows kimo-
noed figures walking in an avenue of blossom-
ing cherry-trees. These trees stretch up from
the border, till the centre of the shawl is a
riot of cheery-blossom. Then there is “Night
on the Harbor,” golden ferries and moon
and all; “Sunrise in China,” a blaze of saf-
fron ; and “Fete,” a quivering mass of gaily-
lmed lanterns against the blue blackness of
night. There’s “Romance,” too; and a deli-
cate “Fairy Ballet and Frills”—this last
showing a lady in Early-Vietorian billows
and flounces at each corner.
It isn’t often that the tobacco-steeped
Civic Club beckons Eve within its doors, hut
that Christmas feeling stirred its heart
lately, and a mixed tea-drinking was the
result. Woman shimmered and glowed in
summer array in an atmosphere of saffron
and orange. These two shades decorated the
reception-rooms and the long corridors where
tea was spread. A Christmas bell and plump
balloons added to the irresponsible mood of
the afternoon.
The new organising secretary of St. Luke’s,
Major Sandford Morgan, broadcasted his smiles
at the hospital’s annual meeting last week.
In spite of the sudden crash of the drought
the assembly-room of the Royal Colonial In-w
stituto was crowded with representatives of
the 05 centres and the schools associated with
the work of St. Luke’s. An appeal for
£50,000 is to be the first venture launched by
Major Morgan. This will just about cover'
the bill for the new hospital that is to be
completed in about a year at a cost of
£48,000. Frank Lamb, the hospital’s retir-
ing secretary, was praised with a loud voice,
and all the office-bearers were re-elected for
another year.
Miss Brisbane sees Christmas coming:—
The prettiest Anglican Church in Brisbane was
chosen as the setting for poetess D. L. Waraker’s
wedding to Lewis Townsend, of tlie S. M. Herald.
St. Paul’s, East Brisbane, was decorated with shasta-
daisies and brick-red gerberas for the ceremony, and
tile bridal gown was of palest primrose satin broclir,
brocaded in roses, made in Empire mode with a
gold lace fichu, a sash and a huge bold bow at
the back. Lady Ada Moreton had sent the Paris
lace veil; and a gold necklet, which had been worn
by the bride’s great-great-grandmamma, was the one
ornament;. Pauline Elliot and Owen Townsend
’maided in floral georgette in rose-du-barri pattern
on blue, with kilting-finish of blue at sleeves, and
panels. Mrs. Waraker wore grey chiffon over pale
pink; and Mrs. Townsend was in black, with an
olivine-green hat.
Pretty Margaret Walsh, daughter of the Walshes
of Southport, has accepted a stand-off signal from
Dr. Laumer Dods.
The Highland Society had a Christmas tree for
the lads and lasses in St. Luke’s Hall. President
Archie Campbell was played in and an dressed the
assemblage in Gaelic. The meenister, Allan Mc-
Killop, also said a seemly word. After the pipers
had played a lament for the late Mrs. J. D.
Macdonald, the supper was put on, and they all
enjoyed themselves no end.
The Authors and Artists had their last night
of the season in the Women’s Club, Dr. Cumbrae-
Stewart presiding, and Dr. E. S. Jackson speaking
a piece. Mema and Acie Gillies made music, and
Phoebe Kirwan arranged the supper. Professor and
Mrs. J. J. Stable, Francis Kenna and Daphne Mayo
were amongst the throng.
The Yorkshire Society had a big Christmas tree
and a Daddy Christmas, and -carols were sung by
the choir.
For the Distressed Diggers Mrs. R. D. Eve, Mrs.
Arthur Broadbent and Mrs. Edgar Robinson arranged
a ball in the' Troc. Lieut.-Commander and Mrs.
Mutton and General C. H. Foott were there.
The first of the Christmas parties at the Anzac
Hostel was given by the Red Gross. Brass bowls of
pink hydrangea were in the open-air ward thar
looks on to the Brisbane River ; another section was
all sky blue, and in the lounge were brass bowls of
coreopsis and sunflowers, gum-tips and white and
pink antignon, the lights being veiled in daffodil
shades. The Lieut-Governor, with Mrs. Lennon,
handed out the Christmas parcels. A concert was
given, and the V.A.D.’s served supper.
Admiral Gaunt, who is now mentioned as Banana-
land’s next Governor is, of course, a Melbourne
lad, now about 60. He had a Judge for a father
and has a novelist for a sister.


HARDY BRQTHER4I2TI
Hardy's Gift Suggestions.
BA 8299.
This compact Bridge Set of two packs of
cards, scoring tablet and pencil, in Pink
Crushed Calf Leather Case, will come as a
pleasing bearer of your greetings.
8A8284.
Zeiss Sporting Glasses in leather case, with
carrying strap, are a Christmas Gift that
every Sportsman appreciates. Hardy’s selec-
tion of Zeiss Sporting Glasses includes all
the popular models, ranging in price from
£lO to £lB net.
BA 8296.
Any man will welcome this Gilt
Key Ring, with the six attached
swivels for keys and a steel pocket-
knife and rule, all enclosed in
Brown Velvet Calf flap.
20/-
BA 8294.
Whether for polishing the wind-
shield of the ear or one’s foot-
wear, a Polishing Cloth, as illus-
trated, will be welcome. The
neat pigskin case in which the
cloth is enclosed adds to the value
of the gift.
10/
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Five per cent, discount allowed for Cash.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
S&T/oitsc oP SxxUuswcZJewclUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
Jl6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
I
3
Sr/i
;
Hwkivs
&EORICW
Guide
Hawkins]
Guide]
W-6
Hawkins
ElItTfilCAl
Guide
mm
Hawki
Hawki
Hawkins
Elkm
Guide
if
iLlURIfAl
Guide
taw
tai
elECIRICAl
Guide
¥W'
Guide
Guide
Guide
Guide
sV~S
\-2
m/o
m.
N-°3
AP4
W-6
HANACtWLK*
DYNAMOS'
- MOTORS:
'mmuKiirt!
'.testing
modern
application
UEtntM it
Railways
motion
pictures
AUTOHMUtS
IGNITION
. WIRING
PI5WSUII-’
SYSTEM*
iiowct
BATUMI*
rtUUMRi
SYSTEMS
CIRCUIT
BRi IKERS
MACnCTiJI'
WIPING
POWER
STATIONS
miPNONt
WORK ’
d
WlRCUSS
currents
UECTRlCin.
WHENCE
L INOEV^
BELLS
COKVHTERS MiASuftlNG
w&m
LIGHTING
.AHMMi-KEi
I WlWOlH&S
CTlFlEfttf; »NSTR(f*U4&
PS '
99**
4
)8fi4
COMPLETE SET OF 10 VOLUMES,
Price 50/-. Postage 2 6 extra.
Owing to limited space we give contents of
Volume I only.
The other 9 volumes complete the wonderful information available in the set.
Hawkins’ Electrical Guide No. 1.
Contains 848 pages, 888 illustrations. Electrical Signs and Symbols. Static and
Current Electricity. Primary Cells. Conductors and Insulators. Resistance and
Conductivity. Magnetism. Induction Coils. Dynamo Principles. Classes of
Dynamos. Field Magnets. Armatures. Windings. Commutation. Brushes;
Brush Gear.
EVERYMAN
MIS OWN
MEG MANIC
a
JSs.
A Complete Guide for all
Constructive and
Decorative Work,
including
Carpentry
Joinery
Turning
Painting
Glazing
Metal Working
Upholstery
French Polishing
Picture Framing
Household Fixtures
Fretwork
Veneering
Plumbing
WoodiCarving
Paperhanging
Plastering
Graining
Staining
Masonry
Domestic'Repaii
PRICE 6/6, Postage 9d. extra.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS,
.!
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
A Happy Xmas Assured with a
Laffargue Expression Player Piano
m
SHSSfo'
Please call in and inspect these instruments at any time.
We will be happy to demonstrate their excellent qualities.
Sold on EASY TERMS to suit your convenience.
Your present piano taken in part payment.
Catalogues Free. Please write or call for one.
Music appeals to everybody, and the gift of a Laffargue
Expression Player Piano would be the best possible Xmas
present, being especially appropriate for your own family.
Such a present would not merely give pleasure during the
Xmas season, but would ensure a lifetime of continuous
musical j oy.
Picture the happiness it would give all at home if you arranged
to procure an Expression Player Piano this Christmas. Do not
think such a present is beyond your means, because we make
it easy for you to secure one under our special system of
Easy Terms.
Remember, music gives the finest, purest and most lasting
pleasure, and then, realising the fact that all music can be
beautifully-played by you on the Laffargue Expression Player
Piano, you will rightly consider such a splendid instrument
should grace your home.
‘Quality Our Keynote
since 1853.”
338 GEORGE STREET : : 206-210 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.


g/ "giAL?N?La.
hmjfhgf
is tfid
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
One Crc£s.t
Toti Dal Monte
seu/s it is MARVELLOUS
obtainable
ONLY
' at
Home Recreations b
588 George St. Sydney.
(opp Bao.rd Watson s)
“I Always Stay at Scott’s”
A
1
fi'JO
There’s a heap of sound
recommendation in those
words. “I always stay at
Scott’s,” for they mean
comfort and satisfaction
have been enjoyed in the
past.
hdjkgh
is not only Melbourne’s most central hotel, but
the most modern in the comfort and service-
giving innovations that go to mean real satisfac-
tion.
Inclusive Tariff by the Day or Bed
and Breakfast Rate.
Write for Tariff Card.
Telegrams “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
V
•12 t
II
When
XMAS
Comes!
The Best Gift
for Lady
or Gentleman
kmgfm
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
"Right with the Sun.”
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 200[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Government House grounds were all set
for the G.-G.’s Christmas party to war
orphans on Friday afternoon, but the rain
came down in streams. Nevertheless, about
500 youngsters, urged on by members of the
Legacy Club, had a fine time in the big ball-
room and wide verandahs. There was a
brass band, made up of ex-soldiers, of course,
to brighten the proceedings, and Punch and
Judy’s matrimonial troubles and the antics
of a couple of musical clowns provided diver-
sion. The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven
moved around among their small guests and
chatted with convalescent soldiers from Caul-
field who were being entertained with Christ-
mas cheer in the dining-room.
Santa Claus called upon the blind children
at the Royal Vic. Institute, arriving in a
gaily decorated motor-car with a lyre-bird
perched on the bonnet and a big Christmas-
tree and hampers of gifts in the tonneau.
Besides this star turn there were all sorts of
games to play, a merry-go-round, and prizes
to be collected for school studies. Mayor
and Mayoress Morell handed out the awards,
which included money, medals and Braille
books, and the blue-frocked girls arid liealthy-
looking boys who couldn’t see all the fine
things looked just as happy as if they could.
Ex-Mayor Brunton and his lady were visitors
and were appointed to life governorships for
the help they gave during their three years’
civic reign. The president of the Institute,
J. L. Carnegie, and Mrs. Carnegie, Jim
Angus (vice-president) and Mrs. Jim, W. H.
Edgar, IVI.L.C. (hon. treasurer), and Mrs.
S. W. Hedger (wife of the superintendent-
secretary) were popular items in the throng.
The physicians and surgeons of the realm,
both great and small, were bidden to Federal
Government House one night last week to
meet delegates to the Pacific Health Confer-
ence. After their Exes, had touched hands
with the last of a long queue of guests, aides
dived off the dais and returned bringing with
them important personages who were taken
into private commune with the King’s repre-
sentatives. The house decorations were sea-
sonably cool —feathery bamboos, palms and
ferns. Lady Stonehaven’s attire melted effec-
tively into the background, being emerald-
green velvet with gold-and-wliite embroi-
deries. A big green feather fan played its
part. All save two of the health experts
were unattached pro tem. Mrs. H. B. Hetlier-
ington, wife of the Solomon Island represen-
tative, was clad in inauvc pink clouds of
georgette with a splash of crystal; and Mrs.
Wellington, whose husband upholds the
hygienic honor of the Federated Malay
States, wore a frock of pink, diversified with
scintillations. Mayor Morell and his lady;
ex-Mayor William Brunton and his lady, she
in a lace gown of jacaranda line with inlets
of silver; the James Elders; Mrs. Norman
Brookes, a glimmer of silver beads and gold
sequins ; her mother, Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
with brown fur punctuating dull gold lame;
and the Harry Chauvels, were sprinkled amid
the healers. James Barrett, Surgeon George
Syme with lii l ' wife, the Stanley Argyle
couple, Walker Sinclair and his bright-eyed
partner, the Murray Mortons (she in mauve
lit up with crystal) and Ethel Osborne re-
presented the Melbourne leeches.
Musical-comedy revivals came to an end
on Friday night, and the change to some-
thing new packed His Majesty’s Theatre
from stalls to gallery. Patrons welcomed
with enthusiasm “The Cousin from No-
where,” and gave friendly applause to a
ballet that was, firstly, wliite-clad and spark-
ling with dewdrops; secondly, petals of
azure blue taffeta; and, thirdly, in fluffy pale
pink. Thurza Rogers and partner Robert
Lascelles, in what passes for Dutch national
dress, tapped it in clogs, and later gave
their version of a mazy Strauss waltz. Maud
Fane’s marcelled crop shone above some
dainty frocks —the prettiest being floral-
patterned georgette with additions of plain
flesh hue. Rather unique was a white frock
painted with pastel-hued tulips. Mauve,
hydrangea blue and a quaint white gown
with a fringed shawl arrangement around
the hip-line were affected in progression by
Floie Allan, and Marie L i Varre’s most
fascinating garb was a neglige of lavender
hue. The Mayor and Mrs. Morell, with
daughter Sheila, were in the d.-c., and the
Taits were spread over three boxes; Major
and Mrs. Harry Cumming and the Magees
occupied another box. Beryl Ainslie, the
Percy Blackbourns (just returned from a
trip) and Mrs. Douglas Stewart, in deep
petunia apparel, were also noted.
At the King’s Theatre on Saturday night
Renee Kelly first emphasised the naughtiness
of “The Naughty Wife” in a symphony in
silver sequins, and was more wicked still in
a blush pink rest-gown with looped ribbon
adornment. Plunging into the thick of the
plot she appeared in an apricot georgette
coat, with big fur cuffs and collar, worn over
a frock of the same material, with appro-
priate millinery. Dorothy Fane wore a
white frock freshened up with green that
inspired many a secret resolve and an even-
ing-gown of shimmering mauve and silver,
veiled in blacK lace that was worth keen
appraisal. At the end there were beautiful
bouquets for all the beautiful ladies. Viewed
in the big house were Madame Grossardi.
Mrs. Dick Linton, the John Fisken couple
and the Louis Nelkins.
Lady Somers opened two new wards in the
East Melbourne Home for Infants, an Angli-
can enterprise, the other day. She stood
up all in blue and made an apt little speech.
Archgaiters Lees said he was glad to see
her, and took a leading hand in a dedication
service.
The 4th Light Horse Regiment Association
entertained the Chief Commissioner of Rail-
ways in Palestine (Colonel Campigli), who
is in Australia on furlough, at its last
monthly luncheon at Anzac House. Cam-
pigli was orderly-room sergeant in the 4th
Regiment, but after Gallipoli transferred to
the railways at Kautara, and rapidly rose
to the topmost place. His evidence is that
Palestine is flourishing under British rule,
in marked contrast to Syria, whore the
French are floundering in a sea of troubles.
Jerusalem in particular has been fortunate,
Zionists the world over having poured in
money to renovate the dilapidated old city.
A bit of mistletoe dangled over the door-
way of the Austral Salon one night last
week to show that a Christmas party was
going on. The stage was set with holly
and cotton-wool, but the decoration of the
hall itself was a little less exotic. It was
a fancy-dress affair, and Mrs. May Quinnell,
the secretary, led the vanguard as a Lady
of the Harem, sporting some quaint Indian
jewellery. The president, Mrs. Thomas
Baker, chose grey- georgette, patterned in floral
design, Annette Lynch wore exquisite filmy
lace over lavender brocade. Ethel Billing-
hurst was Lady Teazle, and Mrs. Maurice
Dudley was Hermione, her tresses flowing
over a pink and white trailing robe. Edna
McNicliol, attired (but discreetly) as a
maiden of Hawaii, was pronounced the
winner of the best get-up. Mrs. Frank
Beavis was quite an excellent Mrs. Mephis-
to, and Mrs. J. L. Stein was evening-gowned
in black with bands of emerald sequins.
The Howard Jolleys, Mrs. E. Galway.
Gwynn Watt and Dr. Bartolini were noted
in the throng.
The Free Kindergarten Union has taken
under its wing a holiday home for the wee
boys and girls
to whom it
minister s.
Vand y c k
studio pic-
tures here the
president o f
the committee,
Mr s. T. A.
a’Beckett, un-
der whose
guidance a
.house has been
found in the
Blackburn dis-
trict, and pre-
parations are
being made to
fit it for occu-
pation. It will
be called the
Annie West-
moreland
Home as a
tribute to one
of the first kindergarten workers in the
State. Mrs. a’Becketf, during a trip abroad
which will begin shortly, will be able to
have a look at European_ kindergarten
methods. Other interests of the lady in-
clude the Lyceum Club, of which she is
president, and the Janet Clarke Hall of the
Melbourne University.
The small daughter of the Somerses was
remembered by the newsboys at their yearly
beano. When the State Governor’s wife
gave out the prizes she was entrusted with
a big box of chocolates for Elizabeth. About
300 “newsies” with appetites well satisfied
gave her Ex. a noisy welcome when she
arrived after the high tea. Edith Onians,
the hon. secretary of the club, who enters
into the joys and sorrows of these youngsters,
was as proud as she could be of her charges.
Mrs. Herbert Syme, a vice-president of the
committee, received a little parting gift from
the boys on her departure for a trip to
Europe. Mrs. James Wilson, Jimmy Dyer
and Mrs. John Murray were other friends
of the club who were on hand.
Old Xaverians 70 strong met at their Alma
Mater on Saturday, partaking of a luncheon
with the rector, Father Frost, at the head
of the table. Afterwards, many fair relatives
and friends of pupils having meantime rolled
up, there was a tennis tournament, a golf-
putting competition and a cricket match be-
tween two teams of ex-students. Included in
the Xl’s were former inter-State players
Tom Armstrong, Maurice Collins and H. C.
Schrader, the last-named a brother of the
secretary, Herman G. Schrader. A band
played in the lecture-hall for those who felt
like foxtrotting, and tea was spread on the
lawn in front of the college. Other schools
showed their friendliness by sending along
the Haynes Dicksons, Mr. and Mrs. F.
Knight and Frank Boileau. Among the old
Xaverians were the president, W. G. Cros-
bie, and his wife. Her biscuit-colored gown
was covered with a black coat, and her hat
was black, too.
A remark made lately by Hans Heysen,
here pictured by Broothorn, ought to stiffen
the sinews of
the art student
who isn’t at
the top of his
class. Said
he: “If any
pupil showed
me attempts
like those of
my youth I
should give
him no encour-
agement to go
on. ” Heysen
came to Aus;
tralia with his
parents from
Germany when
he was seven
years old, and
at 20 went to
France for
four years’
study. As a
water - colorist
of genius and the discoverer of the finest
pictorial possibilities of Australia’s gum-
trees, he has been known for many years. At
his just-concluded show at the Fine Art
Society’s Gallery in Melbourne liis oils were
a feature. The trustees of the National
Gallery have atoned for years of neglect by
buying “The Edge of the Clearing” in oils
and “The Old Stack” in water-color. The
painter, with his wife, four daughters and
three sons, resides among the hills outside
Adelaide. Of the seven offspring there is
only one, a daughter, who wants to smear
paint on canvas. Heysen doesn’t like
women painters, but he will let this one have
a fighting chance.
On a recent fine evening Joseph Halbert
left his flocks and herds in Bananaland to
shepherd daughter Doris Margaret into a
Toorak church and hand her over into the
husbandly keeping of Hamilton Morton
Sleigh, whose family lives in South Yarra.
Parchment-tinted gros-grain formed the
bridal gown, made in early-Victorian style
and worn with charming effect. Tulle of the
same shade swept from the face and floated
around in a mist of confusion. The bride
wore a bracelet of orange-blossom and carried
a posy of orchids. Evelyn Scarfe (Adelaide)
and sister Thelma attended her; the former
in blue and the latter in lilac taffetas, both
with small felt hats to match. There were
sounds of revelry later in Hadleigh Hall,
South Yarra.
Mrs. M. R. McMillan sat at the head of
the table at the Lyceum Club one afternoon
last week when farewells were said to Mrs.
Victor Sellheim by those _ who had been
associated with the lady in various good
works. She goes to Norfolk Island, where
her General takes over the job of Adminis-
trator early in the New Year. General
Chauvel’s lady said nice things on behalf
of the Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers’ Union,
and Mrs. McMillan spoke up for the District
Nursing Society. Mayoress Morell was there
in black lace and georgette with a picture-
hat, and Mrs. Herbert Brookes appeared in
all-violet trappings. Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
the Lockyer lady and Mrs. Austin Enabling
were also on hand.
Beatrice Tiernan, or “Mary Gumleaf” as
she is known for the purposes of 3LO,
stood upon the platform of the Queen’s
Hall the other day in a white gown with an
embellishment of leaves and a crown of bush
foliage, and told tales and recited verses to
the delight of many children and the enrich-
ment of the coffers of the Kindergarten
Union’s holiday home. Later, wearing a
robe that suggested the Queen of Night, she
served up deeper intellectual fare in an
account of Beethoven’s life. Musical illustra-
tions were provided by Georgia Claridge, and
two children danced the famous “Menuetto
in G.” Dances by Miss Kitchener’s pupils,
songs by other little' people, and Christmas
carols by Freda Northcote’s fledgling song-
birds lieiped the afternoon along.
Mrs. H. J. Robertson, president of the
Women’s Automobile Club, collected the com-
mittee in the lounge of the Oriental the other
afternoon to toll them they had striven nobly
all through the year. Mrs. «T. B. Mills, the
hon. secretary, stepped forth with a posy of
lilac and carnations for the hostess, and
they harmonised very nicely with the lady's
wine-toned frock and hat. Fair-haired Mrs.
Maurice Patkin, on the eve of a journey
overseas, also got a posy and a lot of good
wishes.
The howls that greeted the latest batch of
purchases under the Felton Bequest have
been heard in England. At a meeting of
overseas Australian artists a carload of cats
were let out of the bag. One speaker said
that British picture-dealers regarded the
Felton Bequest as merely a comfortable home
for pictures that American collectors did
not want. Gallery authorities have now
heard opinions from both ends; but so far
their sole concession to public opinion is to
send back to Europe their travelling sales-
man—he who purchased the abused collection
—with an injunction to pay more attention
for awhile to antique bric-a-brac and such-
like knick-knacks, instead of pictures.
Nona Syme has announced from London
her intention to wed. Cecil Robert White-
croft, K.N., retired, is the man of her choice.
She is the youngest daughter of Francis
Syme, who lives in that lovely seaside home
built by the James Grices on the hill out-
:/1 Frankston. Her mother died some years
back.
The George Russells put on an end-of-
the-season reception, chiefly dancing and
bridge, to “bring out” daughter Dorothy, a
charming lass in a frock of billowy silk net
sashed with silver lame. The colors of
Toorak College were worked into the deco-
rations, and the chatelaine of Edzell wore a
flame-hued rose upon black georgette cover-
ing. Her two younger chicks flitted about
in frocks of sun-kissed corn.
G. B. Lancaster, the novelist whose dozen
or so books entitle her to be called notable,
stepped into Maoriland the other day after
an absence of 18 years from Rakaia, her
birthplace. Her real name is Edith Lyttle-
ton. When she left Enzed for tin;
literary lights o’ London she was already
a novelist, but her rather crude stories
then were all of sizzling adventure. She
spent a year in Canada and the rest in
London, and now she turns out yarns so
well done that she is amongst the leading
younger women-novelists of Britain. One
or two books have been put on the screen.
Miss Lyttleton is visiting her brother in
M.L., where she intends to remain for a
year’s good rest.
The outing at Moonee Valley racecourse
on Saturday afternoon was, from a financial
point of view, entirely satisfactory, but
socially it wasn’t much. The affluent were
too busy packing for the seaside and homes
in the hills to worry about a side-show meet-
ing. Among inveterate sports who couldn’t
give it a miss were the Hiskens family, Dr.
and Mrs. Barry Thomson, the Neville Army-
tages, the Robert Landales, the Beau Fair-
bairn couple and the Rogers Thomsons. The
thermometer was down in the mouth, so
summer outfits remained upon their hangers
in the wardrobe.
An address by R. A. Broinowski upon the
work of the late Henry Tate, a well-known
musician and musical critic, was the chief
item of the final programme of the year o:
the Australian Literature Society. A sonat;;
for violin and piano illustrated the way it
which the much too little appreciated com
poser endeavored to reproduce the Australia/,
bush.
Sister Adelaide’s gaieties :
School speech-days are at the moment the chief
episodes of our hectic career, with University Corn-
mem. as a climax. Their Exes, have been at some
of the speech-days—Woodlands (where their daugh-
ter is a pupil), Scotch College and the Presbyterian
Girls’ ditto. At Woodlands the headmistress, Miss
Gillam, had something to say about young femin-
ism’s growing tendency to be inaccurate and care-
less in writing and speech.
At the Uni., the ceremonial of the Oommern.
apart, there has been the usual lunch with the
Graduates’ Association as hosts and this year
graduates as guests, with the- students’ procession
and concert following. The latter were well above
the average of such shows, parading some wit and
giving the censorious little to censor. Two of the
Hackett daughters, Jack Glover, Creagh Smeaton
and two of the Frank Irwin sons were the star
performers at the concert.
Frank Downer sponsored a dual tea party at
the official opening of the polo season at Birkalla.
He is president of St. George’s Society as well as
a keen poloist, and bade his fellow members, as
well as the usual Birkalla habitu&s, to come and
watch the game. Their Exes, were there, too, and
in the second game saw some first-class polo.
The engagement is announced of Doreen Matthews
to Douglas, elder of the L. N. Salter sons, of Col-
lege Park.
A bachelor host has struck a new idea for sum-
mer entertaining—swimming at the city baths as a
prelude to dancing and supper at the Floating
Palais. A blazing night gave point to the enter-
tainment, whereat guests were mostly of the younger
set, with a papa and mamma or two to take proud
note of the aquatic antics of their offspring.


V rcl
©My
IA
jj o
JFU
©c
- w
Diamond £ Sapphire Wrisl" Wahch £57/10/-
:
Diamond eSapphire Wrist" Wahch £2OO
Diamond Seh Wrish Wahch £35
Bracelet Watches in Platinum or Gold, plain or set with
choicest Gems, represent a very important feature of the
firm's present selection of Gift Jewellery. These are to be
had in many chaste and exclusive designs, with Moire
Silk Bands, or flexible Diamond-set Bracelets.
These Watches are marie by the finest makers in the world, and their
appearance is indicative of unparalleled quality. Every watch is,
however, thoroughly tested before leaving the establishment, and the
Firm guarantees their exceptional time-keeping qualities and perfect
reliability. A discount of five per cent, will be allowed on all
cash purchases.
WM.OmUMMONID) £ CO
M4-M§ COLONS §1 MELIOLiRNE
(
/ V
/h
<
LEARN TO DRAW
By the Weston Method.
SIMPLE — RAPID — EFFICIENT
Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of
the people and scenes that surround you every day?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-
and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illus-
tration of yours had been accepted by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT ! YOU CAN, TOO.
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to rapidly realise
your ambition without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and concisely all the prin-
ciples of drawing in the simplest and most effective manner. It teaches you thoroughly, because
it has been prepared by the man who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster Artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and each student has the helpful
stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his
work.
It Teaches You to Draw—
NOT TO COPY.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward you Mr. Weston’s Booklet,
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
—which tells all about the course and
gives examples of lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
£:
X.
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
45 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
A. SAUNDERS’
RELIABLE WATCHES
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Square Cushion-shape Jewelled
Lever Wrist Watch, Nickel Case, £2.
Extra Jewelled, £2/10/-
Solid Silver, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
9ct. Gold Case, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO.
IBct. Gold, £l2/10/-
All Guaranteed,
A.B*UK»KKfc
dxo«as sumxmMMX
y
A. Saunders’ (icrit; s Nickel Open-face
J-plate Keyless Lever, 25/.
Imperial Lever, 307-
Extra Jewelled, 40/-, 507-
All Guaranteed.
AVE PAY POSTAGE.
make IDEAL
XMAS
GIFTS
V r m
L» i MViViV.'.'W,*!
kMS
A. Saunders’ Cent's Hunting Keyless
Lever, Sterling Silver, £2.
Imperial Lever, £2/10/-
10-year Gold-filled Case, £2/5/-,
£2/10/-
Higher grades, £‘s, £,‘l/10/.
20-ycar Case, £5.
25-year Case, £O/10/-, £7/10/-
Waltham Lever, 10-year Case, £3/15/.
Imperial grade, £4/5/-
20-year Case, £5 /10/-
25-year Case, £6/10/-
Extra Jewelled, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l2/10/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 - - 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Note 3
of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and 1 ravel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI.
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR AUSTRALIAN TRAVELLERS
TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours From £321
Low-rate Escorted Tours,. From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation. Meals while Travelling, Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February, March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER'S GAZETTE ” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.).
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


u
M
Si
1
m
u
NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
Every BARNET GLASS TENNIS BALL Stitched
and Stitchless AH Court is Manufactured in
accordance with the
Compression Standard
as well as every other standard
of the International Lawn
. Tennis Federation.
r
n
u?
se
SI
A PRIVATE SECRETARY
IN PORTABLE FORM.
To the business man, the professional man, the
writer and the traveller the Underwood Portable is
a veritable Private Secretary. Efficient, unobtrusive,
dependable, it is ready at any instant to furnish
every modern writing convenience no matter where
you may be. Its light, responsive keys transform
writing from a drudgery to a pleasure, typing pages
of clear, legible work in a fraction of the time taken
under old-fashioned methods. Send for a free copy
of our descriptive booklet “A-5,” containing
complete details.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
dhmyuj
Specifications.
Made in two Models —3-bank
and 4-bank keyboards. Two-
color ribbon, back-spacer, stencil
switch, shift keys and locks,
variable line spacer and margin
stops and release.
Stott & Underwood Ltd
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Underwood Typewriter Agency,
91 William Street, Melbourne.
THIRTY YEARS
Motorists have had thirty years to make up
their minds about “Castrol.”
More “Castrol” is sold now than any other
motor oil.
The progress of “Castrol” sales throughout
the world demonstrates the tremendous demand
there is for this famous British-owned oil.
Its unexcelled lasting and friction-reducing
qualities reduce the consumption of both fuel and
oil, minimise wear and carbonisation and enable
an engine to develop and maintain its full per-
formance.
That is why its British quality reigns supreme
in every field, and why over 200 leading Motor
Manufacturers rcommend—
WAKEFIELD
Read
a
OIL
MOTOR
Obtainable jrom Leading Oarages.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd
The All-British Firm,
Head Office for Australasia: Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Australian States and New Zealand.
OIL THAT
W 5
SgniiATCStVLRYWTy
V>v~
msH
To all who desire the
hospitality and helpful-
ness of efficient arti-
ficial light—
British-made
“COSMOS”
LAMPS
will prove all that you wish. Scientifically
constructed to embody the latest developments
in modern lighting “Cosmos” Lamps give that
generous, all-pervading light that answers your
needs.
For every lighting purpose there is a “Cosmos”
Lamp—in home, office, factory, workshop,
public or private building.
The reliability of “Cosmos” Lamps gives assur-
ance of satisfaction. Ask your electrician, store-
keeper or hardware dealer to assist you in
the choice of the Cosmos Lamps suitable for
your needs.
Factory Agents for Australia:
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
933 Hay Street, Perth.


The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artell’s comes from Cognac only .
Marteil’s for Age and Quality*
MARTELLS
BRANDY
FRANCE
vsL \
J
am
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH'S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors;
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[1
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sydney had over two inches of rain on
Friday night and Saturday morning, and no doubt
the condition of the track at Randwiek, though not
nearly so bad as had seemed likely, contributed to
the downfall of some of the favorites. Particularly
that of Vaals in the Villiers Stakes. Six to four a
week before the race, the big, long-striding chestnut
touched 7 to 4 on the course, but was backed so
resolutely by owner Moss and his friends that lie
closed at 5 to 4—this in a field of 15. White
Fang and King Cyllene, each in appearance a bit
light-framed for the job, were next in demand at
10 to 1; then came Honan and Orient Princess (14
to 1), St. Eaton, Giggle and Siaosi (16 to 1),
Bunting Wallace (20 to 1) and Queen Alwyne
(25 to 1). The favorite jumped away slowly,
and was all at sea for a furlong, at which
stage he was last. However, he responded well to
Craeknell’s promptings and made up so much ground
that at the home turn lie was running third. Mean-
while Honan, ridden by Hasler, had got such a
break on the field that it was plain Vaals could not
catch him, nor did anything else seem to have a
chance. The English horse was still clear at seven
furlongs, but he tired rapidly, and Queen Alwyne,
who had been trailing King Cyllene and Vaals,
finished with such dash that she cut Honan out of
it by three parts of a length. King Cyllene was
third, six lengths away, Vaals fourth, North Logan,
Pugnacious and Giggle next, and Lausanne last; the
mile took lmin. 41sec., the slowest time since
1915, Lord Nagar’s year.
A substantial-looking five-year-old brown mare by
St. Alwyne—Galtee Queen, dam of Vaals, Queen
Alwyne belongs to J. J. Leahy, who owned Speciality,
and is trained at Randwiek by Dan Lewis. It was
impossible to back her on form, for she was not
only a maiden, but had run poorly in a seven-
furlong race for third-raters at Warwick Farm a
fortnight before. Moreover, her jockey, Burn, was
unknown to the generality of punters, who will be
more mindful of him in future. The mare is
engaged in the Summer Cup with 7st. 101 b., a 10lb.
penalty included. She was third at Canterbury
Park last February at a mile and three furlongs,
but that is probably as far as she cares to go.
Vaals will improve when it is hard underfoot, as
also will St. Eaton and Bunting Wallace. Indeed,
fancied horses which had positions at or near the
rails on Saturday and failed ought to be given
another chance, for the going was much worse there
than it was in the middle of the track or on the
outside.
The tide turned for punters when Persuasion (7
to 2), trained by Kelso for Charles Brown and
ridden as only Pike can ride, romped home in the
first division of the Trial Handicap from Royal Sun,
a good cut of an English horse, who came too late.
Cave Dweller (7 to 1), previously as unlucky as
Persuasion had been, took the second division, in
which Otway Falkiner punted heavily on ICillarney,
who was interfered with, and Grecian Orator, a
taking sort of a gelding by Demosthenes—Welkin
Queen, was a fast-finishing second. Strongbow (5
to 1) proved the best of the 13 Summer Cup candi-
dates that contested the Holiday Handicap, 10 fur-
longs, but Firefly, a little Beragoon stallion in
Marsden’s stable, would have been closer to him
but for running out wide. Donald was third and
Bacchus not far away. Pat Osborne, who owns Vali-
care, backed Yule Cake (5 to 2) all round the ring
for the concluding Highweight Handicap, only to
see his mare beaten out of a place by Hoppicker (S
to 1), Kanchani and Dion. Hoppicker wins one race
a 3'ear for owner-trainer A. W. Barry, just as he
used to do for Tommy Sanders. He is a marvel-
lously bright-coated and clean-winded chap, consider-
ing that he is almost old enough to vote, and he
battles out a finish as keenly as any of the young
ones.
Judging by the betting, McShortodds expects
Strongbow (Bst. 51b.) to add the -Summer Cup to
the Holiday Handicap prize just as Dainty Davie
did last year. The son of Bowman is certainly in
form, nor has he much to beat, but hitherto he has
never run two races alike. Bacchus (7st. 91b ),
Tibbie (7st. 51b.), Lady Valais (6st. 101 b.), Dion
(7st.) and Firefly ( 6st. 71b.) are nicely handicapped,
and Real Mackay (6st. 131 b.) has been running on
in all his recent attempts. Impressed with the pos-
sibility of a surprise, this Page intends having a
ticket on Real Mackay, but Ladv Valais would only
need to be half as good as when she made a hack
of Frances Tressady in the 1924 A.J.C. St. Leger to
win, and win easily. And the daughter of Valais—
Lady Childwick showed a glimpse of her old form
recently (Tibbie, conceding lumps of weight, was
second) in a race at Newcastle.
* * * *
On looks and form, Eridanus was the pick
of the seven starters for the Laluma Handicap, 10
furlongs, at Moonee Valley on Saturday. A little
2 to 1 was laid about the V.R.O. Final Handicap
winner, but it was 6 to 4 when the authors closed
their volumes; there was good money for Lady
Tatler (7 to 2), Lady Rooka (4 to 1), and Raith
(5 to 1). O’Dwyer was shaking his whip at the
favorite at the turn, but, getting a run on the
rails, Eridanus won well by three-quarters of a
length from an outsider, Head On (15 to 1), who
had been in front most of the journey, with Lady
Tatler half a length away. The King John —-Star-
glow gelding carried 9st. (there was a 7st. minimum)
and shaped so nicely, though the time (2miri. 7jsoe. )
was nothing to write home about, that he is now
in request for the Bagot, Handicap, in which he lias
Bst. 51b. Eridanus is now owned by G. Scott and
trained by P. McGrath. In the Barkoola Handicap
for two-year-olds, Rakwool (2 to 1), who comes
from the Albury district, was the medium of a
plunge, and the good thing came off; the Woorak
—Wollunqua gelding, with Bob Lewis on top, won,
pulling up, from a couple of outsiders. He is out
of the ordinary and should be heard of again. In
the Kiata. Handicap, six furlongs, that smart horse
Threeasta (10 to 1) just poked his head in front
of another speedy one in Quintus (3 to 1) at the
right end, and the much-improved Savadeen (4 to I)
gave Duncan an untroubled winning ride in the
Highwcight Handicap, Fury and Tullius following
the Burrabadeen gelding home.
* * * *
“Tiger” Payne gave further proof that he
has good right to his feline prefix when he luciu-
phorically clawed the hide oil' another “heavyweight
champion of Australia,” George Thompson,' at. the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday in less than one round.
Thompson, who scaled 12st. to the coon’s list. 1011 b.,
was in perfect shape and appeared supremely con-
fident. He fdirly danced out of his corner, but
was shyly hesitant about letting go a punch with
weight behind it. Not so Payne, who jabbed a
left, to the middle and let fly with three terrific rights,
which Thompson ducked. Then a long black arm
shot out, and tlje glove plunked solidly on Die rosy
cheek, just under the eye. Thompson’s head rolled
over, to meet al perfectly-timed hook to the chin,
and down George went on the broad of his back.
He tried most ptrenuously to rise (the “Tiger”
meanwhile waving his paws to the crowd), and
managed to get his feet under him and lift his
bulk fairly upright. Then his legs took charge, and
he made a drunk’s run across the ring till he fell
across the middle rope, where lie hung helpless,
■while referee Wallis crowned the coon. It was all
so sudden that the crowd seemed unable to realise
that the fight was ever and Die “championship” had
changed hands;
* * * *
The long reign of Melbourne Stadium was
challenged on Saturday night, when a syndicate
called the National Sporting Union staged a bout
for the lightweight championship, at the Exhibition,
between Billy Grime (9st. lflb.) and Havilah Uren
HIS HANDICAP.
SHORTSIGHTED GOLFER: “What's your handi-
cap, sir?”
SWAGGIE: “Corns is me worst.”
(9st. 841 b.). The crowd was encouragingly large,
but Havilah proved a disappointment, never extending
the brilliant Billy. When that way'inclined, William
is a most punishing pug., and, unluckily for the auburn-
haired Sydneysider, he was that way inclined
on Saturday night, probably with a' view to enhanc-
ing his record before embarking on his American
tour. Havilah didn’t land one really good punch,
f* ls attempts with his left being countered with
mirttul nghts to the mid-section. He was down for
e *p“t seconds in the sixth, and “out” in the seventn,
wnen the dour Riverina youth flashed over a beautiful
right.
There were vast open spaces at the Stadium, where
™ no ® Leo i) (9st. Silb.) and Jack Jones (9st.
ojlb.) headed the bill. Jones was favorite, and was
miles ahead on points most of the way, but the
brown islander, swollen of feature and with blood
streaming from his nose, always came back for more.
Jones s own countenance began to show signs of wear
and tear, and, going to pieces in the 17th, he was
dropped twice. Then Quirk pointed to the battered
nut heroic little Filipino asi the winner.
* * * *
‘‘Old Broughton” : The old-time camp.ro-
t‘er ] le ,, °f the “fancy,” when the Regency buck
and the professional exponent of the raw- uns met on
equal terms at ringside and tavern, has gone down
before the spirit of class-consciousness. This was
”l? de ® vidbnt when members of the Broken Hill
p.S.W.) Boxers’ Union threatened to declare a
bout ‘black.” It was the big show of the evening,
between two well-known boxers brought up from
LEO O'CONNOR, euptain and mainatay of
the Queen .stand Sheffield Shield team.
A Victorian by birth , O'Connor played
football, With Ensendon.
Melbourne and Sydney respectively, but the union,
which consists of local “prelim.” scrappers, with
their trainers and seconds, insisted that the metro-
politan stars should take out union tickets, which,
eventually, they did. If the idea spreads in country
districts, metropolitan visitors will find it expensive
—unless they make it their business to obtain Federal
registration, or something of the sort, in the Arbitra-
tion Court.
* * * *
Japanese swimmers Katsuo Takaishi and
Takahiro Saito made their first serious appearance
in Australia at Brisbane on Saturday, and out-
classed the opposition in the events for which they
competed, the 400 metres free-style and the 100
metres backstroke. Takaishi’s time for the 400
metres was smin. 21 4-ssec., which is 10 seconds
slower than “Boy” Charlton’s best. But Takaishi
won by a street, although Grier and S. Springfield
were among the competitors, and Saito had almost
as easy a victory in the 100 metres, which he covered
in lmin. 21 2-ssec. Keith Kirkland has done it
faster, but Keith will need to be at his top to
beat this Japanese boy.
* * * *
Despite heavy tracks, there were some
good performances on the final day of the Dunn
Shield competitions at Sydney. Only three holders
kept their titles: G. R. Parker (Western Suburbs),
mile walk in 7min. 1 l-ssec.; K. Keugh (Botany).
440yds. hurdles in 69 4-ssee. ; and W. B. Thomson
(West), 161 b. hammer throw, 121 ft. 2 tin. A. W.
Winter (West) returned to the winning list with
the hop, step and jump of 47ft. lin., 3ft. 10 3-16 in.
behind his Olympic record, and also finished second
to A. Floyd (East), who did 10ft. in the pole vault.
There -was a surprise in the 220yds., A. Walker
(Manly) ' defeating N. R. Burns (Uni.) in the first
heat; Walker was second in the final to R. J. Winn
(West.) in 23 l-ssec. Having run third in the
100yds. and 440yds. on the opening day, the Manly
youngster made a good impression, as also did
C. O. Jones (West), who got a Way with the three
miles in 16min. 3 l-ssec. For the premiership,
Western Suburbs (holders) had an easy win with
7S| points against Botany’s 36 and East’s 341.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Now that J. O. Ander-
son has become a tennis pro., the natural query is
“Mho’s next?”, J.O. can hardly be satisfied with
coaching as an adjunct to his business of handling
sporting material, but exhibition matches that will
“draw” are out of the question at present, for
there is no one among the small coterie of pro-
fessional coaches able to extend him. It is suggested
that Anderson may be allowed to compete with
amateurs, under amateur control, and that the N.S.W.
L.T.A. will ask the Australasian controlling body for
a “ruling on the point.” If it does, it will waste
its time, for the laws of amateur tennis, as laid
down by the International Federation, say emphati-
cally that amateur and pro. may not compete. The
solution will probably be the crossing over of several
N.S.W. and Victorian front-rankers to the profes-
sional ranks. When the nucleus of a strong team
has thus been collected, exhibition tours will be
arranged, and Yankee Pyle will descend on these
shores with the incomparable Suzanne, Vincent
Richards and o4.her celebrities.
The names of McNamee and MeGuirk
on the board at Adelaide Oval as N.SAV.’s opening
bowlers illustrated forcibly the coming of the new
generation. South Australia had its best side in
the field, while the visitors were experimenting
largely. Little Schneider (S 2) and Arthur Riehard-
son (61) had the 100 up by lunch-time and their
side stayed in all day and a good part of the next,
Vic Richardson rising to the occasion again with a
masterly 157—his highest score in first-class cricket
made in 202 minutes. Alexander (55), Pritchard
(40) and Grimmett (48), who is becoming a most
useiul batsman, helped their captain to raise the
total to 500. Five new bowlers were tried, but
it was an old one, Mailey, who got the bulk of the
"ickets 6 for 191. Phillips (54) and Steele (28)
gave their team a decent start, and Andrews (86)’,
ivippax (39) and Ratcliffe (46) carried on the
good work; but its fine first-innings score seems
to S.A. a firm grip on the game.
Mars’’: The South Aus. XI has a strong football
run or. Vic Richardson helped Sturt to annex the
1926 toeball premiership. Schneider was one of the
best players for Norwood. Other A grade hoofbullers
were Gun (Glenelg) and Palmer (South), while
Alexander was a ’Varsity star and Parry, the midget
keeper, played in junior grades. To top it all,
one of the umpires, Johnny Quinn, has been in
charge of the whistle in every inter state football
match of recent years.
* * * *
<«• P ie year of Adelaide’s one big
intercollegiate”, cricket match, St. Peter’s v. Prince
Allred was notable mainly for the bowling of
ot the p aratoo pastoralist and
\n ifL °! tI T : acting Federal Attorney-General.
. IcLachlan s slow curly stuff seemed to paralyse
a Hu for 40 th( V went to all out
for 67. ,St. Peters replied with 346; one of the
numerous 1 ellew family made 54. and Ratten, the
captain, with 168, came close to the school’s record
"l hl ! .match (Hill, Darling and Dolling all did
iimch b’ggt-r things tor P.A.C. in their day ) Prince
J./, i * a it'd better at the second attempt, but
t 0 save the innings defeat. McLachlan s
ba M ioi the match was 7 for 20 and 6 for 108.
Ihe Queenslanders luid first use of a
Mel bourne wicket in their Sheffield Shield
TuuLJ’t Vl .? tona ,’ , but , o, dy QiH (36) showed
V iH' 0 !, 1 and the bowling. The combination
of lilaekie (4 tor 49) and Morton (3 for 39) proved
too much for the Bananalanders; Morton, a fast
bowler from South Aus., who has played a season
or two tor South Melburne, unbeaten in club
matches this year, impressed them so- much that
some ot them went about asking how it was he
hadnt got into the Vic. XI before. Obviously the
."quirers don’t know the Vic. selectors. Woodfull
(b. Ron Oxenhain, 56), Ponsford and Hendry doubled
Queensland s score with only “Woodie’s” wicket
down, and at that stage Bananaland supporters would
have sold out cheap.
*.« * *
„ n e^, Sil , IJn f :F. It. Spoffortli, Australia’s
Demon oowler, left estate in England valued at
nearly .-£17,0,00°, Spoff. married the daughter of
a London tea-merchant, and, joining the business,
ended as managing director. None of his colleagues
on his five tours of England did nearly as well
financially A great cricketer who made three tours
with _ the Demon died in such penury that the hat
had to go round to save his remains from a pauper’
burial. Let that lie remembered by those who object
to cricketers getting a decent whack of the “gates”
they help to produce.
* * « *
“Eureka” : Of course cricket-bats are made
H 1 Australia (B iB/11/’26), Stumps, bails and balls
also. Ihe Windham (South Coast, N.S.W.) cricket
club used to boast that all its paraphernalia was
home-grown and -made. The bats were fashioned of
willow grown on the banks of the local river;
mountain-ash was used for bails and stumps: gloves
and pads were made by a local saddler; and the
pitch was composed of antbed. Wyndham was then
in the boom consequent, upon the opening of the
molybdenite mines at Whipstick, three miles away
iiie once prosperous town, with remnants of its un-
beaten cricket team, its band, its foot runners ( JilOO
handicaps were common in those davs), now sleeps
between the hiHs and dreams of the day when
V\ hips tick will come info its own again. Another
trici- Wlth a demand for molybdenite, would do the
Bob Crockett, the great umpire, has been
ranking bats for years from willows grown on his
selection at Daylesford (Vic.). Bill Howeß brought
him some cuttings from England many years ago.
Bob cant turn out enough to. supply the demand.
The Oxford-Cnmbridge Rugby game, the
swankiest event of the British Rugby Union year,
was played on the international ground at Twicken-
ham last week, Cambridge winning by 30 to 5
a thumping victory. Nevertheless, the Dark Blues
are well ahead in the 48 games which have been
played having won 22 (including last year’s, by
9 to 4) as against 17 to the credit of their rivals
the Soccer match between the two Universities,
played on the same day at the professional Chelsea
club s _ oval, was won by Oxford, 1 goal to nil.
This is the first year for a long time that no
Australian has been mentioned in the cables as
playing on the Oxford Rugby side.
“Past Grammar”; Ned Parata, the first
orgamser of Maori Rugby football teams, as opposed
to the All-Maoriland sides, seems to possess the
national aptitude for judicious flattery. On his
recent departure from England with his returning
Rugby Union Maoris, he wrote in London Evening
akws that the English forwards were the finest he
had ever seen, especially in scrum work. It mav
be so now, but both out here and in England Aus-
tralian teams have found the forwards the least
difficult end of a usually tough job. English sides
that have visited Australia showed no signs of
troubling about serum formations. They were said
to have improved in this respect after the 1905 All
Blacks and the. Wallabies visited England, but these
as well as the Springboks and later All Blanks’
usually gave the palm to the back divisions. But
Parata knows his book. When he says good-bve to
France, where he and his men now are, he will
pass the butter to the local backs. As he lauded
the referees in Wales, honors are easy all round. It
is perhaps just as well Ned’s lads didn’t visit Scotland
and Ireland.
HAFIZ AT POKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A face like a mask or a gargoyle is an asset. But
never forget
Bow often the wrong 'un at cricket dismisses the
batsman who’s set.
Remember a flicker of gladness, by an obvious effort
repressed,
May pull through a hand that’s depending on a
trumpery pair at the best;
And a frown on the face of the drawer, like a
shadow going over the wheat,
Conceal his conviction he’s something will take more
than three bullets to beat.
Kings and queens may look strikingly pretty, but
they won’t bring you home with the oof
From treys in the other chap’s basement —if he’s aces
to go on the roof.
Vou may get the one card that you wanted, but
you needn't feel over-elate.
Keep in mind there were certainly others aimed
higher than filling a straight.
Don't part with the bone for the shadow. Think
twice about breaking a pair,
But when two-card buys are in fashion you'd best —
if you want to be there.
When jackpots, and wet ones, are frequent, fight shy
of liqueurs and three-stars;
Best stick to innocuous shandies and unelevating
cigars.
For geese look like swans when you’re inked up,
and calves as imposing as hulls,
And a trio of butchers or ladies as healthy as
flushes and fulls.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Your finest asset
is good health
When you are well, both work and play
are tackled with zest and vigour. So it
is very much worth while to safeguard
your health —and the way that has the
approval of fifty-odd years behind it is
the morning ‘dash’ of Enos * Fruit
Salt” in a glass of water. ENO succeeds
because it prevents inner sluggishness,
the root cause of so many health
disturbances.
ENO'
™FRUIT SALT-
Prepared only by J. C. Eno. Ltd.. London. England
Sales Agents :
The British Harold F Ritchie & Co. Ltci.
Sydney. N.S. W.
and ENO, and the label
shown on the package are
registeied trade mark*■
kyl
FAIRBANKS SCALES
/
ýtijt
FOR rapidly and
accurately weigh'
ing the great variety
of merchandise sold
in retail quantities,
Fairbanks Counter
Scales offer excep'
tional accuracy and
durability. The public prefers to buy in
shops using Fairbanks Scales.
Representative for Australia —
R. W. WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE FAIRBANKS CO., 416 Broome, St., New York.U.S.A.
ACCURATE DEPENDABLE
Host HoHrooA Says ~ 1
“I blend. I stir and 1 brew
the Sauce of the House of
Holbrook. Aye, and then
I mature it in vats of
English oak.”
3
&
'S
a.
V*
rw:
*s*
l
SAU C E
n
1
ssksjS
ii
IE
M
m
m
m
mm
m
m
mm
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Do qou'Realise that
a Canadian Tripji.6
within ijour means?
1 1 'HIS wondrous trip of over 3,600 miles—
via some of the loveliest scenery in the
world—is now easily within the reach of most
Australians, for the fares are really most
moderate.
The Canadian Pacific Railway
has a service that is unequalled. Trains that
are havens of comfort—hotels that are the
latest in luxury steamships that combine
speediness in transport with every modern
convenience that you could desire. And you
can book all accommodation prior to your
departure.
You can obtain through tickets in connection with
the Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, whose
New Quadruple-screw Motor Passenger Liner
"Aorangi” (23,000 tons displacement) and the
faVorite s.s. “Niagara” afford an unequalled service
to and from Vancouver, B.C.
WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLETS.
Apply to any office of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., any Tourist
Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Representative, Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, Union House,
£47 George Street, Sydney .
VTA T9AP-L
II
V I
=r
/
Llii
THE INKY WAY.
“Modestine”: A M.L. paper in a recent
appeal to the townsfolk to attend the Jubilee
services of the Anglican church mentioned
that Sunday’s offertories would go towards
“replacing the front ewes!” We were
wondering what was wrong with the females
of the flock until it dawned on somebody
that the font ewers must be worn out.
“Old Nib’’: AGE-editor Schuler was of
the race of journalists, more common 20
years ago than they are now, who regard the
paper as everything and the individual as no-
thing, or comparatively nothing. His ideal
staff was one in which every member thought
as the Age thought and liked or disliked —-
but more particularly disliked —everyone
that the Age objected to. And the last made
a pretty long list. New ideas in journalism
left him unmoved: he hated pictures,
“stunts” and sensations; and to the last
regarded the strafing of politicians as a sort
of holy crusade.
Passed away at Wellington (M.L.), after
an operation, Dick Harris, a contributor of
verse and Ited Page articles to The Bul-
letin for many years past. Harris wrote
a great deal for the Triad in the palmy days
of the Bayertz-Morton combination and after-
wards was engaged in daily journalism on
Christchurch Sun and on Australian news-
papers. He married about 14 years ago, but
his wife died very shortly afterwards of
consumption. Harris saw service in France
and was for a time editor of the Diggers’
magazine, Quick March. A particularly
well-read man, he could have been described
as bookish had he not had such a keen
appetite for life. One of the last things
he wrote was a fine set of verses, “If I Had
a Son,” which appeared in the Christmas
Bulletin. One slim volume of poems,
“Monodies,” stands to his credit.
“Wongajong” : The path of Labor daily-
journalism in Australia is strewn with
wrecks. The most spectacular was that of
the Daily Post, which made its first appear-
ance in Sydney on January 9, 1895, an
eight-page evening paper which proposed to
“give temperate expression to the industrial
and political aspirations of the workers.”
The directors included Sam Smith, W. A.
Holman and T. Routley, and Edward Ellis
was secured from the Sunday Times as
editor. The Post struck bad luck from the
start. The machinery broke down when the
first issue was being printed, and the crowd
that had assembled to witness the kick-off
was kept waiting seven hours. The bulk of
its shareholders refused to part up for the
shares they had taken. At one period the
sum of £l4OO was owed for wages, and
employees had to resort to court proceedings
to obtain their dues. The paper gave up
the ghost in April.
At the cost of Is. one can equip oneself
with an amazingly useful friend in the
Sydney “Evening News Year Book.”
S.M. Herald ad.: —
Girls wanted, having had experience in twin
factory, good wages.
Sir James, Sir James!
PARSON : "Ah, my friend, thinking of your
misguided past?”
PRISONER: "Eh? No! I was just wonderin'
which cr th’ papers I’m gonna write nu
experiences for when I yet out.”
“Prickly .Tack”: Nearly every Digger
transport had its news-sheet, bat the long-
distance record for a regimental paper was
probably held by the 7th Field Artillery
Brigade’s Yandoo. The sheet, making its
first appearance on the Argyllshire, near
Cape Town, early in 1916, accompanied the
troops to Blighty and then to France, and.
except for a brief period when the machinery
(typewriter and duplicator) were in the
hands of Fritz, regularly regaled the gun-
ners and drivers with narrative and personal
pars, until the remnant of the brigade re
turned to Sydney in 1919.
REASON ENOUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Human skulls are changing in shape, according
to Miss V. George, a London scientist, who says she
believes that faces are growing longer and narrower.”
Man, your cheek is growing leaner,
So the scientists aver;
Must we, then, from your demeanor
Straitened circumstance infer?
H.C.L. we know is carving
Higher records daily, sir;
Is it really that you’re starving?—
Homo Sapiens said “Brrrr!”
Man, your face is growing longer,
Says this scientific par ;
Is this gloom, aye waxing stronger,
Of your soul? Does every star
Still elude your frantic groping
And the thought of things that are
Leave you little room for hoping?—
Homo Sapiens said “Bah!”
Man, it must be one or other
(Soul and body have I tried!)
Else, I cannot think, my brother,
That your gloom is justified;
Since all fault in economics
And in ethics you’ve denied—
“ Have you seen the penny ‘comics’ ?”
Homo Sapiens replied.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


y l i!
THAT THE CHRIST-
MAS SEASON BE
FULL OF JOY FOR
YOU AND THE NEW
YEAR BE ONE OF
HAPPINESS 0 PROS-
PERITY IS THE SIN-
CERE WISH OF THE
DIRECTORS AND
EMPLOYEES OF
GEO. A. BOND 0 CO.
LIMITED
HOSIERY MANUFACTURERS,
COTTON SPINNERS AND
WEAVERS
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1369.
■ dhgk
IT ADFIELDS, LTD., of Sheffield,
**■ England, wish to notify their
friends and all who may be interested
that the working agreement they made
with Messrs. Hadfields (Australia),
Ltd., of Sydney, New South Wales, in
February, 1 922, has been terminated.
The Sole Selling Agents of
Hadfields, Ltd., of Sheffield, in Vic-
toria, South Australia and Tasmania
are Messrs. Horrocks, Roxburgh Pty.,
Ltd., Sheffield House, 517-519 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, and 15
Way mouth Street, Adelaide, and all
inquiries and communications made
to them will receive prompt attention.
East Hecla Works, Sheffield, England,
November, 1926.
DE LAVAL
INDUSTRIAL SEPARATORS
78
Different
Models.
FOR
A De Laval
Separator
for
Every Purpose.
SEPARATING AND CLARIFYING
LIQUIDS OF ALL CLASSES.
Steam Turbine Lubricating Oil
Diesel Motor Lubricating Oil
Diesel Motor Fuel Oil
Transformer Oil
Fish Oil
Whale Oil
Dry Cleaning Gasoline
Varnishes
Olive Oil
Peanut Oil
Yeast
Wool Grease, etc.
From the Ist of September this year we have taken over the sole representation in the Common-
wealth of Australia for these world famous machines. When doing so we are following the same
principle which is the leading feature of our own SKF Products, i.e., establishing a service
organisation for our clients.
Should you require any further information with regard to above you will find us at your disposal.
The SKF Ball Bearing' Co., Ltd.
MELBOURNE: 595 BOIJRKE STREET. SYDNEY: 45 KING STREET.
Representatives in all States.


m
*‘A , ‘
Spend Your Summer Holidays
at the new “Hotel Manly”
Right opposite the Manly Wharf is
this new luxurious Hotel. Expense
has been no object in making it one
of the finest resorts of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. From the
moment you step into the Reception
Hall you are surrounded with com-
fort and personal service. Large and lofty
bedrooms, with tasteful, new furniture and
spotless linen, give restful invitation, and
the constant supply of hot and cold water
to each room is a refreshing boon to every
guest. You can lie abed with reading-lamp
and telephone at your elbow....you can
enjoy the artistic atmosphere of the perfect
music-r00m... .or wield a racquet on the full-
sized roof Tennis Court.
Motoring guests have the convenience of
an ample basement garage—and the surf is
only four minutes distant.
Make early summer reservations at the
Hotel Manly and be certain of holiday con-
tentment.
Room and Breakfast only, from 13/6 per
day; Exclusive accommodation from £7/7/-
per week.
Full particulars and complete tariff will
be posted immediately in response to your
inquiry to
Hotel Manly,
Manly, N.S.W.
Manly 1961 (4 lines) and Manly 27.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SIIoWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ‘3 0S ®
Criterion L bo.
Royal “The Gondoliers
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
St. James ............. “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Fuller’s aU j ev -!l e
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
IDs Majesty’s “The Cousin from Nowhere”
King’s “The Naughty Wife”
Royal .' “Pins and Needles”
Princess “Puss in Boots ’
Atiien-edm “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli . Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s #••••••••••••••••••••*• • Moving Pictures
For two long empty years Melbourne has
waited for “The Cousin from Nowhere,” and
even when it finally arrived at His Majesty’s
on Saturday its presentation lacked the sen-
sational flavor that graced the Sydney debut.
On that occasion public expectation had been
whetted by the egregious agitation of certain
journals on behalf of a prima donna stated
to have been discovered by the management
languishing behind a lace counter three weeks
previously. She was alleged to combine the
histrionic power of a Sarah Bernhardt with
the vocal magic of a Tetrazzini. Curiously
enough, the lady did not quite fulfil these
lofty terms, and her performance was an
ordeal for herself and those members of
the audience cursed with sympathetic souls;
and shortly afterwards Marie Burke took
the unfortunate girl’s place. In the pre-
sent production Maud Fane takes the
part, investing Julia van Osteren with
the engaging Fane mannerisms and a
good deal of unintelligible diction. Claude
Flemming is the plump stranger who drops
into the Dutch garden, impersonates the
cousin from Java to whom Julia is betrothed,
and sings about his love for the road with a
voice which is still worth listening to, even
if it shows a few specks of grey about the
temples. Floic Allan, who, as the vivacious
Freda, saved the Sydney production from
complete disaster, adds a gay swirl to this. On
the first night Gus Bluett was Gus Bluett, as
well as being a humorous and frequent inter-
lude in a straw hat and a bishop’s-purple
suit; Edwin Brett, as Uncle Joseph, was
comically senile; Marie La Yarre and Hugh
Steyne were in the picture; the lissome
creatures known as the Williamson 12 were
all over it; a moon of generous dimensions
dropped fat over tulips, roses, windmills and
canals; a realistic storm was succeeded by
weather more suited to the occasion ; Rogers
and Lascelles, with whom the orchestra was
sometimes in disagreement, danced as a
Dutch pair divinely and as no Dutch pair
ever danced; and the evening was very
generally applauded.
sic * Hs *
Hilary Farrington, on learning of his
wife’s proposed elopement, compels the guilty
pair at the pistol’s point to use his week-
end bungalow for their honeymoon, and
invites the philanderer’s late fianede, the
servants, his wife’s uncle, the bishop and
himself to join the party. The lover finds
his honeymoon too cluttered up with fiancees
and too bogged by bishops to be really enjoy-
able ; the inamorata finds her adultery too
full of husband to be comfortable, and in the
grey light of the next morning everybody
decides to make it up. “The Naughty Wife”
at Melbourne King.’s is one of those simple
excursions into the realms of illicit amour
whose moral goal is well in sight almost
before the first shocking proposals of the
playwright have been breathed across the
hushed auditorium. Hence, to make the
journey worth undertaking, the scenery to
be encountered by the way must be definitely
entertaining. The scenery in the present
instance consists of Renee Kelly, as the
errant chit, portrayed as a witless creature
whom a sensible mate would have smacked
and put to bed; George Barraud, as the
proposed cuckold (George’s acting proves
that one can smile and smile and be a
hero) ; Ronald Ward, as the lover to whom
innumerable high-class ladies have delivered
up their virtue, but who is depicted as an
unsophisticated sinner, hardly likely to lead
astray the village moron; Dorothy Fane,
the philanderer’s fiancee; French maids,
butlers, chauffeurs, elegant N’York apart-
ments and Long Island bungalows to taste.
The whole makes a rather afhusing evening,
tnough weak on its last legs. Renee Kelly’s
vanity-box of flapper tricks had not suffi-
cient ammunition for the part. Dorothy
Fane, as tne fiancee, despite an over-fruity
voice and a tendency to overact, made a
better showing.
Hs * * %
Theatrical employers demanded more
notice before the new Vie. law prohibiting
Christmas-day shows is put in force, and they
got it. Unless entrepreneurs become philan-
thropic angels, therefore, stars and scene-
shifters will have to wait another year to
have their Yuletide indigestion in the bosoms
of their families. Ada Reeve will start show-
ing the points of “Pins and Needles,” at the
Royal on the 27th. On the same day at
the Palace Frank Neil will be “The Hotten-
tot,” a farcical person stated not to be so
black as he is painted. A strong cast which
includes Phil Smith, Sadie Gale, Jim Gerald
and Eileen Castles will play at “Puss in
Boots” at the Princess. And at the Play-
House O’Donnell and Ray will present “Sin-
bad the Sailor,” which is described as a
gorgeous Oriental Comedy Extravaganza, hut
may be a panto. At the Athennsum “Meet
the Wife” is treating the festive season like
any other week of the year.
Galsworthy’s “Windows” were wiped by
Beresford Fowler and his Little Art Co. at
the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, one hot night
last week. The casting was judicious hut
the play was disappointing, although by a
playwright beloved of Repertorians. The sad
truth must be told that novelist John, like
to his late co-worker Conrad, is not an
always triumphant dramaturgist. He gets
a bright new philosophic idea, which has
only been known to the trade for about
3000 years, and, instead of dressing it up
in appropriate dramatic clobber, sets half
a dozen assorted characters rushing in and
out of doors, discussing the notion from six
different points, while the curtain-raiser
sucks a live-saver in the wings and stands
ready to cut the debate into 40-minute sec-
tions. The deathless truth embalmed in the
present exhibit is that a working girl who
openly smothers her illegitimate child in a
public hospital is liable to fall foul of the
police, and that the mother of a respectable
middle-class family is likely to be reluctant
to engage her as a housemaid when she
comes out of gaol, especially since the son of
the house is showing signs of a pubescent
urge by writing poetry and railing against
the inequalities of the post-war social sys-
tem. Two acts of the essay are not lacking
in nervous wit and energetic dialogue, but
by the advent of the third the absence of
action is vehemently perceived. The chief
leaders in the mystery, for which no solution
is provided, were Mollie Locke, as the middle-
class mother, a very vivid presentation; Lucy
Alion, as the erring girl, a fine tempera-
mental study; and Daisy Bradley, as a comic
cook. Beresford Fowler, armed with a
bucket and a bottomless bag of aphorisms,
cleaned the windows.
** * *
Henry Santrey is back again at Melbourne
Tivoli. This intimation is addressed to those
who don’t get enough jazz in their daily life.
The Bijou’s current feast is mainly George
Wallace, who serves himself up on a more
or less lordly dish in his own quiet and
humorous style.
* * *
At Hoyt’s Melbourne centre this week
Alma Reubens is rescuing her child from
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Little Tich, one of the remaining Lion
Comigaes of the Hinglish ’alls.
adverse circumstances and bringing him up
correctly in several thousand feet of film-
confectionery entitled “Marriage License.”
The fine acting of Charles Lane as an an-
cient dotard is the best feature of this pic-
ture. At the Majestic Kenneth Harlan, in
“The Ranger of the Big Pines,” is protect-
ing a defenceless public forest from the
advances of a villain ; and Lionel Barrymore
is reviving a fragrant old stage favorite that
pealed for an earlier generation in “The
Bells.”
Gene Tunney heat Jack Dempsey for the
heavyweight championship of the world at
Melbourne Royal at an afternoon session
the other day, and this Showman witnessed
the spectacle without getting wet, although it
■was pouring in Philadelphia at the time.
Also he knew what the end of the slaughter
would be before it had begun, and could have
saved the principals a lot of trouble and
VETERANS OF VARIETY, AT
MELBOURNE BIJOU.
Lily Burnand warbles about sweet Rosie
O’Grady, and Jake Friedman still gets
the laughs.
the 135,000 spectators, some of whom paid
£2OO for a seat as far back as row 70, a
heap of money. The above facts suggest a
new use for the cinema when the present
writer’s new invention, the Time Adaptor,
lias been put on the market. Based on
Einstein’s discovery that time is a curved
line in space and that therefore every event
must some day come back to where it origi-
nally happened this attachment will enable
the cinema operator to photograph the winner
of the Melbourne Cup before the race has
started, the marriage of the Prince of Wales
before the young man’s engagement has been
announced, and the opening of the next Vic-
torian Parliament before the election writs
have been issued.
* * * *
From an Auckland correspondent:—
The Auckland Little Theatre was established in
10125, through the inspiration and under the guid-
ance of H. J. Bentley, a retired professional who
had played leads under world-famous masters. For
one season Mr. Bentley acted as producer; then he
Was forced to give up the gallant fight which he
had been waging against consumption. He entered
the Waipukurau Sanatorium at the end of last year,
but a little later died of the disease. He was keenly
interested in the movement up till his death, and
he , had the satisfaction of watching his own theatre
flourish in Auckland, and two similar organisations
establish themselves in Wellington.
As producer for 1926 the society secured the
services of Joseph Clark. The first performance was
that fine comedy “The Dover Road,” by A. A. Milne.
It is a play of the kind which the newspapers never
fail to call “a sparkling fantasy”—marked by a
graceful, shimmering humor, and full of “whimsies”
and healthy eommonsense and cynicism. The pro-
duction, too, was excellent. Jack Gordon made a
first-class Latimer; Herman Geddes and Fred Mc-
Oallum were also well cast as Leonard and Nicholas.
Nor Would it be just to forget the two footmen —two
lanky \ lads of 6ft. sin., each attended by a prim
little maid some 2ft. shorter. There was a good
run of; four performances, including a benefit night
for Mr 1 , Bentley.
After this the society had a reading of three one-
aeters—-Susan Glaspell’s “Trifles,” and “Phipps” and
“The Dear Departed,” both by Stanley Houghton.
This experiment was found so successful that
“Captain Brassbound’s Conversion” (G. 8.5.) was
later treated in the same way. Besides this feature,
it is intended to hold lectures and socials, and to
form a dramatic library when things are going well.
The second production of the year was H. A.
Vachell’s “Quinnev’s.” The thing was a financial
success but a moral disaster, saved only by the good
staging and the excellent acting of Arnold Goodwin
in. the name part. Despite the elaborate scenery
(the furniture alone was insured for £1000) careful
management contrived to keep expenses down to the
modest sum of 3s. 9d.
But, though the Theatre admittedly has many
difficulties in its way, really nothing can justify the
serving up of such sickly saccharine. If the spirit
of Repertory manages to overcome the snobbery
and dissension which seem concomitants of amateur
theatricals, it is to be hoped we shall see an attempt
at something really daring. Thus far too little
attention is paid to the quality of the plays produced,
and too much to the mere staging. Better to give
a great play to a handful of enthusiasts in a barn
than to produce a mediocre play before a huge
audience in a well-fitted theatre.
* * sH *
Who’s where in the Sydney theatres this
week: “Rose Marie” at Her Majesty’s; “Is
Zat So?” transferred to the Criterion:
“Abie’s Irish Rose,” still blossoming at the
Royal. On Boxing Day two pantomimes
and a new Gilbert and Sullivan opera co.
(starting with “The Gondoliers”) will arrive
with a rush —“Aladdin” at the Grand Opera
House; and “Jack and the Beanstalk” at
the St. James.
* sis * *
Nothing very sensational was opened by
the “Bunch of Keys” at the Adyar Hall, Syd-
ney, on Saturday night; but the show is
bright, smart and amusing; and Alf Law-
rance has gathered an agreeable company of
co-partners in his enterprise, among them
well-remembered and vivacious Vinia Deloitte.
•I* »!» *!' v
Jones and Raines, at Sydney Tivoli last
Saturday, were not as hilarious as these
“piano entertainers” imagined themselves to
he. The lady had the annoying habit of
repeating the questions of her partner—a
fashion that died out a decade ago. The
pair played a grand piano so that it sounded
like a pianola, which was a rather clever
but unnecessary thing to do. Jean Barrios
(with a surprise) ; Osborne and Perryer, in
a broad comedy sketch ; Salerno, the clever-
est of jugglers; and Little Ticli, with his
same trio of broad-comedy impressions, com-
pleted a varied and good programme.
** * *
The only outstanding feature in Fullers’
Theatre (Sydney) on Saturday was the turn
of Bcrtini and Berne, who provided not only
good music but artistic humor, though it
was obtained by playing a violin with a
bottle and other weird substitutes for the
violin bow. Claude Dampier, the profes-
sional idiot, received a hilarious welcome.
The Zig Zag revue, “On the Scent,” lacked
the animation of the previous week’s show.
Nat Hanley provided the diluted fun, and
William Greene and the ballet were valuable
assistants.
** * *
The real interest of “The Beautiful
Rebel” is the apt introduction of famous
figures of history, and the heroic and
picturesque deeds of the campaign. There is
happily no role for Marion Davies in the
famous crossing of the Delaware or in the
legend of the ride of Paul Revere. Tin;
unforeseen crossing of the river, which
enabled Washington to take the British on
the flank, is shown on a heroic scale. In
the midst of a blinding snowstorm the gallant
little colonial army is seen perilously making
its desperate way over the ice-clogged stream.
It is a thrilling bit. The ride of Paul
Revere through the night to warn the
scattered hamlets of the approach of the
British army is even more effective. That
solitary horseman thundering through the
night is so real, and his endeavor so sus-
tained, that one almost hears the thud of
the hoofs. Against such elemental scenes
the insignificant heroine fades out. The
picture was shown on Saturday at the
Sydney Empress.
$
According to the cinema, the World War
was won by a woman’s kiss. In “The Great
Deception” all the old stunts are taken out
for an airing: the English spy, who is also
a member of the German secret service,
though, of course, he is loyal to England;
the German submarine; the aeroplane
escape; the secret documents; the nice young
lady who pilots an aeroplane and single-
handed beats off an attack of German ’planes.
The German officers and men are obvious
types, well selected; but in this picture their
intelligence is puerile, while the British hero
surmounts difficulties like a bird. The stunt
flying in the aeroplane, one of the alleged
sensations of the film, does not “come off”
as well as it should, owing to the spectators’
inability to follow the incidents in the air.
Still, this class of play will be found in the
cinema repertoire for years and years to
come. Ben Lyon is the smart hero, but the
aviation mechanic, Sam Hardy, is a more
outstanding figure. The heroine. Aileen
Pringle, does not matter much. The play
was shown at the Strand and the Haymarket
in Sydney on Saturday.
$ $ iN $
Titheradge and Duffield’s “Ilealo” has had
a successful fortnight at Adelaide Royal, and
the syndicate that controls it is arranging
fixtures elsewhere. It is a joyous show,
after it gets well started —which really means
after Stigant comes on. Adele Crane looks
charming, and sings well as heroine, and
the Prince sisters do good work, especially
Edna. Perryman and McLellan are the
young men, also Charles Langley, of the
repertory, who is what our ancestors called
an “agreeable rattle,” but lacks singing
voice. Also from the Rep. is Basil Har-
ford, whose fine speaking voice made him
effective as the priest of the island.


4711
A Xmas Gift.
If you are doubtful what gift to select, get a box of ” —which is
highly appreciated for its fragrance and refreshing properties.
is the most suitable Xmas present for young and old.
Obtainable from all leading Chemists and Departmental Stores.
Sole Australasian Agents:
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
X
’%&>s,■ ''/P
% \
,4PD
V ’# j
•II
■ I i:
4 - r
jv
, 11 f
ir
//
if 1 |.
a
nEAUDE COLOGNE
4711.
tau dc Cologne- Pirfumerie-fabrik
.GLOCKENGASSE NM7II” I
1 oWjLNfflrv^=^~,>
S:
E
Vi
Hi
jr
®§
p
ifl
Hi
•-T-.
m
r
m
» ,
IV
X
? /
. ;
m i
/>• ■ ■■,
?Zi
Ml
o


300-YARD BEAM.
hgk
THE IDEAL TORCH FOR
ALL USES.
the new winchester focussing
TORCH throws a narrow beam of light for a
distance of 300 yards. Ideal for all outdoor
purposes. In the car, on the land, boating or
fishing. Nickel Case, 3 J-inch lens. Length of
torch 10 inches. Price 217-
WINCHESTER 100-YARD FOCUSSING TORCH.
Fibre case, well finished. long. Neat
and compact. Price 15/-
WINCHESTER PLAIN TORCH, Girin, long.
Fibre case. Strong and serviceable. Price, 8/6
All Winchester Torches are fitted with patent
Safety Switch, and are remarkably strong..
Spare Batteries for the large torch, 3-cell, 2/6
Spare Batteries for the smaller torch, 2-cell, 1/9
Postage on Torches, 9d. Spare Batteries, 6d.
SPORTS CENTRE.
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine. Lounge Rooms,
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or wire for reservations .
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
; Phone 8W6329.
Poverty
Point
“ITT.”: It is about time that “Q.Q.” and
the repertorians crystallised their ideas about
the objects of the repertory movement. The
repertory play is summarised as the opposite
“An artist’s life is terribly poverty-stricken.
I have to pinch whenever I want a new
frock.”
“Oh., but do be careful, dear. They’re so hard
on shoplifters note.”
to a commercial play, the repertory play
being selected because of its artistic appeal
regardless of its box-office draw, while the
commercial play is produced because of its
box-office draw regardless of its artistic
appeal. The same idealists go on to talk
about building up a fund so that eventually
they can build a theatre of Mteir own. Out
of what, may one ask? Profits on produc-
tions ? This year the Melbourne _ Repertory
Society lost over £3OO. Another similar year
would make it insolvent. Suppose some
wealthy business magnate said to “Q.Q.” :
“I will build you an ‘intimate’ theatre, put
on artistic and literary plays and provide
you with all the costumes, scenery, etc., yoti
may require; but I will look after the busi-
ness side of it myself and appoint my pro-
ducer and guarantee you against all losses. - ’
Would that satisfy him as a repertorian,
and could he cavil at the conditions as being
other than reasonable? Apparently the
principal objection is that the business mag-
nate happens to be John Tait.
“Butt Innitt” : When Allan Wilkie lost all
his trappings and suits of woe in the
Geelong lire, the public came to the rescue
pretty handsomely. Indeed, the fire proved
a blessing in disguise. But while Wilkie's
Australian mummers were heavy losers also,
they had to hustle for a crust. Meanwhile,
Wilkie streaked off to England to “buy
wardrobe,” although his lost wardrobe had
been made or purchased in Australia. He
is now back again with “a large amount of
Shakspearean properties.” He also brings
with him several English actors to join him
—presumably he had to pay their fares, too.
Yet Wilkie says in an interview, “The stan-
dard of acting and actors in London is not
high. Australian actors and actresses in
poetic and romantic drama compare more
than favorably.” Australia has stuck to
Wilkie'for years; in return the least we
can ask is that Wilkie shall stick a little
better to Australia.
“C. Ockuey”: Caleb Porter returns to us
for the Australian production of the English
“mystery” drama, “The Ghost Train.” He
has already been seen here, in various
strongly-accented character parts, with Wil-
son Barrett and Oscar Asclie, and he will
have another similar role in the latest
“thriller,” for which he will also act as
stage director. “The Ghost Train,” which
has had a remarkable success in London,
was written by an unknown author, Arnold
Ridley. Harry Cohen, of Dunedin, well
known in the Australian show world, is
manager for the small syndicate running it
in England.
“N.M.”: Alexander Watson, the reciter
with the great repertoire, is due back in
Australia early next year. No elocutionist
has ever maintained his popularity like
Watson, and that is chiefly because lie has
no affectations. There are fashions in affec-
tations, and fashions change. The only man
who can last on the stage is therefore the
man who hasn’t got them.
“Lond.” : The cinema has butted into the
law-courts at last. “The Scourge,” by
Sabatini, was brightened up by American
filmers in their manner and returned to
England as “Fortune’s Fool.” The British
censors refused to pass it till a banquet orgy
was cut out, and this led to a breach-of-
contract suit between the owners of it and
a “renter.” The question was whether the
scene was “material” to the success of the
play or merely an excrescence. Projector
and screen were brought into the court,
which was darkened while Judge and jury
solemnly watched the flicker for an hour.
The question whether all films were excres-
cences was not raised.
“It ask elf” : Touching that story of a lad
and lass who were caught in “a compromis-
ing position” at a darkened picture-show (B.
16/12/’25), it isn’t always the movies. An
Australian who returned to his Yorkshire
countryside not very long ago asked why
the beautiful old square pews, with their
sft. walls of black oak. had been pulled
out and replaced with pine benches. The
old verger explained that a young person
seeking maintenance for her unhallowed
infant had confided to the justices that her
troubles had begun in one of the old pews
“while paarson was re-adin’ t’ Litany.” And
so the relics of the storied past were regret-
fully abolished.
“Wigs” : As Allan Wilkie discovered when
he arrived in England on the look-out for a
Shakspearean wardrobe, Hollywood is now-
adays the chief buyer of second-hand wardrobes,
and is specially interested in costume plays.
When such pieces are staged in London the
movie city obtains an option on the purchase
of dresses for future use in its Americanised
historical pictures. Wilkie was lucky enough
to unearth some “Henry VIII.” clobber which
Beerbohm Tree had stored, else his journey
overseas would have proved fruitless.
“Caul Boy” : There are so many concert
artists coming next year that they will pro-
bably have to queue for halls. Add to those
already mentioned Zimbalist, who is bring-
ing a violin already esteemed by gramophone
owners; and Roland Haves, a singer of negro
“spirituals.’' He can claim a closer affinity
with the people whose music lie interprets
than Edna Thomas can —he has a dark skin.
“Old Nib”: A lady whom Ibsen would
have admired —almost a replica, in fact, of
his Mrs. Alving. in “Ghosts” —came to light
in the Sydney Divorce Court the other day.
The only difference was that the husband to
whom she objected, and whose return from a
consumptive sanatorium roused her hostility,
was a victim of circumstances, and not of
her own misdeeds. All the same, the lady
wrote him a scorching letter in which the
effect of a possible hereditary taint on future
offspring was scathingly referred to; she
added that the suggestion of further marital
advances on his part would be regarded as
an insult. The husband countered with
a petition for restitution of conjugal rights,
and Divorce Judge Owen, playing the part or
Pastor Manders, told her to go back to
her lawful husband, or accept the usual con-
sequence—a divorce. As that is the con-
sequence she seems most to desire, the end-
ing may be better than that of the Ibsen
tragedy.
“Choir Boy”: A chubby infant with a
round face and a broad smile visited Mel-
bourne Tivoli the other day. She was
Joyce Randall, aged four, discovered by the
local medico of Murrumbeena (Vic.). She
sits at the piano and plays by ear any popu-
lar tune called for. Fritz Hart says she
can only be compared with Mozart. Mozart
played the harpsichord at the same age as
Joyce. Manager Crawford may give Joyce
Mozart Randall an engagement on the Tivoli
circuit, though it looks like infanticide.
“Lud”: His latter-day success as a
dramatist —a quite surprising success, for
COUNTRY COUSIN : “Our minister says that picture-shows
teach us too much.”
CITY DITTO : “Oh, hut he doesn’t know half. What Dicky
and I like about them is that they keep us in the
dark so much.”
he is now 65—is not likely to spoil Eden
Phillpotts (B. 16/12/’26), who, seemingly,
when he has had one play successfully
launched, just sits down and writes another.
The audience called in vain for “Author!”
on the first night of “Yellow Sands” at
London Haymarket, but he was not within
miles of the spot. The same thing happened
at the first night of “The Farmer’s Wife,”
which record-breaking piece he has not yet
been to sec played. In “Yellow Sands” he
had a collaborator —his daughter Adelaide.
“Retired Critic”: “Jeune Premier” at-
tempts to correct (B. 16/12/’26) my state-
ment that Hugh J. Ward discovered and
polished the diamond that is Gladys Mon-
crieff. He gives the Firm the credit for it.
But was not Hugh Ward practically the
Firm—in the realm of musical comedy, at
any rate —at the period when Miss Moncrieff
came under his notice?
“Smada” : Yes, our own actresses have to
find their fame overseas. Judith (late
Francie) Anderson’s chance came to her in
America through the She rang
up a prominent producer, Mr. Keenan, and
told him that she was the leading actress he
was looking for in “Peter Weston.” After
an interview lie thought she was, too, and
that engagement led to their association in
several plays. The Firm has been lucky to
get her to play the lead in “Cobra,” as David
Belasco has her for the next five years.
“Old ’Un” : I take “Hamfat’s” word for it
that there will be engagements for Austra-
lian mummers in the Carroll production of
“The Ghost Train,” soon to open here (B.
16/12/’26). But a cable message informs
us that an English co. will appear in that
play. Still, the “locals” must be thankful
for small mercies—and ditto parts—these
days.
“Choir Boy”: When the Firm instituted
a verse competition to boost Renee Kelly's
“Brown Sugar” season at Melbourne King’s,
the winner was the ancient histrion, Reg
Rede, now dreaming of the applause of
former days at the Old Colonists’ Home,
North Fitzroy.
“Modestine” : The power of a name! In
Maoriland the other day a sick old man in a
wheeled chair joined the queue waiting to
book for the Gilbert and Sullivan season.
The invalid's instructions to his ancient wife
were: “If it’s under the direction oi J. •
Williamson book for the six nights, J_.
isn’t, book for ’The Mikado only- "
ever they are they can’t make a baa mess
of that one.”
“Modestine”: “Flaming Youth’s” mention
(B. IS/11/’26) of Barrington Miller as a
big light in the fillum world reminds me
that the very first pitcher shown m wmcn
he had an interest was put on at Mis
Majesty’s Theatre, Gisborne (M.L..) —an
afternoon performance before an audience
of exactly 10. The pictures were tuli ot
flickers and “rain,” nevertheless Miller came
out of the projection-box beaming and ejacu-
lating “There’s money in this quick
money!” He was too right.
“W.E.F.”: Bixletin artist Hugh Maclean
when a youngster had the thrilling experience
of being carried by Blondin on the tight-
rope across Middle Harbor, Sydney. After
getting across, Blondin was not anxious to
produce the 10. bob he had
promised, and it was only
when the kid threatened to
expose him to the crowd
that the money was forth-
coming. Hastening home, he
reported his adventure to
his mother, and got a hiding
—not for risking his life, he
remembers, but for appear-
ing in public barefooted and
in a pair of patched
trousers.
“Curtain Raiser”: Mur-
ray, the “Australian esca-
pologist,” who climbed out
of a strait-waistcoat while
suspended upside-down from
a crane in Piccadilly Circus,
is Murray Walters, an East
Melbourne youth, who at
the age of three showed a
remarkable talent for jug-
gling. Frank Talbot, of the
Athenaeum, took him in
hand, and at 15 he set out
to conquer “the East.”
When Houdini died he saw
the hollowness of dredging
rabbits out of hats, and de-
termined to step into the
dead magician’s shoes. lie
planned coup after coup in
London, but was frustrated
by the police. At last he
succeeded in making his
debut by disguising himself
as a navvy and getting into
the air from a building in
course of erection. Although
the police are alleged to
have known nothing of his
contemplated advertising
stunt the public did.
“H.K.” : Melbourne Opera House was the
first theatre in Australia to get electric light
—in 1882. It was during the run of Gilbert
and Sullivan’s “Patience” that a London
theatre was first so lit. The then Prince
of Wales was to be present, and an assur-
ance was required that there would be no
danger to liis life.
“The D.” : Recent examples of the censor-
ing of publicity sheets used to advertise the
movies convince me that some of the censors
would be better employed with a pick and
shovel. In a press sheet for a picture. “Black
Paradise,” the censors objected to the w r ord
“detected” and substituted the word “sus-
pected.” They allowed one to say “A weak
young man who was wounded by detectives, ’
but the ban was placed upon the rest of the
sentence —“when fleeing from a burglary. ’
Nor would they allow the use of this catch-
line : “The trail of a stolen necklace leads
to strange adventures on a South Sea island.”
Is it any wonder that salacious matter does
often happen to pass the authority respon-
sible for such ludicrous censoring?
“Moreliead”: Sydney was well provided
with entertainments on Boxing Day 50 years
ago. There were two pantomimes, one at the
Victoria, the other at the Royal. As Emma,
“an elderly lady with a slight encumbrance,”
Bland Holt was the clown and star at the
former; “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” had
packed houses at the Victoria. An Italian
opera co. gave a concert at the Exhibition
Building, and Cooper and Bailey ran their
circus on the Ilaymarket Reserve. At the
still-standing School of Arts in Pitt-street
Carbyn’s Original Georgia Minstrels', ‘ta
company comprised of real colored men from
the slave States of America,” attracted
attention. The Queen’s had a variety pro
gramme; and there was a “grand populai
family picnic at Chowder Bay.” It tool
five steamers —the Hunter, Quandong, Herald
Britannia and Acis —to carry the crowds tc
what is now Clifton Gardens. There Madamt
Azzella performed aerial gymnastics witl
Smith’s variety troupe. And at the Albert
Ground, Redfern, F. S. Stone beat Franl
Hewitt for the Sydney Cup of 60 sovereign!
to the accompaniment of music from £
German band.
FILM FINIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where do the ancient movies, go?
Where are the ones that used to show
When flickers first were born?
Though from the cities they have fled,
On tracks that swaggies seldom tread
You’ll find them battling yet—not dead,
But feeling rather worn.
In city palaces they run
A week or two, and then are done;
In suburbs they revive;
Then out upon the road they go
To places only bushmen know,
Where haltingly the veterans show,
“Rain”-streaked, but still alive.
Then out unto the ends of earth
They keep alive the torch of mirth.
The Hottentot elite
On Saturdays with gladness go
To see the weekly jungle show;
While, far away, the Kskiino
Chuckles at Charlie’s feet.
And Mary Pickford’s winsome smile
Delights some far Pacific isle,
Where Mary queens it yet;
And fashions French and mannequins
Impress both black and yellow skins,
And are received with happy grins
By lamas in Tibet.
And to the cannibals the screen
Shows antics of the putting-green,
In motion slow displayed;
And Valentino’s ghost will go
From deserts with the sun aglow
To Terra del Fuego’s snow
Until it’s torn and frayed.
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


A clean, cool chin
—every morning
rHEY meet every morning, the “Valet” and its owner.
Both very keen on each other! And whereas his
close shave used to be in catching his morning train, he
now gets it in the bathroom. For the “Valet is the safety
razor that strops its own blade, tunes it up as new in
ten seconds every morning without removal from the
frame. There is no secret —a child can do it. Just insert
the end of the strop through the slot provided and move
it to and fro for ten seconds. The result, a keen edge that
will overcome the most obstinate beard. For 40 or 50
mornings you can do this and with exactly the same
result. Ask your dealer to show you the “Valet’s” simple
action.
“■VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
T\
\
\
Of all dealers
No. 99 SET Contains the essentia': for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor, strop _ .
and blade in leatherette covered case. . O/O
TRY SUMMER FALLOWING!
£S
:v
fk"'
■E
»
m
' :
mm wmm
■ -
Ssi®
1
m
11
S
■
■
f
.ft/y;
Sit?
m
i : i
v:
■
• >-•
H
Turns very hard soil.
Copes with difficult weed growths.
Deals with a large acreage.
Tractor Levers if desired.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
The Implement for
this work is
The
Sundercut
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS. SUNSHINE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Cor. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, Burnie.


fprp
3L
i
%Jr
□
flHffliiKjffin
Luxurious Comfort
Amazing Performance
Complete and easy mastery over tremendous actual
power, with all the sense of satisfaction that state of
mind affords—this is the feeling of drivers who own
and operate the Willys - Knight Great Six 7- passenger
touring ...
The smooth and silent flexibility of the modemly-engi-
neered Knight sleeve-valve motor, the only motor-car
engine in the world that actually improves with use —
the definite assurance that it is al-
Lighting control with-
in easy finger-reach,
directly under steer-
ing wheel, gives great-
est degree of safety in
night driving with
least possible” per-
sonal effort.
ways ready, without attention or
bothersome adjustments, to deliver
its full measure of performance—
take away all the usual conscious-
ness of a mechanical power-plant
under the hood ...
Its wide range of speed, its unfail-
ing high-gear power on hills, in
deep sand and mud, its amazingly
quick acceleration eliminate the
usual impulse to change gears with
every change in traffic condition or
road demand « • •
The easy operation of the highly developed 4-wheel
brakes brings a feeling of comfortable security in
crowded streets or on the high-
ways . *.
When to its extraordinary engine-
efficiency, excelled by no other
motor-car engine in the world, are
added the most modem chassis
construction and such exquisite
beauty and luxury as are present in
the Willys-Knight Great Six 7-pas-
senger touring—here you have
motor-car excellence of the highest
order —you have a driving and rid-
ing comfort such as you will find
only in the world’s finest and cost-
liest cars*
Ingeniously located
under left front head-
lamp is a very useful
ditch-light, for road
safety, when the dim-
mers are on. Another
invaluable feature of-
fered in this Great Six.
In fairness to yourself see this modem touring car. \Ve
invite you also to see other models of the Willys-Knight
including the 7-passenger Sedan with glass partitions
the rear compartment may be completely separated
from the driver. A ride will give you new ideas of
motor-car comfort and performance.
WILLYS
Great
KNIGHT
SIX
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., LAUNCESTON, HOBART and DEVONPORT.
WILLY? -
3 T ERL AND FINE MOTOR CARS


Missing Friends.
Money, Unclaimed Money, Persons
Wanted.
ASTLE. Ellen {nee Higgins), or her children.
BOARDMAN, Dorothy (daughter of William Board-
man).
BROWN, Peter, formerly of New Zealand.
CLEMENS, William Francis, son of Edward William
Clemens, deceased.
DUNNE, Francis John (formerly of Menindie, N.S.W.).
DEVEREUX, Albert Ernest, formerly of Tasmania. _
FERGUSON, William, left New Zealand about 15
years ago.
GODDARD, Beatrice Mildred, in Sydney 1920.
GILMOUR, George (son of Alexander Gilmour, dec’d).
GOODAVIN, Annie, daughter of Hy. Goodwin, of N.S.W.
KENNEDY, Denis, born about 1850,. or heirs.
LEWIS, Frank Henderson, formerly of London, Eng.
LEWIS, Charles Noel, or his wife.
McMORRAN, John R. S., came to Australia in 1907.
PARK, James Wilson, or Next of Kin.
SINNOTT, James (son of Thomas and Abigail Sinnott).
SEATH, Henry (farmer and gardener), in N.S.W.
1914.
SIEVERS, Henry, formerly of New Zealand.
Write Mr. TELFER, 16 Pii'ie Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
HADFIELDS
(Australia)
LIMITED
wish to announce that they have acquired for
use in their Australian business from Messrs.
Hadfields Ltd., of Sheffield, the formulae and
methods required for making high-grade
carbon and alloy steels and steel products
under the Hadfield Sheffield system.
The Australian Works of HADFIELDS (Australia)
LIMITED, at Alexandria (Sydney) and Bassendean
(Perth, W.A.), are equipped with the most modern
appliances for efficient production. They are manu-
facturing under such formulae and methods of
Messrs. Hadfields Ltd., Sheffield, all descriptions
of Refined High-grade Carbon and Alloy Steels,
and a range of Steel Products particularly suitable
for the requirements of all Australian industries.
HADFIELDS (Australia) LIMITED employ in
their Australian works 500 skilled Australian
artisans. Their Steel Products are guaranteed to be,
at least, equal in quality and workmanship to the
best imported material, and to meet the highest
British and American standard specifications.
There is now no occasion to send overseas for
steel products, as Hadfields (Australia)
Limited by their practical experience and
sound knowledge of local conditions, are
enabled to fittingly provide the wants of the
Australian market.
HADFIELDS (Australia) LIMITED have, for the
convenience of customers, established Branches in
the capital cities. AH inquiries sent to Head Office
or any of the Branches will receive prompt and
careful attention.
HADFIELDS
(Australia)
LIMITED
Steel Founders, General Engineers and Forge Smiths.
Head Office and Main Works s
Alexandria, Sydney.
Branch Works and Office:
Bassendean (Perth), W.A,
Branch Offices:
Melbourne (Vic.) and Brisbane (Q’land).
John McWhae, formerly Vic. Minister for
Works and subsequently Agent-General, has
made a wonderful recovery from pleurisy,
pneumonia and other ills which brought him
to the brink of the grave. Ke is just over
70.
William Isley, who has just been carried
to his grave, had memories of flint-lock
muskets and the slave trade. He was in an
army service corps in the Crimea, and came
to Australia in 1557. built a lot of court-
houses, post-offices and gaols for N. S. Wales,
later put in over 20 useful years in South
Aus., finally settling down in Melbourne,
where he had his 92nd birthday.
The chairmanship of Broken Hill South
mine remains with the Moulden family, of
Adelaide. B. A. Moulden has resigned it
on account of illness; he has been on the
board for 30 years, and chairman of directors
for the last seven. The chair will now be
occupied by his son and legal partner Frank,
Mayor of Adelaide a few years back.
Keith Ward, Government Geologist of
South Aus., is to get a doctor’s degree from
Adelaide Uni. He lias earned it by a paper
on the geology of Central Australia which
is considered to make a substantial addition
to the standard information on the subject.
So he becomes D.Sc. He was already a
bachelor in arts and engineering, and he
has a father —the veteran Sydney journalist
—who got an honorary LL.D. from Glasgow.
The A.D.F.A., which handles about 30,000
tons of dried fruits p.a., reports that “Cana-
dians are reluctant to purchase Australian
fruit, even at prices lower than those
obtained in London.” They took a mere 525
tons in 1925-26; in fact, “the result of the
trade treaty has so far been disappointing”
—to us, of course. On the other hand, any
disinclination on Australia’s part to buy
Canadian manufactures hasn’t been noted.
We seem prepared to be the mug every time.
Justice Webb, who lias been appointed
by the Bananaland Government as chairman
of the Sugar Cane Prices Board, is a natiyc
of Brisbane and, prior to going to the Uni.,
received his education at St. Mary’s School,
Warwick. He was appointed Public Defen-
der soon after taking out his LL.B., and
later became official solicitor to the Public
Trustee. Further honors came his way in
1917, when he was appointed Crown Solici-
tor of Queensland. Last year they made him
a Judge. And he is only 39.
The Union of South Africa has a deporta-
tion law which evidently holds water better
than Australia’s. The other day 16 men
and a woman, all British-born, were started
on the way back to their very unpromising
country, mostly for selling drink to natives.
The Minister, being remonstrated with, took
a cheerful view of the matter and said that
the Union deported, on an average, 100 to
150 imported undesirables per annum. His
attitude was that deportation is quite an
ordinary business when people are used to
it, and they get used to it when there is
enough of it.
Lang has had little luck lately. The
N.S.W. Premier waved his arms the other
day and asked where was the Red
would anyone oblige by pointing it out in
Britain, America or South Africa? The same
journal which printed the comprehensive
query published a cable which told how F. A.
Rose, Labor M.P. for Aberdeen (Britain),
has demanded from the Labor party’s execu-
tive the expulsion from the Aberdeen Trades
and Labor Council of the Communist mem-
bers by January 1 next. Otherwise he will
resign himself. A Red menace that can
force a Scottish Labor member to resign his
seat —and salary—must be a pretty live one.
The Bribery Commission in Adelaide has
been held up since the death of Judge
Mitchell: now it falls to Judge Paine
to recommence the squalid business all over
again. Blackburn, V.C., who . attended all
the previous sittings, will continue to assist
the Court. The Government having decided
to provide counsel for the police officers
who are vaguely charged with accepting
bribes from bookies, the Hops unanimously
asked for Harry Thomson, whose career —
he was a Rhodes Scholar just before the war
—has been a strikingly successful one. As
Major Thomson, M.C., he was assistant-
director of the A.I.F. educational scheme,
with headquarters at Oxford.
There were complaints in Vic. Parlia-
mentary lobbies that retiring Assemblymen
who are not Ministers would have to do
without pay for the 30 days that will
elapse between the dissolution and the poll.
So the Allancocks brought in a bill to pro-
vide for “reimbursement of expenses” for the
30 days, a matter of 40 guineas apiece or
thereabouts for 57 members; the other eight
(Ministers and elective officers) are other-
wise provided for. By virtue of another
measure, the Metropolitan Tramway Board
is to be continued on present lines for 12
months. It wa.s quite a coincidence, of
course, that when this little bill was pend-
ing, a Parliamentary party should be asked
to inspect the tram workshops at Preston.
William Watson, ordinary shareholders’
director of the Bank of New Zealand, who
shares with Richard Gibbs, the only other
banker on the directorate, the doubtful
honor of representing the bulk of the capital
with one-third of the voting-power, has just
been re-elected after 32 years’ service. At
80 he is still vigorous, and his criticisms of
the bank's policy, tinged as it has been in
latter years with politics, are as trenchant
as ever. He has been connected with banks
and banking for 62 years, and had 22 years’
experience of the business when he went
to Maori land in 1886 to become chief inspec-
tor of the old Colonial Bank of N.Z. He
became president of the Bank of New Zea-
land in the crisis of 1894, and steered the
institution through the difficult period of
reorganisation, during which the Colonial
Bank was absorbed and the New Zealand
propped up with £2,000,000 of public money.
The crisis over, the job of president, which
carried the right of veto, was abolished,
representation on the directorate was altered
to give the State a majority, and Watson
commenced to represent the ordinary share-
holders.
“Huffin-Guffin”: When wheat is carted in
from the farms to the railway stations and
stacked it is weighed by the buyer or agent,
and paid for on that weight. After being
stacked for a month or two and then trucked
to the seaboard it is again weighed. Invari-
ably the weight is found to have increased.
Who really owns this increased r.veigflit
opens up a nice question in ethics. It
seems reasonable that the grower should have
a claim to at least half of it. The buyer or
agent claims it all at present. Why? It is
said that the gain in the weight of wheat
shipped to England pays freight and all
other charges. But on this point there is
some doubt. An Australian wheat-man’s
son who shipped on a wheat-carrier and
watched the whole business from beginning
to end assures me that their cargo didn’t pan
out the weight at the port of loading; but
that seems to me incredible. What are the
facts?
“Laborer”: Undoubtedly a gentle stimu-
lus is given to vegetation by wireless. Aerials
were used last August in Notts. (Eng.) for
this purpose, and the results left all fer-
tilisers behind. Some striking experiments
in the same line now being carried out
near Potsdam, in Prussia, have already estab-
lished that the soil is more productive near
wireless aerials. Two fields are being used,
and one of them is dotted over with wire-
less aerials. The various electric currents
in the ether are collected by the aerials, and are
transmitted into the earth through galvanised
wires. Tne results, so far, are amazing. The
field with the wireless attachments has pro-
duced rich crops of wheat, rye, potatoes, etc.,
whilst the other has remained almost bare.
The Prussian Government has appointed a
commission to report on these experiments,
which are likely to make far-reaching
changes in German cultivation methods.
“Max”: Woolly aphis need no longer be
tolerated by the apple-orchardist. A cheap
method of extermination is provided by the
minute parasitic wasp Aphelinus mali. Of
N. American origin, this wasp’s introduc-
tion to Australia is largely due to the efforts
of Australia’s brilliant entomologist Dr.
It. ,T. Tillyard. The agricultural depart-
i’ cs'ts of the various States are now issuing
supplies of Aphelinus mali to orchardists,
with full instructions for placing them on
aphis-infested trees. They are so small as
to be hard to see, and spread with remark-
able rapidity, 20 miles ip a season having
been recorded in some districts. The life
cycle of the insect occupies about three
weeks in moderate weather, longer in cold.
The female is capable of laying up to 100
MAGISTRATE (to unemotional prisoner):
“You are acquitted.”
PRISONER ( cautiously ): “Does that mean
I’ve got to give back the trousers?”
eggs: each egg is deposited within the body
of the aphis; the resultant lava destroys
the host, pupates, and emerges as a perfect
insect ready to carry on the good work.
Maoriland, where scientific farming always
gets a good hearing, has benefited enormously
from this new control of the woolly aphis
and there are accounts of abandoned orchards
yielding good crops again.
“Gouger”: During the last three pheno-
menally dry seasons the arrowroot plant has
stood between many Cape York Peninsula
niggers and dinkum starvation. Of the
yam species, the plant is a hefty grower,
and the most nourishing of all the natives’
vegetable foodstuffs. Often the tubers from
a plant will fill a kerosene-tin. They are
pounded up and washed well in running
water, which gets rid of a deleterious sub-
stance. The resultant sun-dried flour is a
snow white. It has a delicate taste, and is
very wholesome. It can be used for prac-
tically anything that flour is used for, is
wonderfully prolific under any conditions,
and should have a great commercial value.
St. Margaret’s Hospital, Sydney, has an enviable
record. Over £lO,OOO has been given away in cash
and prizes by this organisation. It has always kept
faith with the public, giving full value at all times
and drawing on the tick of time. Mrs. Longmore, a
Junee resident, clipped a paragraph like this from
the paper and invested 1/- in an art union which
was being run for the hospital. She won a Vauxhall
Car worth £750 and sold it as easily as War Bonds.
Every Bulletin reader who clips this paragraph and
sends it with a postal note for 1/- with name
and address to the Secretary, Box 2716 c, G.P.0.,
Sydney, will get two tickets in the Christmas Box
Art Union which has prizes ranging from £5 to
£5OO, and totalling £2OOO. One of these prizes
will be a present from the hospital. You are sure
of value, because St. Margaret's keeps faith.—Advt.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
RITISH
Perfection
PITS K. RUBBER
Amusements.
g YDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: IS ZAT SO?
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GONDOLIERS.
(Commencing on Boxing Day.)
gYDNE Y’S BE S T SHOWS.
Direction. .. .Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
PALACE: ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
(Commencing on Boxing Day.)
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
(Commencing on Boxing Day.)
FULLERS’ THEATRE :
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
■* Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE NAUGHTY WIFE.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors .... ,T. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Direction Ada Reeve.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER 25
(Christmas Day), at the Matinee.
ADA REEVE, with JACK MORRISON, in
PINS AND NEEDLES.
“A Revue with points.”
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULLER
PRESENT
PUSS IN BOOTS,
London’s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
COMMENCING BOXING DAY, DECEMBER, 27,
and TWICE EVERY DAY.
Plan at Glen’s.
Reserved Seats, 7/- plus tax. Matinees, 5/- plusi tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
A THENJIUM THEA T R E~
** MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People” Co.
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
|V|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE RICH and CLIVE BROOK
in
THE PLEASURE BUYERS.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
(VIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* ’ MELBOURNE.
ALMA REUBENS and WALTER McGRAIL in
MARRIAGE LICENSE.
ALSO
GREATA NISSON in
THE LUCKY LADY.
Prices as usual.
Position Vacant.
UNIVERSITY OP' TASMANIA.
A PPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
** tion of W.E.A. Lecturer. Details may
be obtained from any University in Aus-
tralia or New Zealand.
L. R. THOMAS,
Registrar.
Missing Friends.
C WEN or HUGH MANSON, or anyone
L- knowing his address, please communicate
with J. Harvey Hill, Solicitor, Lake Cargel-
ligo, immediately.
M OEL MACDONALD. Christmas greet-
-1 ings. If in N.S.W., will you come to us
for Christmas? Mrs. H. M. Regan, Tam-
wortli.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The APEX Whip
A beautiful piece of artistic Australian work-
manship in two colors. The design is very
neat and attractive and is carried out on
both handle and thong. The thong is Bft. long.
Price 75/- Complete.
w
WHIPS
“K’Burra” Stockwhips are the regular plain
plait, Guaranteed Kangaroo right through
and with inside plaited belly.
jfhg
HANDLES: 16-plait,
16/6, 24-plait, 18/6;
32-plait, 21/'6.
LOADED HANDLES
for 9ft. thongs, 1/6
more.
dhk
The
“APEX.”
SOLID NICKEL SPURS, fin. Sides with Straps, 7/6. Postage 6d.
BUSH SPURS, Jin. N.P. SPRING STEEL SIDES, 10/6. Postage 6d.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.
395 George Street,
Sydney.
D
m
' v
I
X*
Shjpotano
Copw Floor
gggjgg^*|gg|
VP
CO
Masiutachir
CUFFORI> X»01
In the hottest weather
you can keep cool in
AERTEX Shirts and
Underwear, because the
AERTEX wonder weave
insulates the body
against all outside tem-
peratures.
You clothe yourself in
air when you wear AERTEX.
See that you get it by look-
ing for the label on each
garment.
/<
\
o
-a r J> 4
DTHING
*v
•' ”
ov
ni
r
v
»* *
a a
H
V
* **
fcfcf
k£
Q
a
9»-S
**
lU
#- *
•p
v*
•>'
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters
and Drapers; or in case of difficulty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LIMITED
313 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia
who supply Wholesale Trade only.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Evelyn M.: Too much horticulture. Give
the oleanders a rest and let the roses bloom in prose.
. ...R.S.P.: Your meteorite fell with a sickening
thud... .W.A.: Your “tone poems and impressions'’
sound like nothing we’ve ever heard... .N.L.S.: Just
misses.... J.K.0.8.: “Word Magic” isn’t magical, and
“Sea Gladness” suffers from a plethora of long, vague
words.... Thistle: Said a few weeks ago... .France
M.: “Theory” is too late. ... Shovester: Not much
marrow in its bones; but the character-study nearly-
saved it.... Hillard: Sorry, that vein is just about
worked 0ut.... Bush Mother: Ditto... .Lancastrian:
Santa C. turned grey through having to listen to
songs like that. .. .W.E.8.: Near the border line,
but on the wrong side... .C.C.: Handed to Mirror.
. ...P.A.T.: True, every word of it: —
Each man likes to boast of his own native heath
Which to his native dignity’s never beneath:
There are heaths of fine colors found in each State
Which are equal in value in texture and weight.
Then of trees we have ones whose beautiful shade
Givds a coolness and shadow which can’t be gainsaid;
There are gums of huge girth with wide spreading-
limbs
Whose stature inspires those who write odes and
hymns.
When we come to the fauna ’tis easily found
We’ve those whose uniqueness is widely renowned —
The ’roo, emu, wallaby, native companion
Are worthy of place in National medallion.
... .H.8.L.: Alas, even the pathetic reference to your
half-chewed boots didn’t avail to push it through. . . .
E.G.: The word-picture ends obscurely... .C.J.8.W.:
The fair daughter of the Mortimers (800 words)
goes to Europe after a great historical education and
has a nightmare. Well, well 1.... L.D.M.: Straw-
berry is a fair cow... .F.L.8.: '“Tim” is fired....
H.8.L.; Fate’s “gravid wand” wandered to the
basket. .. .W.A.C.: Good title, but “When your hair
begins to snow” needs a hair-cut... .M.C. : “Grave-
side Thoughts” at Christmas!... .K.M.: The right
feeling, but it isn’t poetry... .E.M.: Keep it for the
elections. .. .T.W.8.; No use sending to us. Try a
book publisher... .P.R.0.: It gets nowhere.... R.L.:
Your rain song rattles prettily on the roof, but it
doesn’t break the drought... .White L.: Good in spots,
but colorless... .S.A.S.; This is a poor market for
mediaeval stories... .C.G.P.: Unwise to worry; you
might have fared worse if you’d married her... .
E.M.: Don’t use those long, involved and tedious sen-
tences. Story of a land where “morals are as useless
as celluloid collars, in Hades” moves more briskly... .
T.W.E.; Tale of the sensitive maiden and the pink-
eyed doves too delicate for these columns... .Henry
S.: Smartly written ; but the original story is better.
. ...8.5.D.: Hardly enough to hang a par. on. MSS.
need not he typewritten... .8.L.D.: A good picture,
but too crude. Don’t stop.... A.M.V.: “Week Ends,”
if more compactly put, might do. . . .Nosmo King:
Too vague..F.A.L.: Facile and pretty, but that’s
all. .. . L.H.0.: You’re sticking to it, but you’ve still
got a long way to g 0... .W.J.S.: Please don’t submit
poems in bulk. The last consignment (1 doz.)
smashed the basket.... Bellerive: One of those little
touches that make the whole world wipe its eye:—
In the throes of Death,
Upon the Roadway,
Run down by a motor,
An ill-fated dog lay.
When consigned to a dray
To be borne to the tip,
A weeping boy sobbed:
“My poor little Nip!”
.... Ellae: Originally it was bullockese. An ox-
chauffeur, desiring to express contempt for one of
his team, would naturally declare that the non-
puller was no bullock, but only a cow. Or perhaps
even a blanky cow... .S.R.T.: Might make a par.
Incidentally, your law is bad; a fine cannot be
imposed in cases of vagrancy.... J.D.McD.: No place
for the story... .F.A.L.: Interesting bit of descrip-
tion, but does not make a yarn... .P. 0.: Sent on to
Mirror. . . .G.O. A.: Fairly written, but the cursed
lack of space condemns it... .A.W.T.: Without a
gleam of light.... Ellen O.: Too colorless. .. .R.Y.:
According to instructions, it was destroyed, though
it wasn’t really vicious... .D.8.H.: What we want
is what we publish—but better... .H.8.L.: The
pathos of an empty fruit-tin left us unmoved.... De
Jay: How true! “Harvest time comes round again,;
as usual every year” ... .D. 5.8.: Wrong -wave-length.
. ...1.G.: Too many “Hos!” An occasional “What-
ho ! ” would be welcome.... Pat: Cheer up !
The earth is cooling, say the scientists.
Men who are handy with both brains and fists.
AVe’ll soon be setting out for realms of light,
Where all is happiness and pure delight. •
... .L.H.C.: Yes, it’s jerry-built... .A.M.M.: Parodies
pain us J.L.M.: Go home to your mummie and
learn to 5pe11.... Nymph: “They did,” but we don’t.
. ...A.R.: “Big Gillespie” has the right ring in it,
but it needs condensing and more pith. Try again.
....J.L.M.: Best part of your “Nightmare” was
your “hollow-sounding crash, like a long-uncared-for
’cello that had fallen from its leash”... .Kitch: Sorry
if this column seems harsh, but it pains us that you
“know a bloke whose heart it broke.” Still you
have no idea of the number of hearts that lie around
The Bulletin office irrefragably cracked. The last
accident of the sort occurred when the owner, who is
a poet, collided with a sonnet of 16 lines. We
can still hear him groaning “Two too, too much!”
....Outback: “Time” flies into the basket....
M.L.F.: Your wagtails never even waggled... .R.C.:
No rivers in this paper are allowed to “erune”....
1.L.: Sonnet just misses—too much explanation
needed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.P.T.: The males are ungainly and their dancing
partners are trussed poultry... .P.C.: Can hardly
believe that your political cartoons were drawn at
sunny Narrabeen. They remind us of a German
forest at midnight... .F.L.H.: Coax the trio to enter
the surf after the shark-bell has rung... .C.F.: It’s
not a divoroe they want. It’s treatment by a facial
surgeon... .F. 5.0.: Pointless jokes, but drawings full
of promise... .A.L.D.: We could forgive the maiden’s
escort being a dishonorable scoundrel, but we can
never forgive the drawing.... V.0.R.: We don’t mind
you sending in fur-coat gags in the summer. If
acceptable they go into cold storage until the cold
weather arrives l/.J.: It might make Cairns
laugh, but would it raise a smile at Port Augusta?
. ...E.K.C.: Our chimney is blocked to that Santa
Claus... .N.S.: If you gave us three guesses what
it was done with, we would say (1) oyster-opener;
(2) nail-file; (3) putty-knife... .K.: “The Battery
Song” illustration merely defaces the paper... .G.P.:
Limp flapper murmuring child’s talk to a supine
joker in spats.


CHRYSLER SIX
MODEL]
“G” J
zz
w
®85~5W»
ta
V
Em
*s^.
VAkSifew:
S V-
LEADER 0/ the NEW TREND
Chrysler Standardized Qual-
ity is a fixed and inflexible
quality standard which en-
forces the same scrupulously
close limits —the same rigid
rule of engineering exactness
—the same absolute accuracy
and precision of alignment
and assemblage—in the mea-
surement, the machining and
the manufacturing of every
part, practice and process in
four lines of Chrysler cars.
The production of the Chrysler “G” marked
the first step in Walter P. Chrysler’s great
plan of standardized quality.
It immediately assumed a leadership that
is more emphatic today than ever before—
despite the fact that there is scarcely a motor
car of importance that does not reflect in
design or practice the influence of Mr.
Chrysler and his engineers.
Certainly not one of its hundreds of thou-
sands of owners who have experienced the
extraordinary results it gives in brilliant per-
formance, in riding and handling ease, in
safety, in economy of operation, in dependa-
bility and in proved long life will ever again
willingly accept less than Chrysler Six
(Model “G”) offers.
A demonstration of these superiorities wilt
quickly add you to the new thousands every
week who are securing in Chrysler Six
(Model “G”) the greatest satisfaction and
value which the Chrysler Standardized
Quality plan makes possible.
A USTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NSW- Larke Heave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney.
V,c -ColitisMotors Pty. Ltd.. Chrysler House. Collins Street. Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motots Limited, Wickham Street, ....
Sth Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd,, Flinders Street, A del aid .
WesL Aust.: William Attwood. 299-301 Murray Street. Perth.
Tas ' Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company . 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


Who ? s That Knocking ?
A Cheery visitor. He speeds the
Old Year and ushers in the New with
merry festivity.
We offer everyone our best wishes for a joyful festive
season and happy, prosperous days during 1927.
Winchcombe, Carson,
LTD.
Sydney and Brisbane.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly ’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as lor the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
MONARCi
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL 512 E
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/«
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
A I.L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
i \ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
Or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Patou & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
Indigestion !
That’s its name, INDIGESTION—the enemy of health and all which
make for happiness and contentment and the joy of living.
But why allow this distressing, spirit-reducing complaint to hold
sway over you! Why allow yourself to be dejected and despondent
—to go through life with a peaked face and run-down look, when
at the nearest Store or Pharmacy you can purchase a bottle of
that renowned Indigestion Remedy:
KRUSE’S .
Fluidjfe#^ s
Even one dose of this sterling preparation will convince you of
its genuine character.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA will gently—hut surely —expel from
your system the cause of your digestive ailments. It will make
for health and wholesomeness in the stomach, sweeten the breath*
SOLD EVERYWHERE
mim
mm
*•!!!!! i'ii»! i
iii'isiilil-i!
!i! ill
mi
cool and purify the blood atid induce the feeling of
fitness and keenness of early youth.
For Family use the large bottles
at 2/9 each are more economical.
KRUSE’S benefits people of all ages; and is the purest, safest,
and most reliable medicine you can take for an upset stomach.
MADE BY
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE.
r cy Ae
‘NATIONAL BANK
OJii/s/jatisia Z/zff/fec/
OO N
OO &
O O to
o' C> P
o
O ’sf
CS[ 3*
§
.g
CL n
S fc
Q 3 I
Wl
*-3 *>•s
?S wl 4$
E co &
< w
UPC
s
So %
<3
■7926 UZ40.706,0l 7
The Bank is widely represented directly and by
Agents throughout the country districts of Australia,
and has Offices in all the Capital Cities.
Its large capital and deposit resources place it in a
position to assist the development of the various
industries of the Commonwealth. In rural areas the
great bulk of its business is connected with the farming
and grazing interests.
Full facilities are provided. for the transaction of
local and overseas banking business.
Business, Robbery, etc.
. “Sucre" : England imported fruit valued
at £48,300,000 last year. Australia’s share
was £3.000,000; America socked away
£11,000,000, and Spain £9,000,000. The
slogan “Eat Empire Fruit” doesn’t seem to
be producing much result yet.
* * * *
“G.D.M.” : A seat on the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne has changed hands at £l7OO.
After 30 years of low prices, the figure is
again nearing that of the land and bank
boom. The top figure was £2500 paid by
Bob Harris, son-in-law of Mark Moss, Mel-
bourne’s big money-lender. Previously three
sold at £2(MK) and about 10 around £l7OO.
The present demand is due to the Malay tin
boom, though trading in debentures accounts
for much profitable business' nowadays.
* * * *
“Retsam" : There is every prospect of beef
becoming dearer. Drought in North Queens-
land has played the mischief with supplies
up there—chilled meat has actually been
sent from Brisbane to Mackay. Even the
Brisbane export works have been drawing
their supplies from s.-w. Queensland and
MORE STAMINA NEEDED.
PROFITEER: “Conscience worrying you? Con-
science! A great big boy like you
oughtn't to let a little thing like con-
science get you down!"
n.-w. N. S ; Wales, and these districts’ sup-
plies are limited. If good monsoonal rains
fall this summer all may be well; if not
there will be a cattle shortage throughout
Australia.
* * * *
“X2X” : A curious feature of the wastage
of seed caused by the failure of so many
grains to germinate (B. 2/12/’26) is that,
while tests reveal that wastage is between
60-70 per cent, in wheat, with corn it is
only about 10 per cent., and often falls a
good deal below that. With oats and barley
it is seldom more than 20 per cent, and
generally considerably under. •- With wheat it
never falls much below 60 per cent. It
cannot be that the wheat used for seed con-
tains a high proportion of infertile grains,
for other tests show that the grains which
are incapable of germination are compara-
tively few. There is room here for a great
deal of research.
* * * *
‘‘Jim Domino”: There has been trouble
over the 14 p.c. discount allowed to buyers
at Newmarket (Melb.), but after a week of
by-play trading has been resumed under the
old conditions. Still, this doesn’t make the
position at Newmarket satisfactory. For
years some agents have had things their
own way, and have not been giving the
stockowner the best of deals. Stock for-
warded is still subjected to ill-treatment,
and in most cases badly drafted, the latter
so affecting sales that sheep have been sold
in one lane at a certain figure and re-sold
in another lane the same day at ss. per
head rise. There was a time when the
producer could calculate to a fraction what
his stock would fetch, but the fluctuations
nowadays send the best mathematicians
astray. The gambling element is increased,
too, by the time limit on salesmen, especially
when the yarding is heavy. It is almost
impossible to complete the catalogues; in
consequence stock is held over for re-sale
or disposed of privately. It might be better
if the Government, instead of going to the
enormous expense of shifting Newmarket,
established killing and chilling centres in
country districts.
THE NEW ROYALTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Queen of Fontana, a California hen, died
after laying 1174 eggs, a world’s record in produc-
ti@n. She earned 12 p.c. on an investment of
£2OOO sterling during her lifetime.”
Sorrow for the queens who died
Young and fair, discreet and rash;
Mournfully in song we’ve sighed.
Now a queen has passed whose pride
Had its root in solid cash ;
History the question begs,
But the bank-book tests the trash:
Beauty, be it white or brown,
Wit, nobility, renown—
What are these compared with eggs?
Fame has her achievement pat:
She had earned her twelve per cent. I
15’cn the fiercest democrat
Feels the dignity of that
Sovereign accomplishment ;
Hark to the investor keen
Uttering a wild lament ;
Not for Helen nor for Bess
Wailed such genuine distress—-
Faith, ’tis little they’d assess
Reckoned with Fontana’s queen.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


It’s
Medicated!
iv:
'III I,
'l'ihjiu'/
mi
7'.'/,
\0"-
m
it
o\V*
“I want to be happy,
and I want to make
you happy, too, so I
recommend you to use
Rexona Soap for the
skin and hair same as I
do.”
...It' 1
*w\\\\w'"
\ l I
111 1 III
III.., I
l \
'"\w
>f
% \
Ml
r\
w-
£
W
’■ li?# .. &
\ •• .
.
if % s«
T Mg
A
Charming
Study of
Miss Elsie Prince,
a Beautiful
Rexona Girl.
CT> The Use of jo
cAexona S)oap
Insures < ~Jjeauiy
to Skin an d /fair/
THAT natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by
regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse they
cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same cooling, healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout
the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and
see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and
leave the complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
“Rexona
Soap
c:
or
and (£) eauiy
ff".
rn.'/j
TV 1 .
TTf*'
fwJL
rm.
•f n.
v o’*
*?£*&*'
%
Ms
+\3
W&>
9\s«'
m
It’s
1/-


A GOOD GUN IS A GOOD FRIEND.
Earn the cost of a gun shooting - rabbits for the
fur trade.
Agents for the following famous makes:—
HOLLOWAYS. —The Rolls Royce of Guns. Built
by prize experts, who know how to make a Gun that
kills at a longer distance than any other make.
That’s why Prize-winners use them.
From £l3/10/- to £lOO.
FOX’S D.B. WONDERFUL HAMMERLESS GUNS.
They hit harder and shoot further than any American
Gun ever built — £13. with a lifetime guarantee.
BULLDOG D.B. HAMMERLESS.—A great field
Gun. Throws a remarkable pattern and kills cleanly.
Beautifully balanced ; fits the shoulder; perfect
workmanship, £B/10/-
Others D.B. from £4/10/- upwards. A week’s
free trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for a catalog.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 202 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Leaves from a Viceroy’s Notebook
anti Other Papers. By tlie MAR-
QUESS CURZON OF KEDLES-
TON, K.G., Viceroy and Governor-
General of India, 1899-1904 and
1904-1905. With 32 illustrations.
28s. net.
William Blake. By OSBERT BUR-
DETT. ss. net. (English Men of
Letters.)
People of the Veil. Being an Account
of the Habits, Organisation and
History of the Wandering Tuareg
Tribes which inhabit the mountains
of Air or Asben in the Central
Sahara. By FRANCIS RENNELL
RODD. With illustrations and
maps. 30s. net.
In Unknown Arabia. By Major R.
E. CHEESMAN, H.M. Consul in
North-West Abyssinia. With a Fore-
word by Sir PERCY COX. With
illustrations and maps. 255. net.
The Sunday Times : “The illustrations are of
unusual interest, and with its appendices of
technical information and its maps, the book
must take its place amongst' the most valuable
of recent exploratory works.”
Natural Man: A Record from
Borneo. By CHARLES HOSE,
Hon. Sc.D., formerly Divisional Resi-
dent and Member of the Supreme
Council of Sarawak. With a Preface
by Prof. G. ELLIOT SMITH,
F. With illustrations and map.
30s. net.
IMPORTANT NEW WORK ON
CHINA.
The Vanished Empire. By PUTNAM
WEALE, author of “Why China Sees
Red.” Illustrated. 15s. net.
The Political Principles of some
Notable
Prime Ministers of the 19th
Century. A series of lectures de-
livered in King’s College, University
of London. Edited by F. J. C. HEARN -
SHAW, M.A., LL.D. With 8 Port-
raits. 12s. 6d. net.
To be Obtained from alt
Bookse/lers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
Legal Notices.
T° GEORGE PARFITT late of Itingswood formerly
of Barmera in the State of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date the
19th day of November 1926 has issued out of the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the petition of William Stephen
Rodda of 64 Alexander Avenue Rose Park in the said
State Motor Driver praying for a dissolution of his
marriage with his wife Eva Ann Rodda. In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereto. Therefore take notice that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within 20 days from
the date of this advertisement to attend in person
or by your solicitor at the Master’s Office of our
said Court and there to enter an appearance in
manner provided for that purpose.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
William Alexander Rollison Scottish House King
William Street Adelaide Solicitor for the Petitioner.
'J’O EVA ANN RODDA late of Barmera in the State
of South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date the
19th day of November 1926 was issued out of the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the petition of William Stephen
Rodda of 64 Alexander Avenue Rose Park in the
said State Motor Driver,praying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you. In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said peti-
tion proved and pronounce sentence in respect thereto.
Therefore take notice that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within 20 days from the date of this
advertisement to attend in person or by your solicitor
at the Master’s Office of our said Court and there to
enter an appearance in manner provided for that
purpose.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
William Alexander Rollison of Scottish House King
William Street Adelaide Solicitor for the Petitioner.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 94 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest faeili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHAVJLX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVEX” is a production of modem civilisation whereby men can
shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda. With
“Shavex” you can shave in half the time and get a perfect and
smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin like satin and keeps
one young, and no after lotion is required. “Shavex” is a skin food.
It makes shaving a pleasure instead of a torture. Safety Razor Blades
last twice as long, and no hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts
3 months. At all chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMOND
and SPRAGGON (Australia), Ltd. (Dept. 4), Eagle & Globe Buildings,
379 Kent Street, Sydney. Manufactured by The Zeekol Manufacturing
Co., London, England.
Large tube, 1/9;
larger tube
(double quan-
tity), 2/6.
FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 3d. stamp.
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NOVELLO,
writes: —-“It is a great pleasure to bo able to say sincerely
that ‘Shavex’ is a really splendid invention. I am so often
asked to recommend preparations and can so seldom do so,
but in this case my appreciation of your ‘Shavex’ is
genuine. I shall always use it.”
IVORY-
TIPPED
or PLAIN
aC De cßeszke
—of course ”
m
'"•s
!l
B-v
De Reszkes now
at 10 for ninepence
Who is there so unregardful of his palate that he
would not smoke the best cigarettes he can buy ?
Who is there of so poor a business mind that he
would not get the best value for his money? In
short, who would not smoke De Reszkes now that
the new De Reszke Virginias are to be had at
ten for ninepence ?
These cigarettes are the very best in their class;
otherwise they would not bear the honoured name
DE RESZKE, which indeed is your guarantee that
the newDe Reszke Virginias will always keep their
present high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “ DE RES-KEY"
Vir ginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20\ 50’s and 100’s
MILLHOFF & CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & CO., LTD.
The West of N. S. Wales has the name
of a hard country, but there are some oldsters
there who thrive in it. William Tanks, of
Billabong Creek, near Parkes, claims to have
seen 107 summers, mostly darned hot. and
he can still get around and enjoy life.
If lawyers have jubilees, which doesn’t
seem likely, John Barnett, of Townsville,
had one lately when he completed 50 years
behind a brass plate in Queensland. He
hung out the shingle first at Cooktown,
which palled on him after 20 years, and
he lias spent the rest of his time in Towns-
ville.
Judge Beeby is not the only Australian
Judge who turns out short stories in his
spare time. J. L. Woolcock. the latest addi-
tion to the Queensland bench, wrote a series
of detective yarns for the Brisbane Daily
Telegraph last year. At the Sydney Uni-
versity many years ago he won gold medals
for English verse and essays, but his chief
works are solid and solemn law tomes —a
whole shelf-full of them.
Graham Berry, who retired from Vic.
Treasury Department this month after 47
years’ service, was the fourth son of the
former Tribune of the People. Memories of
Black Wednesday, for which Graham, senior,
was responsible, must have been still fresh
in the public mind when Graham, junior,
entered the service in 1879 while his dad
w r as Premier. Never did a famous father
have a son more modest.
The smallest and grubbiest children of
Invercargill (M.L.) will miss portly Dean
Burke. Burke wasn’t really a dean ; he was
a monsignor and had been rector of the most
southerly civilised town in the world for
30 years. Born at Waterford 72 years ago,
Bishop Moran brought him to Dunedin in
1892. Burke had a good head for business,
a witty tongue, a fluent pen, and was genial
even to Orangemen.
Auckland’s city mission er, Jasper Calder,
is a shepherd who believes in rounding up
a flock even if it takes dogs to do it. On a
recent warm Sunday morning he rolled up at
Islington Bay on ' Itangitoto, in his own
launch, and summoned the crews of about
150 yachts and launches out for the week-
end by beating on a benzine-tin. The week-
enders were too astonished to resist, and
Jasper had a good congregation, to which
he preached in yachting garb.
A journey made 47 years ago in a drover’s
turnout from Ararat (Vic.) through N. S.
Wales to Queensland, and then on horseback
to Port Hedland (W.A.) was one of the jaunts
of Thomas Walters, one of Groperland’s
best-known men, who passed out in Perth
recently. He spent 10 years in the Nor’-West
before he left by road for Westralia’s sou’-
west, where he planted an orchard —one of
W.A.’s show-places to-day—and became the
State’s biggest fruit-exporter.
The Buntine family of Victoria has given
the State some of its prize pedagogues. Head-
mastership of Camberwell Grammar, a new
school, goes to 30-year-old Arnold Buntine,
whose list of degrees includes a Ph.D. of
Edinburgh Uni. He graduated at Melbourne
Uni. and while in the Scotch capital taught
in the George Heriot School. Scotch, Mel-
bourne, next claimed him, and there they
found that he was a first-rate rowing coach
and made good use of the discovery.
The Yankee invasion of the Bay of
Islands fishing grounds last year and the
record catches made by Zane Grey and
others set an Englishman’s back up. He
grabbed his line and tackle and shipped for
Maoriland immediately to wrest back the
laurels stripped from his brow. H. White-
Wickham was in M.L. in 1921-22 and
attained the world’s record for his catches—
two moko sharks, one of 3501 b. and another
of 4421 b.; also a swordfish of 3271 b.
Darnley Naylor, who moved from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide Uni. as Professor of
Classics just 20 years ago, now moves on
to London, farewelled by all sorts and con-
ditions of Adelaide residents. He had, for
example, an unexpected tribute from the
Tramways Trust drivers and conductors,
“to whom, both by word and deed, you have
so greatly endeared yourself.” Naylor has at
all times combined strong views, even on
his hobbies, with a genial disposition. No
professor has ever found time for more out-
side interests —varying from the League of
Nations to strictly-amateur football —and
none has been more widely popular.
Archie Watson, vice-Mayor of Brisbane,
was the joy of the reporters during his
recent reign as Acting-Mayor. He is a little
chap, about the same fighting weight as Billy
Hughes, and his vocabulary comes straight
from the pepper-pot, with a dash or two of
ginger. In a controversy with the electric
light company, he accused the co. of “having
the ratepayers by the wool,” and of “trying to
unload cold pig on to the city.” When out-
siders butted into the dispute, evidently mis-
taking it for a free fight, Watson warned
them to “keep off the grass” or he would
“blow their socks off.” The argument was
getting really interesting when Mayor Jolly
hurried back from his holiday.
“Der Jong” : The best work of just-dead
“Karri” Davies was as intelligence officer
in the later days of the S’African War. He
had a great name with the natives, many
of whom had passed through his hands at
Johannesburg and elsewhere. With the aid
of these he organised an intelligence system
that led to some telling coups by British
flying columns. To get results he supple-
mented the niggardly service pay of his
native scouts from his own pocket. The
British Government would not recompense
“Karri.” It was a sore point with him, and
he subsequently “begged permission to
refuse” a minor decoration offered him as
a sop.
Dr. A. Mackenzie, who stepped ashore from
the Mooltan at Sydney, is a golf-course
expert by occupation. He comes from his
native heath to advise various clubs in these
latitudes. The Royal Melbourne Club brought
him here, and he has spent five weeks
down south. Now he will tackle the prob-
lems of the Royal Sydney, Pymble, Kensing-
ton and New 7 South Wales clubs. Later he
will go to Brisbane and give the links of
the Royal Queensland, Brisbane and Indoo-
roopilly clubs profound consideration. For
a trifling £250 the golf-course doctor will pre-
scribe for enervated bunkers and debilitated
fairwmys, with a golf-house thrown in, if
necessary.


_
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra —V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
B7931. 12. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA-—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/3/V>
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £2,085,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
Lysaght, 'O.B.K. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S. IF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: NT. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Diiiihn.
LONDON (37 Threadnecdle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Donns Fairiiairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £52J,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain ami Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa,
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
- - fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Vremantle, YV.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 876,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £876,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 876,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADEN HALL STREET, EX'.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSockty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
s'
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELL & Outct
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Shipping;, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA .. . 13,000 tons disp. DEC. 30, for San Francisco.
MARAMA, JAN. 14, connects with Tahiti at Auckland for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI. 11,340 tons disp. JAN. 27, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ ~ FEB. 10, for Vancouver.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
Wm
/ i\:<;
~-'■ ■>*
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about Wcclcs.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Mow Rrtfain • S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
llCiv iM £l Cl 111 ■ sails December 29 and February 8.
Knlr, m ft Id an /ft* S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
\JUIUIIIVm 131(111113. Sails December 22 and February 2.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m ''
wen
hkdftyj
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
in.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability. -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
gjit'fa
WALES.
£6.000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and eollerted. Tetters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ------ 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COKEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.1..C.:
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parker lyU 1
Magnlfioont
Fast Passenger
Steamship}
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—Eroin Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as tier daily papers.
Eor full particulars apply HUDDAKT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic addn
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blacklieatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
For your
Summer Vacation
HOTEL
KOSCIUSKO
(Altitude 5000 ft.)
Golf, Tennis and Croquet.
Snow Sports, Ski-ing and
Tobogganing on the
higher ranges.
Motoring on excellent roads.
Special arrangements for parties.
Boohings and further particulars
at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Competition r
in Words 4
Jor,
Sift" ”
V.
>
(rf
n
Vfe
T
1
4 >n
V
—:
£"X
(lltlilKllli
UA44A
<- _
The words “best 7 ’ and “greatest"
have been used so often in the
motor car field that they have
ceased to be convincing.
In this verbal competition
Dodge Brothers have never
participated. They have
never referred to their car in
exaggerated terms. They
have simply permitted it to
be its own best salesman.
Costly steel, high-grade work-
manship, careful inspection,
quality equipment throughout
and reasonable prices these
are the principal factors that
have enabled Dodge Brothers
Motor Car to gain a marked
increase in sales through each
year of its existence.
Dddb&BrqthersJnc Detroit
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and 1 ownsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
23/12/25.


m
'll
Hungry as a Bear
and Can’t Eat!
A great many people get angry when you tell them they’ve got dyspepsia, but ’way down
deep in their stomachs they know they’ve got it. “I’d love to eat it, but I can’t,” is one
kind of dyspepsia. “I hate to think of it,” is another kind. There are thousands of people
to-day who hate their meals and love them at the same time. They haven’t that fine, empty,
hungry, eat-everything-in-sight kind of feeling which goes with every good, healthy stomach.
And then there are others whose mouths don’t water at mealtime or at any other
time. They sit at the table and go through the motions only because it’s time t‘o eat.
These people, too, are dyspeptics. Poor appetite, loss of strength, nervousness,
offensive breath, heartburn, indigestion and dyspepsia are among the results of a disordered
stomach.
Every possible kind of stomach-trouble can be remedied by taking something which
digests what you eat and will just take right hold of all the food in your stomach and
digest it alone, without the help of the stomach, and let the stomach take a rest. DR.
SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES do this very thing. They are composed of the best
digestives known to science, and are absolutely safe. They do exactly the work that a good,
strong, healthy stomach does. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tahules relieve all cases of dyspepsia,
indigestion, burning or irritation, loss of appetite, bloat, brash, belching, aversion to food,
fermentation and gas in the stomach. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tahules will iflake you feel
“good” before and after each meal, and make your stomach strong and healthy again.
Dr. Sheldon’
Digestive
Tabules
Small Size, 1/9;
Large Size, 2/9.
o n s
5"
<S>
s
ear
%
O u
ty
6$
»*»\\>
w
ns
\ iy
i<
CO
e s
ey
U?
d ll
Oi®
D p
s<4
uO
SHp
Give Chocolates this
Christmas
111
jm
n
■
W fr*. '•
W.H
wfT^'-
m
m
n>'<
Preferably
HILLIER'S
“We post them”
Hillicr's Chocolates
are something to de-
light the most exact-
ing taste and thrill
the palate with sheer
deliciousness.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10 A, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Send your order, and
we will post to friends
the famous Red Box
to your instructions
with suitable Greeting
Cards.
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
&4\£4t HiitcCA
162-166 Pitt Street, and corner
George and King Streets, Sydney.
The Fragrance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
sky has innocent turquoise lights
that melt
Into the passionate sapphire of the sea ;
All color pleasures ever dreamed or felt
Build up the noon’s most fair serenity.
Spikes of dark flower are blue among the
heath
Where sword-grass stacks its shining
scimitars;
The fiery yellows of the fields beneath
Crackle with capeweed’s constellated stars.
And round each nectar-cup on lacy wings
Float iridescent flies of gilded green;
In the warm underworld of tiny things
Are jewels that would glorify a queen.
A lone black wattle, plumy branches bent
With moonlight-colored bloom, breathes
wine about;
Red-and-white milkmaids scatter honey scent,
And fringed mauve lilies shake vanilla out.
Fugitive sweetness of the shivery grass,
The bold smell of young bracken, bright
and strong,
Salt of the waves in little sighs that pass.
Praise of brown moss, whose perfume is a
song—
All these gushed essences are overpowered
By one strange fragrance, ah, familiar
one!
Subtle and fine, from small leaves lightly
showered,
Smell of the tea-tree in the noonday sun.
So delicately faint at first it seems,
Then burning troublously it whelms the
mind
Into a whirled confusion of young dreams,
Messages, fancies, visions half divined. ...
The smell of tea-tree —or the smell of box,
Clipped garden box, bordering a currant
bed:
A girl stands there, dark-eyed, with darker
locks
In long curls falling either side her head.
Billowy flounces primrose-pale of hue,
Wide crinoline for such a wand-like maid,
Tossed bonnet ribbon, slim prunella shoe—
How clear the picture in the hawthorn
shade!
Her hands clasp lavender and London pride,
Larkspur, moss-rose and Canterbury bell;
And now a pungent twig of box is tied
Into this English posy of farewell.
In Staffordshire, some seventy years ag0....
Ghost of a garden that I never saw,
Why has its perfume power to stir me so,
Thrilling me through with wonder and
with awe?
That nosegay twined with musing maiden-
hood
Still yields an Old World odor to the air;
Save in its coffer of smooth applewood,
Its dried leaves still show color here and
there.
Little-girl ancestress, brown-eyed and
straight.
Who dared long months to sail unfriendly
foam,
Like a wild swan that flies beside her mate
To a strange land, to challenge there a
home—
Cherishing wistfully, with hidden pain,
A casket of pressed spices, stem and leaf.
By this south sea now summer comes again,
Your gracious memory quickens, and your
grief!
So in my heart a sudden kinship aches,
Yearning to England back across the
years ;
It is your wish the sunburnt tea-tree wakes,
Your homesickness that stings my eyes
with tears!
victoria.
ELSIE COLE.
One Little Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ANNA was always waiting for some-
thing to happen—something magnifi-
cently unexpected and delightful.
Even as a child she had had this feeling
of expectation. She would run home from
school, her long black-stockinged legs moving
as hard as they could, push open the squeaky
gate, and throw down her bag. Who knew
what might be waiting there? Visitors that
she did not know. Perhaps the lady in black
from the big house on the hill would have
called on her mother, and she would be able
to sit on the edge of the slithery horse-hair
sofa, catching little drifts of unintelligible
conversation. Or perhaps a strange man
with a golden beard like the beards of the
pictured Vikings would be straddling the
shabby hearthrug. “This is your uncle,
whom we had all thought dead,” her mother
would say proudly. “He is a millionaire.”
When she passed the postman in the street
it was always: “Now he is going to stop
me and say, ‘Here’s a parcel for you, Anna
Carey.’ ” And the parcel would be a sweet-
box of Gargantuan dimensions, or ivory-
white lilies done up in tissue-paper. Gifts
from people w r ho had been interested in her
without her knowledge.
But the strange visitors never came, and
the postman always rode past with an
indifferent glance at the little girl who kicked
the brown plane leaves in the gutter, and
looked at him out of slightly squinting eyes.
At school it was the same. Each day
Anna would think with fresh enthusiasm:
“Miss Jones will call me out and say, ‘Anna
Carey, that is a beautiful essay you have
written. Take it into the headmaster. lie
will be very pleased!’ ” And she would see
herself in that little room that smelled of
new maps and blue-black ink. But she
was never called out, except to be repri-
manded for her inability to do anything in
“mental” that began with “How many?”
or “If a man” —words which always
made her brain whirl like the wheels of a
watch w T ith a broken escapement.
When she left school nothing was altered
much. She lived in the last house in the
township, and when her father died —he had
been an agent for fertilisers and insurances—-
her mother took in delicate whitework, and
she helped. It was a monotonous task, and
she always pricked her fingers. But she
would sit at the window and look out to
where the sky leaned down to kiss the mazy
plain, and she would wait for something
big and beautiful to come to her out of it.
But nothing ever came. Each day was like
the one that went before. She fed the
clucking fowls that she hated because of
their bright, inquiring eyes and unashamed
greed. She did housework, and sewed. Some-
times in the afternoon she went out. Some-
times she went to a dance, but there were
always the same people there, the same
shrill tuning of violins, the same smell of
bruised gum, and dust, mixed with flying
boracie-powder, that got up your nose.
When she was twenty she met Stephen.
There was nothing remarkable about
Stephen, and she had no particular regard
for him, but lie came to the house often,
and would sit out on the verandah tapping
his pipe against his boot-heel, talking of
discing and ploughing, and spitting expertly
past the fuchsias in the tins. Sometimes
there would be long silences, and Anna would
sit, listening to the breathing of the long
grass, the piping of the crickets, and a
frog in the corner that made the noise that
a humorous fat-faced man would make if
he chucked a little boy under the chin.
Then early one evening Stephen nudged
her so that her needle missed, and ran into
her finger.
“How about it?” asked Stephen sheep-
ishly.
“About what?” said Anna; but she knew.
With a little dull feeling of wonder, she
knew. Stephen was proposing to her. Love
had come into her life, yet, curiously enough,
it was as though nothing had happened. There
had been none of the thrills and white
magic that she had read and dreamed about.
“Us getting married,” said Stephen with
a grin. “We’ve been sort of keeping com-
pany long enough. I guess we’re fond
enough of each other, Anna, old girl. I've
bought out my brother’s farm over at
Sandy’s Flat.”
Anna fought silently. She wanted time,
though she hardly knew why. She looked
at him fluttered. She could not tell him that
she was waiting for something to happen,
because she did not know what it was she
wanted.
“I won’t say yet,” she whispered. “I’m
going to Melbourne for a holiday. Wait till
I come back.”
She went away next week for the first
time in many years. The journey had all
the elements of adventure. In the train she
looked round brightly, but nobody noticed
the little country girl in the corner, under a
shabby, wobbling dress-basket, with an old-
fashioned hat sitting on top of her tightly-
drawn, tow-colored hair.
Her aunt’s house was in a queer place
behind a vacant block of land that stopped
abruptly with a wall of cliff. The brick-
kiln where her uncle worked stood at the
edge. Anna felt at once that this was the
place for sensational happenings. But
nothing happened. No one fell down the
toothv cliff, and the glowing fire burned
quietiy on in the brick-kiln. Sometimes she
went with aunt Maria —a soft bolster of a
woman with an incipient moustache and
false teeth that dropped continually—to a
theatre. After these vicarious adventures,
she came back exalted and ready for any-
thing, with her grey eyes shining. However,
she went back to Sandy Creek and Stephen.
They were married at the end of the
winter. The wedding went off decorously.
Stephen was satisfied with himself, and. anxi-
ous to be back in time for the milking.
Life continued at the old dull level, though
it was lived on a farm now, and Anna had
to work hard. She never drove into the
township, the reins lying loosely between
her firm, brown fingers, without the thought
that something bright and beautiful might,
happen before she reached home again. She
would run swiftly to the door when anybody
came, patting her apron and her fair hair,
with little excited taps. But it would only
be Stephen lounging in, a man from the
next farm, or a hawker selling goods.
“Who did you think it was?” Stephen
would ask.
“1 don’t know,” she would say dully, and
sigh like the little, impatient girl who had
kicked the plane-leaves in the gutter, coming
from school.
After a year her first baby, Christopher,
was born. The midwife from the township
was with her, and Stephen stayed out with
the lambs in the cold paddock. Mary was
born a year later. Stephen was at races in
Sandy Flat when that happened. He came
home drunk and exuberant the next day, and
Anna cried a little.
She watched the children grow, and
dreamed her dreams about them. When they
were old enough they went to the tiny school
by the creek. She would fuss over them
when they came back of an evening, their
hands blue in the winter and their feet
tingling with chilblains.
“What did you see to-day, my dear?” she
would croon. “How many red robins flying
over the swamp? And how many fairies did
mother’s cherubs see?”
Christopher was her favorite. But neither
he nor Mary ever saw any fairies. They had
not her eagerness or swift imagination. They
would never live in her world of silver,
tenuous imaginings.
Christopher had a thick utterance and
slept uneasily. One day Anna took him to
the doctor. She felt proud of him as she
lifted him from the buggy, with his chubby
five-year-old body warm in its -woollen wrap-
pings. and fancied the doctor exclaiming
admiringly.
“That’s a fine lad of yours. Mrs. Graham.
Keep an eye on him. He will do big things
in the world.”
Instead, the doctor, an untidy man who
smelt of whisky, looked at Christopher care-
lessly and said: “You want to take care.
His throat is weak, and there is diphtheria
in the district just now.”
(Continued on next page.)


Rainproof
Dustproof
Perfect
Lubrication
dkdtyk
Trust not the fickle heavens
Find More Constancy in a Billabong Windmill.
The Encased Gear Billabong is a most Modern Mill. It is scientifically designed
and strongly constructed—so long years of experience in Irrigation Machinery has
greatly helped in the production of this ONE REAL SERVICEABLE Windmill
for Australian conditions. A Windmill is not an everyday purchase. Learn all
about the Billabong before buying. Full particulars on application.
PS
V-
, w »v/ v/ i
/
S»m
Si *£E
“BILLABONG” Windmills and Troughing
The wide range of Billabong Pumps—
our own manufacture —meets most of
the requirements of the Farm, Home
and Factory. Our Pump Catalog
illustrates and describes many of our
lines. It is Post Free.
The Danks Windmill
Pump-
An All-Brass Pump—Popular through-
out the Commonwealtli on account of
its durability and efficiency. Accessi-
bility is a feature —the Bucket or
Plunger may be withdrawn by remov-
ing the top cover, and an inspection
cover is provided for the bottom valve.
m hgkytjhg
To meet tlie demands of those who require but a
moderate amount of water which does not warrant
the installation of a more powerful and higher-
priced Mill, the “Busy B” will be found a sound
proposition. It is of the direct-acting type, has
a Ball-bearing Turntable, and is automatically
regulated to suit all winds. Its sft. Wind Wheel
is our Billabong Standard Design. The “Busy B”
can be supplied with fittings for mounting on a
Wooden Post or with Steel Tower as desired.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY.LTD.
HP
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
And at SYDNEY.
BILLABONG TROUGHING is sot in two or more
heavy angle steel frames, which form a most rigid
bed, and enables BILLABONG TROUGHS to
withstand rough usage and hard wear. This
troughing is easily assembled, and is made in styles
to suit cattle, calves and sheep, and also a very
heavy type is made for pigs. Full particulars and
prices Post Free.
A week later Christopher was down. They
drove him into the little weatherboard hos-
pital, and left him with a nurse who irri-
tated Anna by her hard, capable manner.
When she next went in they told her that
Christopher was dead. She wrung her hands
but could not believe it. She went round to
the hotel to get Stephen, and brought him
out of the bar, without perceiving that he
was nearly drunk.
“When we get back they'll tell me he
isn’t dead,’ she was thinking passionately
as she lurched down the street. “It will
have been a trance. A wondei'ful little chap
they’ll call him.” She saw headlines of it
in the papers. “Little seven-year-old boy. ..
back from the gates of death”
But Christopher was really dead, and they
buried him in the little cemetery where the
grass was long and the curlews called all
night, and Anna took to crying in her sleep
and getting up early because she could not
rest.
The years dragged on. Anna lost her
color, and her cheeks got pinched. Some-
times the harvest was good and they spoke
joyfully of all that they would do. Sometimes
floods spoilt the crops, or droughts thinned
the flocks, and she listened at night while
Stephen grumbled away at the other side
of the fire, and told of all that he would
have accomplished if luck hadn’t been dead
against him. Mary grew into a tall, long-
legged girl who would not get out of bed
in the mornings, and who watched her mother
carrying great buckets of water without
offering to help. She was lazy with her
lessons, though Anna often helped her,
dreaming of a night over the tattered atlas
as it lay on the kitchen-table. The intricate
printed maps with their swirling-lined seas
and broken outlines held a singular appeal
for her, though she would redden all over
her sallow face when Mary caught her look-
ing. It was the enchanting names that she
looked at. Florence—that was the place
with many bridges! And Venice, on the
water! She had always longed to go to
Venice! And Mecca, where the holy carpet
was! Perhaps some day she would go. She
was young yet. God couldn’t let you die
without seeing the world if you loved it so
much —all this she thought, while she
fed the lowing calves, scrubbed the milk-
dishes with sand, baked the bread and went
into the township once a week to cut out
flannel shirts for the ladies’ guild.
Mary left school at fourteen without get-
ting her merit certilicate. Well, if Mary
wasn’t clever or diligent-—it was really lack
of diligence, not brains, thought Anna —she
was pretty, with her yellow hair and nice,
round blue eyes. She would watch Mary
go off to dances with the Macartney girls,
and weave beautiful dreams round her all the
rest of the night. She was always awake,
propped up on her thin elbow, when Mary
came in late.
“You were the belle, darling,” she would
say often. “Did you have a wonderful
time?”
“I had hardly any dances,” Mary would
reply sulkily, kicking off her shoes. “I
hated sitting against the wall.”
Anna would feel her heart yearning over
Mary with a deep-down yearning that had
something of terror in it. She sent her down
to Aunt Maria, and in the lonely evenings,
with Stephen snoring in his broken-
springed chair, she would build castles in
the air. Things would happen like this. One
day when she was least expecting it, a
young man with a nice smile would appear
at the door with Mary. And he would catch
her round the waist and say: “I love Mary.
I am immensely rich and can give her all
she wants. We are going to do the world
tour. How about coming with us too,
mother?”
She would see the dead little Christo-
pher in this boy who would call her
“mother.”
But Mary’s letters grew fewer and fewer,
and finally dropped off. Then one day
Mary appeared suddenly at the kitchen door,
something half-shamed and half-defiant in
her face, w r ith a short dress, and her fat
ankles bulging over her new one-strap
shoes.
“I've got married,” she said, evading her
mother’s caresses. “Sid is out there in the
cowyard. I met him at the pictures. He
had a job in the brick-kiln, but he lost it.
He wants father to help him on the land.”
Anna put her hand to her heart where
a little pain worried her.
“Never mind,” she thought bravely. “Hc’li
be a fine, worthy lad.”
Then Sid came in, a lowering, pimply
youth with a piece of straw between his
lips, and a tweed cap on back to front.
They sat miserably round the lire that
night, while Stephen banged the table, and
the red spread over the bald top of his head.
He advanced the money for the purchase
of a fruit-block over the river, and the pair
went at the end of the week, leaving the
house strangely silent.
“And now' we can’t get that car I was
counting on,” Stephen said. “Curse the
good-for-nothing young hound! Three hun-
dred pound I give him—three hundred
pound!”
Whether they would have got the car,
Anna did not know. But it seemed as if
that lost three hundred might have satisfied
their every desire on earth. Of a night
Stephen would sit banging his fists on his
knees, and shooting out his lips.
“A rotter,” he would mutter. “Living on
us. I’ll never get it back.”
“Oh yes, dear, you will,” Anna would say
peering short-sightedly over her darning.
Already she saw ahead. Mary and Sid
would prove to be the great thing that she
had waited for, all her life. They would
make a huge success of the block. One day
the pair would drive up in a shining-bright
car.
“We’ve got father’s money,” Mary would
say with her high laugh. “Here it is!”
But Anna did not dream quite so easily
now. It was harder to concentrate. She
was forty-two, but she looked ten years more.
And she was stooped with heavy lifting. Her
face had yellowed and thinned, and thei-o
was an ugly gap where an extracted tooth
had never been replaced, And sometimes
she had that queer pain in her heart —just
as if a hand squeezed gently, almost play-
fully, suggesting that it could hurt a lot
more if it wanted to.
It was cold that winter. Stephen was
out a good deal with the sheep, and she had
to bring in the heavy wood. Stephen never
noticed. As long as he had enough to eat,
and could be warm, he was oblivious to
outside happenings.
One morning Anna stood at the door, and
watched the rain blowing away from the
barn-roof like clouds of smoke. There was a
warm, peaty smell in the air, and the mag-
pies were calling querulously.
“Something'll happen to-day,” she thought
happily. “It’s like as if the earth is sing-
ing !” And she shooed the fowls away from
the door with a little laugh.
She brought in logs of wet, mouldy wood
and laid them by the stove. Somehow she
found it difficult to straighten herself after
that. She slipped down to her knees, her
hand clutching at her black silesia blouse,
and she did not know whether it was her
voice crying out, or the voice of the little
lambs in the paddock.
Stephen came in later and found her there.
“My God!” he cried hoarsely, stooping.
“My God, Anna, you’re going!”
“No!” she gasped, fighting against the
darkness that oppressed her. still clinging
tenaciously to the life that had not fulfilled
the splendid things it had promised. “No,
I can’t yeti Why, nothing’s happened”
But the big thing had happened at last.
She lay crumbled against the uneven bricks
by the stove, while the little lambs cried
unheard, out in the cold, wet paddock.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Pannikin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. SAMUEL CLUTTERBUCK was
in a gay mood. He thought he had
just brought off his smartest bit
of work. Three years before he had been
sent to Van Diemen’s Land for some petty
theft; and in 1.840 he was enjoying his
ticket-of-lcave.
It was Christmas Eve, and Hobart Town
was looking festive as he went along Collins-
street. He smiled with satisfaction as he
thought of his friends at the Mitre. Bill
Jarret and Scabby Davis would open their
eyes when they saw what a haul he had
made.
“Yer won’t never make a fob-hunter,
Sammy,” Bill Jarret had said. “You ain’t
slick enough.
Well, Bill would soon know better; for
in Sam’s pocket at that moment was a real
swell gold ticker.
Sam fingered it lovingly. Only a few
minutes before it had been safe in the pocket
of its owner. He looked back to see if
the coast was clear. And then he went
flabby all over. A constable was running
towards him!
A cold sweat broke out on Sammy’s fore-
head ; and as he began to run the watch
seemed heavier than lead. He would gladly
have thrown it away, but he did not know
how to get rid of it without being seen.
He could think of nothing but the Mitre.
His one hope of safety lay there, and now
it was within easy reach. As he neared the
tavern door lie heard the policeman thudding
after him. He dashed through the bar, into
a small room beyond, praying that Bill
would be there to save him. His luck was
in. Bill was sitting over his usual panni-
kin of rum, and Scabby was lying dead-
drunk in the corner.
“Gawd, Bill, I'm follered!” he gasped,
thrusting the watch under his friend’s nose.
By this time the constable could be heard
outside. Bill’s eyes searched the room vainly
for a hiding-place for the ticker. Sammy
looked as if he were going to collapse.
And then Bill’s nimble w T it came to the
rescue.
“Gimme me the thing,” he said in
a low tone, and quick as a flash he plunged
the watch into the pannikin.
When the constable burst into the room,
Bill was leaning on his elbow, biting his
thumb-nail, and Sammy was trembling in
every limb.
“Ah! Got yer!” said the policeman tri-
umphantly dragging Sammy to his feet.
“Jest ’and over that ticker.”
Sam’s mouth was so dry that he could
not speak.
“What’s the flamin’ fuss about?” asked
the ever-ready Bill.
“You don’t know nothink about it, of
course?” sneered the constable. “Now, come
on, git out o’ this!” he said to the gaping
crowd at the door.
“Now, Buttercup, ’and it over!”
“Oh, please, I don’t know nothink about
it,” whined Sammy, with visions of Port
Arthur before him.
“Why can’t yer let ’im alone?” snarled
Bill. “’E ain’t done nothing. Search ’im :
search me, too, if yer like; search ol’ Scabby;
search the ’ole blasted place.”
“Now, don’t yer put on no airs, .Turret.
You’ll ’ave ter come along wiv Buttercup
and me. An’ remember there ain’t 'no
escape either.”
The constable began to search the room.
It was almost bare, and he did not take
long. He ran his hands through Scabby's
clothes; but it was plain that Scabby had
taken no part in the robbery.
Then his eyes fell on the pannikin.
Sammy’s knees began to knock together. Ho
could feel the hair of his scalp rising.
“Well, anyhow, ’ere’s to Christmas!” said
the constable, stretching his hand towards
the pannikin.
“Wot! You’re not goin’ ter drink ol’
Scabby’s rum?” said Bill in an injured tone.
The constable looked at Scabby, who was
lying on his back, and noticed the sores upon
his nose and lips. He shuddered and put
the pannikin back on the table.
“You coves can be searched along at the
tench,” he said as he marched them off.
* * * *
Half an hour later Scabby woke up and
polished off Bill’s rum.
“Lor’, now,” he gasped as he came upon
the watch. “I wonder who was the flamin’
Father Christmas?”
LKONSRD C. MURRAY.


<J
I
r 't'
:
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOßMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. ._. ~ a .
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, B.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WSLDHIDGE f SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for. greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne... .Baldwin k Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney . Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collins,
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
3£
M
<sr
ft
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD.. Willesdcn Lane, London, ENGLAND.
%
“A
%
Rem Oil
Long Life to Fine
Mechanisms!
SEWING MACHINES, bicycles, type-
writers, clocks, etc. must be treated,
regularly, with a good oil if they are
to give smooth, silent service
REM OIL cleans, lubricates, prevents rust.
It cannot be equalled for general usefulness.
Remington guarantees its excellence.
Your dealer can supply or order for you.
Remington Arms Company, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Representative
Viet
.0. Box 686 E,
FI
m
i
<
A Pill is .
East) to take
Hdndq to use
KSf KS
Place ©n the tongue
Take a little water - it’s gonet
What could he simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECH AM’S PILES are
A wonderful medicine
u nuiM ve
/wecfamb
Secure Effective Ignition
on your American Car by Fitting
LODGE
PLUGS
The sparking plug requirements o£
American engines have been exhaus-
tively studied by the manufacturers of
Lodge plugs, with the result that the
special American model Lodge plugs
give the same' unparalleled efficiency
in American engines as do the metric
thread Lodge plugs in European on-
gilieS. /
Illustrated is Model CT. (7-Bin.
regular).
Packed in Sealed Bronze Box
SUITABLE For—
Apperson, Cadillac, Chrysler, Dur-
ant-Rugby, Flint, Lincoln, Moon,
Paige-Jewett, Packard, Studebaker,
Willys-Knlght.
»■■■«
ansHi
Lodge Plugs are made in different
models to suit all makes of engines, and
are obtainable from leading accessory
dealers, garages, and stores.
LODGE PLUGS LTD.,
Rugby, ENGLAND
Marine
Engines
For all boats of the medium duty
type, Kermath Marine Engines of 3
to 100 horsepower have proved
themselves best by actual, hard, un-
failing service.
All parts Standard and Interchange-
able. American Bosch Magnetos—
impulse coupling.’
3 to 100 H.P.,
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Engines.
HALL
Foot of Willoughby St.
North Sydney, Australia
kermath MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address i KERMATH
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
laincheon by reservation, at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY atop.™..™, No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6, Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


nr
m
W'
//>
'•*-
«**
s. \
A ".
Ov - -J
-
>s
X* ,
m
'liillllll
-/ -
AROLO ME
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF COURAGE
Courage is a great dispenser of gifts. For valorous thoughts and brave actions
have given mankind the boon of freedom, and all the blessings of progress.
Courage is as naturally a part of true worthiness as unimpeachable purity is of
DEWAR’S
