

* »
®i^BiiiiiiSilsiiswiPiSßiiSili®iBlliii
m
H
■
I
' -i
m
m
w
I
m
&
m
■f
VV
■**
w
as
fl
-V
Ml
V
:<; -
Guests in a
..... V r--v-
-wf^' 1
t2h M .
The toast of the evening will be honored with extra
enthusiasm, if, when the request is made to “Charge your
glasses,” a true Lager is available.
For everybody likes a true Lager. Its thirst-quenching
and refreshing qualities no less than its low alcoholic
content make it a beverage that is universally suitable.
Ts distinctive flavor .appeals particularly to the refined
palate, while its high food value makes it the logical
accompaniment to a well-balanced menu.
So it is fully in keeping with your part as a good host to
provide for your guests a true Lager. And to make
certain of being able to offer a true Lager you have merely
to take the precaution of ordering K.B.' —a Lager that
in very truth is quite equal to the best brewed in any
part of the world.
TOOTH'S
A True LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO. LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney
Si
v
dm
IN A C
■ -3
T
»\mm»,
tr
mi
riif
r .m
OOTH
a t
mr y A
Sydney
!\Vv\
■zsSg*
The Bulletin
VoL 47.—N0. 2407,
Thursday, April 1, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney,.N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Wl RITE for our Library Catalogue and
vv lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
DYMOOK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT
o
p
R
.AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
I*:.*#
VrTTG
©.«3
r
k
/j>
Shape
No. 2/4369
ħ
Here’s the perfect pipe—
Y" OU will realise your ideal of a perfect pipe when you
have actually smoked a GBD. It will exceed your
best anticipations—so cool, so satisfactory in every way, a
pipe with a pedigree that will never fad to satisfy your
smoking needs.
Finest quality briar, neatly finished with the very best
quality vulcanite mouthpiece and Hall-marked silver mount,
in all favourite shapes. sold EVERYWHERE
Trade enquiries are invited to Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney
h
... • . .
If any illustration in The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Every dog’ has his day!. You may have been an un-
lucky dog for years: but if you take a ticket in the
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES £lO,OOO ART UNION you may
cease picking bones with fate and drive bad luck away
in a prize motor car.
ĥ
ħ
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADE’S COLOSSAL. ART UNION IN AID OF
THE HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, and CHARITIES OF THE
STATE (by Permission of the Attorney-General).
FIRST PRIZE, MOTOR CAR VALUED AT £1,300
AND
FIFTEEN MOTOR CARS AND MOTOR CYCLES
143 Other Prizes.
The drawing takes place at Sydney Town Hall on May 13, 1926.
TICKETS ONE SHILLING
24 TICKETS FOR £l.
J wo 2, r J^.°, re _T !c,<e t s ' Re sult Sii p forwarded. Apply to Hon. Secre-
tary, N.S.W. Fire Brigade's Art Union, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write plainly. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
J. J. ( NEVILLE, Hon. Sec.
The Red Page
Australian Literature
An Authors’ Association is being formed
in Sydney for the protection and benefit of
Australian writers. People naturally ask
why it is needed. The reply is easy. It is
needed for the same reason that there is an
Authors’ Club in London and an Australian
Workers’ Union, a Pastoralists’ Union, a
Merchants’ Association and a Clerks’ Union
in Australia. Their job is to look after the
interests of those who live by a particular
activity. Not that many Australians live by
writing books. A few have tried it, but they
ar® all starved into submission by a world
that would not feed and clothe them.
Ask the booksellers what is the trouble,
and they will tell you with one voice that
there is no sale for Australian books, poetry
or prose; it does not pay to stock them.
There are two sides to that. The first is
that our market is flooded with cheap pro-
ductions from overseas. When I was lead-
ing a debate against the tariff in the House
of Reps. I was asked to help to put a pro-
hibitive duty on “foreign” (including Eng-
lish) books and magazines. The artful plea
was put up that, having been known to write
books myself, I should assist in the good
work of not making but “securing” a market
for Australian writers. I refused. Under
similar circumstances I would again refuse
to “secure” any market. But neither I nor
any other good Aussie would refuse to do
everything that can be done to make a market
for Australian literature. The way to do
this with advantage is not to shut out the
best stuff written. Doubtless quite a lot
could be achieved by stopping the stream of
mush that comes from U.S.A. Were seri-
ous consideration given to that, some good
would surely accrue. For while that stream
of cheap trash comes pouring in unrestrict-
edly,. as it does at present, Australian pro-
ductions are drowned in the flood. That is
the practical, the political side of it. The
other is the literary side.
When one looks through what may be,
and generally is, called Australian litera-
ture, how much of it is the work of the
native-born? At one of the leading book-
shops in Sydney last week I was handed a
volume. “That,” said the bookseller, “is quite
a good Australian story. But we can’t sell
it—no demand. Australian novels will not
sell.” The book was bought—and duly paid
for. It proved to be a story of the bush.
It would be surprising if it did sell, and if
it did there would be a bad outlook for Aus-
tralian literature.
That book was written by an Englishman
who did not, and could not, understand Aus-
tralia. The whole motif of the story is the
stranglehold the bush gets on men and
women, driving them to the extremes of
morbid misery and grotesque madness. Why
should such stuff sell?
The Australian bush is neither morbid nor
miserable. It does not drive people mad un-
less they are already leaning that way. On
the contrary, to those who understand it,
those who belong to it, the Australian busli
is .lust as capable of bringing happiness as
the gayest theatre in London or Paris. True,
it is a different kind of happiness. It is
deeper, pur-er and altogether more admirable.
At any rate, the writer finds it so after try-
ing both.
It is time that we shut down on all
attempts to show Australia as a devourer
of the human race; time that we showed
that this splendid land of ours can. and does,
produce more happiness and heroism in pro-
portion to its population than any other
country. When we set about to do this the
public will buy our books, for the only reason
that the public does buy books, because it
likes them and gets pleasure out of them.
If our books permanently brighten and
broaden the public’s outlook on life so much
the better—and so much the more will it
buy them.
After all the morbid stuff the public has
had foisted upon it, it is going to be an up-
lml fight to make Australian books go. But
with fair dealing from the political stand-
point, a little help from the booksellers, and
decently written, cheerful output from the
literary standpoint, it can be done. And
done it must be, for Australia can never be
a nation till it has a literature of its own
a literature produced by the native-born.
W. M. FLEMING.
Frank Harris
Mr. Jack Lindsay’s remarks on Frank
Harris (R.P. 20/2/’2G) take me back te a
perfect spring evening in the “ville lumidre,’
when, weary of the life of the boulevards
I wandered into that sanctuary of the classi-
cal drama, the Odeon. But this night tin
Odgon had departed from its traditions, and
was staging one of those atrocious comedies
joyed by the Quartier Latin. “Le Petit
v ate degenerated, as the* evening wore on
into a screaming farce, during which the
stage more often than not was a seethin <r
mass of gesticulating people, each seeking
to outdo the other in making noise. Seated
next to me in the stalls was a little man
w j t i strikingly dark hair and moustache, who
made frequent remarks uncomplimentary in
the extreme to both French actors and French
comedy. We were soon engaged in ani-
mated conversation, and at tiie conclusion
°t the performance Frank Harris—for it
was he—asked me to supper. A few minutes
later we had crossed to the north bank of
the river and were seated over Rhine wine
and ham at the Cafe de la Paix. Perhaps
it was Harris, perhaps the excellent wine,
hut at 1.30 a.m. conversation was still flow-
liig fri'cly, and as the waiters were dimming
the lights we adjourned to the Avenue de
J Optra, and finally to the Tuileries Gardens,
where, before the Palace of the Louvre,
made glorious by the rays of a full moon,
we paced up and down until far into the
morning. Mr. Lindsay remarks that all who
have known Harris have stressed the fervid
and restless animation of his mind. No
comment could he more exact. Harris’s con-
versational powers are truly marvellous, his
mind passing from subject to subject with
bewildering rapidity ; yet there is an under-
current linking up the most diverse subjects.
It is as an apologist for Wilde that Harris
is perhaps most widely known. Moral
issues do not seem to loom large in his
mental horizon, and it is this failure to
understand that in the mind of.the ordinary
man good and evil are something more than
mere abstractions that has led to that em-
bitterment—so apparent in all his conversa-
tion—against mankind in general and
against England and all she represents in
particular. “What does this mean, Mere-
dith? Are you going to allow them to kill
Wilde for nothing?” said Harris. "For no-
thing? replied Meredith. “That is where
we differ.” _ Such was Meredith’s answer
when Harris was seeking his signature to
the memorial for presentation to the Home
Secretary asking for Wilde’s release. Harris,
m relating the incident, spoke most bitterly
of Meredith and his fellow-men of letters,
for of the hundred signatures required by
the Home Secretary Harris coujd obtain
only one—that of the Regius Professor of
Greek at Trinity College, Dublin; R. .T.
Tyrell, if I remember rightly. Meredith’s
answer must always remain the answer of
the average Englishman, and Harris to this
day does not seem able to comprehend why.
On that night of which I have spoken lie
talked at length about Wilde’s egotism. When
Harris in conversation with him placed him
below Shakspeare, “Is not the living Wilde
greater than the dead Shakspeare?” the
living Wilde asked. Of course Harris him-
self is not altogether without the quality.
He told me that he once said to Carlyle
‘lou have buried Frederick the Great under
twelve volumes • why not write a life of your
contemporaries?” “Perhaps you will do
that, ’ replied _ Carlyle—“and my ‘Contem-
porary Portraits’ was the result,” Harris
added. As regards present-day writers, he
claimed to have brought both Shaw and
Masefield to the forefront, a claim which
perhaps they would not altogether allow.
Turning to the other side of the Atlantic,
which has of late years been Harris’s head-
quarters, lie was not altogether compli-
mentary. He related how during the war
he was summoned before the Postmaster-
General at Washington for seditious writ-
ings. The passage complained of had
appeared in inverted commas. “Oh no.
.Mr. Harris,” said the P.M.G., “you cannot
get out of it like that. The writer may
have been an obscure person, and you must
take the responsibility. If lie is of any
importance he will perhaps be forced to take
it, too.” “That passage,” replied Harris,
"is an extract from George Washington’s
‘Address to the American Nation.’ Are you
still going to prosecute me, Mr. Secretary?”
"ddie Benighted States I have christened
them,” said Harris, “and the Benighted States
they will remain.” Incidentally, he added
that New York was a city without freedom
and without culture. Paris is his Mecca of
the world’s litterateurs. “The English lan-
guage is best learned in church; the French
language in the arms of a pretty girl,” he
said; and it is the latter way of learning a
language that makes the greater appeal to
Harris.
Mr. Lindsay remarks that Harris taunts
him with his youth. Let him take consola-
tion from one of Harris’s last remarks to
me. “I would shoot myself gladly if I could
but live a month of my student da vs again.
Life holds nothing for a man of 69.” As
we parted that night a feeling of pity surged
through me for the man at once so brilliant
and arresting and withal so desolate*
F. A. ELGAR.
The Temple of Humanity
One Sunday evening in the mid-eighties
of last century I was 'stranded in chambers
at Lincoln’s Inn. All who love London get
out of it on Sunday if they can. On this
occasion I couldn’t. The muffin-man with
his tinkling bell had broken the silence of
the quads, and the gloom of the rain-sodden
day was darkening into night. Then the
rats came out to play on the flights of stairs
below—for my chambers were as near to the
stars as might be. One felt very close to
humanity up there among the smuts of the
dirty old city—the sad, sordid, hopeless side
of it. So I put on my overcoat, braved the
rats and set out for the Temple of Humanity.
It was not my first excursion into the field
of many religions that lay round the old
Inn. Once I had visited the Moravians, who
had a tabernacle hard by—a great missionary
body whose only article of faith that
attracted me, in the gloom of a fog-beset
night, was that, death was a joyous event to
be welcomed with trumpets. Not far away
“Joe’’ Parker was thumping his pulpit in
the City Temple, and a roaring crowd shouted
“Onward, Christian Soldiers!” to the clash
and blare of brass instruments. In another
direction, up Soho way, one Sunday night
I crowded into a vile underground, ill-lit.
space, half-hall, half-cellar, to hear Kropot-
kine, prince, nihilist and exile, address a
cosmopolitan crowd on communism. Lord,
how we did smell! You could radiate from
the old Inn in any direction and be sure to
strike a new religion every time. This night
I made my way to Newton Hall, in Fetter-
lane, the London home of positivism, whose
high priest was Frederic Harrison, barrister,
publicist, philosopher and humorist. *
Harrison’s presence and voice were not un-
familiar to me, for he had been lecturing
in the Middle Temple Hall on the “Conflict
of Law on Status, Contract, etc.” I liked
his. voice and his style, though, to be candid,
I did not understand very much of his matter.
The Fetter-lane hall was* —well, just a hall,
with no suggestion of a temple about it
except one large photographic reproduction
of the Sistine Madonna and the Holy Child
and a few texts or maxims on the walls. The
congregation was not large, and had a pre-
ponderance of aliens in it, notably, as might
be expected, French folk. Of service there
was practically none; no ritual; but few
hymns and no prayers—you couldn’t very
(Continued on page 3.)


A
Everything for the Man on the Land
at ANTHONY HORDERNS
1
XTBS.
“WIARD’
MOULDING OR HILLING
PLOUGH.
We can recommend this Moulding
or Hilling Plough for heavy exca-
vating and all kinds of contractor s
and "good roads” work, and in
all cases where great strength and
capacity are required. Wood
or Steel Beam • • -
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low
Prices cannot fail to interest the
Man on the Land desirous of
economising on Farming
Implements. On comparison, thc
savings will be found to be com
siderable.
Do not fail to inspect Anthony Horderns’
Pavilions at the Royal Show. An inspec-
tion will he to your advantage.
EMPIRE
STUMP JUMP HARROW.
pmoni n
MO
XTI9.
EMPIRE STUMP JUMP HARROW.
XT67.
This Plough has great strength and is adapted to
contractor’s work and for tearing up cobblestpne or
macadam pavements. Four or six- ”
horse.
PRICE
Extra Points.
Price 30/-
“WIARD”
ROAD
CON-
TRACTOR’S
PLOUGH.
Similar in construction to
the ordinary U-bar Lever
Harrow, with the addition
of the guards that pro-
tect the end of the tooth-
bars. By throwing the
levers forward, the teeth
are thrown back for trans-
porting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash. Two
sections, with bar, 50
teeth. f 7/10/-
PRIOE . ...X// iU
60 Teeth, including
long bar XO
Li
n
h
Write for
Illustrated Price
List of
Agricultural
Implements. A
copy will be
posted free.
XTI2O.
“WIARD” PATENT STEEL BEAM PLOUGH.
Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough, rigged with coulter and adjustable clevis.
Ploughs 5 to 8 inches deep, 8 to 12 inches wide. jCO/1
PIUL'K XO/
Extra Cast Shares, 4/2. Extra Forged Steel Shares, 46/6.
“WIARD” EMPEROR HAY RAKE.
XTIB2A.
Ben t a 1 l’s Chaff cutter,
C.D.Z. — Rising mouth.
inches wide ; cuts four lengths
—J- 3. | and
f inch.
PKlU.ti
£l3/10/-
RELIABLE PUMPS FOR ALL
PURPOSES.
m
KB
XT66O.
Myers’ Force Pump, with 6in. Brass-
lined Cylinder, 3in. Suction and dis-
charge (as illustrated). Capacity
5800 gallons per hour. £CA/in/.
PRICE S ' UU
Myers’ Bulldozer Pump, 4x5 inch
Brass Cylinder, 2in. suction and
discharge. Capacity 1300 gallons
price 111 .’ £36/10/-
XT4O.
Douglas' Pattern Lifting Pump—
a very serviceable and reliable
Pump (as illustrated).
Prices':. '.' 36/. 40/. 70/-
x l«rSt e SSS*
gallons per hour. Will force water
a distance of about 50 feet fro
fflU" £4/10/-
--iUiaf
XTIS.
All Emperor Rakes have com-
bination attachment for one
or two horses.
The teeth, being flattened and
chisel-pointed, will not dig,
take up least dust, offer
little resistance, and reduce
the draft. Bft. wide, 24
price .. £l6/10/-
ĥ
“WIARD” PATENTED STEEL BEAM
PLOUGH.
Steel Beam Two-
horse Plough,
•fitted with iron
handles and ordi-
nary Colonial
coulter. Ploughs
6 to 9 inches deep.
10 to 14 inches
wide.
PRICE—
Extra Shares. Price 4/6 each.
XTIOO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


Two Major Advantages
Studebaker Alone Offers
l—One- c Profit Value 2-Unit-' : Built Construction
HP are only two rnanufac*
A tures who actually build their
cars complete—make all their own
bodies, engines, clutches, steering
gears, differentials, springs, gear
boxes, axles, gray iron castings and
drop forgings.
One of these is Ford
—in the low-priced field.
The other is Studebaker
in the fine-car field.
Because we eliminate
the extra profits and
overhead that many
other manufacturers
have to pay to outside
parts and bodymakers
—we are able to use finer
materials and workman-
ship yet charge no
more than competing
cars.
But there is another
side to One-Profit manufacture*
a feature that no careful buyer can
afford to overlook.
Under this One-Profit policy the
entire car is designed, engineered and
manufactured as a complete, harmo-
As a natural outgrowth of
One-Profit manufacture
and Unit - Built Construc-
tion, a third great advan-
tage to the buyer is attain-
ed “No Yearly Models”.
Because all phases of man-
ufacture are directly under
Studebaker control. Stude-
baker cars are constantly
kept up-to-date. Improve-
ments are continually made
—not saved up for spectac-
ular announcements which
make cars artificially obso-
lete. Resale values are
thus stabilized.
nious unit in Studebaker plants.
Being Unit-Built it functions as a
unit And this adds years to its life
gives you scores of thousands of
miles of excess transportation-
greater riding comfort —minimum
repair costs —and, fin-
ally* higher resale value.
Examine the Standard
Six Coach
make detailed compari-
son with other cars—-
and you will understand
the full meaning of
One-Profit value.
The Standard Six
Coach is the most pow-
erful closed car in the
world of its size and
weight. It is equipped
with full-size balloon
tyres, for which steer-
ing gear is specially de-
signed to insure greater ease of
handling. Its equipment includes an
8-day clock, and petrol gauge; auto-
matic windscreen cleaner, rear vi-
sion mirror; light control on steering
wheel, and other attractive features.
sr?
i
z
J
KB-702
STUDEBAKER
builders of QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 73 YEARS
( Illustrated)
Studebaker
Standard Six Coach
£509
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
rAH4nA T ™ BROTHERS, 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
0 MOTOR agency , (Q) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street Perth
DUNCAN AND FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street'Adelaide
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, Ltd., Hobart
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand


Time fora
fresh pair?
PARIS
CARTERS
L CAN TOUCH'
YOU
NO
112
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston, Hobart.
well Pray to humanity. Many present—
indeed, I should say, the majority wer
working people, though here and there a
woman sat by an obvious Pro-
letarian ” On the little, raised platform
at the end of the hall stood Frederic Harri-
son! the head and heart of the original Com-
fist movement in England. , .
The interest to Australia in positivism and
its great English exponent lies in the fact
that it was the humanitarian element in the
hands of Frederic Harrison which made the
driving force behind the trades-union legis-
lation establishing the legal status of union-
ism and making repressive legislation impos-
sible. Not that Harrison was linked to any mili-
tant Labor movement. Humanism m the Comte
meaning was not a policy of aggression. It
was a philosophy applicable to all human
relations, and in its day influenced many
thinkers. George Eliot, G. 11. Lewes, John
Stuart Mill and many other contemporaries
were enlisted in its advocacy. Huxley, who
was critical of the humanist, doctrine and its
expansion into a religion, remarked that il.
Comte’s philosophy might be ‘ compendiously
described as Catholicism minus Christianity.
From one angle that is a not unfair defini-
tion—but it is not comprehensive. In the
agnosticism of the scientist there was not,
could not be, the postulate of a deity, but
in the French philosopher’s concept humanity
itself became the grand etre, the god on
whose continuous extension all effort should
be concentrated. Theology and metaphysics
were abandoned for a religion of social ser-
vice founded upon the demonstrable data of
science and experience. That is the gist of
the creed. Frederic Harrison was one of the
interesting type of men who are at once in-
tellectual and philosophic, yet with an almost
irresistible thrust towards religion—“incur-
ably religious.” Comte’s doctrine of posi
tivism supplied his need.
It is questionable whether most fathers
would not consider that one more pang was
added to death if they reflected that their
lives would be submitted to intense public
analysis by their sons —however strong the
bond of affection between them. In Frederic
Harrison: Thoughts and Memories, by
Austin Harrison (Heinemann), this task
of post-mortem dissection of the soul of n
father has been handled with great deftness
and delicacy. It is indeed a dual analysis,
for, throughout the play of the two personali-
ties and temperaments upon each other, wo
get a psychological demonstration of infinitely
higher value than from the probings into the
sawdust souls of the novelist’s puppets. . It
is a charmingly written book which gives
the reader a clearer insight into the life of
the latter part of the Victorian era than
could any work of fiction or of formal his-
tory. Aiso, it vivifies an ethical movement
which, if it has not caught the hearts of
men with the same seduction as those whose
appeal is emotional, undoubtedly left _ its
mark on that upward surge of humanitarian-
ism which distinguished the close of the long
Victorian reign. Finally, it serves to em-
balm the memory of a man who in his day
was a force in the world of thought, letters
and ethics and in whom, though the elements
were mixed, shone a great soul.
T. B. C.
What Films Should We Make?
The history of the indigenous film industry
is a melancholy chronicle. It is not so much
the story of liow a foreign octopus got its
tentacles round the native enterprise and
strangled it to death as of how certain of
Australia’s own sons formed a murder club
to deal with it. When the art or business
was in its infancy, a number of Australian
firms were producing promising pictures.
Spencer, who built a studio at Itushcutter's
Bay in Sydney, was one of the enthusiasts.
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury," with Nellie
Stewart in the title-role, was produced there.
Rolfe’s Australian Photoplay Co. was an-
other. Gascon Mervale had a studio at
Manly; and West had another factory in
Sydney. He turned out “All for Gold,” by
actor-etcher W. S. Percy, a picture which
had what for those days was a phenomenal
run of one week and afterwards did well in
London.
In most suburbs there were houses owned
by individuals or small companies. The man-
agers of these concerns took weekly trips to
Sydney or Melbourne and did the rounds of
the various firms purveying foreign or Aus-
tralian celluloid. The buyer had a wide
choice. He could blink his eyes over the
stock of several dealers in turn and go back
to his district with those examples which in
his judgment met the requirements of his
clientele. Then came the combine.
The methods of the Australians who con-
ducted the campaign were modelled on those
which had proved so successful on the other
side of the Pacific. The small Australian entre-
preneur was compelled by force of circum-
stances to deal with the big film exchanges.
If for patriotic reasons he persisted in giv-
ing a welcome to the Australian producer he
was told that he must take the combine’s
whole programme get none at all. No
theatre-owner could pay the interest on his
mortgage on a solely Australian programme,
even if the local output had been sufficient.
He was faced with the necessity of paying
for a whole evening’s mileage from America
whether he had Australian pictures on his
bill or not.. There were some super-patriots
who continued to buy Australian pictures,
finding room for them by withholding Ameri-
can film already paid for. Spencer, who,
by the way. was not an Australian,, was one
of these. The agonies of their demise is not
recorded in the histories. As for the com-
panies engaged in filming Australian subjects
in an atmosphere of (Australian sentiment,
their collapse was as immediate and com-
plete as if the emissaries of the combines
had put poison in their breakfast food. Bo
completely did they vanish that many people
imagine that the recent efforts to make Aus-
tralian pictures are the first this country
has ever attempted.
Elsewhere the position is no different; but
elsewhere the beginnings of an endeavor to
stop the Hollywood offensive are on foot.
In Germany a law exists compelling U.S.A.
to take a German film for every American
picture introduced into the Fatherland. So
wealthy are the American corporations that
some of them can afford to buy the German
heresy and burn it at the stake. In Britain
a law is in contemplation compelling all
theatres to show a definite proportion ot
British film, and even in China there is a
movement to make compulsory the showing
of slant-eyed heroines instead of the pop-
eyed Nordic beauties of Los Angeles.
Should legislation be attempted in Aus-
tralia to give the local picture, a chance ot
resurrection, how should Australian producers
take advantage of the opportunity? Chas. L.
Sayers, writing in a recent Bulletin, re-
marked that Australia does not want the
sort of film Hollywood is giving us. Ins
opinion will cause suave grins to spread along
the movie boulevards, where last year the
people paid £44.(191,650 to look at the pictures
Chas. E. Sayers says they do not want to
see. This highbrow tilting at the national
amusements, like protests against the shingle
and mixed bathing, savors somewhat of the
comic. The people would be better left alone
and the attention of patriots directed else-
where. Mr. Sayers goes on to praise an
Australian film by Mrs. Forrest, This picture
is a replica, with local fixings, of the very
Wild-West shocker Mr. Sayers deplores. In
the production of such articles of com-
merce the factories of Hollywood will always
be able to beat us. There is, however, a field
which the trans-Pacific producer has thought-
fully left open.
Of the art on which he has lavished and
from which he lias made untold millions, the
American still hardly knows the ABC.. It
is because he has lavished so much money
on it that he has so laughably missed the
mark. Ilis stage economy is of that spend-
thrift kind which prompted the Chinaman
to burn his house down in order to roast a
pig. He builds a million-dollar replica of
Babylon and blows it up to get an effect
Gordon Craig could produce for about five-
pence. In working out his themes he exhibits
all the self-restraint of a crowd of Binghis
engaged in an intichiuma rite. The summit
of liis art is to throw on the screen a close-
up of the heroine’s eye with the image of a
baby in it to convey the intelligence that the
girl is thinking of her trouble; and instead
of allowing La Tosca to express in her
features the off-stage sufferings of her lover,
he hires a museum collection of racks and
thumbscrews and opens a fresh bottle of red
ink.
Nor are the highly-salaried performers any
better. None of the histrions of Hollywood
has yet discovered the limitations of his
medium, with the exception of Felix the Cat.
Film-playing is obviously an art of panto-
mime. like any marionette show. In this
direction it has possibilities as yet unscratclied
by the Americans. Sarah Bernhardt showed
tiicm how to do it and did it on one leg.
The furthest Hollywood has carried its
technique, after 25 years of moiling, toiling
and hard bawling, is to make an imitation
in the flat of the stage of three dimensions.
To eke out an undeveloped dramatic sense
it introduces a flux of printed words which
smothers action before it can crawl out of
tliG cradle
Concentrating on shorter pictures and fol-
lowing paths that lead away from the tracks
already blazed by U.S.A., the moribund Aus-
tralian industry should have every chance
of enjoying a renascence. Here the ease of
Denmark and Sweden is instructive. Those
countries have always been able to put up
an effective fight because their artistic pro-
ductions appeal to enough discriminating
Danes and Swedes to make it possible for
producers to pay interest on their capital.
M. G. S.
A Satchel of Books
Talks with Lady Shelley, by Maud Rolleston
(Harrap). A neat booklet in “The King’s Treasury
of Literary Masterpieces” series. Largely anecdotal,
and, of course, mainly about the lady’s husband.
Soils and Fertilisers, by A. J. Macself (Thornton
Butterworth). This is No. 10 of “The Home Garden
Books,” a series admirably printed and illustrated.
Although primarily addressed to garden lovers in
Britain, there is much equally applicable to Australia.
A Wayfarer in Egypt, by Annie A. Quibell
(Methuens). More a compilation of other peoples
ideas than the viewpoint of one who knows the
country. Therefore not up to the standard of some
others of this interesting series. Still the lady
knows a lot about the sandy State’s antiquities.
The Pleasure Lover, by E. H. W. Meyerstein (Cecil
Palmer). The author, through one Terence Duke,
wonders why “for the last few months I have wasted
an hour every night just to write down these random
records of my life before its 21st year.” He doesn t
know, and we can’t tell him,
Mellowing Money, by Francis Lynde (Scribner’s).
To hand a fortune to a ne’er-do-well is usually to
put a cap and bells on his folly. In the case of
Archer Griffiths riches without desert turned a rogue
into a decent man, with the assistance of a charming
female, of course. A novel written on standard lines
for the standard taste.
The Tomb of Tutankhamen, by Jean Capart (Allen
and Unwin). The author is associated with the
Roval Museum of Brussels, and the present volume
collects a number of articlas written by him for
British and Continental journals. He witnessed the
opening of the Tomb on February 18, 1923, and gives
the reader an intelligent conception of the import-
ance of the find by a concise history of the Tutank-
hamen period. The book is illustrated by a number
of photographs.
The Science of Happiness, by Harold Dearden
(Ileinemann). The old adage “Call no man happy
till he’s dead” is confuted by this author, who sets
out to show how happiness is attainable by the
commonsense application of the science of psychology.
The broad principles of social psychology have been
laid down by MeDougall in the most original of
his works, and Dr. Dearden follows on the general
principles there enunciated, but puts them in non-
technical language. His style is pleasant and his
illustrations are apt.
Dancing Dos and Don’ts, by Ethel Cask ell
(Methuen). The author claims that in ballroom
dancing Britain has set a standard for the rest of
the world. This is due to the athleticism of the
Englishwoman and her keenness'in all forms of sport,
“and to her never permitting her dancing partner
to expose her to some of the ugly and suggestive
movements so often seen in other countries.” It is
only by reading such a little manual that one
realises how much the dancer does that he or she
really ought not to do. Another guide to “good
form” is liallrooni Dancing by H. St. John lium-
sey (Methuen), though this has a more serious
motive underlying it. The author, having studied
and taught music for more than 12 years, then
decided to devote his time to teaching rhythm in
speech in order to help those who suffered from
nervous speech disorders. He discovered that it
could be more easily taught through dancing, where
rhythm can be seen and felt, as well as heard.
/behind the Screens, by “Autre Droit” (Lothian).
Under a pen-name the author conceals the identity
of one who is evidently intimately acquainted with
the inner working of the public hospitals of Vic-
toria. The book is a well-informed and earnest plea
for higher regard being paid to the selective process
by which nurses are secured for the wards. If, she
contends, half the thought expended on consideration
of the length of training of nurses were given to
the quality' of the training, far better results would
be obtained. The professions of medicine and nursing
require a high sense of duty and honor, and in the
case of the nurse especially call in addition for
the exercise of ethical qualities such as sympathy,
compassion and devotion. In a series of incidents
drawn from facts within the writer’s knowledge she
illustrates, the disastrous effects which may flow
from the increasing tendency to discount ethical
elements in the training of young nurses in favor of
intellectual tests. A thoughtful and illuminating
little book.
The Fairyland Express, by A. R. Barker (John
Lane). A book of woodcuts in the rough line and
crude coloring of long ago that make a stronger
appeal to the child mind than any modern aesthetic
feast for the eye. Apparently publishers have fallen
from their pedestal of high art to meet the demands
of the child. In Meddlesome Matty, by Jane and
Anne Taylor (John Lane), we are swept back to
early-Victorian days. This quaint reprint is also
illustrated by old-fashioned woodcuts. Playtime and
Company, verses by E. V. Lucas (Methuen), is a
more modern type of children’s book, illustrated by
E. H. Shephard. Mr. Lucas, who is ever in touch
with humanity, finds it an easy task to inform his
verse with the spirit of childhood and is happily
supported by his artist colleague. A charming little
book. In The Adventure Club, by Rose Fyleman
(Methuen), the children catered for are at the
more advanced age when fairy stories have given
place to adventure and deeds of derring-do, all in old
England. Cleverly written and well illustrated.
Little Miss Kookaburra, by “Idie” (Lothian Publish-
ing Co.), is a nicely illustrated and clear-printed
record of some of the bed-time stories that have been
broadcasted from 3LO (Melbourne).
Thunder on the Left, by Christopher Morley (An-
gus and Robertson). When 70,000 copies oi a book
are sold within two weeks of publication, as we are
told was the case with thej American edition of this
story, the reader is naturally filled with pleasing
anticipation. How far that anticipation will be
realised is, in this instance, so much a question of
individual appeal as to make a forecast impossible.
Yet the book exercises a certain fascination difficult to
analyse. Anyone who looks into it for a straight-
out "story Of the conventional type will be disap-
pointed, though it has a story of its own fantastic
and symbolical kind. It is a book at once suggestive
and elusive in which substance and shadow inter-
mingle. Even in its literary style the reader glides
imperceptibly from the world-presented ego into the
hidden under-self. It has a moonlight unreality
about it —and it is in that half-light much of its
play takes place—giving it a dream illusion; and
vet it touches vital facts in life. Crisp against its
delicately-woven tissue of desires with crossed threads
of passion and spirituality are sharply etched bits of
character, turns of epigram and cuts by the cynic’s
scalpel. Altogether an unusual book. It may be
assumed, not unfairly, that it plunged a host of its
readers into a bog of bewilderment, enlisted a little
corps enthusiastic in its praises, and left a balance
poised on doubt as to its occult meaning—if it has
one.
The Pise oi Modern Industry, by J. L. and Barbara
Hammond (Methuen). “Two centuries ago not one
person in a thousand wore stockings ; one century ago
not one person in five hundred wore them ; now not
one person in a thousand is without them.” That,
in effect, is the history of industrialism. In its
evolution the industrial machinery of to-day has by
its massed production brought within the reach of
all what a few centuries ago were the luxuries of
the few. In a work packed full with the results of
extensive research, the authors trace the development
of modern industry' through many changes, the most
dramatic of them following the great mechanical
inventions which began in the eighteenth century
and have succeeded one another with extraordinary
rapidity. The effect on the character of the people
is touched upon. The revolution destroyed a great
body' of significant custom ; men faced an unfamiliar
world to which the wisdom of their fathers was no
guide. A new authority arose ; territorial rank, with
its traditional duties, receded before the untrained
rule of the new rich. Possession of the industrial
machinery enabled the few with capital and talent
to use the minds and muscles of the many “more
effectively, more directly, more continuously, and with
greater profit than ever before in history.” It was not
till the middle of the nineteenth century that a
growing moral protest against a condition that was
rapidly reducing a great section of the population,
and an ever-growing one, to serfdom compelled the
State to assert its authoritv by bringing this new
force gradually, if reluctantly, to acknowledge the
civil order. By the passing of factory laws, the
extension of the inquisitorial functions of the State,
the recognition of the rights of trade-unionism and
other reforms, this great industrial power has been
curbed in its excesses of tyranny', and is continu-
ously being bent to the economic service of the State.
The Wisdom, of the Gods, by 11. Dennis Bradley
(Werner Laurie). In a previous volume, “Towards
the Stars,” Mr. Bradley went much further than
Conan Doyle in the investigation of the so-called
spirit world. Out of the stellar spaces lie called all
sorts and conditions of departed souls. In the present
volume he transcends himself by linking up with the
wisdom of the gods—a fine phrase signifying nothing
in particular—and even succeeds in introducing the
spirits to the modern jazz band. “All the instruments
were played in time with the music played oil the
gramophone. The siren was taken up to the ceiling
and blown, and during one of the melodies the
sleigh-bells were played in time and harmony with the
music.” But all this the author declares would
never appeal to or convince him unless he felt
there was an intelligence behind the phenomena. So
he seeks for something more intellectually convincing.
He put a Galli-Curci record on the gramophone and
induced Palastrina, an Italian composer of the six-
teenth century, to conduct the operatic selection
with a luminous trumpet used as a baton. But
this was merely diversion compared with the serious
business of calling up the spirit of the 200-year-dead
pirate John King, who we are assured “is most
respectable now” ; also the spirit, probably a restless
one. of Lord Northeliffe, who “has not much
patience.” Also during the sittings some dogs
barked out of the void. “There is no need
for the sceptic to laugh at the idea of a dog
which has died coming through. Why should
not the spirits of dogs exist in after life?” Why'
not? All this astounding news we have on the
unchallenged word of an author who spent his adoles-
cence “i( the heart of London’s West End,” where
life “tends to remove the bloom from the peach of
illusion.” The book will be of interest to two
classes of readers. One will view it as supreme
wisdom ; the other delight in it as rich comedy.
4 •
“Ratio”: Some querulous remarks by C. A. Broin-
owski re Dr. Maloney’s proposal that a prize of
£lOOO should be offered for the best novel dealing
with Australia’s possibilities and resources:—
Our literature is already permeated to saturation
point with Australian symbols without which a book
is supposed not to be Australian. We have a surfeit
of swagmen, of kangaroos, of shearing-sheds in our
writing. It has become wearisome. A novel of
Australian life, it must be remembered, includes
the cities as well as the bush.
Most of our activities and about 40 per cent, of our
people having found their way to the bloated cities,
our literature is to follow. When it does, it will be
cosmopolitan, not Australian.
My Crowded Solitude, by Jack McLaren (Fisher
Unwin). A book of travel and adventure which will
repeat the success of “Mv Odyssey.” It possesses the
same power of graphic representation and the same
spice of quiet humor. Life in the Cape York (Q.)
district, still retains much of its primitive elements,
and McLaren is able to chronicle native customs,
habits and ceremonies which a few years hence will
have been obliterated by the overlay of white veneer.
The story has its fascination also as a record of
pioneer hardships, and of the fine spirit of adventure
which carried the writer through eight veafs of life,
often marked by periods of complete isolation from his
fellow-countrymen, in a land of savages whose hostility
he overcame by force of a fine personality and a
broad understanding. The well-illustrated book makes
a handsome as well as an absorbingly interesting
volume.


I
So.
n
II
Kj
rr
<fc\*t£r
■»
■ ■
l»
B»
* p»' r >
i
□
j
□
Will an Electric
Lighting Plant give
you these Comforts
during the Winter Months?
A “MATTHEWS” FULL-AUTOMATIC PLANT will bring them to you, at a minimum of cost.
THE “MATTHEWS” is Full-Automatic—Stops and Starts
Itself—it is everything you’ve hoped for in a Lighting Plant.
The “Matthews” will never forget—it will give you efficient, dependable service, even if you do
not visit it for several days at a time. THE. FULL-AUTOMA. IIC CON I ROL works without
watching, and is a source of comfort and utility to the owner.
The Matthews Full-Automatic Control
automatically starts the Generator to charge
the Battery after one-sixth of the capacity
has been used, and automatically stops the
Plant when the Battery is fully charged.
The Matthews Full-Automatic Control is
always on the alert to protect the Battery
and vital parts. It eliminates the necessity
of constant attention on the part of the
user.
AND THE PROOF. —After 18 months’ service, an owner writes: —
“In 18 months the engine has not once refused to start automatically, and the Plant is doing
the following work —
Number of lights installed 30
Electric Iron used 3 hours per week.
Electric Kettle used every morning.
Electric Milk Boiler used every day.
Toaster and Fan used occasionally.
Switchboard used for charging Wireless
Battery every three weeks . . 6 hours.
‘On this work running costs work out at not more than 4s. 3d. per week.
The Model “J.R.” 1-K.W. Full-Automatic Plant.
ANOTHER OWNER WRITES: "I look after the Plant myself and
can go away all day and trust the engine to start and stop itself, as it
has to do quite often in the hot weather, owing to the installation of a
Refrigerator. To sum up, the Plant gives me no trouble, and is running
as well now as when I first bought it.”
WRITE FOR DETAILS OF THE FULL-AUTOMATIC SYSTEM.
Australasian Agents:
HOSKINS & HOSKINS LTD.,
73 William Street, Sydney,
Distributors:
New South Wales: H. HARRY, 412 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria: H. HARRY, 54 Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Brisbane: J. R. CHANDLER & CO., 45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS WANTED IN TASMANIA, SOUTH
AUSTRALIA and WEST AUSTRALIA.
See the “MATTHEWS” in Operation at Standi 130 Suttor Avenue, Royal Easter Show.
(Right Opposite Commonwealth Bank.)


H.V.A. Tapioca Must Not Be Soaked.
Takes Only 10 Minutes to Cook.
U-
f
>5
m
i a
STUDIOS
"kc
r
4/
'
K
y
■^n
Children thrive on “H.V.A.
The Clean Seed Tapioca.
CHILDREN will eat and enjoy "H.V.A.” Tapioca when no other
dish will tempt their appetites, for “H.V.A.” is appetising an
delightful and so easy to digest that sickly children immediately fee
the benefit of this strengthening food. Though "H.V.A.” is a food for all
ages and tastes, the simple, easily-prepared dishes that you can make in
a few minutes are especially enjoyed by delicate children, for such dishes
impose no strain on the digestion and supply the correct food elements
in just the right proportion. “H.V.A.” is cleaner, purer, whiter than
common sago or tapioca, requires no must not be soaked, an
cooks in ten minutes. Science has proved that H.V.A. is the ideal foo
—now read the opinions of people who have tried it out in practice.
What People say of “H.V.A.”
LINDFIELD,
15/3/’26.
Mr. A. Gilbert Tomlinson,
Dear Sir. , m . . ' „„ a lat<ihlp fond for mv baby, and makes a nice change
I find that H.V.A. Tapioca makes a 'TP , anfifullv clean and prepared so as to require so
from the more heating cereal foods, and being P . place of the ordinary tapioca or sago,
little cooking, I have no hesitation in recommending it in place ot the ordinary faithfully>
(Signed) L. G.
St. Margaret's Hospital,
SYDNEY, 26/11/’25.
Mr. A. Gilbert Tomlinson,
Dear Sir, ~ ~ -pr v A Tarnoca is used to much benefit in St. Margarets
Hospital, T wher'e S SS %,SoTab£ o ha™ boon bon, and where 1A a day beeps a y bab, a.^
(Signed) MAY SHEEHAN (Finance Secretary).
KEARSLEY, N.S.W.,
14 /l/'26.
Mr. A. Gilbert Tomlinson,
Dea Enclosed please find stamps to value one shilling and sixpence, for which I wish you to forward me
your HA^' se G^ e r ry ta 5 o o°ca and find it ever .so much, superior in flavor and appearance to the ordinary
kind and ever so much less trouble. Thanking you m anticipa ion. Yours sincerely.
(Signed) T. M. B.
MELBOURNE,
25/l/’26.
Mr. A. Gilbert Tomlinson,
Dear Si J’ , a , tUo nnmp nf nuv grocer in Melbourne and also in Launceston at which I may
Sydney and prefer this brapd.
( Signed) J. M. K.
be able to purchase
SANDGATE,
2/3/’26.
Mr. A. Gilbert Tomlinson,
Dear . can’t be beat, we all love it, and it i. no easy to coot, does not go lompy lite other brands.
H.V.A. wiil do me. Yours faithfully,
(Signed) E. V.
MOUNT GAMBLER. 6
Mr. A. Gilbert Tomlinson,
Dear i S beg to acknowledge receipt of H.V.A. Tapioca. We have sampled tapioca cooked as per recipe
and find it delicious and much less trouble to prepare. Yours faithfully.
( Sieued) M. R. 0.
£l,ooo—lst Prize
1208 Other Prizes
In each packet of “H.V.A.”
Tapioca is a copy of the
gi;eat “H.V.A.” No. 2 Cross-
word. Over £2OOO is
offered in Cash Prizes for
solving this puzzle. Have
you tried it yet? If not,
buy a packet to-day. Your
solution must he written on
the Crossword we supply
with each packet. You have
a good chance of winning
£lOOO. Full particulars
are in each packet of
“H.V.A.” Obtainable from
your
Enter NOW
for this Competition
The Crossword Competition will be
judged by some of Sydney’s leading news-
paper men. Send in your solution right
away and then follow with more at regu-
lar intervals till the competition closes,
15th June, 1926. Think what you would
do with the £lOOO First Prize.
Send for the
Wonderful Cook-book
This complete, well-illustrated Cook-book,
compiled by one of Sydney’s leading chefs,
contains practical recipes for many dishes.
Many of the recipes are for delightful
and uncommon dishes that you will enjoy
making and that your guests will enjoy
eating. Price 1/6.
“H.V.Ais packed in Australia by A. Gilbert Tomlinson, Ltd., 431 a Kent Street, Sydney.
* dshead-Rose, 882,
QUEENSLAND REPRESENTATIVE:—
E. J. Lowis, Ryan House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
F. W. Heritage, Collins Street, Hobart.
WEST AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES s
A. Bond Barker & Co., King Street, Perth.
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVES: —
Crofts’ Stores, Melbourne ■■■**-*-


Something Worth Seeing
at the Show!
you must not miss Stand No. 129 at the Show. You will find much
to interest you here and much, we hope, of profit to you. Farmers,
hngineers, Shire and Municipal Officers, and all interested in power
machmery and the money to be gained by using it are cordially invited
to Stand No. 129, in Suttor Avenue.
m
Model 42 ‘‘Barber-
Greene” Loader.
See it at work.
Among the interesting exhibits are a -Barber Greene” Model
42 Bucket Loader and a “Barber Greene” “U” type
Conveyor. Both of these machines are designed for elevating
and loading loose materials such as crushed rock, gravel, etc.,
from the ground into lorries, trucks, etc. As the operating
costs of both machines are so very low, the savings that can
be effected by this installation are enormous.
“U” Type “Barber-
Greene” Conveyor.
Irim
All at Stand No. 129.
COAL
am
The “Sentinel” Steam Roadless
Tractor.
1 »
m
m
ar'Jßlta
'" >
I ■ iHlra
The “Super-Sentinel” Steam Three-
way-tipping, Waggon.
At Stand No. 129, also, are a
Torrent” Centrifugal Pump to make
you independent of rainfall in time of
drought, and a British Farm Engine
that will do most of the heavy work
of the farm at surprisingly low cost.
There is a “Super-Sentinel” three-way.
lipping Steam Waggon, most economi-
cal to run, and a “Sentinel” Steam
Roadless Tractor, also famed for ex-
ceptionally low running cost, that will
haul produce to market over the worst
of roads—or where there are no roads
at all. See also the Adams Grader, that
cuts construction costs considerably.
You are naturally desirous of effecting
savings, so visit the exhibit at Stand
No. 129 at the Show.
The “Torrent” Centrifugal Pump,
driven by a British Oil Engine.
L
. '.... ••••'. " ■ V '-'V ; 'V- 7*
'■ r ‘ . mi' ■ ':y.’:.-< -'y "\ '• ’*» - : :,
■i- f -
mys&W>s
-Llie Adams Leaning-Wheel Grader.
4 DAMS e COMPANY
LIM ITCD >
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE:
521*523 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 king Street.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Waymouth and Mcrphett Streets.
NEWCASTLE:
King Street.
Full information and all literature is obtainable from all branches.


ra
i
ħ
h
is coolinq
and
refreshing
after
sfiavloi
Men who have ten-
der, sensitive skins,
easily irritated by
/ shaving,will find Cu-
/ ticuraPreparations ideal.
The new freely-lathering
Cuticura Soap Shaving Stick permits
shaving twice daily without irrita-
tion of the skin. Cuticura Talcum,
an antiseptic powder, is soothing
and cooling to the most tender skin.
Soap Is.. Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.T owns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W
j |9V~ Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Don’t forget to ask your dealer for
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The very much better Golf Ball.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & 00. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [3
a • 'skm/Msßr ,
kk
MARK ALL LINEN
Personal or Household—with
CASHS C^NAMES
Saves Loss, ensures individuality. No
trouble as with marking ink. Invaluable
for Traveller '■ and Schoo Outfits.
A.nv name can be woven in fast co.or.
"A few stitches and they’re on.”
.....[...inniiiiiiii/nii
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices : 1 2 doz. 7/6, 6 dor. 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
I p I rieil Pty. 85 Cubitt Street,
J. &J. tftJll lxd. Richmond, Melb.
mimiiii
Start using this
wonderful Skin
Cream to - night
There are hundreds of Face Creams,
but there’s only one Pomeroy Skin
Cream. For twenty-five years it has
been beautifying complexions, clearing
the skin of impurities and keeping
wrinkles and blemishes away. To-day
it does its work quicker and better
than ever, for while the ingredients
remain the same, the compounding of
them has improved.
Your skin needs nourishment; other-
wise it becomes wrinkled and sallow.
Pomeroy Skin Cream is the nourish-
ment it needs. A little rubbed into
the skin at night works wonders.
POMEROY
SKIN CREAM
(Formerly Pomeroy Skin Food)
Obtainable from all Australian Stores and
Chemists, or from the
POMEROY DEPOT
(Ripley & Simpson), Macdonell House,
SYDNEY.
IhePLUM RAZOR
DF!IC^
Post Free
jsrra
jfIME-SHAVER
\ oi\
\\MARKET
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 b GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
&
MS*
no
\
BROOKS
SAUCE
1
//ost ffolhrooA Says ~
"I brew my'sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
\ Aye, and then I.mature it
■ilike an old wine/’
Grive vs
Colgate
and we're
hW ! "i
fcx
A
o k
vO
u*
r' c
£
*< c
o' 4
ANTISEPTIC
DELICIOUS
ECONOMICAL
COLGATE'S
ft(B0ON DENTAL CREAM
TS delicious flavour coaxes everyone to clean
the teeth regularly —a habit for health.
Nature furnished you with beautiful teeth
keep them beautiful by using Ribbon Dental Cream
—" Washes,” does not scour —
Colgate’s is free from grit and harsh ingredients.
Of course, there are no curative claims for Colgate’s.
No tooth paste or powder can cure. That " a
dentist’s fundion. Colgate’s keeps your teeth clean,
and cleanliness is the best preventive measure known.
Truth in oAdvertising implies Honesty in Manufacture .
COLGATE & CO.
ESTABLISHED 1806
NEW YORK LONDON - PARIS
DlOl
sroc
r"
Z'r'-.
i
33
fjs,
®3IT
sxxusoa
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY
Preserves the Leather and imparts a
brilliant and lasting shine to distinctive
footwear. In Black, Light Brown,
Dark Brown and Nigger Brown.
Price 6 d. per tin. Obtainable everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little Gods.
On reedy pipes the shepherd blew
A music thin and shrill
That small gods of the grassland knew
Above the quarried hill.
The lady of the thistledown,
The master of the dew,
The lord of nut-time, silken brown,
Came floating into view.
The greater gods of earth and sky
And life and thought and deed
Could hear no music in the sigh
That twittered through the reed.
But little gods of empty air—
The gods of peep-and-go
With elover dust upon their hair —
Could hear the shepherd blow.
The sheep went straggling up the hill;
And ere the piper knew,
The evening with her fingers chill
A brown cloak round him drew.
The stars came out by nine and ten
In shining clusters set;
But those who keep the flocks of men
Do ill if they forget.
It was too dark to find his sheep,
Too dark to seek for bread ;
The shepherd closed his eyes for sleep,
Ilis pipes beneath his head.
And up the world and down the world
He walked at break of day;
He saw the mountain mosses curled,
The mountain streams at play:
’Mid breeze flags and sun rods
He went by lawn and steep;
But he who played to little gods
Could never find his sheep.
The lady of the thistledown,
The master of the dew.
The lord of nut-time, silken brown
What is it they may do?
Above him in the golden air
A yellow mountain nods ;
But folly holds him by the hair
Who pipes to little gods!
N.s.w.
D. M. W.
In Excelsis.
If I could sing some stirring song.
If I could make the world to ring
With all the bitter might of wrong,
Of Faith’s calm strength encompassing,
While Fear stales, rampant, and the throng
m all his looming spectres cling
As clouds that shroud the hills in grey,
Or could I write a fairy thing
Of laughter down some April way.
All golden, bubbling as a spring,
Wliat worth had any words I’d sing?
A joy too deep for song is mine
That I have seen God's summer shine
Upon a swallow’s wing!
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
The Shirkers.
What are you doing in Eden now,
Adam, Adam?
The snake’s trail shows like a wliiplash-mark
in the fine dust under the tree.
Eve’s eyes are hot ’neath her cool white
brow,
And the reddest apple’s gone from the
bough—
What are you doing in Eden still, who are
full-grown, you and she?
There’s a double curse on the Eden tree,
Adam, Adam;
But there’s many a way to dodge a curse,
and you and your wife were wise.
Adam goes idle and Eve scot-free;
But a wind has risen across the sea—
The bitter ocean of Birth and Death —and
it blows into Paradise.
There’s many a way to dodge a curse,
Adam, Adam !
Kiss the cool pink flower of her mouth to red
and forget what the wind may say!
There’s many a way to dodge a curse;
But you might go further and not fare worse.
You might be working outside the walls, and
a happier man to-day.
For God made you on a subtle plan,
Adam, Adam !
God made you and a mate for you, and after
that came your turn.
You’ve learnt but little since time began
Except to lie like a gentleman;
And now you’ve got to pay for your clioice-
a more difficult thing to learn.
What are you doing in Eden, say,
Adam, Adam?
Steely muscles and guarded tongue and level
instructed eyes?
This is the place where our children play;
But the men and women are all away
Breast-deep in life —and they’ve little time
for the honey of Paradise.
N.S.W.
P. F. BIRKETT.
Temperament.
She seems so tranquil, like a far pale sky
Brooding above the restless lives of men,
One utterly aloof from trivial things ;
And yet we know far skies are filled with
wings;
And there are storms. Will she be tranquil
when
On flooded fields the shattered roof-trees lie?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


9
.
f.
......
i
/
-
mst
u
*1
1
asm
I
: •
Hi
■
mwfs
mm
Winner
Owner -
Trainer -
Jockey -
Weight -
Time - -
CARBINE,
of Melbourne Cup
1890.
- D. S. Wallace.
- W. Hickenbotham.
- Ramage.
- 1 Ost. 51b.
- 3min. 28|rsec.
SOS-— We want to complete this series of
Melbourne Cup winners, in which exceptional
interest has been taken. Will owners of
photos, of victors previous to 1890 entrust
them to us? Every care will be taken of
them.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
CHATEAU TANUNDA Hospital Brandy has become
famous throughout the Commonwealth. As the label has
been closely imitated, please insist on getting the genuine
CHATEAU TANUNDA Brandy when you ask for it.
Proprietors:
BSEPPELTsSONS,L T - D


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 47.—N0. 2407.
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1926.
Pbick 6d.
THERE IS ALWAYS A CALVARY.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NIWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maclhiod, of
Musgrave and McLieod Streets, Mosimn; fdr The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Georgy Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Aifstralia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders St/rept.
London Office : No. l Wardour Street (hear Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Ayd vance only).
Posted to any address in Australajtia, weekly;
12 months, £1 %s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.: 3 rwpnths, Is.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 10s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Boa) 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or tmnslate any
part of the contents of this number is lierdby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondevve” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential j.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulmjtin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or a\iy interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
"The Bulletin’s” representative in Dondon Is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardqnr Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
be obtained from him or
the bookstall In the Main Haji at Anstralia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch 75-
79 Farnngdon Street, Lbndon, E.C.1,.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Set-
vice fib Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander” 51 High Holborn,
London , WC.I; F. Algor , 58 Gracechurch Street ,
London E.C.S . *
South Africa.—The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban-
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Uenom: Uandel Bouse, Kimberley; and
**' € °- m
U.S.A—C/iicaffo: Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
lork.-Brentanos, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
lork City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and h?.nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City
Washington ; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70i Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. "
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong hong. 3
China .—Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai , China .
Ceylon. 11. B. Per era and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo, 3
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
pul— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardou*
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1 .: Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.
w l loland Bay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
inn? Pa iT r,rff°^? nw / aHh , Eew Zealand and Fiji;
, U nlted Kingdom: foz. to 10oz., lid,; each
additional 1,0 z., id. All Sea Route: 16bz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: foz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
fir&xzlleivn.
THURSDAY, ARRIL 1, 1926.
BUYING OUT AN UPPER HOUSE.
It has been decided, years behind time, that
the N.S.W. Nationalist party should have
the plan of a serviceable Upper House ready,
so that when Opportunity comes along it
won t stalk by again like an unavailing
spectre and be lost, possibly till next century
The folly of being in a half-baked state of
indecision and unpreparedness was shown
when the party couldn’t decide how to filTun
casual vacancies under its new voting system
(a simple business enough), and let the mat-
ter slide, with disastrous results. It now
appears that, though there is no Nationalist
p j a ”/°r il Upper House, a number
of Nationalist politicians have plans, and
these mental treasures are getting into print.
Their general tendency is to be freakish un-
democratic, and as unlike each other as pos-
sible, so that there may be lots of room for
disagreement. M
* * * *
For a start. ex-Minjjster of Justice Ley is
credited with having offered the Fulleb Gov-
ernment an idea which embodied something
extra in the way of lingering death and post-
poned resurrection. If his plan is adopted,
the reformed Upper House will begin by
contammg the same number of people and the
same people as it contains now. There are
•JJ of them, which, of course, is more than
there were, when the plan was formed, but
they are to get down to 60 in time unless the
scheme is knocked on the head in a fit of im-
patience before there is enough time. The
old members are to be divided into three
categories, called A (Aged and Anomalous), B
(Blots on the political system), and C
(Caricatures of representative institutions).
Ihe A crowd will consist of the 30 oldest
(oldest either in years of age or in years of
service). They will stay on in senile legis-
lation for life unless they elect to retire be-
lore death with a free railway pass and the
title of Hon. The C’s, 30 strong, will retire
mi r ars - aud the B ’ s after 21 years.
if the new plan commences on January
1, 1>)-7, the N.S.W. Leg. Council will begin
to undergo a definite change in 1941, and
there will be a further definite change in
1048. Between 1927 and 1941 or 1948 it is
to be presumed that the lingering body will
become more and more Laborite or commu-
nist, provided the Storey, Dooley and Lang
nominees stand to their programme. The
chief mortality is to be looked for among the
o 9 senior or death-sentence men—the Ancient
As, who were mostly appointed before
Storey was invented, let alone Lang —for
though 39 M’s.L.C. may be an unconscion-
able time dying, they are bound to pass out
by degrees, and thus leave the Red element
more and more in possession.
* * * *
Lven when the B’s and C’s begin to go out,
14 or 21 years after the passing of Ley’s Re-
rorm Bill- which may be some years hence.
“ ever—it isn’t proposed that the people
shall. get much of ,a look in on democratic
principles. Upper House-bpilders, all except
those who made the Federal Senate, appear
to have a dread of plain democratic prin-
ciples. It is proposed that the Assembly,*
voting on a proportional basis, shall once
every seven years elect 30 M’s.L.C. to fill
the places of the retiring men. Thus it
appears that every new B or C Councillor
is to have a 14-years’ tenure. It is claimed
that by this device each party will secure its
tull share of representation. But that doesn’t
follow. If a Bolshevik Government happens
to be enjoying a three months’ run in 1941
A> anotl , is doip £ a six months’ run in
1 ' 43, and both elections fall within these
months, a very remarkable Red Reformed
Upper House may result. Parties may be
strongly represented in the Council for 134
years after they have ceased to be represented
, tae House which creates the Council,
W holly disastrous things may happen as
a consequence. The referendum is a valu-
able device for settling differences between
Mouses, or between Parliament and people.
i>ut the new Laborites loathe the
dum, and an Upper House which is liable
to grow steadily more Laborite as the 39
Aged and Anomalous A’s die off in the years
of stagnation between 1927 and 1941, may
combine with a temporary Labor majority in
the Assembly to wipe it off the statute book,
assuming it is there to wipe.
* * * *
The reformers appear to have read up
most of the complicated devices known,
and to have been impressed by them
all including that of Free State Ire-
land, where the two Houses are to
select Upper House candidates and the
people are to select members out of these
selections and no others, after which the
winners will have a 12-years’ run. There
lias been no Irish Senate election yet, but
a partial one is hoped for about 1928. So
far as can be seen, there is no value in a
btate Upper House unless it represents the
people, and represents them in a way
different from that of the Assembly—if pos-
sible m a larger way, and certainly in more
honest ways, for Assembly elections have
become too often degeuerate institutions.
Then its_ value should be immense. There
might with advantage be an educational
qualification and a somewhat higher age
qualification for the Second Chamber, but
there is no demand for property or class
qualifications or for frilly franchises, whether
copied from Ireland or Iceland. Australia's
own I ederal Senate is a good enough model
to begin with., And if the N. S. Wales
A ationalist or Bus-Missing party can reallv
agree on the plan of a strong democratic
Second Chamber, as proof as a human insti-
tution can be against corruption and intimi-
dation, it requires to be also a plan which
is capable of prompt adoption. Any device
which includes waiting for the present con-
cern, or any part of it, to die out must be
barred as implying an interval of decay and
worse inefficiency In short, it should be
recognised, in order to save time, that the
present institution will almost certainly have
to be bought out—so much of it as will accept
compensation—-as if it was an unexpired
public-house license, to make room for its
improved successor. The buying should be
done openly, as cheaply as possible, on a
fixed scale, and with the definite consent of
•i le t iP eo * de * .. Purchase seems inevitable
1 ~e Question is to be settled in any time
within reason. N. S. Wales has conferred on
J 9 persons pnvileges which have a certain
visible (and it may be a certain invisible)
* n a , ue , P er annnm. When the value is esti-
mated, probably amid violent protests in some
quarters about alleged under-payment, the
price to be offered each member would be
based on his expectation of life as shown in
the life-assurance tables. It is a matter of
resumption with compensation, based on old
Scottish and Irish precedents. Certainly the
gentleman who is compensated for the sur-
render of his unpaid job in the nominee
chamber and who promptly secures a paid
one in the new elective institution, would
have imposed on the community, and accord-
mg to logic and equity he should make a
refund, m part, at least. In other words,
his new salary should be garnisheed. But
perhaps the profit wouldn’t be worth the row,
and the row would certainly bp awful.
AN EASTER SERMON.
When General Booth 11., at, a gathering
to celebrate his 70th birthday, that
London would soon be “an almost heathen
city,” a definition of heathenism was neces-
sary: without that it js not easy to measure
the truth of the veteran’s charge. The broad
fact is plain enough that not only in London
but throughout the world Christian organisa-
tions have in great measure lost their grip.
The churches are not rapidly disappearing,
nor have they ceased to exert a considerable
influence. The collection-plate may be nearly
as well filled as ever, arid crowds may
still throng to hear the popular preacher or
share the excitement created by the noisy
one. But the sort of people who are influ-
enced is not the same, nor does the influence
resemble in kind that of 50 years ago.
Scientists no longer worry about their old
controversy with religion; the once-active
atheistical societies have dwindled into small
groups of unnoticed faddists; in men of light
and leading religious fervor has become rare
and curious, not a thing to be reasonably
expected. Few people mock at religion or
declare themselves superior to it; but the
habit of ignoring it grows stronger. Yet
when all these things are taken account of
a great deal that was finest in the spirit of
all religions remains. A leading Noncon-
formist divine declared 30 years ago that
t le I .sr lcf ' enemy of organised religion was
a diffused Christianity which did the work
ot the churches without recognising or sup-
porting their creeds or forms. He argued
that such a spirit was only the aftermath of
earlier Christian feeling, and must gradu-
ally change and cease when the force of
organised religion was no longer behind it
How far this may be true it is impossible
to say, for the religious organisations still
remain ; but it would appear that the gradual
weakening of those organisations has
strengthened rather than diminished the
amused spirit which retains the essence of
religion without its forms or labels. This
may be heathenism in the eyes of the Salva-
tion Army leader; but it may be fairly said
that it is from such heathenism that his
lagged refuges and other admirable agencies
draw most of their support.
* * *
. Far more important than the particular
new of London or any other city which
may be held by any pleader for religion is
the general effect upon the world of the
absence of the old religious control. Our
earliest knowledge of civilisations shows
organised mankind holding fast to some form
°t religion. In almost every case that reli-
gion was linked with the activities of the
State, and was the support of its legal sys-
tem. The uniformity of worship demanded
bj Is ebuchadnezz’ar at Babylon was in no
way singular. It was in line with the cus-
tom of practically every nation in the world.
The strength of Cyrjus when he drew to-
gether the scattered Persian tribes and made
his world-shaking alliance with the Medes
was undoubtedly the religion of Zoroaster.
in Lgypt religion overshadowed civil govern-
ment In Greece much of the national cul-
ture had its roots in religious observance,
and impiety was a serious offence against
the common law. In Rome there is evidence
that the gods had an immense sway over
the public mind; even Julius iC.esar,
steeped as he was in Greek philosophy, pros-
trated himself humbly in the temple of
Venus. In Gaul the strength of religion
was even greater, for Roman writers left it
on record that Gaulish money-lenders would
advance to borrowers sums of money to be
rl b fV U , a f V tare life - Christianity as
it slowly displaced the older faiths over most
ot Lurope did not so much bring a new
thing as interweave the old things with new
Ideas and present a different view of human
Ther ? absolute continuity from Zeus,
53"* a %{- L ? nu . t 0 the Athanasian Creed
and the Thirty-nine Articles; and there is
an evident connection by long descent be-
ttb-e mathematically-defined
deity of the Westminster Confession. Reli-
gion m the past altered its names and forms
without changing greatly in spirit; but the
old never yielded its place until the new was
fully in the running. Generally, the most
intense religious periods were those when the
fwi r ? V u S fi et 7 ee ? old and new reached its
heigfit. But the development of modern thought
has been without historical precedent. Formal
religion has not been pushed away because
men wanted to get rid of it; it has sfmpfy
rembled out like a picture on a screen, the
wistful eyes of men watching it go. The old
gnds died _to the clanging of church bells
the smashmg fall of battle-axes and a jangle
?* argument Modern religion is breath-
itself slowly away in utter peace amid
mild protest and constant side-stepping in
argument. 11 h
* * * *
It is, of course, true that the various
churches still exist, keeping a good deal of
their outward form. It is also true that they
may continue to exert an influence. But his-
tory is against the belief that they will again
arise m power to do the work of human
reform that they failed to do in a fair field
weaken lo n cen J :ur . le s- Their own servants
weaken. One declares, without protest from
body t 0 wb ich he belongs,
that Christianity is independent of any his-
torical foundation; another speaks of the
baneful influence of St. Paul ; a third tells
a critic that he merely reads his creed in
church as an interesting old historical docu-
*eat-, Thes f. things are said by leaders
of modern religion and indicate most clearly
!ti t^ cn * c ? thought. It is but a small ker-
nel of ethical faith which remains with these
tnen from all the former great body of divin-
ity; and that kernel of ethical faith is as
much the property of the avowed atheist as
of any organised church. Taking the modern
developments in their true historical setting
k might be expected that a new religion would
anse embodying what men could still believe
of the old and lifting it to some ecstatic
height ot moral emotionalism by making it
specially apply to modern conditions. But
po such religion is in sight, nor does the
spirit of the time seem to cry for it. It
is true that there are any number of new
religions of sorts, but none among them
seems to have permanence. The world is, in
fact, plunging into the biggest experiment
of aJI the years—-a society with no direct
religious control. To some this suggests
moral anarchy; but there are others who
maintain that religion never had a moral
control, its so-called restraint of men’s
actions being due to superstitious fear rather
than moral uplift. But whatever the outcome
of the experiment may be there would seem to
be very little to cause immediate dread in
the heathenism which General Booth de-
plores. It may be that love of life—of living
things-r—is itself the religion behind all re-
ligions ; the thing that flashed in the earlv
dieam of Apollo and gave point to the
Ohristian promise of an eternity of bliss.
At any rate, if to feel more, think more and
work more is the modern ideal which re-
mams as the substitute for formal religion,
the talk about heathenism need hold no
terrors—for those at least whose business is
with this world.
SHEARERS.
To a large proportion of the people who
come down from the country for an occa-
sional holiday, Sydney is limited to a small
area adjacent to the Central Railway Station.
Their habit of mind tells them that the town
the real town—builds itself around the
place where the train pulls up. Beyond are
the suburbs and the sightseeing areas; but
these are not for them. So they stick to the
cheap hotels and lodging-houses of the dis
trict they know, making furtive excursions
further afield.
The idea that only millionaires are wel-
come elsewhere costs these visitors a lot of
money. George-street, Haymarket. represents
the main street of the town” to them, and
George-street, Haymarket, swarms with
thugs, tugs, urgers, botts, whisperers and fiz-
gigs, who help the countryman through his
cash so expertly that lie frequently goes
away believing he has spent all his money
himself. Even ordinary traders—sup-
pliers of beer, food and lodging, clothes,
jewellery and go on—regard the shearing of
the country lamb which goes on all the year
round as legitimate.
There are “heads” hanging around most
ot the hotels all day. Some of them, of
course have appointments at pony meetings
and elsewhere which have to be kept; but
there are always a couple on the spot to look
atter any business that may be offering. It is
nearly all gang work, and business starts
early m the morning. Used to early rising
the countryman wanders out into the street
at seven o’clock or shortly afterwards with a
feeling that he has overslept himself, and
fills in time looking at the windows of the
closed shops whilst he waits for the break-
fast time, which is hours overdue. It is plea-
sant then to meet a matey sort of chap, who
like himself, is wandering around). The
stranger is also from the country, but he has
been m Sydney for some time, and he has
got m with a fine lot of blokes. It is handv
to be in with the mob; the stranger darkly
Innts at how lonely country visitors have
been taken down, and garrotted even, but
mentions that, once accepted by the boys he
is safe. Bursting with a good-natured desire
to oblige ins new friend, the stranger
arranges to introduce him to the mob, which
he does later in the day.
. Mostly the countryman is flattered by an
introduction to the society of distinguished
pugs and jockeys; the fact that they have
long been extinguished as pugs and jockeys
does not occur to him. He feels that he
has been admitted to the inner circles when
a man with a flattened nose and a cauliflower
ear tells him the true story of why he lost
his fight with Tiger” Smith, whom he
could have put to sleep in the third round,
and of the 500 quid he cleaned up as a
result. It flatters Woop-Woop to be regarded
by the shrewdies as a shrewdy himself. Which
makes him easy. Engrossed with a story,
and fairly well sprung, he does not notice the.
fine work of the “bott”—the bott being a
man at his elbow who saves him the trouble
of picking up liis change. There are men
“bott' ma ” a^e Ve a entirely upon
Getting their money on sure things at the
races is an even easier method of shearing
sheep. The countryman readily parts
with the money to be put on the certainty
which is being whispered amongst his cob-
beij. _ Sometimes he wins. A story recently
told in the Haymarket—where the tales of
such stunts are told even to other mugs who
are being “handled,” thus assuring them that
f/f-m/ are not _ mugs—was of a man who was
handed his winnings at three pounds to one on
a horse that actually did not start. With a
confidence awakened by that transaction the
delighted countryman made no bones about
giving L 0 pounds for an investment upon
something that had been kept on the ice for
a big coup. Of course that was the last he
saw of his money.
Amongst the scores of other stunts is the
subscription. When Woop-woop, admitted
as one of the boys, finds them all putting in
their pound-notes to relieve the necessity of
poor Bill, he feels it necessary to live up to
their generous standards. His quid, cut up
amongst the gang, may be very small pota-
toes, but getting it is so easy that it is worth
while.
Even if the country visitor is steady in
Mis. drinking, declines to go mad on horse-
racing and has no fancy for cards, dividends
may still be made out of him without vio-
lently extracting his money, or playing tricks
which may make him squeal. He may be
talking to Snowy when a furtive stranger
enters and, with much display of secrecy,
produces a bit of jewellery which he says he
must sell for what he can get—he is up
against it for a few pounds and appeals to
Snowy as a personal friend. Usually Woop-
woop is “worked” into buying cheaply an
extremely valuable bit of brummagem for 20
times its value. And there are commissions
to be got from shops. Woop-woop may have
a mind to buy clothes, and when one of the
gang tells him he knows a bloke working
in a tailoring shop who, as a matter of
friendship, will let him have a suit at cost,
he jumps at the chance—and pays 20 per
cent, more than he otherwise might for his
suit, that being Snowy’s commission. Com-
mission on the introduction of customers is
recognised in many of the shops in the Hay-
market, and the shonkeepers—as interested
in the shearing as the “heads” themselves —
fake their charges accordingly.
Should it become necessary to use un-
toward means to get at the countryman’s
pocket, his pals are indignant when they
learn that he has been robbed. A pal of
theirs ought to be immune. Sometimes, if
it seems good policy, they will undertake to
recover his property, and actually, upon
occasion, do hand some of it back, giving a
mysterious story of its recovery. That in-
spires a useful faith in the victim, who parts
with what has been returned before the gang
has finished with him. Usually, however*


the “working” is so expert and gentle that,
although his money evaporates with a speed
he never anticipated, the countryman credits
himself with a good time. Some of the gangs
even have regular customers —men who come
down from the country annually, and
it their first act to “look up the boys. .
A curious respect for property rights is
observed amongst the gangs; it is a matter
of necessity, as, without it, there would be
a constant clash, and the victims might
escape. Some months ago a reputedly well-
cashed visitor was passed over from one gang
to another for a fiver—the victim had grown
suspicious about some of the members ot the
gang, and for the rest to pretend to be
annoyed with them was irksome; so the
bargain was struck, the visitor introduced
to new friends, and passed over. A gang hgnt
resulted when the gang which paid the fiver
found the countryman had only a few pounds
left. “It wasn’t honest,” one of them put it
indignantly.
The “heads” are not the only shearers.
The shop tout is supposed to be sup-
pressed, but “picking ’em off the win-
dow” is still a lively game. Special men
whose work is almost a science are kept for
this job, and the magsmen who hang around
the hotel can tell no more juicy stories of
tricks “put over” the countrymen than can
some of the salesmen in these shops.
It is an old saying that cheapness is
always expensive; a large number of country
visitors would find that their visits to Syd-
ney cost them less if they lived in more
expensive neighborhoods.
HAMER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Apostles of Congestion.
The great city dailies are ready on occasion
to give the friendly nod to people who advo-
cate the opening of new ports and the crea-
tion of new cities and the shortening of the
distances which exports and imports have
to travel; but if the advocate is a person of
such importance that his words may, by
some remote possibility, lead to action, the
great dailies are apt to start back-pedalling.
Prime Minister Beuce took up the parable
recently, and Bruce is a man with some
ambitions as a railway-builder and general
constructor. As a result, two Sydney papers
struck an anti-development attitude and tried
to explain that everything in the garden of
congestion is lovely. Said the Herald :
No doubt the subject lends itself to vague generali-
sations, even to platitudes.... Thus the Prime
Minister alluded to the wastefulness of transport and
shipping arrangements which compel almost the
whole of our oversea trade to pass through the
ports of the capital cities. We grant that this state
of affairs is anomalous if regard be paid to geo-
graphical considerations. Yet is it not due as much
to the operation of natural economic lavs as to the
influence of vested interests ? The capitals have had
a long start. They possess facilities which other
places cannot offer, and will not be able to offer
for many years. They are distant from many of
the areas of production they serve, but this is
counterbalanced by their other advantages.
And this was a. bit of the Telegraph’s more
interesting but still more thick-headed nar-
rative :
Vested interests, he says, have been built up in
the cities, and they have ever fought determinedly
against any alteration. It is an old argument, and
we have heard it often enough before. But there
is another side to the case. Everyone will agree
that convenient access to a port is highly desirable
from the point of view of the producer who wishes
to reach his markets by the nearest route. But on
the principle that the longest way round may some-
times be the shortest way home, it does not always
follow that the nearest port is the most economical.
We hear a lot of talk about the necessity of opening
this port and that port, but in some cases, when
the matter is searehingly analysed, it is found, not
only that the making of the port would entail
expenditure of an enormous amount of money, but
that ther.e is a very great possibility, even in the
event * of the construction of the necessary break-
waters, wharves, etc., that the poi't would never
be used sufficiently to pay interest on the outlay.
Old women make proverbs which are mostly
stupid, and dull men quote them and grow
duller in the process. If “the longest way
round may be the shortest way home, then
the shortest way from the Daily Telegraph
office to Parramatta may be via Valparaiso,
Cape Town and Fremantle. But it isn’t,
and the matter ends there. It certainly
doesn’t “always follow that the nearest port
is the most economical,” but it follows pretty
often that the nearest good port is cheaper
than a remote one, the reason being that a
port close at hand isn’t so far away as one
that is a devil of a distance removed. That
is why the people of Edinburgh, for instance,
often use Leith instead of London. Of course it
may be possible, following the Telegraph’s
line of thought, that when the case of a port is
“searehingly analysed" by interested and
self-apppinted parties like itself, they will
prove to their own satisfaction that it will
never be used sufficiently to pay interest on
its cost. But no properly-analysed port is
presented as a sample, nor does the paper
mention any specimen good port which con-
veniently-situated people don’t use provided
they are allowed the chance to use it. And
the word “never” isn’t much employed about
the illimitable future except by the crude and
foolish, for even properly-certificated prophets
have fallen in badly over it.
4}
The Murder of the Mothers.
The appointment of a N. S. Wales Director
of Maternal and Baby Welfare indicates an
awakening of conscience to a condition of
affairs which year by year has been more in-
sistently calling for amendment. Community
ignorance and the failure of authority to take
concerted action to better the conditions
under which the future population of Aus-
tralia arrives into the world led last year
in N. S. Wales to the death of 325 mothers
in childbirth. The figures are bad also
in other States, and they show a general
inclination to increase instead of diminish.
Throughout Australia one motlier died for
every 215 births in 1014; in 1018 the toll
was one in 210: in 1023, one in 104. In
1924 the ratio was one to 181 : amongst un-
married mothers, one to 107. For 20 years
the N. S. Wales average of deaths in child-
birth had been 28G.5; the tally went up
to 201 in 1024, and to the larger number
already mentioned last year. When honest
savagery garve way to savage civilisation it
was understood that a certain number of
deaths amonigst women who were reproduc-
ing the species was inevitable, just as it was
considered inevitable that a multitude of
people should die every year of starvation,
and the will of a beneficent God was blamed
for all these cruelties. To-day expert medi-
cal opinion says thr “ death in clnld-birth,
whatever the circumstances, is an avoidable
calamity; and that, in the face of that pro-
nouncement, six mothers die for every 10UU
babies born is appalling, especially as, in
England, where economic conditions are not
so good, the rate has been reduced to four
per 1000 births. The horror of the massacre
does not end with the total slain. Probably
many more mothers than those actually dying
in child-birth succumb prematurely from re-
sultant complaints which care and attention
might have avoided; and children are
amongst the maimed and slaughtered. The
continuing and increasing tragedy calls for
action by all the State Governments, with
whom the responsibility rests. The Common-
wealth baby bonus, intended to provide some
relief for motherhood at a time when cash
would be helpful, has proved its uselessness
—the rate of puerperal deaths has increased,
and the birth-rate decreased, since it was
introduced. The money it absorbs might
well be applied as a Federal subsidy towards
State systems aimed at checking the rate of
motherhood mortality. The essential con-
dition in such an effort is for the mothers
to be under medical observation from the
early stages of gestation, when incipient
trouble, which, if only detected in the
eleventh hour, may end fatally, can be counter-
acted quite easily. It is doubtful whether
the N. S. Wales Government's action will
have very much immediate effectbut Dr.
Morris, the very capable specialist appointed
to the job, will be able to advise the Gov-
ernment upon what further steps are neces-
sary to end the present disgrace.
4
Australia’s Mandates.
Brazil’s objection to the admittance of Ger-
many to the League of Nation's may be any-
thing but an unmixed evil for Australia. The
question was directly asked in the House of
Commons recently whether Germany, after
joining the League, could be a candidate for
Colonial Mandates. The Ministerial reply
was that it could, and had already been
informed to that effect. In view of the Huns
increasing propaganda for the return of his
“stolen colonies,” he would hardly be likely
to lose any time, after being admitted to the
League, in demanding to hold them under
mandate. After German East Africa, with
its hordes of black material for cannon
fodder, Fritz would undoubtedly turn his
eyes towards New Guinea and Samoa; and
Australia and Maoriland. both in the same
boat in this respect, might have hard work
to beat him off. for outside Britain no mem-
ber of the League is furiously interested in
the claims of the Dominions. Now that
Fritz has been set back for at least a year,
the present mandatories of ex-German
colonies will at least have a chance to fur-
ther consolidate their positions. They should
see to it that their work is such as to de-
prive the Hun, when his chance comes, ot
any excuse for regaining control.
❖ * —
Senator Ogden’s Case.
Dear Bulletin, —“Press” (B. 18/3/’26)
had something to say regarding my expul-
sion from the Labor party. He was evidently
present at the A.L.P. conference when I was
shot overboard ; possibly it was he who raised
the proposal that the disagreeable duty ot
dumping should be passed on to the I ederal
Executive, which, of course, would have had
no hesitation in casting me to the sharks,
whilst there was some doubt about the State
conference taking the extreme step. Every-
one who spoke against me at the _ conference
was either a defeated Labor candidate or an
aspirant. This is not surprising, as one ot
the chief charges levelled against me was
that I did not try to drag some of these im-
possibles from their peaceful and payable
but obscure jobs as union organisers into the
glare and glitter of the public eye; and so I
earned their everlasting enmity. Two or
three of them will be candidates at the next
Senate election, and I will still stand between
them and their desires. “Press” states that
it is likely that I will apply for re-admission
ac the next conference. I don’t think so.
Mahoney was expelled because he was too
extreme; I was turned out because I was too
moderate, or because I refused to be a mere
automaton, jumping when someone pulled a
string, and spoke when I was expected to
be silent, remaining silent when I was
ordered to shout. Political Labor to-day is
a vanished power. Its hand is palsied, and
its eye is dim. It has ceased to represent
the workers, and is content to obey instruc-
tions so long as its members are graciously
permitted by the outside powers to cling to
their seats. It has lost its public spirit be-
cause it has deliberately pushed out all those
who had vision and courage. It is left with
standard-bearers whose only claim to public
notice is a blind and stupid obedience to
bosses, and whose only chance of public life
lies in bowing down and worshipping a party
joss. I have no quarrel with Labor, which
has been, and always will be, my political
faith; but I fall out with those who profess
to be its leaders, and who are amongst the
greatest enemies the worker has. I shall
not approach them for mercy. I prefer to
plough my own furrow, and if I go out of
public life I shall have the knowledge that
I have done my share in the democratic fight
and the satisfaction that, while I have
broken no pledge nor infringed any platform,
I have retained my self-respect and indepen-
dence, and sometimes have even dared to
place State before party. —Yours, etc., J. E.
Ogden.
♦
The Drunken Motorist.
Many Sydney motorists appear to be firmly
convinced that it is the first duty of a pedes-
trian to keep out of their way, and they drive
accordingly. A section of this army of ego-
ists quite frequently indulges itself with fire-
water and extends the doctrine a notch fur-
ther, so that it becomes the duty of all things,
animate or inanimate, to efface themselves
from the path. So it comes about that Syd-
ney streets show many a shattered verandah
post and caved-in wall, and many an old man
or woman or little child is taken to the near-
est morgue. As a rule these damaged build-
ings and ended lives are of no particular im-
portance to those having authority, but the
other day a highly-respected, well-known
professional man, a legislator too, was slain
on alighting from a tram, and there had since
been signs of a realisation of the fact that
such things ought not to happen. Chief Sec-
retary Lazzarini has been harrying the
police, and the police have been hustling
offenders against the traffic laws into the
courts at the rate of as many as 200 in a
single day. Nothing very serious has hap-
pened to the offenders, most of whom have
been guilty of nothing much worse than igno-
rance of laws now suddenly enforced for the
first time. The most important result of
the Chief Secretary's awakened conscience
is that he promises a new Transport and
Traffic Act, “moulded on the most up-to-date
lines.” The contents of such an Act can
easily be imagined, and the prospect, for the
most part, does not inspire enthusiasm. What
really seems to be necessary is not a new
Act,' but a very simple amendment to the
existing Motor Traffic Act, empowering
magistrates to apply the penalty of imprison-
ment in cases where it is proved that a
motorist has driven a car or motor-cycle
while under the influence of alcohol. At pre-
sent a fine of up to £2O and the sus-
pension of the driving license are the
Law’s only weapons in coping with
offenders who are not less dangerous to
the community than man-eating tigers at
large. In Victoria, as in Maoriland, the
penalty of imprisonment is applicable, and
it is undoubtedly effective. The motorist
mostly belongs to the respectable classes, or
at least to a class that cannot regard a term
in gaol with unconcern. To pay a fine, even
a stiff fine, is rather tony and fashionable
than otherwise when the offence arises out
of ownership of a car. But there is nothing
fashionable about going to gaol. It simply
isn’t done in the best circles. To send
drunken motorists to gaol would substantially
decrease their numbers and the number of
victims that fall beneath their wheels. A
further diminution in the red stream might
be brought about by a city by-law such as
they have in most civilised towns nowadays,
prescribing fixed crossing-places for pedes-
trians in the busiest parts of the city, and
penalising people who persist in crossing
at unauthorised places. If Mr. Lazzarini
wants to bring about a revolution in traffic
control he can do it very quickly and simply.
♦
The Speck’s Remedy for Deadlocks.
After all, the dispute between Tasmania s
two Houses is not to reach the Privy Coun-
cil, the case having been settled out of court
by’ negotiation. The agreement is to the
effect that the Council shall exercise all its
old functions of amendment or rejection in
regard to all bills except Appropriation.
Land Tax and Income Tax bills. These it
may not amend, but may suggest amend-
ments therein (like the Senate of the Fed-
eral Parliament) ; and if its suggestions are
not accepted by the Assembly it must cither
knuckle down and pass the bill or utterly
reject it. It is urged that the Uppish Cham-
ber will never accept the responsibility
attaching to rejection of Appropriation or
Land and Incomes taxation. Against* this
view it is argued that the Chamber which
has, in the past, shown a most noble dis-
regard of consequences is nor likely to be
much less reckless in the future ; and as the
Eighteen Elders are answerable to less than
one-third of the adult citizens of the State,
and as, in effect, only one-third of that third
can express its opinion at one and the same
time, the “responsibility” hardly seems
weighty, enough to deter self willed “lords” from
doing hasty things—even rejecting an Appro-
priation Bill or depriving the Government
of income- or land-tax revenue for that year.
However, the plan is to be given a trial.
Possibly the fact that an Assembly majority
has twice ignored the Council’s amendments
to money bills, and may as a last resort do
the same again (the question as to a Govern-
ment’s right to go straight to the Governor
for his assent to a money bill remains un-
answered), will have a steadying effect upon
the Elders when they feel a fit of destruc-
tion coming on. In addition there is a sus-
picion at the back of the consciousness of
some of the least elderly of the Elders that
a Governor’s assent may not be constitution-
ally refused to any bill or section of a bill
which responsible Ministers desire to become
law. If this suspicion is well _ founded it
may not be safe for the Council to either
amend or reject anything upon which an
Assembly majority is really set. V ritten
Constitutions to the contrary notwithstand-
ing, whenever a House of Assembly is imbued
with the will it may be trusted to find a
way to retain its power over the public purse.
The only serious opponent of the amended
Constitution was Assemblyman Norman
Cameron. It transpired that he had, with
a couple of others, bought £lO5 worth of
counsel’s opinion on the prospects of up-
setting the Lyons Government’s land- and
income-taxation laws which had passed the
Governor without the consent of the Leg.
Council. The burden of the Cameron com-
plaint was to the effect that, as the legal
opinion was highly favorable to the pro-
moters of an appeal to the Privy Council,
and as the proposed deadlock provisions had
rendered a Privy Council case useless, it
looked like a waste of a perfectly good hun-
dred guineas. Premier Lyons’s promise to
ask Parliament to reimburse Cameron and
his friends the 100 guineas by way of com-
memorating peace between the two Houses
had a soothing effect, and the bill passed all
stages without amendment. A short Act
to remove doubts and declare valid the three
measures passed last year without reference
to the Upper House was also put through
both Houses; and the session being ended,
the Lords and Commons shook hands in the
refreshment-room, and, it is alleged, went
home arm-in-arm, or words to that effect.
♦
Laying the Heir to Rest.
If one principle of British law has been more
sacred than another so far as it touches the
devolution of real property, it has been the
rights of the “son and heir.” These rights
have been for many centuries the wrongs of
the junior brethren. The history of the heir
has been traced to a point where speculation
takes the place of evidence. Apparently, to
begin with, religion required certain things to
be done to the memory of a deceased father
for the comfort of his soul and its welfare in
the hereafter. These duties, quite naturally,
were cast on the eldest son. Their perform-
ance would, unless the priestly offices were
rendered free of charge, necessitate payments
being made, and obviously the estate of the
deceased was the source to be tapped. So
it came about that the eldest son assumed
control of the dead man’s property. It was
but a step from control to ownership. The
advantages were generally in the eldest son s
favor, but not always. Up to the days of
Justinian the Roman law made the heir
responsible for all the debts of the deceased,
even if the latter left no property whatever—
a damnosa hereditas. The change introduced
by the classic jurist was to convert the heir
into the equivalent of our modern executor,
with the addition that if anything were left
after the payment of just debts and demands
the heir got it. Saxon law gave a man’s land
at his death to the children in equal por-
tions, and it was not till William of Nor-
mandy with his knights and archers squatted
permanently on the land that the heir in the
English sense started on his career. William
did not worry much about ancestor-worship,
or religious rites for the dead, but he did
worry about military duties. Under the
feudal system services were annexed to the
grants of land, and they were generally of a
personal nature —as to serve his lord in war,
to plough his lord’s lands, to render certain
arms or dues, and so on. Someone had to
be responsible for these, arid with the Roman
precedent as a guide the duty was cast on
the eldest son. He took over the land, and
with it the annexed feudal duties. So from
century to century this ancient system has
been woven into the texture of British life.
But a clear line has been drawn between
“real” —that is, landed —property and “per-
sonalty”—that is, movable property. The
law of real property grew to be a thicket
through which the expert lawyer alone could
penetrate. Apart from estates in fee. simple
limited to a particular heir or heirs —by
which the great families passed on their
acres arid their manors generation after
generation—-trie eldest son was entitled to the
unentailed realty, if any, not disposed of by
will or, in the event of intestacy, to all of it.
Mother, sister and brother might search in
vain for a foot of land on which to stand.
They were in no better plight than John
Stuart Mill’s landless vagabond on the
highroad. To this general principle there
were, however, some quaint exceptions. One
was the tenure known as “gavelkind,” which
was a clear departure from the law of primo-
geniture. By it the land descended in the right
line to all the sons equally, and in default
of sons to the daughters in like manner.
There was another Saxon tenure which had
escaped the Conqueror’s net —“borough Eng-
lish.” It had a very human conception at its
root. If a father died intestate, then all his
realty of this tenure went to the youngest
son. “It is based,” says a commentator, “on
the assumption that the youngest son, on
account of his tender age, is not so capable
as the rest of his' brethren to keep himself."
Under the less sympathetic Norman tenures
the youngest son usually found his way
into the Church —or was “sent out to the
colonies.” In Australia for many years past
the “son and heir,” whether apparent or
presumptive, has been coffined and laid to
rest; and recently his obsequies have beer
carried out also in the land which nurtured
him for so many centuries. From the first
day of the present year the younger sons
and the daughters will all sit with equal
dignity and right at the feast of funeral
meats. If the eldest son does get most of
the joint out of his father’s disposable realty,
it will be by virtue of the terms of .the old
gentleman’s will, and not - as heir; but
if the old gentleman dies intestate, then all
will share equally in it—if overdue income
tax, death duties and accumulated debts do
not swallow up realty and personalty alike.
By the Administration of Estates Act, 1925,
Britain has thus brought itself after many
centuries into line with the obviously fair
provisions for the division of property,
whether in land, goods or gold, that have long
prevailed among the children of the Empire.
*
Accident or Manslaughter.
Dear Bulletin, —What looks like a mis-
carriage of justice has taken place in Vic-
toria. Any visitor here might think you can
manslaughter by fire 31 persons, including
women and children, and get off free. The
City Coroner has found the busli-fire deaths
were .accidental; there is not a word as. to
who started the fires. Now, anyone who lives
in native-grass bush knows that fires are
rarely accidental. They are nearly always
deliberately lit. Settlers must burn, for they
must have the feed. But there is a proper
time to do it. The usual procedure, seen here in
Gippslarid frequently, is this. Comes a hot,
gusty day. The sky is clear. Suddenly one
fire starts. This is accepted as an example
and an excuse. In a short time the whole
country is ablaze. Could not the Coroner
have at least publicly announced that, if
detected in setting bush alight at the wrong
time, the starters would be in dock for man-
slaughter? This is the only way to stop the
fire maniac, for, match in hand, he will
hesitate to light if he knows it means gaol-
ing. What a boon that would be to the
bush-dweller, who would no longer live in
daily terror of loss of property, if not life!
If a proper inquiry had been held into the
Mount Best tragedy which occurred some
years ago in Gippsland and the onus sheeted
home, Noojee might have been saved. But
the fire-starters in that case got off, although
it was reported they were known. And the
bush-dwellers are not the only sinners. In
the wheat-growing districts on both sides
of the Murray there are men who put a
match to their stubble before all the wheat
of their neighbors is stripped. These selfish
sinners can be more easily traced; and the
police should do something about it —natu-
rally the neighbors don’t, as a rule, care to
make a move, though their curses are deep
enough.—Yours, Groper.
+
Diamonds and Demos.
Dear Bulletin, —The times change, and
Labor changes with them. In the later years
of last century, when Cecil Rhodes was the
uncrowned king of South Africa and the
Kimberley diamond-mines were pouring out
their gems to deck the bosoms of Rebecca
and Rachel and the fat fingers of their hus-
bands, a prophet arose who piped in a thin,
shrill voice from those quarters in London
where Fabians then did congregate. His
name was Grant Allen, and he was well


rtie Federal Mutual
q3o‘O’O3^>
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. r. A . MANZIE, Manager and Secretary.
Victorian Branch; 360-60 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIIt, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
known to liis generation as a disciple of
an au th°r and a lover of mankind.
What, ’ lie asked, “have diamonds to do
with _ democracy ?” Then he went on in his
incisive way to point out that of all the
barren avenues of labor diamond-getting was
the worst, for not only did it serve no true
economic purpose, but it prostituted the labor
of men to the passion for display, and sub-
stituted the glitter of gems for what other-
wise applied might have yielded food for the
people. What does a diamond do? Scintil-
late on tne neck of a wife or a mistress, and
mark on his finger the tawdry taste of the
innate snob! Beyond the few uses it
serves in industry—and they may be counted
on the fingers of one hand—it serves no
humanitarian purpose. Its production has,
all down the ages, been associated with
such vicious things as half-starved Labor; its
possession has done no more than foster
vanity and greed and pander to lust. It has
squandered in its getting wealth that would
have rebuilt half the slums of a kingdom,
and it has not produced a grain of food or
a article that has added to the world’s
well-being. Beside the diamond, a lump of
honest coal that lights a fire, or, in the hands
of the chemist, serves a host of helpful pur-
poses, is a king. All the diamond's associa-
tions should make its name stink in the
nostrils of Labor —and it did so in Grant
Allen’s day. But to-day N.S.W. Premier
Lang adorns the finger of Minister Dltnn
with the refulgent diamond, symbol of all the
vices, including unproductive labor, and
bestows like gems upon his wife—a poor
compliment with such a history behind the
cold, glinting stone that never had a sou-l,
but only a price.—Yours, Old Red.
«
Nicholas Lockyer. the contented philoso-
pher who was sent to report on Tasmania’s
difficulties, when announcing that he was
about to sit down and concoct his report
threw in the remark that the people of the
island “should not give way to any pessimis-
tic or parochial attitude.” It suggests A. L.
Gordon slightly altered :
Life is mostly froth and bubble—
Two things stand like stone;
Courage in another’s trouble,
Kindness in your own.
Tasmania’s position is that four out of ten
shipping lines left it on account of the Navi-
gation Act, and others cut down their ser-
vices ; its tourist trade largely deserted it
because of visitors being marooned through
shipping strikes which the Federal Govern-
ment did nothing to remedy: and internal
commerce so fell off through mixed troubles
that the net railway earnings dropped to
one-seventh of what they were in 1920-21.
The very limited bit of exemption from the
Navigation law which was granted was too
small to attract new ships. A first appeal
to the present Federal Government evoked
a gruff instruction that the island should levy
more taxes and put its house in order—the
sort of language no one dreamed of throwing
at big Westralia. Yet, despite all, the island-
ers shouldn’t think parochially. They should
rather rejoice over Canberra, and be glad
that N.S.W. and Queensland are in a fair
way to get their coastal railway, and sympa-
thise with the latter State in its efforts to
get Federal aids (or more Federal aids) for
its cotton and sugar and sundries, and re-
joice exceedingly that Westralia has already
drawn the first instalment of an annual sub-
sidy which Tasmania helps to provide.
4
Although Dr. Wade’s recent lecture before
the Institute of Petroleum Technologists in
London on the search for oil in Australia
held no new information on the subject, it
put the salient facts for and against possible
oil-fields here in such a manner that the
gathering, representative of the best and
most worth-while interests associated with
the petroleum industry, was suitably im-
pressed. Perhaps no continent has suffered
such diverse opinions on its oil potentialities
as our own, where, arguing on analogy and
general tectonic comparison with known
fields in foreign countries, one school does
not give us a hope, while from detailed study
of particular districts the other school
admits possibilities and recommends intense
prospecting. There is much to be said for
either view. About 57 per cent, of the total
a f ea of the United States is such that new
oil-fields may be discovered in it additional to
those already proven, whereas 43 per cent, is
considered unfavorable. In Australia the area
in which oil-pools may be discovered does
not compare unfavorably in extent with that
of the U.S.A. But unfortunately almost the
whole of our mesozoics and tertiaries have
to be, at this juncture, passed over on account
o. structural discrepancies and*other unfavor-
able features, leaving only certain “belts,”
chiefly m the eastern and western permo-
carboniferous beds and in the jurassics of
Queensland, with distinct possibilities. Here,
again, of the Queensland jurassics those
directly in the artesian belt are not very
promising. But, as Dr. Wade emphasises, only
about 1 per cent, of this country’s surface
has been geologically mapped in detail; and
without geological mapping the prospecting
of even the comparatively small but oil-
favorable areas must mean great waste and
probably quite misleading results ; wherefore,
a Federal survey, or the enlargement of
present wholly inadequate .State staffs, is
absolutely essential. Certainly the alloca-
tion of £60.000 annually among the States
tor both survey work and drilling is not
going to get us much further ahead
«
Tj nleSvS much more care is shown in the
administration of the municipal enterprises
in hand or to be taken up within the next year
or so by the Greater Brisbane Council, rate-
payers are likely to be called on to put their
hands deep, in their pockets. The tramway
system, which showed good profits under the
management of Badger, no longer pays in-
terest and expenses. Capital outlay, which
at the end of 1924 stood at £1,615,282, has
since much increased, but without correspond-
ing increase of revenue, and with much higher
ratio of working expenses. There is also
the certainty that the motor-’bns traffic will
compete, much more seriously. The Council
has decided to install its own power-plant
for generation of electricity, and has declined
to accept the terms of sale offered by the
Brisbane Electric Light Co. This will mean
a loan of about £1,500,000, with more to
follow. It is pretty certain that the muni-
cipality will have to take over the water and
sewerage works from the board now control-
ling them. The capital cost of these was
£6,330, 1 64 at the end of 1924. The sewerage
system is very far
from completion,
and only a small
proportion of the
Greater Brisbane
area is provided
for. Water supply
requires further ex-
tensive works. It is
not likely that less
than £10,000,000
will be needed to
complete the
scheme. The capi-
tal cost of the
Adelaide water and
sewerage systems,
which are fully
complete, is just
over £4,000,000.
Brisbane Council
has decided to either
erect abattoirs at
Uxley or buy the
A. M. E. Meat-
works on the Bris-
bane River for
£500,000, and it is
also proposed to
take over the whole
of the milk supply
for the municipal
area. The ne w
Town Hall will
cost little under
£1,000,000, but the
responsibility for
this belongs to the
previous Council.
The anti - socialist
aldermen are in a
majority of two to
one and were
pledged to economy,
but the piling up of
liabilities seems to
indicate that the
Council is nearly as careless in entering on
financial obligations as the State Govern-
ment.
4
A cable reporting the burning of 800 houses
in Tokio and the destitution of 4000 people
does not give any notion of the plight of the
huge wooden city of two million people. In the
first three weeks of January Tokio had already
had one destructive fire for every day of the
year. Last year 101!) fires occurred, and the
annual loss for the whole island kingdom is
reckoned by the authorities in tens of mil-
lions. Sixty per cent, are due to defective
electric-light wiring, ramshackle chimneys
(chimneys were unknown before the indus-
trial era), the slopping-over of the hlbachi,
or heat-boxes, and the dabbling of ignorant
amateurs in the new pastime of radio. Most
of the remaining 40 per cent, of the illumina-
.ions were, it is suspected, provided by owners
setting alight to their properties for the
insurance money, insurance likewise being
an innovation in Japan. The whole thing is
another illustration of the terrific problems
that confront a simple pastoral nation when
it sets out suddenly to industrialise itself.
One of the pet arguments of the Australian
Freetrader is that this country should wait
until its population is about as big as
U.S.A.’s before it learns to use modern tools.
The plight of Tokio, known to its inhabitants
by the sinister title of “The Blazing City,”
is a good enough reply to that.
♦
Political pull seems more effectual in gaol
delivery these days than files or skeleton-keys.
Even Brisbane’s chief police-magistrate, H.
L. Arciidall, wiio is accustomed to the
startling reappearance of prisoners supposed
to be behind the bars, rubbed his specs, in
astonishment the other day when he looked
up the record of the man in the dock. “Why,”
he said, “this man has received sentences
aggregating 77 years 10 months in the last
16 years!” In N. S. Wales between 1010
and 3915 he received sentences aggregating
64 years three months, and in Queensland
between 1020 and August, 1923, he was sen-
tenced to 13 years seven months in all, and
was declared an habitual criminal. Not-
withstanding this damning record, the appa-
rently incorrigible was turned loose on society
again last Christmas Eve, and speedily quali-
fied for sentence on six separate charges of
stealing. The P.M. gave him six months on
each charge, cumulative. It will be inter-
esting to know how much of the three years
he is required to serve.
♦
From J. Ingram, manager of the Vic. Hard-
wood Co. (and others have written to the
same effect) :
“M.G.S.’s” description of Powelltown, one of the
villages afflicted by the Victorian bush-fires (B.
4/3/’26), is painfully one-eyed. Actually, instead of
being merely a collection of insanitary and ill-kept
huts, Powelltown can boast of the largest and most
up-to-date sawmill in Victoria, owned by the Vic.
Hardwood Co. This co. has a private line from
Yavra Junction to Powelltown for freight and passenger
service and a further extension of line from Powell -
town about eight miles into the forest. The “toy”
line carries about 20,000 passengers annually and
about 00,000 tons of timber and general freight.
The co. has also large drying kilns and planing
1926’s EASTER EGG.
“I laid it this year.”
sheds, which make it possible to supply rough or
dressed timber for all requirements. The cottages
owned by the co. compare favorably with those of
any milling township, and some of the homes are
as comfortable as it is possible to make a home.
In the last few’ years the residents have made a
three-court bowling-green, a tennis-court, built a
hall at the cost of over £lOOO, and at the present
time are levelling four acres of land for a recreation
ground. To complete this last work £370 was raised
in the district in a few weeks. There is a first-
class school which accommodates over 120 pupils,
and a tennis-court has been made in the school
grounds for the children. The school committee
has money in hand to further improve the grounds,
but has been waiting for the Works Department
to fence the land. The Upper Yarra Shire Council
is now making concrete drains throughout the town-
ship and gravelling the roads and footpaths. With
regard to shops, one general store is up-to-date
in every respect, and a second, though' smaller, is
very well kept. The confectionery and fruit shops
are clean, and no fault can be found with them.
With regard to the butcher’s shop, previous to the
fire the cattle and sheep were killed in abattoirs
in the district without doubt superior in every
respect to the usual country abattoirs, and the shop
where the meat was sold was w’ell equipped with a
cool chamber and the premises were always clean. The
shops in the township are under the control of
the Health Department, which inspects them regu-
larly. Before its beauty was destroyed, Powelltown
was an attraction for tourists, and its fern gullies
and forests of mountain-ash were greatly admired.
Finally, in no other industrial township could be
found a better body of workmen.
*
“Oxmead” : The difficulty experienced by
the N.S.W. Labor Premier in abolishing an
unpaid Upper Chamber, even when he is
able to begin his destructive work by dump-
ing 25 sworn abolitionists into the threatened
House, makes one wonder how long it will
take Labor to induce such Upper Houses as
are paid to vote themselves out of existence.
Take, the case of Groperland, where the ex-
tinction of the Leg. Council has always been
a plank of the Labor platform—“as soon as
we get a majority there.” When the party
touched its high-water mark in W.A., two or
three years before the war, it could claim
seven or eight seats out of the 30 in the
Council, and the newly-elected Labor M.L.C.
usually bogan his maiden speech by mention-
ing that he was there to help wipe out the
Chamber—and incidentally deprive himself
of a living thereby—later on. W.A. Leg.
Councillors have always drawn the same pay
as Assemblymen, although elected on a more
restricted franchise, and their remuneration
is now £5OO a year. If Labor men pitch-
forked into the N.S.W. Upper House can't
be relied upon to co-operate wholeheartedly
m wrecking the objectionable institution,
although they stand to lose nothing thereby,
how long is it going to take to screw W.A.
Laborites, if they ever should capture the
L pper House at the polls, up to depriving
themselves of £5OO per annum by their own
deliberate act?
♦
“Clifford Snook” : According to the man
who wrote the article on this country in
“Chambers’s Encyclopaedia,” “Australian
journalism, though markedly clean and
sober in its tendencies, has rarely been of
a high order; the few exceptions have been
already mentioned.” Curiously enough, the
only exception mentioned was The Bulletin.
I fully agree with the encyclopaedia, for
the much-puffed Australian journalism is
not of a high order. The impression
it creates is that the reference library has
been mislaid. Apparently too many moder-
ately luminous pressmen w r ere not taught in
their youth to be whales for accuracy, and
trust too much to a vague impression about
something they believe they learned at school
or think they read in some other paper. As
a consequence, the great organ of public
opinion finds itself due now and then to be
an inaccurate ass, and proceeds to be that
animal in a fashion which leaves nothing to
be desired. Recently a very great daily
devoted a leader to the prospects of a
Hoiienzollern restoration, and drew a
parallel between the ex-Kaiser’s family and
the Stewarts. The writer had a fixed im-
pression that the erratic Scottish dynasty
began with James I. of Great Britain and
Ireland and ended with James 11., and he
Plied the vices of Charles 11. on the head
of his saintly and bigoted father, and gene-
rally mixed things up. More recently that
paper’s great contemporary became heated
over some doings of a “small country such
as Brazil ’ —the place from which Charley’s
Aunt came. A massive organ in another
city drags in historical inaccuracies in d
way that amounts to genius, and seldom
even gets a United States president in his
proper sequence. Perhaps the school system
isn’t all it might be. I have met with bright
and fairly advanced children who had
learned no history save the Australian article.
I hat article is short, and very much lack-
ing in the kind of incidents that serve as
landmarks, and there was really no national
history to learn until the beginning of this
century, so this isn’t much of an education.
It may be patriotism of a kind to teach the
history of the bit of soil instead of that of
the race, but if Moses and David and the
Maccabees and old Jerusalem were cut out
or the Jew-boy’s lesson-books and he began
with the first race-meeting at Randwick, he
might be less of a Jew-man when he grew
up I have also met clever children who
had been taught no geography save that of
Australia. It is something, though not very
much, of a redeeming feature that this is
a large place. If the same system were
followed by the people of St. Helena it might
bo disastrous. I suppose these restrictions
have fostered the idea that Captain Cook
was the original finder of Australia, if he
wasn t the creator of the world. Still, our
schools cover a lot of ground, including
nature-study, which, I believe, consists in
going out to look at birds’ nests.
. ♦
It is about time we made the use of potas-
sium cyanide by fur trappers illegal: the
death of a valuable stud bull near Young
(N.S.W.) has again called attention to the
danger of scattering the deadly poison about.
This method of “hunting” is sheer indiscrim-
inate murder. The easiest plan, if the
country to be worked is fairly dry, as it
usually is, is lo distribute tins of poisoned
water over the area; and any pub loafers
who can cadge a couple of sticks of cyanide
—every country store sells the deadly stuff
like lollies—has then only to visit the nearest
rubbish-tip to be fully equipped for his job.
Cyanide not only gets the ’possum and his
like, but lays out the native birds in hun-
dreds, if the weather is hot, and there is
not even the feeble excuse of profit where
these are concerned. State laws are so con-
flicting and so carelessly administered that
looks as if the time has come for
the Commonwealth to lay down a universal
Animals and Birds Protection Act covering
the whole of Australia.


ħ
h
Sn fnite tMed iicsfxL^L
'Army Club'
' The fl ci/of
(//«
6/S JO J OS ‘9/I JO J
CAVAN DERS LTP
LONDON.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Galleryman” : Customs Minister Pratten
piloted his tariff schedule through the House
of Reps, without striking, or even scraping,
any rock. Nearly all the opposition came
from his own side of the Chamber, and
the Cobdenites from Westralia Gregory,
Prowse and Mann —were prominent in every
assault. Some of the Eastern States Cockles
likewise fought the new duties on machinery
while demanding increased Protection for
maize, potatoes and asparagus tips, and
there were self-styled Nationalists who
played the narrowest provincial spirit. Rut
on every division the Government had the
assistance of Charlton and his followers,
“Texas” Green (Kalgoorlie) excepted.
Anstey, though not completely recovered from
the illness which laid him aside after the
election, returned to the House to cham-
pion the cause of Australian industries, and
Scullin’s speeches were always telling. Had
the Labor party exhibited the same vigorous
Australianism when imported wreckers be-
gan their destructive career, it would not
now have only 23 members in a House of
75 and be reduced to insignificance in the
Senate.
“Some of the articles on the tariff sched-
ule,” shouted Duncan-Huglies, M.H.R. from
S.A., amid the applause of the Foreign-
traders, “are so petty that they are almost
beneath criticism. Can anyone say, for in-
stance, that it is essential to Australia’s exist-
ence that it should manufacture artificial
flowers?” It probably isn’t essential to
Australia’s existence that it should manu-
facture any one particular thing, but they
all help. And it isn’t essential to Australia’s
existence that it should contain any one
particular man, but it would be lonesome if
they all left, and some of them help, though
there are doubts about Duncan-Hughes.
Judging by the imports the artificial-flower
business could support another 150 people,
in N.S.W. alone, equal to two Houses of
Representatives.
N.S.W.’s 44-hour week must be paid for
like any other luxury. It will reduce the
police force on duty at any given time by
about 250 men, and there are not nearly
enough on duty as it is. Minister Lazzarim
proposes to enrol some 25 extra recruits each
year fox 1 a while, which isn’t even a half
measure, or the tenth part of a measure.
The Railway Department talks of the need
for 2000 extra trucks, costing £2,000,000,
because of the number of vehicles which will
be loafing on Saturdays. It is proposed to
make consignees who are unable to get their
goods unloaded between Friday night and
Monday morning pay for the hold-up of the
truck, Saturday being a working day in
theory though a holiday in practice. Com-
plications of this sort are ramifying through
industry in general, barring such exceptions
as agriculture and drink-selling, and the hill
is coming in on all sides.
Donald Grant urges professed communists
and I.W.W. men to dissolve their revolution-
ary organisations before the Federal
authority takes on the job under the Crimes
Act, and melt quietly into the Labor move-
ment. No doubt appears to be entertained
that the Labor movement will take in the
whole lot so long as they don’t insist on
wearing the ticket of a communist) organisa-
tion. As everybody knows, a dingo admitted
to a flock of sheep never does any damage
unless it has a label tied round its neck
proclaiming that it is a dingo.
Little Parsons, who succeeded Joel Moses
Gabb as M.H.R. for Angas (S.A.), thudded
ingloriously when the new duties on cotton
piece goods were being debated in the House
of Reps. Alleging that some Australian-
made cotton tweeds were no good, he produced
a pair of pants and tore the material with
his hands, saying it was rubbish. Lazzarim,
M.H.R. for Werriwa (N.S.W.), who used to
be a storekeeper, promptly walked up to the
orator and began tearing samples of imported
material with which Parsons had equipped
DOWN AT THE STERN.
“Information supplied to Parliament shows that the depleted Commonwealth Shipping Line is being
conducted by a board and staff costing over £1000 a week in salaries and wages."
GOLDBRAID: “We’re not making much progress—and ice can't blame it on political
control this year.”
REDTAPE: “That’s so. How about ‘labor tr onbles’?—that usually goes down.”
himself to show how much better it was
than the Australian product. When it was
Lazzarini's turn to speak he did some more
ripping up of British pants, and offered to
do the same with any other sample that
Parsons could produce. He explained to
the delighted House that the operation did
not prove that the goods were inferior, for
any cotton tweed could be torn across the
weft. The abashed Foreign-trader gathered
up his exhibits and fled.
Queensland Premier McCormack is to de-
liver his policy speech in Cairns —if he can
find a policy. All he has to go on with are
the measures thrust upon him by the South-
port convention —child-endowment, limitation
of profits, larger doles to the unemployed,
and investigation of the Abrams contraption.
There may be something nebulous about
assistance to secondary industries, which
certainly need assistance after 11 years of
Queensland Labor government. And of
course there will be that good old standby
“a vigorous public-works policy” ; for although
the Government has had to restrict
its own borrowings there are British migra-
tion loans and CcJmmonwealtli road grants.
But it is all Queensland to a rotten quince
that there will be no mention of reduced
taxation.
Mann, the Westralian Foreign-trader, fell
in badly when he declared in the House of
licps., apropos of the new whisky duties,
that “you can’t set up standards for whisky.'’
He was reminded that, as Westralian Gov-
ernment Analyst, he had said exactly the
opposite, and that his attempts to standardise
whisky had involved him in a brisk contro-
versy with the distillers of blended spirit,
who challenged his exaltation of the pot-
still article. However, Mann had the grace
to admit that there was nothing against Aus-
tralian whisky on the score of quality. Not
so Gullett, who claims to be a Protectionist
the young man from lienty (Vic.) spoke
with contempt of Australian whisky,- which
is nearly all distilled in his own State.
Blakeleyf M.H.R. for Darling (N.S.W.),
thereupon offered to pour out nips from five
bottles, four imported and the other Austra-
lian, and wager that Gullett could not pick
out the native stimulant; but the young
gentleman was discreetly silent.
About the last official act of Governor
Stradbroke was to sign the formal proroga-
tion of Vie. Parliament until April 27. He
did it a few hours before Greenwood,
McPherson, Cohen, Edgar and Merritt told
an audience at Haw-Hawthorn that there
were heaps of reasons why Parliament should
be called together at once. But the reasons
why Parliament should meet may be the
very reasons why Ministers don’t want them
to meet. Many an angry parent has been
sorriest that the strap has been mislaid
at the moment when the youngster has been
gladdest.
The sensible suggestion has been made by
one of Sydney’s accountancy associations that
an Act should require the regular audit of
solicitors’ trust accounts. The latitude
allowed to legal firms regarding such accounts
is not only absurd, but places temptation in
the way of unsubstantial practitioners who
run short of cash. There are probably many
juggles with trust accounts for every one m
which an accident occurs to bring the juggler
to judgment; but the cases in which solici-
tors are actually charged with mishandling
funds are becoming appallingly frequent.
When they come to light, the funds have
vanished, and the beneficiaries have no re-
dress unless they can get it from witnessing
the social destruction of the despoiler, ►super-
vision of all these accounts is necessary ; and
the officers appointed might be empowered
to insist upon a proper taxation of costs,
which sometimes —especially with benefici-
aries who do not care as long as they get
estates wound up and their hands on some
money—amount to sheer robbery.
It is wonderful how the approaching elec-
tion has improved the hearing of Queensland
Ministers. Attorney-General Mullan lias
even heard the cry of scattered jurymen, and
has raised their pay to 14s. 2d-, a day m the
Southern division, 15s. in the Central division
and 15s. lOd. in the Northern. This corres-
ponds to the basic wage, which is £4 os ; , t 4
10s. and £4 15s. in the respective divisions.
Travelling time is to be paid for, too; also
Saturdays and court holidays intervening
during a juror’s period of service.
The Foreign-trade crank is never tired of
crying out for more imports to make the
skilled worker superfluous. He believes in
cultivating the agricultural laborer, the wliarl
laborer who humps foreign manufactured
goods ashore and our own raw products
aboard, and the laborer and odd-jobber gen-
erally. Yet the criminal court records are
perpetually giving evidence that industrial
training of any sort is an elevating influence
and that the mere animal-of-burden business
is not. One day in March Judge Cohen did
the usual cleaning up at Sydney Quait- r
Session, and sentenced a lot of 17. l °ui
teen of them were described as laborers ,
there wasn’t a trace of a skilled occupatio
among the 15 males included in the list. And.
judging by their ages, the trouble with a
least 12 of them was that they had left
school too early and gone into a dead-enu
occupation that is bad for the soul.
“Seebee” : Vic. Conservatives are question-
ing the wisdom of the A.N.A. in choosing
Digger Bill Slater, Labor M.L.A. for Dundas,
as chief president. They forget that nve
Libs. —Peacock, Ivirton, Hume Cook, lout-
clier and Carty Salmon —held the job while
they were Assemblymen. Lemmon, M.L.A.
(Williamstown), is the only Labor Parlia-
mentarian who was No. 1 in the association
prior to Slater. If the A.N.A. becomes a
target for criticism again it may make greater
advances than it has done in recent years,
j L. Purves, when president, set himself
out to draw fire. The more critics tried to
riddle him the more the membership in-
creased. Of late the A.N.A—to use ex-
president Rust’s phrase—has been “too cor-
pulency respectable. ’
The Queensland Government is discovering
that it "is easier to get into the squatting
business than out of it. Half a dozen ot the
stations were put up to auction last week,
but no one wanted them. Buckingham Downs
(3400 sq. miles) did not draw a bid; neither
did Merluna and York Downs (5400 sq.
miles), nor Silver Plains (2430 sq. miles).
Half-hearted offers were made for the smaller
stations —Kenmore 132 sq. miles) and Cala-
bah (83 sq. miles) —which were submitted
unstocked, but as the bids did not reach the
reserve they were passed in. The Govern-
ment is talking loudly of resuming pastor.al
properties for closer settlement. It can make
a start with its own stations.
It transpires that B. Shand, who has
been nominated for the Cumberland vacancy
in N.S.W. Assembly as prescribed by the
proportional-representation system or swindle,
cannot enter upon his duties until the House
has been apprised of his election by the
Speaker. This means that Cumberland will
be short of a member, and Shand of the
salary, for five or six months, Parliament
being out of action till September. The
tomfoolery is a result of the Casual Vacan-
cies Act, which was rushed through by the
Storey Government in a form so imperfect
that obvious contingencies were not provided
for, among others the filling of an Indepen-
dent’s seat. Fuller promised to amend the
dreadful thing, but didn’t bother, and Lang
has been too busy cutting his party s throat.
The decision of N.S.W. Premier Lang to
administer the Agricultural Department while
his colleague Dunn is abroad has brought
murmurings from his faithful followers. All
of them would like a turn at even an actmg-
Minister’s job, and it is felt that Lang,
already Premier and Treasurer, is burying
too many bones instead of sharing them out.
There are others Ministers, certainly, who
have far less to do.
Some hard thinking is being done by the
disunited Vic. Ministerial party. Captained
by a country leader such as Hogan, Labor
might conceivably gain a few more rural
constituencies. It has 28 seats already, 13
of them beyond the metropolis, and six more
would enable it to carry on. But a decent
redistribution would dish Labor—it could
hardly fare so well in the metropolis, and
some of the country constituencies, notably
Daylesford and Dalliousie, would be different
propositions from what they now are. Nat.
Fed. wirepullers will endeavor to persuade
the Compo Cabinet to concentrate on (1)
amendment of the Assembly standing orders
to gag stonewallers, and (2) the passage of
a Seats Recasting Bill of some sort that will
at least improve the present electoral boun-
claries.
A quaint indigene is E. D. Gazzard, Caster-
ton delegate to the Australian Natives Asso-
ciation conference which has been deliberating
at Sorrento (Vic.). His branch, lie re-
marked, had “decided to remain neutral on
the question [of imported Governors], but
his opinion was that Governors from over-
seas were links with Britain, 'lliey seemed
to have a sense of refinement. He was not
in favor of an aristocracy of wealth, but
believed in an aristocracy of culture and
refinement, and it would do Australia S
to have Governors chosen . in Britain.
“What are we,” said a voice—“savages?
“No,” said Mr. Gazzard, “but mainly child-
ren of artisans.” The inference is that Aus-
tralians are fit to rule as Prime Ministers,
direct huge public services, become world-
famous scientists like Hunter, and great
Greek scholars like Gilbert Murray; but
they are not competent to open bazaars and
talk about the Empiali at women’s sewing-
bees. There is a valid objection to the
appointment of Australian Governors at
present; but it isn’t that.
THE ALL-WISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On the motion for an increased degree of Protec-
tion for asparagus, it was complained that tins
imported from California contained only the upper
portion of the vegetable. Mr. Hughes, who supported
the motion, said that people had various ideas as to
how asparagus should be eaten. Some ate it with a
spoon. (A laugh.) That was all wrong. Others
took it as they would macaroni. That was nearly
light. But how was it to be consumed when there
was only a small portion of the top to hold on to?
(Laughter.) ”
He showed the Labor legions how to collar power and
place;
Deprived of such a mentor now the wilderness they
pace.
He told old England years ago the way to win Ihe
war
And hammer Fritz —I’d like to know what else they
cheered him for.
And knowledge still he can unload on points more
tortuous
Who gives (or hints) the proper mode to eat asparagus.
At old Versailles he took his place with all the salt
of earth,
And stared the highest in the face as one who feels
his worth.
Wilson, with all his scholar’s lore, Clemenceau fierce
and grim,
They were but fellow-men, no more, just fellow-men to
him.
Was he less competent than they world-problems to
discuss
Who knew—what few have grasped—the way to eat
asparagus ?
Note how he differentiates between the feckless loons
Who freight such cargo from their plates into their
mouths with spoons
And those about the job that go with forks that stab
and swish
The stuff aloft—like Dagoes hoe into their staple dish.
They're nearer grace, these last. Withal they still
may learn from us
Who need no cutlery at all to eat asparagus.
And when I die—aye, when I die —and drift where
Peter waits
To head the sinners back that try to storm the
Golden Gates,
And when he scans my record grim and full of mis-
spent days,
I wonder will it soften him, the plea I mean to raise;
“One moment, saint, I don’t deny I’ve been a worth-
less cuss,
But still I knew, like Hughes, the way to eat aspara-
gus.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
<s>
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
ĥ
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows :
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
MJpCTN
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Weltinjjton (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Trustees, Executors & Agency
Company, Limited,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(The First Trustee Company established in Australasia.)
Capital paid up, £140,000.
The standing of this Company in the public mind is the result of
constant fidelity for more than 47 years to the highest principles of
Trustee Work.
Write for Booklet.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mark Sheldon, chairman of directors of the
A.8.C., assures The Bulletin, definitely
and unequivocally, that there have been no
official conversations at which he or his
fellow-directors or g.-m. Shannon have dis-
cussed the matter of amalgamation with the
National Bank of Australasia.
* * * *
Metters, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, aluminium- and
enamel-ware, etc., at Sydney, Adelaide and
Perth :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits.* Dividends.* ten Off. serves, serves.
1915.. 17,606 5 p.c. = 8,206 5057 4,313 1,606
1916.. 22,487 6 „ „ 9,848 4609 8,030 9 636
1917.. 23,794 6 „ „ 9.848 5206 8,740 18,376
1918.. 23,434 6 „ „ 9,848 5667 7,919 26,295
1919.. 23,907 8 ~ „ 13,131 5825 4,951 31,246
Premiums on new shares .. 25 31,271
Transferred to capital . . £32,794 | Q . 7
1920.. 39,610 8 p.c. = 14,453 6687 18,470 ( '
Premiums on new shares . . 114 17,061
1921.. 54,767 10 p.c. = 20.069 8697 26,001 43,062
Premiums on hew shares .. 258 43,320
Profit from sale of assets. . 3,020 46,340
.1922.. 48,809 10 p.c. = 20,497 12,672 15,640 61,980
Profit from sale of assets .. 2,083 64,063
Premiums on new shares . . 699 64,762
1923.. 51,571 10 p.c. = 21,790 13,793 15,988 80,750
Transferred to capital.. £56,122 24,628
Premiums on new shares . . 550 25,178
1924.. 67,964 10 p.c. = 28,336 14.861 24,767 49,945
Added to reserves . . £3OB 50,253
Premiums on new shares. . 998 51,251
1925.. 83,435 10 p.c. = 32,012 18,066 33,357 84,608
Premiums on new shares. . 407 85,015
1926.. 90,857 10 p.c. = 37,599 25,283 27,975 112,990
* Not including prefs.’ 7 p.c. (1920-24. £3500 p.a.;
1925, £4666; 1926, £7000).
In March last year shareholders were offered
a par issue of ordinaries —one for every
three held —and near the close of the year
they were given the chance to take 80,000
7 p.c. cumulative prefs.—one to five of their
holdings. With ords. at 28s. 6d. at the time
and prefs. at 21s. lOd. it is superfluous to
state that all were taken up. (The £407
premiums came from odd shares sold.) Good
use has been made of the money. Perth and
Adelaide now proclaim the merit of Metters’s
products in city showrooms, the bankers have
been retired off the balance-sheet and fur-
ther additions have been made to plant. Ex-
pansion has not ended yet by any means, but
the last issue of ords. was only to 10s., so
that £54,760 is available there whenever the
management wants it. At present the Tariff
Commission is considering the co.’s plea for
extra Protection against foreign-made alu-
minium ware and enamelled hollow-ware. If
this is granted, the big plant laid down to
make those lines should move to good pur-
pose.
The influence of the new capital is very
marked in the latest accounts; the figures
also show what rapid progress this well-
directed co. has made ;
1919. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital. . £164,133 £274,336 £428,276 £565,747
Overdrafts . . 32,976 24,326 88,539
Other liabili-
ties . . 39,420 45,076 78,447 65,401
Land and build-
ings . . 84,399 119.259 216,053 228,570
Plant . . 37,920 108,638 180,698 216,573
Stock . . 107,326 137,818 217,906 217,056
Book debts . . 40,180 84,499 99,825 119,009
Shares . . 8,529
Cash, etc. . . . 2,962 111 174 2,093
That is a remarkably fine position, even
though the amount sunk in properties, not
all productive, is verging on the quarter-
million—a valuation that does not appear
over-liberal. In the period of struggle, and,
later, in the time of boom profits, the co.
wrote off freely and sent substantial sums
to reserves, its last big move (in 19i)5) being
to wipe out the whole of goodwill—a matter
of £29,656. For these and other reasons
shareholders deserve the good things that
have come to them. Mainly owing to the
new capital issues the liquid position at Jan.
31 was more than £120,000 better than m
1925 :
1914. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets £128,095 £249,963 £317,905 £338,158
Liabilities . . 66,129 112,548 166,986 65,401
Liquid surplus £61,966 £137,415 £150,919 £272,757
Fixed assets.. 99,319 277,551 .396,750 445,143
Profits have gone from record to record.
After allowing for depreciation (in the in-
troductory table depreciation is included as
profit and then shown as written off), and
after giving the prefs. their div. (prefs., by
the way. will call for £12,600 next time), last
year’s profits were equal to 17 p.c. on ordinary
capital. The big property item tends, of course,
to moderate the earnings on total capital;
but very wisely the co. has issued compara-
tively cheap pref. capital to represent about
two-thirds of the realty holdings. Reserves
at £112,990 are fair in relation to the total
paid capital of £565,747, and the additions, if
maintained at recent proportions, will soon
make the position still more comfortable.
The last gift issue was made three years ago,
but shareholders have been given something
worth having in the recent par issues. There
are internal resources, but their dimensions
would have to be very substantial to justify
any further early bonus distribution. The
market does well to judge the scrip on its
10 p.c. 'divs., pushing other possibilities into
the distance. The co. has a large field to
exploit, and jt is blessed with energy and a
large faith in Australia; but this isn’t a
business that can run itself—on the contrary,
it appears to be an exceedingly difficult one—
and that feature has to be considered in valu-
ing its shares as an investment.
* * * *
The Queensland National Pastoral
Co.. Ltd:—
Reserves.
Adjustment payment by vendors, £50,000.. £50,000
, Dividends Writ-
Profits. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinaries, ten Off.
1915. .£67,083 £17,500 6 p.c.=£'36,000 £56,399 7,184
1916. .106,510 17,500 7 ~ „ 42.000 21,375 32,819
1917. .110,295 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000. 21,144 56,470
1918. .124,335 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 21,859 93,446
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 23,861 98,261
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6,096 17,500 Nil' 25,606 22,727
Profit.
1922.. 10,550 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Heavier sales of cattle were chiefly respon-
sible for the slightly better showing last year :
19,205 head were sold for £107.743 against
11,099 head for £53,193 for 1924. Only a
small number of sheep were disposed of, but
that was due to the dry spell stopping sales off
shears. The promise of the first few months of
the year was shattered by the very dry condi-
tions during the last nine months; but if
the properties have not been relieved by the
widespread downpour of the past fortnight
the co. will have had extraordinarily bad
luck. The co. was hard hit when the Im
perial moat contracts expired and the beef
market collapsed, and it has had a struggle to
keep payments up to the prefs. In fact, that
has been done only by drawing on resar o‘-’
which at December 31 were £56,155 less f
in 1920, when ordinaries last received
There are 600,000 ords. of £1 each, r #
provide them with even a modest bit ,;er
provision has been made for amortis- 0 f
leases and other depreciation and * ution
has been given to the prefs. call* C total
profits of at least £60,000. Nothing pfsible
at the moment to indicate a 50 p.c. improve-
ment on last year’s figures. Sheep will help
to do it later. The bigger wool-clip realised
less than that of 1924, but prices are still
highly profitable.
•••*»»
As the years pass, King .Tumbuck will play
a more important part, even though the co.’s
properties which have been converted or are
in process of conversion are not ideal sheep
country. On the areas so far stocked, losses
have been heavy. During 1925, 22,771 were
written off for deaths, and the previous
year’s figure was almost 30,000. However,
the flocks are steadily increasing, and each
fair season kicks the total higher: last year’s
InmbiiTg was 64,413 against 37,588 for 1924.
Inasmuch as sheep provide the way out of
the co.’s difficulties—the outlook for beef,
although improved, is not bright—they are
worth the attention the co. is giving to them:
livestock at December 31 consisted of
222,016 sheep, 128,556 cattle and 4273 horses.
Figures a year earlier were 183,597 sheep.
132,076 cattle and 4564 horses. Dog-proof
netting on two of the co.’s properties—Cork
and Lucknow stations—was completed last
year; 263 miles of it! A European princi-
pality could be hidden in the co.’s holdings,
which cover 11.450 square miles. Lucknow
is carrying 57,000 sheep; Cork is to get its
first lot as soon as the weather breaks. When
fully stocked the two places are to carry
170,000 head. Livestock values compare :
1920. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Cattle .. £492,228 £383,918 £349,392 £319,741
Sheep .. 100,215 96,431 126,371 150,134
Horses . . 35,002 25,956 27,384 25,638
The five lean years have affected balance-
sheet figures. The bank overdraft increased
over 1924 by £6263. and stands at £108.187.
•••«*«
The Q.N.P. is an offshoot of the Q. N.
Bank; it took over the pastoral properties
left with the bank after the troubles of the
’nineties. (Similarly, the sugar sediment was
floated into the Millnquin Co.) The bank's
Present interest is indicated by the personnel
of the Board, which consists of three of its
directors and its general manager. The.
financial position was comfortable :
........ „ 1 9 22. 1923. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities .. £67,047 £64,614 £128,617 £135,094
Leases etc... 248,353 253,778 296,821 325,524
Freeholds . . 68,605 68,605 68,605 68 605
Plant etc. .. 81,105 80,189 88,002 85,285
Livestock . . 509,832 506,305 503,147 495 513
Stocks wool.. 13,130 10,997 44,953 34’490
Cash, b o ok
debts, etc... 16,122 18,877 8,412 8,950
General expenditure increased £l2OO over
1924, and shareholders are informed that
“after careful scrutiny it is difficult to see
where economy can be exercised.” Rising
costs, irregular markets and variable seasons
make headway difficult, but the future is not
all gloom. Sheep should give a good average
return over a period of' years; stock values
have been “written down to a workable
value,” and the Q. N. Bank toueh is worth
something. During the term the co. sold the
standing pine on its Yabba and Taromeo
freeholds, and that will bring in from £5OOO
to £6OOO p.a. for the next seven years.
* * * *
London Stores, Ltd., men’s outfitters,
etc. (Melbourne), which began with £26,368
of capital represented by goodwill, etc.:—
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Oif. serves. Deficit.
& ££>£,£,
1916.. 15,134 10 p.c.= 7,000 GO4 7,530 2,019
Reserves.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7,000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 „ „ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22,111 15 „ „ 10,500 487 11,124 31,430
1920.. 28,829 15 „ „ 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921. . 29,142 171 ~ „ 15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 171 „ „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
Alterations account disappears. . 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 271 p.c.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,679
Dropped into reserves .. .. 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold . . 27,355 131,’.351
Reserves capitalised. £lOO,OOO .. 31,351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925. . 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. 71 p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
Business was disorganised over the full
term, and the fact that a solid lump of capi-
tal was unproductive didn’t help. The old
building was demolished and a new 11-
storeyed structure erected —only the finishing-
off remains to be done —and in odd corners
during the process the co. traded as best it
could. The best wasn’t very good compared
with recent years, but the showing under the
circumstances Was creditable. Gross profits
were lower, of course:—
1915 .. £54,127 | 1921 .. £101,332
1916 .. 56,396 [ 1922 .. 115,892
1917 .. 61,809 I 1923 .. 139,695
1918 .. 67,740 1924 .. 139,436
1919 . . 75,983 1925 . . 157,226
1920 .. 95,160 1926 .. 127,644
Something better than 74 p.c. could have
been handed to ordinaries, but it was thought
wiser to let a payment for the. second half
oass. And, anyhow, as a one-for-one gift
of shares occurred in 1924, the 74 p.c. isn’t
so modest as it looks. In addition, share-
holders lately got at par. 100,000 9 p.c.
prefs., issued to help pay for the new build-
ing.
»■«<>
Expenses were cut down last year by
£7995, but still were £lO 488 heavier than
in 1924. Tl>it the co. will be able to check
expenditure 'when it spreads out into its
greater space is to be doubted; and that
won’t help profits. Also, when the contrac-
tors hand over, the co. will have more than
a quarter of a million in bricks and concrete,
and that very materially alters the look of
things. _ At the beginning the co. sank no
money in freeholds, but the necessity of hold-
ing its shop position practically forced pur-
chase. , Certainly the Board has obtained
£129,000 on mortgage, doubtless having de-
cided to get the cheapest money available to
help carry the burden, and that ought to
help in fair times. The trouble is that the
debt is liable to be a nasty drag in bad ones.
Still the co. under its very shrewd manage-
ment lias been a great moneyspinner even
when times were pretty sick for most other
traders. Further, it showed profits enual
to 18 p.c. on capital and reserves in 1925,
and in 1923 it showed over 24 p.c.; and in
both years property bulked substantially in
the balance-sheets: £217,794 in 1925,
£138,984 in 1923.
Movements during the year were :—-
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £36,100 £137,664 £136,705 £135,730
Stock . . 98,819 102,837 100,952 141,043
Property, etc. 40,199 217,744 217,794 290,143
Book debts . . 5,054 55,207 3,893 4,850
Plant, etc. . . 4,714 3,658 4,314 4,803
Cash, etc. . . 20,465 98,794 76,697
Floating debt was a mere £(1730, and debtors
were even less; the co.’s success has been
built on good buying for cash and a rapid
turnover. The influence of the issue of
£lOO,OOO pref. capital is plain : £73,499 pro-
gress payments were made on the new build-
ing during the term, yet the cash bolding
(£75,021) was only £22,140 less. Stocks
were £40,000 heavier, which suggests that,
under the disabilities, goods had dragged ; and
with large premises to stock there is always
the tendency to handle some slower-moving
lines. Goodwill is still in at £16,659, but
accumulations exceed it by £78,306, which is
the most satisfactory feature. Net tangible
assets at February 28 were equal to £3 15s.
Bd. for each pref. share, or 255. 2d. for every
£ of capital. How far the future can be
judged by the past is doubtful. Some of the
principles upon which the extraordinary rate
of profit was won have had to be abandoned ;
on the other hand, it is pretty plain that the
co. has done all it can to neutralise the
disadvantages.
Motor Finance, Ltd. (Sydney).—-The
nrst accounts bear out the claims made in the
prospectus issued last year when the co.
raised £oo,ooo of pref. capital. Net profit
tor the year, after writing £758 off prelimin-
ary expenses, amounted to £12,751, compared
with the prospectus estimate of £12,0(10.
Uie co. earned £17,147 in interest; from hire
purchase (its business is chiefly with motor-
cycle purchasers), and £63 in commission.
Expenditure was remarkably light, the co.
having the advantage in this respect that its
ordinary capital is held chiefly by the motor-
trading- firm which makes most of the sales
that Motor Finance, Ltd., finances. Prefs.
got tlieir 9 p c., while ordinaries received
c ' * or year, the final div. being
rlnAo 15 p.c. p.a. Liabilities totalled
£oooo, £4279 being bank overdraft. Assets
consisted of the advances—£lo2,6Bs. Prelim-
inary exes, amounted to £697, against which
was the undistributed balance of £4462. The
prefs. are well secured, and, in addition to
tlieir rights to a cumulative 9 p.c., no further
issue ranking pari passu with them may be
made unless with the consent of a three-
rourths majority of pref.-holders and unless
further the net security in tangible assets is
not less than £3 for each £1 pref. share,
including the new. Ordinaries are likely to
get nice returns so long as the motor boom
lasts, but the public is interested only in the
prets.. and they don’t move past the 9 n c
*** # 1
The Wellington Trust, Loan and In-
vestment Co. (Wellington, M.L.)
inTf Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1915 ..£12,020 9 p.c.= £ 11,250 £770 £69,723
IQI- " HU*. " ” I1 ’“ 50 1163 70,886
1018 " » 9 ’ 375 70,886
• • 9,434 ,i ~ „ 9,375 59 70,945
ioon " 7 |» ” 9 > 375 1007 71,952
io.L° " l i' 3 -° 7 -l” ” 9 - 375 1985 73,937
1921 .. B,Oil Cl,, ~ 8,125 73 883
\ll\ ■■ *- 93 2 «:: 8,125 _ ?i;?SS
1-923 .. 11,027 61 „ „ 8,125 | „
Written off property, £2168 \ 74,523
1924 .. 1 1.402 71 p.e.= 9,375 2027 76,550
1925 . . 12,006 71 „ ~ 9,375 2631 79,181
In past 10 years shareholders have aver-
aged 7i p.c. divs., while less was added to
reserves than would have paid another
p.c. So the borrowing-to-lend business hasn't
been particularly profitable in the recent
experience of this co., which has the advan-
tage of doing things in a fairly big way:—
1904. 1914. 1923. 1925.
Capital and
reserves . . £136,791 £199,578 £203,898 £204,181
Liabilities . . 287,585 359,788 3C8,289 343,555
Mortgages, etc. 409,335 524,621 483,849 484 479
Freeholds .. 3,500 12,923 12,460 10,960
Interest owing 5,479 7,337 7,378 6,857
Liquid assets. . 6,360 14,483 41,567 52,998
At the close of the accounts advances showed
a net increase of £12,820. Less interest was
paid out for the 12 months: perhaps some
deposits replaced at lower rates, or a parcel
obtained towards the close of the year. Exes,
were heavier:—
1913. 1918. 1924. 1925.
Income .. .. £28,602 £33,702 £32,632 £33,*069
Interest on deposits,
etc 13,494 16,333 16,423 15,894
Management, etc... 2,086 2,159 2,364 2,573
Taxes .. .. 849 5,616 2,343 2,596
Profits are so narrow—the £12,006 is' not
equal to 6 p.c. on total shareholders’ funds —
that any increase in expenditure needs to
he jumped on with both feet. In view of
the general prosperity, last year’s earnings
should have been above the average. Troub-
lous possibilities in these cases are that
creditors might want their deposits at the most
awkward time. Whether the co.’s half-
century of experience has allowed it to so
order its affairs that no great proportion of
its funds is held on short terms or matures
simultaneously is not indicated. At Decem-
ber 31 there were liquid assets amounting
to £;>2,998 and £6857 of interest accrued,
which, deducting sundry creditors and the
final div.. left £288,700 of deposits to be re-
presented by mortgage, and premises with a
book value of £484.478 and £10.960 respec-
tively. Less than 60 p.c. of their book value
would have to be obtained 011 mortgages to
insure depositors getting their money. While
that seems safe enough, land in M.L. has been
boomed even more than in Australia, and in
periods of slump mortgages are not the most
popular of securities.
* * * *
Rotiiwell’s, Ltd., outfitters (Brisbane) :
Net To
Jan., Profit, Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1916.. £4359 8 p.c. =£3200 ) „ iro
Written off, £lOOO j £159 £13,172
Loss.
1917.. 344 Prefs. 350 12,478
1918.. 4415 8 p.c. = 3200 1215 13,693
1919.. 4182 8 ~ „ 3200 982 14,675
1920.. 5302 8 ~ ~ 3200 2102 16,777
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO 6,777
1921.. 6261 S p.c. = 3983 2278 9,055
1922.. 1978 6 „ „ 3650 7,383
1923.. 4230 6 „ „ 3650 580 7,963
Loss.
1924.. 2927 Nil 5,036
Profit.
1925.. 3207 * 2650 557 5,593
All shares.
1926.. 5160 7 p.c. = 4200 960 6,553
* 7 p.c. on Ist prefs. (accrued and current) ;
6 p.c. on 2nd prefs. ; 3 p.c. on ords.
Nothing to cheer about, but a gratifying
change nevertheless. Not only was net profit


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
‘The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’*
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane. — Advt.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
As an economical aid to development, Pioneer
SVood Pipe is undoubtedly playing an important part
in providing satisfactory conduit facilities, not only
n our Metropolitan districts, but in many more or
ess isolated regions all over Australia. Its extreme
lightness allows of easy transportation over rough
country as well as simplifying installation. No
special tackle is required and no costly caulking or
riveting necessary. The first cost is low, and a
long life of usefulness is assured. A free booklet
profusely illustrated and full of interesting data
may be obtained from The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footseray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
In many country districts it has often been a
problem how to provide lighting that w'll be bright,
cheerful and reliable, yet not harsh or injurious
to the eyes. Wizard Lighting Systems have proved
a solution, for they produce an illumination closely
resembling natural daylight. They are also clean,
safe, most economical to run, and offer a further
boon to the weary housewife in a cooking-stove
or gas-ring that can be connected if desired. Made
in Australia for oui own special climatic conditions,
it is well to be sure of the genuine by writing
direct to the Sole Manufacturers, Wizard Lighting
Systems, 283 George Street, opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* Jr * *
Inventors. —Have you <in idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers, hundreds of satisfied users. Concrete Placing
Plant,’Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrum Garbage Destructors, “Leplastrier”
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers, “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Ptv., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane; 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Cojlins
House Melbourne; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L,.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a mail’s wealth accumulates he
should assist Ills executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(Slate or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
YO
B O ORRIS OK
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
raft
DT
Swift & Company Ltd..
Australasian A treats. 26 BO Clarenre St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office : Dalton Howe, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
-fhe Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Fosses from lire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
' VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 118 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
TO - i ' G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman.
rtp second best recorded for a long time,
but £l9OO was paid off the mortgage, book
debts were pulled in, and stocks reduced by
£5OOO-odd, though there is nothing necessarily
cheerful about the reduction of either book
debts or stocks. Rents and gross profit (aft
provision for bad debts and depreciation)
were £24,240 compared with £19,964 in the
previous year, and expenses were not much
heavier. Here is a comparison of balance-
sheet figures m4 MaB . 1926 .
Capital • • £40,000 £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
83SU-:: I SSB 138 K 8 538
:: 138 1:?fi tgS *|3«
:: 2 !:iS ‘SB ‘SB
In 1925 the directors said that the offices
were then bringing in £3BOO p.a., and that
“as more of the offices are let a better ie-
turn may be anticipated.” The latest report
tells that “a fair proportion of the offices
has been continually occupied, and such
portion of the Ann-street premises as is not
required for the working of the co. has been
fully occupied during the year. Consider-
ing that £3BOO p.a. was coming in a year
ago and more space has been let, it loots
as though the softgoods business had not
to provide much of the £4200 for divs. Roth-
wells has a splendid position, and now that
the remodelling of the building and the re-
organisation of departments have been com-
pleted it should show decided improvement.
If it doesn’t, it will be a fair thing to con-
clude that the reorganisation has not been all
it ought to be.
* * * *
“O.B.”: The Australian Institute of Min-
ing and Metallurgy seems to have suddenly
interested itself in mine reports and how
they should be drafted. It is time some-
thing was done to put a stop to the mis-
leading widths, values, etc., broadcasted. m
Australia. Years ago J. H. Curie, travelling
mining expert and breezy writer, gave a
sample of what the speculative public Ims
to put up with. At a shareholders’ meeting
the chairman of this particular show said:
“Our manager reports: ‘Have driven J4ft.
The reef is well defined and assays taken
every sft. have shown 38dwt. and 46dwt.’ On
such values we may look forward to immense
profits in the future.” But the manager,
who was in league with the chairman, care-
fully omitted to give all the assays. These,
even with the two high ones specially picked
out, averaged only a few dwt. Continuing
the report said: “Have cut the reef at a
deeper level.” But again the manager
omitted to state that the width was only sin.,
which showed it to be practically valueless.
The mining ton ought to weigh 20001 b. and
not 22401 b. The latter of course yields more
bullion or metal than a ton of 20001 b. and,
as Curie points out, for this reason mine
directors with one eye on the share market
think to impress the public with the higher
value of contents. Another reform badly
needed and which should be made compul-
sory is the publication of the money value of
mine returns, and not a yield of so many
“ounces.” In America if the word ounce
is used it is understood to mean an ounce
of pure stuff.
* * * •
Driven into a corner by complaining tax-
payers and newspaper criticism, E. A. Black,
taxation boss in the West, has lately been
laying down the law in respect to mining
taxation. Black’s critics, declared that lie
was taxing people he didn’t ought to. Black
warmly replied that under the Federal Act a
bona fide mining prospector was absolutely
exempt from taxation, and his backers., if
any, were similarly exempt until sufficient
profits had been earned to cover the total
capital outlay. He added that under the
State Act a bona fide i prospector acquiring
or disposing of a mining tenement was not
taxable on the profit made from the sale of
such property. Only the man or the syndi-
cate that made a business of such sales and
did all the squealing when asked to pay up
was liable to taxation. This is a fact of
importance which Black desires bona fide
prospectors who are exempt, and persons
or syndicates who are not, to note.
* * * *
At irregular intervals someone comes for-
ward with a scheme to handle the millions
of tons of pug known to exist on. the
Kanowna field (W.A.). One such claimant
appeared in Sydney recently, and Blatchford,
assistant State mining-engineer of W.A.,
was asked for some facts. He gave them,
with this succinct comment: “I do not think
you could make a payable proposition of
mining pug if your treatment costs were
nil and your extraction 100 p.c.”
* * * *
According to London reports North White
Feather (W.A.) lias a robust faith in its
future. It bases its optimism on the ground
that other mines in the district are displaying
improvement, and that the local inspector of
mi.nes is hopeful. A report by an indepen-
dent engineer would. The Bulletin thinks,
tend to sober the co.’s ideas of prospects and
values. The co. may go on winning a little
gold, but on present appearances that will
be its limit. The chance of shareholders ever
benefiting seems hopeless.
Westralia is elated tjy the London Daily
MATT, announcement that the new Consolid-
ated Goldfields, the operating co. controlled
by the Consolidated Goldfields of South
Africa, has taken an interest m Wiluna Lold
Corporation. This is said to be the Con-
solidated co.’s first venture m Westralia, and
because it is one of the most important min-
ing corporations in the world its advent as
an investor is hailed with delight. Consolid-
ated’s interests are vast and world-wide. J.
A. Agnew, formerly Bewick, Moremg and
Co.’s boss in the West, is its managing
director, aiid it is probably on his advice t_at
the co. has come into Wiluna.
*** . *
Braeside silver-lead field (W.A.), in which
Sydney is interested, is again in the lime-
light. ’ This time indications are declared to
be on the up-grade, and the employment of
a large number of miners in the near future
is predicted. Bagged galena is now being
transported by motor-truck and rail to Port.
Hedland for smelting abroad; but there is
some talk of partial treatment on the spot
later on. The co. has a big area of lead-
bearing country, the metal is a fine price,
and Government experts think well of the
show.
* * *
Good old Kanowna Red Hill (W.A.) sur-
prised its Victorian admirers by sending 2124
tons to the mill during its last six months
campaign. The yield of 19950 z. was not as
good an average as that of some former
crushings, nor was a late crushing of 816
tons, which gave 5920 z. Still a sixpenny
div. went out, and there is nearly £3500 m
hand to keep the mine going till another
patch is cut. Doyle’s shoot of stone has
duffered for the present, but manager James
hopes for other patches. His main standby
is the Melba run of stone. It is not an easy
job to convert such a baffling formation into
a payable proposition. With a little en-
couragement a new shaft would go down to
simplify working. The first thing, though,
is to make sure that the shoots of gold deserve
the expense.
* * * *
Empire Extended, one of the Adelaide
“gold” cos. which perennially resuscitate
themselves and have a fly at a new idea, has
acquired some mica leases in the Macdon-
nell Ranges (N.T.). The area is 60 miles
easterly from Arltunga. Four prospectors
are testing the show, the wherewithal being
provided in the usual Adelaide fashion by
revivifying a large parcel of forfeited paper.
The Extended placed 80,750 forfeited shares
at 6d., and announces that it has adequate
funds to prove whether its latest dip is
trumps or a du<k # #
Having had rain, Golden Lily is at last
opening its petals. Concurrently Melbourne
bears are having a preliminary squeeze, and
those who sold at 10s. absolute delivery about
now are hunting for scrip at 305., with
darned little about. The battery was got up
during the dry spell. Without water it
stood as an ornament, but creeks are flowing
now, and the 1000 tons at the surface will
give the preliminary flutter. Development
work went on while the rain held off. No-
thing much has been opened up in the middle
reef rise from the bottom tunnel, but the
south level has followed up a foot to sft. of
stone, some of it good grade and a lot other-
wise. The leading stope, 60ft. long off the
crosscut, is on quartz from Ift. to 4ft. thick
classed as good grade, which in mountain
parlance sometimes means much, sometimes
less. The battery is the test. The bottom
tunnel is now in 1900 ft. from the entrance.
At 1800 ft. in, 10ft. of spurry formation
showed up; but whether this is the long-
expected eastern reef or a little stranger
has to be proved. The very latest is that
water is coming from the face, so hearts are
beating high that a further reason for a tight
squeeze by the bears is provided.
* * * *
“Iv.’s” unkind comments: —
The belated outburst of Waite*.- Marks in the
Federal House on a “diabolical attempt to ruin
Queensland oilfields” (the matter was the subject
of a Wild Cat par. months ago) hints at Standard
Oil in the background. There are two outstanding
implications in these charges:—(l) That there has
been a reversion to the nineteenth-century oil-piracy
methods (a not uncommon feature of the early rivalry
among oil pioneers in the States), instead of the more
modern “velvet-glove” diplomacy of enormously
wealthy groups anxious and willing to exploit any
likely new oil territory, no matter in what part of
the world such is discovered. (2) The suggestion
of a field being wrecked before it is actually a
proven oil region. As a matter of fact, Standard
Oil shares with other powerful and independent
American cos. and two British or Anglo-Dutcfi cos.
this country’s oil market, which, as oil markets go,
is tidy, but nothing extraordinary. In order to cope
with the discovery and exploitation of possible new
oilfields here, each organisation has the necessary
machinery and finance to immediately buy in or
indirectly acquire all the interests it might want
following such a discovery. To date nothing has
happened to justify any step in that direction,
although a home and export trade with local oil-
fields should be more profitable to the oil interests
than an importing business which will always be
the subject of a tariff. Queensland appears to be
the only place (and always in the one district)
where piracy has been attempted, although serious oil-
boring has been conducted from as far south as Nelson
(Victoria) to the Kimberleys (W.A.), and in regions
where the possibilities have been as favorable as
at Roma or Orallo. The appointment of a Royal
Commission to investigate the matter would not only
be an insult to the intelligence of American oil in-
terests, but emphasise the lamentable ignorance on
oil matters possessed by our Federal politicians,
* * * *
The working survey of Mt. Isa railway is
making good progress at the Duchess end, and
construction starts in May on a small scale.
Minister La r com be vouches for a big vote for
the next financial year, starting in July, and
says the work will then be vigorously pushed
on. The IJt. Isa costeen on the Black Star
lode through the Starlight lease shows a
width of nearly 250 ft. of mineralised lode.
In this there is nothing less than 1.9 p.c.
lead, and there is one 30ft. stretch that pans
out at 12.6 p.c. lead, 40ft. at 5.7 p.c. and
25ft. at 6.4 p.c. Leaving out 55ft. on one
wall with low values, there is 200 ft. averag-
ing 5 p.c. lead —quite a decent little open-cut
proposition at present prices, with small
silver values thrown in.
* * * *
The Minnie Moxham, near Mareeba (N.Q.),
a mine that has crashed several times in
recent years, has been invaded on the 130 ft.
level by a syndicate after being idle for 18
months. The level is showing from 6in. to
2ft. 6in. of stone, averaging 15dwt. to an oz.
It doesn’t look as if there will be much for
divs. unless a new shoot of ore is struck.
The immediate object is to get out a 200-ton
parcel to provide funds for opening up on
a bigger scale.
* * * *
“Gouger” gives the lay of the land: —
Gold fanciers need not hurry to the latest gold
find behind China Camp in the Daintree country
(N.Q.). My mates and I before the war got a few
ounces of alluvial and several ounces of specimen
gold denuded from reefs that may have been washed
into the sea a million years ago. We found some
giant reefs, but they did not carry gold. Bob
Dowell, who recently brought to Cooktown eight
ounces of coarse alluvial, has found a reef carrying
values. But work is necessary to prove its worth.
And work in that locality isn’t easy; the country
is a jumble of great mountains mostly covered by
dense * tropical scrub. Everything is hidden under
a two-foot carpet of decayed vegetation. Should
the find warrant a rush, the nature of the country
is such that those who come later will have almost
as good a chance of locating pay dirt as those
who get there fiist. There is no wages work in
the district for stranded men. The locality is about
90 miles south of Cooktown, which is the best start-
out port.
* * * *
Sutherland Lode, Kiandra (N.S.W.), is
in a state of suspended animation. The pros-
pector and vendor, J. S. Sutherland, is on
the Otranto, bound with the
intention of “getting fresh capital” to exploit
the lease. His mission would be more im-
pressive if he could show London something
more glittering than water at the bottom of
a 115 ft. shaft. Kiandra was all right for a
couple of years in the early ’sixties, when
about 150.0000 z. of alluvial were dug out
before the pioneers found the mercury keep-
ing too low, and retired. Although Sutlisr-
land at one stage looked to have a rough
chance as the reefing pioneer of the place, a
weakly capitalised little co. seems to have
got up on the wrong leg and remained so.
The best of having two strings to a min-
ing bow is shown by the Ban Na San syndi-
cate. Having been blown out over its Sungei
Way (Malayan) option by A. H. Flower-
dew’s report, it now can turn to the Ban-
neowdam Valley for fresh fields to conquer.
There the co. has its feet on 152 acres of
41ft. ground, where 29 bores have sampled
over lib. of oxide to the yard. The wash
is deep and in a valley; and the question
is how far boulders and timber may hit up
costs. The co. would have had the Ban Na
San floated had not the second sampling by
W. F. McKenzie gone higher than the
original bores of W. J. L. Smith, so they
called in Flowerdew from the Kuala Bum-
pur ■ he got only 71oz. to the cubic yaid,
and in addition testified that the wash was
patchy. However, the sponge is not to be
thrown in. The ground is free dredging and
tin is there. So if a free option is forth-
coming for still another examination it will
be made.
* * * *
Ivampar River (F.M.S.) will decide at its
annual meeting whether the co. will fight in
court to enforce the completion of its sale, or
retreat and try again. The first balance-
sheet at June 30 has made a belated appear-
ance. Capital is £120,000 in £1 shares In
the situation in which the co. finds itsell
many of the assets are of doubtful value.
concessions at cost are in at £67.150 pre-
lim exes £2509, development £33o<. More
tangible ’items are deposit at call £5007;
cash £1054 ; book debts, £164. The dredge
is in at £40,000, but its true value is governed
bv circumstances. Creditors amount to
£1792. The actual money put up was
£72000 for the co. carried 48,000 vendors
shares.’ Offers to sell at 12s. meet no re-
sponse on ’Change these days, although m
the earlier history of the co. a small pre-
mium was available.
Timor Petroleum Co. lias despatched field-
geologist L. L. Wrathall and staff, along with
another 50 tons of machinery, direct to Dilly
in Timor. The co. has also secured the plant
of the Boola Boola Co., Traralgon (Vic.),
which is being dismantled for shipment. The
first bore will be drilled on the Mete Hon
concession, and the present 570 ft. hole will
be deepened. The emergency plant from
Boola Boola will, on arrival, be erected on
a site to be chosen by Wrathall.
» * * *
Shareholders in the Kawarau (MX.)
mining gamble are not feeling too bright.
The dam has still a yawning, uncompleted
gap and the final stage is now listed for
June. This will allow only a few weeks in
which to prospect under favorable conditions.
Meantime the parent concern, whose shares
have slumped from 265. to 65., is busy making
further demands on its children. The first
contribution mentioned was £450 per claim;
it now threatens to jump beyond £7OO. The
dam, estimated to cost something like
£40,000, will probably cost £BO,OOO or more.
And looming in the gloomy distance is a
possible further expenditure for damming
the Shotover, which some experts consider
imperative before the Kawarau proposition
will be workable.


GETTING READY FOR THE BIG SHOW.


The Stalest tobacco
grown!
h
You’ll find it in —
0,0
Y&
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO LTD
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Percy Pawnticket”: Two grandchildren
were the good fairies at a recent. Sydney wed-
ding which reunited a couple divorced for a
quarter of a century. The story touches a
biological problem. The ’groom was a red-
headed young man with temperament to
match, and. having married a fair girl, his
darkest suspicions were aroused when the off-
spring showed distinct brunette tendencies.
He didn’t keep the suspicions to himself
either; and the resulting estrangement cul-
minated in the grossly-maligned wife getting
a divorce from the husband who had east
a slur on herself and her daughter, and fol-
lowed it by desertion and misconduct. An
accidental meeting, following his interest in
the sport of two youngsters, recently led the
man to the knowledge that the woman to
whom he was talking had been the infant
he had disowned years ago—a stately
HE HAD NO USE FOR IT.
"I mustn't be out late, John —I do so want to retain my complexion.”
“That last chap you danced with didn’t —I saw him brushing it
off his sleeve.”
brunette she was, while the children were both
decidedly red headed. The meeting brought
a sudden revelation of the, tricks Nature
sometimes plays, and of the falsity of the sus-
picions which had sundered him from his
wife, at whose feet he hastened to lay his
penitence. She had not re-married, and con-
sented to forgive him, though it was assuredly
more than Hothead deserved.
* * * *
“Riwaka”: Add this to the pars, about
twins that have passed for one another. A
family settled in a Vie. up-country town.
The only children were twin daughters, about
19; good-looking and alike. They made a
point of dressing the same to the smallest
visible detail. Nice young men were scarce
in that town, but one twin soon annexed a
bank clerk, and he became her devoted atten-
dant. That is, he and everyone outside the
family thought he was. In reality he escorted
an alternate twin to the bi-weekly pictures
and any dances he could afford. Each sister
kept the other posted on the events of her
turn. It was a great joke for the girls at
first, but one of them became fond of the
youth, and jealousy prompted her to confess
the trick. The result wasn’t quite what she d
expected: fear of ridicule, or alarm at what
might happen after marriage to one ot such
an evenly-matched pair, caused the youth to
flee to a distant part of Australia. lhe
twins ceased to dress alike after that.
* * * *
“Hobnobster”: I am wondering if Sliak-
speare’s curse, directed at disturbers of dead
persons’ remains, is still in working order.
My grandmother was originally buried m
the Devonshire-street (Sydney) Cemetery,
whence her bones were presently removed to
make way for O’Sullivan’s new Central Rail-
way Station. They were re-interred at the
Lewisham Catholic Cemetery, and now they
have to be shifted to Rookwood to make
room for the electrification of the main subur-
ban line and the new playground for the
Marist Brothers’ School. Three burials for
one person seem a bit over the odds.
* * * *
“Nikko”: Sufficient material for a really
sensational film that might be starred as
"The Mislaid Wife” was provided in our
suburb the other week. As a delectable young
typiste was proceeding home in the dusk
she heard a sound of hard breathing and
padding feet behind her, and prudently
broke into a run, despite a hoarse an-
nouncement from the rear that it was her
long-lost husband pursuing her. She jflst
managed to evade the clutching hand as she
clicked her own gate. Next day a girl—
not the same girl gazing into the
local draper’s window was seized by
a bleary individual, who insisted that
she was the consort who had des'erted
him after a little quarrel six years ago; and
liis sulphurous remarks when she declined
to kiss and make it up caused a crowd to
collect. The third “wife” was the missus
of a local church dignitary returning home
from a mothers’ meeting in the Parish Hall;
it took a large contingent of mothers to
defend the lady from the attentions of the
gentleman, who insisted that he had lost
track of her soon after the war. Then the
police took a hand, and elicited that the
disturber of the peace had six years ago
mislaid his wife in or about the village, and,
although in the interim he had been mostly
too busy to bother about her, when he did
take up the chase he tried to do it thoroughly.
“Verri” : A reputable citizen of Auckland
(M.L.) was pursuing his midnight way
homeward when he became aware of tw T o meu
on the corner en-
gag e d in what
looked like deadly
combat. Being an
athletic individual
with a keen sense
of public duty, he
remarked severely:
“Now, you fellows,
this is uo time to
be fighting in the
street. Get away
home, both of
you!” And hurl-
ing himself into the
fray he forcibly
separated the pair.
The alacrity with
which one of the
combatants de-
parted surprised
the intervener, but
it was as nothing
to the amazement
with which he list-
ened to a fiery ora-
tion from the other,
who revealed him-
self as the local
constable, baulked
in his splendid pur-
pose of arresting a
man caught red-
handed in the act
of burglarising an
adjacent store. An
intimation that he
was liable to arrest for obstructing the police
in the execution of their duty sent the well-
meaning citizen onward in a chastened mood.
“Wang” : Old Baggs, down in the city on
business, bumped against a friend of other
days in Dobb. “And-how are things?” Dobb
asked after the customary greetings. Baggs
claw T ed his whiskers and sighed dolefully.
“Rotten, abserlootely rotten. Bill's cleared oh
ter Tassy fer a holiday, Joe’s got th’ mumps
or somethin’, young Sam’s chasin’ after that
new- school-teachin’ girl we’ve got up, our
way, Mary’s just been married, and Sairey’s
gettin’ hitched up, too, in a fortnight’s time.”
Dobb looked at the disgruntled one, “Well,
I dunno,” be said —“your crowd seems to be
doing all right, except Joe, and he’ll be good-0
again soon enough. Taking it all round, y
orter look pleased.” “Pleased!’’ Baggs
growled. “Here’s a cow T o’ mine just won
th’ butter test for our district, an’ not one
•of ’em tapin', the slightest interest in R!”
“Selma”: Our maid, Selina, retired to have
a bath the other day. As she is subject to
fainting-fits, we always keep guard auricu-
larly from outside, and on this occasion our
worst anticipations seemed to have been
realised. There was no sound of w r ater run-
THE END IN VIEW.
“What a terrible hat fella's wearing!”
“But what lovely ankles!”
ning, no splashing, no “Don't Bring Bulu”
(Selina’s favorite bath-song), and no re-
sponse to our calls, our yells through the
keyhole, our kicks at the door. Something
had to be done, and, the grocer just then
arriving, he seemed the instrument sent by
Providence to do it. Could he climb up the
water-pipe and ascertain the fate of Selina?
The grocer, an obliging man, mounted the
water-pipe with simian dexterity, and thrust
his head through the upper portion of the
bathroom window. There was a short and
fierce altercation, mainly on Selina’s part,
and the grocer slid down and tied without
waiting for the weekly order. When Selina
emerged, swathed in towelling and dignity,
it was much too near Easter to let her know
that we’d had anything to do with the
exploit.
“Bill Bowyang”: l met one Gyppo with
second sight. In Palestine; on the eve of the
advance of the Cameliers towards Rafa, I
was detailed by Lieut. Linford to remain be-
hind and guard a mob of sick camels. Lin-
ford, who had bossed natives in South Africa
before coming to Australia to enlist in the
A.1.F., was a favorite with the Gyppo trans-
port-drivers attached to our unit. About 11
a.m. the following day Suleman, one of the
natives, approached me crying like a child ;
he said that Linford had just been killed at
Rafa (40 miles away )._ I pressed him for
further particulars. “He has just been shot
in the head with a machine-gun bullet,” con-
tinued Suleman. When the Cameliers re-
turned from the Rafa battlefield the following
afternoon the first man I met described Lin-
ford's death in almost exactly the same
words.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The Black Horse
Hotel, Richmond, where the motor-car bandit
La Court was shot by the police, is the oldest
licensed house in Australia, dating back to
1819. It used to be a favorite resort of Sydney
honeymooning couples; the bridal chamber is
still preserved. One licensee, Mrs. H. F.
Seymour, kept a special record of the names
of the newly-weds whom the Black Horse had
sheltered; they included Captain Addison,
who married the daughter of Darcy Went-
worth ; Charles Appleton, who linked up with
Miss Petty, of Petty’s Hotel; Captain Somer-
set, who became the son-in-law of Sir Maurice
O’Connell; Frederick Ford, rvhojjiated with
Clarissa, daughter of David Jones( and
Charles Cofvper, whose bride was Miss Leth-
bridge grand-daughter of Governor King. At
the same pub Henry Parkes spent one of his
three honeymoons. , Paul Randall w r as the
holder of the original license, but it was
carried on by members of the Sly family for
50 years.
* * * *
“Julian”,: Speaking of determined suicides.
I had just come off shift, and was lying on
my bed at a Kalgoorlie boarding-house wiien
I heard the housemaid showing a stranger
into the next room. He said he had just
arrived by the mulga express, and would
want no tea, and could she lend him a sharp
knife? She couldn’t, so he poked his head
round my door and I obliged him with a
rusty old blade that
I used for scraping
the mud off my
bike-wheels. When
I returned after tea
I could hear him
moving about, and
soon afterwards he
came out of his
room and wanted to
know what time the
shops closed. He
had a handkerchief
tied ronn d his
throat. He was
away about half an
hour, returned with
some parcels and
locked himself in
again. Later on he
made another trip,
and when I was
just getting to sleep
he returned with
some more bundles.
Just before daylight
next morning I was
wakened by a ter-
rific explosion ; fol-
lowing the smoke,
we burst his door
open and found him
with the top of his
head blown off. He
had first tried the
blunt knife, as the
marks on what re-
mained of his neck
showed. His first
purchase in Ilan-
nan-street had been
a six-chambered re-
volver, but some-
body had sold him
pin-fire cartridges
for a “centrai”-
loading weapon.
Baffled twice, ho
had gone out and bought a coil of fuse, a
packet of gelignite and a box of detonators.
The explosion had shattered the wall and
blown a young couple out of bed in the
third room.
* * * *
“0. Bumpkin”: Although the recent tra-
gedy at Brighton (S.A.) is the first instance
of a shark killing a human being in these
waters, it is not the first time, one of the
monsters has tried to find a victim in St.
Vincent’s Gulf. Judge Boucaut. one of the
Croweating State’s earliest yachtsmen, was
being rowed ashore in his dinghy at Black
Point, on tlio opposide side of the gulf, when
he was knocked to the bottom of the cockle-
shell by a terrific blow from behind. The
man pulling caught a flying glimpse of a
huge tail whisking through the air, and when
ZE ACCOMMODATING LOT AIDE.
“Ah, Chiriec, you are ze twin soul of your
so-devote admirer.”
“Nonsense, you said the same thing an hour
ago to Ethel.”
“Alt, well, ze triplet.”
the transom of the dinghy was examined big
tooth-marks were found about on a level
with the judge’s 19th vertebra. A yacht’s
dinghy, when well loaded, is no more than
a swimming saucer, so the sea bandit’s opti-
mism with regard to a prospective breakfast
was not altogether unjustified,
(Continued on page 19.)
THE FLAPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETING]
Your spirit poised like an ecstatic bird
Feeling the pow’r of flight within its wing,
You hear romance in every whispered word,
And all the days their flowers of fancy bring
To tell of gardens where enchantment lies
And wake the eager wonder in your eyes.
The crudeness of your youth is more proclaimed
In the enfranchisement of modern days.
You blunder blatantly, but unashamed;
Yet in your being spring-time is ablaze,
And who but loves, when Nature’s voices sing,
The very crudeness of flamboyant Spring?
So rich are you in hot, exulting youth,
So splendid in the impulse to enjoy
The feasts that life can offer, that in truth
No blemishes your beauty can destroy.
I give you thanks that, in my heart, your fire
Lights memories of passionate desire!
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


THE BARROW-PUSHERS.
"The report of Sir Frank Heath, the British specilist in industrial science, ur ges the Federal Government to spend at least £100,000 on the Institute of Science and Industry, formed six years ago, and consistently starved ever since."
THE BOYS IN THE KNOW: "No good holdin' your hands out, sonny-you want to push a barrow to do any good here!”


PfSSSLI!
j ty ,nj ' i
ananbn
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
ĥ
SARTO
The Health Beverage
Sarto is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root prepared in accord-
ance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
Do not be put oft by taking cheap imi-
tation drinks which the vendor tells
you are just as good as Sarto.
There is only one SARTO, that is
Sarto e.s manufactured and bottled by
Schweppes Ltd. from their original
recipe containing the medicinal British
Pharmacopoeia Sarsaparilla.
“Pop”: How’s this for thie “long arm ?
I have three daughters in a shop in Mel-
bourne. The youngest, a beginner, served
a well-dressed customer with a packet of
gum. The purchaser tendered a lOs.-note,
and was handed 9s. 6d. change. Thereupon
he found he had sixpence, and paid it; then,
shoving note and silver across the counter,
he asked her for a pound-note instead. It
was the old “ringing the change” trick, and it
scored another victim. Of course the sisters
talked about it, and gave one another a com-
plete description of the man ; and when lie
decided to work the trick again a couple of
months later it was his rotten luck to go to
the eldest of the three. She coolly allowed the
whole business to go on till the man’s half-
note and the shopkeeper’s 10s. were on the
counter. Then she brushed it all up, smiled
sweetly, and said: “That’s quite right: I am
keeping the lot to make up for the 10s. you
THE RULING PASSION.
THE DOCTOR: “Well, young lady, what do you imagine
is the matter with you now?”
THE INVALID : “I’m not sure, doctor. Is there anything
quite new?”
beat my sister for on such and such a date.
The rook was of course indignant and
threatened to call the police, and was assured
that that would suit nicely. He didn t wait
for any more.
* * * *
“Murkah”: I wonder who first called
Sydney Harbor beautifud? The first white
man that saw it, I suppose. But the first
public utterance on the subject that I have
been able to trace is thatf of James M. Bee-
croft. Standing on Pinchgut with a rope
round his neck early on the morning of
March 25, 1794. he loojked about him and
said, “It certainly is a beautiful harbor.” It
was his last remark on earth.
* * * *
“Mephisto”: I have a friend who still
clings to some of the oj'd traditions. Thus
when dining at a restaurant he always leaves
a silver coin under his plate for the waitress.
His young son showed a natural curiosity
about tine financial operation, and Dad ex-
plained that it was a reward for the poor,
hard-worked girl. When they got outside
the youngster discovered that he had left ins
ROMANCE.
THE HERO: “It’s wonderful to behold, isn’t it, dear?”
SWEET YOUNG THING : “Yes, but it’s more wonderful to be held.”
hat behind. lie returned and collected it—
something else, too. But presently the for-
gotten hat became too much of a habit, and
suspicion led to discovery. The lad suffered,
but I have an idea there is a future for him
as a financier.
“Country Ped”: Is this universally true?
My experience as a schoolteacher has con-
vinced me that children of parents who mar-
ried rather late in life are poor at games
when at school, and grow up with a taste
that has to be forced for sport of any kind,
iAs an offset the mental capacity of such
children never drops below normal, and is
often • brilliant. The children of young-
marrying parents are, on the other hand,
adepts at all kinds of games and revel in
them. I am, of course, referring only to
children of healthy, normal fathers and
mothers.
“Wang”: A gang of work-
men employed by the Brigh-
ton (Vic.) Council was lately
cleaning out a large open
drain that flows for miles
through the municipality.
The hanks were covered with
a dense growth of swamp
couch-grass and other weeds
and swarmed with frogs. The
men stood in the bottom of
the drain, and chopped at the
over-hanging herbage with
mattocks. Every blow dis-
turbed frogs, and set them
wildly diving into the few
inches of water below. The
toilers stood the bombard-
ment for a while, although
one man was nearly blinded
by a big bull flopping into
his face. The climax came
when a small one, taking a
wild leap for life, plunged
into the open mouth of a
navvy who was in the
act of speaking to a
companion, and slithered
down his throat. A violent
struggle dislodged the visitor,
which hopped out and into the
water apparently unharmed.
After that a man was sent
along the banks with a stick
to dislodge the frogs before
the men started chopping the
grass.
“R.W.R.”: The recent death of H. ,T.
Moors, of Suva, recalls to me a day in 1921
when I stood in the main street of Guyra
(N.S.W.) and discussed the local ghost—
then working overtime —with several over-
wrought villagers. They were very proud
that the spook had selected Guyra for its
demonstrations, and a patriotic produce-
agent wanted to fight me when I suggested
that the stone-throwing and window-banging
might be traced to the local Billos and
Snowies. A train passed through, and a very
big man with a very small bag lumbered up
and asked eagerly for the latest ghost bul-
letins. He said he was a spook student,
hotfoot from Sydney, and diagnosed the dis-
turbances as a true manifestation of spiritual-
istic activity engineered by a racketing
spook with the German name of Poltergeist
that was always breaking through the veil
in different parts of the world. He reckoned
he would earn the 0.8. E. of spookdom if he
could put salt on the tail of the Guyra spirit.
I argued rather contemptuously with the
old gentleman, and he overwhelmed me with
bitter words, from which I gathered that he
was Moors, of Apia. I had read ‘With
Stevenson in Samoa,'’ and became more re-
spectful. Guyra, feverishly eager to com-
bine spook culture with potato production,
took him to its heart. I slunk away, and
ridiculed the ghost in a column of my paper.
Moors came at mo in the S. M. Herald, and
fiercely defended the apparition. Then the
unimaginative Commissioner Mitchell sent a
police-sergeant from Sydney, who bluntly
told the spook-ridden family that the liveli-
ness had better cease or someone would be
locked up; whereupon the ghost went per-
manently out of business. And now H. J.
Moors has gone personally, at the age ot
to solve the mysteries of spirit-land. He
was a genuine Pacific Islands survival of the
Louis Becke period, and played his part in
a score of romances and adventures ot 4>)
years ago. t
“Wooden Shoes”: “This ‘sabotage —what
is it?” was a naive question put by a Labor
member to the Federal Attorney-General.
The word is contained in the new Crimes
Act which counts among unlawful associa-
tion’s any body that advocates “the overthrow
of the Constitution by revolution or sabotage.
You find the seedling of the word m the
Hebrew “Sabbath.” The old Jewish people
observed the seventh day even more rigidly
than did the Scot his Sunday. It was for-
bidden to travel more than a mile on the
Sabbath day. So the slow-going Sabbath
and the clatter of the clumsy wooden shoe
was associated in the Gallic mind; and
the sabot, at one time the almost universal
footwear of the French peasant, became a
type of heavy movement and slow going.
No one attempted Olympic stunts in sabots.
From rabbinical law to the modern trade
union is a long stretch, but in time the sabot
has crossed the space—and is still going
slow. To saboter was to do your wmrk
roughly, carelessly and, above all, waste-
fully; and so sabotage has come to be defined
by English lexicographers as “scamped work,
the malicious waste or destruction of an em-
ployer’s property by his workmen during
labor troubles.”
* * * *
“Ibn El Issar” : I can assure “Fitzwilliam”
that if he had vforn white starched linen
next his skin (B. 25/3/’2G) in any malaria-
cursed country the odds against his living
to write its praises would have been pro-
hibitive. A chill inevitably follows on the
wearing of wet linen or cotton, and chili,
however slight, is the sure advance agent of
recurrent malaria. The first thing impressed
on newcomers is the wearing of woollen or
silk singlets as a protection for the malarial
liver. Far from being a fetich, the pre-
caution is endorsed by all tropical medical
authority. That is why men accustomed to
hard toil stick to the “flannel” at which
“Fitz” snorts. Not custom, but bitter ex-
perience has taught them that it is a safe-
guard against that sudden lowering of body-
temperature which opens the way to most of
the ills flesh is heir to.
* # * *
“Rix”: The cackling of geese is said to
have once saved Rome, and the raucous cry
of another watchful bird, the peacock, re-
cently frustrated a robbery at Kyneton
(Vic.). Shortly after midnight a household
was awakened by strident calls ; on seeking
tlie cause, it was found that the watchdog
had been poisoned, and that housebreakers
had attempted to force open one of. the win-
dows. The cry of a peacock is fairly shril*
at any time ; raised in the dead of night by
three of them, it evidently proved 100 much
for the nerves of the cracksmen.
* * * *
“0. Coral”: Landing at Murray Island
(Torres Strait) the other day, a couple of
white visitors were met by a native, naked
save for a lava-lava, carrying a hand-camera.
“Hullo! Where you been get that bokis for
make picture, eh? Some man he been give
you old one he finish?” The native brought
his machine up to full view. “Oh no. this is
a new one,” he remarked; “what jou call
a camera. I bought it in Thursday Island
last trip.” “But do you know what to do
with it—put medicine along him. and every-
thing like that?” “Yes. I develop the film
myself,” the cocoanut-scented youth drawled.
FREE AS AIR.
OLD LADY ( engaging new maid) : “And have
you any encumbrances, my dear?
NEW MAID: “Not an your life! No petti-
coats, no corsets, no long skirts, no long
hair, no glows, no hairpins, no”
“You see, I was working in Townsville four
years, and my employer there showed me
how to do it. Another boy has just bought
one, too!” These are the first cameras m the
islands, but X shan’t be surprised to find a
cinema turnout amongst the next importa-
tions of the one-time head-hunters.
KIPLING'S CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He had written and asked her to return to hi.n
hut she refused to have anything more to do
ivßh him saying that the idea of marital life was
ahw’toro'. and that, ‘like Kipling s cat,
she felt she must live alone.-Brisbane Divorce Cour.
C< No prayer she made, nor craved protection;
No clinging weakness clave to her.
She left. He noticed the defection,
And recognised the slur.
He wrote, an agony of pleading
That laid his heart beneath her feet.
No good. She just went on seceding—
As some would say, toot sweet.
This reason sole was hers for giving
(As one who firmly says ‘That’s that. )
Small joy she had except in living
Alone, “like Kipling’s cat.”
And then in sudden consternation
He knew, all puzzled and aghast,
How a neglected education
Bears bitter fruit at last.
Wild-eyed, and with a certain wonder
That to his pain no comfort brought,
Quite madly cleaving crowds asunder,
A library he sought.
And now ’tis said (or else invented)
That far afield, ’neath sun or moon,
He wanders with an air demented
Each morning, night and noon.
No violence is in his raving;
No ugly threats are his to say ;
Most mirthful in his mad behaving,
He chuckles on his way.
For some day on his eager stacking
He hones to see her, without fail,,
On her wild lone, through green woods walking,
Waving her wild, wild tail.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.
“H H.” • In a Sydney case which has just
resulted in a young man being sent to gaol
for the theft of a car, the police were assisted
with information given by the friends of a
girl who was in the car when the arrest was
made. The young man had come to a dance
in the car, and abducted the girl, who was
to have been married to another man. It
was mentioned, incidentally, that the
marriage had since taken place
Now Young Lochinvar has come out of the west;
Outside of the dance-hall his car is the best;
And never a gallant so dashing as he
Where the charge is two deeners, but ladies are free.
There are blokes who frown darkly to see the young
rip ;
Each feels for the bottle he bears at his hip;
But the girl whom he greets saw him come in a car.
“A jazz would be good-oh,” says young Lochinvar.
He has broken the rules of the social affair:
The bloke on whose ticket the sheila came there
Is raising his “push” for the purpose of war,
With intentions to wooden out young Lochinvar.
One word in her ear, and the get-away’s clean.
There’s a wild rush of men where the dancers have
been,
But —a foot on the clutch and a jeer for the mass
The car disappears in an odor of gas.
There’s a rush for the Hops and the ’phone’s working
hot;
No chance of the ending depicted by Scott,
For the Johns, who were warned of the theft of a
car, .
Have been put on the track, and have pinched
Lochinvar.
Such dashing exploits might be well enough once,
“But,” his mate, Bill, informs me, “loch’s in for
six monee;
And the diner he lifted so merry and gay
Has married the blighter who put ’im away.”


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Rath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
manager.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
For Over Two Hundred Years
a household word in sickness
and health*
Martell’s for Age and Quality
From the Cognac District
of France only .
LUiiifl
u
UJ
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
ufu
PATHEORAMA
7 r Rested 7s Films I 9 ea.
►
H[ome Kbcreations h
[ „ , „ 0 L
368 George St, Sydney.
(opp. Beard M'fcz/sort.'s)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
Some April birthdays :
Bishop Armstrong- (Wangaratta), 69, Walter J.
Young (Elder, Smith and Co.), 54, and Brig.-Gen.
A. Jobson, 51, on 2nd; Colonel Bourehier (Vic.),
40, on 4th; Archdeacon Boyce, 82, on 6th; Brig.-
Gen. Mackay, 44, and A. J. Roberts (Adel.), 63, on
'th; artist Arthur Streeton, 59, on Bth; ex-Prime
Minister Watson, 59, and Thos. Trumble (Sec. for
Defence), 54, on 9th; Prof. Priestley (Q.), 43, on
10th; poet Bernard O’Dowd, 60, on 11th; Dr. Billy
Maloney, M.H.R., 72, on 12th; Justice Douglas
(Q.), 43, on 13th; Prime Minister Bruce, 43, George
Brookman (S.A.), 76, and Alfred W. Meeks, M.L.C.
(Syd.), 77, on 15th; Lieut.-Gen. Chauvel, 1v.C.8.,
61, on 16th; Harry D. Gell (S.A.), 81, on 17tli;
Sydney’s first Gaud Mayor, Thos. Hughes, 63, and Dr.
MacFarland (Chancellor Melb. Uni.), 75, on 19th;
Prof. Laver (Melb.), 60, on 20th; Jas. Edmond, 67,
I\.A. Premier Philip Collier, 53, and engineer G.
H. Halligan, 70, on 21st; Clifford Hay (N.S.W.
Premier’s Deoartment), 48, Dr. C. B. Blackburn
(Syd.), 52, Federal Speaker Littleton Groom, 59,
and J. J. Virgo (Y.M.C.A.), 61, on 22nd; Arthur
Robinson (ex-Vic. Attorney-Gen.), 54, on 23rd: ex-
Spealter Alfred Cowley (Q.), 78, on 24th; Jas.
Davies (C.T.A.), 61, on 25th; W. J. Sowden (ex-
editor of Adel. Register), 68, R. W. M. Waddy (ex-
S. Aus. Deputy-P.M.G.), 78, former Senator J. G.
Drake, 76, and J. MacCallum Smith (AV.A.), 58, on
26th; G.-G. Stonehaven, 52, Prof. Agar (Melb.), 44,
Henry Y. Brad lon (Syd.), 63, and former W.A.’
Premier Mitchell, 60, on 27th; botanist John M.
Black (S.A.), ,1, on 28th; Richard Teece (formerly
A.M.P. sec.), 79, on 29th; Dr. H. V. Evatt (N.S.W.),
32, and W. L. S. Cooper (Clerk of the N.S.W. Par-
liaments), 61, on 30th.
The medical school at the Melbourne Uni.
will be the most abiding monument to the
memory of Harry Allen, who, after suffering
for two years, died last Saturday. His
achievement was a greater one than it looks
to-day, for his brilliant career as a Victorian
student—he was born at Geelong—won for
him appointments when the prevalent idea
was that higher-grade instructors had to be
imported. The reputation he established
for his medical school, of which he became
professor in 1882, when only 28 years of
age, and liis own great ability, enabled him
to secure general recognition for Melbourne
medical degrees when he visited Europe in
1890. lie was appointed demonstrator in
anatomy at the University and pathologist
at the Melbourne Hospital at the age of 22 :
and it is as a pathologist that his most im-
portant work was done. He was dean of
the faculty of medicine for 2S years, and
among a hundred other good services organ-
ised the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of
Research in Pathology and Medicine.
One qualification recommending Ned Ho-
gan, now deputy-leader, as successor to
Irendergast in the leadership of the Vic
Labor-Opposition is that he is a country
(\\ arrenheip) member and a successful
faimer. When Minister for Agriculture and
Railways in 1924 he showed tact, patience
and industry. The election of leader will
take place on April 14 or soon afterwards.
Tunnecliffe a metropolitan (Collingwood)
member, who was Chief Secretary under
I rendergast, may succeed Hogan as deputy-
leader if the latter be promoted.
„ 2 a X 'l'. B - Shand, who gets into the
‘A, v ßar ! iament in the place vacated by
r itzsimons, sbiin in a street accident
served under Professor David in the Austra-
lian Mining Company—the little lot who
were largely responsible for turning the Ger-
man trenches on the Messines ridge inside
out prior to the big advance on that sector.
• Af T Cr ™ V x r 00 years spent in the civil ser-
wn ’ • m Israe . ! 1S retirin S in his 76th year.
t hen lasmama entered the Federation.
Israel, who was then its Auditor-General,
nas snapped up, with several other Speck
efficients, by the Commonwealth powers, and
made the head of the Commonwealth Audit
liepartment. His yearly report has always
been illuminating, as he never attempted to
varnish unpalatable facts. That he has been
popular with his subordinates has been
shown on his birthday for several years
past, when his office has been turned into a
sort of glorified flower-shop.
. Vic. Treasurer Alex. Peacock, ivho is near-
ing bo, celebrated on March 28 the 37th
anniversary of his first return to the Assem-
bly. He has represented practically the same
pocket borough all the time, and lias been in
14 Ministries. In three Cabinets he was
leader.
Percival Johnston, who died last week at
Manly, in his 81st year, was a grandson of
tliat Laeut.-Colonel George Johnston who
nad the military command with the First
1 ieet and was Acting-Governor in 1808; his
father. Captain Robert Johnston, born in
Sydney in 1794, was the first Australian to
enter the British Navy; and the just-deceased
octogenanan looked after the financial side
of the first railway built in Maoriland. He
was also for a time private secretary to Ilori
patting occupied most of his
W e - J-' ie Annandale estate was the early
picking of the Johnston family, and it was
in Annandale House—lll years old when
it was demolished in 1905—that Percival was
born. There are two sons carrying on the
name.
George Wise, ex-P.M.G., who is just oil
‘At T as to the Vic. board of
A.JN.A. directors for the umpteenth time
last week. He was J. L. Purves’s lieutenant
when the late leader of the Melbourne Bar
was chief president in the late ’eighties, and
has since been continuously a member of the
executive.
°f Canadian hospital expert
McEachern to Christchurch (M.L.) brought
into the limelight, for a second or two one of
the most modest and biggest men in the
Shivery Isles—Dr. G. J. Blackmore. Black-
more, who arrived 15 years or so back to
run the big sanatorium for consumptives that
overlooks the city from the Cashmere Hills,
was in the Indian Medical Service and had
specialised in T.B. His record of cures
among the natives was said to be the best
achieved by any sanatorium director in the
world. In Christchurch, where the local
board has had the sense to give him his own
wa.y, he has bettered his Indian record.
McEachern declared after visiting the Cash-
mere institution that it was the best he had
seen m any country. Blackmore blushed.
He is that sort of man.
It s the little things in life that trip us
up. At present laid up in Auckland with a
broken leg, the re-
suit of a slip on a
half-inch of orurisre-
Pee 1, is Bobby
Leach, who once
made a spectacular
and successful slide
over Niagara in a
barrel.
Judge GEORGE
S. BEEBY, who
spends arduous
days in the N. S.
Wales Arbitration
Court, and finds
relaxation in
writing plays and
an occasional
short story for
THE BULLETIN.
Prendergast having decided to retire on
April 14 from the Vic. Labor leadership
because he is 72, Lands Minister Downward
remarks that, though he is seven years older,
lie stin feels tit. tie supposes, however, that
attention having been called to the age quest*
tion he, too, will have to consider easing off
a bit; but he does not propose to act im-
mediately. Downward first won Mornington
nearly 32 years ago.
Ann A\ atson, of Auckland, is a very frail
at I f d ?^T she com Pleted her century on
March 18 who saw Governor Hobson land
at Bay of Island 66 years ago; and she was
then quite an experienced colonist who had
been through the stormy times of the war
’.y' Hone Heke. The white women and
children at Whangaroa were crowded into a
block-house at first outbreak of hostili-
ties, but Mrs. Watson’s stepmother, Mrs.
Johnston, broke out and attempted to reach
her home to find food for her children. She
was captured by Maori warriors, who made
remarks which, however flattering, caused
hei keen anxiety. However, an interpreter
turned up and warned the Maoris that the
warships then in the harbor would blow them
and their pa to bits if anything happened to
the lady, and after discussing the matter at
a torero Mrs. Johnston’s captors gave her
the hand of friendship and let her go back to
her children, not emptyhanded. That is one
reason why Mrs. Watson, like most good
Maorilanders, has a soft spot in her heart
for Henare.
GIPSY SMITH, at present routing the
Devil at Melbourne Olympia.
Death has been busy amongst the hundred
and ten coach-driving veterans who met in
Melbourne nearly a year ago at a festival
arranged by the Motor Association. The
latest to drop out is Tom Coyle. Born at
Windsor (N.S.W.) SO years ago, Coyle was
only a boy when Cobb and Co., at the open-
ing of the Sofala gold rush, found themselves
full of business and glad of the services of a
youth who knew how to handle horses. Later
he went to North Queensland and opened a
number of new routes; but he did not cling
to the boxseat as some of the other old drivers
did. He retired 35 years ago.
A very old printer was Richard Chaffer,
lately dead in Adelaide at 88. He was in
the office of Clowes and Sons in London
when they were printing the catalogue for
the Great Exhibition of 1851. He sailed
with his parents for Sydney in 1852, but
the crew all deserted in Melbourne for the
diggings, so he went into the Argus office,
and in time became overseer of the jobbing-
department. About 1880 he was in Sydney
as overseer in Ilaviland’s printing office, but
for the last 40 years he had been in Adelaide,
where he was, till his retirement, a director
of the Modern Printing Co.
The history of Murray navigation is very
much bound up with Captain Tinks, who
has just sold out the last of his fleet. He
started close on half a century back, with
his father, running the Wilcannia from
Goolwa, at the mouth, up to Bourke, on the
I lading. Later, he took his headquarters
to Morgan (S.A.), where the Murray makes
its great nor’-west bend to the sea, and had
a great part in the regular trade which that
State carries on with a score of river ports
and settlements. Finally he sold the Canally
to the N.S.W. Government for use at No.
10 lock near Wentworth, and now the Bailey
family has taken over all the other boats and
barges.
George Alfred Julius, the new chairman
of the committee of the Commonwealth Insti-
tute of Science and Industry, is the son of
the broadminded Bishop (now Archbishop)
of Christchurch. The paternal Julius shocked
his parishioners in a day much more wowser-
istic than this by declaring in favor of
healthy sport in preference to loafing on
Sunday, and affirming that a “knock” at
cricket before church hours was something-
lie was prepared to take himself. G. A.
Julius graduated in engineering at the M.L.
LTniversity 30 years ago (he was then 23),
served with the W.A. railways for some time,
and later established himself in Sydney as
a consulting engineer. For the W.A. Gov-
ernment he wrote some informative books on
Westralian hardwoods, and in recent times
has delved deeply into problems of industrial
efficiency.
When Prendergast surrenders his room in
vie. Parliament House—being 72 this year
he has decided to make room for a younger
man as Labor leader—the removalists will
find it well stocked with Australian art and
literature. “Prendy’s” collection of the
works of local writers and painters is both
comprehensive and good. It is 32 years since
he was elected for North Melbourne, and he
lias represented it ever since, except for three
years after his defeat in 1897. He was born
in Australia a year after the arrival of his
parents from Ireland.
Gone where there are no Costs J. T. Kirk-
man, a well-known figure in Adelaide law
circles. At the age of 13 he entered the
offices of Moulden and Sons, and during the
o years lnj spent there learned law from
ato A. tor the last two decades he was the
firnrs managing clerk. His long period of
service is beaten only by that of his brother.
Liavid the firm's accountant —who will this
year complete a half-century’s work among
tne six-and-eightpences. A son of David is
practising in the city in partnership with
'l' ci' ; au Shan, one time Attorney-General
for S. Aus.
The women who gb down to Long Bay in
i>lack Marias and the prison tram are an
emotional lot, prone to swift tears when
swearing is no good, but their weeps for the
passing of Sister Mary Ignatius Balfe will
be genuine enough. For the last 30 years
the sister has been a bringer of consolation
to Hong Bay, and less frequently to other
gaols and institutions where women are
detained. She kept at the work until near
ea «?’ though she had reached the age
® ae was born in Tasmania, and joined
the Sisters of Charity 52 years ago.
»,? he guernsey of the Salv’army gave
Albert Bruntnell, one of the multitude of
politicians who have decided on a trip to
England, his first public prominence. He
showed capacity for organisation there which
recommended him for the job of organising
secretary to the Temperance Alliance. Poli-
tical aspirations followed, but he fought
v^L elect ion battles before he got into the
N.b.W. Parliament. He was one of the
losers m the Surry Hills fight which gave
John Norton his last political -victory. Nor-
ton scoffingly told an audience: “My parsoni-
cal opponent, Blithering Bruntneli, says he
hopes to win by the help of God, but I’ve
looked up the rolls and his friend hasn’t a
vote in this electorate.”
The secret history of the Australian stage
and cricket-field for 40 years is to be told
in book form by Harry Musgrove, sen.,
shortly. “Why and How the Gaiety Girls
Horsewhipped a Newspaper Editor in Dun-
i U t aa d “The Shooting of Armes Beaumont
by William Saurin Lyster” will be some of
the sub-titles. Musgrove can look back across
the footlights to the time when the Firm
was called Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove, and as manager of the 1896 Austra-
lian XI he took Clem Hill, Joe Darling,
Ernie Jones, Iredale and Kelly on their first
tour to England.
Charlie McDonald, the long-distance
Queensland M.11.1L, whose death in the heat
ot the last election campaign was one of
Labor s misfortunes, had little to leave behind
him, but the Commonwealth National Library
benefits from the little. He has bequeathed to it
his collection of books and pamphlets ; some
of them, dealing with Labor’s early struggles
are extremely rare. The National Library
was one of McDonald’s strong interests. He
was a member of its committee ever since
the Commonwealth Parliament set it up in
1901, and for six years he was chairman.
Federal P.M.G.
GIBSON, who is
facing the fact
that the Australian
telegraph system
is thoroughly had,
and is condering
what to do about it.
In certain misguided quarters the ultimate
test of line penmanship is the ability to
write the Lord’s Prayer in the space of a
threepenny-bit. But there are Australians
who have made the feat look commonplace.
A Ballarat man, Gordon Jennings, crammed
into the space four transcripts of the prayer
and 25 words over. His performance faded
into insignificance beside that of L. Hall,
who, when chief draughtsman at the Survey
Office, Hobart, years ago, got six Lord’s
Prayers into the space. And that feat is
bettered (or worsened) by another Tas-
manian, of the same name, though not a
relation, A. C. Hall, of Devonport, who not
only has made six copies of the prayer in
the space, but has done it without using a
magnifying-glass.
GRACE AFTER MEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though a man may growl a grace before his dinner,
With his legs beneath a table richly spread,
He may simply be a hungry, selfish sinner
As he bolts what preachers call his “daily bread’':
The test comes when his inner man is fed—
He can prove he’s truly grateful, if he wishes,
By assisting with the washing of the dishes.
The food is made by loving hands and willing,
And the menu’s changed with pare from day to day ;
She takes pride in her stewing and her grilling,
And in setting out the feast with some display ;
But a woman hates to see the sad array
Of the after-dinner dishes so depressing—-
Those same dishes on which hubby asked a blessing.
Plates and knives and cups and saucers seem to jangle
When the woman has to wash them up alone;
Her thoughts get tied in one eternal tangle
With the dishcloth, crumbs and scraps of meat and
bone.
But the ehinaware takes on a sweeter tone
And the knives and forks make quite a pleasant jingle
When the sounds of hubby’s conversation mingle.
Feed the Brute,” we tell the girls about to marry -
“That’s the way to win and keep domestic love.”
The prescription’s good for Tom and Dick and Harry—
It seems to fit all menfolk like a glove.
But here’s physic for the other turtle-dove—
If to keep his wife’s affection he still wishes,
When he’s fed just let him help to wash the dishes.
S.A.
STRIPPER.


it
4*
a
0
-Os
KM
r a
o
m
;»
•ilfi'::#
i-i l :*
'
m
%8
m
'••M-V-
--.V.
■ ■■ iisii
i
vKV-‘
fr'-'-:. *• • :* y*
.JIISKS#
, ■ S
'mmm
m
* - ;v
>Vv:
-v .<-. •/ : " . \ '-. - . : . •• • - '.v.%' ■ ■•-; .
•••-•:■:•••-.: •-■•■••••■ ••••■•.•■■• ■-••■ v
mi
■ ap'jS
«
ii
r>wfi
ii
i
:■■■;■
m
!Sr
<3
<c/
<£
•hi
kj
'll
O
«///
Vi
Vt
h
%(,
%(,
Mi
’m
%L
»
<o
%/,
Ivo
special
m
W.D. A H.O.WILLS
(AUSTRALIA) LT? SYDNEY
m
'H
Mi
Mi
Packets of 10 Eightpence
Packets of 15. V-
Air-tight Tins of 50. 3/5
-til' tlvC
If you smoke a pipe, cf course you
smoke "Vice c ßegal ”
in a "Civic” c Pipe.


the
Equitable
ĥ
ħ
Eire
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Efd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Lev.V. Managing Director.
fot fizst&c
*■>
yfluZTneed
Guaranteed
Shirts. Collars.Pyjamas
"VAey Jit"
The Royal Show
0 S
Champion
Saddle
again this
year is the
GENUINE
WIENEKE.
I am making
new styles of
poleys now. Send for
my new book, post free
anywhere.
Jack Wieneke
(1)0 Years Saddle-making),
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney.
Or 434 Queen Street. Brisbane.
My Saddles are in the New Zealand Exhibition.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“R.’ : I strongly advise against adopting
Hayband s” method (B. 18/2/’26) of fowl-run pro-
tection by means of a slack wire encircling the outer
posts beyond the yards, whereon a ferocious dog is
attached by a chain on a running ring. When I
kept Doultry on the outskirts of Perth I thought I
was on a good thing, but as soon as the scheme
became known, which inevitably it did, bird-stealing
went on just as before, for the simple reason
that rpy fiery mong. couldn't be in two places at
once, and two canines on the one wire was impossible.
The lid was put on the plan one dark night when
my fowls were visited by a domesticated cat gone
wild. It successfully passed the danger-zone, and
was silently inspecting the menu when Bully woke
up to the fact that an enemy had negotiated the
lines without challenge. He raised Cain and strained
at the wire from the nearest point to the feline.
There was just enough “give” in the whole circle
to let him jump another taut wire and hang himself.
While Bedlam was let loose among the poultry, the
cat calmly chewed off the head of a prize cockerel,
and a friend staying at my place, running out in hajste
as reinforcements, fell headlong over the tight wire,
breaking his arm and my new hurricanc-lamp, beside
setting fire to a row of setting-nests fully occupied
by imbecile broody hens.
* * * »
“Jesmond”: Though old hands ’ have
assured me it is quite common for foundered horses
to drown themselves, I was sceptical until a year
or two ago. A mob of horses was being crossed
from Newhaven to San Remo (Vic.), and two of
them—both foundered—deliberately put their heads
under water, and all hands could not budge them
before it was too late. As the complaint is a very
painful one, the poor brutes took the only way of
ending their sufferings.
“Ledraw”: F. Ratcliffe Homes says (B.
18/2/’2fi) : “That the coloration of animals is de-
signedly protective is not only absurd, but dead
against the weight of evidence.” My experience is
quite the opposite. Animals, birds and reptiles find
their color schemes most useful. I have stalked
antelope and been within a few yards of them, yet
have foned their pro-
tective Coloring so per-
fect that it has been a
task to locate them.
The leopard, also, has
a most unpanny habit
of blending himself
with the landscape,
especially i n stony
ground. I remember
on one occasion, on the
borders of the Terai,
India, assisting in the
despatch of a man-
eating tiger. He was
located in a clump cf
bamboos. Several of
us were watching an
open space while it
was being beaten.
There were several
smaller clumps away
from the main one, and
as the beaters came
closer Stripes left one
not 20 yards from
where I was standing.
So perfect was the
blending of sunlight
and bamboo with his
color scheme that we
had never noticed him
there. In Australia I
have often almost
walked on the young
of the bustard, curlew
and plower. The
death-adder varies in
color according to the
soil, and the pine-
adder resembles the
bark of the pine-tree
in every respect. In
Scotland the hare
turns quite white in
winter. If the pro-
tective coloring shelters them from man, it must
be a protection also from other animals.
* * *
f Tracker”: It is a well-established
tact that many Northern Territory tribes, both on
the coast and inland, kill and eat their babies.
Some kill only the females,, but in the dry country
in the interior neither sex is spared. Although the
practice is known to be general, yet the tribes are
too cunning to be caught in the act. The following
which suggests that the practice isn’t, or wasn’t,
confined to babies, is vouched for by a drover who
spent over 50 years in the Territory. I' give his
own words: “In 1907 I was in charge of a mob
which, owing to the dry spell, was being travelled
along the coast track instead of across the table-
lands. Between Roper Bar police-station and Borro-
loola it was necessary for me to go in search of
water,' To do so I had to cross over the fringe of
the dry country inhabited by various small parties
of the Kaladoon tribe. I had been warned to keep a
sharp lookout, as they were known to be treacherous.
They had a habit of hiding in the scrub and spear-
ing lonely travellers. I had been following up the
bed of a dry creek for some distance, and had just
reached a turn in it when my horse, which had a
horror of blacks, having been badly spearedj started
SETTING DAVE UP IN LIFE.
MUM : "We ought to take Dave home a wedding presents."
DAD: “Um—yes, I s’pose we oughter. How about a two rabbit-trap?”
to sniff. I drew my revolver and advanced cautiously.
As I did so, the smell of roast meat became notice-
able. Approaching the bank of the creek quietly,
I peeped over. There were from eight to ten men in
the midst of a cannibal feast. In the centre was
"hat not long since had been a young aboriginal
woman, apparently in good health/ Her two front
teeth were missing, indicating that she belonged to
a coastal tribe and was married. She had no doubt
wandered from her own country and fallen a victim
to these cannibals. At the time of the discovery
one of the men, who appeared to be the leader,
had just dragged the heart out of the body arid
bitten off the cord which held it. The others had
torn and dragged various-sized pieces from the body
and were making merry when the revolver spoke
and the man with the heart in his hand fell over
the dead woman. A moment later the others had
disappeared like magic. Examination showed that
the woman had been partly roasted in an oven
similar to that used for cooking game. But the
crowning feature of the gruesome scene was that the
woman’s head had not been in the coals', so that
it was intact, and the action of the heat had drawn
the muscles of her cheeks in such a way as to
suggest that she was enjoying a hearty laugh. The
police, when informed, shrugged their shoulders, but
made no attempt to investigate.”
“Kriz”: A company will go in for turtle-
canning on a large scale in the nor’-west of Westra-
lia—if the sharks let it. The female turtle makes
her nest in the dry sand within easy reach of the
water. The eggs, laid in great numbers in one
night, are covered with sand, and Nature does the
rest. After the young are hatched they wriggle
down to the water, and on their way are attacked
by hundreds of screaming seagulls. Those that
get past the gulls have to dodge the sharks, and
probably more than 50 per cent, fall victims of the
grey montsers. There are three kinds of turtle in
noi -Westralian waters—the hawksbill, whose shell
has a high commercial value (combs, armlets, etc.,
are made from it) • the loggerhead, edible but not
quite so good for canning; and the greenback. The
shell of the last two is useless.
* * * *
‘Mephisto”: A once well-known drover
was brought before a western-Queensland court on a
charge of stealing someone’s dog. It was a hot
day, and the case continued into the lunch-hour.
An application to extend bail over the break was
met by an abrupt refusal from the Judge. About
an hour after resuming the case collapsed, and
his Honor directed the jury to return a verdict of
not guilty. The prisoner quickly left the box and
joined his friends at the hotel. The Judge, not
noticing this, proceeded to address the prisoner,
apologising for his own curt refusal of bail, and
i egretting that such a trivial case had come before
the Court. There drifted in from outside on a
wandering breeze the strains of “For He’s a Jolly
Good Fellow,” and the Judge pricked up his eai-s.
It was just then he noticed that he had been
addressing an empty box.
* * *
“Saaedi”: Galloping at frantic speed to
the station, the new jackeroo espied McPherson
asleep on the verandah. Rushing to him, he shook
the squatter vigorously by the arms. “W-a-as up?”
inquired Mae, cautiously opening one eye. “There’s
a bally chap has killed one of your wethers in
Wilga paddock, and is cooking a piece of it,” the
’loo announced excitedly. “Only one bally chap?”
the pastoralist questioned. “Yes, one, I said,” re-
plied Jack impatiently. “There are two thousand
wethers in Wilga,” Mac mused; “it will take ’im
a dam’ long time to eat ’em all.” Then he turned
again to slumber.
“Gomaoha” : At Popo (Papua) the A. P.
0. Co.’s boring site, the accountant and 1 used to
count the mosquitoes by billions. Late every after-
noon a black cloud would rise from the surrounding
swamps and envelop the dome. After five o’clock it
. wasn’t comfortable to be outside, the air being thick
with buzzing darts. Yet, with all its mosquitoes,
Popo is one of the healthiest spots in Papua. The
malaria-fever mosquito ( Anopheles ) has never been
found there, although jungle and swamp extend in-
land to the ranges. Probably the reason is that
the Anopheles doesn’t like the mite that has attacked
the Popo mosquito. The mite is red, as big as a
small pin’s head, and is carried under the mosquito’s
body, moving about and hanging on by means of
its long and clawed legs. Robbed of its blood, the
mosquito turns light-grey, and eventually falls a
victim to the parasite.
* * * *
“Pick”: Provided with matches, and in-
variably he is, no expert bushman would allow him-
self to be trapped by an oncoming bush-fire. The
wind that brings the blaze hastily towards him will
also carry one away with equal speed. Therein lies
NO SATISFYING SOME BLOKES.
“Rain, rain, rain — nothin’ but rain!”
“Cut out' yer grizzlin’! Yer know it’s worth
millions to us.”
his safety. When no other means of escape is on
'iew, he fires the grass at his feet. In a few seconds
he may step out upon a burnt space ahead sufficiently
large to safeguard him from the flames behind. He,
of course, chooses for his vanguard fire ground where
lie the fewest bushes, bark and fallen timber. But
the practical bushie knows on the instant where to
find the flood-cleared spaces, the forest reaches or the
grass land that will do for his purpose.
{Continued on page 21}.)
GATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oates! Gates!
Let a man voice a complaint with the Fates
And register here his particular groan
That he’s doomed to travel, and travel alone,
On the roads that outward long tentacles fling
Through the “great open spaces” of which poets sing,
And every few miles break the distance immense
With a boundary gate on a boundary fence.
Then you pull up your waggon, your sulky or car
And go through this performance at every such bar:
Get out and open, get in and go through.
Out again, shut again, in again, go.
Oates! Gates!
Gates of all patents, all sizes and weights,
Gates off their hinges and gates that won’t swing,
Tied up with fencing-wire, greenhide and string,
And that worst inspiration of devilish tricks,
The cocky’s contraption of barbed-wire and sticks.
When you’re blocked by these horrors to curse you
are fain,
But it’s useless—-this ritual waits you again:
Out again, open and in again, through.
Hauling and dragging and twisting askew,
Juggling jammed latching-boards, warped to a bow.
Out again, shut again, in again, go.
Gates! Gates!
It softens the blow if one travels with mates,
For the driver, if shrewd, exercises his right.
He pulls up his sulky or car, but sits tight;
And the etiquette is that the mate “takes the floor.”
But if you’ve no passenger, then, as before,
Be it black-soil gluepot or red-soil dust,
Annoyed you may be, but face it you must.
And it’s out again, open, and in again, through,
Wading through mud like a vast Irish stew,
Or deep in the dust-heap from ankle to toe,
°v,t again, shut again, in again, go.
THERE’D SURE TO BE A BILLIARD SALOON:
“They tell me Sidderney's a norful easy place to be lorst in, Dad.
If we git separated, let s both make for the billiard saloon.”
Gates! Gates!
The flash ones bear sometimes a notice that states
In language properly legal and terse,
The penalty due the man, careless or worse
(Though seldom it needful is thus to remind him),
Who passes and leaves the gate open behind him,
For no honest traveller fair duty shirks,
Yet the too-frequent gate on a dirty day irks,
With its out again, open and in again, through,
Be they plain, wired or padlocked, many or few.
Hunting the key down the posts all a-row.
Out again, shut again, in again, go.
Gates! Gates!
Reflect we are spoilt and our grievance abates.
Our pioneer fathers who pushed their way back
Through country that knew naught of gate, road or
track,
Thiough scrub dense and pathless and waterless
waste,
With one hardship conquered, another one faced,
Would enjoy the real joke could they visit again
The scenes of their triumphs' and hear our refrain: •
Out again, open and in again, through,
Untying barbed-wire and twisting anew,
Flinging a stone at a cynical crow;
Out again, shut again, in again, go.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


- -
* *kx \ £*"
I _ 1
r* I
v>%
i
c?
V\
A &/&■
■
mm
*
&
a
**?
x,
X
pEmffi-
w f5-' ?'|X.TSW"- '■
;3fc'V #B. %
>si
* »>
■*A"
V
H
■> •
>
»v?-
■*
•VS
**
,v<iY
... ■ :i
«
: =
;#
5t
m :
i
ghway across Mt.Hjatham (Vic) 6100 SI
VHAT A TEST!
THE GREAT ALPINE TRIAL
tested out the merit of men, machines and tyres to a degree never
previously experienced in this part of the world, and the story of this
great 1500 miles run will be retold for many months to come in
motoring circles. Whoever wins deserves no more pratise than the
plucky contestants who fought down troubles and finished. The trial
furnished in a remarkable way evidence of the capability and in-
genuity of the drivers, the wonderful dependability of the modern
car, and last, but not least, demonstrated that Australian made
DUNLOP TYRES
are capable of withstanding a terrific gruelling, and came through
showing little evidence of what that 1500 miles masked. Twenty
four out of thirty two contestants who finished used Dunlop
Tyres, and it is certain that none of them regret their choice. There
is no doubt that for real hard motoring on Australian roads, there
is nothing to approach these tyres for service and dependability.
fit J)unlops and you will be satisfied!
All States
GARAGES STOCK THEM.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
and NZ.


CYAN O GAS
DOESN’T GIVE THE RABBITS
(Calcium Cyanide)
A CHANCE,
PUMO
BRAND
Full particulars
promptly on
request.
*rr 2 •,*» **. ”i.h th,
dScSif" *■*■•*«*'«•"- “™r*:r 'Jti
Ilk after that’falvi rafduT n ‘““7'
the worker in using’ it. * there is no danger to
writes * 23/n/ ’ 26 :
no matter are. b Yhave
dug the rabbits out of niv farm (200 acres)
nnil t J a . n . d ] a /t e i;. digging out the smaller
ones I decided to dig out tli e large ones, and
in ereiy instance found the rabbits all dead.
I got as many as 32 in one burrow. I can
ri^TrTbbits.’* 0 any ° ne Wh ° Wants t 0 gct
h
STATE DISTRIBUTORS •
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd l-ll Mnrt.t ~ ,
... , . (“XBiamm AT r.a s.
Vlctorm: A. Victor Leggo & Co,, Melbourne. ’
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-ob. Union Tf a .
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land). Ltd Adelaide Iclaide.
West Australia: Harris, Scarf e&S an clovers Ltd ’ pflSh"®-
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd Launce'stou * Perth ‘
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
“NOT THE SAME, AS OTIHERS.”
p
A
B
C
O
L
I
N
Z
-i
w
&
■: ■ \ .
i' 503 >
s t
WW
as*
tiif.
FLOOR SQUARES
BEAUTIFUL DESIGNS.
STAIN PROOF DUST PROOF.
PARAPF
LIE FLAT WITHOUT FASTENING, LOW COST'.
INF, COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS, Australasia. Manager, CHALLI9 HOUSE, SYDNEY.
p
A
B
C
O
L
I
N
A HELPFUL HINT.
"George clear, don't you thin! that if you planted the
cabbages zfg-zag instead of in straight rows, the
snails would find it more difficult?”
Mag : A while back a permanent-way
inspector saw from a passing train a bullock near
the line. From the next stopping-place he sent
word back to the ganger concerned to put the
animal outside the fence. Next day came the
ganger’s reply: “Went to put bullock out as in-
structed. Bullock put yours truly out,’’
latana : The aboriginal Papuan is not
much interested in things other than food, tobacco
and similar material objects when on his native
stamping-ground, but once away from the ances-
tral village he takes a delight in tiie wonderful objects
imported from overseas by the white foreigner. Far
ahead of all other
pastimes is the movies.
Even cards lost their
attraction on the night
of the weekly picture-
show. Prom the adja-
cent villages tramp
gaily-clad, mop-headed
Papuans bent on ex-
changing a shilling for
three hours’ enjoyment
of films from Holly-
wood, and the know-
ledge shown by the
dusky-hued patrons is
truly remarkable. “Sa!i
Sapalini” (Charles
Chaplin), “Maki Sen-
iti” (Mack Sennet),
“Wili” (Will Rogers)
and other popu la r
leaders have their
“fans.” The Wild
'Vest “dramas” are the
most popular, and then
come the “Gazettes,”
those with horseraces
in them ; provoking the
loudest applause; ;
Sticky love stories are
not liked, but anything
with pigs in it is a
sure draw-, ■ for - the
Papuan loves pig even
more than tobacco or
betel. ; Many of the
mission-schooled lads
read ... English, and
translate the titles .to
t he i r less-educated
friends. At a house
in Moresby lives a
cook-boy w x ho never
pays for his seat, bis
particular cobbers tak-
ing it in turn to fork
out the necessary bob
for his admission.
Prouder than Lucifer
is this lad, when, surrounded by a dozen illiterate
pals, he lolls back with a gift cigarette in his
fingers and, reads the titles to his hosts.
* * * *
i “Spenner”: Is tlie magpie less sagacious
than other wild birds? Along many miles of
rabbit-poison trails I’ve found dozens of dead magg’ies,
but no other birds. Yet I always thought Maggie
was one of the shrewd-heads.
#
“Wang”: When I was a
kid, I, with others, used to aug-
ment my microscopical income by
the proceeds of sparrow egg-and-
head sales. Tire local Progress
League, or whatever it styled
itself, paid so much a thousand
for the sparrow fruit, and at the
annual agricultural show prizes
were offered for the largest col-
lection of shells, and also for the
highest tally of sparrow heads.
Dealing with the eggs wasn’t so
had as, when blown, they would
keep for an indefinite period. The
custody of the heads, however,
was a smellful business. The en-
thusiastic juvenile head-hunter
was always in bad odor with the
adult population, and his collec-
tion was tabooed within a quarter
of a mile of the house. The
popular method of keeping the
nappers intact was to, thread them
on strings and hang them in some
secluded spot. One of my youth-
ful colleagues in the industry,
after a vain attempt at keeping
his collection in his room, intact
from the outraged attentions of
his female relatives, festooned
them in the stable. There they
were violently ejected, and he
then strung them up on the
rafters of one of the pigsties.
A couple of hours later 1 was
invited to a private inspection of
his trophies. We arrived just in
time to see a gladiatorial contest
between the two sty dwellers. The
cause of the trouble was disappear-
ing down the throat of one of
them. It was the end of the
string of 3000 sparrow heads. That
pig topped the market a week
later, and my mate put in a
claim for compensation. He didn’t
get it.
Riverton ’: Has this Binghi characteristic
been noted before ? In the summer of 1895 we
were camped with cattle about ■2* miles north of
Cooper’s Creek. One of the party was to return
the h ° mestead ' a fortnight in advance of the
° uV * ler f was no * rac k, but it was impressed
on that he must keep due south, and could not
then miss striking the Cooper. A couple of weeks
afterwards we made back to the homestead, and on
arrival found that nothing had been seen of him.
We all started out to look for „he poor devil, but
with very little hope. We found his saddle and the
quartpot he had carried. The latter, we could see,
"CRIPES, MUM, SHE COULD MILK A FEW COWS!”
had been half-full of blood. Evidently he had cut
his horse’s throat with the intention, of drinking its
blood, but had not done so, as it had never been
poured out of the pot, but had evaporated. We
searched for days, knowing well the poor chap
must have perished, but found no trace of him.
One of the men some months afterwards overheard
two of our blaekfellows talking one night, and their
conversation led him to believe that they knew what
had become of Jack; but though we questioned
them closely they denied having any knowledge of
his end. I have always found, in my dealings with
the blacks of the interior, that they cannot be
brought to talk of men who have perished in those
drought-stricken parts. Two years later I was riding
along- with one of the blaekfellows on the run, and
could not understand w T hy he kept edging my horse
off the track and pushing me still farther over to the
right. I was just about to ask him what his game
was when I caught sight of bones, and next noticed
a human hand. Although the blacks had known
all that time where Jack’s body was, they would
never have told us, but this darkie let me “happen”
on the remains.
* *
‘ I ro-Binghi": While a book called “The
Vanishing American’’
is being taken to the
sobbing bosoms of oui
public, no one notices
the absence of one
called “The Vanished
Australian.” In a
'narrow area such as
Bribie Island (Q.) and
the mainland opposite
there used to be quite
10,000 blacks where
now are none at all.
A hillock, close to some
old oyster-beds, prows
on excavation to be
composed of oyster,
shells, the remains, of
Binghi’s feasts. Little
else remains, except in
the memories of a few
people whose minds are
never cradled for what
gold lies in them. How
long are our school
children to be set to
write essays on the
Dress of the Ancient
Britons, while th e
relics and remnants of
their own historical
background are un-
known to them?
“Nitric-” : Prickly-pear is taking the knock-
out, not only from cochineal insects and arsenic,
but from a new parasite called the “blue bug.”
These agencies are doing great work in the
eradication of the pear on the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment experimental station at Westwood, SO miles
from Rockhampton (Q.). One bug is credited with be-
w 8 , b ® to eat a leaf of pear per day, and the
Westwood pear-leaf is 15in. long and Sin. wide,
e secures protection by enclosing himself in a web,
t f 1 1, S are bept at * ,a ' r - Some idea of the
extent of the campaign against the pear is given by
.'f a . c ~l a, ,f ° 30 eases of cochineal insects pass
into A. S. Wales almost every fortnight. The pro-
gramme is to attack dense pear with the cochineal
insect and scattered pear with liquid poison.
Mag ; If that silent and untiring worker the
cochineal mseot is doing what the Gayndah (Q.) people
say it is, then the prickly-pear is doomed. Should this
n n 'rp e Queensland should never forget the
late lemple Clerk. Single-handed he tackled the
problem and imported from America a small
number of insects. These have now multiplied into
millions, and it’s the numbers that count. About
H mouths ago Chico and Texan insects were
liberated on a block infested with Gft. hudi im-
penetrable pear. The estimated cost to clear this
patch with poison was £2O per acre. To-day the
huge masses are levelled to the ground, and tons
absolutely destroyed. This at a cost of transport-
ing a dozen boxes of infected pear.
* * * *
Gigadibs : llow some of our timber does
grow! I came down from the ranges in the local
bus, sitting next the driver. A tree fallen across
the road delayed us ; but after taking off the wind-
screen and hood we managed to crawl through with
an inch to spare. On our way down the mountain-
side we stopped each car as wc met it to give warn-
ing of the tree ahead. It started off at 2ft. 6in.
through ; after the tenth car it was sft
* * * *
“Machete”: I fancy “Soda” is mistaken
when he says frog-breeding is not a practicable
proposition (B. 4/3/’26), since frogs will not breed
in captivity. The writer can vouch that thev will
breed in an aquarium, and both in France and in
the United States they are systematically farmed
tor food purposes. Possibly “Soda” has been experi-
menting with the wrong type of frog for the
environment he has tried to rear them in. Also
there are vermin to be considered, newts, fish,
di agon-fly larva;, all of which devour frogs’ spawn
and young stock, the latter in particular, while the
bigger tadpoles play havoc with the smaller. Poison-
ing and trapping might keep down the vermin,
but one would suggest careful drafting and sub-
division with wire-netting for the tadpoles till they
are at least old enough for marking.
* * *
11.8.’ ; Bush-fires are not always caused
by fools. I have seen trees, particularly stringy-
bark, whose limbs have crossed and grown so closely
together that a heavy wind lasting 12 or 14 hours
has caused the bark to smoulder through friction.
It would not in every case burst into flame, but
when the conditions were ripe fire ivould come.
It may be Nature’s way of cleansing the forest, and
may have given the first lesson to primitive man
in the art of fire-making.
u ** * *
“Samuel Suretbing” ; I love the way bush-
men pray. During a chat with a hero of the Gipp»-
.land bush-fires lie mentioned that, whilst, spraying
water over two women and a boy w'hom he held
forcibly in a w 7 aterhole, with the fire sweeping IS
inches above their heads, he prayed. “First time for
years, too,” he added. “What did you say?” I asked.
He considered for a moment, and then blurted out:
f said, ‘Piease, God, give us a fair go.’ ”
* * *
Zulu ; Can any Abo. tell me the cause
of smoky tea ? There are ail sorts of bush schemes
to prevent it, but nobody seems able to explain
the cause. I have seen billies in the middle of
smoking fires, yet when the tea was made it was as
fragrant as home-brew.
EATRAVAGANT, REALLY.
NEW HAND: "You must be fornd of money to start work this early.”
COCKY" Fond of money! ’Why, look at what it costs me for
oil for the lamps!”
“Mag” : Add this to the list of queer acci-
dents. The other dav in Maryborough (Q.) a young-
old man of; close on 90 gripped each side of a fold-
ing deek-eijfi ir to sit down. As the fulcrum-bar was
not adjusted in the stops, he crashed, and the
sicje-arms, 'acting like a pair of scissors, cut off the
first joint the forefinger of each hand.
SAFFRON THISTLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r>rj and running like a snake is the furrow that
I break;
The discs are jolting hard, the soil is lumpy;
Every night I dream in vain of a two-inch fall
of rain,
Till the rowdy crows disturb me in, my humpy.
Days are fraught with cuts and pricks, broken glass
: and stones and sticks;
All the neighbors are so crotchety or solemn;
Clouds of dust blot out the sky, parch the tongue
and blind the eye,
And the fallow spirals up in many a column.
Every eve I read my mail, typed in figures which
assail,
All accompanied by threatening epistles;
Then I let the horses go and commence to swing
the hoe
For I rmist eradicate the saffron thistles.
How they grow along each fence, tall and pointed,
green and dense !
How they thrive on soil where herbage wilts to
powder !
Though the fallow land is green, not a blade of
grass is seen,
And the bleat of starving sheep is; getting louder.
Now I turn them under deep, then 1 give the soil
a sweep
With the harrows, but before my task’s completed
Far afield and in the rear like a carpet they appear ;
Thistle seedlings' to proclaim my hopes defeated!
Democrats may rant and rave to uplift the sweated
slave,
Crazy housewives, may attack . with kitchen
missiles; ' .
et the fact is hard l and plain, I must atari the
task again ?.... :f
And assault the striking hosts of saffron thistles.
There are avenues I know where Pacific breezes blow,
There are sheltered coves .aglow with bright
reflections; 4
There aie haunts of ale and song in the streets
with life athrong,
And each morning at their thriving intersections
Touts and punters congregate, while they noisily
debate
Speed and form and odds and weight and crooked
running; ’
And if I recall some pubs, cool saloons and sport-
ing clubs, ~
Where the hock is fine and amber wine is stunning,
It is not with spiteful grief, for my thirst gets
some relief a,
When I picture bars where sportsmen wet their
whistles,
And I know that after rain I may drink and sing
again—
If I have the luck to beat the saffron .-thistles!
N.B.W.
GERARDY.


One utweai&d
eighty ueaM>


tinder
Royal
Warranf
Vintage 1914.
ToH.M.
King
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
ĥ
mums .
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
JpHAMPACKt
Heims
%H2>
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD. *
Australasian A Brents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
9^
HERE IS EASTER!
And a host of Festivities offered at Sydney’s Leading CafS, including
SPECIAL DINNERS, of unrivalled cuisine .. EVERY EVENING 21/-
SPECIAL SUPPERS, from 8.30 till 1 a.m. .. EVERY EVENING’ 12/0
A SERIES OF GALA NIGHTS DURING THE EASTER SEASON,
at which novelties and Race Night souvenirs will feature
New Cabaret numbers by
lhe Elea Twins - Zelda and John Juan - Miss Marie Crowther
and the Famous Wentworth Ballet.
All included at no extra charge.
’Phone 8W1361.
The Finest Restaurant ajnd Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satiosmootb
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30. 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 8.30 to 6480, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.tn.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
A Victoria League reception introduced
social Sydney to the Stonehavens. The
function filled the Ambassadors with men
and women of the middle ages, though groups
here and there were whipped up to a souffle
of youth. Midway down the room a dais
had been arranged, and after ensconcing the
vice-res. thereon Miss Macarthur Onslow
sprayed them from its steps with a. few
choice words of welcome. Lord Stonehaven
replied amiably, and, pourparlers having
been thus duly exchanged, the company ad-
vanced by ones and twos and dropped the
“Ob of loyalty. Mrs. Roystone Davey, the
Y\ ade dame or Mrs. Jim Ashton murmured
the approaclier’s name to Miss Onslow; Miss
Onslow passed it on, more or less confiden-
tially, to their Exes.; and their Exes., auite
surprised to hear it, did the handsome thing
in bows and smiles. The three sponsors
of the first part were all swathed in hand-
some blacks. Mrs. Ashton cheered her velvets
with a horticultural design in willow-pattern
blues; Mrs. Roystone Davey’s georgettes
shimmered and clinked with an intricate de-
sign m steel beads; and black lace over
satin was the wear of Miss Macarthur
Onslow. A dress of beautiful black Chantilly
was Lady Stonehaven’s own choice. This
•j j i new side in lace, and pro-
i ided the proper atmosphere for her stunning
ropes °f pearls. Clara Butt and Kennerley
Kumford were among the vice-regal party,
she the most arresting figure in the room
m ivory sheaths with the long shoulder
drape of black velvet spilling into a train.
Mrs. Sydney Herring combined fuchsia and
gold ctamlle iu her graceful frock; Mungo
.'lu'eLaiJum s lady was at the party; so was
Hugh Denison s. The Stuart and Steenic
Us borne matrons were among the better-
dressed. Mrs. Robins came with her naval
lord. The Lyster Ormsbys brought a party.
Barbara Littlejohn, clad in green, came with
her mother; and Margaret Osborne, in blue
and silver, was one of the pretty young things
of the night. Barrister Mrs. Sybil Morrison
wore flounced taffetas, and the educational
Dettmanns, she in dclf-blue georgettes, were
among those who came to dance and nav
their respects.
+v W ? r ™ k I T arm should b e the little pet of
tne A.J.L after the clever way it has j'ust
vamped the weather god. In spite of the
week s deluge the pretty little course was
only a little wet, so the A.J.C. opened its
Laster season according to schedule. And
loveiy woman, too, went out in her macin-
tosfied hosts—not the depressing mac. of
former years, but the gaily-liued affair in
red petunia, bright blues and yellows that
Jj ° a V otl has adopted with such {fervor. Some
of these m black rubberised satin are smart
enough to wear visiting the Shah of Persia.
A noticeable newcomer was a niece of Mrs.
Lohn Stephen in a mannish topcoat, tailored
to the nth degree, in stone grey tweeds. The
newly-returned Mrs. Kell, too, caught the eye
in gun-metal repp tailorings.
Kot all the rain in all the waterpots of the
weather godfe coul 1 keep Society away from
uie opening of Sydney’s new theatre last
. nda Z,\ ht was an event worth remember-
T .he marble foyers of St. James’s, with
tlieir rich carpetings and upholsterings, give
a «nod introduction to an interior where com-
fort is embellished with harmonies of steel
blue and oxidised silver, the rich rose of
proscenium and other curtains blending in to
produce an effect of cosy magnificence. The
Governor-General and his lady and the State
Governor with Lady de Chair looked round
upon a house thronged by the best-known
of Sydney and some of Melbourne’s, too.
Clara Butt and Kennerley Rumford also
smiled from the vice-regal box; and after
the other theatres closed, an inrush of
stage people, content to stand at the back of
the d.c showed how thespian Sydney had
brushed oft its grease-paint and got into its
street clothes to be present at the great
occasion. 6
In the matter of frocking the theatre was not
more dazzling than the audience. A surpris-
ing feature was the return of longer locks,
fixed or movable, than have lately been the
lt looked as though woman was
mto a state of repentance over her
attitude towards the sex’s crowning glory
There was some babbling admiration for the
stage costuming, and a sympathetic crowd
applauded mightily when Hugh Ward told
of his actors dreams of 25 years ago now
come true.
Owing to drought and bush-fires, Yass's
annual burst of racing threatened to be a
disappointment, but the blessed rains came,
chased apprehensions, and brought the whole
into town. The balls ran
(with intervals) from Wednesday evening
till after midnight on Saturday, and if the
police hadn t thought it a “fair thing” they
mighty have been going still. Arthur 11.
Johnstoii and Charlie D’Arcy-Irvine were
The o nni«l e o Cup Baß decorations.
Ihe outstanding features were great horse-
namo a i' ollll , d tbe walls,, each carrying the
„, aa , e .f ij orse and mounted by a jockeV
clad in the owner’s colors. Owing to tlm
and ff i 6 1 j Ces 011 t 1e , ,)1g day were postponed
stnnd t A?', ( ar ? ce as , lleld iu the afternoon in-
?£® ad \ • bo< ! y minded—not even the owners,
,° u 0 gh K » 111 l jl aee of the trophies that should
a . ve been tvon in the afternoon, they got
Tifj non? , toy J ocke ys from the decorations.
i a l real trophies were presented next night.
Wore , more gorgeous dresses—or
uncorked more champagne.
bas been gi ven on uppercut by a
n y ?f y . woman who won a competition by
r rii»/ inS tv dinner that cost threepence.
7” eoompetition was promoted by the Presby-
'™an V T . , rc ! l s °ciol service committee, and
a Mrs. Nicholson carried off the prize. Being
housekeeper who knows where to
nd cheapness, she secured a sheep’s head
for a penny m Oxford-street, and with the
aid of an onion, a little milk, parsley, flour
and seasoning, which cost no more than the
spare tuppence, she turned her penn’orth of
mutton mto soup and boiled meat, served
with dumplings which, the judges of the com-
petition declared, made a meal fit for a king—
or possibly two or three kings. But even a
king might objoet to a constant menu of
sheep s head and dumplings.
The blushing Amaryllis and the cool blues
kI / d ra ngea smiled above the altar-rail of
St. Mark s when the old Darling Point church
registered the vows of Una Woolf, of Perth
and J. Neville Fraser, of Melbourne. Una’
who is as good-looking though not so heroic of
build as her sister, Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar,
wa .s an arresting figure in her ivory satins
quilted with silver thread and crusted with
pearls. She wore two veils; the lower, a
flowing one of tulle, was enriched by a top-
dressing of Brussels lace which had been
worn by the Sam Hordern lady at her wed-
dmg. A sheaf of gladioli and orchids spring-
ing from a base of white heather gleamed like
satm on her left arm. Doreen and Audrey
llordern maided in lilacy-pink and misty-
blue iiinoiis respectively. These gowns were
fashioned on long and straight lines as to
top, but were billowy as to skirts, which were
weighted with scalloped taffeta. Veils of
silk net falling from flowery trails were the
head-covering, and gladioli and delphiniums
were the flowers. Clive Williams (Mel-
bourne) best-manned, and E. Cresswell was
chief offsider. The ballroom at Retford Hall,
It u Hordcrn borne (he’s a cousin of
the bride), was the scene of the congratula-
tions. Here Mr. and Mrs. Woolf did the
honors agmnst a background of delphiniums
and lilies. The bridegroom is the youngest
son of the late Victorian knight and Senator
who was dour old David Syme’s crony.
Over the mantelpiece in a little sitting-
room in the Bungalow, Victoria Barracks,
Major-General Bruche’s quarters, is the por-
trait of a beautiful young lady of the mid-
V ictorian period. The painter_was the noted
English artist
Frith. The
subject was
the late Mrs.
M c F a rland,
whose winning
smile and deli-
cate ball-dress
belonged to a
bygone gener-
ation. She was
Welsh. Her
husband, the
late Judge Mc-
Farland, was
Irish. For
many years
they were
amongst the
most hospit-
able of that
mid - Victorian
group of house-
holders who
XT . ~ , , hved at Crow’s
Nest. One of their daughters, who has the
Irish blue-grey eyes of her father and the
stately charm of her mother, is Mrs. Bruche
t“ e wife of General Brand’s successor as
Jstate Commandant. Since her marriage she
has been twice to England—once when her
husband was an exchange officer at Alder-
. and again when he sheathed his sword
in f ranee after the Armistice. There are
twm daughters in the old house under the
shade of the great Moreton Bay fig-tree inside
the high Barracks walls. And there’s a
spacious lawn bedecked with flowefs. Here
in her spare moments—Mrs. Bruche is a
noted housewife—a keen gardener delves the
soil. It is my favorite recreation,” the
Commandant’s lady admits—“but there’s
very little time for recreations.” The photo
is from the New Talma Studio. P
Lynette Jagelman, of Bellevue Hill, be-
came Mrs. J. Costello, of Rockhampton, at
St. Stephen’s amid the torrents of last mid-
week. Ivory georgettes, Limerick lace and
tulle were the foam-like swathings of the
bride, who was attended by sister Coralie
in mauve and silver. Toasts aud speeches
followed at the home of the bride’s parents at
Bellevue Hill.
The John Williamsons, of Hampton Court,
went across the road to St. John’s one wet
night last week to see eldest daughter Kath-
leen married to Prank, the youngest son of
the late Justice Charles Gregory Wade. The
bride shimmered up the aisle on father’s arm
in a dress of silver lace and tissue, its
straight tight bodice swelling into panniered
effect at the hips. There was a long flash
of silver train in her wake, and a mist of
tulle and a posy of white roses were notable
bits of still life?in the picture. Claire Til-
bury was the only bridesmaid, and dressed
her part ! in peach and mauve shot taffetas
aud a mauve tulle and velvet hat. The
Queen’s Club harbored the wedding'feast for
family friends; and here the bride’s mother
took up the narrative in black georgettes
sub-sectioned iu diamente.
Here’s a May Moore picture of Robert
Waden, the young South Australian artist
whose work in
the present ex-
hibition at the
Grosvenor Gal-
lery has at-
tracted a deal
of attention.
Bob’s father is
a schoolmaster
at Nairne, and
that's in the
district made
famous by
Heysen; but
Robert pro-
ferred pictures
to print, so
early youth
found him
studying with
James Ashton.
But not
enough buyers
came forward
for the works
of young Twenty, and there was no more
money in the treasury to go on with art lessons.
More had to be earned. A friend suggested
stone-quarrying in Maoriland, where the
money was big—£l2 to £l4 a week it some-
times came to. So even as Jacob labored for
his best girl, Robert Waden labored for his
muse. When enough money had been saved
he was back in Australian studying first in
Adelaide, then later in Sydney with Will
Ashton, his old teacher’s son. This is his
first show in Sydney.
. There’s to be a shimmer of white satin
m St. James’s church on April 22, when
Lieut. Rupert I-lurst, of the R.A.G.A., will
meet brown-eyed Clare Glasgow, of Vau-
cluse. She’s a niece of Mrs. Ralph Robin-
son, and he helps to hold the fort at South
Head. Dad is that Colonel Hurst who went
under a tidal wave of Defence retrench-
ment a few years ago, and thanked his luckv
stars that he was a full-fledged architect
before he was a “permanent soldier-man.”
A “diamond wedding” has just been cele-
brated by a pair of pioneers who are spending
their life’s twilight at Leichhardt. William
Smith was son of the village blacksmith at
Wollongong in the days when that town really
was a village; and he can remember one voy-
age from Sydney which occupied a fortnight
—two days was nothing uncommon. The old
gentleman and his wife have outlived all but
one of their children.
Inside the Ambassadors a city almost torn
from its roots was forgotten, and for a fair
general description of the scene Byron com-
mencing “Bright lights” and ending “eyes
which spake again” can still be recommended.
More intimate gleanings dripped from this
Letter’s fountain-pen while its macintosh,
umbrella and goloshes dripped in the cloak-
room. To begin with, the ball was in aid
of the Little Citizens’ Kindergarten, and
was skippered by Mrs. C. Service and manned
by that zealous young crew which calls itself
the Hollywood Set. Nine hundred dancers
crowded in the ballroom, and the Governor-
General’s lady made it her first public ball in
Sydney. There was both dash and a stagger-
some sumptuousness in the dressing, and the
jewels, if not beyond price, were distinctly
beyond the purse of most of us. Lady Stone-
haven’s gown was of satin and lace, the tone
of old ivory. It wore its body long and
straight, and garnished its full skirt with
vandyked lace flounces; and diamonds and
emeralds in her coronet flashed the glad eye
at the impeccable pearls about her throat.
Further addenda were Captain Broadkurst
and Lieutenant Leggatt, who aided in
the approved manner. A 'posy wherein!
Flora presented herself in Lord Stone-
haven’s colors—red and gold—was handed
over by Mrs. Service, whose tulle frock sug-
gested a golden sunset. President of the
Kindergarten Council Mrs. Norton-Jowitt,
who was a notable at the dance wore her
lilac satin with crystal embroideries. The
secretaries of the success were Mrs. Frank
Buxton and Mrs. Crispin Smith; and its
lucky treasurers, Ruth Cohen and Mrs.
Celeste Douzans. Sea-green ninons and
silver were mingled in Mrs. Dan Kelly's
trock. Lace asserted itself strongly, and
appeared in flounce or floating panel on every
third gown, a picture effect being obtained
by the. orange-silken mesh worn by Joyce
Ludowici and the pale gold weave of Mollie
Dingle’s frock.
The new; wing at Tressillian, the Mother-
jra"tr-aimng centre, was opened by Elaine
de Chair on Saturday. In a clever little
speech the Governor’s daughter expounded
the ideal of the home, and then deftly turned
the key m the lock, and invited her listeners
to inspect the comfortable bungalow. Here
eight nurses will be found with bed and
board; and the name of their wing is the
Elaine de Chair.
Mrs. W. A. McDonald, a well-known
singer of her day—in those times she was
Kate Slattery—reached 70 on March 17, and
about 100 of her friends arrived at Walla-
rlnga, Neutral Bay, to give her a surprise-
party. But the surprise was a cake with
70 candles, surrounded by beautiful gifts.
Mrs. Arthur Hunter, who is responsible
tor so many amateur operatic performances
m the country, has been chained to her bed
for over two months now’. She is suffering
from severe neuritis, and has had to forego
her trip to Mudgee, where she was to have
produced “Miss Hook of Holland.”
Singer Neville Smith is back from Maori-
land, where he gave a series of concerts in
Christchurch and the smaller Canterbury
towns. It is his home land, and he managed
to do pretty well, but he is agreed with ,Clara
Butt that Maorilanders stay away from con-
certs more unanimously than the people of
any other country. To buy a picture, too,
is considered the madness of extravagance.
Incidentally, the versatile singer had one of
his water-colors, an Italian sketch, hung in
the last exhibition of the Canterbury Society
of Arts, in Christchurch.
Sydney’s presswomen waved a banner of
congratulation at Theodosia Wallace the
other day over the triumphs of her 17-year-old
son. He has just won the Barker scholar-
ship and Horner exhibition (bracketed with
B. P. Oakes, of Lismore) for mathematics.
He also had the. distinction of being the only
candidate to gain first-class honors in four
subjects at the recent leaving-certificate
exam The clever youngster is a pupil of
Cranbrook.
The Players have decided to open their
season with “Right You Are (If You Think
So). . They tell this Letter, which did not
know it before, that this is Pirandello’s most
popular satirical comedy, and that Italy,
France and Germany have greeted it with
cheers. Its first production in Australia is
booked for April 8 at St. James’s Hall.
Miss Brisbane’s postscript:—
The two principal actors in “The Moth of Moonbi”
film, Marsden Hassall and Doris Aswin, took one
another for keeps last week, and the honeymoon, is
rising over Sydney Harbor. The decorative pair
were very quietly married, and a small and cheery
tea-drinking took place afterwards at Griffiths’s, be-
fore they caught the boat for their Hy Brasil. They
go into “pictures” in the south. A cable from
London, by the way, says the **Moth” is to be
screened there shortly.
Grace Deshon has been the guest at many “gift”
teas out Mitchell way. The latest was arranged at
Ardlu by the Lethbridge and Slaughter dames and G.
Morgan. Gold bonbons and African daisies in silver
vases decorated the verandahs, and Grace Deshon—
she used to stay a lot at Government House in
S’Matthew Nathan’s day, and is a diarming person
—was handed a bouquet of pink gelrbera and fern.
Competitions were held, and the station folk from
far and near assembled for the party.
Lismore choir has been obliged to turn down its
intended appearance at the Maryboro*gh Eisteddfod
on account of the depredations of thei dengue tiger-
inosquito in its midst. Schools here are only part
full, for the same cogent reason.
White roses mixed with pink gerberds did up the
Lyceum Club for the farewell to Miss Cfipsham, who
is off to the Cold Country and the Continent. Jean
V\ hite-Haney, in mauve, held out thet glad hand.
Mrs. E. B. Harris. Mrs. Eva Broekhurst,, Freda Bage
and Kathleen Lyons were amongst the God-speeders.
And Mrs. T. B. Hooper and Mrs. H. A. Douglas
staged a tea at Lennon’s for Neal Macrossan’s spouse,
who accompanied him to the Cold Country by the
Ormonde.
Archbishop Duhig has bought Charles O’Reilly’s
old home, Toornarbin, a three-storey house on Dor-
noch-terrace. One of the first homes to ’*be built
in Brisbane, standing in eight acres, the house is
of stone with a fine river view. It will be *a hostel
for nuns. Gilson Foxton’s old gunyah Warramnaks, at
Indooroopiily, has also been bought. It htalnds in
four acres of ground and will be used as a convent,
an addition to the church school near by. »
Pretty filmy dressing was a feature at Ascot, to
which the autumn-tinted zinnia and tall scarlet
salvia made a rich background. Mrs. Hatrolii Fraser,
of Aramis, was in amber and brown; "Mrs, George
Darvall wore mastic and blue; Mrs. Cecil Palmer’s
pale pink had a design in Nankin blue and Barbara
Sisley wore black with a flame-colored; hat. vMado-
line Clark, who is back in her own home twt, was
there, a forenote to the Guy Bates Post seasorA and
looking as though theatrical tours agreeld withther.


HAOY B LTD.
J«E WELLERS
USE i i i i i: i i. i i'‘ . e > " i
0 liZ' 'Sij ~3i
cssts
isaczacß
Zeiss Sporting Glasses
Zeiss Sporting Glasses are acknowledged as supreme
for sharp definition, wide field lof vision and great
light-gathering power.
For Sporting use where clear and instantaneous
definition is essential Zeiss Glasses are undoubtedly
the best obtainable.
Hardy Brothers’ selection of Zeiss Glasses is
unusually extensive, featuring several new and
handsome Sporting Models particularly suitable for
racegoers’ use. The prices range from £l6.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
£/& 7/ouse oP &xiusvcc Vatfcllay
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
IK-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
THE MODERN
FAMILY DOCTOR
A GUIDE TO
PERFECT HEALTH
CONTENTS:
Diseases: Their Diagnosis and
Treatment.
Definitions and Signs of Health.
The Human Body: Its Struc-
ture, Functions, etc.
Health in the Home.
The Baby.
Health in Childhood.
Health in Maturity and Old
Age.
Youth and Sex.
Pregnancy and Motherhood.
Diet and Dieting.
T he Teeth.
The Culture of Physical Beauty.
The Care of the Feet.
Common Sense in Training.
Habits and Conditions Inimical
to Health.
The Prevention of Phthisis.
Average Heights and Weights.
Health in the Tropics.
The Culture of Health in Col-
lective Life.
Mental Influence on Health.
Hypnotism and Treatment by
Suggestion.
Modern Curative Treatments.
First Aid.
Home Nursing and Invalid
Cookery.
Death Symptoms.
Health Library and Medicine
Chest.
THE OLD “HOME DOCTOR”
BOOKS SUPERSEDED.
A HEALTH GUIDE ON
MODERN SCIENTIFIC LINES
There can be no doubt that this book
will be the pioneer of a widespread
sj'stem of health culture.
700 Double-column Pages.
ILLUSTRATED.
Price 10/-
Postage
You will save a doctor s fee
each time you consult this book.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
The Best House for Technical Books,
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
ħ
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


fcCOTTS
— a
Stay at Melbourne’s
Most Convenient Hotel
An outstanding feature of “Scott’s” is its very
central situation.
is tastefully and comfortably furnished
throughout, and includes every modern
time-saving and service-giving feature in
its appointments.
Hot and cold water is available in all
bedrooms (many have private bathrooms
attached) and direct exchange and inter-
communicating telephones are installed.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or
Bed and Breakfast Kate.
GET TARIFF CARD NOW-
WRITE.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
h
ĥ
Your Personal Responsibility.
to your own or your^mployepT tllought that you give
One of your main business principles is to save money where possible, and to
7 h ™ S T d yOU £ must - Is you r own personal income so great that
jou can afford to be less careful in saving, less wise in the spending of it?
Practically every man has family or other responsibility, and knows the need
tor economy.
GET THE SAVING HABIT. There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank
Service available to you from Branches in all principal towns, and Agencies at
ALL POST OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA.
Commonweal!!) lank of ftolralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
A throug, chiefly political and civic in
character, assembled at the Windsor in re-
sponse to gold-lettered cards of invitation
issued by the Mayor and his consort for a
good-bye party to Governor Stradbroke and
his lady. It was a cheerful affair, short
speeches being punctuated by some excellent
singing and the popping of corks. For the
city fathers knight Brunton passed over to
his Ex. an illuminated address in booklet form,
in which friendly sentiments were gorgeously
illuminated and richly enshrined. Priminister
Bruce, with a twinkle in his eye, spoke of
the awful risk the Governor took in’ running a
racehorse here—anything might have hap-
pened to the Constitution “if Night Patrol,
carrying the accumulated shirts of the public,
had proved a dud.” Mr. Bruce added con-
gratulations on the brilliant manner in which
the guest of the evening had filled an “incred-
ibly difficult office.” Premier Allan gallantly
lauded Lady Stradbroke, reserving his com-
pliments to the Governor for a farewell Par-
liamentary dinner to be held this week. The
only other speaker, F. T. Hickford, raised a
chortle of delight when he referred to his
Ex.’s life here as a “daily patrol along a
straight course.” Lord Stradbroke in reply
gave all the credit for his success to his wife,
and ended a breezy speech with “au revoir
until our next merry meeting.” Then there
was “Auld Lang Syne” and the vice-regal
pair gave a farewell handclasp to each guest.
Lady Stradbroke wore a glistening tiara
of Russian mode above a trained gown of
black with sunrayed lines in crystal bugle
beads. The Mayoress, though on the sick
list, managed to be there, wearing a
black frock with colored bead embroidery,
with cape of gold hue traced with sapphire-
blue chenille. Chief Justice Irvine’s lady had
a black gown prinked up with crystal. Mrs.
Bruce had an apron attachment of cream
lace upon apparel of periwinkle blue; Mrs.
Hall Thompson looked almost bridal in ivory
brocade and a Limerick lace scarf; Alex.
Peacock brought his wife, whose dull-black
raiment was brightened with a white cam-
ellia; Mrs. Jimmy Dyer wore an Early Vic-
torian frock of white glace, gold embroidered,
and Mrs. Norman Brookes was in a gown of
hyacinth mauve that sparkled. Most of
Melbourne’s titled citizens put in an appear-
ance, and there was a large congregation of
aldermen and councillors and their women
folk. The musical programme included a
beautifully-sung “My Prayer” by Dorothy
Humphreys.
Members of the Victoria League staged
their farewell to Lady Stradbroke at Men-
zies’, Mrs. Hall Thompson, senior vice-presi-
dent, being charged with the task of voicing
the regrets of the branch. The executive
members and other office-bearers entertained
her Ex. at luncheon before the big affair
took place.
The farewell gift of the Women of Vic-
toria to Lady Stradbroke was a writing-
bureau, with a flavor of the Jacobean about
the fashion of it, made of Australian black-
wood. The beautiful piece of furniture
caught the vice-regal eye at the A.N.A.
exhibition, and some wise person remem-
bered her admiration. Contributors to the
presentation have been numerous enough to
permit of a chair to match being included.
The memento was handed over by Mayor
Brunton at St. Kilda. The Town Hall still
wore for the event the gay gold and blue of
the Rotarians, a relic of the previous .even-
ing’s doings, and women of all ranks of
society came along in their hundreds to bid
the Countess good-bye. Prior to the chang-
ing hands of the gift, Mrs. J. H. Hewison,
who, with the Maudsley lady, secretaried the
presentation fund, handed over an armful of
La France roses; and Mrs. J. B. Duncan, as
spokesman for the Red Cross and for the
women of the Min yip district, offered a pen,
paper-knife and posy. After apologising for
the absence of his popular wife through ill-
ness, the Mayor read the sentiments contained
within an address bound in pale-green leather,
and added a few regrets of his own. Lady
Stradbroke confessed that she knew she was
going to get a present, but declared that she
never dreamed of such a nice one. She added
that the gift would go into her own small
sanctum, whose every bit of furnishing has its
memory. Then there were handshakes all
round, and St. Kilda’s mayor and mayoress
passed the tea and cakes in their reception-
rooms.
Among his mementoes of State Govern-
ment House Earl Stradbroke has a gold-
mounted walkiug-stick made from the timbers
of H.M.A.S. Australia. This relic is the
gift of the Australian Imperial League of
Sailors and Soldiers’ Womenfolk. Anzac
House held this body’s farewell, at which
Lady Stradbroke, in a gown of black with
wreaths of crystal fringe and beads, said
“Thank you” for the official badge of the
League.
Lady Stradbroke carried through her last
public job when she did a bit of bricklaying
for the Women’s Hospital, pronouncing the
foundation-stone for the new infirmary wards
securely fixed. The president, Mrs. A. V.
Hiskens, and Mrs. D. A. Skene, the lion,
secretary, did the speechmaking for the
committee, Dr. Tate Sutherland adding a
bit regarding the hospital’s inception in
1856 with a single room in Albert-street.
The present additions, which will take about
a year to complete, will accommodate 145
patients.
At about the moment Lord Somers, Vic-
toria’s Governor-Designate, was assuring an
interviewer that he was a plain, blunt man
who must always speak his mind, the man
he is to relieve was regaling pressmen at
a luncheon in Melbourne with some of his
own experiences of liberty of speech as far as
vice-regal persons arc concerned. No Gov-
ernor has been more circumspect than the
present holder of the office, yet some artless
Stradbrokian remarks at a tea-meeting or
something about the necessity for immigra-
tion brought a Labor member to his feet in
the State House with a request to know
whether the King’s regent had any right to
an opinion on such a political and partisan
matter. The new man won’t be allowed to
be outspoken—-even about the weather.
.It looks as if the titled young Apsley’s
visit incog, to Aussie had something to do
with the translation of brother-in-law Baron
Somers to the State vice-regal hearth. Prob-
ably the venturesome peer reported so favor-
ably upon Australia that the prospective
Governor was ready to accept the job the
minute it was offered him. His nice-looking
lady evidently heard from her sister, Lady
Apsley, of the opportunities for smart dress-
ing enjoyed by her sex in this fair land, and
when her husband came home and said
“Missus, the billet’s mine,” the future chate-
laine of State Government House made
answer: “Give me some money to get some
clothes. Haven’t got a rag fit to wear out
there.” Anyhow, the cable says she went off
at once to Paris for her raiment; despite
the loud plea of “Buy British-made goods”
which cries from a thousand hoardings.
Pianist Hilda Roberts, here pictured by
a Rembrandt camera, gave a Bach recital
at the As-
sembly Hall
to help the
bush-fire vic-
tims. A Bana-
nalander by
birth, and
nowadays one
of Melbourne's
leading teach-
ers, Hilda won
an exhibition
scholarship in
her student
days that took
her to Trinity
College, Lon-
don. After a
successful
concert career
in London she
came back
certified to im-
part to young
Australia the
methods of Tobias Mathay.
The first annual conference of Rotarians
caused the population of Melbourne to rush
up a few hundreds last week, when delegates
and their women folk dropped from north and
west, the Apple Isle, Maoriland, ’Murka and
Britain. Things moved somewhat crowdedly
and swiftly, and the' conferring was in danger
of being squeezed flat by the multitude of
social jazzes arranged. Wednesday night
“'i all toes tripping at a ball at the St.
KUda Town Hall, in a picturesque setting
of gold and bright blue in lights, garlands
and lanterns. The Rotarian sign of a cog-
wheel, or a like bit of ironmongery, revolved
at intervals upon a black background on
t.he_ stage, and bannerettes, also with the
device, depended from the gallery. These
Kotaters take life and themselves seriously,
and the hop had the same atmosphere. Pre-
sident and members of the Melbourne Rotary
Club were responsible for the arrangements.
Cverett Hill, of Chicago, and his wife, who
was m a glistening black and crystal sheath
gown ; Mrs. Ralph Cummings, also from
Murka, wearing a russet velvet frock with a
border of harmonising silk petals; and W.
McConnell, representing Britain and Ireland
were front-pew guests. A. C. C. Holtz, chair-
man of the conference, brought Mrs. Holtz
in a gown of black georgette, and his daugh-
ter. Mrs. H. Mcßoberts, wife of the chair-
man of the ball committee, combined in her
frock mauve georgette and faint pink net
embroidered in jewelled sequins. From the
Harbor City came Mr. and Mrs. F. Birks,
the Aubrey Hallorans, Mrs. B. Thompson
and others. G. B. Rolph, of the Apple Isle,
was accompanied by Mrs. Rolph, wearing a
cnarming frock shaded from blue to petunia.
The R. Hancock pair and T. McWilliam
came from Brisbane, and Major and Mrs.
M. Baird were Ballarat’s emissaries.
Mrs. Eady Hart, whose alert gaze looks
out from this page, is a very remarkable
woman. For
over 30 years
she has been
closely study-
ing Australian
resources in
the matter of
making vege-
table dyes, and
she has found,
in the bush
round about
he r home at
leafy Ballarat,
the means of
producing a
range of colors
said to surpass
in variety and
beauty those
derived by any
other investi-
gator. She
, . says she has
merely revived a forgotten art, brought to
perfection in the days before the coal-tar
dyes and other chemical colors had been
extracted. She can make coloring matter
out of almost any plant, and says the native
mistletoe, hitherto looked upon as a pest,
has exceptional possibilities as a dye-pro-
diiccr. An important point about Mrs.
rlait s. dyes is that they are edible, being
non-poisonous, which means that they afford
the chef new worlds to conquer. The old
ladys discoveries are fully protected by
patent, her American sheepskin enumerating
more shades than have hitherto been given
protection in the land of the wooden nutmeg
bhe was an exhibitor at Wembley, and
cherishes a diploma and a medal.
When the English-Speaking Union spread
. e . supper-cloth at Scott’s in honor of the
visiting Rotarians, Professor Osborne and pre-
sidmit Bonald Mackinnon did the talking for
the E.S.U. and Everett Hill (U.S.A ) W
McConnell (U.K.) and J. W. Carr (M.L.)
for the Rotaters. Richard Gipps, the E.S.U.
secretary, and Mrs. Gipps helped along the
fraternising; and though each Rotarian ear-
ned his or her visiting-card attached
to coat-lapel or bodice-front, introductions
were not wholly dispensed with. Dr. Ethel
Osborne Mr. and Mrs. Meßoberts, Mrs.
Brash McArthur (Sydney), the Aubrey Ilal-
lorans (also of Sydney), Mrs. Carty Salmon
and Mr. and Mrs. Drummond were amongst
the whirlers. '
There is burning indignation within the
societies run by women over an official re-
fusal to let them have a finger in the Bush-
lire Fund pie; they think it specially ridi
culous that they should be denied a voice in
the rebuilding and furnishing of the homes.
Knight Wdi. Brunton, who is doing his best
as a pacificator, explains that the Government
committee and the local committees will
attend to the housing problem. Incidentally,
a much-travelled lady has intrigued some
of us with a suggestion that the new
dwellings should not be of timber, which is
expensive and liable to destruction by fire
ftany time. Her idea is that we should
build houses of pisd or gravel and Cement.
Sucn residences are said to be cosy, comfort-
able and almost, if not quite, fireproof. An
architect in the Murray district has been
designing homes of such materials with great
success.
Artist Hilda Rix Nicholas has made
somewhat of a stir in the British isles with
her virile canvases. Her exhibition at the
Beaux Arts Gallery, which had the distinc-
tion or being the first “one-man show” of
Australian landscape, was productive of good
sales, about 90 flattering press notices
and such a flutter in art circles that the
Australian has been invited to show her
work in Liverpool, Glasgow, Hull and Edin-
buigh. A big picture of hers, depicting a
mounted stockman gazing over distant plains
and lulls, now hangs in the Luxembourg.
Khe has quartered herself in Paris in the
studio once occupied by Rosa Bonheur.
Mrs. Apperly added a leaf to her laurels
a ‘r n B e P er t° r .y producer by her presentation
of Galsworthy’s latest play, “The Show,”given
at the Playhouse. She made no mistakes
in the casting. The ladies got poor oppor-
tunities for smart dressing: a house of
mourning and the Coroner’s Court, the chief
scenes, don t encourage gay raiment. Still
there were two that caught the eye. Maisie
Bennett on her first appearance -wore a coat
cind skirt of dregs-of-wine hue, with harmon-
ismg felt hat; and Edith Bell as the widow
Anne Morecombe displayed a well-cut black
satin gown of flared design. The stage
bloomed with flowers like a garden after
Heaven-sent rain when the curtain fell on
the premiere.
Apart from the exhibition of big red
crosses outside the pastrycooks’, about the
only thing here that tells of the coming of
Easter is that the lollyshop windows have
broken out into displays of eggs of chocolate
and icing and chookies of the same breed
with families of fluffy yellow chicks. Some
of the eggs are merely shells, capable of
holding an»evening-gown or some such dainty
and diminutive Easter gift.
The F. Ashton-Jonson pair are again
leaving their home at Kensington Gardens
to renew, acquaintance with friends here.
Mrs. Jonson will be remembered as Mary
Greig, a sister of the popular actor-manager
Bob. They are due by the Oronsay, and
will stay at Menzies’.
Xavier College is preparing for the
celebration of its jubilee in 1928. The Old
Boys’ Association, in conjunction with the
school authorities, has taken. in hand the
building of a memorial chapel. Already more
than £5OOO of the £25,000 or £30,000 re-
quired is in hand or promised in sums rang-
ing from £5OO to a fiver. A fair number of
the contributors intend to spread their pay-
ments over three or five years. As scores of
former students have laid up substantial
treasures in this wicked world, and as they
have a strong affection for the Kew Heights
establishment, a good many fat cheques are
likely. You can get almost as much out of
the Celt by touching his pride as by prodding
his generosity.
Looking demurely sweet over an armful of
blushing roses, Nellie Payne walked up to
the altar of Melbourne Grammar chapel on
the arm of Brother Ernest and breathed “I
will” towards Lambert Latham. A long,
floating veil of tulle arranged cap-shape and
garnished with eardrops and trails of
orange-blossoms draped the wide gown and
train of satin. The bridegroom’s cousin,
Moira Bryans, carried a dainty posy of
blue delphiniums against a white panne frock,
and a jewelled pin caught up the hat to
match. Tom Baillieu was best man. Lath-
am, known to all his friends as “Possie,” is
related to the Baillieu family through both
of his parents, and was brought up by his
uncle and guardian, W. L. Baillieu, as one
of them. Accordingly, there was a strong
muster of kinsfolk at the wedding. The re-
ception was held at the house of his aunt,
Mrs. J. S. Teulon, Orrong-road, Toorak, who
gave the bride a necklace and ring of
amethysts. After the honeymoon the young
couple will start housekeeping at Tongey
station (N.S.W.), for Nellie has said
good-bye to the stage—and is quite pleased
to do it.
Miss Adelaide’s annals:—
Ex-pupils of the now defunct Advanced School for
Girls gathered in force to say good-bye to their old
principal, Miss Rees George, who leaves for England
in mid-April. The affairs of the school were in her
capable hands for over 20 years, and she set the
feet of many women on the roadway to success. The
Empire League parts from her with reluctance, too.
She has been its secretary for 25 years, and each
year has shewn a steady increase in membership and
influence. Rugs and cushions, and other useful
articles have accompanied the good-byes.
From India comes news of the death of Margaret,
only daughter of the Coleman Phillipsons, who went
with her mother on a visit to Assam a few monthl-
- Equipped with brains and charm, and only 18,
she was very, popular here with the youngest set.
Ihe Lyceum Club tea-ed Miss Hunter-Watts and
Loma Forbes in some of the few moments they could
snatch from the theatre. It has had as a guest, too,
Mrs, J. Mackay, who had something helpful, to say
about the Sydney Women’s Club and the manage-
ment of its literary circle.
Ihe Campions, when they passed through Oil their
way to the Murray, had a dinner arid lunch ol‘ two at
Government House, an evening at Tob H, a glaricb at
some of our leading industries, and visits to the
Red Cross handicrafts shop and the G.F.S. Hostei.
On Saturday Sir Tom and his (laughter watched
Tortoise 11. run its lone race at the Outer Harbor
while Lady Bridges favored the horse-racirtg at Chel-
tenham. At the 1 acht Squadron’s dinner, where the
motor-boat championship cup was again iodged in
the Rymills’ hands, enough was said in praise of
those two excellent sportsmen to keep them blushing
for years.
Huntsmen have had their preliminary meeting
for the season, installing Paul Teesdale Smith again
as master, F. W. Whyte as president, and H. C.
Cave as trustee in place of the late John Barker.
Our Grand Opera Company is to extend itself, and
will in future be the National G. O. Company of
Australia, still under the Filippini baton, but with
members drawn from all the States and with an
itinerary that includes performances as far afield
as Maoriland.
The ’Varsity students’ concert at the Norwood
Town Hall, or such of it as could be heard above
the cat-ealls and seen through the hail of vegetables
thrown on the stage, was an excellent show of its
kind, with a double star for the dancing (we’re
producing some clever feminine amateurs) and a
special pat on the back for Verna Hackett and Mary
Angel for their share in it. Jack Glover, son of the
ex-Mayor, was producer.
Light Gardens, a new suburb built on the site
of what was Mitcham Camp during the war, is intro-
ducing a new idea—a “shopping quarter.” It
thinks that shops should be (1) not mixed up with
houses; (2) not far away from each other; and
(3) not on a, main road, yet quite close to it. All
thiee requisitions are now being provided for by
shopping-streets” that lead from the main (Good-
wood) road to the residential quarter.


A. SAUNDERS’
MEN’S JEWELLED IMPERIAL
LEVER WATCHES
mm
lli
a
W.fti.p .1
my.*
' " ■' ” v‘< <V', v^
wMm
mmsSk
'::s S S mri
«ss
wm
g
Nickel Hunting Case Keyless
Non-magnetic Lever .... £2
Extra Quality. . . £2/10/-, £3
Solid Silver English Hall-
marked Hunting Keyless
Imperial Lever .... £2/10/-
10-Year Gold-filled Case, Key-
less Imperial Lever. . £2/10/-
Extra Jewelled. . £3, £3/10/-
20-Year Case £5
2 5-Year Case . . £6, £6/10/-
All Guaranteed and Specially
Recommended.
Our Imperial LEVERS.
MEN’S STRAP WATCHES
M
A.SAUNDERS
6YDN&V
M
Write for EASTER GIFT BOOK.
We pay postage on all orders.
Square Cushion - shape
Nickel Lever £2
Extra Jewelled . . £2/10/-
Silver .... £3, £3/10/-
Higher Grade . . £4/10/-
9ct. Gold . . £5, £5/10/-
1 sct. Gold, £B/10/-, £lO
1 8ct. Gold, £l2/10/-,£15
WE GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE WITH EVERY WATCH.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
You always
know—
ħ
a car with a
Westinghouse
Battery. Just the
slightest press-
ure of the foot—
and there’s an
answering pui r
from the engine.
In hail, rain or sun-
shine, you can rely
on the dependable
Westinghouse giving instant
ignition.
The very name of Westinghouse is
a guarantee of public service and
safety. When you next renew —be
sure and ask for a Westinghouse
Battery.
WESTINGHOUSE
8 BATTERIES 8
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 El'zabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A T. Electrical Co., 17 Littl p Latrobe Street , Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Rizzy Motor & t ycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Wm. Hudd&Co,, 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty.. Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: George Geard & Co.. Ltd., Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : North Island: Cars Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
Canterbury etc.. Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dunedin.
■
.. . •:
H
m.
m
11
: .. ;
Ml
m
■
w
u
M
■
t.
■
:
l
IS
m
iffifiiEi
■
H
mm
law#®
■ I
.
/T LTHOUGH the illustrations cannot effectively reveal the
real beauty and quality of the specially selected
gems with which these pieces are set, nor the perfect
workmanship that has entered into their production, they
disclose Pwo very distinctive designs. The diamond earrings
are flexible, the hip brooch, also in diamonds,is representative
of a favored design now being worn in Paris. Both, have been
taken from, a selection of exclusive jewellery which contains
many others just as beautiful and attractive, while additional
designs are continually being added.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
by mail!
Carefully packed in strong
RED METAL BOXES.
No matter where you live in Aus-
tralia you may be sure of them
leaching you in a perfect condition.
h
Manufactured, Packed and
Mailed on the same day
your order is received.
41-
per lb.
lib.
21b.
31b.
41b.
51b.
Red Metal Box.
1
1
20/-
»koGfO*>
Postage, extra
99 99
99 99
N.S.W.
9d.
1/-
1/3
1/6
1/9
Other States.
1/2
1/8
2/2
2/8
3/2
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
duieStHUiu^L
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.


BOTTLED HISTORY
The secret of
i" ■ . ■ • ' • • ' _
x ‘• _ .
the popularity of
o
will be found in-
side every bottle
AGE—
that is the secret of
its mellow flavor
and world-wide favor
Mb.
k
n
SR
Born 1820-
Still Going
Strong
Bottled in Bond under Government Supervision.
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland,


NIGHT SHOOTING AT 200 YARDS
SOMETHING ABSOLUTELY NEW.
NICKEL CASE, lOin. overall, Sin. lens, adjust-
able focus; Stationary and intermittent switch.
Takes S-cell battery. Weight Ijlb 217-
Spare Batteries, 2/6 each. Spare globes 1/0
Also lOClyd.-range WINCHESTER FOCUSING
TORCH. Nickel case, 9in. Adjustable for long
distance. .Takes 3-cell battery, 18/6
FE Case, same model, 100-yard beam, 17/6
NICKEL or FIBRE Case, same as above, 100-
vard beam to take 2-cell battery, 64 inches
overall, 15/-. Spare Batteries, 2-cell, 1/9.
3-cell ,2/6. Globes, 1/3.
Postage on all torches, 1/-. Batteries, od.
318 Little Collins Street. Vrlhnn r
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP * CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
EVER-READY
in V' ca
DRY BATTtRY
A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purpose* or general
utility bells, tele-
phones,burglar alarms,
medical coils, etc.
ħ
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street. Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Melbourne-trained horses made their pre-
sence felt at Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) on Saturday.
Whether they are of better quality than the Sydney
horses, Windbag excepted, or ’ were in better
condition, or the dead going suited them better, they
finished the day with four wins and a second, and
in the other two races they were not represented.
Strangely enough, though most of Vic.’s big punters
were present, there was very little money for three
of their four winners, unless it was dribbled on at
starting price. Switzerland (Bernard- —Bright Siren),
although his recent performances were good, went
out at 20 to 1 for the first division of the Fairfield
Handicap for two-year-olds, in which the 5-to-4
favorite, Seaplane, finished second last—“couldn't
manage the going,” Pike said. Twenties were also
available for a time about Robespierre (Phalaris —
Austral) for the Liverpool Handicap, six furlongs,
although he firmed tp tens; and after figuring at 8 to
1 for the Warwick Farm Autumn Cup, Tookarby, who
was alleged to have been off his feed, drifted to
twenties. There was a lot more lucre for Jimmie
8., the fourth conqueror from beyond the Murray, in
the betting on Hie Cabramatta Handicap, but, a solid
commission coming for Border Chief (as it did in
the corresponding race last year), the Maltster mare
eased to 6 to 1, better in places. And her success
did not prevent McShortodds from having a royal
day.
A dozen Doncaster candidates took part in the
Liverpool Handicap, for which there were 18 starters.
Lausanne, hero of the Railway Handicap at Rosehill,
was favorite at 3 to 1, but failed to come on after
being second at the home turn to his stable-companion,
Bairn. On the other hand, Leslie Wallace (15 to 1),
who had run poorly at Rosehill, cut down Bairn
and Golden Voice and looked like crediting John
Brown with first prize—it w T as worth £469 —till
he was tackled and disposed of, after a sharp
struggle, by Robespierre, who was a neck to the
good at the judge’s box; Irish Prince (s’s), finishing
well as usual, was a length; away third and Manacre
fourth. Robespierre, w r ho has Trenton blood on the
darn’s side, was imported by Sol Green, for whom
he won the Final Handicap at the V.R.C. Autumn
Meeting, A four-year-old by Australian reckoning,
he is a stoutly-built fellow who is doubtless im-
proving with acclimatisation. He carried a pound
more than his Doncaster weight, Bst. 21b., and
was ridden by Reed, who will have the mount
next Saturday. His time was lmin. 14fsec.
With the addition of Pilliewinkie, G’aserta and
Highlander, the 17 acceptors for the Warwick Farm
Autumn Cup would have practically been a Sydney
Cup field. As it was, Tookarby beat 14 horses still
remaining in Monday’s two-miler, and he will meet
all of them on better terms, for, with his 71b.
penalty for winning the St. Kilda Cup, he shouldered
9st. lib., whereas he comes down 131 b. in the Sydney
Clip. And only ihe lightly-weighted Dion (20’s), who
tried to lead all the way, made a race of it with
him in the straight, to be fairly worried out of it
over the last lialf-furlong; Prince Minimbah, the
third horse, w'as between two and three lengths behind
Dion, and Feathernest, who was fourth, was another
couple of lengths away, while the others were well
back. However, Feathernest’s head went up as if
he had cannoned against Dion in trying to get
a run on the rails, and there may have been
excuses for other fancied horses, such as Shrapnel
(6’s), Player (B’s) and Naos (4’s) —the last-named
a likely-looking customer by Martian-—Lady Lucy,
on whom Sol Green played up his Robespierre
winnings. Nevertheless, there is no disputing the
excellence of Tookarby’s performance or the vigor
of Jones’s riding, and the time —2min. 34sec. was
very fast considering the cut-up track.
Windbag, looking brighter than at Rosehill though
not yet at his top, was at 6 to 4 on for the
Chipping Norton Stakes, 10 furlongs, The Night
Patrol being at 6 to 4, Pantheon at 10 to 1, and
David and Te Monanui at any price. The Night
Patrol was taken to the front, but Young, doubtful
of his mount's stamina, set only a moderate pace and
Windbag was never far away. The pair were together
at the home turn, and when Munro called on him
Windbag ran past the English horse without much
difficulty, although he loafed, as is his habit, when
be had the race won. The judge made it half a
length, Pantheon being three lengths behind The
Night Patrol and the other two another six lengths
away. The time was only moderate —2min. BJsec.
Brimming was backed at 7 to 1 for the Cabramatta
Handicap, and she led for a few furlongs, despite
her 9st. 101 b., until Gaelic Maid settled her chance
by coming in on her at the entrance to the straight.
Then Munro gave Jimmie B. her head and she won
comfortably from the fast-finishing Resource (12’s)
arid Hoppi’cker (20’s), another good finisher in St.
Eaton being fourth; time, lmin. 42Jsec. There
were 22 starters, and some of them Were obviously
out for an airing. Still Jimmie B. is useful, though
perhaps unequal to winning a Doncaster with 7st.
51b.
♦ * * *
With Windbag, Pilliewinkie, Heroic, The
Night Patrol, Valicare and other good horses en-
gaged, the A.J.C. is assured of great crowds at
the round of meetings beginning at Randwick on
Saturday, even if there should be a repetition of
the rain which gladdened the farmer and pastoralist
last week. And J. Pluvius generally treats the club
well at Easter. Valicare (Bst. 91b.) is naturally
favorite for the Doncaster Handicap, but those who
fancy her —and it :is difficult not to—would be
foolish to back the unbeaten filly before Saturday
at the odds quoted in the capital cities since she
donkey-licked Windbag and Pantheon at Rosehill.
When Claro was a warm favorite for the 1924
Doncaster, the tote’s concession-betting price was
the same as McCramp’s straightout quotation, which
had ruled for a week or more, and history may
repeat itself. And the tote-odds (or s.p.) punter
does not have to take the risk of anything happening
to the young lady between Thursday and Saturday.
Valicare' is so brilliant and so honest that this page
expects her to win, with all her weight. Still,
she may lose her chance at the start or have it
spoilt by a rough passage, in which case, any one
of a dozen horses might beat her. It is no mean
field, and Fuji San (9st. 71b.), Leslie WaDace (Bst.
121 b.), Hemisphere (Bst. 81b.), Robespierre (Bst.
21b.), Lausanne (Bst.), Irish Prince (7st. 121 b.),
Brimming (7st. 121 b.), Valdoona (7st. 91b.), Wedding
Eve (7st. 51b.) and Resource (7st. lib.) are all possi-
bilities. A wager each way on Irish Prince or a tote
bet on Wedding Eve may conceivably yield more than
the same amount staked straightout oil the favorite.
Wedding Eve is a daughter of Wedding Day, who
won the Doncaster in 1917, and there is reason to
believe that she has improved since she was second,
at level weights, to Valicare in the Adrian Knox
Stakes, on which occasion she was running away at
the finish from Cajole and Tibbie, who have been
good winners since.
With the exception of Highlander (7st. 51b.), and
perhaps Feathernest (7st. 101 b.) and Dion (6st.
121 b.), the N.S.W. horses left in the Sydney Cup
don’t seem to be so well off for condition as the
Melbourne brigade.. The latter have been raced into
fine fettle, so their trainers have no reason to worry
over the idleness caused by last week’s rain, but
with some of the Sydney division the case is different.
Pilliewinkie (9st. 131 b.) won the Australian Cup
with 9st. 61b., having previously run third in the
Melbourne Cup with Bst. 131 b. In that race Tookarby
ran a good fourth with 6st. 131 b.; he has since
annexed the St. ICilda Cup with Bst. 9lb. and the
Warwick Farm Cup with 9st. lib. One can’t pass
either by, but Tookarby seems the more attractive
proposition. Other Melbourne candidates are Heroic
(9st. 71b.), Caserta (Bst. 41b.), Valwyne (7st. 101 b.),
Valbee (7st. 71b.), Answer (7st. 51b.), and Naos
6st. 71b.), who' is by The Cypher’s sire out of a
Maoriland Cup winner. The best of the Sydney
quadrupeds seem ta be Highlander, Feathernest, Dion
and Varney (7st.). This page fancies Tookarby, with
Highlander for a second choice, but if Naos runs well
on the first day he may beat them all.
Manfred’s retirement from the St. Leger has
robbed that race of a good deal of interest, nor has
llunnymede been shaping well. However, the meet-
RANDOLPH ROSE, the If [?]riland distance
runner, who, having beaten Hahn
(U.S.), is to be sent to England for the
British championships.
ing of Windbag, Heroic, Pilliewinkie and co. in
the. w.f.a. races should be quite exhilarating,. and
Rampion, Cyden, Calmest, Seaplane, Lady Constance
and other promising youngsters w’ill provide plenty of
excitement in the two-year-old events. Horses that
may win minor handicaps are Border Chief, Valais
Queen, St. Eaton and Poor Glass.
* * * *
C. T. Godby gave imported Comus a run
at Mentone (Vic.) on Saturday. Comus has w r on in
England at 10 furlongs, the distance of the Mentone
Handicap, and there was a solid commission for him
—7 to 4 was the price at the finish —but the best
he could do for little Godby was third to Oriental
Gem (Sands of the Orient —Kenilera), a 10-to-l
chance, and Woolpack (4 to 1). Threeasta (4’s)
and Coolness (2’s), recent winners like Oriental
Gem, were successful again, in the Mentone Plate and
the Highweight respectively, but what with Oriental
Gem and Weedau (12’s), McShortodds had a bit the
better of things.
* * # #
The Liverpool Grand National, the world's
most famous race for leppers, was won last week
by Jack Horner, ridden by one Watkinson, who owns
Australia as his birthplace, though he has been
riding in Britain since boyhood. The winner, who
went out at 25’s, is owned by an American who
presented jockey and trainer with £lOOO apiece.
Old Tay Bridge and Bright Boy were second and
third, while 16 of the 30 starters failed, to complete
the terribly stiff course. This was further stiffened
some years' ago,, and there is a legend of the Aintree
Club secretary taking a famous amateur rider-owner
to see what was in store for him. “That’ll make
GERALD BUCKLEY, new owner of The
Night Patrol.
you fellows scratch your heads ?” he said, at one
horrible obstacle. “Don’t know about the others,”
was the answer, “but I’m scratching my nag.”
* * * *
“T.D.”: The medical profession ought to
have an occasional ticket on a ’chaser that got a
place at Newnham (Tas.) on Saturday. Brought
up on a mixture of cows’ milk and limewater, the
steed was named Truby King.
* * * #
“Ascot” : The Seremond mare Serella, rac-
ing in Brisbane, will have to change her name to
Secunda if she keeps on the way she has been
going this season. Her second to Lord Mayo in
Tattersall’s Handicap was her sixth second since
Christmas. As usual, she was beaten by a narrow
margin (a neck) after looking all over a winner;
in the five other races the furthest she was off the
big money was half a length. Still, the six seconds
brought in £390 in stake money, and as Serella
sandwiched in two wins (\Vorth £455), she is
paving for her oats.
* * * *
“Bris”: Thrift, a buggy horse from the
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.), has been giving a rare
showing-up to Queensland’s unregistered brigade. In
eight starts he has won seven races, making the
best of the local outlaws look like Dobbins. In
his last race at Kedron, with 9st. 71b. in a First
Division, Thrift won in a canter, cutting out “about
five furlongs” in 59 4-ssee. He now heads the first
division, but as they win at the ponies with 12st.
and 13st. on their backs, he can keep on keeping on
for a long time yet.
* * * *
“Petrie” : March was a fatal month for
Queensland racehorses; no fewer than six well-known
performers passed out from various causes. Three
of them—Lilyguard, Rabisu and Trespasser—were
recent winners. Lilyguard ran prominently in
Tattersall’s Handicap (his first essay at a middle
distance) ; on his way home he tried a bit of
steepleehasing, but broke his neck at the
first fence. Rabisu was condemned to death
three years ago, but was saved by his trainer.
This time there was no reprieve; the gelding broke
down in St. Patrick’s Handicap, for which he was
strongly fancied, and died next day. The unluck''
Trespasser was showing signs of making good at last
when he succumbed to internal injuries. Travelon,
another of the March mortalities, won a couple of
welters at Ascot early in the season. The other
two—Eudorean and Marcosan—were not of much
account,
* * * *
“Centurion” : The decision of the Indian
Army authorities to send a polo team to America is
a new departure, for, though India has despatched
more than one side to Britain, including native
teams, this is the first invasion of the U.S.A. The
four players chosen are all Englishmen, and it is
a pity that circumstances are against some of the
native Indian cavalry officers making the trip, since
many of them are in the first flight as players. The
Indians will be handicapped from the outset by the
pony question. The long transport, and new climatic
conditions will disadvantage ponies from India, to
say nothing of the expense; and to use American
ponies, however good, to which players were not
accustomed would also militate against their chances.
Ponies are not everything in polo, but they are a
preponderating factor.
* * * *
Ignacio Fernandez, the shapely little Fili-
pino, has made his other opponents' in Australia
look cheap, but when he bumps that elusive shadow,
champion Billy Grime, the tale is different. Grime
was in superb boxing form at the Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night, and the Filipino was second-
best always. He was outboxed throughout, and got
the worst of every rally. At the same time, he is
like a snake, dangerous to the bitter end, and some
of his punches in the last two rounds would have
stopped the clock, let alone the white boy M
they had landed fair and square,, which they didn’t;
Those who had laid 7 to 4 on Grime collected at
the end of the 20th round, whereupon the champion
strolled to his room as if he’d just come from
under the shower after an exercise spar. Weights:
Grime, Bst. 12J1b.; Fernandez, Bst. 91b.
* * * *
Alf Stewart, who was knocked out by the
colored middleweights, Payne and Williams, gained
a decision at Melbourne on Saturday night at the
expense of Westralian Ted Monson, who went 20
rounds with Williams. There was plenty of vigor
about the Stewart-Monson mill, but not much science.
Monson would do better if he didn’t hug so much.
“Shrewsbury”: Cambridge has again
beaten Oxford in the annual boatrace on the Thames.
Oxford’s only success since the war was a surprise
victory in 1928, but the Dark Blues still have 401
wins to Cambridge’s 371 —there was a dead-heat in
1877. The weather this time was first-class, and
the race was a fair spin compared with last year’s
contest, when Oxford was swamped. The long course
of 41 miles w r as covered in I9min. 29sec. —not very
fast for a race rowed on the ebb-tide, but the
winners w r ere never really pressed. Austinlia was
represented by J. B. Bell, of Geelong Grammar,
who rowed No. 6 in the Cambridge boat. All
accounts agree that he is an uncommonly good man.
‘‘Past Grammar”; Bell would seem to be a lucky
name to bear fpr any rowing aspirant going up to
Cambridge. In addition to J. B. Bell, at least
three others of the same name figured in the Light
Blue boat in the late ’eighties. These w T ere J. P.,
W. and Colin Bell, sons of that Joshua Peter Bell
w’ho was _ Premier of Queensland in the Northern
State’s wild ana woolly days. All learned to row r
at Eton, and w T ere finished oarsmen. Their coaching
did wonders for Brisbane crews, on their return
to Queensland, and that State's victory in the
inter-State eights in 1891—a victory that was not
repeated until 1924 —was chiefly due to their precept
and example.
♦ * * #
“Past Grammar”: Hardly anyone con-
nected with cricket, how’ever scant his knowledge or
lowly his lot, can open his mouth in England just
now without warming the cables. One Alderman
Bennett, who once had some official connection with
Yorkshire cricket, is the latest. He blames his
brother Tykes for playing “over-keenly,” just like the
Australians, and opines that it is not quite cricket to
win at all costs. That’s a strange doctrine for an
alderman as I know the breed. As long as vio-
lence or swindling is not resorted, to it is hard
to see why people playing games should not employ
all their knowledge and experience to supplement
their skill and help them to win. Cricket, however
“over-keen,” has not yet rivalled Yankee baseball,
where every possible device, from vile abuse to
intimate personal remarks, is employed as a matter of
course to put striker or pitcher off his game or to
intimidate the umpire. This is as true of Australian
cricket as any other variety, though to read some
English comments one would not guess it.
* * * *
“FY7”: A queerer cricket score than that
quoted by “Adelaide” (B. 25/3/’26) was put up by
Stanley against Albert on the old Bowen Bi-idge
Ground, Brisbane, in 1891. It was quoted in
Lilywiiite’s—later Wisden’s—for years, and may
be there yet. Arthur Coninghain, a member of the
1893 Australian XI, went in first and made 28,
carrying his bat; all thei others, including sundries,
had “0” opposite their names. The team was one
of the leading Brisbane clubs, and contained several
inter-State batsmen. The bowler who did the damage
was Trinnick, a medium-pace righthander, and the
pitch was black soil drying in a hot sun after heavy
rain.
• • # *
“Hamer”: “Lucky” Collins is reported to
have won £132 in a shipboard sweep before the
Otranto, which carries the Australian XYI and its
fortunes, reached Colombo. On a previous trip there
was a big sweep, and Collins was not announced
as the winner. “Where’s the luck gone, Herbie?”
quizzed one of his colleagues. “You didn’t lift it
that time!” Collins grinned. “No,” he said, “but
I saved fifty-fifty with the man who did.” His losing
ticket was worth £7B ta Herbert on that occasion.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : The joys of professional
football in N. S. Wales are well illustrated in
the tremendous slump experienced this season in the
once-lucrative country coaching industry. For the
past two seasons the N.S.W. League’s anxieties have
been increased by the loss of prominent players,
who have gone to coach provincial clubs at salaries
running from £8 to £l2 a week, with board and
lodging. Nou t the game is up. The coaches, who
have to play themselves, find that casualties come
their way with remarkable consistency. Further, as
country League footer is often played for stakes,
and betting is always heavy, losers are apt to grow
vitriolic about the coaching. The clubs have decided
to abandon big salaries for coaches and matches
for £lOO up. They will play a regular competition
series in future, and any coach who asks more than
£5 per week for his services will get the sharpened
axe.
■» * * *
Harry Braddon, who last week resigned
the presidency of the N.S.W. Rugby Union, which
he had held for a generation or more, learned to
play Rugby at Dulwich School in England, but
had to take to the Australian game when his people
came to Tasmania. His proficiency caught the eye
of a visiting Maorilander, who offered him a job
in a bank at Invercargill. Coming to Sydney with
the All Blacks of 1884, Braddon stayed in Australia,
another bank offering him another job, to the great
benefit of N.S.W. Rugby. A fast and slippery three-
quarter, he turned out for N.S.W. in 1890 and 1892.
As an administrator, he has been reckoned conser-
vative even in a game notorious for conservative
traditions. Still, his services to Rugby have been
considerable, the more creditable, too, since his
interests in other walks of life than sport have been
so many and so important.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
should have some trouble in selecting its rep. teams
this season. In addition to the brilliant lot who won
nine games out of 11 in Maoriland last year, there
are the overseas internationals A. O. Wallace, Lawton
and Robertson—he has played half for Scotland —and
the South Africans Van der Menve and Pegler. Van
der Merwe brought a great reputation from the Cape,
w r here he is considered a wing three-quarter of excep-
tional class. He, his fellow-Afrikander and Robert-
son will play for Eastern Suburbs.
THE BURDEN OF MODERN KINGSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“George V. seems to have developed into one of
the regulars at the [football] barracking game.”
—(B. 25/S/’26).
A glorious thing to be a king,
A cushy billet, what?
But tiring (eh?) when you survey
The things to do you’ve got,
And think on where you needs must fare
Whether you like or not.
He’d happy be unquestion’bly,
When cares of State allow,
Where grouse allure upon the moor
Or stags upon the brow;
But diyers sorts of homelier sports
Demand his presence now.
The points that make the game, and take
The cheers, may well be hid
From one who ne’er took pass in air
Or through the scrummage slid ;
But he must thrill at feats of skill—
Or look as if he did.
He’d feel at home upon the foam
With racing yachts in view,
But he must grace the topmost place,
And lead the cheering, too,
Where blown mankind, in fame enshrined,
The leather blown pursue.
Not his to clout or toss about
A cricket-ball with zest,
Yet mild surprise might well arise
If he should miss a Test
Or fail each ball to watch with all
An expert’s interest.
A glorious thing to be a king,
Which no one will deny,
And on your people’s sports to keep
A kindly regal eye.
Yet none the less, at times, I guess,
He’s tried a trifle high.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Per/oct fiencijT
forjoer/oci M>or>£_^.
h
The favourite of
every one who has
once used it.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LONDON, Eng.
Agrent :
J. MACDOTJGALL, G.P.O. 166 SYDNEY.
Factory Czecho - Slovakia.
"for a good
nights rest
ĥ
it will ensure
a good day ’s
work
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
RipgiJN
THE FAME OF
RIPOLIN
The ENAMEL PAINT by which all others are measured and
judged. Jt is International and World Wide, and is the recognition
of an article that in its line is unequalled and unrivalled.
SUPPLIED IN WHITE & 65 ARTISTIC SHADES.
L. A. CORMACK (Factory Rep).,
4 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 8.3284.
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD., 379 Flinders St., Melbourne
S* J- SQUIRES & CO., LTD., 171 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
OLARIvSON, LTD., 124 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
ħ
h
WHEN YOUR CHILD
IS BILIOUS
Its Appetite is Poor and Variable—
And It Is Restless In Its Sleep.
To Correct This Bilious Condition
And Stimulate The Torpid Liver
THERE’S NO MEDICINE TO EQUAL
CHAMBERLAINS TABLETS
Wonderful for Biliousness, Constipation and Bad Breath.
PER ROOM PER DAY
That is the average cost of
Q 5
Ideal
1
WARMING
for 3 to 10 rooms
and Hot Water Supply
ALL FROM
ONE FIRE !
PREPARE FOR WINTER NOW—SEE BANKS
mam
324-330 PITT ST., SYDNEY. 391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne
THE INKY WAY.
The Symes, resolved to stick to the old
Collins-street stand, have just bought from
G. and R. Wills and Co., warehousemen,
their seven-storey brick building adjoining
the Age office at the rear for £85,000.
“M,G.S.”: Gipsy Smith, the short and
stout evangelist whose lunch-time addresses
have been drawing “business men” from the
pavements in Melbourne lately, is not with-
out a rough-and-ready humor. Thanking the
reporters the other day for the publicity
their papers had given him, he pointed out
that Christ had not been so fortunate. “The
people were not able to see Him because
of the press.”
“Kahbionba”: It has often puzzled me
why no literary agents advertise in The
Bulletin. Its readers number most Austral-
asians interested in literature; and lots of
us have stacks of stuff which, marooned as
we are in wildernesses, we’re at an utter
loss to place, if unsuitable for these columns.
Why do not some of the persons competent
to advise hang their shingles in the one place
where they are sure to meet all interested
eyes?
“H.G.D.”: Passed away at Jitarning
(W.A.) Andrew Dungey, aged 84. He was
the first proofreader on the old Ballarat
Star ; later he was editor and proprietor of
a paper at Port Pirie (S.A.), and a pro-
lific contributor for many years to the Adel-
aide press. He had eight children and his
eldest son has 11. One of his daughters is
Miss Nell B. Dungey, the first woman can-
didate. for Parliament in Westralia; she
fought for the Swan seat against four other
candidates, amongst them the late J. B.
Holman. She finished third. Andrew
Dungey had one shot for Parliament himself
—he contested the Port Pirie seat many
years ago.
“Hasen” : Everyone knows that the mixing
of metaphors sometimes causes as ludicrous
results as the mixing of drinks, but often
enough a slavish following of your original
metaphor to its logical conclusion lands you
in just as big an absurdity. Witness this
Brisbane Daily Mail cable about ructions
in Italy: “Signor Farinacei has been
severely snubbed because he took disciplinary
measures against the moderates, and his dis-
missal from the general secretaryship of the
party is believed to be imminent; also steps
to draw the teeth of his colleagues, whom
Signor Mussolini regards as fire-eaters.’’
Somehow 1 had never visioned the fiercest
fire-eater as chewing his flames.
“Been Stung”: The Electoral Bill finally
passed by the N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly at
the tail-end of the recent session abolishes
Clause 152 of the old Act, and therefore
makes a Parliamentary candidate respon-
sible for his election expenses to the coun-
try and city printer. It also makes anyone
liable to a fine of £2O who incurs debt on a
candidate’s behalf without such candidate’s
written consent. , E. A. Fitzpatrick, of the
Wingham Chronicle, on the Manning
River, had been plugging away at this ques-
tion each Country Press Conference for the
past five or six years: at his instigation
Conference invariably passed a resolution
asking the Government of the day for legis-
lation that would bring the political high-
wayman within the law. The country press
is thankful that this has been done at last;
many a country newspaper proprietor has
been stung by the dishonest candidate.
“Lomkey Ree”: Who was the real author
of those oft-quoted lines which, it seems to
be admitted, A. L. Gordon didn’t write though
they appear in most editions of his works?
On my first week in London during the war
I stopped to watch a pavement artist.
He drew a good line-picture of me in
about 30 seconds and then wrote below it in
a fine script, “Life is mostly froth and bub-
ble,” etc., to the end of the verse. He got all
my small change. I mentioned the incident
to a friend in Australia and later was told
that the verse was carved in the wall of a
room in the Swan Inn on the bank of the
Thames. I started out for the Swan Inn,
but finding there were' about 45 of them,
and my capacity for “entire” and “four’arf”
being limited, gave up the quest. Tliefl
another friend wrote me that the verse was
carved in an oak beam over the fireplace of
an old house called “Bishop’s Farm,” near
Windsor. This I verified, but further in-
quiry brought out the information that the
old house was comparatively modern, and
that the builder, having .a fancy for the lines
without knowing-who wrote, them, had caused
them to be carved in the oak chimney-piece.
Later still, at a little stationer’s near
Streatham, close to where old Sam Johnson
enjoyed the society of Mrs. Thrale, I found
a copper plate with the verse embossed on
it. I sent that out to the late Mrs. Peter
Low, Gordon’s widow, and it went into her
“Gordon room” at ,Caunawigia (S.A.).
MULTUM IN PARVO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Literary \ oung man, assist small sporting pub-
lication.”—s. M. Herald advt.
Gieat oaks from little acorns grow.
Though this beginning seems but humble,
It may turn out a bosker show
tor one who’s not inclined to grumble—
Some confident and pushful youth
M ho 11 take the rough side with the smooth.
Not all may ponderously bemuse
The public in the Morning Orowler,
Or lurid loves of ladies loose
Display, as does the Evening Howler.
Yet each, according to his kind,
May fame and beastly fortune find.
For, even if your fellows tend
To guide the good or show up sinners,
While you the veils of racing rend
And loudly trumpet all the winners,
You’ve each as many legs to pull,
And ears to bite, and mugs to gull.
Your feet set fairly on the way,
There’s little need to dread extinction;
From lowlier things before to-day,
Others have risen to' distinction—
The guerdon won of M.L.C.,
Even indeed the K.B.E.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


THE ROYAL EASTER SHOW
' and
An Invitation,
The Royal Easter Show—and with it thousands of Country people on their annual visit to Sydney.
To these Country friends, MICK SIMMONS, LTD., extend an open invitation to make a visit of
inspection of “THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.” As every Country man knows
there are many Departments in this great Store that are of vital interest to him. Ihe invitation is also
extended for our visitors to make use of the sumptuously-appointed Lounge, just off the Cafe, on the
first floor, for a half-hour’s respite or letter-writing purposes.
Below, we feature representative lines from several Departments,
From our Mercery Department
y/l'.l
%
STRIPED ENGLISH
CREPE GOLF
SHIRT. Collar to
match. Excellent
value and guaran-
teed to be of durable
quality cloth that
will stand plenty of
washing and wear. .
STRIPED PURE FUJI
SILK GOLF SHIRT.
Collar to match. A
9/6
Special of ours. . . .
GREY ALL - WOOL
FLANNEL
TROUSERS. Excel-
lent cut and finish. A
line that is exclusive
to Mick Simmons.
21/-
Note the Price ....
CREAM ALL-WOOL
SERGE TROUSERS.
Of splendid quality
material and guaran-
teed absolutely un-
22/6
shrinkable
276
NAVY ALL-WOOL FLANNEL BLAZERS, bound Sky,
Red, White and Gold. All Sizes
PULL-OVER SWEATERS. A Special Line just
opened in the very latest designs and colorings 22/6,
SWEATER-COATS. English Brushed Wool in colors of
Grey or Fawn. This is true value and cannot be equalled
anywhere
27/6
276
13/6
We Pay Carriage.
From our Tennis Department
THE LIGHTNING RACKET.
It stands out as the most
reasonably priced high-
grade Racket on the
market. Has Concave
Throat, reinforced with
Raw Hide, and is strung
with dependable English
Gut
40/-
M.S. WONDER RACKET.
A truly great little
Racket for the School-
boy or Schoolgirl just
learning to play
25/-
THE LEE MONOGRAM
RACKET. It is undoubt-
edly the world’s finest
ssss
tUf
li
■
I
\
I
V
Tennis Racket. Beautiful, graceful and strong, and with
many unique features, it stands out as the finest example
of the Racket Manufacturer’s craft. Made in two qualities.
STANDARD MODEL
75
DE LUXE MODEL 85 -
DUKE’S ROYAL ENSIGN RACKET. We have just landed
another shipment of this world-famous Racket o*3 ■
We Pay Carriage.
From our Gun Department.
STEVENS’ LITTLE SCOUT SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 22-
calibre; 18-inch round steel barrel; open rear and
knife-edged front sights; weight about 2-2-lb. A great
little Rifle and ideal for Rabbit Shooting
Postage: N.S.W., 1/3; Other States, 2/2.
26/-
THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12-gauge, steel
barrels, left choke, rebounding bar locks. An all-
round Gun for the Man in the Country
We Pay Carriage.
£4/15 -
FROM OUR WIRELESS DEPARTMENT
BURNDEPT WIRELESS SETS.
We have made an arrangement with BURNDEPT WIRELESS, LTD., LONDON, England’s
foremost manufacturers of Wireless Sets, etc., to act as their DISTRIBUTORS for New South Wales.
With the BURNDEPT ETHODYNE 7-VALVE RECEIVING SET you are able to tune in to all
Australian Stations, including 2FC, Sydney, with an INDOOR LOOP AERIAL —thus doing away
with all outside Wires, etc. These Sets warrant the attention of the Radio Fan or the Man who is
desirous of possessing the very latest in Wireless Broadcast Receivers.
See this Set at our HEADQUARTERS, HAYMARKET.
Other Burndept Sets, including the up-to-date 2-VALVE DUPLEX SET, complete with Loud Speaker, ready to listen in .... £l5
Yd
m
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.”
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


Protect Your Dependants Against Probate Duty.
TO the man on the land preparation for Probate Duty
is of utmost importance. The tax itself is unusu-
ally heavy. The period required for its assessment
is long. The estate with its income is not available to
dependants until the tax is paid. P. & C. Probate Assurance
meets both contingencies. It provides dependants with an
immediate income, and thereby protects them against hard-
ships during the waiting period; it also pays the tax, and
thus avoids the frequent and disastrous necessity of sacrific-
ing part of the Estate in order to raise the large sum
required, and thereby forfeiting for always the income derived
from it. Probate is a matter that is inevitable —one that
must be faced. Send for folder dealing fully with this import-
ant subject, post free, of course.
The Producers & Citizens’
of Australia, Limited,
Governing Director: A. K. TRET-HOW AN.
fl
Co-operative Assurance Co.
Head Office: 114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Branches: Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart.
General Secretary: 11. FELL.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Katja”
Criterion “Polly with a Past”
Royal “White Cargo”
Palace “Give and Take”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fullers’ Theatre Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Pavlova
Royal “Lilac Time”
King’s “Quality Street”
Princess “Mercenary Mary”
Athenasum “The Sport of Kings”
Tivoli Vaudeville
HuotJ Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Taking the opportunity to spread the
opening of its. new Sydney house over two
nights and a matinee, the Ward-Fuller man-
agement set the ball rolling at the St. James
Theatre on Friday with “No, No, Nanette.”
A brilliant audience left the wet storm out-
side, allowing nothing to depress spirits
which bubbled into laughter and applause
at a touch; and it arrived early in order to
get acquainted with a show-house which cer-
tainly looked dazzling in its new robes. The
theatre itself is a credit to Australian work-
manship, and will be called blessed for many
reasons. Except to the gallery there is no
noticeable climbing (one goes down a few
steps to the stalls or uj) a few steps to
the d.c.) ; Sydney is introduced to cushioned
chairs with pivoted backs, giving support
whatever way the occupant likes to sit; the
foyers are roomy and luxurious; and the
carpets, tapestries and other details of the
decorative scheme help anyone who has the
price of a ticket to feel like a millionaire.
The architect has succeeded in bringing the
broad stage closer to the audience than usual,
and there is not a seat from which a good
view of it is unobtainable. The audience
at the opening would have liked to pay its
compliments to Henry White, the archi-
tect, but its enthusiasm had protracted the
play until past eleven; so the after-the-
show functions had to be curtailed.
“THE SHOW,” AT
MELBOURNE
PLAYHOUSE.
Keith L. Roberts as a detective, and
R. Moyle as a juryman.
“No, No, Nanette” is the hilarious comedy
“His Lady Friend” set to song and dance
by Vincent Youmans; and it was a very
capable company which brought back memo-
ries of the old days of musical comedy. A
wealthy Bible-publisher wants to spend his
money in making other people happy, but
his wife is a saving soul who, when, given a
wad of notes to spend, buys a money-box.
To satisfy his benevolent yearnings, the
jovial Croesus subsidises various lady-friends,
with whom his relations look anything but
innocent when they all arrive at the spot
where he has taken Nanette, a young relative
of his wife, also purely with the idea of
giving her a good time. His struggles in the
ensuing tangle, which involves his friend and
solicitor, Billy Early, make good comedy
against the background of well-arranged
choruses and dances. In these comedy roles
Jimmy Godden and Morton Charlton were
well enough contrasted in build and style
to make good foils for one another; Elsie
Prince, as Nanette, painted a lively portrait
of a girl brimming with eagerness to enjoy
life; May Beattie, as a servant who makes
a habit of giving notice, and Madge White,
as the spendthrift wife, of Morton Charlton,
offered diverting studies of character; and,
although Oliver McLennan -was stiff as Tom
Trainer, and Constance Evans, as Winnie
from Washington, was weak in acting and
voice, the latter’s dancing was compensation.
Elsie Parkes as Sue, the money-saving wife
of Jimmy Smith, adequately filled ,a part
played in the Melbourne production by Anita
Shawe.
4= * 4s sfc
A shuffle in arrangements has brought
Pavlova’s Sydney season a week nearer. The
lady leaves her visit to Adelaide until the
end of her Australasian tour, and she will
dance at Her Majesty’s on April 17. Till
then “Katja” will go its melodious way in
Pitt-street.
Judging by the crowds that turned out to
Clara Butt and Kennerlpy Rumford’s Sydney
farewell on Saturday, the two favorites could
keep on singing good-bye for a twelvemonth
and still show a profit. The contralto’s out-
standing numbers were Elgar’s “Sea Pic-
tures,” “The Swimmer” being extraordinarily
vivid ; and the accompaniment of the Conser-
vatorium orchestra conducted by Arundel
Orchard enriched the “Samson and Delilah”
thriller, “Softly Awakes My Heart.” Ken-
nerley Rumford had the orchestra as back-
ground for two of his offerings: the “Song to
the Evening Star” from “Tannhauser” and
“The Yeomen of England.” Liszt, Chopin
and Debussy were a trio of the composers
sparklingly presented by the little pianist,
Marie Antoinette Aussenac.
# * * *
The Sydney Easter Show burst its waist-
coat years ago, and, even with the additional
roomage given by extensions covering aii
area which used to be big enough to hold
the annual camps of the N.S.W. military
forces and their rifle-practice, thp carnival
is likely to be more crowded than ever this
year during its nine days and five nights.
In spite of the presence of bulls much too
valuable for beef and rams with pedigrees
prouder than some royalties’, the Show is
anything but a bucolic affair ; and the com-
plete scope it gives for an investigation of
machinery marvels provides material for
more than a nine days’ wonder. One item
amongst the multitude of sundries which
attracts more than usual interest is a com-
plete model in glass of the North Shore
bridge, the work of an exhibitor who caught
this Page’s eye last year—the only woman
glassblower in Australia.
* * * *
“Polly with a Past” will expose it at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night.
* 4: 4:
Public approval of “Give and Take” con-
tinues to be expressed with such emphasis
that, although its industrial commonwealth
has been given notice to quit the Criterion,
the laughing show will abide in Sydney for
yet a while. On Saturday it will transfer
to the Palace. As a consequence this sea-
son’s last opportunity to see “Kangaroo
Flat” in Sydney will be to-night (Thursday).
❖ * #
Tropical heat is still maintained at the
Sydney Royal for the benefit of its “White
Cargo.”
* sfc * sk
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” will introduce a new
generation of Sydney playgoers to a popular
old sob-story at the Grand Opera House on
Saturday.
* * * *
For the benefit of the radium fund she
is promoting, Nellie Stewart will be “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury” at Sydney Grand Opera
House on the afternoon of April 22. Most
of the leading thespians who will be in the
city on that date are volunteering.
* * * *
The Sydney Tivoli has seen no reason to
make any violent changes in the programme,
which has merely put the three Swifts in
the place of a double-piano turn in the
American language. The loudest crackles of
applause are won by Gautier’s well-trained
dogs—in the frenzied way they rush out of
sight when they happen to shed their trou-
sers they remind this Showman of the dogs
of a Sydney old maid which, when any
visitors reached the house, used to hide be-
hind the door until they were dressed. But
altogether the programme is good and well
assorted.
* * * *
Jim Gerald as “A Merry Masquerader”
provides the usual hotch-potch of hilarity
which goes to make the vaudeville revue at
Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney). Eileen Fleury,
calling herself a syncopated comedienne, is
a bi-ight addition; and the Littlejohns, with
glittering brilliants to reflect the lights in
every possible part of the stage, deliver what
can be called in that respect a dazzling turn.
Apart from the eye-blinding novelty, it is
rather an ordinary one, though. Nick Mor-
ton, _ a talkative songster, deserves more en-
comiums ; and Paul Lopez has some wander-
ing drollery which “gets” the audience com-
pletely.
! Ib the Lon Chaney picture “The Monster,”
; shown at Sydney Lyceum this week, an
experimenting scientist traps human beings
in order to try tricks with them that con-
-1 r.T, I’*' 1 ’*' them into all sorts of monstrosities.
I he powers of the film have been used to the
limit to turn the Wellsian material into
creeps. The adventures of a workhouse in-
mate, who finds herself suddenly the possessor
of a million dollars and proceeds to set the
world to rights with it, are shown in “Dru-
silla with a Million,” which comes as a relief
to the piled-up horrors. A pigeon pair of
exponents of near-musical instruments,
Stuart and Cameron, fill in the interval.
Thomas Meighan, growing rather mechanical
in his strutting along the path of hard-
fighting and ultimately-suceessful virtue, is
“The Man Who Found Himself” at Hoyt’s;
the amusing “The First Year,” a homely
comedy of the disasters that come to matri-
monial amateurs, is more likeable. At the
“ KATJA ,” AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S,
Reginald Dandy
as Ivo and Cecil
Kellaway as
Count Orpitch.
Prince Edward, where “The Iron Horse” still
keeps on the rails, singer Alfred O’Shea is
using his fine and cultured voice to provide
incidental harmony.
* * * *
The opening of Sydney’s annual circus
ceremonial at Wirths’ Hippodrome last week
was given a baptism of rain; nevertheless
a great crowd of children and of elders keen
to renew the delights of their youth cheered
the Flying Nelsons (two men and a girl),
whose act provides the entertainment’s chief
thrill, the performing elephants, the trained
lions, the comedy dogs and the rest of the
box of tricks. Eileen May has a control over
the elephants which is remarkable; the girl-
ish figure dominating the big beasts gives
distinction to several acts. Betts’s seals,
monkeys and dogs are popular favorites; and
Alf Clarke, still advertised as “England’s
Champion Horseman,” although he is now
one of the old identities of Wirths’ show,
remains as agile a youth as ever.
* * * *
Some water-colors:—
There is love of his subject in everything that
John Eldershaw paints. This Tasmanian artist is
no hurried dauber, but a painter whose art is his
mistress, for whom no labor is too great; and the
exhibition of 40 water-colors from his brush at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, reflects his earnestness.
Sometimes there is fault in the artist’s vision,
and he is led astray by an inclination to experi-
ment ; in “The Stable Yard,” for instance, the sky
is cut off by high walls reaching to the eaves of
the barn. But very little exception can be taken
to any of the pictures, of which “A Pear-tree” —
a winter view with frosty light well expressed—
“ The Wayside Stack,” and “The Arched Bridge”
may be selected as those which appeal most strikingly.
4= * * *
Probably the largest army of amateurs ever
recruited by the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre was seen in Galsworthy’s new drama,
“The Show,” at the Playhouse last week.
There were 49 of them, and, considering their
numbers, they were a good army. The pisce
is a satire on the dear, .muddle-headed and
romantic multitude, and opens with the wife
of England’s most famous airman ’phoning
her lover to tell him that her husband lias
just suicided. Enter a detective, who pro-
ceeds to follow up a clue leading towards the
wife’s ex-marital love-affair. Enter on his
heels the reporter of the Evening Sun, “out
bright and out early,” who pursues a clue
leading towards the dead man’s mistress. The
large headlines proper to a matter of such
public importance bring into the editorial
office of die paper the indignant father of
the wife and the devastated mother of the
man. The editor acclaims his duty to the
public, and points out that newspaper-men
are decent-hearted fellows—it is the public
that makes the papers what they are. The
last act presents the inquest. All the fashion-
able world arrives to hear the piquant de-
tails ; and after everybody has been suitably
besmirched in the interests of public curi-
osity, it transpires that the dead hero’s
motive was the dread of approaching mad-
ness due to his war experiences.
* * # »
Galsworthy has carried out his purpose
well. He has succeeded in threading an in-
teresting thesis in human psychology on to
a detective story which keeps the spectator
guessing to the end. Edith Bell could have
put more emotion into the part of the air-
man s errant spouse without danger of over-
acting. Ruby May was a maid who had
more to do than bring in the tea, and did
it strikingly. Keith Roberts, the detective,
went purposefully about the job of follow-
ing the wrong cue; and Terence Crisp, the
reporter, extracted false information from un-
expected quarters with the sparrow-like alert-
ness of his kind. Maisie Bennett played the
suicide’s mistress with unforced pathos; Leo-
nie Eevy as an editor defended the ethics of
the press like an! accomplished leader-writer,
and Harold Harwood as the father of the
lady displayed at least a talent for conven-
tional histrionics. Rena Lillie, A. Isaacson
and Laurence Krome supplied a neat vign-
ette of the fashionable world, and Charles
Howlett, as foreman of the jury, presided
over a collection of good men and true whose
goodness, trueness and sublime stupidity
must have been a revelation to those of the
audience, who imagined that our judicial
system rests upon abstract principles of
justice. Elizabeth. Apperly is to be compli-
mented on the way she has licked her huge
awkward-squad into shape. She has com-
mitted no outrage on the playwright’s liter-
ary intentions. The same piece presented on
the legitimate stage would have been an
opportunity for bawling rhetoric and barn-
storming capers such as few professional
mummers could let slip.
** * *
However well possessed of dance pro
grammes Pavlova may be, “The Swan” can’t
he left out; this week it is again included by
special request of a public always ready to
deliver its thunder of applause when Pavlova
has fluttered to her death. For this week the
ballets were “Amarilla,” to music by Glazou-
nov and Drigo, and the weirdly conceived
phantasy of the “Walpurgis Night” from
Gounod’s “Faust.” Ponchielli’s familiar "La
Gioconda” music accompanied the “Lance
of the Hours.” There is no falling off in
Melbourne’s appreciation of the show at
which drama, comedy and romance are inter-
preted by movement. The management,
keeping to a good policy, announces another
complete change for next Saturday.
% ti: s|:
“The Sport of Kings” is providing sport
for democrats at Melbourne Athenaeum.
* n* *
There are no signs yet that the sands of
“Lilac Time” at Melbourne Royal are run-
ning out.
** * *
The staging of “Quality Street” at Mel-
bourne King’s is 'worth the attention of con-
noisseurs. The furniture is stated all to be
genuine antique of the period of the play.
“QUALITY STREET.” AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
The gallant Captain Valentine Brown (Brim
Aherne) resumes a ten years’ courtship
with Miss Phabe Throssel (Angela
Baddeley) .
If the creature at present interesting ama-
teur zoologists at Melbourne Tivoli had been
born human he might have had a tendency
to ingrowing toenails or a gift for house-
maid’s knee; being born a sea-lion, his freak-
ishness took the form of a tendency to be a
juggling clown. In the cultivation of his
talents he has of course picked up various
tricks, including one of always failing at
the first attempt—a time-worn device of the
balancing show. The sea-lion’s human col-
leagues include Fransky. who has humorous
feet, and the Four Sheiks, who sing accept-
ably. Bob Albright, the cowboy comedian,
has returned, and is asking his listeners
whether Gipsy Smith saves more souls than
Henry Ford. This Showman doesn’t know,
but believes that Henry has shaken hell out
of more people than ever the Gipsy has.
(Continued on page 36. )


A
Kingly Drink
with a
Kingly Title.
TOP
NOTCH
il
:
H
m
w
i
V
%
OF
SCOTCH
RING
GEORGE IV
Scotch WhisKy
*
THE
i •' ' -
Branches s Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
IMITED,
(of Edinburgh)


When You Arrive
In Melbourne
do so secure in the knowledge
that your accommodation has
been reserved at the
mill
ia
mm
Vi
6"*
Vlitll
MMUUIIIIIIII
m
[Li
ĥ
£
o
v?
Vv A v V
i 1 nn
Spring Street, Melbourne.
This palatially-appointed and ideally-
situated residential hotel offers you com-
plete comfort and every convenience.
Minimum Tariff from 22/6 inck
Room and .Breakfast, 15/-
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melb.
For intimate wear there’s
nothing satisfies like 3ASON"
You will never feel a “JASON” garment
itself into uncomfortable creases
round your waist. “JASON” fits trimly, and
smoothly. The “JASON” finish never
roughens with the wash and wear of many
seasons, but is always luxuriously soothing to the
delicate skin— and “JASON" NEVER SHRINKS.
AU*WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
Tour store, has “Jason" Underwear in all sizes and
W.*"«>■ «"« Summer weights for Men, Women and
“Olympic”
Brand is a
lower priced
underwear
with the
same guar-
antees of
of value and
satisfaction
as "Jason."
Sole Manufacturers:
JASON UNDERWEAR CO. - Leicester. England
a
Melbourne Bijou has been turned into a
dwarf town by the incursion of Irving’s Im-
perial Midgets, the 25 Lilliputians who do
everything from musical comedy to acro-
batics, and for the most * part do it in a
manner that would pass muster apart from
the novelty of the players’ size. The males
of the Murfayne Duo introduce some comedy
upon a slack wire, and Barclay is a magician
of considerable parts. The Four Little
Kellys are a band of Australian prodigies
of whom Leonie with her violin is the out-
standing performer.
* * * -'I:
“Not So Long Ago” is the chief dumb
rhapsody at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week.
Betty Bronson, the flapper whom Barrie
selected to play the part of Peter Pan, is its
star, and it should satisfy most needs of the
thirstily romantic. Ivnock-’em-down and
drag-’em-out farce, dressed in the habiliments
of the frozen North of America, is in session
at: the Majestic. “Baree, Son of Kazan,” is
its title, and it stars the canine which was
bred from the loins of the famous Kazan him-
self. Something different is “The Count of
Luxembourg,” the supporting film, a color-
ful photographing of Lehar’s opera.
#* * *
The Adelaide musical comedy “Yvonne”
was much brisked up and shortened on its
later performances. Basil Harford domi-
nated the stage in his few appearance as a
magician of unexplained powers, and all-round
the dancing was highly creditable to the
trainers of an amateur crowd. Russell and
Nellie Bramley have already bought one of
Miss Aird’s plays for early production, and
“Yvonne” also, with its haunting melodies,
should have distinct commercial possibilities.
Another out-of-the-common show was that
given by the ’Varsity students. There was
much talent, but a lot of it wasted through
noisy interruptions. As for the frequent
throwing of vegetables, which struck lady
performers and stalls patrons almost indis-
criminately, it will have to be put down;
and it shouldn’t be necessary to call on any
authority outside the students themselves
to do the putting. At the Royal, Renee Kelly
earns high opinions as “Polly” ; in fact, the
acting standard in this merry but fluffy
comedy is unusually high. The panto, co.
has broken up, Bruce Green and Gus Bluett
dropping into the So-and-So co. at the Ex-
hibition Garden, vice George Gee, who has
moved on.
“M.G.S.” : Concerning musicians who play
by ear (B. 18/3/’2O), the greatest practi-
tioner I ever met was an old chap who led
a solitary existence on the lower reaches of
the Gawler liiver (S.A.), a resort of yachts-
men from Port Adelaide. He went once a
year to the City of Churches, and on his
return was able to reproduce on a battered
mouth-organ all the popular airs he had heard
in the Adelaide theatres. Incidentally, he
practised his art while sitting on a pile of
several tons of gelignite, dynamite and blast-
ing nowder. He was the caretaker of a
powder-hulk.
THE ART CRITIC.
"This is a little thing I call simply ‘A
Sunset.’ ”
“Really — er—any particular Hay of the
week?”
Caesar s Ghost ’: A wire robbed an Aus-
mummer of a job in a revival of
Within the Law.” A touring manager re-
ceived a message to this effect: “H'amfat
says played your company, heavy. Is he
good in ‘crook’ part?” The reply-paid
answer came promptly: “Hamfat will make
any part a ‘crook’ part.”
Poverty
Point
“A.G.M.” (Monte Ctarlo) : The week has
been interesting for tfie production of two
new operas. Honeggers “Judith” was given
at Monte Carlo to a crowded house. There
was considerable enthusiasm, but I found the
music so ultra-modern as to be almost with-
out coherence. Honegijer himself was pre-
sent, and received many compliments. The
other new work, “St. IFrancis,” by Maestro
Carloni, was performed at the Rossini
Theatre, Pesaro (Italjr), and aroused im-
mense enthusiasm. It is in four acts, and
contains some fine writing, notably a “Hymn
to Poverty” and in the scene depicting the
first meeting of St. Francis and Sister Clare.
The opera is harmonious and dramatic, and
has placed full-blown laurels on the head
of the young composer. In the Monte Carlo
production Marcoux, the fine light bass who
has so often sung with Melba at Covent Gar-
den, won great distinction.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Marie Floyd,
daughter and namesake of that joyous genius
who rollicked through life and art, has made
her debut on the variety stage here. She
chose for her first appearance the hall where
her mother made her last, and her numbers
were all songs her mother sang. She bears
an extraordinary likeness to her mother, too
—has the same facial and physical gestures
and inflections of voice—so that to many
in the audience her performance was alpaost
uncanny.
“S.G.” : Allan Priora, now Trior (B.
25/3/’2G), was rapturously praised by Hugh
,T. Ward on the latter’s return to Sydney.
“Say, boy,” said the Great Manager in idio-
matic Australian to a Guardian reporter,
“that chap is one of the best tenors over
there” — i.e., London. “Pure Australian.
Brought over specially from California to
play in ‘The Student Prince.’ ” The same
Priora went abroad because he couldn’t get
a decent “shop” in his own country, all the
decent “shops” being reserved for importa-
tions. llow characteristic of our Great Man-
agers to let the Prioras and Errols go into
exile and then laud them to the skies!
“Y.Y.” ; In “Spring Cleaning,” seen here
last year, the husband conducts a street-
walker to a dinner-party given by his wife
to her swift friends. When the women indig-
nantly refuse to sit down with her, he re-
marks how odd it is that amateurs should be
too proud to consort with the professional.
THESE THINGS WILL HAPPEN.
THE CORYPHEE : “Well, how did you get on ?”
THE COMEDIAN : “Oh, such a strange thing
occurred. Half-way through my act the
audience started hissing the fellow who
was on before me.”
Much the same idea and words occur in Gran-
ville Barker’s “The Madras House,” put on
in Sydney by Gregan McMahon. Philip
Madras explains that a Parisian cocotte in-
troduces the fashions in clothes which
“society” copies, and goes on to ask, “What
can be more natural and right than for the
professional charmer to set the pace for the
amateur?” “The Madras House” was the
earlier production by several years. Per-
haps Lonsdale would excuse the coincidence
in the manner of Mr. Puff —-“Two people hit
on the same thought and Shakspeare made
use of it first.”
“Flaming Youth”: The matrimonial
troubles of a comedian and his missus have
been adjusted. The lady is inclined to be
skittish, and her lord’s method of objecting
to her flirtations was to go on terrific ben-
ders, during which he was generally to be
found supplying free entertainment and free
beer to the customers of rough, out-of-the-way
pubs. During one of these outbreaks an ex-
chorus girl of. one of liis companies dis-
covered _ him in a helpless condition, and,
wholly in a spirit of kindliness, took him to
her room to sleep it off. He was awakened
by his wife, who arrived on the scene with
witnesses, and found himself threatened with
divorce over an incident he was too sozzled
e\en to remember. The divorce proceedings
were dropped when the mummer’s solicitor
pointed out that some of the lady’s own
adventures could be made to appear equally
mumm er has sworn off beer,
an <i . s has declared flirtations “black.”
Miro”: The Maoriland Government,
which now proudly announces that it is the
largest film-producer in Australasia, first
went into the business to give its moribund
publicity department a fillip. That was
nearly five years ago, and operations have
been so successful from the point of view
ot national advertising that the present out-
put of 10,000 feet of film per week is to
be substantially increased. Besides provid-
mg films for the big liners, the, Government,
will circulate them to British and American
picture-houses and the leading hotels of the
ea £th, , so that the tourist taking a cup of
coffee in the lounge of the best hotel in Ice-
land wall be able to compare first-hand the
relative beauties of Ilecla and the Maori-
land star volcano, Ngauruhoe.
• Over”: A long dramatic drought
impelled a Perth co., headed by Anita Fitz-
gerald, to tackle Lady Arthur Lever’s “Brown
Sugar,” which had a long run in London.
It was plucky of the amateurs to think they
could fill a theatre like His Majesty’s, which
seats 2000, for eight nights on such farcical
tare, but tlieir boldness was rewarded with
capacity ’ business. The standard of pre-
sentation was capital, and the fair Anita de-
served her laurels and profits.
“Nux”: “Sundry Shows” (B. 25/3/’26)
says the A agabonds introduced Noel Coward,
to Sydney audiences. This is wrong. The
i - W. Varna co. played Cowmrd’s “Young
Idea at St. James’s Hall, Sydney, nearly a
year ago; and the performance has been re-
peated a dozen times since under Mr, Varna’s
direction.
“Flaming Youth” : Sydney
street-passengers treated as
a free circus the 20 midgets
who looked over, or, rather,
up at, the Harbor City be-
fore going on to Melbourne
and Fullers’. The smallest
of them is 30in. high, and
there are two married couples
amongst the crowd. Not all
of them are strangers; a
couple were here years ago,
when “Tiny Town” showed
at the Exhibition Building.
From the entertainment
point of view the most suc-
cessful member of that com-
bination was a local recruit
who now drives a lift in the
Queen Victoria Markets, fie
has an average-sized body,
but abbreviated limbs, and
when lie danced the sailors’
hornpipe he was very funny.
The new Fuller crowd are.
in the main, perfectly-shaped
men and women in minia-
ture, their ages ranging from
19 to 44.
“Glen A.”: The Ma State’s Assembly
contains sufficient talent to stock a variety
show. N.S.W. Health Minister Cann was
formerly a bandsman at Lithgow. Colonel
“Mick” Bruxner was at one time a leading
amateur comedian, his Barry in “The Country
Girl” and Lurcher in “Dorothy” being excel-
lent. Speaker Dooley, who long ago had a
course under Walter Bentley, recites Shaks-
Rlrr 6 ! old actor. Robert Emmet
O Halloran sings the sweetest of Irish ballads
to his own accompaniments. Other songsters
are R. J. Greig, Chairman of Committees,
and W. J. Ratcliffe. The latter, by the way,
lias an older brother in the chorus. As ra-
conteurs Walter Wearne and Dunn take
some beating. And .Justice Minister McKell
is a clever punching-ball artist ami gymnast.
“Ller”: “Cmsar’s Ghost” (B. 11/3/’26)
mentions Sandford’s American co., saying it
stranded here. I won’t argue the point as
regards N.S.W., but I can testify that Sand-
ford played through Queensland to bumper
houses. At Townsville he eclipsed the
Willoughby-Ward takings on each night—
and “The Man from Mexico” and “The New
Clown ’ were decent performances. The last
I heard of Sandford was in a shipping office
at Cairns. He was inquiring about passages
for Hong Kong. Whether he went that way
or not I can’t say, but he certainly didn’t
lack the wherewithal.
“Lounge Lizard”: The pirating of classi-
cal music is by no means a post-war innova-
tion. About 1890 I heard a shopmate sing-
ing a ballad that was supposed to be a favor-
ite with the Rocks push of the period. The
chorus ran something like this:—
’Tis the Rocks, ’tis the Rocks,
’Tis the duty of the Argyle Rocks.
Now, after 35 years, the gramophone en-
lightens me. The tune was plagiarised from
the second movement in Beethoven’s Fifth
Symphony. Apropos, the “composer” of that
awful ditty, “It Ain’t Gonna Rain No More,”
laid heavy hands on the overture to Bizet’s
“Carmen.”
THE SCRIPTURAL FILM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have come to make a film of Pharaoh’s daughter;
So prepare a little tank with swaying reeds.
Have a lotus nicely blooming in the water
And arrange the bank with drooping river weeds.
Pharaoh’s chariot should drive beside the planking
Of the steps that lead his daught-er to the Nile;
And a courtier or two should wander, swanking,
Where the priests approach to feed the crocodile.
The sacred crocodile they feed each morning
With the choicest female slaves that they can find;
The lady, treating all such things with scorning,
Should go on without a single look behind.
Miss Marcella Wave will shine in such a setting.
In the water she’ll have lovely things to wear;
And she’ll hardly care at all about the wetting,
As long as nothing damps her lovely hair.
The twenty pretty girls who swarm around her
Must be naked as the gentle law allows,
\\ bile one who really swims pretends they’ve drowned
her
And comes up with river weed Upon her brows.
Then Aken-hotop-pah, the splendid lover,
Walking softly in a grove of sacred palms,
The beauty of the princess must discover
And declare her praise in hieroglyphic psalms.
While he sings, upon her wondrous beauty gloating
Mr. Cortez Mexieatio plays the part—
He will see a little baby gently floating
Towards the crocodile that waits with
heart.
Cortez sheds his golden dressing-gown and sandals,
While Marcella spreads her beauty on the flood,
As the courtiers and other smiling vandals
Hope the croc, will nip the rescue in the bud.
All the pretty maidens, resolutely screaming,
Lift their naked upper portions from the wave
While the princess, with her dry hair round her
streaming,
Stretches out her arms the little one to save.
Then the croc, and Cortez, very slowly racing,
Almost meet before the floating child is won’
Till the hero, the small basket-boat embracing,
Hands the princess up the Hebrew lady’s son.
Pharaoh drives his chariot down to see the capture.
He has marked the whole proceeding from afar;
And the girls are nearly naked in their rapture,
Showing everyone how very nice they are.
The next scene we show is dry as Massachusetts—
The Court in all its pomp is on the screen—-
The lovely princess also has a few sets
Of girls we have not previously seen.
Pharaoh’s gilded fans are softly waving o’er him;
His robes, although they’re scanty, are most gay.
The noble Cortez stands erect before him;
His winsome nose is perfect in its way.
“Come hither, oh come hither, little daughter”—
The princess has the baby in her arms—
The hair that floated dry above the water
May count among the foremost of her charms.
“Come hither, noble son”—the words are spoken
In broad black script across the shining screen—
The records of. the Nile that you have broken
My royal eyes in wonderment have seen.
“You’re really like a dolphin in the water”—
Hei-e all the pretty girls are wreathed in smiles—
‘So you must take the baby and my daughter;
But always save them from the crocodiles.”
Thus Moses gets his start. The great compassion
In Miss Wave’s eyes no picture fan can miss.
Then comes a close-up full of quiet passion;
The bridegroom spends two minutes on a kiss.
Honor is satisfied and so is Moses;
His mother takes him back and gets her fee;
The crocodile his human form discloses
And takes the girl who really swims to tea.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


7
/
%
The “Valet” Razor differs from any and every other
kind of Safety Razor —it does what no other can do-
it sharpens its own blade, and keeps it sharp for weeks
and weeks without removal from the frame. A few
strokes daily on the strop and the blade comes up keen
and sharp morning after morning. Nothing to unscrew,
nothing to take to pieces. Simplicity itself!
Ask your dealer to show you how the “Valet” differs.
The illustration shows the new No. 55 Set.
With genuine “Valet” self-stropping razor, strop and
three blades in beautifully-finished nickel case, lined
purple velvet, with nickelled strop container.
Price 10|-
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
\vs
m
T
as
III!
JihiXidhAtojctjL.
SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
WORK WELL AND LAST LONG,
Prices are Lowest but Value Highest.
“SUNDERCUT.”
10 disc, cuts 5 ft. 14 disc, cuts 7ft.
For summer fallowing in hard soil.
For ploughing stubble, and killing and burying the heaviest weed growths.
More "Sundercuts” are at work in Australia than any other Stump-Jump Disc,
because they shift more soil per horse-power than any other.
\
'
Mf
“SUNTYNE”
Sizes 8 12 14 16 20 rows
With 17 25 29 33 41 tynes
Width 5 7* 8i 9i 12 feet
Combines the best Tyne Cultivator with the best Grain and
Fertiliser Drill. Two implements in one. Saves capital. Saves
labor. Sows scientifically and pays for itself by conserving the
moisture and increasing the yield.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Write to any of the following; addresses for Catalogue and Price List.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE. 102 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY. Corner MURRAY & KING STREETS, PERTH.
664 BOURKE, STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.


Modern Methods of Construction
ALL REINFORCED CONCRETE BUILDING
for Head Office,
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SYDNEY.
:V" -
Biiiiiiiiiw
'VI
i• - •
-V
JL.
m
# «
f
1 mm
iWte «Lj ; -.— *.
□as*
»v y jcz 4#^-wSpC*
Pi
l> &.
m
r
Pm
ar ..
1 :
>*»*
I
m
m
&
U 3
Architects: Messrs. H. E Ross & Rowe.
Contractors: Concrete Constructions, Ltd.
The Structural Portion of this work has been erected in
THIRTY WEEKS.
We will give Estimates for all classes of Construction.
CONCRETE CONSTRICTIONS LTD.,
47 King Street, Sydney
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.


Now that the Rain Has Come!
Ensure Bigger Crops by Using the Martin Ditcher on your
land and ditches,
IT DOES THE WORK OF 100 MEN,
h
Prompt
Attention
from Desk B.
Challis House,
Martin Place,
Sydney.
ĥ
Exton House,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
312 Flinders St., Melb.
T.T. Buildings, Light
Square, Adelaide.
Amusements.
gYD N E Y’S CHIEF lIIEAT li K s
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: KATJA.
CRITERION: POLLY WITH A PAST.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
PALACE: GIVE AND TAKE.
DAI. A C E TIIKAT It E. S.Y DN E Y
* Lessees: J. & N. Tait.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.15.
KANGAROO FLAT.
A Laughable 3-act Comedy by TAL ORDELL.
Tal Ordell, the original Ginger Mick in
“The Sentimental Bloke.”
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
PICKAIt I) S' TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pULLEISS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre.
w
IRTHS’ HIPPODROME,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIDTHS’ CIRCUS.
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays
at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson's.
J.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELISOUUM
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PAVLOVA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
Amusements.
pRINCESS THIiAXKE, MELBOURNE.
HUGH J. WARD’S GREAT EASTER ATTRACTION,
MERCENARY MARY.
Brilliant Musical Comedy.
ING’S THEATRE, UELBODRN K.
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
“QUALITY STREET.”
HE N .1% U Al XII EAT HE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .... Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
Joseph Cunningham’s
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO.
IN
THE SPORT OF KINGS.
Laughable Farce Comedy—Not Drama.
Plans at Allan’s.
New isi.iou ’ theatre, Melbourne.
Twice Daily. 2-30 and 8.
IRVING’S IMPERIAL MARVELLOUS
MIDGETS.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
IyiAJESTIC THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
SCENA OWEN and WILLIAM POWELL in
FAINT PERFUME.
AND
FRED THOMSON with his wonder horse
SILVER KING, in
THE BANDIT’S BABY.
MatinSes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Box Plans at Allan’s or Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT'S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
BETTY BRONSON and RICARDO CORTEZ in
NOT SO LONG AGO.
AND
MADGE BELLAMY in
THE GOLDEN STRAIN.
Prices as usual.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Why China Sees Red. By PUTNAM
WEALE, author of “The Re-shaping
of the Far East,” etc. With Illustra-
tions and Maps. 12s. net.
The Spectator: “It is a pleasure to have
such a capable, well illustrated and clearly-
written narrative of events in the Far East at
this time.”
Evolution. By J. GRAHAM KERR,
F.R.S., Regius Professor of Zoology
in the University of Glasgow. With
2 Plates in Color and 53 Illustrations
in the text. 12s. net.
This is a book for beginners. Its object is
to provide a sketch in outline, approximately
correct in its proportions and not overburdened
with detail, of the evolutionary science of
to-day.
The Novels of Hugh Walpole.
Pocket Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. net.
Leather, ss. net each.
THE DUCHESS OF WREXE.
THE DARK FOREST.
TIJE CAPTIVES.
THE YOUNG ENCHANTED.
The Works of Shakespeare. Chrono-
logically arranged. In three volumes.
With Introductions by CHARLES
WHIBLEY, and with 40 Illustra-
tions. Cloth, 7s. Gd. net. Half
Morocco, 10s. 6d. net each. Vol I,
COMEDIES ; Vol. 11, HISTORIES ;
Vol. 111, TRAGEDIES.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne & London, W.C.S.
iHastertouch
Player Rolls.
Latest and Best .
ATTRACTIVE LIST OF MARCH RELEASES.
FOX TROTS.
D. 1292 Ah-ha.
D. 1295 The Story Book Ball.
D. 1301 Let Me Be the First to Kiss You
Good-morning.
D. 1305 Honey, Fm in Love with You
(from “Mercenary Mary’’).
D. 1310 Five Foot Two Eyes of Blue. Has
Anybody Seen My Girl ?
D. 1312 I'm Gonna Hump My Blney.
D. 1320 At the Rnd of the Sunset Trail.
ONE STEPS AND MARCHES.
D. 1308 Jingle Bells. (One Step.)
D. 1314 Spirit of Independence. (March.)
WALTZES.
D. 1290 When You and I Were Seventeen.
D. 1302 Little Pal of Long Ago.
D. 1301 After the Dawn.
D. 1318 Favorite Waltzes:
1. The Little Blue Cornflower.
2. Just to Hold You in My Arms.
3. The Great Waltz Song.
4. I Love You So.
5. Memory Lane.
BALLADS.
D. 1290 The King’s Minstrel. Key of G,
G to D.
D. 1293 From the Land of the Sky-Blue
Water. Key of G, D to D.
D. 1297 True Till Death. Key of C, E to G.
D. 1299 Excelsior (Duet). Key of 0, D
to G.
D. 1300 Just You. Key of G, Eto E.
D. 1303 I Know a Lovely Garden. Ivey
of F, E to F.
D. 1307 Blow, Blow, Thou Winter Wind.
Key of B, F Sharp to D.
D. 1.309 Over the Dreamland Sea. Key
of C, C to F.
D. 1315 Serenade. Key of C, D to F.
D. 1319 Just for a While. Key of D,
C Sharp to F Sharp.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Ask for Latest General Cataloaue, also Bulletin of
new releases issued on the first of each month.
OPERATIC (with Words).
D. 1294 Sybil. (Selection.)
D. 1298 Miss Hook of Holland. (Selection.)
D. 1311 Gypsy Love. (Selection.)
D. 1313 Maritana. (Selection.)
CLASSICS AND C SERIES.
C. 733 Fantaisie Impromptu. 0 Sharp
Minor. (Chopin.)
C. 736 On the Wings of Song (Auf Flugeln
des Gesanges). (Mendelssohn.)
C. 739 Enchantment Air de Ballet. (Bar-
nard. )
C. 74 0 Mignon Overture. (Ambroise
Thomas.)
C. 741 Staccato Caprice. (Vogrich.)
C. 742 Alt-Wien No. 11 (from Triakon-
tameron). (Godowsky.)
C. 745 Le Contrebapdier. Spanish Romance.
( Schumann-Tausig.)
C. 746 Arabesque. Op. 45, No. 1. (Lesche-
tizky.)
C. 747 Jewish Hymn, Hatikwa, in Varia-
tions.
C. 748 1. Minuet in G. (Beethoven.)
2. Mazurka Caprice. Op. 14.
(Quigley.)
C. 749 Erl King (Erlkonig). Descriptive.
( Schubert-Liszt.)
C. 750 Notturno. Op. 17. Descriptive.
(Quigley.)
C. 751 Eglantine (Morceau a la Gavotte).
(Clothilde.)
C. 752 Legend of Love Nocturne. (Du-
celle.)
C. 753 Merry Wives of Windsor (Descrip-
tive Overture). (Nicolai.)
C. 754 Eurydiee (Valse). (RaJph Kinder.)
C. 756 To a Star (A L’Etoile). Op. 20.
(Pennington.)
C. 758 Souvenir. (Franz Drdla.)
iH
MASTERTOUCH
■y- r - Hand Bta/ed /
av
Rolls
us
ic
the
are
EST
EST
B
AT
■
50
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd
Wholesale Distributors, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
What’s in a name?
THERE is a simple English name of just three letters which
has a currency as universal as gold and which represents
true value as indisputably. That name is ENO, and the
fame of ENO’s “Fruit Salt" has no parallel the wide world over.
ENO is a product, perfected by experience, and endorsed by
medical science and popular appreciation. Its name is important,
for the words ENO and “Fruit Salt" are registered trade
marks which designate but one thing—the genuine world-famous
health drink which has triumphed over every test of time and
usage. Take no risk where health is concerned —follow Nature’s
Golden Rule of Health :
First *king every morning , drink a glass of
water, warm or cold , sparkling with a ‘ dash ’ of
ENO'S-FRUrr SALT
The World-Famed Effervescent Saline
<99
HANDY SIZE—Most
convenient for travellers,
office use and weekend bag.
PLEASANT to taste
gentle in action
TRUE AID TO NATURE
HOUSEHOLD SIZE-
Best for family use; the
most economical size.
Sales Agents: The BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE CO., LTD., SYDNEY. N.S.W.


Auction Sales,
UNDER INSTRUCTIONS FROM
BEALE & COMPANY, LIMITED.
CITY OF SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT SHOP PROPERTY.
COMMANDING AN UNRIVALLED POSITION IN
A GREAT COMMERCIAL and RETAIL SHOPPING
THOROUGHFARE. CLOSE TO THE NEW WYN-
YARD-SQUAEE RAILWAY STATION, PRINCIPAL
BANKING INSTITUTIONS AND GENERAL POST-
OFFICE.
No. 840 GEORGE STREET.
THE WELL-KNOWN PROPERTY OF
BEALE AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Adjoining W. H. PALING AND COMPANY
and
CARNEGIE AND SONS.
THE LAND has a frontage of about 21ft 5Un
to the EAST SIDE OF GEORGE STREET, a short
distance north of Martin Place, by a depth of 101 ft.
A LANE Bft. wide on one side, and
luott. 9im. on the other side, EXTENDING
THROUGH TO ASH STREET, to which the' fro-W
age is 23ft. 2in.
THE BUILDING- is substantially constructed of
fe£ ndb “ ck > aind COMPRISES a wall-lighted BASE-
MENT, GROUND and three UPPER FLOORS, used as
Showrooms, and served by LARGE NEW ELEVATOR
i^T> S^S tur ? is intended to receive ADDITIONAL
oiJKJiiih "whenever required.
FULL PARTICULARS OF TERAIS, DATE OF
AUCmONEERS ET ° M ° N APPLIOATION T 0 THE
TORRENS TITLE.
, ..-'h® attention of investors, Shopkeepers and Music
\V arehousemen ■ and others is invited to the sale of
the above important property, situate in the heart of
the Commercial and Retail Centre of the City, and
having great prospective value.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LTD., have been
ATtuttoT^t t 0 offcr the above for
AL CIION SALE, in the Rooms, 92 PITT STREET
on FRIDAY, 9th APRIL, at 11 am
Missing Friends.
gATTYE, SYDNEY D. —Information is required
concerning the whereabouts of Sydney D Battve
at one time of Forbes, Drover. A Reward will be
paid by the undersigned for information which will
resuit in ascertaining his present address, or if he
is dead the date and place of his death
A. J. McLACHLAN WESTGARTH & CO.,
Solicitors,
> 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
|7 STATE of EDWARD DONALD
.... DOUGLAS, late of State Hospital,
Lidcombe, deceased. The relatives of the
abovenamed are requested to communicate
with the Public Trustee, 67 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney. Claimants should state name
and occupation of deceased’s father and
maiden name of his mother.
ATE RYAN, aged about GO, born in
, Doilaclera, Co. Limerick, Ireland, daugh-
ter of \Vllliam and Joanna Ryan, is sought
by her sister, Mrs. NORA M. RYAN 2122
S. Ridgway Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.iC
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
RUPTURE ;
A FREB TRIAL.
** •doubled wilh the complaint, write a. and
* e " d VO" our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT air cushion appliance.
I bis appliance doe. away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling o( ease and comfort from the
tirst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
urroly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what wa state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach oi all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
Queen Street. Melbourne |
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
a
m.
V
Bfflm
The “Texas Ranger” Cowboy Saddle
This is our popular Cowboy
Saddle, and you will find it in use
in every State. It is a full-covered
Saddle, finished in nut-brown
leather and double-rigged with two
cord cinchas and wood stirrups.
£l3/13/-
Freight paid for cash with
order to any N.S.W. Railway
Station,
We have other Models in Cowboy Saddles illustrated in
our. Catalogue of Australian and American Saddlery,
which is free for the asking.
Bs4,—Fancy Studded Cowboy Bridles, with
gunmetal cowboy bit 76/= each
Bs3.—Fancy Breastplate to match the Bridle,
well studded 75/= each
B7o.—Cowboy Chaps, with Fringe . . 85/= pair
81517.—“-Cowboy Gunmetal Spurs, with nickel
horse head .. 80/-. Fancy Straps.. 5/6
BBl.—Braided Linen Lariat, with brass Honda,
22/6. Post 1/-
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD,,
For Good Saddlery, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*Be&r9Healoftfie'ifcuf
l,
*
s
*
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
Clifford Love & Co., Ltd., Sydney
s t > / &
m
visS^
T*i
*
%
Robert bosch
W.W't
\x
#*<
SPARKING PLUGS
GIVE SERVICF
AND KEEP ON GIVING SERVICE.
Standard Types, 5/" each.
Fit a Complete Set
and Note the Improvement.
Melbourne
Sydney
Adelaide
Brisbane
Perth
Hobart
New Zealand...
Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Ptv., Ltd.
256-258 Latrobe Street.
Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co, Pty. Ltd.
199 Castlereagh Street.
Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Klliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
.1). J. Nettlefold & Co., Ltd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
J. J. Niven & Co., Ltd., Wakefield Street,
Wellington.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Aame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and, no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Musgrove: Quite right, Glassey was mem-
ber for Bundamba, not Bundaberg. But whether cr
not he was the first Labor M.P. in Queensland depends
on the definition of a Labor M.P. ' A man' The
Bulletin often hears from insists that there hasn’t
been a real Labor M.P. yet.... Civis: We don’t want
to discourage perseverance, but what do you think
any sub-editor can do with 693 words crowded into
a single page of foolscap?... .P.J.W.: Space won’t
let us continue the discussion,.. .Lovelock: First
try your hand on the little things you really know.
A.C.W.: More thin half of it would have to
come out. .. .Cassia: You hide your grains of gold in
too vast a quantity of desert sand Edward D.:
(N.S.W.) • You don’t make us believe it’s true
Ida P.: Too shrieky... .P.H.C.: On the edge; but
it had too many ragged lines to get through....
Trampar: Nothing there to catch the attention....
W.J.T.: Not enough fresh in it to command that
space. .. .M.H.S.: Just managed not to do it. There is .
too much gloom around. .. .Marie Chilla: You haven’t
made good use of your materials. Have another try.
. ...D.H. (Wellington); Must go back... .K.W.C.:
Not enough in the dead-sheep narration.... S. A. K.:
The lines are pretty rugged and contain nothing new,
but the writer might do better 0.M.P..; They
don t suggest that anything they contain needs saying.
.... T.C.H.: You're not likely to make a fortune out
of that sort of verse. We wouldn’t like to say what
it is actually worth, but possibly about three months.
. ...C.M.K.: Very poor P.T.0.: The idea is a bit
tlnn and overworked J.J.D.: The point seems very
obscure H.M.C.: Not enough in it to get excited
over... .L.8.F. : Horrible enough, but there isn't, much
in getting an imaginary person into a hole and
simply leaving him there T.H.M.: No use to us
... .Ben G.: “Woman” doesn’t work out satisfactorily.
....Alfred H.: The gods rage in vain G.L.'f.:
It’s all pretty thin, and the slaughter of Alf is an
unnecessary piece of cruelty S.T.: The episode is
full of pathos:—
Then the better self rough life did smother,
In his breast gave a spasm of pain;
lie remembered he once had a mother,
And he paused ere he kicked her again.
“Fm a coward and brute,” so he told her
And a blackguard, too, the way that I swear:
But never again will I kick you
With this thick, heavy boot that I wear.”
In his arms the devoted wife nestled,
With her eyes full of love she said, “Mike,
’ ou re the man of my heart, and I love you,
You can bash me us much as you like.”
. ... A.D.M.; The blossoms waste their sweetness. ■•,
N.L.S.: Nicely done, but exactly the same ground
has been covered before in almost exactly the same
way. ... W.D.F. : Too wild and improbable. . . .11.K.C.:
They seem drearily insane R.T.K.: The form is
all right, but the matter is p00r.... J.S.G.: You
must be very blind to the distinction of style main-
tained through long years of literary effort to doubt
the authenticity of “Bellerive’s” verses. They
could not be imitated A.J. (Randwick) : Not
enough in the lines R. Bailey: Look up “Mer-
chant of Venice,” Act ii., Scene 7 Betty 0.: The
verse is rather weak and the matter not very excit-
ing. .. .Albert L.: Not up bv some distance
1.R.A.: Not for us... .Will F.: The verse has too many
warts on it A.B. (Glebe Point): Poorly con-
structed, and rather obscure in thought; but it has
some feeling... .A.F.M.: Leaves us cold and fierce....
C.H.W.: None of them strikes us hard enough....
Francis D’E. : The workmanship is worthy of a less
futile theme. .. .Ripponlea; The murder is one of the
finest of the kind we have ever met:—
“List, Gilfadden,” said his wife, “Hist!
Footsteps advancing, whoever is’t?”
“’Tis I fear, your brother, Sir Neville Greville.
Pass me the gun and his brains I’ll dishevel.”
Sir Neville paused at the door of the shanty;
And afterwards thought his pause was scanty,
For instantly a gun exploded,
And he knew at once it must have been loaded,
And consequently he was indignant,
And said in a voice with reproval pregnant
“Cowlishaw, you should be more careful.
The result of negligence might have been fearful.”
Cowlishaw s blood-lust was not appeased.
He’d not be calm till his passion ceased.
His shot had missed and he was worried
Across the room he hastily hurried.
Then to the door his steps again bent,
Concealed ’neath his coat a blunt instrument.
His coat he proceeded to slyly unbutton
And severely sand-bagged him with a leg of mutton.
... .A.R.G.: A long way to go yet E.W.W.: Too
slight John O.: Does not say enough, though the
form is well handled.... Wally: Always glad to meet
a new poet. But you’ll have to be less of an
echo before we’ll print you Robin: The lines have
some delicacy, but the whole amounts to nothing.
.... E.D.C.: The bite of a sandfly isn’t sufficient
excuse for four stanzas of two-a-penny verse....
1.D.C.: It misses. That sort of rugged thing, with
its scorn of metre, wants to be very exactly done.
.... Joan V.: It only gathers up the commonplace
picture of the thing without adding a touch of real
Observation....M.G. (Bendigo): The verse is terrific.
. ...H.J.L.; Not much use “smoking naught but
matches” if it only leads to verse of that quality.
... .Bellerive: The tragic item is very moving:—
Two allied black swans
In the evening cool
Assailed a white one
In a rippling pool.
He floated and twirled
To the waterside,
Fluttered on to the banks,
And in agony died.
As the setting sun
Went down in the west,
Wantonly sported the fiends
O’er their grim conquest.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.H.. Sorry can t oblige, but we’d hate to turn
ourselves into a cemetery for even artistic corpses.
... .H.W. ? Pencilled illustrations for nursery rhymes
disqualified.... R.8.C.: Facetious Hibernians need to
be well drawn as well as humorous talkers... .
A.W.L.; Furniture all right for dolls, too flimsy
for heavyweight adults... .E.V.H.: The flapper in
the foi eground is too gigantic for her surroundings.
... .M.8.J.; Fair one, avoid the hackneyed and
attempt something with action and life in it
ILF.; There’s a fortune awaiting the genius who
will transform your freaks into living beings and
exhibit them at a side-show T.S.: Beware lest
your class-conscious gardeners turn upon their creator
and pursue him .with infuriated snails. K. 0.:
Jokes musty and drawings not what they should be.
. ...R.E.8.: Passable drawing handicapped by dull
and pointless joke —.L.li.S.: Came in handy to
stop the window from rattling J.W.S.: First
time we’ve seen a comic drawing done on “In
Memoriam” notepaper. But even that neat touch
doesn’t make it pi intable.


Only the
NEW EDISON
gives you:
/////
i—//.
r-
ak
V
'— l
1
■ ■■'
PERFECT REALISM.
It is the one phonograph that Re-Creates singing or playing so
perfectly that the Re-Creation cannot be distinguished from the
original performance. This fact has been demonstrated by over
6000 public platform tests of direct comparison in Sydney,
Melbourne, New York, Chicago and other great cities.
THE WORLD OF MUSIC.
Needle-records can be played by the New Edison better than by any talking
machine. The New Edison also gives you Re-Created music from its own perfect
Re-Creations.
The Re-Creations are thick enough tp give true tone without local vibrations, are
so hard as to be free from wear and breakage, and are so finely engraved as to
contain nearly twice as much music per inch.
The whole world of music is at your disposal, a s no other machine can offer it.
CHOICE OF PERIOD MODELS.
The New Edison mechanism is encased in sixteen different cabinets, each one a
nure period model. In these cabinets is reborn the design and craftsmanship of
the Golden Age of Furniture. It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that
many of them will become family heirlooms.
MECHANICAL PERFECTION.
The diamond reproducer has no needles to change or to be worn out before a
Selection is half-finished.
The world ? s greatest inventor stands behind this instrument, together with
£600,000 spent in research; truly it is the product of a master mind.
Catalogues and Demonstration at
SYDNEY —The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh
MELBOURNE—The Edison Shop, 238
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE — S.A. Phonograph Co., Gilbctt
Buildings, Gilbert Place.
BRISBANE—W. 11. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-
88 Queen Street.
PERTH — Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay
$ tvcct,
LAUNCESTON—WiIIs & Co. Pty., 7 Quad-
rant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
“A Historical Occurrence”
Paling’s Special Sale
The Sydney “Evening News” has aptly described the present
special sale of W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd, (to commemorate the
opening of their new Pitt Street shop) as ‘something in the
nature of a historical occurrence.” This is indeed true, because
the sale is the first in the 73 years trading history of Palings.
It should mean an Event of Importance to You
because it provides a unique opportunity to save money. A
generous concession of 1 0 per cent, discount is offered to ail
purchasers of pianos, player pianos or organs, either at the
George Street or Pitt Street establishments.
IliiminiiMlil
PALING’S NATURAL EXPRESSION PLAYER PIANOS are wonderful
instruments. Spend your evenings pleasantly by perfectly reproducing
the charming creations of the world s best pianists.
Purchase now and you will save up to £5O. Sale concludes on April 14.
Catalogues sent free on request. Please write for one.
ħ
“Quality Our Keynote Since 1853.”
338 George Street, Sydney.
206-210 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Next to Lyceum Theatre).
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore and Rockhampton.


Seii Your Skins
In the best market under the
best possible circumstances.
Those two factors are
decided influences on the
prices secured.
On a market where
buyers are plentiful and
with your consignments
in the hands of a strong,
capable salesman your
returns are certain to
be on top levels.
&•
Consign Rabbit, Pox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD,
Sydney or Brisbane,
a
-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
B~i h ro I ■
SiBS S "
Wei,
By building: your new home with
.Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIB ROUTE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Roofing with “FIIiRO-
liITE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write for Free Catalogue “10."
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
THE
GOUBOCK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
FIRTH'S
“STAYBRITE”
The Super-Rustless Steel
is a
Very Wonderful Product.
“STAYBRITE” Steel will resist
NITRIC ACID of all strengths and at
all temperatures up to and including
the boiling-point. Sea-water and spray
have no effect upon it, even under the
searching circumstances of being
alternately wet and dry. Made in
sheets for press work, it is extremely
ductile and is easily worked.
Please send us your inquiries, and
state purpose for which steel is re-
quired.
Thos. Firth $ Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE.
YY&W26.
aiiSTBAMAW
■H
London Office;
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.3.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
h
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zine
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grade*.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors icith the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
This Summer Will
Emphasise Nugget
Popularity
WHEREVER you see the whitest
boots and shoes you will know i
that “Nugget” is favoured —for j
“Nugget” White Cleaner is known for \
its perfect evenness and density. “Nug- J
get” White is the Cleaner that does not j
rub off.
AUGGET
WHITE CLEANER
For White Buckskin or Canvas Boots
and Shoes. Simple and economical
to use. Dries a beautiful pure white.
On Sale Everywhere.
3SS
(&&B0
S tm
""•QHAttes roa
Kslr *n i CAwvAS.Boo^^
Sf *4KC
OOTTL6
NUCGET
POLISH CO. of
Aus. Pty. Ltd.
Makers of the
famous
“NUGGET”
Black,
Light Tan',
Tan and
Nigger Brown
Boot Polishes
POLIFLOR for
Floors, Lino,
Furniture etc.
WN"
If*
1 <**
•t
* k
ii^Si?
Vi '"■
mm
i »
i I
<5
■
j*.V*
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED —98 per cent. N»OH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100. 150 and 200011*. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Arthur K.” : Bought a new hairbrush and
was pleased to find it branded “Made in Aus-
tralia.” Inquiries showed that the handle
was of Australian oak, and it was set with
bristles from porkers bred on Australian
farms and fed largely on Australian apples.
The price was not excessive either.
* * * *
"Sturt : American-trained Railway .Com-
missioner Webb has amazed South Aus. by
publicly announcing that his aim is “to meet
the convenience of the majority of travel-
lers, wherever possible.” Any change of
time-tables will be advertised in the local
papers, and letters “analysing or criticising
or suggesting improvements” will actually be
welcomed, and if possible acted upon, instead
of getting frostily ignored.
* * * *
“Maske”: The extraction of gerainol from
the trees around Gladstone (Q.) (B.
•1/12/-b) 'is no new thing. Thomas Ingham,
a Rockhampton chemist, exhibited at the
Chicago Exhibition 30 years ago samples of
many oils from the eucalypts of Queens-
land,. and afterwards entered into contracts
to supply European and American scent-
makers with different scent bases, amongst
them gerainol. He was the pioneer; his
eucalyptus, citronclla and other oils are well
known 'ill' America.
* * *
“Soda”: The N.S.W. Fair- Rents Act has
some good points about it. At Bnrwood
(Sydney) recently an Oxford-street landlady
was charged with “having unlawfully stated
her intention by advertisement not to let a
dwelling _to any person with a child or
children.” The magistrate told defendant
she was liable to a fine of £5O, but a plea of
illness and the consequent necessity for quiet
in the lady’s adjacent house induced his
Worship to make the penalty £3. The stipu-
lation “No children” is likely to be conspicu-
ous by its absence in “To let” ads.' of • the
future.
**• * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The expected fare-
war amongst the cos. which have been flood-
ing Sydney with taxicabs in many 1 hues
was accelerated by the announcement that
an entirely new co. is about to add green
to the chaos of color. An immediate : de-
claration of war followed: one of the older
taxi cos. proclaimed its intention of cutting
ninepence off its basic fare of.ls. !)d. There
will shortly be a fleet of 800 taxicars in
Sydney, and when the fare-cutting conflict
really starts citizens who manage to sur-
vive the rush of competing chariots are in
for a good time. It means the end of the
owner-driver who ran his one car and has’
already been having a hard struggle against
the organised competition. But he is a
pirate will be entirely unregretted.
“Ces”: Ballarat is one of the few mining
towns in Australia that have found new
paths to prosperity since the collapse of the
original industry. It is also one of the few
towns that have succeeded in covering up
most of the scars of the old' days. Hills
and gullies have now a carpet of pine-forest,
mostly Pinus insignis, the plantations from
one to 10 years old. The Water Trust is
the principal cultivator. All its watershed
areas have been planted, and it is estimated
that one plantation alone will in another 15
years return to the Trust £250,000. The
plantations are a fine sinking fund for the
loan expenditure on the water-supply, and
add another to the long list of things the
city has a right to be proud of.
* * » 9
“Rizzle” : Pemberton, W.A.’s largest saw-
milling centre, is to have a pub at last. One
of the reasons which weighed with the
Licensing Bench was the thriving condition
of the sly-grog business and the devastating
effect of some of the local hooch on the
hardy timber-jerker. A policeman who
knows Pemberton tells me that the local
“whisky” was sold in beer-bottles. He opined
that what whisky was in the mixture was
stiffened with methylated spirit and benzine,
a couple of nobblers being sufficient to con-
vert any man into a “Battling Siki.” The
beer-bottles were labelled (in pen and ink)
by the miscreant who ran the joint. Here
are some of the brands that one could get in
Pemberton : “The Absolute,” “Do-ers,” “The
Milky Way,” “Dinky Di,” “Nine Lives,”
Loop the Loop,” “Mahomet’s Coffin” and
Good-Night, Nurse” !
i< t * , * * *
“Wollard”: Some farmers in nor’-west
Tas. are inquiring into the cultivation of
peppermint for commercial purposes. Before
the war the essential oils obtained from the
peppermint and spearmint plants were almost
all got from Germany and Austria. The oil
is used for medicinal purposes, in chewing-
gum and as a drink. From a species of
peppermint grown in Japan is obtained the
oil used in many menthol jubes. During thq
past few years certain of the American States
have been producing the herbs, which grow
well in boggy land, and at present most of
the peppermint oil used in Australia is im-
ported from the TT.S. A Tasmanian florist,
alter making investigations, says that it takes
3501 b. of peppermint to produce a pound of
oil; in Oregon, U.S., they claim that they
get 001 b. of oil per acre. The herbs can be
produced on land good fo.r nothing else and
the oil is distilled in kilns. One species is
the common mint used in the kitchen.
* * * *
“P.X.”: There aren’t many signs left of
the old whaling industry at Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.). There is no longer anyone regu-
larly on the job. “Old George” Davidson,
who inherited the industry, so to speak,
works for the Forestry Department nowa-
days ; but he still has a boat and a harpoon
or two, and by arrangement with his bosses
can drop tools and chase a whale when one
is sighted—if he can find a boat’s crew. He
can generally pick one up ; but the business
of rowing after a whale and getting near
enough to fling a dart into its flesh is a pre-
carious one, and not without its thrills and
perils. The Norwegians who come south
after the big fellows don’t do things like
that: they pursue them in motor-boats, and
fire their harpoons from cannon ; and they
don’t have to work alongside tlie infuriated
beast to get a thrust at a vital part—they
electrocute their prey, a fine wire running
through the harpoon-rope.


c
ORMAL ANNOUNCEMENT
is now made of the association
of the Ampico with the New
Beale Piano. The Ampico is
the only medium capable of re-enacting
the actual performances of the greatest
living pianists.
The true significance of this privileged
association of the Ampico and the New
Beale lies in the fact that the Ampico
is installed only in such distinguished
makes of world-famous pianos as Mason
& Hamlin, Chickering, Knabe (three of
the four renowned instruments in use
on concert platforms to-day).
There could be no more complete en-
dorsement of the New Beale Piano. It
is an unqualified establishment of its
claim to international greatness.
j „ ■
:•
m
r
' \
I .
f W ¥i
t.
M
IV
m
s:
?0
O
2
llllitllllllllllllllll 111 111 111
The Perfect Partnership is as rare as it is
desirable. The dual condition does not
direct or control its actions. It functions
as a unity* the result of perfect balance and
equal merit between its members.
A voice, however beautiful, is limited by the extent of
training it has received. The most musicianly mind
adorned by the finest culture registers only to the
extent of its intrinsic vocal merit.
This is the exact parallel of the partnership of the
Ampico and the New Beale Piano. The Ampico,
capable of re-enacting the finest performances of the
greatest pianists, requires the truest and fullest med-
ium of expression, in point of tone, volume or the
frailest delicacy of effect.
The Ampico is as closely identified 'with famous players as with norld-famous instruments. The greatest artists
perform for it exclusively. Among its amazing repertoire are to be found the rarest successes of such
soul-stirring names as
RACHMANINOFF GODOWSKY BUSONI MOISEIWITSCH LEVITZKI BAUER CORTOT
HOFMANN MUNZ BULIG CARRENO ZEISLER SAMAROFF BACHAUS GABRILOWITSCH
The Beale-Ampico is best understood and appreciated by the trained musical mind.
cAsk those who can speak with authority—-Critic, Professional Musician or Teacher.
BEALE & COMPANY
r; LIMITED
Showrooms: Head Office and Factories:
340 George Street, Sydney 41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
In the New Beale it finds its perfect complement.
Each performance translates the artist to the presence
of his hearer—not figuratively, actually. It recaptures
for you the vibrant power and warm emotion of the
original rendition. It awakens in you an echo of the
tumultuous applause which has already swayed the
listening thousands.
When you buy the unique Beale-Ampico, apportion
its cost to the many phases of its service. Charge
some to the pleasure of your family and the enter-
tainment of your guests. Charge much to the better-
ment of your own knowledge and the musical educa-
tion of your children. Charge most to the satisfaction
of mind and serenity of spirit which come from deep
draughts of a cup that holds no bitter lees.
BRANCHES New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle', Goulburn. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide. iVe stern Australia: Thomson’s Ltd. Perth, and Fremantle.
BEALE & COM PANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
Gfc
IMITH £? JULIUS


Five New Patented Features
::
V J
wt y :&sX&
urn
6
L
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully.
SECURITY
Cheque Protector*
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Prices —including tube acid-proof ink —
Gent.’s, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ladies’, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Registered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib preferred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
&
HUSBANDS
ARE A
PROBLEM
W its
always
s afew
start"
ttis
without
\S\tes and
VXosquitoas'
lisatttty turnup.
LIQUID
MUSTDIE
wsiaalfy' mseds.
VottU, or fotward^^
ut stmnrs t 5 15Z0.
a.y.O. Sydney.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL SIZE
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/ •
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.'
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
ĥ
No. 1369.
JfL
Don’t let bad roads
detain you/
NO matter how bad the roads may be,
Weed Tyre Chains will get you safely
through. In deep, sticky mud, or light shift-
ing sand —on roads cut up by ruts, furrows
and uneven places—Weed Chains grip and
hold. They transmit every turn of the mo-
tor into actual mileage. They minimize the
danger of skidding, of costly accidents and
annoying delays.
Always carry Weed Tyre Chains in
your car ready for use when needed.
You can tell them by their brass
plated hardened cross chains and
red connecting hooks with the name
Weed stamped on them. For all tyres
—cords, balloons, fabrics —for pas-
senger cars and trucks in Regular,
De Luxe and Extra Heavy styles.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U.S-A.
ħ
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years sis
WEEDtyre chains
AURORA” CIGARETTE CASES
Latest from Stewart Dawson’s
Aluy, |Y|t7i|r4' i))i
lisili!
iMjn|
mWm
11
■
m
BS
wiiiPlMlwSlil
mimßirn
cotets»sa
wS'' »v/'w™V/}>AKp
PRICES OF “AURORA” CIGARETTE
CASES: 37/6, 52/6, 63/-
FLAT MATCHBOXES TO MATCH.
To hold tear-off matches, similar designs
to “Aurora” Cigarette Cases. Price, 16/6
CALL AND INSPECT, OR ORDER
BY MAIL.
Write for New Catalogue.
‘Aurora,” is a substitute for 18-ct. Gold, to which
it is equal in beauty and finish.
“Aurora” is the same color throughout, and will
retain its finish and lustre with the attention
usually given to Gold.
“Aurora” is a very hard alloy, and will wear even
better than Gold.
No articlfe is genuine unless stamped with the name
“AURORA.”
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. (N.S.W.), LTD
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
Two Sydney
Establishments
After 45 years’ service the venerable but
still active J. Fitzpatrick is levering him-
self from his chair in the Vic. railways out-
door superintendent’s office. Before settling
down with a pension on his Rushworth farm,
he will tour the world, and hopes to barrack
for Australia at this year’s Tests.
“Country Ped” : Some school bells have a
history. The little bell at Graytown (Vic.)
once called the Anglican communion to
church. But that was when Graytown was
a bustling city of 30,000 inhabitants,
and not a deserted mining-camp consisting
of a post-office, two houses, a church and a
school.
“L.R.H.”: David Lennox built the first
bridge in Australia that still stands (B.
18/3/’26-)j but he didn’t build the first one.
That distinction belongs to the bridge over
the vanished Tank Stream from which
Bridge-street (Sydney) is named. Lennox
came here in 1831 by the ship Florentia.
He had been foreman to John Cargill, the
builder of a stone bridge across the River
Severn, near Gloucester (Eng.).
E. H. Peake, a son of that Premier of
South Aus. who died while in office and thus
gave Barwell his chance, is to come back from
London to take the post, vacant through the
death of R. G. J. Freeborn, of Sergeant-at-
Arms to the Leg. Council. Peake, junior,
was high up in the Electoral Department
when he was sent to England in 1921 to look
after accountancy matters in the xVgent-
General’s office.
“Neil”: “Copabella’s” suggestion that the
N.S.W. place-name Nimmitabel (B. 11/3/’26)
derives from the ancient outer wall of Baby-
lon is dead against local tradition. This
regards it as an aboriginal word meaning
“Where the waters divide.” Local phil-
ologists insist that the first hotel, the
Nimmitabel Inn, was so called because the
waters from one pitch of the roof upon reach-
ing the ground ran east to the coast, and
from the other west through the tableland.
“iCroson”: Even in times of catastrophe
it is never safe to assume that the Law will
wink at trivial offences. A Croydon (Vic.)
publican thoughtfully despatched a barrel of
tanglefoot at 11 p.m. on Sunday to the fire-
fighters who had saved the township from
destruction, and two police troopers, who
had worked as hard as any, cheerfully
assisted in blowing the froth off a pint or
two. But another band of battlers who were
washing the ashes from their throats in a
Lilydale hotel about the same time were
tapped on the shoulder and threatened with,
summonses for being illegally on licensed
premises during prohibited hours.
“Kriz”: The better class of pearl
“baroque,” used by jewellers for fitting into
gold circlets to be sold as pearl rings, has
always been in great demand by Chinese.
They use it for purposes. Accord-
ing to a buyer who makes yearly trips to
China with large parcels of “baroque,” very
high prices are obtained even for medium
uncleaned parcels. Ground up and mixed
with some Oriental concoction it is stated
to be a cure for eye diseases. The number
of buyers who annually pay their license fee
of £5O to deal in pearls and “baroque” find
a profitable market in the latter alone, leav-
ing the bigger stuff to the French buyers who
visit the pearling centres of Broome and
Thursday Island about twice a year.
“Black Tracker”: Many were the jeers
throwm at a newclium who took a long
lease with right of purchase of a property
near Adelaide, which had become so badly
infested with rabbits that the owner was
practically ruined in trying to combat them.
“They’re a valuable asset,” the newchum
cried, to the amusement of his neighbors.
Within 12 months he has shown that he
knew what he was talking about. He now
has small enclosed paddocks of lucerne
grown especially for the rabbits and in which
they are fattened for the market. Any sur-
plus crop is cut and fed to the outside
bunnies; there is no other stock kept. By
a clever arrangement with trap-doors he can
fill his fattening paddocks when the fats are
drafted off. As all his rabbits sold are
guaranteed, he can commaud sixpence to a
shilling a pair above market price for as
many as he can deliver. When in full swing
he reckons that there is easily a thousand
a year in it.
MY DICTATORSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I were Mussolini,
With Blackshirts at command,
When the glimmering bluey-greeny
Mists came up the purple land,
When the train was running lightly
And the engine whistled brightly
I would simply lift my hand ;
And the tedious talking person,
Be it Brown or Jock McPherson,
Would be made to understand —
We would slay him most politely,
With an axe, you understand.
I should take my Blackshirts shopping
When I bought a postage-stamp.
When I found that I was stopping
Long enough to build a camp
Ere the person slow and great,
The high postal potentate,
Turned in scorn from conversation
To the tired Australian nation,
There would not be long to wait.
If that stamp were not forthcoming
There would be a sudden chopping
And, above the city’s humming,
A dull sound of something dropping
From a headless potentate!
Where the road is rather narrow
And tne person with the barrow
Blocks the sidewalk with his form
There would be no sound of storm,
Just an axe a little red
And an unattractive head.
There are little things and great things
In the world that need redress ;
And I much regret to state things
Labelled “more” are often less,
If we cleared the little matters
Like the flies a duster scatters,
We might see the large things plainer;
And the State might be a gainer
To a very large extent.
So if I were Mussolini,
Where the dirt lies greyish-greeny,
My first efforts would be spent
In a genial cleaning-up.
N.S.W.
MARY M.


Shipping. _
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma —Sierra- —V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Bvron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday, 7 p.m. ; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR Every Tuesday, 7 p.m.;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., Ltd.
THOS. COOK & SON
Beg to Announce
A SELECT ESCORTED TOUR
IN JAVA.
Sydney June 23.
14 DAYS’ MOTOR TOUR IN
BEAUTIFUL JAVA.
Hotels, Sightseeing, Couriers and
All Fees Included.
Fare £l5O First-class Throughout.
Programme on Application.
THOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
NORTH TO BALMY WEATHER.
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
A complete change in a paradise where
temperature is 55deg. to 85deg. the year
round. Golfing, motoring, surfing, outrigger
and surf-board riding, canoeing, new fruits,
flowers, sun-kissed Waikiki Beach, lunar rain-
bows gleaming through tall palms. Total cost,
eight weeks’ trip, with three or four weeks in
Hawaii and a day in Suva or Pago Pago each
way, about £125 to £l6O. Free “stop-over”
privileges,-if en route to America or Europe.
Good hotels, 12/- to £2, with meals, per day.
Ask nearest steamship or travel agent, or write
Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. H, Box 241 D,
G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
A BIT OF THE ORIENT:
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
[i
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925.. £15,395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairrairn. Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,87 5,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa,
Groat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital .. •• •• £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 780,000
£1,655,000
Reserve liability of shareholders ~ 875,000
£2,530,000
Hea'd Office: ADELAIDE,; SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, *o.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and San Francisco.
♦AORANGI 22,000 tons disp. APRIL 8, for Vancouver,
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ APRIL 22, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA ...... 18,600 „ „ MAY 6, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .... 13,000 „ „ MAY 20. for San Francisco.
*Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
• ; 1
*
Hi
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands.
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO TUB UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,{
Union House, 2 4
William Street,
7 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
3C
men
m
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Boobing Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
NATIVE BAZAARS.
TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath. Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Islanu, x 0.,-
Darwin, etc.
Book early, party limited.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1813.
WALKS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Friability
Directors ;
*6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
*16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
' The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. FaKhfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; \V. H. Palmer, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Svdney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 2,830,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£9,830,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir ™OMAS HUGHES, M.L.0., Deputy
Chairman ; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHIOE, M.L.C.,
Hon. J. W. MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.
General, Manager • J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
\ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parked
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship?
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blaeklieath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
fc 7 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
P'olicies of over .. • • •• £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. •• £55,800,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every <!lass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
h
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly —an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home: , Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn, London, \\ .C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


Startling
wJ New Prices
Vital Improvements
Attractive New Colors
Absolute smoothness and quietness of engine oper-
ation characterize the improved Dodge Brothers
Motor Car.
Decreased weight gives it a surprising new snap
and elasticity.
The lower and more graceful closed bodies are
finished in rich and attractive colors.
Vision from within is increased to an almost in-
credible degree.
Reduction of bulk was accomplished by further
notable advances in all-steel body construction, in
which Dodge Brothers have led the world from
the very beginning, Naturally there is a propor-
tionate gain in operating economy—with increased
safety and durability .
Any member of the great Dodge Brothers Dealer
organization—the finest and most aggressive in the
world—will gladly give you all the interesting details.
New prices now avail -
able from any Dodge
Brothers Dealers
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-8 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George' s terrace,
Perth.
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS


Be a Rexona Girl!
It Means Health and Beauty
mm
m
smm
Miss
EVE.
MADDEN ,
a
Beautiful
Rexona
Girl.
Rexona and Rexona Soap are the Rexona
Girl's aids to beauty. With their assistance
she rids her skin of blemishes and pimples,
keeps her hair and scalp in such perfect con-
dition that she is the envy of all her friends.
But the Rexona Girl is not selfish —she does
not keep the secret to herself, but wishes all
the world to rejoice with her. Over 5000
girls have written to the Company the glad
news that they are Rexona Girls, and find
the Rexona Products the most wonderful
aids to health and beauty.
They say that Rexona Soap keeps their
skin and hair healthy and beautiful, and
should be used by every girl who values her
good looks. They say they are always find-
ing new uses for Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
and many of their letters contain a photo-
graph which shows, by its beauty, that these
users are getting the best results in health
and happiness. Are you satisfied with your
looks? Why not become a Rexona Girl and
use only Rexona and Rexona Soap too?
Miss EVE MADDEN, a beautiful Rexona
Girl, of 53 Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.,
and winner of the £5O prize in “Clay’s Siren
of the Surf Competition,” writes: “I find
Rexona Soap unsurpassable for the skin and
hair.”
Rexona Soap
It’s Medicated!
ft
7/
B* 1 *
OSlO*
CAfeis
FA-
s&S
KSt- 5
CvtA
Flt^
Po*»'
00
///
Capstan Lathes, Turret Lathes,
Combination Turret Lathes
IN STOCK.
The fastest Machines for producing work from bar
or castings.
Send your drawings or sample job to us for our
suggestions as to the most suitable machine and
GUARANTEED TIMES of production.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Ltd.
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
Telephones;
City 10109. 10110.
Telegrams: LATHE.
Smoke upon the Skyline.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLOWING from the south’ard, roaring
through the trees,
Spindrift veils the forelands, white
caps crown the seas;
Surf on Tallaberga breaking wild and white ;
Combers crash and thunder under Gabo light;
Mist along the ranges, and the cliffs behind;
Screaming gulls that battle up against the
wind;
Smoke lies on the skyline where a coaster
lean
Lifts her nose above it, dips and takes it
green.
As I watch her grinding, straining past the
bay—
Servant-girl of Commerce going on her way—
Legend, saga, story of the waters wide
Flood my shores of vision with inflowing
tide.
And I sail with Jason on his golden quest,
And with great Columbus go I grandly west;
And with bold Magellan, holding Death in
scorn,
Grimly take my chances, beating round the
Horn.
Then with Drake I dally watching for the
foe —
Golden Hind from Plymouth ; so, and west-
ward ho!
Cute Queen Bess to share in profits of our
trip,
Wise Queen Bess part-owner of a pirate ship !
And with gallant Grenville cannon loudly
roars
Its heroic message by the green Azores—
Its heroic message, bearing as it goes,
Spirit of the Briton, challenge to his foes.
As I watch her straining—servant-maid of
steam —
Comes to me a story, comes to me a dream :
And a south wind roaring through the Gipps-
land trees
Sets the tune eternal of the Seven Seas.
Sturdee at the Falklands waiting for Yon
Spee,
Nelson in the cockpit dying anxiously—
Stories of the waters (oh, the waters wide!)
Rising on my vision, landward though I bide.
' < I *•/!
Landward though I linger till the work in
hand
Finished lets me journey to another land ;
Till the sails are bent on outward-going spars
And I see the glitter of the cold north stars.
Smoke upon the skyline! High the Great
Bear gleams—
Too long have I waited dreaming idle
dreams;
Too long have I loitered by a siren shore.
But I shall be out again, I'll be out once
more.
Out along the deep seas, listening to the
sough
Of curdled combers breaking on a black ship’s
bow;
Sleeping like a baby, eating like a shark.
Up on deck at sunrise, into bunk at dark.
Little sea-winds bringing stories of the past.
As the white spray splashes and the gulls fly
past—
Stories of the navies; songs of seamen bold,
Heroes of the waters in the days of old.
Too long have we eaten of the lotus here—-
Pack the big portmanteau and your liat-case,
dear!
You and I together beating down the wind
With the Pole Star burning and our cares
behind !
So it’s home, my dearie, home to the green
sod.
Home again to Ireland by the grace of God!
Home again to Ireland, to the broken nest—
Its parent birds are scattered to the south
and west.
You and I will build it. build it up amain,
Homing from the southland, fledglings back
again
To the glad, green homeland, mother of the
Erse,
Where the folk still honor the singer and his
verse.
Pack the Saratogas and your suit-case, dear !
Smoke upon the skyline writes its meaning
clear—
Smoke upon the skyline, since the world
began.
Has a hidden meaning for an Irishman.
Smoke upon the sea-line calling to the shore!
Yon and I together, faring north. Asthorc!
Out along the wide seas, listening to the
sough
Of the salt waves curling from a black ship's
bow.
The old life behind us, the new life before —
Smoke upon, the sea-line calling to the shore.
Smoke upon the sea-line —since the world
began,
’Tis smoke on the skyline calls an Irish-
man !
victoria.
E. J. BRADY.
The Dancers Under the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is not every day that a man chances to
meet a set of his fellow-men and women
dancing quietly on the floor of the ocean
some five fathoms down; and even a pro-
fessional diver, much less an amateur, might
well have been perturbed.
Prillison, who saw it and told me of it.
admitted that he was staggered. No wonder!
Especially as he was not looking for sub-
marine dance-halls at the time.
When he commenced to tell me about the
affair, the thought flashed on my mind that
the setting was all that it should be for
such a narration as his opening promised.
Later I altered that opinion. But that is
by the way.
We were seated at the time on the ver-
andah of an alleged hotel in Noumea. Out-
side in the sunlight, through a fringe of
rather disconsolate palms, the harbor was
a plain of dancing diamonds, with Jack Lon-
don’s old Snark rolling lazily in the left
foreground. Inside the bar, an airy room
with tables, chairs and wide doors, four men
were chattering in French and playing
bezique. One was the proprietor, a suave
rascal, colonial French. His partner was an
English drifter, who on occasion acted as
his croupier. The third was a French min-
ing engineer, said to have worked a big swin-
dle over a nickel show. Adventurers all, one
might have said. The fourth must have been
an adventurer, too, or a failure, to have been
there at all. He was out of the picture,
an elderly little chap, maybe French, maybe
British, an insignificant, weak-faced non-
descript who would have made a perfect
model for an unsuccessful suburban draper.
We had strolled up for a piquant citron,
and after nodding to the quartette within
and seating ourselves to await the drinks,
Prillison, starting apparently in the middle
of a train of thought, remarked:
“Did I ever tell you about the dancers
under the sea?”
“Not a word !” I replied.
“Well,” he continued, “they gave me the
fright of my life. And it was Toby Jaggar
who was responsible. Not intentionally or
directly. But he introduced me to the show.
Neptune’s dance-liall, as it were —men and
girls dhncing at the bottom of the sea five
fathoms down. One had his tongue hanging
out a foot. Ugh !
“At that time I was supercargo on the
Dragonfly, schooner, cargo mostly copra and
cockroaches. She didn’t do any blackbirding
because young Sumner, who owned her and
acted as skipper, was always dreaming of
wrecked treasure ships. He had been reared
on a diet of school-prizes and had never re-
covered. •
“One day up in the Santa Cruz Group
old Peter Nevis told us about a schooner
from the Ladrones. It had set out from
Callao, he said, with boxes and boxes of
Peruvian gold dollars aboard, and had been
captured by the Dago cook, who had muti-
neered. The cook knew so much about
navigating that in trying to make for Aus-
tralia he drifted into a lagoon in one of the
Ladrones. There an American pearler, .think-
ing that pearls and gold dollars would go
nicely together round the neck of his bank
account, did for the Dago cook and seized
the schooner in turn. He then set out for
Sydney, just to complicate the international
issues, much as Bully Hayes did in the
Navigators. But near San Cristoval he ran
foul of a reef. That was no good to a hull
rotten with teredo, and the Yank tried to
make for somewhere to beach her; but the
old tub sank in the Madre de Dios Channel.
“We knew the Madre de Dios well. Narrow
swirly passage between the main island and
another small one that looked like a down-
trodden pancake. At its seaward end the
channel-bed finishes in a precipice that drops
sheer to goodness knows where. As you
enter you can see the line of it as
sharply as that submarine cliff off Aden. Well,
as soon as we cleared old Peter’s Bay we set
course for the Madre de Dios. Sumner
was keen. Sunken schooners and pearls and
gold dollars —what more could any son of
romance desire!
“We reached the channel shortly after sun-
rise about a month later and got a scare.
Another vessel was anchored inside the harbor
—spars clear above the pancake. Sumner
got angry. Afraid someone had got in be-
fore him. So we took a chance and ran into
the channel instead of going round by the
main entrance to the harbor. That was to
bring us on the Madre de Dios side of the
other vessel and give us strategic control of
the channel, so to speak. But there was no
need for any fuss. It was only the old
Rosario. You know the old Rosario, don’t
you?”
How could I? She was long before my
time. But I had read of her as a sort of
British auxiliary cruiser sent out to put
down blackbirding. However, without wait-
ing for any reply.
“Of course the Rosario thought we were
blackbirding, and they overhauled the
Dragonfly from tip to tip. Finding us quite
innocent she toddled off northward, and we
set to work right away. Sumner was pre-
pared for such eventualties as sunken
treasure-ships, because he was always look-
ing for them, and he had diving gear
aboard. We took turn about to go down.
Rotten job. We inspected a good part of
the channel-bed that day, starting from the
inner end and zigzagging between the pan-
cake and the main island. It was easy enough
in a way, the bottom clean white sand and
the water as clear as good whisky.
“We had nearly finished the channel, and
it was my turn down. I was working in
toward the main island when I thought 1
had come upon something. It was a mass of
seaweed —crimson, purple, peacock, emerald,
tangerine! Goodness knows what wonderful
tints. I made sure it was the usual growth
round an old hulk and got quite eager; that
is, as eager as one can become inside a diving
dress. Luckily the seaweed was not too
luxuriant, and' it did not take me long to
discover that the stuff was all growing to the
shore rock. It was in from where the
channel-bed fell sheer, and it meant just
about the end of the search —and not a sign
of any sunken schooner. As a matter of fact,
Peter Nevis told some others later on that
the yarn of the Peruvian dollars was all a
legpull. However. I did not know that then.
I had worked down channel along the sea-
weed mass and so round a jut of the rocks.
That's how I came upon them so suddenly
—made it all the worse, I can tell you.
It was not as though they had gradually
glimmered through the mistiness of the
blasted diving goggles. Not a bit of it!
When I came upon them I was close enough
to see them quite clear and unmistakable.
I tell you they staggered me.”
“No* doubt!” I acquiesced. “But what
were they?”
“The dancers,” he exclaimed, “on the
bottom of the sea. men and girls, all naked,
and dancing nice and contentedly, keeping
perfect time. It was a queer dance, sort of
barbaric swaying movement, primitive, but
rather graceful and rhythmic, with a kind of
abdominal jolt at regular intervals like a
quiet version of a Tahitian hula. It was un-
believable. but there they .were. They were
all dark, and well built, all of them, the
girls young and slim —just at the small, firrn-
breasted stage, you know—and the men tall,
(Continued on next page.)


Why Kidney Disease Is so Serious!
"Every Picture
The reason kidney disease is so serious is tKat it
comes on unnoticed, and often gains a firm hold of
the sufferer before he knows what is wrong with him.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills should be used
immediately there is any sign of Backache, Dizzy Spells,
Aching Pains in the Loins, Water Troubles, Gravel,
Rheumatic Pains, Sleeplessness, Irritability, Watery
Swellings in the Ankles or beneath the Eyes, Stiffness of
the Joints and Lumbago.
Doan’s Pills thoroughly cleanse the kidneys and
bladder, and assist them in their great work of filtering
the blood. But be careful to get the genuine Doan’s Pills.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney,
says:—“ln common with many others I have nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago
I was suffering a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was
troubled with pains across the small o'? my back and dizzy
feelings, besides having no energy for anything. One day my
attention was called to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and in
the hope that they might benefit me I got a bottle. After taking
them for a' few days my health began to improve, and by the
time I had used six bottles I was completely cured. I am
grateful to Doan’s Pills for the good they have done me, and
hope many will profit by my experience and use this splendid
remedy. I never suffer with backache now, in fact, feel splendid
in every way.”
Six years later Mrs. Burrows says:—“l have had no reason
to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They
cured me some years ago, and I am still well.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. W. J. Frappell, who has been in the employ of Messrs.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Sydney, for nearly thirty years, says:
“It gives me pleasure to testify to the curative value of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I had been suffering with an aching
back for a number of years, and at "times it was very severe.
After trying many remedies without getting any ease whatever,
I was advised to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did so,
and from the first few doses got relief, and after using three
bottles I was entirely free of backache. lam thoroughly cured,
and hope this statement will meet the eye of other sufferers and
be the means of them getting relief through the use of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
Twenty-two years later Mr. Frappell says:—“l am still
a great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and I find by taking this remedy now and
then that I am able to keep free from the torture of backache.”
ĥh
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
lithe, strong. Faces? Well, not too ugly;
not a true Melanesian type. For the
moment I thought them a new sort of sea-
creature, submarine humans, and I drew
back round the abutment of rock, thoroughly
scared. Then I chanced another glance.
They took no notice of me, so I stayed on and
stared on. They made an amazing, a beauti-
ful tableau, those fine bronze bodies, swaying
harmoniously, with that vivid multi-colored
curtain of seaweed as a background. The
rocks there formed a shallow grotto, curving
over like a canopy, all covered with that
gorgeous coloring; and seen in the turquoise
Jight of the strong sunlight filtered through
crystal water —well, I tell you no panto,
scene ever remotely suggested such beauty,
or such horror. As I looked I noticed the
chap with the long tongue hanging out. It
dangled down his chest almost to his belly
and was dark-grey in tint. He was drawing
it slowly in, inch by inch —somehow it was
inexpressibly disgusting. It had nearly dis-
appeared before I realised that it was really
one of those damned sea-slugs crawling into
the dead man’s mouth!”
He paused. I glanced out toward the clean
sky—came up for a breath, so to speak, from
the submarine unpleasantness into which
Prillison had dragged me.
“It was then that I noticed for the first
time,” he continued, “that the legs played
no part in the rhythmic movements of those
bodies. The feet were quite stationary,
fastened by the ankles, as I found, to a
length of unusually heavy anchor-chain over
which the swirl of the channel had already
washed the sand. It was the swirl of the
current, too, that accounted for the move-
ment of the bodies. Being anchored by the
feet, they had remained upright.
“I had been down quite long enough and
signalled to be hoisted. On deck I thought
I’d have a joke with Sumner. Told him
there was only one more section to be ex-
plored, and explained that, just beyond a jut
of seaweed, I had seen something unusual,
but was unable to stay down any longer to
investigate. He was eager as a schoolboy
about it and I lowered him at what I
thought would be the right spot for him to
get the proper dramatic effect. He got it
all right, poor devil! When he failed to
signal within reasonable time we hauled him
up. Dead! Heart not strong enough for
the dance-halls of Neptune—-dance-halls of
the Devil!”
He stopped, and I thought he had finished:
but after a couple of sips of citron he re-
sumed :
“You can guess how I felt about it. I
took the little Dragonfly down to Brisbane
and did not touch the Western Pacific again
till a couple of years ago. That was nearly
forty years aftci*. Then in this same bar
one night I chanced to meet Toby Jaggar.
Had heard of him often before, in the old
Dragonfly days. In the ’eighties he had been
a blackbirder and goodness knows what be-
sides —a cut-throat blighter and a libertine.
With every load of blackbirds he took be
used to include a squad of sirls. Would pack
thirty into the cubby-house forward that had
been built for ten. present himself with a
fresh one every night for thirty nights, and
pass them generously on to the crew after.
Anyway, when I met Jaggar he was about as
tipsy as his drink-inoculated body could be,
and he was boasting about his blackbirding
deeds.
“But the thing he seemed to be most
proud about was the way he had outwitted
the Ilosario. It seems to have been a close
call with him. He was dawdling round
the San Cristoval coast with a small batch
of boys and girls, fifteen altogether, and all
caught in a way that would not bear investi-
gation. The Ilosario suddenly appeared out
of one of those white w'oolly Pacific fogs,
quite near to him. She signalled him to
stop. He replied that he thought he had
sprung a bad leak and would run into the
next bay. The Rosario shepherded him,
standing' out a little and looking very
severe.
“What worried him then was how to dis-
pose of those fifteen Kanakas right under
the eyes of the cruiser. It was not easy.
You just think it out find you’ll be surprised
how difficult it is to get rid of a load of
human contraband while the law has its
binoculars on you. But Toby Jaggar knew
the coast well, and when they rounded the
next point he swung his helm hard over
and ran into the Madre de Dios channel,
anchoring just inside the narrow entrance,
so that the Rosario would have no room
even had she otherwise been game to follow.
She lowered a boat and continued round the
downtrodden pancake of an island into the
safe anchorage of the bay. That move had
given Jagger about fifteen minutes free of
observation before the boat-crew could board
him. It was ample time. He had known
what he was going to do, and he had every-
thing ready. The kanakas, boys and girls,
had all been bound hands and feet and
threaded to the links of a heavy anchor-
chain. This he slid gently overside, cutting
the hands free as they went, ‘to put a bit
of movement jfetD 7 -'4l*e picture,’ as Jaggar
drunkenly declared.
“Of course, the Rosario boat found no-
thing and the blackbirder was free to go.
So she drifted out on the next ebb, and
had just vanished northward when we arrived
in the Dragonfly looking for gold-dollars. I
had often wondered who had been responsible
for those fifteen dead dancers at the bottom
of the sea.”
Prillison really had finished the yarn this
time, and it is a curious thing that, listen-
ing to him, I could not but feel a furtive
admiration for the impudence and resource-
fulness of Jaggar. Of course, there was no
question as to the diabolic nature of the
deed, but •every man has been a boy, and
every boy has been a pirate, so that there
must always be a glamor about those lawless
days and daredevil characters. It was so
easy to visualise Jaggar, the blackbirder, as
a modern variant of the buccaneers, not in
gaudy sash and headkerchief, but as a sun-
bronzed athlete, doubtless in white pants
and singlet and topee, bare feet and bare
arms; reckless, laughing and irresponsible;
dark eyebrows—arched, of course—a tall,
lean figure and clear-cut features: cruel
features but strong, flamboyant and defiant.
By contrast, those bezique-players, who
had seemed excellent types of adventurers,
became a second-rate lot. I had a picture
of a laughing daredevil on a schooner’s deck,
clear against the palm-green shore, and those
miserable humans playing cards in a Nou-
mean bar looked absurd, modern, cribbed
and crabbed: a hotelkeeper, a gambling-
saloon lackey, a mining swindler: what a
lot, to say nothing of the model suburban
draper!
jaggar, devil though he was, murderer,
semi-pirate, slaver, lord of an ocean seraglio,
seafaring sultan, wholesale libertine, still
seemed, somehow, more of a man, and his
period, though evil, was at least spacious.
He did not play bezique. He played 1 a game
of life and death.
I decided that the setting for Prillison’s
narrative, after all, w r as by no means every-
thing that it might have been.
In any case, almost with the ending of
the yarn, the setting dismantled itself. A
cloud wiped out the sunlight; the Snark, on
the drift of the tide, had swung out of sight
behind an old tin shed ; the game of bezique
came to an end, and the players dispersed.
The hotelkeeper and his croupier went out
by the side corridor. The mining swindler
strolled across t-o speak to the. barmaid, who
w 7 as suffering from fatty degeneration of
mind, soul and body. As for the apology for
a suburban draper, the shrivelled little
blighter whose insignificance had made him
a discord even among rascality, he aggravated
my sense of annoyance against him by com-
ing over and speaking to Prillison.
While he did so I amused myself by watch-
ing the mining swindler and the barmaid.
There was nothing else to do.
It was not long before I had to change
my mind again. I had been right at first.
There whs nothing wrong with the setting
for the story. Indeed, it w 7 as the very com-
pleteness of it that had prompted Prillison
to tell of the incident. I found this out very
simply. Prillison, noticing that the model
suburban draper and myself had exchanged
no greeting, remarked, in the manner of a
man uttering a needless formality: “Of
course you tw T o have met?”
“Not so far,” I replied.
“Oh, I made sure you had,” he apologised,
and w 7 ith a slight gesture tow 7 ard the little
w 7 eed w'hose very inoffensiveness w 7 as an
offence, he added:
“This is Mr. Jaggar—Toby Jaggar. You
may have heard of him.”
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Mental Arithmetic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were getting new 7 curtains for the
bedroom w 7 indow 7 s.
We generally keep a foot-rule or
a tape-measure, but they could nowhere
be found. Except for a couple of pairs
of lost scissors, a spectacle ease, some
thimbles, twenty or thirty crumpled playing-
cards and a few sundries which I retrieved
out of the intestinal folds of the sofa, the
whole house was upset in a completely un-
successful endeavor to locate their hiding-
place, until the Lady, in spite of my firm
protestation that I had never seen it for
months, ran the foot-rule to earth in the
inside pocket of my second-best overcoat.
When the domestic atmosphere had cleared
somewhat, I ascended the stepladder —which
we found at the bottom of the garden behind
the toolshed—and measured the width of the
windows. Fifty-seven inches exactly.
“Let me see,” the Lady said, when I in-
formed her—“fifty-seven inches? That's
three inches less than sixty inches. How
much is sixty inches?”
“Five feet,” I ventured.
“And three feet go to the yard. There are
two windows, not counting the little window
near the door; that will take about a yard
by itself, I expect. Two fives are ten —-that's
three yards and a bit, and then there’s the
yard for the little window. .That will make
four yards and a bit. I want the length
of the window next.”
“Six feet seven inches to the bottom of
the sill,” I read otf the rule.
“All right. That’s two yards for each,
with seven inches over. Four sevens are
twenty-seven, aren’t they? Oh, well, twenty-
eight then—say a yard for the lot. Of
course, the width of the material makes a
difference. If it’s sixty inches, perhaps I
could make two out of the one, and the frill
really wouldn’t take more than a yard and
a half if it’s forty-eight, and I might get
the little window out of what’s left. How
much did I say the tops would take?”
“Four yards and a bit, I think.”
“And two yards for each curtain if it’s
narrow width. Four twos are eight, and
the extra yard makes nine yards, and four’s
thirteen, less three yards, say, if it’s sixty
inches, and less the little window, if the
pattern comes out right; but it probably
won’t, so I’d better not count on it. That’s
ten yards, isn’t it? Then there’s the win-
dow' seats. I expect I can get them out of
a yard and a half —say a yard and three-
quarters to be sure. No, I don’t really be-
lieve they will take a yard and three quar-
ters each. Say a yard and a half each, and
a quarter of a yard over. That’s two and
three-quarter yards. Three and a quarter?
Well, three and a quarter, and four yards
and a bit, you said, for the tops. That’s
seven yards and a quarter and a bit over,
and for the side curtains twelve yards if it’s
narrow 7, I think it w T as, less three yards if
it’s w'ide, and the little window —oh »o,
that included the tops, and I’ve put them
in again. Say, eight yards, and seven and
a quarter yards and the little window 7 make
eight and seven—fifteen —and a quarter yard
makes fifteen and a quarter, and the little
window—say three-quarters to make it even
—makes sixteen yards. I think that’ll be
about right. I’d like to get enough to re-
upholster the sofa and make a new 7 loose
cover for the easy-chair, but I’d better w 7 ait
till you get some more money, hadn’t I?
And if you go first thing in the morning be-
fore the sale is over, you’ll get it at the
reduced price, and save 2s. in the £ for cash.”
And the strange thing is that she wasn’t
much more than a yard and a quarter out,
and I easily got that the next day. But the
price w 7 as up, the sale being over.
M. H. S.


h
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear ■
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z Office —93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Metotmnw. Adelaide. S.A.
South Australian Agents: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LI *
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
<REG-ISTEKJED TRADE-MARK)
SOLUTION and ENAMELS.
Rust Insurance
The use of “Bitumastic” is an effective insurance against
the ravages of rust. Repairs cost more than preservation.
Use “Bitumastic" only.
Sold in Black, Red, Brown, Green or Grey Colors; ready to use.
ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
590-592 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 239-241 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Fanshawe Street, Auckland.
BEST FOR THE HAIR ON
ALL OCCASIONS
Anzora will master the most un»
ruly hair and keep it in place all
day. Anzora Cream for greasy
scalps, Anzora Viola for dry
scalps. Sold by chemists, hair-
dressers, stores or from our agents
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne —Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd.
Sydney—Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide—Arthur Glover.
Brisbane —Gregory & Collins.
Berth —-L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZORA, PERFUMERY Co., Ltd.
Willttden Lane, London, England.
I!
tan
Lt
HUH
ill!
mtifc
is
iiil.l
CRE.
S<«!
>1 If
ħ
HARROW”
"NITRO CLUB”
"NEW CLUB”
"REMINGTON”
Supplied in all standard
gauges and loads
ĥ
any one of these Remington UMC grades will give
A you entire satisfaction. Not only are these
cartridges quick-firing and hard-hitting but every
one in the box may be depended on to give equally
good results.
Small Gauge Shotgun Cartridges
Remington UMG makes .410 gauge cartridges in
2 and 2^2 -inch cases which are highly efficient and
widely used for small game and bird shooting. Try
them and you will be surprised with the results.
emin&ton-UMC
ĥ
All grades are “Wetproof”
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
E-22
G. P. O. Box 686
Melbourne.
OTHER REASONS
for taking
Beecham’s Pills.
Make you
Eat well
Sleep well
Feel well
Work well
GIVE YOU
Clear Eyes
Clear Complexion
You’ll tingle with life
And action
Feel glad to be alive
A dose at night
Will keep you right.
Sold In boxes
1/- and 2/6.
0\
/"N t '
J
*2?
\
You don’t know how good your
car really is until it is fitted with
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
Lodge plugs, In different models to
suit all engines and each model the
best one obtainable for its particular
purpose, are sold by accessory dealers
and stores everywhere. Packed in sealed
metal boxes.
British made and the best in the world
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.
RUGBY—ENGLAND
ml
m
Mention make of car
when buying Dlugs.
Illustrated Is
Model CT
(i* regular).
Price 5/-
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. Pi
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
ħ
Prices
$135.00
to
$1,050.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U. S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Exclusive Factory Representatives:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia), Etd.
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Ltd..
Kermath Manufacturing Co- Detroit* Mich«U.SJL
Cable Addrpgg - KERMATH
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumatmoes permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.10 pan.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
*»»•= „“"x» „ Board.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. > f «- ort Macauarie
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY ** 3 pm > “
T«h, B««6 (4 linn). *“"7 H!i ,


I
m
tttflW
1
r»A
I—o
E.LSON 5
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE
Enterprise plays the principal part in the dramatic
glory of achievement. So many good things con-
tribute to its make-up; courage and chivalry, resolution
and fortitude; vigour and that unfailing spring of
healthy optimism .......
DEWAR’S
