

*
9K*
ft
x
&
r$
<3
Jlliillu
3
n
'Mil*
1...11
111 l
(
n
iiiniiiii
a
and free home
gladly mailed. Write Dept. A.
Australian '(&mm\f&cbic 0 ltd.
Corner Wentwortli, Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney-
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Box 8 G.P.0., Newcastle West, N.S.W.
Bov 851 G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Box 487-H G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
Agents— ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane.
OLIVER k OLIVER TTY., LTD., Hobart and Launceston, Tas.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
The Bulletin
✓ol. 47.—N0. 2410
Thursday, April 22, 1926,
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.


V\J RITE for our Library Catalogue and
/ lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to
DYMOOK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 George Street, Sydney.
c
ç
THE SECRET
OF
GOOD HEALTH-
That is
Perfect Digestion—A Clean, Healthy
Stomach—Regular Bowel Activity—
WILL BE FOUND IN A BOX OF
chamberlain's tablets
Wonderful for Biliousness, Constipation and Bad Breath.
•6.
■
&S,
0
Ctf=s
■;«
The Decca plays every
make and size of
record. There are 4
models and 2 sizes at
prices from £4 I Os. to
£l2.
m
f
y*-
Sold by all Music
Dealers and Stores
throughout the
Commonwealth.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS i
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 321 Pitt
St., Sydney.
Suttons Pty. Ltd., 290
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack
St., Perth.
Savery Pianos Ltd., 29
Rundle St., Adelaide.
King & King Ltd., Queen j
St., Brisbane. v 1
Wills & Co., 7 The Quad- V
rant, Launceston. JO
CLOSED
op*
./I Link, with
“Home”
The Decca provides a wonder-
ful link with the old Country.
Far away in lonely, “Outback”
Station Homesteads or in
populous cities it is just the
same—-the Decca will bring
the music O’London to you*
The Decca is so compact and
»o light, that it can be carried
easily from room to room, into
the garden for an impromptu
dance, or even further afield
tor picnics or parties, while its pure
J. s ,. as clear and sweet as that of
the highest price cabinet phonograph.
fiEOCA
Ifif PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
STTG
© £>
Shape
No. 2/4369
GBD
Here’s the perfect pipe —
you wiW realise your ideal of a perfect pipe when you
have actually smoked a GBD. It will exceed your
best anticipations—so cool, so satisfactory in every way, a
pipe with a pedigree that will never fail to satisfy your
smoking needs.
Finest quality briar, neatly finished with the very best
quality vulcanite mouthpiece and Hall-ma rked silver mount,
in all favourite shapes. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Trade enquiries are invited to Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDIE" Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
mustdie:
NON POIMNOO3 TOWDCR
IME6RMI IMSEO Dt3IKOyl.R.
I Flies.
Heas.
Bags.
Mawtae*
»•
. IMj
more effectively, and wt
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- i n stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. p
The Red Page
Leon Trotsky and Russian Culture
With all his fanatical egoism, Leon
Trotsky cannot be brushed aside as an un-
cultured demagogue, To those making an
unbiased survey of the new Russian regime
his “Literature and Revolution'’ is virile
and compelling. To those who accept his
premises it may even be convincing. But
the premises can no more be accepted than
the communistic axiom that all men are
equal or the doctrine of original sin.
“All the social illusions,” he says, “which
mankind has raved about in religion, poetry,
morals or philosophy served only the pur-
pose of deceiving and blinding the oppressed.
The Revolution tore the covers off illusions,
off ‘elevating’ as well as off ‘humiliating’
deceptions, and washed off Reality’s make-
up in blood. The Revolution is strong to
the extent to which it is realistic, rational,
strategic and mathematical. It does not
need the seasoning of romantic outbursts as
a cat ragout needs hare sauce.”
Here is a denial of art and culture as
permanent forces in the evolutionary pro-
gress of man, which, however, is subse-
quently qualified by admissions that the pro-
letariat must ultimately develop a culture of
its own, built to some extent on the ‘•land-
marks of the past.” Reading between the
lines it is evident that Trotsky is chagrined
at Russia’s intellectual isolation and afraid
of the contemporary result of the persisting
vendetta against the country’s intellectuals
who will not applaud the dictatorship of the
proletariat as the “only way.” Although
professing no doubt as to the ultimate result
of the Revolution, one can hear Trotsky
whistling in the dark. He looks forward
to the- day when “the average human type
will rise to the heights of an Aristotle, a
Goethe or a Marx, when above that ridge
new peaks will rise,” but admits that the
remnants of intellectuality in the commune
must concentrate on purely material needs
until the proletariat thinks the time is ripe
to relax the new chains of conscription and
permit a return to “censored freedom of
thought and expression.”
Trotsky argues that pre-Revolution Rus-
sian culture was inseparably linked with the
hated bourgeoisie, and that it was necessary
to destroy one as ruthlessly as the other. His
book is a covert apology for this dual exter-
mination. Running through it is a whisper
of lament that the intellectuals did not
automatically become champions of the Revo-
lution and drum-beaters to its leaders. The
intensity of his contempt and the reality of
his hate for the Russian emigres who in
other countries discuss the new regime de-
stroys the critical value of his writings,
and of his opinion of the mental and moral
standards of a people suddenly divorced from
religion, art and culture. lie admits that
for a decade at least forms of artistic ex-
pression will only be tolerated so far as
they stabilise the new order. Art will be
used at present only as an aid to better pro-
duction and distribution. The job of filling
the platter and keeping it full must not be
disturbed by dreaming or abstract thinking.
When the fulness of the platter is assured
for all time, then, subject to close censor-
ship by a proletarian committee, art may
be separated from materialism and allowed
to exist as a distinct social force. But it
will not be individualistic. The artist will
by then have merged his individuality into
the commune and will work for his full
platter, just the same as the blacksmith and
street cleaner.
Another Russian writer of repute elabo-
rates this idea by suggesting culture work-
shops. One can picture a Dostoievsky, a
Tchekoy or even a Trotsky punching tin;
bundy-clock as he enters a studio to grind
out his 0000 words a day under the super-
vision of a comrade who probably will re-
gard authorship as the “thin end of the
wedge” of persistent capitalism. Trotsky
alleges that Russian culture, particularly its
accumulations of literature before the Revo-
lution, was not worth preserving. With
Joyiau gesture he would sweep it all into
oblivion. Some may be inclined to agree
with this. The Russian, with his . Oriental
strain, is a strange mixture of mystic and
animal, and most of his literature reflects
these national traits. But our iconoclast
includes the literature of the world in his
titanic gesture. The singers of all cen-
turies, the writers of the world’s million
books, were all pliant tools of oppression,
and nothing said by them should be read or
reprinted until the proletariat is mentally
strong enough to absorb literature other than
proclamations issued by Councils of Work-
men. Trotsky rejects with fine vituperation
the idea that, since the race first developed
a sense of aesthetics, art has existed inde-
pendently of any economic system. That some
artists have been tainted with commercial-
ism in every decade, and the tendency in
some forms of society to deny access of the
multitude to culture, cannot be denied; but
that these are reasons for denying to art
the fullest latitude in any form of social
organisation could only bo seriously put for-
ward by a mind obsessed. Trotsky’s atti-
tude towards the drama is much the same.
Nothing of. the past is of material value,
although much of it can be adapted to the
needs of the commune. “On the eve of the
Revolution,” he says, “art was without aims.
Those who had aims had no time for art.
Socialist art will revive tragedy. It will
also revive comedy, because the new man
of the future will want to laugh. The new
art will revive all the old forms which
rose in the course of the development of
the creative spirit.”
There is a strange mass of contradiction
m his reflections on symbolic forms of art
but the general conclusion is that the drama
of the past was individualistic, that of the
future will be- collective. It will no longer
voice the “arrogance of individualism which
tears personality from the collectivity.” but
will symbolise the emotions of massed con-
sciousness.
Trotsky puts himself out of court as a
coherent thinker by his refusal to see the
merging of each epoch of human development
;>to a new epoch. Progress, to him, has not
been a persistent evolution, but a series of
unrelated explosions. The pre-Revolution
accumulations of art, of scientific investiga-
tion and of philosophic thought, save where
they have aided material production, are
regarded by him as so much dead timber in
the path of progress. Then comes an amaz-
ing denial of his own theory. Future pro-
gress is to be evolutionary. Eldorado is
still on the other side of the mountain and
will be reached only by ages of progressive
effort. That his commune is only a passing
phase in human effort, a drifting of a group
of mortals into an untried pathway, is
ignored. For the time being we are told the
people of the commune must concentrate on
purely material things. The achievement
of real economic freedom will be long and
laborious and too strenuous to permit of
any waste effort on art or culture until
every body’s platter is full. Some day in
the future each comrade will have; time to
look beyond his cupboard, to laugh, perhaps
to play, even to dream. Until that time
‘comes he must forget that in other countries
not blessed with a Trotsky, many people are
still laughing and playing and dreaming.
The rest of. the world is not prepared to
accept Trotsky’s declaration that his is the
only way to effect economic reconstruction,
and that art is not a continuing and essen-
tial factor in human development
G. S. B.
Women and Education
In an article on “Education and Popula-
tion” (B. IS/3/’2O) Henry Fletcher showed
by his deductions from, certain data that lie is
not yet free from the age-long prejudices of
his sex. He quotes from an American writer
who deplores that TJ.S.A. statistics show that
the university graduate mothers only three-
quarters of an infant per head, while the
mental deficients multiply exceedingly. There-
fore Mr. Fletcher concludes that this physical
sterility is consequential to tlie higher educa-
tion of woman, and says “that with any
socially undesirable race, or special section
of it, a prompt, harmless and humane exter-
mination is possible by the compulsory higher
education of the female.”
On a mere superficial examination of such
statistics this seems a logical conclusion, but
on analysis it is found to be a fallacy. It is
not a fact that the development of woman’s
brain necessarily leads to atrophy of her
organs of reproduction. This is even ad-
mitted by the most ultra-modern physio-
logists, the endocrinologists, who, through
their doctrinaire theories, are threatening to
engulf psychology and swamp us in a sea of
physiological, regulation. However,' they
agree on one point. Sexual activity and
pregnancy can occur in an animal whose
lumbar spinal cord has been completely
severed from the brain ; inversely, the brain
is by no means injured by castration. This
fact, to put it bluntly, frees the brain ; and
therefore women’s mental development is
not necessarily in a subordinate relationship
to her physiology.
The small percentage of children borne by
university women is not due to physiological
reasons, but to economic ones. The natural
tendency for the higher-educated woman is to
marry into the professional and academic
classes. Men of these classes cannot afford
to marry at the early age which is the custom
of the ‘‘working” classes and the privilege
of the rich. Consequently the women they
marry are older, and naturally cannot,
through sheer force of this circumstance,
have as many children as -they would have
had under conditions permitting earlier mar-
riage. Also, they do not indiscriminately
beget children without consideration of the
future and of the advantages and disadvan-
tages, financial and otherwise, under which
they will labor, This special improvidence is
the prerogative of the mental deficients and
‘the baser breeds without the law” of all
x-aces.
Immigration and “filling our empty spaces”
seems to have become an obsession with us.
Populate, any how. any way, and with any-
one ! Mentality, physique, morality are im-
material : the right shade of color is the only
necessity. It is time we realised that quality,
and not quantity, is the backbone of 'a
nation’s stability. Yet we have these cries
against the educated woman of to-day be-
cause she does not breed indiscriminately
and without consideration of the external
forces which, because of our absurdly arti-
ficial standards of life, influence her unduly.
If the efforts directed against the higher
education of women were turned into chan-
nels that would relieve the heavv burden of
economic pressure borne by the intelligentsia
it might be a forward step in the interests
of posterity.
R.S.
Modernism in Law
Phc British Prime Minister, ist reported to
have said, with regard to the settlement of
matters relating to the nation's debt to the
l .k .A., that the rapidity with which they
were determined was due to the fact that
neither he, the governor of the Bank of Eng-
land nor Mr. Mellor had ever been a lawyer.
The inference is clear that where the lawyer
comes in expedition goes out. Why is this?
Is it inherent in the administration of the
hiw? In . Bench mid Dm-, by William
Dm ran (Allen and Unwin), an attempt is
made to throw some light on the inquiry
It is a maxim in English law that ‘iguo-
rance of its provisions does not excuse an
offender. Yet he would be a superman who
could cover the whole field even of statute
law; and. as to the Common law. who w
there can declare that which is ever in flux’
Some broad principles project themselves out
or the infinite mass of Judge-made law* but
even they may, by slow attrition, by Vari-
ances. distinctions and it may be even by
the color of judicial personality, undergo
change and lose their fixity. Continuously
this mass increases not only, in bulk but in
“'fe ll ' f rl "' ,a .t (! Professor Maitland
t/'in c<» 1 1 a 1 KS1"- under its own
weight. In the United States, where when
discarding English rule they clung to English
lav-, public opinion appears to be arriving
(Continued on page 8.)


it
a
Attractive Dining-room and Bedroom Suites
Designed for Beauty and Built for Service
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
.^Bosaesstej
The “Junee.
The “Barcarolle”
The “Barcarolle” is a Bedroom Suite of
figured Maple, handles in antique brass.
Wardrobe is 5 ft. x Ift. 9in., with two-
thirds hanging space, hat shelf, brass rods
and hooks; full length bevelled mirror.
Dressing Table is 3ft. 6in. x Ift. 9in.; two
short, two long drawers; bevelled land-
scape mirror. Bedside Cupboard is 2ft. x
Ift. sin; one shelf. The price ticket, plus
the fact that Anthony Horderns’ are the
makers, is more than con-
firmation of the values. . .
£4s|lo|-
'Heresford.
The “Junee”
The “Junee” is designed for dining-rooms
of refinement, and carried out in Maple
or Oak, wax finished. Sideboard is 5 ft.
wide, with two drawers, two doors, circular
bevelled mirror. Table is 4ft. in diameter;
double thickness on top. Four small and
two carver chains have drop-in seats
upholstered in Fabrikoid. The Service
Waggon is two-tiered, with push handle
and 3in. rubber-tyred wheels. You will
find the “Junee” Dining Suite exceptional
value. Note the beauty of the wood-
work and compare the
Price ....
£33jlO|-
TO
fc
The “Barcarolle,”
The “Beresford”
The “Beresford* , Bedroom Suite, in
selected Queensland Maple, furnishings in
antique brass. Wardrobe is sft. 6in. x 1 ft.
9in.; two-thirds hanging space, hat shelf,
brass rods and hooks; one-third trays and
shelves; oval full-length bevelled mirror.
Dressing Table is 3ft. 6in. x 1 ft. 9in., with
two long and two short drawers; oval
bevelled landscape mirror. Bedside Cup-
board, Ift. 9in. x Ift. sin. Beautifully
designed and cleverly proportioned, The
“Beresford” is excellent
value at
£49110)-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


HUDSON
SUPER-SIX
COACH
£499
Closed Car
Comforts at Open
Car Cost
c
HUDSON. ESS IX
World’s Largest Selling “Sixes”
ESSEX COACH £370
Essex Phaeton £315
Hudson Brougham £565
Hudson 7-Pass. Sedan .... £625
Leadership in quality gave this leadership in sales. And
the growing volume has permitted economies which are
passed on to buyers in prices way below any rival.
Hudson advantages in price, performance and quality
are everywhere acknowledged “the World's Greatest
Values,”
All know that higher price can buy no more in brilliant
performance, reliability and lasting satisfaction. And it
is only as you find its comparable qualities among the
costliest cars that its enormous price advantage is so
astonishing.
And Essex has Super-Six Advantages
The Essex Six was designed by Hudson engineers and
is built by Hudson on the famous Super-Six principle.
HUDSON
7-Pass.
PHAETON,
£4BO
c
In quality and workmanship Hudson and
Essex are alike. Essex is nimble and quiet
in performance. It is easy-riding and easy
to handle. It is economical and long last-
ing. And at almost the price you pay for
low-priced “Fours,” you get its closed-car
comforts and 6-cylinder advantages.
Why accept less than a “Six”? Why not
have the qualities of the most wanted
Six type in the world?
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS TTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.


The Correct Sports Coat
All-wool Donegal Tweed
Correct in every detail and made with yoke at back pleated into
band, also four pockets. Cut from fancy All-wool Donegal
Tweed in grey or fawn. Price 75/'
Also made in —
Fancy All-wool Tweeds in fawns or greys. Prices, 42/- and 63/-
Colored Flannel Trousers
All-wool Flannel with side straps, belt loops and semi wide bottoms.
Sand or lavender. Prices, pair 35/- and 427-
Greys. Prices, pair .. .. •. •• 21/- and 32/6
DAVID JONES’
at the same conclusion. Elihu Root in 1920
declared that “the law is becoming guess-
work The reported decisions in the United
a tote's in 3917 occupied 175,000 pages.
The walls of any barrister in fair practice
nre shelved from floor to ceiling; each shelf
holds an array of Reports, and somewhere
or other in one of these volumes are to be
found the cases lie needs to support his cause.
A little lower down the corridor is another
diligent barrister searching in a similar col-
lection of Reports for the cases that will
confute it. To talk of ignorance of the law
is simply to talk of what everybody possesses,
for no one knows the law till the Judge
declares it; and he cannot be sure till the
last possibility in the way of appeal has been
exhausted. You may think you have the
principle, but it is very elusive. It is just
here, according to the vehement Mr. Durran.
that’ the barrister comes in with all
his iniquities. Codify your law, he
says, and the Bar will no longer bo
a paying proposition. Codification, in his
sense, does not limit itself to statute law’
where the task might be comparatively easy
—but embodies a reduction to specific formu-
la} of all the contents of the Common law.
Dare any juristic St. George venture on the
task of subduing such a dragon as that?
Still, he has good precedents to show. Pass-
ing by the classical instances, he quotes the
work'done by Frederic the Great of Prussia
and the code promulgated after the union' of
the German States; the Code Napoleon,
which is the basis of modern French law,
“compact, comprehensive and so cheap that
it is within the reach of the poorest citizen.”
The German code is not less excellent, and.
Ilans being in some matters a frugal
soul, not less cheap. Its latest revision can
he purchased for the equivalent of a few
shillings. These are the two outstanding
Continental codes; but codification is the
broad rule in Europe, and Japan has fol-
lowed the example. Even in the American
Republic some of the States have adopted it.
Having codified your laws, the author
argues, you will no longer require these
battles of forensic wit that split straws and
pile up costs; you will no longer have the
spectacle of the ruin of the poor man by
the rich who carries his cause from court to
court —all about some point or quiddity in
the indeterminate body of the Common law.
He who runs and has a couple of florins or
so may read. There may be peril in the
stuff; still there it is, plainly set down. No
need, then, of the barrister, says Mr. Durran,
who simply loathes the gentleman. There
being in those days no subtleties of law to
wrangle over and determine, it will not be
necessary or even desirable to draw Judges
from the Bar. The author suggests “Jurist-
Judges” ; that is to say, men learned in the
law, such as university professors, who, living
in academic serenity and beyond the fighting
of the gladiatorial Bar, would administer
justice according to the code. Of course the
approach to the court would be simplified,
too. Modern pleadings would be swept away
and in their place be substituted a simple
statement of the case. Then all-round reduc-
tions in salaries and fees could be made. The
Judge would have to deal with facts alone,
to place them before the good men and true
in jury cases, or come to his conclusion in
matters dealt with by him alone. The sacred
jury system is left untouched, though some
modernists think it badly in need of refor-
mation.
All this sounds very fine, but it postulates
powers that seem to over-reach human capa-
city. Who can conceive a code so perfect
that its interpretation would never come into
question? Then the cause of Mr. Durran’s
irritation, the barrister, would appear once
more to “argue the point” and “refreshers”
and other items would crop up in the bill of
costs just as before. It will be hard to kill
the barrister—-he will die very slowly. But
there is much to be said for the codification of
the law. The law ought to be, as an American
jurist expressed it, “systematically and scien-
tifically stated.” And there is no doubt at
all that the processes of the law ought to be
simplified. Here, however, one cannot gener-
alise, because in no two States of the Com-
monwealth are they alike. But one can say
this very definitely: in no other State
do they so lend themselves to delay and ex-
pense as in N. S. Wales. On this point
several of the High Court Judges have
spoken, Justice Isaacs in particular. We
might do a great deal worse than beg his
opinion upon the changes that are desirable.
T. B. C.
Applause in Theatres
Bernard Shaw says : “As far as the serious
work of the theatre is concerned, I should
put applause during the performance on the
same footing as brawling in a church.” Is
the statement that the theatre has serious
work to do justifiable? Will the comparison
of the theatre with a church bear examina-
tion ?
The ritual of the church conduces to
mental rest: the performance of a play
conduces to mental excitement. The wor-
shipper in a church makes no contract with,
the authorities: we are induced to enter a
theatre by promises made witli a view to
extracting money from us, and the contract
is made in consideration of that money. With
that money the seat-holder purchases the
right to approve or disapprove of what is
offered him. In a church we try for a time
to hide from our grosser selves; in a theatre,
even in the higher drama, we hear phrases
like “No bloody fear!” and every successful
play must pivot on a passion shared in
degree by all animals. A playwright can
never be a preacher, and no cult will ever
make a theatre a school. The theatre is not
the place for the student. A play read in
the study may be an intellectual delight to
a scholar; the same play acted in a theatre
becomes an entertainment. There is no
time for ratiocination in a theatre. Sights
and sounds distract us. Fugitive ideation
hurries us forward. Emotion leaps upon
emotion. The theatre that is to be applause-
less and educational must be specially devoted
to those practised in austerity and self-
restrained frigidity. The raison d’etre of the
commercial theatre is primarily to offer
entertainment, and those who pay the piper
will, as heretofore, call the tune. To ask
a theatre audience not to applaud is as un-
reasonable as to expect boiling water not
to steam, and it is equally unreasonable
for dramatists to lay traps to catch applause
and then complain of the result brought
about. , j
The very mental attitude that bliaw de-
sires should be assumed in a theatre is
exactly the one a theatre audience desires to
get rid of. Life’s pressing needs strain the
faculty for attention sufficiently during the
day’s struggles; to relax that faculty at
night is the desire of theatregoers.
The abolition of applause would compel
the adoption, to some extent, of the slogan
“Art for art’s sake.” The commercial
theatre manager must perforce ignore this
ideal. His court of appeal—the treasury
—condemns it. Even some of us who wield
the phrase find ourselves occasionally doubt-
ing our sincerity. We seem caught by its
sound more than by its sense. Its rhythm
and ecliolalia befog us. Every art-work has
its value fixed by applause of one kind or
another. Applause suppressed would result
in a kind of cerebral anaemia in the actor.
The essence of the actor is egoism. This is
baldly put, but not unkindly meant. Egoism
must be fed, and applause has the vitamines
it needs. Silence in a theatre in front of
the curtain throughout a play would bring
the performance to resemble a dress re-
hearsal ; and there are few functions more
gloomy. Applause, though not repressible,
is minimisable. The power to effect its mini-
misation must be found behind the curtain
if found at all; but to use the audience for
the purpose is beginning at the wrong end.
So long as an audience is admitted to the
theatre on payment it will hold power. It
is dangerous even to admonish an audience,
not to say dictate to it. A talented and
popular actor was for years refused a hear-
ing in London because he was ill-advised
enough to rebuke some “first-nighters." It
is easy to antagonise an audience by either
repression or reproach.
As one who has sampled applause in
the leading theatres of most large cities in
the English-speaking world during an experi-
ence of 40 years, I make bold to say that
the repression of applause in theatres means
that the drama will die as a tree stripped of
its bark.
TORCH.
Edmund Curll
Pope, when lie chastised Edmund Curll'
in the “Dunciad,” perpetuated a name that
otherwise would most likely have been by
now long forgotten. Yet it deserved re-
membrance. While the man was in some
respects a rogue, he played a very important
part in the literary life of London during
the first decades of the eighteenth century.
The curious story of his career is interesting
not only in itself, but also for the light it
throws on the manners of his timers.
Curll was born in 1675 ; but little is known
of his early history. His publishing business
was founded about 1708; and though it is
believed to have been successful, we have
not much authentic knowledge of him or his
affairs prior to 1716. That year saw the
genesis of his great quarrel with Pope over
the publication of “The Court Poems.” The
verses in this volume he attributed to Pope,
who indignantly denied the authorship,
though it was said that Pope had secretly
promoted the publication and then, to divert
suspicion from himself, assumed an anger
that he was far from feeling. From what
we know of Pope’s character, it seems not
unlikely that this was so. At all events
the quarrel grew in bitterness, affording great
amusement to the wits and good material to
the pamphleteers. Perhaps the main cause
of the feud was that both were born with
a moral defect —a love of trickery. Neither
could ever be quite truthful about the other,
and, though it was said of Curll that “you
will never find him out in a lie,” neither
hesitated to spread the most scandalous false-
hoods about his foe. Pope, in the “Dunciad,”
pictures his enemy prostrate before him —
Obscene with filth the miscreant lies bewray’d,
Fallen in the plash his wickedness has laid
—and Curll’s replies were even more savage,
dealing principally with Pope’s physical fail-
ings and personal habits.
But Curll was to present an even better
target for satire. In 1716 Robert South,
prebendary of Westminster, died, and at his
funeral an oration was delivered in Latin
by one of the scholars of Westminster School.
Curll obtained an imperfect copy and
did tli’ Oration print,
Imperfect, with false Latin in’t.
The boys were enraged at this, and, decoying
Curll to the school on the pretence of giving
him a more perfect copy, seized him, tossed
him in a blanket, and administered punish-
ment where one wound
hurts honor more
Than twenty when laid on before.
The wretched' publisher was forced to. ask
pardon on his knees, and was then kicked
out of the school “amid the huzzas of the
rabble.” All London rocked with laughter.
Not only pamphlets, but pictures, were circu-
lated, illustrating the
Purgings, pumpings, blanketings and blows.
One author tells how,
By vengeful boys decoy’d, he takes ten flights
From blanket, loftier than from Grub-street heights.
Nay, more: stretch’d out at length on maple board,
Feels boyish pains in rigid schools abhorred....
Lashes loud threats extort: in greater store
The threats fly out, the wretch is lashed the more.
And another:
How th’ unlucky urchins laugh’d,
To think they’d maul’d thee fore and aft:
’Tis such a sensible affront.
Why, Pope will make an epic on’t.
This last would be “the most unkindest cut
of all.”
Curll’s misfortunes were not yet complete,
for in the same year he fell foul of the Lords,
and was ordered to appear before them for
printing lives of members of the nobility
that he had been forbidden to publish.
Whereupon one bard sang :
Long live old Curll: he ne'er to publish fears
The speeches, verses and last wills of Peers.
How oft has he a public spirit shown,
And pleased our ears, regardless of his own.
The point of the last line lies in the fact that
he was sentenced to have his ears cut off,
and this was duly done. His practice of
publishing lives of well-known men led
Arbuthnot to remark to Swift that it added
a new terror to death. Curll was also con-
demned to stand in the pillory for printing
obscene works, but he was clever enough
to have a large number of handbills printed
and broadcasted stating that he was thus
punished for defending Queen Anne. As
George 1., who had not long ascended the
throne, was not at all popular, this was a
cunning move, for Curll immediately became
the hero of the crowd, and on his release
“was carried off in triumph to a neighboring
tavern.”
In 1735 his quarrel with Pope broke out
again. He announced the publication of
“Mr. Pope’s Literary Correspondence,” but
his stock was seized on Pope’s application.
It has been discovered that the devious poet
instigated its publication to provide an excuse
for issuing an edition himself. After this
set-back his adversary retired from public
life, and so lived until his death in 1747.
R. M. H.
A Satchel of Books
Here Come Swords, by Courts Brisbane (John
Lane). A tale of ancient Rome. Prolix and marred
by occasionally lapsing into modern idioms.
Laughter and Tears, by the Hon. Mrs. Lionel Guest
(John Lane). Short stories, many of them, of
S’African character. A few may be recognised as
old friends in a new setting; and, generally, the
manner is very poor.
Shutters , by Olive Wadsley (Cassell). An eminent
Iv.C. with a divorce practice makes a fool of himself
and provides the author with an opportunity for
many erotic raptures and also for enforcing a moral—
by which adroit means it is possible to reach two
distinct classes of readers. Cleverly' done.
The Seventh Hunch, by William H. Hamby (Hut-
chinson). “‘Eugene Blair,’ she said softly, ‘you did
this for me! Kiss me.’” He did —“long and
fervently.” It was his reward—together with half
a million dollars—-after close up to 300 pages of
wild adventure and frenzied finance in California.
Rattles along like an unbroken mustang.
The Magnet, by David McLean (Geoffrey Bles).
As far back as the days of Virgil, and probably'
long before, the superstition of “the evil eye” held
sway. There are even to-day Continental peasants
who believe in its potency. The writer of this novel
revives the ancient belief and gives it a modern
dressing. On Maui, in the Hawaiian Islands, Bill
Ry'mer met Bethune, the man with the evil eye.
“I was drawn after that Bethune like a steel splinter
by a thousand-horsepower magnet,” says Bill. And
readers will be dragged along in Mr. Rymer’s wake.
The House without a Key, by E. Derr Biggers
(Harrap). The author is familiar to Australians
through the dramatisation of his “Seven Key's to
Baldpate.” In the present work he has gone afield
for a background to the action of a swiftly moving
story. Out of the material of Americanised Hawaii
is evolved a mystery which carries the reader from
Honolulu across to ’Frisco and back again in a
breathless search for a solution cleverly concealed to
the end.
Susanna, by Hilton Brown (Allen and Unwin).
“It’s not so easy to live with a very good man as
you might think,” said Zanna to her apprehensive
mother; “maybe the other kind do just as well.”
So she married Jimmy, “the dog with the bad name,”
and in the end, after a life oscillating between Eng-
land and India, found her speculation on human
nature had a basis in truth. An interesting little
study of the conflict and reconciliation of two
diverse natures, told with sympathy'.
The Canon, by A. C. Benson (Heinemann). The
comparatively recent death of the Master of Mag-
dalene College gave many readers of “The House
of Quiet,” “From a College Window” and others
of his reflective books whether in essay form or
fiction the sense of a personal loss. He had the
great gift of being able to carry the dweller in the
crowded marts of life out of their dust and strife
into the cloistered peace of his own environment.
“The Canon,” his last work, picks up the characters
in the preceding novel, “The House of Menerdue,”
and carries their history to its conclusion.
My Tower in Desmond, by S. R. Lysaght (Mac-
millan). A book that is a novel in form but an
autobiography and social and political commentary
in essence, in the main it deals with Irish characters
and interests, though not exclusively, and covers a
wide field, from the ancestral home in Ballyquin
on through the South African war, the Irish turmoil,
the Great War and the Easter rebellion in Dublin-
enough fighting to satiate even the soul of an
Irishman. Woven through the scarlet is the silver
thread of a clean, sweet love-story. Opinions will
differ as to many of the views expressed by the
author, and some of his criticisms may touch raw
places—even the Australian is not left unscathed —
but, taken all in all, it is a worthy book.
On Education, by Bertrand Russell (Allen and
Unwin). “Four characteristics seem to me,” says
this aristocratic rebel, “jointly to form the basis of
an ideal character: vitality, courage, sensitiveness and
intelligence. I do not suggest that this list is com-
plete, but I think it carries us a good way.” By
proper physical, emotional and intellectual training
he believes that such qualities could be made common
to the great body of children and be expanded with
growth. Upon this basis he builds a system of
education to attain the desired end, and in doing so
applies the principles of modern psychology, stressing
the necessity for arousing the interest of the child
in the subject matter taught and avoiding coercion
as a motive force.
John Huss, by Jan Herben (Geoffrey Bles). The
Czech race can claim one historic figure which stands
out from the background of the Reformation. The
impress made by Huss and his followers is witnessed
by the modern movement towards full religious liberty
in the comparatively recent establishment of the
Czecho-Slovak church. In 1920 nearly two million
Czechs quitted the Papal Church in a body and
founded their own establishment. That the leaven
of liberty should retain its power over a lapse of
500 years is a notable tribute to the power of Hugs's
teaching and example. The author, \Vho is a
distinguished scholar, traces the life of the reformer
from the beginning of the Bohemian movement
through the Hussite wars to the day in 1415 when
he died at the stake.
4
“Chancery Lane”: Although the wearing of the
full-bottomed wig by Judges dates back only ro
their introduction into England during the reign of
Louis XIV. of France (“T.8.C.,” B. ll;'3/’26), the
judicial wig is, in reality, the successor of the coif,
or close hood, which in the days of the Plantagenets
was adopted by the lawyers as a compromise between
the clerical tonsure and the capuchin or hood worn
by ordinary folk. The silk gown and full wig of
King’s Counsel date from the funeral of Queen Mary
11., being the mourning-dress worn by direction of
King William. Before the time expired, the King’s
Counsel had adopted this costume, which gave rise
to Baron Pollock’s jest that “the Bar went into
mourning at the death of Queen Mary and never came
out again.” The two strings of horsehair tied at
the end with bobtails are the remnants of the old
fashion of tying up the back hair into a pigtail.
“Feng-Shui”: The Red Page should take cognisance
of the annual orgy of poetasting in Japan. This
national event resembles the reading of the dramatic
works of the year in the Greek Olympiad, but with
a difference. The creative effort is not required to
be so sustained. The “poem” contains but five lines
and 31 syllables. A large number of people feel
themselves competent to express themselves within
this convention. Last year there were no less than
26,024 contestants from all parts of the empire,
from ten-foot huts to the imperial palace. The
Prince Regent’s effort w r as:—
Through fields and dales
The Mogami River flows,
And joins the ocean’s bosom
At its career’s close.
And that of the sacred Empress:—
The murmuring of a stream
May vary in each shallow;
Its tone, however, is clear
And eternally mellow.
It looks easy; but in Japanese it is no easier
than painting a butterfly swinging on a grass blade.


' JONES 8/ BYVkwStt!#*^
m
m.
*%?W?
88
B&, i i
m&?i
}sttiVA‘J'r -m
.»// .r
S.SS
®i/i
, w
i&fc®
>:•«
58?
nil
Mi'S
H
i, V
W:
n
#.
: ,
>#s%
#"
&£»■>
m
/); 5
• jaKK'S
MPf
«Js©&ie
Jones and Bywaters’ Store is known by the
above term throughout the whole district
—and how popular they have become!
Ask Mr. Oswald Jones, Senior Partner,
what the reason is—he will tell you that
that is his own little secret.
And he is only one of many prosperous country
business men who know the true meaning and
intrinsic value of brilliant lighting. Bright lights
offer a cheery welcome; they radiate joy and
give an impression of cleanliness and progres-
siveness. Are not these factors essential to
YOUR business? Before winter sets in elec-
trify your Country Store and Home with
Delco-Light. It enables you to have electric
light wherever and whenever you want it.
In the Store it is going to largely increase your
turnover. In your Home it is going to bring
happiness and joy, and save you money, time
and labor. In both Store and Home it will
reduce the fire risk to a minimum. Delco-Light
provides not only very efficient lighting, but
ample power to use electric irons, washing-
machines, vacuum-cleaners, pumps, and
other similar appliances. “FRIGIDAIRE”
can also be run in conjunction with Delco-
Light or from any electric supply of suffi-
cient quantity.
ç
Delco-Light is quickly and easily installed. No electrical know-
ledge is necessary to operate it, and it requires very little attention
-—simply raise the starting handle and it cranks itself; when
the battery is full it stops itself. Allow us to send you full
details in our Booklet “B,”
Distributors:
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
307 Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Warburton, Franki (Mel-
bourne), Ltd., Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Smellie & Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane, Queensland.
Gilberts Ltd., Hay Street,
Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston, Tasmania.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
i
!


c
$E
I
I
The Best Known
Motor TrucK in
the World
REPUBLIC
More trucks in use than any other
exclusive manufacturer
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd., 177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., 114-122 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q’land), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: George Mason & Rasch, Ltd., 09 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Gilberts, Ltd., 896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd., Taranaki and Cable Streets, Wellington.


The Studebaker Duplex Means
Year ’Round Comfort
Features of the Studebaker
Standard Six Duplex-Phaeton
(illustrated)
The most powerful car of its
size and weight in the world.
Full-size balloon tyres, for
which the steering gear,
mudguards and even the
body lines are especially de-
signed.
Automatic spark control,
eliminating the usual spark
lever on steering wheel.
Emergency brake, operated
from the dash, thus giving
more front seat room.
Safety lighting control, on
the steering wheel, at the
driver’s finger tips.
Instruments, including 8-day
clock, petrol gauge, speedo-
meter, oil pressure gauge
and ammeter, in single
grouping under glass, on
beautiful silver-faced dial.
Improved one-piece wind-
screen, automatic wind-
screen wiper, weatherproof
visor, rear-view mirror and
attractive cowl lights.
Steering gear lock, which
serves to reduce the theft in-
surance rate on Studebaker
cars.
Combination stop-and-tail
light.
Improved spare tyre carrier,
equipped with lock.
Oil filter, petrol strainer and
air cleaner contribute to en-
gine efficiency.
Completely machined crank-
shaft, to obtain perfect en-
gine balance and thus reduce
vibration to a minimum. On-
ly the highest priced cars
follow the practice of ma-
chining the crankshaft on all
surfaces.
Waterproof ignition, even
the spark plugs are protect-
ed from moisture by rubber
shields.
Open car freedom in fine weather
— Closed-car protection when it storms
No sudden rain storm catches the driver of the Stude-
baker Duplex-Phaeton or Roadster unprepared, be-
cause roller enclosures concealed in the hood may be
lowered within thirty seconds. They effectively shut
out rain, wind or dust and operate as easily as a win-
dow shade.
iThe Duplex body, developed and made exclusively by
Studebaker, is rapidly displacing the old style open
car in many parts of the world, for it retains the free-
dom and airiness of the ordinary open car, yet it
quickly gives protection and privacy. The steel
framed hood also adds safety for it is strong enough
to support the weight of the entire car.
Not only the body, but all vital parts, all engines,
clutches, steering gears, gear boxes, differentials,
springs, brakes, axles, grey iron castings and drop
forgings are designed, engineered and manufactured
complete in Studebaker’s own great factories. The
extra profits of outside parts and body makers are
thus eliminated. Savings effected enable Studebaker
to use finer materials and better workmanship. No
other manufacturer of fine cars enjoys the advantages
of “One-Profit” manufacture.
studebaker
SOUTH BEND, IND., U. S. A.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
S 3
'^4
m
M
€
m m
I B
8
3
111
m
m
ms*
Dr
m
V^j+jjcA&i
mmm
~4^
t
k
s>
»
/
,t
W‘
111
a
/'/
S::.;¥:Ss
J
KB-715
' " «®S ig s • 't ' '
■■ ■•■ •
“4©w __
BUILDERS OF QUALITY
; .'v>A; V
♦
Q
L
s*
:
... •;:•::••• v ***
VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS*


ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Furope and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
nn New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone and obtain
information without charge.
Add Life
to Linoleum
—this Easy,
Liquid Way
Your linoleum will look more beauti-
ful—clean much easier—and last
years longer if you polish it occasion-
ally with Johnson’s Liquid Wax. It
brings out the pattern and color—
protects the linoleum from wear —
and imparts a beautiful, dry, dirt-
repellent surface which washes off
like glass.
The new Johnson “Easy, Liquid
Way” makes the waxing of linoleum
mere child’s play. Takes only a few
minutes—requires no stooping, and
you don’t touch your hands to floor
or Wax.
JOHNSON'S
lhq pro wa
All you do is pour
Johnson’s Liquid Wax
on a lamb’s-wool mop
and apply a thin, even
coat to the floor. A
few brisk strokes with
the Johnson Weighted
Brush will quickly
bring it to a beauti-
ful, durable, glass-
like lustre.
It is the new, easy,
modern way to have
beautiful waxed floors.
Takes only a few minutes and is as
simple as running a carpet-sweeper.
The Johnson Wax Mop has a removable
lamb’s-wool swab, which washes per-
fectly in hot suds.
Floor Polishing Outfit
Your dealer is authorised to sell you
This 34/- Outfit for only 28/-
A Saving of 6/-
ç
This outfit is just the
thing for waxing all of
your floors. The outfit
consists of:—
1 Pint of Johnson’s
Liquid Wax .... 5
1 Johnson’s Larah’s-
wool Wax Mop.. 8
1 Johnson’s weighted
Ploor Polishing
Brush 20/-
1 Johnson’s Book
on Home Beauti-
fying 1/.
Value 34/-
'7*6
'£#?*
r/-//
jOtIKSW/;
•SOM
S. C. Johnson & Son
Office and Factory:
Queen Street, Rosebery, N.S.W.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
if y ?u- ar , e » ® u Ptured write at once for full particulars
M °? ern Invention. Light, cool and com-
tortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & GO.; Est 1863
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
801 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c
Let us send you our Free
Pamphlet in plain enve-
lope.
Write or call now.
Are You Ruptured?
If ruptured, it is advisable, in your own
interest, to wear a protective Truss. Why
not, then, select
Denyer’s Elastic Truss?
—the best-fitting, most comfortable, most
reliable safeguard offering to-day. Proved
efficient by many years’ service to rup-
tured persons throughout Australia.
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
Postage Extra.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of all Surgical Appliances.
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR TASTY SANDWICHES
Anchovette is an appetising and nutri-
tious food particularly suitable for
quickly-prepared meals. See how the
children enjoy Sandwiches made from
delicious Anchovette.
I
P 29
\7>
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Exquisite Sterling Silver
at Prices that
Seriously Compete
with Electroplate.
The knowledge that you possess appointments for your table
of real silver brings a feeling of satisfaction and an honest
pride in the completeness of your home.
Many people who have hitherto regarded Electroplate as the
best substitute within their means will find at Fairfax and
Roberts’ hundreds of articles in Sterling Silver so exceptionally
low priced as to bring them within reach of all.
English Hall-marked Silver
Butter Dish and Knife, ivith
ground glass lining, 35/-
English Halt-marked Silver
Toast Rack, 32/-
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Fairfax&Roberts L"
Zb L'Zh Hunter Street Sydney
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Romance.
Give me some drug, though brewed in bitter
That I may dream of far-forgotten things
And wander down the roadway of the years
To distant glades where some old harper
sings
A song of battle on a blood-washed plain ;
The crash of armies sounds through all
his strings
Till evening brings the eagles to the slain.
Lead me through shadows to the silent
towers
Of some old castle dreaming in the pines;
Somewhere a loA’er sings among the flowers,
A glove drops down among the ivy-vines,
And from a cloister on a Avind-swept hill
Where monks are chanting and a taper
shines
An age long dead seems calling—calling still.
N.S.W.
J. HENRY.
The Dreaming.
Day is a wind-tossed feather,
Even the gods are glad ;
And my heart that lias broken tether
With the flame of the clear gold weather
Is splendor-clad!
Now there is no to-morrow,
Cancelled is yesterday;
Life has forgotten sorrow,
And holds but a joy to borrow
And a dream to pay!
Time from his hoarded treasure
Throws us a day to spend—
Hours that the elves of pleasure
Moment by moment measure
Till the swift, sweet end.
To-day, with its glad sea-thunder,
Times past, with their skies grief-grey,
Seem far as the stars asunder.
Ah ! Which is the dream, I wonder —
The years or the day?
Joy’s here, ’neatli the skies’ blue rafter.
But which is the dream —who knows?
To-day or the drab years after,
O girl Av..om the gods of laughter
M..de from a rose?
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
The Willow Road.
Who travels down the Willow Road
That leads to Arcady?
While the fingers of the dawn
Daisies wake on field and lawn,
Knight in goodly company,
Youth and laughing maiden,
Children with quick-dancing feet,
All with joy full-laden.
Sweet the Willow Way and cool,
Hawthorn shade and sunlit pool.
Wisdom and a lightheart fool
Tread to Arcady.
Who travels still the WilloAv Road
That winds to Arcady?
While the flowers that droop too soon
Wither in the glare of noon,
“Sir Knight, have you turned aside
With your course unridden?”
“Ay! for all who bear a lance
To the wars are bidden!”
“We are tired,” the children say,
“ ’Tis a long and weary way;
Let us dance some other day
Down to Arcady!”
Who travels yet the Willow Road
That ends in Arcady?
While the moon, a silver bow,
In the glowing west hangs low,
Wisdom and a fainting youth
Lingered at the turning;
Food there was on friendly boards,
And a red fire burning.
Who goes singing through the night,
Ghostly in the stars’ white light?
None but he, a foolish wight,
Seeking Arcady.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MOKAY.
Fog on the River.
The fog has thrown its cloudy mist
Across the river’s placid breast:
With heated breath the air is kist
As 'shimm’ring waters sink to rest.
The sky, but lately steeped in blue,
A whitened curtain hides from view.
With fairy lights the waters blaze
To beckon to the circling gulls;
'Phe phantom ships loom through the haze.
With glow-worms shining from their hulls.
Their tall masts taper out of sight,
Losing themselves in misty white.
The drowsy waters float aPng,
The hidden city left behind;
A droning as of distant song
Comes down upon the sea-swept v!nd.
To rhythmic lapping of the tide
The river sleeps like some pale bride.
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.
The Joyous Prayer.
Sometimes I am so glad that I
Love lovely things—the dawning sky,
All trembling rose and starry bine
And daffodil-light burning through.
So glad that in my soul is lit
Song as a flame, and, kindling it,
Moonrise, a cloud, a glimm’ring tree
Can make it glow to ecstasy.
Oh, joy is mine to mirror all
Such beauty—scarlet leaves that fall
Down woodland Avays, the flight of birds—■
In delicate and lovely words.
And of the kindly gods my prayer
Is only this: That, though I fare
Poor but for dreams, let courage high
And song be with me till I die.
FIJI.
A. SMITH.


ç
ć
m
X
< •
jgfvl
tmm.* ■■■ Jl,
vr - &
? life
a
■ssn si
V «p
A
J|, X ViiySSwP*
f t
m ' m., !
i # y/ % ** / BKwl H *
V- - -3111 ‘ - - -
%. s s- r‘-W§ **, -> . . «, iWßmfff ' ' ’
■\m. i \
s* \ f i
1 •■ '•- ••/., ,;1 N ' J •*
/"' 5
h\
' i A
m
#* y
k ?,. -
>*_.v __
■
»;h
?' f
I'lmpP'
. J iff 0 ■
■ IS I ; 5 1 1 i, •v'
I
J
L i
V
»
f
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
ĉ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 47. —No. 2410.
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1926.
Price On.
SHOWING HER WHO IS MASTER.
“In response to the reiterated challenge of Mr. Bavin, Mr. Lang announces that he has no intention of going to the country."
LANG (under the bed): “You may call me what you like, and beat me as you like, but you’ll not break my spirit of manly independence. I'll not come out."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £ 1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed , and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefidly read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs.
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
tvill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as «
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions tvill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Li. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 W’ardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
‘The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. /l lso from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
71) Earringdon Street, London, E.C.1.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.4.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, lid Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn,
London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street,
London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street. Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington ; Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7 04 Market Street, San Francisco:
Wallace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, F..C.4-
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional l t oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1926.
FINK SOCIALISM IN THE DOCK.
The pink socialists of Queensland, who have
been in office for 11 years, though not con-
tinuously in power—there have been thril-
ling periods of mob-rule —are about to face
the electors, under the leadership of their
fourth Premiei’, for the fourth time. When
they reached the Treasury benches the
Queensland public debt was not quite 57
millions. It. is now approaching 100 mil-
lions, and they are always shoving it up.
The difference has been spent, for the most
part, on about 1200 miles of new railway,
the “nationalisation” of a seedy tramway
system, and adventures in State cattle-runs,
meat-shops, trawlers, fish-shops, sawmills,
hotels, canneries, coal-mines, copper-mines
(the Government paid £40,000 to an obscure
but thoughtful speculator for leases which,
not so very long before, had been forfeited
to the Crown), smelters and produce-agencies.
With unimportant exceptions, such as the
Rabinda pub, these enterprises have resulted
in tremendous deficits. The railways alone,
which used to return profits under the
Liberal regime, post in 10 Labor years 12
millions more than they earned. To meet
these terrific losses the pink socialists im-
pose the highest direct taxation in Australia.
Since the war Victoria has got along with an
income-tax ranging from 3d. to 7d. in the
£ on income personally earned. The Queens-
land tax starts at 6d. in the £ and goes up
to 35., that rate being levied on all income
in excess of £4OOO. In the latest year for
which the Commonwealth Statistician fur-
nishes particulars, the Victorian Govern-
ment, with almost exactly twice the popula-
tion to work on (1,657.000 as against
834,000), collected £1,702,000 in income-tax,
whereas the Queensland Government exacted
£2,300,000. The N. S. Wales land-tax is
confined to the unincorporated portion of the
Western Division, and never realises more
than £3OOO p.a. Queensland, which did not
have a land-tax till the pink socialists
came along, now yields between £400,000 and
£500,000 in this way for a profligate party
to play with. Its land-tax revenue is greater
than that of all the other States, except Vic-
toria, put together; and it beats Victoria’s
out of sight.
* * * *
One result of this terrific taxation is that
the manufacturing industry has made uo
progress for years. The average number of
employees in Queensland factories was
43,283 in 1914 and 43,403 nine years later:
if Labor Government enterprises were ex-
cluded there would be a substantial decrease.
By contrast, South Australia, with 300,000
fewer people and vastly inferior advantages
as regards geographical situation and sup-
plies -of raw material and fuel, shows an
increase of 10,401 factory-hands (from
26,874 to 37,275) in the nine years. The
economic consequences of 11 years of pink-
socialist rule arc really appalling, but they
have been camouflaged, to a large extent, by
loan expenditure and Commonwealth Govern-
ment action. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment placed an embargo on sugar imports,
with the result that the number of cane-
growers increased from 4000 to upwards of
6000, and the industry was enabled to pay
high wage-rates to an army of field- and mill-
workers. The Commonwealth Government
subsidised the cotton-growers, paid bounties
on canned fruit and beef exported in tins or
on the hoof, and is helping to finance the
production of power-alcohol. Without its
tariff policy many Queensland factories could
not have survived the meddling of the Labor
misrulers, and it provided millions for
soldier-settlement, and more millions for
public works through Page’s Loan Council.
Also, when a serious unemployed difficulty
arose in South Queensland jt came to light
with the Kyogle-Grafton railway job, and it
is arranging or being urged to take over-
paid of the financial burden of constructing
Queensland roads, and the whole financial
burden of guaranteeing the Queensland
cotton-grower, while suggestions of a Com-
monwealth bonus on Queensland butter are
rife. Had the pink socialists been deprived
of loans and special Commonwealth assist-
ance—thrown on their own resources, in fact
—the collectivist house of cards would long
ago have tumbled down. Their incapacity
for dealing with a crisis brought on by their
own fool-policy was revealed in a ghastly
fashion when the railway employees—who,
though paid more than “the fruits of their
industry,” and recently granted the 44-hour
week, were chronically dissatisfied —declared
a strike. For a humiliating week a Red oli-
garchy took control of Queensland, even hold-
ing up the Commonwealth mails, and when
the wretched Administration gave in the
public learned from characters rudely
scrawled on cock-crowing locomotives that
the conquerors had advanced some furlongs
towards the Revolution. Never has govern-
ment in Australia or any other English-
speaking country sunk so low. In accord-
ance with the terms of the capitulation the
basic wage was raised ss. a week by a hur-
riedly-passed Act of Parliament. The in-
famous piece of legislation made waste-
paper of all industrial agreements founded
on the previous basic -wage, which the Full
Arbitration Court had refused to increase,
and the pink socialists completed their job
by abolishing that Court and appointing in
its place a Board of Arbitration, composed
of the retiring Labor Premier, a union secre-
tary and the latest Judge, whose arrival on
the Bench had been preceded by that of
the Labor Minister of Education. These pro-
ceedings would have staggered any other com-
munity, but after 11 years of pink socialism
nothing can stagger Queensland.
Rotten as their record is, it is not to be
supposed that the pink socialists will be
easy to beat at the polls. On the contrary,
they have, by various devices, dug themselves
in so well that they will be exceedingly diffi-
cult to shift. In the first place, they have
so “extended the functions of the State,” to
use their own jargon, that there are now
about 40,000 Government employees, nearly
all of whom belong to trade unions (unionism
is compulsory, except in isolated cases), most
of which are affiliated with the Labor party.
To this number must be added 10,000 Com-
monwealth and municipal employees who are
also in Labor organisations, and the 50,000
control perhaps 150,000 good votes, or nearly
a third of the whole. They are not all Labor
sympathisers, but the majority can be de-
pended upon to support the party to which
a large number owe their unnecessary jobs,
and which can be bludgeoned into raising
wages by Act of Parliament, as has been
shown. Then the electoral boundaries are
so fixed that a Labor vote is worth more
than a non-Labor vote. At the last election
Mull an, the Attorney-General, was re-
turned by 1193 voters in Flinders; Theo-
dore, the then Premier, by 2459 in Chil-
lagoe; Ryan, of the rank and file, by 1888
in Cook; Riordan by 1943 in Burke; Pol-
lock by 2014 in Gregory; and Hynes by
2168 in Townsville. On the other hand,
Maxwell, the Oppositionist, was the elect
of 4855 voters in Toowong; Elphinstone of
4435 in Oxley; Petrie of 3991 in Toombul; .
Kelso of 3659 in Nundah; Taylor of
3869 in Windsor; and Sizer of 3863 in Sand-
gate. It: is largely because of these artistic
arrangements that the pink socialists have
contrived to hang on for 11 years, although
the corresponding Federal party has been
beaten out of sight at every Commonwealth
election since 1914. Again, the crowd in office,
though destitute of statesmanship, is not
without a certain skill in the ignoble art of
catching votes. It has had a lot more prac-
tice than the other side, whose leader,
Moore, has made no effort to outbid it. Moore
has stated that the financial policy of his
party is “to live within our income,” a thing
which Queensland hasn’t done since it went
pink. He has promised also to substitute a
real Arbitration Court for the weird tribunal
on which the former Labor Premier and union
secretary compose the majority; to make
contingent voting compulsory, aud have a
proper redistribution of seats; to use the
Commonwealth electoral roll, and burn the
unnecessary State register, which always
contains 40,000 or 50,000 superfluous names;
and, above all, to establish a Second Cham-
ber modelled on the Senate. For these un-
dertakings alone Moore's party deserves to
be returned with the decent majority which
its opponents cynically declare it cau't
possibly get.
THE FEDERAL PERMANENT
STIPENDIARY DEBT ACCELERATOR.
The appointment of a high and capable
official to be Australian Debt Creator or
Accelerator in London marks a definite
financial epoch. The official will act in con-
junction with the professional loan-floaters
of England, with the High Commissioner,
the Commonwealth Bank, the Federal Gov-
ernment and the Loan Council, the last
body representing five States which all want
money, and which conspire with the Federal
people as to how it can best be procured in
bulk under Federal guarantee. He will
also conjoin with anybody else who promises
to be useful. Possibly he will give a little
spare time to the service of N. S. Wales,
the State which stands out of the council,
lest it shouhi do something sensational on
its own account with a tendency to “queer
the pitch” of the organisation. He may
be vulgarly known as the Loan Hog, seeing
that he will speed up loans as the road-
liog speeds up cars. The Federal Govern-
ment has taken, since 1921, about £4,500,01)0
per annum of new British and foreign loan
money itself, but the States want a great
deal more than that. If Australia doesn’t
maintain a trade balance abroad a credit
created by excess of exports over imports—
sufficient to pay its constantly recurring
interest bills of all sorts, it must float con-
stant new British and foreign loans, for
local paper loans, however abundant and
how*ever handy for public works (“per-
manent and reproductive”), are valueless
for British and foreign purposes, just as
local paper revenues 1 are. Canada, the
United States aud some other countries
appear to know thoroughly the art of trad-
ing with a balance in their favor, but Aus-
tralia, in recent years, has lost it badly,
and never knew it very well. It isn’t easy
to see that the States can do much to in-
crease exports and cut down imports, ex-
cept by swearing off 44-hour legislation,
the worst variety of industrial freaks, and
the absorption of so much labor that should
be productive on public works that aren't.
The Federal authorities have apparently de-
cided that they won’t do anything. If they
have resolved that the accumulation of Brit-
ish and foreign liabilities is to go on till it
stops like a train does when it strikes a
mountain or the bottom of a river, the
appointment of the Hired Accelerator is
natural.
* * * *
The duty of a Loan Hog will be to do to the
money market what the painless-extraction
dentist does to a tooth. By avoidance of
the semblance of haste and competition, by
doffing the haggard despairing aspect of the
borrower on his last legs, by suavity and by
approaching the market after lunch, it may
be possible to coax ten millions out of an in-
stitution which looks good for only five. Still,
Britain’s own adverse trade balance, under
too much Freetrade, became in 1924 some-
thing terrible. In 1921-22-23-24 the exports
of coin went on at a rate which suggested
that there might presently be none left in
J. Bull’s locker unless some was borrowed.
A succession of surpluses which grew smaller
from year to year has been followed by a
deficit of £14,000,000. It looks quite possible
that unless Australia can sell much more and
buy much less its Permanent Debt Acceler-
ator may, owing to the size of his demands,
have to extend his operations across the
Atlantic, or that a persuasive Deputy Loan
Hog, with a complete duplicate apparatus,
will have to be stationed permanently on
Manhattan Island. If a community sets up
its own brewery, so to speak, with a view
to drinking itself into the grave, as one
might put it, common prudence indicates an
alternative brewery in case of breakdowns.
* * * *
Solvency, or at least the avoidance of
plain insolvency, depends on using more of
our own products and less of other people's
products. Therefore it is interesting to
know what we produce in excess, so that the
local market is used up, and what we don’t
produce in excess, so that there is plenty of
easily accessible local market left. This is
the official record :
Production for Eight Years to June, 1924.
Value Value. Proportion
Produced. Exported. Exported.
Manufacturing . . £758,121,000 £47,759,000 6.3 p.c.
Pastoral . . 702,715,000 458,533,000 65.3 „
Agricultural .. 612,133,000 211,131,000 34.5 „
Dairy-Farmyard. . 314,509,000 64,051,000 20.4 „
Mining. . . . 176,772,000 112,219,000 63.6 „
Forestry-Fisheries 73,414,000 11,224,000 15.3 „
This opens up various industrial aspects
that are little known, and which Foreign-
traders suppress violently if they know them,
which is improbable, as they are not a know-
ledgeable crowd. Manufactures, and not any
one of the “great primary industries,” are
Australia’s strong point. This is remarkable,
considering the crazed and rotten railway and
harbor policy which discourages manufac-
tures except in the few bloated State capitals.
It suggests that the country might do won-
ders in “secondary production,” and make
the importer almost unnecessary, and the
British and foreign loan policy more than
unnecessary, and the Debt Accelerator or
Loan Hog superfluous, if the big States were
cut up to provide new manufacturing centres.
Yet the amount credited to manufactures is
pnly the value created by the work of men’s
hands and by machinery. If the gross out-
{mt of factories was taken into the account,
ike the gross output of farms and stations,
the figure for eight years would be in the
neighborhood of £2,500,000,000, making the
product of factories more than that of all
other industries combined. This might be
ridiculous, but it would be impressive. An
important point is that manufactures have
a healthy tendency to grow, and to do this
without Debt Acceleration or Loan Iloggery.
Out of the 758 millions of values created in
Australian factories during eight years 273
millions arrived in the last two years, and
521 millions in the last four years. Still,
there is in the factory business the very best
chance, and perhaps the only chance, for
vast expansion. Though it does a little ex-
porting it hasn’t yet come within cannon-
shot not even Big-Bertlia shot - of
meeting local requirements, as the importing
returns show, and an assured market full of
possibilities lies at the door. Civilised man
needs very little absolutely-raw materials, and
a very great deal of goods more or less elab-
orately manufactured. It might not be amiss
if an effort w r as made to combine the decent
and (it is to be hoped) intelligent elements
of society in an Australian Anti-Ruin Asso-
ciation, w r ith or without vice-regal patronage.
This body should aim at the strenuous pro-
motion of Australian manufactures by
tariffs, by scientific education, and, above
all, by creating new centres of industry,
even if it is necessary to create quite a num-
ber of new* States in order to get round the
superstition that only a State capital should
be a centre. In doing this its avowed object
should be to so reduce imports that Austra-
lia will have a constant credit balance abroad
to obviate the need for new loans and to
reduce old ones. And it should put its
enduring curse on the Federal Permanent
Hired Debt Accelerator or Loan Hog, who
is a blatant traffic constable making easy
the way to perdition.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lest Australians Forget.
The latest report of the Repatriation Com-
mission shows that 72,128 members of the
A.I.F. were receiving pensions at the end of
June, 1925. Of this number 129 were
blind, 113 were double-amputation cases.
3116 had lost one limb, 347 were in mental
hospitals, 2543 were suffering from war
neurosis, 2193 from tuberculosis and 1850
from malaria. For the rest, 6658 were heart
cases, 4493 had eye, ear, nose or throat
complaints, 5564 were troubled with asthma,
bronchitis, pleurisy or pneumonia, 16,645
were roughly grouped as having rheumatism,
debility, gas-poisoning, nephritis or other dis-
eases, and 28,421 had gunshot wounds. The
sightless Diggers, of whom 15 were in Britain
on June 30, draw a pension of £4 per week,
phis an attendant’s allowance of £1 p.w.,
which allowance was recommended by the
Royal Commission on War Disabilities that
reported in December, 1924. The £4 p.w. is
also paid to 624 totally and permanently
incapacitated soldiers (together with the
attendant’s allowance in 45 instances), and
to 882 tubercular cases as well. The mini-
mum pension for tuberculosis is £2 2s. p.w..
and in 1924-25 there were 313 “arrested”
eases in receipt of £2 10s. p.w. These par-
ticular amounts seem pitifully small, but
without knowing the individual circum-
stances it is difficult to judge. A large
proportion of the tubercular patients were
victims of German gas. The history of 130
gassed cases who reported for treatment in
1919-20 shows, among other things, that 64
became definitely tubercular—2l subsequent
to June, 1921—and 17 are now dead. In a
block of 300 tubercular cases 19.7 per cent,
had been gassed; of these, 28.1 p,c. have
died. In another 200 cases taken seriatim
from the hospital records, tuberculosis fol-
lowed gassing to the extent of 30 p.c. “It
may be safely stated,” the Commissioners
continue, “that at least 25 p.c. of all cases
of tuberculosis have a history of gassing.”
Gas has also brought on fibrosis of the
lungs, bronchitis, heart affections, neurosis
and other maladies, nor is there any reason
to believe that its ravages have ceased. No
one who has ever seen a Digger writhing in
the agonies of a gas-caused disease can find
it easy to forgive our brother the Hun. The
average weekly rate of pension paid to in-
capacitated members of the A.1.8'. last year
was approximately 17s. 6d., to women and
children Bs. 41d., and to all pensioners 11s.,
the total being £7,050,076. Seven millions
is no small load for a population of 6,000,000
to carry, but it is not likely to be lightened
while the cost of living refuses to go down
and more and more ex-soldiers (5163 last
year, as compared with 4655 in 1923-24)
are receiving treatment in the military
hospitals. Rather will it have to be in-
creased.
♦
A Court without Teeth.
The judgment of Quick, J., on the subject
of the flouting of his Court’s award dealing
with the dockyard workers is a plaintive
document. The Commonwealth Shipping
Board is reproached for having abandoned
the award, the board’s action being reckoned
all the more reprehensible because its Cocka-
too Island Dockyard, as a result of the aban-
donment, got “most of the docking and repair
work in the port of Sydney.” The Court
finds that there is “strong ground for a sus-
picion” that an agreement entered into be-
tween the union and the board was “effected
by veiled, if not open, pressure and menace.”
Remarkable perspicacity in view of the fact,
mentioned in the Court’s judgment, that
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co., which re-
fused to flout the award and make a back-
stairs agreement, “found it impossible to
carry on work in its engineering establish-
ment, and about 1200 men were thrown out
of work, independent of and additional to the
dockers” ! But the Court, having no power
to enforce its awards, has to let it go at
that, and tamely devise certain amendments
and ameliorations that may, or may not.
satisfy the people who refused to obey th<‘
original pronouncement. The union was not
even asked why its members went on strike
in defiance of the law; the compliant em-
ployers were not asked why they succumbed
to pressure or a suspicion of pressure with-
out appealing to the tribunal under whose
jurisdiction they had placed themselves.
Neither side is asked to give any guarantee
or assurance that it will not continue to
disregard thfe awards and existence of the
Court that is supposed to order its indus-
trial affairs for it. The proceedings could
only be paralleled in other branches of juris-
diction if Courts were law-makers as well as
law-administrators. But if that were the
case, and the principles of arbitration pro-


eedure were adopted, one might expect to find
a learned Judge who had made a very ela-
borate law against burglary altering his
views on the subject as soon as a burglary
had been committed. He might be expected
to promulgate a new law, providing that if
entrance were effected through a skylight
and between sunset and sunrise—as in the
case before him—the proceeding should be
reckoned lawful. The Court would then
refer regretfully to evidence that one of the
parties, the burglar, took away a sack con-
taining 1-icwt. of valuable loot, and that *a
householder from over the way lifted the sack
on to his shoulder and gave him a drink
and a cigar before he went. This evidence,
the Court would say, amounted almost to a
ground for a suspicion of a fear that the
burglar was not honest, and that the house-
holder was in collusion with him ; and then
the jellyfish would adjourn.
4
The Signed Article.
One Allars, Commonwealth Electoral Officer
for N. S. Wales, has been telling the Elec-
toral Reform Committee that the signed-
article law had caused firebrand articles to
be toned down ; a man, he explained, would
not “let himself go” over his own name as
violently as he might if he could remain
anonymous. Which is pure conjecture. The
sort of journalist whose specialty is violent
and extravagant, language is mostly the per-
son who loves to see his own name at the end
of his effusions, such as the late John
Norton. If anything could have cramped
what he regarded as his style or damped his
fireworks it would have been the absence
of publicity. And firebrand speeches at elec-
tion times, or in any time of popular excite-
ment, are assuredly no less frequent because
a candidate or a publicist must needs make
them out of his own mouth. In any case,
the signed-article law was certainly not
passed by the Fisher Government of 15
years back to tone down firebrand articles:
if so, it would have been a Quixotic sacrifice
of ammunition that must necessarily be of
more value to Liberalism than Conservatism,
to Radicalism than Liberalism, and to Labor
than Radicalism. It was passed simply be-
cause it was believed that the weight attach-
ing to the view y s of influential newspapers,
mostly anti-Labor, would be lessened if
articles were signed by John Smith or
William Jones instead of being published
with the whole prestige of the newspaper be-
hind them. Whether it has had any such
effect may be doubted, the law r being nowa-
days complied with in such a way as nearly
always to indicate that the newspaper, and
all that it stands for, is just as solidly be-
hind the signed editorial as it formerly was
behind the unsigned one. It simply means
that certain newspaper proprietors and con-
ductors. are compelled to announce explicitly,
while a Federal election is on, that they
shoulder a responsibility which they would
have to shoulder anyhow, whether they put
their names in print or not.
4
A Danger that Threatens Sydney.
“Speculum” : That northern N. S. Wales
should be scourged by dengue-fever will
hardly surprise any thinking person who has
noted the loiv standard of sanitation in rural
Australia. It is now some nine years since
Oleland and Bradley settled the question
of how dengue was harbored and spread by
an anopheline mosquito. It is also about
four years since Townsville’s health officers
showed that the saving on mosquito-nets
alone compensated for the cost of the town’s
excellent anti-mosquito measures. But the
shires and bush municipalities are slow to
learn. Seven years ago Bradley told the
writer that New England and the Northern
Rivers would be subject to periodic epidemics
of dengue. Yet Australia is, of itself, the
healthiest country in the world. It has prac-
tically no diseases of its own. Almost all the
infectious diseases, especially the exanthems,
occur in forms very mild as compared with
those of Europe and America. Cases of the
more severe tropical diseases were, until re-
cently, few and far between. But only
until recently. Malaria, dengue, hook-
worm, elephantiasis and dysentery are now
all well established and increasing; also they
are spreading southward. All are amenable
to sanitary preventive treatment. Deprive
your mosquitoes of their breeding-places in
water, and dispose effectively of all human
waste, and the above-mentioned diseases are
wiped out. But parsimony and prejudice die
hard. _ “No money,” says authority. “Nigger
work,” says labor. The writer once saw a
conservancy contract go begging in Western
Queensland. Two shillings a pan and all
plant found. No takers. For a good example
of how rural sanitation should not be carried
out the stretch of land between Barrenjoey
and Manly is recommended. At late as a
year ago there was no conservancy system in
north Narrabeen. Of 30 camps between
Narrabeen and Mona Yale only three had any
kind of sanitary arrangements, and in the
environs of the camps every second bush was
an impromptu latrine. With the exception
of some reclamation work at Curl Curl and
around the golf links, the beach lakes are
permitted to remain shallow, swampy-
margined mosquito-harbors. Remains only
for the soil to become sufficiently saturated
with, dejecta and the anopheline mosquitoes
to work a bit further south, for they can
tolerate colder climates than that of Sydney,
and we have a reservoir for all these disease
right up against Sydney.
4
Melbourne’s Milk.
It. E. Herron’s report on Melbourne's milk
supply, just presented to the City Council,
will recommend the adoption almost intact
of the system that has been in vogue in
Wellington (M.L.) since 1921. Herron
wasn’t likely to recommend any other system,
since lie is the chief of the Windy City’s
milk-distribution system, which he installed:
nor had lie any cause to look elsewhere, since
the thing is a fine success and further justi-
fied itself—at any rate, in the eyes of the
Council —by providing this year a profit of
£12,000. Those who supped Wellington’s
milk before and after the change will testify
to the improvement. It was difficult to be-
lieve that the thin, grey-looking gruel that
the Private-Enterprise milkman poured into
the family bil'ly came from the animal that
produced the thick fluid of the new control.
The quality steadily improved, because the
Council assessed the milk it bought on its
butter-fat value, so that dairymen were en-
couraged to cull their herds and improve their
breed. A rigorous system of testing all sup-
plies has driven out of business the farmer
who keeps poor and unfit cows, and the deli-
very in sealed bottles, which are filled at a
Council depot by machinery, provides baby
with a draught that is nearly 100 p.c. pure.
A recent test of the stuff that is circulated in
Melbourne, although it was not taken under
ideal conditions, left dark suspicions in the
public mind that the present supply is very
bad ; and that it is very thin any partaker
can see for himself. Another gain, if the
Wellington scheme is launched in Melbourne,
will be to eliminate the thousand or so carts
that rattle into the metropolitan area daily
on their rounds. As many as ID different
milkos disturb the early-morning sleep of
some suburban streets. They will be re-
placed by single motor-lorries. Melbourne is
over eight times the size of Wellington, and
groans under a score of different municipal
authorities. Single control will be essential.
The co-operation of Strawberry’s owner will
have to be obtained. The Wellington scheme
nearly broke down and a partial milk famine
threatened because the cocky fancied he was
going to be robbed in the interests of the city-
dweller. The Melbourne supplier will need
to be told that he will certainly be the gainer
by more efficient methods. In Wellington
the price of milk went down to the consumer
and increased for the producer.
*
Copy-Cats.
Australians recently learned by cable that
Samuel G. Blythe, of the TJ.S., had looked
at them, and described them as “good little
copy-cats of English habits and customs,”
so they waited with some interest for further
details. The complete article has arrived,
and it is certainly right in spots. Says
Samuel :—-
Importing trouble seems, to be the national char-
acteristic with the Australians. Cactus, rabbits,
foxes, Labor agitators and the Reds have all been
imported.
For a . country claiming such a great meed of
liberty Australia is in poorer case with the tyranny
of its organised labor than any other country what-
soever. Australia is roped, tied and branded by
organised labor. All its industries are at the mercy
of organised labor, and are meekly allowed there to
remain. Its politics, in at least five of its six
.States, are dominated by organised and political
labor, which, over there, is the same thing. The
whole country is in quod to • labor.
Labor troubles are a chronic part of the politics
of Australia, and Labor agitators and their creeds,
demands, threats and domination are constantly to
be reckoned with.
Samuel is interesting and so far accurate,
but his range of vision is limited. Australia
is 310 copy of English ways. If it was it
might try to cut its clumsy States into man-
ageable areas, build a railway to every port
with deep water and some prospects, give its
small industrial towns a fair chance, endea-
vor to pay off a trifle of debt and develop a
short way with imported traitors and foreign
conspirators. It might also try to recover
rhe pioneering instinct. On the other side
of the account it might experiment with an
hereditary peerage and an established church.
Then the United Slates critic blames the
Australian for lack of originality in his
drinking, and says he rings the changes mono-
tonously on whisky and beer. As the coun-
try makes, consumes and even exports wine,
brandy and rum, its drinking is more varied
and original than a superficial observer
might think. But Samuel’s loudest
“bloomer” was this cumbrous sentence:—
It, is not to be taken seriously, for when you get.
down to the essentials with any Australian who has
the wit to comprehend the real relations between
the United States and Australia, and the real situa-
tion that exists between them because of the various
geographical, oceanic and political circumstances of
them, he knows that Australia’s deepest concern is
not to flout and criticise and deride the United
States as often seems to be the ease, but to culti-
vate the closest and most, harmonious relations with
us, and to get and maintain us as their powerful
friend.
It is all very beautiful, but —and again but
-—and but a dashed lot more. The war
created an impression that the great repub-
lic is a friend who arrives on the field very
late ; that if it is a matter of big operations,
and not a little Dago scrap, he doesn’t know
enough of the business to arrive at all with-
out European ships and European organ-
isers ; and that somehow, though lie was the
Great Power which arrived last and did least,
the world seems to owe him more money than
there is in the universe for his assistance.
Added to this the manner of U.S. trade con-
sists in selling much, buying little, if any-
thing, and demanding settlement of the trade
balance in gold ; and the arrangement is so
i! n satisfactory that many people wish
Columbus had died in infancy and George
Washington been born a Chinaman.
*
The Brisbane Light anti Power Dogfight.
From John S. Just, engineer and manager
of the City [Brisbane] Electric Light Co.:
As an old and interested student of Tub Bulletin,
I regret to see so much of its space taken up with
the misleading statements of “A Man on the Inside
of Things” upon Brisbane’s light and power. May
I correct a few of his misstatements?
His characteristic growl about the Brisbane Tram-
ways purchase has really nothing to do with the
light aud power question, but it is, like similar
growls from him or some of his confreres, intended
to prejudice the real question of what is the fair
Value of the city electric-light undertaking which the
new Oity Council wishes to buy. Let me say, how-
ever, that before the authorities acquired (compul-
sorily, by Act of Parliament) they had a full detailed
inventory of the Tramway installation, with all
depreciation ascertained. This was done through
a board, appointed by the Government, consisting of
Mr. R. E. Sexton (Chief Engineer for Railways,
Queensland), Mr. O. IV. Brain (now a N. S. Wales
Railways Commissioner) and myself as engineering
experts, and Messrs. Murton and MacFarlane as
accountants. When people buy a thing with their
eyes open it is not good form to decry the purchase
afterwards. It smacks of the poor tradesman who
quarrels with his tools, and is designed to cover up
the results of incompetent management under the
Trust. The old company paid fair dividends and
income taxes amounting to some £130,000; and yet
the present Tramways management is not paying
expenses, though it is exempt from income tax.
The old Tramways co. bought considerable electric
energy from the City Electric Light Co., and so
has the new Trust.
Your correspondent puts his foot in the hole badly
when lie quotes from the southern experts’ reports
—known as “the suppressed reports”—for they did
not show that over 10 years the construction of a
new power-house by the Trust would show a profit
over taking bulk supply from the City Electric Light
Co. So-called extracts from those suppressed reports
were supplied to the Mayor, and he was misled into
saying that such estimated probable profit would be
£17,000, when the report showed a probable loss
oil £lB,OOO, a difference of £35,000.
The City Electric Light Co.’s directors were
asked to quote a price for the whole of their under-
taking, but were unable to do so, as they had not
the power of sale. They told the Council, by letter
and in conference, that they felt that neither should
the Council buy, nor the company sell, without a
thorough investigation as to the extent and condi-
tion of the plant and the value of the company’s
franchises; that the making of such investigation
and inventory would be an expensive piece of work,
and the directors did not feel justified in incurring
that expense (probably at least £10,000) unless
they had some assurance that the Council was pre-
pared to make the purchase.
And here comes another untruthful statement —
that the Council has the legal right to sell and
supply electricity in any part of its area, regardless
of the City Electric Light Co.’s franchises. The
Greater Brisbane Act expressly preserves the com-
pany’s rights within the areas of its undertakings.
Your correspondent is wrong again in his statement
that the present power-house in William-street is
to be scrapped when the new power-house now being
erected on the river-bank at Doughboy Creek is
completed. The City Electric Light Co. has had
in mind the making of further improvements in
William-street as soon as it is possible to do so,
and thus not oidy maintain William-street in full
operation, but also provide a valuable and maximum
protection in any case of accident.
In reference to direct-current supply, some of
those on “the inside of things” are so ignorant of
electric supply matters that they proclaim direct-
current systems to be obsolete. Evidently they are
so behind the times that they are not yet aware
that considerable additions to direct-current plant
are at the present time being made in both Sydney
and Melbourne, and they do not understand the
advantages of direct current, which include large
storage-batteries from which, in case of accident,
hospitals and other institutions can be supplied.
Again, ■ the Council has been stuffed with the idea
that the City Electric Light Co.’s plant and its
present power-house are out of date. That is not
true; 1 am ready to challenge your correspondent
to show that even one per cent, of it is out of
date.
The plant being installed in the new power-house
has been selected as the latest, best and most reliable
in the world after an exhaustive examination made
personally by me, on behalf of my directors, in
America, G. Britain and the Continent of Europe. It
will be a great pity if such an up-to-date plant
ever falls under the management of incompetents.
Your correspondent quotes an estimate of
£1,110,000 as the cost of a new establishment
ready to take the whole of the load of the tram-
ways and power and lighting obligation of the co.
within the Council’s area. In my opinion that
estimate is absurd, and should exceed £3,000,000.
Absurd also is the idea that 12,500 kilowatts of
working plant, as proposed, will be equal to the
Council’s requirements for the next 10 years. My
directors are a very cautious, economical body, who
do not authorise capital outlay until they are satis-
fied that it is necessary, and yet in William-street
we have working a 12,500-kilowatt unit, and we
are installing one more similar unit at the new
power-house. Not only that, we have called for
tenders for another unit for the new power-house,
and w,e have two 5000-kilowatt and other smaller
units available besides. And we are satisfied that
it will all be needed within less than 10 years.
Brisbane is growing fast.
The people of Brisbane, and also my co., are
greatly indebted to the Brisbane Courier, and also
(o the Daily Mail and Telegraph newspapers, for
what your correspondent calls a campaign of abuse
which has resulted in the opening of the eyes of
the Council to the tremendous risk there was of
launching out on a separate super-power-house with-
out competent expert advice. They have resumed
negotiations with the co. in which they are to be
guided by the opinions of competent independent
engineering and accountancy experts chosen by them-
selves from outside the State. And I shall be much
surprised if the result is not in the direction of
tearing up the present absurd estimates and a realisa-
tion that the price suggested by my directors w T as a
fair and moderate one. Wo are prepared to show'
that with good economic management that price
would be repaid to the Council in about 174 years,
when they would own the concern free of cost.
It would he tedious for Bulletin readers and for
me to follow all the other misstatements and insinua-
tions of your correspondent. They are obvious to
those of us who know the facts, and they are just
as unfounded as those with which 1 have dealt sep-
arately.
But let it be known that the company’s shares are
held almost exclusively by some 1500 Brisbane rate-
payers, that only about 6 per cent, are held outside
Queensland, and the suggestion of an attempt to
make the many suffer for the aggrandisement of the
few is about as absurd as the rest of his letter.
*
Pensioned Gold.
“Sol. Malapkop” : Westralia lias apparently
decided to concentrate on the idea of a Fed-
eral bonus of fl per ounce on all go3d pro-
duced. This would apply, of course, to all
the States, but as Westralia last year pro-
duced close on 80 per cent, of the gjold on
which a bonus might have been paid, and
bad a little over 6 per cent, of the popula-
tion which would have had to pay, the
advantage to the big State is obvious eniougli.
The other States would, of course, get a frag-
ment of bonus, though the shares of Tas-
mania and South Australia would be almost
invisible to the naked eye. Even in the days
when the great natural industry of gold pro-
duction was at its best, the S. Australian
yield varied from £7(5,025 downwards. One
year it was £OO, and in two years it was nil.
The view which the Westralians take is (Shat
their State contains vast known gold de-
posits which are too poor to pay for extrac-
tion at the present wago-and-general-expense
rate, but which might he worked to advantage
with tlio proposed subsidy. Thus not only
would Westralia collect much money on its
present output with a £1 per ounce subsidy,
but it expects to collect more money owing
to increased output. Would it profit the
Commonwealth to promote an increased yield
of gold, and constitute itself sole buyer of
the output at an enhanced price, so that it
would have some real money of its own to
meet or partly meet Federal and State obli-
gations abroad—the obligations which are
now mostly met by now loans? It certainly
doesn’t seem worth while to worry about the
industry if the subsidised output is to remain
in private hands and drift abroad to pay for
foreign clothes and motor-cars and other
things destructive of Australian, industry.
Big gold certainly attracts population; but
as a steady source of wealth gold-mining is
over-rated. The Westralian boom was going
strongly in 1902, other States being normal,
and the Federal Statistician made this cal-
culation :
Gold Output per Miner in 1902.
S. Australia .. £47 11 3 | Queensland. £3OO 15 9
N. S. Wales . . 64 11 2 | W'estralia . . 388 2 11
Victoria .. 117 6 1 | 0 o m m o n-
rasmania . . 290 10 8 | wealth .. 213 16 6
Even allowing for the fact that the West-
ralian boom might have attracted many
amateurs to the industry in 1902, it didn’t
look very much of a business for grown men.
After allowing for cost of machinery and
tools, interest on capital, and a multitude of
other charges, the amount left out of £219
16s. 6d. must have been miserable, and even
the amount left out of £3BB 2s. lid. would
have been a poor basic wage. By last re-
turns the gross output of the average factory
operative in Australia was worth £Bll in
the year, and the net output (value added
in process of manufacture) was worth £328.
Manufacturing may be an unexciting busi-
ness, but it is steady and sometimes profit-
able. However, there might be something
in the gold-subsidy if the Commonwealth
were the sole buyer of gold; wherefore the
problem of the subsidy should attract the
attention oi professors of economics. Domain
orators and others.
—4
Water for Travelling Stock.
“IV .P.D.”: P. J. Leahy’s suggestion made
nearly a quarter of a century ago to the
Queensland Parliament to link up the termini
of the trunk lines running from the coast
inland (B. 8/4/’26) ought to be carried out
with as little delay as possible. There is
good relief country around Cainooweal and
the eastern side of the Barkly Tableland, and
fairly plentiful rains have fallen there within
the last few weeks, but stock in the drought-
stricken areas between the Central and Nor-
thern railways cannot be travelled to it. as the
stock routes are practically closed. Experi-
enced graziers estimate that drought losses
so far this season in Queensland have reached
2,000,000 cattle and 5,000,000 sheep. As an
insurance against the recurrence of a similar
disaster a line from the N.S.W. border
somewhere about Hungerford through Boulia
to Camooweal would open a lot of good
country, and might be the means of saving-
millions of pounds’ worth of stock when the
inevitable drought comes along. In the
meantime a much less ambitious scheme
would be of very great service to cattlemen
in the Far West. Prime fat cattle coming
from Cooper’s Creek to the railhead at Quil-
pie in a dry time get only three drinks in a
journey of over 150 miles, and the distance
between drinks is not less than 50 miles—a
three-day stage. Big, heavy bullocks require
at least one drink a day, and on this par-
ticular road they have to travel over rough,
stony country, which breaks the hooves of
beasts fattened on the soft, loamy soil of
the Cooper, and all they get is one drink
every third day. The Cooper’s Creek country
is equal to the bt-st fattening areas in the
world, and could provide the best baby beef
in the market if travelling facilities were im-
proved. Steers at two years old in good
seasons weigh up to 7001 b., which is just
what is wanted for the British trade. But
under present conditions they arrive at the
railway having lost 25 per cent, or more in
weight, and in much worse condition than
when they left the station. Fat cattle re-
quire nursing, not the hustling they get now-
adays. After their gruelling on the road
they are trucked, and have to suffer the
tortures of a rail journey to Brisbane of 630
miles. Hugh McMaster, a prominent cattle
grazier, says that he travelled by a stock
train from Charleville to Brisbane —480
miles. The journey took 40 hours, or twice
as long as the mail train. The unfortunate
cattle sweltered in the trucks with the tem-
perature at 115 deg. F., and were four hours
detained in one place, and in another nearly
an hour. No wonder Queensland beef in
London is inferior to that from Argentina,
where more commonsense and more humane
methods of conveying stock are practised!
Cattle trains should travel at least as fast
as mail trains, and if more sidings are needed
they should be provided. Five bores should
be put down on the Cooper’s Creek-Quilpie
stock route, the cost of which would be
£IOOO each —pumping plant and troughing
included. The Federal Government might
advance £SOOO to the shire council, which has
not the funds to undertake the work. Quite
10,000 head of cattle use the road annually,
and if a charge was made of 3d. a drink, oi-
ls. 3d. a head at the five bores, it would easily
provide for interest and redemption on the
loan. 'What has been said of the Cooper’s
Creek-Quilpie route applies equally to the
routes between the Mulligan and Yaraka and
Long-reach, and those between the Georgina
and Winton and Dajarra. The road facilities
for stock travelling are infinitely worse now
than they were 30 years ago.
——-—♦
The Widow’s Mite.
Dear Bulletin, —I am well aware that as
a good Australian I am in the forefront of
the world’s progress, bearing the torch far
ahead of the blinking eyes of effete and con-
servative England; but as a practising
lawyer I have my doubts. Take our law
of property, for instance. Until July 1,
1920, our N. S. Wales system of conveyanc-
ing was based on a statute passed in 1842.
In England the old system was swept away
by the Conveyancing Act of 1882. an Act
which we did not adopt until 1919 —37 years
behind the times. The joke is still on us,
however, as by the time wo had made the
move the House of Lords had already devised
the monumental Law of Property Act. which
came into force at the beginning of this year,
and has abolished all the old feudal tenures
and estates, which are still the basis of our
law of property. We are apt to claim our
Torrens system as an Australian invention.
Torrens himself never did so. When intro-
ducing it in South Australia he pointed out
that the idea was an old one, and that his
plan was merely an adaptation of one
that had been in force in Prussia for 600
years. Apart from that, it is worth while
remarking that the Torrens system was long
ago introduced into England, the difference
being that before they took it over they
observed and profited by our mistakes, and
consequently have a thoroughly scientific
Act that is almost fool-proof. Our Real


T^/lustralia
I i Ifl
if* |H
WWW
WWW
UUI
111
LLLL
n ii ii i
ii ii ii i
ii ii ii i
r ii ii i
ILILIII
I! n n IL LL L
ILIULILLL L
II II II IL LL C
ILILILI
U
■ ■
LI
Paid-up Capital, £422,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney,
\
i-ate Autumn is Sydney’s finest season; days are cool enough to he
pleasant, yet warm enough to make your favorite sport enjoyable. But
better still is the anticipation of a stay at “The Australia,” and with it all
those niceties of accommodation which its name personifies.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 14/-; Luncheon or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luucheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
If you anticipate coming to Sydney, write for your copy of our beautifully-illustrated
20-page booklet.
1 Toperty Act, on the contrary, stands practi-
cally as it was passed in 18G2, and is out
ol date and in many respects clumsy and
self-contradictory. Our law as to the dis-
tribution of the estates of intestates is the
►statute of Distribution that was passed in
tlie reign of Charles ll.—with one modi-
fication which gives a childless widow the
first £SOO of her husband’s estate. In the
case of a man dying, leaving wife and
children, the widow takes one-tliird of his
property and the children the remainder.
The effect .of this, where the children are
under 21, is that their shares are tied up,
and cannot be touched without an order of
the. Court until they attain their majority.
It is true that the Court will, in cases of
necessity, make an order for maintenance of
the infants out of the income of their shares;
but applications to the Court of Equity are
wearisome matters—and expensive. It is
out of things of that sort that I make my
living; one can do very well out of a widow
and a few orphans. There was some excuse
for Charles 11. In his time the Statute
ot Distribution referred to personal property
only, and personal property was practically
non-existent, so that the law operated only
as to a few trifles. In N. S. Wales we
adopted the Statute, not only for personal
property, but made it apply to the whole
of a man’s estate, of every kind. Of course,
it can be avoided by a will,, and it is every
man’s duty to make a will. In Eng-
land they took the trouble to inspect
the wills filed at Somerset House, and
found that in the vast majority of
cases a man disposed of his property so
as. to give his widow a life interest in every-
thing, with the remainder to his children, and
giving his executors powers of maintenance
without resort to the
Court. They thereupon
altered the law to accord
with the common prac-
tice, and the consequence
is that, except in the case
of a person who wants to
make a freak will, or
whose circumstances are
in some way out of the
ordinary, it is becoming
unusual to make a will at
all —the law anticipates
his intentions. By the
way, it is worth while
noticing that most of
these reforms have origi-
nated in the House of
Lords. It almost makes
one think that there is
something in a nominee
House, after all. The
representatives of the
people seem to be too
busy calling each other
names to bother about
practical matters. How-
ever, it is better for me
and the likes of me.—
Yon rs. Fitzwii.li am.
Nothing is easier than to listen for five
minutes to a hard-luck story, accept it as
gospel and discredit the efforts of the com-
mittee of the Vic. Rush Fires Relief Fund.
The general situation, however, does require
some explanation. It is now nearly two
months since the State realised the extent of
the disaster and started with spontaneous
enthusiasm to provide relief; yet most of
those who lost homes are still living in tents,
some of them unfloored. Others have been
presented with orders for furniture who
have no homes to put it in. Unless some-
thing is done quickly many of these people
will have to face the winter, bitter in the
mountains, in danger of being flooded out at
every downpour. During the Great War the
headquarters staffs of the various armies
were called on every day to do bigger things
than have been required of the Melbourne
executive. The explosion of a single shell
would cause more devastation than the whole
extent of Black Sunday’s happenings. New
roads were built, army-service huts trans-
ferred in sections, and hundreds of men
secured against wind and weather in the
course of a few hours. If some of the men
who organised those things in war-time had
been given carte blanche to do the same
with the bush-fire business, the situation
would now be different.
—: —♦
Youth will have its fling, and in Melbourne
the fling is taking the form of pinching other
people's goods more frequently than is
healthy. The other day the St. Ivilda police
arrested 13 boys, aged from 10 to 15, who
were alleged to be responsible for a long series
of thefts, from motor-cycles to the contents
of suburban shops. The gang has been elud-
ing the law for a long time, one reason being
that amateur criminals just starting on their
career escape suspicion. Rumors about
esoteric rites of initiation and other roman-
tic features suggest that some of the im-
petus to crime comes from the “pictures.”
Nevertheless, even a boy burglar must get rid
of his loot, and this is where the receiver
comes in. When the adult middleman finds
that the gangs of grown-ups are being broken
up, nothing is more natural than that he
should turn to the lucrative business of train-
ing children in the art by which he lives. The
uprooting of the Fagans might, therefore, be
a good beginning in the work of reforming
these youngsters.
4
The history of the Clan Macnaughton, the
steamer that was towed over from the Speck
to Melbourne for temporary repairs some
time ago, promises to be as disreputable a
commentary on the folly of the Bolshevised
trades unions as the Yolumuia case. The
owners of thei Clan M. decided that £20,000
spent in repairs at Williamstown would en-
able the ship to proceed to England. The
unions declared that all repairs should be
done here, although they gave no guarantee
that faith would be kept in the matter of
awards while the job was under way. Ignor-
ing the fact that the ship would not be
allowed to leave until the Port authorities
had found her seaworthy, they advanced the
plea that lives might be endangered if full
repairs were not completed here. The dere-
lict was then declared “black” and all work-
ers withdrawn. The ship’s engineers set to
work and fixed up the derelict themselves,
the only hitch being when a casting was re-
quired from a local factory. Having heard
it was intended for the leprous craft the
employees refused to handle the accursed
thing, and the job was done elsewhere. It
is now regarded as certain that the ship will
leave for Britain next week. The futile
tactics of the unions having lost £20,000 of
work to this country, their leaders now pro-
pose to lose the ship. Should the vessel ever
return to these parts she is to be boycotted.
PERHAPS HE'LL BUCK.
QUEENSLAND PREMIER McCOKMACK: "I wonder if the beggar'll go."
Childish spile could go no further. Mel-
bourne is one port in several thousand that
the Gian Macnaughton has the choice of.
• ♦“
“T.P.”: A half-century with chalk and
duster moves me to remark that “Clifford
Snook” (R. l/4/’26) chose his date well to
describe nature study in our schools as going
out “to look at birds’ nests.” That only
partially describes one day in the year—
Bird Day, instituted to induce a “bird-and-
egg conscience,” which same is needed sadlv
in the Commonwealth. The object of
nature study is to teach nippers to look and
see for themselves and then think. Again
where in Australia did he find "clever chil-
uren who had been taught no geography save
that of Australia”? Certainly eight- and
nine-year-olds start on their own country,
but later they take on the British Empire
and finish before they are 14 with the chief
countries of the world. Finally I am un-
famihar with “C.S.’s” “fairly advanced
children who had learned no history save the
Australian article.” The story of Australia
is told to the youngest Australians, but lon*
before they are a dozen years old they are
veil into the history of the British Empire
One question only in the annual test deals
with such men as Hume, Forrest, Flinders!
Sturt and Leichhardt. Surely “C.S.” will
not object to that much honor being given
our own nation-builders.
*
"Mat Lowe” : It is a bit late in the season
to discuss summer rigs, but “Fitzwilliam”
and "Ibn El Issar” both miss an important
point. The abdomen is the most vulnerable
part of the human body; keep it warm, and
you have all the big organs and half the
blood-supply protected. Let it chill, and you
become a likely prey to any wretched “wog”
that may be sculling around. The less vital
(and self-heating) limbs can look after them-
selves, even in cold weather. Practically all
out-of-door races wear some garment
specially designed to protect the belly and
keep it warm, even though they may go
naked elsewhere. “Ibn” is quite right about
starched linen (only it is usually cotton,
which is worse) and flannel, but is somewhat
adrift in respect to malaria. Without the
mosquito-borne “wog” you can catch cold
till the cows come home without getting
malaria. Colds, however, lay one open to
the attacks of any malarial or other “bugs”
•that may be around. The trouble with our
present conventional dress is the sac coat
and trousers. The coat is a hygienieally
abominable garment. Padded, hot, and con-
stricting on the shoulders and arms, it leaves
the abdomen exposed. The trousers are too
tight and too long. Starched “whites” re-
tain, through poor ventilation, more body-
heat than they lose, by reflection, of solar
heat. The war gave us our best rig. Pith
lielmet, light woollen shirt, shorts, stock-
mgs. and, for night wear, a flannel binder
or a sleeveless cardigan jacket. Has anyone
got the nerve to wear it?
“Dr. Nii.” : Th ere are minor economies that
could be effected in hospitals besides those
outlined by “H.M.” (R. S/4/'2ti). A tre-
mendous amount of waste goes on in all
of them, public and private. I am not on
the permanent staff of any, but have done
“relieving” work in many; hence I know of
what I write. Cotton-wool, gauze (medi-
cated and plain), silk “protective.” bandages
and sundry other things are used for dress-
ing wounds, septic or not, in large quantities,
and then destroyed. Other materials, such
as various grades and sizes of “Turkish”
towels and sterilisable pads, would do quite
as well. The same applies to the padding of
splints. For ointments, liniments and other
external medications, expensive proprietary
preparations are used where simpler and
cheaper things would do as much good. For
instance, a certain well-known “patent” stuff
is preferred to a mixture of glycerine and
kaolin with a pinch of salicylic acid and a
whiff of oil of wintergreen, albeit it costs
over two shillings a pound, and contains no-
thing beyond the ingredients mentioned. In
nine cases out of ten where “zinc-cream” is
used ordinary vaselines, of varying thick-
ness, would have as good an effect. In the
case of some proprietary “galenicals” and
patent “foods” that I could name, the tins
and bottles containing them are the most
valuable part. And no one has ever explained
to me why hospitals should not run their own
mixed farms attached to country convalescent
branch establishments, and supply all their
own meat, milk, fruit, vegetables and cereals.
4
‘ Light Horse” : The recent suggestion to
the N.S.W. executive that the cumbersome
name of the Returned Soldiers and Sailors'
Imperial League be changed to the Austra-
lian Imperial Force is one that will be en-
dorsed by the great majority of A.I.F. men.
The new-old name would have the immeasur-
able advantage of being arrestingly brief —
for short, it would of course, be the A.I.F.
League. After all, it is the A.I.F. that is re-
membered in these days, when anyone happens
to recall the story of Australia’s share in the
war, and not the clumsily-entitled R.S.S.I.L.
There is a notable instance of the value of
an easily-remembered symbol in the history
of the Grand Army of the Republic. This
association of the veterans of the northern
side in the Civil War in America had a pre-
carious beginning under various unsuitable
titles until, as the G.A.R., it became impressed
on the popular imagination and rose to a
prestige and influence which it still enjoys.
—4
“Bouragi”: “Feng-Shui” (B. 15/4/’26) has
confused the trees of his argument with the
wood of mine. I did not deny that the
practice of concubinage with native women
existed among British men on the outer rim.
but that it existed on the scale that the
inhabitants of Philistia-Suburbia delight to
envisage. As “Feng-Siiui” says, I have
lived in some queer corners of the Empire,
and look back on a varied experience of 30
years or more in forming the conclusions he
objects to. The British official described by
“Feng-Siiui” as travelling about with a
native woman is a type I have not met,
though under French, German and Portu-
guese administrations the lady is common
enough, as she is in the Dutch Indies; and
no doubt the institution is “earnestly recom-
mended by old dwellers in the land.” But
that is no more a justification of the prac-
tice than it is of pony-racing, s.-p. betting,
"urging” or yellow journalism. In that
connection there was once an Administrator
of British New Guinea whose theory was
that only by living with a native woman
could one learn a native language. He aban-
doned this in his more exalted days; pos-
sibly the fact that there are hundreds of
languages in B.N.G. disheartened him. I
stand, then, to my statement that the British,
of all the colonising nations, have not built
up a race of half-castes. “Feng-Shui”
says that the hybrids exist, and British
hypocrisy hides them. Where? Outside the
semi-white folk of the British West Indies,
begotten in the old slave days, and the fast-
vanishing half-breeds of Canada, sprung from
toe old-time Scottish factors of the Hudson
Bay Company, Britain’s showing is a
negligible one, as it is in Australia and the
South Seas. Mine is not “a gesture of
repudiation,” to again quote “Feng-Siiui,”
due to hypocrisy. I have found that
the average man, in civilisation and out. is
usually more wedded to principles and prac-
tice of decency, honesty and moral clean-
ness than even he. himself realises, and I
don’t like to see him daubed with the mud
he _ doesn’t deserve. These men, like the
writer, probably do not care a tinker’s dam
about the moral aspect of the question. In
their eyes it is worse than wicked; it’s rotten
bad form, and we can leave it at that.
4
One industry which is flourishing in Queens-
land is the production of “ex-nuptial” child-
ren. Here the northern State easily leads
the Commonwealth. The figures for 1924,
as given by the Commonwealth Statistician,
are: Queensland, 5.34 p.c. of total births;
N.S.W., 4.82 p.c.; Victoria, 4.62; Tasmania,
4.24; W.A., 3.04; S.A., 3.06. Within the
last five years the illegitimacy rate lias
slumped in Victoria, South Aus. and Tas-
mania, and gone up a trifle in N. S. Wales
and Westralia; Queensland is the only State
to record a considerable rise. What makes
this the more significant is that there has
been a steady decline in the general birth-
rate. In 1920 it was 27.58 per 1000
of mean population; in 1924, 23.88 —
the lowest on record for Queensland. Con-
fronted with the high and rising illegitimacy
rate, some Queenslanders say lightly, “It’s
the climate.” But it isn't the climate: little
Tasmania held the premiership until Queens-
land wrested it from her a few years ago.
and Tasmania certainly hasn’t the same sort
of climate as Queensland. Probably no
single factor is wholly responsible; but, in
general, the causes can most often be found
in -a loosening of morals and an unhealthy
disinclination on the part of young people
to begin married life in very modest fur-
nishings. And perhaps these two things are
the same thing. They are certainly very
closely related.


a
Preferred! or Preserved
Kensitas might just as well be called also the
preserved cigarette, sir, because it is about the
only cigarette that in spite of difficulty and
temptation has preserved its quality rather
than succumb to quantity.
IM
ill ii
20,
Also in Boxes of
50 and 100
The unique quality of Kensitas Cigarettes is only
possible at the popular price because in the case
of Kensitas that price has not to cover the cost of
pictures, prize schemes or any other inducements.
Manufacturers i J. & SONS, LTD., London, England,
i^SC:
i !■
mm
m
dis>
OTi
o2>UI
0^
POLITICAL
POINTS
The wish was father to the thought, and
even farther from sane prognostication than
usual, when Lang assured the N.S.W. Par-
liament that there would be no trouble in
the clash between Federal awards and the
44-Hour-Week Act. The High Court, with
an emphasis that went very close to being
unanimous, has declared that the Act cannot
be applied to industries working under Fed-
eral awards, a decision which declares that
Lang is a very poor judge, and that the gift
he handed out in a high-handed fashion is
a very Brummagem affair as far as some-
thing like 50,000 workers in N.S.W. are con-
cerned. The decision, of course, must affect
also the legislation passed in Queensland in
1924, but deferred in operation for a year,
which also purported to cut down working
hours. Unfortunately the industrial upset
caused by Lang’s measure is not likely to be
allayed by a mere judicial decision; dis-
appointed unionists who hoped to enjoy both
high Federal Court wages and the pared
working hours provided by the State are
naturally angry, and N.S.W. may possibly
experience over-much of the trouble Lang
declared could not happen.
Labor-governed Queensland has various
records that are little known, though they
all appear in the Federal Statistics. There
were 265- millions more unoccupied acres in
Queensland in 1923 (latest figures) than in the
the year when the Government took office. No
other State shows anything resembling this.
Queensland definitely attained the dignity of
having the heaviest taxation per inhabitant
in the Government's third year, and stuck
to it manfully. Said Government changed
the biggest Australian railway surplus into
the biggest railway deficit in its first year,
and has had the biggest deficit ever since.
In its ninth year it managed to make the
Queensland factory operative the worst paid
on this continent, being £5 10s. lOd. per annum
behind the next worst. In the same year it
arrived at the bottom of the list of mainland
States for the proportion of its population
employed in factories, so the State now holds
both the agricultural and manufacturing low
record. The supreme boast of the crowd in
office is that it is a Labor Government, or is
called one, but when, no good comes from it
being a Labor Government it might as well
be a gatepost.
The N. S. Wales Labor Conference broke
up amidst the usual endearing cries of
“crooks,” “garrotters,” “ballot-fakers,” “bush-
rangers” and the like, the business-paper,
with 400 undiscussed motions,. being con-
signed to the w.p.b. Before this stage was
reached, A. C. Willis, sometime president of
the A.L.P. and now leader of the Leg. Coun-
cil, was asked what had become of certain
papers. Willis said he had kept them in his
own possession, because he could not safely
leave them in the A.L.P. office. It recalls
the Western American bank president who
refused to produce the securities while the
directors were in the board-room.
The latest return brings the tale of the
Commonwealth’s own foreign debt down to
last New Year’s Day. The Federal Govern-
ment added a little over 12 millions to its
outside debt in the four years to June, 1925,
and close on another 13 millions in the half-
year to December, 1925. Thus in years
of peace the Central Government added to
its previous burdens £25,069,094, principal
and interest payable in gold. The fact that
about eight millions of the Commonwealth’s
paper debt was wiped out here, while 25 mil-
lions of gold debt was. incurred there, is no
palliation worth speaking of.
IMPROVING HIS FEATURES.
“The Commonwealth Council of Federated Labor Unions has drafted a large number of proposed amend-
ments to the Arbitration Act.”
Vic. Premier Allan remains beautifully
vague about the prospects of an early resump-
tion of Parliamentary business. Nothing re-
cedes like recess.
Tired of being incessantly snarled at by
the malcontents of the left wing, the mod-
erates of the Vic. Cocky party, through their
central council, have decided that the
penalty for promoting secession shall be ex-
pulsion. Crockett, M.L.C., formerly a mem-
ber of the Compo Cabinet, expressed indiffer-
ence to the warning, and Dunstan, M.L.A.,
may secede. If he does, Allan will have
one candid friend less. Labor has its eye
on Dunstan’s seat (Eagleliawk), and hopes
also to bag Warrnambool, Ovens, Walhalla,
Stawell and East Melbourne. Premier
Allan has remarked bitterly that Labor’s new
captain (Hogan) doesn’t need to do any pro
paganda work, since alleged Ministerialists
are doing it all for him.
A few days ago Sydney farewelled Giles
Shaw, chairman of the metropolitan bench of
stipendiary magistrates; he had to leave the
bench because he has reached 65. Two days
later the Lang Government appointed A. B.
Piddington to the judicial post of Industrial
Commissioner at £3OOO a year. Mr. Pidding-
ton, who lias been given the job for five
years, is 64. But, then, Mr. Piddington has
certain views that suit the Labor Govern-
ment down to the ground; so age doesn’t
matter in his case.
Prospects are not improving for either the
British shipowner or the British seaman.
During the past few days a charter was made
with a foreign steamer to carry 6000 tons
of wheat to an English port at 245. per ton ;
and various dues have to come off that. Even
as little as a year ago 40s. was a very low
freight rate; and at this moment it costs
that much to carry general cargo from Mel-
bourne to, say, North Queensland. Which
shows, too, what the Australian manufac-
turer is up against. The foreigner can get
most of his goods brought to Australia for
less per ton than the Australian manufac-
turer has to pay to get his goods carted half-
way round the Australian coast.
As a “lazy” striker the Australian is not
a success. After the first day the Mel-
bourne tram-men got bored with their ela-
borate pretence of being solicitous of the con-
venience of elderly ladies; and when Deputy-
President Webb, of the Arbitration Court,
said he would not consider their plaint until
normal running was resumed, their cause
languished. Finally they called the under-
hand and un-Australian business off. and
appealed to the Court in the orthodox
manner.
The period for which the British coal-
mining subsidy was renewed (under threat
of general strike and Sheol) has expired.
Said subsidy cost £19,000,000 in about nine
months instead of the £10,000,000 foreshad-
owed. and it knocked Winston Churchill's
finances endways. Now the Government
says it won’t be renewed, and the unions
say it must, or some compensating arrange-
ment must be devised. The situation pre-
sents complicated features. In 1920 the
average British miner produced 167 tons of
coal as his year’s work. In 1924, when
prices were lower, he did about 225 tons in
the year. The Australian coal-digger was
credited in 1928 with 434 tons, and Yankee
miners are said to greatly exceed the Aus-
tralian record. In 1920 English coal fetched
345. 7d. per ton at the pit’s mouth.
At one period of the war it was selling
abroad at £3 19s. Lately J. Bull has been
selling nearly one-fourth of his output to
any foreign competitor who would have it for
less than 245. per ton. The Baldwin Gov-
ernment has apparently got a fair grip of the
facts in this confusion. If Britain could to
a great extent quench the influx of foreign
goods the industrial boom might enable it
to buy all its own coal at a better price.
(Imports recently climbed to £1,277,439,144
for the year.) Then it might be able to tell
the competitive foreigner who desired fuel
that, so far as J. Bull was concerned, he was
welcome to burn his grandmother. The thing
to be most feared is a poverty revolution in
the middle of the process of changing over
from one fiscal system to another.
Westralian Works Minister McCallum has
been complaining that he has not up to the
present been qualified to vote in his State’s
Leg. Council elections. Yet it is as easy, on
the whole, to qualify in Westralia as in South
Aus., where 57,225 names have been added
to the rolls in about seven months. Anyone
who has owned a block of land valued at £5O
or rented a house “of the annual value of
£l7” for 12 months can get enrolled in
Groperland, as also can a man who has held
a £l7 lease for 18 months or whose £l7 lease
has 18 months to run. The £l7 restriction
is rather absurd ; but not so absurd as the
cant of McCallum, who has been a well-paid
Cabinet Minister for two years, and had a
good trade-union job for quite a decade be-
fore he became a politician. It is nearly
time he struggled out of the lodger stage. .
Westralian Government is kicking against
the Federal suggestion to close the Perth
Mint and concentrate minting operations in
Melbourne. Premier Collier argues that if
the minting of gold is to be centralised it
should be in the capital of the chief gold-
producing State; and Collier is right«f he
can show' that it will cost less to send the
other States’ gold to Perth and back to the
centres where it will be chiefly held than to
send all the States’ gold to Melbourne and
distribute it from there.
Some of Queensland’s Labor Ministers ex-
perience a sinking feeling when they contem-
plate the Federal voting returns. Four con-
stituencies represented by State Ministers
recorded majorities against Labor in Novem-
ber. In Cairns (Premier McCormack’s seat)
the adverse majority was 60; in Mackay
(represented by Deputy-Premier Forgan
Smith) Labor was beaten by 421. These
electorates have since received special atten-
tion from the Government, and McCormack
and Smith profess to be confident. Tom Dun-
stan, Minister for Lands, is shaky at Gympie,
where Labor was 192 votes behind at the
Federal election. A big personal vote may
help him in again. The worst plight of all
is that of D. A. Gledson, Assistant Minister
in charge of State Enterprises ; his electorate
(Ipswich) gave a majority of 1509 against
Labor in November, and since then Ipswuch
Laborites have been split into two camps by
the railway-union disputes. All the other
Ministers appear to be safe.
Before the last loan was floated N.S.W.
required £8,000,000 to clear off its over-
drafts, and it could have done with
£8,000,000 or £4,000,000 more with which
to pursue the even tenor of its jag. The
Lang Government secured £4,000,000, and
the Premier stated proudly, and quite truth-
fully, that it got all that it applied for. He
really means that it got as much as it
was allowed to apply for. An Australian
Government which wants a permanent loan
in London, as distinct from a fleeting over-
draft, has to speak to Nivison, whose syndi-
cate owms and controls the entire lending
apparatus. That institution guarantees the
loan, when the terms are made good enough,
but not for more than it considers the public
will take within a reasonable time. There
is no other way even if Lang is left with
half his overdraft unprovided for.
The Australian Institute of Tropical .Medi-
cine (N.Q.) has again reported that the
country up that way is a good place for
white people, despite bad housing, careless-
ness about water and milk-supply and other
preventable sins. It was known already that
on a list of 22 countries, ranging from Nor-
way to Chile, Queensland has the lowest
death-rate both among adults and infants.
It may occasionally be too hot for work in.
the North, but against that there are coun-
tries where it is more than occasionally
too cold, or too wet, or too full of wild ani-
mals. The troubles of the North are not
the climate. Tropical Australia is too far
from its seats of government, owing to the
ridiculous size of the States. It has too little
means of communication, it has too many
Bolsheviks, and the gaols leak.
ON THE ’PHONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Premier Lang has invited the five Labor members
expelled from the party for being absent when the
abolition vote was taken to resign their seats in
the N.S.W. legislative Council. Only one answer
has yet been received, a flat refusal.”
“Oh, I am lenient with you, over-lenient,
I fear. Observe that I refrain to bid
You go and hang yourselves from some convenient
Tree, as a certain False Apostle did.
I merely ask the forfeit that’s exacted
From chaps who at the card-table renege.
Seeing you didn’t do as you contracted,
Restore me what I gave.”
[Derisive voice through the ’phone] : “Come off
my leg!”
“I made a bargain with you and your fellows,
I bought you and the purchase price was paid;
You slipped me up amid the gleeful bellows
Of Bavin and the National brigade.
Now I’m a laughing stock, my life a burden,
Target for Opposition gibe and scoff;
At least you can return your ill-got guerdon,
The hire for work you jibbed at.”
[Second! voice]: “Aw, ring off!”
“That railway pass—though little, true, it cost me— ■
It puzzles me how you can wear the same,
Or travel on it since you double-crossed me
Without a gnawing agony of shame.
The handle Honorable —’tis hard to credit
Reluctance should be shown to acquiesce
In my suggestion you’ll be glad to shed it
After what’s happened.”
[Third voice] : “Have another guess.”
“That stately building in the Rue Macquarie
’Tis clear that you no longer can frequent;
Bethink what howls would rise and what ' a sorry
Figure to former comrades you’d present.
And, anyhow, what use the right of entry
Or freedom of an institution that’s
Doomed even as a club for leisured gentry,
Booked for immediate extinction ?”
[Fourth voice]: “Rats!”
“Kicked from the Labor fold by Conference’s
Massive and unforgiving number nine,
The goods obtained from me by false pretences
The least that you can do is to resign.
Some rag of manliness, though stained and muddy,
You’ll still retain thereby without a doubt,
And you may hold your heads, albeit bloody,
An inch or two the higher.”
[Fifth voice, irascibly]: “Cut it out!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


&
ISHIO
THis Trade-mark Stands for
Belting Quality
a^ arl^.J: B r - ee 'i of a . centui ’.v of manufacturing quality belt in-
Pionee™trade-mark rießCe *“ bdti " 8 e^ bLJfg
belt 1 for vT. ** ° f tlle & tdW «
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
wUI serve you well on every drive.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI (a SON LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leathir Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane;
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
HESr AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
® Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equip ped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machine*?. Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
Wes* Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation, Ltd., of Sydney :—-
n Excess Out-
up.c., Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
g 8 943
192], £19,481 £4,340 £20,186 £5,045 13-988
„„„„ 1 ‘'em'ums on new shares, £449 (net) 13,539
1922.. 45.561 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,695
1 remiums on new shares, £231 (net) 24,464
Share-selling costs . . 1,360 25 824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments .. 16,585 4“> 409
{923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
1924. 97,609 33,161 65,822 1,374 56,677
r rom sale of Fire business, £25,878 81’ 299
From Fire Dept. ..£3BB So’fill
To Reduction
, of Deficit.
1920.. (7.258 18,648 47,701 10,909 20,002
table combines the results of the co.’s
activities in all branches. The fire, accident
•and marine business was, however, trans-
ferred in March, 1925, to a new co., the
Commonwealth Traders’ Insurance. The
C.G.A. was unfortunate with its fire and
marine to the last: the year’s results had
to carry a £6449 deficiency in that branch—
‘largely due to an adjustment of accounts
owing to the transfer,” the directors say.
Gut, though the branch had been expen-
sive its sale permitted the co. to show in
tlic assets “Shares in other cos., £30,991,”
which gives the accounts a much better
appearance than th'ey have had hitherto. But
whether the “shares, etc.,” arc worth £30,991
will be easier to say after the Commonwealth
Iradeivs issues its first few balance-sheets.
Ibe Australian Traders, the progenitor of the
Commonwealth Traders, paid its usual 8 p.c.
recently, and that goes to the Commonwealth
traders; further, the new concern is re-
ported to be progressing on its own account
satisfactorily. From every angle, there-
fore, the disposal of the fire, marine and
accident business looks wise. Ordinary and
Industrial results for the 12 months contain
promise of better things; but that is the
most that can be said. Expenditure was
cut down, but much more is necessary. In
the Ordinary department costs arc still far
too high, last year’s rate for new business
(on the 7 p.c.-for-renewals basis) being 152
p.c. New Industrial costs were somewhat
improved (net premium income for the year
from new business is not shown), although
still high.
This table cleans up the co.’s activities in
the lines it has gone out of: —
Fire, Accident and Marine.
Towards
. Ex- lie- Bo-
income. Claims, ponses, serves servos
••19.262 £3.625 £5.053 £s<l £584-'
1922 .. 20,196 ~347 11,081 1768 2352
r) fijj]
1923 .. 27.900 17,368 19.372 6488’
1924 .. 33,766 23,989 18,934 15 645
*1925 . . 8,356 6,741 8,063 0^448
*3 months.
And t his shows the Life results:-
Ordinary and Industrie Life.
Excess
, or,i. IS®,
I Ind. 606 j £ <l.> £15,133 £7119
1922 I £rd. 17,245 1,140 15,289 816*
l Ind. 7,099 829 13 805 7535
1923 \ ? n !- 24,189 2,527 20,067 1595*
I Ind. 27,8(6 .'>,672 29,236 5032*
1Q94. Oiy], 19,771 2,772 18 899 809Q-*
19 ~ 4 l 42,900 0.400 3,;003 MO.S*
1925 l , 21,1d0 1,658 12,466 7126*
find, 46,501 10,348 27,173 8980*
*Nominal surplus.
The introductory table covers all these
figures plus various receipts which arc shown
m a general revenue account.
lar too much of the business is posted
missing after the first year. These figures
speak—or shriek—the fact:—
Life Business Written.
Ordinary Annual
1001 Policies. Assuring. Premiums.
896 £224,688 £9,981
2• • •• 1027 303,008 14,320
.. 1128 324,463 14,233
{924.. .. (80 184,202 7,500
4925. . .. 730 196,527 7,749
_ . 4561 £1.232,888 £53,783
In other words during the past five years
policies have been written which ought to
bring m £53,781! p.a.; yet last year’s total
net premium income was only £21,150. Of
tll'i _2® tter amount renewals represented
£15,708 compared with £14,489 in 1924 an
increase of only £1274, notwithstanding that
over ifOUO or new business was written in
the year. A small part of the difference
may have been represented by claims; by far
the greater part was due to the lapsing of
business which had been very expensive to
get. Nor is the co. doing wonders with
Industrial. Thos. Foster, who founded the
C.G.A., held that Industrial was a good pro-
position if concentrated upon. His co.
backed his faith by purchasing the Industrial
business of the Life Insurance Go. of Aus-
tralia and of the Co-operative for hard
cash, and the policies of the short-lived Aus-
tralian W orkers’ Co-operative were taken
over. “Purchase account, £1(3,585,” repre-
sents those past transactions. In 1923 the
C.G.A. held 1(3,600 Industrial policies carry-
ing annual premiums of £37,560. Last year
5841 policies were written assuring £251,000
and carrying annual premium of £19,306.
Total premium income from the department,
was £46,018 and claims took £4084, while
maturities, surrenders and bonuses” called
for £6264. Those figures do not tell of any
out-of-way expansion, nor of much advance
towards a profit-making basis. A prospectus
claim was that “ultimate and permanent
success was likely to wait on an office which
handled general business.
With small figures in the Ordinary and
nothing brilliant in Industrial, the directors
nevertheless speak of the co.’s “marked pro-
gress and “look forward to another success-
ful year. ’ The movements in assets last
year were certainly right:—
„ 1923. 1924. 1925.
Government securities . . £10,283 £10,240 £25,194
House-purchase loans .. 10,210 10,101 10,801
Cash and deposits . . . . 8,537 3,556 2 246
Loans on policies . . . . 395 345 468
Book debts 5,179 6,563 3,229
Owing by other cos. . . 6,860 8,778
Agents’ balances .. .. 4,757 B*6lo 3,593
Shares in other cos. .. 30,991
Furniture, ears, stationery 3,921 4,024 1,270
T .,.,. . £50,142 £52,217 £77,792
Liabilities 9,953 12,696 2,205
Surplus assets . . .. £40,189 £39,521 £75,587
Liabilities have been reduced to modest
dimensions; premium's outstanding brought
within bounds; furniture and stationery cut
•jack to something like a reasonable figure and
iIOjOOO more put into gilt-edged securities.
But £20,000 of capital is still unrepresented
by tangibles, and the share holdings have yet
to prove their value. The usual necessities of
the young co. present themselves: reduction
of establishment and goodwill and building
up of funds to cover liabilities under policies
and to provide for bonuses. Shareholders
need not display any interest unless or until
those things are done. Then the 74,318 first
prefs. and the 74,963 second prefs. (each
10s. paid to 65.) will call for attention for
divs, which have accumulated, and 160,410
ordinaries follow them. But that is looking
a long way ahead.
* * * 4(.
Wright, lleaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
earners, produce salesmen and general mer-
chants
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits* Bonuses. serves, serves.
Jan.. 18 . £ 10,460 10 p.c. =£6250 £4,210 £80,252
July, 18 .. 13,677 10 ~ M 6250 7 427 87 679
Jan., ’l9 14,663 10 ~ „ 6250 96*092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, £5OOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July, ’l9 .. 13,067 10 p.c. = 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes £BOOO . . . . 69 597
Jan., ’2O .. 25.57 S 11 p.c. = 7563 18,315 871912
Reserved for taxes, £5OOO .. .. 82 912
July, ’2O .. 23,275 12 p.c. = 8250 15,025 97*937
Jan., 21 .. 14.030 12 „ „ 8250 5,780 103,717
July, 21 .. 12,225 12 „ ~ 8250 3,975 107,692
Jan.. ’22 .. 9.489 12 .. 8250 1.239 108,931
July, ’22 .. 9,382 12 „ 8250 1.132 110,063
Jan., 23 .. 12,941 12 „ ~ 8250 4,691 114,754
July, 23 . . 15,904 12 ~ 8250 7,654 J 22.408
Written off Gold’s Debentures. . £5OOO 117*408
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13$ p.c.= 9281 3,792 121*200
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000 141 200
July, ’24 ... 17,028 15 p.c. = 10,312 6*716 147*916
Jan., ’25 .. 19,476 165,., ~11,344 8,1.32 156,048
Reserved for taxes, £3OOO 153,048
July, ’25 .. 18,242 19 p.c. --13*063 5,179 158,227
Jan., ’26 .. 17,945 20 ~ ~ 13,750 4,195 162,422
Reserved for taxes, £3OOO 159*422
Success brings its worries, too. The man-
agement of Wright, Heaton has shown a
genius for adapting itself to the evolution of
the Outback. In the process it has paid
nice divs. to shareholders and given them
three bonus issues and a 20 p.c. cash dis-
tribution. But even this has not been suffi-
cient. For the past couple of years a
harassed management has been faced with
the necessity of doing something to relieve
the pressure of profits. Not only has there
been a full purse, but the family stocking
has overflowed despite occasional emptyings-
in 1913 £21,000 was brought out of hiding;
m a further £14,195; and two years
ago £20,000 was dragged into view. At the
present time it must again be near to burst-
ing for shareholders were informed in Sep-
t ember last that inner reserves then
amounted to about £35,000. A year ago the
directors considered the advisability of dis-
tributing bonus shares, but concluded that
it would be more advantageous to increase
the diy. In September last the matter was
reconsidered “as the accumulated profits
were considerably in excess of the capital”-
it was even tentatively suggested that the
basis would be one new share for every exist-
ing share. The matter was given a third
review a few days ago, and the directors
decided that at present no good purpose
would be served by the distribution of bonus
shares, as only the same amount could be
distributed in divs. The 20 p.c. div. is easy
to take, but shareholders, being never satis-
fied, will pin hopes and good wishes to the
at present.”
The co.’s position still further improved:
1914- 1919. 1924. 1926.
Liabilities .. £55,627 £70,930 £112,897 £105,830
Premises, plant
19,238 21,152 41,666 54,574
stocks . .. 48,194 57,728 70,490 81,724
Book debts ..106,548 125,170 174,042 141,182
McCulloch C 0... 25,000 44,766 64,123 95 828
Cash and invest-
ments . . 27,796 46,330 59,208 49,225
There has been an increase in business pre-
mises of £29,500 in the past six years. At
latest the amount advanced to the McCul-
loch Carrying Co., Ltd.—the Vic. part of
the co. s business—was £70,828. The return
on its capital of £25,000 and the money ad-
vanced was about 15 p.c. Since 1914, after
1--/W? 11 ? f or f 12 ’ 500 new capital and
vWp ?t share premiums and the increase in
liabilities, the parent co. shows visible im-
provement amounting to £128,054—a1l out of
profits. At January 31 liabilities of £105,830
were covered by £130,949 in cash and invest-
ments and stocks, with a further £141.182 in
book debts, and the interest in the McCulloch
premises, plant, etc., represented an
additional £150,402. “Ample provision was
made tor doubtful debts and contingencies” ;
and judging the co. by its past the manage-
ment did the providing with both hands. As
at January 31 each 50s. share was repre-
sented by visible net tangible assets amount-
lng to £5 7s. lid. The market values the
interna l resources plus the management at
over £2 per share more.
* * * *
. e*? 1 ? . Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide)
Writ- Added Nomi-
„ .. ten to Re- rial Re-
lofits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 32,161 10 p.c. = 25,000 4,750 2411 52 411
22,348 6i„ „ 15,625 4,750 1973 54,384
J9IS-. 32,1/4 81 „ ~21,875 10,299 54,384
1919.. 32,294 10 „ ~ 25.000 7,294 54,384
1920.. 32,468 10 „ „ 25,000 7,250 218 54,602
1921.. 29,924 10 „ ~ 25,000 4,750 174 54 776
1922.. 30,821 10 „ ~25,000 5,821 54,776
1923.. 37,515 10 „ „ 25,000 12,515 —^5076
1924. . 38,847 10 „ .. 25,000 8,000 5847 60,623
Reserves brought to light, £89,377 ..150,000
Reserves capitalised, £150,000
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c.= 32,500 8,000 2819 2 819
1926.. 54,747 A 0 „ ~ 40,000 10,000 4747 7,566
In 1.924 £150,000 was handed out to share-
fioJders—two shares for each three held. In
all £46,979 was taken from contingency
funds towards the total : £18,832 from free-
hold depreciation, £5059 from securities de-
preciation, £12,887 from sundry debtors re-
serve and £10,201 from advances reserve. At
I ebruary 28 last sundry debtors reserve was
£6512 and the advances reserve £17.424,
while the freehold depreciation had grown
from £30,000 to £50,000. There is also an
insurance reserve of £76o2—up £1213. That
they are tagged for specific purposes does not
remove a suspicion that some at least are
repositories for profits, and this suspicion is
supported, of course, by the 1924 operations,
if that assumption is we!l based, then profits
last year were heavier than the figures in
thejabfe suggest. The reserves in that table
—£7566 look uncomfortably small alongside
paid capital of £400,000, but they need to be
viewed with the foregoing comment in mind.
The co. can hide things with the best of
them. When tin* gift shares were handed
out iii 1924, a debenture debt of £150.000
was discharged. Not much was visible after
those operations, but the artists were sus-
pected of still having a card or two up their
sleeves.
. Cutest accounts make it plain that the co.
is raking in profits in great style, notwith-
standing an only moderately good year in the
wheat-growing areas of South Aus. and a
di-ought at Broken Hill, which eventually
closed the doors of the branch brewery there.
That: things were even better than the I‘. and
1.. account admits can be suspected from
various lines in the balance-sheet:—-
1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. .. £257,197 £102,204 £135,079
Property, plant, etc. ... 445,518 350,590 401,714
Stocks 17,514 21,01 f 17,844
Book debts . . . . 35,190 44,151 48,555
Advances .. .. 52,954 126,984 142,359
Debenture trustees .. 71,479 .
Cash 24,733 26,676 19,775
Liabilities are £32,875 greater, and the stocks
and cash £10,068 less; but property and
plant increased by £51,124. advances by
£15,375, and sundry debtors by £4404. The
12 months thus seem almost sparkling.
For many years S. Australia’s progress
in manufactures was very slow. In
1910 the average number of S. Australians
employed in factories was 673 per 10,000 of
the population; in 1913 it was only 65S
per 10,000. The war-years sent the figures
reeling; but the growth in the last few years
has been remarkable: 1920, 611 per 10,000;
1921, 620; 1922, 620; 1923, 676; 1924, 710.
Last year, though its figures are not avail-
able, there was, it is believed, a still further
large increase. In four years the total lias
grown from 29,442 to 37,275; and the rate
of wages has moved even more rapidly. The
figures explain mo.st of the sparkle in this
co.’s accounts. It is not surprising, there-
fore, to learn that further additions are to
be made to the Adelaide premises and plant.
Little notice need be taken of the narrow
margin between disclosed profits and the
amount distributed, in view of the bonus
issue of two years ago and the accommodat
ing manner in which profits sprang last year
to pay the old div. rate on the inflated
capital. What the true position is only
those inside know, and even they can’t swear
to the contingencies which will have to be
met. On this point one thing favors the co.
and has been working on its side for years.
As against the risk from a Dry attack, S.A.
breweries are helped by the large amount of
local capital sunk in wine-growing and the
high esteem in which that industry is held.
* -X- * *
Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
To
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1916.. £9,269 8 p.c. = £6.647 £2,722 £59,580
Transferred to capital, £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 .. 25,24 4
1917.. 21,014 8 p.c.= 14,923 6,091 31,335
Premiums on new shares.. 1,752 33,087
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43.32-5
1919.. 29,833 8 „ „ 17,977 11,856 55,181
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,466
Premiums on new shares.. 1,509 45,975
1920.. 33,098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 29,019 10 ~ „ 26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 ) ~
Tax thereon, £95. . .. f 44 ’ 9 ° 4
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
Profits.
1923.. 22,302 7 ~ „ 20,481 1,821 24.522
1924.. 9,244 3J „ „ 9.660 24,106
1925.. 24,948 8 „ „ 22,080 2.868 26,974
1926.. 28,898 8 „ „ 22,079 6,819 33,793
Reserved for taxation.. 5,000 28.793
Finney’s regained the 8 p.c. mark in 1925,
and hold it for the latest term. It was a
good year despite some adverse factors. One
of them, the drought, was not at its worst
till the co.’s year ended. Another, the sea-
men’s strike, has been cleaned up; it resulted
in a certain amount of double-banking of
stocks, but, though this meant cut rates, the
belated shipments of fashion-goods have been
cleared. Gross profits were the best since
the peak of the boom :
1914. . £109,104 I 1922. . £141,388 I 1925. . £174,251
1918. . 134,312 | 1924-. . 157,310 | 1926. . 186,031
Expenses, however, are bounding up. Wages
awards increased the pay-list last year by
£5OOO. and the co.’s big freehold block (in
at £127,870 and carrying a mortgage of
£43,449) is a splendid area over which the
taxation harriers exercise to good effect.
Each year the demands, especially of local
and State authorities, may be depended on
to increase. The board considered that last
year’s better profit offered a good opportu-
nity to set aside a sum which will soften
the blow in less robust terms; and owing
to heavy stock losses and the continued
drought over large areas the current year
may be one of them.
Balance-sheet movements last year were of
little importance:—
1921. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. £250,000 £275,993 C 275,998 £275,993
Liabilities .. 215,787 180,953 177,624 190,137
Stocks . . 242,847 196,040 202,502 217,293
Property 138,327 125,075 125,314 127,870
■Plant, etc. . . 23,571 27,458 28,468 28,362
Book debts, etc. 111,418 130,283 133,920 134,171
Cash and in-
vestments.. 21,934 11,855 2,806 3,266
Turnover has improved considerably in the
past three years, and the increase in trading
debt from £9*3,501 to £107,088 in the 13
months (there, are £39,000 of handy inter-
minable 5 p.c. .debentures) is not out of the
way. In any case floating debt was repre-
sented by stocks, sundry debtors, etc.,
amounting to £354,730 —a very comfortable
position. Stocks have been valued “strictly
on the basis of present worth”; and the
book Y alue the co.’s big block in the heart
of Brisbane (£127,870) is a choice piece of
conservatism. In spite of the set-back to
the pastoral industry, heavy loan spendings
and other factors should assure another 8
p.c. this year. But visible reserves are not
very strong-—too liberal a policy of bonus
issues was followed during the boom years—
and they will noted to grow before the co. can
face the possibilities of lean times without
anxiety.
* * * »
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne) :
Toße-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1915.. £6,899 9 p.c. = £6,682 £217 £26,585
1916-. 6,979 9 „ „ 6,682 297 26,882
1917.. 8,407 9 „ ~ 6,682 1725 28,607
1918.. 12,886 16 J,, „ 12,251 635 29,242
1919.. 9,400 11-J ~ ~ 8,538 862 30,104
Premiums on new shares. £6439 .. 36,543
1920.. 12,644 14 p.e. = 11,038 1606 38,149
*921.. 1E 544 1° » .. 10,000 1544 39,693
1922.. 1/,143 15 ~ ~ 15,000 2143 41 836
1923.1 18,733 12 J „ „ 12,500 6233 45;069
109-“ oi’H? 15 - ” ” I 5 ’ 000 3118 51,187
192° • • 24,081 lo ~ ~ 15,000 9081 60,268
The co. took over the Freehold Assets Real-
isation Co., which was cleaning up the wreck-
age of the Freehold, Investment and Banking
Co., whic h crashed in "92. Its activities are
mostly in real estate, as are those of the
Eand Mortgage Bank, of whose shares it
nowadays holds all but a few. Both Free-


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
"The 'Wild Cat' Monthly"
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Scientific Glassware Apparatus, Balances, Crucibles,
Polariscopes, Platinum, Silica Ware, Pure Chemicals
and Reagents, and all Laboratory Supplies for mines,
sugar mills, educational establishments, etc., may be
obtained from Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney; and
Taylors & Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane. — Advt.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asplialtum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. 1 2
Engineers agree that wood is practically inde-
structible when kept saturated, and that is one of
the reasons why Pioneer Wood Pipe, which is in con-
stant use, proves so wonderfully efficient. As well
as being unusually lasting, it is proof against de-
structive influences such as encrustations, organic
growths, rust, electrolysis or frost. When these
advantages are considered in conjunction with its low
initial cost, economical transportation and installa-
tion expenses, it will be readily understood that it
merits serious consideration from all interested in
the provision of lasting conduit service. Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. — Advt.
Bad lighting invites eyestrain, and there is no
excuse for inferior illumination, even in the most
remote country districts, for a Wizard Lighting
System is both efficient to use and economical to
run. The soft yet brilliant light is remarkably like
natural daylight, and most restful. Made in Aus-
tralia to meet our varied climatic conditions, it
presents manv special features, including the con-
nection of a fine cooking-stove or gas-ring, if desired.
Be sure that you purchase the genuine by writing-
direct to the sole manufacturers: Wizard Lighting
Systems, New Address 283 George Street, opp. Hunter
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
“Multimix” Patent Australian-made Concrete
Mixers hundreds of satisfied users, Concrete Placing
Plant,’Steel Side Tipping Trucks, “Robey” Portable
and Steam Traction Engines, “National” Gas and Oil
Engines, Meldrum Garbage Destructors, “Leplastner’
Road-making Machinery, including “Robey” Steam
Rollers. “Russell-Leplastrier” Road Graders, Con-
crete Pipe Moulds, etc. Obtainable from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Ptv., Ltd., 164 Edward Street,
Brisbane • 29 Morphett Street, Adelaide; Collins
House Melbourne; and 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—Advt..
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptv.: Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybodv who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe.'' 1
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
The “Curvilinear”
■ST
In addition to regular orders from South Africa, frequent
shipments are being made to Malay States and Siam for Fin
Concentration.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney.
Patentees and Manufacturers.
hold Assets and its holding arc carefully
managed, but land values arc high, and the
possibilities of a slump are not overlooked:
of last year’s profit more than a third was
sent to reserves, which are well-proportioned.
Land Mortgage’s accumulations are ot rela-
tively similar dimensions. The co. has done
nicely for shareholders—an average of
p.c. over the past decade —and the position
at December 31 was comfortable: —
1908. 1918. 1924. 1925.
Liabilities . . £89,954 £84,066 £71,808 £78,084
Realisation suspense
account . . . . 7,460 25,339 42,198 38,932
Property 76,438 30,407 78,166 1 9,461
Shares in other cos. 6,256 114,422 123,011 146,611
Balances owing .. 58,440 30,084 39,3/2 26,70 l
Other assets .. 46,589 47,260 33,395 33,211
During the term the London office was trans-
ferred to the Melbourne Trust, Ltd.—-a Lon-
don concern which also started out as an
undertaker and has done handsomely out of
boom-time victims: it sold its Victorian be-
longings to Freehold Assets last year. While
land values hold and sales are maintained
shareholders appear to have a good chance
of capturing 15 p.c. divs.; and the liabilities
are not large enough to make much of a
mess of things, even if bad conditions hit
the State.
* * * *
Automobile and General Finance iCo., Ltd.,
is in 600,000 shares of fl each, 550,000 being-
offered for subscription; and 50,000 reserved.
The directors retain the right after the first
100,000 shares have been sold to declare a
premium of sixpence per share, increasing an
additional sixpence after each 100,000 shares
sold—which seems to be inserted for share-
selling purposes. While financing of the pur-
chase of motor-vehicles is mentioned as the
first object, the co. intends to enter into the
business in any avenue where sales are made
on hire-purchase agreement. P.N.’s are to
be taken for the amounts outstanding, the
seller is to endorse the notes and the usual
insurance will be taken out on the cars, etc.
Metropolitan Underwriters is handling the
issue, and the first directors and their nomi-
nees are given a five-years’ option over the
50,000 shares at par. The. time-payment
habit is assuming big proportions, and there
are good profits to be made providing full
precautions are taken as to security. But
an interruption to the present loan-mongering
activities of the various Governments or a
succession of bad seasons will slow up the
process. As the co. widens its operations,
management, always a primary consideration
in finance cos., becomes even more important.
The investor will have to satisfy himself
completely on this point and as to whether
motor-car financing, at any rate, is not
adequately provided for by existing concerns.
* * * *
Hauraki Flax Growers and Hemp Pro-
ducers, Ltd., is a Maoriland proposition,
capital £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, 56,000 offered
for subscription; 26,000 fully-paids and
£16,000 in cash to the vendor; 18,000 shares
reserved. The co. takes over mortgages
amounting to £17,000, and the £16,000 cash
is to be applied by the vendor in reduction
of mortgages and balance of purchase money.
The vendor, Geo. Craw, who is a flaxgrower
and is to be general manager for five years,
is stated to have put £20,000 into the de-
velopment of the land, which comprises 1956
acres of freehold on the Hauraki Plains,
40 miles by direct steamer from Auck-
land and four miles from Paeroa railway
station. Expert opinion is favorable both
as to the land and the prospects. No profit
is expected until the end of the third year
of the co.’s operations. Estimates of profits
run very high, touching 50 p.c. p.a. in the
ninth year and thereafter. Those figures
permit of a heavy fall in prices with-
out divesting shareholders of a good
return, and the popularity of Maoriland
hemp with manufacturers of binder twine
is a favorable factor. The industry lias its
drawbacks : especially the plant is liable to
disease. But it is believed, on very fair evi-
dence, that drainage, cultivation, the selec-
tion of varieties (some are known to be more
disease-resisting than others) and scientific
cutting will greatly reduce the liability under
this heading. The people interested are
sound men, and the proposition is worth in-
vestigation.
* * * *
If petroleum be not struck in north-west
Australia, it will not be due to lack of faith.
A rather extraordinary search is at present
in progress in Wyndham. Years ago, prior
to the installation of the big meatworks on
the Cambridge Gulf, a bore was drilled to
a depth of 1300 ft. with the object of striking
a suitable water supply for the town, but
only brackish water was met with. For years
the bore casing was exposed above the sur-
face, and, in course of time, the State meat-
works were erected near the bore site. Since
then, during smoke-ohs, members of the
works staff have told stories to the effect that
not only water but oil also was struck in
the bore, the oil seepage therefrom being at
the time apparent on the surface. These
tales so impressed one member of the staff
that he commenced an earnest search for
the bore, but could find no trace of it. The
general opinion locally is that the bore is
contained within the walls of the meatworks
storeroom, the size of which is 140 ft. by 60ft.,
thickly floored with concrete. The oil en-
thusiast has actually obtained permission
from the Government to take up the con-
crete, and he has already lifted about one-
fifth of it, besides excavating a considerable
quantity of earthwork. To date the job has
cost him £5OO, and he has had no luck, so
he is trying to raise capital to enable him
to complete the job. There is no certainty
that the bore site is within the storeroom,
but if it is not inside it is outside —which
appears to be near enough. Official records
don't help in the slightest.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) asked the State
Government for a loan of £30,000 and has
got £15,000. This money, the co. states, will
help it to abandon its present policy of selec-
tive mining and treat average-grade ores.
The conditions of the subsidy are that a
larger tonnage of ore shall be treated, and
additional plant installed. To date gold
valued at nearly £6,000,000 lias been won
from the property, and according to State
Mining-engineer Montgomery the reef is still
all right at depth.
Westralian mining-men are again grum-
bling at taxation on machinery. The present
impost is declared to be not only unfair to
the industry but not helpful to any extent
to Australian manufacturers. The reason
for this, it is argued, is that the greater pro-
portion of new ideas in machinery are pro-
tected by patent rights which virtually pro-
hibit manufacture locally. To put a burden-
some Customs duty on such articles is
alleged to be illogical and unjust. It is de-
clared that either patent rights should not
be granted in Australia in respect to foreign
manufactures or Customs duty on such
articles as are patented should be abolished,
and, in any case, greater inducements should
be offered to Australian engineers and chem-
ists to invent and market new ideas.
* * * *
C. de Bernales returned to the West from
London the other day flushed with the suc-
cessful part he played in the Wiluna flota-
tion. De Bernales says that the Wiluna
counts as its chief supporters, in addition
to leading Westralian cos., two powerful S.
African groups, the New Consolidated. Gold-
fields and the Transvaal Agency. lie reckons
that if capital is to be attracted in bulk for
Westralian mining development greater
leniency than present regulations permit will
have to be extended to leaseholders in the
initial stages.
* * * *
J. A. Combe’s Royal Consols mine at Mt.
Magnet (W.A.) is to be given an investi-
gation by investors, and the performances
of the show justify that much attention. The
lode is free-milling stuff over 30ft. wide, and
300 tons have been milled down, to the 45ft.
level for a return of 6dwt. over the plates
plus sdwt. in sands.
* * * *
A railway recently opened to serve the
wheat belt near Narembeen (W.A.) brings
the little mining community known as Hol-
lows within 30 miles of the railhead. Joe
Hollow and other leaseholders have had a
rough spin during the past two years open-
ing up a promising field in an out-of-the-way
hole 90 miles south of Southern Cross. As
it is, they will have to cart their ore the 30
miles and thence rail it 200 miles to Cool-
gardie for treatment. Hollow has disclosed
high values over narrow widths, while A.
Smith has had the reverse experience: his
lode is wide with values on the low side.
* * * *
South Aus. has just made known the value
of minerals produced in 1925. It is the
usual mixed bag, totalling just over a mil-
lion sterling. Gold and silver are hardly
worth considering, and copper (£35,000) is
now but a shadow. Iron ore (for the
Broken Hill Prop.), £670,000, is by far the
biggest item; salt was worth £176,000,
gypsum £63,000 and limestone £43,000. Most
of these were record figures. Opal and fire-
clay put in an appearance with £9OOO each,
barytes came with a late run, and the
total was only once before exceeded in S.A.
—except during the war years, when copper
was at famine prices.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford writes :
Re the Wild Oat par. about the Isa meeting (B.
15/4/’26). My “disqualification” is that the Board
knows that I will not sing Te Deum Laudamus to
Mr. Corbould. I had the majority of votes nearest
the field —from men who know the position better
than Pitt-street does, and including most of the
prospectors, who best know the management. Appar-
ently of 620,000 shares issued 170,000 did not send
proxies, and . the Board got less than half the
shares. That suggests that if the position had been
understood as it is on the field I should have had a
majority. If the Board wishes to get rid of
opposition it has but to change its habits. Following
Mr. Corbould blindly, it has shown its sense of
proportion by giving away blocks of shares for
leases which by and bye it would have had for
nothing. In backing him blindly the Board treats
managers unfairly. The manager who resigned last
May carried out instructions under protest; when
the result of the stupid orders was seen, that man-
ager left the job and Corbould began the work the
manager had recommended all along. Instead of
preparing the open cuts, money is being wasted
on the Black Star, crosscutting at shallow depths—
crosscuts which the steam-shovels will cut out. Up
to December last £77,000 had been spent in develop-
ment ; and there is probably now £20,000 in hand,
and 180,000 shares, of which 100,000 are held for
conversion of debentures under the Wm. Robinson
agreement. (The conditions of this agreement have
never been published, although at last week’s meet-
ing the chairman accidentally stated that the money
was not to be available until ore has been cut at
500 ft. by drill, the number of holes not mentioned.)
Jf the 50,000 shares under shareholders’ option till
April 30 are taken, the eo. will have £70,000 and
30,000 shares for pilot treatment plant; for mining
on Mt. Isa and Black Rock ; for drilling to sulphides ;
for preparation and equipment of Ibus-Star open cut,
and 10 miles of spur lines to main railroad (this
item will represent between £lOO,OOO and
£150,000) ; and for water-supply. An uncertain
lead-market may touch the Robinson agreement at
the wrong time, and, if that happens, then—recom
struction. Isa is a great field, but it is not fool-
proof. The Board’s duty is to find the best general
manager available and, after agreement on policy,
give him a free hand. And right away the Board
should tell existing shareholders and prospective
buyers, and the market generally, the details of the
option on shares given to underwriters early last
year. After it has done that, and if it continues
to give evidence that it is learning its job, it will
find opposition disappearing in the ratio of its
acquisition of knowledge. If it doesn’t, shareholders
will find that I uttered the facts only a year or so
ahead of the general discovery of them.
* ■ * * *
A hoodoo appears to haunt the State
arsenic mine at Jibbenbah, near Stanthorpe
(Q.). The Prickly-pear Commission had
been the best of the wholesale customers, but
a meddling chemist having discovered that
pentoxide of arsenic is much more obnoxious
to the cactus tribe than common grey arsenic
ever could be, Minister Alf Jones found him-
self with 300 tons of the poison on hand
at Jibbenbah. The mine cannot be operated
until this surplus goes into consumption, and
even then will only work fitfully to fill orders
as they come in. The best second string to
the market was a U.S. demand for punishing
the boll weevil in the cotton fields; but a
better method superseded arsenic, and Jib-
benbah got another kick.
* * * *
Queensland Tin, Koorboora, has installed
a winding plant on the Tennyson shaft, and
expects to have the water out by the end of
April. Then “the silver-lead-tin body will
be attacked, from which we should obtain
good results.” The Ivoorboora battery is
running three shifts, and extra tables “will
re-dress the present concentrates” —quantity
of these unstated; the battery commenced
running about February 14. The Gurrum-
bah end of the concern expects to start the
stamps next week “on 500 tons of 2 p.c.
ore from the Pandanus mine, a new property
with big possibilities.” Pending the cashing of
some of these numerous possibilities, holders
of contribs. have put up another 2s. on top
of the Is. 6d. at allotment, making the shares
paid to 3s. 6d. out of the 7s. 6d. at command.
True, Jensen’s report, which was the big
factor in the float, did not indicate a get-
rich-quick proposition. On the contrary, it
painted a pink future for those who hung
on and saw the show through.
Carpathia (N.S.W.) has had a very pro-
mising development, and is looking well
below; moreover, 126 tons crushed during
the last couple of weeks gave over eight tons
dried concentrates. Shares reached 65., the
highest for three years. The co.’s operations
should be very payable at 16 tons a month
with tin about £2BO.
* * * *
A good development in No. 3 tunnel, below
No. 1 tunnel, is reported by Flagstone
(N.S.W.). On the West Flagstone lease the
No. 2 tunnel is 45ft. in, without meeting a
break or fault, “and present face is in ore
worth from 3 to 4 p.c. tin oxide.” The granite
intrusion in the Cartwheel crosscut is giving
place “to lode matter carrying payable
values.” Mackenzie has ceased forecasting
when the plant will start to make or break
the show. As the boiler is being l bricked in,
ho-wever, next month should see the stamps
dropping.
* * * *
J. T. Beckett and engineer Stewart have
not solved the Tanami (N.T.) problem yet.
Seven months have evaporated since they left
Sydney, and recent reports indicate that
some of the machinery is still at Derby, on
the n.-w. coast of W.A. There have been
many unforeseen difficulties, but the wet
season wasn’t one of them. Holders of the
160,000 shares, all called up now to the
2s. 6d. margin, are buoyed up by the general
opinion that the gold is there in recoverable
quantities awaiting removal as soon as the
transport obstacles have been overcome. But
it is very doubtful if the co. is strongly
financed enough to do the big job it has
tackled.
* * * *
New Guinea Oil Started drilling on March
18 with a 20in. hole. A radio from the field
on April 15 reported the drill down to 250 ft.
When last heard of Mandated Co.’s field
staff mentioned a No. 6 bore; down to 120 ft.
in brown shale. Ormildah reported a strong
flow of gas from its No. 1 bore at 850 ft. The
hole at latest had been punched to
920 ft. Most of the other oil shows
in the island are plugging away quietly. Of
the continental cos. S.A. Oil Wells sends out
its usual communiques recording activity,
and the Lander Co. has faded out of the spot-
light for the time being. In all cases, how-
ever, the oil is still elusive.
Nawng Pet (F.M.S.) now announces that
the co. will suffer till October from last
November’s flood. Only one face is being
worked where four faces previously assisted
payable yields. March return of nine tons
came from 9700yd5., being over 21b. ground,
and gave a mine profit of £lOOO. When half
a million shares, however, cut up £lOOO. it
pans out at less than a halfpenny each, with-
out allowing for administration and re-
placement of flood damage. Shares hold at
about 3s. 4d., but for this premium of a
shilling an oversold market is responsible.


“BAIL UP, STRAWBERRY!”
“Mr. E. Hogan, country Labor member for Warrenhe ip, has been elected leader of the Vic. Labor party on the advice of retiring Labor-leader Prendergast, who insisted that Labor's future in Victoria lay in the country.”
PRENDERGAST to HOGAN: “Keep the red flag out o’ sight, Ned, an’ coax her up— she MIGHT put her head in!”


Smokers who
appreciate
quality buy
aQ
7°\
V©
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO LTD
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Sparks” : It is surprising how few tele-
grams linger in the memory of those who
handle thousands. The few that have stuck
in my mind mostly concerned death. “Mother
slightly improved, won’t die before Monday,”
is an odd-sounding example. “Father dying,
will wire again when dead,” is another I
won’t forget. Also, “Father dying; where
shall we bury him?” It was a bookmaker
that wired, “Nell seriously injured motor
accident; hasn’t a hundred-to-one chance
Subsequent messages showed that 'Nell
floored the odds and recovered. Yet, though
they don’t remember them, telegraphists
take more interest in the messages than
might be thought; only yesterday 1
heard one say to the relieving, opera-
tor, “Let me know how she gets on.” ‘She
was a woman he’d never heard of till a few
hours before, who, having given birth to a
son, was now, according to the messages,
slowly slipping into the shadows. Where
“death” and “dying” wires have to be re-
transmitted, it is the almost invariable rule
to get up from the line and carry them to
the next circuit, where they w 7 ill be “sent
next” (i.e., they are treated out of turn, and
arrive one to three hours earlier in conse-
quence). “Splendid trip; six meals a day,
three down and three up,” was thew 7 ay a
traveller by boat nutshelled his experiences.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: The Digger who
fainted while being inoculated (B.
15/4/’26) merely supplied another instance
that repugnance to the. hypodermic needle
does not necessarily arise from cow r ardice,
It seems to have a psychological rather than
a physical basis. Any doctor or dentist can
tell of strong men w 7 ho have quailed at the
thought of a hypo, injection. I remember a
14-stone shearer who had ridden into an
out-back town to have a tooth extracted. He
was having a drink before lie faced the
tooth-carpenter, and became mixed up in an
argument in the bar. After knocking out
three of the opposition, one of whom came
at him w 7 ith a chair, he offered to oblige the
rest of the crowd, singly or all together. But
when the time came for the extraction he
fainted as soon as he caught sight of the
needle —“Swooned” like the heroine in a
Heartsease novelette.
“Erua”: Something unique in baptismal
functions w 7 as performed at a Hamilton
(M.L.) church the other day when a baby
girl, her mother, grandmother and great-
grandmother w T ere all baptised together. It
w 7 as certainly one method of economising on
mugs and christening parties.
* * * *
“Hellblossom” : Boyhood’s dreams ! I re-
member that once a toy tin-crocodile, which
was one of my cherished pos-
sessions, grew up and de-
voured me. I can hear to
this day the tinny rattle I
made going down. The
worst dream I had, though,
was after an attack of
measles. A long string of
Chinaman swarmed down an
endless rope of their own pig-
tails from some far distant
point, with knives in their
teeth all complete, and a
shark emerged from the
water and held me down in
a Dutch chair with one fin
while it administered castor-
oil to me with the other. The
shark resembled a great-aunt
of mine in features. She had
eccentric ideas of sick-bed
treatment for boys, and I am
remaining anonymous in
case some psycho-analyst
finds out what my dream
really means.
* * #
“Gilroden”: The inquiry
clerk at a very big Melbourne
emporium had an embarrass-
ing few seconds when 14
stone or more of aggrieved
female complained indig-
nantly of the loss of a par-
ticularly intimate garment
which, to quote the lady,
“was taken off me in the
lift.” However, further ex-
planations disclosed that the
thief was by no means as
daring and dexterous as the. words seemed
to infer; the article in question was a bar-
gain pair which the victim was carrying
home in her bag.
* * * *
“Spare Corporal”: The iron trees used by
the Germans for observation-posts, recently
referred to by Captain Bean in an address
on war-relics, were artistic bits of work.
One near Voormezeele was so exactly like
a splintered tree, even to the clinging arti-
ficial ivy which helped to hide the observer's
post in the broken branches, that I have
known men pass a few T feet from it without
realising that it was a fraudulent imitation
of nature. The solidest part of it was an
iron cylinder, with ladder-rungs to enable
the observer to climb to his post. Another
was at Rose Wood, on what was the busi-
ness ■ side of the Messines ridge after the
Allies had taken that sector. I wrote an
article to the London Daily Mail on those
contrivances, which elicited a letter from the
amiable old General who was in charge of
British war trophies. It was the first he had
heard of them. Information about their
position was supplied, but they were miss-
ing when a search tvas made for them—
souvenired by Diggers for the Australian
War Museum.
A SCRIPTURE LESSON.
ELDER SKINNER: “My girl, this is no place to be hissing a man, as
I saw you doing.”
THE GIRL: “Why, I was only doing what the Bible says!”
THE ELDER: “ What do you mean?”
THE GIRL: “ Don’t you remember —‘Whatsoever ye would that men
should do unto you, do ye even so to them’?”
“Guchulain” : Queensland has possibly sup-
plied the first instance in the Commonwealth
of a man escaping from justice by the aerial
route. It was a very self-possessed and
easy-mannered person who recently travelled
from Blackall to Charleville (whence he
caught the Brisbane mail-train) by the
“Qantas” (Queensland and Northern Terri-
tory Aerial Services). The pilot had no sus-
picion that the pleasant-spoken passenger
who made complimentary remarks about his
driving was badly wanted by the Law on a
warrant charging him with having cashed
£2OO worth of valueless cheques and perpe-
trating a forgery or two.
* * * *
“Wang”: Ger-
man war trophies
gravitate to the
rubbish-tip; and
unless householders
are more careful
some of the dis-
cards wall have a
casualty or two
left in them. I
have before me a
dozen live cart-
ridges, both
machine-gun an d
rifle, that were
handed in to me by
one of the garbage-
collectors of our
municipality. They
were picked out of
a couple of rubbish-
bins. In our suburb
the garbage i s
burnt in a destruc-
tor, and the man in
charge tells me that
cartridges frequent-
ly explode in the
furnaces. The
three stokers are
returned men; it
would be rotten
luck for one of them to stop a Fritz bullet
years after the war finished.
* * * *
“T. Square” : Even before the blasting for
some of the stations of Sydney’s underground
has commenced, the value of the land in
the vicinity is being blown sky-high. The
site of the old Paragon Hotel, on the Quay,
is on the market, and the vendors have
already turned down a bid of £135,000 for
the wedge of land, with frontages to two
streets and a lane. The pub, which has many
historical associations, was made the pivot of
the Circular Quay improvements of 30 years
ago, when the building line, curving from the
Customs House plaza to the westward, was
thrown back to its present position. The
Circular Quay Syndicate which purchased
the land and threw up cheap buildings be-
tween the Paragon and the Ship Inn, which
they leased immediately for almost as much
per annum as the buildings cost, made several
fortunes out of that bit of city remodelling.
“Coppertop”: Touching the average Aus-
tralian’s lessening affection for (and
acquaintance with) horses (B. S/4/'2G).
When we arrived in New York en route
for France, among the entertainments
arranged on our
behalf was one by
a mounted unit sta-
tioned in Bronx
Park. They offered
the loan of a hun-
dred horses de-
scribed as real
rougliies —-for a
day’s outing. Had
we known the full
programme perhaps
there would have
been a better re-
sponse, fo r th e
shivoo was to end
with a theatre-
party in the even-
ing. However, we
didn’t know it, and
only three Diggers
turned up for what
our hosts evidently
reckoned would be
a tiptop treat.
* *
“Kir” : There is
a quaint tradition
attached to St.
John’s, Parr a-
matta, the first
brick church in
Australia the
foundation - stone
was laid in 1797.
When leaving Eng-
land Mrs. Mac-
qua r i e is said
to have promised
herself that she
woul d erect a
church in Australia
similar to the one
she was then look-
ing upon—the last
she saw as the
coast-line faded
from view. It was
that of Tieculvers, nine miles from St. Mar-
garet's, in Kent. That is why twin towers
were added to St. John’s.
“Percy Pawnticket” : Little Miss Austra-
lia is displaying all her brother’s indepen-
dence. I met one of her on the Manly boat
last Sunday—it was due in Sydney about
7 p.m., and the self-possessed little lady told
me that she was then on her way home to
Campsie. She had left there early in the
morning, bent on a swimming excursion with
some small companions, but, as the others
wore set on Coogee, and she wanted to go to
Manly, they had parted company. It had
been a lovely day; she had divided it between
AN EXPLODED THEORY.
“They say all the world loves a lover.”
“I don’t believe it. Charlie’s rival swears
he’ll shoot him.”
surfing and trips backward and forward on
the boat, with an interlude of fishing with
some little gilds with whom she had chummed
—three small fish and a bunch of flowers
comprised her spoils. It was all done
cheaply; the ferry trips costing nothing ex-
cept the in-and-out toll at the Quay turn-
stiles, and, once having engaged a cubicle
in the surf dressing-sheds, she could go in
and out as much as she liked. The damsel
with this capacity for finding her way about
was a whole seven years okh —-“getting on
for eight’’ was the way she tried to impress
me with her maturity.
CORRECTED IMPRESSIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Violet,’ said Lady Ashbourne, ‘ has several
times declared she would assassinate the Pope.’ ”
To draw a single card in hope
To till a bobtail flush;
To drop a million in the hand
To join a mulga rush ;
To hunt at gaze among the hounds
While fleeing with the hares ;
To try to judge a sausage
By the overcoat it wears;
To leave the lonely red upon
The middle pocket’s brink—
All these are things, my infant son,
From which the wise men shrink.
Yet there be follies greater still,
And greatest of the same
Is judging Christian temperament
By any Christian name.
Horace horrific often proves,
Although he sounds a dud,
And at the hands of Egbert
Many a Bill has comp a thud ;
While Robbo turns the other cheek
To catch Algernon’s slap,
And Alike would rather run a mile
Than mingle in a scrap.
It’s even worse among the girls,
For stark Elizabeth
Weeps for a week, disconsolate.
O’er her canary’s death.
Proud Ermyntrude cleans sausage skins,
While winsome Marjorie
Oft takes her chance before the beak
For some unholy spree.
WHEN A MAN'S CAKE'S DOUGH.
“Why don’t you marry her?”
“ I’d like to , hut, unfortunately she has an impediment
in her speech.”
“What, is it?”
“Can’t say ‘Yes.’”
And sainted Catherine makes the pace
In such a festive wise
The wowsers, when they hear of her,
Turn up their whitened eyes.
Prim Dorcas drives a sporty car
And is a whale at bridge.
But emerald-eyed Lucretia
Can’t bear to harm a midge.
And some are good, and some are not;
Some sound; and some unstable;
One thing you can be sure of, few
Are ever true to label.
And so, my offspring, climb a tree.
And likewise hedge the bet,
If fate should throw across your path
A shrinking Violet.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


Once there was a little lamb,
Its fleece was white as snow,
And every blooming where it went
Its shepherds too would go ,
They met in Sydney one fine day
Oust for the dear thing% good,
They tried to kick each other out
And wrangled au. they could .
WhAT MAKES THEM LOVE THE LAMB SO MUCH,
They fight so hard for it 1
Because it§» got a nice warm fleece,
And Each one wants a bit.
ANOTHER LITTLE LAMB.


THE TRIUMPH OF QUALITY and the acknowledgment of goodness.
G. Gramp 8 Sons ORLANDO WINES
Rowlands Flat, South Australia
have been awarded during the last twelve months:
SYDNEY SHOW, March, 1926—CHAMPION PRIZE
Ist Prize for Light Port.
Ist Prize for Full Bodied Port.
LONDON BREWERS’ EXHIBITION, November, 1925
Ist Prize and Gold Medal for
both bottled and bulk port.
MELBOURNE SHOW: September, 192.5
Ist Prize for Port.
ADELAIDE SHOW, August, 1925 —Ist Prize for Dark Port.
Ist Prize for Light Port.
Ist Prize for Tawny Port.
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
Also agents for: Young’s Mountain Dew Old Scotch Whisky. Cinzane Vermouth Dclbcck Champagne. Young’s Dry Gin and Old Tom, etc., etc.
“Selma” : The boss has been relating his
troubles with typistes. There was the red-
headed girl who disturbed an esteemed client,
inclined to be superstitious, with “Dead Sir,”
and the carefree young person who sent a
letter to the Standard Oil Company of New
York, addressing that august body merely as
“Dears.” But they paled into insignificance
beside the feat of the girl who wrote to an
Adelaide firm with whom there had been
some friction and headed her letter “Gen-
tlemen V” The boss has the reply yet. He
reckons the accidental interrogation-mark
cost him several thousands.
* -X- -if- *
“Wanchai”: On the flat roof of a Mel-
bourne bank stands an incinerator with an
interesting story attached to it. Before the
days of Commonwealth notes Australian
banks regulated their note issues by peri-
odically withdrawing a certain amount of tin-
paper in circulation. Together with “mutil-
ated” notes, the withdrawn ones were written
off the circulation register and then com-
pressed into bundles, so tightly that they
almost had the solidity of blocks of wood.
Later, in the case of some banks’ notes, at
any rate, the bundles went to the gasworks
in charge of two officials whose duty it was
HE HAD A GRIEVANCE TOO.
“You brute! I’ve kept awake for three hours waiting for you to
come home.”
“Well, you’ve kept me — hie—hanging around for jusht as long
waiting for you to dodge off to bed.”
to see them incinerated. The custodians
grew careless, and were mostly satisfied
merely to see the old notes thrown into the
furnace. One day a couple of stokers seized
the opportunity, as soon as the clerks had
turned their backs, to rake out the bundles.
Because of the tightness of the packing, only
the outside notes were burned, the inside
ones being no more than scorched on the
edges. About £3OOO worth of the latter were
salvaged by them, and found their way again
into circulation. The bank soon discovered
the fraud that had been worked, but as none
of the notes were marked “cancelled” it had
to look as pleasant as it could and honor its
SOMETHING IN THEIR FAVOR, ANYWAY.
“Randolph! Your kisses arc ill timed.”
“Ah, but you’ll admit they’re well placed.”
own paper twice. However, the management
decided that in the future notes would be
destroyed on the head-office premises. Suffi-
cient old notes still trickle in to send an
occasional wisp of smoke from the incin-
erator.
.* * » #
“Morris”: The Birdmeu were the aristo-
crats of our armies; when they went on
leave a car tooted them to Boulogne, while
infantry colonels shivered in troop-trains;
and when they didn’t fly back to their
’dromes a car met them at the boat as if
they were brass-
hats. No wonder
they looked down
upon the “earth-
worms” —a term
whic h included
footsloggers, gun-
ners, and even cav-
alry. But I still
think young Joy-
stick overdid it.
We’d just got back
to rest-billets after
a sticky time in the
line when the
rumor got around
that Jerry had
broken through,
and that we were
to be pushed in
once more. The
Brig, was snappy
and t-aci turn, a
sure sign to the
knowing ones that
things were not go-
ing well. Pre-
sently there was
the whir of a 'plane
directly overhead;
it proved to be one
of our camels, who,
after tooting his
Klaxton horn,
dropped a message
in a neighboring
field and imslued.
“Back to the blast-
ed line!” muttered
Jones ; and so most
of us thought. No-
thing less import-
ant was likely to
be delivered that
way. But when
the runner retrieved
it, the letter proved
to be a private one
for Lieut. Gum-
boots, our Assist-
ant-Adjutant. In
it Lieut. Joystick
intimated that,
having heard that the Umteenth were in bil-
lets in Petiteville, it was his intention to
drop in to dinner on the following evening!
“Speculum”: A N. S. Wales surgeon
has just been sued for damages on the ground
that he had left bits of a needle in a wound;
the fact that the pieces apparently belonged
to a straight, round-sectioned needle doubt-
less helped the jury to return a verdict for
the defendant. This deponent lias rarely seen
such needles used in abdominal surgery, and
only once in suturing the abdominal wall.
The straight needle would not take up the
requisite “bite” of tissue, and the round
point would not penetrate the tough skin
without the use of considerable force. The
needles used in such cases are almost all
curved, or semi-curved, and their business
ends are of a triangular section with sharp-
cutting edges. The exception, where round-
sectioned needles were used in skin suturing,
was an emergency case of closing a wound
with cotton thread carried in a stout sewing-
needle, the latter manipulated with the aid
of a pair of ordinary pliers. The whole of
the gear was boiled in a billy, and sheep-dip
was both' lotion and dressing. The result
was, as the patient expressed it, bonser, but
the method is not recommended for general
use. The suggestion in the case which has
just been decided is that the patient was
hysterical, and introduced the particles her-
self. If she had known a little more, tin:
matter would have been very serious for the
surgeon.
“Trevdee”: Some of these country magis-
trates are brutally severe. At Numurkah
(Vic.) the other day a man was charged
with having tortured a cow; the evidence
showed that he had thrown turpentine over
the animal while a boy lighted a match to
the spirit. The magistrate said the offence
was the cruellest that had ever come before
him —and imposed a fine of five pounds!
-** -**
“Ycega": Recent cables
about the working of the
April Fools’ Day joke on
wireless enthusiasts in Eng-
land recall an incident of 20
years ago in a Western dis-
trict (N.S.W.) township,
when the population turned
out cn masse one morning to
the urgent ringing of the fire-
bell, only to find that it had
fallen to the time-honored
wheeze. The local police-
sergeant was furious, and
vowed to have the law on
the unknown bellringer if he
could be discovered. His
chagrin may be imagined
when his own son was found
to be the culprit. True to
his word, however, the
Roman father dragged his
offspring before the Bench
and pressed for a term in
gaol. The cadi thought a
fine would meet the case, and
collected 30 bob.
“Nikko”: When the temperance orator
struck our village on his pre-election tour —
the No-license and Parliamentary polls are
held on the same day in M.L.—the accountant
from the corner store was persuaded to take
the chair. He was a gentleman with a past
heavily steeped in beer and brawl, but moral
suasion and a prohibition order had con-
verted him into one of our leading temper-
ance lights. He arrived at the meeting wear-
ing the white flower of a blameless present,
and his introduction of the speaker was a
masterly exposition of the joys of a beerless
existence. When the orator began his dis-
course it w r as noticed that the chairman list-
ened with keen attention; the frequent refer-
ences to ale and whisky left him visibly
affected, and the tale of a convivial gather-
ing followed by the description of a
raid on a sly-grog joint caused his abrupt
departure from the platform. Attributing
the withdrawal to temporary indisposition,
the temperance lecturer took occasion to
. eulogise the chairman as a shining light in
the Great Cause, and urged the unregenerate
to follow his splendid example. The meeting
proceeded to the end without the subject of
these praises, and then the company, breath-
ing water-logged fervor, escorted the orator
to the soft-drink shop at the end of the street.
As the mob passed the township’s pub there
was a sound of ribald singing from the alley-
way, a door opened and clicked, a heavy
object thudded, then arose (with comment)
and lurched into the soft-drinks party. As
a couple of stalwart villagers assisted flu-
object to a near-by fence the temperance en-
thusiast seized the opportunity to point the
moral and ask prayers for the “misguided
brother.” Just then somebody struck a match
to investigate the festive one, who had again
broken into joyous carolling, and as the light
flickered the orator stopped with a gasp. It
was his late chairman. The orator had
painted the excitements of liquor too faith-
fully.
-X- * * *
“Jassval” : There was a classic, well known
to the Diggers, which I saw written in full
on the wall of a cell in the Sutton Veny
(Wilts) clink. It concerned a Digger, just
back in London from the trenches, being
“picked on” by a Horseferry-road .warrior
who pointed out the dirt on his tunic and the
lack of lustre on his brasswork. The last
verse went: —
The soldier gave him a murderous glance
And said “I’ve just come from the trenches in France,
Where pleasures are scarce and comforts are few.
And brave men are dying for wasters like you.”
The deletion of the word “wasters” and the
substitution of “blankards” by a subsequent
“boarder” had given the thing that soul-
stirring conclusion so much sought after by
poets and dramatists.
* * * «
“Adelaide”: South Aus. seems to have
discovered by accident a cure, reliable but
expensive, for under-water harbor troubles.
The tons of burnt sugar which got into the
Port Adelaide river after the recent re-
finery fire set up a chemical combination
with the salt water. It not only caused
a most appalling smell, but corroded all
bright metal-work on ships or shore, turned
white paint grey and affected other colors
variously. Animal and vegetable life in tin-
water perished, such fish as could escape
going either out to sea or into the upper
waters behind Grange, where they were
easily captured. The credit balance is only
now being disclosed. All seaweed growths
have been killed, and apparently all barnacles
and other foul growths on ships and piles.
It is believed —at any rate, confidently hoped
—that every teredo or other boring-worm in
the harbor has perished too. Meanwhile tin-
sugar in the ruins on shore has hardened
into toffee, with a “face” which has to be
removed by explosives, disclosing hundreds
of tons of sugar undamaged behind.
* * * *
“Linklater” : The story of an exciting mid-
night motor-cliase down the main street of
Townsville (N.Q.) was unfolded at the
police-court the following morning, when
four persons were charged with stealing a
motor-car, the property of a local business
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
"Does your wife take to bridge?"
"Yes. much more than she brings away!"
man. The driver of the car shouldered the
blame. Earlier in the day a friend from a
neighboring town had been arrested for creat-
ing a disturbance, and had requested him
to look after his car, parked beneath a tree
opposite a hotel. Towards evening he de-
cided that he could look after it better from
inside, but there were two cars beneath the
tree, of much the same color, and in the dusk
he jumped into the wrong one. Returning
from a business appointment, he picked up
two friends, both reputable citizens, and
took them joy-riding, with an occasional halt
for refreshments, and towards midnight he
added a lady, not quite so reputable, to the
merry party. When he was ordered to stop
by constables who were looking for a stolen
car, it was solicitude for the good name of
two of his companions that caused him_ to
try to outrace the police car. It took time
and trouble to get the story accepted, and
it will be a long time before two Towns-
villans will go joy-riding again.
DELIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I felt my blood stir thrillingly
When, Delia, we met,
A warm delight that willingly
I shall not soon forget.
And yet my thoughts keep wondering
Why, when jou near me move,
Into my mind rush, thundering,
Tumultuous songs of love.
For Mabel and Patricia,
Anne, Dorothy and Kell,
Have charms —and so's Alicia—-
Your own can scarce excel.
I know each love-dream's fashioning—
The spark that woke the flame.
Is there some charm impassioning
In an unaccustomed name?
The soft kiss of Cecilia
Has warmed like wine my heart.
I’ve never loved a Delia—
Perhaps it’s time to start!
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
a
TheTOP-NOTCHScotch
S
nrtuiNTMENT TO
MIS -EXCELLENCY^
THE RT HON.LORD DENMAM
GOV. GEN. OF THE •
COMMCNWEACTHoTAUSTRAUA
r&iablisßcd JBBZ
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Brzecksmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES’
J TAILOR-MADES.
T 55 1
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
The £3OOO-per-annum job of N.S.W. In-
dustrial Commissioner falls to Albert
Bathurst Piddington, who has been a white-
headed boy with Labor ever since, in 1911,
he was the Royal Commissioner who made
an inquiry about immigration. There is no
question of the honesty of his report, but it
was used to further plans Holman had out-
lined to a secret session of the Sydney
Labor Council before the Commission was
appointed. Subsequently Piddington was
Commissioner on Industrial Arbitration
in N.S.W. and on the Commonwealth
Inter-State Commission; and as chairman
of the Commonwealth Basic Wage Com-
mission in 1920 he made a recommendation
of a basic wage of £5 16s. per week, which
Hughes, because it would break the Common-
wealth, refused to accept. The kindly cloud-
sitter has since pinned his hopes for the Mil-
lennium to the family-endowment system,
which, in a measure, has been adopted in the
Federal public service. As a youngster—he is
now 64—he was one of Sydney Uni.'s
brilliant young men, became Lecturer in
English Law and subsequently examiner in
several subjects; and as recently as 1912 he
represented Sydney at the Congress of Em-
pire Universities held in London.
Just attained his century, hale and hearty,
Captain Copeland, of Auckland (M.L.). lie
was born in Hanover ; but as George IV. was
King of Hanover at the time, he was bora
the subject of a British sovereign. It’s many
a year since he dropped the family name of
Kopman and took out naturalisation papers
in Victoria under
the name he now
bears. He gave up
strong drink at the
age of 60, retired
from the sea at 80,
and relinquished
knitting, at which
he was a top-
notcher, 11 years
ago. But he still
smokes —heavily.
G. A. JULIUS,
B.Sc., B.E., the
new chairman of
the Commonwealth
Science Institute.
Memories of days when Orangemen and
“Carthlicks” used to belt one another in the
streets of Melbourne are recalled by the
sudden death of “Larry” (Dr. J. Laurence)
Renton!. Naturally he did not sail in with
bottle and batten himself; but, as the formal
obituaries put it, “he was closely associated
with the Loyal Orange Lodge, and was a
prominent controversialist,” which, being in-
terpreted, means that he heaved verbal
brickbats into the riot and made it a more
enthusiastic riot than it was before. In
those stirring days he was a familiar figure
in the page of The Bulletin’s Melbourne
cartoonist. He was a brilliant scholar with a
cartload of honors, and was Professor of
Greek Literature and Christian Philosophy at
Melbourne University. Amongst his achieve-
ments were some poems of no great account;
but his daughters Annie and Ida (Mrs. Outli-
waite) have found a literary and artistic
niche, their books for children, which the
latter illustrates, being charming. The old
man, who would have been SO in July, col-
lapsed on the Spencer-street platform, Mel-
bourne, and was dead before reaching
hospital.
The übiquitous Australian again! When
a crazy Englishwoman nearly shot Musso-
lini’s nose off the other day, the quickest to
offer first aid was Gavin McCallum, a Mel-
bourne doctor, who was standing two yards
behind. He was in danger of being trampled
to death in the crush, however. The Italian
ruler had just opened an international con-
gress of surgeons, and there were 400 saw-
bones anxious to have the honor of stitching
up the hero.
The presence in Sydney of Francis Red-
wood, the 87-years-old R.C. Archbishop of
Maoriland, recalls the first Australian
Catholic Congress held in 1900 in Sydney, at
which bishops from all parts of Australasia
were present. Redwood and one other are
now the sole survivors. The other is Dr.
Patrick Vincent Dwyer, of Maitland
(N.S.W.), Australian-born but educated en-
tirely abroad. In 1900 he was Coadjutor to
the late Bishop Murray. Prior to taking up
the mitre he was president of the now defunct
Sacred Heart College on the coalfields. Since
the death of Dr. Verdon. of Dunedin, he is
looked upon as the outstanding authority on
matters of liturgy, about which he has writ-
ten largely. He is now verging on 70.
Tom Tunnecliffe was passed over when
Elmslie formed the first Labor Cabinet in
Vic. in December, 1913, because he was not
supposed to be taking politics with sufficient
seriousness. Dave Smith and Martin Hannah
were preferred, and each was made an
Honorary Minister. Tunnecliffe is now
deputy-leader of the party, and is regarded as
one of its most industrious members, while
Smith and Hannah are out of politics. Not
only that, but Tunnecliffe holds Hannah’s
former seat. Tunnecliffe’s first intro, to the
Assembly was as little Dr. Maloney’s suc-
cessor for Melbourne West in December,
1903. He had one night’s experience in the
House, and nearly five months in recess,
after which he had to stand down, as elec-
torates had been reduced from 95 to 68
and his seat had been absorbed in Melbourne.
Later he narrowly missed election to the
Senate; then he had a turn as M.L.A. for
Eaglehawk till he was displaced by Dunstan
(F.U.) in 1920. Since 1921 he has been
Collingwood’s choice, and was Chief Sec. for
four months under Prendergast in 1924.
Arthur Stillaway, one of the crew of the
Dorrigo, foundered off the North Queens-
land coast, is the fourth member of his
family to meet death at sea. His eldest
brother went missing with the Clan Mac-
Norton, probably torpedoed early in the war;
two others were firemen on the Minnetonka,
and perished with her in the Atlantic.
The passing of Percival de Jersey Grut in
Melbourne recalls an interlude in the hum-
drum history of a Fitzroy bank over 60 years
ago. Grut was adding up his ledger when four
armed men, entered the bank. Grut looked
up to look down the muzzle of a revolver.
He promptly grappled with the man behind
it, and, being an expert wrestler, got a
stranglehold. The man fired his gun in the
air and bolted; Grut, after barring the door,
turned to assist the manager, who was deal-
ing with a desperado armed with a knife and
a revolver. Grut brained him with a candle-
stick. Perhaps the best part of the story
is that the men were caught and were so
dealt with that there were no more bank
robberies in Melbourne for many years.
Australia gets back a bright son in the
new Associate-Professor of Anatomy at Syd-
ney Uni. who bears the Dickensian name of
Stump. iC. Witherington Stump went from
South Aus. to the Edinburgh medical school.
Then he got into the 1912-13 Balkan War
trouble with the medical services attached
to the Servian Army. In the war the Kaiser
made he started with the British A'.M.C. but
transferred to the A.1.F., and, after it was
over, became demonstrator in anatomy at
Edinburgh. He belongs to the family of
Adelaide’s best-known photographer of the
last generation. Once when the young man
was at work on the other side Dad and
Mother suddenly felt that they simply must
see him, and rushed' off to give him a sur-
prise. The young man almost simultaneously
felt that he must see them, so he dashed off
to give them a surprise. They passed in
mid-ocean and didn’t know it; and so the
vacation was consumed.
Frank Iredale did not live more than a
few weeks in the enjoyment of the pension
the N.S.W. Cricket Association granted him
on his retirement from the position of sec-
retary, which was dated from March 1. The
stylish cricketer of the old days was ill for
months before the association consented to
accept his resignation. He was 58 when his
wicket fell. Out of his great cricket record
one memory will remain most strongly: for
years to come a particularly crisp late cut
will cause old-timers to remark “That was
a, regular Frank Iredale shot!”
Tom Griffiths, who goes back to an exten-
sion of his five years’ term as Administrator
of Nauru, lias all the tact necessary for the
job. He gained a fine reputation when he
became Chief of Administrative H.Q., A.1.F.,
at Ilorseferry-road. British authority yielded
concessions smilingly when he asked for
them; and that “Tom’ll always give a man
a fair spin” was a Digger tradition. One
rough-as-bags Digger, who secured an in-
terview, stood rigidly at attention, too em-
barrassed to speak, until Griffiths told him
kindly to stand at ease and tell his story—
a matter of overstayed leave—in his own
way. “Well, it’s like this, Digger,” burst out
the soldier, and volubly put his case. Lieu-
tenant Wilson, Griffiths’s orderly-officer, on
being handed the memo, of his chief’s deci-
sion in the case, remarked that the man was
lucky. “Well, I had to let him off—he called
me Digger!” said Griffiths delightedly. He
got on well, too, with the politicians, whose
interference was a third of the difficulties
of managing London H.Q.; he made them
almost as well pleased wlen he refused out-
rageous requests as he did when he granted
fair ones.
Vic. Parliamentary Labor party elected
Ned Hogan (Warrenlieip) as its leader and
Tom Tunnecliffe (Collingwood) as its de-
puty-leader, vice 72-year-old Prendergast,
retired after 18 years’ captaincy. The voting
for each job was pretty decisive in the early
ballots, so 40 minutes sufficed to secure an
NED HOGAN, M.L.A., Vic.’s new Parlia-
mentary Labor-leader.
absolute majority in each case. Hogan will
get an allowance of £2OO a year, in addition
to his member’s pay of £5OO p.a. Tunne-
cliffe will merely acquire status. As the
tallest man in either house Hogan can at
least look down on his fellow-legislators.
The chairman of the N.S.W. Workers’
Compensation Commission, Ralph Joseph
Perdriau, started work at the age of 14, and
had to return to school later in life to
qualify for his place in the public service.
He was 38 when he was admitted to the Bar
in 1919 ; and as the Compensation Act pro-
vides that the Commissioner shall be
a barrister of at least five years’ stand-
ing, he has only two years’ leeway.
Perdriau entered the service in 1898.
and, transferred to the Department of
Labor, so handled its affairs that he was
chosen as draftsman of the Rural Workers’
Accommodation Act, the Juvenile Migrants
Act and the measure he will now administer.
Just completed his first 50,000 miles’ travel
in the Northern Territory, Charlie Burg, a
hefty native of Norway, who came to Aus-
tralia a sailor-man and, liking the outlook,
stayed. That was 15 years ago. Now he
is one of Australia’s greatest travellers, for
he holds the job of maintenance-man on the
wells and bores of the great north-south,
east-west stock-routes of the northland;
none knows the Territory better, and very
few are doing better service for it. Known
in the Territory as “Wireless Charlie,” he
is credited with being able to hear a groan-
ing windmill 50 miles away.
The big salary offered for a manager by
the lately re-constituted State Bank of South
Aus. goes to W. J. Warren, who learned the
business with the London Bank of Australia
in N.S.W., and after managing sundry north-
ern branches had some years in charge of
the Haymarket office. Since the E., S. and
A. took over the other concern, he has been
an inspector for it, mainly in Vic. His
Adelaide appointment is for seven years to
start with, at £2500 a year. He is 46.
“MSA”: “Northerner” (B. 18/3/’26) is
wrong when he says that no woman has
served upon a Bananaland jury. At the
Circuit Court, before Justice Douglas, in
Innisfail on June 13 last, Mrs. M. R. White
was empanelled upon a case in which a youth
was charged with stealing a saddle and
acquitted. At the time of writing the Circuit
Court is again sitting at Innisfail, and Mrs.
White is once more upon the jury panel.
Last year a woman juror was summoned at
Mackay (N.Q.), but she was consistently
challenged, and never got into the box.
Australians have been passed over for the
job of coadjutor to the R.C. Bishop of
Bathurst (N.S.W.). The first wearer of the
mitre was Dr. Matthew Quinn, who already
had a brother established as Bishop of Bris-
bane (Q.). He took over in 1866, and was
succeeded in 1885 by the Dublin-born Pat-
rick Joseph Byrne, who had been president
of St. Stanislaus’ College, now run by the
Vincentian Fathers. In 1901 Father John
Dunne took over, and was followed in 1920
by the Vincentian vice-president of St. John’s
within the University, Dr. O’Farrell, whose
ill-health makes the need of a coadjutor. The
choice has fallen on John Norton, a Dublin
man of 35, whose Australian experience has
been confined to Bathurst.
A musical Scot was James Tougher, over
whom the Dead March was played recently
by the band which he founded 47 years ago
in Lithgow (N.S.W.). Arriving in the west-
ern town, he brought his unique musical
talents to bear (he could play practically
every instrument), and with the aid of his
brother John, who survives him, he got to-
gether a band that has never since been with-
out a Tougher in it. He was 78 when
he laid down the conductor’s baton, after
establishing what must surely be an Austra-
lian record.
Victoria’s motor-car registration has now
reached 99,999, the owner of the ’bus bearing
that number being T. B. Guest, of Malvern.
A notable old choirmaster went west when
pneumonia gripped Jack Parry at Towns-
ville. A quiet, cheerful, courteous Welsh
gentleman, he was a well-known figure on
the Towers goldfield at a time when there
was a boom both in mining and music. As
leader of the Welsh choir at the yearly eis-
teddfod, John fought many hard battles
against a big array of local and visiting
choirs. The chief attraction was the rivalry
between the Welshmen and a strong local
Cousin Jack choir conducted by Dick Knipe.
Both sections were strongly represented on
the field, and to a man they stuck loyally to
their respective choirs, to the amusement of
citizens who derived great joy from argu-
ments between the rival factions.
Irvine, C.J., is hardly likely to get at
loggerheads with the Deeds Branch of the
Lands Department in the way that his pre-
decessor as Acting-Governor, the late John
Madden, did. It had been decided to give
a holder one Crown grant for two adjoining
blocks. Each area and their total were
shown on the parchment. Madden added up
the figures, and couldn’t make them tot up
as per plan. He ran his pen through the docu-
ment and requested that another should be
prepared. The head of the Deeds Branch
sent over a replica, as he could find no
error. This time the Acting-Governor tore
the parchment and directed that the officer
responsible for preparation should be sent
to him at the Law Courts. Madden trium-
phantly called attention to the “miscalcula-
tion,” but the officer politely pointed out
that there were 40 perches to a rood and not
four, as his Ex. had persuaded himself.
After that he didn’t bother to check the
figures.
The Bruce-Pages have picked H. W. Gepp
for the big £5OOO-a-year job of supervising
migration to Australia. He is more than
a great chemist; he is an organiser with a
keen eye and a clear head, and at 47, with
a fine physique, he is still full of energy—
he has done almost wonderful things for
the Electrolytic Zinc co. at Risdon (Tas.).
He is a S. Australian, an old Prince Alfred
College boy (he went there on a State School
prize), at 24 was manager of chemical
works, and in 1915, when the war had de-
prived the Broken Hill mines of one of their
largest customers, he went as a corn-
mercial ambassa-
dor to America,
and in 15 months
sold a million
pounds’ worth of
products. His other
share in the war
was the super-
vision of munition
supplies in Canada
and the U.S.A. for
the A.I.F. He
holds one of the 17
gold medals issued
in 22 years by the
Institute of Mining
and Metallui’gy. It
can’t be the salary
that has attracted
him: he is pro-
bably doing quite
as well with the
Electrolytic Zinc.
H. W. GEPP, who
has been offered
the job of chair-
man of the Migra-
tion and, Develop-
mental Commission.
Hugh Watson Christie, who lias just re-
tired after 50 years in Australia’s light-
houses (the last 35 in the Northern Terri
tory), was the best-liked man on the coast
between Wyndham and Borroloola, which
was an open book to him. His liohby was
carving gardens out of the virgin jungle, as
Point Charles and Cape Don bear witness.
His word was law with the aborigines of
the coastline. Many museums hold speci-
mens which they have gladly accepted from
him. He has the materials in him for a
great book.
VILLANELLE OF MUTUAL FELICITATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘I am delighted,’ said the Premier ‘to see that
Mr. Bavin’.... ‘lt gives me great pleasure,’ re-
marked Mr. Bavin, ‘to hear that Mr. Lang’”....
—Any daily paper, any day.
A pleasant sight it is to see
Such forthright foemen bill and coo,
The Lion and the Lamb agree.
Though which is which, you’ll note with me,
Depends upon the point of view ;
A pleasant sight it is to see,
Holding their sides in ecstasy,
Each gives his rival Deuce his due;
The Lion and the Lamb agree.
Or, like the blossom-rifling bee,
Finds in the other something new ;>
A pleasant sight it is to see,
The while beneath the deep blue sea
Each wishes each and all his crew,
The. Lion and the Lamb agree.
Than all this verbal jollity
There’s nothing funnier in the Zoo.
A pleasant sight it is to sec
The Lion and the Lamb agree.
N.S.W.
CENTURION.


BOTTLED HISTORY
Every Bottle of
O
mm
o
O
is a traveller
for the firm
The purity and maturity of
Johnnie Walker is ensured by
the maintenance of a reserve
stock of pure Scotch Whisky,
perpetually ageing in bond as
a safeguard against any
immature Johnnie Walker
Whisky being placed on the
market.
Bottled in Bond under -
Government Supervision
I®
m
Ik
m
/
m.
x
s. m $
im
mm
kWSsw
m
m
x,
mrnmmmmm
.
sii: :
mm
i§|w ||
•J
111
*: §
S: S®
: : x-S
Born 1820 —
Still
Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
There’s
Nothing, Smarter
Nor more comfortable than
these Semi Soft Collars.
They are made in Australia
and sell at 1/6 each.
See that they’re labelled—
Guaranteed
Semi Soft
WEBBING COLLARS
w
3
" They Fit ”
Look for ih« Tmkmiik t Apntt Ewry*hn».
Writ* for illmstrottd Cotmlogm.
The Ever-Ready Ltd.
I6J Pin Street, Sydney
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES
NEVER FAIL
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
HE’LL KNOW BETTER IN THE MORNING.
“Sallright, waiter, you can go. I’ll ring if I want any thing.”
Kowsara” : How’s this for endurance and
nerve ? Gored by a bullock, and with his innards
hanging out through a 3in. rip, Ned Priestley, a
Gulf stockman, had to climb a stockyard fence to
avoid a second charge. Then, while one held the
skin, another stockman with a darning-needle and
thread put six stitches in the wound. After going
through this ordeal of bush surgery, Priestley had
to wait until a blackboy rode 11 miles for a
waggonette and horses, and in this ambulance he
suffered the jolting of a 59-mile ride over rough
tracks before arriving next morning at the Croydon
Hospital. There the surgical work of his camp
mates had to be undone aaid the wound cleaned out
and ie-sewn. But he was hardy, could sleep well, and
after a short stay in the hospital was in the
saddle again looking little the worse tor an experi-
ence that anyone else but an Australian buslunan
would describe as awful.
* * *
“Beelzebub”: Queer accidents? Rock-
hampton (Q.) has just installed a new water supply.
A North Rockhampton man was turning on a valve
in the street when by some means he unscrewed the
top of it off. The water shot out and hit him in
the mouth, lifting him off his feet and causing
pretty severe injuries. The gusher shot 30 feet into
the air after downing him.
* * * *
“Hi Makai”: Tell “Soda” and the others
(B. 25/3/’26) that strychnine is the active principle
of the plant Strychnos nux vomica, and is
a tonic in very small doses, but a deadly
poison in larger doses. Without harming them,
you can feed chickens on nux vomica until
their flesh becomes poisonous tp hawks and
other birds of prey. The explanation is that fowls
have long been eaters of berries and other vegetable
growths containing small proportions of alkaloids
allied to strychnine. The hawk, a flesh eater, has
not acquired this degree of immunity, and will be
killed by the amount of nux vomica that is a mere
tonic to the chicken.
“Faun”: Tlie dingo may not be exactly
a newcomer, but he isn’t our oldest inhabitant by
a long chalk. That he was not here in the ages
when most of the present forms of animal life
were evolved is shown conclusively by the absence
of his fossil remains from extensive paleontological
deposits found on the Darling Downs and the
adjoining areas of Queensland. Although traces of
practically all the forerunners of the present fauna
of the country are present in these deposits, there is
nothing which approaches the dingo. The fossils
include those of the wombat, several opossums and
various species of kangaroos, also native tigers, pec-
caries, wallabies and other creatures. In modern times,
at any rate, the Downs have been a favorite region’
of the dingo, and in some parts he is still numerous ;
so that if he existed anywhere on the Continent
he would surely have left some trace on the Downs.
* * *
“Outrage”: Americans won the war, of
course, and now they pose as the saviours of Zion.
The eucalyptus or ‘fever-tree,’ whose home is Cali-
iorma,” the Los Angeles Becobd reports, “is bein«-
planted on the swamps of the Holy Land with a
view to stamping out malaria.” England, by the
way, is patronisingly referred to as “doing every-
thing it can without spending money, which it hasn’t
got. ’ Both dollars and the eucalyptus are homed in
Murka. They might have left us at least our gum-
leaves to cover our nakedness.
“Lee Oke”: I
struck a novelty re-
cently on Dandenong-
road, Oakleigh (Vie.).
A veteran had Matilda
and her accessories
stowed in a large per-
ambulator. He held
forth on the merits
of the vehicle as
though describing a
Rolls Rovce. “She’s
a bonzer runnin’ ole
’bus,” he said, “an’
I’ve carried some big
loads on ’er; but
lately I’ve bin travel-
lin’ light. I knock up
a bit o’ tucker with
me solderin’-iron and
scissors grinding an’
then there’s me art.’’
“Your art?” I asked,
becoming interested.
“Yairs,” he said,
drawing out a box
from the under-car-
riage of the pram. It
proved to be full of
paintings on tin—-the
sides of kerosene and
petrol containers. The
edges were 'cut and
culled as a border,
an d the drawings,
though crude, were
not badly colored. The
medium used and the
method of using it
were evidently trade
secrets, as the sun-
downer would divulge
no more concerning his
“art” than that the
pictures sold at “Is.
fid. a tune,” and there was just about ’bacca and
beer money in it.
‘FY7”: A “traveller” recently passed
through Guyra (N.S.W.) with his gear in a motor-
wheelbarrow. Two powerful dogs, harnessed to the
front of the barrow, provided the power; their boss
steered from between the handles. But the same
modernising spirit is seen everywhere. Even in
far-western Queensland, out beyond the Diamantina,
swaggies have abandoned the fly-corks dangling from
the brims of their hats. They use patent capsules
now.
X2X : When the North Queensland
nigger is bitten by a venomous snake lie uses a
poultice of hot mashed gum-leaves applied on the
bark of the fi-tree, large pieces of which are wrapped
round the leaves so as to keep in the heat. But
before the poultice is applied the punctures are
slashed with a knife or the sharp edge of a shell, and
the wound squeezed to make it bleed freely. After
COULDN’T TELL A LIE.
"Ve can't mark this suit ‘Fashionable,’ fader; it’s too shabby.”
"Orright, Ikey; mark it ‘Very much worn.’"
this it is washed carefully and the poultice is then
put on and changed every hour or so for five or six
hours, by which time danger is reckoned to be past.
Sometimes, instead of cutting, the punctures are
burned with a firestick, but this is not done often,
as the native seems to be able to stand any pain
better than that caused bv a burn.
* * * *
“Cuchulain” ; Major Carley, a fruitgrower
in the Yaneo district (N.S.W.), has checkmated the
starling'—for the moment. Having placed two big
motor horns in his orchard, he linked them with the
electric service, which is not far from the fruit-trees.
When the current is put through early in the morn-
ing a mechanical contrivance causes the horns to
sound at two-minute intervals, frightening every bird
within about a mile radius, and thus protecting the
fruit. But he’s wondering how long it will be before
the starling gets wise.
P.X.’ : The starlings, sparrows and “green-eyes”
hadn’t left me any figs the last two seasons, so this
year, in the hope of rescuing a few, I tore up the
mosquito nets into squares about 18in. x 18in. and
tied them around the ends of branches, each enclosing
two or three of the ripening fruit. It was a great
success; not only did the net-bags preserve the
fruit inside them, but they seared off practically
all invaders from the trees.
* * * *
“Namoi”: When Philm sent the word
round that an old sundowner, in the grip of the
horrors, had wandered into the big scrub and dis-
appeared, the men mustered to comb the country. On
the evening of the fourth day’s futile searching they
held a mass meeting and agreed that the poor old
chap was a goner, and they might as well get
back to their teams. “Come in an’ ’ave a drink,
mate,” said Bill, their leader, cordially to an old
fellow who had stuck doggedly to the search.
“Drink ver respecks ter poor old ’Any Brown—
we never knoo ’im, but I reckon it won’t do no
’arm ter drink ’is ’ealth,” he said. The old man
gulped and swallowed with difficulty, then wiped
his face and glanced round uneasily. “Struth,”
he whispered, “I’ve been looking fer meself!”
* * * *
“Hopalong”: While some bullocks were
being unloaded recently at a Queensland siding, it
was found that one beast whose horns curved in-
wards at the tips had got them locked round the
neck of another. Efforts to disentangle them were
of no avail and finally one of the horns had to be
sawn through.
* * * *
“lan C.” : Manifold were the freaks of the
February bush-fires. Near Condah (Western Vic.)
the wind-whipped flames rushed past a farm-house,
then dived under a haystack raised on a stand 2ft.
from the ground and leaped on to a jinker that had
been wheeled into a small, shallow dam for safety.
The house and haystack were both untouched, while
the jinker body and all the valuables that had been
stacked in it were consumed. Another tongue of
flame demolished the parsonage and then entered
the ventilator of the Anglican Church alongside,
cold was its reception in the conventicle that
u contented itself with licking a hole in the floor
Oin. by 4in. and then faded out.
* * * *
Bouragi” : Fiji copra-growers arc breath-
ing again. Some years ago the Levuana moth
threatened to destroy every eocoanut-tree in the
group. All sorts of
methods of checking
the pest were resorted
to, including the im-
portation of the Aus-
tralian magpie-lark to
replace native insect-
eating birds destroyed
by the imported mon-
goose. A year ago
Or. Tothill, chairman
of the Levuana com-
mittee, succeeded in
importing a fly para-
site from the Malay
Archipelago. Already
the immigrant has
established itself, and
the rate of destruction
of the moth has be-
come so marked that
there need be no fear
for the future. As the
moth has made its
appearance in other
copra-growing centres
in the Western Paci-
fic, the rejoicing will
not be confined to Fiji.
» *
“Norco”: There
lias been an extraor-
dinary happening on
th e N.S.W. North
Coast. Two men work-
ing on a farm on the
Orara River were
dumbfounded to see,
on a practically wind-
less day, a sheet of
iron falling from the
sky. Inquiries elicited
that the iron had come
from a house several
miles distant which,
along with several
others in the township
of Dorrigo, had been
unroofed in a violent storm earlier in the day. The
explanation offered is that the iron was sucked up
to a great altitude by air currents and had planed
down at a very flat angle.
"Romeo” : A practical joker 011 holiday at
Albany (W.A.) unwittingly did a friend a good
turn recently. Having hooked and landed a shark
in the harbor, he had it packed and forwarded by
iail to the friend in Perth with a note, in advance, to
the effect that he was sending some fish—something
veiy rare. It was. The friend received £lO for
it from the Museum.
* *
“Sulieman” : It used to be jocularly
claimed for a certain brand of rum that it would
keep a man drunk for a fortnight if he sipped a
little water now and then to liven it up. I never
believed in the possibility till I sampled some of
the drinks used in the Levant. Arrack, or zebib, a
colorless liquid which goes white in water and smells
of aniseed, actually had this effect or something very
like' it. A wild-eyed victim would pick himself
up somehow at reveille and painfully achieve a pass-
able respectability for parade. Then he would slake
his parched throat from his waterbottle and often
as not collapse again. With a considerate officer the
sergeant’s whisper, “Only zebib, sir,’’ was often good
enough for “All right; get him out of sight.”
MADE NO APPEAL TO HIM.
DOCTOR: “It's — ah —pretty grave, you know.”
PATLENT: “No good to me! I got no eye
for beauty .”
“Morceau”: This is strange, but true.
Recently a rabbiter in the Coleraine district (Vic.)
laid a trail, using- poisoned apples. Next morning
he was more than surprised to find 21 dead snakes.
Though I have seen and walked over many trails,
this is the first time I have ever heard of snakes
partaking of the forbidden fruit.
(Continued on page Si.)
SEVENTY-FIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s an old, old man that I often see,
He’s ahead of me most of - the day.
And he peers at me in a way that’s queer
If he passes me on the way.
His body is bent and his face is lined,
And lank is his hair, and white;
He is by the gate as I leave at eight,
He is there when I come at night.
1 rayed are his rags and he has no friends,
And but once I have heard him speak ;
But I think that he sometimes pities me
When I’m iil or am feeling weak ;
Then he’ll keep in step, as we move along,
With a limp that he tries to hide,
Pausing awhile with a weary smile,
Then shuffling up close beside.
He came one night in the fading light
With a flush on his wrinkled cheek,
And his sunken eyes were bright as stars,
And I guessed that he meant to speak ;
I saw him shiver as lie sat down—
I shuddered, too, with the cold,
And my skin was flabby anti smooth and damp
Like the skin of a man that’s old.
His hands were scarred as my hands are scarred,
His chin, like mine, had a cleft,
And his shoulders slouched as my shoulders slouch
With the right drooped more than the left;
Then he spoke of things that I thought none knew
But God and myself alone,
And he read my soul like an open book
As a sinner may read his own.
The words came slow as he mumbled low;
“I’m broken now, and I’m old,
But life was good when my blood was red
And my pocket was lined with gold;
Then lean years came and lean years stayed,
But I’ll live while you’re alive”;
And then I knew what he said was true
He was me at seventy-five.
n.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


‘ \
4^'
!K
? J l '4.
\
k
'\ *?
X
/ - x''-\>
is
/"
o^\s
7*
SX
r\t( j* _,s
/
sp
ifc
IT
r
A'
r
*9n
4
)r
\
\
$
v-
yo
£o*
V
1
fn
uJOC
X
<
•S!
HU'
c
£
l
d
/•
&
'C
<x
«c
C_3
p
n
5£M
O
hitri
A
I I II IIILI I
A
x
X
A
X
ft
X
Sa
/
s§if
sss
Linked Together
FOR some time past, and particularly during November and December,
1925, and January, February and March, 1 926, Meggitt Limited have been
directly responsible for the maintenance of millions of Sheep and large num-
bers of other stock throughout the Commonwealth.
Linseed Oil Cake, either in the well-known form of Meggitt’s Sheep Nuts or
Linseed Oil Meal is particularly suited to the supplementary feeding of stock
in dry times. This is due to its concent A ated feeding value and its content of
medicinal and regulating Linseed Oil.
By using Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal and Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts, stock-
owners have been enabled to carry their animals through the worst of times at
a comparatively small cost, and in this fashion, Australia has retained enormous
wealth which otherwise would have been lost.
The output of Linseed Oil Meal or Sheep Nuts positively depends on the out-
put of Linseed Oil, these two products being inter-dependent. If more Austra-
lian Linseed Oil were used, there would naturally be available larger supplies of
Linseed Meal or Sheep Nuts to help the man on the land.
We ask, why should any user of Linseed Oil in city or country help to make
the feeding problem more intense when, for every case of 8 gallons of Meggitt’s
Linseed Oil he uses for painting or building requirements, he makes available 2
cwt. of Sheep Nuts, or sufficient concentrated food to keep alive 1,500 sheep for
one whole day?
The Linseed Oil Cake, obtained in the manufacture of imported Linseed Oil, is
consumed in Europe. This tonnage would feed five hundred thousand sheep
for a month. Why not have this huge asset in Australia?
Linseed Oil Cake can only be imported at a cost considerably in excess of Meg-
gitt’s present prices.
Further, a purchaser of “Meggitt V’ Linseed Oil is obtaining a product guaranteed
equal in every respect to the best brand of imported oil, yet at a lower cost.
The thinking man will readily see that the aggregate results of this course, bene-
fit not only himself, but the whole community—and this simply by specifying
“Meggitt’s” when ordering Linseed Oil.
MEGGITT LIMITED
Works : Parramatta, N.S.W., Melbourne, Vic., Adelaide, S.A.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 380, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.


THE RABBIT’S DEADLIEST ENEMY.
CYANOGAS
(Calcium Cyanide)
iiv.w-i ™th Cyanogas (Calcium Cyanide) is a speedy method
? f ~ l a bbP l t destruction, it gets every rabbit in the burrows. Blown
m the form of a fine dust into the burrow with the Fumo Dust
Blower, it gives oft deadly fumes for 24 hours, and indicates every
opening with a dust-cloud. J
(23/117’95) C -- Lanfflcy ' of River Fa™. Albion Park, writes
&
FUMO
BRAND*.
$
&
P® y Cs
JPttM particulars
promptly on
request.
Mv experience with Flake Calcium
Cyanide is that it kills every rabbit in the
burrows, no matter how large the burrows
are. I have dug the rabbits out of my farm
(200 acres). I used the 51b. I bought off
you in the largest burrows, and after digging
out the smaller ones I decided to dig out the
large ones, and in every instance found the
rabbits all dead. I got as many as 32 in one
burrow. I can recommend it to anyone who
wants to get rid of rabbits.”
STATE DISTRIBU TORS :
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Utd., Adelaide.
Queensland : Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Ltd., Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
a
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“M.G.”: Our newchum had never driven
a horse before, and harness was a jigsaw puzzle to
him. The wood-line boss called him to help yoke
up, and chummie set to work. After mixing up the
harness and the two ends of the horse, he at last
got things approximately shipshape; then, drawing
back and admiring his skill, he remarked critically:
“Boss, they collar an’ tie be bit small, an’ they belt
be a bit tight—efi ?”
“B.J.F.'’: Some Papuans are in business
as weather makers. There was a drought, and Urne,
Chief of Nara, claimed that he had caused it on
account of the villagers not supplying him with
QUITE A PATRIOT.
MANUFACTURER'S AGENT : “Tried to get an order from your boss,
but he says he'll only have imported wire in his fences.
Docs he ever have anything made-in-Australia?”
THE HAND : “Oh, yes—all ’is bloomin’ postholes.”
plenty pig; and wallaby. The people went hunting
“nd paid the old man in pig to make rain. Ume
took mouthfuls of water and squirted them upwards,
mumbling incoherently. A week later rain came and
with it a squall that blew down all the houses in
the village—excepting Ume’s. He had to move on
promptly to escape a wrath that threatened to club
him to a pulp. But his reputation as a sorcerer
was greatly enhanced, nevertheless.
“Johnar”: I knew a man who, having
been bitten by a savage dog when a child, was never
able to shake off the after-effects. The sight or the
presence of a dog was so repugnant to him that he
would become almost paralysed with fear. But the
strange thing was that the feeling appeared to be
reciprocated; for no dog would tolerate his presence
without making protest. Some would slink away:
others -would show their teeth and growl; others
would threaten serious business. The man ran a
country store and always kept a horse saddled, as
lie would not venture down the street on foot. He
once had occasion to consult a Melbourne specialist.
As lie was being examined a. pet dog belonging to
THE WAY OF THE LAW .
LAWYER: “Did you Mil your cousin only and no other member of the family?”
CLIENT : “Yes.”
LAWYER: “What a pity! If yon had only murdered the whole family I might have
been able to get you off on the plea of emotional insanity.”
the doctor entered the room. The man nearly fell
ojf his chair and the dog made a snap at his leg.
No one was more astounded than the doctor, for it
was the first time that this five-year-old dog had
been known to display anger. The man eventually
took his own life.
“Nakhoda”: Curious how people can en-
dure the spectacle of pain inflicted on. fellow humans
while the sight of a
dumb animal suffer-
ing knocks them over.
1 saw an example the
other day on a Mel-
bourne beach. A
woman’s pet spaniel,
nosing round a fisher-
man’s boat drawn up
on the sand, got a
large snapper-hook
firmly embedded in its
mouth. Among the
onlookers who rallied
to assist was a sport
who may be found at
the Melbourne Stadium
ringside every Wednes-
day and Saturday. Be-
fore th e necessary
operation was half
through he retired
looking like a ghost.
The incident recalled
the order issued by a
German commander in
a Belgian town in
1914. It was the
local custom in the
market to lift up pigs
for inspection by one
ear and the tail.
While the Germans,
who were not noted
for tender-heartedness
to homo sapiens, were
in possession, no pig
might be so handled
under a penalty of 20
marks for the first
offence, 100 marks for
the second, forced
labor in the lines of
communication for the
third. The day after
the invaders withdrew
it was a symbol of
Belgian deliverance in
that village to carry
squealing porkers
round by their tails and ears.
* * *
"Feng-Shui": I am sorry to disillusion
Melbourne Rotarians, but the story Alfred Peters,
a Sheffield member, told them when presenting them
with a Buddhist fish-head gong- from China the
other day wasn’t the usually accepted one. He
was told that as the fish never closes its eyes it
is an emblem to encourage men everywhere to be
vigilant and untiring in their service and unceas-
ing in their devotion to their fellowmen ; and there-
fore most appropriate for Rotary. The story as I have
heard it many times in China is associated jwith
human hatred and revenge. A certain man, dogged
through successive rebirths by the hatred of a neigh-
bor. took refuge in a temple where his enemy pur-
sued him in the form of a serpent and stung him
to death. The shocked priest slew the serpent and
buried both bodies in the temple precincts. From
the graves in an incredibly short space of time
two trees sprang up and one was seen to be growing
towards the other. Soon they were locked in a
fierce embrace. The priest, horrified at the inten-
sity' of human "passions that can even bridge the
abyss of death, cut down the trees and fashioned
out of one a gong and out of the other a hammer,
and installed it in the temple ritual in the hope
that, by daily exercise and constant repetition, the
sorry game of mankind’s spite might play itself
out at last:.
* * * *
“Uramao” : The successful acclimatisation
of quinnat salmon in Maoriland has astonished the
Canadian fishery expert Dr. Gilbert, who placed a
plume in L. F. Ayson’s hat. The proceeding started a
discussion on record salmon catches. The largest
quinnat salmon caught in M.L. turned the scale at
421‘1b. The record Atlantic salmon was stated to
have been taken in Norway, its weight, being 751 b.
and its length sft. 11 lin,; but a Scot fra Perth says
he saw, back in the ’seventies, an 811 b. salmon that
had been caught in the Tay River.
“11.W.F.”: At Ivuriug-gai, two miles be-
yond Hornsby, where the new main Sydney-Newcastle
road is being surveyed, some abo. rock carvings l
come right into the centre of the line. There
soon won’t be much to remember Binglii by. Surely
something can be done to preserve the few . signs
of his life still left in Australia! The carvings
consist of. two figures, a man and a woman; the
man’s is considerably larger than life-size. They' are
just ('rude outlines, certainly, but Binghi’s own
work. “Hands off!” I say.
“Jim Carew”: Making dingo tails was a
few years back a bush industry which helped to buy
many a station-worker and drover a drink. All
that was necessary was a dingo skin, a needle and
thread and a little skill. Most of the big stations
used to pay a bonus of 10s, for every dingo killed
on their lands, and accepted the tail as evidence of
the kill. One man on a nor’-westem (N.S.W.)
station used to bring in as many as 40 tails a month.
He kept this going for nearly three years, until
his game was exposed and he was sacked; but. the
money he had made set him up in a business in
Sydney.
“Erua”: That the Maori still clings to
his ancient gods was shown by the strong opposi-
tion recently offered to the suggestion that Pungn-
o-Tainui, the sacred and historic anchor of the great
Tainui canoe, one of the six that successfully nego-
tiated the voyage from Hawaiki, should be trans-
ferred to the Auckland War Memorial Museum. When
the Tainui five and a half centuries ago landed her
passengers safely at the Mokau River, the great stone,
in shape like a huge hour-glass, was left in the river,
and has since lain there except for a period when
an enterprising ship-captain removed it, and was
compelled by the Government to return it to the
Mokau. Punga-o-Tainui was regarded as bringing
luck to the Maori fishermen, and generally shedding
a benevolent atmosphere round its resting-place.
The proposal that it should be transported to Auck-
land caused Henare and co. to drag it from the
river-bed and deposit it in some secret hiding-place,
probably the old Maori cemetery near by, where
many illustrious chieftains of the Mokau tribes rest
from their warfare.
* * * *
“Cuchulain”: A queer commodity much
valued by Ah Sin is the gallstone from a dead beast.
Gallstones are a pretty common complaint among
cattle, and big ones are often discovered after death
—some as large as plovers’ eggs. The stones are
prepared for market by placing them on perforated
zinc shelves in a warm place. They are covered with
ground rice and turned over and over for a fortnight.
Being brittle they need care, but even broken ones
can be sold for up to £4 an ounce. They are
credited with medicinal properties as well as tails*
manic powers, but the Asiatic has so far concealed
from me his method of taking this “medicine.”
* * * *
“AdeL”: A queer thing lias been happen-
ing up here (Gulf Country). A friend owns many
horses of various breeds. All his mares, including
young fillies and old dams, have given birth to a
fi Iky-foal apiece this season. It reminds me that a
few years back I was an unwilling witness of a
horrible scene. All the gins of a coastal tribe in the
Gulf Country, including youngsters of about 13 or
14 years old, within a few weeks presented King
Peter, their lord and master, with a female child
each. The old chief was so enraged that he ordered
all the babies to be thrown to the sharks and croco-
diles, and this order was carried out just after sun-
down by the mothers with little apparent concern.
The old king was so much affected that he retired
to one of the numerous isiets which fringe the
low lying littoral of the Gulf, and for weeks after-
wards during still nights we could hear his wails.
Was he lamenting the ill-fate of the baby-girls or the
prolonged absence of baby-warriors ?
“Iveppel”: The Queensland waratah is
no relation of the national flower of N.S.W'., and
resembles it only remotely. Their color is practically
the one characteristic the two flowers have in
common. The Queensland bloom grows on a tree
which reaches to 20ft. in height, is found only in
certain districts, and thrives as well on flat ground
as on, a slope. The flower is sparsely petalled, and
will wither in a couple of days, whereas 1 have kept
a bunch of N.S.W. waratah for a fortnight with
little loss in its appearance. The Queensland wara-
tah grows in profusion around Byfield, in the Cen-
tral District, some of the roads being lined with
these trees and she-oaks.
“OH, PLEASE, PLEASE, MR. BURGLAR,
WON’T YOU TAKE THIS, TOO?”
“N.Q.” : One of the most thriving growths
in the North is the Queensland nut. Although im-
possible to crack by ordinary means, it is very
useful to manufacturers of chocolates, who are usually
the possessors of a 50-horsepower nut-cracker. The
special feature of this nut is that, when cracked,
the kernel will keep sweet indefinitely. The confec-
tioner can thus safely prepare it far in advance of
use. Being so valuable to Australian confectioners,
one would expect the nut to be in demand by U.S.A.
■ —-tlie homeland of candies. But in California people
show you a very hard nut called the Californian,
which is prized for exactly the same qualities as are
found in the Queensland product.
CALLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There lies in the far hills a home that I see
M/hen images waken the spent years for me.
Its low roof reflects the fair beams of the sun
Like dews of the morning on gossamer spun;
It crowns a low knoll that is robed in the spring
When colors are blent on the butterfly’s wing.
Tall trees spread their branches and fain are the
flowers
That bloom by the porch in the sunflooded hours,
While silence reigns golden in noon’s solemn spell
And hushed are those stories the treetops retell
When winds shake their tresses and thrushes aflight
Sail home through the eve to the frondage of night.
A season of bounty fond memory fills,
And cattle walk fat on the clover-robed hills.
How green is the gum-brake whose foliage shows
Bright blossoms of scarlet and lemon and rose t
White sheep flock the uplands that melt in the iiaze
Which dreams in the sunshine of plenteous da\s.
I see the old barn as it bends to the gale
When grey sweeping rains from the westward prevail,
The smithy of slabs where the passion vine cling y
And loud are the peals that its sledgehammer rings ;
While often I hear, on the path to the wells.
The clink of the hobbles, the clang of the bells.
And one in the garden tends proudly and true
Her roses and blossoms of exquisite hue.
The world that once called me denies me too late—
No more shall we meet in the dusk by the gate.
Long years have rung changes with sunshine and rain
On paths we shall never tread fondly again.
But fair are the visions that come through the years
From days that 1 treasure, while soft on my ears
There falls a sweet cadence, and fragrance is blown
From fields that are garnered and slopes that are
sown.
Though strange hands are driving new shares through
the loam,
The bell-birds are calling me, calling me home.
N.s.w.
GERARDY.
“Bill Bowyang” : There is no better timber
ip the world for naves of wheels and other pur-
poses demanding a strong timber impervious to
weather than the black box of the Gulf-countrv
(N.Q.), Another valuable timber in those parts is
ironwood, one of the hardest timbers in existence
and very slow to decay. It is never attacked by
insects, and has a beautiful satin-red color receptive
of high polish. Blocks of this timber were used
in building a bank at Maytown, in the days of the
Palmer rush, and they are still as sound as when
first put into the ground. It was then worth £5
per 100 super.-feet, and some which was carted from
Cooktown to the Palmer fetched ss. per super.-foot. As
far as the black box is concerned its only enemy is
the firewood-cutter, whilst the enemy of young
ironwood saplings is Binglii, who uses them for spears
and cuts up the mature trees for womeras.


□
r*
Covers Australia
for Economical
Transportation
“THE WORLD’S
ECONOMY
CAR”
You see them
Everywhere
CITROEN AGENTS
Marquette Motors, Ltd., 121-131 Flinders Street, Sydney.
Maughan-TKiem Motor Co., 134 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., 114-122 Franklin Street, Melb.
Gilberts, Ltd., 596 Hay Street, Perth.
Brisbane Equipment Co., 450 Ann Street, Brisbane.
James Tombs & Co., Ltd., 37 lAlbert Street, Auckland, N.Z.
N.Z. Motor & Engineering Co., Ltd., 19 Dowling Street,
Dunedin.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
a
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1914.
HAMPAG IME
CharlesHeidsierk:
uni
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
!h-
-cmampachc
'-“artesllcidsiec^
REIMS
rgg
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asfenta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Ring 8W1361
THE WENTWORTH
It is of vital importance that you
create the right impression.
Entertain at DINNER in true
Continental fashion from 7.30.
A band for Dancing feet plays till
1 a.m. on late nights.
The entrancing Ballet, Marie
Crowther, Zelda and John Juan
entertain without extra charge.
TEAS from 3.30 daily, SUPPERS from 8.30 each evening.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity— Dining 660, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 8 OP.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30. 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Deligjhtful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
Sydney might have been the Moscow sur-
rounding the toyshop of the Fairy Doll on
Saturday night. The wind spluttered and
the rain spat, just as one supposes it always
does in mid-Russia. But on the stage of Her
Majesty’s, in a tight little silver bodice and
outstanding short skirts made of layer upon
layer of white tulle, the top one patterned in
delicate blues, criss-crossed with begemmed
silver niching, and between the silver glow-
ing into lilacy-pink plumage, Pavlova
magicked away the weather. Who remem-
bered that underneath her seat were stowed
her goloshes, and that in the cloakroom her
serviceable mac. was drying against the Woy
Woy wolf creation next door? Certainly not
the striking-looking girl with the Eton crop
and the vivid shawl. Not the Vice-7iegals—
they, of course, don’t wear goloshes or mack-
intoshes: the divinity which shapes their ends
sees that limousines are forever theirs. Lady
Stonehaven showed all red and gold like a
Chinese sign above the curve of the d.c., in
which the near-royalties and their aides sat
side by side with Democracy. Diamonds
were in her hair, and her cloak was of black
stiff with gold embroideries. Where Lady
de Chair wasn’t pearls and diamonds she
shone like a new penny. Elaine in mauve
taffeta and rosy velvets supported her Vice-
Regal parents, while the secretarial Miss
Gillett shed eflulgence on the G.-G. neighbor-
hood. The Tallis dame and daughter Biddy
and John Fuller’s two daughters were in one
box. Marjorie and Janet Tait, from Mel-
bourne. sat in another; the Arthur Allens
and Dr. Bill McKay inhabited the third and
fourth. In Dr. McKay’s party* Mrs. Tommy
Marks shone in fuchsia georgettes ; her doc-
tor was also in the group. Mrs. Yen our
Nathan, herself a dancer, came to see how
the Pavlovas do it. And just as many more
as the theatre would hold were there witli
the same intention.
The ball of the week was the Karitano
revel at the Ambassadors. The Mothercraft
Home at Coogee has enlisted the sympathy
of a powerful committee, and Rupert Mark-
ham was the untiring secretary who saw that
all the little bits were set in a glittersome
mosaic. Kewpie dolls, looking positively
Bacchic in bows of blue and cerise ribbons,
and lucky fans were peddled by a bunch of
winsome girls. Backs were worn bare, and
taffetas rustled into their own. Mrs. Arthur
Allen, president of the dance, contrasted a
blue shawl with soft black satin, and host-
essed a party that included Mrs. Ken Austin,
Tempe Terry, Marcia Allen and the Cecil
Hoskins couple. Pauline Watt was out-
standing in Egyptian reds, and Mrs. McCrie
Johnston looked like a jolly little sandboy
in white-beaded georgettes. Monte Luke
brought Mrs. Monte in a beaded frock that
suggested amethysts. Betty Lamb was in
leaf-greens, and Mrs. Godliard added the glory
of red-and-gold tissues decked with the latest
blooming of velvet flowers.
There was a great stir in the Macquarie
Galleries on Monday when little Pavlova
came along to open the Blamire Young ex-
hibition. She didn’t do it in the conven-
tional way at all. Sitting gracefully up-
right on a straight chair, she listened with
an air of great wisdom to the praises sung
by sculptor Bertram Mackennal in he„r own
favor. When he had finished, she looked be-
wildered, blinked the dark eyes, stood up,
dropped two deep, quick bows to the assem-
blage, said “Thank you, thank you!” and
then moved off to look at the limpid beauty
called “The Goldfish.” Green of the peacock
was in her skirt and tight little hat, and a
hip-length black velvet coat covered her white
tunic with its high collar. In her train she
had her tall husband, her principal
dancer Novikoff (whom rumor says is one
of the shoe-Bostock clan), and orchestra
leader Wurmzer. The show introduced Mrs.
Basil Burdett to Art in Sydney; and yon
didn’t need to be a Blamire Young, either,
to appreciate the amethyst tones of her head-
gear.
Saturday was the date picked on for half
a dozen fetes, and, with a perversity Sydney
has grown accustomed to, the weatherman
spattered the day with icy drops, and then,
pretending to dry up the damage, turned an
Arctic breeze loose. At Merioola. the Arthur
Allen home, where the money-raiser for
Karitane was being held, the stall-holders
trundled their wares into the ballroom, and
by half-past three, when the G.-G.’s lady
read the prologue, the rugs on the floor had
had five years of life trampled out of
them. Two small daughters, Ava and Ariel,
and Miss Gillett formed Lady Stonehaven’s
bodyguard, and Mrs. Arthur Allen acted as
chief scout to the Vicereine through the
afternoon. A note of variety struck at this
fete was in the fruit stall. It was laden with
colorful baskets filled with satiny fruits of
the season, and you bought basket and all.
A conservatory off the ballroom had been
turned into a tea-house, but with its grace-
fully draped green-and-white striped awning
and discreet lighting it looked like the tent
of the head sheik. Off centre-stage, too,
Matron McMillan of Karitane was high
priestess of an interesting demonstration of
the Plunket way of feeding and weighing
baby. A guard of honor of boy scouts, Mrs.
Shepheard Laidley, the T. A. Spencer,
Langer Owen and Ken Austin matrons and
Rupert Markham were others in the picture.
Cables that snowed down on Sydney dur-
ing the week announced the marriage in
Los Angeles of violinist Leo Cherniavsky.
Leo is the most stalwart of the three
brothers whose work together has held Aus-
tralian and Maoriland audiences since the
days when the players w;ere all in knicker-
bockers. The bride was Mrs. Gertrude
Ewing, of Vancouver.
Joan Bullmore, who was given away by
her father, the Macquarie-street physician,
sailed up the Church of All Saints’ at Wool-
lahra on the swelling tide of a full choral
outburst. Her frock of rich ivory crepes
combined the features of all really first-class
wedding garments, and included a new one
—the bustle effect. A silver tissue train
through which gleamed roseate georgettes and
a veil of Brussels lace were other details
worthy of mention. The young man who
took over the vision at the altar is Douglas
Howard Henty. Bride’s sister Peggy and
Nell Charley ’maided in blue and gold. The
Rose Bay Golf Club rang to the subsequent
cheerio.
Another linking-up at All Saints’, Wool-
lahra, was between Clemence Davies, of Rose
Bay, and John D’Arcy Bucknell, of Yass.
Canon Langley said the piece that made
these two one, the bride meanwhile gaining
strong support from a cloud of Iloniton lace
and pink and white tulle that served her
ivory satins as train. The bride’s mother
and father did the honors later at the
Queen’s Club.
Canon Bellingham neatly riveted Dorothy
Harrington and Basil Hindmarsh at St.
Philip's one night last week. A froth of
white georgette and Limerick lace swirled
about this well-known Turramurra bride —
even the train and veil of her outfit were of
the old Irish web. Two handmaids, like the
spirit of Autumn in yellow and gold, fol-
lowed demurely in her wake, while the
’groom’s big medical brother held his hand.
The Wentworth uncorked the toasts under
the hospitable eye of bride’s father and
mother.
The Social Service Society run by our
University women has just about put its
new Settle-
ment House in
onle r. The
head of the
new adventure
at 17 Edward-
street, Re d-
fern, is Miss
M a r g a r et
Ross; her offi-
cial title is
“Settler.” Miss
Ross still has
the tang of
the heather in
her speech and
her tweeds,
for it is only
eight months
since she
waved good-bye
to Scotland.
Previous to
her present ap-
pointment, she
was busy at Asclmm, the Edgecliff Girls’
School, where she was teacher of handicrafts
and secretary to the school’s principal. In
England and Scotland she made a study of
social movements, and that, of course, in-
cluded the work to which she has now put
her hands.
Another knot-tying that caused a stir on
Church Hill last week was that of Isabel,
only daughter of the W. J. McKellars, till
lately of Merri-Merrigal, Lake Cargellico.
Her ’groom, Gordon Blakemore, came from
Strathfield to claim her, and Padre Arthur
Ebbs, of the same suburb, blessed the vows.
The after-events happened at the Wentworth,
where the bride’s mother hostessed in maro-
cains the hue of Parma violets. If heredity
counts the ’groom ought to find the cellar
the room in the new home most to his liking.
Father is a former general manager of Great
Cobar and mother’s father was John Howell,
an early manager of the big Broken Hill
mine.
Alison Macdonnell. of Roseville, also last
week said the words that welded her to
Keith Waters, eldest son of the C. E.
Waterses, of Darling Point.
Just as this Letter is smoothing-on its
w r eek’s supply of rouge All Saints,’ Woollah-
ra, is putting a white-and-gold wreath in its
hair for the wedding of Lucy Falkiner, of
Bellevue Hill, and James Lowry, of Hawkes
Bay (M.L.). White and gold lame forms
the' bridal garment, and the same color-
scheme is carried out in the frocking of
her six attendants. The bride is one of the
popular daughters of the squatting F. B. S.
Falkiners; and the groom’s chief claim to
fame is that his father owmed the beautiful
Desert Gold.
At Tokay, the Falkiners’ Bellevue Hill
home, the feast is being spread on yellow
tablecloths specially made for the occasion.
On these crystal bowls of growing lily of
the valley (forced for the event) are the
only decoration. And there are lilies of the
valley caught in a tangle of orchids for the
bride’s bouquet.
Six years ago, or thereabouts, Thursa
Rogers, of Wellington (M.L.), set out with
her father and
mother for
London to
make a study
of ballet w ork.
For eight
years she had
been a pupil
in Estelle
Beere’s school
of dancing in
the home
town, and
when she
reached Lon-
don one year
of hard wrnrk
at a ballet
school at Chel-
sea was all
she needed.
This studio is
under the
direction of
the Princess
Astafina, and from it Thursa graduated
to the Coliseum with Karsavina. After
that, light as a bit of Southland flax, she
blew into Pavlova’s Russian Ballet, and has
stayed with the company for five years. Of
course she has not been a premiere danseusc
very long; it was only in S’Africa she took
up the lead in “The Magic Flute,” in which
she made so big a hit in Melbourne. Three
trips to America and a tour of “the East”
with the great Pavlova are numbered among
her travels.
’Cellist Bessie Griffiths, who toured
Australia with Elsa Stralia and returned to
London, view to mat., duly linked up with
her Signor Mario Fagioli. who is a great
soldier and a member of an old Italian
family. The wedding was at St. Mary
.Abbot’s, Kensington, and the reception was
in Lord Leighton’s London house. Bresso-
none is the bride’s future address.
When the now 84-year-old Charles Chil-
cott arrived first in the Singleton district
it was as an infant seated on his mother’s
knee, as she rode her horse over the Bulga
Mountains, on her wmy with her husband
into newly-settled lands. Thirty-odd years
later he adventured north, and met at Tam-
worth a daughter of a pair of the original
settlers, the Millers. The jubilee of the wed-
ding that followed w r as celebrated on April
13, when six sons and two daughters helped
other Singleton-district people with the con-
gratulations.
The Berrima was a travelling nursery on
its last trip to Australia; there were 76
infants under a year old—that must be a
ship’s record for infantile passengers—and
altogether 340 youngsters who have yet to
see 16. It is surprising that, with that
swarming mass of humanity in the mis-
chievous ages, a few infants did not manage
to tumble overboard or drop down the fun-
nels into the furnaces; but measles and
matrimony were the worst happenings of the
voyage. Four couples who had never before
met managed to find secluded spots in which
to make engagements.
Fifteen years after the Countess of Dudley
opened the Salvation Army Hospital for
Mothers at Marriekville, the wife of Aus-
tralia’s new G.-G. was asked to sesame a
new wdng. Lady Stonehaven, wdio w r as shep-
herded by Miss Gillett, did her part in a sym-
pathetic and not unduly long speech, and
after she had cut the red-and-yellow ribbons
that sealed the door, the committee said its
thanks with a radiant cluster of red-and-
yellow7 dahlias. George Cann added an-
other bit of knowdedge to his Ministerial
scrapbook concerning the weight that such
hospitals are lifting from the shoulders of
the Government. Last year 211 babies were
born at Bethesda, many of them the children
of unmarried mothers.
Another year of great results was dis-
closed at the annual meeting of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital one day last week.
No less than 1544 youngsters got their first
peep of Australian sunlight in the wards,
and “if that’s not an achievement, what is?”
was Sir Dudley de Chair’s gesture w r hen
making his Birth of a Nation speech in the
Fullerton Alemorial Hall. This hall is across
the road, and is always requisitioned for the
yearly conference. But it never holds half
the entnusiasts who turn up, so the airy foot-
path springs into an unusual animation that
never fails to charm the local residents. The
Hospital’s president, Henry Braddon, an-
nounced with pride that nearly 90 nurses had
qualified for their certificates at Crown-
street in 1925, and that the Matron (Miss
Clarke) was at the moment in Maoriland
taking a four months’ course of the Truby
King system at Karitane. Minister for
Health George Cann, secretary May Mitchell,
and acting-matron Miss Shaw were other
notables of the afternoon; and the memory
of the hospital’s indomitable first matron.
Hannah McLeod, was kept green by Dr. S.
H. McCulloch.
Due in Sydney almost any minute now is
the steam yacht Surprise, 1495 tons, the pro-
perty of an almost-indecently wealthy Welsh-
man, Godfrey Williams, who brings his wife
and a couple of daughters. They are, or
have been, putting in a week or so in Maori-
land, fishing at Lake Taupo, and intend to
inspect the “Far East” on leaving these
parts. The Surprise was built for an Ameri-
can king—king of pork or pineapples or
something—and then became the property of
King Leopold of Belgium, the dear old
gentleman who made such a lot of money out
of the Congo. The furnishings alone are
valued at tens of thousands. There are por-
traits by Gainsborough and Wilkie and a
table, centre-piece that belonged to Napoleon.
The ship, an oil-burner capable of doing 17
knots, is steam-heated throughout, with a
bath to every state-room. She carries a
crew of 50, two dogs—a chow-chow and a
Pekinese—and a Panama monkey.
A line from two Australian dancing-girls
in America: —
We have been visiting most of the big dance
places, and noticed particularly the tendency for
most of the dances to be as smooth as possible. We
were surprised, as we had imagined American dancing
to be jerky. At the Cinderella Roof, where they
hold big competitions, a “Smooth Foxtrot Competi-
tion” was running, so it looks as though the Americans
are going from one extreme to the other. Of course
lots still do the jerky stuff (as though the floor’s
hot, lifting the feet with a pawing movement), but
the best dancers were showing the very smooth style
and hardly any “steps”—sometimes a side-step or
two. The Charleston is forbidden; the best places
have notices to that effect.
Brisbane’s round of gaiety:—
The final of the parties given by the Rotarians
to celebrate the visit of the Everitt Hills was held
at Cremorne, where a gay crowd gathered. In
the throng were ,the T. 'McWilliamses, R. B.
Kennedys, Wrights, M. S. Herrings, Isaacses, Browns,
Strachans, L. Wisharts, Philip Stewarts, Wearnes and
Poulsens, Mollie Hollinshead and Eva and Maud
Thompson.
Zoe Sparkes, youngest daughter of the late
Alphonso Sparkes, of Hamilton, wore cream mariette
and Venice lace and carried a sheaf of eucharist-lilies
to meet Errol, son of the C. W. Campbells, of Clav-
field. Palms and white blossomrv decorated St.
Augustine's, Hamilton, where the Rev. J. B. Arm-
strong made them one. Hydrangea-blue sheathed the
bridesmaids, Lila Howard, Ella Campbell, Yvonne
Sparkes and Pauline Barnes. Mrs. Sparkes, in
amethyst and orchid-mauve, had the breakfast at
Tavinghi, with roses and big dahlias decking the
marquee on the lawn.
The Women’s Club had a tea to help the Anzac
Memorial-avenue Fund. Mrs. Herring, in mastic-
brown and green, acted as hostess, and she read a
description of the avenue in Ballarat, 15 miles in
length, called the Avenue of Honor, which Edward
P. and Birdie opened in memory of men killed in
the Big War, and which the girls of a factory near-
by first suggested. T. J. Rothwell then spoke of
the work done on Queensland’s Anzae-avenue, on which
returned soldiers were employed. The contract for
the planting of the first 1000 trees in the 26 miles
between Brisbane and Redcliffe has just been signed.
The Women’s Club sent the first subscription; a
guinea entitles the sender to nominate a soldier in
whose memory a tree is planted.
Nearly a thousand pounds has been planked down
already for the dependents of the men drowned in
the Dorrigo disaster. A street-collection, with
flower-stalls at vantage points, helped. Artists from
the different theatres turned themselves into street-
musicians for some hours of the day.
Mrs. James Stitt and others connected with St.
John’s Cathedral had a party at the 'Women’s Club
as a farewell to Mrs. de Witt Batty, who is going
with her husband to the Cold Country.
For Hazel j Campbell, who changes her name next
week, Vivierine and Pauline Elliot had a mah-jongg
shivoo at Killeney. The bride-elect, in ivory crepe
de Chine with brown design, won the prize for the
game. Pink “pride of India” and brass decorated
the tea-tables, and the Elliot girls and Lilian Inglis-
Smith gave a musical programme.
Mrs. Alfred Needham’s only son Jack took charge
of Clare O’Sullivan in St. Michael’s and All Souls’
with the blessing's of Archbishop Duhig. The bride
was in ivory mariette and silver. The hand-em-
broidered veil had been worn by Mrs. Needham's
grandmother. White ribbons tied her sheaf of
eucharist-lilies. Berenice Macgroarty ’maided in
powder-blue georgette and hat of silver lace,
carrying pale-pink roses. Purple and pale-blue,
the colors of the bridegroom’s battalion,
decked Mrs. O'Sullivan’s home at St. Lucia-road.
where a reception was held, the hostess in black
charmeuse. Mrs. Alfred Needham wore orchid-
mauve. Both mothers-in-law are widows.


HyVFCDY B FLOS LTD.
_ J E W E L L E R.S
Hardy’s Spoons & Forks
Hardy Brothers’ Silver-plated Spoons and Forks are guaranteed to be
equal in design and finish to solid silver, from which they can only
be distinguished by the absence of the Hall-mark. Each piece is
stamped "Hardy Al,” as a guarantee of quality.
Five per vent
Hardy's Catalogue
discount allowed for
will be sent post free
Cash,
on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
£//te 7/ouse oP SeqlusSivc^Jewellery
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-JJB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
Look into the
Battery Question!
If you were going to make a new battery,
what would be your aim ?
You’d want to make a battery that possessed
all the good features of every other battery
on the market but without their faults.
And that is just how the Westinghouse Battery
was produced. Because specially - processed ele-
ments gave longer life, these elements were
included. Because warped and leaky cases
caused premature breakdown of other batteries,
Westinghouse perfected the one-piece, moulded
composition case. Because individual jars moved
around and impaired the efficiency of other bat-
teries, Westinghouse Battery cases are made with
extra-strong composition divisions that do away
with individual jars.
Make sure your next Battery is a Westinghouse—the very name
is a guarantee that it will not fail you.
WESTINGHOUSE
8 BATTE RIE S 8
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
Y LE J?, : nips leys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 Elizabeth St, Sydney
XImSRS.T A A\m A -X‘ Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street , Melbourne.
M°tor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
AnSIRALIA : Wm. Hudd & Co,, 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide
J - Bateman Pty., Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
1 AoMANIA : Geo. Geard & Co.. Ltd., Launceston, and Robt. Nettlefold, Pty. Ltd Hobart
NEW ZEALAND : North Island : Cars Limited, Aibert Street, Auckland.
Thompson Bros Blair Street. Wellington.
Canterbury etc.. Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street, Christchurch
Otago: J. E. Moore, Stone’s Building, Anzac Street, Dunedin.
C 3
Prints which are A bsolutely Permanent
and which cost no more
M
Harringtons
Duplex
Permanence
Process
is a NEW and EXCLUSIVE
feature of
HARRINGTONS
famous
DEVELOPING and PRINTING
SAME DAY SERVICE
This New Process renders all prints which bear
our well-known imprin t absolutely PERM A NENT,
and under reasonable conditions they will keep
their first-day brilliance indefinitely.
Make it a point to see
that your next prints
hear this impress.
| * p V *1
[s■ _ 0)j
386 GEORGE STREET (near GJP.O.), SYDNEY.
Established 37 years.
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
KATOOMBA: Katoomba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 43 Willis Street.
MELIIOUKKE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Rundle Street.
AICKLAND, N.Z.; 140 Queen Street.
..ounge, R.M.S. “Orama.”
THE ORIENT EINE
Mail Steamers are among the finest, largest and most
luxurious of the World’s Mercantile Marine. The com-
fortable and roomy cabin accommodation, the beautifully
appointed and furnished public rooms, and the vast
stretches of decks are distinctive features which have
made this the premier Line to Australia.
The Fares from Sydney to London for First Saloon
range from £9B single and £172 return, and for Third-
class from £3B single and £6B return.
Write for Illustrated Literature.
ORIENT S. N. CO., LTD.,
2-4-6 Spring Street, Sydney.
Branches and) Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.


SwMIOWI Am ELL'S
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW SARIELL’S
as
ItOHM 11N qi |
• '4. *
[ as
Wf*
m
ms
,‘4
m
Its Fragrance is
a sheer joy !
If you have not yet used Pomeroy Day
Cream, there is a new delight in store for
you. Its refreshing fragrance, which lingers
so long and so alluringly, captivates every
woman who has a nice regard for her
appearance and who studies charm.
POMEROY
DAY CREAM
Obtainable from all Australian Stores and Chemists,
or from the POMEROY DEPOT (Ripley & Simpson),
Maedonell House, SYDNEY.
a
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
Melbourne’s city fathers do not allow the
University students an organised street pro-
cession, so Saturday morning found these
intellectuals ambling sporadically through
the town and tangling up foot and wheeled
traffic alike for hours. There were lorries
crowded with weirdly-garbed undergrads, and
an open carriage carrying cleverly-made-up
replicas of G.-G. Stonehaven and his entour-
age. On the pavements there was some jost-
ling as brigand bands swashbuckled along
or relief expeditions set out to rescue Wil-
kins from Esquimau vamps. The recent
Pavlova visit inspired many of the merry-
makers to adopt the flimsy raiment of the
ballet, despite a bitter wind that turned the
flesh blue. At one restaurant Failover
created a diversion by pirouetting with Never
Cough during lunch-hour. The medical stu-
dents were guilty of a few bits of vulgarity,
but otherwise it was harmless nonsense, of
a sor.t that can be tolerated once a year.
In the afternoon proud parents and fond
relations filled Wilson Hall for the capping.
It was a very staid and select affair, only
those intimately interested receiving the red
pass-in tickets. Right on the tick of two,
in the grandeur of gowns and hoods of many
hues, the University staff, with the Chan-
cellor and Vice-Chancellor, made entrance
through the hall to the platform. Then, in
order, each Dean of a Faculty presented his
bunch of graduates to Chancellor MacFar-
land —to get the decree made absolute, so
to speak—each pronouncement being received
with discreetly-modulated applause. Mary
Monica Nugent, who wore upon her black
gown the mauve hood of Bachelor of Music,
was the only student to gain such a degree,
and blushingly received the audience’s recog-
nition. A degree of the University first con-
ferred this year is that of Master of Edu-
cation, and the trio who received it were
impeccably up-to-date, as well as in tune with
fashion, in their hoods lined with jade green
silk. Though only an hour was spent in
these proceedings, time was found for the
telling of the story of the voyage of D’Entre-
casteaux in search of La Perouse. Profes-
sor Ernest Scott, who told the story, is lately
returned from abroad, where he found the
yet unprinted story of a French expedition
that set out in 1792. The account the
speaker believed to be weally twue.
A garden-party, said to be the maiden
effort of ’Varsity in that respect, was next,
on the programme. Knight John MacFar-
land, the Chancellor, all black brocade and
gold braid, with Knight James Barrett a
cheerful contrast of crimson and green, and
General Monash with gold touching up his
dark blue academic robe, grasped the hands
of about 2000 guests, whose one hope was
that the kettle would be boiling, for the sun
hid itself and the wind blew cold. The dress-
ing of the guests was sombre, but the general
effect was cheered by the gay hoods. The
Barrett lady was in check of China blue and
white, with a black hat. Furs and a gown
of hydrangea blue and black, with picture
millinery, were worn by Harrison Moore’s
lady. Mrs. Jimmy Dyer wore a coney seal
coat with a black-ospreyed hat. Dr. T.
Walker Sinclair and his wife, also Dr.
Murray Morton and Mrs. Morton, a study in
sapphire blue, were in the throng. Colonel
Mclnerney was accompanied by daughter
Aileeu, snugly clad in coat-frock of bur-
gundy hue edged with fur. A maiden in a
bois-du-rose coat introduced the ’Varsity to
its first glimpse of British-worn Russian
boots. They were of fawn hue —and not a
success.
Towards four o’clock guests gathered out-
side the Wilson Hall, where has been erected
the war memorial of the University. General
Monash, in lifting the Union Jack from the
square block of sandstone which tapered
to a column, said a few words referring to
the ’Varsity’s part in the war, and then there
was silence, broken only by the sounding of
“The Last Post.” The memorial, which
commemorates the rally to the Flag of 1725
students, 253 of whom are starred, has four
small copper plates bearing respectively the
Imperial and Australian coats of arms, the
University crest, and the words “Bene
meritis domi militiaeque, 1914-1918.”
Brigadier-General Elliott, Dean Hart and
Mrs. Hart, and Mrs. Gershon Bennett, who is
a daughter of General Monash, were among
those at the unveiling.
Ghosts wandered round the stage of His
Majesty’s and through the minds of the older
folk in the audience on Saturday night, for
each Gilbert and Sullivan revival brings its
memories of those who once made merry
in the same roles. Names softly murmured
were Kenningham, Lauri,. Florence Young.
Violet Varley and Brownlow—accomplished
singers of a more critical age who must have
squirmed in their graves as the two leading
ladies in “The Gondoliers” defied the orches-
tra’s notion of the key—the one sharp, the
other flat. But the familiar, still-sparkling
airs and the witty lyrics carried the
thing through. The huge audience rede-
manded almost the whole opera, encores run-
ning very often to the triple. The production
was beautifully staged and elaborately
dressed. As the Duchess of Plaza-Toro
Winifred Williamson’s pompadour head-
dress, bedecked with yellow feathers, was
allied to a hooped gown of gold lame, with
ermine-bordered train; Strella Wilson,
warmly welcomed as daughter Casilda, was
charming in period frock of blue and white
striped silk with drapings of gold lace, a
glistening bandeau round her powdered coif-
fure. The usual first-nighters gave the sea-
son glad welcome.
Clive Armytage, of Wando, who went off
to the Big Strife as a private and returned
as an officer in the Imperial Army, has at
last married. His bride is Patti, only daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Youngman, of
Casterton, who have large pastoral interests.
The bridegroom’s parents, the Norman Army-
tagcs, of South Yarra, motored up to Kur-
tup, Coleraine, to be present, their son
Neville and his English wife accompanying
them.
Pavlova bowed her last at His Majesty’s
amid a tangle of streamers and whole banks
of flowers, after which the company wound
up its Melbourne sojourn with a jazz at
Carlyon’s. Anna, who is fond of birds, col-
lected an aviary during her season, and spent
happy hours off stage tending her pets. An-
other and more serious Pavlova enthusiasm
is the welfare of Russian children, and pro-
ceeds of sales of her photographs at perform-
ances go to swell her fund for the destitute
little ones of her native land. The company
puts back here on July 23 for a matinee
performance, which will jointly benefit the
local children’s hospital and the dancer’s
pet charity.
Forty years ago, if anyone said “The Rus-
sians are coming!” cheeks blanched and eyes
dilated with visions of bloodshed. But they
didn’t arrive. After hearing the Don Cos-
sacks raising tuneful voices in the most per-
fect harmony at the Auditorium, one almost
wished they had—for the sake of our musi-
cal traditions. Not even the Sistine (Choir
so successfully conveyed the idea in pianis-
simo passages of a secondary unseen choir
a long way off. In their military uniform
of very dark blue, with high black boots,
they stood on the stage as soldiers on parade
in two lines, alert only to key and tempo
and blind and deaf as regards audience.
Only the sprightly little conductor, Serge
Jaroff, acknowledged the wild applause their
choruses roused. A big house at once fell
under the spell of choral perfection and
cheered wildly at the end when “God Save”
was given, but so originally harmonised that
many failed to recognise the familiar air
in its new dress. A laurel wreath was
handed to the diminutive conductor. In the
stalls were G. B. Post; Dorothy Bruutou, in
froth of pink apparel, with John Chirnside
in attendance; Mrs. Richard Pitcher, in
smart evening wrap; Mrs. MacDevitt and
her daughter, Mrs. K. K. McCleland;
soprano Eileen Castles. Mrs. J. Starling and
pianist Edward Cahill; also Dan Carroll,
overwhelmed with congratulations upon the
success of his latest musical enterprise.
Aileen Dent, who has a show of her pic-
tures at the Athenaeum, was a Gallery stu-
dent under Bernard Hall. Landscapes in
water-color and oils, and portraits in oils,
comprise the
present cata-
logue. Recently
the artist had
a sketching
tour in the
Apple Isle,
and some of
her impres-
sions of that
v a g a bondage
are hung. But
she is more ex-
cited over an
experience she
had during the
Pavlova sea-
son—she was
permitted t o
make sketches
behind the
scenes of the
great dancer
and the ballet.
The only
streak of bad luck in it was that she could
not complete the drawings in time for this
show. They are to be in water-colors.
The Hebrides were beheld in dreams at
the Hotel Windsor when the Melbourne
Scots, 100 strong, foregathered in the pri-
vate drawing-room, which was decked up for
the occasion with dahlias, carnations and
Easter daisies. President Dr. Taylor Downie
and Mrs. Downie, she wearing black geor-
gette gold-brocaded above silver tissue, ex-
tended a hand to trusty friends. Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, whose husband was the first president,
was in the offing, a study in autumn hues
with gold lamg gleaming through a shimmer
of warm-tinted sequin and bead embroideries.
She was responsible for the evening’s musi-
cal entertainment, which consisted of Hebri-
dean lays, charmingly warbled by Ella Rid-
dell, whose singing caused a demand for a
repetition of most of the numbers. The
party was harmonious, notwithstanding the
presence of two members of the Tariff Board
who supported an increase in the duty on
whisky.
On hearing the well-modulated mellow
voice of J. Howard King—his first name is
John—one is not surprised to learn he is of
Welsh descent. The basso, a pupil of Bartle-
man, has not
made any big
a p p e a ranees
here yet, hav-
ing only just
given his first
recital. He has
thundered asan
oratorio solo-
ist, though, at
several suburb-
an perform-
ances and at
the popular
Sunday after-
noon concerts
at Wesley
Church he is
always a wel-
come singer.
Though there
are great pos-
sibilities in his
voice, he fears
to embark
upon an artistic career when business
prospects are so much better. Never-
theless he is an earnest student: last year lie
had a trip abroad, and listened to Europe's
best on the concert and operatic stage. A
Broothorn camera shot the singer.
The half-yearly sale of the work of the
Gentlewomen’s Aid Society was quite suc-
cessful in its way. Dainty articles of needle-
craft fashioned by clever fingers and fine
samples of cookery and preserves found
ready purchasers. A side attraction was
bridge, and many a rubber was played to
swell the takings. Absent through illness, to
the regret of all, was secretary Ethel Flower,
whose active interest in the society covers
30 years; Ida Shackell, who looks after
the finances, has stepped into the breach.
Edward Goll, seated at the grand piano
in the Assembly Hall, with rays from a tall
lamp falling upon his white locks, made an
attractive picture on a recent evening. His
programme was a much-varied one and the
audience gave its applause to ear-ticklers
rather than to Beethoven and Schumann.
"The Old Musical Box” of Eugene Goossens,
the quite ordinary “Murmur du Vent” of
E. Sauer, and a Debussy offering shared
encore honors. The pianist played with ad-
mirable dignity the beautiful “Legend” of
Liszt, which added an extra to the pro-
gramme. Mrs. Herbert Brookes and Mrs.
Albert Miller, the latter wearing a smart
cloak of black velvet with bands of oxidised
lace, were front-rowers.
Bea Fischer, who faces the altar with
Arthur Long next Wednesday, is saying
good-bye to maiden days over tea-cups passed
by numerous hostesses. The chief celebra-
tion last week was a hop given by a brides-
maid-elect. Nell Wimpole, daughter of the
Horace Wimpoles, whose home housed the
proceedings. The bride-to-be came in black
lace over gold tissue, and her mother dis-
played a black glistening gown. Mrs. Wim-
pole’s covering w r as old rose, gold lace and
glittering beads; Nell doing the honors in
an Early Victorian mode frock of pastel
green glace. The guests were of the
younger set, and beaded designs were promi-
nent in the dressing.
Director-of-Education Frank Tate was on
hand at the opening of the show of Aileen
Dent’s pictures at the Athenaeum Hall, and
he philosophically remarked that the richest
man is he wdjo gets the most out of his daily
24 hours, and that an Australian school of
art connotes a public to appreciate it. An in-
terested viewer of the young artist’s work was
M. Algeranoff, of Pavlova’s ballet, whom she
depicts in national dress dancing a gopak.
There were also on view some charming
glimpses of the Apple Isle, a few effective
flower studies, and a couple of portraits.
The Australian Institute of Arts and
Literature’s last evening meeting gave Phyllis
Parlett, a young pianist, her chance at the
keyboard. The lass, whose youthful promise
had the encouragement of Spivakovsky,
acquitted herself valiantly in the “Appassion-
ata Sonata” and some shorter pieces. An-
other item of the evening’s programme was
Somerset Maugham’s three-act comedy, “The
Unattainable,” potted into a one-act play,
“Caroline,” and brightly presented by Edith
Thomas, Daisy Bradley and George Cockerill.
Three poems by Furnley Maurice were de-
claimed by Daisy Bradley (Mrs. Kelly).
Clive Fairbairn and his wife are leaving
their N.S.W. squattage in June to pay a
long visit to the George Fairbairns, in Lon-
don. iClive is now the Agent-General’s only
chick, since the death of his daughter Alison,
the late Mrs. Balmain. His marriage united
two wealthy clans, for young Mrs. Clive is
a daughter of Edmund Jowett.
The furnishing of the District Nursing
society s After-Care Home will go on apace
now, thanks to the fascination of bridge and
the lure of jazz. An afternoon of cards and
an evening of cards and jazz in the new
building have helped substantially. The
latter, including gorgeous dahlias, were a
show in themselves. The president of the
committee was the Mitchell dame; and Mrs.
Come Gardner, who at night had apparel
of silver lame and lace, shared the duties
of ticket-secretary with Mrs. Lennox Spcirs,
whose dance frock was of georgette of pale-
gold hue. Noticed also at the evening ses-
sion was Mrs. G. G. Henderson, president
or the M.D.N.S., whose black gown had a
touch of silver. Mrs. M. M. Phillips, a
vice-president, had raiment of black chenille-
embossed marocain. The society’s secretary,
Mrs. Fred Tatham, was in black velvet.
Margaret Baskerville (Mrs. Douglas
Richardson) is turning night into day at
present, for her big war memorial, the tri-
bute of the women of Maryborough to their
district’s Diggers, is to be unveiled there on
Anzac Day by Mrs. Wiggins, from whom war
took three sons. Even though sleeping hours
are curtailed the big bit of sculpture, which
represents a soldier in action, cannot be com-
pleted in time. _ By keeping the caster to his
and appealing to Railway Commissioner
Clapp, it has been arranged that the chief
part will be in position for the “Back to
Maryborough Week,” which takes in Anzac
Pay. The only man who will play any part
m the handing over of this women’s gift is
Bishop Long, of Bathurst, who is to deliver
the panegyric—he comes into the picture as
a native of the district.
Who remembers the Mayoress of East-
bourne (Eng.) ? Before her marriage to
Councillor Knight she was a Melbourne girl,
and her marriage, took place in that city.
c>he is the second Sussex mayoress to hail
from Melbourne—Mrs. Milner Black, a
tormer Mayoress of Brighton, was born and
grew up jn Victoria.
Claire, second daughter of the John Taits.
vho lately graduated at Melbourne ’Varsity
put off last week for a look at Europe.’
Marion and Dorothy Widdis, of Sale, ar
fellow-travellers.
Sister Adelaide’s budget of grave and gay:
Polo week ended in the shadow east by the death
ol L. O. Carter, who was thrown just before the
final bell on Friday and died, without recovering-
consciousness, the next evening. He was one of the
younger Mid-North players—but before he played he
fought in German West. Africa and then with the 9th
Light Horse in Palestine. At the Gymkhana feminine
prize-winners included Miss L. Sandison and Phvllis
Bray, both with two firsts to their credit, Miss
Birks, Jocelyn Bowman and lola Murray. The
Governor came on from Tattersall’s meeting to hand
them their trophies and to give the cups to Mount
Crawford, Adelaide A’s and Mid-Norths.
John Goodchild, bound for three years’ work over-
seas, was farewelied by the United Arts Club to an
accompaniment of speeches and presentations with
a. compressed rendering of “The Liars” by Talbot
Smith and G. Latter as the star item of the pro-
gramme. With him as guest of honor was Doreen
Rowley, the club’s secretary and herself an artist,
soon to be Doreen Goodchild; they will share a studio
on the other side.
Bridge at the Town Hall and the Floating Palace
has swollen the coffers of the Creche and the North
Adelaide Kindergarten respectively, with Mrs. Glover
at the head of the former committee and Mrs. and
Miss Barker, Mrs. Morice, Mrs. S. H. Skipper and
Mrs. Arthur Rymill among the sponsors of the latter.
The Alliance Frangaise set its ball rolling for the
winter with a programme that included business,
a song and recitation or two, supper and a cross-
word puzzle. Lady Bridges is the Alliance’s patron
and the Fra.nk Mouldens two of its keenest supporters.
Mrs. K. H. Weston is secretary and is due for most
of the credit. And we are adding to our list of
associations the whose appearance
harassed guardians of the domestic purse are hailing
with delight.
For once we realised the worth of a new concert
co. before the closing night and the Don Cossacks
had bumper houses. Lady Bridges went two or
three times and the Governor once; the Butt-
Rumfords went on the night before their own
concert. At her last concert, Clara Butt was all
gold with jewelled lines of blue and green, with a
silver-clad Aussenac in delightful contrast. There
were flowers and flowers and flowers, a riot of color
that was mostly reds and pinks.
The Uni. is getting anxious about its “common-
room” or Union for students. Something of the
kind is badly needed, but the Council must
first fix a site for the Bonython Hall, to be erected
in 1930, and also get a title to the land at the
back (towards the river), long promised by the
Government. Women students took a big hand in
the discussion, one suggesting £5 from every
undergrad as a start towards tile required £30,000
£l a year for five years.


A. SAUNDERS’
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS and WRISTLET WATCHES
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set PI u.i-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
*^
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Plati-
num-set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady's Six-Dlamond-set 18et. White
Gold, Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband,
£l7/10/-
Set 8 Diamonds, £2O, £25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set Plati-
num, lSet. Gold
Ring, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Four-
Diamonds, Plati-
num-set IBct. Gold
Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Two-Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
set Platinum,
lBct. Gold Ring,
£25.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l5.
Larger Diamond,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Five-
Diamonds, Plati-
num-set, 18et. Gold
Ring, £l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, set
Platinum, 18ct.
Cold R-ng, £2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond, set Plati-
num, ISct. Cold
Ring, £B.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Cross-
over Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum-set,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady's 9et. Gold Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wrist-
band, £lO,
18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
Write for Catalogue—We Pay Postage on all Orders,
A. SAUNDERS
W atchmaker—J eweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Westclox
Jor Quality
Our mark—vour protection
HE trade mark, Westclox, is a stamp of quality.
-®- Every clock and watch that bears the name
“ Westclox ” on the dial and tag has earned its right
to the honor by passing many exacting factor)- tests.
Because of these exacting tests, you can buy a
Westclox confident that it will render dependable
service.
There are now nine alarm clocks and two watches
in the Westclox line. They all are dependable
timekeepers. The principal difference in price
is in the cases, dials and alarm functions.
Westclox Big Ben, 21/-! Baby Ben, 21 /-; Sleep-Meter, 12/6; America, 9/6;
Blue Bird, 10/6; Pocket Ben, 8/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 18/■;
Big Ben Luminous, 27/6, Baby Ben Luminous, 27/6; Glo-Ben, 12/6;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
mm
W&SBS88&*
■
th®
to
Edison’s New
Dictation Machine
PRACTICAL
ADVANTAGES
The Ediphone Dictation Machine is connected
at your desk. From that moment you can 30
through the mail; it’s as easy as telephoning.
Everything is dealt with, recorded, as it crops
up—no waste time. You think once, write once.
And all is so easily transcribed at any hour of
the day.
You are free from routine; there is more
time for constructive thought or for work out-
side the office.
Your letters and memos are spoken and are
the better for it; each carries new force and
personality.
Your best thoughts come to you in private; they
are recorded immediately, without outside aid.
Most of all, it is the convenience of the
Ediphone that appeals. Voice-writing is really
a convenience; no one w r ho has once experienced
its helpfulness can readily forget.
TECHNICAL
ADVANTAGES
Electric control for both dictator and tran-
scriber.
Practical correction system based upon actual
experience of thousands of firms.
Always ready—you clear up your desk or mail
at any time you please.
Made and backed by the world’s greatest inven-
tor —the Edi phone gives you every Edison
advantage.
Comfortable mouthpiece and tubes; sensitive
recorder and reproducer: correspondence
pockets; safetae cylinders—so per cent, longer
life—cannot fall apart if cracked —cylinders can-
not slip out; electrical equipment that is abso-
lutely dependable.
Represents good value and good service for your
money—a reliable instrument that will respect
your confidence and record everything that you
wish it to —nothing else.
Let us tell you more about the machine that
Edison built to help the busy man—
Telephone City 9473.
Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Tbe Spirit of Set vice
In this great Store there exists a true Spirit of Service dedicated to the task of giving
every Customer the utmost satisfaction.
This unchanging policy of Service and straightforward dealing, right down through the
years, has built for MICK SIMMONS a name that is impeccable amongst all classes of
the community; and they need make no exaggerated claims in respect to the goods they sell.
Featured below are representative lines from several departments.
a
a
“M A I N E”
RIFLE, 22-
calibre, de-
signed for 22-
short, long and
long-rifle cart-
ridges, rim-
fire. Ihe Barrel is round, 1 8-inch bored and rifled with
the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; Other States, 2/8)
No. 12.—WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE, 1906
MODEL, 22-calibre, 20-inch round barrel, ladder rear-
sights, magazine handles 15 short, 12 long, or 1 1 long-
rifle cartridges
(Carriage paid.)
No. 31 A.—CONTINENTAL COMBINATION GUN
AND RIFLE, 12-gauge gun, 32-calibre rifle, 30-inch
barrels, pistol-grip, walnut stock, cross-bolt, fitted with
leaf sight to 300 yards. Weight about 81b
(Carriage paid.)
No. I—HARRINGTON & RICHARDSON’S 5.8.8. L.
GUN, 12- or 16-gauge, top action, automatic self-
ejecting, rebounding lock, pistol-grip, walnut stock,
weight about 6ilb
(Carriage paid.)
25/-
£5/5/-
£l5/15/-
55/-
Tennis
THE LIGHTNING
RACKET. Concave
J hroat, reinforced with
Hide and strung with de-
pendable Gut. The most
reasonably-priced high-
grade Racket on the
market
THE MASTERSTROKE
RACKET. A beautifully
balanced and gracefully-shaped Racket, with all the
features of the higher-priced article. Truly the ideal
Racket for every player
THE LEE MONOGRAM RACKET.—The World’s
finest Tennis Racket. Beautiful, graceful and strong and
constructed of the best obtainable in materials, this
Racket has no equal in the Sporting Goods field. Made
in two qualities Standard Model
De Luxe Model
M.S. WONDER RACKET.—A great little Racket for the
schoolboy or Schoolgirl just learning to play
(We Pay Carriage on all Tennis Goods.)
TENNIS REPAIRS.
Expert Workmanship- Promptness Low Charges.
m
m
M
\
776
75/-
85/-
25/-
Hunting Knives
By Wade & Butcher, Sheffield.
luiu
No. 101.—5 in. BLADE
BOWIE KNIFE. A
genuine Bowie pattern
knife, with Stag Handle,
double guard and sheath,
Same Knife in 6in. length,
No. 106.—5 in. BLADE
HUNTING KNIFE. A
perfectly balanced knife,
with Handle of Genuine
Stag, and Stag tip to en-
sure better grip, and seg-
ments of leather, brass
and bakelite protecting
index and little fingers.
Complete with sheath . . .
6/6
8/-
10/6
No. 1 I 6.—4 fin. BLADE
HUNTING KNIFE. This
knife has a very wide
blade, and is tipped for
skinning, and is beauti-
fully ground with handle
of variegated segments of
bakelite, leather and brass
and stag tip
Same Knife in 6in. length,
No. 123.—4 fin. BLADE
HUNTING KNIFE. This
knife has a metal sheath
attached to end of haft,
which serves as a lock
when the knife is opened.
The Handle is genuine
Stag, double guard, with
metal tips in handle.
Blade is concaved in the
centre
8/6
10/-
13/6
tu4«
BSS! in
■ NkN
mhus
(Postage on One Knife, 6d.)
Wade Butcher cannot make all the Cutlery in Sheffield—so they make the best of it.”
Mick Simeons ft?
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.”
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


¥
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
r^?or/f(ei a in all Iffalkp
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP * CO,, LTD., Perth and Geralrtton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
JREENER
is;
w. w,
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W P. THOMPSON & CO* PT¥. (
LTD.,
405*7 Lonsdlale Street, Melbourne.
r
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The success of Chandoma (12 to 1) m
the Hurdles and of Wedding Eve (10 to 1) in the
six-furiong handicap at the City Tattersall’s races
summoned up dreadful visions of a similar meeting-
some years ago when the lowest-priced winner was
a 10-to-l shot. It wasn’t as bad as that at Randwick
on Saturday, for Aorangi, a rather smart three-year-
old by' Newmarket —Poor Clarice, won the Novice
Handicap- at 3 to 1, and old Hoppieker took the
Club Welter at 7 to 2. (Incidentally, both were
ridden by Toobey, -who was right out of luck at the
A.J.C. Easter meeting.) Also, Royal Tea (9 to 2),
who is much better at six furlongs than a mile,
carried 9st. 71b. to easy victory in the Youthful
Stakes. Nevertheless, McShortodds added another
to his long sequence of successful days. It was a
surprise to find Wedding Eve at 12 and 10 to 1, but
backers preferred Quixotic, Quirk and two or three
others to the daughter of Linacre —Wedding Day-, who
smothered her field in the last furlong after seeming
to have little chance at the turn. This well-turned
filly is improving and -will be worth bearing in mind
for a more important engagement—the Epsom, per-
haps—particularly if the going- is sticky, as it was
on Saturday. Another striking win was that of
Resource (10 to 1) in the City Tattersall’s Cup.
The Bowman—Boambee gelding had been doing great
track work, but many punters went off him because
an unknown apprentice (O’Callaghan) was in the
saddle. However, the unknown always had his mount
in a good position, and although he got a bit excited
on hitting the front and steered an erratic course, the
animal was so far ahead that* it didn’t matter. The
unlucky Tibbie was second and Night Heron, most
consistent of Sydney horses —he is rarely out of a
place—third; Te Monanui and Irish Prince, who were
both heavily backed, were nearest of the others.
Johnnie Jones losing his chance at the post. Te
Monanui should win soon, but there won’t be much
for him in Sydney till the spring.
* * * *
Witli only one favorite successful, punters
had a sticky time at Caulfield on Saturday. Several
horses were in the market for the Glenhuntlv
Cup, 11 furlongs ; Affirm, who won “down the line”
recently, finished up favorite at 4 to 1, with Corn-
crake and Llanthony two points longer, Suomi and
Little Millie 7 to 1 and Batteryman 8 to 1. Llanthony
ran to the front at the mile post, and he and
Affirm -were fighting it out at the distance when
Batteryman swooped down on them. Well ridden by
Jones, Batteryman won by a neck from Affirm, with
Lady Warwick (10 to 1) and Llanthony, whom the
judge could not separate, half a length behind the
favorite and Three Kings a good fourth. The winner,
who is a pretty fair sort, is a five-year-old gelding
by Lanius —Queen Battery; he is owned by L. N.
Morrison and trained by F. Smith, so successful with
two-vear-olds this season. He carried Bst. 13lb. and
ran the distance in 2min. 20-(see. Raron (2 to 1),
the Valais—Poyferre colt who had been backed heavily
on several occasions, made an exhibition of his field
in the Katandra Handicap for two-year-olds, clear-
ing out at the home turn and winning at his leisure
by four lengths from Elarby (25 to 1), with Tut
Tut (12 to 1) a neck away. The winner, who is
trained by Jim Scobie for A. T. Craig, covered the
seven furlongs in lmin. 27Jsec. Cecil Godby broke
a run of bad luck when his imported gelding New
Hope (9 to 2) landed the Glenferrie Handicap, eight
furlongs, from Long-worthy (8 to 1) and Ouragan
(7 to 1), but a good parcel of the stable’s winnings
must have been lost on Laveuse (6 to 4) in the
Brighton Handicap. The Wolowa —Trey filly, with
Cairns on top, was just beaten by Val D’Or (15 to
1), a sister to Metellus. The Steeple saw the end of
Broad Check, a first-class performer over fences. With
13st. 71b. on his back, he made a mistake at the
top of the hill and broke his neck.
* * * *
“Hasen”: The Argus is the starting-price
authority for Melbourne, and therefore the truth it
speaks, “impugn it whoso list.” For the Albury Gold
Oup its official quote was 7 to 2 Comas, 4 to 1
Llanthony. On the same page it stated that at.
barrier-rise 7 to 2 was the best on offer (against
Counts); Llanthony at 5 to I and Spearer at 8 to 1
were the most favored of the others.” I certainly
list to impugn one of these statements, and
it is the official quote of 4 to 1, on which s.-p. pay-
ments are made (Spearer won and Llanthony was
third), that mislikes me. Twelve months ago in a
par (B. 30/4/’25) about this very race, I was moved
to comment on an exactly similar happening. Then,
in the Argus’s detailed account of the Albury Gold
Cup, 1925, it was stated that “Gay Serenader, it
he had not failed at Caulfield would have been
favorite; as it was the favorite w T as Warwickshire.
And yet on the same page the official s.-p. quote
was: “6 to 1 each against Gay Serenader and War-
wickshire.”
* * * *
“Midford” : Speaking of turf nomenclature
(B. 15/4/’26), which deserves more attention than
it gets, did ever a good horse have to carry such
a hideous label as Windbag, a term of opprobrium
resented by fifth-rate politicians and discursive aider-
men V It reminds me of Lindsay Gordon’s
“—And Pondon was there, too —what noodle
Could so name a horse? I should feel some remorse
If I gave such a name to a poodle.”
Even if Windbag’s name is supposed to convey a
subtle allusion to his sire Magpie (“garrulous under a
roof of pine,” vide Tennyson) it must hurt the feel-
ings of Australian nature-lovers, who never tire of
claiming the bird as the finest of our songsters and
even compare it with the nightingale. Per contra,
for a delightfully- apposite name, a thing encountered
so rarely nowadays, Corncrake (Buckwheat —Spring
Note) would be hard to beat. Buck-wheat, I know,
isn’t the ordinary cereal, but it is near enough to
make the name look the happiest of inspirations.
* * * *
“Ascot”: The Brisbane Cup (run June 3)
will be worth £3OOO this year—an increase of £lOOO
over last year, when the Maorilander Te Kara won.
Being the richest flat race of the Australian winter,
the Cup should attract a number of southern cracks.
Two other well-endowed handicaps—the Moreton
(£1300) and the Stradbroke ( £lOOO) — are included
in the programme.
* * * *
Adelaide had two fatal sporting accidents
in quick succession. Duff, a well-known cross-country
jockey, had his neck broken in a fall with Redlight
in a steeplechase at Victoria Park. By' a much more
unusual accident, E. C. Carter, of the Mid-north Polo
Club, was fatally injured about the head in a harm-
less-looking collision in a match against Strathalbyn
for the Cudmore Cup in Adelaide. He had a good
record of war sendee, in German West Africa as well
as in Palestine with the 9th Light Horse.
“Shrewsbury” : Australia's influence upon
some aspects of horse-racing is nowhere more marked
than in the gradual adoption of the automatic tote.
The invention spread to South Africa years ago, and
then to India, Malaysia and the China coast. France’s
recent wholesale plunge for the latest phase of the
automatic, the electrically-operated machine, has been
followed by the big Indian clubs. Judge Marten,
of the Bombay High Court, who is a committeeman
of the Western India T.C., told a Sydney pressman
recently that the club had remodelled not only its
totes, but its entire course, spending over £350,000
on new stands and adjuncts. All these improvements
were designed and carried out by Sydney architects.
*- * * *
“Mars”: In my search for winners I
always invoke the aid of my evening paper. The
last time I did it there were 12 acceptances, and the
learned man guided me as follows: “Dumbbell is in
good form and should win Periwinkle is galloping
well and has a great chance... .Lady- Clara is a real
grod performer and should be in the picture....
Cyanide is now ready for a win.... This is Bugle-
pumpkin’s favorite distance and I -would not be
surprised to see him first home.... After Pollyanna’s
performance down the line she must be respected....
BOB CROCKETT, the veteran umpire,
whose admirers subscribed over £1000
to give him a trip to the Test matches.
Peterkin is leti in at a nice weight and what beats
him should win.” Only Scavenger and Jazz Baby
were not highly commended. Scavenger won and
Jazz Babv ran second.
* * * *
“Chiron” : After making all arrangements
to have a “go,” the owner of a Tas. trotter found
on the Saturday morning that the s.-p. bookies knew
all about his good thing- and would not lay him
a price. The rider was informed that his mount
would not win that afternoon, and the owner backed
something else. But the animal did win; the jockey,
a. conscientious youth, wasn’t going to let down his
punter, who had carefully placed some big bets the
day before the race. The three parties are now on
the mainland, and two have the blood thirst in an
acute form. The owner is looking for a jockey
who’s searching for a punter with both shares of
the loot.
* * * *
“Fana” : During the sugar season in North
Queensland there are big two-up games in some of
the towns on the eanefields. Occasionally there de-
pend on the spin of the coins sums which would
make the frequenters of the “schools” of Surry Hills
and Fitzroy gasp with amazement. Last season, in
a week-end school at Innisfail, bets ranging from
£lOO to £3OO were made, and a daring player,
after coming in with less than a fiver, won nearly
£7OO between Saturday night and early on Monday
morning. The largest bet known to have been
made in a game was at Mackay. A player who had
been phenomenally lucky in spinning heads laid
£BOO to £6OO, and won with the last head:* which
he threw. He started betting with 30s. —all he had
in the world—and cleaned up just on a thousand
pounds in a week.
* * * *
Tommy Uren handled the Californian
negro rusher, “Sunny Jim’’ Williams, in a masterly
THE SILVER LINING.
BOAST : “It must be galling to have to sit
down and watch your guest knock up
break after break.”
HOST: “Oh. I dunno! It keeps him away
from the whisky-bottle.”
fashion at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
He had watched the coon in all his Sydney fights and
sized him up correctly; and about 5000 people
gave the graceful ex-champion the ovation of his life
when referee Wallis placed his hand on Tommy’s
glossy poll. Williams didn’t win one of the 20
rounds. Uren’s left plunked hard into the black dial
every time James tried to start one of his swinging
bull-rushes. Tom was spry on his feet; his out-
boxing was a treat after the clumsy attempts these
recent importations have exhibited; his head-work
was neat and well-timed, and he protected himself
and served out serious punishment in the close-in
stuff. It was a triumph of brains over beef. Weights:
Uren, list. lib.; Williams, list. silb.
# * * *
Len Johnson (list. l|lb.), the negro from
Manchester, stopped Alf. Stewart (list. 51b.) in the
19th round of a sanguinary mill at Melbourne..
Stewart was done five rounds before, but Johnson,
who is no champion, could not or would not finish
him. The white man has deteriorated in other
respects as a result of the hidings he has taken
from colored persons, but he is gamer than at
least two of his conquerors, and the crowd cheered
him madly as he reeled to his dressing-room.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: Paddy Slavin (B.
15/4/’26) has been writing his reminiscences for
some of the newspapers—or a smart pressman has
been writing them for him. I notice he has little
to say about Harry Laing, the Maori pug. who was
killed whilst attempting to alight from a moving
train in 1894. When he fought Slavin at Wanganui,
Laing, who had not. recovered from a recent illness,
held Paddy in check for a considerable time. Had
he been fit, he would have beaten Slavin as decisively
as he beat Goddard. Slade, the Maori whom Jem
Mace took to America to meet John L. Sullivan, was
a dud, but a world-beater may have been lost in
Laing.
* * * *
“Machete”: The arrival of the Australian
XVI in London was preceded by an argument—one
of the parties being in England and the other on
the high seas—between Kelleway and Clem Hill, who
is also writing cricket stuff. Hill explained that Kelle-
way’s poor fielding told against his selection. This
was indignantly denied by Kelleway, who called
Hill provincial. Clem is no shrinking pimper-
nel when it comes to talking back, and we may expect
a suitable reply when he reaches his destination. In-
cidentally, these cricketer-scribes, or some of them,
seem to have created an impression in England that
the 16 are a mob of blowhards, which, of course, is
not the case. The new’ members of the union—
six, if I remember—are all unassuming young fellows,
and the others are as modest a lot of old chaps as one
could meet anywhere.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Poor Frank Iredale, who
died last week, did not live long to enjoy the pension
granted him on his retirement from the secretaryship
of the N.S.W. Cricket Association, a billet he filled
with conspicuous success from 1914 to March last.
A contemporary of Harry Trott, Joe Darling and
other giants of our cricket history, Iredale was one
of the most polished batsmen Australia has produced,
and as good on bad wickets as on shirt-front
pitches. This is apparent from his Test-match figures,
for in 23 innings in England and Australia in four
series of Tests, his average was 36.68. Only Rans-
ford stands above him in the Australian averages for
pre-war Tests, and he is eighth on the combined list—
a fine achievement considering the quality of the
English bowling of the period 1895-99. A great
field in the country, he had, perhaps, the most
trustworthy pair of hands for holding a catch there
that ever did Australia good cricket service.
A W }N . Frank Iredale and Victor Trumper
established a fast-scoring record of which one seldom
hears. Between noon and 1.3 d p.m., for N.S.W v
lusmama, the pair put on 217 runs. I redale finished
up with 196 and Trumper with 292 n.o. In ’96
t rank got 187 and 80 n.o. for N.S.W. v. South Aus.
Trekle : The most hectic half-hour in Iredale’s
rifm'unfi " h ? n , h f was helping Peter McAlister and
Liem Hill to pick Australia’s team just before the big
urn the XI for the third Test in 1911
BUI told McAlister by wire that he wanted Macartney
I? and Ml , nn ett out. Mac. wired back; “Still opposed
S !‘ 1C USIOU - If Iredale agrees with you,
w. yourself standing down and not Minnett.’’
When the selectors met there was ill-feeling, and Mc-
Ahster said, among other things, that Hill was the
captain he had ever seen. Soon the couple
were settling their differences with their fists, Ire-
+wS as Peacemaker being ineffectual. After
i. hiU be< 7 n J ilt ,u lt for ten minutes, Smith and
selector Parat6d them ’ Hill h;,d to resign as a
* *
*
The Sydney cricket season ended with
laddi"g_(on m the premier position; in the last
match it defeated University by five wickets and
‘ “• making a stylish 101 on a wet
?on« nV I f. ddl "S t °n , s success was the first since
ion-no’ although it had previous wins in 1894-95,
189 1 -98 and 1900-01. In those early days the XI
included Trumper, Noble, Bannerman and Alick
Mackenzie, and this season Wall and Asher, Paddinn-
r°ns most successful bowlers, came over from the
defunct Sydney club. Western Suburbs (SI) —five
behind Paddington—was next, with Glebe (28) Uni-
versity and Waverley (each 27) following. The
poor showing of some of the clubs, notably Balmain
(one win) and Randwick (two wins), suggests that
there are too many in the first-grade. For the duo
championship (aggregate of noints in the three
grades), Western Suburbs (277) had a narrow win
fiom Gordon (275) and Waverley '273).
Wicketkeeper Rateliffe (Glebe) topped the first-grade
batting averages with 77.88 ; then came Tommy
Andrews (Petersham) 73.83, D. Seddon (Petersham)
r 2 'i 4 ’ , F l? n k Bu ckle (Northern Districts) 63.75 and
J. r oskett (Glebe) 60. The highest aggregate went
to a promising colt in R. Loder (Northern Districts):
n ! n J 4 averaging 53.85. Although 98
ahead of Rock s effort in the previous season, it
fades beside Trumper’s 1021 in 1897-98. Paddington’s
slow bowler, O. P. Asher, took most wickets—6o at
' vaa th e fourth time he had done it, and
thereby ha beat a record which he had shared with
Mailey and abo. Jack Marsh.
* * * *
„ St. Ktlda won the Vic. premiership as in
19..3-24 and 1924-25 ; it has only lost three matches
in the three years. Meeting Hawthorn-East Mel-
bourne in. the final, the Saints made 332 (Ellis 98,
Cohen 76, Wilson 67); and, getting the others on
a bad wicket, Blaekie and Ironmonger rattled them
out for 77 and 54, Blaekie taking 9 for 45 and
Ironmonger 9 for 72. They are two remarkable
veterans, and it is a pity opportunity didn’t come
their way when they were younger,
* * * *
“Humoresque”: Alan Kippax’s team (B.
1 5/4 /’ 26) was licked twice at Townsville. First
the local eleven beat it by 231 runs; then, after
Alan and co. had declared with six down for 1 520
(Waddy 157, Morgan 115), North Bananaland lost
six for 526 (L. Litster 290). Then it was that
veteran Waddy said, in an impromptu speech, “We
like your city, we like your hospitality, we like your
girls—but I’m damned if we like your cricketers.”
* * * *
The Sydney tennis world has formed a high
opinion of the Maoriland player, E. D. Andrews, who
won the Wellington (M.L.) championship at the age
of 17, and, not yet 21, is the leading singles exponent
in the M.L. combination visiting N.S.W. The young
man gave a taste of his prowess in the engagements
in which the Maorilanders downed the N.S.W. colts,
and it was not his fault that the visitors did not
heat the Ma State seniors—he defeated Norman Peach,
last year’s State champion, in straight sets, and
gave J. Willard a strenuous fight which went to
10—8 and 9—-7 before the Cornstalk won. Andrews
continued to show form in the N.S.W. championship
contests, which were interrupted by rain. Amongst
the women. Daphne Akhurst and Esna Boyd were
left to fight out the singles final. Daphne, who, in
spite of her successes elsewhere, has never won a
N.S.W’. championship, looked the winner until Esna,
who had been troubled by the slippery courts, kicked
off her shoes. From that point the Victorian took
control, winning 10 successive games and the cham-
pionship—4-6, 6-2, 6-0.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: A so-called international
sporting contest which has some peculiar aspects
is the annual Northern Union football matcli
between “England” and “Wales.” The N.U. game,
known as the League this side of the Line, is not
played in Britain outside the Lancashire and York-
shire manufacturing towns. It is a professional
game, and the clubs, some 30 in number, nowadays
recruit their ranks by hiring crack Rugby Union
players (“colonials” having been shut out) from
Wales. To maintain the fiction of the “international,”
these Welsh players are annually culled out and
matched against an English side. The latest game,
played at Pontypridd, in South Wales, as propaganda,
saw England win by' 30-22. This was not till
“Wales” had lost two players, Jones, “of Leeds,” and
Hodder, “of Wigan.” Hodder was in Australia
with the last team from overseas, as was another
player in the match, Sullivan, also a Welshman,
though he doesn’t sound like it. Sullivan will be
remembered as a clever full-back and a great place-
kick.
• ---- * - •■* * *
Two very promising young players came
to light in the Australian chess championship at
Sydney. Early in the proceedings the 22-yea T-old
Woinarski drew with Spencer Crakanthorp, after
having him in difficulties, and went on with a
series of successes, among his victims being Viner,
who has been champion, off and on, since he was
the pride of the Kalgoorlie Miners’ Institute —being-
then 18 —in 1902. But Woinarski’s nerves told
under the strain. Just when he seemed assured of
the title, he played a draw in a game .he should
have won with Sayers (W.A.) ; and, making a bad
slip, he lost his last game to the 18-year-old Purdy.
That left Crakanthorp the winner by half a point.
Young Purdy was third, Viner fourth and Wallace,
N.S.W’. champion, fifth.
SPARE NAMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Prince of Wales, who is at Biarritz, is
travelling as the Earl of Chester.’ — Cable.
o Teddy, Teddy, with the wealth of title,
Teddy, the luckless hunter of the fox,
One never knows but when some fresh recital
Of your consistently unorthodox
Ways of dismounting will occasion vital
Concern about the world and far-flung shocks.
Of spare nobilities you’ve quite a string;
Why must they all be kept for travelling?
Shot from the saddle at some frowning Quorn wall,
Or on your back and mired with Pytchley clay.
You might become, pro tern., the Duke of Cornwall
Or, if you should prefer it, of Rothesay ;
Each dignity your sires remote have worn well
And worthily in knightly joust and fray,
And feats of derring-do in many a place
And sport of kings, especially the chase.
Loyal poets could acclaim in strains pindaric
Neck-risks you laugh at, camouflaging you
(However lightly) as the Earl of Garrick
Or the hard-riding Baron of Renfrew.
Lord, of the Isles I find a bit barbaric,
Still, for a change, it might be rung on, too.
Your spills, distributed along the line,
Would send less tremors down the nation’s spine.
O Teddy, Teddy, insecure but gritty
Behind the fox, with noble names like those
To pick and choose from in a foreign city
And change as casually as your clothes
Or socks, assuredly it seems a pity,
But ’tis inevitable, I suppose,
With all these aliases when you roam
You can’t fall off a horse incog, at home.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Talk
b y the
JW)
. W'
V'
\
: \
Mb*J
“ and when the pistons were taken out
they were as clean as a hound’s tooth. That’s
why 1 like Shell —it leaves practically no carbon.
The big strides, too, that Shell is making
in Australia with its bulk distribution means
they are spending more money in the Com-
monwealth every year cheapening the cost
of motoring for all of us.”
IDE
m
When filling up from the
kerbside pump look for the
Guaranteed Pure Shell disc.
MOTOR SPIRIT
& MOTOR OILS
w
*s*7
SELF-ALIGNING
□ALL BEARINGS
SKP
MEANS
THE RIGHT BEARING
IN THE
RIGHT PLACE.
THE skp BALL BEARING CO, LTD.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street
SYDNEY: 45 King Street.
8.8.—3/2#.
ADELAIDE: Win, Adams & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Unbeliaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: W. H. Knight and
Peter Bros., Ltd.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
NEWCASTLE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
THE INKY WAY.
"Goosey Gander” : The Melbourne dailies,
taking Maoriland as the example, have been
telling the Commonwealth Post-office to re-
duce its letter-postage from one penny
halfpenny to a penny, because, they say, it
pays. The Melbourne citizen who forks out
the awkward sum for his daily copy of these
same papers would like to know why the
wiseacres don’t take their own advice.
“Mephisto” : When it comes to press laws
and the punishments attached to the breaking
thereof, Peru seems to have tried to make
the punishment fit the crime. This is how
the statute runs :
The authors or publishers of printed publications
described as obscene or repugnant to good morals
shall be liable to a fine equivalent to the value of
1500 copies at the selling price, and, if they aie
unable to pay the amount in question, they shall
be required, during a. period of four months, to
inter corpses in the cemetery.
“Kir”: The recent purchase by the Symes
from G. and It. Wills and Co. of a seven-
storey building at tlie rear of the Age office
for £85,000 recalls that on June 13, 1856,
I )avid Syme bought at McCombe’s auction-
mart the Age, Weekly Age, Leader and the
jobbing business for £2OOO on,terms. Money
was scarce among newspaper men in those
days, and Syme’s went a long way. The
materials were valued at £l5OO, so that the
copyright and goodwill changed hands for a
mere £5OO.
There is no better-liked Adelaide press-
man than Julian Woods, sec. of the S.A.
district of the A.J.A. and sub. of the Mail.
That he is equally popular with paper-
stainers in other States is suggested by the
presentation of a rose-bowl to him by the
delegates to the recent A.J.A. Federal Coun-
cil in Adelaide. Woods was on the Age in
the ’nineties. Thence he migrated to Perth,
and 14 years ago drifted hack as far as
Adelaide. He has two sons also at the word-
spinning game.
“D’Wynn : Angus Harrop, one time of the
Press, Christchurch (M.L.), has won his
Pli.D. after three years’ historical research
work at Cambridge. lie took his M.A. at
Canterbury College and later published his
thesis under the title of “The Romance of
Westland.” A wonderfully hard worker, Dr.
Harrop went to England in 1923, entered
Caius College, specialised in the legal and
political relations between England and
M. and still had time to be a member of
the literary staff of the Daily Mail.
Dave Walker, well over 70, is still going
strong in Melbourne as representative of
provincial and inter-State papers. He was
first-lieutenant for Oakley on the Anglo-
Australian press agency in the early ’nine-
ties. Prior to that he was the “west”
(Customs House and Railway Department)
man for the Herald, and had some side-lines
besides. Walker is in his element when lie
can banter a pal on a hobby—whether it be
bowls, inventions that don’t succeed, or the
A.N.A.’s lack of punch. He has two sons,
both capable Inky Wayfarers.
“M. Quad”: Be the new Act under which
N. Parliamentary candidates may be
sued for their printing and advertising ex-
penses. The previous state of the law was
due to the inflated bills presented by news-
paper proprietors after an election. As an
instance, somewhere in the ’eighties the late
Dan O’Connor received an account from a
Sydney daily which even his vocabulary was
inadequate to describe. Inquiry showed that
a few lines to advertise a meeting were
spread out to 6in. There were scores of
such ads.: city and country printers alike
practised the inflation. The blackmail caused
such a hubbub among politicians that the
Act was passed which made debts of honor
of those expenses not paid in advance.
Well known in two States, also in two
wars, was Norman Malcolm, just dead in
Perth, at 55. He was on the Adelaide
Advertiser in the ’nineties, and showed an
equally good knowledge of pastoral affairs
and sport of almost every kind. Then he
became Acting-Chief Inspector of Stock in
Westralia, after which he served in S’Africa
with the Bushmen’s Corps. After some ex-
perience of farming, he went back to news-
paper work with Adelaide Register, and be-
came tlie first president of the S.A. branch
of the A.J.A. He enlisted as a private in
the 9th Light Horse for the Big War, and
wound up with a captain’s commission.
Since his return he had been trying both of
his old callings in Westralia, but struggling
with broken health all the time. He was a
genial soul, with the born journalist’s memory
for faces, facts and figures, and a particularly
good baritone voice.
“PIPER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roaring- over bridges, rocking through the plain
Drones and blares this inky night the East-West
train;
Phantom trees go whirling past, weird and white
and tall,
But weirder than the phantom trees those eerie
voices call
“Piper! Piper I” rising from the track
Miles and miles from anywhere, far from camp or
shack,
“Pipj"! Piper!” chanted loud all along the line
Till throw to Cerberus a sop that isn’t mine.
Then 1 settle down to read, for I cannot sleep,
But a few miles further on voices loud and deep
Rising from the Lord knows where shatter my repose
With “Piper! Piper!” Through the window goes
A mag. that I have finished with, and m.v guilty eye
Reads again nty evening sheet as the miles go by,
Rakes the leading article that counsels Mr. Bruce
How to run a country that is going to the deuce.
Brief my respite. As the train leaves the trees
behind,
Rattling: over rocky wastes where rabbits couldn't
find
Earth enough to burrow in, stony, cursed and bare,
"Piper! Piperl” thin and clear rises o’er the blare.
Louder than the clattering of the whirling wheels,
Though the thudding engine fills the night with
foggy squeals.
Open goes the window, and upon the icy blast
Flutters out the Morning Toast. Houses hurtle
past.
Now she’s slowing down a bit—here’s the railway
gate—
When “Piper! Piper!” like a flood in spate
Rises from the darkness. Do they never go to bed?
Ah, what A the use? 1 toss it out —my paper, half
unread.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


The Packard Six
fW
0
■
SINGLE.SIX SEVEN-PASSENGER SEDAN
of a distinguished family
qpHE joy and thrill of motoring for its own sake may be experienced to-
il day in practically any make of car. Pride of ownership has been dulled
by the quantity production of of the present day, and the ordinary vehicle
is in the hands of the multitude. But to those who want a car that stands
above all others just as a thoroughbred is pre-eminent over his fellows, there
can be nothing better than the Packard. The Packard was first made by
a rich man as a hobby and ever since, right through the history of
its production, only the best of materials and workmanship have ever been
allowed to go into Packard construction. And never having known poverty
Packard has never learned to substitute or cut corners.
Always true to the standards required by its
position as a front-rank car, Packard has always
lead the way in the matter of comfort and im-
provement. For instance, the one-shot oiling
system, by which 45 chassis points requiring
regular lubrication, may be oiled merely by the
pull of a plunger located on the instrument
board is a built-in feature of the Packard.
What is usually considered a garage job may
now be done even while travelling at full speed.
The motor oil rectifier keeps the motor oil free
from dilution and retains the original viscosity
of the oil. These two improvements alone near-
ly double the life of the car. Packard protects
its owners, too, by maintaining a standardised
body design and by offering no yearly models.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
"Only Packard can build a Packard ”
IRA L. Sc A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD
Distributors: 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Opposite Mark Toy's). Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Write or call for catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne ,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide,
H. C. Heathorn & Co. Lta.
Hobart, Tasmania.
"ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS O N E”


CAVAN DCRS L T ? LONDON.
C
'Army Club
The Majof ~
Cigarettes
JO f° r
20for&*
QOforJ^
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s • Pa vlova
Criterion "Folly with a Past
Royal ( “White C “r-°.,
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Gondoliers”
royal “The Bad Man”
King’s '' “The Admirable Crichton”
Princess “Mercenary Mary’’
Athen.®um “The Sport of Kings
Auditorium The Don Cossacks Choir
Tivmt Vaudeville
Bijoo Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
H o y T ' B Moving Pictures
Pavlova, passionless and light as a snow-
flake, drifted into her Sydney season at Hex-
Majesty’s on Saturday. There was an inno-
cent, childlike, almost sugar-candy air about
the whole of the opening programme, a sort
of Hans Andersen atmosphere, that may
have been due to the first ballet, the
celebrated “Fairy Doll.” Here the scene
is set against a background of toys, crude
in design and primitive in coloring —some-
thing like the Czecho-Slovakian wooden
images that Sydney knew last Christmas.
Into the toy-shop come an Englishman who
might have caught moths and butterflies in
his side whiskers, his wife and daughter,
all dressed in such quaint Edgeworth Moral
Tales garments that your imagination baulks
when you wonder what brought them to Mos-
cow. To them the puppet-master shows dolls
that are funny, beautiful or even accom-
plished like the linguistic creature who can
say “Papa! Mama!” But no, the English-
man scorns them, every one, till the shop-
keeper in despair reluctantly opens the
shrine wherein a dazzling fairy doll —Pav-
lova —is inimitably poised. The doll is
bought. The visitors —who should really
never have emerged from a villa in Brixton
• —go out, the mystery of their coming unex-
plained. Then, when the world is fast asleep,
the fairy doll, who has a gentle heart in
spite of her sparkling little bodice and her
Venetian-glass curls, bids her neighbors on
the shelves to a farewell ball. How loath
she is to leave them you can see in the re-
luctant, fluent poisings. How pathetically
gay these last birdlike dartings, her sudden
tiptoe waftings of incredible swiftness, part-
nered by her favorite companion (Novikoff) !
What a delicate mass of color effects was in
this ballet —a graceful doll swirled Spanish
draperies; Dutch dolls simpered in white
and shook long plaits, disdaining a slim beau
in buff breeches and a long-tailed violet coat
who was left disconsolate, a red rose wilt-
ing in his hand. Black cats and white
rabbits and soldiers smart in reds were
there. A dashing vivandiere tapped her
drum in the most soldierly way. To
“KEEP SMILING,”
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Sid Beck, Lee White and Ernest Sefton
(under the rug) in a Soviet burlesque.
the soft and fantastic music woven by
Bayer, against scenery that chuckled, the
party ran its course, finishing with the gay-
est of polkas.
The second ballet, “Chopiniana,” was
danced in lilac-grey twilight, against a back-
ground of Grecian urns and cypresses. In
this garden grey with dew, the ballet, bil-
lows of floating wdiite, ebbed and flowed to
the music of Chopin—the foam on their crest
Pavlova. Elusive and alluring, faery, yet
pulsing with life, she was airily pursued
through this surf of tulle by the gorgeously-
built and feather-light Novikoff. Among
the smaller works mention must be made of
the Bolero of Laurent Novikoff, a thing of
breathless quickness and thistledown light-
ness, and the laughter-weaving eighteenth-
century dance of Miss Rogers and ballet-
master Pianowski. The most-looked-for
event in the second part of the programme
was the “Swan.” Sydney has seen many
fledglings of that swan slaughter the music
of Saint Saens. Often, for fear you might
miss the subtlety of the dancer’s passing, a
gun is fired in the wings, so that you will
know when to look for the convulsions. But
Pavlova, apparently shot off-stage, enters on
the first flutter of her wounding; so fine and
spontaneous, so melodic is every movement
that when she softly sinks, a feathery mass,
one feels that the Government really should
do something about endowing a Conserva-
torium for the Deportment of Dying Swans,
so exquisite a thing can it be made to be.
$ $ $
There was generous warmth about the
greeting which a packed house at the Sydney
Palace gave Lee White on Saturday night,
when she nailed the slogan “Keep Smiling"
to the usual irresponsible “revue” programme.
Lee White and Olay Smith have the knack
of putting into this sort of entertainment
the swing which is its greatest recommenda-
tion ; the performance on Saturday whirled
along a daisy-chain of mixed amusement in
such a breezy fashion that nothing dragged.
Ernest Sefton shone brightly in several
comedy interludes, of which the best was
“The Last ’Bus,” in which Fanny Benstead
assisted; and Sid Beck (previously known
in Sydney as a swimmer of champion class!
paddled through waves of laughter. As a
broad comedian he adopts the lines of Fred
Bluett. Saronova occasionally accelerated
the speed of the show on sprightly legs; Lee
White herself had to answer a demand for
many well-remembered numbers not on the
programme—“He’s Coming Home” seems the
popular favorite; and Billie Lockwood also
got a full measure of cheers. There was
some skating on thin ice, but it was so skil-
fully done that no teeth were set on edge.
* * * *
Although May Beattie many times an-
nounces “I’m leaving,” neither she nor “No,
No, Nanette,” are at all likely to go from
St. James’s (Sydney) for many moons.
Even on the wettest nights of last week
theatregoers who had not secured their seats
early were lucky if they found any vacant.
* * * *
“White Cargo” at Sydney Royal has run
into its ninth week, and is still making a
good passage.
if if s;: #
Renee Kelly maintains brightness at Syd-
ney Criterion, where the exposure of Polly’s
Past is likely to go on for some time.
* * * *
Eliza makes her dash across the frozen
river nightly at the Grand Opera House in
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin”; and the comedy mer-
chants and tools of the villain tumble
through into real water as they follow. These
cold nights in Sydney the audience wishes
that the arcli-villain could share the damp-
ing. Still, he gets his deserts in the last
act, of course.
If it's not too late to mention it, Nellie
Stewart’s reappearance as “Sweet Nell of
Old Drury” in aid of the radium fund takes
place at the Grand Opera Llouse (Sydney)
this afternoon (Thursday).
* if if if
The Rigoletto Brothers, who have made
their appearance at Sydney Tivoli this week,
are a versatile duo who provide a cameo vau-
deville show in themselves. They pass from
magic of a neat order —the posturings with
which the atmosphere is created are long-
winded —to strong-man feats and acrobatics,
give some living statuary which is their best
turn, and come to a musicql finish with a
weird assortment of noisemakers and the aid
of the Swanson Sisters, who sandwich their
other turns with song and dance. Golda, a
clever wire walker, and the Six Imperial
Patricolors are likewise newcomers, and the
Three Melfords are back with an old stock
of dances. Bob Albright shows a painful
lack of new material, and has ceased to be
amusing, but Gautier’s dogs are still enter-
taining.
Fuller’s Theatre (Sydney) audiences are
greeting “Annie Rooney” amongst the ghosts
of bygone ditties raised by the Veterans of
Variety; and the way the voices of the audi-
ence ring into the chorus shows that the
little lady is amongst the least forgotten of
the old-timers. Jim Gerald has turned his
thoughts to tennis, and his revue show fills
in its half of the programme satisfactorily.
’!• •!* $ *
The great-grandson of the show which
amused ancient Rome keeps the Sydney Hip-
podrome well tenanted. The Wirths are all
the time adding new turns, the latest being
the Homaz Duo, who make the midair their
element, and take liberties with their teeth
which should delight dentists with an eye
to business.
v 'l* -C $
In “The Outsider,” as filmed and now
shown at Hoyt’s Sydney house, Ragatsky
becomes a gipsy chieftain in Hungary with
a weird power of healing the sick, and Sir
Jasper Sturdec's daughter is a famous dancer
who, meeting with an accident, has her limb
movements restored by his power. These
liberties (however reprehensible) provide
color for a picture that might otherwise be
dull. “The Golden Princess,” a romance of
early Californian days, gives Betty Bron-
son a good chance at the same house. “Broken
Laws” at the Lyceum is a somewhat hectic
exposition of the decay of old moralities and
the reaction of the decay on spoilt children ;
“Lady of the Night,” which supports, is a
twin-personality story, well constructed and
intriguing. Norma Shearer plays both the
daintily-reared innocent in the freshness of
her debutante days and her double, the
hardly-reared woman of the streets. She
works the contrasts very effectively.
AT MELBOURNE
AUDITORIUM .
As many of the Don
Cossacks as this Page
can reasonably
accommodate.
The crash and
stumble of railway
wheels day after day
for a fortnight; the
sound of leather top-
boots scraping on
gritty oilcloths; the
brawling of Russian and Turcoman sol-
diers and the crying of babies; the steppe
swinging by hour after hour in long, suave
undulations like waves of the sea; the deep,
sepulchral chanting of priests answered by
the rapid shouts and babbling of their con-
gregation—these mingled with this Show-
man’s registration of the music emitted by
the 36 Cossacks of the Don whom E. J.
Carroll presented to a Melbourne audience
at the Auditorium on Saturday. This com-
mentator’s inability to disentangle from the
present these recollections of his Siberian ex-
perience—made more poignant by the fact
that he hadn’t been able to wash his body for
14 days and nights—prevented him giving
unbroken attention to the artistic aspects
of the show. Not that he would have been
much more enlightened if he had; for the
language was Russian, the music and the
mentality behind it were Slav.
* * * *
It is easy to say that these soldier-
choristers, standing without music scores in
a semi-circle and bursting with surprising
unanimity into song after their dapper little
conductor has crept behind them and given
them the key—it is easy to say that they
are masters of their art. It is easy to say
that, being Russians, they take to singing in
chorus as a seal takes to balancing whisky
bottles on its nose. It is easy to say that
the huge, neckless creature who looks as if
he had just shoved some prehistoric stratum
aside and emerged into the day has a basso
voice that an organ could not compass; it is
easy to remark that the tall, aesthetic-looking
youth with the face of a dark angel has a
lyric falsetto which few girl choristers could
claim. But it is quite another matter to
define how this extraordinary performance
differs from the singing of a crowd of West-
ern gleemen or liedertafel ladies. To begin
with, they disdain the assistance of an orches-
tra, a fact which did not penetrate this
critic’s mind till halfway through the even-
ing. Their trebles come into the conscious-
ness from over interminable plains, and when
they arrive the effect is nothing short of a
town hall organ with all the stops out.
Byzantine religiosity and peasant melancholy
seem to be the sullen foundations of the
music, and embroidered on it come sudden
blarings reminiscent of the trumpets of the
devil dancers of Tibet —and even bursts of
reckless gaiety that might have emanated
from pipes of Thessaly. Perhaps these are
some of the constituents of Russian music
and perhaps they are not. Who knows?
Russia is not a country but a world, and it
takes more than five minutes’ cogitation to
settle the composition of a world. Anyhow,
it was an interesting evening, even if it
could have been improved by a little more
varietv in the way of solos, duets and such-
like diversions.
$ $ $
The G. and S. revivalists began their holy
mission at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, with
“The Gondoliers.” The serried ranks of list-
eners in the big showliouse on Saturday were
an impressive and cheering sight. There
was an atmosphere almost of religious awe.
Even the sound of chocolates being masti-
cated was momentarily stilled. On the stage
the words, the arrangements and the busi-
ness of the classic masters of light opera
were also treated with the respect due to
age and genius. The Duke of Plaza-Toro,
bodied forth by Charles A. Walenn, floated
himself as a limited liability company in
the traditional way, but with just that bit
of personal idiosyncrasy which makes each
new rendering of an old master a fresh de-
light to the discriminating playgoer. The
settings, too, showed keen regard for the
wishes of the defunct martinet who first
conceived them and hammered them out
with care on a miniature stage in his home
in London. The first scene was the familiar
Venice drop, before which a million sword-
swallowers and patter comedians have done
their turns on the vaudeville stage ; but here
it fitted faithfully into time and place. The
second act indicated some slight aberrations
from the playwright’s vision. The archi-
tecture might have been Byzantine-Venetian :
but, then, why the bits of Egypt and Morocco
and the reminiscences of India and the Taj
by moonlight? The dancing lacked neither
grace nor vim, and, after the tormented
whirling of the jazz comedies, fell on the
optic nerve like balm in Gilead; and the
chorus, stimulated, doubtless, by the robust
singing of the leads, poured forth an unusual
volume of sound.
* * * *
The. overflowing Gilbert’s flux of words Put
a heavy tax upon Strella Wilson’s .sweet
soprano—she was Casilda —but she paid in
full with rich, mellifluous tones; Ithey
blended with the tenor of Leo Darnton,
who was Luiz, as orange pekoe blends with
souchong. Patti Russell and Mabel Gibson
as the brides of a syndicated sovereign were
all light and sweetness, although * they
tumbled off their notes occasionally; and
Lance Fairfax and Gordon Ramsay made
the twins more acceptable to the house than
twins usually are. The Grand Inquisitor ot
Sydney Granville was a somewhat flaccid
torturer, and a long sojourn on the rack
had interfered with the enunciation of the
nurse of Anna Bethell; but these were
trifling defects in an outstanding show. This
prophet takes no risks in saying that the
remainder of the repertoire, if it stays m the
present hands, stands in less danger of
assassination than Tom Walsh or Mussolini.
** * *
A second perusal of “Mercenary Mary’
at Melbourne Princess fails to enlarge this
Page’s regard for that slender product of
the American psyche. The melange sadly
lacks the sauce of newness. Mai Bacons de-
bauch in the second act and Nellie Brain-
ley’s boozing in “Fair and Warmer bear
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Dollie and Billie, musical-comedy stars.
a strong family likeness, which is heightened
bv the physical twinship of the pair. Bertie
Wright as a great-grandfather who finds
the legs of the chorus more rejuvenating than
monkey glands provides the best comedy,
but he arrives too late upon the field to save
an evening in which the laughs are almost
as hard to find as cops in Collingwood.
'!» ❖
Guy Bates Post will be “The Bad Man”
at Melbourne Royal on Saturday.
** * *
“The Admirable Crichton” takes the place
of “Quality Street” in the Barrie cycle at
Melbourne King’s on Saturday. The Hon.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers Hinton will be Lady Mary
Lasenby. ___
“The Sport of Kings” is in its last weeks
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne.
Of * :!= ■]■
“The Nervous Wreck” continues to amuse
in artless fashion at Melbourne Palace.
(Continued on page 36.)


BLACK & WHITE
i
. .
•'V’;V
, 1
m
I
:
M.A:, j
i
■ ■
■
> -
»J|S S ? f|B|Bg M
■l^n
SCOTCH WHISKY
HAS THE HIGHEST REPUTATION FOR ITS
CONSISTENT STANDARD OF QUALITY.


*****
$
•' :■'
e
M
// >*" /*
o
i*
a<
/
'Si
'Si
SS«S
'There are no better lamps for your car than CONDOR
AUTOMOBILE LAMPS. They throw a powerful, brilliant
light they are designed to resist vibration and jolts and are
economical in first cost and maintenance.
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street • Sydney
16 Chesser Street • Adelaide
493 Collins Street • Melbourne
Exton House, Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street
Wellington, N.Z.
Suburbanites who, owing to the coal
strike, are turning out early each morning to
try conclusions with a mallee root, are envy-
ing the ease with which the champion wood-
choppers at Melbourne Tivoli do it. These
terrible axemen, who all won prizes at the
Sydney show, are making the chips fly in a
most attractive manner. Dollie and Billie,
the English comedy sisters, are providing a
turn which is slick and assaults the eye but,
like a poster, lacks a back. Fulvio began to
equilibrate and Van Dock to do lightning
sketches on Monday.
New dishes at Melbourne Fullers’ this
week include Keith Connolly’s Syncopators
in the sort of turn that uncle produces ex-
tempore to amuse the kids on a wet Christmas.
Irving’s Imperial Midgets will present the
world as seen through the wrong end of a tele-
scope to-morrow for the last time. The
Romano Brothers are giving their remark-
able imitations of Grecian statues, and the
Four Kellys, juvenile instrumentalists, are
helping to make up a programme that will
get some strengthening shortly.
“Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace,” a bauble of
diamonds with five drops and a pearl clasp,
which, with the assistance of the Brougli-
Boucicaults, used to thrill thousands, was
brought out of its case by the Melbourne
University Dramatic Co. as a Commence-
ment celebration. The play, Victorianly
irreproachable in its morals, was produced
in a workmanlike way by Norman Simpson.
The laurels of the short season settled them-
selves on the brow of Mary Bourke as the
loser of the necklace. She was entertain-
ingly flirtatious, and wore with her nicely
done fair hair some smart apparel. H. W.
Traynor, as Captain Mowbray, ran Miss
Bourke hard for first place; Ken Rodda and
Frank Nelson fitted in the picture well and
tolerably well; Grace Graham was at least
a dignified Mrs. Jardine.
:]c >1: s’;
At Melbourne Majestic Matt Moore is tell-
ing “How Baxter Butted In,” a social drama ;
Anna Q. Nilsson is footing “The Splendid
Road” through the familiar scenery of Cali-
fornia in quest of a man to put the cat out;
and the Elea Sisters from Denmark are in-
terpolating syncopated dance-steps between
the pictures. “The Trouble with Wives” is
Hoyt’s contribution to sociology, and Alma
Rubens is “The Gilded Butterfly” in the
supporting film. An Australian picture,
“Peter Vernon’s Silence,” is also in the bill.
A youth of low degree voluntarily goes to
prison for a murder committed by his aris-
tocratic (wealthy squatter) friend. After
doing the 10 years he emergesi and reads in
The Bulletin that his pal, who has pinched
his girl, is dying of remorse. He arrives to
lake his depositions and marry the widow.
The acting is good, the photography excel-
lent and the story tripe. /
The Don Cossacks, who have been singing
at Adelaide Town Hall, “have it every way,”
from the faintest mouth-closed accompani-
ment that can hardly be heard in a big
hall, to a crashing volume of sound; nor
do they disdain to introduce sheer yells and
the barking of dogs into a war-song. Their
military pose adds to the interest. The
season has had a success of curiosity, apart
from its great artistic value. There is not a
note of instrumental music throughout.
The Gilbert and Sullivan plays, staged and
sung as this generation (at any rate) has
not seen or heard them before, have passed
on from Adelaide Royal after an absurdly
short season of crowded houses. Clara Butt,
at almost her old best of years ago, is
making a “positively final” farewell at the
Exhibition. Pictures are mainly tragic, with
“Tess” at the York and “She” at Wonder-
graph. It is difficult to get Rider Haggard
on the screen, with effect; film possibilities
lag as far behind his huge imagination as
they excel anything the stage can manage.
Percy Marmont is at West’s, and that means
satisfaction.
“Voice Off”: “Flaming Youth” (B.
8/4/’2G) is wrong in saying that the suicide
of Arthur Dacre and Amy Roselle occurred
while those distinguished mummers were
playing “a ruinous season” at the Sydney
Criterion. Sunday, November 17, 1895, was
the date of the tragedy, and the Dacres had
been appearing at the Royal in “The Land
of the Moa.” They did, though, play a dis-
astrous season of eight nights at the Cri-
terion in September. Speaking of tragedy,
it was during that season that a member of
the orchestra came into the theatre to get
his instrument s 6 that he might play at a
funeral. He mistook his way in the dark-
ness and fell into the well under the stage,
being killed instantly. The highly-strung
Dacres, dreadfully distressed at this happen-
ing, offered to play a benefit for the widow.
She, however, did not need help.
Poverty
Point
“Hamfat”: Gladys Moncrieff has added
another to the sequence of triumphs made by
Australians who have rushed to the siege of
London. Apparently “Riki-Tiki” is doomed
to failure —if, as one review says, the dia-
logue “falls to lower depths of stupidity
than have so far been reached in musical
comedy” it must be deadly—but the per-
sonal success of Gladys is all the more dis-
tinguished on that account. It should lead to
her definite establishment on the London
boards, especially as she is a slim Gladys
nowadays. London likes ’em slim.
“Tuart” : Leon Errol was recently paid a
splendid compliment by Cosmo Hamilton,
the dramatist. In compiling a list of con-
temporary actors and actresses with a genius
for stage work, Hamilton mentioned Errol
first among the light comedians included.
Errol was grounded at St. Joseph’s College,
Sydney, and studied medicine at Sydney Uni.
before he went on the stage. He appeared
here in vaudeville, musical comedy and
straight drama, but finding the way to pro-
motion blocked by press-agent celebrities from
places like Hackney and Hackensack he
went abroad. Nowadays there are few, if
any, higher-paid mummers in the U.S.A.,
and he has made a successful debut in the
movies.
“Stellsby”: I shouldn’t like to call “S.G.”
(B. 8/4/’26) another, but Melba nights at
Covent Garden when the lady was in her
prime were never, even in the cheapest seats,
a half-crown touch. Regular subscribers saw
to that. I paid 10 bob to hear the lady sing
in the historic theatre 24 years ago. My
half-quid (I couldn’t get in for less) took me
to an altitude that made the stage look the
size of a Punch and Judy platform. Still,
I didn’t mind, for Covent Garden’s acoustics
are so perfect that the most distant god can
shut his eyes and imagine that he is in the
orchestra-stalls.
“M.8.P.”: So it cost “S.G.” (B. S/4/’2G)
a florin to see Pavlova in London 15 years
ago. It cost me a bob, and a cushion w r as
thrown in. Madame did live dances during
her company’s turn, which lasted an hour.
THE RICH REWARDS OF ART.
THE BARMAID : “Do you sell these drawings
for much ?”
THE ARTIST : “Oh, just beer money.”
THE BARMAID: “Gracious! How wonderful!”
The orchestra (42 players) rendered the
Pilgrims’ March from “Tannhauser,” and that
alone was worth the money.
“G. 8.”; I am sure “S.G.” (B. 8/l/’26)
never saw Pavlova at the London Empire.
At the time he writes of Pavlova and her
then partner, Mordkin, were appearing at
the Palace, Shaftesbury-avenue; it cost me
just one shilling to view them from the gal-
lery. He may be mixing Pav. up with Lydia
Kyasht, who was then at the Empire. Also,
if “S.G.” got into the Empire promenade for
two bob he got in when no one was looking.
It cost everyone else five bob, pretty ladies
included.
“Curtain-Raiser”: E. J. Carroll promises
to bring a mixed lot to Australia in the near
future. They include, besides Kreisler,
Rebecca West, the English novelist, at pre-
sent lecturing in U.S.A., and Stephen Lea-
cock. Why the last-named should be dragged
all this way only the publicity-man knows.
The products of his wit are already syndi-
cated to several Australian papers, and more
mediocre stuff could scarcely be imagined.
But perhaps he dances.
“Short Circuit”: I have programmes of
the two entertainments, “Rainbow Revels”
(B. 15/4/’26) and “If,” written by Garnet
Walch for the world tour of the Stewart
family in 1877. There were only four per-
formers, Richard Stewart and _ his three
daughters, Docy, Maggie and Nellie. In “If,”
the second night’s bill, Nellie was Sarah Jane
Muggins, a maid-of-all-work; Tiger Smarty,
a knowing blade; Lord Charles Hector Fitz-
Blazington, one of the Household Brigade;
“THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL”—
LADY TEAZLE.
Nellie Malone, an Irish flower-girl; and Cin-
derella, a rare and radiant Maiden. The
“Grand Finale to Bart I” was “Nancy Lee”
by the company. Of course Nellie had been
on the stage before that venture. Richard
Stewart, jun., was business manager of the
show. He has the same job now at the Cri-
terion, Sydney.
“Yarra Ben” : It will be interesting to see
Barrie’s “What Every Woman Knows” again
done under Boucicault’s direction. It is a
good few years since the entertaining comedy
—its first act a model of construction—-was
produced at Melbourne Princess, with Nellie
Stewart as Maggie Wylie. John Sliand, the
studious railway-porter who becomes a mem-
ber of Parliament, was one of the best things
Ilarcourt Beatty did in Australia. Gregan
McMahon, J. B. Atliolwood, Eardley Turner,
Gaston Mervale and Gwjen Burroughs were
also in a cast that will take some beating.
“R.K.D.N.”: Why worry as to whether a
play is a good or bad one to read 1 The cast-
ing of it may make all the difference in
action. Many a good play has been ruined
by the square pegs in round holes amongst
its interpreters; and many a bad play has
been made by an outstanding performance
in the cast. “Give and Take” is an instance
of the latter. The piece made no impression
in America when first staged there, though
its author, Aaron Hoffmann, was already
mildly famous for his “Welcome Stranger.”
It was an utterly unknown quantity to play-
goers when put on in Melbourne, but the
grotesque, and, in many ways, unique, Roy
Rene’s sheeny man drew r the crowd. Johnny
Sheridan’s impersonation of “Widow
O’Brien” did the same thing for that childish
concoction “F'un on the Bristol.”
“C.R.”: Hugh Stone (B. 8/4/’2G) is right
in stating that it was at the Queen’s, in York-
street, Sydney, that a Kelly Gang drama was
first announced to be played. It was en-
titled “Ostracised” ; the author, I think, was
Walter Reynolds. I was one of the crowd
which packed the Queen’s pit that night in
1880, and which included many bluejackets
from a visiting English warship, the
Raleigh. When eight o’clock arrived,
the manager, Keogh, came before the
curtain and informed us that the per-
formance had been forbidden. There was
a tremendous uproar of hoots and threats,
and when some well-meaning idiot turned
off the gas the din increased. Fights
began among a section of the audience, some
of whom had mounted the stage demanding
that the play proceed; others, forcing a
passage into York-street, came into collision
with a squad of police, who had arrived at
the double. A general melee followed, the
Raleigh's men joining in with joy. When
peace was restored the combatants adjourned
to Larry Foley’s bar, adjoining the pit en-
trance, and finished their entertainment there.
An Outbreak of Art.
Sundry artists and arts in Sydney :—
There is an absence of bulbous-breasted, hippy
females in Norman Lindsay’s exhibition of etchings
at Farmer’s Gallery, Sydney; he has invested in an
unusual amount of drapery for most of his ladies,
and actually there are no women at all in some
of the etching's. There is a sweep of imagination
and a force of personality in all Lindsay’s work,
and he seems to have deliberately set himself in these
pictures to give the lie to the allegation (justified by
some of his previous exhibits) that he can’t draw.
“Release” is one of the figureless studies, an ex-
quisitely-realised picture showing the water and
trees of a lake foreground shaken free by sunlight
from the mists into which the distance of the picture
imperceptibly melts. “Odysseus” causes a holding
of the breath for the safety of the craft which moves
between ominous cliff-faces on waves whose swirlings
can be felt; the picture is heroically done. The
multitude flooded into “Allegro Vivace, Eighth Sym-
phony,” would tax the powers of the census
enumerator to count; over this crowd of revellers
sweep the gargantuan figures of phantom spirits of
carousal. None can succeed with these tumultuous
conceptions like Lindsay. In the whole exhibition
there are only two exhibits unworthy of a place
with the rest; and red tabs commenced to crowd
upon the etchings from the first day.
The pictures which decorate the walls of Swain’s
Gallery show that Ellis St. John has been travelling,
and has illustrated his pilgrimage. The majority of
his pictures are little more than that, although it
may be admitted that the illustrations are pleasing
and well drawn. There are a few that rise a little
higher. “Houses in Moonlight,” one of several
Malay pictures, is in this section; and Bruges
supplies a number of alluring glimpses. Some etchings
of old Sydney are well done, and have historical
value.
Although Blamire Young sometimes falls down
on his aspirations and drowns his idea in smudge,
his enterprise makes him interesting, even in failure.
His show at the Macquarie Galleries consists of
43 exhibits in the usual poster-impression style,
several of them exceedingly effective. Just how
curiously the artist works his effects is shown in
“Goldfish” (No. 1), in which, in a massive bowl
of a misshape that any self-respecting glassblower
would disown, two fish which are not gold swim in
a mass of green, smudging to a darker color. It
is by no means the best picture, although it is
catalogued at the most ambitious price; another
ambitiously-priced one, “Avenel” (No. 10), also loses
itself in smudges. There is some exquisite work
in “Stoneware and Silver” (No. 6), and “The Spirit
of Egypt” (No. 16) contains a vividly striking idea—
Blamire Young’s work teems with ideas.
Some Melbourne street scenes are the best part of
Dora Wilson’s exhibition at the Grosvenor Gallery.
“Beak Time” (Town Hall corner, Melbourne) gives
a very real feeling of the southern city’s wintry
atmosphere, with the shadows in the street and
the Winter’s sunset throwing its last cold gleam on
the upper walls of the buildings. Some flower studies
and stills are also alluring; but in her portraits
the flesh tones are lifeless generally, the drawing some-
times shocking, and in one picture the artist has
apparently secured the services of the model used
by drapers’ artists for their drawings of 12ft. women.
There are exceptions; the crayon portrait of Frederick
Mackay, the dancer, is a lively likeness, and “Lind-
say” is a nicely done portrait of a child.
* * * *
New picture-shows in Melbourne: —
Harold Herbert’s water-colors at the New Gallery
show little forward movement. His ability to render
Nature in lyric outbursts of fresh, clean color that
barely tint the paper is undoubted. He sings the
charm of distant light-blue hills adorably, his tree-
tops rustle, and he responds to the call of the wide,
open spaces like an aesthetic he-man. But his
compositions tend to be spotty, because his viewpoint
is too objective. His tree-trunks are merely so many
slabs of three-ply rolled through a mill and showing
all the anatomy of the living subject, but not its
spirit.
Aileen Dent’s Parnassan climb, judging by the oils
and water-colors now showing at the Athenaeum,
lias only reached the foothills, up to date. Atmo-
sphere, perspective and design, three of the chief
adjuncts of the eternal business of pinning Nature
to a piece of Whatman’s hotpress paper, are largely
absent from her landscapes, although in one (un-
numbered) little picture of a quiet backwater she
has succeeded in rendering reflected skyscape admir-
ably. Her largest oil is rather striking. It depicts
an elderly gentleman in a bashed felt hat and a
lumpy overcoat, who looks as if the artist had
forcibly thrown him into a chair and he was half-
humorously consenting to be drawn. His patience
didn’t last, however. A naive label, “Hands un-
finished,” is appended to the opus for the critic’s
guidance.
F. Kenwood Giles has a show of almost everything
at the Decoration Gallery. This critic thought sub-
jects such as a small girl in pink enamel emerging
fi'om a bath and saying- “I’se clean now!” had been
buried in the same tomb as the illustrious Millais,
but here is F. Kenwood Giles to say us nay. He
will have to learn a lot more about drawing before
his well-meant crusade against impressionistic ten-
dencies in art can be taken seriously.
From an Adelaide critic:—
John Goodchild is about to marry and revisit
Europe. S. II. Skipper, who opened his farewell
show at the Dunster Gallery, spoke of the artist's
very first beginnings, when they were both fighting in
France. Of his unpretending present exhibition
etchings form the greater part, but there are attrac-
tive drawings with pencil or pen, and a couple of
aquatints.


PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE OF
25,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each.
Preference as to Capital, and carrying a Cumulative Preference Dividend of 8 per cent, per annum, and participating with the Ordinarv Shares
in all Dividends up to 10 per cent, per annum in the
CHECKER CAB CO. (Australasia) LTD.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
Subscribed Capital, 50,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
These Preference Shares are offered to the Public at par on the following terms:—
5/- PER SHARE ON APPLICATION.
5/- PER SHARE ON ALLOTMENT.
Balance in calls not exceeding 5/- per share at intervals of not less than one month.
Shareholders have the right to pay up in full if they so desire.
W. B. SMALL, Public Accountant, 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
O. H. P. COOPER, Hughes
DIRECTORS.
R. O. HUGHES, Hughes Motor Service, Ltd., 170
Motor Service, Ltd., 170 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Phillip
Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 170 Phillip Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
P D WALKER, A.1.C.A., A.S.S.A. (England), Chancery Chambers, 170 Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
CAMPBELL and ROWE, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BROKER:
P. T. CAHILL, Esq., Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PRELIMINARY.
It is to be specially noted that this is a prospectus of an issue of 25,000 Cumulative and Partly
Participating Preference Shares in an established Company with a well-equipped fleet and mgam ed
establishment. . . . , ,
This Company was formed in August, 1925. by the Hughes Motor Service, Limited—the mot
successful Hire Service Company in Australia and which is the successor of a Aim of that name
established fifteen years ago. +llO
The Taxi Service was carefully organised before a cab was placed on the road, and n ° d tr °£,J e
or expense was spared to make the organisation (both internal and external) efficient.
of fifteen years’ actual experience with the Traffic Regulations trade requirement as to suitable cabs,
the personnel of the drivers, and the constantly changing public fancy in respect to motoi t a .p
is obvious.
EQUIPMENT.
Automobile engineers are agreed that the silence, resilience and flexibility attained by the six-
cylinder engine is “beyond comparison with that attained by an engine with less cylinders. Irntatmg
gear changing and unnecessary noise are avoided, and m hilly surroundings-as exist in Sydney and
environments—this is essential. Moreover, a properly designed six-cylinder car costs lessen upkeep,
and is lighter on tyres than a four-cylinder car of the same> weight, and so is the cost of its maintenance.
In New South Wales all Taxi Cabs have to conform with the Traffic Police Regulations before
beino- placed on the road particularly in regard to the meter. The most modern taxi metei yet
evolved—the “Ohmer” Receipt-giving Meter—has been adopted, and must ensure satisfaction to both
the customer and the Company. ,
After much deliberation, the “Buick” was chosen as the best available equipment. A stui d.v.
rugged job—altered and strengthened where necessary—with the backing of one of tile st
most powerful organisations in the world—General Motors Coloration— with the latest mechanical
improvements and refinements, an effective local Sales and 1 aits Sbvice, and th a >
local reputation, it seeinS in every way to present the Ideal laxi Cab unit. .
The details of the cab design are the Company’s own. The cabs are, m effect, bimousine-Sedan ,
and will comfortably carry three passengers in the back seat, and two other passengers as we . ‘
h3 >C ample space for whilst* the driver’s comfort-an important point-is also considered
This type of car has been adopted by many leading American companies, and renders other taxi
cabs obsolete.
The Company now has 40 units actually operating.
GARAGE.
The Commnv has acquired an excellent City Site. Seventy-five per cent, of Taxi Work
of this Company originates in the City—thus unnecessary dead mileage is eliminated. A suitable
building Vs being constructed at an estimated cost of £14,500,. which will hou«* ■ cars as
well as provide office accommodation and workshop space Pacing as it does, four stieets and/o
lanes, ample means of approach and despatch are provided, as well as natural light. In the mean
time suitable interim arrangements have been made.
TELEPHONE SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT.
Efficient telephone communication is the heart of a successful taxi organisation The Company has
probably more effective direct lines than any other Cab Company in Austraha and a most modern
switchboard in its temporary establishment, but \ull be even bette s , ' which will minimise
plans have been finalised for safeguarding the mains going into new huild iig. which wiU min i e
—if not prevent—interruptions with the Company’s telephone system. The numbei ot direct line,
constantly being augmented.
DRIVERS.
The management—by long experience—know most of the available drivers, and also hew to
&A ’rraffic S and
running repairs, and the paramount necessity of civility and sen ice to its client-.
In this connection the Company’s shareholders are entirely AustraUan, and sois the management.
In selecting both staff and drivers, preference is given to Returned Soldieis and Australian..
INTERNAL ORGANISATION.
The internal organisation of the parent Company has always been its special pride and has
stood the test of time. Altered to fit the new development, similar methods have been utilised in the
Checker Cab Company (Australasia), Limited.
INTER-STATE AND EXTRA-AUSTRALIAN CO-OPERATION.
This Company will operate in New South Wales only, as this field will fully occupy the energies
of its organisation. Negotiations are in progress to grant to Companies m other & * at es with a simi ai
nomenclature and equipment the use of our trade-mark The advantage to this . Co ™P“y
State and Oversea Travellers, who will have a definite bias towards cars which will be favoiably regarded
in their own cities, is apparent, A Company trading under a similar name and design is already .111
operation in Auckland, New Zealand, and there are approximately 200 similarly designated Companies
operating in the U.S.A.
PROFITS EARNED AND APPROXIMATE FINANCIAL POSITION.
The Corapanv is not prepared at this stage to publish its trading results, hut it can definitely and
positively be stated that substantial profits were earned after providing: for depreciation .income ta
and other contingencies for the period commencing Bth December, 1920 (the first day a Checkei p
for hire on the Svdnev streets), to 28th February, 1926. The accounts of the subsidiary Company \iere
naturally intermingled with those of the parent Company, but i the direct expenses were separated and
the resulting “gross” profit showed a handsome margin. Allowing for increased Overhead, but
taking into consideration the greater number of cars, and with a more complete organisation, the Board
has no doubt as to the Company’s capacity to earn substantial profits. The parent Company naturally
took over the profits earned by the subsidiary Company up to the end of its financial year. Though not
available, it is known that the March figures will be still more satisfactory'.
Without taking into account any profits earned since 28th February, 1926, a very approximate
statement of the position of the Company at 31st March, 1926, is:—
Capita]—
50,000 Shares of £1 each
Creditors (including Bank Overdraft,
Provision for Taxation, and all other
Accounts)
£50,000
3,470
£53,470
Fleet (less depreciation to 28th Feb-
ruary, 1926) £21,870
Plant, Machinery, Spare Parts, Tyres, etc. 1,700
Freehold Land .. .. .. .. 14,000
Prepayments and other minor assets. . 900
Goodwill, Trade-marks, Kstablishment
F.xes., etc. . . . . . . . . 15,000
£53,470
The actual profits for March, which are known to be substantial, plus the accrued charge for
depreciation, will, of course, reduce the creditors.
These results could not, of course, be attained by any Company which had not the advantage of
the ramifications of an established business.
Depreciation has been taken into account at the rate of 30 per cent, per annum on the original cost
of the car.
ESTIMATED FUTURE PROFITS.
Future profits are empiric, but at present rates, and allowing for all contingencies (except Income
Tax), the fleet of 40 cars, it is considered, should earn net profits estimated on a conservative basis of
£9OOO per annum, and with a larger fleet the profits should be correspondingly greater.
This profit will be more than sufficient to pay a dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum on
the whole of the capital of the Company (including the Preference Capital) and leave a substantial
amount for Reserves.
WHAT THE £25,000 IS REQUIRED FOR.
Approximately the ordinary capital already subscribed is sufficient to pay almost in full for the
present fleet, the plant and machinery, the land and goodwill. The additional £25,000 will erect the
building ( £14,500) and purchase additional cars. By the time these are on the road the funds arising
from the accumulated depreciation fund and other financial resources should enable the fleet to be
brought up to approximately 80 cars. This is as far as definite future schemes have been made.
CONTRACTS.
The only material Contract affecting the Company and relevant to the present issue is the following:
3rd March, 1926.- —Contract for Sale between Hughes Motor Service, Limited, therein called Vendor
of the one part, and the Company, therein called Purchaser, of the other part.
A copy of this Contract may be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company, the original
having been filed with the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies.
The Directors reserve the right to issue a further parcel of 25,000 Preference Shares pari passu with
the present issue, but in the event of this being done the holders of the present issue will be given the
first opportunity of subscribing to any such further preference issued in proportion to their respective
shareholdings.
The present issue of preference shares is subject
and Articles of Association. Intending investors are
Articles of Association, which may be seen either at
Office of the Company’s Broker.
to the provisions of the Company’s Memorandum
invited to inspect a copy of the Memorandum and
the Registered Office of the Company or at the
GENERAL.
It is believed bv the Board that there is room for at least 600 Taxi Cabs to work profitably in
Sydney and adjacent suburbs. Obviously, the day of the individual taxi-owner is gone, and he will be
replaced bv modern, specially-designed cabs directed by effective organisations. The best interests of
both the public and the Companies will be served if there are several (but not too many),such concerns
working, though in competition, in amity. Only such companies as offer the public modern vehicles,
consistent, and effective service, who perfect their internal organisation and run their services on
established business principles will ultimately survive. This Company has ’seen established on the
basis of valuable past experience in these respects.
GOODWILL.
The original basis of the flotation of this Company was on the hypothesis of it being a subsi-
diary Company to the Hughes Motor Service, Limited, and besides transferring a portion of its un-
doubted goodwill and establishment the latter Company had made an intensive study of motor
taxi-cab conditions for over two years, and had carefully considered the problems, and effectively pre-
pared for the event in advance, and this data has been passed over to the new Company. Consequently
the goodwill is noti represented merely by the ordinary “Vendors’ Shares” common in many flotations.
It represents, in this case, only consideration for actual value given.
SECURITY.
The preference Shareholders will, therefore, have as security for their capital, land and buildings
about £28,500, and about 80 new cabs of a modern and saleable type.
The Dividend —8 per cent, cumulative preference participating with the ordinary shares up to
10 per cent. —is more than usually attractive, and, taken in conjunction with the security of the capital,
the investment should commend itself to cautious investors.
DIVIDENDS.
Dividends from profits will be declared half-yearly on or about the 31st March and 30th September
each year in respect to the half-yearly periods endedrespectively 28th February and 31st August. The
first is the Company’s interim period, and the latter the close of its financial (and taxation) year.
In the first period i'i.e., to 31st August, 1926) dividends will be calculated from the time the
Shareholders’ money reaches the Company’s office until the end of the half-year. Shareholder’s desiring
to pay in advance of calls may do so, and will receive the dividend at the rate declared as from date
of receipt bv the Companv.
CONCLUSION.
Application will be made in due course to the Sydney Stock Exchange for the “listing” of this
preference issue.
Brokerage at the rate of 6d. per share will be paid on all applications bearing the stamp of a
broker who is a member of a recognised Stock Exchange. In addition, an over-riding commission of
lid. per share will be paid to the Company’s broker, P. T. Cahill, Esq., on all shares of this issue
applied for and allotted.
Brokerage a ndi all expenses connected with this issue will be paid for by the Company.
Applications on the form attached should be filled in, signed, and forwarded, together with cheque
for the application money, either to the Company’s Secretary or to the Company’s Broker.
Dated at Sydney this 14th day of April, 1926.
APPLICATION FOR PREFERENCE SHARES.
CHECKER CAB CO. (Australasia) LTD.
The Directors,
Checker Cab Company (Australasia), Limited,
Gentlemen!— I^hereby^ppfy 'for Preference Shares in Checker Cab Company (Australasia), Limited, and agree to pay the sum of £l. for each of such
shares. „ , .. ~ .
I forward to you herewith the sum of £ being application money of 5/- per share tor the said shares. r ,
1 agree to pay the sum of 5/- per share on allotment and the balance of 10/- per share for the said shares by calls as they fall due, not exceeding • / P e
I Request you to allot to me upon the terms of the Prospectus dated the Fourteenth day of April, 1026. that number of shares, and I agree to accept the said Shaies oi al j>
smaller number that may be allotted to me, and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association ot the C ompany, and 1 hereby request and authorise .
register me as the holder of the said shares. I also hereby declare that 1 am over the age of 21 years.
Dated this day of 1026.
Signature
■ ■■ l ! ■ y-
Maine in full
Address
Description (or occupation)


3
v.
i-'.s.
f -
v
V
ft \v,
\ '
/-
i
0
SMTISH - BUILT
yym
■ a
H
mam.
Wm
?• -air .
'
J
■I
a
Efficiency
aAj
lighting
lants
i-k.w. Belt-driven Plant on Girders.
Direct-co up led Plan f.
THE DIRECT-COUPLED
“LISTER LITE”
THE superiority of this plant is unquestioned. It
includes the robust Lister Engine, with all its
dependability, and a heavily-made, strong generator.
Many years of useful work is guaranteed without
the least probability of a breakdown. Consider
this against the time when your house is full of your
friends and the load is heavy.
fu I lest information and quotations free
with Catalogue B from the Agents:
Dan gar, Gedye & Co„
Ltd.,
Young Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Winohcombe, Carson,
Ltd.,
Eagle Street,
BRISBANE, Queensland.
Malloch Brothers,
William Street,
PERTtT, W.A
A. P. Sutherland,
2 Maffra Street
(Queen’s Bridge),
SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Victoria.
Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd.,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
A. G. Webster & Sons,
Ltd.,
HOBART. TAS.
Levin & Co., Ltd.,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
1 % -k.w. Direct-coupled Plant.
THE BELT-DRIVEN “LISTER LITE”
EQUALLY dependable and suitable for smaller lighting
schemes. The same high-grade Lister Engine and generator.
The Lister Lite not only lights! It runs your iron, your
fan, your ice machine, your radiator, and makes your life
worth living in the town or on the land.
&
v
PH
8
NS
mm
a
R.A LISTER6>C? L T °
a
ee^wT
cos


Amusements.
gtDNBI’S CHIEF THEATRE S
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: PAVLOVA.
CRITERION: POLLY WITH A PAST.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
PALACE: KEEP SMILING.
BICKAKUS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CE LE BRIT Y V A UDE VILLE.
The World’s Best.
pD LEERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
w
IRTHS’ HIPPODROM
HAYMARIvET, SYDNEY.
E,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
Matinees —Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays
at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD.. MELBOURNI-
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE GONDOLIERS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE BAD MAN.
piUNCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE
HUGH J. WARD’S GREAT ATTRACTION,
MERCENARY MARY.
Brilliant Musical Comedy.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON.
Amusements.
HENJE Uat THEATRE, JIELBOCKNE.
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll
E. J. CARROLL Presents
lan Hay’s Rollicking’ Racing Comedy,
THE SPORT OF KINGS.
Enacted by JOSEPH CUNNINGHAM’S
NEW ENGLISH COMEJDY CO.
\ niTORIUII. JIEIiBOCBN E.
i EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
Matinees Monday and Wednesday at 2.15.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
THE DON COSSACKS CHOIR.
The Finest Male Choir in the World.
A Distinguished Musical Critic wrote:
“.... and the volume of sound thundered over the
heads of the listeners It was as though a whole
village sang. The deep organ-lake notes of the bases,
the soft, high tenors... .the crescendo rising to such
power, and then falling to almost a whisper.
NEW BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Twice Dailv 2.30 and 8
KEITH CONNOLLY’S SYNCOPATING
JESTERS.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
nn V.IICSTJC THEATRE MELBOURNE.
**■ Commencing on Saturday,
RIN-TIN-TIN
THE WONDER DOG.
Back again on the screen in a new and splendid
WARNER BROTHERS PRODUCTION.
TRACKED IN THE SNOW COUNTRY.
The young and their elders all adore him.
He is the marvel of the century.
MatinSes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
PETER VERNON’S SILENCE
with an ALL .AUSTRALIAN Cast.
THE GILDED BUTTERFLY
With ALMA RUBENS.
Prices as usual.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
mote you price for the original.
COME TO
THE GREAT
a
INTERNATIO/MAL
MOTORjrwow
EXHIBITION BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
Open Daily from 11 a.m. to 10.30 p.m.
APRIL 30 to MAY 15
(Under the Auspices of Chamber of
Automotive Industries and R.A.G.V.)
m ■
H. W. Harrison,
Hon. See. and
Organiser.
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
V
Old Way: Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
into skin
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
Shavex
A
New
Way:
Smear lightly
over face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of
years man has been scrubbing his face
with soaps containing soda, and has never
reasoned that under such treatment the
skin may suffer? Nothing is more ugly
than a face that looks raw. Shaving
soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda.
But now we have discovered SHAVLX,
the natural method, where no brush and
soaps containing soda are needed.
FREE SAMPLE!
One can shave with Shavex in half the
time, and you will get a smoother and
closer shave than you have ever had,
and shaving will become a pleasure. Your
skin will look and feel like satin, and
your face under this treatment will look
twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a
skin food as well.
1/9 large tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
(Dept.
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
L ) eagle AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
British Australian Wool Realisation
Association Limited.
CLOSING OF BOOKS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Transfer Books and the Register of Shareholders
of this Association will be closed from Monday, the 10th day of May, to Saturday, the
15th day of May, 1926, both days inclusive, in connection with the Ordinary General
Meeting of the Association, to be held on Thursday, the 13th day of May, 19-0.
By Order of the Board.
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, G. F. PARKES,
12th April, 1926. Secretary.
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the FIFTH ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
of Shareholders in the above Association will be held at Anzac House, Collins Street,
Melbourne, on Thursday, the 13tli day of May, 1926, at 2.30 p.m.
BUSINESS:
1. To receive and consider the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports and the Balance Sheet
and accounts for the year ended 31st December, 1925. „ .
2. To elect four Directors. Lord Barnby and Sir John Ferguson (British Board) and
Messrs. C. R. Murphy and John Turnbull (Australian Board) retire; they are eligible tor
re-election and offer themselves accordingly. . IT . T , ~ T , .
3. To elect and fix the remuneration of Auditors. Messrs, Edwin H. Flack, F.0.P.A.,
and John B. Young, F.C.P.A, Melbourne, and W T. Butterfield, Bradford, England, retire
in acordanee with the Articles of Association. They are eligible for re-election and oltei
themselves accordingly. .
4 To transact any other ordinary business which may be brought forward
By Order of the Board,
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. C. F. PARKES,
12th April, 1926. Secretary.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an. EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
of the Association will be held at Anzac House, Collins Street, Melbourne, on lhursday,
tlie 13th day of May, 1926 (immediately following the Ordinary General Meeting to be
held on the same day), when the subjoined Resolution will be proposed as an Extra-
ordinary station:- BESO LUTION.
THAT this Association be wound up voluntarily under the pro-
visions of the Companies Act 1915, and that Sir John Michael
Hiaiffins K.C.M.G., William Stevenson Fraser and Charles Robert
Murphy, all of Melbourne, he and they are hereby appointed
TJouidators for the purposes of such winding up, at a remuneration
eqhivafeStotbit now being paid to them by the Association, with
full power on behalf of the Association to do all things necessary
or incidental in connection with the winding up, including - the em-
ployment and remuneration of servants and agents.
Should the abovementioned Resolution be passed by _ the requisite majority it will be
submitted for confirmation as a Special Resolution to a ILRTHER EXIIL
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of tlie Association, and such meeting will be held
at Anzac House Collins Street. Melbourne, on Thursday, the 10th day of June, 1926,
at :L3O p.nL, for’the purpose of considering and if thought fit confirming such Resolution
as a Special Resolution accordingly. By or(Jer of theßo a r <],
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, G- F ’ PA J^rSary
12th April, 1926. "
Holds 50% More Ink
fSSfS//////S//S//S/////S///j
m
#/////////
P
o
o
©
LpoO3
SELF-FILLING 2
SAFETY 2
msssssst^
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS HE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Made by
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL
UNDERWEAR,
Also SPORTSM AN knitted Outerwear
and RAMESES Underwear and Hosiery.
LEICESTER,
ENGLAND.
Agent: WOLSEY LTD..
316 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
THE MARK OF .
A GOOD RAZOR'
THE
Aik any man vou know who u»ei a PLUM—
- uk him if he doun'l think it the bolt
iV/y’ Razor he hai ever uaed- Hear him
oniwer, "Why, rather!”
w
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street. Sydney.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
liH
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
RITSR RUBBER.
For Sale.
MINING CLAIM,
Shotover River, N.Z.
FOR SALE BY TENDER.
’"TENDERS will be received by the under-
signed up till May 31, 1926, for the
purchase of a Special River Claim in the
Shotover River, Otago, N.Z., known as Gates’
Claim. Admeasurement 66 chains 85 links,
or about 15 acres by recent survey.
Intending tenderers are requested to make
a personal inspection of the Claim or appoint
an expert to do so. The owner of the
Property will be on the ground for the pur-
pose of giving all information, terms and
conditions to bona fide applicants.
A deposit of 1 per cent, must accompany
tender. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
W. H. GATES.
C/o Lake Wakatip Mail,
Queenstown, N.Z.
Public Notice.
The Western Australian Bank.
'J’HE directors have declared an interim dividend
at the rate of 17 A per cent, per annum, free of
dividend duty, for the half-year ended March 29,
1926, payable on May 6 next, and in this connection
the transfer-register will be closed from April 22 to
May 5, inclusive.
K. L. HERBERT, General Manager.
Missing Friends.
]y[cMAHON, FRANCIS JAMES, formerly of Rich-
mond, Victoria, last heard of in Bourke, New
South Wales, about 25 years ago. Would now be
aged 65 years. Any person knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with DUGDALE,
CREBER & SIMMONS, Solicitors, 84 William Street,
Melbourne.
1/" ATE RYAN, aged about 60, born in
Foilaclera, Co. Limerick, Ireland, daugh-
ter of William and Joanna Ryan, is sought
by her sister, Mrs. NORA M. RYAN, 2122
S. Ridgway Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
pAUL OSBORNE COOKSLEY (late A.1.F.), lasi
known address Grong Grong, N.S.W. Brother
inquiries. Communicate with W. T. SNOWDEN,
Solicitor, Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
DOUGAN, JAMESINA (or MINNIE),
daughter of Alexander Williamson (who
died in Glasgow about 1874) and wife of
James Gibson Dougan, or anyone acquainted
with her or her issue, please communicate
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BRIDGET MULLARKY, or MULCAHY, daughter of
Thomas Walsh, or any person acquainted with her
whereabouts is requested to communicate with E. J.
PAYNE, Public Trust Office, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S
MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday.
Is the most popular 64-
page woman’s paper
published in the Com-
monwealth. It features
everything a woman
ought to know. Once
you read it you will
never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly
pattern is free for the
asking.
Published by
the Bulletin Newspaper Co.
214 George Street, Sydney.
There’s nothing like “JASON”
a
It is always a pleasure to see, through the wardrobe
glass, the graceful correctness of the “JASON” Fit.
Not a crease, not a crinkle. The suppleness of the “JASON”
weave cannot be surpassed. It ensures your comfort while
conveying a pleasing sense of being smartly apparelled all
through. The smooth, silky “JASON” Finish soothes and
vitalises sensitive skins, and never roughens with time and
wear—and “JASON” NEVER SHRINKS.
Your store has "Jason''
Underwear in all
sizes, and Winter and
Summer weights, for
Men. Women and
Children.
“Olympic” Brand is a
lower priced underwear
with the same guarantees
of value and satisfaction
as “ Jason.”
4RT
99
J
.-WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
Sole Manufacturers: JASON UNDERWEAR CO.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND
<%>c
■I
a
a
Tucs ssal'iftir
Bette r no bicycle at all
than one which has been robbed
of its comfort by the fitting
of a saddle that will lose its
shape in a few hundred miles.
There are models to suit all types of riders.
Sauntering. Touring. Racing.
R. V. Bristol & Co. (Pty.), Ltd.,
Fenehureh Buildings, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Work*, Birmingham, England.
SADDLES
Built to maintain the reputa-
tion that made them famous.
Catalogues Post Free.
a
Are you as Careful choosing a Sidecar
a
à
as you are
your Motorcyclel
r I 'OO much depends on the
sidecar for you to be careless
as to what sidecar you use
Every Goulding Sidecar, Chassis
Special or Standard, in-
corporates the patented
Goulding floating axle
and scroll spring shown on
the left —the feature which insul-
ates the motorcycle from the
movement of the sidecar wheel
over the roughest road.
In most cases a Qoulding costs less than an ordinary Sidecar
GOULDING SIDECARS
Sold by Most Motorcycle Dealers throughout Australasia
A. G. HEALING & CO. PTY. LTD., 354 Post Office Place, Melbourne, 27 Hyde St., Adelaide
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Platypus (and many others) : Of course..
“Strew on her roses, roses” is from Matthew Arnold’s
“Requiescat,” not Rossetti M.F.V.: Hopeless. Should'
all so in one-sixth the space. And could Ox: Too‘
late Debette: Well, did they “click” ?... K. Nick:
“Both of us seemed broody.” Yet you didn’t hatch
out a story. .. .L.A.: “Spirit of the Mountains” only
old echoes. .. .A.C.8.; Merely red-nosed vaudeville
comedy... .W.E.8. : Good material in “Intaglio,”
but a story should be a joint, not a basin of scraps.
....Geo. O.: Your leap of imagination wants a
better take-off G.T. : No cradle here for “Bar-
ling’s Baby” A.H.: “The Atheist” nearly found
grace... .G.T.: Sincere, and that’s a virtue; but not
skilful L.C.: Too cheap R.G.H.: No
L.A.S.: “The Grass on the Ridges” isn’t succulent
enough R.W.T. : “Kelly’s Stairs” creak badly: the
other too trifling Ges. L.: Too long, too long.
....Aurora; Your fancy walks on stilts. . . .G.M.C.:
Ten stanzas of it left us dazed Mary L. L.: After
1500 words you say, “In a few days he had settled
to the new routine.” Settling the “migrant” io
that is dull work, and doesn’t make a story....
F.W.M.: Botli read like imitations of verses already
printed... .M.H.S.; Your racing yarn is a three-
miler. It would have made a good sprint. Cut
out the interminable detail Dalzell: Much too
long, and not convincing. . . .H.F.L,: You could make
a very good story of “Sisiphus,” but you just
throw the material together N.W.: May do, re-
written .... H.W. : Neither refreshment nor sustenance
in your “Pints and Peanuts”... .Stephanie Graeme:
Too many words, and not enough interest. Try
again, but be concise F.C.: “Old Bill” is a dreary
wilderness. .. .ILL.J. : “Song of the Boilershop” mere
noise W.H.C.8.: “To-morrow” is lost in mist....
K.C.; Sorry: you can’t make weight with that racing
verse... .Rhode W.: Some good lines, but not enough
to carry so much verse about so little.... Wenga:
Come right in, old Adam, with your great, breathless
thought of that historic occasion:
And if the apple you did cat
And bid me take a bite,
I’ve no regrets, in fact, I know
It was a lovely night.
.. . . G. 8.: Put a wasp in your “Fruiterer’s Window.”
It lacks sting:...Optimist: Victor is a most unin-
teresting penitent Willach: Both fail K.D.:
If you correct the obvious faults in “Maroochy
River” and shorten it slightly, it may do, “Castle
Peak” under consideration Gurzon: For a start,
there are too many “Ah’s” and “Oh’s.” Wherefore,
alas! Flexmore: Verse still not up C. J.: By
ignoring rhyme you fancy you are escaping difficul-
ties ; but when a writer is only learning to toddle
he will find the stick of rhyme useful R.G.11.: By
the time Ethel had discovered Wordsworth, gone to
the gypsy tea, and had her waist squeezed by Dick,
we were getting as excited as a curate at a bun-
scramble ; and then Ethel started the washing-up and
dropped our excitement into the sink.... San, T.:
You say “these poems were composed by myself.”
Sorry, by the time they reached us they were
all decomposed.... 8.C.: Some appeal; dress
the story better.... G.J.W.: Some day we will
get up early and “inhale the dawn” ; but we won’t
rhyme it with “morn,” or “adorn” either, for
fear of indigestion.... D. 8.: Don’t care for “Egoist.”
... .Alone: No, not alone—many others goes with it.
... .M.G.: Cheap... .Jo S.: None suitable... .D.E.0.:
Too vague a fancy.... J.1i.8.: Unfortunately full of
weaknesses. .. ,C.M.A.: Your “Mist” is drifting back
to you; it’s very thin.... The Dunce: Threaten to
read your verse to the local M.P. —he’ll do all you
want... .M.J.H.; “Fate is standing with a broken
dice.” We were afraid it might have been a bottle.
. ...R. A. Mac.: Too long-winded.... Frank F.: The
smile on the face at the end is not worth the
1500 words of agony... .J.H.L.: The man who
issued your poet’s license made a mistake... .C.S.J.:
Good material; but in the form submitted no use
to The Bulletin. .. .J.H.L.: We like the line in your
Immigration verse—
And then we trust our friends will come
And make this continent to hum.
. ...R.L.; “Echo’s Song” nearly succeeds, and some
of the others trembled on the brink.. .. W.A.D.:
Cynicism should bite with a serpent’s t00th....
Hellblossom: Afraid you can’t bloom here... .Leam-
ington; Just fails.... S. Panel: Rocky Emel:
Slight.... Stephanie: No verse-heroine should look
“just like a half-drowned pup.” Idea is trite, any-
way. .. .P.H.C.: Not much substance in your easily-
rhymed verses... .L.C.; Why give your story an Eng-
lish setting?... .W.J.T.; No moon “like the face
of a lover newly dead” is allowed to shine here
M.8.G.: The yarn doesn’t thrill us... .N.S.M.: Far too
long for its interest D.C. (Double Bay): Blank
verse of that kind, with an occasional lapse into no
verse at all, does not make us happy.... Una C.:
We do not like prose chopped with a blunt axe to
make it look like verse R.F.S.: Worth improving.
....Denis M.: The heroic attempt to rhyme “law”
■with "solicitor” shows at least that you are a.
man of courage... .D.M.C.: The verse is very thin
and weak and never rises above the commonplace.
.... Aphelinus M.: The theme is impossible and the
verse has many stumbles.... Genung: Doesn’t make
much of a yarn....D.K. (North Fitzroy) : Pleasing
in its way, but not our way.... Ernest A.: The yarn
doesn’t get to anything... .E.J.0.: Not up.... E.R.
(Beecroft) : The verse misses... .R.D.F.: “The Cash”
goes rather irritatingly to a weak finish... .F.M.
(Canterbury): Far too rough for the very usual
things it says... .G.V.K.: Pleasing enough, but too
trite. .. .C.R.S.: Doesn’t strike us in our fount of
praise... .M.P. (Mudgee) : Mild verse covering ground
that was trodden to dust in the last years of the
•war... .F.S.H.: “Loon” is neither very exciting nor
very convincing... ..J.S.D.: The verse is not good
enough to carry the thought, and the thought is
not strong enough to go alone. .. .Leila H.: You
must get a better idea of what verse is.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.M.M.: All your people look as if they slept
on a bed of prickly-pear and then washed in a
duckpond E.K.L.: Jokes about little Tommy’s
tummy are required only now and then —say one per
century M.J.: Feeble pencil-scratches that wreck
the eyesight.... K.A.: The paralytic drunk lies like
a dumpling on the serapheap. .. .J.M.C.: Line-work
indecisive... .U.P.: A similar joke appeared in last
week’s “Poverty Point”... .P.P.: Not this week.
Not for very many weeks. .. . J.F.8.: The joke is the
skeleton of a much better one, and the presentation
of it is dreadful... .J. 8.: The cook is worse drawn
than she is ill-mannered.... R.M.: Wait till you
mature.... H.C.: Not keen on pictorial parodies, but
the idea is fair, and might interest someone else....
E.N.F.: The various members of the Brown family
have merged into the pattern of the wallpaper in a
manffer that defies separation.


MISS DOROTHY DEWAR,
a charming Rexona Girl, writes:
“I am a user of Rexona Soap,
and find it unequalled for keep-
ing the hair in perfect condi-
tion.”
MISS H. EVERITT, a
lovely Rexona Girl, writes: “I
always use Rexona Soap, for I
find there is nothing to equal
it for keeping the hair in per-
fect condition.”
MISS RUTH BUCKNALL,
a charming Rexona iGirl, writes:
“I always use Rexona Soap, for
I find it simply wonderful for
keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition.”
MISSES OLGA, GWEX and RONNIE EARN -
SHAW, beautiful Rexona Girls, write: “We are
constant users of Rexona Soap, and find it unsur-
passed for the hair.”
Girls! Shampoo Hair
with
REXONA SOAP
Makes the hair Bright, Soft and Silky
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double
the beauty of your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant,
and appears as soft, lustrous and charming as anyone could desire
after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delightful surprise awaits
those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or
thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil,
and in a few moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair.
Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies
and invigorates the scalp, for ever stopping itching and falling hail.
If you care to have pretty hair and lots of it, get a tablet of Rexona
soap to-day.
MISS BILLIE GRANT, a
dainty Rexona Girl, writes: “I
use only Rexona Soap, for I
find it excellent for the hair.”
MISS GWEN HARM ST ON,
a dainty Rexona Girl, writes:
“I have used Rexona Soap all
my life, and have recommended
it to all my girl friends.”
mm
MISS KATHLEEN PICK-
ETT, a pretty Rexona Girl,
writes: “I use only Rexona Soap
for my hair, which gives the best
results.”
MISS HILDA M.
WASHBOX] RUE, a
beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “I have used
Rexona Soap to my
entire satisfaction, and
á
Rexona
c'/or Health
att? Reaut
â
MI 88 NE LLE
DEAN, an attractive
Rexona Girl, writes:
“I use only Rexona
Soap, for I find it


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
B*l Kb r>ci Ill'S
g?
m
■ rasa
By building your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Hoofing with •‘FIBRO-
LITE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
"FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboards
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write for Free Catalogue “10."
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
"Asbestos House,’’
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
Se/i Your Skins
In the best market under the
best possible circumstances.
Those two factors are
decided influences on the
prices secured.
On a market where
buyers are plentiful and
with your consignments
in the hands of a strong,
capable salesman your
returns are certain to
be on top levels.
w
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
RUPTURE.
A FREB TRIAL.
B *** M ,r ® 'rubied with th« complaint, mite m and
W« will tend you eur catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Thu appliance doei away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of eaie and comfort from the
Grit day i use. it it the moat scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hole! a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, end the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
104 Queen Street, Melbouraa
The Public Trustee
Established Ist January, 1914
(Under State Guarantee),
ACTS AS
Executor - - Trustee,
Administrator,
Attorney or Agent,
Trust Funds Available for
Loans on City or Suburban
Freeholds,
Full Particulars Furnished
on Application.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. (C . isiro
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
ã
JT ES, he’s a bright
boy — intelligent, alert,
full of youthful vigor,
a real picture of
health.
And your own chil-
dren would be just as
sturdy—just as full of
the joy of living—if
you’ll but help them
with
The Vitamins in HYPOL are what growing children need.
They feed the system, enrich the blood, induce growth, prevent
rickets.
HYPOL is indeed an outstanding Emulsion—a healer and
tonic in one, rich in nutriment, delightfully palatable.
Try HYPOL for the following complaints— IT NEVER FAILS:
COUGHS
COLDS
BRONCHITIS
ANAEMIA
RICKETS
WEAK LUNGS
MALNUTRITION
UPSET NERVES
LOSS OF WEIGHT
■No Other Name.
Guard Against Substitutes HYPOL is just MYPOL-
Made by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
n HttMM*' :
k % J “ « | *V * * it
Jk" %%*. .* *r * ?■• t „,i* ,'
’ - '* f
*. :: !. ”7
'W
I «
Mat
is
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to 3>£in. in
$4 in. plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Roils,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND FOE OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sucre”: The Australian Turtle Co.,
which stalks its game at Heron and North-
West islands, on the Barrier Reef, canned
10,000 tins last season, and hopes to send
out 60,000 next season. Starting in Septem-
ber, the killing lasts 18 weeks. A turtle
draws the beam at 4cwt., and a tin of its
juice will “soup” six people.
* * * #
“Socks Counter” : The Salv’army _in the
Shivery Isles has long been combining the
sale of tea with the saving of souls; recently
it advanced another step into the realm of
worldly enterprise by sending out travellers
to solicit orders for drapery. This was too
much for the Federation of Drapers, etc.,
which promptly opened fire on Army H.Q.
The garrison capitulated and gave a promise
to withdraw forthwith.
* * * *
“Bulimba”: Brisbane beer-drinkers have
to bear many crosses these times. The
rivalry between the three big breweries is
breaking out all over the labels. When one
brewery put out a XXX brew a rival coun-
tered with XXXX; now the third brewery
has added a fifth cross. If this game keeps
on a Brisbane beer-label will soon carry as
many crosses as the postscript to a flapper’s
love-letter.
* * * *
“Old Wig”: Even the Australian youth
is not a man until he is 21. In the Mel-
bourne County Court a lad aged 18 brought
an action for damages on account of injuries
done to his motor-cycle and sidecar. It did
not take long to bump him out. “The plain-
tiff,” said the defence, “is a minor, and a
minor cannot sue on his own account, or be
sued. He ought to have sued through his
next friend or guardian.” “So he ought,”
agreed the Judge, and non-suited him with
five guineas costs.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The Gunn Government in S.A.
has in view an agricultural higli-school.
When the late Peter Waite gave Adelaide
Uni. his suburban park and home for ex-
perimental agriculture the ’Varsity has
assigned it tw T o professors and a com-
petent staff —he presented the Government
with 114 acres close by for similar purposes.
The idea is to combine the elements of agri-
culture with those of general knowledge.
City boys can try the life, and, if they like it,
can go on to the more elaborate Agricultural
College at Roseworthy.
* * * #
“Pakehaha”: Cannot something be done to
discourage these professional terrorists? I
can’t recall any complaint that some inter-
ested party has not declared at some time
or another to be humanity’s chief scourge.
The latest is a gentleman in Wellington
(M.L.) who declared that dental disease is
the greatest curse of the civilised world, less
than one in 10,000 of the population being
free from caries. He is president—a pure
coincidence, of course —of the local Dental
Association. Some time ago in the same city
a man got up at a conference and announced
that nine-tenths (a favorite fraction with the
terrorists) of the disease under which M.L.
groaned was due to householders not having
their premises re-papered every seven years.
He was a master house-decorator.
* * * *
“Ben Zine”: The Norwegian whaling fleet
operated with marked success in the Ross
Sea this season, taking 535 whales for a
yield of 38,000 barrels of oil —an advance of
300 whales and 6500 barrels of oil on last
season’s tally. The big factory-ship, the Sir
James Clark Ross, and the five little
“chase.rs” got a tremendous gruelling on the
way south from M.L. The ordinary voyage
is about nine days, but it took them six
weeks ; and 420 miles of broken ice had to
be negotiated. The fleet got a bad straining,
and most of the “chasers” go to Port Chal-
mers to dock for overhaul. Whales are very
numerous; and it is anticipated that another
fleet will be operating in Ross Sea next
season. The company has purchased for
£35,000 the twin-screw s.s. Polcevera from
a Cardiff owner. The craft, built in 1900
and 14.000 tons dead-weight, is to be con-
verted into a factory-ship.
* * * #
“‘Divvy”: An English coal co., finding
itself with accumulated profits, decided not
to distribute them as dividends, but to con-
vert them into debenture stock and appro-
priate them pro rata to shareholders. The
Bishop of Ipswich, in the course of his voca-
tion as a shepherd of souls, got £82,500
worth of this stock, and when the Taxation
Department claimed tax on it as part of his
Ludship’s income the Bishop demurred and
replied with pastoral mildness: “Nay it is
property.” Then at it they went, for the
Bishop didn’t propose to be smitten on either
cheek. At last the case reached the House
of Lords, and there it has been held that,
though the co. could have distributed this
sum as income had it been so disposed, in
the exercise of its legitimate discretion it
had not done so, but had converted it into
capital. The learned lords followed the
Blott case; there it was held that, where
profits were capitalised into fully-paid shares,
if the shareholder had no option to take
cash such shares did not constitute taxable
income.
* * * *
“Smutty Face”: When Australia gets a
Roll of Fame the name of W. J. Wege, of
Adelaide, will be sure of a place. Wege is
the engineer who solved the problem of apply-
ing the two-stroke principle in internal-com-
bustion engines to motors of more than one
cylinder. That means a tremendous reduc-
tion in the number of working parts in a
motor, greater power in ratio to weight, and
much lower cost of manufacture. A -Wege
three-cylinder motor fires nine times in six
revolutions—the same as a six cylinder
engine of the orthodox four-cycle type. Prac-
tical utility of Wege’s achievement is
vouched for by Professor Low, world’s lead-
ing authority on such subjects, and by results
of a 50,000-miles Australian test of an Eng-
lish-built Wege-engined motor-car. The
little Adelaide co. formed to exploit the
patents is selling its Australian manufactur-
ing rights to a Brisbane co., capitalised at
£75,000, which proposes to commence the
local manufacture of stationary engines,
graduating thence to marine engines and
eventually to car motors.


a
By appointment
to H M. the King.
Crossley Motors Ltd.,
England.
r~\
\ \ \
Pboß
PRICES
15/30-h.p. Model,
£545
15/30-h.p. Model.
Australian Body.
£495
Let a British Car reflect your pride of ownership.
OR the first time in history the journey
from CAPE to CAIRO has been
accomplished by motor-car. Once
again the apparently impossible has been
achieved by CROSSLEY CARS. No other
car in the world has ever completed this
gigantic task. Thirteen thousand miles through
unknown country where no roads exist, through
veritable seas of mud, across rivers and over
the desert. More than once the cars were
completely submerged, but the journey always
went on to its final triumphant conclusion.
This is the kind of service all Crossley Cars are
built to give. They succeed where other cars
fail. In this Cape-to-Cairo journey they have
demonstrated again their extraordinary quality,
their soundness of design, and their strength.
All Crossley Cars are built to one standard—
the highest. Whether you are interested in
the popular 15-30-h.p. (R.A.C. Rating 15.6)
from £495, or the 19.6 (the car which broke
all R.A.C. Certified Trial Car Mileage Records)
from £B9O, it will pay you to ask for details
of Crossley models at once.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LIMITED, 87 William Street, Sydney.
CROSSLEY DISTRIBUTORS PTY., LTD., 116 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.
By appointment to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
rn
Let a British car reflect
your pride of ownership.
Greatest
Artists
His Master’s Voice"
April Records now on Sale.
Yet another series of musical triumphs. Entrancing numbers,
exquisitely rendered and perfectly reproduced as only “His
Master’s Voice” can reproduce the world’s best music.
A selection from the April Supplements now available.
Finest
Recording
12in. Double-sided Red Label, 10/6
DB. 881 —Doubt (in Russian)
CHALIAPINE.
Le Cor (in French)
CHALIAPINE.
DB. 859 —Nocturne in B Major (Chopin)
DE PACHMANN (Piano).
Impromptu in F Sharp Major
DE PACHMANN (Piano).
DB. 807 —Ave Maria, “Otello”
ROSE PONSELLE.
Salce, Salce (Willow Song),
“Otello”—ROSE PONSELLE.
DB. 851—Adagio (Bach)
PABLO CASALS (Violoncello).
Goyecas, Intermezzo
PABLO CASALS (Violoncello).
DB. 789—Concerto in E. Major (Bach)
DB. 79C —Complete on three records.
DB. 791
JACQUES THIBAUD (Violin).
lOin. Double-sided Red Label, 7/6
DA. 565 —Vissi d’arte, vissi d’amore,
“Tosca”—MARIA JERITZA.
Voi lo sapete, o mamma,
“Cavalleria Rusticana”
MARIA JERITZA.
DA. 693 —When You and I Were Seventeen
JOHN McCOIIMACK.
I Look into Your Garden
JOHN McCORMACK.
DA. 698 —Magari (in Venetian)
TOTI DAL MONTE.
A Rosin a (in Neapolitan)
TOTI DAL MONTE.
12in. Double-sided Black Label, 8/-
D. 929 —“The Valkyrie,” Wotan overtakes
Brunnhilde, Act 3
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
“The Valkvrie,” Wotan’s Sentence,
Act 3—SYMPHONY ORCIIES.
D. 930—“ Twilight 'of the Gods,” Hagan
Summons the Vassals
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
“Twilight of the Gods,” Parts 1
and 3, Scene 3
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
D. 931—“ Lohengrin duet, Parts 1
and 2, Act 3
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
D. 995—Caprice Espagnole Op. 37 (Mos-
kowski)
WILHELM BACKHAUS (Piano).
Bohemian Dance
WILHELM BACKHAUS (Piano).
D. 996—Dance of the Plouri, Parts 1 and 2,
“La Giaconda”
ROYAL ALBERT HALL ORCH.
Write for a copy of the two supplements for
April.
On Sale at all Up-to-date Dealers.
The Gramophone Company, Limited
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
His Masters Voice
lOfin. Double-sided Plum Label, 4/-
B. 1870—Julio, Tango—DE GROOT and
B
PICCADILLY ORCHESTRA.
I Have a Rendezvous
DE GROOT & PICCADILLY
ORCHESTRA.
. 1917 —Driftwood, Pox Trot
SAVOY HAVANA BAND.
Dream Daddy, Pox Trot
SAVOY ORPHEANS.
B. 2046—Way Down in My Heart, Fox
Trot—DORNBERGER AND
HIS ORCHESTRA.
You’re Just a Flower from an Old
Bouquet—DORNBERuER
AND HIS ORCHESTRA.
B. 2122—Siberia, Fox Trot—TED WEEMS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA.
I’m Gonna Charleston Back to
Charleston, Fox Trot —COON-
SANDERS ORIGINAL NIGHT
HAWK ORCHESTRA.
B. 2027—Jackson’s Morning Brush
Delaney’s Drummers
The Rambling Pitchfork
Spillans the Fiddler
LIAM WALSH (Irish Pipers).
12in. Double-sided Plum Label, 6/-
C. 1200—Lyrische Stuckchen Op. 12 (Grieg)
UNA BOURNE (Piano).
Wedding Day Op. 65 No. 6(Grieg)
UNA BOURNE (Piano).
C. 1212—The Kerry Dance
PETER DAWSON.
The Traveller
PETER DAWSON.
C. 1197 —Rose Marie (selections
MAYFAIR ORCHESTRA.
lOin. Double-sided Black Label, 5/6
E. 391 —Indian Love Call, “Rose Marie”
OLIVE KLINE.
Rose Marie
LAMBERT MURPHY.
E. 378 —E lucevan le stelle, Act 3, “Tosca”
PAUL ALTHOUSE.
Vcstu la giubba. Act 1, “Pagliacci”
PAUL ALTHOUSE.


Five New Patented Features
“S^»S
fMSgW*
G
L
Protects
Perfectly
Writes
Wonderfully.
SECURITY
Cheque Protector
FOUNTAIN PEN
THE BEST EVER.
Prices—including tube acid-proof ink —
Gent.’s, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Ladies’, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Registered post free throughout Australia.
State whether Long or Short Pen and style
nib pre/erred.
If unable to obtain from your trader, send
M.O. or Postal Note to the Sole Aus-
tralian Agent:—
MR. B. BLUMENTHAL,
Perry House, Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
will help
* you to have
and a
m
Use Cuticura Soap
daily to keep your
skin clear, Cuticura
Ointment to relieve
and prevent irrita-
tions. Keep the scalp healthy
by shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted by touches of Cu-
ticura Ointment when needed.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns &Co„ Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Ready
afw
m a moment
hade
ways
a
mthehome
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors — A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland anfl
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
a
EXCLUSIVE TO PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
I
A.
c lohe^
“MEXICAN” gggf?
"Registered "Design J\fo. 5598
‘{pkis Boot is made to our Exclusive patent design
witk two-fold strapped tops. Has also Qussetted”
sides wkick prevent sand or grass seed entering boot. Will
jit any instep. Made in Black Wallaby, r\ //I
or Tan Calf. c s\ll Order a JmfZ/ j\J
Pair To ... ... ... PAIR
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
MAIL TO DESK “5.8.”
LAST FEW WEEKS
Keep Your Eye on
Peter the Black Cat
The Luck of the
Black Cat is Prover-
bial. To see one is
a sure sign of good
luck. To see one
smile is significant
of fortune. Behold
Peter the Smiling
Luck Bringer. Invest
your shilling now in
the N.S.W. Fire Bri-
gades' Art Union.
£lO,OOO in prizes.
(Sanctioned by the
Attorney-General.)
0
0
You cannot miss a
prize if you follow
the instructions of
Peter the Black Cat.
Twenty-four Tickets
for £l, or one for a
shilling. Write to
the Hon. Sec, N.S.W.
Fire Brigades’ Art
Union, Circular
Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write plainly. State
whether Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss. Look at
Peter the Luck
Bringer, and send
for your tickets at
once.
J. J. NEVILLE,
Hon. See.
My Smile is worth a Fortune to You!
lam Peter the Luck Bringer. Buy your tickets now in the New South
Wales Fire Brigades’ Colossa! Art Union. £lO,OOO in prizes. Fifteen
Motor Cars and Motor Cycles are the first prizes, and every one of these
the best that money can buy. Hurry up. You cannot expect a black
cat to keep chasing you all your life with a fortune for a bob. *
The drawing takes place at Sydney
Town Hall on May 13, 1926.
THE GREATER GLORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A memorial statuette to 375,000 of the Empire’s
horses who fell in war-time was dedicated at the
Hampstead Garden Suburb Church.”
Dead friends, dear comrades, in Elysian glades
All diamond-beaded with ambrosial dew,
May the lush grass grow wither-high for you,
Dreaming among your fellows of the Shades!
Sorrow our portion be if memory fades
Till we forget the gallant hearts and true,
The splendid Blood that bore us bravely through
The nickel sleet, the redly-dripping blades.
What though your bones beneath the alien skies
Bleach white, on Flanders clay or Sinai’s sands!
He who holds Horse and Rider in His hands
Whiter than they may deem your sacrifice,
And at His throne make plain which higher stands,
The brute beast’s claim or smug Humanity’s.
N.s.w.
J. B. HIGGINSON.
“Oxmead”: Probably few who have occa-
sion to speak of dengue fever could derive
the word. Yet it has an interesting history.
When it first appeared in the British West
Indies, it was called the “breakbone” or
“dandy” fever, the latter term being an allu-
sion to the stiffness or constraint it left on
the limbs and body, suggesting a dandified
strut. The Spaniards of the neighboring
islands confused “dandy” with their own
word “dengue” (prudery), and reckoned it
was a good descriptive term, prudery also
denoting stiffness. So dengue fever it be-
came, and the word has travelled with it to
Australia.
Paid his last debt at Bundaberg (Q.) the
other day one who forgave many debtors,
Hans Truvl Christsen, a Dane. His gen-
erous tolerance to the overdrawn account is
held by many to have made the Bundaberg
hinterland what it is. His business was a
large one, but he had the name of never
suing for a debt—and his debtors owed him
thousands. District appreciation was shown
when a mile of motor-cars carrying people
he had backed financially moved with him on
his last journey. When the old man went
broke in the boom period he was offered by
creditors a clean sheet at- 10s. in the £.
“No,” he said. “I vill pay tventy shilling!”
And he did, with interest.
The day before All Fools' Day the 70-year-
old paddle-ferry Kangaroo went out of com-
mission as a trans-Derwent liner, And was
replaced by, the Government’s Lurgerena
(imp.). The new boat pushes its way across
the mile of estuary at a 12-knot gait; the
old one’s best was about five knots. The
Lurgerena cost £35,000. Running expenses
are about £4O per week; interest and depre-
ciation, say, £45. As the takings are ex-
pected to average £lOO a week, it is a safe
bet that the east-side cockies will soon begin
to demand a reduction of fares, and as the
hooker is Govcrumeut-owned well, you
know the rest. At present the cost of the
voyage for a “bicycle, including rider, calf
or horse,” is sixpence each way.
Easily the oldest political hand in the
Ma State to-day is Dr. Creed, who in August
Avill have been for 41 years a member of the
Legislative Council. Before that he held
the Upper-Hunter seat in the Assembly for
13 years, so that his political history has
stretched over much more than half a cen-
tury. In 1886, when people who advocated
cremation were regarded as worse than mur-
derers—wretches who would spoil their fel-
low-creatures’ chance of rallying to Gabriel’s
liorn at the Resurrection—he introduced a
Cremation BUI. The present Act for the
cafe and control of drunks was his, and his
interest in health and humanitarian meas-
ures has always been keen. He was born
in Gloucestershire 84 years ago and came to
Australia as a newly-fledged medico.
“John’s Wood” (Loud.) : The death of
Derwent Wood has caused grief in the
Anglo-Australian community of London.
When his wife, Florence Schmidt, the
Queensland singer, first came to London she
was a frequent and welcome guest at Phil
May’s, and it was there she met Wood,
even at that day regarded as a sculptor of
brilliant achievement. He was, besides, a
man of all-round culture, a fine linguist, a
lover of the best literature and an excellent
musician. There was great interest as to
which sculptor, he or Mackennal, would
receive his A.R.A. first. The Australian got
most public commissions; Derwent Wood
balanced this by other triumphs. He was an
artist who put commerce in its proper place,
and was admired as one of the sincerest
sculptors of the time. There is one son.
She has so long been the leading woman in
the Ma State’s 1 Labor movement that it will
hardly seem like an A.L.P. executive without
Mrs. Kate Dwyer. She was put out by
the shuffling of factions and her alliance
with the Industrials ; and although she was
elected as alternate delegate she is so low
down on the list (15th) that it will take a
lot of accidents to put her into the executive
again. For 20 years she has headed the lists
of women candidates, and whenever a Gov-
ernment wanted a woman-representative of
Labor on commission or inquiry it was nearly
always Mrs. Dwyer who was chosen. With
her sisters, Belle and Annie Golding, she
fought for womanhood suffrage in the days
when it had to be fought for; she was a
leader in the formation of all the unions of
women workers now existing. By occupa-
tion she was originally a schoolmarm, and
she married a teacher.
“Malaish”: Every Bohemian and near-
Bohemian has seen old Mrs. Fasoli, of
Fasoli’s Hotel, King-street, Melbourne, at
one time or another during the last 40 years.
Her husband was a Swiss from an Italian
canton who landed on the Jim Crow dig-
gings (now Daylesford) about 1855. Vincent
Fasoli came to Melbourne and opened a
trattoria on the Italian plan in an old cot-
tage in Lonsdale-street. His midday luncheon
was attended by about 12 or 15 insurance
and bank managers, solicitors and doctors
et hoc who ate spaghetti by the cubic foot
and drank vin ordinaire out of Venetian
glasses containing a pint. At dinner young
and raffish blondes like Randolph Bedford
and Dr. Maloney attended, and we had real
fun in those far-away nights. The place
became too small, and the Fasolis moved to
the present cafe in King-street. Madame
Maggia is in full charge nowadays, and at
this moment is lamenting the passing of her
mother at the age of 87.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma —Sierra —V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Past Modern Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR— Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES. —First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/IS/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LI D.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., I.td.
Two Select Escorted Tours,
Organised by Thos. Cook and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Fees included.
JAVA. —Leaving Sydney 23rd June,
per s.s. Tasman; 14 Days’Motor
Tour in lovely Java. Fare £l5O.
JAPAN. —Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Maru, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Fare, £227/14/-
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application.
THOS. COOK & SON, Challis House, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925.. £15,395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland : L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. Manager: A. O. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, F1.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Hotel Kosciusko
Winter
Ski-running - - - Tobogganing
Ice-skating - - - Ice Carnivals
Luxurious Accommodation
Open Log Fires
Nightly Entertainments
Dancing
Seasons Opens Ist July.
Bookings direct with Manager.
Full information and rail concession
certificates at
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping. &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington. Rarotonga and San Francisco.
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. APRIL 22, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ MAY 6, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 13,000 „ „ MAY 20. for San Francisco.
AORANGI 22,000 „ „ JUNE 3, for Vancouver.
*Quadruple Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usin"
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
a
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE TOR RETURN
liY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
fUnion House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides. »
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
'if
V
}<&
(S
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD,,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES. NATIVE BAZAARS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —lncluding 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1936.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
APPLY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500
ULYSSES .. 14,500
/ENEAS .. 10,000
Tons.
10,000
10,000
ANCIIISES ..
ASCANIUS ..
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Wills. Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd,, Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
P. Sc O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13.100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Pel. BG7OI-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service between Australia and
Southampton, London and Hull,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Unsurpassed accommodation for Ist and 3rd class
passengers.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11/250 tons
’SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
’DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
Interchangeable return tickets issued.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN AND N.Z. PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181?.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
to
Directors:
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq.. President
Franc B. S. Falkinor, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black. M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert 1,. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie. Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.}
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
Leaves j Leaves I
Sydney, | Melbourne]
Sydney Agents.
COOMA
(Melb. only).
KAROOLA. . .
(All Ports).
Sat.,
April 24.
Sat.,
April 24.
Wed.,
April 28.
DIMBOOLA. . Fri.,
(All Ports). April 30.
Tues.,
May 4.
WYREEMA. .
(Melb. onlv).
KATOOMBA.
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
LEVUKA
(Melb. only).
Sat.,
Mav 1.
Sat.,
May 8.
Sat.,
May S.
Wed.,
May 12.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
Margaret St.
Mellwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mellwraith,
MeEacharn, Ltd.,
61 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for Outports).
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, 3lercliants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Itlackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth. Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Be wen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1924 £2,370,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £55,800,000
Annual Income .. £8,400,000
The Society transacts Every <llass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
a
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Climbing 70,000 ft. on a
i
3.49-h.p. O.H.V. (specification No. 1) with Sidecar
under official A.C.U. observation
“An achievement which undoubtedly stands
out as one of the most meritorious ever
accomplished under A.C.U. observation
ff
is the. Motor Cycling comment on the latest B.S.A. test, which eclipses even
the historic B.S.A. ascent of Snowdon.
A standard B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. (Specification No. 1) Motor Bicycle was selected from
stock by an A.C.U. observer, fitted with a standard B.S.A. sidecar, and, without any
special preparation, driven from Birmingham to Wales, there to make, under official
A.C.U. observation,
60 consecutive ascents of Bwlch-y-Groes
at once the worst and most famous Trials hill in Great Britain. The combined weight
of driver and passenger was 28 stone; the total height climbed, on an average gradient
of 1 in 6£, being 70,000 feet, or 13 miles, well over twice the height of Mt. Everest,
the highest mountain in the world. Only four involuntary stops were made, three for
plug trouble and one momentary carburetter failure, and the machine and sidecar were
in perfect condition mechanically at the conclusion of the test. Finally, the Managing
Director of B.S.A. Cycles, Ltd., drove the outfit up Bwlch-y-Groes for the 61st time, with
the Publicity Manager as passenger, and made a trouble-free climb.
a
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V, Super-Sports Motor Bicycte.
These tests are for YOUR benefit—they prove the absolute reliability of B.S.A. Motor
Bicycles wider the worst conditions. Remember this when choosing your new mount.
PRICES from £57/10/-
Send for Copy of the B.S.A. Catalogue and for particulars of easy-payment system .
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
N.S.W. \BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDJ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA- finla y bros. motor cycles
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-«/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST A\JS.- MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
a
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


Miss SHIRLEY MILTON, of ISI t
William Street, Darlingliurst, N.S.W.,
writes: “I would highly recommend
Or. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to anyone
suffering from, backache. I think they
are wonderful.”
<***»
\ 1
\\
Gin Pills Will Help You!
If you feel that your Kidneys are the cause of your sickness, vour run-down
feeling, begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble,
because as soon as your Kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble relieve the worst
cases, because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the
matter, clean out the Kidneys, and make
them filter out all the poisonous waste mat-
ters and uric acids that lodge in the joints
and muscles, causing Rheumatism. They
soothe and heal the bladder, and quickly
relieve you. They are a unique remedy, en-
tirely different from anything you have ever
used. There is nothing else to compare with
them. No matter how old you are, or how
long you have suffered, the very principle of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is
practically impossible to take them into the
human system without obtaining results. Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, 1/9 and 2/9.
Kris
o
Jjj
Hillier’s
Chocolates
by mail!
Carefully packed in strong
RED METAL BOXES.
No matter where you live in Aus-
tralia you may be sure of them
reaching you in a perfect condition.
..
ggrTriiW"’' l,
m
Manufactured, Packed and
Mailed on the same day
your order is received.
41-
per lb.
Other States.
1/2
1/S
2/2
2/8
3/2
“YOU CAN TASTE THE QUALITY.”
a
162-166 Pitt Street and cr. George
and King Streets, SYDNEY.
The Old Man by the Pier.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BROWN as the nets is the old man
Who lives beside the pier.
His eyes are blue against the tan,
His look is still and queer.
The sea has filched away his wits,
His chin wags wilfully.
p r om dawn to dark he sits and sits,
And stares across the sea.
“What do you watch, O fisherman,
Whom are you waiting for?
The tides are tethered where they ran,
The lone gulls take the shore!”
“I saw a sea-maid by the piles,
And soft I heard her sing.
And now I sit and wait, the whiles
I dream, remembering.
“Her limbs as pale as polished pearl
Gleamed through her yellow hair;
Iler eyes above the waters' whirl
Stared as the dead do stare.
“She sat and stitched a little shroud,
Of kelp and crinkled weeds,
With broken shells, white like a cloud,
And shadowy ocean-beads.
“And the sea-fog dripped down and spread,
Filmy o’er every fold.
The while she stitched with gleaming thread
From out her hair of gold.
“And, stitching still, she onward came.
I saw but did not speak.
Then soft, with laugh of silken shame,
She kist my withered cheek!
“Gentler than flowery winds she kist,
And then the sad sea-rain
Came drifting o’er her in a mist.
Say, will she come again?”
“Poor fisherman ! No, nevermore —
llow r ever long you wait—
You'll see her sitting by the shore,
Her drowmed eyes calm with fate.
“Deep down in sickly, green-walled gloom,
Away from sun and cloud,
Droning her little song of doom,
She stitches at your shroud.
“And you will only see her face,
And feel, far, far below,
Her twining arms around you lace,
Dow’ii where the dark fish go!”
Brown as the nets is the old man
Who lives beside the pier,
llis eyes are blue against the tan,
ITis look is still and queer.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Bone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TN the fly-stained parlor of Soapstone’s
one hotel a commercial traveller, whose
name is immaterial, gazed irritably at
the only other occupant of the room. This
was the district’s oldest inhabitant —a white-
bearded wreck whose snores vied with the
infernal drone of flics. The commercial, who
was waiting for the night coach, thought
cynically that it would be better for all
concerned if the wrecked inhabitant were
buried and have done with it. He was so
very old and so very dirty.
The commercial’s eyes strayed to the
shabby cottage-piano, proud possession of
mine host’s tow-lieaded wife. The lid of the
instrument was propped open—possibly to
help out the brave wheezings of the rusty-
bowelled interior —by a piece of corroded
yellow bone. There was something curious
about the dismal object, and the yawning
commercial rose to examine it more closely.
As he extended his hand the snoring dere-
lict mumbled in his sleep. Possibly some
nightmare was wending its way through the
cobwebs of his ancient brain, for his face
suddenly puckered like that of an infant
about to cry. Weird sounds floated from
his whiskers.
“Bah!” said the commercial, wiping the
heat from his brow. He turned to his in-
spection of the bone.
* -X- * *
The Fergus River, north-west Tasmania,
was running a banker. The old cattle-punt
moored to the ferry-house landing was drag-
ging heavily on its cable. For the past hour
the ferryman’s wife had watched it with
anxious eyes from the window of the living-
room, where the ferryman himself, Jock San-
ders, was heaped in pneumonic delirium on
the couch before the log fire. Mrs. Sanders
dared not leave him. Her hope was that
someone might call in soon, so that word
could be got through to the doctor at Soap-
stone. For the wires were down, and the
eight-months’ bride knew all the terrors of
isolation. Already night was setting in, and
a heavy thunder-cloud was driving slowly
up from the south. Every now and then
the pall of dusk was slashed by a finger of
fire.
A spatter of running hoofs sent Mrs. San-
ders to the door, sudden hope fetching a thin
tide of color to her face. She held up her
hands appealingly to the big man who came
striding from the yards, holding his hat
against the rising wind. She disliked Jed
Samuels, but fear for her husband over-
ruled all else.
“Sick, is he?” Samuels repeated. He
halted in the doorway as a dull report
reached their ears. “What the devil was
that ?”
Mrs. Sanders, incapable of speech, gesti-
culated at the river. Jed Samuels turned to
look, an oath on his lips.
“Hell! That’s bad!”
The ferry cable had parted at last, and
the ferry was barging clumsily, but with in-
credible speed, towards the bar where the
fresh water boiled to meet the salt. It was
out of sight even while they looked.
“He caught a chill, I think,” Mrs. Sanders
was saying. She stood with working face
while Samuels looked curiously down at the
sick man. “The line is broken, and there’s
only one way to get the doctor here from
Soapstone. Will you go for me? For Hod’s
sake, say you will!”
Samuels shrugged his shoulders. For
some reason he seemed in a vile mood, and
he was a man whose mood was seldom less
than vile. He was a hard rider and a hard
drinker. They said of him on the north-west
that he had no bowels. “As hard as Jed
Samuels” was a kind of proverb around
Soapstone. People had come to believe that
drink was the only tiling Samuels cared for.
“Talk sense,” he said shortly. “The
punt’s busted to hell. You saw her go. Now
how would I —how would anyone—get to .
the other side?”
“You could swim,” said Mrs. Sanders,
clasping her hands in an agony. “If some-
one don’t get the doctor Jock’s going to die.
Hear him.... You could swim. You’ve
done it before.”
“That’s so,” said Jed boastfully. “Well,
and I could now; only I ain’t going to. It
wouldn’t pay me—see?”
“You mean my husband’s life isn’t worth
it?” Mrs. Sanders asked slowly.
“Well, he’s no particular friend of mine,
is he?” said Jed callously. He was lingering
the medicine-bottles on the mantelpiece—left-
over patent nostrums brought to light by
the frantic searchings of the ferryman's wife.
His hand closed upon a flask holding a smear
of whisky on the bottom, and his nostrils
seemed to curl in an ecstasy. “Any more
of this stuff around?”
“It’s all I’ve got. I give him a few drops
at a time —it seems to help his heart”
She broke off with a stifled cry. “What are
you doing? Stop ! Give that bottle to me.”
“Stop your screeching,” said Jed. He held
her away with one hairy hand, pouting his
lips lovingly to meet the drain of spirit.
“Curse me, what’s a drop more or less? I'll
die myself if I don't get a good insides of
the stuff soon. Bill Brodney’s ketch was
to land me a half-case here to-day. That's
what I come in for. It's the damned
weather that’s held him up—-and my throat
like a lime-kiln.”
Mrs. Sanders said nothing. Her face was
very white. At each dreadful intake of
breath by the man on the couch the skin
of her mouth seemed to twitch.
“You’re the best swimmer on the coast,”
she said presently, in a voice scarcely above
a whisper. Her burning eyes were fixed
on Jed. “If you wanted, you could do it.”
.Ted waited until a volley of thunder
had sunk into the distance. He was not
pleasant to look at. The touch of the spirit
had set a thousand tiny devils pricking the
back of his throat and palate.
“I’m no fool,” he said.
Suddenly she caught at his arm.
“Oh, for God’s sake! Supposing it was
you that lay there!”
“Let be,” growled Jed.
lie shook her away so roughly that she
staggered, and must have fallen but for
the groping hand of her husband, outflung to
shield her even in delirium. She moaned,
and fell to stroking the damp disorder of his
hair.
Curiously, she did not blame Jed —not yet.
After all, his life was his own, and the risk
of the river was great. Also the man was
himself ill. Enforced abstinence had robbed
him of his nerve. A great sheet of white
lightning at the, window showed her the
twitching of his face and hands.
Hardly conscious of what she was saying,
she lifted her head.
“Brodney would help. If I could get word
to Bi-odney even!”
“What?” said Jed. Through the dusk she
felt his eyes boring at her. “Brodney? The
ketch isn’t in?”
“Brodney’s anchored down in the cove,”
she answered mechanically. “I saw him
round the point an hour back. What —
where are you going?”
As yet she did not grasp the meaning of
what she saw. She only knew that Jed
Samuels was laughing tliroatily. The bulk
of him blundered past her, making for the
door.
“Wait!” she called, in a panic.
“Hell!” came Jed’s answer, muffled in the
swelling of thunder. The lust for drink was
tearing at him. “The stuff’s there, and you
never said”
“You’re not going to swim the river for
that!” she heard her voice screaming at him
above the inferno of the elements. “You
that wouldn’t do it to save my man—you’re
not going for that?”
The sheer enormity of the thing nearly
stifled her. With the sneer of his answer-
ing laugh in her ears she staggered to the
swinging door, loosing the torrent of hate
that beat at her lips.
“God’s curse on you—and mine. May
your bones rot unknown. Oh, the pain, the
pain !”
Her body sagged against the lintel.
■Jed Samuels, fighting the wind to the
river-bank, nearly collided with a jinker
that came slowly out of the darkness. With
a snarl he ran past, scarcely hearing the
startled anger of the driver. He shed his
outer clothes as he ran, his thirst ravening.
The water took him with a sullen splurge
of flying spray.
He swam strongly, confidently; brutally
boastful of his own strength. The current
bore him obliquely into mid-stream, thread-
ing a tunnel of blackness suddenly riven with
appalling flame. There was a shattering con-
cussion. As the night swung back Jed dived
desperately from the immense hulk of a
drifting tree whose image the lightning had
engraved on his staring eyeballs. Some-
thing rasped his back. The great head of
branches engulfed him, held him under water
like a trap. The woman’s curse was ham-
mering at his reeling brain like the tittering
of devils.
The next flash of lightning showed the
surface of the water bare.
* # # •
“Why, good God, d’you know what this
is?” said the commercial.
The derelict opened his eyes stupidly. He
saw the object in the hand of the other man,
and his toothless mouth parted in prideful
knowledge.
“It’s bone, ain’t it? They found it on the
Fergus bar years gone. Sort of looked curi-
ous, I guess, and they fetched it here. Funny
thing.”
“What is?” asked the commercial.
He had replaced the bone and was wiping
his hands rather nervously on his handker-
chief.
The ancient cackled senilely.
“A bit of whalebone, I guess. They got
it near the place where Jed Samuels drowned
in the Fergus. Nobody ever see him again.
(Continued on next paae.)


TkTrepared
Tor Ans
Emeryencj
o°V'
vr
/
3
/ @S'
(
'QZSS&C**'
etes
IN time of accident, when you need help
quickly, Zam-Buk is always ready for
instant use. It is the safest, best and
most reliable healer and first-aid ever
discovered.
Whether it be a burnt hand, cut finger,
gashed knee, scratched arm, sprained
ankle, bruise or open wound, Zam-Buk
can always be depended upon to relieve
pain, end soreness, ensure thorough pro-
tection and healing, and grow new skin.
Not only does Zam-Buk safeguard the
damaged exposed tissues against infection,
but all trace of poisoning already there
is quickly removed. Thus Zam-Buk
averts the ever-present dangers of sup-
puration, inflammation and ulceration.
Soothes Pain-Crows New Skin
Being a pure, refined balm, scientifically compounded
from valuable extracts and free from animal fats and
crude mineral drugs, Zam-Buk is infinitely superior to
common ointments and dressings.
Zam-Buk is acknowledged the most wonderful remedy
ever discovered for eczema, prickly heat, impetigo,
ringworm, ulcers, abscesses, poisoned wounds, bad legs
and piles. Also quickly soothes and heals sore feet,
insect bites, etc.
Try also Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, which is more than
a mere toilet soap. Used in conjunction with Zam-Buk
balm it is invaluable for ensuring that perfect cleanliness
so necessary for dispelling skin disorders, and healing
sores and injuries.
All chemists and storekeepers sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 per box or 3/6
family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, 1/- per tablet.
CONTAIN*
{,O ANIMAL 01L«
SBS
rZdtrM ßsa
mhiap* A'*" "*• cants /
so*
B 1
The Proprietors’ complete faith in their renozvned halm is shozvn
in that they are prepared to send readers and their friends a trial
sample of Zam-Buk absolutely free of charge. Write your request,
giving name and address clearly, and mention Bulletin 22/4/26,
and post to Messrs. C. E. Fulford (Aust.), Ltd., Sydney.
Funny thing, I was dreaming of Jed when
you w 7 oke me. I see him that night plain as
I see you, rushing past the jinker like a
crazy man. I had the Mount Pyall Com-
pany’s doctor aboard, and the storm held us
up, so w 7 e turned into the ferry-house. Lucky
thing we did.”
“Why?” asked the commercial mechani-
cally.
The ancient returned from a mental wan-
dering.
“Jock Sanders was laying mighty ill, and
his missus had her time come. Storm fright-
ened her, I reckon, and the baby wouldn’t
wait. A girl it w 7 a5.... her that’s the w 7 ife
of the boss here. It was she found that bit
of bone and put it where you seen it.”
The commercial was still wiping his hands.
He was rather bored with the whole thing.
The ancient was so very ancient, and so
appallingly unkempt. He w'ondered when
the coach was due.
“Did the man and his wife get better?” he
asked casually.
The ancient interrupted a snore and
opened his bleared eyes.
“Jock did, but his missus died. They said
she was kind of mad. But I dunno.” He
smiled vacantly, gazing at the bone on the
piano. “That’s wdiat they said. Funny thing
about that there. Whales don’t often come
this way.”
The commercial rose at the rattle of
wheels.
“That’s not whalebone,” he said, in a kind
of sharp perplexity. “I know a man’s tibia
—shinbone —w 7 hen I see it. What did you
say?”
But the ancient was only cursing at the
flies in his sleep.
BERNARD GRONIN.
Sawdust and Splinters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
little shop stood just beyond the
ferry-wdiarf, with its windows facing
the blue of the bay, and the restless
tide lapping the stone wall on which its
foundations rested. Here it drowsed during
long summer days or sent its feeble yellow 7
rays through the mist-laden darkness of
wintry evenings, and stirred into life when
a ferry bumped against the wharf and foot-
steps echoed on the well-worn planking. Old
Matthews, who kept the shop, came to know
those steps, and could tell the listless pace
of men going to work and the buoyant one
of those making homewards. The light
tattoo of high-heeled shoes and the heavy
tread of dust-stained bluchers were familiar
and necessary sounds in his daily life, for
they brought him the custom that had made
his business a paying concern.
Among the men who called in here for
tobacco and an occasional paper was Dan
Fairburn, who worked in the big timber-
yard down on the waterfront. A friendship
had grown up between these two men, and
its basis was sympathy. Few words were
spoken on either side, but Dan knew 7 that
this white-haired little man with the quiet
voice and the benevolent spectacles had
probed his restless soul, and could understand
many things. He had served Dan with tobacco
on the night after his first day at the timber-
yard twenty long years ago, and the words
spoken over the little counter had never
faded from the old man’s mind. “Life,”
Dan had said, “is just sawdust and splint-
ers.” That was all, but the bitter emphasis
had supplied the key to the feelings behind
it, and after that Matthews had come to look
for Dan, had heard occasional hints of high
hopes and had read disappointment in tired
eyes.
Fairburn had not been accustomed to hard
wrnrk, and dreams of a better position had
clung to him obstinately through the years.
The work was only temporary. Something
worth while was sure to come along, and it
was only a matter of sticking, and he would
be able to taste again some of those sweets
of life which had been squandered so care-
lessly in youth. It is easy to slip down to
manual labor, but it is mighty hard to climb
back again. Dan compared it to a pit w 7 ith
slippery walls, with hope at the top and
a dull animal apathy at the bottom.
His rebellion w 7 as by no means passive, and
periodically he made fresh efforts towards
better conditions. But hard work leaves its
stamp on most men, and inevitably he found
himself back at the yard, toiling grimly and
still clinging to his tattered hopes.
At. home he was uncomplaining; but this
may have been partly owing to the sunny
temperament of Ann, his w 7 ife, w 7 hich gener-
ally sent his gloom away when he opened the
kitchen door. There were children now 7, too,
and they must be considered. His money
he stored carefully, aided and abetted by
Ann, and there were moments of triumph
when his bank-account soared. There were
also moments of black despair when unex-
pected expenses sent his balance dow 7 n to-
wards zero. Children need clothes and enor-
mous quantities of food, and an ambitious
mother has ideas of music lessons and thor-
ough education. But he battled gamely on,
toiling among the hateful stacks of hardwood
by day, forgetting about them by night, and
dreaming endlessly and furtively of the ease
and comfort that wrnuld certainly be his—
some day.
At the end of twenty years he had two
hundred pounds in the bank, and hope w 7 as
running dangerously high. Two of his child-
ren were working, and their small earnings
lightened his burden of expense more than
he had dreamed possible. The third, a pro-
mising youngster named Dave, w 7 as still at
school.
One evening Dan dropped into the little
shop and found old Matthews far from well.
“I’m getting old,” he complained, “and I
think it’s time I sold out. I've made quite a
lot out of this little business, and I’m tired
of batching and working. I think I’ll sell
out and take a rest.”
Dan nodded slowly, showing no sign of the
great idea taking root in his brain/ “What
would a business like this be w 7 orth?” he
asked carelessly. “I’d let it go for two hun-
dred,” said Matthew's promptly; “stock and
goodwill—w T alk in walk out. It’s cheap at
the price, too.”
Dan agreed that it was —and he meant it.
All the next day the thought of the little
shop kept w'ith him as he worked and sweated
among his hardwood stacks. Here, he felt,
was his great chance at last. He knew the
business to be a sound one, and he bad seen
so much of it, and heard so much in a casual
sort of way from Matthews, that he felt
he could run it with very little trouble. It
offered him a comfortable living and a defi-
nite escape from the slavery that had claimed
him so long. In the heat of dbsire he be-
lieved that all his life had been working
steadily towards this one point, and when
evening came he set out homewards fully
determined to talk it over with Ann.
He chose that intimate hour just before
they went to bed when the door of their
room was closed upon the troubles of the
world and time seemed to pause for just a
space. Ann was easy to talk to. Married
life had brought her understanding, and
motherhood had confirmed her simple philo-
sophy—a hopelessly old-fashioned one about
service and the rewards that come to those
who serve faithfully.
Dan lit his pipe for a final smoke, and
stared thoughtfully at his reflection in the
dressing-table mirror. He was ageing, he
reflected —ageing rapidly. There wrnre lines of
grey in his hair, and the skin of his neck
had hardened and then creased deeply. He
remembered a remark of his wife’s, long
years ago, when she had caressed his neck
and whispered that it must always remain
so smooth and clean-looking The irrele-
vance of the memory set him laughing, and
Ann looked up in surprise. She was sitting
thoughtfully on the bed, and in that moment
she looked remarkably young, a woman who
had reached the point that marks the turn
of the tide and yet kept a certain youthful
freshness, chiefly because she had not thought
very much about it. She knew her husband
worked hard, but she worked hard herself
-—harder than she could expect any man to
know.
"Dan,” she said suddenly, “how much
money have we in the bank now?”
He looked up almost guiltily.
“Two hundred pounds,” he said, a little
uneasily.
“Two hundred pounds,” she echoed, dwell-
ing on the words with a soft wonder. “It's
a lot of money, isn’t it, Dan?”
Her husband smiled grimly into the look-
ing-glass. Viewed in comparison with the
amounts she received, it certainly was a
respectable sum. But when he thought of
twenty years of sawdust and splinters, it
seemed pitifully small.
She left the bed, and came across to the
dressing-table. “Dan,” she said, “I had a
visit from Mr. Sanders to-day.”
“Who the devil is he?” demanded Dan,
momentarily aggressive.
"You must remember him,” said Ann with
mild reproach. "He’s Dave’s schoolmaster.”
“Oh, yes—of course,” replied her husband
with a vague sinking of his heart.
“He was talking to me about Dave,” went
on Ann, with the soft light of proud mother-
hood in her eyes. “He said that the boy has
finished a most brilliant term, and hopes that
you are not going to take him away.”
“But he’s sixteen,” protested Dan, who had
been guilty of counting on an addition to the
family resources in the next few months.
“But Mr. Sanders declares it would be
criminal to take him away from his studies.
He said that Dave has the makings of a
very clever lawyer if he can go on to the
University. It all rests with you. It will
mean years of work without reward —and a
great deal of expense. We shall need every
penny of those two hundred pounds, my
dear.”
Dan was still looking into the mirror, and
in a curiously detached manner lie was
startled at the change which swept across
his face. His eyes grew bright in a metallic
sort of way, and his mouth hardened. The
wrinkles in his neck, too, seemed absurdly
deeper. A moment of silence passed. Unlike
most women, Ann knew when to leave verbal
persuasion alone, and just then he was grate-
ful for it. He wanted to tell her that it
wasn’t right, that it wasn’t fair, and had she
spoken he would certainly have done so. He
wanted to tell her that there were thousands
of lawyers, that the professions were over-
crowded, and that he was entitled to some-
thing in the way of rewards. He wanted
to mention that he had done his best for
Dave for sixteen years, and that his own
dreams and hopes needed a little considera-
tion sometimes. But finally he said nothing.
Ann’s bare feet pattered a little closer, and
he felt her arm around him, and the near-
ness of her body. “Dan,” she whispered,
“Fred is a good boy, isn’t he? And he is
doing well at his trade?”
He nodded fiercely into the glass.
“And Eve has grown into a fine girl,
hasn’t she?”
Again he stared at his own reflection, and
waited for her voice.
“But they’re not really different from
thousands of healthy children all the world
over. Are they, Dan?”
He turned at last from the mirror, and as
his eyes met hers he understood. This was no
whim she wished to satisfy, no froth of false
pride stirred by the idle flatteries of an offi-
cious schoolmaster. She was pleading with
him —and it was merely her chance she asked.
It was the chance to vindicate her mother-
hood, the opportunity to realise the dream
of every woman who brings a man-child into
the world. In the success of her one promis-
ing child would rest the achievement of her
life, the materialising of dreams vivid beyond
the understanding of man.
The little shop in the ferry wharf dropped
into the back of Dan’s mind, and its outline
was pitifully small when measured with what
he read in his wife’s eyes. There came, too,
a strangely humble joy that he could share
in her work, a work infinitely greater than
any he could do.
“Little woman,” he whispered as she
nestled closer to him, “go right ahead with
your job. I’ll back you up.”
She rewarded him with a warm pressure
and a dazzling smile. “Poor old Dan !” she
murmured. “Life’s all sawdust and splinters,
isn’t it?”
And then Dan Fairburn adjusted his philo-
sophy. “It’s sawdust and splinters, my
dear,” he agreed; “but what building can be
done without them?”
M. H. HOLCROFT.


à
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maxinjum life and highest *
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHCRCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatlierston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office —98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., EID.
Adelaide,
S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Most
Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
■ry&'g l ®*
. WO'# 5 *
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2f-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption, of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Sold in two sizes—l6-inch cutters, £7l; 22-inch cutters, £lO5 complete.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
17 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prise Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
a
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
80ft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
Repeating Rifle
Model 12
.22 CaL
CHAMBERED for three
distinct cartridges
.22 Short, good for 75
yards; .22 Long, 125 yards;
.22 Long Rifle, 200 yards.
Excellent for small game with
hollow point cartridges. Maxi-
mum range and accuracy with
Remington UMC .22 Long Rifle
PALMA.
Magazine holds 15 Short, 11
Long or 10 Long Rifle Cartridges.
Ask Your Dealer
;^ V
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
a
GOOD REASONS
for taking
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
Safe and Sure
Make no rash claims
Do what they say
Help millions ot people
All over the world
TO GET RID OF
Sick headaches
And indigestion
And dyspepsia
And dizziness
And biliousness
They keep the system
TONED UP.
Sold In boxes
1/- and 2/6.
Our
CA TALOGUE
LINENS
will save
you many
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Irish linen double damask
by the yard. Any length cut. A very
fine heavy make which will give good
dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/ri
54
72
LINEN TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all linen huck
towelling. By the yard. Will give endless
wear. 17 inches wide per yard 1/4
2 1 ...... 1/8
OUR Mail Order System
enables you to purchase
Genuine Irish Linen goods
at Manufacturers’ prices. In your
own home you choose just what
you require from our Illustrated
Catalogue No. 534 . Overseas
orders receive special attention
and goods are promptly delivered
with our full guarantee of satis-
faction.
LINEN SHEETING
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
LINEN PILLOW CASING
Bleached linen pillow casing. Our
standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 5/3 .
54 .. .1 .. 0/0
trricefist
IRISH LINEN
ROBINSON A CLEAWR
linen Menufnciurei*
■EIPAST
A SPECIAL OFFER
Brown Linen-topped Bath Towels. Very absorbent.
Good friction towel for bathers.
22 x 42 inches, each 3/9
24 x 50 inches, each 4/9 27 x 56 inches, each 6/-
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOGUE WITH
SAMPLES , POST FREE
ROBINSON &
CLEAVER Ltd.
Linen Manufacturer*
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND
ff
M\
\4
'S
V'
&
k
rx
s
I
RO O KS
UCE
Host Holbrook Says - 1
“Excellent with every
dish —cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and, other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m,
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lures: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and fid
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 pn, yvdult | tea l " / g er children, 6d. ‘ ’
Tols.: 116276 (4 lina). . . s >' dne y Ferries ' Wd -


—
'
-
w
MS
mmm
■ .• * -
/. ' . ■ : "-'
sX
-V
I. •.
a
S«p;:;:xx-v'vxVi^vr’'"- 1
■
'
• ■* :
"-I
V.
t •»
Y\
X^X'-V
BHMI
: ::
■
m
sapi^a
ISpli
. * ■ .*
.
Pi
iai:
■
m
•rit .$
■x, ;’
i
■
i
IMm
■
si
*
IS-V
:
■
i
m
s<
■ i-' • '- ::•
I: :
■
wmmm
%
PRICE
berry
i
LIGHT/" -
AND STMTS
ALIGHT
mWitid
Ofce 76x/wCoies'6
MALTESE (BOSS
WAX. N/E/'TA/'
They come to you in a neat, easily-pocketed box. They strike
anywhere, hold their flame in the wind and burn longer than their
wooden rivals.
The outdoor man with a pipe to light when the breeze is blowing
swears by (not at) MALTESE CROSS MATCHES.
You should use them too.
fdg
