

.
. V
I ''
N
Mlg
wm
A
■
*3
life:
w >*- :
■r=S3
■ ■ : :“ l
immm
;-A
*
~ J** -a**-.
\
,
S. ! :J.iMI» MMl.iMui:£*#
SS»glli*
■ : ;■
.:::, •,
■
I&MHP
,
9
1
SS
HH
f
11
-I"
.
!
■I
t
m
1
K
1
m
V"7
’ ’■.■!
• HP
•I
:
ueO'ff
'Dro**^
,-
:'
is
r w Rerff
Hats
cfijJ
If
**l
Jfak
Ideal
e
None
Genuine
without
the Brand
on the
Leather
Obtainable at all Leading Mercers.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.- No. 2443.
Thursday, December 9, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


JHE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
42S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYS AGHT~
o
3
R
.AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HIS TOR \ to read with pleasure The Romance
of Exploration ; Stories of Castaways ; Stories of
Bushrangers ; The Struggles of the Pioneers—thes.
are some of the subjects dealt with by the late 11.
M. Suttor in his fascinating book
AUSTRALIAN MILESTONES.
Two handsome volumes for £2/2/-
JOHN ANDREW & 00., and all Booksellers.
r lhe whole of the proceeds from this book go to
the Blinded Soldiers’ Fund.
sdfs
I *S = S32S
U&r
|lllll§
mi
Ask your favourite
Tobacconist to show
you the full range
of “BBB” Pipes.
You can't buu a better briar
All the best that nature can
give goes into a “BBB.”
The sunshine of more than
a quarter of a century has
steeped into the very heart
of the wonderful Bruy ere,
maturing it to perfection. All
the knowledge of almost 60
years of pipe-making is in
them also.
Can you wonder then that
the cc 888 ” is a pipe apart,
with wondrous depths of
beauty and cool sweetness
hidden in its clean-cut bowl
and stem ?
BBBPipes
The Pipes Without Blemish 1 London made
Manufactured by fldolph Frank.au & Co. Ltd., London, England.
df
sdf
Fairbanks Portable
Platform Scales are
known and used through'
out the world in all kinds
of commercial establish'
ments for weighing all
kinds of light and heavy
merchandise. Made in
many styles for every
weighing purpose.
Representative for Australia: ■
R. AW WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne;
THEFAIRBANKS C0. ( 416 Broome St., New York, U.S. A.
ACCURATE DEPENDABLE
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
“MUSTDIE
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitos.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
m
VUA
lUtL
SUAT It'Ll
Showing tilt
rough hairy
body ana
' head ana
legs, on
which
Microbe* a!
Disease adhert
The Red Page
Education versus Health
Of all the high-flown platitudes which
modern democracy lias treated as axioms,
there is none so universal and fallacious as
that compulsory education is the keynote
of progress. The cant phrases of platform
oratory apd the well-worn panegyrics of
those who distribute school prizes about the
value Of education have so filled the vacant
places in the heads of politicians that edu-
cation is now looked upon as something
which will unravel all riddles and set all
things right.
Some 14 years ago Sir Leo Chiozza-Money,
in his penetrating book of essays, “Things
that Matter,” reviewed English education
thus:—
To the great majority the school merely provides
a few blunt tools: —a limited vocabulary, the power
to read indifferently well, a rule-of-thumb acquaint-
ance with a lew arithmetical processes, and, for the
rest, sonic exceedingly vague ideas about kings and
battles, seas and countries, and the ancient Jews...'.
The chief gift of the School to these is the power to
lead. And what is presented to those able to read ?
..... The modern reader is at the mercy of the only
useful gift which has been bestowed upon him by
liis schooling. It becomes the medium of confusion
, of thought, not of information or of intellectual
training. Given the power to read, that power be-
comes, in the absence of a preliminary education,
the instrument of folly. It often serves, indeed,
merely to distract the attention of those who might
otherwise think. Lost in v a thousand trivialities, the
uneducated reading man is at the mercy of quacks
of all' kinds,'medical, literary, political and economic.
. . . .It will go "hard with our children, and it will
go harder with our children’s children, if wc do not
awaken to the fact that for the great majority of
our people education is still a mockery.
English people were ouee scornfully called
a nation of shopkeepers. But that nation
gained the industrial supremacy of the world.
Now, as a nation of clerks, it is losing it.
So much for the value of education.
It is impossible to measure the amount of
permanent mental and physical damage
which is wrought by the present system of
compulsory education and the exaggerated
store which is now set upon the mere acquisi-
tion of knowledge. But an indication of
such damage to the developing brain and
body is all too plainly reflected in the
nation’s present health. Lord Balfour lias
pointed out that “the conversion from pur-
suits which ought to be essentially agricul-
tural to spheres of life in which brain acti-
vities form the standards of requirement
may become not an unmixed good, but an
evil.” It has been ascertained biologically
that in the realm of human evolution those
struetpres which have been the last to
develop are the most unstable and the first
to deteriorate; and in the case of man it is
now undeniable that the higher mental facul-
ties of intelligence and judgment are the
latest products of cerebral evolution. It is
this finely-adjusted cerebral mechanism, then,
by which man lias gained ascendancy over
the entire earth, that modern education is
placing in jeopardy.
Prior to 1870, for unnumbered generations,
the brain of man was subjected to no abnor-
mal stress in its endeavor to compass the
ordinary trials of agricultural and manual
life. Then, almost suddenly, it was bur-
dened with the yoke of compulsory educa-
tion. The standard of living rose; each
individual outlook widened; competition in-
creased ; and upon each succeeding genera-
tion a greater mental burden was placed.
Unfortunately, newly-acquired characteris-
tics are not transmitted ; the education which
one generation acquires is not handed on to
the next, nor are the mental capabilities of
the latter any greater than those of the
former. Yet with each generation the arti-
ficial conditions of life have rendered greater
the enforcement of knowledge, Part of the
result of this over-taxing of the cerebral
mechanism-is to be seen to-day in the 240-
odd thousand certified lunatics in the United
States, the 130-odd thousands in England and
the 20,000 in the Commonwealth of Australia.
It is known further that dementia prcecox
—a form of adolescent insanity brought about
on account of the individual’s inability to
bear the mental stress imposed upon him—
forms the highest admission rate into the
mental hospitals, and that in Massachusetts
and New* York alone there are 120,000 of
such cases maintained at an annual cost to
the country of 25 million dollars.
Dr. Theodore Hyslop, Haskell Scholar in
Psychological Medicine and late senior phy-
sician to the Bethlem Royal Hospital, has
said succinctly: “I believe that for the phy-
sical and mental welfare of our race such
an imposition as compulsory education should
be withheld fro.m at least one-half of those
who are now undergoing sentence in public
schools.” And there can be no question but
that our system of enforced learning, which
is more irksome to those who are least,
educable, with its pernicious practice of
competitive examinations, directly upsets
the mental equilibrium of those whose men-
tality was barely stable under normal cir-
cumstances. And, _ further, in the case of
girls, whom education tends to remove from
their age-old domestic environment, mental
labor p.uts an added strain which is decidedly
derogatory to their nervous systems. The
astounding increase in the number of women
who i.n the last half-century have through
education become engaged in literary, teach-
ing and social pursuits directly corresponds
to the marked increase in female insanity
and its preponderance over the male cases
for a similar period.
An equally important, though indirect,
way by which education tends to undermine
the national health is by setting a standard
of living beyond the capabilities of the majo-
rity. Education produces a desire and gives
the equipment for clerical work to those who
must, from either necessity or circumstance,
maintain themselves by manual work. Such
a s.tate of affairs breeds dissatisfaction and
all manner of repressions which, under the
slightest provocation, become the manifest
symptoms of hysteria and psychasthenia—
both being suitable soil for the breeding of
neurotics.
Space will not permit of a more lengthy
discussion of the special evils of education
in the sphere of health, nor of the money
and time wasted in endeavoring to -educate
the unedueable. But it may be instructive
to point out that in 1913 it was shown that
there were 1600 children attending school
in Victoria who had only the mentality of
normal two-year-old children. And, further,
that England spends about 20 million pounds
annually in order to spread an artificial top-
dressing over the minds of her children, and
another seven million to keep those who have
thereby qualified for a lunatic asylum. The
paradox is that it is necessary to become
educated before one can realise the dangers
of education.
R.S.E.
Robert Burns Reclothed
The commonly received idea of Robert
Burns is that he was a brilliant but erratic
genius, who, spoiled by success early in
life, became a hopeless drunkard, and after
a brief career, in. which vicious excesses alter-
nated with maudlin repentances, died at
37, his death being entirely due to liis intem-
perate habits; and our regret at his early
decease is tempered by the reflection that
even if he had lived longer no more poetry
could have been expected from his drink-
sodden brain.
The total incorrectness of this view has
been proved by the distinguished Britisli
physician, Sir James iCrickton-Brownc, who
has done for the poet in Burns from a New
Point of View much the same kind of thing
as the late Dr. Maclaurin did for other nota-
bilities ; and, incidentally, seems likely to
bring to fruition a prophecy made by Burns
to his . wife in a moment of gloom—that a
hundred years after his death he would be
much more respected than he was during
his life.
It is peculiarly fitting that this amende
should be made by one belonging to a profes-
sion at the hands of two of whose members
Burns suffered grievously in body, mind and
reputation. Sir James has collated a mass
of information derived from the poet’s con-
temporaries and intimates, the gist of which
is that none of them ever knew him to be
incapacitated by drink; jand ope is left with
the impression that in all age of hard drink-
ing, and in spite of the temptations pre-
sented by his celebrity and personal popu-
larity, he was singularly moderate in his
habits; and that, too, when at times the
urge must have been very strong to seek
alcbholie oblivion from his mental and phy-
sical sufferings'. He was never a solitary
drinker, and, although he frequently fore-
gathered with other joyous spirits, his wife
explicitly stated that he never arrived home
in such a condition that he failed to go
round the house and see that all was secure
for the night, and then, unaided, to go to
bed. Did this in Robert seem inebriate?
Even “Shakspeare was probably sometimes
a little late at the Mermaid.” Up to a
short time before his death Burns carried
out in an exemplary manner his duties as
an exciseman. These demanded from him
long hours in the saddle by day and a great
deal of correspondence by, night; and there
is no single record of liis ever failing to give
complete satisfaction to his superiors. This
simple fact is hardly consistent with con-
stant drunkenness or frequent bouts, how-
ever brief. And there is available an abund-
ance of testimonials from men of probity
and position as to the respect and esteem
in which he was held by them, golden
opinions that would certainly not be earned
by a waster.
That his name has become a synonym for
insobriety is due to the fact that the task
of writing his biography fell to that most
fearsome of all creatures, an educated fana-
tic without a sense of humor. Dr. Currie,
of Liverpool, was a high priest of the drys,
whose mental spectacles caused him to
throw an alcoholic veil around everyone who
“.indulged,” how r ever moderately; and his
rigid principles prevented him from esti-
mating at their true value Burns’s whimsi-
cal extravagances, as, for instance, when
he commenced a letter to a friend with the
announcement that he had come, home drunk
from a party, and followed it up with an
intricate and severely logical chain of theo-
logical speculations. Probabilities and pos-
sibilities did not trouble Currie in the least;
and his judgment was utterly biased by his
intense though unconscious desire, however
charitably, to point a moral. This blind-
ness is all the more strange since the infir-
mities of the poet, which Currie attributed
to alcoholic excess, were caused by the same
disease as his biographer was suffering from,
and which resulted in the latter’s own death.
Sir James has made it perfectly plain that
early in life Burns contracted rheumatism,
which was neglected partly owing to his
straitened circumstances, and partly owing
to the crass ignorance displayed by his phy-
sician, Dr. Maxwell. This youthful illness
was followed up by several attacks of rheu-
matic fever, and from a lack of proper treat-
ment his, heart became affected with that
deadly malady, rheumatic endocarditis,
which still, with its insidious onset and with-
out causing any public apprehension, blights
and prematurely ends the lives of multi-
tudes of the flower of our young people, and
whose unnoticed ravages far surpass those
of the much-dreaded cancer and consump-
tion. There is overwhelming evidence for
this view, which accounts for all the
vagaries of the poet’s temperament with its
bitter self-reproaches and its extremes of
ecstasy and depression, and it is almost in-
conceivable that it should have escaped the
notice of both Currie and Maxwell. The
latter, indeed, was so far from recognising
the true state of affairs that he prescribed
a form of treatment which was nothing short
of murderous, and which did directly give
Burns the coup de grace. One would have
thought that even a man totally untrained
in medicine would have realised that bath-
ing in the Scottish sea and vigorous horse
exercise were not calculated to restore to
health an invalid enfeebled by suffering,
racked with joint pains, breathless on the
{Continued on page 3.)


*
w aae
There’s a wealth of low-priced Christmas Gift Suggestions
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Cushions and Table Centres.
Charming Gifts
for the Home.
B o 1 s t e r-s li a p e d
Cushion, with tassel
each end. Made from
Plain and Fancy
price,4s/-,47/6
Rucked Cushions—
round, oblong, square
or bon-bon shape.
sd
lii any shade of Poplin 19/6
In Shadow Tissue 22/6
In Plain Jap Silk 32/6
In Heavy Furnishing- Satin 45/-
In Krinkle Satin 50/-
Oblong Suede Table Runners—
Size 30 x 9 42 x 9 48 x 10 in.
Price 10/6 12/6 17/6 each
Suede Centres, with Applique designs—
Size 10 14 18 22 26 in.
Price .... 3/3 5/6 10/- 15/6 19/6 each
Ovals—
Size 12 15 18 21 25 28 in.
Price . . 3/3 6/- 6/9 10/9 14/6 17/6 each
(Furnishing Drapery—Third Floor.)
Xylonite Toilet Requisites.
Ever-Welcome Gifts.
BXISLB
Hand Mirror, Grained Ivory, finest quality
bevelled plate glass, circular, short handle, as
illustrated. Tin. wide. Heavy Quality. c\r\/
Price Z\j! -
In Tortoiseshell, same price.
White Xylonite Hair Brush, Domed back,
Grained Ivory, as illustrated. 9Jin. long, o£/
11 rows stiff bristles. Price OO' "
yiin. long, 13 rows stiff bristles. Price, 38/6
9 Jin. long, 13 rows extra stiff bristles. ._* ,
Price , 45 -
In Tortoiseshell, 9Jin. long, 10
rows stiff bristles. Prices .. . &0' ”, jU/■
(Toilet Requisites—Second Floor.)
Why Not a Dinner Set ?
Here are a few Delightful Examples of
the Wonderful Assortment at
Anthony Horderns’.
Royal Worcester Dinner Set. —This beautiful
and exclusive design, Fawn Border and Grey-looped
Festoons, is on an Ivory ground. The Medallions
have a background of old gold with baskets of
attractive liand-painted flowers. All heavily
gilt. Set consists of 33 pieces.
Price £l2 12-
Set, comprising 37 pieces.
price, £l4/9/6
Chateau Goldena Dinner Set, with black line
top and bottom. Dull Gold Band.,
33-piece set. Price 75/6
S7-piece set. Price
(Chinaware —Third Floor.)
8a
/
fsd
Dainty Neckwear
Always Welcome.
Artists’ Bows in Oriental
Crepe de Chine, 0 / ■« -«
as illustrated. Price, 1 1
Other Prices, 1/11, 2/6
Dainty Summer Scarf, in
Floral Georgette, hemstitched
ends, in tones of Lemon,
Fawn, Navy and Ivory,
18in. x GOin.
Price 11/6
French Printed Crepe de Chine
Scarves, 9in. by 63in. Price . 611
12io. by 63in. Price 8/11
Handsome Batik Scarves, in a variety of
beautiful shades and designs. 18in.
x 63in. Price • 1 9/1
(Neckwear —First Floor.)
The Hordernian Player Piano,
With 24 Rolls and Music Stool.
£l5O.
What a delightful Gift the Hordernian Player
Piano would make! The Mahogany polished case,
double veneered inside and out; full overstrung
scale, seven and one-third octaves. Finest spruce
sounding board. Boston roll fall. Continuous
hinges throughout. Double repeating action, full
length music desk. The Otto-Higel Player Action
is one of the latest construction and is most com-
plete. It is built on, the Unit Valve system, which
requires the minimum amount of pumping. The
bellows are so sensitive that the finest shades can
be produced with the foot pedals without excessive
effort. It is equipped with Tempo Indicator, Auto-
matic Re-wind, Soft and Loud Levers. Height,
4ft. Sin.; width, sft. lin.; depth, 2ft. 4£in. ; weight,
8501 b. (packed)., Complete with 24
Q.R.S. Rolls and Music Stool. Price, £l5O
(Musical Instruments —Second Floor.)
A Fitted Work Box
Would be
Appreciated
Leatherette - covered
Work Box, containing
Needles, Scissors, Bod-
kins, Stiletto, etc.
As illustrated.
fs
Prices .... 15/-, 17/6, 25/-, 30/-
Hairpin Cabinet, withtmirror, contain-
ing good assortment of hairpins. Price, 3/3
Leatherette-covered Companions, lined, contain-
ing Scissors, Bodkin, Thimble, etc., well finished.
Prices, each .. 56, 9/6, 11/6, 16/6
(Haberdashery—First Floor.)
df
What about
a Gift
of
Slippers?
Finest Grade Felt Slippers, soft Suede cushion
soles and heels, smart quilted satin inserts and
silk poms. Colors: Saxe, Rose and Grey.
As illustrated. Price, i>air . . 11/9
Finest Grade Quilted Satin Slippers, Suede
cushion soles and heels, finished with silk poms.
Colors: Rose, Saxe, Mauve, Black. All
sizes. Price, pair 10 6
Best Quality Felt Slippers, finished with Fawn
Collar and button, pump soles, top-piece
heels. Various colors. All Sizes. Price, pair, ($/ 1 |
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Give “Her” a Sunshade.
Choose from these Charming Examples.
Cretonne Sunshade, effective colorings, in
all-over design, smart chubby handles.
Price • 8/6
Charming Sunshade, fancy Shantulle cover
with 3in. insertion border, x 10 in.
frame. Price 13 6
Pretty Floral Sunshade, all-over floral effect,
with narrow border, chubby handle.
Price 11/9
Sunshade, Bottle Green Silk Centre, with Sin.
border of floral silk. May be had also in shades
of Cinnamon, Nigger, Saxe, Navy, Black
and Red. Price .... 27/6
(Sunshades—Third Floor.)
A Fountain Pen
Is an Ideal Gift.
“Swan” Fountain Pen, fitted with 14ct. Gold
Nib, Iridium Tipped, Fiije, Medium, Medium Broad
and Broad, Black Engraved Vulcanite holder.
No. 1, Lever Self-filling !. 17/6
No. 2, Lever Self-filling 20/-
No. 2, Lever Self-filling, Rolled Gold Clip, 22/6
No. 1, Lever Self-filling, Jin. Gold Band. . 21/-
No. 2, Lever Self-filling, Jin. Rolled Gold
Band and Clip 26/6
“Waterman” Self-filling, Lever Action .. 25/-
“Waterman” Self-filling, Lever Action, Jin.
Gold Band 32/6
The Hordernian, Lever Self-filling' Fountain
Pen, large 14et. Gold nib, gilt lever, in either
Black or Red Mottled Vulcanite Barrel.
Price 7/6
(Fountain Pens—Second Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD. HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


i
f'JISilillil'i
HI
From £325
A Finer Chassis
and a more
beautiful body
z
iiiifiliiga
i
The Essex Coach is to-day’s greatest closed-car value. Its body has added
beauty and comfort. The chassis reflects the development and refinement
resulting from years of experience in the production of more than 900,000
cars on the famous and exclusive Super-Six principle.
The steel is the same used in cars costing four times its price.
Genuine plate glass is used throughout—not “crystal” glass.
Genuine walnut steering wheel and aluminium spider with adjustable
steering column.
Front seats are adjustable.
The silent front end chain drive is- five times as costly as the type usual in
the Essex price field.
Roller tappets and babbitt bearings for the
crankshaft are further costly details not found
in the Essex price field.
Fuel is strained, air cleaned and motor pro-
tected from dirt and dust, and the motor oil is
ventilated to give greater efficiency and longer
car life —all taken care of in the Essex design
without the added cost and complication of
special accessories.
It is the greatest value in Essex history.
sdf
ESSEX PHAETON, Price from £255.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD,,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
165.
4
111 "I"!: 1 M §§|§,.
In m l" 1 ' If' 1 m'l 1"'
I ill
I 1" ii I


PEP
Si
silS
5*5
\
» IP
IK
y^.-— —?__*—**
SSUaupi .•■•iASS
S»
Pep - Snap - Life
That describes Paris. After
long months of snappy ser-
vice Paris Garters go as
strong as a peppy cheer
leader. Count the moment
well spent when you ask for
PARIS.
Time for a fresh pair?
PARIS GARTERS
mML CAi
Manufactured in Australia by
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., Ltd., 50 York Street, Sydney
least exertion, and almost desperate about
his financial position and the future of his
fa The‘ plain truth is that alcohol neither
directly nor indirectly caused or conduced
to the poet’s miseries or early death, it
kills as Sir James says, either by its acute
effects in delirium tremens or by As cliromc
effects, which lead, among other things, t
a befuddled brain, Burns did not give the
least sign of either of these, conditions; even
his wanderings in the delirium of rheumatic
fever were never like those of the former,
and his brain was so clear that ten days
before his death he composed that charming
little poem, “By the Banks of Devon Water.
His poetical output was certainly dimin-
ished during the closing stages of Ins me.
That is not surprising when we consider
the tortures inflicted upon him by his dis-
ease, and does not justify us in the belief
that lie had nothing more to give us. Un
the contrary we are left with the conviction
that he had not reached the zenith of Ins
powers, and that if his lines had been, cast
in pleasanter places he would have continued
to enrich ns with his incomparable songs.
Sir James regards him as having possessed
the finest brain of any Scotchman that ever
existed, and Sir Arthur Keith’s examination
of the cast of his head bears out this con-
tention. Be that so or no, all lovers ot the
poet will be grateful to Sir James for free-
ing from our affection for the immortal Bobby
its insensible admixture of regret at his
follies.
EXUL.
The Life of “Bellerive”
Every reader of The Biteletin knows
“Bellerive,” “the poet, of nature,” whose con-
tributions have graced “Answers to Corres-
pondents” a hundred times. “Bellerive’ has
now written for us the story of his life, and
the first of the two parts follows: —-
YOUTHFUL YEARS.
In my early manhood I wandered afar,
Trusting to will power for a guiding star ;
Lack of employment had urged me to roam,
Though welcome to share my parents’ home.
For the food of life, being game and young,
In townships I played an accordion and sung.
As a minstrel tramp dreary miles I did wend,
And my accordion did prove a faithful friend.
Such were the trials of my youthful years,
Which taught me to endure without shedding tears.
Having learnt without funds ’tis folly to rove
A horse and waggon for my father I drove.
Social evenings at home when friends gathered round,
And the strains of the piano did sweetly sound.
By my parents’ request the pen I’d quit
The guests, to amuse with ditties and wit.
By industrious work I steadily journeyed ahead
Settled down in St. Kilda, where my sweetheart 1 w 7 ed.
EARLY MANHOOD IN MELBOURNE.
Having failed as a hawker to do any good,
In the season of winter I set to and chopped w'ood.
No expert as an axeman, I’d to slave very hard
Sundering tough blocks stacked high in the yard.
When summer prevailed, and the wood trade was
slow,
I put in a few weeks with a suburban show.
W'hen to better my lot, though my duties were light,
I undertook driving and wrote verses by night.
Rhymes of the household I penned in my room.
On the pictures, the clock and the old kitchen
broom.
But fated to toss up and down like a boat,
Renown was a dream —I’d to keep alloat.
EXPERIENCE ON THE STAGE.
When speaking plays were the topic and rage
Among a batch of supers I appeared on the stage.
During Alfred Dampier and George Rignold’s reign
A place with the boys I did nightly retain.
In Bland Holt’s time, at the popular old Royal,
As a extra stagehand I found plenty of toil.
Risks in the work was all in the game.
In the thrilling productions of Drury-lane fame.
I left the theatres —the mistake of my life —
I’d insight to props., and prospects were rife.
After a worklcss spell and no opening near,
With a partner I began my street-minstrel career.
MY CAREER AS A STREET MINSTREL, AND
LATER EXPERIENCE AS A PETTY DEALER.
On calm, sunny days and wild, dusty weather
My partner and I toured the suburbs together.
Blackened up and attired, both quaint and neat,
We’d draw a crowd in a public street.
Country districts we travelled in sunshine and rain,
Plodded the track to save fares by train.
Later in Melbourne for another State
My partner embarked, and I lost a good mate
A musical genius, both steady and just,
And during our travels we earned more than a crust.
I made a start as a dealer, and proved a good sport;
Old, out-of-date lines at random I bought.
I went to the wall, but restrained to fret;
I’d paid for my goods and was free from debt.
I sailed to Hobart to a relative of mine.
Where in summer I dabbled in the necklet line.
After a period in Hobart, with a notebook full of
verse,
I returned to Victoria no richer in purse.
I was offered a job, which I refrained to shirk;
I was weary of roving and blessing was work.
I'd my body to nourish, and possessed the will
To labor and write at the foot of life’s hill.
At this point, Dear Reader, you must part
with our friend for a week; and when he
returns you shall learn what he did later in
Tasmania and is doing now.
“The Black Cat”
To the English reader the Batin Quarter
is, or rather was (for in recent years the
Bohemia of Henry Murger and homo of
“Trilby” has been fast passing into the hands
of the smugly respectable bourgeoisie), the
picturesque and romantic heart of artistic
Paris. He pictures it as a lively hotch-
potch of out-at-elbow artists and frayed
grisettes, of pinched stomachs and boundless
ambitions, of cabarets and carnivals, a study-
in black and white at one moment, of high
lights and scarlet at another.
Of Montmartre he knew little beyond
sinister suggestions of an underground life
where drugs and grossness were to be found.
Tot it had a history as glorious as any “the
Quarter” could boast. Remembering its
latter-day traditions, there is a suggestion
of humor in the fact that Montmartre drew
its name from Mons Marty rum, given to it
by the Christians to commemorate the sacri-
fice of lives for the faith by some of the
apostles. For centuries it was a beautiful
outskirt of Paris, its slopes covered with
trees and vines. Here and there rose a
windmill. When Waterloo was fought, le
Moulin de la Galette was still a small mill-
house. Its sails went round and the years
sped. Montmartre began to draw about it
the garment of art, often tattered, and the
old mill became a night cabaret where stains
of wine took the place of virginal flour.
That was the way with Montmartre. It
suffered during “the Terror,” and became
“Mont-Marat,” and again it suffered at the
hands of the Commune in 1871. Then fol-
lowed a tranquil period when taverns flour-
ished, clubs were established and student
life became established on the upper slopes.
Of all the taverns in the town, none was
more illustrious than the Chat Noir. Its
beginnings dated back to 1881. A few
painters and writers used to hold discussions
in a little shop at the back of which was
a small room to which, Gallic-like, they gave
the pretentious name “L’lnstitut.” There
they dined together in select seclusion. Each
Friday they met in friendly gathering. Poets,
seizing the opportunity, read their poems,
painters decorated the walls with their bids
for immortality. They were idealists, poor,
young and ready to discuss any mortal sub-
ject with the stark frankness of the age of
don't care. Rodolphe Salis, a romanticist,
chief among many, conceived the idea of
founding a cabaret, to be known as “The
Black Cat,” for, as he declared, the purpose
of “providing a drink for all those who have
acquired a thirst by art.” Many there were
wffo thirsted, and the fame of the tavern
drew to it men who were, or afterwards
became, famous in the arts and literature
of France. Originally, the Chat Noir was
one long room, but it was later on divided
into two, the front part with a public bar
and the back portion devoted to the Institute.
There came Victor Hugo, Garibaldi, Zola
and many others.
Painters decorated the walls of the inn
with •their pictures, musicians came to the
weekly gatherings, and its fame was spread
abroad. Next door to the tavern was an
inoffensive Swiss clockmaker, and on liis
shop Salis cast covetous eyes. By putting an
old blind beggar to play the flute for hours
outside the clockmaker’s shop, the gentleman
was gently induced to quit. But still the
Cat grew, and finally Salis decided to move
to another and larger house. He invited
his customers and “citizens of the middle
classes and peasants” to be present at the
removal. “The exodus proceeded to the
accompaniment of a torchlight procession
and a band of pipes and violins,” says M.
Jean Emile-Bayard in his interesting Mont-
martre Past and Present (Fisher Unwin).
Salis, dressed in the robes of a prefet, led
the procession, followed by two huntsmen
bearing the banner of the Chat Noir, on
which was inscribed the device “Mountjoy
Montmartre.” Behind them came four
men, dressed as members of the Academy;
and at the tail of the procession a number of
men pushing a handcart containing all the
treasures of the Chat Noir. Thus did the
tavern enter on its new lease of life. It
soon became the resort of fashionable Paris,
and its doors were opened to women —by
choice, young. Above it towered the Chat
Noir himself, silhouetted against a crescent
moon, and right at the top was another
black cat set against a painted sun. _ A
Swiss in uniform announced a new arrival
by knocking three times on the floor, and the
waiters met him dressed in Academy robes.
It was at the Theatre du Chat Noir that
Henri Riviere produced the predecessor to
our modern “movies.” One day the idea of
a kind of Punch and Judy show to illus-
trate a song was suggested to Rivifere.
Next day lie plunged the room into darkness
whilst the song was being sung, and moved
some puppets cut out of paste-board at the
back of a white sheet made transparent
by a gas-burner placed behind it. That
was the origin of the shadow show which
Riviere elaborated to the point of a fine
art. The artist extended the scope of his
efforts till he could produce short plays.
That the shadow shows of the Chat Noir
were not merely elaborated juvenile enter-
tainments adapted to the tastes of children
of an older growth is evidenced by the
description of the production of Maurice
Donnay’s “Aillcurs” in 1891.
Riviere was able to present a picture of nature in
all its stirring beauty and impressive simplicity.
Three knocks were given, and the auditorium was
plunged into darkness whilst bells chimed in the
distance. For the presentation of the play a big
organ and a piano were placed in the wings on the
first floor and 12 scene-shifters worked the various
contrivances. On the second floor was an orchestra
of 21 musicians.
Henry Riviere was not only an artist in
the sense of being a painter. lie was an
inventor of no mean parts. “On a square
piece of transparent sheeting,” says a still-
living member of the Institute, “he gave us
landscapes with the first flush of dawn on
mountain-tops, the sun flecked with gold,
white clouds in a blue sky, or sinking to
rest in a blaze of molten glory, and the
rising of a pale moon over a silver sea.’
And the pictui-es and their puppets
moved to the recital by great actors of
little plays poetic, humorous and pathetic
from the pens of the leading dramatists in
France.
In 1896 the lease of the greatly-glorified
tavern was running out. Salis had pulled
the place to pieces, and under the terms of
his lease it had to be restored to its original
form —a practical impossibility. The dilem-
ma solved itself, so far as the artist lessee
was concerned, by his death. Thus the Chat
Noir came to its destiny, and the cabaret
whose walls were a picture-gallery, whose
floors had held the dancing feet of students
and grisettes, whose salons had welcomed
Alphonse Daudet, Armand Silvestre, Fran-
cois Coppee, Sully-Prudhomme, Sarah Bern-
hardt, Jean Richepin and a host of others,
citizens not only of France but of the world,
put out its lights and drew down its blinds.
The old Montmartre is rapidly passing
away, whole blocks of houses are disappear-
ing, and with them landmarks dear to
memory. The little coffee-shops where the
pretty "models and young work-girls used to
go to get a cheap meal have disappeared.
T.B.C.
Barrington-Beck
When “The Treasure of Ho,” an amazing-
romance of the Boxer Rebellion in China,
appeared, nobody guessed that it had been
written by a woman. The author’s know-
ledge of the inside history of the revolt of
the Boxers was remarkably accurate; and
the story bore the marks of an intimacy
with the Chinese mind that pointed to a
life-long residence in China. One of her
incidents was a realistic account of a
“miracle” in Tibet. It certainly was the
first explanation of a genuine mass halluci-
nation ; the onlooker described the expected
miracle in detail. Among other things the
miracle worker predicted the production of
a real river of blood, issuing from the side
of the lama. The hero and the crowd actu-
ally saw that river of blood; but by an
effort the hero turned away, and on looking
back the illusion had disappeared; there was
no blood—nothing!
The pen-name of the author was L. Adams
Beck, who had also written “The Key of
Dreams,” “The Perfume of the Rainbow,”
“The Way of Stars” and “The Splendor of
Asia” —the last a life of Buddha. All these
novels showed esoteric knowledge of Asia.
Meantime a certain E. Barrington was
turning out a brilliant series of studies of
celebrated eighteenth-century figures, “The
Chaste Diana,” “The Ladies!” "The (J al-
lants,” “The Divine Lady”—a romantic
biography of Nelson’s Lady Hamilton —
“Glorious Apollo” and “The Exquisite Per-
dita.” And now it is announced that L.
Adams Beck, the novelist of the East, and
E. Barrington, the romantic biographer of
famous figures in English history, are tlu*
same person—a woman !
There was so little resemblance in the
styles of these two pseudonymous authors
that no critic guessed that they were written
by the same hand. Her knowledge of the
East was just as remarkable as her insight
into the social customs of the eighteenth
century. Her latest work in that period,
“The Divine Lady” (Lady Hamilton), is
admirably and feelingly done. It is history,
well documented, romantic in tone —not a
great book, but a good seller. The Barring-
ton-Beck lady is the daughter of Admiral
Moresby, the British naval explorer of
New Guinea. She is a strict vegetarian ;
she eats only salads, nuts, fruits and cereal
grains; she drinks only milk or water. As
a girl she had no ambitions of authorship;
but the spell of the East caught her when
passing through the Suest Canal,*and when
she reached Bombay she knew she was home.
She studied Eastern philosophy for eight
years; she is said to have studied with
Tibetan monks; and she has written articles
for Japanese journals in Japanese. After
the war she was on her way to Japan, but
decided to settle in Victoria, British Col-
umbia.
This remarkable double personality says
that her stories “rather write themselves
than are written. I cannot tell what I am
going to write. I cannot tell whether it
will be Beck or Barrington who will write.
It comes as a memory.” She wrote “The
Divine Lady” in six weeks —-120,000 words.
And now she threatens to adopt another
manner and another pen-name, and begin a
new series of novels!
A.H.A.
A Satchel of Books
Gilbert and Sullivan, by A. H. Godwin (Dent).
A critical appreciation of the Savoy operas. An
introduction is furnished by Chesterton and is not
the least attractive feature of a readable and
informative book.
So Speed We, by G. V. McFadden (John Lane).
Claudina Clavel dons male clothing, becomes a
gambler and a cheat, and, having had a good time,
repents and becomes virtuous, thus allowing, the
novel to close on a high moral note. Cast in the
days of the Regency, and will appeal to lovers of
historical romance.
liudfjeree. Bill, by W. J. O’Neill, illustrated by
B. E. Minns (Cornstalk Pub. Co., Sydney). “This
is the story of Budgeree Bill, a little black boy who
lived at Bronze Hill and all the birdfolk loved
Budgeree Bill.” Just the story and the* illustrations
for the Australian child at Christmas. Delightfully
written and illustrated, it ends with a thrill, the
death of the bunyip.
The Lazy Detective, by George Dilnot (Geoffrey
Bles). Detective-Inspector Labar was lazy' and
all Scotland Yard knew it. But even the quality
of indolence has its uses, for it can make a brilliant
man concentrate fiercely on his work in order to
save time for loafing. It was by' such concentration
that Labar brought Larry Hughes and his gang of
crooks to justice. Good lazy reading.
The Bushland Man, by James Pollard (Hodder and
Stoughton). An Australian story dealing with a
side of bush life as yet almost unexploited. It does
not suggest an Australian-born writer, but rather
one from abroad who finds a greater interest in
our flora and fauna than in our social and national
life. The hero is a ranger for “the Western Stock
Company” in W.A. Deeply interested in natural
history, he learned much about its bushland and
collected specimens for scientists. A great deal of
the knowledge thus gained is woven into a simple
love story.
Honeymoon’ll End, by' Howard Roclcey (The
Macaulay Co.). A novel by an American writer
and described as “the thrilling romance of ‘Cyn’
the unchastened girl” The wreck of the paternal
fortune brings to her aid a man who gives her his
name and fortune without requiring any of a
husband’s rights. After a gay and rapid time
she falls back on the nominal husband. “Carter,”
she says, “you love me this moment. You do. .. .
you know you do. And, darn you. can’t you grasp
the fact that I’m crazy over you.” He grasped it.
This literary' triumph equals two dollars in cocktails.
She-Shanties, by A. P. Herbert, Ihe bright young
man on London Punch who visited us recently
(Fisher Umvin). He has a delightfully sophisticated
touch in these pretty frivolities. “What do the
ladies talk about when the ladies leave the table?”
is one of his gay verses. Another
“Don’t let’s go to the dogs to-night
For mother will be there.
Auntie chooses all the tunes.
Uncle bags the best, balloons,
And all the roundest men in town
Are dancing mother’s figure down;
Puffing, panting,
Barging, banting.
Bless their snowy hair!
Night-clubs are simply spas.
For our voung Methuselahs,
So don’t let’s go to the dogs to-night
In case my granny’s there.”
Another of his choice titles is: “I Go All Girlish
when I See the Moon” ; and: —
“Really, anyone would say
To see our modern dramas
The upper classes spent the day
In passion and pyjamas.”


I ~mzmi
L
tmmmv I »sh mb es W fIBTMBSS t
t**® taal I«f< »*«m png
lei m llf& i@ IS
MS® ■tmat \am |M i«tart? \imd \<aks [mm*
si fast m m m n
saw? Sgja
MSttg «.
i -
!* SPtS'Tßfci M
Scswll v.
NPM . . gaaagg«fti
& ; r Hl£k _. -
;* J
BH 31
sz
LmT'UaJ- L~J
W;
■VTTLS. 1
jfr~nwir.,if
ape*
- A J
T. & G. BUILDING , MELBOURNE,
in course of construction for the T. & G. Mutual Life
Assurance Society .
Architects- Messrs. Anketell K. Henderson.
Builders-Messrs. McLeod Bros.
Reinforced throughout on the B.R.C. System.
sdf
The advantages of B.R.C. Fabric and its appreciation as the most satisfactory
of all Concrete Reinforcements is evidenced by the fact that leading
architects specify its use for all classes of buildings, not only where strength
alone is essential, but also where effectiveness of design is an important
feature.
Its ease of handling is a factor that appeals to builders, for the accurate
spacing secured by reason of its special construction assures speedy progress,
combined with absolute safety.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
Miirujjjjjjjjjj
jjujjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Australia), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
Mils
B'F


Quickly gives the figures that
control your business every day
There are many figure facts needed to control any business. For
instance, cash received on account compared with charge sales shows
whether or not credit is being extended faster than collections are made.
There are figures which show the relation of merchandise purchased to
sales, to prevent stock being piled up faster than it is sold. The kind of
business for each day can be determined by comparing cash sales and
charge sales with the average.
To secure these important facts by the brain and pencil method requires
a great amount of time, a great amount of mental drudgery—and the pos-
sibility of error is always present. A Burroughs Adding and Listing
Machine does away with all this. It gives the vital figure facts with
speed, ease and absolute accuracy.
Place a Burroughs in your business. The machine will soon pay for
itself by saving valuable time and preventing errors. You may try it on
your actual work without any obligation whatever. Just phone or write
our nearest office.
Burroughs
Machines
Add, Subtract
Multiply
and Divide
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LIMITED
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY
Burroughs
Machines
are priced
Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - perth - hobart - Rockhampton - Brisbane - Auckland - dunedin - Christchurch - Wellington
4037
ADDING • BOOKKEEPING - CALCULATING AND DUPLEX
MACHINES


Walter P. Chrysler
Develops a New Manufacturing Principle
sdf
Standardized Quality
There is scarcely a car of impor-
tance in the industry today
which has not felt the influence
of Walter P. Chrysler’s ideas —
scarcely one which does not
show either in design or practice
the effect of his influence.
In less than three years he has
Chryslerized the manufacture of
motor cars.
The Chrysler four-car plan of
quality standardization the
only one of its kind in operation
in the world today—reduces
processes and practices to an
engineering, machining, me-
chanical and manufacturing
absolute.
Nothing is left to chance. Men
and machines alike must deliver
to all four lines of cars an un-
varying maximum of precision
and excellence.
This Chrysler principle of stand-
ardized quality manufacture is
revolutionizing buying and
selling in all four quality car
markets today.
Chrysler Standardized Quality
goes back to the sources of raw
material; it governs the very
minutest operation; it makes
certain that every unit is pro-
duced with the finest precision
standards under the most rigid
inspection; it even moulds the
manufacture of accessories.
Obviously, cars that are built
under such an all-embracing
system of standardized quality
manufacture ... must be essen-
tially fine to a degree beyond
comparison with other cars made
under ordinary methods.
A trial run in any Chrysler will
give you anew idea of motoring.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne .
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth- Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth .
Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
d


Why Bald So Young!
m
Cuticura Will Help You
To prevent loss of hair. Dandruff,
usually the cause of premature
baldness, may be easily removed
by regular shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, preceded by touches of Cuti-
cura Ointment. This treatment
keeps the scalp clean and healthy
and promotes hair growth.
Soap Is., Talcum Is. 3d., Ointment ls.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Upßfc-'' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
m a moment
haOe
a
ways
In the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Don’t forget to ask your dealer for
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
The very much better Golf Ball.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
NORMAN L. BURNELL & CO. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Svdnev. Melbourne. Adelaide. Brisbane, Perth. [3
Supreme
where quality
counts. jt*
I
r,
m
THE
1T& C. HARDTMUTH*
LONDON. ENGLAND.
'Agent : 1. Macdottgadd, g.f.o. 165. Sydney.
“HOW TO SHOOT.”
footwork, grip. First or “ready” position. Gun-
mounting, swing and overhead birds. Crossing shots.
Position of the head. Eyesight, the master eye.
Shooting discomforts and cures. Shapes of gunstock.
Gun adjustments and field repairs. Hints for
beginners, marking game, safety first, etc. Trap-
shooting. How to shoot clays. Competition psy-
chology. Game guns of to-day. New revised edition
with supplementary books, post free, 6/6 from
Desk A. 8., E. J. CHURCHILL (Gunmakers), Ltd.,
39 to 42 Leicester Square, London, England.—Advt.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„
214 George Street, Sydney.
SHEARING SHEDS
C. )
c i
m
STABLES
FLOORS FOR WOOLSHEDS
FENCING DROPPERS
PLANS AND PR/CES FREE
GLOBE TIMBER
MILLS
COY.
FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE, S.A.
A Most Exceptional Offer
in Stainless Steel Cutlery
Wade and Butcher Manufacture.
For a limited period only Stewart Dawson’s are offering this
Special Bargain in Stainless Steel Cutlery. Each knife is Guar-
anteed Firth’s Stainless Steel throughout, with White Zylonire
balanced square Handles. The name of the manufacturers (Wade
and Butcher) is a “household word’’ for dependability.
This is a most exceptional offer —the Value is unapproachable
anywhere for Quality.
BOXED IN HALF-DOZENS, AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE
KNIVES
16/6
Half Doz.
sd
DESSERT
KNIVES
15/-
Half Doz.
Higher Grades in Wade and Butcher Stainless Cutlery, Mirror
finish, both square and round handles. Prices: —
Table Knives, 25/- Half Dozen.
Dessert Knives, 24/- Half Dozen.
Wade and Butcher Real Knife Sharpeners,
2/- to 4/6 each.
Call and inspect these wonderful offers without £elay.
Catalogue oj Jewellery , Watches, Silverware, etc., Post Free to
Country Residents.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
54 YEARS’ WORLD-WIDE REFUTATION. (NS W), LTD.
412 George Street Strand Corner.
185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street.
Two Sydney
EstablG hments:
Beautiful
but
HJI
9teyjuu\ dCL Ae\ don
THE more beautiful a woman is the greater her dread of old age.
Woman, by her beauty alone, has ruled and ruined nations,
made and unmade kingdoms, suppressed and caused revolutions —
such is the power of her beauty.
Beauty and Youth go hand in hand. As old age appears beauty
gradually fades, the skin loses its peach-like bloom, and, worst of
all, the telltale of approaching years, silvery GREY HAIRS, make
their appearance. As soon as a woman sees the reflection of these
silver threads in her mirror she realises her maturing years. Her
husband, her children and her friends —they all notice it.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN is a simple, harmless liquid, and
when applied to the hair removes these telltale silver threads.
Obtainable in brown or black, it tints to any shade. It is
perfectly safe and easy to apply, and can be obtained from anj r
chemist or store, price 4/-, or from the Agents, Messrs. Muir & Neil,
Sydney; Lifeguard Smith, Brisbane; or Duerdin and Sainsbury, Ltd.,
Melbourne (by sending 4/6 in stamps or postal note).
Buy a bottle to-day and remember the name.
D 5 ALLEN’S MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
tv/111
AW-S 2
fsdf
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
12,6
FREE
POST
sd
VAIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Together.
Hidden here in deep shore-shadow,
Let ns muted watchers be,
While the trees. like solemn soldiers
Climb yon hillside silently.
Let us yield ourselves to silence,
Say no word and breathe no wish,
List’niug only to the wavelets
And the leaping of the fish.
Two together idly drifting,
While the tide o’er rock and beach .
Creeps with many little whispers,
Let our souls talk, each to each.
Meeting in the shouting cities,
Crowded highways, alleys mean,
Soul with soul can talk but seldom,
Seldom bridge the gulf between.
Look! With silent feet swift gliding,
Waking, trailing silver gleams,
Moonlight moving o’er the waters
Like the soul of midnight seems.
Gazing on yon spreading splendor
Blazing over cove and reach,
Spellbound by the power of Beauty
Shall our souls speak, each to each.
Beauty chains me, Beauty thralls you—
Beauty round us and above:
Thus are souls made kin, commingled
By the loveliness they love.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Shadows.
The wind is seething in the trees
And their gaunt shadows far below —
Dim blot and vague elusive strand —
Like spiders in a saraband
Are gliding to and fro.
They seem to tender claw to claw
As pliantly they pirouette,
Then lightly on their silent feet
They sweep away in wild retreat,
Entangled in a writhing net.
And restlessly return to tread
Their endless measure, dancers dark
That, interlacing, sway and stir
Upon the grass and diaper
The white boles of the candle-bark.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
A Memory.
Do you remember how one day
You met me at the gate and said,
•Be quiet and stop your shouting, child —
Old Mr. Jones’s wife is dead”?
And I, not knowing what death meant,
But suddenly robbed of rightful play,
Sat in the kitchen, solemn-eyed,
And wished she’d died some other day.
But you, mistaking sullenness
For sorrow, came and stroked my hair.
“Poor little kid, don’t cry!” you said;
“She’ll know no weeping Over There!”
Now after all these years I still
Can hear your words of sympathy :
“Poor little kid, don’t cry!” you said,
And held my hand and crooned to me.
TASMANIA.
VERA HOLTHAM.
Song.
Oh, saw you my dear one,
And did she go by you?
You’d know her by her brown hair
And sunny eyes of blue.
You’d know her by the laughter
That flowers in her face ;
You’d know her by her light step
And little ways of grace.
Oh, saw you my dear one,
And did she go by you?
I know her by her wisdom,
Her queenly heart and true.
I know her by the wonder
She ever wakes in me;
I know her by the longing
That will not let me be.
N.S.W.
A.S.T. ALLAN.
Progress.
With mouldering walls and faded shingle
roof
The old house stands alone, remote, aloof.
If in its garden some stray petal gleams,
Its wattles and its pines are trees of dreams.
Within great shadowy rooms the boards are
set
As when the dancers danced a minuet.
Antimacassars still upon the chairs,
And up a narrow flight of twisted stairs
An attic, like some bin of mystery,
With mice, cobwebs, old gauds and pot-
pourri.
A chatelaine keeps guard with ancient sloth
Here where a laugh would clatter like an
oath.
Yet Love once knocked upon some shabby
door,
Romance in satin skirts swept o’er the floor;
Beauty, Ambition, Youth, like living fire.
And Passion struggling with his fierce desire.
Courage rose leaping to fresh heights sublime,
Echoes that faded with the dust of time;
And here, ’tis whispered, some dark secret
key
Has closed a door on muttering tragedy.
With mouldering walls and faded shingle
roof
The old house stands alone, remote, aloof.
Soon, where it sheds an ancient shadowy
grace,
A factory will thunder in its place.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE JONES.


fdf
... m
CiffVjl f!
cfiryi&n
iaJ
m
Cr-eal’ Western
&*■
“ ' sum***
df
- j
m
i
■
Great Western
(?
ma
■
£reaf' Western i
'm
sdf


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2443.
December 9, 1926.
Binks is REJOICED
By THE MA-Ny UTTLE MTENTIOKS
ME MEETS
Evervwhers
Nov* we \s suFFERme* e>Aso ,
CHRISTMAS IS A-COMING.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for iiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
I. on don Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly' Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J/S. ; 6 months, 12s. (Id.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, ivhether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., my picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Lomlon is
Li. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin’’ can lie obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hail at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
7t> Farringdon Street, London, E.C.).; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and Neiv Zealander,” l/H-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Til Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27tli Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West lilst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News Stand,
s)ls South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'xSullelzvi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1926.
THE SINKING FUND WE MUST HAVE.
Prime Minister Bruce being in England
and Treasurer Page in Australia, the two
heads of the Australian Ministry are far
apart, and their utterances are far apart
also —even farther than themselves. Bruce
babbles softly to British audiences like the
blithering brook, and assures them that all
is well with Australia’s tangled and crazy
finances, and that State debts are represented
by two varieties of public works, one of
which yields enough to cover interest and
working expenses, while the other produces
“incalculable wealth.” In his desire to be
a polite and spatted exponent of pleasant
things, he assures his hearers that State Gov-
ernments like those of Queensland, N.S.W.
and Westralia, which rush into more foreign
debt on every possible occasion, are as
solvent and reliable as the Government of
Britain, which toils incessantly to pay off lia-
bilities. Treasurer Page, on the’ other
hand, tries hard, with no great success so
far, to make the position better, the first
essential being- to convince a casual people,
demoralised by long continuance of the
remittance-man’s life, that at present the
position is worse. In a recent deliverance
he said that it had become urgently neces-
sary to establish an all-round sinking fund
to cover State as well as Federal debts, so
that each old liability could be paid off
at some date or another, instead of being
renewed under conditions of financial dis-
tress which enabled the lender to make his
own terms. He added that the fund, if it
can be brought into existence, must be put
into the hands of trustees, as the British
sinking fund is, sufficiently strong and in-
dependent to keep thieving Treasurers at
a distance. This leads up to the point that
part at least of the sinking fund should be
held in England, where the bulk of the
State liabilities and a considerable propor-
tion of the Federal ones are located, and
where loans are constantly falling due under
circumstances of increasing embarrassment.
Further, it is impossible to make this pro-
vision in England unless the fund consists
of more tangible currency than the paper
stuff which Australian surpluses are made
of. And that opens the additional problem
that the only way to create the required
tangible resources in England or any other
outside place is to make exports exceed im-
ports by sufficient to meet the outside inte-
rest bill and the outside sinking fund pay-
ment.
* * # #
The necessary restriction of imports might
be brought about by the tariff; but tariff in-
creases are so extensively counterbalanced
by the efforts of industrial agitators and
professional strikemakers that it isn’t
brought about. The position grows worse in-
stead of better. The desired end might also be
reached if the importation of certain classes
(and sufficient classes) of goods was pro-
hibited, the prohibited goods being the sort
which Australia can make for itself if U
wants them badly, or do without if it doesn’t.
A perfectly direct method would be found if
the Commonwealth could constitute itself
the purchaser each year of a sufficient
quantity of Australian produce, paying for
it at market rates in paper money out of
the proceeds of taxation, and turn the goods
into sufficient British money abroad to meet
interest and sinking fund liabilities. The
only changes would be that the Government,
or its business agents, instead of private
middlemen, would pay paper here and sell
for gold there, and that these particular
proceeds would no longer be available to
pay for imports. Even after the money was
made available, a State Treasurer of the
Lang variety would probably refuse to
allow his debt to be taken from him except
by violence. But the Federal Government
has power to take over State debts, and
could do so at any time provided its majority
didn’t flee in affright at the idea of accom-
plishing anything decisive. The difficulty
would probably remain of preventing a Nark
State which stands outside the Loan Council
from promptly laying the foundations of a
new debt which might be as reckless as the
old one. This might be met, though, so far as
Britain is concerned, if the British Gov-
ernment was persuaded to shut out from the
list of trustee securities all Australian loans
which didn’t carry the Federal guarantee,
and by the Commonwealth being careful not
to throw its endorsement around recklessly,
but giving profound attention to the objects
for which money was wanted.
REASONS WHY WE SHOULD MAKE
OUR OWN MOVIES.
Victor Wilson, who used to be a South
Australian Senator and one of Bruce’s
Ministers, came recently to the defence of
Hollywood films, being now “president of
the Motion-picture Distributors of Austra-
lia,” with headquarters in Sydney. His
remarks were prompted by some comments
of Justice Ferguson on the plight of a
Sydney youngster who, taunted by other
lads about his “Oxford bags,” had produced
a revolver and fired, killing a boy who hap-
pened to be an innocent party. In accused’s
behalf it was urged that he had shot with
intent to scare his tormentors but not to
hurt any of them, the silly revolver idea hav-
ing been suggested by what lie had seen
Two-Gun Tony or some such Hollywood
hero do in “the pitchers.” “I am disposed
to agree with counsel,” said the learned
Judge. “We cannot shut our eyes to the
fact that in some of these picture-shows
there is a constant presentation of lawless-
ness as something to be admired. Picture-
shows, or some of them, are having a very
evil effect upon the youth of this country,
a? is sometimes shown by proceedings in
the courts. And I am afraid that the evil
effect is even greater than is shown by the
court proceedings.” These observations
drew from Victor Wilson the feeble reply
that “with the rigorous censorship ruling in
Australia it is impossible for any picture to
be passed that would incite to crime.”
* * * *
The censors doubtless do their best, but
the deletion of all crime themes and features
from the vast amount of rubbish imported
from America is beyond the two men in
the job, nor do they aim at it. They have
to remember that they are not acting for
young people only, and that if murder,
suicide, gun-fights, highway robbery, bur-
glary, rape, etc., were banned as subjects
or incidents there would be very few Holly-
wood films left, and at present the supply
of Australian and British films is small. So
they are obliged to pass stuff - which is apt
to have a very bad influence on subnormal
minds, in which there is no strong moral
sense to restrain the imitativeness of youth.
In any case, there are thousands of Holly-
wood films in Australia which were only
lightly censored or not censored at all; and
many of these productions are revived from
time to time. “A commission headed by the
Bishop of Birmingham,” asserts the Distri-
butors’ president, “secured evidence from
principals of Children’s Courts which defi-
nitely disproved for all time the absurd sug-
gestion that the motion-picture created crime
among the young.” The evidence, or alleged
evidence, of Children’s Court magistrates in
England, whether accepted by the Bishop
of Birmingham or not, has no bearing on
the position in Australia. It does not “defi-
nitely disprove” or even weaken the testi-
mony of Mr. Justice Ferguson. The evi-
dence of Australian Children’s Court magis-
trates would be pertinent and valuable, but
none is forthcoming. If Victor Wilson can
produce even one experienced Children’s
Court magistrate who will kiss the Book and
declare that lie has come across no case of
film-influenced juvenile crime in Australia,
The Bulletin will be pleased to place the
fact on record.
* • * *
The N.S.W. Inspector-General of Police
reported last year that “the amount of crime
committed by persons of tender years is
still serious and on the increase.” A re-
turn for the metropolitan district only shows
that 5347 juvenile offenders were dealt with,
there being 1429 cases of theft, 881 of break-
ing and entering, 583 of “offensive behavior,
etc.,” 246 of maliciously damaging property,
36 of carnally knowing girls under 16, 23 of
indecent assault, and 8 of “rape and
attempts.” Metropolitan totals for previous
years were 4809 in 1924, 4861 in 1923 and
4161 in 1922, so the increase has been con-
siderable. Statistics for the State, all ages,
show that 87,075 cases were brought before
the police-courts in 1920, 94,565 m 1921,
96,989 in 1922, 104.519 in 1923, 98,101 in
1924 and 102,377 in 1925. Offences against
the person increased from 3761 in 1920 to
4095 in 1925, and in tlye metropolitan district
alone from 2055 to 2489. Metropolitan totals
for six years were 44,184 in 1920, 54,178 in
’2l, 56,274 in ’22, 64.678 in ’23, 58.252 in
’24 and 59,071 in ’25. Victor Wilson
nevertheless asserts that “the enormous
development of picture-shows in Australia”
has been accompanied by “a very consider-
able reduction in crime in N. S. Wales.”
For half a century or thereabouts there was
a very considerable reduction in crime, not in
N. S. Wales alone but throughout Aus-
tralia. The Commonwealth Statistician men-
tions that the rate of committals for serious
crime decreased from 22 per 10,000 Austra-
lian inhabitants in 1861 to 14 per 10,000 in
1871, 12 in 1881, 11 in 1891, 8 in 1901 and
6 in 1911. With the spread of education,
the growth of organisations like the Boy
Scouts and the Girl Guides, and the general
improvement in working and living con-
ditions, together with the introduction of
all manner of devices for reclaiming crimi-
nals, this improvement, so striking in the
pre-film days, should have continued. In-
stead, the rate of committals went back to
7 per 10,000 in 1921, and it was the same
in 1923, though the 1911 figure was repeated
in 1924, the latpst year recorded. Evidently
“the pitchers” have retarded the movement,
instead of assisting it, as Victor Wilson
suggests. Retarded it, not only by pre-
senting crime in attractive aspects to way-
ward children, but by transmitting bad
manners, vicious habits and false views of
life, notably the sexual side of it, to adoles-
cents, especially females with the brains of
beetles. When Justice Ferguson said that
“the evil effect of picture-theatres is greater
than is shown. by court proceedings” he
perhaps had in mind the prevalence of
“spotting” among silly members of so-called
smart sets and their imitators. Youths be-
longing to decent Australian families did not
take whisky-flasks in their hip pockets to
parties and danCes, nor did young matrons
and girls deem it fashionable to get drunk at
such entertainments, till they saw flash
Americans’ of both sexes doing the like in the
movies. Neither did the drug habit become a
menace in Australia —-so great a menace in
N. S. Wales that the Lang Government, in
one of its lucid moments, introduced special
legislation to deal with it- —till Hollywood
photoplays made it familiar in their meretri-
cious way.
* * * *
VICTOR Wilson has been tartly reminded
by eX-Senator Garling that he wasn’t
always an unconvincing apologist for Holly-
wood films. In 1922 he resisted a proposal
to reduce the tax on entertainments in the
interests of cinema proprietors, and in doing
so said : “Picture-shows have, in many in-
stances, become a curse to this country—
they are a form of entertainment which has
been shockingly abused.” Plainly this quo-
tation from Hansard rather staggered him,
but he recovered sufficiently to remark that
he “accepted the position I now occupy so
that the pictures might be improved.” If
that is really his object he can best promote
it by putting himself at the head of the
movement to get a regular supply of films—
films that will amuse without demoralising,
that will inculcate Australian, not Holly-
wood, ideas —made in his own Common-
wealth. There is a lot of Australian capital
behind the association of which he. is presi-
dent, and Australia has been very good to
him.
TORTURE IN THE WITNESS-BOX.
When the jury left the court after deliver-
ing their verdict of Guilty in what is known
as the Bondi Junction case, “their hands,”
the S. M. Herald records, “were seized and
shaken and ‘Congratulations, old man,’ was
repeatedly heard from the surging throng.”
Such a demonstration as this, common
enough after an acquittal, is rare indeed
when men have been convicted; it is one of
the straws that show how deeply public feel-
ing was stirred by the hideous - atrocities
charged against Brahner and Harris and
how much apprehension existed that there
might be a miscarriage of justice, owing
either to the plentiful funds that were obvi-
ously available for the defence or to the
methods by which that defence was distin-
guished or disfigured. And the jury deserved
the congratulations showered on them, not
only for seeing justice done on the guilty, but
for protesting against unnecessary suffering
—purposeless, it might almost be called, in
the light of the quickly-reached verdict —be-
ing inflicted on the innocent victim of out-
rages that can be no more than hinted at in
print.
1 * * * *
Through a girl's plain story, almost in-
credible in its horror, hut never shaken in
its essentials, two satyrs in human form have
been sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment
apiece. But if the victim of these men s
brute strength and worst; than brutish pas-
sions could have foreseen the ordeal she must
;■ —— merely for tolling the truth under
oath —her heart might well have failed her;
rather than go into the witness-box she might
have preferred to see her vile assailants escape
unpunished, and it would have been hard to
blame her. Suffering in some degree is, of
course, inevitable for a woman who has to,
tell in open court a story of assault and
outrage; there can be no conviction without
it. And the agony is intensified when sucli
a story must be told before an audience con-
sisting almost entirely of men; in this case
the Judge’s suggestion that all women should
leave the court had been complied “with at
the outset. But the exquisite torture of long
hours of persistent cross-examination, all de-
signed to shake her story, to make her con-
tradict herself, to give counsel some rag of
defence to clutch —can anyone glimpse that
except the woman who lias to undergo it?
Small wonder that women too often shrink
from setting the law in motion against sexual
offenders when they realise the price they
themselves must pay in the most odious of
all kinds of publicity!
*** . *
Frequently, when counsel take too much
latitude in these matters, it is his Honor
who interferes. In this trial it was left to
the jury to bluntly protest that the wit-
ness was being subjected to unnecessary tor-
ture by the same questions being asked over
and over again. That protest was a reproof
to Mi*. Justice Ferguson as well as a con-
demnation of the methods employed in cross-
examination. Its'immediate result was that
counsel expressed resentment at the jury
presuming to advise him how he should con-
duct his case, while the Judge justified his
non-interference. But its effect went
further than that, for not another ques-
tion was asked of the sorely-tried witness.
It was so effective a protest that there is
no reason to doubt that those who con-
gratulated the jury at the close of the trial
were applauding something more than the
verdict. After the case was over there was
assuredly a touch of bathos in the counsel
for the defence (Mr. Mack, K.C., and Mr.
Meagher) objecting with all the virtuous
indignation they could display or assume
to the word “torture” as applied in the
Crown Prosecutor’s address to their, treat-
ment of the witness, and the C.P. hurriedly
disclaiming the remotest intention of ruffling
his learned brothers’ professional feelings by
liis verbal slip. Yet torture is a mild word for
wliat maltreated women must needs look to
endure in the witness-box if a certain class
of criminal, perhaps the most pestilential of
all to the community, is ever to get liis deserts.
There are, nevertheless, refinements of it that
can be discouraged, and must be, or a time
may come when no woman will dare to tell
in open court of what she has suffered at
the hands of men like Bhauner and Harris.
It 'is good to find; a jury taking so downright
a stand ; it is regrettable that it should ever
be left to the jury to give the Bar and the
Bench a lesson in what is seemly.
STOUSH.
There is a general idea, largely worked upon
by certain writers of fiction, that the British
person is-the one and only traditional user
of his fists .for self-defence. Other nations
are represented as walking around with con-
cealed knives or having dangerous tools
hidden about their persons, while the noble.
Briton ■ buttons up bis coat and trusts to
the sterling virtue of. bash. As the Briton
is on the average a few inches taller and a
stone or two heavier than most of the others,
tlie merit he acquires in this way is a trifle
doubtful; but the more remarkable thing is
that on historical evidence the tale has no
foundation. The disturbance caused by
ancient fists was very widespread ; but the
Anglo-Saxons took no part in it. Their
method of conducting a mild controversy
which did not call for the use of an axe or
the curious crooked sword with which they
mangled the Welsh was invariably with an
ash stick. Broken crowns and not discolored
features were the marks of argument at vil-
lage fairs and the like.
There was a good deal of boxing of a
violent sort in both Greece and Rome, and
the: gentle cestus was used not to soften the
blow but to increase it. At the Greek games
the sluggers from the island of Samos gen-
erally carried off the honors, while the terrific
Spartans seem to have prohibited the sport
—possibly on the ground that it was too
mild for their advanced taste in personal in-
jury. In classical times and countries, how-
ever, -bash or ..stoush never achieved first
place in popularity. It is necessary to step
out of the classical circle either sideways or
backwards to find the ancient passion for
the game. Among the early Etruscans it
enjoyed a vogue it never had in Rome, par-
ticularly at funerals; and pottery vases and
ornaments from a wide sweep of country
beginning about lower Austria and ending
at the Macedonian frontier had boxing
scenes by way of design so frequently as to
prove that the national culture in prehis-
toric times throughout these lands was largely
that .ifif the fists. Their methods were pecu-
liar, for the boxers usually fought across a
bench on which was some article intended
for a prize. Helmets and pieces of em-
broidery are shown in the crude pictures as
dividing the boxers, and such a thing as a
clinch was evidently unknown.
It is to the great civilisation of Crete,
however, that we must go at some period
anterior to 1500 b.c. to find stoush in full
flower. There the fighting seems to have
been mainly conducted with bare knuckles,
though Professor Burrows suggests that
some pictures are intended to show boxing-
gloves. The pugs are represented as thin
hunches of sinew, with very narrow waists
and ' elaborate helmets, in attitudes which
suggest furious assault but no very great
amount of skill. A number of them are in
the ring at the same time, and those who
are down look as if they had been bit with
something harder than a modern fist. - Crete
during tlie period dressed its ladies in cos-
tumes that might have come straight from
Paris, and used pottery almost as fine as
Chinese porcelain, hut its main interests
seem to have been bull-fighting and a steel-
fisted brand of boxing.
So the modern stadium is really a revival
of something infinitely old; ring cham-
pions were being applauded from the ter-
race at Knossos centuries before the decline
of Egypt, while the Greek myths were still


in the making and when eternal Rome had
not even a first mud hut to show. If the
Cretans were really of the Mediterranean
race, the dark and enduring people so often
conquered, but never exterminated, who still
form the basis of the population in Italy,
Greece, Spain, Asia Minor and possibly
Egypt, the honor of placing the game of
stoush in the limelight must go to them.
It seems strange that they are exactly the
people who are handiest with the knife to-
day in their private quarrels. The average
height of the man in (Cretan tombs is under
five-feet-four. Is it possible that the great
white northerners, with their six feet of bone
and muscle, came in like a whole army of
Jack Johnsons and destroyed all interest
in the championship of the former world of
conquerors.
D.M.W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Payment by Results.
Though political theorists were slow to
grasp it, the enslavement of the many for
the enrichment of the few is not the best
basis for a prosperous State. The really
prosperous ones are those that get nearest
to the old Socialist prescription “From each
according to his ability ; to each according to
his needs.” The trouble about modern in-
dustrial organisation is that those who
shepherd the workers have set their faces
steadfastly against any attempt to give effect
to the first part of the motto. The fact that
men, given the right conditions, like to work
hard and were made that way is kept under
with a firm hand. The Labor leader of
to-day tells his followers that their problem
is the perfectly simple one of doing as little
as possible for as much money as possible.
One of the subjects he has therefore to
steer clear of and boycott is payment
by results. At the back of the boy-
cott is the simple idea that there is only
a certain amount of work in the world, and
that if the workers mop it up too enthusiasti-
cally the number of unemployed will be
largely increased. Like many another simple
idea, it is quite wrong. In the Vic-
torian railway workshops they have been
testing a plan of rewarding hard work-
ers, and, according to evidence given
before the Federal Arbitration Court, in
one case 63 men are earning 36 per cent,
more than the basic wage to which they
would have been entitled as time-workers.
In another case output lias increased 73 per
cent, in two years. Before the same Court
last week a manufacturer told of output
increased by 276 per cent, on the application
of piece-work. In other words, it has
become possible for the employer to more
than double the workman’s pay-envelope, and
still show a profit—or more likely avoid a
former loss —on the transaction. These are
doubtless hand-picked cases, and do not
accurately represent the effect of a general
application of the principle. But they are
not incredible. Whenever official trades
unionism is asked to justify its opposition to
payment by results, “Why,” it asks, “pick
on the working-man? Why don’t they apply
the same principle to the foremen and man-
agers and accountants?” The answer is
easy. The principle is applied to such men.
Unless they produce results they go out.
But no class-conscious trades-unionist would
dare to believe it. In Maoriland it is
proposed to introduce the bonus system in
the railway workshops, and there has been
a howl that hasn’t yet stopped reverberating.
Yet all that it amounts to is an allegation
that if the working-man shows how hard he
can work, the fact will be used “against him.”
There is a very easy reply to that, too. In quite
a number of trades, piece-work is done. But in
these days of Arbitration Courts no employer
would dare to ask that piece-work rates
should be reduced on the ground that their
adoption had speeded up work to an extent
that made the reward of the worker exces-
sive. And he wouldn’t be silly enough to put
up such an argument. The American Federa-
tion of Labor has adopted as its slogan : “If
everybody works, there’s work for every-
body.” There is a lot of truth in that,
based on the notion that if everyone is
earning everyone is buying. When Aus-
tralian Labor gets that idea into its skull
the continent will gird up its loins and
gather up its heritage. In the meantime
the harvest is composed largely of lOU’s.
Private Profit in Armaments.
One of the most pertinent questions relating
to the preservation of peace mentioned in the
Covenant of the League of Nations is the
matter of the private manufacture of arms.
It was felt by Woodrow Wilson and others
who worked with him in the dr-if tin a- of the
Covenant that it was much use trying
to promote peace amongst the nations so
long as citizens of each of the Great Powers
were making a living by selling munitions of
war to whoever could afford to buy them,
There was a certain amount of evidence
before Wilson and liis associates that arma-
ment manufacturers in Europe had been act-
ing, if not as agents provocateurs of war, at
least as a very active stimulant of rivalry,
both military and naval, between the nations.
IN ot only that, but they were supplying arms
to little nations and even to savage tribes,
enabling these people to kick up disturbances
that big nations found it hard to keep out
of. In 1919 it looked easy enough to imagine
all the parties to the League Covenant sitting
round a table and agreeing, more or less
nonchalantly, to make the preparation of
arms and munitions henceforward a matter
for Governments and not for individuals,
and to ban absolutely international traffic
in such materials. It looked very much less
easy when the first Session of the Assembly
was held and the question was shelved, along
with many others less important. It has
been shelved and side-tracked and shunted
year after year ever since, but it stands in
the Covenant and cannot be ignored. At the
.seventh Session, held last September, the
thing came up again, like a skeleton that
would not stay in its cupboard. It was
; decided that there must be an inquiry into
the whole subject, and that it should be
undertaken in connection with a conference
on disarmament that is now being held. It
is mentioned in the official report of last
Session that during this year a convention
had been drafted dealing with the subject of
“the supervision of the private manufacture
of arms and ammunition and of implements
of war,” and the draft, probably., is one of
the bases of discussion. Some time ago, a
Convention on the Supervision of the Inter-
national Trade in Arms was prepared, and
the Assembly recommended members of the
League to ratify it. But it was reported to
the last Session that only tAvo signatory
countries had ratified the Convention. Their
names are not disclosed, but obviously they
don’t matter very much, since a resolution
of Assembly on tllte subject expresses the
pious hope that “efforts which are being
made to obtain the ratification of the princi -
pal producing countries will soon be success-
ful.” It would seem that the Wilsonian idea
of prohibiting the manufacture of arms for
private profit has been dropped, giving place
to the much milder notion that Governments
ought to “supervise” such activities, and that
special attention should be paid in each
country to the export and import of man-
killing appliances. It ought not to be diffi-
cult to get the Powers to sign Conventions
of that sort; but beyond that the outlook
is not promising. Such Conventions may
check such scandals as the gun-running that
went on in connection with the Riff cam-
paign, but the main point at issue will not
be touched, because every Government likes
to feel that it has on hand several large
armament works for whose upkeep it docs
not have to pay, and whose resources can
be turned over to the nation immediately in
time of war. It is another case in which
the Covenant has been proved to be im-
measurably greater than the League.
The Insane Hurry to Build Rome.
Westralia spent £4,978,686 of loan money
last year, say £lO 19s. 2d. per inhabitant.
This year it proposes to spend £4,832,347,
say £l2 13s. per head. If the pace keeps up
the State will have a hundred millions of
debt, quite apart from its share of the war
liability, before it has half a million of inhabi-
tants. Thanks to the people who devised the
Constitution, Westralia has the best State
sinking fund in these parts, though it is
mostly counterbalanced by accumulated de-
ficit ; but with sufficient new loans even the
best sinning fund is a dog chasing a streak
of lightning. The projected borroAv for
1926-27 is the biggest in Westralia’s history,
and the previous one (1925-26) was the
biggest in its time. Before that, the loan
expenditure of 1924-25 was a record up to
then, and so was the loan expenditure of
11)23-24. In fact, Westralia keeps putting
up new records. In introducing his record
loan estimates, Premier Collier made the
. trite remark that “the bulk of the money
is needed for country development.”
He spoke like a man driven by neces-
sity. “Country development” means get-
ting people on the soil to grow wheat
which Australia doesn’t require, and building
railways to carry it to the coast so that it
may be shipped an immense distance in other
people’s vessels to an uncertain market.
What the big State really needs is to develop
its factory industries, especially in the
smaller toAvns, so that it may give up lament-
ing about being “flooded” with goods from
Victoria and South Australia. Westralia
even imports much of its cheese, butter and
eggs from the Eastern States and from foreign
countries, and makes a grievance of it, yet
at the same time it sends to Parliament a
group of virulent Freetraders who demand
that not only their State but the entire Com-
monwealth shall be flooded with the goods of
all the world. The small interest which
Westralian politicians take in any effort to
supply the local market Avitli manufactured
goods is probably due to the fact that manu-
facturing progress can’t be made an excuse
for spectacular borrowing and railway-build-
ing, as land “settlement” can. In Westralia,
aoout 95 per cent, of the surface is still
public property, yet up to June, 1925, vari-
ous Governments had spent £14,512,000 on,
buying back private land to put settlers on,
so the business is one with possibilities in it.
Of the big debt, two-thirds is owing abroad,
and the other third is mostly due to people in
the Eastern States, for Westralia never sup-
ported its own loans to any great extent.
It is characteristic of the place and the
people that when the great goldfinds were
made there Avas no idea of opening up the
mines in a sober, patient local Avay as was
done in Victoria, but flushed speculators fled
to London and Paris to sell out for money
in bulk, and did it so effectively that 86
per cent, of the State’s mining scrip was
at one time held outside the Commonwealth
and a good deal of the balance outside West-
ralia. The feverish attempt to build Rome
in a day with borrowed money is bound to
produce three results :• (1) Too many Romans
are beguiled away from productive employ-
ment to earn sensational and artificial wages
by working the “Government stroke.” (2)
Too many dissatisfied, aggrieved and swollen-
headed Romans are thrown on a crippled
labor market when the loans run short and
the boom breaks. And (3) Rome, run up
under these conditions, is apt to be a jerry-
built city, which is liable to fall on Caspar's
head and make a shocking ruin of his hat.
♦-
The Clarence River as a Deep-sea Port.
Dear Bulletin, —Speaking with all due
respect, I regard “Noah,” who wrote on the
above subject in your issue of 25/11/’26, as
a superfluous mariner, Avith a gift for re-
tailing small-beer chronicles and bits of local
intelligence from unimportant towns. He
says that tSie report of harbor-engineer
George Buchanan, “though it received but
scant attention in the city press, is creating
unprecedented enthusiasm on the N.S.W.
North Coast, and more particularly on the
Clarence River.” I have seen the North
Coast in a state of enthusiasm, and I mis-
took it for a church bazaar till the matter
was explained to me. Engineer Buchanan
told nothing that was not known long before,
and nothing which had not been contemptu-
ously ignored for many years. His report will
be ignored, too, unless the country districts
can raise a more fizzy brand of unprecedented
enthusiasm than they have done in the past.
Now that the increase of city congestion has
given the county of Cumberland a definite
majority of Parliamentary representation,
there is even less reason than before why
the North or the South or any other place
should receive attention ; and even when the
Rest of the State had a definite majority of
members, it didn’t compel any Government
to take any more notice of its demands for
new deep-sea ports than if it had been a
grasshopper. “Noah” says that “once the
river entrance difficulty is overcome, vast
developments should follow. Railways from
the whole northern part of N.S.W., including
the North-West, should be constructed to the
jbort of shipment, which might be Grafton,
Maclean, Ashby or Iluka.” I would add that
the Bottomless Pit should freeze, only I hate
to waste valuable space on the obvious. If
the North set up as a separate State all
these things might happen, but otherwise
they won’t. Nor will they happen at Twofold
Bay unless the South sets up as a separate
State. Yet Twofold Bay is far ahead of
Grafton as a port—in fact, it is set down
(given a cheap little breakwater) as one of
the 17 really good natural harbors of Austra-
lia. If Noaii Arkbottom and his friends,
who are said to be “jubilant” over engineer
Buchanan’s waste-paper report, would like
to try their prentice hands at development
under existing conditions, I recommend them
to get the railway extended from luverell to
Glen Innes, with a view to subsequent ex-
tension to the Clarence. The Moree-Invereii
line approaches the paying stage ; that is to
say, it shows a handsome surplus over work-
ing expenses, and the loss on interest was
last year only £134 per mile. Yet any pro-
posal to complete it is received with a shriek
oi mirtli. The Blacktown-Riclimond line
lost £1199 per mile last year, but it is a
suburban concern, so an extension was opened
with great eclat the other day. Even sup-
posing your extensive mariner secured a rail-
way to his river he might find it something
of a delusion under existing conditions. Port-
land (Vic.) has points as a harbor. It was
first settled 98 years ago. The present town
began to be built 92 years ago. Victorian
agriculture commenced at the old town. Port-
land has a railway, but Melbourne authorities
fix the rates and manage things generally,
wherefore the local population is 2700 or so.
Albany (W.A.), with one of Australia’s
supreme harbors (far superior to the Clar-
ence) and a railway, has about 3900 inhabi-
tants ; but, then, the show is managed in the
interests of Perth. Grafton, with a railway
controlled from Sydney, and “the river-
entrance difficulty overcome,” might be
smaller than it is now.—Yours, etc., Clif-
ford Snook.
*
Tropical Industries for North
Queensland.
“W.P.D.”: The food products grown in
North Queensland are sugar-cane, bananas,
pineapples, maize, mangoes and a very little
coffee and less important articles. All can
be, and are, successfully grown in Eastern
Queensland outside the tropics; and no
attempt is made to produce on a commercial
scale those food plants which cannot be so
grown. The excuse made for the failure to
use part of the rich tropical scrub for plant-
ing such crops as the cacao-bean is always
that white labor cannot compete with colored
labor in other tropical countries, which is
tantamount to an admission that white men
cannot develop N.Q. and provide the popu-
lation necessary if we are to be left in
peaceful possession. Sixteen years ago I
saw good, marketable cacao-beans grown at
Kamerunga, near Cairns. The State Nur-
sery at Kamerunga was not well situated,
weeding and other operations necessary for
success were neglected because the Govern-
ment would not provide sufficient labor, and
there was no provision for irrigation. Still,
with all these drawbacks, the cacao-bean
flourished. Eater I saw the bean grown with
greater success at Babinda. Whether grow-
ing cacao-plants will be a commercial pro-
position or not depends on the goodwill of
labor. Co-operative ownership and working
of plantations may solve the difficulties. With
sugar-production at saturation-point, holders
of suitable blocks might find it worth while
to try the industry. If British or British-
Australian-born settlers are not inclined to
hazard the experiment, it may be possible to
induce Italian owners to devote their atten-
tion to it on co-operative lines. Of course,
a guarantee would have to be given that the
men engaged would earn not less than the
basic wage; a bonus of 2d. per lb. might be
given, and all profits divided amongst the
co-operators. It would probably be neces-
sary to obtain the services of a competent
overseer from Ceylon or Java. Between
20,000 and 25,000 tons of cacao are annu-
ally imported into Australia, and used for
the manufacture of cocoa and chocolate; the
prices paid range from 4|d. per lb. for beans
from New Hebrides to Is. 6d. for the choicest
varieties from Ceylon, but the average is
about per lb. The three essentials for
success in growing the bean are a tempera-
ture with an annual mean of about 78
degrees (Fahr.), an annual average rainfall
of not less than 60 inches, equably distri-
buted, and shelter from strong winds. Shel-
tered clearings in forest areas make the best
sites. A not too tenacious clayey loam is
the most suitable soil, and provision must
be made for irrigation during the dry season.
Within the coastal region lying between the
Herbert River and Cairns it will be possible
to find numerous suitable areas. Cacao, rela-
tively to the size of the tree, may be planted
very closely. It “loves to swelter in its own
atmosphere.” The tree bears in about five
years, and for protection bananas should be
planted between each row of beans. The
bananas will provide revenue enough to cover
expenses of cultivation, and will be cut
down and ploughed in when no longer
needed. With careful cultivation and good
conditions a cacao-tree will yield on an aver-
age eight pounds of beans. In some cases in
Ceylon and Manila the yield is much higher.
But on this average, 400 trees will yield
32001 b. per acre, which at 104 d. per lb., will
give a gross income of £l4O per acre. Culti-
vation entails no more trouble than that of
any other evergreen orchard crop, and can
be just as easily done by white labor. The
only season extra workers are required is
when the pods are gathered. Gathering is
not more difficult than picking the cotton-
bolls, and opening them and taking out the
seeds can be done by children. Curing the
beans according to the method adopted in
Ceylon is a simple operation, and takes from
five to seven days. The industry in North
Queensland offers chances of wealth-produc-
tion too good to be neglected.
*
About Art.
“Blum” : About these Art shows. You go
up steps and through a corridor in a building
that doesn’t look qs if it knew anything at
all about art. In a back room there is a table
and a nice lady sitting behind it, and if the
show isn’t a real outsider she stings you
sixpence for a price-list as soon as you show
your nose inside the door. The ladies who
sit behind such tables are fair-haired. Nobody
knows why. As a general rule —not to be ap-
plied in all cases, but right in 18 out of 20—
there is a young man about the premises. A
nice young man. A young man any girl could
take home and they’d say how nice he was.
One’s arrival seems to disturb him, and one
feels that one could have chosen a more tact-
ful moment for dropping in. The conclusion
is there to be jumped at, that the artist
and his or her affinity have sought the most
secluded spot they could think of to arrive
at an understanding. While still on the
throshhold, I have a notion that it would
be a kindly thing, and one well calculated
to advance the interests of True Art, to
buy one of the nice young couple’s pictures.
But once inside and confronted with the
artist’s view of life, as it were, I weaken.
I am not entirely uninstructed on the sub-
ject. Away back in the ’nineties a serious-
minded lady who spurned my young affec-
tion and went away to be a missionary to
the people of India taught me how to do
cones in chalk, barrels in water-color, and
cabbages in oils, and then turned me over
to an intense gentleman with a Vandyke
beard, who hated my works so venomously
that I gave up art, and commenced to earn
my living. He was probably quite right,
and I wish he were now alive, but, unfor-
tunately, he isn’t. He was able to paint
things so that they looked like what they
Avere intended to represent. I was good on
cones, fair on barrels, but an absolute dud
on cabbages, whereas he could throw in a
cabbage in a historical picture and every-
body would lcnoAv it was a cabbage and never
notice it —they’d be so absorbed in the his-
torical characters. Getting back to these
people who have shows nowadays, they might
possibly be able to do cones, and some might
master a barrel, but when they come to the
human form and mountains and cows and
really serious subjects like that —well, very
few of them are what one might call
adequate. I’ll give them two tips, and these
will be the last I shall emit. One is that a
really sound book about perspective can lie
bought for three shillings. The other is
that, roughly speaking, the legs part of the
human form is about the same length as the
other part. And—this isn’t a tip but a
warning—hair is seldom purple, hardly ever
vermilion, and never green.
New Guinea and Our Friend the Enemy.
In spite of continued assurances by the
Federal Government that German interests
will not be allowed to regain a foothold in
New Guinea, the Returned Soldiers and
Sailors’ League is showing uneasiness about
the batch of tenders now being called for
the leasing of expropriated plantations in
the Mandated Territory. The League, in
addition to protests to the Federal Ministry,
has cabled a warning to the Prime Minister.
There seems to be good reason for anxiety,
too, when the amazingly casual provisions of
the first set of tenders are remembered.
These offered ample facilities to large cor-
porations or dummying agents, but handi-
capped the A.I.F. applicants, who had been
promised preferential treatment. The condi-
tions were recast, in view of protest, and
the returned men were given their chance.
Recently, however, soldier settlers, it is
declared, have been turned off some New
Guinea plantations, which have been given
back to their German owners as an “act
of grace.” There is other evidence, too,
that a return of German capital and influ-
ence is confidently anticipated among the
small German coterie still remaining in New
Guinea. The Federal authorities are fervent
in their assertion that they will block
attempts at dummying. It will be a stiff
job, as Australian land legislators long ago
discovered. Take the case of the Melanesia
Company, just formed in London to acquire
Ncav Guinea plantations. The directors in-
clude English and Australian financiers of
repute, but of. the £llO,OOO capital “some”
is admittedly German, “though the control
is completely British.” How long ir will
remain so is another story, for, though the
good faith of the present directorate may be
beyond question, there is no guarantee that
it may not, in time, be replaced by one of
another kidney. It is merely a matter of
picking up enough shares. To refuse the
tender of any concern carrying the slightest
taint of Hun capital, and to "make the sub-
sequent discovery of it, under camouflage,
authority for the cancellation of the lease
and all benefits might be found advisable in
the near future. The Bulletin does not
want to sprag Germany’s wheels everywhere,
but there are places where it ought not to
be welcomed, and New Guinea is one of
them. If it again gets a foothold inside the
Mandated Territory, the Federal Govern-
ment will certainly reap a fine harvest of
troubles.
♦
Cadging.
Dear Bulletin, —When I was a small boy
in a big Staffordshire boarding-school, I knew
a lad of about my own age who was very
much disliked because he was always begging
or borrowing, the former for choice. He was
a cadger, and even Staffordshire has a feeling
of contempt for cadgers. We were taught
that to accept a present from a relation or
friend was well enough, but to ask for any-
thing was indecent. When, as a very young
man, I arrived in N. S. Wales (which to me,
for the time, constituted Australia) I soon
made the amazing discovery that a large
majority of the well-to-do young people I
met were cadgers—chronic beggars and
borrowers. State-school children cadged from
house to house for money to buy cricket-bats
or footballs or even lollies for a picnic. Tennis
clubs sent members round with books asking
for “donations.” So did cricket clubs; so


The Federal Mutual
QQD'u , o£\k
Insurance Company of Australia. Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1026
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Svdnev
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. R. a. MANZIe', Manager and Secretary
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager. "
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great land.
But here, - as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning' and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Commonwealth lank of Hnslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
did football clubs, quadrille clubs, race clubs
and all other bodies of people who wanted
their amusements paid for by others. And as
time went on—nearly half a century of it —
I came to see why Australia holds pride of
place as the champion cadger among the
English-speaking peoples, if not among all
nations. For 50 years or more the school-
children have been taught to cadge. The
young people beg for money for their
“sports”; the youth of both sexes even at
the Universities sell tickets for their annual
balls, instead of presenting them to their
friends, as is the custom in Britain. Wealthy
turf clubs appoint “honorary” surgeons to
attend casualties, free of charge, at their
fashionable meetings. Rich tradesmen and
farmers belong to “friendly” societies, so that
they may get nearly all the medical attend-
ance and medicines they can possibly need
for less per annum than they pay for their
daily paper. Nearly every kind of religious
body begs from every other kind. “Workers,”
who have their children educated for nothing
and receive five pounds each time one is
born to them, and who can, in case of sick-
ness or injury, either send for the “free”
medical-officer attached to the dispensary or
send the child to the Children’s or General
Hospital, and in maternity cases have the
choice of sending their wives to a semi-Gov-
ernment maternity home or the Lying-in
branch of the General Hospital—and all for
nothing, or next to it—call themselves “wage-
slaves,” and cadge money from the Govern-
ments and State banks to build houses for
which they never intend to pay. So the sys-
tem works downwards through the social
scale until we find, at the bottom, the pro-
fessional politician, who holds his job almost
entirely by pandering to the Great Australian
Vice, buying the cadger’s vote with borrowed
millions, and caring less than nothing where
the money goes or who will have to pay it
back. —Yours, etc., Dr. Nil.
«
Senator Malan, of South Africa, gave this
country a shrewd blow in the ribs when he
got back to his homeland. He said Australia
was a working-man’s paradise, but that
women had to toil much harder there thau
the women in any civilised country he knew
—he didn’t even say “any other civilised
country.” There is too much truth in it.
She would be an indigent white woman
indeed in South Africa who could not com-
mand the services of a couple of Kaffirs,
at least, to do the rough work of her house
and kitchen ; and tile white woman through-
out what Australia calls the East has male
and female servants of some sort to lighteu
her existence. Even the lonely woman-
dweller in the Islands is better off, in this
respect, than the very great majority of Aus-
tralian housewives, whose lot, alw v ays hard,
is increased nowadays by the insistence of
daughters, who might help at home, on
“going. to business.” Servants are as
unattainable for these women as for their
American sisters, while the up-to-date
domestic amenities and appliances which are
a commonplace in every American house-
hold are only beginning to be known to the
long-suffering Australian.
❖
Christmas being almost in sight, the regu-
lation coal and shipping trouble arrived auto-
matically. A preliminary was the “darg”
or go-slow at Pelaw Main pit, which led to
the suspension of work. Various other
rumblings and mutterings developed into a
decision to slack down in the coal-loading
business at Newcastle by stopping work at
4 p.m. The stoppage of night labor left a
number of the crane men with nothing to
do, and the Railway Commissioners, being
short of money, proceeded to economise by
dismissing 86 of the superfluities. There-
upon it was decided that this justified a
general stoppage, making crane men, trim-
mers, ships and a lot of railway men super-
fluous also; further, making Newcastle itself
unnecessary for the time being. Parallel
with this trouble is the general stoppage of
the loading and discharging of ships after
o p.m. As a result ships are doing only
about half service, and cargo is either being
Jett behind or over-carried, and everything
round the coast, from Cairns to Fremantle,
goes like a lame horse or a nearly-run-down
clock. The luckless farmers of Tasmania
made an appeal to the wharfies of Melbourne
to work the ordinary hours—for a while
anyhow—so that they could get their fruit
away and .realise on it, but were told as
a brutal jest to put it in cool storage.
The causes of the disturbance are scat-
tered and obscure, but two of them are
probably Walsii and Johansen, while a
third is Christmas itself. For eight or nine
years that festival has never failed to rouse
certain brigand characters, mostly imported,
to animosity. Perhaps it might be made a
movable feast, so that it could be postponed
till the strike is over, and then held sud-
denly, after the manner of a flank attack.
♦
‘Centralian” : The Bulletin’s recent
estimate of 5,000,000 dead sheep in Queens-
land this drought does not tell all. A squat-
ter friend of mine puts it thus: “Five mil-
lions dead, five millions perishing and about
seven millions to go on with!” And it can
be taken for granted that had the three
main western lines of Bananaland been
linked up, from two to three millions of
these might have been saved. I have been
writing to The Bulletin for fully 20 years
pointing out the urgency of the Winton-
Longreach connection as a lifesaver, and
this is how far the matter has proceeded
up to date (I quote the Brisbane Courier
of Nov. 12) : “On the Longreacli-Winton
extension the rails are now laid to miles
from Longreach.... Only 108 men are
employed on the job, and at the present rate
of progress the remaining 544 miles to Win-
ton will take another six years to complete.
In view of the great assistance this line
would be to the pastoral industry, great dis-
satisfaction exists at the slow progress being
made. It will take to the end of 1927 to
complete the 14 miles for which £95,000
was recently granted, but if the Govern-
ment could be induced to put on more men
the whole line could easily be finished in
12 months.” Philp dodged this connection
in the interests of Townsville; Kidston
dodged it in the interests of Rockhampton;
the Labor Government has neglected it for
11 years because the western constituencies
are safe machine-Labor seats, and there is
no need to conciliate them. Perhaps the
year 1930 may see the link put through, but
by that time the sheep may all be dead or
the motor-lorry, to judge by present develop-
ments, may have solved the problem and
have reduced some of the western lines to
the value of scrap-iron.
♦—
“ J.C.”: Further to the Meridelian theory
and its application to the determination of
the ratio of the number of blue-eyed to
brown-eyed children of blue-eyed and brown-
eyed parents, a recent writer in the Lancet,
HUMORING THE OLD IDEA.
HIS DAUGHT ER : " Daddy darling, Jack and I love each oilier, and we've come to ask
your consent. We've teen married for a month, so we’re sure we trill he happy.”
Professor R. C. Plunkett, has been point-
ing out that even the complete sterilisation
of all the mental defectives in the world
would not eliminate feeble-mindedness from
the. human race for more than a generation,
owing to the fact that about 7 per cent, of
us are “carriers” of feeble-mindedness, and
will transmit this characteristic to future
generations; that is, the characteristic of
feeble-mindedness is “recessive” in about 7
per cent, of the population, and in accord-
ance with the Mendelian theory this char-
acteristic will appear as a “dominant” in
some future generation. The mating of two
apparently normal persons who are “car-
riers” will produce one defective child in
four, and of the four children two will be
“carriers” again. This point seems to have
been overlooked by the advocates of sterilisa-
tion. Professor Plunkett estimates that it
would take about 8000 years to reduce the
present figure of three-tenths of 1 per cent,
for feeble-mindedness to one in one hundred
thousand, either by segregating or. sterilising
those who are actually feeble-minded.
❖
The wholesale misappropriation of motor-
cars, which sometimes vanish altogether, but
are more often recovered in a damaged or
ruined condition, is creating a demand for a
high minimum penalty. A horse and a
motor-car are the kind of stolen goods which
facilitate crime by carrying the thief away
with them, and something is wanted to
counterbalance that facility. In theory, an
offender should be liable only for his' own
crime, but when by the nature of the crime
there is little hope of more than one arrest
in 20 cases, the practical course is to make
the one pay something on account of the
missing 19. Probably he was one of the
missing 19 himself on many previous occa-
sions.
' +
“Bakee” : Darwin lias been suffering from
an epidemic that seenis a combined dengue-
influenza. Quite 50 per cent, of the resi-
dents have suffered from it, though no deaths
have been reported so far. The duration
of the attack runs for from one to three
weeks or more; and the hospital lias been
overcrowded. One sufferer has been the
only doctor that the place has ; he manfully
did his best, under th# handicap of illness,
but for some days only the really urgent
cases could be attended to. The local
Government Gazette contains detailed in-
structions of how to guard against infection
and destroy mosquitoes, but while the Town
Council permits the throwing of tins and
bottles on vacant dots, the accumulation of
stagnant pools of water and the neglect of
screening or oiling of tanks, wells, etc., the
efforts of odd inhabitants will go for naught.
Twelve months’ work by a Town Council
that knew its job and was proof • against
bribes or threats would make Darwin a
happier and a healthier town. Neglected
blocks, littered with old rags, boots, bottles
and rusty tins, are not only, an eyesore to
the place, but a very present danger, to the
health of the community. There will not
always be stagnation: in Darwin; even now
we catch hints of ian advance in prosperity.
And we must begin to build and prepare for
the future. The front door of Australia
should be something better than a midden.
; ♦
Cast week’s cables reported a serious native
rising at Batavia, in the Dutch Indies. Aus-
tralia has little to fear from rebellious
Javanese, even if they had been successful —
the trouble was suppressed after a bank or
two had been looted —but there is clear proof
that the rising was engineered and paid for
by Chinese agents of that Soviet which is
now pressing on in China to gain a foothold
in some of the great Chinese ports which
practically face Australia’s unlatched back
gate. The gospel of Moscow is being busily
preached in Australia, as it has been in
Java, but in our case not by yellow aliens
but by the white-hided variety. The Dutch,
who have no measly sentiment in such mat :
ters, have asserted constitutional authority
with a strong hand, and have suppressed
the attack on the State, for the time being,
at any rate. In Australia the disturbers are
being encouraged by their friends to enter
the nation’s councils. It does look some-
times as if this country would benefit by
mustering up a little Dutch courage.
—. f .
S. M. Bruce, who is evidently listening to
lus own speeches with great interest in Eng-
land, lately assured a lunch audience that
Australia possesses “resources of which
no man has the faintest conception.” That
is the orthodox brand of Australian patriot-
ism, and it is not specially harmful, provided
the community gets a definite conception
of these resources before it borrows any more
to develop them. They don’t include forests,
nor great navigable waterways, nor anything
big in the way of water-power, nor anything
staggering in the artesian-bore line. As a
gold producer Australia is now behind the
United States, Canada (the single province
of Ontario beats it badly). Mexico, South
Africa (of course) and Russia, and no one
can be sure that the situation will mend.
The country takes a very back seat,, especially
considering its size, for production'of silver,
copper, tin and coal. ' Petroleum, despite
much research and considerable lying,
remains a dud. Wheat is a subject of many
expensive settlement schemes, but this conti-
nent is generally just able to rank ninth
(after Spain) for gross production, and 24th
(after Jugo-Slavia) for yield per acre. No
one foresees any very large and permanent
increase in sheep. But it is satisfactory to
feel that no white man is better than the
Australian, and no nigger is nearly so good
as he for running woollen : mills, cotton-mills,
flourmills, sawmills, beer-mills, ironworks,
engineering works, sOapworks, meatworks,
gasworks, brickworks, etc., especially if the
tariff is right and some of the imported
agitators are dead.
■ ♦—
After a long period of comparative quies-
cence, pleuro-pneumonia, Australia’s most
serious contagious bovine disease, has become
rather prevalent in N. S. Wales again, 21
outbreaks having occurred . in Septem-
ber. Most of the trouble, comes frohi
Queensland in the form of recovered cattle,
or “carriers,” which spread the disease whilst
appearing perfectly healthy themselves. A
blood-test, discovered by a Melbourne bac-
teriologist, would assist the authorities in
many cases, but unfortunately there are
difficulties in the way of its use amongst
large herds of half-wild cattle. Immediate
slaughter of all affected animals and the
inoculation of contacts with fluid from the
chest cavity of a diseased beast are the only
reliable methods of stamping the thing out.
Strange to say, this form of inoculation has
always been regarded as more or less worth-
less by many eminent veterinarians in
Britain and on the Continent, though it has
undoubtedly proved its efficacy in Austra-
lia and South Africa. Twenty-five to thirty
per cent, of all cattle are naturally immune
to the disease. <
- A
“P.P.”: “Melbourne’s Starved University”
(B. 11/11/’26) can hardly be in wors ;>
plight than Sydney’s. Receipts for last year
were £lB,OOO less than expenditure. About
two-fifths of the income is from foundations,
two-fifths from Parliamentary , grants, and
the remaining fifth from students’ fees; the
last is small because barely half J the students
pay lecture fees. The University has,found it
necessary this year to charge all students
a general-services fee of £1 10s., and it may
be increased. Though large endowments
have been received, the income derived from
them is now insufficient for the University’s
needs. There is practically no . provision for
research, and the departments are so under-
staffed that the professors and lecturers have
little time for investigations on their own
account; in some departments it?is difficult
even to maintain a sufficiently high standard
of practical instruction., The library—per-
haps the most vital part of the University—
suffers from lack of even those books and
periodicals which are, necessary to keep the
sources of knowledge up to date, while the
cataloguing is so incomplete as to make it
difficult to obtain information. There has
lately been under consideration a scheme to
establish a residential institution for those
less fortunate students who are compelled to
live in the Glebe, Darlington and Newtown;
but, with finances in their present condi-
tion, it is unlikely that the present genera-
tion of students will benefit by it.
*
“The Listening Insect” : The Marconi-
Fisk claim that the beam wireless would be
secret—that is to say, that the beam would
pass solel-y between the two stations con-
cerned and could not be tapped by outsiders
-turns out not to be quite sound. Ever
since the England-Canada service was opened
Australian listeners have been picking up
the signals loud and strong, although the
beam is ostensibly pointing at right angles
to this country. This makes the system, in
its present stage of development, of little
value in time of war. Certainly a spy
would need to be equipped with high-speed
receiving-instruments to intercept the sig-
nals, but since the beam is so wandering and
diffuse there is no reason why he shouldn’t
do his eavesdropping from a ship or almost
any foreign country.
■ ♦
“Centurion”: Britain, first to utilise the
tank in warfare, seems to have developed the
idea out of all ■ 1916-18 knowledge. Tim
Dominion Premiers were given a special
matinee showing the latest developments,
and a description of the show is enough to
make Trotsky turn pacifist. One pattern
carries five gun-turrets and does 25 m.p.h.
on the flat, with a trifle less over the jumps.
Smaller models cut out 30 m.p.h. on wheels;
if rough going is encountered a jerk on a
lever tucks away the wheels, and the tank
carries on on a caterpillar tread. Smoke-
screen tanks and tractors for big guns or
field artillery—these latter take guns across
country much faster than horse-teams —were
some of the other new gadgets on show.
About the only issue on the old pattern,
apparently, were the brass-hats.


Ml
•SiKBUS
For supreme musical satisfaction you must play the
•C 4 u % 6*3 O 0»
PLAYER
PIANO
No other player can approach Wurlitzer for permanently beautiful tone—no other player can
provide such an example of perfect player construction. Only in the Wurlitzer can you find
the wonderful metal action—and this feature alone places Wurlitzer years ahead of competition.
Test for yourself the truth of these statements—examine and play the Wurlitzer at any of the music
stores below.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER AGENTS:
New South Wales: Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney, M. Light & Sons Ltd., Newcastle and
Cessnock; Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong, The Australian Stores, Yass.
South Austral a : The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide, Victoria : Myers Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne. West Australia : Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth. Queensland: Young &C Whatnall,
Campbells Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer, please communicate direct with the factory representatives :
PARKER, BLAU 6C CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The Lang Government scrambled into an
indefinite sort of recess with four months’
supply, consisting of over £14,000,000 of
revenue money, and £3,500,000 of loan
money (if it can borrow that much). The
proposed loan expenditure items include
some bridges, a new jetty (old one worn
out), lunatic asylums, colleges, child wel-
fare, schools, stores, hospitals, roads, “ex-
tensions,” “amplifications,” “additions,” bor-
ing, etc. At first the idea was to lure away,
if possible, two or three Nationalists, so that
the Ministry might last out a full Parlia-
ment despite the three defections; but,
though no chances of that sort will be
thrown away, the Government is now relying
mainly on the skilful shuffling of its voting
pawns, along with a wholesale purchase
of ballots.
It is possible to feel glad on broad Aus-
tralian grounds that the Commonwealth suc-
ceeded in its constitutional clash with South
Aus., Vic. and N. S. Wales without applaud-
ing the Bruce-Pages for pushing into the
road-making business. A lot of dreadful fus-
tian was talked to the High Court about the
war debt and the White Australia policy and
the decline in the British export trade with
foreign countries, together with wild state-
ments to the effect that “every State con-
tains large areas of unoccupied Crown Lands
suitable, if roads are provided, for British
immigrants,” and that many of Britain’s
unemployed now on the dole and receiving
many millions of pounds annually are suit-
able for the said lands. This stuff only
strengthens the impression that the
£35,000,000 roads scheme is a piece of folly,
and that the Commonwealth Government
would be better occupied in minding its own
business. It has plenty to mind.
South Aus. has lost both its cases against
the Commonwealth arising out of the Bruce-
Page road policy. In the second action the
Central State, together with Vic. and N. S.
Wales, questioned the constitutionality of
the Federal Aid Roads Act, under which
the other three States are receiving Common-
wealth grants. The High Court ruled that
the measure was valid, being warranted by
Section 96 of the Constitution(“... .the Par-
liament may grant financial assistance to
any State on such terms and conditions as
the Parliament thinks fit”), and that Sec-
tion 99 (“the Commonwealth shall not, by
any law or regulation of trade, commerce or
revenue, give preference to one State....
over another”) did not apply. S. Aus. Pre-
mier Hill feels that the world is against
him. And no doubt Attorney-General Denny
is sure it is full of rotten lawyers.
Vic. Laborites are saying that 27 of the 65
remodelled electorates just approved by Par-
liament will go to their party, but the Nat.-
Cockies calculate that 22 will be nearer the
tally. Before last general election, held on
June 26, 1924, the Labor contingent, of
which Prendergast was then chief, numbered
22. Defeating six Libs., it raised the figure
to 26. Had the bad old distribution, which
was heavily in its favor, been continued, it
looked to win six more. Its chagrin at
having its expectations frustrated, and at
being condemned to remain in the cold shades
for years, is unconcealed. The sensible thing
for it to do now is to work hard for a divi-
sion of the State into two, each with a very
plain, economical Government of its own.
Only the implacable Cohen and the six
Labor members voted against the Vic. Assem-
bly seats redivision plan when it was before
the Uppah Chainbali. Twenty-six supported
the scheme. For once there was a full
muster of the Landlords, and it soon became
apparent that there would be a majority of
nearly four to one. As Laborites were be-
coming wearisome, the latest recruit
(Tuckett, a Cocky) carried the gag by
20 votes to 12. No matter what happens
now, the next general election will be held
in the recast electorates —21 metropolitan
and 39 provincial, instead of 21 city and 44
country.
THE LOCKOUT.
“The Waterside Workers’ overtime strike has seriously disturbed the Christmas trade, especially of
the outports.”
The Westralian Treasurer promised that
this year (to June, 1927) there would, with
the help of the Commonwealth, be a bit of a
surplus, but being already £500,000 to the
bad he begins to fear that the State is in for
its 15tli consecutive deficit. Ex-Premier
Jimmy Mitchell almost wept at the news, and
“said he had preached expenditure of loan
money on wealth-and-work-creating enter-
prises, and he could not understand the pre-
sent prevalence of unemployment.” In the
bad old English days of imprisonment for
debt, described by Dickens, there were plenty
of loan-money-expenders in the Marshalsea
who couldn’t understand it either. By way
of swallowing the whole dog that bit it, the
W.A. Ministry proposes putting up an abso-
lute record for loan spending this year, if it
can get the money.
Resolutions in favor of child endowment
were passed at the inter-State and N. S.
Wales conferences of the National Federa-
tion. They were adopted with little or no
argument (except the unspoken argument of
votes) and without the faintest outline of a
scheme. Yet child endowment, while it has
worked fairly well in the iimited Federal-
service field, might be a curse, instead of a
blessing, if dragged into the domain of
politics and made universally applicable
without safeguards. For one thing, it would
mean vast additions to the number of Gov-
ernment employees, who many think are too
numerous already. Then the parties would
inevitably bid against one another for the
support of the class to be bonused, the
Nationalists perhaps starting with ss. per
week per child, the Laborites countering with
7s. 6d. per week, and the Nationalists coming
back with 10s.; and political bribery is too
common as it is. Further, a very capable
worker, with perhaps a sick wife who has
brought him no children, might find himself
getting £3 or £4 a week less than a 50 p.c.
inferior man at the next machine, because
the 50 p.c. inferior man is father of a C. 3
family. In that case the very capable
worker, and many thousands like him,
would slow down and become chronically
sore-headed or emigrate.
Apparently the Yankees have hypnotised
another Australian Trade Commissioner.
Says the cable :• —
Hugh Denison, Australian Commissioner, address-
ing the New York Chamber of Commerce, advocated
letting the United States inside Australia’s tariff
wall. Declaring that Australia was the only Dominion
within the British Empire having a navy, he added
that Australia was prepared to join hands with the
United States in making the Pacific Ocean pacific
in fact as w r ell as name.
Australia hasn’t the slightest intention of
letting Uncle Samuel “inside its tariff wall,”
and giving him the same trading privileges
among the States as N.S.W. or Queens-
land enjoys. Its responsibilities, whatever
they may be, are to the Empire and the
League of Nations, and it is no glorified bag-
man’s business to propose naval alliances
with any outside Power.
Queensland will presently have as many
expelled Laborites as the other sort. The
latest to be cast forth is Dr. Jensen, the
geologist, whose offence was that he de-
scribed the effects of Labor rule at Chillagoe
and neglected to say that the place was an
improved edition of Paradise.
Melbourne Age takes the Allancock
Government’s Seats Redistribution scheme so
much to heart that it has resorted to the
use of such headings as “Unplumbed Depths
of Political Infamy.” If the paper’s plumber
could plumb the depths of the infamy, or
the stupidity, which brought the great bul:
of the State’s population to Melbourne and
made redistribution necessary, that might
be more to the purpose.
Before talking ceased in the 27th N.S.W.
Parliament, Tom ’Enley let fly at Industrial
Commissioner Piddington, whom he called
“a lopsided crank, an excrescence and a lost
soul.” Much politer and more authoritative
were criticisms passed by J. B. Brigden,
Professor of Economics at Tas. Uni.: —
Mr. Piddington considered himself to be the apostle
of the family-wage idea in Australia; but, unfortu-
nately, he did it a lot of damage by his extrava-
gances. In his figures on the birth-rate he had
provided another instance of the abuse of statistics,
as indeed he had done in his estimate of the pro-
ductivity of Queensland, as a trade-union advocate.
This estimate was so full of fallacies that it had
served no purpose except to cast doubt on the Com-
mission’s own statistics, and so to react against the
interests of the trade-unions he represented. Mr.
Piddington was reported to have said that Aus-
tralians were following the French towards a decline
of population, were “a dying race.” Far from de-
clining, we Australians were increasing at a rate
equalled by very few civilised countries.
This is the “expert” whom the Lang Gov-
ernment has empowered to fix a basic wage
for the State!
With a general election in prospect —but
going to be dodged, if possible—the N.S.W.
Nat.-Country party should provide itself with
a democratic Upper House policy, and it is
difficult to see how it can improve on the
idea of an elected and paid body, with the
State voting as one constituency, and a joint
sitting of the two Chambers as a remedy
for deadlocks. To have no policy, or only
a patchwork one, would be the greatest pos-
sible mistake, for the nominee system has
broken down worse than it ever did before.
A Nationalist Government would have an
almost invisible majority in the present
U.H., and its party would die out faster
than the other one, for the other one
swamped the Chamber last. Political life
would be a sordid and continuous struggle,
with the chance that some day a deputy-
Lieutcnant-Excellency might do for another
Labor Government what De Chair refused
to do for Lang’s, and make an ignoble end
of the ignoble business.
Recent statements about Australia’s need
for a uniform railway gauge moved Premier
Allan of Victoria to say, in his dull way,
that he was against any change. Victoria’s
share of the annual interest bill for con-
version of main lines alone he reckoned at
£270,000 per annum, and general conver-
sion would cost more. Speaking from a
strictly cow-and-manure point of view, but
with a casual glance at oats, he preferred
to spend the money on new lines of diverse
gauges and make the confusion worse and
“open up new country.” Victoria’s interest
bill has been growing of late at the rate
of £500,000 a year, with little save land-
settlement fiascos to show for it, and rail-
way engineers would probably reckon that
sum per annum the one good investment in
the pack if the State could buy its share
of a uniform gauge at the price.
The A.W.U. in Queensland has put in a
demand that everybody who works for wages
“on the land,” including the cowshed, fowl-
house and piggery, shall receive a minimum
wage of 70s. per week of 44 hours, with
keep. It also desires that the employment of
youths shall he rigidly restricted. If the
school age was raised that would be sufficient
restriction, should restriction be needed, but
the more prevalent idea seems to be to fur-
nish the youth with an idle interval between
the school and the farm or factory, so that
he may learn oblique or leaning-up habits,
and horse, and profanity.
Vic. Assembly has set an example to other
State Parliaments by making it compulsory
for 2000 ft. of British Empire film to be
shown at every exhibition of pictures as from
July 1. In the legislation introduced last
year, which didn’t get through, 1000 ft. was
stipulated, and movie persons roared and
hurled mud. At Dr. Argyle’s instance, the
footage was doubled, with the addition of
the words “1000 ft. shall be wholly produced
in Australia,” Labor giving the amended
clause its blessing. It is one way of tack-
ling the Hollywood blight, and not a bad
way, either.
From a Labor defence of the latest no-
overtime strike of wharf-laborers :
The breaking-point came when the Deputy
Registrar of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
decided to grant registration as an industrial organi-
sation to the Permanent and Casual Wharf-laborers'
Union. It was hardly to be expected that members
of the AVaterside Workers’ Federation would tolerate-
the intrusion of such a body on the water front.
As everyone knows, the Waterside Workers’
Federation bought all the wharves in Aus-
tralia. also the port lighters and coal hulks
and loading and discharging apparatus —
everything. For common Australians to tres-
pass on this private property is like their
confounded cheek!
The Christmas Bulletin will be at the
bookstalls and newsagents on Saturday. It
is the best sixpenn’ortli of reading ever
offered in Australia.
THE TRAGEDY OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
“Miss Preston Stanley said that the Minister for
Health (Mr. Cann) remarked to her that if the
general elections were held in March they would
clash with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of
York, which would be ‘perfectly tragical.’ The
Minister assured her that if she would cross the
floor and vote to give the Government an additional
two months’ supply, she could dictate her own terms
and fix the date of the elections herself.”
I’ve little time for toffs and less for titles ;
At rank and wealth I mostly look askance;
But oh! it sends a shudder through my vitals
To think that we must face this dive mischance.
How can we give the welcome that’s becoming
To this beloved and illustrious pair
If all the land with angry strife is humming
And howls of factious fury split the air?
Plunged in such atmosphere pestiferous
What will they think of us!
They look for rounded periods that enamor.
Say, wouldn’t it repel them and appal—
The yells that needs must rise, the lurid clamor
When Labor’s back is up against the wall?
Suppose, instead of honeyed, loyal addresses,
Hustings and halls and roofs and rafters rang
With the embittered rhetoric that expresses
Tom, Henley’s undiluted views of Lang,
Or that wherein Jock Garden frames rebuke?
Wouldn’t it shock the Duke 1
Uneducated to our modes elective,
Wouldn’t it send a shudder down their spine
When chaps at every corner belched invective,
Likening antagonists to dogs and swine ?
Even strong men might pale a teeny-weeny
Bit at those barbed recriminations, such
As fly about ’twixt Hill and Lazzarini
Or boomerang from Bavin back to Mutch,
And in a duchess haunting doubts might stir
If ’twas a place for her.
And could we bask in royal smiles as coolly
As is required of democratic blokes
If fighting for his seat was Speaker Dooley,
And scratching gravel Mayor Paddy Stokes ?
Greeting we fain would give in generous measure
And grip their hands and strew their path with
flowers,
But won’t these darned elections spoil their pleasure
And, incidentally, detract from ours?
Tragic that things like these should clash, you’ll
own—-
I know which I’d postpone.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
sd
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
Ik
h
i
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
Msgra n
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.),
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED
engineers, steel founders, forgers,
Works & J Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries \ Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch )' 312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Offices \ T. & G. B’l’g, Brisbane.
The WILDCAL
COUMN
The Queensland insurance Co., Ltd.
(Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
( 56,928 18,750 38,178 241,907
1915.. % 'j'j. ans { ene d to capital, £lOO,OOO. . 141,907
1916.. 61,323 124 p.c.= 31,250 30,073 171,980
IQI7 ( 76,328 124 „„ 31,250 45,078 217,058
19 Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 117,058
1918.. 122,390 124 p.c. = 43,750 78,640 195,698
1919.. 127,596 124 ~ ~ 43,750 83,846 279,544
Transferred to capital, £150,000. . 129,544
1920.. 131,621 124p.c.= 62,500 69,121 198,665
Transferred from contingency
reserves, £30,000 .. • • 228,665
1921.. 106,677 124 p.c.= 62,50 C 44,177 272,842
1922.. 97,772 124 „ ~62,500 35,272 308,114
1923.. 100,552 124 ~ ~62,500 38,052 346,166
1924.. 102,266 124 „ ~62,500 39,766 385,932
1925.. 104,560 124 „ ~62,500 42,060 427,992
1926.. 144,529 124 „ ~62,500 82,029 510,021
A splendid result, certainly; but not quite
as good as it looks. Income to September
30 benefited by a heavy crop of fat pre-
miums gathered under the N. S. Wales
Workers’ Compensation law, at rates mostly
150 p.c. above the old, plus 20 p.c. for sick-
ness. Those premiums came in only three
months before the close of last accounts;
so of the £82,029 remaining after share-
holders had been given their usual 12% p.c.,
no less than £75,000 was earmarked to cover
unexpired risks, as against £20,000 set aside
a year earlier. And these amounts are not,
of course, deducted from profits—in the table
every year carries only its actual outgoings,
except for anything that may be nipped away
as “provision for contingencies.” As yet
underwriting circles are not quite certain
about the limit of risks under the N. S.
Wales Act. But judged on past records the
provision made by the co. is not at all likely
to be inadequate. Also, there is a contin-
gent liability that doesn’t appear expressly
in the balance-sheet —the possibility of the
Government creating a monopoly in AVork-
ers’ Compensation. Such an event may leave
this or any other co. saddled for years with
a substantial legacy of debt, while at the
same time taking away the renewal pre-
miums. The Wild Cat lias no scratches for
a management that makes provision for such
possibilities. Last year’s figures \yere very
satisfactory, and the co.’s outlook is bright.
It lias a good record, a board that lias in-
herited sound tradition and a strong, grow-
ing connection in nearly all parts of the
world. Shareholders are very comfortably
positioned. At September 30 reserves were
£10,021 in excess of the half-million of paid
capital. Last year’s interest and rent alone
brought in £60,078, only £2422 short of div.
requirements. At 121 p.c. the dividend calls
for a shade over 6 p.c. on total funds
(£1,010,021), whereas the £144,529 of net
profit shown in the introductory table is equal
to 14.3 p.c. on total funds (capital and
reserves combined).
Here is the situation fi'om the underwrit-
ing point of view :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 „
1905.. 74,118 43.129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 ~ 33.6 „
1920.. 440,021 169.775 180,277 38.6 „ 40.9 „
1921.. 444,282 206,465 177,2.81 46.4 „ 39.9 „
1922.. 430,118 201,785 177,377 46.9 „ 41.2 „
1923.. 462,607 219,161 193,665 47.4 „ 41.8 „
1924.. 509,200 269,970 191,929 53.0 „ 37.7 „
1925.. 556,191 289,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1926.. 727,923 403,605 239,867 55.4 ~ 32.9 „
How much of that big jump of £171,732 in
net premium income was from N. S. AVales
accident business the Wild Cat doesn’t know.
The young Montreal and New York branches
should be making their influence felt now,
and the figures look as if there might have
been an all-round healthy increase. Under-
writing profit was 11.6 compared with 8.3,
9.3 and 10.8 for the three preceding terms.
The co. shared in the general experience of
a bigger loss rate, but the substantial drop
of 6.6 in. expenses suggests that a good deal
of business came in without hunting. Too
much weight can easily be given to the year's
figure in this as in many other lines.
Although last year’s big figures reduced
the ratio of funds to premium income, bring-
ing it back to 138.6 p.c.—it was 174 p.c. at
September 30, 1925—policy-holders are still
well protected, especially as only 8.4 p.c.
of their security is in a fixed form. For the
12 months to September 30 assets moved in
this way:—
, 1925 N , 1926
p.c. p.c.
Government securities £657,738 50.8 £709,379 46.6
Municipal securities.. 45,315 3.5 45,315 3.0
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. .. 479,237 37.0 638,741 42.0
Premises .. .. 112.827 8.7 128,495 8.4
The 1925 surplus profits apparently went
into Government securities. Outstanding
premiums and branch and agency balances
account for £159,503 of increased assets. On
the other side the new compensation busi-
ness obtrudes in an increase of £144,785 (to
£449,410) in sundry creditors, including re-
insurances, claims and provision for contin-
gencies. The market lately expressed its
appreciation of the scrip in business at 555.
There are visible assets for 40s. 6d.; and
how much is in the “provision for contin-
gencies,” buried among the liabilities, every-
one can guess for himself.
The United Insurance Co. (fire, marine
and accident), of Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends serves, serves.
1916. . £37,619 10 p.c. = £14,000 £23,619 £235,405
1917.. 43,662 10 „ „ 14,000 29,662 265,007
191 S. . 66,272 10 ~ „ 14,000 52,272 317,339
Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 277,339
1919.. 66,402 10 p.c. = 18,000 48,402 325,741
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 305,741
1920.. 90,906 10 p.c. = 22,500 68,406 374,147
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 349,147
1021.. 83,975 10 p.c. = 25,000 58,975 408,122
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 358,122
1922.. 58,862 10 p.c. = 30,000 28,862 386,984
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 361,984
1923.. 74,839 10 p.c. = 32,500 42,339 404,323
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 379.323
1924.. 74,711 10 p.c. 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 394,034
1925.. 91,546 10 p.c. = 37,500 ( 4,4 046 438 080
To Pension Reserve, £lO,OOO j
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 413,080
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c.- 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 414,401
Disclosed profits were little more than suffi-
cient to enable the directors to continue the
gift-giving; after cutting up £25,000, which
has been the amount on each of the last five
occasions, only £1321 was left for reserves.
Obviously the process cannot continue inde-
finitely. Already it has gone on without in-
terruption for nine years, and there were
a couple of bonus issues before then. In-
cluding the latest distribution, £300,000 of
the paid capital of £425,000 represents gifts.
It is a brilliant performance in its way, and
it is little wonder that the scrip is sought
after. Latest sale was at £l3, which shows
a return of only £3 17s. p.c., clearly indicat-
ing that somebody hopes for still more gifts.
It is just as well, though, to sit down and
figure out the position. The latest £25,000
gift means one bonus share for 16. The
next would mean 1 in 17. If he bought
the 17 at £l3, his return then (on a 10 p.c.
div. basis) would be a few pence over 4 p.c.
In the following year, assuming the same
division, his return would be just over 4-J
p.c. If lie got one share for three (which
ivould mean a distribution now of over
£140,000), the increased holding, suppose he
bought the three at £l3, would yield him
only 5| p.c. No doubt, he might get a better
return by selling his bonus shares; but it
is obvious that an investor will have to wait
a good many years to get a decent return if
he depends upon his bonus shares bringing
it to him.
The United certainly is well favored. It
lias an excellent name and a heavyweight
connection which brings much business to
it cheaply; it has a management which can
discern a doubtful risk with the best of
them; its funds are far beyond the propor-
tions usually considered adequate; its assets
are of excellent quality; and every capitalisa-
tion has added to the security of policy-
holders, in that every share issued has car-
ried with it a liability of £5. All of that
sounds comforting. But gross premium in-
come has not been moving up at the same
rate as it did some years ago; indeed, last
year’s total business was less than that
written during the previous 12 months: —
Gross 1915. 1924, 1925. 1926.
premiums. . £3381,339 £509;,302 £539,705 £535,023
Re-insurances 150,052 224,209 241,985 238,750
Net premiums £188,287 £285,093 £297,720 £296,273
Furthermore, the last loss rate was the
highest for the past decade: —
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1905.. 85.609 42,250 35.532 47.7 „ 40.4 „
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 ~ 44.0 „
1915.. 185,257 88,220 77,029 46.8 ~ 39.4 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 ~ 45.7 „
1921.. 284,413 97,325 135.444 34.2 „ 47.6 „
1922.. 259,675 99,141 136,756 38.2 „ 52.7 „
1923.. 263,558 93.600 132.363 35.5 „ 50.2 „
1924.. 285,093 120,668 128,149 42.3 „ 44.9 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1926.. 296,273 131,016 143,572 44.2 „ 48.4 „
That table shows little improvement in net
premium income over the past seven years,
while in the same period the loss experi-
ence has risen fairly steadily from 32.4 p.c.
to 44.2 p.c. There is nothing exceptional
in the movement; indeed, compared with
most other underwriters, the United has been
fortunate in its losses over the past three
terms. But those figures must be borne in
mind when calculating how long the process
of 10 p.c. divs. plus gift-giving can be con-
tinued. In 1920 10 p.c. called for £22,500;
for 1927, £42,500 will be necessary, or
£67,500 if the £25,000 gift is to be main-
tained. Net income has been less than that
twice in recent years. Investments have
contributed a steadily expanding sum, but
the variation in underwriting profits has
been wide: —
Underwriting. Interest, etc.
1920 .. .. £62,793 £28,113
1921 .. .. 51,645 32,330
1922 .. .. 23,777 35,085
1923 . . . . 37,595 37,244
1924 . . . . 36,275 38,436
1925 . . . . 49,578 41,968
1926 . . . . 21,684 44,637
Interest and rents still are a bit more than
sufficient for divs.; upon underwriting pro-
fits falls the task of providing the bonus and
strengthening reserves. It is not becoming
easier.
Liabilities at September 30 amounted to
£73,578. Of assets totalling £932,978, two-
thirds was in public securities ; £103,691 in
premises and £86,565 in mortgages, the
balance being in debentures, cash and book
debts.
* * * *
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand: —
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916. . £48,511 25 p.c. = £25,000 £23,511 £418,431
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO . . 318,431
1917.. 57,633 124 p.c. = 25,000 32,633 351,064
1918.. 56,710 15 „ „ 30,000 26,710 377,774
1919.. 45,655 15 „ „ 30,000 15,655 393,429
1920.. 63,882 161 „ „ 32,500 31,382 424,811
1921.. 58,957 161 „ „ 32,500 26,457 451,268
1922.. 52,088 101 „ „ 32,500 19,588 470,856
1923.. 64,748 174 „ „ 35,000 29,748 500,604
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 400,604
1924.. .33,221 10.8 p.c.= 32,500 721 401,320
1925.. 62,811 10.8 „ „ 32,500 30,311 431,630
1926.. 49,160 10.8 „ „ 32,500 16,660 448,296
The directors of this Dunedin-controlled con-
cern this year offer their shareholders
smiles and tears. Premiums have made a
record, but there lias also been a record
on the losses side; and while the dividend
of 3s. 3d. on each share paid to 30s. has been
maintained, the amount tucked away to re-
serves is smaller than the average of recent
years. Compared with last year’s figures
results are disappointing, but in view of the
large proportion of marine risks underwritten
and the general experience of marine under-
writers in the period, shareholders have no-
thing to growl about. Here is a bird’s-eye
view of how tilings have gone since 1595: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29,950 53.8 ~ 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 ~ 33.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1915.. 153,598 78,262 55,934 50.9 „ 36.4 „
1920.. 196,248 81,208 81,309 41.4 ~ 41.4 ~
1921.. 214,504 92.159 87,291 43.0 ~ 40.7 „
1922.. 203,254 92,732 86,064 45.6 ~ 42.3 „
1923.. 199,074 75,385 87,153 37.7 „ 43.8 „
1924.. 196,394 103,590 89,875 52.7 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 212,116 86,243 88,954 40.6 „ 41.0 „
1926.. 217,342 109,725 90,816 50.4 „ 41.7 „
An increase in the expense rate, coupled
with a very small expansion in premium
income, indicates the need for watchful-
ness on the part of the management. The
policy of the National has been conservative
for years—there has been practically no
real attempt to reach out after new busi-
ness or to tap new channels —and period-
ically there is a tendency for expenses to
rise out of all proportion to the rise in
premium income.
Policy-holders, however, can sleep peace-
fully at nights. Paid capital and reserves
amount to nearly three-quarters of a million
—almost three and a half times the amount
of annual premium income—and there is
a very comfortable proportion of cash and
negotiable securities in the war - chest.
In ten years assets have moved as follows:
, 1916 — r —l926 —^
p.c. p.c.
Mortgages .. ..£343,640 61.9 £111,387 13.9
Debentures . . . . 83,007 14.9 123,618 15.4
Cash and War Loan.. 118,874 21.4 490,110 61.2
Premises .. .. 9,800 1.8 76,181 9.5
Premises increased last year from £26,800
to £76,180, apparently through purchases
ana building. The proportion of the assets
in bricks and mortar is still, however, quite
small. A favorable feature of the sheet is
a still further reduction in mortgages, which
have gone down £16,375 in the year. To
help pay for new premises cash and war
loan were drawn on by £19,050 in the
12 months. Interest and rents con-
tinue to bring in sufficient, within a small
margin, to pay the current rate of dividend,
which amounts to 32 per cent, on the
£lOO,OOO which is all that the shareholders
have put into the pot—the other £200,000
came out of profits. But the average addi-
tion to reserve is now much less than it
was a few years ago, and shareholders have
no right to expect another early plum. The
£5 shares paid to 30s. keep steady at 795.
to 80s., at which rate they show at present
a mere shade over 4 p.c.
The Western Australian Bank:—
Net T° e "
Sept., Profits. Dividends. j e - r ' H Q S o J^oq’dfn
1916. . £55,893 20 p.c. = £50,000 £ £’ B ®fl os 6
1917.. 56,106 20 „ „ 50,000 6,106 716,086
1918.. 57,373 20 „ „ 50,000 7,374 723,460
1919.. 59,511 20 „ „ 50,000 9,0 l 732,971
1920.. 62,592 20 „ „ 50,000 12, o - 7*5,563
1921.. 63,190 20 „ „ 50,000 13.190 £08,703
1922.. 62,347 20 „ „ 50,000» 12,347 771,100
Premiums on new shares, £113,000.. 884,100
Reserves capitalised, £50,000.. •; ’
1923.. 68,120 18jp.c.= 58,07c> l°’ o4u i oiv’l4s
Premiums on new shares, £168,000 . .
1924.. 80,074 18ip.c.= 76,213 3,861 i’ona’oir
Premiums on new shares, £2BB > 2 * o l \ }’, OR ’j9Q
1925.-109,174 174p.c.= 105,000
1926.. 116,180 16) „ „ 113,750 2,430 1,310,850
Early in 1925 this bank, which has no
branches outside its home State, not even one
in London, sought new capital to provide tor
expansion. One hundred thousand 11 snares
were sold to Jno. Bull at 535. (ot which the
bank got 495.) and 100,000 were allotted m
Australia at a premium of 30s. The directors
promised nothing, of course, but they ex-
pressed confidence in 16§ p.c. divs., which
meant a return of 6i p.c. to London and bj
p.c. to Australian buyers. The whole of the
new capital was in by the March, 20, bal-
ance, but the div. for that half-year was
not affected. For some reason not_ obvious
the directors paid 174 p.c. for the following
half-year, and repeated it when the interim
in May last was declared. The latest dis-
tribution, however, is at the rate of lo p.c.
p.a., which reduces the div. for the year to
161 p.c. The question that investors, especi-
ally those who took up the last 200,000
shares, will be asking is whether only 15
p.c. is to be expected in the future. After
paying 161 p.c. for the year there was no
more than £2430 of visible profit to lay by,
and that is a very narrow margin; a 15 p.c.
div. for the year would have left only £ll,lBO,
or less than 10 p.c. of the year’s profit.
Ordinarily that would be too little; but this
bank’s position is not ordinary. Its re-
serves compared with capital are very large,
chiefly because of the manner in which capi-
tal has been raised. In other words, share-
holders can fairly claim that, having been
required to pay large premiums on all new
shares, they should not also be required to
leave large amounts of profit unnecessarily in
the business. That, of course, does not re-
lieve the management of the necessity of
making the usual internal provisions; assum-
ing these have been made, there is no reason
why dividends should not absorb all but a
very small proportion of the profits.
Improvement in balance-sheet figures over
the 12 months was marked, fixed deposits
showing a healthy increase. Liabilities were
still, nevertheless, relatively light. Thus at
the end of September the bank owed to out-
siders on all accounts only £3,040,721
(£2,955,536 in September, 1925), which
means that it was holding only a shade over
30s. of the public's money for every £1 of
its own. Expansion has been largely de-
pendent on increase in share and premium
capital, and with Westralia’s gold-mining
industry shrinking it looks as if that must
still be so in the immediate future. It all
seems such a waste of good strength that
the market may be excused for thinking up
alliances and absorptions. Under present
conditions there certainly is very slow com-
pensation for the declining movement in the
State’s gold industry. That decline, by the
way, is hardly likely to have troubled the
bank overmuch, for it had plenty of time in
which to protect itself against depreciated
securities.
Advances improved, but their proportions,
too, are weak alongside of the bank’s own
strength. Other balance-sheet groups showed
the following movements :
1924. 1925. 1926.
Notes .. .. £11,389 £11,386 £11,367
Rills, etc 95,216 81,720 98,515
Free deposits .. 1,638,764 1,802,662 1,639,330
Fixed deposits .. 1,332,842 1,059,768 1,291,509
Advances .. .. 3,545,353 3,778,274 3,937,042
Liquid assets . . 987,842 1,144,618 1,055,691
Premises . . . . 99,435 102,315 111,340
The proportion of outside liabilities held
liquid at September 27 was 34.7 p.c.—more
than three points lower than 12 months ago.
Total shareholders’ funds have to earn 5.8
p.c. to allow of 16§ p.c. divs. It would be
ridiculously easy if the bank were not limited
in its operations to one State. The bank
now balances yearly, and figures in the intro-
ductory table have been re-arranged in
order to make comparison easier.
* * * *
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd., manufac-
turers of foodstuffs, importers, etc., of Syd-
ney :
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922. . £19,646 10 p.c. = £121,861 £6,785 £28,123
Premium on shares .. 10,000 38,123
1923.. 18,501 10 p.c. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
1924.. 23,762 10 „ „ 16,911 6,851 46,564
1925.. 28,100 121 „ „ 21,138 6,962 53,526
1926.. 28,989 121 „ „ 21,138 7,851 61,377
Expansion has been rapid, and capital is
again to be increased; for every four shares
holders are entitled to one of the new issue
at par. Capital at September 30 was
£169,107 in £1 shares, which the new lot


Want Some Advice?
GET
‘‘THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for December.
An invaluable guide—Companies
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly" has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat”
experience and data of 40 vears
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
The maintenance of a reticulation system using
exclusively Pioneer Wood Pipe is extraordinarily
economical. Not only is this highly efficient conduit
quickly and easily laid, but, in addition, it presents no
interior depository for rusts, tubercles and fungus,
and is immune from frosts and electrolysis. Uniform
full delivery is thereby consistently maintained
throughout its very long life —while water-purity is
assured. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
*-* * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins St’Tet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide—manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THIS INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAR VAN,
Managing Director.
&
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney^! l
fsdf
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. .Marine. Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
(42,276) increases to £211,383, leaving only
£38,617 unissued. If progress continues at
its recent pace the remainder will be wanted
before very long. Not that the co. has any
pressing necessity; the position has grown
steadily stronger, although much money has
gone into property. Moreover, although
shareholders have been well treated, reserves
have received earnest attention. At Septem-
ber 30, general reserve stood at £57,000, un-
appropriated p. and 1. balance making the
£61,377 of the introductory table. Because
of the presence of £72,500 of goodwill
(“trade-marks and secret processes, etc.”) in
the books, the amount is labelled “nominal.”
There is, however, an insurance reserve
£4540; up £430) and reserves for contingen-
cies, depreciation of plant, etc. (£75,471;
£17,530 greater), in both of which is pro-
bably some true profit.
Further improvement was shown in bal-
ance-sheet figures:—
1922. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital .. .. £128,607 £169,107 £169,107
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 30,181 31,967
Trading debts .. .. 17,351 15,710 15,884
Properties . . . . 66,265 103,038 105,978
Machinery, plant, etc... 59,541 96,926 106,971
Stocks 43,347 38,413 44,424
Book debts . . . . 32,540 26,542 33,284
Cash and sundries .. 5,285 12,822 12,372
Goodwill, etc. .. . . 54,517 72,517 72,500
Liabilities were slightly heavier, but still
are moderate considering the amount of capi-
tal represented by bricks and concrete. Book
debts, too, were modest, in view of the co.’s
increased turnover. During the term
alterations and improvements to the co.’s
new city premises were completed and silos
erected at the suburban mill. The latter
“proved their value in reduced working
costs.” The market likes the vigor of the
management and recent sales of the shares
have been made at 41s. 3d.
* * * *
Brunette Downs Grazing Subdivision, Ltd.,
is being floated to take over from the Gulf
Cattle Co. (F. J. White, J. C. White and
A. J. Cotton) about 10,600 square miles of
good sheep and cattle country, comprising
Brunette Downs, Corella, Anthony’s Lagoon,
Eva Downs and Walhallow Downs, all on the
Barkly Tableland (N.T.), together with
stock and improvements. The idea is to
subdivide and sell 8,440 square miles and to
hold and work the balance. It is a clean
float with a nominal capital of £750,000, of
which £425,000 is offered, and the board
may go to allotment when £150,000 has been
subscribed. The public is asked for £200,000
in 50,000 £1 8 p.c. cum. prefs. participating
to 12 p.c.; 250,000 10s. B ords. and 100
A ords of £lOOO called to £250 each. Every
A shfire is buttered with the right (trans-
ferable) to apply for one of the subidvisions
and to convert into £1 ords. when leases
have been allotted. The vendor takes 150,000
fully-paid £1 ,C ords and £138,000; in return
the co. gets 6,784,000 acres of grazing leases
(39 years to run), valued at £169,600;
55,000 head of shorthorns, £68,750; 600
horses, £1200; plant (valued £31,075),
£23,450; improvements, including 20 bores
(valued £30,000), £25,000. The subdivisions
comprise 60 sheep areas, about 64,000 acres
each, carrying capacity one sheep to four
acres, and 13 cattle-grazing lots. On the
two primary questions of feed and water
the prospectus claims that the country is
right, and so it has long been reputed to be.
It is in the summer-rain belt, average
fall about 18in. to 19in., and there is
a sub-artesian supply at about 220 ft.
An important feature of the scheme is the
promoters’ claim that it does not hang on
railway communication, but can be worked
on motor transport to Boorooloola, McArthur
River, thence by ship to Brisbane. The
whole 73 subdivisions are expected to be
disposed of by 1933, and to return £46,679
p.a. Meantime the co.’s own holding (2160
sq. miles), now worked as a cattle run, is to
be further improved, fenced and stocked with
sheep. The total sum available for distribu-
tion in the first nine years is set down at
£434,870. That figure is based on cattle at
£3 per head and sheep averaging a net ss.
each, and includes £314,609 instalment
moneys. It is sufficient to give the ords.
(£300,000) 15 p.c. p.a. for eight years and
send £2358 annually to reserves after the
prefs. have been attended to. Much will de-
pend upon practical men with sufficient capi-
tal being attracted. The going will, no doubt,
be rough and difficult for a time, but pros-
pects make the effort worth while for the
right men. The prefs. are well protected.
They can see more than 20s. in the £ of their
capital in cattle taken over, and, apart from
instalment money, estimated profits would
have to fall away by more than two-thirds
before their divs. would be endangered. The
proposition is well worth attention.
* * * *
Re California Creek Tin Dredging (B.
25/11/’26). It was stated that 9000 paids
go to the vendor along with £5OOO. The
cash consideration is £5OO, not £5OOO.
* * * *
According to a report from the Adminis-
trator, the dissatisfaction on the New Guinea
goldfield has been “removed.” The Adminis-
trator considers that recent amendments to
the mining laws will obviate the possibility
of further trouble, and adds that the men
who had pegged out claims on the disputed
leases withdrew, when ordered by the offi-
cials, without making any fuss. This simply
bears out The Bulletin’s contention that
the mining ordinance which admitted of such
leases being taken on a virgin field were
absurd, and that there was no need for
scareheaded press talk of “serious trouble,”
since in New Guinea, as in Papua, the
miners can be trusted to play the game.
* * * *
From an old New Guinea digger on the
Bulolo field:—
We have a few men from South trying to
get hold of shows to float, and they are not all
dinkum. Indeed, the reputation of one or two -'s
so poor that the South had better look out. In spite
of the Upper Edie Creek being so rich, there are
miles below in the same creek not payable for any
syndicate. Up to the present, the only payable
spots are the Karanja, the bed of which is worked
out, though there are good chances of finding rich
leaders when water is brought on and also fair
terraces; the Upper Edie Creek, limited to about
three miles, and two creeks running into same,
about 4 a mile in each payable; and about two
miles of good beaches on the Bulolo River. Down
the river further, you would not get enough gold
to buy salt for your porridge, although it’s pegged
out in leases for many miles. Also another river
is pegged, called the Wottock. Nothing was ever
got there payable, yet this is what may be hawked
around the Southern cities.
* * * *
Westralia’s State batteries have now poun-
ded out over £6,000,000 worth of gold and
tin. In all, 30 mills are available for hire,
but, as they are disengaged most of the time,
operations invariably show a loss at the end
of the year. Still they have been a godsend
to out-back claimholders, so what the State
has lost on working exes, it has gained many
times over by giving the prospector a leg up.
Government boring at the north end of
Kalgoorlie is still barren of payable results.
So far most of the cores have assayed only
grains, and the best of the rest only a few
’weights. A good deal of wealth has been
extracted from this part of the field, but
the shoots have always been short and poor
in depth. The Government drill may have
the luck to strike something good in deep
ground, but the prospect isn’t bright. It
may, however, stab a payable deposit on one
of the fields north of Kalgoorlie, where
chances arc pcr’ i "ps more hon / 'ful.
* * * *
North Kalgurli’s annual report, issued in
London, shows that the co. is still raking
in a little money in royalties and paying
out most of it in office exes. Realisable
securities were valued at £12,964, but since
then some have been sold at “advantageous
prices.” The board says it still has faith
in the mine, but admits that there is no-
thing to blow about in the shallow workings,
and that present costs preclude profitable
treatment of ore in the bottom workings.
Chairman Cutliffe and others had some-
thing to say at the North Kalgurli meeting
in London about the impossibility of making
ends meet under present Westralian working
conditions. Cutliffe declared that either the
value of gold must be raised or labor costs
lowered, and until one or the other was done
the co. proposed to go slow. He might have
added that with one or two exceptions every
other co. on the Golden Mile was doing the
same, with the result that both Kalgoorlie
and Boulder are paralysed and few of their
residents outside illicit gold dealers are
doing well. Land is almost unsaleable and
buildings can hardly be sold at the price
of old timber and iron. In some instances
landholders are transferring their blocks back
to the Government in order to avoid rates,
and buildings are being sold by the score
for removal and re-erection elsewhere in the
State. Many have found their way to the
farming centres.
* * * *
To date bores put down by Freney’s Kim-
berley Oil Co. have struck almost everything
except a commercial oil pool. Traces, glo-
bules, bitumen and fossils “similar to those
found in the mid-Continental oil area,
U.5.A.,” have been reported, and now the
co. claims to have drilled into shale which
constitutes “a good cover for any oil that
may be found.” However, Westralia has
gone cold on this the last surviving of its oil
ventures, and nothing short of the discovery
of a real oil supply would resuscitate
market -ver there
« * # *
Another attempt is being made in Perth
and Adelaide to revive interest in Jimble
Bar, an out-of-the-way auriferous area on
the road from Meckatharra to Marble Bar.
Glowing accounts of what was visible there
appeared in the daily papers about six
months ago, and shares in a syndicate which
had commissioned an expert to investigate
had a sharp rise. But they fell with a thud
when the aforesaid expert inspected and re-
ported. Now the old, old story of “a new
lode of increasing width and value” is being
told.
There is some talk in Perth of a new
run of good gold-bearing country about 100
miles east of Peak Hill. Small lots of
stone have yielded 1 to 2 oz., but the stuff
was picked from narrow veins. So far no
options have oeen taken, but one or two
or the down-and-out Adelaide cos. that are
looking for baits for call-shy shareholders
will probably make a move before long.
* * * *
Tiugha Tin (N.S.W.) lias issued a circu-
lar to shareholders announcing the directors’
decision to throw up the sponge as far as
the Tingha property is concerned and realise
on the assets, including plant and leases.
The ground was found unworkable for a
bucket dredge, and a suction-cutter dredging-
plant was installed, with the sad result
above indicated. The co. now proposes to
look for leases in Malaya or Siam. General
manager F. G. Wilson is off to inspect pro-
positions, and it is expected that the realisa-
tion will furnish enough cash to pay pros-
pecting expenses.
#■ * * *
Mt. Patterson. Attunga (N.S.W.), con-
tinues in the doldrums. It failed to go
ahead while there was water; now the staff
is reduced to two men breaking ore “till
the weather breaks.” A Tamworth holder,
C. W. Wane, adjured the board to sink a
well between the two gullies that converge
near the battery, but the directors didn’t
favor divining-rod methods at £6 a foot.
Also the board hooted loudly when Wane
suggested that late manager P. S. Graham’s
policy should be pursued in preference to
the layout of W. Bale. The 50 tons
crushed before the water dried up produced
about 3dwt., as against the Bdwt. to half-
ounce stuff forecasted by Graham. Those
backing the show expect much better results
when enough moisture prevails to put
through a parcel of 800 tons lying adjacent
since 1922.
* # * *
Ruby Creek, Oberon (N.S.W.), is jubilant
about a strike of 20-oz. specimen stone at the
850 ft. level in the tunnel. The board took the
cue and offered 8550 unissued shares pro rata
to holders of the original 12,000 10s. scrip.
The new lot are 2s. 6d. down and 2s. 6d.
on allotment. The board wants the money
quickly. Apart from the gold content, the
complex ore contains samples up to 45 p.c.
lead and 20oz. silver. Manager Ted Billett
says the full lode is 21ft. wide, going
strong underfoot, and giving 300 ft. of backs
to the surface.
# * * *
Despite the great price for tin and Mac-
kenzie’s boom reports, Flagstone (N.S.W.)
has inflicted a 2s. 6d. call on its 4500 con-
tribs. The whole position is a travesty on
the September div. of 6d. The call comes
at a time when the water has about evapo-
rated and the only mining man on the
board, E. P. Johnson, has left it.
* * * *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has gone on the
(tall list with a four penny for December.
Yields have not been payable lately. Called-
up capital is very small at £14,000. During
20 years the mine has produced about
£500,000, of which £150,000, or 30 p.c. of
the total, has been paid in divs.
* * * *
The zinc market is helping the small
silver-lead producers in the Cairns (Q.)
hinterland. The Agnes, at Silver Valley,
worked in diminutive fashion for many years,
is putting up a concentrating plant to treat
20 tons daily, and has over 2000 tons of
mixed zinc ore at grass. It is selling its
zinc concentrates at a profit. About 80 p.c.
of the shows up there carry the metal. In
the past it has been a curse. At Chillagoe
all zinc has gone up the flues, although for
years past Dr. Jensen has advocated zinc
separation plant.
* * * #
Victoria Reef, Bendoc (Vic.), has put
through a crushing of 45 tons for 113ioz.
retorted gold, an average of about 2|oz. per
ton. The mine is being worked under diffi-
culties, and the shaft cannot be sunk to
100 ft. until a pump is installed. Numerous
shoots of an average width of nine inches
of rich stone occur on the working level for
nearly 100 ft. north and south. But there is a
shortage of miners, and development work
is delayed.
* * * *
Right at the south-west corner of the
Speck, further south even than Port Davey,
lies Cox’s Bight, a wintry place with a
dangerous landing from the open sea. For
some 30 years it has been known as a
small but steady producer of tin ore.
Twelvetrees reported on it in 1906 and
describes how a small belt of granite runs
down two or three miles from the north to
the ocean. From the terraces along this belt
has come the main supply of tin. Barren
quartzite hills dominate the surrounding-
country. An Adelaide co. has suddenly be-
come impressed with the possibilities of
Cox’s Bight, and geologists, foresters and
agriculturists are expected to follow. Mean-
time the low-lying ground is being systemati-
cally bored by Tasmanian Tin, N.L., which
should bring something definite out of the
rosy clouds of optimism.
Tanami (N.T.) succeeded in placing its
new issue of 40,000 prefs. shares at 9d. down,
with 3d. calls in the offing. With the
£l5OO thus raised, plus the prospective
monthly £5OO, A. H. Stewart should reach
the productive stage. The co. is now in
200,000 shares —160,000 ordinaries being paid
to 2s. 6d. —and a 3d. div. on that lot will
take £2OOO. The prefs. are entitled to a
full refund before the ords. get a dip.
Tanah Bigi, Ltd., with Penman, 8.E., as
managing director, has at last found a dredg-
ing property—at Serendah, three or four
miles from Rawang (F.M.S.). The 183
acres he has so far bored Penman values as
six million yards of lib. ground, and he
forecasts handsome profits. A co. with a
capital of £165,000 has been registered.
Contrib. shares to a value of £105,000 are
to be offered solely to Tanah Bigi share-
holders, and all not required by them will
be taken up by the directors. Penman has
the reputation of having turned down more
properties than any other engineer in the
F.M.S.
* * * *
Rawang has made a profit since the begin-
ning of its financial year (l/4/’26) of over
±BO,OOO, and has paid only £24,000 in divi-
dends. With still four months in which to
make profits, Rawang has more than a full
year’s present rate of dividends in the bank,
not forgetting that the previous year ended
with a reserve of over £30,000.
One of the last links with the old copper-
mining days has gone from Wallaroo (S.A.) ;
the big chimney of the Wallaroo and Moonta
Co. has been removed, with the aid of explo-
sives.
* * * *
Torrington Blatchford, acting W.A. State
geologist, recently inspected Braeside silver-
lead deposits, and reports hopefully concern-
ing their prospects. He states that in one
shaft at 113 ft. down, where a lode 14ft:.
wide is exposed, 9ft. has an average lead con-
tent of 30 p.c., and in a second shaft sunk
50ft. there is B|ft. of 23 p.c. ore. Blatch-
ford advocates a developmental policy of
sinking, cross-cutting and driving with a
view to proving lead content at depth, and
ascertaining value of adjacent parallel ore
bodies to the east. Silver content so far is
low —from 3dwt. to 7oz.
* * * *


BOGGED.
“In spite of the multiplicity of arbitration courts and industrial tribunals, strikes and other work stoppages are more numerous than ever before in Australian history.”
THE BOSS: “Much obliged for your help, of course, gentlemen; but I believe I could do better without you.”


<
rifOU are giving presents this Xmas
■send the cigarettes your
friend is certain to like!
r
Now available in Cabinets and Caskets at
prices to suit all pockets. Ask to see them.
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON,
sdf
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“The Deacon”: The annulment of the
Marlborougli-Vanderbilt marriage by the
sacred Rota Tribunal in Rome, which is
causing the ’Murkan Episcopalian bishops
to raise Cain, was granted on the ground
of lack of consent on the part of the bride.
This is one of the few causes for interven-
tion that Rome will consider in a matri-
monial case, the hearing and determining
of which is a long and costly process. Few
people are aware that an ecclesiastical court
was set up in Sydney during Cardinal
Moran’s time, when two well-known people
of the day sought annulment of their mar-
riage. on purely physical grounds. Weary
months of sittings went by, the medical evi-
dence of course being the crux of the whole
matter, but finally the report was forwarded
to Rome. It came back by the next mail.
The secretary of the court had omitted to
send it in Latin, the only language the
Church recognises, although in an urgent
HAVE IT YOUR OWN WAY.
THE PIRATE : “What say to a tram run to the beach, little one?”
THE BAIT : “Sir, I would have you know that I am a married
woman!”
THE PIRATE: “Married! Better and better'! Let's make it a
motor spin with a bit of supper to finish.”
case it might take Italian. The formidable
task of converting the whole of the evidence
into a dead language was wished on the best
classical scholar among the priests in Syd-
ney. Finally, Rome granted the divorce, but
it provided thereby an infinity of trouble for
R.O.’s who wanted a divorce on any old
ground, and who when told they hadn’t an
earthly hope would point to the case of the
Blanks. And, of course, no one could divulge
the reason why the Court said yes in that
case. Both the parties to the suit, by the
way, are dead.
* * * *
“Goodwood” : The suburban street wherein
I reside is a jungle of modern brick bunga-
lows with massive pillars supporting high red-
tiled roofs and with a notable absence of shady
verandah space. The one exception is a
small, cream-walled cottage of Spanish
design, with green shutters and a flat roof.
Its front and side gardens have an Old World
rusticity, restful after the stiff and formal
lawns of its neighbors. It is the kind of
home an idealistic architect would build for
himself. Yet for two years, since the day
the builder’s men left it, it has remained
empty—in a city where vacant houses are
at a premium. Twice a week an aboriginal
comes and attends to the garden, and does
odd jobs about the place, but no other person
has been seen within its gates. Yesterday
we solved the mystery which had been per-
plexing us. The abo., whom everyone took
for a hired man, owns the place and had it
built to his own specifications. He had
planned to live in it with his dusky bride,
but after the ceremony, two years ago, the
lady refused to desert her gunyah in the
bush. And hubby won’t sell out or rent
the place, but keeps it in order in the hope
that she will some day relent.
* * * *
“Tapster”: An old ghost stretched out a
trembling hand from the dead past at Aber-
deen (N.S.W.) the other day, when a soli-
citor pleaded the Tippling Act of George
111. on behalf of his client. Defendant was
being sued for £30 —board, £9; money lent,
£5; and liquor supplied, £16 —and the lawyer
contended that under the old Act the claim
for money lent and drink must be dismissed.
His Worship agreed that the Act applied,
but only to spirits supplied under the value
of £1 at each sale. The Act said nothing
about beer, and as the evidence showed this
to have been defendant’s favorite beverage,
he proposed to assess the liability. Defendant
was ordered to pay for the board, plus £ll
for money lent and beer—£2o in all. There
are several morals attaching to this, the
most important being that anyone so fortu-
nate as to be able to do his drinking on
credit should stick to spirits.
* * * *
“N.N.”: Returning from the war in
August, 1918, I was detailed as sports officer
on the Port Melbourne. We left Weymouth
for Devonport on a
Saturday, and em-
barked that even-
ing, but did not
sail until noon the
next day. On Sun-
day morning I was
informed that our
orchestra had lost
the side-drum; and
the conductor
gloomily asserted
that his band
would be useless
without one. I
approached the
C.O. and obtained
leave to go ashore
with the band-
master and see if
I could replace the
missing article. We
tried all the
musical - instrument
shops in Devon-
port, but found
that no one lived
on the premises.
We were just giv-
ing it up as a bad
job when we came
on the Salv’army
holding a meeting.
Then the brain-
wave came. We
approached the
captain, explained
our predicament,
and were success-
ful in obtaining a
silver - mounted
kettledrum for a
fiver, returning
aboard in triumph
to the inspiriting
strains of “Madem-
oiselle from Armen-
tieres.” The drum,
which did excel-
lent work on the
voyage, was subse-
quently presented
to Victoria Bar-
racks in Mel-
bourne. I sometimes wonder if it is still
in use, and if so whether the players know
its antecedents.
* * * *
“ Virginia Lee”: Three months ago I
was asked by a friend, who had heard
that I was going to Brisbane, if I would
help her daughter choose her trousseau, and
also take care of her while in the city, which
the young lady was visiting for the first
time. I had always taken it for granted
that her father was dead. One afternoon,
coming out of a drapery shop, we met a
city friend of mine. Scarcely had I intro-
duced the pair, when I discovered I’d for-
gotten my change. When I rejoined them
my friend was just introducing to the bride-
to-be an elderly gentleman. His name, it
transpired, was the same as the young lady’s,
and on learning where she came from he
ONE UP
“Father , Ronald and I are two souls with hat a single thought."
“Goodo! That’s one more than your mother and I had when we married."
showed a lively interest. The same night
he called and the two had a long talk. The
next day two wedding-presents arrived for
the bride—a pair of white kid gloves and a
substantial cheque, both “From Father.”
Mother and father, I have since learned, had
separated shortly after the girl was born.
And the nicest part of the whole true story
is that the pair were reconciled on the eve
of the daughter’s wedding, and have now left
on a trip to Europe.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An entirely new one has been
sprung on the traffic police in Adelaide.
When stopped for doing “25 to 27 m.p.h.”
Anglican Canon Jose assured the constable
“I had not the faintest idea what I was
doing; I was thinking of my sermon for
next Sunday.”
* * * *
“M.R.C.”: Touching the “financial canni-
ness” of the Duke of Edinburgh during his
visit to Australia (B. 18/11/’26), my grand-
mother used to tell how, with her husband,
she was at the famous picnic at Clontarf
when the Duke narrowly escaped assassina-
tion. During the subsequent turmoil, while
the was with difficulty being restrained
from lynching O’Farrell, grandmother's
bottle of smelling-salts, a handsome affair,
was requisitioned for the royal nose. She
never saw it again. But whether it was
the Duke or one of his entourage who
“souvenired” the vinaigrette is a question
never likely to be settled.
* * * *
“Wog” : It happened at one of our large
public hospitals. A few of the nurses ran
a flower-garden, but each morning the very
best blooms were missing, and perforce they
blamed some of their less scrupulous col-
leagues. Amongst the patients was an old
house painter and decorator, and one of the
nurses asked him to fix up an appropriate
sign that would act as a deterrent to further
pilfering. When nurses were going to dinner
next day they wondered at the sounds of
hilarity on the men’s balconies. Then some-
body remembered the new signboard, and
they ran over to see how the painter had
done his work. The placard ran : “Nurses,
please observe the seventh commandment.”
The old chap still insists that the notation
of the Commandments has been altered since
the days when he went to Sunday-school.
* * * *
“Omega”: “Q.B.’s” story about a certain
Brisbane woman’s death-bed repentance (B.
25/11/’26) and her testamentary disposi-
tions goes to pieces at many points. No
bequests were made to any of the churches,
all the beneficiaries being relatives of the
deceased—sons, daughters and grandchildren.
The R.C. prelate referred to came into the
matter, not as a beneficiary, but because of
an insinuation that this money had influ-
enced him in allowing the sacraments to bo
administered. Finally, there will be no court
case, interesting or otherwise; the paper
which published the original story, rather
than attempt to prove it, swallowed it all
and apologised.
* # * *
“C. J.”: Queer how fashions in men’s wear
change as you move around the coast. Bris-
bane’s “No-coat League” has had poor luck
so far. Further north, at Townsville, a
man wearing a coat suffers the same fate
as one who doesn’t in Melbourne. Cairns
has been almost as conservative as Mel-
bourne, but it is yielding slowly. The coat-
less brigade predominates in Cooktown, but
on Thursday Island and in Darwin (N.T.)
and Broome (W.A.) khaki and white coats,
buttoning to the neck, are the fashion. They
have one advantage: it isn’t necessary to
wear a sliirt under them.
* * * #
“lan C.”: While on the subject of
multiple marriage ceremonies, let me recall
that a former Speaker of Vic. Assembly,
the late Francis Conway Mason, went
through the ceremony twice in the same day
in two churches. Mason was a Catholic and
his bride was then a Protestant. While the
late William Shiels was Premier, 34 years
ago, he agreed to act as best man to a
Ministerial supporter, who tried (in defer-
ence to his bride) to have a second ceremony
performed at St. Pat.’s after the first had
been held elsewhere earlier in the day. The
late Archbishop Carr objected, holding that
the church could not marry a couple already
married. Shiels saved the situation to some
extent by suggesting that Dr. Carr should
give the pair his blessing. “Willingly,” re-
plied the Archbishop, and he did.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : Australia had one shot at a
floating hotel, but it failed. It was in the
early ’eighties that a hulk, the Newcastle,
was furnished and equipped for her new role
at Thursday Island; but on her way up,
somewhere about Lizard Island (oiitside
Cooktown), she parted company with the
ship that was towing her, and stuck hard
and fast on the reef. A passing ship pre-
sently found her still intact, with the cutlery,
etc., in its tissue-paper wrappings; but when
a salvaging party arrived there was another
story to tell: the natives had made a raid
and removed everything portable.
LISTENING IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little Sabbath circle met;
A psalm was chanted far away;
Our amateur receiving set
Bead us the lesson of the day.
We heard the organ swell and peal
The hymns, the Litany, and then
We heard the congregation kneel
And drone an indistinct amen.
The preacher’s voice was very near;
Into the room a stillness crept;
So perfect was the atmosphere
That Dad and Mum, transported, slept.
N.S.W.
WOOD NYMPH.
THE FLIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first I met my Ladye Fayre
(How well do I remember!)
I praised her eyes, her lips, her hair—
And it was gay September.
When next I met my Ladye Fayre
(Better do I remember!)
Another sang her grace and air—
And that was in November.
When last I met my Ladye Fayre
(Would I need not remember!)
A third went with her everywhere—
By this we’d reached December.
And now, in March, my Ladye Fayre
Prays to the gods above her
To send a man from anywhere —•
For she has ne’er a lover!
TASMANIA.
VERA HOLTHAM.


FOR SWEET CIRCULATION’S SAKE.
“The National Council of Women, at the instigation of the Australian Women’s National League and other women’s bodies, has protested against the money-making
beauty competitions which are being promoted by a section of the Australian press.”
“Rather degrading to our sex, don’t you think, sir?”
“Sex, madame, sex! What’s sex alongside circulation?”


V
s
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch
r
£>, "SayWHEH Man!!"
1 «
I
S4F
sdf
sdf
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
“Shod Hand”: A Chinaman may or may
not be able to whistle, but when the
yellow gent, sees a joke he gets full value
out of it. Lew Gew, a Chinese lorry-driver,
whose job was putting country orders on rail
at Perth, made a habit of patronising my
receiving-door. One day I commented on the
foolish names the Chinks saddle on them-
selves, and Lew Gew grinned as I detailed a
LITTLE TO PREVENT IT.
IMOGENE: “My word, HEAT dress should cause a sensation!"
EVELYNE : “I planned to give ’em a surprise, and I'm so glad you
think it will come off.”
IMOGENE : “You WILL be a success if it does.”
few. Then he turned over the label on a
bag of vegetables addressed to “A. Brophy.”
and grinned louder. “What plice this one.
he asked. “Bi cli, Blowfly welly ni name.
Half an hour later I caught him still chuck-
ling and saying, “Bi cli, him a plopper
name ! Blowfly ! A blowfly !”
“A.8.C.”: There is at least one Sydney
woman who openly advertises her apprecia-
tion of Lang’s Widows’ Pensions Act. Five
years ago her husband died and left her
with five tiny children to care for. She was
one of the first
applicants for the
pension when it
arrived, and as
soon as she drew
her first money she
invested in a full
mourning outfit.
She explained to
my wife that, hav-
ing been unable to
purchase mourning
clothes when poor
George died, she
was going to honor
his memory now.
She wore the weeds
continuously fo r
six months to that
end, and then they
were carefully laid
by. But every
second Wednesday
she attires herself
in them and wends
her way to the
pensions Office.
“Muggins, Jun.” :
Two young Vic.
Ma 11 e e farmers
have quite finished
with “View Mat.”
ads. They let it
be known through
an English paper
that they desired
to correspond with
two young English-
women with the
purpose indicated.
Th e last-but-one
English mail
brought them well
over 2000 letters
from all over Eng-
land, Ireland, Scot-
land and Wales:
and what the
future has in
store they almost
dread to think.
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : The chemist at Cook-
town (N.Q.) was listening-in one night
recently to 4QG (Brisbane) on his radio,
when he heard the announcement that his
11-year-old daughter was about to broadcast
a pianoforte selection. It is safe to state
that she had no more appreciative auditor
than her parent, over 1000 miles away. Dad
swears by wireless now —he hasn’t seen the
daughter, who attends one of the Brisbane
colleges, for five years.
* * * *
“Modestine”: The most original bride-
cake I ever saw was a handsome five-tier
affair presented by a baker ’groom to his
bride. To all out-
war d appearance
the structure was
quite orthodox, but
really the bottom
tier was made of
ti n and divided
into four compart-
ments, each with a
little silver tap.
These contained
beer, port, whisky
and gin. Before
the wedding cele-
brations h ad
advanced far it
was noticed that
maiden aunts and
other abstemious
persons who had
taken “a little
wine, please,” or
“a little ale from
the cake,” were
getting “forarder”
more quickly than
those who openly
indulged in hard
tack; and when
the bride’s uncle, a
well-known tem-
perance advocate,
wanted to embrace
all the single
ladies present, in-
vestigations were
made. It was then
found that the
weight of the
superstructure had
buckled the interior walls of the “cellar,”
and that the mixture that was coming
through the silver taps would knock over
a graven image.
“Reefer” : The men who hurry the cables
on from Cocos Island get heaps more thrills
than the three officials stationed on Willis
Island, a barren and little-known radio and
meteorological station 300 miles east of
Cairns (N.Q.). Their isolation is complete.
The Morinda comes along in November and
THE HEROINE.
MERLE : “Ivy’s had a wonderful life —just like a book.”
PEARL: “Yes! Chap one, chap two and so on.”
May, and dumps tlieir rations and mails into
a launch prior to disappearing over the
horizon, and that is their one material link
with the outside world. The total population
of the island is three —two radio-telegraphists
and the weather prophet, and during then-
voluntary exile they do not as much as see
the smoko of a steamer. Macquarie Island,
in the Antarctic, was also at one time the
base for a meteorological station, primarily
opened to keep in touch with the Mawson
Expedition. It was continued as a meteor-
ological station until 1012 ; then the members
of the party who had just been relieved after
12 months’ solitude, lost their lives when the
Commonwealth trawler went down with all
hands. ,
# * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: Not long ago the
Cairns opium runners missed a good parcel,
thrown over one of the Eastern steamers out-
side that port. The launch, which should
have been in the offing ready to pick up the
tins, slipped on the job, and the prevailing
south-easterly current eventually landed the
contraband on the beach at >Cape Bedford,
20 miles north of Cooktown. Here it was
picked up by one of the mission natives from
Cape Bedford, who duly handed it to the
superintendent, the Rev. E. Scwartz. The
latter took it into iCooktown, and gave it
to the police stationed there, Someone in
Cairns must have done quite a lot of think-
ing, for the. misadventure meant a loss of
over £lOOO.
“Bouragi”: There is a curious savor of
change in a Sydney wool report which
records the offer at the sales of a small clip
from Erromanga, in the New Hebrides. Time
was when no island in the Western Pacific
islands bore a more sinister reputation than
Erromanga—not even Malicolo, with its pro-
fessional poisoners and renowned magicians.
Missionary, trader and blackbirder alike
awarded it the palm, and “the martyrs ot
Erromanga,” whose massacre vvas about the
most complete thing of its kind in South
Sea records, rank high in mission hierarchy.
Blackbirding and trading craft innumerable
were “cut out” along its treacherous coasts,
and Australia’s Ben Boyd is reputed to have
come to his mysterious finish there. But
the missions conquered in the end, and
mutton has long replaced long pig.
* * * *
“Embrey”: This is my theory of air-
meclianic Elliot’s death in Arabia. The
Bedouin cannot resist the temptation to try
shots at any swiftly-moving object. Some
of Colonel Lawrence’s picturesque irregulars
once fired on a passing British armored
car, and immediately sent profuse apologies
to 11. Q.; although quite well aware that they
were firing on a friendly unit, they couldn t
resist the temptation. It seems to me quite
feasible to attribute Elliot’s death to this
Bedouin characteristic.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: For pure, unadulterated
hell I nominate an abscessed toothache out
back when the nearest dentist is many days’
journey away. Two cases come to mind.
I was in the De Grey ranges (W.Q.) with
a party, one of whom developed a raging
toothache. After two days and nights of
agony he allowed the cook to try a remedy
he suggested, viz., pack the hollow tooth
with the corrosive formed by burning alum
on a red-hot penny. This was done, and
the effect was to transform a man partially
mad with pain into one completely so. We
were forced to rope him like a calf, as he
tried to shoot himself. All night he raved,
and next, morning he finally fell asleep. We
then untied him and took turns to keep the
flies off his face. He awoke at sundown,
and we found that not only had the tooth
been burned out, but part of the jawbone as
well. It was a month before the poor beggar
recovered from the “cure.” The other case
happened in W.A. A member of the pros-
pecting party I was with had an abscessed
tooth. To relieve his suffering our black-
smith rigged up the forge we carried for
sharpening picks and drills and made a pair
of forceps. The sufferer was then spread-
eagled on his back, the blacksmith sat on the
patient’s stomach, with his feet under his
armpits, took a good grip of the tooth, and
heaved. A muffled shriek burst from the
victim, but the tooth was out. On my next
visit to Perth I bought a couple of pairs of
forceps, a hypodermic syringe and some local
anaesthetic, and carried them for years after-
MISSED A LOT.
THE BOY : “She swears that she's never been
kissed.”
THE GIRL : “ Don't blame her. If I had
never been I’d swear, too.”
wards. They saved a lot of suffering at
different times, and I was surprised to learn
recently that under the law of S.A. I could
set up in practice as a dentist, as I had
extracted teeth prior to 1900.
The Christmas Bulletin will be at the
bookstalls and newsagents on Saturday. It
is the best sixpenn’orth of reading ever
offered in Australia.
THE PATIENT RECOVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Doctor, how unkind you are,
Unkind you are, unkind you are;
I thought you nice, but find you are
A butcher-man. Why, damme,
You called on me from day to day,
And cheered me up with what you’d say;
But now you take my breath away,
And leave me cold and clammy.
You say that you must operate,
Must operate, must operate;
You go at an improper rate;
Your ways are most infernal.
How can you stand, as hard as sin,
Suggesting, with a fiendish grin,
That you will cut my tender skin,
And carve my parts internal ?
What! Open up my viscera,
My viscera, my viscera?
I do consider this a ra-
Ther frightful proposition.
What! Let the cold draughts play between
My liver, pancreas and spleen,
Whilst you apply your weapons keen ?
I’ll see you to perdition.
You conduct’s reprehensible,
-Prehensible, -prehensible,
For, were I stretched, insensible,
Beneath your knife (a long one),
With other patients lying n<ar,
All chloroformed and still —oh dear,
When you replace my parts, I fear
You may put back a wrong one!
Then think of the calamity,
Calamity, calamity,
If I, you know, who am a tee-
Total sort of chappie,
Should have a drinker’s heart put wl.
My own should be! Ido declare
’Twould be far more than I could bear;
I’d never more be happy.
Consider, too, my Violet,
My Violet, my Violet,
To whom I wrote a triolet,
With praises in excelsis;
How could I ardent love profess,
And cry “My heart is thine,” ah, y :s,
When all the heart that I possess
Is really someone else’s?
So, call it off, old Physicus,
Old Physicus, old Physicus;
As you are such a busy cuss,
No longer shall I bind you.
My pain has gone as it began,
I’m feeling quite a better man;
I’ll pay you some day, if I can,
But make no promise, mind you.
VICTORIA.
PURSKOLE.
THE PERFECT KNIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“To keep the wages of women in bars equal to
that of men, the barmen of W.A. recently refused
a ss. increase.”
Napoleon would not do as I,
Nor Paris without hope of fee;
Yet will my fame flush rose the sky
Wherever men quote history ?
No Lancelot or Galahad
Can teach me chivalry.
No Don Juan or such a lad,
But only Quixote
Could reach to the ideal, I ween—
Unheeding smile or frown,
And for some lass he’d never seen
Refuse a gleaming crown,
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
DIAMONDS —the ideal gift
Fine Diamonds, Plati-
num and Gold,
£l5/15/-
Two Choice Diamonds,
Platinum and Gold,
£2O.
Charming' Diamond
Cluster, £l5/15/-
Diamonds are a permanent asset, for they pay dividends in the pride and pleasure of possession,
while always retaining their original intrinsic and convertible value.
It is well to be careful in their choice, however, and buy only from a house -whose solid repu-
tation is a guarantee of quality.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
i
' \W tiiMCll \3>
«iA ii ij " "Hj>" H//j //.: // *y " /s
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES
NEVER FAIL
sdf
Imli far iht Trademark! Agra t* Evtrywlitrt.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
I TEMS
GLOBE
MEAT ESXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
“It’s pluck, my boy. you need to cultivate—
pluck, pluck, pluck!"
“Yes, but I haven't got your knack, Dad —
every time I try to get a handful out of
anybody he squeals."
Alfred Cowley, who died in Brisbane last
week, aged 79, lived a full life. The son of
a Baptist missionary in S’Africa, he there
studied subtropical agriculture, and, coming
to Queensland, was soon interested in sugar-
growing: many northern mills were built
under his supervision. His S’African train-
ing made him an advocate of colored labor,
and as M.P. for Herbert he was for years
leader of the black-labor party in Parliament.
Whether as member or Minister he was a
great fighter, but a fair one; and later as
Speaker he held a turbulent House well in
hand. When he found that there was no
longer a place for him in politics, he gave
his attention to various public cos., and was
a prodigiously energetic chairman of, among
others, the Bank of Queensland and the
Queensland Board of the A.M.P. He was
dynamic to the end, and less than six months
ago ran his experienced eye over Canberra.
Few man, even in Queensland,' made more
political enemies; none.made more personal
friends.
A stout Imperialist was Walter Karri
Davies, who passed out in London the other
day aged 59. Born in Westralia, son of
M. C. Davies, the Karri timberman, he went
to S’Africa to push dad's business there as
soon as he was old enough. He chummed up
with “Doctor Jim,” and took part in the
raid that landed Jamieson and his young
friends in clink. Young Davies’s share was
two years’ gaol, but of course he didn’t have
to serve it. When the trouble on the Rand
came to a head in 1900, Davies and his part-
ner Samson recruited the Imperial Light
Horse, 500 strong, and paid for the whole
equipment out of their own pockets. Davies
was colonel and Samson major, and the title
stuck. Davies was one of the first to enter
Mafeking sifter the long siege. He was last
in Australia in 1934, and before he settled
down in London he spent some time in San
Francisco, where he served, on occasion,
as provost-marshal.
On December 2 the Tasmanian Parlia-
ment had a birthday, the 70th. Of those
who helped to celebrate the jubilee in 1906
there are only five who are in to-day: ex-
Fresident Gant (elected to Gouncil 1903).
Propsting (Assembly 1899 and Council
3905), ex-Npeaker Evans (Father of the
House, 1897). Speaker Woods (1906. witlii
a break). Chairman Watkins (ditto). Dr.
“Ted” Crowther is the oldest ex-member*
alive, having begun a 30-odd years' term in
November, 3878. Elliott Lewis entered the
House in July, 3886. and Hartnell (ex-
minds Minister) in 1884.
When Jack Cochran represented Darling
Harbor in the N.S.W. State Parliament he
used occasionally to undertake what lie called
“a visit to my constituents.” This involved
wandering from pub to pub shouting for
everybody in sight—and there were many
more pubs round Darling Harbor then than
there are to-day. In his early life Cochran
did anything that came to hand, from school-
teaching to cleaning bricks from demolished
buildings, but he was later the best secre-
tary the Sydney Labor .Council ever pos-
sessed. It won recognition in those days as
“the Parliament of Labor,” and was re-
spected by all—-even by its enemies. When
Cochran entered Parliament it was expected
that lie would be the first Minister for
Labor, but the appointment went else-
where. Although more able than most of
his colleagues, he was not a Parliamentary
success. He was content at last to be known
merely as “the. Member".for the Rocks,” and
he became animated only when protesting
against the “evictions” of his constituents,
many of whom were two or three years in
arrears with their rent. When his seat was
wiped out he went from Parliament, and
when he died the other day at 58 lie was an
employee of the Taronga Park Trust, whose
president, Flowers, was an old political
friend.
Bob Ward, a South Aus. squatter, throws
a new sidelight on it: —-
I was coming down from Crown Point to Maree
with 150 head of horses and five black boys. We
had the news that Cobham would be along. The
boys saw him miles before I did, and were greatly
interested; “My cripes! Big fellow bird.” I don’t
know whether Cobham wanted to take a picture, or
just have a look, but lie suddenly swooped down
and went over us just. a few feet above our heads.
We could see the three, of them laughing, while the
mob scattered to the four winds, and nearly took
one of the black boys with them. No wonder
Cobham had his mechanic shot in Arabia!
Tom Waites, who has been made N.S.W.
Statistician after doing the work for a year,
missed being an Australian native by two
years, lie spent most of his early life at
Balmain (N.S.W.), and was one of the
bright boys of Sydney High, from which lie
passed to the Uni. He joined the Ma
State’s public service 36 years ago,, and
for nearly 30 years has been in the Bureau
of Statistics. But it had to get along without
him for a while during the war. He went
sapping in France and was wounded.
“Spruiker”: I gave Jock Garden a hand
when he was the Labor candidate for the
ultra-loyal Parramatta (N.S.W 7 -) seat dur-
ing the early stages of the war. I never list-
ened to a more enthusiastic patriot. He
verbally wrapt himself in the Union Jack,
and never tired of telling how he had twice
volunteered and been rejected. He promised
to offer himself again after the election. Ho
did, too, but the war was won without him.
“Ex-Dig.”: The announcement that W.
Dawson Moore will challenge Mr. Speaker
Dooley in Hartley (N.S.W.) reminds me
of an occasion when Moore, then a gunner,
was a very amazed person. A debate was
arranged on the troopship Marathon, with
Moore as the leading speaker of one team.
I was asked to lead the Opposition, but
shirked it, undertaking, however, to pro-
duce a team and a leader. Moore was a
seasoned speaker (he had contested the Mac-
quarie Federal electorate twice, amongst
other things), and naturally he expected an
easy win. His face was a study while one
Private Murray oratorically wiped the floor
with him, winning the decision for our team
and the debating prize for himself. Long
afterwards it was discovered that Murray
was the nom de guerre of Harry Peters, in
his day the best speaker in the N.S.W.
Labor party. He died of wounds.
The Australian turns up everywhere. One,
Oliver Jager. son of a former well-known
mining man, and a graduate of the Ballarat
School of Mines, is in charge of the metallur-
gical work at the great Rio Tin to, in Spain.
Julia Moran, a Maorilander who died in
Sydney lately while
on a visit, was a
victim of nervous-
ness that closed to
her the career as a
virtuoso of the vio-
lin, for which other-
wise she was well
fitted; so she
turned to teaching
instead. When the
Great War began
she took her place
among the nurses
and saw it through.
Returning, she
stndie d electro-
therapy at Sydney
Uni. She went to
the U.S.A. in 1921,
and Uncle Sam
promptly put her!
in charge of the
Veterans’ Bureau
at a military hos-
pital.
LACK HOLLAND.
M.L.A., who
succeeded to the
Fleming ton scat in
the Vic. Parliament
formerly held by
Edward Warde.
Charles F. Lungley, a Melbourne chemist
who dropped dead in a railway subway lately,
was an inveterate inventor. One of his most
ingenious efforts was a machine to extract
more petrol from crude oil, using a catalyst
during distillation. The Bulletin slid
about it: “The process is worth a million
or nothing.” A jury of 12 chemists in San
Francisco who tested it for six leading oil
companies found in favor of nothing.
It is four years since Frank Wisewould
slipped out of the law in Melbourne, after
50 years of service with the firm his father
founded- —Wisewould, Duncan and Wise-
would. He was the second Wisewould. A
man of quiet, gentle tastes, he was one of
the founders of the Field Naturalists’ Soci-
ety, and it was he who started the society’s
annual wild-flower show. On retiring he
settled down to enjoy the country life he
loved so well, but Death has stepped in.
A burly old battler ended 70 years of life
in Australia when Jack Ryan passed out
in Sydney the other day. Born in Tip-
perary 91 years ago, he got his first “colonial
experience.” on the Temora goldfield, where
lie struck payable gold and built up a
reputation also as a hurler and wrestler. In
his day lie was wrestling champion of the
Southern Diggings. After the Lambing
Flat riots he had a spell contracting in Syd-
ney, and then took to pub-keeping, witli
Labor politics as a hobby—for 35 years he
had been helping to nominate candidates
and get them elected.
Something like a record was put up by
Mother Mary Scholastica Cook, who has
just made the Great Change after being a
prominent member of the Good Samaritan
Order for 68 years. She was born in Adel-
aide, and spent her youth in the Apple Isle,
till she joined up at the old Pitt-street
Convent in Sydney, where the Railway Sta-
tion now stands. For 30 years her special
job was to train young sisters for scholastic
duties.. She was 87 when she laid down
the burden.
Jack Morrissey, Vic. ex-Minister for Agri-
culture, who spent the last years of his life
as a squatter in N.S.W., left just on
£134,000. Ilis old Yic. friends credited him
with at least twice that much, so they now
suppose that he made provision for his
grown-up family as they went into nests
of their own.
The long-dead Percy Brookfield, M.L.A.,
who died as the result of injuries...received in
a struggle in which he prevented a maniac
from doing harm to other passengers on a
Broken Hill train, was praised by speakers
when the Brookfield Afforestation Camp, a
prison offshoot, was opened the other day.
Brookfield took a deep interest in prison
administration, and many innovations, especi-
ally in the way of giving training in new
avocations, were due to his advocacy. “There
but for the grace of God go I!” was his
attitude to the malefactor. To a wealthy
colleague who resented that way of looking
at it Brookfield retorted: “Well, I know I
might have been a criminal if I was hungii,
and without hope—and I believe 1 m a
damned sight more honest than you are.
Returned to his native heath as medical-
officer of the Port Hardy the other day, H r -
R. Li. (“Pup”) Raymond, N.S.W. Rhodes
Scholar, Oxford “Blue” and England Rugger
“Cap.” One of the most likeable of the
strong contingent of Rugby footballers which
Sydney Uni. has sent to Oxford, the big
fellow made a great success of his stay m
England. Among his trophies is an English
wife; he brought her home on the Port
Hardy.
R. G. Mitton, who gets the Rhodes award
for South Aus., is 21, a trifle younger than
that State usually picks them, and is out
for an honors degree in science at the ’Var-
sity after four years in the Teachers’ Train-
ing College. In sport he is a hard-working
football, tennis and cricket player, with
trophies for batting, goal-kicking and field-
ing, and for life-saving in the water.
Democracy must be served. When Hiram
Hunter was the representative of the em-
ployees on the Maorilarid Arbitration Court
he and Justice Eraser and W. Scott
(employers’ representative) used to fore-
gather at the same pubs on their tours of
the Dominion. Unionism was suspicious of
the friendliness of the members of the Court
off duty, and Hiram got the bump when he
stood for re-election. Now L. M. Montieth,
ex-Labor M.P., who beat him for the £750-
a-year job, and the other members of the
Court stay at different hotels.
A son of orchestra-conductor Verbrugghen
was a leading light in N.S.W. “Country
Week” cricket. lie kept wickets for Far
North, and .Timmy Searle, official coach for
the N.S.W.C.A., described him as the pick
of the country ’keepers. Young Verbrugghen
learnt his cricket at North Sydney Grammar,
and is now established in the Northern
Rivers district.
A seadog who still cruises up and down
the Australian coast despite the three-quar-
ters of a century behind him is Captain
Billy Beale, who pilots the A. and O. steam-
ers to Thursday Island and back, and, inci-
dentally, regales passengers with an exten-
sive repertoire of shellback yarns. Once in
the early days he left the sea to go on a
goldfield. Noticing that a local mining
expert was getting plenty of business, he
hung out his own shingle with “Capt. Wil-
liam Beale, M.M.,” in conspicuous lettering.
“It wasn’t my fault if they thought the
letters stood for “Mining Manager” instead
ROBERT STOUT, Maoriland’s retired Chief
Justice, who had been a great figure in
politics for 27 years before he went up
to the Bench —and that was 27 years
ago, too.
of “Master Mariner,” the captain adds in
later years. He advised clients about vari-
ous “shows,” and at least one co. was
floated on the strength of his favorable
report.
The Christmas Bulletin will be at the
bookstalls and newsagents on Saturday. It
is the best sixpenn’orth of reading ever
offered in Australia.
A BALLADE OP THE SUPERMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The survival of the unfit.’ said Professor Julian
Huxley to the British Science (iuild, ‘reduces the
average quality of the race. We must cease pretend-
ing to be satisfied with comfortable mediocrity and
make our ideal average man a god.’ ”
Enough of the Unfit, dregs and scum,
That still persist on this world terrene!
Let science poison their pabulum,
And no philanthropists intervene.
Huxley, like Nietzsche, observes, 1 ween,
Our race is bred on a rotten plan.
We're not the blokes that we should have been. ...
But where can we find this God-like man ?
In Nietzsche and Huxley’s Kingdom-Come
There'll be no weeds on the playing-green.
All humans must reach their maximum,
Or be shifted quick from this earthly scene.
It’ll be good-bye to the broker mean,
The fat boy driving the brewer’s van,
And the Wop that gathers the dead marine. ...
But where can we find this God-like man?
What is the size of his cranium?
Is he hairy-chested, fat or lean?
Built like a pug at the Stadium,
Or the he-man gracing the silver-screen?
Is he Latin or Norse or in-between,
An aristocrat or artisan?
A pure merino or heterogene ?
Ah, where can we find this God-like man?
Envoy.
Will he walk erect, with brow serene,
Just the average cove quotidian,
Like Bernard Shaw, or the Gloomy Dean?
But where can we find this God-like man?
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


■ .
CIGARS
..
LIKE THE WORD OF A GENTLEMAN
Sde&eizd&ble
Vucf/osPfrlfd
■
4^:
1*


Cbe Equitable Cite
flssce.
Oo
O a
FTc©
«f
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
What
were ‘
No More Rabbits.
a difference it would make if throughout Australia it could he said there
no more rabbits.” Every farmer would be pounds in pocket.
bRAP 1
?5 S AND
%p f SI
is proving itself capable of killing
every rabbit in a warren, however
badly infested it may be. Four ounces
are generally sufficient for a warren
with 20 openings. What are you
going to do about it?
Write for Free Catalogue L2l.
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(And at Brisbane).
Still the Biggest Saddle
sdf
Bargain
Offered
The Famous
STATION POLEY
Made • of oiled kip leather
on a steel bar plated tree,
narrow waist, long flaps,
leather points to the panel.
Fitted up complete with 4-
bar stirrups, leathers, sur-
cingle and folded
girth for
Strong Bridle for 15/-
Write for new Genuine Wieneke
saddle book, all about Jack
Wieneke, his life and work.
JOHN J. WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney,
Or 434 Queen'Street, Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“P.X.”: There was many a sniff a few
weeks ago when a Sydney paper printed a
photo of N.S.W. Opposition-leader Bavin
showing some of the Empire Parliamentary
party how to catch trout in the Federal Ter-
ritory. It was still the close season in N. S.
Wales, and more than one back-countryman
resolved that if ever he was caught fishing
for trout in a close season he would tell
John Hop that he was Mr. Snooks, M.P.
But he had better not. As a matter of fact,
the fishing season in the Federal Territory
opens ahead of that in N. S. Wales, and
Bavin and his party were well inside the
safety-zone—as they had taken the trouble
to ascertain before they got out their tackle.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The shell turtle is much in
demand by islanders for its overcoat when
it happens to be of good quality; but they
are not so keen on its meat, although they
Avill eat it if an expert cutter-up has
dissected the creature and removed the small
black bag in the throat containing a poison-
ous secretion that has caused many a death.
Some time back a score of people died on
one island after feasting on shell-turtle meat,
and recently a couple of infants died within
a few minutes after suckling the breasts of
their mother, who had eaten the flesh of the
creature. The other day an islander, finding
a shell-turtle had wandered up to his back
door to deposit her eggs, killed the expec-
tant. mother, removed her back, and flung
away the body, he not being a poison-bag
expert. A little later he was surprised to see
his dog circle round, become convulsed and
pass out. It had made a meal of some of the
discarded meat.
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: I don’t think “Jim Grahame”
ever saw cancer. I have examined thousands
of carcases of cattle, and met only one pro-
nounced case, and this is the experience of
other inspectors and veterinarians. One of
the reasons advanced by medical men and
others in favor of wholemeal bread, raw
fruits and vegetables, etc., is that animals
and aboriginals, who are practically free
from the scourge, take their food as nature
supplies it, with all the essential salts and
vi famines intact. Dr. Edwards, of Poplar.
London, who has made post-mortem exami-
nations of hundreds of cancer subjects, says
that cancerous tissue is devoid of potassium
salts, yet in healthy cell tissue it is an essen-
tial element. His view is that cancer is
caused by improper food.
“Emel” : If “Beenbi" (B. 4/11/’2G) were
a housewife whose food supplies were over-
run by hordes of those small black ants
that investigate everything and love to com-
mit suicide in jam, lie would welcome an
insecticide that would deal with the pest.
Those, however, who scruple to use extreme
measures may protect their stores from ants
by standing the legs of the kitchen-safe in
tins of powdered lime. Ants will not cross
this, and, unlike water, it does not require
watching and replenishing.
PROOF POSITIVE.
YOUNG William : "Be careful she don't fall with yer, Dad. She ain't too sure-
footed, y' know."
OLD WILLIAM: “Sure-footed —why o' course she he. Didn’ she kick the pommy-hoy
six times runnin' in the same place?”
“Butten D.”: Whether dogs can reason
or not lias often been debated by the Council.
Here is my evidence—somewhat steep, yet
absolutely true, nevertheless. The other day
I was humping kerosene-tins of water from
a deep hole in the creek, dipping it out off
the end of a log. The first trip I made, my
12-months-old cattle-pup strutted along the
log ahead of me and, as I couldn’t get
past him, I shoved him overboard with the
toe of a boot. The next trip he wasn’t ahead
of me, nor did I know he was behind until,
when kneeling down and leaning far over
to get a full tin, I felt a shove—not very
hard, yet sufficient to overbalance me. When
I came up, there was the pup wagging his
tail and showing most of his teeth in a wide
grin. It might have been an accident, but,
judging by the pup’s delighted expression,
I’m inclined to think it was a well-thought-
out revenge.
* * * *
“Simover”: Will some Abo. come to my
aid? As far back as the ’eighties I con-
tracted what was then called the Barcoo
itch, and have never been able to rid myself
of it since. I have tried dozens of doctors,
been in hospital with it, and still it sticks.
At times it’s just Sheol. A cure would be a
godsend.
* * * *
“Wang”: I showed “Geoloin’s” par. re the
intelligent bullock (B. 18/11/’26) to my old
friend Jim Peters, retired bulloeky. “Yes,”
said Jim, “an intelligent sorter animal
orl right; but he couldn’t give an old blue-
roan bullick I had any p’ints. I’d reared
Bluey since he was a calf, and ev’rywhere
I’d go ole Bluey useter foller me like a dorg.
One day, as I was out huntin’ fer a coupler
bullicks what had strayed away from me
camp, I trips over a tussock, and comes down
wallop. When I tries ter rise I finds I
couldn’t; me leg wus broken. Ole Bluey’s
tailin’ me up as usual, an’ stands aroun’
lookin’ at me fer a few minutes. There
wasn’t a house nearer than 15 miles, an’ th’
place where I meets with th’ accident hardly
anybody ever comes near. I reckon I’m a
goner orl right; I'd be dead of starvation
afore anybody finds me. I had a drop of water
in me bag, but no tucker. Presently I see
ole Bluey goin’ fer his life t’wards a bit of
scrub about two miles away. A bit latey
I see him come creepin’ back t’wards nfg:
When he gets up t’ me, I find lie’s gift a
big stick of wood balanced on ’is ’orns.' He
makes a half a dozen trips back to th’ scrub,
an ’soon I ’as a fine heap of firewood handy.
I lights a fire, sorter kickin’ meself fer
havin’ no tucker. Ole Bluey is out on the
plain a quarter of a mile away, nosin’ erbout.
Suddenly I sees ’im give a jump, an’ pre-
sently he comes tearin’ back t’ me. Blime
if he hasn’t a great six-foot snake caught
be til' back of its neck. The snake lasted ’bout
two days; but me water had given out, an’
I was dyin’ of thirst. On the second mornin’
ole Bluey had cleared off early, and some
time that afternoon I sees ’im cornin’ back.
He had another animal with him. When he
gets nearer, I sees it’s a cow. She has
one of them forks round her neck what
they put on some cows ter keep them from
breakin’ through fences. Ole Bluey has got
one of his horns Tiooked through the fork,
an’ he pulls the cow alongside me, an’ ’olds
’er there while I milks ’er. I was found
next day, but I wasn’t worryin’—ole Bluey’d
ha’ seen me through.”
* * * *
“Fitz”: “Geoloin’s” par. (B. 18/11/’26)
about intelligent animals brought back to
my recollection a greyhound I had at Wing-
liam, N.S.W. North Coast, a fine big animal.
I had at the same time a young greyhound,
about six months old. Out one day after
hares, we put one up, and both dogs went
after him for all they were worth —and a bit
more. The pup was remarkably fast, but
in following the hare it jumped down a steep
gully. Asa result it was seriously hurt.
The old dog continued the chase, caught the
hare, brought it back to where I was stand-
ing, and then went and carried the maimed
pup back to me also. The jolt had broken
the back of the young greyhound, and it had
to be destroyed. The old dog howled all
night, and could never be induced to follow
a hare along that gully from that day till
he died. And he hasn’t followed one since
to my knowledge.
* * * *
“Prickly Jack”: The blowfly, which it is
estimated cost the Australian pastoralist
±4,000,000 last year, is known to possess such
speed in flight that it eludes the birds whose
natural prey it should be. But is there any
evidence of the distance the fly travels from
his base? Before leaving the homestead I
saw the siiearer's cook shake the floursack
over a squadron parked in the pig bucket,
and within two hours identified some of them
operating on the carcases of ewes 44 miles
away.
* * * *
“Up Top” : In parts of Cape York Penin-
sula death-adders are fairly numerous. They
are found almost invariably in proximity to
a wild-grape vine. To see the one usually
means that th<j other is near at hand. The
abos. swear by the root of this vine as a
cure for adder-bite, and I know of no death
amongst them when it has been applied.
They crush the grape-vine root and chew it;
also cut the bitten part and squeeze the
juice into it. Possibly it may be an
for all snake-bites. I do not know if it has
been analysed.
SUNDAY AFTERNOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve had my wash, and had my shave, and read
the papers through,
So I sit beside my door and smoke, for I haven’t a
thing to do.
I haven’t a thing to do to-day but smoke an’ mope
an’ moon,
It’s the day we take things easy, it’s Sunday after-
noon.
So 1 gaze across the bare brown fields with the
fringe of gum-trees bound,
And up the road that passes 1 can see the country
round.
There’s Johnson’s place three mile away, an’ Tracey’s
over there,
And the old blue ranges just behind—to-day they’re
smilin’ fair!
'There’s a glory in the autumn sun that makes vour
heart feel good,
There’s a smell of eucalyptus and of freshly-sawn
green wood ;
And the missus in the garden’s tying back the
climbing rose,
For it’s grown across the dairy till the door ’ll
hardly close.
The breeze is scarcely stirring, the birds must be
asleep ;
There's not a sound from cattle or the gently-feeding
sheep.
God! It's wonderful how still it is, like one great
silent tune,
And it always seems to be like that on Sunday
afternoon !
And the Sunday peace creeps into me, and troubles
pass me by,
As I drink the beauty of the fields and the calm
and cloudless sky.
1 forget about the mortgage, and the taxes overdue,
An’ what I owe the township, and the crops that
never grew;
And the years of toil and heartbreak they vanish out
of sight—
I only feel, “Thank God I’m here, and able still to
fight,’’
Oh, the town might be the place for you, it’d be
just Hell to me,
So I'll hang on to my clearing in the spaces wide
and free.
HAVING THE LAST WORD.
NEIGHBOR (to lady who is leaving) : “Well, good-byc, dear, an’ I hope yer new landlord
will he as lenient with yer as this one has had to he.”
I can sit an’ watch the land I love when Sunday
p.m. comes,
Can sniff the dear old earthy smells, the bracken,
pine and gums;
I can hear the wind in the she-oak trees, like an
organ softly played,
And the distant clop! clop! clop! of a horse, the
grandest music’ made.
Oh, I think that Heaven must be like this—to sit
in a peace complete,
With nothing to do but drowse an’ dream, with a
pipe that is cool and sweet,
And the dear old bush just standing back from the
fields my hands have won,
And the brave old horses who’ve stood to me. browsing
about in the sun.
So I’ll cut another pipeful, work an’ worry ’ll come
too soon ;
I'll be happy while I’ve got you, good old Sunday
afternoon.
VICTORIA.
MARY CAHILL POTTER.


Australian Roads are 50£ Rougher
on Tyres than European or American Road s!
'T'HIS statement is made by
an Australian motorist of
25 years’ experience of motoring
in the States of the Common-
wealth, and is based on close
observation during a recent
visit to England, France and
America. In these countries
motor tyre manufacturers
build their covers and tubes to
withstand their road conditions
and they give satisfactory
mileage. Put those ty res to hard
driving on Australian roads
and it is a different matter.
Conditions in this country call
for special construction _ extra
strength and the highest-grade
materials throughout; and
it is in this direction that
Australian-made Dunlop Tyres
offer motorists undoubted
advantages. Twenty-six years’
experience in building motor
tyres to withstand local road
conditions has enabled us to
deliver you Unsurpassed
Service in miles, value and
dependability, that imported
tyres made for good roads, can-
not be expected to approach.
This Dunlop supremacy is
available to you —so why not
use “Dunlop” in future, and
reap the benefits of increased
mileage, lower running cost,
and less trouble. When buy-
ing a new car it is a wise
precaution to specify Dunlop
Tyres. When purchasing tyres
for replacement buy Dunlop
and you will be satisfied!
It is worthy of note that most of the leading
importers of cars into Australia are now equipping
DUNLOP TYRES
to their cars—they appreciating the fact that “ Dunlop”
means satisfactory tyre service to their patrons.
* * +
LEADING GARAGES STOCK THEM
All States
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
and N.Z.
rf®
&
D
A
'Q
c
0
0
I
0
%
i
Fit “Dunlop” and you'll be satisfied!


MARTELL'S
BRANDY
dfsdf
Hhe Essence of
Hospitality 0
cMARTELL’S
for A&e and Quality 9
From the Cognac District
of France only .
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY«
“Gouger”: Giant specimens of the octo-
pus are generally thought to be absent from
Australian seas, but Strait divers swear
they have seen tentacles at least 30ft. long.
The homes of these big fellows are the
caverns which run far under the coral. These
cavern-mouths are usually curtained by sea-
growths and ferns of Joseph’s colors that
pulse with life. The dens are strewn with
the shells and bones of captured creatures.
Whilst awaiting victims the denizen squats
partially upright, his tentacles drooping
loosely before and around him. The Japs
tell me that, besides their many suction discs,
the tentacles are reinforced by needle-sliarp,
incurving hooks, which work in and out like
a cat’s claws. These hite deep into the
strongest prey and through the most slip-
pery scales of the largest fishes, thus allow-
ing but the faintest hope of escape. The
SAFETY FIRST.
PARSON (at Scripture lesson) : “Well,
George, what do you think would b : the
first thing the missionaries would teach
the savages?”
PUDDEN (with alacrity ): “Please, sir, they'd
teach them to be vegetarians."
small octopi of the shallows are numerous,
but they don’t matter—except that their
feelers make delicious eating, if before cook-
ing they are pounded on rocks until the skin
comes off. They should be boiled very slowly
in cocoanut-milk for two hours or more.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: An Adelaide orchardist
reeently cut down a weeping-willow, planted
some 40 years ago, in order to make way
for building alterations. When cutting
through the trunk, which was of fair girth,
his saw struck something hard in the wood,
1-Ie then split it with an axe and made an
interesting discovery. Embedded in the wood
was a child’s gold bracelet. His wife recog-
nised it as one lost about 35 years ago by
their little girl when playing with her brother
in the tree. It is thought that it fell into a
crack in the young willow, which closed as
the tree grew.
“Bis”: The preservation of foodstuffs is
practised as much in the central areas of
Australia as it is in S'Africa. Kangaroo-tail,
boiled for two hours in frequently added
water, makes a thick “soup.” If this is
poured into tins and left overnight it thickens
to a jelly. It may be later on made into
SOFTENING THE BLOW.
JUDGE (about to sentence prisoner): “You have a pleasant home, a good wife and
happy children?”
PRISONER (hopefully): “Yes, yer Honor.”
JUDGE : “Well, you won’t sec them for two months.”
soup by adding a quart of water to half a
pint of tail extract. Strips of meat Din.
long by 4in. wide can be cut from the hind-
quarters of kangaroos, wallabies, buffaloes
and other bush animals_ Dried over a smoke
fire and salt added, they make biltong, an
easily-carried and nourishing reserve ration.
Duck, turkey and the echidna may be smoke-
cured whole. Water-cress, couch-grass, nettles
and the hearts of cabbage-tree palms, sewn
tightly in calico or canvas, will keep a long
while for subsequent boiling! Both the
ordinary and sweet potato can be pile-
served. Boil and mash them, then spread
thinly over a plate or flat stone and bake
in a bush oven such as an antbed hollowed
out. When cooked, expose the crumbled
particles to the shn. The desiccated potato
can then be canned and kept till wanted.
* * * *
“Riverina”: When first he “swings
Douglas” in M.L. the Aussie axeman strikes
snags. In kaliikitea and rimu (white and
red pine respectively) there are
occasional streaks of very hard
wood known as “flints”—
which will ruin a keen blade.
They are probably caused by
long friction with adjacent
limbs. Usually they are only
from half an inch to an inch
thick. Another source of
trouble is the turpentine-tree—
sometimes called the lemonwood.
In its heart is often a spike
resembling a leadpencil in size
and appearance which, despite
its slimness, will gap or “turn”
a sharp axe beyond further use.
To deal with these the initiated
carry a second blade, old. thick-faced and
short-edged, and even then the “pencil” takes
toll.
* * * *
“Bisley” : Here are a few hints for those
who may be desirous of establishing friendly
relations with the semi-civilised abos. of the
Nor’-West. Approach a detached hunting or
scouting party with the right arm raised
above the head and the first, second and
third fingers of the hand extended. This
is the universal peace sign. Show no ner-
vousness but do not bluster. Never camp
at a waterhole from which the natives draw
their supplies. Do not enter a camp unless
invited, and then don’t abuse the welcome
by poking about. In the first instance give
a present to the king only or to any witch-
doctor. Enter a camp unarmed. It shows
trust, and if a return visit is made see that
the males carry no weapons with them. Take
no notice of the females; ask them no ques-
tions and give them no presents. Gins are
often the best trackers, but never employ
them direct. Their services can be obtained
through the bucks. If you desire to reward
a gin personally, hand the present to her
buck with instructions to pass it on. If
a piccaninny accompanies his father, make
a lot of the youngster and give him a little
present. The quickest way to a native’s
heart is through his children or his dogs.
Never ill-treat the mongs. found about the
camp. If possible, give tobacco in small lots
for every service rendered. If out hunting
with them always observe the instructions
of the leader of the party. At meal-times the
natives will keep away from where you are
gathered. This is their custom, and a mark
of respect. Return the compliment by not
staring at them w'hen they are eating. With-
out showing distrust never allow a native
to use your firearms and do not ask to use
their weapons. Finally, for reasons of
hygiene as well as etiquette, never sleep in
a native hut nor within half a mile of the
camp, and leave before sunset.
* * * *
“Kalkadon”: Does “Dinkum” overlook
the fact (B. 28/10/’26) that a barber’s
rash is caused by a microbe that feeds on
the root of the hair? Two simple, painless
applications of the X-rays at a month’s in-
terval will effect a cure. The doctor will
supply an ointment —and advice about clean-
liness.
* * * *
“Eureka”: This a record? In six suc-
ceeding years a greyhound bitch on Maha-
ratta, Bombala (N.S.W.), gave birth to 104
puppies—18, 17, 17, 14, 16 and 22. All lived
except one of the last litter.
* * * «
“Two Seas”: I have disentangled too
many ’roo corpses from between the two top
wires of a 4ft. sheep fence to believe the liigh-
jumping records
they are credited
with by some Abo.
scribes. I have
caught too many in
wire “snoozes” set
across the tracks
they made under
the bottom wire of
fencing to believe
that the ’roo will
jump anything that
lie can easily crawl
under except
when chased by
dogs. Certainly
when going down
hill he can cover
from 20 to 25 feet,
but on the flat he
is nothing to write
home about as a
jumper, and as a
fighter, when bailed
up, he is only in
the novice class
compared with his
relative the walla-
roo, who frequents
the high country.
By the way, it is
curious that the
’roo will often
break a hind leg
when startled sud-
denly into action
by a rifle shot that
misses him. His
leg bones are very
brittle, though his
skull is soft enough
between the ears to fracture with one blow
from a light stick.
“James B.” : Forty-odd years ago I camped
in the middle of a small plain about 400
yards across, near the bank of a northern
river. There were plenty of small bushes, but
not a tree near. I had put up my tent,
short-hobbled the horse and made all snug
for the night, when a mob of 2000 bullocks
came in and camped a few hundred yards
above. They were a tough lot, and probably
had not seen a stock-yard since orauumg
day. One of the drovers in passing said
jokingly, “I hope the mob don’t rush your
way to-night or you and your horse will
have a rough time.” Hoping for the best, I
turned in and fell asleep. Suddenly I sat
up, wide awake. There were yells, clashing
of horns, bellowing and the thunder of hoofs.
The cattle were coming my way. Shelter
was out of the question. I waited till the
mob were about 50 yards distant, coming
upon me in a solid mass. Then, standing in
front of the tent, so that the light would
throw it into bold relief, I struck a match
and made a blaze of a boxful. With snorts
the mob halted for a second, then split into
two sections, one to the right, the other to
the left. At the heels of the beasts came
a profane, white-faced drover. When he saw
me he nearly fell from his horse. “ ’Struth 1”
he said, and swept on. In the morning I
found my horse trodden to death.
* * * *
“Emel”: I have never tried “James B.’s"
alleged cure for curly-leaf (B. 28/10/’26),
but can vouch for the efficacy of a solution
of arsenate of lead, 41b. to 50ga1., as used
for codlin-moth in apples. Spray the
affected trees with this as soon as curly leaf
is seen, and repeat the spraying in persis-
tent cases. I have never known a third
spraying to be necessary, while the arsenate
of lead will not harm the fruit.
* * * *
“Hayhem”: A resident of Gunning Gap
(N.S.W.) was recently annoyed to find that
his old milker, Jessie, whose five-months-old
calf had been poddied from birth, was mother-
ing the six-weeks-old calf of another cow.
The following nay the other cow died. He
is wondering if the arrangement came about
by chance, or was it bovine intuition?
* * # *
“N.K.C.” : The scientist who can solve the
problem of the caterpillar plague will confer a
great benefit on the struggling farmer. Last
year the invading army practically ate up
the Northern Malice (Vic.), clearing it not
only of grass but also of seed for the next
year. On the bridges over the irrigation
channels they were a slippery mass inches
deep. Lately they appeared again, and the
year’s crops were badly damaged in places.
* * * #
“0.P.” : Only once have I seen abos. use
a species of stocks as a means of punishment.
I saw a young lubra sitting in the fork of
a fallen tree in such a way that her legs
were imprisoned by a branch being drawn
across them and fixed to a stake in the
ground. I was told it was a punishment for
idle gossiping.
* * * *
“Brigalow”: The other morning while
wandering around Bondi I chanced on a man
behind a flowering hedge. I asked him
what flowers they were, but he did not
know. The hedge was between us on the
outskirts of a great city, with workaday
HARVEST PROSPECTS.
“Yes, sir, wunnerful season, sir! Two blades growing where one
grew before.”
folk passing to and fro before ft. Suddenly
it was visited by a swarm of native bees.
Native bees within sound of the Town Hall
clock! Falling into talk with the man
behind the hedge, I discovered something to
interest me—he had come from a part of
England where Tennyson had lived, had been
a livery-stable man, and had habitually driven
him. He remembered the great poet as a
strange figure—apart, taciturn, thoughtful,
and often with a dog beside him.
THE GRASS ON THE RIDGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grass is sweet on the ridges, when the flats are
sick with drought,
When the dams are low and the sheepmen are lifting
the bogged sheep out;
When the drought-shroud over the bushland broods
on in a helpless way,
And the plains are sport for the whirlwinds to
spiral aloft in play.
W hen the famishing grass-butts hunger on the
drought-bare flats below,
The spindley stools on the ridges are sweet, and
the old sheep know.
The old sheep make for the highlands, and the
young sheep follow slow;
They terrace the winding pathways, and call where
the long stalks grow,
While the tail pads over the plainland, with gaps
in the line of grey,
That makes for the stony ridges to feed on the
sweet grass-hay.
For the sun-cured stalks on the ridges jazz gay in
the scorching wind,
While the old eves climb to the hill-spurs and the
young sheep tail behind.
When the drowsy mid-day swelter is deepening the
death-like hush,
Away where the dusty creek-beds are waiting the
flood-stream’s flush,
You can watch the stragglers climbing, and the
strong ones on the crest,
Till the lead turns down to the. scrubland to camp
in the shade and rest;
For the stalks that wave on the uplands, from the
tasselling seed-shells down,
Are sweet to the ewes and weaners when the flats
are a drought-sick brown.
QUEENSLAND.
L. A. SIGSWORTH.


£
m
c
□
P
w
mm.
0/.
»/M
wm
w
m
mm
'#
3pl
M
i-s
m
«
m
m,
mm
Wb
■■■'
//////"////
H
ww
m
■
i
m
mm
■
I
H
P
i
i in
r
■
■
a
w
m
m
m
w JP
mm
m/m
.
mm
V w
am
wm
W*
m
W//
WHISICEY
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Sydney, N.S.W.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
MILNE & CO., Perth, W.A.
MILNE & CO., Adelaide, S.A.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1917. /
CHAMPAGNE (
Charles Heidsieck;
miwi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
1
champache
'^arlesllddsicov
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian A “rents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
w*m»
WferituiorthCafc
The name stands for Perfection
The Hotel The Social Rendezvous of the Southern Hemisphere.
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/- per day, or Bed and Breakfast from 15/-
per day. Rooms with or without bath, or en suite with private sitting-
room. Air-cooled in summer, steam-heated in winter.
The Cafe
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: BW 1361.
sdf
Order all drinks before 6 p.m.
7 r hP cen/ne of Qu<H>n s /an c/s
d'S/tngu/sfec/ Soc/o/ Life.
rncmom
sf
Mote I
BRISBANE
Magnificent B all-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—-double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon's, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
The small,crack which the drought suffered
the other evening damped the soles but not
the spirits of a procession of visitors and
members at the big annual crush in the
rooms of the Royal Colonial Institute.
Christmas-bells nodded a welcome, in masses
of blue and pink blooms. -In the hall the
council and acting-president Alfred Meeks
waited to get the first handshake with the
Governor and Lady de Chair, who had
Sir Evelyn Cecil and tin; slim Major Long-
field Lloyd in their party. Councillors and
the throng that surged into the lecture-hall
and looked earnestly for seating accommoda-
tion in the reception-rooms included the
pleasant Kelso Kings, the William Cullens,
Commander Quick and his attractive lady,
Captain Robins and Commander Garcia (of
the Tingira). It was a breathless pack,
with a musical programme in ’ the upper
chamber and amateur R.C.I. traffic men to
point the way.
Rain as sweet and soft as a lullaby crooned
over Sydney on the night set for the Har-
vest Moon Ball. And although your sun-
baked harvester might have groaned, pro-
bably the babies of Outback smiled at the
pretty sound. The object of this ball was to
establish a baby health-centre at Brewarrina,
and the Country Women's Association, active
in the cause of out-back mother, had whipped
the affair to the cream of success in an
amazingly short space of time. The Went-
wortn put up a gay front for the occasion,
and secretaries Kate Ogilvie and Rupert
Markham rested upon the sea of jazz even
as the seagull on the rocking wave, while
Mrs. Frank Wisdom kept the treasury in
golden chiffons. Barbara Littlejohn also
introduced an atmosphere of healthy lucre
with gold-embroidered georgettes. Pretty
Betty Wilson was in blue, and Susan Spencer
wore turquoise flounces. Dame Alice Chis-
holm, a patron of the flutter, couldn’t be
present; and the ball had to revolve as
merrily as it might without its president,
Elaine de Chair, who was another of the
unavoidably absents.
The big Sydney celebration of Country
Women’s Week was a rally at the Went-
worth. Here on a warm, moist afternoon
gathered members from every branch of the
association, and enough tea was brewed to
irrigate the great Australian desert. Christ-
mas-bush and -bells burned and nodded on
the tables, and the blue and gold of the
association gave a heraldic look to the
boards. President Dame Alice Chisholm was
presented with a gold-mounted fountain-pen,
and when Mrs. A. E. Mclntosh had passed
over the gift wrapped in flowery speech, the
whole room thundered out the good old
classic: “For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
This was again carolled when the Mosman
ites thrust good wishes and an ornate bag
on its president, Mrs. Lugsdin. Floral tri-
butes were the reward of many.
Blue delphiniums, pink carnations, nicely-
modulated voices, the first ladies of Church
and State and the indefinable but righteous
atmosphere of the Women’s Club were mixed
together in the Victoria League’s at-home.
This was the last-of-the-year party, and the
merriest, maddest moment was at the hand-
ing-over of the prizes won for a competition
in the speaking of English. This had beeu
as open as the ark to both sexes, but, whether
male or female, entrants had to be serving
their novitiate at the Teachers’ Training-
College. The first two places were won by
men, and the third by a girl. Lady de
Chair, her blithesome blue-and-saffron stripes
suggesting the wife of a Bedouin chief
(French-polished, of course), passed along
the prizes, which were the gift of Miss Mac-
arthur Onslow, Mrs. Roystone Davey and
Hugh Denison’s lady. Ex-Chief Justice
Cullen’s lady, who was cast for the part of
official receiver, was in petunia-patterned
georgettes and a black hat that wore a pink
rose in its ear. Victoria Leaguers drawn
out by the sunshine and the song of the
cicada made merry; amid the joyous throng
stepped the wife of Archgaiters Wright, Mrs.
Gordon Wesche, Dame Alice Chisholm and a
group of English enthusiasts, the roses in
whose cheeks might have bloomed all the
prettier through a fine sifting of powder.
Australian girls don’t take deep root among
the tiara groves of old England. So far
almost every one of our lasses who has
married a peer has parted from him in the
Divorce Court —the Peerage and the Disap-
pearage. The looker-on can think of no
reason why the girls should be sorry, either.
The cables last week were busy over the
troubles of Lady Cheylesmore, once Nora
Parker, of Tasmania. She and her lord were
married in 1914, and struck trouble as early
as 1918.
The pews of St. Martin’s at Killara peeped
through pink and mauve hydrangeas at the
tall gold baskets of pink and mauve gladioli
that lined the aisle. Of course the scene was
set for a wedding. It was the matrimonial
give and take between Muriel Peck, of
Cooinoo, Gordon, and Davenport Warren, of
Melbourne, which Padre L. Charlton ratified
last week. The bride flashed white georgettes
and silver sequins under the sweep of an old
Italian lace veil as she passed up the flowered
lane on father’s arm. Three ’maids, Dr.
Grace Peck and Peggy Peck, sisters of the
principal lady, and Betty Catchpole, followed
her pink-lined train in a blaze of powder-
blues and cerise. The cheerio made the rafters
of the Roseville Town Hall ring, and the blue
and black apparel of the bride's mother won
honorable mention from all present.
That rattling good story-teller and master
of fine English, Jack Abbott, some time ago
foreswore his bachelor ways and entered into
matrimony. The girl of his choice is Rena
Wallace, a press woman who has worked with
distinction on several city dailies and week-
lies. When she was still a schoolgirl Rena
wrote some good verse, and published it
under the title of “De Profundis” —the head-
ing to the longest poem in the book. She
has the distinction, too, of being probably
the only woman who has sccretaried an R.C.
Archbishop. Archbishop Kelly was the Pre-
late, and when Rena left off filing his papers
and making his appointments to attach her-
self to the staff of the Catholic Press, the
ecclesiastic sighed, for during her shepherd-
ing no bulls had been lost or strayed. Her
father is probably the oldest living journalist
in N. S. Wales; her groom’s father was
that big Upper Hunter native who was for
many years Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly.
The Stuart Doyles, of Point Piper, had a
wedding in the family the other night, Mrs.
Doyle’s sister, Addie Reinke, of Toowoomba,
linking up with Reginald Hutchinson, of
Homebush. Vows were exchanged in St.
Mark’s, with Canon Lea as M.C. The bride,
a white-and-silver souffle, was followed by
Joan Doyle in sky-after-rain blues, and the
congratulations were said at Denistoun, the
Stuart Doyle home.
Among the before-Christmas brides was
Constance Johnson, of Cremorne, who be-
came Mrs. R. Sutton, of Launceston. The
change was made last week at St. Stephen’s.
All the time-honored bridal effects were
served with the ceremony, and jazz and
dinner followed at the Wentworth.
This is a May Moore picture of Eileen
McGrath, the 19-year-old art student whose
collection of sculpture is one of the
amazing exhibits of the East Sydney Techni-
cal College
Show. Her
Pandora, the
Tambe rlane
group, and her
nud,es have
attracted the
attention o. f
every critic
visiting the
show, and on
every side she
is suspected of
genius. She is
modest, a keen
student, a lover
of poetry and
as imaginative
as her Celtic
name implies.
Eileen is now
in her fifth
year at the
Tech., the last
two of which
have been devoted to sculping. During the
first three her attention was occupied with
general art work, and throughout she was dux
of her class. In the Artists’ Ball Trust Fund
competition she was awarded second prize
with a scholarship of £75. This year she
intends to enter for the Society of Artists’
Travelling Scholarship. Her brother Harold
is in Europe, having gained the Wentworth
Travelling Scholarship at Sydney Uni. last
year.
When Eileen Hughes, of Double Bay,
became Mrs. W. Purcell, of Waitara, she
invoked the benediction of St. Joseph’s,
Woollahra, on Limerick-lace raiment that
has already clothed four brides, ancestors of
the bridegroom. Petal-pink ninons lined
the lace, while the veil, also a family
treasure, swept from a bandeau of orange
blossom into a foamy train. Petty’s Hotel
was the rallying-point of the family party.
Bronzie Clonan, one of Sydney’s best
dancers, has twinkled into the, dream waltz
of an engagement. Bronzie’s young man is
Eric Reynolds, of her home suburb, Strath-
field.
Joyce Ludowici, the youngest daughter of
the Charles Ludowicis, of Walhalla, Lane
Cove, is entertaining a nice Christmassy
feeling towards at least one man. He is
Dr. Kenneth Addison, of Maitland, and the
wedding is timed for next year.
When Esther Kahn isn’t training young
Australians to be good pianists, or arrang-
ing programmes for the Lyceum Club of
whose Music Circle she is president, she is
dreaming melodies and arrangements of
chords. Years ago, when a very young Aus-
tralian, she started to write music, and the
Bos worth music firm in England thought so
well of three
of her compo-
sitions — inter-
mezzo (now
named‘‘Heart's
I) e sire”).
Minuet an d
“ Histoire
that they
bought out the
publi s h in g
rights. Her
“Muezzin
Song” caused
a stir among
picture - show
patrons when
sung recently
by G. White-
head at the
King’s Cross
and Lyceum;
and a Concer-
to for organ
and piano played by herself and Lilian
Frost a few nights ago captivated listeners-m
all over Australia. Another of her delicate
achievements is a Pastorale for flute and
orchestra. This was played by 20 flautists
at one of the Flute Association’s concerts,
and turned the Sydney night into a dream
of Arcady. Judith Fletcher made the picture.
Nowhere, all the world over, could there
be a finer combination than Frank Hutchens
and Lindley Evans. When the two
musicians come together in a programme
such as they gave to the Con. audience last
Friday you realise that if Sydney is art-
starved, as Mackennal insists, then it is
jolly well Sydney’s own fault. Friday’s
recital was the last of the 1926 series of
two piano recitals. Mozart was conjured up
in a delicate sparkle—like wind-blown jaca-
randa. Bach, too, looked in, impressive and
perhaps a little thunderous. Arensky
dreamed wistfully and waltzed brilliantly as
his ethereal “Dream” melted and the pliant
fingers of the players danced into the shim-
mer of the waltz. Debussy and Cesar
Franck, too, were on the bill, and Mrs. H.
B. Allard sang some charming songs with
great artistry.
Midway through last week the Sydney Art
Salon opened its doors for a display of the
pencil sketches and colored drawings of
Mahdi McCrae. Mahdi is the poet’s daugh-
ter, and so many friends and admirers
crowded in to see the one-girl show that the
galleries were packed long before Captain
Frederick Lassetter cried “Go!” No looking
for thrip’nies in the family pudding for
Mahdi this Christmas, judging by the cheery
“Sold!” signals that stabbed the gloom of
the murkiest afternoon Sydney has known
for a long time.
Ida Dawson, the Monaro girl who knows
more about stock and the care of them than
most of us do even about jazz and silk stock-
ings, has made a very rare gift to the Sydney
Museum. Her adventurous brother having
decided to try Patagonia, Ida went with him—
or after him —and while she wandered in
that little-known land she made a collection
of ancient arrow-heads —some of them thou-
sands and thousands of years old. There are
specimens of great rarity in the little lot
she has handed over to the Museum; one,
about the size of your thumbnail, was used
by our grandfather in days so far back
that he hadn’t yet made a fixed habit of
walking only on his feet. Miss Dawson is
in Australia again nowadays; but she knows
that S. America will get her again some day.
The poet is getting on. Rod Quinn had
a birthday last week—-his 58th —and the
Labor Women’s Club supplied the party at
its rooms in Oxford-street; Alfred O’Shea
was one of the entertainers.
The artists are helping to pay the Christ-
mas bills of the Sydney Hospital, and the
means are now on view in the Hordern Gal-
leries. The Minister for Health, in opening
this exhibition last week, took occasion ';o
sigh over the Hospital Bill he’d have put
through if Parliament hadn’t adjourned—
or (but he didn’t mention this) Miss Preston
Stanley had been more complaisant. Up till
the 13th any art lover can buy a picture at
a moderate price and help the sick and sorry
at the same time.
One of the first amateur entertainments
of the New Year will be in aid of the Bel-
gian Benevolent Society of N. S. Wales. The
Belgian Consul is again producing the play,
which w r ill be our old friend “Romance”
served in French. The Con. will house
the first performance on January 8.
A Dag mar Thomson recital always offers
something different. The clever violinist
finished up her musical year with a Conser-
vatorium concert of unusual interest. The
most notable item on her bill was a new work
by Victor Vreuls, the Belgian composer who
has won renown for the delicate charm of
his writings. This Sonata in B, as played
by Dagmar and Henry Penn, was imbued
with romantic feeling and dignity and power.
William Dallison was the song-bird of the
evening.
Sydney business houses have taken more
than kindly to the idea of helping the Can-
cer Research Fund. During the year, dances
and fetes and card parties have made a
constant tinkle in the cash-box. Now the
employees of Bond’s factories are arrang-
ing a Town Ilall concert of classical music
and dancing for December 10. The best thing
about this is that much of the programme
will be given by the girl and boy workers
themselves. Of these, two are lyric
sopranos, Nellie Ferris and Lillah Stephenson,
and two, Alfred Fowler and Harold Quill,
are tenors. A ballet —the Twenty-five
Beauties from Bond’s —is billed as another
thrill.
Chopin lovers are looking forward to the
16th. On that night in the King’s Hall
Antoine Konstant will put all his art and his
poetic fancy into the great works by the
romantic composer. The State Exes, are
delaying their exodus to Sutton Forest to
attend. Surgeon MacCormick’s lady is
treasurer, Bertie Kelly secretary and Mrs.
Walter Swinson organiser of this recital,
which will be the great flutter of the social
and artistic butterflies before the Christmas
siesta.
Australia’s next inrush of American visi-
tors may be even more horn-rimmed than
usual. It will arrive by the steamship Ryn-
dum, which left N’Yark two months ago to
potter about the high seas as a floating uni-
versity : there are 500 students on board
sufficiently opulent to'pay the thumping fees
demanded, and 50 instructors look after
their mental and physical welfare. The
vessel should be somewhere in Oriental
waters just now; it is due back home in May.
On behalf of the 140 little ones in their
charge, the Sisters of St. Brigid’s orphan-
age, at Ryde, beg a Christmas remembrance
from old friends and new.
Miss Brisbane hears wedding-bells and
other music:—
The feathery asparagus and much blossomry deco-
rated St. Colomb’s, Clayfield, for the marriage of
P. W. de Oourcy Macgillicuddy with Doreen Raff,
daughter of the widowed Mrs. Willie Raff. The
bride wore chiffon velvet and point lace, with a
Brussels lace veil and orange-blossoms, and her
bouquet was of white roses and stephanotis. Meryl
Rail and Ray Macgillicuddy ’maided in apricot and
gold lace. Agapanthus and daisies decked the
bride’s home, Mrs. Raff receiving in black with
touches of blue.
Gladys Frost’s concert well filled the Albert Hall.
Flame-color and gold, with a jade posy, was worn
by the star performer, and she got some beautiful
flowers.
Barbara Sisley ran “Make Believe” for two nights
in the Theatre Royal in aid of the Creche and
Kindergarten. Large audiences, which included the
Uni. dons, applauded the show.
Luis Amadeo Pares had the Royal for his viol i i
concert, and there was a full house. The “Tann-
hauser’ march, by 70 violins, opened the show, and
Madame Bolhova sang sweetly in a white satin
frock and some wonderful pearls. The most accept-
able items, though, were given by Luis Pares —“The
Slipper Dance” and “The Canaries.” The Lieut.-Gov.
and Captain Plant were there, and the new Consul
for Italy and his wife. The small performers got
boxes of chocolates and flowers and Madame Bolhova
was laden with sweet-scented vegetables. A new-
comer to Brisbane audiences was Miss Page of the
Paris Conservator! um.
Leonard Francis waved a baton over the Cambrian
Choir that night at the F.xhibition Concert Hall.
“The Challenge of Thor” was the first item. Hilda
Cooper was contralto soloist. Dulcie Bellingham
sang “The Sweet o’ the Year” and Jack Land and
Jack Atkinson were also soloists.
Gwendolyn Grant held her exhibition of paintings
before gathering crowds of admirers and ait critics
in Rothwell’s Buildings. As well as being a painter
she writes articles on beauty in Nature and looks
after a husband, home and kiddies.
Doris Waraker is getting quite accustomed to hav-
ing her meals out, so many pre-wedding parties
have been given for the dark-eyed little lady who is
to marry Lewis Townsend on the 13th.
For her daughter, Irene, who marries Clive Mellor,
of Bundaberg, Mrs. W. H. Smith had a reception
at Lennon’s, with a background of pale pink roses,
amber-tinted carnations and primrose-hued gladioli,
with dainty little bags of lavender for each guest.
The Queensland branch of the New Settlers’
League had a party in the Town Hall for Lady
Alicia Cecil and her daughter. Mrs. Lennon,
Mayoress Jolly and Mrs. Fairfax were amongst the
gathering.
Count Marzano, Queensland’s new Consul for Italy,
is not so alarming as the “Reds” feared to find
a declared Fascist. A slim young fellow of the
Oxford-graduate type, speaking English perfectly
and taking a keen interest in sport, he looks as if
he felt more at home in a white shirt than he would
in a black one. A pretty young Countess is a
social asset.


JIARJjr BRQTHERJj
Wristlet Watches from Hardy's
lake Pleasing Gifts*
438
BA 8220.
Wristlet Watch, on Moire ribbon band, with
Gold or Silver snap. With high-grade Swiss
lever movement.
Silver, 9-Carat Gold,
£6. £9.
CVJ
LD
r~
BA 8212.
New, oval shape Wristlet Watch, in 18-carat
White Gold; with reliable French lever move-
ment. On MoirS ribbon band.
£lO/10/-
2 o c n
BA 8219.
New shape, 9-carat Gold Wrist Watch, with
reliable Swiss lever movement. On Moire ribbon
band with Gold snap.
£ll/10/-
Five Per Cent. Viscount allowed on all Cash Purchases.
HARDY
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
BROTHERS LTD.
7/ouse oP Syvluswc Z/ewcllay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
IJ6-JlB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Audels •
Hasons :
in AHO : 1
[Bujloers
Guide
1
Audels Audels
Masons masons'
AMD AND
Builders Builders
Quidje Guide
2 H 3 J
■S*
fW
.' \ 1
-- ’& 4
brick ?
'VORK
, ®Rick
.„ !.
“ONOINGf
PtSIGNS-l’
*
BRICK • concrete
Touhdations MIXING i
•< 1 ; ptAciNOi
s TILE | ' FORMS 1
SETTINGS REINFORCE?
estimating ■ ; stucco
I <C» ;
<7
PRICE
30|-
POST FREE
the
Complete Set
of
FOUR
VOLUMES
ABDEL’S MASONS S BUILDERS’ GUIDE
Give information in handy form, easy to use, showing
2067 illustrations, plans and working methods of the
best, approved outlines of work and materials, including
instructions how to lay out and figure various jobs—
-1 100 pages of inside practical information which will
increase your range of knowledge.
THEY TELL YOU
Hqw to mix concrete.
How to operate the mixers.
How to place concrete.
How to make concrete forms.
How concrete is reinforced.
How to build stucco.
How to build with concrete
blocks and tile.
How concrete is made water-
proof.
How to estimate.
How to figure brickwork.
How to handle hollow tile.
How to set tile.
How to read blue prints.
How to lay out foundations.
How to plaster.
Howto do stone-masonry work.
How to use structural steel.
How to distinguish clays.
How bricks are made.
How to fix mortar.
How to use bricklayer’s tools.
How to handle the materials.
How to lay brick.
How bricks are bonded.
How thick brick walls should be,
How to brick around openings
How to lay out arches.
How to place anchors.
How to build foundations.
How to brick up boiler settings,
How to build chimneys.
How to do ornamental brick-
work.
How to repair old brickwork.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and' Market Streets, Sydney.
A Happy Xmas Assured with a
Laffargue Expression Player Piano
•H,'\
i
-
Please call in and inspect these instruments at any time.
We will be happy to demonstrate their excellent qualities.
Sold on EASY TERMS to suit your convenience.
Your present piano taken in part payment.
Catalogues Free. Please write or call for one.
Music appeals to everybody, and the gift of a Laffargue
Expression Player Piano would be the best possible Xmas
present, being especially appropriate for your own family.
Such a present would not merely give pleasure during the
Xmas season, but would ensure a lifetime of continuous
musical joy.
Picture the happiness it would give all at home if you arranged
to procure an Expression Player Piano this Christmas. Do not
think such a present is beyond your means, because we make
it easy for you to secure one under our special system of
Easy Terms.
Remember, music gives the finest, purest and most lasting
pleasure, and then, realising the fact that all music can be
beautifully-played by you on the Laffargue Expression Player
Piano, you will rightly consider such a splendid instrument
should grace your home.
“Quality Our Keynote
since 1853.”
338 GEORGE STREET : : 206-210 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.


Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine. Lounge Rooms.
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or wire for reservations .
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
'Phone 8W6329.
Ell
m
B
Melbourne
S-14
Stay at
3CGTTS”
when you visit Melbourne
The appointments throughout this
modern residential hotel are com-
plete, the service and cuisine
faultless, and the central city lo-
cation of the hotel itself the acme
of convenience.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or
Bed and Breakfast Rate.
Suites on Application.
Tariff Cards Posted on Request
Telegrams: “SCOTTS’ Melbourne
m
a
1282
FILM POCKET
PICTURE SHOW
C/fie.
PATHEORAMA
7- R>sted 7e Films I 9 e<x.
Jjome Recreations t
388 George St, Sydney.
(opp. Beard
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The appearance in the florists’ windows of
fresh lavender, arranged in raffia jars and
slippers of the same shade, or tied in bunches,
is one of the signs that Christmas is a-
coming. Piles of dainty boxes are waiting
to carry the perfumed greetings to folk
in other parts. Already Father Christmas,
in the traditional crimson robe and flowing
ziff, is making discreet and ambiguous pro-
mises to the youngsters who invade, wide-
eyed, the toy departments of the leading
stores, and the selection of Christmas gifts
is adding wrinkles to parental brows.
Gwen Bcdggood and Vera de Bavay made
the Kooyong Tennis Club-house burst into
blossom on Saturday night, when the associa-
tion gave a dance to wind up the inter-State
tennis tournament. The inter-Staters rolled
up in force, and President Norman Brookes
and his wife had to do a lot of handshaking.
She waved a colossal flamertoned feather fan
over raiment that was glistening with golden
sequins. Gerald Patterson’s wife, who came
with her spouse, chose harebell mauve geor-
gette with a tracery of ribbon. But it was
Mrs. Rischbeith (S.A.)— her black apparel
had an overglow of crystal, rose and gold—
who turned most heads. The L. A. Baker
couple helped the Brookses to see that every-
one had a good time.
Lady Stonehaven sal: in one of the front-
row chairs at the Caliill-Brooke concerts at
the Assembly Hall on Thursday and Satur-
day nights. Miss Chamberlain and Miss
Gillett accompanied her Ex. on the first
evening, and Mrs. Harry Emmerton and her
daughter, Mrs. Norman Brookes, were in the
select circle. Mrs. Richard Fitcher was
responsible for the effective stage decoration
—a matter of pink and grey-blue draperies
with a wealth of flowers and ferns.
Lady Stonehaven, who is keen on being
kind to dumb animals, went out to Ashburton
on Saturday to open the S.P.C.A.’s home
for decayed and indigent horses. It was
quite a spectacular affair. There was a
cavalcade of maidens in white, who formed a
guard of honor to her Ex. Marion Mont-
gomery, on Possum, carried the flag of the
Purple Cross Society, a war-time organisa-
tion. Later her Ex. accepted the gold badge
of the society and agreed to become its
patron. Then there was tea, and horsey
poems were recited. Mrs. F. Andrew and
Mrs. C. liOrt Smith were joint hostesses.
Mrs. Smith was the first to have her name
inscribed over one of the six endowed stalls,
the brass plates in which are dedicated to
donors of £5O. At the close of the after-
noon it was announced that all six stalls
had been endowed.
The Professional and Business Women's
Club mourns the death of.its president and
organiser, Nellie Martyn, a victim of cancer
in her 39th year. Miss Martyn, when her
father died some years ago, took over the
management and direction of the Steel Co.
of Australia at Brunswick, which the family
founded. She was probably the best-known
business woman in Melbourne. The iron
and steel trades turned out en masse at her
funeral, making a cortege a mile and a
quarter long. Miss Martyn was a pillar also
of the Y.W.C.A.
At St. John’s Church, Heidelberg, Edith
May Bracebridge Garrard and Harold Bruce
Adair, second son of the Arthur Adairs of
Ballarat, were launched into housekeeping.
The bride’s white tulle veil fell over a simple
frock of ivory georgette and lace, _ with sprigs
of real orange-blossom. Her maid was Ella
McGregor, of Ballarat, whose posy of blue
delphiniums was carried against an all-white
gown. Subsequent rejoicings took the form
of a garden-party at the home of Colonel and
Mrs. A. F. Garrard, the bride’s parents.
Leslie Stringer, prominent as an amateur
performer in the interests of Melbourne
charities, took the leap into matrimony at St.
Paul’s, Kyneton, recently in company with
Violet Blair of that parish. On the way to
the church to sing something sweet while
the parties signed papers in the vestry Mor-
timer Pettigrove had a motor mishap. Though
he was knocked unconscious and was badly-
shaken he pulled himself together and played
his part finely. The young couple will set
up their home at Sandringham.
When Ruby Margaret Carter went to St.
John’s at Malvern to meet Raymond John
Grant, she was all silvery gleams flushed with
pink. A silver band confined a mist of tulle,
and she carried an armful of lilies. Thelma
Grant and Ina Dean attended her in pink
georgette petal frocks and silver hairbands.
Afterwards the mother of the bride enter-
tained the guests at Hazelmere, E. St. Kilda.
The giving in marriage of Kathleen, a
daughter of the A. B. Speedings of Ring-
wood, to John Gordon Morrison, son of the
late R. H. and Mrs. Morrison of Woolbrook,
caused a flutter in sheep circles last week.
Wool kings, queens, princes and princesses
swept into Toorak St. John’s in scores for
the ceremony. The bridal gown of ivory
Brussels lace had a pale-pink background,
with a long satin train and a voluminous
white tulle veil. Three bridesmaids —sister
Helen, Madge Taylor of Overnewton, and
Jean McHarg—wore jaunty, wide-brimmed,
high-crowned soft felt hats of deep blue,
banded with jewelled trimming, which kept
company with frocks of layers of iris-blue,
mauve and pink. There were rejoicings at
No. 9 afterwards.
Whilst following her profession at Ben-
digo, Sister Martha Kennedy made a
date with Dr. Edward Hand, which was duly
kept at Scots’ Church, Collius-street, on a
recent fine evening. The bridal gown of
white satin beaute had a true-lovers’
knot and a cluster of orange-blossoms
ornamenting the long square train. A foam
of tulle was bound to the head with a
pearl-edged band finished with eardrops of
blossom, and the bride carried a sheaf of
Ascension lilies. The maids, Miss Mclyer
and Sister Abbot, were gowned in sleeveless
frocks of cyclamen and horizon blue georgette
respectively, and each wore a tinsel hair-
band tied with a knot of tulle. During the
signing-up, Colin Thompson sang “Sleep,
Beloved,” and one amongst the many present
followed this advice and was left behind in
tranquil slumber. It was a total stranger
who had earlier shown his deep interest in
the proceedings by adjuring the principals
and the parson to “speak up.”
W. K. Watts, of Elwood, has had word
of the engagement of his pretty grand-
daughter, Decima Constance, who is living
with her parents, the Percy Carters, in the
Malay States. The man is Captain A. E.
Boyce, of the Royal Engineers, at present
a visitor in the tropics.
The J. B. Mitchells, who came over from
Tassy and settled at Sandringham, have
announced the engagement of their younger
daughter, Hope. The young man is Robert,
son of the F. W. Barretts, of Malvern.
Edna Walling, who looks in this picture
by Francie Young as if she defied the uni-
verse to do its
worst, and
didn’t care if
the last surviv-
ing male in
creation went
without a
mate, really
isn’t as fierce
as all tha t.
She is one of
those girls who
take to gar-
dening, and,
being blessed
by Nature
with a first-
class brain,
she has made
a livelihood
out of what, in
lesser females,
is merely a
weakness. At
the School of Horticulture, Burnley Gar-
dens, she was taught the principles of
her profession, and she now dreams
■ —-when she allows herself to dream—of
pleasaunces like the fairyland that sur-
rounded the Little Trianon. If you can afford
to give her a few acres and a few hundred
pounds to play with, she can work wonders
with earth and roots and seeds. Even Scotch
gardeners do her bidding meekly, and day
laborers eat out of her hand. She is one of
the few surviving human beings who cau
mould landscapes with profit to themselves
and pleasure to others. Her last notable job
was the making of a garden around the new
house built by Mrs. Leslie Moran, at Toorak.
The John Grices, who are London-bound
to join daughter Hilda, will spend their
Christmas at sea, since they are booked to
sail by the Ulysses on the 14th. A farewell
tea in a decorative setting and with string-
band accompaniment was given by the dame
at her home last week.
Old girls of the Methodist Ladies’ College
have now their own club-room. Funds
gathered in the course of a year of effort
have permitted of the furnishing of a recep-
tion-room with an attached cloak-room and
a kitchen in Nicholas’s Building, in the
central part of Swanston-street. Thanks to
the aspro Nicholases, who have been very
generous, the rooms were opened free of
debt. Mrs. Fitcliett, wife of the principal
of the M.L.C., was asked along on Satur-
day afternoon to say the opening words.
Amongst the Osterley’s passengers is Lieu-
tenant Billyard Leake, who won the D.S.O.
at Zeebrugge and was here with the Renown.
He is coming home with a Scottish bride—
she was Miss Edith Laird. His wife, whom
many friends are anxious to welcome, has
some original ideas. Her ’maids were
gowned in midnight blue, which made the
billowy white bridal garments stand out
with startling emphasis at the wedding in
London.
Commander Peck, secretary to Rear-
Admiral Napier, who has been a grass-
widower since his arrival, is preparing to
receive a wife and family. Mrs. Peck was
an Australian, and there is a warm welcome
waiting in this city, where they will live.
The lady with the skilfully-coiled crown-
ing glory is Atlialie Langdon. She makes
toys. In Adel-
aide, where she
used to live,
her Noah’s
Arks were
much admired
in the war
years, and
their sale
helped to fill
Red Cross cof-
fin's. Since
coming to Mel
bourne she has
been assisting
at the Arts
and Crafts’
depbt and de-
veloping her
talent at the
same time.
The “Child-
ren’s Corner”
of the society’s
last exhibition
o f members’
work contained many examples of her handi-
work, including brightly-decorated kinder-
garten chairs and tables and a most delect-
able furnished dolls’ house. Miss Langdon
has been encouraged to set up her own work-
shop in Wattle Tree-road, Malvern, where she
devises things that children love with all
their might. The picture was done by
Lafayette.
The demand for tickets to Heyington on
Saturday night broke all records, and the
Railway Department began to have wild
visions of a surplus until it leaked out that
there was a party at Kinuoull. The Jimmy
Dyer couple were entertaining the members
of the L.A.B. Club. This is made up of
ladies who have advanced sufficiently in their
musical studies to become licentiates of the
Associated Board. Mrs. Jimmy is a full
member and a vice-president, and her hus-
band is president. Ella Riddell, clad in
bright blue and silver, sang songs of the
Hebrides —the Dyers are Scotch, ye ken.
“The Singer of the Isles” was read by the
hostess, whose Early-Victorian gown of ivory
taffetas was brocaded in gold. Alice Bisset
fiddled the “Cradle Song” of Peggy Cochrane,
and then went to the piano and played
Debussy’s “Claire de Lune.” Supper was
set in the glow of red-and-black candles in
silver holders garnished with tall Christmas
lilies. The cutting of the huge Christmas-
cake by the club’s secretary, Sybil Hull, was
a solemn rite.
“At Mrs. Beam’s,” which was put on at
the Playhouse by the Repertory Society last
week, offered fair dress-chances. Enid Hol-
lins, a pretty dark-haired lass who appeared
in the role of the adventuress, wore a kim.
in floral-patterned silk which terminated in
deep bordering of olive-green georgette; this
and a turbaned boudoir cap of the same hue
took all eyes. In the scene in which she
decamped with the other boarders’ jewellery
the same lady wore the daintiest of white
frocks, with ribbon-like stripes of Swiss em-
broidery on the skirt.
There was a great reverberation of blank
verse, punctuated with music that owed its in-
spiration to the Bard, at the Assembly Hall
on Friday night, when the Shakspeare
Society wound up its year and rewarded
the winners of its essay competition, in
which there were 132 entries. Lady Stone-
haven, in biscuit tones of lace and silk,
handed out the prizes. Charlotte Hemming,
who arranged the programme, came in for
an especially cordial reception ; it was her
first public appearance since her serious
accident of months ago. Dr. Ethel Osborne,
wife of the president (Professor W. A.
Osborne), dealt out a bouquet of water-
lilies to her Ex. and one of red roses to
Miss Hemming.
The committee of the Ladies’ Work Asso-
ciation had its annual tallying last Friday ;
the committee contrived to end the year
with £34 in hand. The manager, Mrs. E.
A. MacDevitt, exhibited some examples of
fine stitcliery sent in by workers, and also
attractive articles for Christmas gifts. The
Edward Miller lady, who presided, paid
tribute to the excellence of the work accom-
plished. Of late the association has been
much occupied in altering battalion flags an
ensigns according to the new military re §fl'
lations. A recent departure also is t
designing of patterns for tapestry work, 01
which there is a good demand.
Sewing teachers organised a display oi
needlework in honor of Mrs. H. O. Storer,
who trained so many of them, and who toi
15 years has held the position of supervisor o
needlework for the Education Department.
Work was sent in from all the State, and
its general average of excellence was so
pronounced that the good lady can now retire
convinced that her labors have not been in
vain. A star turn of the opening day ’was
a mannequin parade of frocks and millinery
worn by lassies who had made their own
attire. Director Tate opened the show, and
said lovely things about Mrs. Storer.
Ervina Addison made her debut as play-
wright and producer the other night when
La Masque Dramatique, an amateur organi-
sation, did three of her plays. The best ot
the trio was a bright little sketch, »auce
for the Gander,” in which Beryl Bissett
appropriated the honors. “A Moonlight f an-
tasy” might have made a good ballet, but
was weak as a play. “El Estranjero” intro-
duced a tango, danced by Vera Shapcott and
Eric Angus, and a solo caper by Brenda
Harberle. Margaret Nicholson, in a spark-
ling frock edged with mauve marabout, did
the Charleston with Noel Dickson. The
blind children and those brooded over by the
Crhclies Association will get a Christmas
treat out of the proceeds. Mrs. M atson
Robertson and Mrs. G. C. Ferguson helped
with sales of etceteras.
One afternoon last week Mrs. Fritz Hart
gathered a musicianly crowd to drink a cup
of tea with Mrs. Backhaus, on the eve of her
departure for England with her pianist hus-
band. The hostess wore a gown of lime-
colored georgette with a small hat in rust
tones, and the guest of honor was in navy
cloth topped by chic black millinery. Mrs.
T. A. Patterson (Melba’s sister), Mrs. de
Burgh Ker, Mrs. R. Ellery, Mrs. Walter
Cass in attractive cape-raiment of golden-
brown topped by a toque of leaves and
berries, Mrs. W. Mortill and Madame
Buesst, just back from Europe, with her
daughter Isolde, were among the throng.
Philippa James has got in ahead of other
Melbourne followers of the pottery craft, for
her experiments have resulted in the nearest
approach yet attained here to the gorgeous
red that is the most cherished secret of Old
World potters. In her show at the Arts
and Crafts rooms a jar which has a large
patch of this wonderful hue is a star feature.
Among the collection are articles in the pink
and cornflower-blue shades of which Miss
James can make such charming and distinc-
tive use. Cowbells in various colors, to
replace the brass gong and its bamboo per-
cussor, have proved very saleable.
Sister Adelaide chatters about visitors am!
emigrants:—
Sir Evelyn Cecil, here for a week-end on liis
way eastwards, was at the Amateur Turf Club s
meeting at Cheltenham with their Exes., and next
day flew, with the Governor, to call on the Allan
McFarlanes. M. G. Anderson and Frank Downer
went, too. Summer fripperies, a very warm day, and
in the first event, falls innumerable were the chief
features of the races. The committee gave the
usual feminine lunch as well as the official one
(Lady Bridges was one of the guests at the former),
and the usual huge tea in the afternoon. Mrs. W. B.
Carr did the honors.
From Melbourne comes news of the marriage of
Stella, widow of the late Alfred Wilkinson, of
Mitcham, to R. Sydney Helby, of Winchester (Eng.).
Before her first marriage Mrs. Helby was a Heath.
The strike held up the Themistocles for a day
longer than her schedule time, and with it most
members of the Boucicault co. Some of ’em seized
the chance of picking up a thread or two of
friendship here —among them Angela Baddeley and
her husband and the always adorable Mary Jerrold
and hers.
The round of good-byes to the Darnley Naylors
still swings merrily, the latest a double event that
was partly the Women’s Non-Part}' Association’s
usual Christmas frivol and partly a good-bye to Mrs.
Naylor. There were half a dozen speeches, with the
League of Nations as the text of the guest of the
evening, and there were songs from Katie Joyce
and association members. The Naylors have been
popular here, and the gap they leave won’t be easily
filled.
The first manslaughter prosecution in South Aus.
of a woman motorist has ended in acquittal. There
Was a difference of opinion as to the pace at which
she was passing another car, and the angle at which
her car finally plunged across the road into a ’bus
coming the other way was so abnormal that the
jury thought the steering-gear must have been more
in fault than the driver.
The S. Australian home in which Colonel Light
lived and died, after fixing the site of Adelaide,
is being pulled down. There was an eleventh-hour
movement to save it, but the demolition had
already begun, and the old cottage was in a ruin-
ous state. He is commemorated by a statue close
to the G.P.0., and a city square bearing his name,
in the centre of which he is buried.


EXCLUSIVE
KINGS
//
DIAMONDS
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMOND-CIRCLE-RINGS
FROM £|s-15-0
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
o>>’
Pm
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rings completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rings procurable.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rings
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that c-an be found in no other rings.
Drummond’s rings are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rings that can be made.
WM-BRUMMONB & CO.
MOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS^
AND PEARLS r=
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
Mastotauch
The Music Roll of Distinction.
CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES.
D.437—Christmas Carols and Hymns.
D. 46 Medley No. 2.
D. 484 —Adeste Fidcles.
C. 67 Overture (without
Words).
D.lo26—Peter Rabbit (Nursery Rhymes
without words).
D.ll4l—Xmas Hymns, 1925 (Organ
Effect).
D. 1219 —Hark, the Herald Angels Sing.
D.l223—Hallelujah Chorus.
D.l229—Xmas Carols, including—
1. Merry Chiming Xmas Bells.
2. Ring Out, Oh Bells.
3. Ring Out, Ye Bells.
D. 123 of Mine (Children’s
Song).
D.lsls—Christmas Day Story.
D.ls44—Mother Goose Nursery Rhymes,
No. I.
1. Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.
2. Little Jack Horner.
3. Mistress Mary.
4. Hickory Dickory Dock.
5. Jack and Jill.
6. Natural History.
D. 152 Goose Nursery Rhymes
No. 2.
1. Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat.
2. Tom, Tom, the Piper’s Son.
3. Bobby Shafto.
4. Sing a Song of Sixpence.
5. Ding Dong Bell.
6. Little Tommy Tucker.
D.1523—Mother Goose Nursery Rhymes,
No. 3.—
1. I Love Little Pussy.
2. The North Wind Doth Blow.
3. There was a Crooked Man.
4. Kitty White.
5. Baa. Baa, Black Sheep.
6. Ride-a-Cock-Horse.
D.1524—Mother Goose Nursery Rhymes,
No. 4.—
1. Baby Bunting.
2. See Saw. Margery Daw.
3. Hot Cross Buns.
4. To Bed, To Bed, Says Sleepy
Head.
5. Higgilty, Piggilty.
6. Simple Simon.
D.1525 —Mother Goose Rhymes, No. 5. —
1. There Was a Little Girl Who
Had a Little Curl.
2. Georgy Porgy.
3. To Market.
4. Diddle, Diddle Dumpling.
5. The Ten O’clock Scholar.
6. Cock a Doodle Do.
D.1526 —Mother Goose Rhymes, No. 6. —
1. Little Boy Blue.
2. Rock a Bye Baby.
3. Mary Had a Little Lamb.
4. I Had n Little Doggie.
5. Three Blind Mice.
D.1527 —Mother Goose Rhymes, No. 7. —
1. Little Bo Peep.
2. Hey, Diddle Diddle.
3. Humpty Dumpty.
4. Curly Locks.
5. Dance a Baby Diddy.
6. Polly, Put the Kettle On.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
m
MASTERTOUCH
Hand Played
r\
Rolls
us
ic
the
are
B
EST
EST
AT
a
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY,
A. Saunders’ DIAMONDS
SPECIALLY-SELECTED, PURE PLATINUM SETTINGS—
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’ 2 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold King,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ 3 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18et. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders' 4 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18c-t. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ 5 Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond-set 18ct.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Hexagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
•SuiH pioo -^OBl
‘spuoiu
-Bid .saapuußS ‘V
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Fancy Plati-
num-set 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Oluster-set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Button Cluster, set
Platinum, 18ct. Gold
Bing, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, fancy Plati-
num-set, 18ct. (iold
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set all Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O.
A. Saunders’ all-
Platinum Wedding
Ring, £7/10/-
£B/10/-, £lO.
18ct. White Gold,
30/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding Ring,
25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Wedding Ring,
20/-
]!)et. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pleon-
ist Ring, set Dia-
mond, 18ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Crossover, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9et. Gold Signet Ring,
12/0.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold, 50/-
Send for Xmas Gift Book. We Pay Postage on All Orders.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED 1841 165 BRANCHES.
PASSAGES Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
CHEQUES of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
INCLUSIVE Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
INDEPENDENT ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
TRAVEL Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared. .
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI.
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR AUSTRALIAN TRAVELLERS
TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe .. . From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours From £321
Low-rate Escorted' Tours, •.. From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation, Meals while Travelling, Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing. Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February, March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly “TRAVELLER’S GAZETTE ” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.)»
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


1
U
i
0
\
Sii
r ■> ■* > ,
NOT MADE DOWN TO A PRICE
It is NOT POSSIBLE to produce a
more VALUABLE Tennis Ball.
sdf
iv
n
U
r
■
The “PLUM” Razor
A PRACTICAL GIFT.
Shaves with incomparable ease and smoothness.
m
m
mm ''
fflw.
“The Tried and True” quality
maintained Razor. For thirty-five
years the “Plum” has retained the
confidence and patronage of men who
appreciate its sterling qualities.
POST PAI
Black Vulcanite Handle, J2'/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle,
15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
Satin-lined Double Case Free with pair of
Razors.
Each Razor set ready for use and guaranteed i
“PLUM” Razors are supplied
PRICES.
Seven Day “PLUM” Razor Sets—
Black Handles £4/5/-
Xylo Handles £5
Ivory Handles £7
Per set of 7 Razors in Satin-lined Oak Case.
nd kept in order for two years free of charge,
in two widths: gin. and fin.
■III
All the above sent post free.
“PLUM”
Razor Strops.
Made from the finest materials and specially finished
and dressed.
Horsehide and Hose Canvas, 10/6 and
12/6 each.
Russia Leather and Shell Hide, 15/6 ea.
“PLUM” Strop Dressing .... 1/. per tube
“PLUM” Briar Pipes.
Large Range of Shapes, Straight and Bent.
NATURAL FINISH.
Small, Medium and Large Sizes.
SES
“Hand Finish” Quality, Unmounted, all shapes, 2/6 each; Silver-plated -Mounts,
all shapes, 3/. each.
All “Plum” Pipes ar e guaranteed against cracking or burning for one month after purchase
“Selected Quality.” Hall-marked Silver Mounts, all shapes, 7/6 each.
“Extra Quality” Hall-marked Silver Mounts, Army and Band Mounds, 9/6 each;
Spigot Mounts, 10/6 each.
For delivery by Registered Post add 6d. to the price of any pipe.
CRAIG &AITKEN 9 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
What’s
In a
Name?
THERE is a simple English name of
just three letters which has a
currency as universal as gold and
which represents true value as indisput-
ably. That name is ENO, and the fame
of ENO’s “Fruit Salt" has no parallel
the wide world over.
ENO is a product perfected by experience, and
endorsed by medical science and popular apprecia-
tion. Its name is important, for the words ENO
and “ Fruit Salt v ' are registered trade marks which
designate but one thing —the genuine world-
famous health drink which has triumphed over
every test of time and usage Take no risk where
health is concerned—follow Nature’s Golden
Rule of Health :
First thing every morning, drink a glass of water ;
warm or cold, sparking with a " dash of
FRUIT salt:
THE WORLD-FAMED EFFERVESCENT SAULES
NOW SOLD IN
TWO SIZES
Sales Agents :
THE BRITISH
HAROLD F
RITCHIE & CO.
LTD., SYDNEY
N.S.W.
mm
X
erf
r.
1
rr
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe i im
sdf
] POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .


« ZGcanQ/
UQUEUK
1 ✓ "S//D L
The Whisky for Connoisseurs.
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow,
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[S
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Followers of Fred Williams, whose Rand-
wick stable shelters Pantheon and Rampion, were
on good terms with themselves and all the world at
Warwick Farm (N.S.W.J on Saturday. Their
pleasant time began when Vaals (6 to 1) carried off
the second division of the Camden Handicap, six
furlongs, after the grey Chrysolaus mare Chrystal
(7 to 2), trained by Pat Nailon for Walter Brunrtori,
had downed the Kelso-trained Bairn, who is rather
harshly treated by the adjusters of weights, in
the first division. (Although Bairn, now in her sixth
year, has won only three races, not particularly
important nor in remarkable company, the A.J.C.
handicapper has almost as exalted an opinion of her
as the V.R.C. man, who placed her within 21b.
of Heroic in the latter’s Newmarket Handicap.)
Aeneid and Persuasion, a stable-mate of Bairn, were
at shorter prices than Vaals, many backers reasoning
that the distance and the course would not suit him.
However, after Persuasion had cut down the pace-
making Aeneid, who still looks a bit burly, the big
chestnut came along and settled Persuasion in a
few strides, Grovene being a moderate third; the
time -was lmin. 13Jsec. The son of Valais—Galtee
Queen carried lOst. lib., 131 b. more than his burden
in the Villiers Stakes, for which race he has been
favorite since the weights came out.
Williams next produced Beckwith, a thing of his
own, in the Kirkham Stakes for two-year-olds, to
which the club had added a £looo' purse. There were
10 starters, but the public wanted only Beckwith (6
to 4), Greenline (5 to 2) and Black Duchess (9 to
2), and they finished in that order. Beckwith and
Greenline are Greenstead geldings, and both exhibited
pace and gameness above the ordinary; Beckwith
had a 101 b. penalty, but he was a bit more seasoned
than his relative, who is rather green. A spirited
struggle between the - pair (the Magpie filly, v 7 ho
also promises well, was never near enough to set
her supporters’ hearts palpitating) ended in favor of
Beckwith by a neck, the five furlongs being traversed
in the fast time of lmin. IJsec. Williams, started
three in the next race, the Moorebank Handicap,
eight furlongs, Cracknel!, who had ridden Vaals and
Beckwith, being given the mount on the unfancied
Sum King. The stable money came for the English
horse Colesberg (7 to 1), who races in the joint
interests of W. C. Douglas, T. A. Stirton and T. L.
Rutledge, sometime Country-party M.L.A. Bartle,
who steered Colesberg, always had him in a handy
position, but was obliged to ride him out to with-
stand the challenge of Ellis on Siaosi: Overyssel,
a greatly-improved William the Silent mare, . was a
good third. Colesberg, who is by Son-in-Law—Slip
and may stay—he was fourth in an 11-furlongs race
at Newmarket, England, last year—is engaged in
the Villiers with 7st. 51b., and in the Summer Cup
with 31b. more.
As at Randwick on November 27, Fondant tried to
break up his field in the December Handicap, 12
furlongs, and many thought he would do it, albeit
Gleam Boy and Confusion, who were among his
victims at the premier course, were better favorites.
But the Cyllene More —Bon Bon gelding, who is
built on rather fragile lines, had another 151 b. to
carry on this occasion and was encountering a
tough newcomer in Dartmoor (8 to 1), who, after
showing creditable form in the country, had been
narrowly, and perhaps unluckily, beaten by Lady
Lizzie at Canterbury Park. Kelso’s neddy made the
pace a cracker, but Dartmoor went after him and
had his measure, and that of everything else, at
ten furlongs, running home a very easy winner by
three lengths from the unthought-of Prince of
Orange, with Lintress, who was tried over a journey
for the first time, a fair third. Dartmoor, who is
trained by M. J. Nash for A. O. Smith and was
ridden by H. Perry—all three previously unknown
to fame in the metropolis—galloped the mile and
a half in the very fast time of 2min. 32sec. He
is one of the hardy Sir Dighton breed, being out
of Sibar, dam of Comptroller, who was also a good
stayer. The two divisions of the Farm Stakes,
seven furlongs, which completed the programme,
likewise fell to sons of Sir Dighton: Four
Socks (12 to 1) led all the way in the first division
and settled a supposed certainty in Dick Wootton’s
Sweet Auburn; and Bonnie Dighton (6 to 1), coming
with a great run when his supporters had almost
abandoned hope, got his head in front of the
favorite, Divulge, at the right end of the second
division. Further successes should be in store for
these Sir Dighton steeds, each in his class, for
they are improving young horses of the cut-and-
come-again kind, and will not be overburdened even
if a trifle more than the customary 101 b. is added
for the Warwick Farm business. Indeed, Dartmoor,
with 7st. 71b. and no penalty, must be given a great
chance in Tattersall’s Club Cup, which Royal
Dighton, another member of the family, won in
1925. Dartmoor was left out of the Summer Cup.
* * * *
Comus’s cakewalk in the Fund Handicap
was the feature of the V.R.C.’s charity meeting
at Moonee Valley. Backed down to even money, C.
T. Godby’s importation ran to the front and set
up a lead as long as he had at one stage of the
Melbourne Cup. The distance suited him this time,
and there was no Pantheon in the field, so he won
by six lengths from Little Millie (5 to 1), with
Llanthony, who hung out as usual, third. The
time, 2min. 4jsec., was a Valley record for 10
furlongs. “S. A. Rawdon’s” smart filly Numenia,
a 5-to-4 favorite, was first home in the Two-year-old
Handicap; with Duncan’s assistance she covered the
half mile in 49sec. Ashley Reed landed Adjong
(5 to 1) a winner in the Welter Plate, and was
also successful on the Popinjay—Poupee gelding
Brabbler (6 to 1) in the first division of the Welter
Purse, the second division going to Lady Yarborough
(6 to 1), who is only a pony. Three favorites having
been successful —a rare thing in Melbourne —Mc-
Shortodds declared it a “crool” day.
* * * *
“Tliormanby” : The l-etirement of the Hon.
George Lambton from his job as the Earl of
Derby’s trainer is a reminder that the game, mostly
confined in Australia to a set which does not go
to Government House, is, in England, much affected
by the uppah classes. Many of them, too, have
been quite the equals of their rivals of lower
caste —take, for example, Captain Maehell, who
worked the Hermit joke on the hapless Marquis
of Hastings. Even the great Lord George Bentinck
condescended to train the Portland stable of his
day, and, in later years, Marcus Beresford looked
after the neddies of George Rex. Lambton, one of
a family famous for centuries in North of England
racing and hunting, is no mug, either. Last year
he put his boss at the top of the winning poll, and
this season has landed him in second place, with
close on £50,000 in stakes. That’s the sort of
aristocrat whom even Premier Lang might tolerate
as a Governor.
* * * »
“Ascot” : Jolly Beggar, the big black horse
who won a Doncaster Handicap, and lost a Perth
Cup and a Newmarket by a whisker or so, is kept
in memory by his daughter, Jolly Handsome, who
has done even more travelling than her sire. Jolly
Handsome has raced all round the continent, from
Perth to Rockhampton, picking up a lot of stakes
on the way. Lately she has won a string of
sprint races in Brisbane, in the best local company,
wearing down the opposition by sheer grit. Her
dam, Tea Cosy, like her sire, was owned and raced
by P. A. Connolly, who used to collect the Perth
Cup year after year, with an occasional bauble in
Sydney and Melbourne to vary the monotony.
* * * *
“Hotham”: If all goes well, Melbourne
will presently efijoy its first view of racing ostriches
at the Motordrome. The entrepreneur is Le Cornu,
who breeds the overbearing fowl in South Australia.
Le Cornu has arrived in Melbourne with a stable —
or should it be a fowlhouse ? —of a dozen picked
birds, and is game to back his pets against any
A MATTER OF BIAS.
CLUD PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER (opening the
green) : “On which saide of the ball is
the — er — prejudice, fathah?”
horse in training, Manfred for choice. Nothing is
said about distances or handicaps, though the birds
will presumably run in light sulkies, as they do
sometimes in circuses. Manfred’s owner is not
likely to pick up the hat. If he did, his noble
steed might, not go past the pick of the ostrich
stable save by a long detour, even if he condescended
to run up to it. Australian horses in South Africa
years ago objected as much to the birds as their
relatives later did to the Gyppo camels. The writer
once spent two hours trying to get a horse through
a chain-wide lane on one side of which a great
cock-ostrich roared and ramped behind a wire-
netted fence. It was done at last only by giving
1 P assln S’ Kaffir a “Scotchman” to get into the
paddock and let the bird chase him.
* * * *
Green Chequer” : Of all those devoted to
alleged sports, pastimes and hobbies, I imagine the
homing-pigeon fancier goes to the furthest limit in
pursuit of his obsession. The atmosphere of distances,
! ' lrl S’ times, colors, markings and pedigrees in which
he lives, puts to shame that surrounding the apostles
of the form and capabilities of mere horses. The
pigeon tinctures his existence, till he not only speaks
but writes in terms of the recurrent fowl. My
senior offspring, having been crossed in love or
something, resolved to keep homers. Having
answered breeders’ advertisements in the official organ
of the Homing Pigeons’ Union, he received a number
SUFFICIENT.
KIT: " Yes, I suppose I'll start in the quarter-
mile club championship. But really,
Pcter, I’d rather be right out back."
PET ER: “I wouldn’t think of it, girlie-
you're out far enough.”
of replies which recalled my own early experiences
in the horse trade, for the splendid quality of the
goods for sale, as set out. in them, was only equalled
by the self-sacrifice of the vendors, as evidenced in
the prices asked. And one writer ended an im-
passioned eulogy of his birds with “Yours to a
feather, T. Jinks.” I cannot recall ever having
received a letter subscribed “Yours to a short head,”
or “Thine to an udder,” or even “With you to the
last lamb’s tail.” The homers have it.
* * * *
Ernest Tyncke (list. 21b.), a middle-
weight from Belgium, won his first Australian fight
at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday. There’s nothing
brilliant or sensational about him, but he is a game
plodder with a right that is an ever-present danger
to the other chap in the ring. His opponent, “Frisco”
McGale (lOst. 121 b.), is a beautifully-built negro
who, if he could only be taught to use a straight
left with the shoulder and spring behind it, would
be a bad hurdle for any middleweight now in the
Commonwealth. McGale gained seven of the first
eight rounds, the first, fourth and seventh by a wide
margin. In the eighth a right from Tyncke raised
a lump as big as a 12-for-sixpenee orange behind
the coon’s left ear, and thenceforward McGale made
great use of the ring space. Also he stopped using
the right uppercuts with which he had damaged his
white brother’s features in the earlier rounds. It
became evident that his right arm was injured, for
his seconds massaged it after every round from the
tenth on. Hence McGale’s performance in bunging
both T.vncke’s eyes and staying the full journey
was by no means a poor one.
* * * *
Welshman Jack Jones made a successful
first appearance at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night, opposed to Ansell Bell. Bell, who is not the
dangerous battler he was when here two years ago.
was always second-best. The fifth was a bad round
for him, but “Taffy,” though fast and shifty, showed
no great ability as a puncher, and Bell staggered
to his corner. It was the quantity rather than the
weight of Jones’s punches that influenced Yal Quirk
in calling a halt in round seven. Bell protested
that he could go on, but he was a very sick little
nigger boy as he wandered disconsolately from the
ring. Jones, at 9st. 21b., was 4oz. heavier than
the black.
* * * *
“Cartot” : Yes, - the “ injury ” which
prompted “Sunny” Jim Williams to flop in his
“fight” with “Tiger” Payne (B. 2/12/’26) would
have been laughed at by some of the old-timers.
In 1863, during a 30-round contest in Sydney between
two pugs of the period, Rooney and Parker, Rooney
had his jaw fractured in the 21st round. Instead
of throwing up the sponge his seconds tied a hand-
kerchief under his jaws and knotted it over his
head, and he saw the 30 rounds out with the broken
bones kept together in this way. Incidentally, a
favorite method of reviving a man who showed
signs of collapse between rounds was to stick pins
under his finger-nails.
* * * *
The Victorian tennis championships,
which were particularly interesting this year, even
though J. O. Anderson’s belated nomination was
declined, came to an end on Saturday. The final
of the singles was won by Gerald Patterson from
young Jack Crawford, of N. S. Wales, the scores
being 4 —6, 6—3, 6—4, 6—4 in Patterson’s favor.
But the showing of the Sydney boy, who entered
the final by disposing of Hawkes in straight sets,
having eliminated Rowe and Baker, made a deep
impression on the big crowd. He has the stroke
equipment of a champion; he needs only a little
more speed and strength. In the doubles Crawford
and Willard beat Patterson and Hawkes, 4 —6, 6 —4,
I—6, 6 —3, 6 —3. It was the first time for 27 years
that a N.S.W. pair had won this match, and the
crowd suitably recognised the feat.
* * * *
Takaishi and Saito, the two Japanese
swimmers, will make their first splash in Australia
at Townsville (N.Q.), where there are both tidal-
water and enclosed baths. Showing at Rockhampton
and Bundaberg on their way south, the Japs -will
take part in a carnival in Brisbane on December 18
and 20, and then appear at Toowoomba on Christmas
night, by which time they should have fairly earned
their oats. Sydney will see them on January 8, 12
and 15; Andrew Charlton, now a splendid specimen
of young Australian manhood, will be one of their
opponents. Takaishi, a lad of only 17, goes for all
distances from 50 to 1500 metres. He has done 220
yards in 2min. 16 4-ssec., and 440 yards in smin.
3 4-ssec._ Australia’s best times are 2min. 23 4-ssec.
and smin. 11 4-ssee. respectively. Saito is also
an all-round swimmer, who specialises in the back
stroke.
* * * *
“ E.A.I). ”: There are some promising-
swimmers coming along in Westralia. “Brasher”
Jones has, of course, arrived—he is Australian
quarter-mile champion—but he is no longer alone
in his glory, as was the case a couple of seasons ago.
There is Taentseh, an A.N.A. giant, who holds the
State record of 58sec. for 100 yards. Howson, Poole
and Stevens for middle distance, back-stroke and
breast-stroke respectively, would help this pair to
make up a strong team, and “Scotty” Fowler is an
accomplished diver. Incidentally, Jones swam 110
yards in 65sec (the 100 in 58 2-ssec.) in his first
race this season.
* * * *
Queensland’s defeat by eight runs in the
northern State’s first Sheffield Shield match must
have been bitter in the mouth of skipper O’Connor,
whose splendid innings of 196 nearly saved the day
for his side, after the match had seemed a sure
thing for N. S. Wales. There were added pangs, for
O’Connor’s was the last wicket, and it fell to a
run-out decision when he was trying to get the
next over. On previous days the Brisbane crowd
had barracked him unmercifully for missing several
chances behind the wicket. O’Connor has the con-
solation of knowing that his score is the highest
ever made for Queensland in a representative game.
The previous best was 151 by Arthur Coningham,
against N.S.W. at Sydney in 1895.
* * * *
Victoria’s first Sheffield Shield team of
the season was composed of three Australian XI
men (Ryder did not go to Adelaide), the'resurrected
Wallace and Willis and a couple of newcomers, the
others being old-stagers. South Aus. had the
Richardsons, Grimmett, left-handers Rymill and
Pritchard, and Alexander, of whom great things are
expected. Also Williams had been bowling so well
in Grimmett’s absence that he had to come in
again, and Scott’s fast stuff was still relied on
before that of younger local men. The chief ex-
periment was Carl Schneider, the Melbourne light-
weight, now resident in Adelaide. Wood full won
the toss, but ran himself out for a single. The
side would have struck disaster but for Ponsford,
who played the greatest innings of his career,
making 214 (out of 315) in 267 minutes; onlv
Hendry (30), Mitchell (32) and Ellis (25) stayed
with him for any length of time. Williams (6
for 88) bothered all the Victorians except Ponsford,
Grimmett (2 for 110) being patchy. At the close
cf_ the second day’s play, S.A. was 19 on with 4
wickets in hand; Vic. Richardson contributed 137
in his finest style and Schneider a sound but
slow 69. Blackie,. bowling beautifully, took 5
for 88. _ What a pity it is he was never given a
chance till he was past 40 ! Rymill, with a breezy
century, put! his side well in the lead on Monday.
» * * *
“ Shrewsbury ”: Elderly followers of
cricket, both in Britain and abroad, will hear with
regret that the old-time England and Surrey bats-
man, “Bobby” Abel, is blind and penniless. Very
small, of poor physique, and alleged to be inclined to
“run away” from fast bowling, Abel was, neverthe-
less, the keystone of Surrey’s batting in that county’s
palmy days, from the mid-’eighties into the twentieth
century. He piled up some great records for his
county and the Players, getting big aggregates, year
after year, and once passing the 300 mark. Aus-
tralia. first saw Bobby in 1887-88, with Lord Hawke’s
team, and he was here again in 1891-92 with IV.
G. Grace. His best score in Australia was put
together that year on Sydney Cricket Ground, where
he made 132 in the second of the three Tests then
played. In his 19 Test innings he averaged 30.86
and he was up against some formidable bowling, too.
Had he been a Yorkshire player, he would not have
fallen on evil days. Whatever I.ord Hawke’s failings,
he worked for years on a superannuation scheme
whereby the county provides a comfortable pension
for its retired veterans of cricket—the first county
club to do so, and about the only one to make
a practical success of it.
* * * *
“ Ex-Englishman ”: Gilligan is almost
incredibly kind to the veterans among the Aus-
tralians, in his new book on their recent tour. He
says it may be “fairly expected” that Macartney.
Oldfield, Woodfull, Taylor, Ponsford, Grimmett,
Mailey, Ryder, Hendry and perhaps Everett will
visit England again. Also he “cannot visualise the
next team sailing to England” without Gregory,
who is to train on into one of Australia’s opening-
pair of batsmen. Then he gets reckless: “I can
foresee this cricketer making centuries and holding-
catches in the Test-matches of 1940” ; also Mailey
is “young enough to bowl for another 10 years,”
and Oldfield “will naturally keep for Australia for
the next three tours, at least.”
» * * *
The Maoriland League footballers in
Britain crashed heavily on Saturday to “Wales,”
the latter totting up 34 points to 8. “Wales” con-
sisted of a XIII picked from Welsh Rugby Union
players who have taken on the professional game
with the Northern Union clubs of Lancashire and
Yorkshire. The N. U. claims that it will have a
genuine Welsh League in action next year, since
seven Welsh clubs will secede to the paid game; the
match against the Maorilanders was intended as pro-
paganda for the change-over. Many Welsh clubs
consist of wage-earners who can ill afford to play
the amateur game. All the same, it has taken years
of patient endeavor to get matters as far as they
have gone.
THE PARTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘J. 0. Anderson is about to play his last game
as an amateur.”
Ave ! Ave atque vale!
Luck, "J.O.” t
Still for seasons may you sally
Forth to many a hard-fought rally,
Though ’tis in another galley
As a pro.
And accumulate a bally
Heap of dough.
Trophies you’ve enough to clutter,
When they’re spread,
Up a sideboard —or a shutter,
But the cheers that thousands utter
And the bays and things that flutter
Round your head
Aren’t equivalent to butter
On your bread.
You have had your whack of glory,
• Eh, old man?
Laurels fade and fame grows hoary
E’en when won in combat gory.
Boodle ? That’s another story.
Now you can
Up and chase it con amore,
Like Suzanne.
Off where, flannel-clad Apollo,
Dollars wait.
Cricket champs, would doubtless swallow
Pride and scrap pretences hollow
Your contagious lead to follow
Square and straight,
If it brought the right to wallow
In the gate.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


RIVALS THE BEAU T Y OF
THE SCARLET TANAGER
r
a
a
BARKER
toOfOi^
IfPEN I
PARKE
PS
Parker
Lady
Duofold or
Duofoldjr.
25/-
Ccrd extra
Parker Over-size
Duofold
35/-
This Gift will make
Christmas a Glorious Success
and the Giver Not Forgotten
Parker Duofold, 25f and 35f
With Point Guaranteed for 25 Years if not misused
AT the very first sight of these
f \ cheery lacquer-red barrels
with flashing black tips, hearts
will glow with joy and gratitude.
The Pen with the Hand-size
Grip, Over-size Ink Capacity,Free-
swinging Balance, Invisible Filler,
and Point Guaranteed 25 years for
wear and mechanical perfection.
Ready for Christmas at Stationers,
Book Stores, Jewellery Stores and
Departmental Stores where pens
are stocked.
barker ’Duofold Pencils to match the ’Pens
Agents:
SLADE, ALLAN & COMPANY,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
Service
The significance of SKF Service is
more than the sale of a bearing. Not only
have SKF developed better types of Ball
and Roller Bearings through scientific re-
search, but they have further established a
laboratory and engineering organisation to
study the manufacturers’ bearing problems,
and to insure through their Consulting Sales
Service a full measure of performance from
SKF Bearings and their components. Manu-
facturers and users are invited to avail them-
selves of this freely-offered co-operation.
fd
%
1
w
The SK.F Ball Bearing Co., Ltd
Melbourne 595 Bourke Street
Sydney 45 King Street
Representatives in all States.
THE INKY WAY.
The incoming Mayor of Unley, one of
Adelaide’s most important suburbs, as Illing-
worth, who for many years was editor of the
Critic, at that time the city’s most promi-
nent weekly paper of the social order. -
former Mayor of the suburb was J. •
Chinner, who did many a caricature tor tin
same paper.
“Midford”: Speaking of cable bloomers,
the St. Francis of Assisi anniversary was
the occasion for a sytnposium in England a
few weeks ago. Most of the participants
were ecclesiastical figures, but one oi-
known layman butted in—Jerome K. Jerome.
A Melbourne daily, misled by the company
he was keeping, made him ‘the Kev. J.
Rome.”
“Dotbis”: Reginald Bisley, explorer and
collector, has packed up his charts and
specimen-cases and deserted the bush for the
city. He is engaged in publicity work for
the First National Films. All his researches
were undertaken at his own expense, and
except for a few letters after his name ne
can show nothing for the years spent m
scientific and geographical research. Mostly
under the pen-name of ‘‘Bis,’ the explorer
lias long been a contributor to the Bulletin.
Gordon Bennett, a Sydney journalist who
is seeking Nationalist selection at Nortn
Sydney, already knows a lot about Parlia-
ment. In addition to having helped his dad
—Walter Bennett, M.L.A. for Maitland—as
campaign organiser at several elections, he
has been a shorthand-writer in the Press Gal-
lery for years. He is the author of a couple
of 'novels and dozens of short stories, is an
ex-vice-chairman of the A.J.A. and was one
of the first directors of the Sydney Press
Club.
“Moreliead”: Pictorial journalism is mak-
ing such rapid strides that in Sydney,
at any rate, a camera is considered an
essential part of a really resourceful
freelance’s equipment. Apart from the de-
mand of the weeklies, two-thirds of the
dailies devote a page or so in every
issue to news photos, and the preservation of
every negative is the beginning of modern
freelance wisdom. Three journalists of my
acquaintance have realised the importance
of a camera, and in one case this year s
earnings have doubled those of 1925.
Walter Jardine, the most successful com-
mercial artist Australia has produced, who
went across to the States four years ago to
make more money, made it, but paid with his
health. He is back in Sydney again, and
reckons that a few months here will fit him
up for another chase after the dollars. He
expects that after a further three years he
will have caught enough to allow him to come
back and take things easy. He has done
a lot of work for the Saturday Evening
Post, and his commercial work for Packard
and other Yankee firms is being sent across
to Australian papers and hoardings. He
still thinks that the four or five page adver-
tisements he designed for the 1922 Christmas
Bulletin put him on his feet in U.S.A.
The Christmas Bulletin of a quarter-
century ago contained contributions from six
who are represented in this year’s number.
Will Ogilvie and C. H. Souter (“Dr. Nil")
had verses printed, while Souter, B. E.
Minns and Hugh Maclean signed drawings;
Hugh McCrae figured then, as he does now,
both as artist and poet. Strangely, Arthur
Adams, Rod Quinn, E. J. Brady, Will Law-
son, Randolph Bedford and Steele Rudd,
though they were writing some of their best
stuff at that period, did not get into the
1901 number. Going five years back from
that date, the number of 1926 contributors
still remains at six, Minns and Souter with
sketches, Adams, Ogilvie and Quinn with
verse, and Steele Rudd with a story. The
Christmas issue 20 years ago, however, has
a list of 11 —the last-named half-dozen along
with Will Lawson, Mrs. Forrest, “Ilamer,”
Harry J. Weston and Randolph Bedford.
“John Cow”: Smith’s Weekly was to
have been christened the People. The adver-
tised intention came under the notice of the
owners of an obscure weekly printed at 16
George-street West, Sydney, and they warned
Joynton Smith that the title was already
held by them. The little rag which owned it
w-as printed by Tom Batlio, and first appeared
in the early ’nineties as the'pioneer socialist
paper of Australia. Run entirely on party
enthusiasm, and without a single advertise-
ment, it had a stormy career down to the
close of the war, and some of Australia's
political notables of to-day would be very
reticent in discussing their association with
it. Batlio went stone-blind through con-
tinued toil at his trade, and faction fights
in the socialist movement put the paper out
of business.
“Aunty” : Those papei-s that are running
beauty competitions under many disguises
are tramping along an old trail. Australia
went through the whole business 20 years
ago, w-hen The Bulletin’s expensive infant,
the Lone Hand, accepted a friendly chal-
lenge from the Chicago Tribune to produce
a better-looking girl than Marguerite Frey,
of Denver, who had been claimed the Ameri-
can champion. Marguerite had golden hair
and blue eyes and was 19. For 10 months
the Lone Hand printed portraits of con-
testants from all States and Maoriland.
Theatrical ladies were barred. Looking
back on those pictures, what strikes one is
that the faces are full of character and
intelligence. Cosmetics were not in favor
then amongst really nice people, and the two
winners—Alice Buckridge, of Melbourne, and
Mrs. Hoppe, of Sydney (she was Alice
O’Neil, but married after entering), declared
that they had never used anything on their
faces except soap and water. But they used
pads in their piled-up hair. Miss Buckridge
was sft. 71in., too. Other measurements were
taken but were not disclosed save to the
judges.
“G.8.W.”: We were discussing The Bul-
letin’s Red Page controversy, “Why
authors leave home,” when old Dad chipped
in with his solution, “I s’pose,” he offered,
“they’re like the rest of us; it’s generally
because they’ve had rows with their wives.’ 1


By Appointment to
df
H.M. King George V»
V“; >Y .
—r—
UUi-
The Main Leyland Factory — Leyland, Lancashire, England.
DEPENDABILITY
The number of Leyland Lorries in Australia still
continuing to deliver satisfactory service after years of
constant gruelling work is in itself a profound tribute to
Leyland dependability.
Leyland builds up from its own raw materials—working
with coal, coke and pig iron, electrically smelting its own
steel, and shaping its woodwork at its own mills—to
produce by British workmanship that in-built quality
upon which Leyland dependability bases.
From the standpoint of dependability alone Leyland
quality worthily upholds Leyland leadership.
“LEYLANDS
GIVE LASTING SATISFACTION”
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works:
2- £720
3- £B5O
4- £1075
5- £llB5
JSjrtand^oiQg
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
•• SYDNEY ••
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
—TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
ENGLAND
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Saturday, December 11.
Stories by:
ABBOTT, J. H. M.
ADAMSON, BARTLETT
BEDFORD, RANDOLPH
BEEBY, GEORGE S.
“BEN GUN”
CHAPMAN, ERNEST
CLEGG, T. B.
CRONIN, BERNARD
FLANNERY, W. D.
HODGE, LLOYD
HOLLAND, E. S.
IDRIESS, lAN L.
MACARTNEY, F. T.
MANN, CECIL
MoCRAE, HUGH
McEWEN, C.
McKinney, j. p.
MURPHY, FRANCE
PALMER, VANCE
PAULL, HARRY
RUDD, STEELE
“SHIRLEY”
SOMERVILLE, ALEX.
TURNBULL, G. M.
WRIGHT, DAVID McKEE
Verse by:
ADAMS, A. H.
ADAMSON, BARTLETT
“BLACK BONNET”
BOUNDY, REX
BRADY, E. J.
COLE, ELSIE
“DARIUS”
DUGGAN. EILEEN
ENGLAND, E. M.
FORREST, M.
GILMORE, MARY
GORNALL, LOLA
GRAHAME, JIM
“HAMER”
“HASEN”
HARRIS, DICK
HENRY, J. T.
IN GLEB Y, BERNARD
LAWSON, WILL
MAURICE, FURNLEY
MORRIS, MYRA
McAULIFFE, NORA
McCRAE, HUGH
McEWEN, C.
McKAY, LILLA
OGILVIE, WILL
QUINN, ROD
RUSSELL, McCOWAN.
SOUTER, C. H.
SYD C.
THOMAS, W. J.
WRIGHT, DAVID McKEE.
Red Page Articles by:
MANN, CECIL
TURNER, EARDLEY
Illustrations by:
AGNEW, GARNET
BURLEIGH, BERTHA BENNETT
COULTER, R. W.
GILL, W.
HERON, LEON
JESSUP, FRANK
LEASON, PERCY
LINDSAY, PERCY
LITCHFIELD, GEOFF.
MACK, BRODIE
MACLEAN, HUGH
McCRAE, HUGH
MERCIER, EMILE
MINNS, B. E.
MINOGUE, JIM
MORGAN, JOHNNY
NEWMAN, BETTY PATERSON
NICHOLLS, SYD
PATERSON, ESTHER
PAUL, DOROTHY ELLS MORE
PAUL, MICK
PERCIVAL, C. 11.
PETERSON, A. S.
PRYOR, OSWALD
QUAYLE, JACK
ROUNTREE, HARRY
SCORFIELD, TED
SKIPPER, M. G.
SOUTER, I). H.
TOWNSHEND, G. K.
TREEBY, MAB
AVALSH, JOHN
WARING, JACK
WESTON, HARRY J.
WISEMAN, JOHN
The Gems of the Year.
Order Your Copies Early.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
At all Bookstalls and
Newsagents, or direct
from “The Bulletin”
Offices, Sydney and
Melbourne.


d
Spend Your Summer Holidays
at the new “Hotel Manly”
Right opposite the Manly Wharf is
this new luxurious Hotel. Expense
has been no object in making it one
of the finest resorts of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. From the
moment you step into the Reception
Hall you are surrounded with com-
fort and personal service. Large and lofty
bedrooms, with tasteful, new furniture and
spotless linen, give restful invitation, and
the constant supply of hot and cold water
to each room is a refreshing boou to every
guest. You can lie abed with reading-lamp
and telephone at your e1b0w.... you can
enjoy the artistic atmosphere of the perfect
music-room. .. .or wield a racquet on the full-
sized roof Tennis Court.
Motoring guests have the convenience of
an ample basement garage—and the surf is
only four minutes distant.
Make early summer reservations at the
Hotel Manly and be certain of holiday con-
tentment.
Room and Breakfast only, from 13/6 per
day; Exclusive accommodation from £7/7/-
per week.
Full particulars and complete tariff will
be posted immediately in response to your
inquiry to
Hotel Manly,
Manly, N.S.W.
Manly 1961 (4 lines) and Manly 27.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie ’
Criterion • • “T” l b Y„
Palace I s Zat So.
Royal “Abie’s Irish P.ose
St. James “Betty Lee”
Fuller’s Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “ p , r ]F roS< w
Royal “Wildflower
Kino’s “Brown Sugar,
Athenaeum “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
+,
The totem tom-tom will beat throughout
the Christmas season at Sydney’s Majesty’s.
Just about everybody in Sydney has seen
“Rose Marie” thrice, and is eagerly looking
forward to the fourth time. “Abie’s Irish
Rose” still flowers at the Royal, and shows
no sign of wilting. Emphatically “Zat Is
So!” at the Palace, so zat’s zat. Betty
Lee,” at the St. James, is about to make room
for Fullers’ panto., “Jack and the Bean-
stalk,” on December 18; but meantime
“Betty” is at home to th public. Svengali
will continue to expire grotesquely at the
Criterion during this week, where “Cobra”
is due at Christmas; and the Opera House
is busy rehearsing the Williamson panto.
% * * *
No doubt there were people in Sydney
Tivoli on Saturday who were rather dis-
appointed with Little Ticli; he wasn’t as
“original” as they had expected him to be.
The fact, of course, is that his clever “busi-
ness” has been copied all over the world
for 25 years past, until now Little Tich is
only as original as a hive of imitators will let
him be. But the fund of humor that lie
possesses, his extraordinary personality, his
comic falls, his ludicrous dancing, his weird
dress and his quaint characterisations make
him the star he still is. His impersonations
of a sailor and an old lady caused shrieks
of laughter. Other outstanding features on
the Tivoli programme are Salerno, a dex-
terous juggler; Don Alfonso Zelaya, with his
philosophy of jazz ; the Aerial Smiths, with
their acrobatic thrills; and Elsie Day, a
quite delightful soprano.
5jJ
A pathetic duet about rhubarb is the
funniest item in the Moon-Morris revue, at
Puller’s Theatre, Sydney, this week. As a
subject for pathos, rhubarb has been too
long overlooked by the poets. The revue
"Issues” is one of the smartest little shows
or the Moon Morris regime. In the first
part of the programme Estelle Rose pre-
sents a series of clever character studies,
so true to life in her dialects that the
audience could not always catch up. In
the entertaining programme, Isolde and
Alexis present graceful and sensational
dances.
$ * * *
A students’ show enthuses the Showman :
The patron who looks for originality of design,
accurate drawing, versatility, humor and beauty
will find all in abundance at the exhibition of work
by the students of the East Sydney branch of the
Technical College, now open at the Education Gal-
lery. And most of it is the work of young girls.
Joan Morrison, merely 14, with originality
and verve in every line; Coral White, 15,
already a skilful draughtswoman; Vic. Cowdroy,
whose devil is a daring study and whose traffic
cop is delightfully amusing; Hazel Forsyth, with
startling posters ; Eileen McGrath, 19, with an amaz-
ing virtuosity in sculpture—surely a girl with a
future—all these awake wonder at their precocity. The
sculpture has more life and variety than has been seen
in any previous exhibition in this gallery. Molly Rohr
is .outstanding in this section; while in design the
work of Molly Butler and in dainty decoration that
of Estelle Waterman is extremely original. And
there are others, first-year students of 13 and 14
years, who promise to make a name for themselves.
In this school there is an enthusiasm and a verve
that promise a renaissance in Sydney art. No
art-lover can afford to miss its show.
# * * *
“Brown Sugar” melts away from Mel-
bourne King’s, it may be for ever, on Friday
week, and “The Naughty Wife” (no other
than Renee Kelly) arrives on the follow-
ing evening. Maud Fane, sternly resolved
to continue her policy of revivals, will fer-
tilise “Primrose” with her smiles for six
nights only at His Majesty’s, commencing
on Saturday; after which “The Cousin from
Nowhere” will resurrect himself, like the
froth on last year’s beer. “Wildflower” is
in her last nights at the Royal, but no such
canards are being whispered near the Athe-
naeum, where you can continue to “Meet
the Wife” for weeks and weeks. An ornate
item is promised by musical amateurs for
December 11 at the Playhouse, where meas-
ures for restoring the apparently-downed
will be applied to the one-time world-famous
melodious feast, “The Geisha,” by the Vic-
torian Opera Company.
❖ * *
The Melbourne Musical Society’s last con-
cert of the season was on a rather more
ambitious scale than usual. The British
Music Society’s string quartette, led by
Alberto Zelman and supported by Ada Free-
man at the piano, gave the Brahms quintet
for piano and strings in F Minor, and the
viola player, Dorothy Roxburgh, and second
violin Bertha Jorgensen joined Richard
Chugg and his flute in the Beethoven “Sere-
nade” with most satisfactory results. The
Malvern Choral Society raised its collective
voice harmoniously in motets by Parry and
settings by Holst of two Psalms for choir,
strings and organ. Conductor Herbert Davis
led his songbirds safely past all pitfalls, and
Edna Coon and Alexander Raff sang like
associate members of the heavenly choir.
** * *
Melbourne Repertory Society selected
almost the dullest of the younger English
playwrights for its latest theatrical tourna-
ment at the Playhouse. C. K. Munro’s
comedy, “At Mrs. Beam’s,” is one of those
tedious exchanges which little theatre com-
panies should avoid as the Devil avoids holy
water and to which they are as inevitably
drawn as a moth to a candle. Even a pro-
fessional troupe composed entirely of stars
of the first magnitude might blench before
the task of playing a timid comedy of errors
enacted in the precincts of a London board-
ing-house. A crowd of amateurs is fore-
doomed to disaster. In spite of all, Letty
Rae as a boarding-house bore, Norman Simp-
son as a gay philanderer and Enid Collins
as a vamp as handsome as her part de-
manded did more than well. But, despite
their efforts, the evening’s entertainment
merely helped to explain the growing popu-
larity of the movies.
Australia is as prolific of comedians as a
surfing-beach of sheiks. Whenever the need
arises the man appears. The latest indige-
nous clown is Syd Beck, who is amusing
Melbourne Tivoli, and promises to bring in
many harvests of laughter. Nellie Wallace
remains the star attraction, nevertheless. The
rest are good average vaudevillains —except
the Monroe Bros. They are as entertaining
as a houseful of smoke.
* * * *
Tears and lamentations, shaken with
laughter and torn by grins, fill the atmo-
sphere at Melbourne Bijou, where Jim Ger-
ald is faltering a long farewell —before com-
ing back for another season. Pantomime
lias called him away for a while, and the
management is scratching the place where
its hair used to grow and wondering how
to fill the yawning gulf the Australian com-
edian will leave.
# sis
“The Palm Beach Girl” is at Hoyt’s
(Melb.). A friend of the author in an
aeroplane dropc a spanner on the head of
the steersman of a motor speedboat in the
crowded harbor of Miami, Florida. Thrills,
love, farce, palm-trees. In “The Cave
Man,” at the Majestic, a handsome coal-
“IS ZAT SO?” AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Eddie “Chiek” Cowan (Richard Taber) puts
a good ’un over on Duffy (Sammy Green).
lumper penetrates to high society, and
although not an English baronet in disguise
marries a fashionable woman and upsets all
film conventions. People who adored Brian
Aherne in the round during the Boucicault
season can now wc-ship him in the flat at
this playhouse. He is appearing in an all -
British picture, elegantly staged, and titled
“The King of the Castle.”
s': * *
Woman has a show of her own: —
The show of Women’s Art Club work at the
Athenaeum Gallery gives some excuse for the gibe
that women painters do love to linger with the
pretty and the sentimental. No outstanding or
arresting compositions catch the eye. The most
effective water-colors hung are by Lilian White,
others close up are Elma Roach, Nora Wilkie, and
Joan Harvey. Marion Jones exhibits two portraits
which, though good, seem to have been left in a
hurry: and the same can be said of a study bj
A. M E. Bale. Among Dora Wilson’s showing is a
city scene, which was bought at once, and a pastel
portrait of merit. Annie Gates’s flowers are about
the best still-life examples, and Aileen Dent 1
also happy in garden studies. Vida Lahey’s landscape
is not up to her standard. Some attractive black-
and-white comes from the pens and brushes of Betty
Paterson Newman, Esther Paterson, Dorothea Francis
and J C. W. Traill. Margaret Baskerville con-
tributes some sculpture, chiefly original studies of
the panels of her Edith Cavell memorial; and Ena
Smith and M. Walsoe are also exhibitors in this
section. There are some nice pieces of painted china
and art pottery by D. Tompkins and E. M. Burrows,
and other bits, less good yet attractive, by A. Gates
F. Burgess and M. Walsoe. The exhibition will
close on Saturday.
** * *
More pictures for Santa Claus: —
William Rowell has made the discovery that the
low westering sun turns the Australian scene into
an enchanted world in which even the dust of time-
payment Fords is converted into something rich
and strange, and in his show at the New Gallery he
“THE MARRIAGE OF BABY KERR,”
AT MELBOURNE PRINCESS.
Jackie Clark as the groom. Baby Kerr as
the bride.
can think of little else. The result is some picture-
frames into which castles, knights in armor, virgins
pursued by giants and other natural resources of
the romantic age could be inserted without seeming
to disagree with what is already there. .Neverthe-
less, this charming artist has his faults. He is
inclined to treat his shadows (considered by all the
greatest masters as of paramount importance) with
disrespect and a brush charged with a pink that
never was outside a screen-star’s rouge-pot. One result
is that half his painting is deficient in the essen-
tial element of mystery. “Golden Gums” is a flash-
ing picture, only lacking in this one desideratum.
In an uncatalogued study of decorative gums, hills
and sunshine, however, it is certainly present.
** * *
Pictures seen in Adelaide lately are aimed
mainly at the flapper, and are a poor lot —
as, for instance, at West’s, where she learns
the charm of being treated rough hy the
late It. Valentino disguised as a buck-
nigger or “Son of the Sheik.” The Majestic
has a good Variety bill, headed by Dampier
and Wallace and a lady who prefers to be
known as a Mystery. Summer has de-
clared itself with a bright open-air show,
run by Billy Maloney; Colin Crane is sing-
ing finely here. And the Royal has had
a short return visit of the gloomy, well-
acted “White Cargo” ; but Duflield’s “Healo”
is just making its first (professional) ap-
pearance.
*❖ * *
Hobart holds an artcraft show: —
The Town Hall houses a brave display. There is
pottery, woodcarving, beaten copper and silverware,
hand-wrought jewellery (this by Alan Walker),
exquisite needlework, including a magnificent clerical
robe made by the inmates of the Magdalen House,
and painting on wood, shawls and so on. A 76-
year-old lady has carried off the blue ribbon in
the raffia section with a masterly point-lace basket;
Ewan Kirby’s electric clock, with its baby dynamo,
attracts a lot of attention; and the beautifully-
dressed dolls of Mrs. Alan Walker fascinate females
from 3 to 90. But it is the pottery section that
so far has accumulated most red wafers.
“Flaming Youth” : “Bobby” Keers, who for
years had held the baton at the Melbourne
Tivoli, but on changing over to the Fullers
became merely one of the orchestra, climbed
back into the conductor’s chair again in
Sydney St. James’s for the last couple of
weeks of “Betty Lee.” He will probably re-
main there for the panto, season. Bob is
a handy man at “fixing the music” for hastily
interpolated mummers—which is the reason
why so many vaudeville people who have
visited Australia write back to Keers: “I
wish I had you here.”
“Filma” : Beryl Mills, who won the Sydney
Guardian’s beauty prize, looks like earning
her salary of £BO a week, given by Union
Theatres Ltd., for six months. Her first
appearance was at Newcastle where she
made a record for the Theatre Royal. She
will move on to other picture-houses served
by or assooiated with the Union Theatres.
She puts on quite a presentable show, chatty
and interesting, coupled with “Movie People
1 Have Met.”
“L.H.P.”: The Rev. Geo. Walters’s
“Joseph of Canaan” was produced at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, in August, 1895, and
ran' some weeks. The cast included
George Rignold (Joseph), Harry Plimmer
(Pharaoh), Jimmy Hazlitt (Potiphar),
William Holman (Jacob), Maud William-
son (Ayesha) and Scot Inglis (Ata) Six
months Inter there was & prospect of the
play being staged at Drury-lane, but the
Examiner refused to license a play of Bib-
lical origin. Yet in 1913 Louis Parker’s
play on the same subject was produced by
Tree at His Majesty’s, London, and in 1914
it was brought to Australia with Frank
Harvey as one of the principals. It wasn’t
as good as the other.
“Pickles”: Londoners lately had a chance
to see and hear the part the cinema and
gramophone are going to play in preserving
history for future generations. Films taken
in England 30 years ago were dug out from
the South Kensington Museum and put
through the projector again. Some of these,
notably one of Queen Victoria’s Diamond
Jubilee procession, astonished the spectators
by the excellence of the photography and by
the remarkable absence of flicker. A recent
exhibition of old films in Sydney was largely
a burlesque, designed, of course, to show the
enormous advance made in the art. Actually
the technical improvement has been very
small. . .
“Clerk” : Chief Commissioner Clapp s film
“The Victorian Railways at Work,” success-
fully screened all over the State, is shortly
to be followed by another which will feature
the beauties of Mount Buffalo, National Park.
Copies of this will be placed on Yankee
tourist liners like the Carinthia and Fran-
conia. The idea is, of course, to lure from the
Ma State and Bananaland the Yankee
millionaires who usually spend most of their
tune and dollars north of the Murray.
“Ancient Prompter” : The quaint ways of
mummers in introducing irrelevant numbers
into plotless musical pieces (B. 18/11/’26)
still amuse. The custom has been handed
down from the palmy days of pantomime,
when vaudeville artists with their own
stunts were engaged for principal parts.
The classic example
No one about! I now perceive my chance
To introduce my little song and dance,
could hardly be bettered. But I remember
a version of “Robinson Crusoe” in a ’tween-
decks scene in which the black-faced com-
edian from the ’Alls —his own librettist —led
up to his “specialty” thus: —
Everyone’s skedaddled. I’m left alone. It’s easy
To do my act “Silence and Pun on the Zambesi!”
“Theseus”: An audience of one is still
possible. Recently at Bundaberg (Q.) it
sat in the cheapest scat. Twice previously
the audience had been a pair. In each of
these instances a company had tried to
retrieve a dud first-performance by giving
a “repeat by request.” There was another
first night not so long ago that panned out
14 people. The company, which numbered
as many, gave patrons their money hack
and went in a body to the pictures. Yet
this is a town where amateurs can pack a
house for a three-nights’ season and where
Wilkie did acceptable business for five suc-
cessive plays.
“Colenso” : When on the shortcomings of
the amateur barnstormer, “Yarra Ben” (B.
2/12/’26) might have mentioned the delay
in starting and the protracted intervals
characteristic of the average non-professional
show. Not one of the last six performances
I have witnessed has commenced on time.
As a rule, 15 minutes late seems to be the
accepted thing-—in one instance 30 minutes
elapsed. Intervals in every case were nearly
twice as long as the average break in the
commercial theatre. The excuse that the
place is generally hired for one or two nights
and that the co. can move its props in only
at the eleventh hour, and doesn’t know its
whereabouts, is a poor one. Amateur and
repertory bodies go in for only the simplest
ot stage furniture, and very often employ
the one hack curtain throughout. I think,
however, that many of the long spells are
intentional; most amateurs gabble their lines
at an incredible speed, and the tedious inter-
vals are necessary to make the play spxn
out to normal time. Eugene O'Neill’s
“Emperor Jones,” at the Sydney Playbox,
show’s how a good thing can he spoilt by
dilatoriness behind the scenes. The six inter-
vals in this play, if the uncanny atmospheric
effect is to be sustained, should he but fleet-
ing pauses, and the house should remain in
darkness. As it was, the prolonged breaks
completely nullified some splendid work,
especially by the Emperor.


: :
: v>\'VAA v v \vy V' \ 1 1 T 177 7/ ,’ 7V77 r 7 7// /v >vvv,v,^/,
V ' - A
&
m
m
N>
sN\
V
ss?
♦f
m
Xn
a
\*\\
V\\
&rss
>^hv,J
Msm
ti'Sf'itm,
v<o\"/ v/sv v*y V\\ %
1. • » <‘.v '. V W»I\
imo
'Vu‘ >
m
More Power
*\• vw a yi„‘'i\'V.{'( : ■•«>•', nr] t. '
]/ , '; /
SaCleonor Engine
c
ROSS is a highly-refined POWER kerosene,
specially proportioned for use in Tractors.
Owing to its exceptional volatility Cross provides
complete combustion. This not only guarantees
all the fuel consumed being converted into
power, but ensures a minimum of unburnt
kerosene portions escaping into the crankcase
to impair the lubricating properties of the oil.
sdf
For sheer pulling power and
freedom from engine trouble
use Cross Power Kerosene.
A New Perfected Tractor Oil
To meet the abnormal lubricating condi-
tions which are peculiar to Farm Tractors,
SHELL TRACTOR OIL-B-
is a heavy-bodied oil which forms a
better piston seal, and successfully resists
the breaking-down effect of kerosene fuel.
sdf
sd
15
CB
□
Tractor Use
CKIBF
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA £ NEW ZEALAND.
Cross Power Kerosene and Shell Tractor Oil “B are on sale at all Stores


300-YARD BEAM
JHE IDEAL TORCH FOR
ALL USES. ■■
THE NEW WINCHESTER FOCUSSING
TORCH throws a narrow beam of light for a
distance of 300 yards. Ideal for all outdoor
purposes. In the car, on the land, boating or
fishing. Nickel Case, 3J-inch lens. Length of
torch 10 inches. Price 21/.
WINCHESTER 100-YARD FOCUSSING TORCH
Fibre ease, well finished. 64in. long. Neat
and compact. Price ”. ... ik/
WINCHESTER PLAIN TORCH, 6£in. long!
Fibre case. Strong and serviceable. Price 8/(j
All Winchester Torches are fitted with patent
Safety Switch, and are remarkably strong.
Spare Batteries for the large torch, 3-cell,'jj/fj
Spare Batteries for the smaller torch, 2-eell, l'/U
Postage on Torches, 9d. Spare Batteries, 6d
SPORTS CENTRE,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
/A
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
"Good Pfellah
Christmas Gifts”
When
XMAS
Comes!
The Best Gift
for Lady
or Gentleman
12 I
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
"Right with the Sun
Poverty
point
“Carlton”: If there are any friends of
the old-time actress Fanny Wiseman left
they might remember her now. The nice,
cheerful old lady—she is past 80 —has for
a good while been crippled with arthritis;
now the sight of one eye is gone, and the
other eye is also affected. Her means are
very slender; and—well, her address is 371
Drummond-street, Carlton. And it is Christ-
mas time.
“Q.Q.” : The J.C.W. firm’s proposal to annex
the Melbourne Rep. Theatre Society seems
to me a splendid business proposition—for
the Firm. In return for 700 members at
two or three guineas per. head, plus door-
money, Gregan McMahon undertakes to pro-
duce five repertory plays per year, with unpaid
actors. I am not satisfied that McMahon can
produce better than our producers—rather
the reverse. But, apart from that, the scheme
takes away from us all that is worth striv-
ing for —the life of the thing, the ideals, and
the hope of some day building our own little
“intimate” theatre. I object to the octopus
combine squashing out all amateur effort, a
thing that is good for the people. It seems
to me that the Melbourne society will split,
and that many of our best players will act
no more.
“Voice Off”: Now that Boucicault’s season
of Barrie plays is ended, I rise to assert, pace
the daily press, that Dot Boucicault did not
disclose much wizardry in his staging. His
crowd in “What Every Woman Knows” was
not the convincing mob that Gaston Mervale
pushed on when he produced the play for
George Musgrove. Mervale had a few police-
men in the crowd, which seemed natural, and
every man had a voter’s card stuck in his hat.
Boucicault’s proletariat mostly wore new
red handkerchiefs round their necks and
looked what they were —supers. In the island
scene in “Mary Rose” everyone’s eye was
caught by the big, bare, flat rock, obviously
designed as the vanishing place for the lady.
It was a crude piece of stagecraft. Now,
had a sheet of plateglass been used on the
well-known principle of Pepper’s Ghost, the
effect would have been perfect. George Rig-
nold used this illusion in “Julius Cmsar”
and in “Midsummer Night’s Dream” with
most convincing results.
“Caul Boy” : Nobody seemed to know any-
thing about _ Matti Bernardi, the Australian
tenor now in Europe, whom Melba raised
suddenly to fame by a few well-placed words
of eulogy. However, the young man was
well known to a small circle six years ago.
He sang in the J.C.W. Opera Co and in an
R.C. choir at Brunswick; and there were
enough people with faith in his future to
organise a benefit concert to send Vm
abroad. A. C. Bartleman trained hi', early
notes.
S.T.S.”: Yes, the film is a great instruc-
tor of youth. I saw lately an ordinary kind
of American domestic drama in which the
young husband, under the influence of liquor
and bad company, was cruel to his wife and
child. At last the wife reached her limit,
and, with a set face, opened a drawer and
took a revolver to him. There was an
immediate yell of delighted approval from
dozens of childish vocies—it was a Saturday
afternoon show. They knew the proper way
to handle the Old Man, bless their little
hearts! In another dozen years there will
be a lot of firearms going off in various
homes where Dad doesn't give complete satis-
faction.
"Bisley” : The mummers will have a good
year in 1927, to judge by the production
programme of the film companies. Phillips’s
newly-formed picture-producing co. calls for
12 pictures for the year; and First National
will probably soon commence its inter-
national producing policy in Australia. For
"The Term” thousands of pounds have been
spent on the “super” list at the rate of fl
per day, easily earned. Lack of continuity
m production, however, makes the living
precarious.
“Hamfat”: A rapid advance has been
made by little Kerrie Kelly, who was Cerid-
when Kelly when she got the best Bulletin
notice of a performance of the Melbourne
Repertory players. She has been only a few
months on the professional stage, but on
the M.L. tour she is to play the chief
woman part in “The Fake.” When Mary
Macgregor, who played it in Sydney, became
ill, Ellen Pollock had to rush into a part
that did not suit her. Miss Macgregor’s con-
tinued illness will give the little ex-amateur
aer opportunity.. A touch of amateurism
lingers; but Kerrie has intelligence and viva-
city, and the professional polish should take
easily.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : When Irene Van-
brugh returned from Australia she announced
her irrevocable determination never to appear
on the stage again. She was then weak in
body and depressed in spirits. She is better
now, and in an
interview at Gol-
der’s Green the
other day she said,
“I shall retire only
when 1 have to —
and I hope that is
a long way off.”
* *
“Q.Q.”: Th e
J.C.W. firm’s pro-
posal to annex the
Melbourne Rep.
Theatre Society
seems to me a
splendid business
proposition for
the Firm. In re-
turn for 700 mem
bers at two or
three guineas per
head, plus door-
mo n e y, Gregan
McMahon under-
takes to produce
five repertory plays
per year, with un-
paid actors. I am
not satisfied that
McMahon can pro-
duce better than our
producers rather
the reverse. But.
apart from that,
the scheme takes
away from us all
that is worth striv-
ing for —the life of
the thing, the
ideals, and the
hope of some day
building our own
little “intimate”
theatre. I object
to the octopus com-
bine squashing out
all amateur effort,
a thing that is
good for the people. It seems to me that
the Melbourne society will split, and that
many of our best players will act no more.
“Retired Critic”: It pains me to read in a
recent Poverty Point contribution that while
the Fullers are the best friends of Australian
mummers, Hugh J. Ward is the worst.
Fullers do give employment to local talent.
It is good quality and cheap; but Ward
spent real coin on his discoveries and “put
them in the big money.” His alone was the
credit of Gladys Moncrieff’s rise. He dis-
covered a lass with the excrescences of
adolescence thick upon her pale face, and
all the gaucheries of a neglected flapper, but
with the one gift—a songbird voice. He had
her trained by his own brilliantly-clever wife,
and made her a world star out of sheer good
nature.
“Evaclar”: Chirpy little Floie Allen, of
the J.C.W. New English Comedy Co., has
turned her eyes towards the Big Smoke and
fame. At the end of the season of “The
Cousin from Nowhere,” in which she has
her most important part, she hopes to set
out. Floie began her stage career with
Oscar Asche, playing Puck in his production
of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and since
then has done comedy, drama, musical
comedy and pantomime.
“L.H.P.”: The resurrected “Trilby” re-
calls many previous Sydney shows. The
original production in 1896 had Reuben Fax
as Svengali and Edith Crane as Trilby.
Among the Australians who struggled for
the small roles were H. R. Harwood, Docy
Stewart, Geo. Majeroni, Frank Skeats,
Jennie Brennan and David Glassford. When
Edith Crane starred here again in 1899-
1900, she repeated “Trilby” w T itk Tyrone
Power as Svengali. They also played “Tess
of the D’Urbervilles” and “The Only Way.”
Cyril Keightley, now a big pot in U.S.A., was
Taffy, and Oily Deering, Jimmy Hazlitt,
Alma Vaughan and Rose Musgrove were in
a cast purely home-made, bar the two prin-
cipals. The American element loomed up
in the 1905 production at Her Majesty’s
with Nance O’Neil in the title-role, John
Glendinning (the first exponent of the role
on any stage) as the Laird, Andrew Robson
as Taffy and Geo. Friend as Gecko. Gaston
Mervale, the original in the first English tour
of the play, made a hit as Svengali, and
Charlie Berkeley. Mario Majeroni, Harry
Overton and Maurice Nodin kept the
flag flying for Australia. Mrs. Henry
Bracy, the Clara Thompson of our younger
operatic days, was Vinard. Mervale re-
peated his fine performance in the Nellie
Stewart revival at the Royal in 1909, when
I-larcourt Beatty made a capital Laird,
Eardley Turner was Taffy and A. L. Pearce
was Billee. Others in the show were Gregan
McMahon (Zou Zou), George Thorne, jun.
(Gecko), Jimmy Atholwood (Bagot), Ross-
lyn Vane (Vinard) and Norman Campbell
Kaw. Mervale was one of the few Svengalis
who really played the piano; he is an accom-
plished musician.
“Yarra Ben” : It is good to see a real actor
on the screen. Martin Harvey in “The
NO TERRORS FOR HIM.
“Ah, Billy, screwed again! And the doctor's told you every time
you get squiffy it’s a nail in your coffin.”
“ 'Sail right, old girl. Won't marrer to me if my coffin’s like a
porcupine — cos, y ’ see, I’ll be dead.”
Only Way” film, now at Melbourne Prin-
cess, gives a cultured and striking perform-
ance, What is more, the picture hands the
lie to those who have persistently asserted
that no good films come out of England.
If John Bull can keep up to this form the
world-market will not be monopolised by
Uncle Sam much longer.
“Lud”: That earnest and very competent
artist Marie Burke is soon to add to her
repertoire “Frasquita,” the Carmen-like
operetta with music by Franz Lehar. Her
personal magnetism may draw the public to
see the piece. It was a failure when pro-
duced in London. But, then, so was “Wild-
flower.”
“C. Ockney”: Cyril Ritchard and Madge
Elliott, the bright and nimble Australian
pair who_ helped many a Williamson singing
and dancing show y to success, are once again
together in London. After separate cabaret
and revue engagements they have joined up
afresh as a vaudeville turn at Holborn
Empire. When they have broadened their
‘ act” —at present too refined—they should
do well on the ’alls.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Vera Pearce, one
°* f ortuna t° artistes in the original cast
of No, No, Nanette,” throughout its great
run, has been engaged for the new musical
comedy “My Son John,” which has a real
plot with dramatic scenes. The music is
by Oscar Straus and the libretto by Ger-
trude Jennings and Graham John. In this
production the popular Billy Merson will
make his first appearance as actor-manager.
Smada”: Fame! “Who is Melba?” was
one of the questions asked in the recent
Queensland State scholarship examinations.
According to the Education Office Gazette,
L„e answers revealed that she was variously
English, American, French and Italian.
Melba figured as “a noted fortune-teller,”
•"a champion tennis-player,” and “a Shaks-
pearean actress who has been suspected of
murdering people in the plays, but some think
this is untrue.” Another bright Queensland
youngster asserted that Melba was "the
president of Texas, who in 1925 released
12,000 criminals and gunmen from prison.”
“R.K.D.N.”: Australia’s old theatrical
friend George T. Huntley has made the hit
of the piece in a dramatisation of “Gentle-
men Prefer Blondes” at the Times-square
Theatre, N.Y. Huntley is the close-fisted
baronet, Sir Francis Beckman. Just about
the time the play—in which hubby John
Emerson has collaborated with Anita Loos
—was due for production, the British Lord
Chamberlain refused to allow another piece
by the same authors, “The Fall of Eve,” to
be staged in London. But their farcical
comedy, “The Whole Town’s Talking,” is
an established success at the Strand.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The threat to convert
the Queen’s Hall into a cinema has plunged
the music world in mourning. If the Queen’s
goes, London will be without any proper
concert hall, for the Royal Albert, except
for big orchestral or choral events, is quite
unsuitable for musical affairs. Even orches-
tral and choral performances are not heard
at their best within its too spacious and
badly-constructed area. For singers and
violinists particularly, the results are often
ghastly. Covent Garden Opera House is at
present given over to jazz; Hammerstein’s
London Opera is a picture-house; the new
St. James’s is no longer heard of as a con-
cert-hall ; and Steinway Hall has been
diverted from its purpose. The Wigmore and
£Eolian halls hold only about 500 to 600,
so that London’s facilities for hearing music
have now been reduced most seriously. The
depression in the English concert world is
close to tragedy. Brand Lane, the Manches-
ter impresario, announces, too, that jazz and
broadcasting have brought in sight the end
of his long series of high-class concerts.
“Philm Up” : A Hungarian nobleman, ex-
Lieutenant Tibor Mindszents, is hurrying
over to Hollywood to apply for the position
in the movies left vacant by the death of
Valentino. His principal qualification is
that he bears a striking personal resemblance
to the late star, and the chances are that
he will get the job.
“Bally Rogan”: I wonder what salary
Little Tich is going to find in his Tivoli
pay-envelope every Friday? According to
Edward H. Maas, son-in-law of Harry Rick-
ards, Tich drew £250 a week when he was
here 25 years ago. Chung Ling Soo was
the_ highest paid vaudevillain of those days,
at £4OO, but he had a big company of wire-
pullers to pay out of that weekly wad. Bar-
nold, with his performing dogs, headed by
Drunken Dan, got £2OO a week in 1910.
Marie Lloyd, Cinquevalli, Martinette, Ken-
yon, Chirgwin, Sandow and Hackenschmidt
got over £lOO a week. Julian Rose got
£175 on his first visit.
“A.R.C.” : For “Goldilocks’ ” information
(B. 25/11/’26), Harry Overton passed out
a couple of years ago at Bondi. I first knew
him in the ’eighties, “supporting” comedian
John L. Hall. Though never a distinguished
actor, he played many sound parts. He was
in “Joseph of Canaan” with Rignold; but
his best bit of character work was his Gab-
bett with Alfred Dampier, in “Natural Life,”
at H. M. Theatre, Sydney, in ’96 or there-
away. In that part Overton had a denture
made to wear over his own teeth; his arti-
ficial fangs gave him a horrific appearance.'
“Moreton”: A Mills bomb dropped in the
niidst of a local authorities conference held
in Brisbane the other day Avould hardly have
caused more consternation than the demand
of the Performing Rights Association for
performing fees for copyright music.
“Repudiate responsibility,” suggested the
chairman; and the proposal was on the point
of being carried when the treasurer said
sorrowfully that it was no use kicking; his
council (Brisbane) had taken legal advice,
and learned that they were undoubtedly
liable. The only thing to do was for the
councils individually to compromise on the
best terms they could obtain for a “blanket”
contract covering their halls. This advice
was accepted, and ’waybaek representatives
departed, cheered up by the thought that
their hamlets were so small and remote that
the P.R.A. would never be able to track
them down even if “There Ain’t No Flies
on Auntie” was sung in the Shire Hall.
“John’s Wood”: During the week open-
ing October 18, Harrod’s, the mammoth
department store at Knightsbridge (Eng.),
held a special gramophone exhibition by
arrangement with “His Master’s Voice” direc-
tion. Evelyn Scotney, Una Bourne and Peter
Dawson were among the artists engaged to
contribute to the afternoon concerts; and
records made by these three Australians
were played in illustration of the progress
of the machine.
THE PANTOMIME.
[FOR THE BOLLETIN.]
When Uncle takes the kids to see
The pantomime at Christmas-time,
He does his duty manfully.
Each little one must see the fun ;
He loves to see their faces glow ;
He takes the horde, and though he's bored
He sits right through the silly show.
As Uncle’s eyesight isn't good.
To front-stall seats his mob he treats;
He pays attention, as he should,
To every limb that’s nice and slim.
The ballets mitigate his woe;
The children’s glee is good to see —
To-morrow on his own he’ll go!
Of fairy tales he is not fond,
Though he can tell them very well.
He rather liked that slender blonde,
And did he think he’d caught a wink ?
How good Tt was of him to take
The children gay to see the play—
And only for the children’s sake!
N.S.W.
A. H.A.


What is Her
Gift to Him?
There’s her heart in it, and a good deal of
“head,” too. It is well thought out, this gift.
She wants to give pleasure, not just for a
day, but every day for years ahead.
And, of course, she wants the world to
think well of him. Perhaps there is some
thought for herself as well.
She likes smooth cheeks in a man. Not
just for a day—beneath the
mistletoe —but every day! And
a woman knows how it helps a
man to feel well groomed.
So she gives him a “Valet,” the self-
sharpening razor that will renew his affec-
tion for itself and its giver every morning
of a lifetime.
' a
i I
/ . ::
ti
BRITISH MADE.
OF ALL DEALERS.
No. 50. —Nickel Set. In liighly-polished
nickel case with domed lid, contains heavily-
silvered self-stropping “Valet” Razor, twelve
tested “Valet” blades, and strop of selected
shell horsehide in hinged container. OK/ m
Complete as illustrated
C 6
VALET
Safety Razor
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.,
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia:—
Phipson & Company, Ltd., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sr
No. 55.—Model “C” Set. Contains self-
stropping “Valet” Razor, three blades and
leather strop. In highly-polished nickelled
case with hinged strop container and
nickelled blade sheath, lined velvet and i j
satin. Complete as illustrated IV/-
Visitors to Brisbane!
HOTEL
Book up at the
CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
fS
«*■
9
Vv\
d
AAAAAAI
SHAMPOOS
leave a fragrance like
flowers , in the hair .
Instead of a soapy shampoo odour.
Amami leaves behind a delicate
perfume that every girl likes. The
fragrance comes from the Otto of
Roses, Blue Lavender and Bergamot
that are blended with forty-four
other ingredients in Amami.
r jridcufiuqkt
dmcmiiufM f
You can buy Amami at any
Chemist’s,Hairdresser’s or big Store.
No. 1 for Dark Hair, No. 5 for
Fair Hair. 9d. each, complete with
the special Lemon Rinsing Powder.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR
Representatives ;
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1369
Luxury (jift
Price:
Half -a-Guinea
7&r
m
s*'WXxC a a / !
i Mi
38
I/T is the price complete of a
101 0 Sp ar y e t C-Syphon (quart
size) which provides an ever-ready
supply of crisp, cooling soda water
at a nominal coSt.
TJOR mixing with alcohol, fruit
cordials or milk there is nothing
better, nothing cheaper.
SYPHONS & BULBS
#TT Demonstrations now proceeding
jj at all leading Stores everywhere.


%
.'no Baker
ffl
StE*
'''USTR**-'
Christmas
Gifts
at the
House of
Steel.
No. IS— Complete Folding Mani-
cure Set, with Xylonite fittings, 63/-
complete, or with Pearl and Pearloid
fittings, 84/- complete.
wW I l-jn --rJ rj
o BM»a
9U&
No. 15—liady’s Manicure Set, with
Xylonite fittings, 35/- each, or with
Horn Ameritli Handle fittings, 33/6
each.
No. 14 —Cady’s Folding Manicure
Set, with Xylonite fittings, 25/-
complete.
E33338H
No. 11 —Lady’s Folding Manicure
Set, with Xylonite fittings, 17/6
complete.
Any of above, Post Free for Cash
with Order.
Initials stamped on cases, 1/6
Wo Jno. Baker,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The APEX Whip
MAKES A FINE PRESENT
FOR A STOCKMAN.
It is a beautiful piece of Australian Work-
manship in two-color plaiting. The design
is neat and artistic, and for an extra 2/-
we will plait up to four initials in the handle.
Price, 75/-
“K’burra” Stockwhips*
“K’burra STOCKWHIPS are guaranteed
kangaroo right through with inside plaited
belly. There are no better whips.
THONGS: 6ft.
12-plait: 17/-
16-plait: 19/-
20-plait: 23/6
HANDLES: 16-pla
Loaded Handles tor 9ft. Thongs are i/6 more.
GENT.’S K’BURRA RIDING WHIPS, 24-plait, 21/-; poet 6d.
LADIES’ K’BURRA RIDING WHIPS, 24-plait, 21/6; Post 6d.
WRITE FOR OIIR BOOKLET OF XMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD. 395G s Xy. ,rert
Legal Notice.
D URSUANT to an Order of his Honor Mr.
* Justice McFarlan in Chambers made
in the Action One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-six Number 804 in which JOHN
SINCLAIR is Plaintiff and AGNES
McLEOD Defendant the persons claiming to
be next of kin to Margaret Sneddon late of
40 McKillop Street Geelong in the State of
Victoria who died on the Twenty-seventh day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-three are by their Solicitors on or
before the Twenty-ninth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven to
come in and prove their Claims at the
Office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts Mel-
bourne or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order. The Twelfth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven at
eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the said
Office is appointed for adjudicating upon the
Claims.
Dated the 30tli day of November One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-six.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Chief Clerk.
Missing Friends.
CRANCIS MORRISSEY, formerly of
I" 1 Hawera, New Zealand, last heard of at
Todliunter, New South Wales (1918), is
requested to communicate at once with
Welsh. McCarthy, Bcccliey and Houston,
Solicitors,
Hawera. New Zealand.
17
P7 l
WW
nryi
u
it.
&
WHEREVER man lives electricity is his will-
ing servant. It brings comfort and conveni-
ence to his home, lightens his labor and makes
rapid transportation and communication easy,
WHEREVER man lives, the International
General Electric Co serves him through
convenient, local representation.
ARGENTINA—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Rosario de Santa Fe,
Tucuman.
AUSTRALlA—Australian General Elec-
tric Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
BRAZlL—General Electric, S. A., Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo.
CENTRAL AMERiCA International
General Electric Company Inc., New
Orleans, La., U S. A.
CHlLE—lnternational Machinery Co.,
Santiago, Antofagasta, Valparaisb, Ni-
trate Agencies, Ltd., Iquiqtic
CHINA —Andersen, Meyer & Co., I.td.,
Shanghai.
COLOMBlA—Wesselhoeft & Poor, Bar-
ranquilla, Bogota, Medellin.
CUBA—General Electric Company of
Cuba, Havana, Santiago.
DUTCH EAST INDlES—lnternational
General Electric Co., Inc., Soerabaia,
Java.
ECUADOR —Guayaquil Agencies Co.,
Guayaquil.
EGYPT—British Thomson-Houston Co.,
Ltd., Cairo.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
International General Electric Co.,
Inc., London.
GREECE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Franpaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris, France
HOLLAND—Mijnssen & Co., Amster-
dam.
INDlA—lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Calcutta, Bombay, Bangalore.
JAPAN —International General Electric
Co., Inc., Tokyo, Osaka.
MEXlCO—General Electric, S. A., Mex-
ico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey,
Tampico, Veracruz, El Paso, Texas.
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical &
Engineering Co., Ltd., Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, Christchurch.
PARAGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A. f
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
PERU—W R. Grace & Co., Lima.
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS—Pacific Com-
mercial Co., Manila.
PORTO RlCO—international General
Electric Co., Inc., San Juan.
PORTUGAL AND COLONlES—Socie-
dade Iberica de Construcoes El6ctricas,
Lda., Lisbon.
SOUTH AFRICA—South African Gen-
era! Electric Co , Ltd. Johannesburg,
Capetown.
SPAIN AND COLONIES —Sogiedad
Iberica de Construcciones Electricas,
Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao
SWITZERLAN D—Trolliet Fr£res,
Geneva.
URUGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Montevideo.
VENEZUELA —Wesselhoeft & Poor.
Caracas.
ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING
COMPANIES
BELGIUM AND COLONIES—Soci£t£
d’Electricit6 et de Mecanique, S. A.,
Brussels.
CHlNA—China General Edison Co.,
Shanghai
FRANCE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd.,
Rugby England.
ITALY AND COLONlES—Compagma
Gene rale di E?.ettricita, Milan
JAPAN —Shibaura Engineering Works,
Tokyo Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd. Ka-
wasaki, Kanagawa-Keti.
Int.-13-26
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.. INC., SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
>3^.
« ' >
ay =s
X
o^-^aa
Sm
rF.V
/*
>. ■ <.
M
Hi
RP
> *-* % \
it!
/■•■
, '•' r;r-.--vH
'■ rvr
:&U i‘N
ll<-
w,iiLc»- v —
-'r
prj
nvT®' C
Ot‘
MS
#W5*
£S
ft
-S3
J
tei
lK>yß»t^w.wrw<nT«r«iji;iainß


Fortunes in Tobacco.
BIG MONEY is being invested in land in
Southern Rhodesia (Africa’s California).
You should follow.
Meikles (Gwelo) Ltd., Southern Rhodesia,
South Africa, will send details of Land for
Sale at from 10/- to 20/- per acre, suitable
for Cattle, Tobacco, Cotton, Maize and other
crops.
Fortunes made in tobacco this year.
Write now whilst values are low.
Missing Friends.
WILL FRANK MCDONALD, brother of
JEAN, NANCY, JESSIE and
MOLLIE, write to Nancy and Jessie, c/o
Melbourne Hospital.
UUGH MANSON, or any person knowing
L* his whereabouts, please communicate
immediately with J. HARVEY HILL,
Solicitor, Lake Cargelligo.
IONES-WATTS.—John Jones married
O Sarah Watts in 1842. The descendants
of their brothers and sisters (advantage)
write Mr. Telfer, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
JF DOUGLAS CARLISLE McALISTER, who was
last heard of as residing at Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, son of Mrs. Margaret Wylie McAlister, late
of Muswell Hill, London, England, will communicate
with Darb.vshire and Gillett, Solicitors, 42 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, W.A., he may hear of something to
his advantage.
**4* “! ■
*C
V
Chailis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Write
to
Desk B.
The Martin Ditcher
Gives the best crop because it ditches,
cleans and sweetens the land. Does the
work of 100 men. Costs little and does
a lot.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street,
Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Light Square,
Adelaide.
S.B.
//ost ffolirooASays -
“I brew my sauce in the
good old fashioned way.
s Aye, and then I mature it
an old wine.”
\4
-\-S
A
Si
*&'■
S
ROOKS
UCE
i
AST
1/ «u
fc
0t T '“ V "V r^I ,M-H«
1 ! ¥,4
r»
ii fi j
in i I
'>...
'* v^„. ,
‘ i <
m
\\
4
v\
X
V
*“ W* l *'
r«vi Wf .
W*
X~
*RP«JP?S?:
**»
*X*Sc
iwmoM*Mrttm ii
inaiimmitin
Electricity,
Man’s Servant
Comfort, safety and convenience have been in-
creased by the development of adequate and proper
lighting and lighting equipment.
Drudgery of household work has been largely
eliminated by the use of electrical appliances.
Toil in industry has been greatly lessened by the
numerous electrically operated labor saving de-
vices and equipment.
Safe and comfortable speedy transportation and
communication is now possible because of electric
power and control.
Disease and suffering have been reduced through
scientific electrical apparatus and equipment.
World-Wide—wherever man lives —the Interna-
tional General Electric Company, its associated
manufacturers and local representatives make all
these advantages available to man* in every part
of the world.
Electricity, Man’s Servant
is yours to command. Our local representatives
make this service immediately available to you.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., INC., SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
fflifni
up-to-date
DECORATIO
in the HOME,
use
RIPOLIN
PAINT
and Beautifies.
procurable everywhere:
Special Ripuliu
Undercoating
Preferred.
fsd
fd
qC®
Thirty years of scientific development
in the factory^—thirty years of honest
and skilful merchandising—have estab-
lished the fame of Ripolin throughout
the civilised world. Every European
country, South America, Africa, Aus-
tralia, from Siberia to India and all of
North America as well have approved
and accepted Ripolin.
All Leading Paint Distributors
Stock Ripolin.
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Motors, Yachts, Hospitals, etc.
Write for Color Card and Booklet to
L. A. CORMACK
(FACTORY REP.),
I Underwood St. (off 35 Pitt St.),
SYDNEY.
Telephone 83284.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
STANDARD AGENCIES PTY., LTD., 379
Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD., 171 Elizabeth
Street, BRISBANE.
CLARKSON, LTD., 122 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
Amusements.
YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: TRILBY.
PALACE: IS ZAT SO?
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS,
Direction. ... Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
THEATRE ROYAL:
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES: BETTY LEE.
• FULLERS’ THEATRE:
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Lid
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
('ELEBR IT Y VA UDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
» WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PRIMROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WILD F LOWER.
KING’S THEATRE:
BROWN SUGAR.
A THEN M U M THEA T R E,
' MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People” Co.
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
JV| \J ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MONTE BLUE and DOROTHY DEVORE in
The Comedy-drama
THE MAN UPSTAIRS.
By the author of “Seven Keys to Baldpate.”
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
IVIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOY T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
*' MELBOURNE.
BEBE DANIELS in
THE PALM BEACH GIRL
ALSO
TOM MIX and EVA NOVAK in
NO MAN’S GOLD.
Prices as usual.
Public Notice.
MOTICE is hereby given that the owners of the
undermentioned Australian Patents are desirous
of entering into arrangements to supply all require
ments of the public for working the inventions by
way of license or otherwise: —
No. 10313/22,
“INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE,”
No. 10314/22,
“IMPROVEMENTS IN POWER PLANTS.”
Further information may .be had on application
to COL LI SON AND CO„ Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne.


Dependable
GUNS
and
RIFLES
Attractively Priced
at
Mick Simmons’
No.
No. 2.
2—STEVEN’S “LITTLE SCOUT”
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 22-calibre,
18-in. round steel barrel, open rear
and knife-edged front sights ; 267-
weight about 211 b.
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/3; other
States 2/2.)
sta®
No. 5.
No. 5 STEVENS “FAVOURITE”
RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F. or
W.R.F., round 24-in. barrel, case-
hardened frame, solid breech-block,
take-down action, open front and
sporting rear sights; weight,
411 b.
(Postage, N.S.W. 1/9; other
States 3/2.)
No. 26.
No. 26 REMINGTON lIAMMER-
LESS REPEATING RIFLE, Model
12a, 22-cal., solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 22-in. round barrel,
handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long-
rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and
open front sights; £5/57-
weight, 4Jlb.
(Carriage paid.)
No. 14.
No. 14—THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.i..
GUN, 12-gauge, top-lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, re-
bounding locks, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock ; £3/ \ /Q
weight about 71b.
(Carriage paid A
No. 25.
No. 25—8.5. A. D.B. HAMMERLESS
SHOT-GUN, 12-gauge, 30in. barrels,
both choke, nitro proof, fluid com-
pressed steel barrels, automatic safety
pistol grip; weight
about 6flb
(Carriage paid.)
£l4/5/-
No. 1.
No. I—AME R I C A N
SINGLE-
BARREL BREECH-LOADING
GUN, 410-gauge, top-lever. Siemen’s
steel barrel, 28-in. solid, case-
hardened. rebounding lock;
weight about 411 b
(Carriage paid.)
55/-
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
“The World’s Greatest Sports
Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
Branches;
City, Suburbs, Newcastle, Brisbane.
Commonwealth Cash and
Conversion Loan.
A safe investment —
a good interest return!
There is no investment safer than Commonwealth Loan
securities.
The interest on this Loan is 5? per cent, per annum, and is
payable half-yearly on 15 th February and 15 th August.
The interest is free of State Income Tax, and will remain so
up to the end of the period for which the money is lent. Investors
may lend their money for 6, 11 or 16 years.
Interest commences from the day the money is lodged. Mpney
lying idle is costly to the owner.
All persons having holdings in the per cent, and 5 per cent.
Loans maturing on 15th December, 1 92 7, may convert into this new
Loan. As conversion will be effected as from 15 th December,
1926, holders have the opportunity of gaining the higher interest
rate of per cent, twelve months before their present securities
mature.
Conversion may be made of these securities without lodging
any cash subscription, and cash subscriptions may be lodged with-
out making any conversions.
Cash subscriptions and conversion applications are now being
received. Full particulars may be obtained from and applications
lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or
member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Commonwealth Treasury.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
GOOD fortune will not always come a man’s way; but
any smoker may be lucky if he will. A GBD will
prove a winner every time, and the one to back con-
sistently is the new Silver-mounted GBD at 12/6. To dis-
tinguish it from the Standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears a
small GBD disc inlaid in the mouthpiece. The real point of
difference, however, in addition to the flush silver mount, lies
in the specially selected grains ; year by year fewer of them are
available. Ask your tobacconist to show you a few, and
convince yourself of the beauty of the briar.
be hicbp.
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are
invited to Box 765,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Shape No.
2/4369
fdf
Best for liwaiii
Mothers,
phflAroii,
rs
lllllt
;
wmm
m
*
m
W
9
►
ml
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Hayhem: It wasn’t even the beginning of
a precedent. In the English case the House went
to the country on the bill. Lang didn’t go to the
country on his proposal to abolish the Council. What
the Governor did he did in order to drive him there.
T.A.S.: A complicated cocktail of mixed meta-
phors. We like your moon that “unwinds her silver-
filming spools, and weaves her spell for a worm that
squirms in life’s unlit cocoons”... .L.R.8.: Threnody
upon your moke is sincere, but it isn’t poetry....
L. : “Montague” needs polishing and shortening.
Other hopeless... .W.J.S.: Innocuous album rhymes.
....Pete: Last public appearance of Marks-Moir car
was at Sydney rnotor-show months ago. Not seen
since. Wege Motor, Ltd., is still alive and kicking
at 22 King William-street, Adelaide... .Eeze: You
ramble too much to be convincing.. . .Mocha: Figura-
tively speaking there’s more chicory than coffee in
it F.S.H.: Well enough told, but distasteful
E.H.L.: Interesting of its kind, but unsuitable
D.M.R.: Spud humor not properly developed; verse
mere jingle.. . .L.H.C.: W’e hate people to die in
the last verse M.A.R: Uninspired outburst
G.A.S.: The conversation is unreal.... C.M.F.: Your
appeal for the sanctity of that tomb shall be given
space even if we have to leave “Bellerive” out:
Halt! Stay your feet! Here lies She Who is Not.
I buried her in this bush-place with many a tear.
Oh, do not lightly picnic on this spot;
And do not throw your empty bottles here!
Griffo: Glad you feel that you could “write as
well as that man if you had the mind.” The mind
is, of course, the difficulty S.R.N.: The man who
determines to get drunk in order to be Bohemian is
a fly in the ointment... .P.L.G.: As it’s a first
offence, you are cautioned —that you may succeed if
you cut the forced rhymes V.: Not quite
S.V.T.: Graceful; but it is ornamented with last
century’s jewels, dull from over-wear R.L.K.:
Such a small thing should be a highly-polished gem.
L.H.C.: “Bayonet” spills too much gore
A.R.L.: Nearly galloped in. .. . J.A.K.: The medi-
cine is hard to take S.W.S.: Your pauseless love-
shriek left us in a state of coma R.J.M.: Man
who rushes out and explains himself to the silent
bush deserves to be snake-bitten... .W.G.L.: Blank
verse too prosy... .R. Lever: Rather nice, but lacks
strength W.L.: You are young yet, and will get
over ideas like “The Poor Orphan Boy” ; also, the
verse, which is even and well rhymed, will improve.
. ...H.D.: We’ve experienced brighter Christmases
than those, thank the Lord !... .F.C.F.: Passed on as
requested F.R.A.: Not life enough in the telling.
....Augustus W.: Sorry to hear “the golden days
has met their d00m.”... .Bellerive: Your “Cattle
Thief” is thrice welcome:—•
Thro’ the bush for freedom rode
A hunted cattle thief ;
Mounted police were on he’s trail,
Led by their tactful chief.
Speedly over fallen logs,
He’s gallant horse did bound;
Brilliant lightning lit the sky,
And thunder claps did sound.
The morrow being calm and bright,
The police sought here and there,
And found the horse and rider dead,
Killed by the lightning glare.
“Lifeless,” exclaimed the chief,
“Grim and sudden was he’s end;
Tragically a vivid flash
Upon him did descend.”
Yolanda: Bright, but too rapturous. Let’s hear
from you again... .G.8.J.: But there is no original
work there R.R.P.: No room for your tournament.
R.L.A.: Racing story loses by a long head
M. : Aged sentimentalist and romantic organ-
grinder deported... .M.E.H. (M.L.) : The booklets
are published by the New Settlers’ League of Aus-
tralia and may be had from Archibald Gilchrist,
65 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. Price Is. 6d. each.
G.D.S.: Your
tale of killing a tiger
By a bloke with a title and cigar
will not supply cash to tan the trophy H.L.:
The only novelty in it is rhyming “mine” with
“time”... .M.C.: The mice have got at it. Pale
Death is pictured as “nibbling through your net of
flesh”....Out Back: Yes, Lawson did it better. But
yours isn’t so awful... .Pat: “Australia” doesn t
rhyme with “failure,” and never will. You make
a holy mess of “The Holy City”.... G. J.: It isn’t
poetry, but the sentiment is fine M.M.C.: Don’t.
Chips: No; it is not “to be continued” in this
paper. We don’t see how it could be, as you assure
us that “Paul was convicted of murder and hung!”
’....J. Scott: Call that a story? R.W.K.: Pretty,
but Las been said 10,000 times before just as
prettily T.X.K.: —
Find me a happy phrase, both neat and witty,
To fit in nice and slick :
And lend me then, to polish off my ditty,
A rhyming die.
Often we’ve darkly suspected that that’s how it was
done L.R.8.: You might try it in a less joggly
metre, but even then it will have to fight hard for
a place.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.W.8.: In other drawings for other papers the
same thieves have filched every other known musical
instrument... .M.S.: Work on a larger scale and
strengthen your line 8.R.: But a faint likeness.
. ...8.8.A.: Canary-pudding joke insipid; the draw-
ing appears to have been done with a rasp....
P.M.D.: As bumpy as a cross road. . . .R.E.H.: Unless
their tongues wag humorously, flappers even with
bosker legs don’t stand a chance... .W.J.A.: Try
one of the Sydney Sunday papers. .. .T.8.G.: One of
the gags is a war-time relic; the drawings are
splotchy E.S.: Stayed down for 10 Y.K.: Too
weak to leave its corner. .. .C.A.R.C.: Mere freakish
pencil studies L.W.: Commanded but a fleeting
glance C.S.: Not werth if.
“Nikko”: Wanganui, the progressive
Maoriland river town that prides itself on
having the best art gallery in the Dominion,
has been looking round for something worthy
to hang on the extensive walls. After get-
ting in touch with J. B. Manson, the assis-
tant director of the Tate Gallerv. it was
arranged that he should try to induce well-
known British artists to send pictures on
loan. Twenty-three have responded, and a
fine collection will shortly be despatched to
M.L., including a couple of Sargent can-
vases. Wanganui had hopes of hanging on
loan some famous Old Masters, but the
soaring values of these is a factor to be
taken into consideration by trustees before
letting them travel across the world and
risk loss by accident or theft.


?**v
d
Delicacy played
no part in this
earliest ivritingl
Imagine keeping
a golf score by this
cave-man s writing
methods ! Your game
woidd be replete with
holes-in-one'' (one
hole in one day)! Ten
minutes of play and
ten hours of scoring .
Through all the ages
of writing we have
finally reached the
stage of perfection —•
Eversharp. So at-
tractive, so convenient
and so easy-writing.
A pencil that no one
able to write should
be without.
There is only one
MffiRSBARP
The name is on the pencil
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for
Australia
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd.,
Remington House, Liverpool Street. Sydrey.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Bank of New South Wales,
30th September* 1926.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circu-
lation . . £592,036 0 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest and
Rebate .. 55,587,,507 12 10
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held
for Doubtful Debts, Amount at
Credit of Investments Fluctua-
tion Account, and Amounts Due
to Other Banks)
Paid-up Capital £6,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 4,400,000 0 0
Profit and Loss—.
£1,230,314 14 6
L e .5 ,s I nterim
Dividends to
30th Jun e,
1926
£450,000 0 0
780,314 14 6
£59.179,543 12 10
8,719,031
11,180,314 14 6
„ £79,078,889 12 7
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits as per Contra 3,116,255 3 11
£82,195,144 16 6
Coin, Bullion,
Government
Leg nl Tender
Notes and
Cash at
Bankers .. £
Notes of other
Banks
Money at short
call in London
S h o r t-dated
British
Treasury Bills
1 nvestments—
British
and Colonial
Government
Securities. .
Municipal
and other
Securities .. -
One by other
Banks
Bills Receivable
in London and
Remittances
in transit . .
ASSETS.
13,393,269 11
24,499 15
360,000 0
770,000 0
8,946,231 8
488,004 0
993,062 6
5,206,674 15
2
0
0
0
2
0
2
7
£30,181,741 16
Bills Discounted and Loans and
Advances to Customers.. .. 48,017,147 16
Bank Premises . . . . . . 880,000 0
1
6
0
£79,0/8,889 12 7
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, as per
Contra 3,116,255 3 11
£82.195,144 16 6
Profit and Loss, 30th September, 1926,
To Interim Dividends for Quarters
ended 31st December, 1925, 31st
March, 1926, and 30th June, 1926,
at 10 per cent, per annum, paid
in terms of Clause 105 of Deed of
Settlement out of the Year’s profits £ 450,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows : —
To Quarter’s Divi-
dend to 30th
September, 1926,
at the rate of
10 per cent, per
annum out of the
Year’s profits ..£150,000 0 0
~ Bonus of 10/- per
Share out of the
Year’s profits . . 150,000 0 0
~ Augmentation of
the Reserve Fund 350,000 0 0
~ Balance carried
forward .. .. 130,314 14 6
780,314 14 6
£1,230,314 14 6
Dr. Reserve Fund, 30th
To Balance (used in the business of
the Bank) £4,750,000 0 0
£4,750.000 0 0
By Amount from lust Account . . .£130,755 10 0
~ Balance of Year’s Profits after,
deducting Rebate on Current Bills,
Interest on Deposits, paying In-
come, Land and other Taxes
amounting to £234,867 Os. 4d.,
reducing valuation of Bank Prc-
niiseiv providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations
in the value of Investment Securi-
ties, and including recoveries
from Debts previously written off
as bad 1,099,559 4 6
OSCAR LINES, General Manager. ALFRED G. MILSON \
F. D. HOBBS, Chief Accountant. HARRINGTON PALMER/
Audited, 19th November, 1926.
Auditors.
Have you heard the
The NEW E
ď
It is magic, indeed. Imagine
a phonograph so perfect that
it will not betray itself in the
presence of the living artist
—that has actually under-
gone such a test, publicly,
over . 6000 times! If there
were only one so marvellous
an instrument, if there were
only one New Edison—it
would be placed amongst
the treasures of the world.
But we have full stocks of the New
Edison—enough to supply everyone
who wishes to buy a phonograph for
Christmas.
AMU
Ml
L
DEMONSTRATIONS AND CATALOGUES AT
SYDNEY —The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE—W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE —S. A. Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings,
Gilbert Place.
oI£S2 UI^ E ~ The Edison Shop, 238 Collins Street,
?FS£^w?^ ographs ’ Ltd -> 653 Ha y Street.
LAUNCESTON— -Wills & Co. Ptw. Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale Only:—
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FEATURES OF
THE NEW EDISON.
1. Only instrument sold fully equipped
to play all ■makes of records per-
fectly.
2. Music of new power and beauty of
realism never before achieved. Gives
you music as you never hoped to
hear it.
3. Edison music is so real that it does
not betray itself when directly com-
pared with living artists.
Jj.. Record stops automatically. No
needles to change.
5. Cabinets of exquisite finish and
design that are exact reproductions
of authentic period furniture.
6. Edison disc records are practically
free from wear and breakage.
7. Comparative tests, in your ovm
home, with any machine, -gladly
arranged.


>***'•
Get the Skins
That is the first necessity. But the last essential is
not least. It is most important with your
RABBIT, FOX, KANGAROO and all other
skins. Get top values for them.
SEND YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
They are live, reliable selling agents, and sell on
commission only. They make it their sole business
to secure top market prices for all clients.
[3
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROGK
ROPE WORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
370 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vie.
A
SMOKE
Hotels and
obacconists,
đ
f 25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
f Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 Georgs Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciufc
Beil Cigar Factory.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Cat com-
panies. * The Cat Monthly
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
W&W26.
mmmmm
UK
I/ondon Offiee:
"Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES.
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd!,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Nature's Loving ‘Proxy—
(lke
Watchful Mother
and watchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who vton’t
take risks vJidi “His
High ness”—the batrp—hut
keep him and bonns
bj? giving small doses dail^
of
KRUSES
< TKis safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises {be dis-
tress caused b$ tee{hing and
vaccination, besidescbecking
{be development of o{ber
ailments that retard tbe
progress of young children.
Cooling in Summer —Reliable Always,
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular fhan ever, because
it does all fhat is claimed
for it —and more,
See diat sou get die genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptp Ltd., on the label.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. N&2O.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
the mount lyell chemical works,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Elsinore” : Is one of the brightest gems
in S. Australia’s crown a brummy diamond?
Scottish papers are alleging that a Reverend
Patrick Bell made the first model of a reap-
ing (stripping) machine 100 years ago. It
was never patented, and was given to the
Dundee Museum, whence, they allege, it was
stolen. This year will see a centenary cele-
bration.
* * * *
“Alastor” : The Bardic chair for the Welsh
eisteddfod of 1928- -it’s the prize for the
composer of the best ode —will be made of
Queensland timbers, and will 'be designed
and made by the Queensland Government
Works Department. It will carry an ; in-
scription in Welsh, meaning “Awake! ’Tis
day!” and will bear also the Australian
coat-of-arms. The St. David’s Society at
Ipswich is responsible.
“Bod”: Yes, but what is the use of pay-
ing double “Fragile” postage rates (B.
4/11/'26) ? A short time ago I sent a
child’s doll to Sydney to have a new head
on. “Fragile” postage on return was 3s. (id.;
cost of new head, 10s. (id. When the parcel
was opened the new head was found smashed
in by the post-office iron stamp. I had a
go at the Postal Department, but learned
there was no redress.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: Struck a rabbit-boning fac-
tory out west (N.S.W.) the other day.
Several men were employed extracting
bunny’s skeleton, and the meat was boxed
up and sent to Sydney at the rate of two
tons per diem. The boss told me it formed
the chief ingredient of pork sausages, ham
and chicken paste and various other mys-
teries. Personally I’d prefer a Cambridge
rabbit sausage to the pork I’ve seen on its
native heath. The cotton-tail is at least a
clean feeder.
* * * *
“Tim Tiki” Maoriland has advertised her
secnic and sporting attractions so well in the
land of the wooden nutmeg that two special
tourist ships, organised by Yankee travel
agencies, will land horn-glass cargoes there
during the summer months. All the sights
from Auckland to the southern Sounds will
be covered, partly by rail and partly by the
tourist ships. There will be about a thou-
sand trippers, and it is estimated that each
will leave at least £lOO in the country. Novel-
ist Zane •Grey has just turned out a boost
for Maoriland’s deep-sea fishing, “Talcs of
an Angler’s Eldorado: New Zealand, and
films of his trip are now being shown through-
out tlie United States.
* * * *
“The Traveller”: Yic. Railways Commis-
sioner Clapp might extend the idea of pro-
viding paper bags for ladies’ hats (B.
11/11/’26). Travelling to Mildura the
other night, I absorbed about lOoz. of red
mallee dust. Another pound or so was in
my clothing on arrival at the citrus-fruit
town. Travellers in the sleeping-cars regu-
larly buy enough newspapers before leaving
Maryborough to cover themselves for the long
night journey north. But newspapers are
unsuitable. They make too much noise when
one moves. What are wanted are light cotton
sleeping-bags. Unoccupied carriage seats have
a layer of dust up to an eighth of an inch
thick on arrival at Mildura. There are other
parts of Australia —notably the Trans, line
from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie—where the
dust nuisance is perhaps even more severely
felt, and if Clapp were to make a start with
remedial measures, he would soon find
imitators.
* * * *
“Avon”: If there’s one thing more than
another Maoriland prides itself on it is penny
postage. The bright idea was ushered in by
Joe Ward on the first day of the twentieth
century and prevailed until the war upset
currency values, but it wasn’t until 1920
that the Government raised the main to 2d.
It was found that at that price the letter-
writing industry was languishing, and in
February, 1923, lid. was made the mini-
mum. in October of the same year it was
decreed that a penny would again be suffi-
cient for anything not noticeably fat. A
stamp was made showing Maoriland as a
very substantially-built young woman, with
unshingled hair and very long skirt, standing
on the lone seashore and holding a wand of
Mercury. In the background were a Ter-
restrial Globe and a small steamship sailing
for Guam. But it was felt that the thing
hardly did justice to the country, so now
they’ve switched over to a picture of George
V. in a cocked hat that makes him look
horrid. On the borders there are wriggles
that are supposed to be of Maori origin,
and in the bottom corners things like the
Iron Cross represent the principal southern
constellation. The Shame was designed and
printed in Maoriland, but the die and the
printing plates were made in Hingland.
* * * •
“Butten D.”: James Iladlington, N.S.W.
Government Poultry Expert, declares that
for 1925-’26 the average Sydney cost of pro-
ducing a dozen eggs was Is. 9d., while the
average selling price was Is. 6d. This esti-
mate made provision for one basic wage per
farm. Since most poultry-farms are worked
by families that know not the eight-hour day
or the Government stroke and represent an
investment of from £5OO to several thousand
pounds, it’s rough that Dad, Mum and the
kids can’t split up even one_ basic wage
between them. Poultry-farming, though
regarded as the Cinderella of primary
industries, is, in reality, an important
thread in our economic fabric. In
N.S.W. its annual consumption of up-
wards of 11,000,000 bushels of mill-
offals, sold at rates highly remunerative to
the miller, tends to keep down the price of
flour. It provides an enormous market for
our maize-growers and uses about 4,000,000
bushels of wheat annually. To a very large
extent it is carried out on country unfit for
any other farming, thus putting waste lands
to use, and, incidentally, money into the
Treasury. Yet as a commercial proposition
it is unsound. Unless people soon realise
that, on the average, they are buying eggs
for less than it costs to produce them, and
follow up that realisation by buying them
in fair quantities even when the price
advances a few pence, the fresh, guaranteed
egg from the poultry-farm will become as
scarce as the fruit of the great auk.


sdf
Every possible precaution is taken
to make your Willard Battery
acid-tight, even to testing each
finished battery with compressed
air.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
d
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A


A GOOD GUN IS A GOOD FRIEND.
Karu the cost of a gun shooting rabbits for the
fur trade.
Agents for the following famous makes: —
HOLLOWAYS. —The Rolls Royce of duns. Built
by prize experts, who know how to make a Gun that
kills at a longer distance than any other make.
That’s why Prize-winners use them.
From £l3/10/- to £lOO.
FOX’S D.B. WONDERFUL HAMMERLESS GUNS.
They hit harder and shoot further than any American
Gun ever built — £13, with a lifetime guarantee.
BULLDOG D.B. HAMMERLESS. —A great field
Gun. Throws a remarkable pattern and kills cleanly.
Beautifully balanced; fits the shoulder; perfect
workmanship, £B/10/-
Others from £5. A week’s free trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents for a
catalog.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 202 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write u» and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
DOMINIONS EDITION.
RUDYARD
KIPLING’S
new BOOK-
DEBITS AND
CREDITS
Also Uniform Edition, 7s. 6d. net.
Pocket Edition, Cloth, 6s. net.
Leather, 7s. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY.
NEW YOLS.
Harmer John: An Unworldly Story.
By HUGH WALPOLE.
The Daily Chronicle : “A fine, well-
imagined story.”
Introduction to Sally. By “ELIZA-
BETH.”
The Daily Telergaph : “Very cleverly
written and most amusing.”
Good-bye Stranger. By STELLA
BENSON.
King Goshawk and the Birds. By
El MAR O’DUFFY.
The Sunday Times: “Framed in fantasy,
and put together in accordance with rules of
its own—the hall-mark of a work of art—it
is a brilliantly original entertainment which
I cannot help thinking will be the success of
the season A masterpiece of caricature.”
To be Obtained from ali
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
QsN
BAfsďfNK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. j. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 94 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
m
%
“ De Reszke
—of course ”
How can De Reszkes be
sold at 10 for ninepence?
Thousands have been asking that question. For
years they have known De Reszkes as rather expen-
sive cigarettes of a very high grade. Are the new
De Reszke Virginias, they wonder, really and truly
De Reszkes, possessing the distinctive qualities im-
plied in that honoured name ?
That doubt is quickly dispelled. As soon as you
have tried your first packet, you know for certain
that De Reszkes Virginia r, at ten for ninepence,
fulfil the essential De Reszke requirement—which
is that every cigarette bearing the name must be the
very best in its class. And that is your guarantee
that the new cigarettes will always keep their present
high quality.
De Reszke
(popularly pronounced “ DE RES-KEY ”)
Virginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10’s, 20’s, 50’s and 100’s
J. MILLHOFF 8C CO. LTD.,
86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
Old Ways Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
ShaveX
9>
Way:
New
Smear lightly
face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years
man has been scrubbing his face with soaps
containing soda, and has never reasoned that
under such treatment the skin may suffer? Noth-
ing is more ugly than a face that looks raw.
Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda. But
now we have discovered SHAVEX, the natural
method, where no brush and soaps containing
soda are needed.
One can shave with Shavex in half the time and
you will get a smoother and closer shave than
you have ever had, and shaving will become
a pleasure. Your skin will look and feel like
satin, and your face under this treatment will
look twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a skin
food as well.
Large tube, 1/9; larger tube
(double quantity), 2/6.
FR.EE SAMPLE !
A. Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
(Dept. 4) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London, Eng.
Education in R.C. male quarters in Aus-
tralia has received two setbacks of late.
First. Brother George, of the Marist Order
and a member of the N.S.W. Bursary Board,
was sent out by the mysterious Addison's
disease, and now Brother T. B. Galvin, of
the Christian Brothers, has answered the
call. Galvin was born in Co. Clare, but Aus-
tralia caught him young, though he gradu-
ated in Dublin before coming here. Pneu-
monia killed him.
“Stellsby” : According to an English rail-
way paper, the station platform at Spencer-
street (Melb.), 2009 ft., is the fourth longest
in the world. Sompore (India), 2450 ft.,
heads the list; Manchester, 2175 ft., comes
next; Gorakhpur (India), 2112 ft., is a proud
third. Waverley (Edinburgh) is only 1680 ft.
and Victoria (London), the main station
for Continental trains, is a mere 1500 ft.
India boasts the longest platforms because
travellers prefer all the trains to draw into
one, or, at the most, two, especially at the
big junctions.
Seaman William Swaney, who passed out
at Sydney Hospital the other day, was horn
to be burnt to death, and though he spent
most of his life at sea and did his whack
of soldiering he couldn’t dodge liis fate.
When the Macleay foundered off Port
Stephens in 1911, Swaney and two others
managed to get on to a raft, but Swaney
was the only one to get ashore. Later he
won the M.M. as a Digger in France. Then
the survivor of the wmr and a disastrous
shipwreck lit a cigarette in bed after rub-
bing his chest with methylated spirits to
cure a cold. That was the end.
Brother M. B. Hanrahan, who has been
appointed to the N.S.W. Bursary Endow-
ment Board in succession to dead Marist-
Brother George, is a native of Dunedin
(M.L.). Hanrahan came to Australia 30
years ago and joined the' Christian Brothers.
Sent to the Apple Isle, lie graduated M.A.
with honors at the Uni. there. Recalled
to Australia, he was appointed inspector of
the Brothers’ schools throughout Australia,
but for the last few years he has been prin-
cipal of the Training College of the. Order
at Strathfield (Sydney). He is in the
middle sixties.
There will be a big bill to pay for injuries
and deaths in the two recent railway disasters
in N. S. \Vales. One of the cases was settled
the other day when .the widow of Owen
Vincent McGrath, killed in the Murilla
smash, was awarded £lOO0 —£800 for her-
self and £2OO for her two children. Most
of the cases will be settled by agreement, of
course —fighting such claims is not usually
profitable to anybody save the lawyers. Mack,
K.C., set a significant example in that regard,
when, after a severe accident, he accepted
a comparatively small sum in compensation
rather than incur “the heavy costs of litiga-
tion.”
By March of next year the Picton Lakes
village t.b. settlement will have 50 t.b. men
and their families enjoying that crisp air
of the mountain slopes which is expected to
do more for them than much medical treat-
ment. The idea came from England, where
the Papwortli Consumptive Settlement has
housed .1776 families ; but the movement hung
fire until Grant Hanlon, one of the organisers
of the Commonwealth loans, was brought in.
Hanlon lost an arm at the war; but that is
no handicap to him in his work of raking in
money, and he has gathered over £20,000
since he took charge—-in spite of the big
cancer-research drive. The village settlement
is an effort to give ideal conditions for the
cure of the t.b.’s—a healthy home with their
families (there is no fear of contagion pro-
vided fresh-air rules are observed), no worry,
a provision of living expenses and an oppor-
tunity for light work which will provide both
mental occupation and pocket-money. Even
a few days spent in the champagne atmo-
sphere of the Camden-Picton-Moss Vale
slopes is like a draught of health-giving
medicine; the place seems ideal.
“Arthur Thomson”: “P.0.M.” on sugar
(B. 11/11/’26) is misleading. The sugar
that “ancient civilisations” used was not
similar to modern sugar. Honey is quite
unlike refined cane sugar; the former is a
complex substance, and is a natural sweet,
whereas refined sugar is deprived of the vital
elements —vitamines and mineral salts. Any
“science” that may uphold sugar, refined
sugar, as a good food is the sort of “science”
that frequently emanates from the payrolls
of vested interests. Refined sugar is prob-
ably the most dangerous article of food used
to-day. If taken in very small quantities it
may not do any harm, but, used in large
quantities, it will sooner or later do much
damage to the system. The foremost medical
authorities in England and elsewhere are
opposed to the free and general use of the
modern vitamine- and mineral-free foods, of
which refined sugar is one, J, Ellis Barker
has made out a strong case for the belief
that one of the causes of cancer is vitamine-
starvation. Certainly, refined, vitamine-free
sugar must be greatly contributing to vita-
mine-starvation.
A nasty brick was lately thrown by the
Duntroon Military College authorities, who
reported that out of 21 new cadets 14 showed
a much-too-low standard of knowledge. Pre-
sumably they were accepted because no
better material was offering. It ought. to
make us question the Australian education
system. The leaving age is not high. No
power exists, as in some countries, to make
a particularly unfinished pupil stay on for
further instruction. Holidays are absurdly
numerous. The latest return showed that
when it isn’t a holiday one-fifth of the nom-
inal attendance didn’t attend: Queensland,
where the distances are often long, had the
worst record, and Victoria, where they are
short, was very close up with the second
worst. In 1921 the census-taker reported
143,110 children of school age as unable to
read or write, as against 85,659 in 1911.
That is to say, the proportion had increased
from 944 to 1272 per 10,000. And by latest
returns the attendance at the four biggest
universities (Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide) showed a decided falling off.
Not that it ever amounted to much, especi-
ally in the case of Brisbane. It is time we
left off saying that the Australian commu-
nity is the best educated in the world.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
U 798 - I ‘J. Bridge Street, Sydney,
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Models. Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 360 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
clue Brisbane, Monday, 6.15 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE;
* ARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail— £3/3/6
the north coast steam
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
tourist Bureau, C'hallis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brlobane Rooking Agents: Burns. Philo and Co., Ltd.
Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian {tank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,085 303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1920 ..£10,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Fuank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson • H R
Lvsaght, '0.8.E.; Georue J. Sly, LL.D,; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S. II 7 .; W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, AV.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Dihdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Doans Fairhairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agent? throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
Corner
SYDNEY BRANCH:
GEORGE and WI N YARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,876*000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George's Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 279 George Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 876,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£42,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADKNHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Established
1849.
87*pittst!!sydn8y
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERT.Y, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
"II
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&G ud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
NIAGARA . . . 18,600 tons disp. DEC. 16, for Vancouver.
MAKURA . . . 13,000 ,, ,, DEC. 30, for San Francisco.
MARAMA, JAN. 14, connects with Tahiti at Auckland for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI. 11,340 tons disp. JAN. 27, for San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
/ i&dlip
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE I’OR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
/ Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about J t We ties.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Britain:
S.S. MONTORO (5000 tons)
Sails December 28 and six-weekly thereafter.
Solomon Islands:
S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Sails December 22 and six-weekly thereafter.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
dfgdfg
mm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ni.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOLU! and Tit AV E L DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1813.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve l l ' un cl
Reserve Liability -
df
sdf
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Directors ;
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq..
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manage; OSCAR LINES
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street E fiV
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand. Fiii Pamn
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. J P nQ London -
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world. “ “ ea
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. Denuti,
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. •’ V
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.d!, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Huddart ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamshliis
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEAL AND— Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
I'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
lSlacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva . (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
A AUSTRALIANS visiting London
-‘A should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE CREEL”
At Thredbo River.
A RETREAT FOR
TROUT FISHERMEN.
100 Miles of Stocked
Trout Streams.
Rail to Cooma—
Motor to the Door.
Electric Light.
Tariff: 14/- day.
£4/4/- week.
Rail Concession Certificates
and Full Information at —
GOVERNMENT
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


BUY QUALITY
and be proud of
YOUR JUDGMENT
To forget quality first in purchasing a motor car is to run serious danger
of making a costly experiment.
Motorists everywhere know that Dodge Brothers have built or
quality from the beginning.
For example, a far greater percentage of tough and costly Chrome
Vanadium Steel is used in Dodge Brothers car than in any other. An
this gives it exceptional sturdiness.
The result is that this car is an investment in proved quality that every
Dodge Brothers owner is proud of.
□ oDBEBRDTHERBJNC D&TR.DIT
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.j
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and 1 ownsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
□□dee- Brothers
MOTOR CARS


Rexorva Girl.
it" means
health and beaxity!
iS
■:
mm m
Rexona
Soap
-
“Rexona
Soap
My
Favorite”
Miss NOLA NEVILLE,
■i beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes: —“I hare
been using Rexona. Soap
for some time, and am
really more Ilian de-
lighted with the won-
derful results
Give Chocolates this
Christmas
s
V\
m
ttX'
m
Z'-t
WtT'V?
m
hi
Preferably
HILLIER’S
“We post them”
Hillier’s Chocolates
are something to de-
light the most, exact-
ing taste and thrill
the palate with sheer
deliciousness.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Send your order, . and)
ice will 'post to friends
the famous Red Bow
to your instructions
with suitable Greeting
Cards.
&n&4ttiii£u\
162-166 Pitt Street, and corner of
George and King Streets, Sydney.
The Menace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpODAY a strange uneasiness
Has come upon the sea,
Like one who sleeps and dreams a
dream
Of dread it seems to be.
All lifeless are the rocks and sands;
Lifeless the cliffs behind —
Their grey old faces graven deep
By weather and by wind.
A sickly light, a pallid light,
Gleams over hill and dune;
Inland afar the gulls have gone
To river and lagoon.
No porpoise-shoal romps in the deep
With flash of tail and fin ;
A menace in their heave and fall,
The hollow waves roll in.
Mist dims far headlands like a veil,
And near things se*em remote;
Weeds, riven from the sea’s green couch,
Thick-matted shoreward float.
Beside their boats, hauled high and dry,
Beside their nets unwet,
Brown fishermen lie on the sands,
Their keen eyes seaward set.
No wing of bird, no sail of boat,
White-flecks the leaden sea ;
While, like a waif that shelter seeks,
A wind sighs wistfully.
A wistful wind, a fitful wind,
A homeless wanderer,
It comes and goes with searching hand
That sets wet leaves astir.
Thick-sanded, sluggish combers break
No longer capped with snow ;
While np and down the coast there runs
A moaning, weird and low.
Up-coast, down-coast, it ever sounds,
Foreboding direful change—
A moaning from the mouths of caves
And tunnels dark and strange.
Anigli old seas in far-off climes,
What time their red fires shone,
Men knew that low forewarning note
In primal nights long gone.
They knew that note, and heeding gave,
And left their night-fires red,
And drew their coracles ashore,
And to the forest fled.
The fear they felt we also feel,
Feel dread, feel peril nigh;
lake- them we hear on nights of wrath
Death’s legions crashing by.
On sea and land, on head and cliff,
All things afar and near
Seem crouching, breathless stilled and
chilled
By elemental fear.
The hidden sun goes down at last,
The waif-wind sinks and dies.
As, harried through the gleamless air,
A torn cloud northward flies.
Grey clouds, massed clouds, race in its rear,
A routed, panicked host,
As free to work its will, a gale
Comes howling up the coast.
A sudden turmoil shakes the cliffs.
Shakes channelled rock and sand;
Flung spray, that stings like hail, flies far—
The Menace is at hand!
The scourged waves leap before their foe;
Gloom masters beach and height;
Beant sleep there’ll be for mariners
Along the coast to-night.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Bos’n of the Happy Nell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN EBENEZER SLINGSBY
brought the Happy Nell into Port
Jackson in the summer of 1830,
dropped her anchor into the mud of Neu-
tral Bay, and, as was his wont and custom
in Sydney, immediately abandoned her.
That is not to say that he sent the crew
ashore and gave the ship up to the rats,
leaving her to whatever might befall —he
was not that sort of man. It means that he
took his boat, and his two mates, and his
coxswain and his boat’s crew, established
them at Peter Parsley’s Lucky Shot Inn at
Parramatta, and committed himself to a
sea of Peter’s rum. For one month he
would plough its stormy surface, braving
gales innumerable, and then he would
crawl ashore at the pleasant port of
Windsor, on the Hawkesbury, where he
would haul himself into dry dock and under-
go a complete refit at the hands of his old
friend, Dr. Robert Renowne, at one time
surgeon of H.M. 48tli Regiment, who would
pump out of his hull all the unaccounted-for
rum it had taken below hatches during this
period of hectic navigation, patch up any
damage that might have come to it from
external sources, and finally send him back
to the Happy Nell fit and competent to brave
the dangers and difficulties of that other
ocean upon whose bosom most of his days
were spent with a greater or less degree of
profit.
But the Happy Nell would have been by
no means left to herself during this inter-
regnum. She was in very capable hands.
“Th’ bes’ garddam bos’n in th’ world”
would have had her in charge, and she would
have been laid on either side, alternately, in
Careening Cove, scraped and tarred below
the water-line, and artistically painted above
it. When Captain Slingsby came down the
Parramatta River in his boat and rounded
Kirribilli, it would be with a pleasurable
certainty of finding his ship trim and taut,
and ready for sea in every respect. Then,
having shipped his outward cargo, he would
sail away to his next destination to be sober
and abstemious until he was again in Sydney.
That was his procedure —ordinarily. But
on this occasion he was to navigate past the
Sow and Pigs, when he departed from
Sydney, an utterly changed man—one whose
course of existence had been drastically
altered. The habits and customs of a life-
time had been uprooted. Never again would
he comport himself in Australia as he had
been wont.
Splendid Bultitude, the boatswain of the
Happy Nell, was an enormous negro from
South Carolina, with something so essen-
tially “royal’’ in his demeanor and bearing
that there can be small doubt as to his not
very distant progenitors having been people
of importance and note somewhere in the
neighborhood of the Gulf of Guinea. He
stood nearer seven than six feet high, and
his mighty torso and tower-like neck
supported in noble fashion a magnificent
head. To see him superintending the very
mixed crew of the Happy Noll swabbing-
down and holystoning the spotless decks was
to be put in mind of some great Cartha-
ginian general overlooking his forces whilst
they made entrenchments. To hear him tell
a man to take a slush-bucket and go aloft
upon some greasy job connected with the
rigging was to realise how Hannibal might
have dictated orders to his staff. And to
listen to his singing, in the joyousness of his
heart, some improvised composition of his
own, was to be certain that the great black
man, had he b&en bred in the country to
which lie rightly belonged, instead of upon
a plantation in the southern United States,
might have been not only the wise ruler of
dusky legionaries whoni he might have led
to great achievement, but also their melo-
dious minstrel and jongleur.
“Oh, de deck ain’t clean—
Sich muss was nebev seen—
Rub de stone, rub de stone, rub de stone t
Sioosh dr waiter on de planks,
An’ gib Gardamighty t'anks—
All alone, all alone, alt alone/’
Ilis tuneful baritone echoed across the
harbor in this and a hundred melodies of his
own devising, so that the crews of other
ships, people passing by in rowboats and the
few dwellers on the water frontages of the
North Shore woujl pause to listen. He
drove his men with a fist of iron—he soothed
and comforted them with a voice of honey
and gold. And the Happy Nell, before Cap-
tain Slingsby was due to return from his
mission to Parramatta, would be the smart-
est, the prettiest, the neatest and most
delightful ship in all Port Jackson, from
Camp Cove to Cockatoo Island.
“Thishyer Splendid, Doc.,” Captain Slings-
by once confided to Dr. Renowne, “he’s arl
that his fust name says he is. A jack-a-
dandy. Tlr bes’ garddam bos’n in th’
world. There ain’t none, white or black,
can touch him. He’s unique, sir—his uniqui-
fication is stoopendous, Doc., ab-solutely
sfoo-pendous. I dunno whar I'd be without
him. There ain’t his like in or out of Afriky.
Splendid be name, and splendid be natur’.”
“And where, may I ask, my dear Captain,
did you acquire this prodigy?”
“In Noo Arleans, sir—in Noo Arleans.
One dark night. A dark an’ windy night,
an’ th’ mob was a-chasin’ of him for to hang
him to a lamp-post, him havin’ killed two
useless garddam white trash what’d tried
for to rob him, an’ one of ’em had knifed
him in th’ ribs. He come a-runnin’ along
th’ quayside an’ takes one prodigitous jump
over th’ bulwarks of th’ Happy Nell, a-land-
in’ on th’ garddam quarter-deck at me feet,
whar I was a-standin’ givin’ orders for to
cover th’ main hatch, me opinionatin’ that
rain was follerin’ up th’ wind.
“ ‘You want a good man, Cap’n?’ he
hollers. T jes’ does,’ says I. ‘Well, so’s
them gen’lemens,’ he says, ‘wants me mighty
bad, they does. Kin ye hide me, Cap’n?'
I takes a squint at him, an’ he’s th’ fines'
man I ever see. ‘Sailor-man?’ I asks him.
‘Yep. Cap’n,’ he respondulates—‘United
States frigate Constitootion. Two dam'
fellers they done try for to be funny, an’ I
knocks their haids together,’ he says—‘an’
I t’ink dey’s daid.’ ‘lnto th’ cabin,’ I says,
‘an’ I’ll tell 'em ye took to th’ river. Into
th’ garddam poop!’ I says. So that's how
I come be Mister Splendid Bultitood, Doc..
an’ I ain’t never re-gretted th’ same. If
ever tliar was a white nigger, I guess it’s
that garddam bos’n o’ mine.”
Splendid Bultitude paced the poop of the
Happy Nell one fine morning after break
fast, musically extolling the beauties of
Sydney Harbor. The ship was all in readi-
ness for the return of her commander, an
event that might be reckoned on at any
moment, since nearly five weeks had elapsed
from the time of his rowing away up the
river to seek the haven of the Lucky Shot.
Oh, lubly is de sunshine,
An’ lubly is de sea.
Holler t’anks to Hebben, Chile o’ Man!
An’ de bird-fowl in de greenwoods
Soun’s awful sweet to me—
Holler t’anks to Hebben. Chile o’ Man l
Oh, praise de Lawd his marcy,
An’ praise de Lawd his lub
For a-makin’ ob Port Jackson
Laike de Jasper Sea abub.
Sing it loud, ye sons ob bitches,
Praise his holy name on high,
For de sparkle ob de waiters,
An’ de blueness ob de sky.
Oh, holler t’anks to Hebben, Chile o’ Man!”
His Te Deum was suddenly interrupted
by a hail from a boat lying a little distance
away upon the port quarter. Splendid cut
short his tuneful song and turned to listen
and look.
“Is that the Happy Nell —Cap’n Ebenezer
Slingsby?”
“Yassah. Dis hyah ship’s de Felic’tous
Eleanor, better known, sah, as de Happy
Nell. An’ I’se de bos’n, lef’ in charge be
Cap’n Slingsby, him bein’ away up-country
on ’portant bus’ness.”
“Oh. you’re the covey, then. We was tole
to find a barquentine offa th’ mouth o'
Careening Cove with a big buck nigger on
deck a-singin’ fit to bust. Well, we want
for to come aboard. A message from Cap’n
Slingsby. He's in trouble.”
“Well, you goddarm white trash, don’ you
be too fresh, elst you’ll fin’ a big buck nigger
in th’ Happy Nell what not on’y sings
somefin' grand, but punishes impertuosity
wit’ vigorosity. Get dat, bo —an’ haul yessef
(Continued on next page.)


The
Kerotin
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA AND
USED
EXTENSIVELY
THROUGHOUT
THE
COMMONWEALTH
For the Flower Garden
or Small Orchard.
Spray
Pump
Also for Spraying
Lime Wash or Dis-
infectant Fluids to
Fowlhouses and
Runs, etc., and with
a Special Nozzle is
much used as a
Veterinary Pump by
breeders of Cattle.
Made in Australia from high-grade materials and designed to
give lasting and effective service. It has a Brass Barrel, Brass
Ball Valves, Brass Packing Gland and Plunger, Brass Air
Chamber, and an iron footrest suitable for use with standard
size kerosene tin or ordinary bucket.
A
REAL GOOD
HOSE
CASCADE
ON A
REAL GOOD
REEL
CASCADE 5-Ply
Garden Hose
On a Daspyl Hose Reel.
For a really hard-wear Garden Hose you cannot get better
than our 5-ply Cascade brand. Cascade is a superior Garden
Hose, which has given the greatest satisfaction. In the
Cascade you get a 5-ply Hose at a price of many makes of
3-ply Hose.
2 in. fin.
lOd. 1/-
lin.
1/8 per foot.
sdf
s
fsdf
DASPYL
ƒsdf
sd
f
Sprinklers & Hose Fittings
We have a good range of useful Sprinklers, Sprinkler
Stands and Spraying Devices; Hose, Nozzles and other Hose
Fittings. Our illustrated Catalogue of Garden Requisites is
of assistance to the Garden lover in choosing the most suit-
able Sprinklers, etc., for making thorough watering a certainty.
The Catalogue is Post Free.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
Hi
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
on deck. In trouble —de skip’ in trouble!
he muttered anxiously. “Wliar to goodness
is dem two useless deck-ornaments at dat
dey ain’t a-gettin’ him outen dis hyar
trouble ? Glory be —• ’pears to Splendid
Bultitude he’s de hull prap an’ mainstay o’
dis dam’ outfit!”
A bleary gentleman came up the side-
ladder, gaping with astonishment at behold-
ing the huge negro at close quarters, and
handed him a letter. It was from Peter
Parsley, the landlord of the Lucky Shot
Inn, and was dated from Parramatta on
the previous day. Splendid handed it back
with a request that its bearer should read
it aloud. “I don’ read Australian,” he said
with a gesture of superiority. “Please be
kin’ enough fo’ to turn dis hyar writin’ into
good Amurcan —an’ I guesses I’ll be obli-
gated to ye, Mister.”
With a respectful grin the man did as he
was asked. lie read :
Dear Sir, —I regret to inform you that yesterday
afternoon, when on his way to Dr. Renowne’s at
Windsor, Captain Slingsby was captured by Donahoe
the Bushranger, and is at present held by that
person at the foot of the mountains near Emu Ford.
He has sent word to me that Donahoe demands a
ransom, and requests that you will take 1000
dollars from his desk in the cabin of the Happy
Kell, of which you have the key, and repair to him
immediately, calling here on the way for directions.
Haste is necessary, as he says that Donahoe threatens
him with cutting oft' of his ears in the event of
delay. Yours to command, — Peter Parsley.
“Ho !” grunted Splendid Bultitude. “Ho !”
He stared at the messenger. “An’ wlio may
dis liyar Donahoe be, Mister, dat’s a-wantin’
Cap’n Slingsby for to russom liisself for a
t’ousan’ dalilars? ’Pears to me laike as if
lie estimulated liissef for to be o’ some im-
portantness! Wlio in Hell’s Donahoe, any-
ways ?”
“Jack Donahoe? Ain’t ye lieerd tell o’
th’ bold Jack Donahoe, Mister Bultitude?
Why, he’s tli’ leadin’ bushranger o’ th’ colony
at present—an’ a bad man, too. ’Tis sure
an’ certain, as God made little apples, lie’ll
crop tli’ cap’n’s list’ners if he don’t get what
he wants —an’ pretty quick, too. He’ll be
jest as good as his word. A dam’ little
Irish lag, an’ a holy terror. If I was you,
Mister Bos’n, I’d git that cash an’ go an’
fix th’ matter up as soon as may be—that’s
if ye don’t want no harm to come to Cap’n
Slingsby.”
“Huh ! Mistah tarnation Donahoe, he bes’
better watch liissef. He done better look
out. All right, Mister; you wait a jiffy
an’ I’ll be wit’ you-alls. We’ll see all about
dis bole Jack Donahoe, don’ you make no
mistake about dat!”
* * * *
The sun was setting over the high wall
of purple ranges ahead of him as Mr. Splen-
did Bultitude, entirely alone, walked through
the long grass on Emu Plains as he
approached the wooded foothills. His great
voice, raised in melodious advertisement of
liis presence, echoed back from the steep
slopes in front of him.
“Ho, C.ip’n, cain’t ye heah me?
De day is gettin’ done—
Ho, listen, Cap’n Slingsby,
An’ take care o’ Number One!
Ho, de night is failin’ rapid
An’ de bull-frog in de crik”....
lie was interrupted by a peremptory shout
from a clump of bushes ahead of him. “Bail
up, ye big black ~ bail up !”
Instantly Mr. Bultitude halted and fell
into an apparent condition of abject fear.
Tlis hands went above his head, and his
knees seemed to tremble under the weight of
a vast carcase woefully oppressed by terror.
“Oh, de Lawd lm’ mussy!” he cried. “De
Lawd look down upon dis pore nigger! Is
dat Mister Donahoe? Lawdy, Ah baags for
you to spare mail wutliless life — good Mister
Donahoe. I’se yore pris’ner, Mister Dona-
hoe, sah.”
A little red-headed, ferocious-looking man
with blue eyes stepped out of the scrub,
covered the boatswain with a musket, and
the boatswain immediately fell upon his
knees in a cringing, abject attitude. Great
beads of perspiration glistened in the red
reflection from the western sky upon his
ebony forehead, and his red blubber lips
were grotesquely slack and uncontrollable.
Donahoe spat on the grass in contempt as
he regarded balefully this pitiable and sorry
object.
“Sure, thin, an’ you must be th’ fellie
Cap’n Slingsby’s expectin’. Ha’ ye brought
th’ dollars?”
“Yassah. I’se de man, sah. An’ I done
brought de dalilars all c’rect, sah. It will
gib me mos’ soopremest pleasurable feelin’s,
sah, fo’ to hand de cash-money over to so
brabe a man as Mistah John Donahoe, sah.
Yo’ famosity, sah, am extendin’ eberywhar.
I feels truly honored, Mistah Donahoe —I
baags pardon, sah, I should ha’ said Cap’n
Donahoe. Here dey is, sah, an’ what a very
fine ebening dis ebening is, to be suah, sah.
I makes so bold as to”
“Oh, stow y’r gab, ye ugly black haytlien.
Put tli’ money on th’ grass an’ walk over
here. An’ if ye tries any shennanikin’, God
help ye!”
“No, sah, I ain’t a-goin’ for to do nothin’
onbecomin’ to a Christian man, sah. Here’s
de dalilars —one t’ousand—all tied up in a
canvas baag, Mistah Donahoe, an’ I hopes
ye derives de greates’ benefication from dis
hyar cash, sah. Yours is surely a bery
hard trade, sah, an’ we shouldn’t begrudge
reasonable payments, sail, fo’ de trouble ye
goes to. Glory be! I nebcr did see a man
dat I had more admirification fo’, sah, dan
you, Mistah Donahoe. Dat’s de felioly troof,
I does assure you.”
“Shut y’r head !” was bushranger Donahoe’s
rude response to this ingratiating address.
“Now, then,” he commanded, “you walk in
front of me, ye naygur, an’ I’ll bore a
hole in y’r back th’ first sign I see of y’r
a-playin’ up. So mind y’self!”
“Yassah —suttiuly, sah. What you says
wit’ yo’ mouf goes, Mistah Donahoe. But'
I slioly prays a favor of you, sah. You
wouldn’ have no sort of objectionment to me
a-singin’ sah? I’se powerful scairt, Mistah
Donahoe, an’ it does me a mighty power o’
good if so be I may sing to mesef when I’se
like dat. I ain’t fcelin’ good, sah. You
wouldn’t hab no pre-joodiciousness agin me
reliebin’ me feelin’s dat way, would ye, now,
Mistah Donahoe? I won’ gib ye no manner
o’ trouble, sah, if so be I may on’y sing.”
“Sing, an’ be d—d to yef But step out..
We’ve a goodisli way to go. An’ watch your-
self 1”
So the bos’n ingeniously conveyed his
plans to his commander. His mighty chest
sent waves of sound through the dark
mountain-side forest as they climbed up and
up along a narrow track little better than
a highroad for wallabies.
“Oh, King David was a little man,
An’ Goliah, he was great—
Gird up y’r loins, an’ take y’r sling,
An’ crack him on de pate.
For Israel is a-watchin’ an’ a-waitin’.
“So David tuk a little stone,
An’ put it in de sling;
An’ all dem fightin’ multitoods,
Dey stood roun’ in a ring—-
For Israel was a-waitin’ an’ a-watchin’.
“He slung de stone, an’ brung him down—
An’ den he tuk he’s knife,
An’ cut his t’roat, an’ finished him,
An’ dereby tuk his life
While Israel was a-watchin’ an’ a-waitin’!”
Captain Slingsby, prisoned in a little sand-
stone cavern near the crest of the hill, and
guarded by Donalioe’s mate. Walmsey, was
not slow to recognise the advice which was
booming up to him through the timber. He
was still a little befuddled as an effect of
the month of steady drinking in which he
had indulged in Parramatta, but he was not
so dumb-witted as to be unable to under-
stand that Mr. Bultitude was counselling
prompt action, He was unbound, and he
groped about with his right hand on the
rough floor of the cave, until his fingers
closed about a sizeable lump of rock. While
the bos’n was describing in succeeding verses
the rejoicings of the Israelites and the glory
of David, he rose to his feet and heaved it,
with sure aim, at the back of his warder’s
head, so that that gentleman had not even
time to consider what had happened to him
before toppling over into unconsciousness,
without even a warning cry to Donahoe,
approaching the cave from below. And then
the captain staggered out into the scrub, and
began to run downhill towards the sound
of his henchman’s echoing voice.
Donahoe heard him coming, scattering
loose stones with clumsy feet, and halted,
raising his musket to his shoulder. He saw
the negro wheel suddenly in his tracks, and
jump down towards him. He fired, and
missed —and the next instant a mountain of
bone and muscle overwhelmed him. For a
few moments, the bold Jack Donahoe
struggled and cursed, and then he collapsed,
the very breath squeezed out of him by the
crushing pressure of Splendid’s bear-like hug.
To make certain of him, that faithful petty-
officer bumped his head upon a convenient
rock, and then let him subside limply on
the ground, unconscious. He picked Up the
bushranger’s musket, and broke it, like a
rotten stick, across his knee.
“Is yo’ safe an’ soun’, Cap’n Slingsby, sab ?
Wliar at is you?” he bellowed. “Dere ain’t
no kick lef’ in dis fellow. I’se done lubbed
him to deaf. Wliar at is you, Cap’n?”
Captain Slingsby emerged into a little
clearing, and Splendid recognised him in the
last of the twilight. He looked very shaky
and demoralised. Peter Parsley’s rum was
taking its toll of his constitution. Feebly he
waved a hand to the big negro, and then sat
down, groaning, against the bole of an iron-
bark.
“For tli’ love o’ Gard, Splendid, let’s get
away.” he muttered quaveringly. “I'm clean
done. Never mind these garddam fellows —
let’s beat it. I’ve not got a kick left in me.
Gimme your arm, an’ let’s make tracks out
o’ this.”
Mr. Bultitude regarded him solemnly, and
shook his head. He seemed to be considering
something of importance, and for a few
moments did not speak. Captain Slingsby,
cowed and whimpering, begged plaintively
that they should be gone.
“Cap’n,” at length said Splendid. “I’se
powerful disappointed to lieah yo’ talk like
dat. Ain’t we a-goin’ to cut de two liaids
off of dese dam’ pirates?”
“No, no —let’s begone. I—l’m not myself,
Splendid. I’m all done up. Leave th’ crit
ters be —on’y let’s get out o’ this wilderness.
Let’s find some house wliar we may pass the
night. Me nerve’s all gone. I’m done.”
The negro made his conditions.
“Cap’n, I’se gwine for to talk rough. De
time liab come for to do it. Jes’ dis. You
gibs me your solemn, may-de-good-Gard-
stiffen-me-daid word of honor dat you won’t
nebber no more get on dese dam’ foolish
drinkin’ foolishments o’ yourn—nebber no
more—elst I leaves yo’ heah, all by yo’self in
de dark. Will ye gib jt me, Cap’n Ebenezer
Slingsby, o’ th’ Happy Nell —will ye gib it
to dis liyar friend o’ yourn? Or will ye not
—an’ be eat be dem wil’ kangaroos an’ emus
what roves dese woods, a-seekin’ what they
may devour. Come now, sah —what’s it to
be?”
Captain Slingsby groaned.
“Oh, yes, Splendid. Never no more—may
I be struck dead!”
The big black man stooped and picked him
up in his arms as if he had been a child.
He strode with him down the mountain,
chanting the “Old Hundredth.”
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Once, Long Ago—
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Never a Melisande in this deep green !
But in the dim ways where the tui calls
Young Hinemoa lifts her dear, dark head
To catch an echo from the whispering walls.
And Rana comes one gusty night in June
When the wild earth’s asleep; and soft
they lie,
■ Deep in the bracken, while the windy moon
Chases the young stars in a clouded sky.
For Youth is calling, Love is undenied;
The whole world binds their beauty in a
ring,
With lip to lip, and life and death defied—
Peace brushes by them on a silver wing.
Now Hinemoa and her lover lie
Asleep beneath the grass of yesterday. . . .
Mayhap they waken when the wild duck fly
Into the sunset on the dreaming bay!
MAORI LAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


> V
m
■m
a
SW
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland A Kents—ll OL< MES & CHUIiCB, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 1 entlierston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—oo Queen Street. Melbourne.
rftNPOßft WFVT N X WALES
LUHLUKH WEJI, it. 0. IfftbEO.
South Ails trill in it Agents: Messrs. ICT.DISK. SMITH ft CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
CORKBOARD
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Sheets, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE U SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
BEST FOR THE HAIR ON
ALL OCCASIONS
■ . ■ ; «'' • - . j-a
Anzora will master the most un*
ruly hair and keep it in place all
day. Anzora Cream for greasy
alps, Anzora Viola for dry
scalps. Sold by chemists, hair-
dressers, stores or from our agents
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne —Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd.
Sydney—Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide—Arthur Glover.
Brisbane —Gregory & Collins.
Perth —L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZORA PERFUMERY Co., Ltd.
Pillesden Lane, London, England.
im
i'laiilllk
I
7J
•m
i>
12
}
O CLUB”
"NEW CLUB”
"REMINGTON’’
/
Supplied in all standard
gauges and loads
sdf
ANY one of these Remington UMC grades will give
xx you entire satisfaction. Not only are these
cartridges quick-firing and hard-hitting but every
one in the box may be depended on to give equally
good results.
Small Gauge Shotgun Cartridges
Remington UMC makes .410 gauge cartridges in
2 and 2V£-inch cases which are highly efficient and
widely used for small game and bird shooting. Try
them and you will be surprised with the results.
emington-UMC
o
df
E-22
All grades are “Wetproof”
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686
Melbourne.
Cm
Q
G
Are of vegetable origin
Best suited to purposes
Of purification
A Wonderful Pill
Simple to take - easy to use
Contain nothing harmful
Contain no gas - not oily
A Safe Pill
You can rely upon
BEECHAM’S PILLS
To give natural assistance
To stomach, liver and bowels
And promote sound health
A Sure Pill
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Afford positive relief
When you suffer from
Biliousness, sick headache
Indigestion, constipation.
aMWb Oie tAuuf-
C<d cl nui4t &£
n,’ constipation, m
Secure Effective Ignition
on your American Car by Fitting
LODGE
PLUGS
The sparking plug requirements of
American engines have been exhaus-
tively studied by the manufacturers of
Lodge plugs, with the result that the
special American model Lodg'e plugs
give the same unparalleled efficiency
in American engines as do the metric
thread Lodge plugs in European en-
gines.
Illustrated is Model CT. (7-Bin.
regular).
5/6
Packed in Sealed Bronze Box
SUITABLE For—
Apperson, Cadillac, Chrysler, Dur-
ant-Rugby, Flint, Lincoln, Moon,
Paige-Jewett, Packard, Studebaker,
Willys-Knight.
MS
m .
m
Lodge Plugs are made in different
models to suit all makes of engines, and
are obtainable from leading accessory
dealers, garages, and stores.
LODGE PLUGS LTD.,
Rugby, ENGLAND
sdf
All Paris Stand-
ard and Ittler-
changealle.
American Bosch
Magnetos - im-
pulse coupling.
3 tt> 100 H. P„
1 to 6 cylinders,
4-cycle Engines,
Built with the greatest care so
that only ordinary care is required to
keep them in perfect running order—
Kermath Marine Engines are first in
service, economy, and dependability.
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia,
KERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U, S. A.
Cable Address, Kermath
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
JLuneheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
at 3 p.m. from
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d
No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


set*?
£ : '>$*rr.%
\ ms
i sfe
>„ ,•„•:/.'•>•■•'.
I %
- -■' .... ' \ -- *
...... r -
r-V. V
(* '*•« r,* •>
\
a
I
t- ; CJ ,'
f m
* <*&
.0
%
<7»*
[7
' Jr A
t.
'.? K’.
• iv tr
SA.V-,^
rf Jfv i’s
<•* <fflr’<;*s , -.ai
:y/> ys&f*
v i
t5» • • ■
ft v HV»S.Tj:.*
*
?A
V, %&%££
f v.-;t v
i
. -f ® "Vr"
V* *? Vi — ‘
' V'v \i *“"*■«'«
* sry>
A Century’s Reputation
for quality is an enjoyable thing.
“Johnnie Walker” enjoys the repu-
tation—his friends enjoy the
quality. Every drop, everywhere,
is guaranteed pure and mature.
V A
pus
D
o
.■
Bottled only by ourselves in Bond, under
Government supervision, and guaranteed
the same quality throughout the world.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG!
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
