

i-,s
i
i x-
\'
Mi
r \
mzx^
Wm
i
C£
lIS
If. Ul
14
SvV* \
Oi?*'
in
Pi&i
fi
* <
ftfeSß
-
&
PK?
Li
»f {HKHCv*^
2&WRALIA --i^g
v^>'
issN^
"Dietetically regarded, therefore ,
Lager possesses considerable . food
value, and, moreover, the. nutriti-
ous matter is present in a readily
assimilable form ”
—Encyclopaedia Britannica.
.... so Lager is MORE than a delicious beverage
.... more than a medium of refreshment.. ... Its
stimulating influence is not merely the result of its
alcoholic content— which is low—but is mainly due
to the nourishing and sustaining elements which it
contains in a “readily assimilable form”. . . .and
this fact entitles it to a recognised place in the daily
diet. .. .for “K. 8.” is a TRUE Lager.
TOOTHS
a true
Brewed and Bottled by
TOOTH & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2433.
Thursday, September 30, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE New Library Catalogue for 1926
* is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(L.YSAGHT7
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
SHAVEX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
f
\
“SHAVEX” is a production of modern civilisation whereby men
can shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda.
With “Shavex” you can shave in half the time and get a
perfect and smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin
like satin and keeps one young, and no after lotion is required.
•Shavex" is a skin food. It makes shaving a pleasure instead
of a torture. Safety Razor blades last twice as long and no
hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At ail .......
chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Australia) Ltd
(Dept 4 ), Eagle & Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney. Manufactured by
The Zeekot Manufacturing Co., London, Eng.
pt of 3d. tti
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NO-
VELLO, writes: —"It is a great pleasure to be able
to say sincerely that ‘Shavex* is a really splendid
invention. 1 am so often asked to recommend pre-
parations, and can so seldom do so, but in this case
my appreciation of your ‘Shaves* is genuine. 1 shall
always use it.”
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
h
No. 1569.
-X
"s
<?
m
/
AM AMI
SHAMPOOS
leave a fragrance like
flowers , in the hair .
Instead of a soapy shampoo odour*
Amami leaves behind a delicate
perfume that every girl likes. The
fragrance comes from the Otto or
Roses, Blue Lavender and Bergamot
that are blended with forty-four
other ingredients in Amami.
You can buy Amami at any
Chemist’s,Hairdresser’s or big store.
No. I for Dark Hair, No. 5 for
Fair Hair. 9d. each, complete with
the special Lemon Rinsing Powder.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jhjubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co,, Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of OBt
of the bungs.
The Red Page
Children’s Books
As the output of books, good and bad, for
children to read increases, so does the diib-
culty of choosing suitable ones. P. O'rar-
rell’s contribution to the problem of ascer-
taining boys’ preferences (R.P. 19/8/2b)
is an interesting one. Most of the published
book-lists have been “tainted” by what Mr.
W. 11. Pinch, chairman of the Education
Guild of Great Britain on Psychological Re-
search in Schools, calls the “diminished
adult view of the child-mind.” An exception is
the Winnetka graded list recently published
by the American Library Association, in the
preparation of which the children’s prefer-
ences were the main consideration.
The investigation of which it is the pro-
duct was financed by the Carnegie Corpora-
tion through the American Library Associa-
tion. The 36,750 children who co-operated
filled- in -during -1924-25 the following
ballot-form on every book read by them: —
Complete Title: ~
Author’s full name:
Publisher: . ;
Child’s name:
'Age, boy or girl:
School grade:
Teacher:
One of the best books I have ever read.
A good book, I like it.
Not very interesting.
I don’t like it.
Too easy.
Just about right.
A little hard.
Too hard.
Write what you like best about this book and
why you like it. Mark your preference with a cross.
Reference is also made on this ballot-form
to the child’s reading score in the Stanford
silent reading test (World Book Co.. N.Y.).
The nature of this test may be understood
from the exercise below’, in which the cor-
rect placing of the missing w T ords would give
a child a score of 90, assuming that previ-
ous exercises had been done correctly:—
A whale is not a fish even though it does live
in water. A fish has no lungs, is cold-blooded, and
absorbs oxygen from the water through its gills;
but a whale is warm-blooded and has a genuine set
of lungs. In consequence the .... is .... like a
shark which is a true fish than it is like a horse.
On the basis of the Stanford Test child-
ren were classified into 11 grades of reading
ability. Grade 3 (children with a score of
18-24) represents the average ability of
children with a chronological age of eight
to nine years, and Grade 9 (children with
a score of 88-94) children with a chronolo-
gical age of 13 to 14 years. Thus children
capable of doing successfully the exercise
above will be about 13 years, although many
younger children of ability will do it.
On the basis of children’s performances
books for each reading grade were compiled;
but before inclusion in the list as published
they were submitted to 13 librarians who
were deemed to be experts in judging child-
ren’s books. Books that were judged to be
of low literary value by at least three-
fourths of the librarians have not been in-
cluded iu the final list, while books that
three-fourths judged to be of high literary
value have been starred. Although many
books liked by children were rated as trashy,
not one of the 10 most popular books wrns
so rated (although one librarian so con-
sidered “Huckleberry Finn”).
Below are the names of books common to
P. O’Farrell’s list (1 to 20) and the Win-
netka list:—
Win-
Value. Age. netka. O’F.
Treasure Island,* J B 278 81 12.5 6:7 1
Stevenson . . ( G 117 72 12.2
Black Arrow,* )B 70 80 13.1 7:8 1
Stevenson . . (.ft Bft 85 12.6
Kidnapped,* j B 162 70 13.1 9:7 1
Stevenson . . (G 78 66 12.8
Huckleberry Finn, ( B 220 86 12.6 4:7 4
Twain . . ( O 135 80 12.6
Robinson Crusoe,* ( B 232 78 11.5 3:6 5
Defoe . . V G 111 71 11.3
Fairy Tales,* )B 64 68 9.9 5:5 6
Andersen .. \G 182 71 10.4
Fairy Tales,* j B 64 79 9.9 2:4 6
Grimm .. ) G 181 79 10.4
Tales from Shaks- f B 19 67 12.5 31:7 7
peare,* Lamb I G 52 72 12.8
Westward Ho!* (B 17 73 12.8 20:9 9
Kingsley . . ( G 10 Not recorded.
Heroes,* )B 24 72 11.5, 88:6 9
Kingsley . . (G 13 73 11.0
Water Babies,* ( B 17 62 11.4 20:6 9
Kingsley . . ) G 106 60 11.1
Oliver Twist, ( B 26 84 13.2 20:8 10
Dickens . . |G 37 72 12.8
David Gopperfield,* j B 18 85 12.8 27:8 10
Dickens .. ) G 48 72 13.3
Christmas Carol,* ( B 18 75 12.9 45*7 10
Dickens . . (G 64 65 12.3
Gulliver’s Travels,* j B 55 71 11.3 58:6 11
Swift .. ( G 12 Not recorded.
Fables,* j B 15 64 10.5 73:6 12
JEsop . . \G 68 61 10.0
Tom Brown’s f B 44 62 12.6 44:7 13
Schooldays,* j G 74 61 12.7
Hughes .. (
Deerslayer,* } B 37 83 12.6 1 47:8 14
Cooper . . \ G 9 Not recorded.
Last of Mohicans,* ) B 61 74 13.8 12:8 14
Cooper .. { G 21 82 1216
Alice in Wonder-( B 74 66 10.8 6:5 15
land,* Carroll ) G 84 69 10.5
Uncle Tom’s Cabin, j B 39 70 12.3 21:7 16
Stowe. . . . I G 104 81 12.7
Jungle Books,* ( B 100 70 11.5 11:6 17
Kipling - ~ \ G 65 65 11.3
Ivanhoe,* ( B 78 82 13.2 4:8 19
Scott . . (G 46 61 12.8
Penrod,* j B 103 86 13.0 1:8 20
Tarkington . . { G 89 79 13.1
An explanation of the entries for “Trea-
sure Island” will make clear those for the
other books. In America 27S boys and 117 girls
read the book. Average age of the boys who
read it was 12.5 and of the girls 12.2. It
is placed sixth in the list of books for child-
ren whose reading grade is seven. Position
in the list was determined by finding the
product of the number of cities in which
the book was read and the number of child-
ren reading and liking. P. O’Farrell listed
only authors and made no attempt to esti-
mate popularity of particular books by the
-same author. Both Australian and American
boys enjoy Stevenson. Entry under “Value”
is the value given to the book'by the child
readers. In the ballot-form reproduced above
children were given the opportunity of ex-
pressing one of four judgments. These
judgments were given numerical values of
100 (“the best book I ever read’*), 67, 63 and
0 Respectively. The average of these values
is the one indicated. Thus values of 81 for
boys and 72 for girls indicate that most
readers considered it one of the best books
they had ’ever read. Seventh-grade boy-
readers in America rate “Tom Sawyer''
(Twain), “Hans Brinker” (Dodge),
“Huckleberry Finn” (Twain) and ’‘Call of
the Wild” (London) higher than “Treasure
Island.” Of the live only “Huckleberry
Finn” and “Call of the Wilfi” are not starred
to represent exceptional literary merit.
A surprising omission from the Winnetka
list is that of Ballantyne’s books. One may
be certain that it was not due to lack of
popularity. Most Australian teachers would
deem their library incomplete without that
author being represented.
Until a graded list for Australian children
is available parents and teachers will find
the American list a valuable one.
A. W. H.
Buried Treasure
After years of starvation, the public is
suddenly gorged with Pirate literature, as is
the strange way with publishers. From the
mendacious journalism of Hyatt Yerrill to
the ponderous Archibald Hurd, at least 20
books have appeared in the last two years,
all the same in material, but differing
slightly here and there in treatment and
outlook. Why they were ever published is
a mystery, It would have been far more to
the point if, instead of writing dull para-
phrases, the gravediggers had followed Mase-
field’s example in the "Memoirs of Dampier,”
and edited the original manuscripts. Heine-
mann alone since Howard Pyle’s old expur-
gated edition troubled to reprint Esqueme-
ling's “History of the Buccaneers of Amer-
ica” ; and now at last, after 200 years, the
Oayme Press has given Captain Charles John-
son’s General History of the Pirates, edited
by Philip Gosse, the compiler of the excel-
lent “Pirates’ Who’s Who.”
Charles Johnson (the title of Captain was
very probably only assumed) was a braggart
of the worst type, a boaster of deeds he
would have been terrified to have performed
on the blackest night. “Once upon a time,”
was the favorite boast of his, “I was known
from Blackheath to Hounslow, from Ware to
Shooter’s Hill.” And he w T ould add that he
was the doughtiest highwayman of them
all; but, adds Whibley, “the truth is, the
only ‘crime’ he ever committed was plagiar-
ism.” He stole in handfuls from Captain
Alexander Smith’s “Lives of the Highway-
men” (1719, now never reprinted) ; and then
tried to creep under the cloak of a greater
Johnson than himself, the author of “The
Gentleman Cully” and “The Successful
Pyrate”; claiming Swift’s lines as a proud
insult to his own ruffianism: —
Johnson, who now to sense, now nonsense leaning,
Means not, but blunders round about a meaning.
Whence he managed to steal his “History of
the Pirates” we are not told. Gosse suggests
that “it is quite likely that he had taken
a personal part in more than one piratical
enterprise,” but I do not think so. He was
too great a coward to enter such a dangerous
trade, and also, if he had, too great a boaster
not to have shouted out the fact.
No matter what Johnson himself was, how
great a scoundrel or thief, his History cer-
tainly gives most delightful reading with
its quaint, eighteenth-century bombast, its
sly tricks of humor; and one cannot help
wondering with Gosse why it should have
been neglected for so long while enterprising
journalists have lived in the British Museum
scribbling copies to publish under their own
names. This (the first volume, the second
is to follow in a month or two) gives the
lives of nearly a dozen ruffians, opening with
Avery, the capturer of the Grand Mogul’s
ship, the Gunsway, and, incidentally, it is
said, the Xlrand Mogul’s daughter on a pil-
grimage to Mecca. With poetic justice, how-
ever, Avery was later swindled out of his
entire fortune hy some rascally Bristol mer-
chants : “so,” chuckled Johnson, “our Mer-
chants were as good Pyrates at Land as he
was at Sea.”
Later we are introduced to Captain Edward
Teach, the thundering murderous Blackbeard.
Here modern research has added to Johnson’s
account by proving that Tench’s name was
really Drumond, and that his family was of
“respectable standing in Virginia, near Hamp-
ton.” Blackbeard was the dream-pirate, the
ranting, howling figure of adventure, the
apotheosis of ruffianism, a man apart, un-
touched by any emotion, by pity or even
jealousy, for we learn such an inconceivable
fact as, after marrying a “young Creature
of about 16 Years of Age,” his 14th wife,
“whereof about a dozen might be still living.”
it was liis “Custom to invite five or six of his
brutal Companions to come ashore, and he
would force her to prostitute herself to them
all, one after another, before his Face.”
All the later biographies puritanically
delete this fact, which, for the light it throws
on this fantastic creature’s psychology, is
extremely interesting. It takes from him hia
last vestige of humanity. No wonder his crew
swore they saw the Devil aboard his ship.
Blackboard is the acme of piracy ; and Stede
Bonnet, whose history is the next narrated, is
his opposite in all ways. Bonnet was a sol-
dier who ran away to sea because of discom-
forts he found in a married state. But
be was an amateur at best who allowed
B!aekbeard to filch his ship and command
away from him, and who, for his milk-and-
watery adventures, deserved the drubbing
Captain Rliett eventually gave him. It is
interesting to note, although Johnson does
not mention the fact, that Bonnet was the
first and only pirate to use that popular
fiction of “walking the plank.” Most of
them threw broken bottles at the prisoners.
Of all the pirates in this first volume,
Captain Howell Davis is undoubtedly the
biggest. Davis was a general as well as a
sailor, a man of strategy who captured
armed city after city without losing a man.
(Continued on page S.)


it
m
nee
Men’s and Boys’ High-grade Suits
Carrying the Assurance of Worth and Wear
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
/
■-
The “Hordernia”
Ready - for-Service Suits
Set a Standard of Value
Serviceability is built into every Suit—yet the
price fits the pocket of the man who must
watch his expenditure.
The “Hordernia” Sac Suit is made in
Anthony Horderns’ own workrooms from
materials bought direct from the mills—all
intermediate profits being eliminated. The
Coat is designed with a two-button front, out-
side breast pocket, no vent. Vest has medium
opening and four pockets. Trousers possess
side or cross and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
In Grey and Brown Tweeds. f-Al .
Price
59/6
In Fox’s Rough Serge. Price ....
In All-Wool Worsteds, Striped or
Checked designs. Price
ffv’ 5 Parents recognise
instantly that
The “Durham” Suit
is an astonishing value
for their money.
Boys’ “Durham” Suits, are made in Anthony
Horderns’ own workrooms, The Coat has plain
sac or belted back (as desired) ; Knickers are plain
or have band and button. To fit boys 8 to 16
years. In English and Australian Tweed, r>/jl
dark shades of Grey and Brown. Price. . ZD m
Other qualities .... 28/6, 30/- to 42/-
In Fox’s Rough Serge. Prices 40/-, 42/6
In Indigo Dye Fine Serge. Prices. .47/6, 50/-, 57/6
Band and Button Knickers, 2/6 extra.
The “Parisian” Suit
For smaller boys, up to 8 years. Coat has pleated
front, half-belt at back, open to neck. The Knickers
are plain. In Neat Dark Fancy Tweeds.
Prices 28/6, 35/-, 45/-
In Navy Indigo Serge.
Prices
39/6, 42/-
§>*v
A
V
Postage paid on Men’s and
Boys’ Clothing in N.S.W.,
and to the nearest Inter-
state Port.
Men’s Golf Shirts
Made in Our Own Workrooms,
will meet the requirements of
the style-wise man. Style, cut,
fit and finish—all are embodied
to the highest degree—while
the low price is an additional
-attraction.
These Shirts are designed with double
cuffs, dressed neckband, Y-cased front,
and collar to match. Guaranteed fast
colorings.
Bradford Twill Golf Shirts,
stripes on Cream ground.
Price, each
smart
8/6
British Crepe Golf Shirts, neat stripes
of Blue or Black on White q
ground. Price, each 5// O
Haircord Golf Shirts, dressy Black or
colored stripes on White ground. -■ , ,g%
Price, each 1 1/ O
Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts, in choice
check designs on Blue, Grey or
Fawn grounds. Price, each .... It O
In plain White.
Pi •ice, each
11/6
A Varied Choice of
Boys’Durable Shirts
awaits your selection. These
Shirts are made in our own work-
rooms from the most reliable
materials—therein lies your
assurance of satisfaction.
RANGER SHIRTS AND BLOUSES.
The Shirts are made with collar and
pockets attached; buttons at waist for
attaching to Knickers.
Tlie Blouses are finished with band at
waist, and worn over braces.
Boys’ Rangers, in Striped Duro Nurse
Cloth, in an assortment of Block stripes
on White ground, or neat White stripes
on Navy ground.
Sizes .... 10 to llj in. 12 to 14 in.
Prices . . 4/11 5/3 ea.
Boys’ Rangers, in Striped Poplin de
Luxe; all the new season’s stripe effects
featured. All sizes. Price, q ,q,
each 0/ O
Boys’ Ranger Ties, to wear with the
above Shirts; in smart 1/11 O/Q
colorings. Prices ... 1 11} £/ %/
Boys’ Soft White Shirts, with collar
and pocket attached. In White Mer-
cerised Twill. Ideal for school wear.
Sizes .. 1111|. 1212| 13 13114 141 in.
Prices.. 4/3 4/6 4/9 4/11
Boys’ Striped Harvard Shirts, soft
finish, with collar and pocket attached;
strong and durable.
Sizes . . 1111| 1212| 1313| 14 14|in.
Prices. . 5/- 5/3 5/6 5/9
The College Shirt, in Striped British
Oxford; made with smart Peter Pan
collar attached. Blue or Black stripes
on White ground.
Sizes 11| to 121 13 13| 14 141 in.
Prices. . . 5/9 6/- 6/3
(Mercery—Ground Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN <S Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL.! SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440,


iSISSIIS
m*
x<
:*: %i; •: ••* r
1
<§)
l
/
ihf
ua
HARDYS
WINES
£r
TINTARA
1
m
w
PH
p
SK-*
SSR
i3SK
R2»£
a
53S!S
sSgggggw
< 'ftt&3tfß3SS
sftW
©
iv*‘s»isss«»a
57^5
r,w"S!
♦rft. Y.
wmimmzm
v,*.y,v>/
••V*Yii A l .' Tttn&tiVCf
figgs;
Av.v.v.
filiiliwimiiih
&Vi Sv.y.y.V/
VAW-'-K'AW^:
vv^v-irv®’^
•*v’vva§W^
fe)
w
*
,VA\™
Hi
. .
ap
>BS
-
IiStIPS
sn
Lr
* r j
gw
S'-
ss-
(ss
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wine*.


COMFORT
It’s great to have your hose
smooth and your garters so
comfortable that you don’t
know they’re on. That’s the
sort of satisfaction you get
from Paris.
Count the moment well spent when you
ask for PARIS .
PARIS GARTERS
IM3ETAL CAM TOUCH YCtf
Manufactured in Australia by
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO., Ltd., 50 York Street, Sydney
He died a fine death, an heroic death worthy
of the brave life lie lived. Trapped, lie and
his men fled back to the waiting boats, but
they were mowed down by shot, Davis him-
self being
shot through the Bowels, yet he did rise again and
made a weak Effort to get away, but his Strength
soon forsook him, and he dropped down dead ; just
as he fell he perceiv’d he was follow’d and, drawing
out his Pistols, fired them at his Pursuers ; Thus like
a game Cock, giving a dying Blow that he might not
fall unrevenged.
They were all heroic men these pirates
of the eighteenth century and earlier —men
who fought not for the sake of the gold alone,
but for the mere love of fighting and for
freedom. They spent their gold as quickly
as they shed the blood to capture it, for as
Esquemeling solemnly tells us, “I have seen
one of them give unto a common strumpet
500 pieces-of-eight only that he might see her
naked” —a piece-of-eight being equal to the
American dollar.
As for the treasure myth, so popular
among cheap novelists, these pirates had no
time for storing up their gold; they spent
too quickly. It is of course preposterous
to the miserly souls of the people to-day who
hoard their money in banks, as though it
were old wine in cellars, that these men
could actually throw Danse showers of gold
upon “common strumpets,” and never keep
a few doubloons handy to hole into' the
ground against their old age. But the
pirates had no old age. Thirty was an
ancient man for these dare-devils. The ever-
ready gallows got them soon enough.
Now that the Cayme Press lias set the
example, I hope other publishers will
follow with reprints. De Lussan, Cooke,
Funnell, Cowley and Woodes Rogers
could all reappear with a judicious
editing. This edition of Johnson’s History
is unfortunately only a limited edition ; but
it is hand printed and admirably bound with
quaint illustrations by Alexina Ogilvie, a
noble format for the treasure within. For
this is the pirates’ buried treasure —books
such as these, where one may find again
the undimmed spirit of adventure, and sail
once more out on the unknown seas of piracy,
with Teach bellowing at your elbow and the
puffed sail of some prize on the horizon.
Here we may sail again with the ruffians of
the past, hand in hand with pretty Mistress
Anne Bonny and her friend Mary Read,
two very scoundrelly and charming women
of the Jolly Roger.
L. PHILLIPS.
A Word for Eugenics
In his “Philosophy of Invalidism” (R.P.
26/8/’26), Mr. Dillon could have conducted
his argument almost as well without touch-
ing on eugenics; but since he has intro-
duced the subject, I suggest that he has
done so in a one-sided fashion.
If all the delicate offspring of delicate
parents turned out such intellectual rare-
fies as Lane Crauford, whose book was
under review, one might contemplate their
continuous arrival in the world with equa-
nimity. But what of the thousands born
to a heritage of disease and suffering who
have not the spirit or the mentality, or
indeed the combination of both, necessary
to carry them to the heights of philosophy?
It is safe to say they vastly outnumber the
Lane Craufords. Then, taking the quite
material aspect of the case, Mr. Crauford
must have spent a considerable fortune in
his extensive acquaintance with Harley-
street. How many among the vast hordes
of crippled and diseased can afford to do
that? In tubercular cases alone it is pro-
bable that for one who consults a specialist
1)9 buy a bottle of cough-mixture and let it
go at that.
Sickness allied to sordid poverty and:
squalid surroundings leaves little room for
philosophy or “unconquerable optimism.”
Therefore, if eugenics could be successfully
practised for the relief of such hopeless
misery, would it be the average man’s
opinion that the many should continue to
suffer so that society might not be deprived
of the few who struggle through (heroically,
I agree) to the state of philosophy? Again,
why should disease be necessary to our
spiritual existence? There are any amount
of spiritual trials apart from ill-health and
innumerable vices with which to contrast
our virtues besides those provided by the
physically and mentally defective.
Mr. Dillon seems to think that a system
of perfected eugenics would result in a race
of robust, hearty creatures with a minimum
of intelligence; but, since the theory aims
at the improvement of the mental as well
as the physical being, the dangers of im-
becility should be destroyed in embryo.
The greatest obstacle in the path of the
reformers is the sacrifice of personal liberty
involved; and until the general public can
be brought to a more altruistic frame of
mind, the world is likely to struggle on much
as it is.
L. PHR SSEN.
Our “Good” Authors
Reference has been made to Melbourne
Punch in the Red Page controversy con-
cerning Australian authors. Of the merits
of the controversy I will not presume to
judge, but I know a little about the relations
of what is termed the “unlamented” weekly
and the authors who used to contribute to
its pages.
Authors contributing to the controversy
appear to be incessantly asking for a
medium for their writings, a medium worthy
of themselves and the quality (if not quan-
tity) of the matter they write. I am
daring enough to ask where those authors
are to be found.
In the last four years of Punch’s life
before the Herald bought it, contributions
on every conceivable subject and of every
conceivable quality poured into its copy tray
literally by hundreds, perhaps by thousands.
It is difficult to remembci’ —and this is
written in cold blood —one item that out-
stood. That is, outstood in the sense meant
by those who refer to the paper as the
unlamented. It is admitted that the rates
paid were low. They were not, however,
below average standard. I hhve sold copy
to almost every paper in the six States that
buys freelance matter, and know the rates
paid. The Punch rate was f.a.q., and
above that fixed by many of its contempo-
raries. Perhaps it received the quality of
contribution it deserved for the price it paid.
In the old paper’s last hectic swan-song
year it paid handsome rates —that is, rela-
tively to other papers of its class —for
copy. This was deliberately done, a matter
of policy. “If,” said the literary side, “we
are to get good stuff we must pay _ good
prices!” It did so. It fixed a minimum
that proved as the months went on ex-
travagantly generous. Its maximum was
(again relatively speaking and for Australia)
almost gilded. It did not, however, get
the extra quality for the extra price. The
lure of higher space-rates did not draw
six authors not already drawn in earlier
years by its admittedly poor rates. More
than that, it did not draw contributions
a jot higher in quality than its old rates
had drawn. Where,” then, are- these authors
seeking self-expression? Where is this
superior quality of Australian workmanship
unexploited for want of an understanding
and good-paying medium in which to dis-
perse its superiority to an eager world?
Weekly the paper, in its old state and
in its new, contemplated ruefully the welter
of mediocre copy that flowed in and prayed
“Send us an author!” Punch tried hard
to discover the Australian writer. It “com-
missioned” story after story, sketch after
sketch, special article after special article.
Especially it was in search of the Aus-
tralian Wodehouse. It spent its money,
but it did not get the goods !
In the light of Punch experience, Aus-
tralia has a host of f.a.q. authors capable
of putting together neatly the innocuous stuff
the flapper and suburban reading public
likes. They figure in all papers, the same
little company. Outside these, where are
the Australian authors ? Why do they per-
sist in bifishing unseen, waiting for the un-
discovered paper sufficiently seized of their
exceptional gifts to permit them to “tell the
world”?
As a wayfarer on the Street of Ink who
gets and has always got his fair whack of
the space available to freelances, and the
very modest rates for the most part allotted
for the filling, I glow with sympathy for
the fellow-wayfarer; but I will confess here
that the best batch of stories I ever bought
cost £2O for 12, and each had a fine illustration
given in ! Thev were not in Bowery patois,
either, but good, sound English stuff, blending
action, romance, adventure, mystery, crime
detection, foreign local color and zip. When
I think of some of the dreadful stuff “put
over” by Australian authors “commissioned”
for specials at special rates, I admit that
glow of sympathy mentioned flickers and
smokes!
OBFUSCUS.
“The Will” Dethrones Reason
By ranging over the recent past, is it
possible to draw any sound conclusions about
the trend of the world? William Kay Wal-
lace, in Thirty Years of Modern History
(George Allen and Unwin), thinks it is. Up
to the close of the nineteenth century the
reign of law, “interpreted as the ordering
of society and of the individuals composing
it, by the sanction of a supreme corporation
known as the State,” had become the accepted
norm of social organisation. Political)
liberty and political equality had de-
veloped to the point of an almost com-
plete conception of the democratic ideal.
Arbitrary power was no longer exer-
cised by personal rulers, “and government
as an impersonal, immortal, legal agency was
entrusted with the administration of public
affairs.” It embodied the will of the people
based on a personal political equality. Iso-
lated exceptions there might be, but such at
the close of the last century was the general
political position of the world at large. But
doubts began to exercise the minds of men
whether political liberty and political equal-
ity were the be-all and end-all of govern-
ment attainment. Liberty and equality,
in a political sense, were to have ensured
the complete happiness of mankind. They
had for all practical purposes been attained,
but men were not yet completely happy. New
factors had arisen that could not be dealt
with satisfactorily under the old formula'. “It
wms beginning to be admitted that existing
political methods of social adjustment were
far from adequate to deal with the new pro-
blems of social organisation in which econo-
mic factors played such a preponderating
part. Men began to ask themselves whether
there is no deeper, more accurate agency
than reason, no firmer basis of human action
....than that offered by the rational mind.
What was the dynamic force underlying the
social phenomena of the latest age that was
shaping the new trend of events?”
The author then stresses the importanc
of the recognition of the dominating influ-
ence of the will on all phases of social life.
With political equality and the suffrage in
the hands of the people came the frank
acceptance of the guidance of the will in
the place of reason. What the people willed
might be reasonable or otherwise, but the
democratic expression of its will prevailed.
“It was apparently not recognised” up till
then “that the frank acceptance of the guid-
ance of the will in the place of reason was
destined to transform the character of the
social order.”
The effect of the achievement of the demo-
cratic objective in equality of political status
is thus described :—-
Self-assertion, self-help, self-government, no longer
confined within their former political limits, were
being rapidly changed into economic self-assertion,
self-help and self-government. The purpose of the
State henceforth is directed towards the realisation
of this economic self-assertiveness as the key to power.
Values, no longer ethical, were to become frankly
material. The individual loses his distinct character-
istics as such. His will to be effective must be joined
to the will of the majority. Not rights, but interests,
become the chief concern of politics. With the
increasing reliance on the will as the motive of
conduct the individual sinks to a condition of sub-
servience. Economic destiny supplants political
destiny. The rational view is discarded. Man,
endowed with the will to power, the will to believe,
the will to live, the will to succeed, is the gargantua
of the age.
The new freedom, the ever-growing expan-
sion of which we have seen in the first quar-
ter of the twentieth century, is “frankly phy-
sical and material —economic freedom.” In
this phenomenon the author finds a new his-
torical motive destined “to follow a course
of development not unlike that of the poli-
tical dogmas which have determined the
course of history during the past five cen-
turies.” So far the doctrines of this econo-
mic freedom have been formulated in vague
terms. Communism, syndicalism, inter-
nationalism and so on are merely weapons
of destruction and not the bases on which
to erect the new institutions. The machinery
that is to make the twentieth century objec-
tive of economic freedom feasible has still
to be devised, and when devised to be per-
fected. “But already we can perceive that
the economic functions of government have
usurped first place, and to-day play a more
important role than do political functions.
In spite of the fact that individualism is still
held sacred, the basis of the constitutional
guarantees that remain the organic law of
the national State, yet these guarantees have
become a dead-letter whenever the higher
needs of the community require it.”
A new moral code, a new social discipline,
will be called for, and a new spiritual motive
will be needed. The last named is, he thinks,
already taking shape in “the idea of world
unity.” And he looks forward to the day
when nationality will fade into obscurity and
be “replaced by a fuller, more profound
social motive that we express in the term
‘humanity.’ ”
T.B.C.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a committee
nominated by the Associated Booksellers of
Australia and Maoriland. It is issued to
serve as a guide to new fiction of outstanding
merit: —
Books of Literary Merit. —The Connoisseur and
Other Stories, by W. de la Mare; Tom Fool, by
Tennyson Jesse; Orange Street, by S. P. B. Mais;
The Quiet Lady, by A. Muir Mackenzie; The God
within Him, by Robert Hichens.
Books for Popular Reading.— Nadine, by G. P.
Robinson; The Stolen March, by Dornford Yates;
The Secret That Was Kept, by Elizabeth Robins;
Kirsty at the Manse, by Jane Boland; Uneasy
Virtue, by R. Campbell; Beau Sabreur, by P. C.
Wren; The Great Valley, by Mary Johnston; Keeper
of the Bees, by Gene Stratton Porter; The Incredu-
lity of Father Brown, by G. K. Chesterton; The
Blue Castle, by L. M. Montgomery.
A Satchel of Books
Towards the Answer, by C. R„ Boyd Freeman
(Reynolds). A study of “the riddle of the universe.”
It cannot be said to add anything to the solution of
the riddle, but has at least the merit of attempting to
face it with clear eyes and without conventionally
tinted spectacles. And there is this: “The contest
between man’s active little intellect and the great
hulking mystery of the Universe is not so unequal as
first thoughts may suggest. For the more man
wages the contest the greater does he become. Wisdom
multiplies itself, and strength increases in the
exercise.”
Billy Bradley’s Wife, by Norman Venner (Heine-
mann). When Billy, in carrying out a secret mission
for his chief, rescued an interesting young lady, a
Finn, who was indiscreetly attending a revolutionary
meeting in Glasgow, vouching to the police that she
was his wife, he laid up for himself a peck of trouble.
Subsequently he found he was entangled in a Scotch
marriage, and the business required a lot of explaining
to the real woman of his heart. The author gets
a lot of fun out of the youngster’s dilemma and
keeps it going to the final chapter.
Shepherds, by Marie Conway Ormler (Heinemann).
A book by the author of “The Butterfly Man” is
assured of a welcome. A bunch of youngsters living
in “the rectory,” a shabby old house on a corner of
a back street, in the poorest part of the city, where
they had learned the secret of how to be happy though
poor, conceive the idea of writing a domestic epic
to be known as “The Chronicle of the Halsey
Family.” “So long as you are people, things have
just got to happen to you,” comments Cissy, the
chief scribe, and here is the homely book of homely
happenings, with a little lavender-scented romance.
“A.G.M.”: Leonard Flemming, the S’African
farmer-son of Herbert Flemming and Minna Fischer,
who both gave largely to the delight of the Australian
stage in the days of long ago, is a man of many
parts. He has just had a new story, “Fun of the
Veldt,” accepted by Cassells, and is at the moment
on a lecturing tour. His earlier books, “Call of the
Veldt,” enthusiastically reviewed, “Fool of the Veldt”
and the “New Story of an African Farm,” showed
great descriptive powers, keen humor and a fine
literary style. His enthusiasm for tree planting
recalls the splendid pioneer work of the early Dutch
settlers. During the Great War, in which his younger
brother, Herbert, lost his life, Leonard Flemming did
fine work in the Remount Department of the English
Army.
“W.E.F.”: Evidently British novelists don’t agree
with “J.E.” (B. 19/8/’26), who asserted that the
lack of local material for novel writing almost
amounted to a famine. Four have paid us a call
during recent years—D. H. Lawrence, Robert Keable,
W. Somerset Maugham and Leonard Merrick —and
three of them published new novels after leaving our
shores. Lawrence gave his readers two books about
Australia, “Kangaroo” and “The Boy in the Bush,”
while Keable’s novel “Numerous Treasure” and
Maugham’s book of short stories, “The Trembling of
a Leaf,” had a Pacific Ocean setting, and doubtless
both have us in their notebooks ready for future
use. Merrick has not long left us, so it is too early
to expect anything from him. Now a fifth is making
his way here, Alex. Waugh, whose visit will synchro-
nise with the publication of his latest novel, “Love
in These Days.” His job is to open up business for
the publishing house of Chapman and Hall, of which
he is a director. Waugh, who is 28, first appeared
upon a publisher’s catalogue with his story of Eng-
lish public-school life, “The Loom of Youth,” when
he was only 17. Since then he has turned out five
novels, a book of verse, a serious review of the
collegiate system and a volume of reminiscences.
Autumn Leaves, by Wm. Hy. Davies (Vidler,
Melb.). Australia does not want poets with the
inferiority complex. The title of Mr. Davies’s nice
little volume of verse suggests sadness, not sunlight.
He can write prettily and musically, and can dove-tail
a triolet and polish off a rondel with neatness and
despatch. His is a singing soul in a minor key.
Vet there is room in the portrait gallery of poetry
for these carefully-composed etchings that will delight
the poetry-lover. Davies’s contribution to our litera-
ture is one that pleases by its delicacy, its grace and
restraint: his smallest poem—and some of them are
tiny—is delicately and conscientiously wrought. His
attitude is expressed in such lines as these: —
“And if I fail to reach the height
(Have I not failure oft confessed?)
I have been faithful to the light:
It may have varied —not my quest.
“I’ve haply ventured, fancy-borne,
To regions set outside my brief.
Choice blooms were there, and, scorning scorn,
I marvelled, paused, and plucked—a leaf.”
In the many mansions of Australian poetry his is
orderly and pleasing, with a trirnly-kept garden, hut
as a husband of the Muse he may be figured as con-
tentedly doing the washing-up in the laundry. As
he regretfully says himself: —
“Oh! not in ease and quietude,
Outside the bustling throng,
Can life’s emotions, many-hued,
Inspire the poet’s song.”


II
"<s>
A
•r
M
+ GF+
\A
S2S
s*
A
A
1
mk
%
%
+GF+
They Stand the Strain
of that extra half-turn
Strong enough to stand all
strains —|— GF —|— Malleable
Fittings are each individually
tested to 3001bs. per square
inch —far greater pressure than
they will meet with in ordinary
use. They will not split under
the strain of an extra half-turn,
nor under the strain of half a
dozen extra turns —they will
not split or crack at all.
Malleable
Fittings
tt
+ GF + Malleable Fittings
used for making railings.
An economical, effective
and easily-fitted railing
can be made by using
+ GF + Fittings.
Every Plumber will Agree
that there are very few tube fittings which can be crushed
flat by a power hammer without fracturing. Such a blow
would shatter an ordinary malleable fitting into a dozen
pieces. The same test applied to the —|— GF —|— did not
cause a single crack. This toughness is due to the close-
grained British iron from which —|— GF —|— Malleable
Fittings are made, and the special annealing process used
in their manufacture.
As there are 7500 varieties of —| — GF —[ — Malleable
Fittings to choose from there is a —|— GF —|— for every
plumbing job.
-j- GF -| are made in shapes which cannot be made in
ordinary fittings. One quality—the best —for Steam,
Water and Gas. Will not rust.
Send to the Sole Agents for full particulars.
ĥ
h
WILLIAM
ADAMS <f COMPANY
LI Ml TED—/
SYDNEY...
BRISBANE
PERTH ,
175 Clarence Street.
Edward & Mary Streets,
33-35 King Street,
MELBOURNE .. 521-523 Collins Street
ADELAIDE. , 157 Waymouth Street
NEWCASTLE, , 17 Bolton Street,


f
\
m
m
x
■N
The acid used in Willard Bat-
teries is carefully tested in our
chemical laboratories—kept in
lead tanks—pumped through lead
pipes—and is mixed only with
pure, distilled water.
that's
Quality
CLEVELAND,
a
OHIO, U. S. A.
STORAGE
BATTERY


Cl
|§tg
■ ■
ran
Jk
\ mi
;
'* : •
■ |'
■ ■
■
1
■ ?WI
;.'\ ijL .Jfm
A PACKARD SINGLE.SIX SE V EN-P A S SENG E R TOURING CAR IS ILLUSTRATED
PACKARD —A Car of Distinction
PACKARD supremacy in every sphere of motoring on land, on
the water, and in the air—is the outcome of more than twenty-five
years of constant improvement and research. Packard has ever main-
tained the highest standard of quality and workmanship. The first
Packard was made by a rich man as a hobby and having never known
poverty the best of material and the finest craftsmen have always been
available and employed. Packard has never learned to substitute or
cut corners.
Thus Packard has only the best to offer whether in performance or
appearance. Packard Single-Six and Straight-Eight models are built to
wear well for twice as long as cars of other makes and because of this
the Packard represents the better investment. For the man who desires
to own a car of quality and distinction at a moderate price the Packard
models listed below are ideal.
Single-Six Five-Passenger Phaeton £875
Single-Six Seven-Passenger Touring Car £925
IRA L. Sc A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
Distributors: Berk House, 72-76 William Street, Sydney.
Ring FL1759 for demonstration. Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellorv, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell St., Melbourne,
The Universal Motors Ltd.,
Petrie's Bight, Brisbane.
S. A. Motors (Packard) Ltd.,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide.
H. G Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart, ‘Tasmania.
Denny Bros.,
439'447 Murray St., Perth
PACKARD
s k O’ h e CM a n OU ho Owns One


Cuticura Talcum Is
Cooling And Comforting
Daily use of this pure, fragrant,
antiseptic Talcum Powder helps to
overcome heavy perspiration and is
soothing and refreshing to the skin.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointmentls. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; “R.Towns & Co., Sydney .N.S.W.”
IV Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Quality Durability Economy.
THE SUPER
CHALLENGER
Is the best golf ball you can play.
Sole Wholesale Distributors :—-
NORMAN L. BURNELL & 00. (N.S.W.), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. [ 1
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint, it will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
SO4 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Children
enjoy
ĥ
it makes them
Wellandstrona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists s, Stores
Missing friends.
HENDERSON.
IF ROBERT HENDERSON, a brother of
i JAMES HENDERSON, who left Mel-
bourne about thirty-five years ago and was
once in West Australia, will communicate
with the Equity Trustees Co., Ltd., of 85
Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear of
something to his advantage. If deceased, his
children are required to communicate with
the said Company.
HENDERSON.
IF GEORGE STEWART HENDERSON,
1 son of DAVID HENDERSON, who left
Bunyip about thirty years ago, will com-
municate with the Equity Trustees Co., Ltd.,
of 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear
of something to his advantage.
Henry peckover candler, at
Gympie and Rockhampton about 1908,
then talked of going to New Guinea. Any
information as to present address, or death,
please communicate to WOOLSEY, SAYER
& THOROLD, Solicitors, Bank Plain,
Norwich, Norfolk, England.
Agents Wanted.
OPPORTUNITY offered live representative
in States other than S.A. to handle a "won-
derful Adelaide invention on sole-agency basis.
The GORDON SAWDUST HOT-WATER
SERVICE
gives a plentiful supply of hot water in the
home for twopence per day.
Particulars from F. C. MUIRHEAD,
C.B.S. Buildings, King William St., Adelaide.
Genuine Baltic
AMBER
IS ALWAYS IN FASHION
INGE time immemorial Amber
has been favoured by Royalty.
No Queen of the East was
adorned without it. The Greeks and
Romans believed Amber to be magic-
al. The Chinese held it to be the
one stone worthy of being coloured
with the Blood of the Sacred Dragon.
For centuries all nations have con-
sidered that the wearing of Amber •
brought good fortune and its magnetic
properties warded off illness.
This is very fashionable for Ladies' Necklet wear, and
is obtainable in the following: —
In Clear Faceted Amber —
Prices 67/6, WW; M/W-, £5/5/-
In Plain, Cloudy Amber —
Prices.. £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £B/15/-, £9/10/-
Stewart Dawson & Company
(N.S.AV.) Ltd.
Two Sydney /185-187 PITT STREET, near King Street.
Establishments f 412 GEORGE STREET, Strand Corner.
Contains Nothing Injurious .
IT SOOTHES.
An ideal preparation for the relief
of bronchitis in children and adults
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It
soothes the roughened throat, relieves
hoarseness, checks the cough and in-
flammation by cutting away the mucus.
ħ
AJMIf ct “TailopmadePipe /
Many folk marvel at the beautiful
workmanship of the <c 888 ” Pipe,
and the exquisite fit of vulcanite
mouthpiece to Bruyere stem. This is
because it is “ Tailor-made ” —each
separate mouthpiece—made from the
finest of fine quality vulcanised Para
Rubber—is shaped and fitted to each
individual pipe.
Such care as this in the making of a
pipe is unusual. But then, of course,
the wonderful, aged, and matured
Bruyere we use for making “ 888 ”
Pipes is worthy of all the care that
60 years’ experience could conceive.
to
mlonffiamade
W,:\
mirWm
Ask your favourite
Tobacconist to
show you the full
range of “ 888 ”
Pipes
Manufactured by
ADOLPH FRANKAU & CO LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND
* *
Cy -Ty
100QSATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
■■■■■■''UYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
i I i, 1 i 1 ' I | , 1 i M ill I I shave aftershave of satin smooth-
• ; v .-, r.- ’■ Hness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
rnamm
Guaranteed
in order for two years free
CRAIG iAITKEN,654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY,
h
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Thanks.
The day has done its best
To make vis happy folk,
Radiant with joy
Since the world awoke.
Blue and gold it gave,
And a host of brave,
Bright and perfumed flowers
Through long lustrous hours.
The morn was rosy red,
And wondrous was the noon,
Making all the land
Like an Earth aswoon.
And, when noon was done,
Westward strode the sun,
Over slope and height
Lavishing rich light.
Although in twilight skies
Now no rose-clouds drift,
Let us thank the day
For each lovely gift.
Thankful let us be
For the radiancy
That has been our dower
Golden hour cn hour.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Ballade of the Would-be Free.
Give me not for my soul’s content
(I ask no guerdon rare of fate)
Some over-rich emolument,
A seat among the earthly great;
Not for me are the ways' ornate,
Where wealth and fame hold glittering show,
To the shadows am I dedicate—
Give me good-day, and let me go.
Give me my bonds asunder rent;
No other ills you need abate
Of all that have upon me spent
Their malice in my prisoned state;
Rase me the banks that dammed the spate
Of my tumultuous spirit’s flow;
The flood has risen to the gate—
Give me good-day, and let me go.
So long have I been straitly pent
Within my little life, sedate;
So long have I, with body bent
To labors that dull needs dictate,
Been deaf to all the gay winds prate
Of freedom I could never know,
Till now, I fear, you may too late
Give me good-day, and let me go.
Envoy.
Lord, enough I’ve known to sate
Me of all rhyme and rule below;
If these must yet upon me wait—
Give me good-day, and let me go!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
Jewellery.
There is no moon this night to guide
With high-held lamp my lady’s way
Across the polished, floor-like tide
Between the squat hills of the bay;
And those far stars are all too dim
To flush her canvas or reveal
How she slides onward, steady and trim,
With hardly a breath to drive the keel.
(Not thus by day I’ve seen her go,
But royally and before all eyes,
With gulls for bodyguard, a show
Of white wings splashed upon the skies.)
Though stealthily she walks the dark
And unattended, even now
Queen-like she wears her gems: I mark
The torn wash flaring at the bow.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
The Cobbler.
S.A.
Faring down a far road
As might any maid,
Late I spied a little elf
Stitching at his trade.
Cobbler elves with fairy lasts—
Childhood’s fancy, these!
Yet I saw his magic goods
Underneath the trees.
Mortal shod with magic shoon—-
Oh what foolish talk !
Yet he made me while I stood
Gear for me to walk
Far and farther down a road.. ..
Folly steals the wits
Of folk that trade with little men
For fairy gear that fits!
M. R. C.
The Flame-tree.
The winter wind has swept her branches
bare;
The last brave leaf has fallen, brown
and dead;
Yet sturdily she lifts her valiant head.
Undaunted by the bleak and restless air—
Figure of Fortitude, a virgin fair,
Stripped of her leafy gown; but io,
instead,
A wealth of flame-flowers, glowing deep
and red,
Bids a warm challenge to the churlish air.
The lashing gales that stripped her garb
away
Cannot subdue the cheery fire-red
flowers—
Beacon of hope when Summer’s warmth has
fled.
So, when Life’s ivinter-time holds fearful
sway,
Be brave, my heart; withstand the storm-
wind’s powers:
And. like the wind-stripped flame-tree,
blossom red.
N.S.W.
P. E. SMYTHE.


x v /
. /
s
Y
V.::..;
YIISp
Cd
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine Label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.


The Bulletin
Vol. 47—No. 2433.
September 30, 1926
,f "Jt|ERS3 SOMETHIH<S IK V'/OMEH's DRESS APTS'? MUL.’
" Ves, But there's mors out \ "
t
The Boy Scouts
Attire has its
COMPORTS ,
"ThE. BATHINC, SU'T ITS CHARMS .
Pyjamas for
ENfENIKC, DRESS.
But mot somevhumc; Mem) ?
Coul?&E I,
Domestic:
V\A/ ARisS ,
" /'buss, been ■wearimc;
V\y 'at \ "
But iheh,
»T2s Hot
Thm n\i\ke
the tv)^v4,
FASHIONS FOE MEN.
“With the return of warm weather there is a revival of the discussion regarding sensible clothing for men.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), IV. I.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 13s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2321 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form, of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
•will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Rlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or -wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Riilletin’s" representative in London is
T,. St. C. (iromlonn, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus). W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from him or
the bookstall in tile Main Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 15-
?') Fairing don Street, London, E.C.!,.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London. E.C.J,.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, >,6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander.” JiVi-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algor, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House. Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency. Benoni; Ilandel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Poland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevards; Post Office
News Co., 33 1 Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, 3th Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street , New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 101, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man. 103 Poyal
Street. New Orleans, La.; The Wide World Neivs Stand,
51,1 k South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31. Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — ll. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly■ Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-19 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.!,.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id: All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926.
THE GREAT MIGRATION DELUSION.
The Morning Post commands respect on
two counts. It formed its views about
politics a hundred years ago, and sticks to
them. Count No. 1. And No. 2 is that
most of the views have a sufficient
amount of sense about them to stand
a century’s buffeting without getting
worn out. For years the venerable journal
was the property of Cady Bathurst, and it
has now been taken over by a band of
solemn persons who have sworn —probably
at midnight in a subterranean crypt, with
a masked Royal duke in the offing—to carry
on the grand old traditions. The essence of
those traditions is that rulers are born and
not made, that the capacity to rule is heredi-
tary, and that persons who want to rule
and who have not been born in the right
families ought to be discouraged even if it
takes boiling oil to do it. One of
the trimmings or fringes of the editorial
policy, so to speak, is a conception of the
overseas Empire as a sort of enlargement of
the Virginia plantations—a place where
younger sons of the right families go and
plant things and wax fat in the process.
Among the objects the Morning Post has
never approved of are the abolition of slav-
ery, Lord Russell’s Reform Bill, Irish
Home Rule, the League of Nations, the fran-
chise for women and colonial self-govern-
ment ; and one of the few men in
Stanley Baldwin’s Cabinet that have
its approval—alas! so many of them are
merely political adventurers and people who
made their money in trade —is Amery, who
has a family, four initials and a colonelcy,
and who has been put in charge of the
Dominions (late Colonial) Office. Amery’s
idea is that, as so many British industries
are breaking down and throwing their work-
ers on to the dole, the surplus workers ought
to be shipped out to the plantations to plant
tilings. As he has frequently remarked, if
they go out and plant things they become
customers for the things which their erst-
while mates can produce in mine, factory or
mill. They are not only off the dole and
the Poor Law relief, but they “provide work’’
for those who are left behind, and thus still
further ease the pressure on a public purse
which —quite wrongly, to the Morning Post
way of thinking—is used to support in idle-
ness those people for whom no work can
be found.
* * * *
Churchill, who comes from one of the
right families, of course, but is most unmis-
takably a political adventurer, thus occasion-
ing the Morning Post agonies like those
of the chameleon that found himself sitting
on a Scottish tartan, would take a short
and thorough way with these troubles. Those
who won’t emigrate—let them starve! As
a recipe for the encouragement of emigration
Churchill’s bright idea can’t be beaten.
The only objection to it is that it is about
50 years behind the times. Nowadays people
simply will not starve quietly and respect-
fully. So it becomes necessary to coax emi-
gration, and the Morning Post is prepared
to do its part. It will ship to Australia —-
which is the fashion among the apostles of
emigration since it has been learned that
Canada has started some factories —200
miners. These stout lads are to he caught
young and lusty, before the coal-dust has
had time to settle on their lungs, and they
are to he introduced to the wide open spaces
and the pure free air of a new continent,
things which they have doubtless read about
on the cinema screen. They are to receive
as much as 20s.—and in extreme cases 30s.
—a week, for planting things in Australia.
The effort comes within the ambit of the
Empire Settlement Scheme, and the British
and Australian Governments will pay part
of the passage money. The miners have
been selected by the Australian Emigration
Commissioner, and arrangements have
already been made to place the men in em-
ployment with farmers in Victoria and West-
ralia. The Morning Post’s part in the
affair is that it has taken the contingent
under its wing, so to speak; devoted a lot of
news and editorial space to the “task of
selection,” and is sending a special repre-
sentative to Australia to watch over the
exportees and “investigate settlement con-
ditions generally.” Not at all a bad idea—
much better than the idea that mine-labor
from Britain can be turned into farm-labor
in Australia on a wholesale scale.
Intelligent Englishmen are agreed that the
best thing that could happen to their country
would be a revival of agriculture. Efforts to
that end have been a part of both Liberal
and Conservative policy. In the last eight
years an average of two millions a year has
been spent in encouraging settlement on
small holdings. The results are not im-
pressive. After taking into account the hold-
ings that have been thrown up because the
settlers could not make a living on them, it
is seen that the experiment has cost the
State at least £lOOO per settler, and most of
them are not doing as well as if the capital
had been invested for them in some other sort
of business. All over Great Britain large
farming estates are being sold by their owners
at remarkably low prices ; and already there
are cases where comparatively large areas
have been placed under expert management,
and a decent return on capital attained. But
meantime Britain has a smaller part of her
population engaged in food production than
any other first-class nation. The proportion
of wage-earners engaged in agriculture and
fishing is just a trifle over 6 per cent.,
although 82 per cent, of the land is described
as “agricultural and pastoral.” In the
United States, where approximately half tiie
huge area is classified as farm land, 26 per
cent, of the workers are engaged in farming.
The proportion is manifestly a much healthier
one than Britain’s. If Britain's population
could be reduced by a third, and a full quarter
of the remaining people “settled on the land,”
there can be very little doubt that the
country’s worst economic problems would be
solved. And that is the sort of result towards
which, consciously or unconsciously, all three
political parties are trying to march. The
march would, however, be faster if people in
England could be made to realise that such
attempts to readjust the distribution of popu-
lation as involve the conversion of town
workers into farmers, at home or abroad,
have failed very signally. With the possible
exception of Maoriland, no overseas part of
the Empire is taking as many “migrants”
to-day as it did 13 years ago. That is a
matter of statistics. Another aspect of the
matter, not susceptible of statistical proof,
but a matter of experience and observation
in all the Dominions, is that migrants who
are sent out to plant things, more often than
not soon get tired of planting things and
drift into the cities.
* * * *
The principal point about migration that
strikes the “colonial” mind after watching the
post-war failure to boost agricultural develop-
ment in “the colonies," is that “the
colonies” can’t greatly and safely accel-
erate the rate at which their popu-
lations grow unless they develop not
only primary but secondary industries.
If Australia, for example, were to be put into
a position where its imports of foreign (non-
British) metal-ware could be reduced by 50
per cent., we should find the Broken Hill Prop,
waiting on the wharf to welcome the Morn-
ing Post’s 200 miners, and anxious to set
them at work —mining. Naturally and inevi-
tably more men would have to go on the
land to grow food to support the enlarged
industrial army. And as the Balfour Com-
mittee pointed out last year, every Domi-
nion that expands its manufacturing indus-
tries becomes a good potential customer for
Britisli-made machine tools, a field in which
the overseas Dominions cannot hope to attain
independence for a good many years yet.
The Morning Post's special commissioner
will discover, then, if he stays in Australia
long enough, that the quickest way in which
J. Bull can get rid of his dole-takers is to
put his capital into “colonial" manufactures.
On the other hand, the notion that his trade
can be stimulated by assisting his townsfolk
to go into the backblocks of Australia or
Canada is discouraged and discredited by
seven years of failure.
VICTORIA’S ROTTEN BOROUGHS,
AND HOW THEY ROTTED.
The Victorian redistribution-of-seats pro-
blem lias covered the Allancock Ministry
with humiliation and brought the Mel-
bourne Age at times to the verge of apoplexy,
if not homicide; yet through all tlie roar and
dust of battle very little attention was ever
paid to the real issue. Humiliation is tlie
Allancock Ministry's natural garment, just
as thistles are its natural diet. Apoplectic in-
dignation is the customary attitude of the
Age when it issues its ultimatum to a V ic-
torian Cabinet and the Cabinet doesn’t ulti-
mate. Despite their differences and their
excitement, the parties have had, all through,
a great deal in common, for neither seeks to
retard the bloat of the city. The position,
to begin with, was that Greater Melbourne
has only about half the number of Assembly
members to which it is entitled on a popu-
lation basis, while the Rest of the State,
sometimes described as the Man on the Land,
is over-represented in a corresponding
fashion. On the basis of one vote one value
tlie distribution would be 37 members for
Melbourne and its environs, with a chance
of indefinite increase, and 28 for the Rest of
the State, with a possibility of indefinite
decrease. The two outstanding cases at the
1924 election were Boroondara, with G 3,123
voters (more than three times the figure of
1911), and Grenville, with 4256 (less than
two-thirds the number in 1911). Boroon-
dara is still growing fast (it reached 78,156
the other day), and Grenville is doing the
other thing rapidly. This isn’t the worst
discrepancy in Australia, for one of the
things in Westralia which Premier .Timmy
Mitchell was too tired to remedy during
his long term of office was that Canning
had 13,739 voters and decayed old Menzies
only 404. Still, one discrepancy doesn’t
make a summer, and it has never been
proved that two anomalies are better than
one. The Age and those it represents have
raised a clamor for absolute arithmetical
justice. The Government idea ever since
the anomaly began to be talked about lias
been to leave it alone as much as possible.
There is no particular reason to believe
that a better division of voting power would
produce better legislation, but there is a
sentimental faith in the idea of one vote one
value. Therefore it becomes necessary, if
Victoria remains in its unsubdivided condi-
tion, either to remove much vote into the
city or to remove many voters into the
country. About the first proposition much
is said. About the second nothing is done.
Victoria has 41 agricultural and pastoral
electorates out of its total of 65, Dandenong
having drifted into the suburban category
and Geelong being a seaport, where people
don’t go on the land to any extent. Be-
tween 1911 and 1921 IS of these 41 electo-
rates lost population. Between 1921 and
1924 the number on the down grade was 22.
In that period of three years Victoria
acquired 28,971 new electors and eleetresses.
The 41 agricultural and pastoral constituen-
cies gained 1164, or if Geelong is thrown
in the 42 constituencies which are not Mel-
bourne and suburban gained 1578. That left
27,393 for the metropolis and its attach-
ments. Swan Hill, on the Murray, had a
bit of a boom, possibly of the public-works
variety. If Swan Hill is left out the posi-
tion is that Victoria has 65 electorates, and
that 41 of them had conjointly 1600 fewer
electors in 1924 than in 1921.
* * * *
The most interesting feature of a very
interesting case is that Victoria had, up to
June, 1924, spent in a fairly short time
£29,000,000 on the repurchase of estates for
closer settlement—in other words, on the
pretended effort to put more people into its
41 agricultural and pastoral electorates.
Looking at the results a foreigner might con-
clude that these millions were all stolen in
some mysterious way and spent in the
lowest forms of dissipation. Another view
is that people in authority, by pig-headed
force of habit, laid themselves out to retard
and destroy the country, the outports and
the small provincial centres, and make the
£29,000.000 utter waste. The manipulation
of railway construction and railway rates is
the chief means to this end. The charge may
seem ridiculous to non-Australians, but it is
one of the commonplaces of an outrageously
mismanaged land. Victoria had no recent
drought and no recently-burst mineral
boom to explain its decadence. If its rulers
had saved the £29,000,000 and gone in for
fairness and plain dealing instead, with a
little patriotism and commonsense thrown
in, it could hardly have avoided gaining
country and small-town settlers instead of
losing them. Perhaps it would be best if the
Allancock Ministry put its half-hearted
reform measure in the fire, and defiantly
staked its existence on leaving representation
as it is. The effect of a re-adjustment would
be to obliterate the old electorates, and then
no one would know for a while how the de-
population of places like Grenville was
getting on. If there is to be no reversal of
the One Big City policy there is some advan-
tage in preserving old names and boundaries,
so that the reader can see at a glance how
Grenville and all the other dreadful examples
are getting on.
THE VIVISECTIONISTS.
The most remarkable factory in Australia
is at Royal Park, Melbourne, over against
the Zoo. It also is interested in animals,
but not in the same way. It consists of
a large, three-storeyed block, numerous out-
buildings, stables, pens and hutches, and it
is surrounded by green fields. They call
it tlie Commonwealth Serum Laboratory.
The anti-vivisectionist visualises the vivi-
sectionist as a sinister-looking person with
mad, glittering eyes, who works behind
locked doors grafting billygoats legs on to
the bodies of rats to make Any-
body who remembers H. <l. M ells s mis-
guided “Island of Dr. Moreau’ will under-
stand tlie picture. The Dr. Moreau of
Royal Park at the moment is Acting-JJirec-
tor Dr. Morgan. His unromantic occupa-
tion appears to be the supervision from a
roll-top desk of a staff of 120 busy men and
maidens engaged in packing and posting
tubes and packets addressed to the four cor-
ners of the Pacific. Dr. Morgan claims
with pride that the vogue of his products
is due not to any protection afforded by a
tariff, but to their superiority over _ all
foreign competitors. They have driven
British and American rivals out of the
Maoriland field, and have even invaded
Asia.
A tour around the various departments
discloses no clownish Wellsian mysteries, but
matter even more surprising. In one room
two gentlemen in white gowns are engaged
in making insulin for diabetics out of the
pancreases of oxen. There is no room here
for anti-vivisectionist complaints, because
the raw material is obtained from the abat-
toirs, and is merely a by-product of the
business of providing meat for a carnivor-
ous nation. The stuff is made in astound-
ingly large quantities. Insulin lias not com-
pletely conquered diabetes, but it has tri-
umphed in many brushes with the enemy,
notably in the case of a Melbourne man
who in 1923 was in a state of coma and was
given a week to live. He is now supporting
a wife and family, and says that if he felt
any better it would hurt him. Insulin had
first to be stabilised and standardised in the
bodies of animals before it could be tried
on human beings, and the potency of the
product, on the sale of which no profit is
allowed, is estimated by injections into
rabbits.
In another room another viviseetionist is
performing unusual things with the live
muscle of a guinea-pig—the martyr, chloro-
formed during the detachment of the muscle,
has passed painlessly into the heaven of
guinea-pigs. The muscle is being kept alive
with artificial blood composed of sugar,
oxygen and other ingredients. Subjected to
small doses of pituitary-gland extract (a pro-
duct of the factory found to be of benefit to
women in labor), the muscle contracts and
expands, and an ingenious arrangement re-
cords the movement. Without this test doc-
tors would be liable to give their patients
doses that might prove fatal. In another
room a nice-looking 'female viviseetionist is
handling billions of live tubercle bacilli
which are feeding placidly on omelet. Down
in the cellars are rooms maintained at a
stifling heat or at 12 degree below freezing,
where diphtheria and other deadly organisms
feed contentedly on a very special kind of soup,
like clotted myriads' of aldermen. Their
function is to breed the toxins that will breed
the anti toxins that will kill their brothers.
Still other departments are engaged in manu-
facturing anti-toxins for catarrhs, asthmas
and fevers caused by the pollen of capeweed,
Iceland poppy and a dozen others; and for
protein irritation due to cat hair, hen
feathers, human hair and house dust. The
old hollow door-key method of treating black-
heads, I learnt, has gone out of favor, and
there is a great demand for a blackhead
serum. The laboratory caters for it, but
doesn’t guarantee a cure in all cases.
But Dr. Morgan’s interesting factory is
most actively concerned with the fight
against the deadlier menaces of the human
race. Whatever arguments may be brought
against the value of a serum for house dust
only an anti-vivisectionist will deny the vic-
tories in other directions. Before the dis-
covery of the serum up to 75 p.c. of those
who contracted epidemic meningitis died.
Use of the serum has brought the mortality
down to 25 p.c. Similar success has attended
investigations into hydrophobia, plague,
scarlet-fever and puerperal infection. Horses,
monkeys, guinea-pigs, rabbits and hares had
to be sacrificed in the course of these inves-
tigations. Millions of men sacrificed them-
selves in the Great War in defence of their
homelands, which included the defence of
anti-vivisectionists. That animals should be
sacrificed in the war against disease seems
logical, especially as the diseases brought
under control include many peculiar to
animals.
Which brings us to the dumb helpers of
the institution. Forty or fifty sleek-looking
horses are pastured in a field. Having had
the toxins of half a dozen diseases injected
into them, they are automatically generating
on this soft spring day the billions of anti-
bodies which will march forth in neat
packets to vanquish the microbes of para-
typhoid and gonorrhoea in Rabaul or Syd-
ney. If a horse is a vehicle for diphtheritic
anti-toxin, two gallons of blood will, after a
suitable period, be extracted from his veins.
The operation is no more painful than a
smart cut on the rump to a beast dragging
a heavy load uphill; and, after the anti-toxin
has been removed from the blood by a pro-
cess almost miraculous, the red corpuscles
are solicitously returned to the horse to
save him from anaemia. Elsewhere are kept
Belgian hares, white rats, mice, rabbits and
guinea-pigs in hundreds. The hares suffer
diabetes in the cause of insulin standardisa-
tion, and plague in order that a doctor in far-
away New Guinea may be able to diagnose
in a few hours the nature of a sudden epi-
demic. The invaluable guinea-pig perishes
in many causes, including the diagnosis of
tuberculosis. The white rats are there in
readiness for an outbreak of the dreaded
pneumonic plague, and the tumorous white
mice, handled with surprising coolness by
their attendants, are being used in research
work into cancer.
Here, then are the yivisectionists. If
Pasteur and his successors had been anti-
vivisectionists the science of bacteriology
would never have been founded; neverthe-
less, the anti-vivisectionist, who is mostly
a she, continues and is likely to continue.
Most of her funds have been granted to her
in perpetuity by well-meaning millionaires.
Her activities can never lead to the
abolition of animal experimentation, which
has come to stay, but she may stam-
pede a community into refusing its


bnb means of protection. I have had suffi-
fcibnt personal experience in the matter to
be unable to come to an unbiased opinion.
Some years ago a person of great import-
ance to me contracted diphtheria in China.
A week elapsed before I could get medical
assistance. My notions about diphtheria
were in those days mainly derived from a
story by Rudyard Kipling. Later in
Maoriland, another person of importance
to me contracted the same complaint. In
each case timely injections of the appro-
priate serum —possibly it came from the
laboratory at Royal Park —performed the
miracle which is now automatically expected
in five per cent, of all cases treated.
M. G. S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Prussian Ultimatum.
The Prussian was inside the League of
Nations just iong enough to hang np his
hat and select a good Seat , when he delivered
what sounded remarkably iike an ultimatum.
Foreign-Minister StresemAnn made a
Speech in which he declared, .to begin with,
that Germany’s admission to tlie League whs
Gear ana definite acknowledgment that it
iyaS hot guilty of causing the Great War.
Tlie admission was thus not a pardon or an
act of grace, but the tardy righting in small
jjart of a great wrong. Who was guilty
JSteesemann didn’t say, but someone must
be, and he will probably drop a bombshell
jntb the diplomatic family circle one of these
days by giving the name or names. Germany
having been cleared of all suspicion, Strese-
mann demanded the immediate evacuation
of the scrap of territory which is still held
as some security for the indemnity. In addi-
tion, he said that Germany has the same
right to possess colonies as any other coun-
try, but he didn’t say right off whose colo-
nies it thought of possessing. This air of
massive innocence and this assertion of com-
plete acquittal should logically lead, as time
goes OU, to a demand for the refunding of
the fine or penalty-—in other words, to a
demand for the cancelling of the indemnity
and the return of all lost territories. The
navy can hardly be returned, it being wet
him almost obsolete. Whether an agitation
will ultimately arise that the parties who
made the war shall be searched for, and
something adequate done to them when
found, is a question for the future. Some-
body must have made the war, for wars
don’t make themselves, just as houses don’t
burgle themselves, and when the Prussian
hat lias hung long enough in tile League’s
Council hall to give the owner confidence
(hot that he seCms short of confidence now)
more may be heard of this matter. It may
be taken as a certainty that the Prussian,
in his new attitude as a free, equal and
acquitted citizen, will fiercely resent any
inspection of his _ armaments to see if they
are in keeping with his promise to quit the
aggressive military track. He resented very
fiercely and very successfully when he was
still an Outsider among the nations, and
6veU then he was under a load of suspicion
as ft person who Was actively and secretly
preparing for more enterprise of martial
kind. Though the Prussian knows how to
create a great army in secret, as he showed
to the astonished Napoleon I. over a cen-
tury ago, it is impossible to do the like with
a navy, but the old fleet did so little real
Service in 1914-18 that he may not regret
this. .The obtrusively-frank statement of the
Prussian case will probably be taken as a
Warning not to make disarmament a mor-
bid fetich. The Sovietiscd Russian is a
Shadowy danger of unknown dimensions.
He is so averse to inspection that, in 1925.
only 1662 persons are believed to have
Secured admission, under close surveillance,
to his haunted land of frost and sin. An-
other danger of unknown dimensions is the
Bolshevised Chinaman. The Prussian shows
every sign of proving a third unless he gets
impossible concessions. And Uncle Samuel,
m persistent search for his pound of flesh, does
his best to deprive his allies of every sem-
blance of the sinews of war. Nobody, read-
ing Uncle’s utterances on the subject, would
imagine that he repudiated some of his own
lawful debts to Britain by a long series of
acts regarding which he is wholly unrepen-
tant.
*
The N.S.W. Railway Situation.
The manager of the first publicly-owned
undertaking must have had an awful moment
when the deputation of elder statesmen,
having entrusted the bantling to his care,
retired, leaving him to his dread mission.
Brought up, probably, as the servant of a
joint-stock company, and haunted by hor-
rible visions of the time when the co. failed
to pay the usuaj dividend and 700 share-
holders howled for the blood of Jenks, the
manager, the neophyte saw himself being
torfi apart by Clydesdales or frizzled in Lis
own fat if he failed to make a do of it. He
made a do of it. After making a do of it
for several years he was sacked. The party
which sacked him discovered that public
undertakings are safest when they don’t make
profits. Later on it was whispered that a
deficit, though not desirable, need not prove
disastrous. Then a politician invented the
notion of applying the conjurer’s confidence
trick to the business. “Kindly note, ladies
and gentlemen,” he said blandly, “that I
can’t possibly have anything up my sleeve.
I haven’t got a sleeve. The whole thing is
run by Commissioners who are absolutely
independent of my control and can’t be
removed without a major operation.” For
a while even the Commissioners thought
that they really did run the show, but.
doubts crept in. It was particularly hard
to keep up the pretence in the transport
services. When the politicians take a hand
and say whom one shall employ and whom
one shan’t, and what wages one shall pay,
and what hours one shall work the hands,
Commissioners have only one retort left.
That is, the public must pay more for the
service, or the perennial deficit will get bigger
and bigger. Then the public pays more,
the cost of living goes up, the railway ser-
vants get more paper money in their pay
envelopes, and so does every other wage-
earner. The cost of living then rises a bit
more, and importers, dissembling their glee
in the recesses of imported limousines, note
that the struggle of the farmer and manu-
facturer to remain in existence is getting
steadily harder. And all the time hordes of
motor-omnibuses, mostly made in America,
and motor-lorries and pantechnicons from
the same source, are skirmishing round to
capture the traffic the railways are bound to
drop by a policy of charging more than the
traffic can bear. In N. S. Wales there is
an unprofitable tramways complex to be
considered also, and “the biggest bridge in the
world” to pay for. And brooding over the
whole phantasmagoria are the figureheads
of a political party which has not yet learned
—though it has had time to learn it —that gov-
ernment depends on finance. The esteemed
Lang has to consider whether he can keep
on juggling with income-tax carry-overs, or,
as an alternative, whether he can face a
record deficit. As yet another alternative
he may consent to a rise in railway fares
and goods rates, although he solemnly under-
took to reduce them. Intertwined among
the three alternatives, as it were, he may be
bold enough to get rid of the Commissioners
and replace them with persons more amen-
able to the dictation of union bosses, letting
finance go to the Devil. About the only
thing that can be prophesied concerning the
Outcome is that it will be extremely enter-
taining tb those Mio watch it from the
celestial regions.
——-
‘‘lf Everybody tVOrkSP*
The world’s leading paf'adbx in ihe indus :
trial field is the relationship between Capital
and Labor in the United States; There is .no
country on eaftli where . the trade-union
notion has been more bitterly or mdre' success-
fully fought. Good men have been shot down
by hired murderers in that land because they
stood up for the right of collective bargain-
ing. Then there came a time when intelli-
gent employers began to perceive that the
relationship which existed between the nor-
mal wage-earner and the normal employer
in the days before there were great com-
panies, trusts or unions was a help to pro-
duction. The man who knew his boss, knew
that he would be brought up with a sharp
turn if he slacked or shirked, knew that he
w r ould be sure of his employer’s sympathy if
he fell sick or became disabled, worked with
a good heart. He didn’t waste half his
attention thinking about his wrongs. When
he had a grievance he told the boss all about
it, and nine times out of ten he came out
either with a feeling that he had lost an
uncomfortable delusion or that his wrong
had been righted. And he didn’t believe that
the boss could make black appear to be white,
because he knew the man, and knew he was
just a human being, and not an extraordi-
narily clever one at that. The human touch
in industry was a great asset. “Big Busi-
ness” in America may sometimes be con-
trolled, at the top. by persons whose abilities
have been devoted to a task not far removed
in the scale of honest folk’s values from the
job of robbing a baby of its milk. But even
in such cases there are sure to be on the
premises men who have been hired because
they can handle men—the welfare officer,
the employment officer and other folk who
know more about psychology and its prac-
tical applications than they do about the
technique of the manufacture in which the
concern is engaged. That is part of the
cause which has produced the industrial
paradox. The American Federation of Labor,
the strongest organisation of wage-earners
in the world, believes it can help its mem-
bers best by “co-operating”—that is the
phrase Matt Woll, the vice-president, used
in a recent policy speech—with the em-
ployers. It has adopted as its “slogan” : “If
everybody works there is work for every-
body.” This may not be as true as it looks
(and to compel either the idle rich or the idle
poor to work and keep on working is at pre-
sent beyond the power of any civilised State),
but it has an antithesis which nobody can
deny, and that’s more than can be said of
most “slogans”: “If nobody works we’ll all
die.” Yet the Australian Labor movement
is cumbered with windbags who seem to
think that the only way to inaugurate the
Millennium is to induce everybody to stop
working, anybody who works for wages being
a fool.
* .
Government at the Old Address.
With the habitual sameness of circumlocu-
tory institutions, the men who are to
re-shape the destinies of the Northern Terri-
tory have started work, or are just about
to start. A sort of official statement of the
case appeared the other day:—
Proposals involving a large expenditure for the
development of the Northern Territory will shortly
be examined by the Northern Territory Commission,
which will hold its first series of meetings in Mel-
bourne next week. The Commission' hais been
generally entrusted with the problem of overcoming
the stagnation that has settled on the Territory in
recent years. ... It will have power to initiate pro-
jects of railways, roads and harbors, to borrow
money within prescribed limits to carry out these
works, and to endeavor to make the Territory more
attractive for new settlers and industrial enterprise.
Numerous investigators have expressed the opinion
that the development of Northern Australia will be
slow, and in the first place chiefly confined to the
pastoral industry.
So it would appear that the Commission’s
departure for the front is a matter of the in-
definite future, and that for a while it is going
to run its half-million square miles of land
from the old city address. The place has
resumed its old status as a “problem.” It
is not simply an ordinary piece of this
rather dry continent, which needs, to begin
with, the same kind of railway treatment
which Queensland gave to its central country
until it ran short of money, and which its
Government now clamorously demands at
Australia’s general expense, for its western
country, but a deep mystery which requires
a detective and a bloodhound to trace it out.
Three obvious propositions to begin with are
these: There is need for more artesian bores,
of which the supply is miserably small. The
leasehold system requires violent considera-
tion, it having proved a failure; and the
skimpy “cultivation area” of 1280 acres
“Class A” land which is grudgingly handed
out, or at least promised, is a failure also.
Some of the N.S.W. Government’s leasehold
farms, with a railway not far off and some-
times a river frontage, are larger than that.
And if a through Railway was the right thing
for Westralia it is the right thing for the
Territory also. If it isn’t, then the Port
Augusta-Kalgootlie cOhcefn might as well
be closed up for' the sake of consistency.
Settlement may be Sldw even if the Commis-
sion really gets to work, but it can hardly be
slower than it is over k large section of
Victoria, which is losing inhabitants at an
astonishing rate. And progress may be
mostly pastoral in the first place—in fact, it
is to be hoped that it will be largely pastoral
for a very long time, the sheep being one of
the few big Australian industries which
consistently pay their way when given the
shadow of a chance. But in a country with
a broken fragment of railway, practically no
shipping, and a port on chronic strike no-
thing has much chance. And if the new
Commission is going to sit around in Mel-
bourne, debating multitudinous odds and ends
of loan proposals instead of concentrating
on a few big things, the chance still looks
remote.
4
Land Settlement in Queensland.
Prosperity takes some queer turns in
Queensland. After upwards of four millions
had been spent in six years to settle returned
soldiers on the land—the amount works out
at £2326 per settler who had not bolted at
the end of June last, and at £6 per acre for
all land not bolted from at that date —and
another 10 millions to build land-settlement
railways, there were at December 31 last
24,608,224 acres more vacant land in Queens-
land than there was 11 years ago. On top of
this the average railway rate collected per ton
of goods Increased by 65 per cent. —a record
for' Australia*—-and £14,036,086 has been lost
Since 1915 in order to keep the service from
stopping. Larcombe, defending his tattered
cOncetn from the attack of the Opposition
the other day, clutched at the pathetic state-
ment that wealth production has increased
enormously in Queensland. He did not men-
tion that this was due principally to in-
creases in value —of wool, for instance- —and
not volume. Actual production per head
of population is steadily falling. Dividing
land occupation into grazing and agricul-
tural sections, this is what has happened
with the former: —
1915. 1926.
Land held under— acres. acres.
Pastoral leases . . . . 226,119,640 182,214,880
Grazing farms, etc. . . 57,869,972 82.469.364
Occupation licenses . . 46,814,640 32,087,000
Total grazing and pastoral 330|,804,252 296,771,244
The falling-off is in pastoral leases and
occupation licenses, and amounts to
58,632,720 acres; but as 24,599,392 acres of
this was transferred to grazing farms and
homesteads, the net loss was 34,033,328
acres—say twice the area of Tasmania. Land
held under various agricultural tenures was:
1915. 1926.
acres. acres.
Agricultural farms .. .. 5,824,033 4,481,366
Prickly-pear selection . . 4,586,378 3,769,082
Perpetual lease .. .. 49,905 2,470,628
Unconditional selection .. 484,601 206,042
Scrub selections . . .. 214,932 50,812
Agricultural homesteads . . 108,259 320
Total agricultural . . 11,268,108 10,978,250
Holdings have fallen off under all tenures
with the exception of perpetual lease, which
is the Trades Hall favorite; but this does
not stop the aggregate area of agricultural
holdings being 289,858 acres smaller than it
was 11 years ago. Reserves for all purposes,
including roads and streets, increased by
5,344,212 acres, so that the area which has
gone out of occupation, though it is not
wanted for public purposes of any sort, has
increased by just on 29,000,000 acres. On
the other hand rents have increased by 35
per cent, in the last 10 years, and timber
royalties by 244 per cent. It is a breathless
performance, and strange brands of arithme-
tic are being invented to prove that what
looks to ordinary people like disaster is really
prosperity disguised in rags.
—♦
More Masterpieces for Melbourne.
“F.S.”: The gentleman who buys for the
Vic. National Gallery under the Felton
bequest has just returned from Europe with
fresh treasure trove, and his arrival has been
greeted with outbursts of indignation. A
comparison of the individual opinions volun-
teered discloses the interesting fact that no
two connoisseurs agree about any one pic-
ture. A work which one regards as an
amorphous daub others have found to be
full of rare charm, and vice versa. In the
humble opinion of this citizen, there is a
criterion which can be usefully applied to
such a collection as the Felton, and that
is its value to the Australian student. It
is agreed, without noticeable dissent, that
supreme art, like Rubens’s “Rape of the
Daughters of Lenkippos,” is beyond the
means even of this munificent fund. The
amusing Van Eyck for which the Gallery
paid £32,000 is proof of that. The insipid
Madonna with the long-barrelled infant slip-
ping off her lap is valueless to the student,
though possibly of interest to the anti-
quarian. It is a static, third-rate picture,
and renaissances are not stimulated by third-
rate pictures. Yet the Gallery's travelling
representative, finding the best works of the
ancients beyond his reach, seems to have
imagined that some mysterious virtue ema-
nates from an undistinguished picture when
the name attached to it is to be found in the
encyclopaedias. He paid £450 for a melon
by Manet, which looks as if it had spent
a week-end in Hobson’s Bay. He handed
out £997 for a ship’s deck by the same
painter, which is of little interest even to a
seaman, and £4500 for Manet's “House at
Rueil,” when round the corner is a more
vigorous attack on a similar subject by a
modern artist. W. G. Von Glehn. Buck-
master, of Melbourne, can paint with more
dash than Constable put into his “Keswick
Lake,” a hasty memorandum on the matter
which cost £735. The anaemic “Sunny
Sands of Solway.” by E. A. Walton, and
W. Nicholson’s superficial pansies are also
uninspiring. Orpen’s portrait of General
Botha (£504) has the right eye out of
place, but is otherwise slickly painted ; and
there are six drawings by John Sell Cot-
man, of the famous Norwich school. Now,
the writer has an albumful of drawings by
members of the Norwich school (some of them
quite as good as the purchased Cotmans)
which he showed to the Bond-street dealers
a few years ago. Those haughty creatures
informed him that the drawings of these
masters were of small value, though their
oil-paintings were a different story. Evi-
dently the market for this class of merchan-
dise has markedly improved. The Felton
emissary paid £720 for the six new examples,
which have less to tell the student than the
local Meldrum’s portrait of his mother-
+ .
Equine Eugenics.
Those who have been bewailing in The:
Bulletin the deterioration of the Australian
horse may take some measure of comfort
from an account of the working of the Vic-
torian Horse-breeding Act, published in the
Monthly Horse News. The measure in
question, passed six years ago, enforced the
registration of stallions, a question which
has been hotly argued in Australia for de-
cades ; and diehards predicted that it would
bring disaster to the Vic. liorse-breediug in-
dustry, the draught section in particular.
The results have been all the other way.
There were bad sires everywhere when the
weeders-out began their work, but last year
only 8 p.c. of Vic. stallions were classed as
unsound and 5 p.c. as below standard. The
Act has proved so successful that similar
legislation has been adopted in Queensland,
a circumstance which would have delighted
the late J. P. Bell, Home Secretary and sub-
sequently Speaker, who made several
attempts to get the compulsory registration,
of stallions enacted, but always found the
small country breeder, with a “runt” stallion
and a mob of weedy mares, too strong for
him. The first report under the Queensland!
Act shows how urgently needed the legisla-
tion was. Two registration boards were
appointed, one for the Central Division and
the other for the South; the comparatively
well-horsed, cattle-breeding North has been
left, for the present, to its own devices. Per-
centages of rejects follow
Central. —Blood, 39.5 p.c. ; draught, 33.4 p.c.
ponies, 37.15 p.c. ; trotters, 42.88 p.c.
Southern. —Blood, 40.5 p.c.; draught, 53.1 p.c;;
ponies, 24.4 p.c. ; trotters, 45.8 p.c.
These are truly startling figures, though they
are bound to improve as time goes on.
It is significant that the two most useful
types, blood and draught horses, show the
highest percentage of rejects in the Southern
Division, which is comparatively closely
settled. In addition to the registration and
weeding-out of stallions, measures should be
taken to ensure a high standard of breeding
and soundness in the dams. This is a more
difficult matter than dealing with the stal-
lions, but the finest of sires cannot get good
stock on poor-quality mates. A bonus on
foals from approved mares might be a solu-
tion. A Federal Horse-breeding Act would
also have good results, especially if it pro-
hibited the transfer of, rejected stallions from
a State where compulsory registration is in
vogue to one where any brute is considered
good enough to breed from.
♦
Herr Pastor Cuckoo.
One of the results of Germany’s admission
to the League of Nations will, no doubt, be
the return of German missionary societies
to former German possessions, over some
of which Australia and Maoriland hold man-
dates. This may seem a small matter in
comparison with other probable consequences
of Germany’s membership of the League,
with a seat on the Council thereof; but it
merits some attention in Australasia, especi-
ally as Dr. Stresemann, the German Min-
ister of Foreign Affairs, has been holding
forth at Geneva on “the loyalty shown to
Germany by the people of native States,"
and citing the said “loyalty” as proof that
“Germany is perfectly fit to govern colonial
territories,” meaning, of course, those of which
it was deprived at Versailles. Every mis-
sionary, of whatever race or creed, is neces-
sarily an ambassador for his own country.
Sometimes this phase is involuntary; more
often it is not. In any case, the various
German missions which before the war were
scattered all over the earth never made any
secret of their pro-German activities. Within
their own boundaries this was laudable
enough; but the extension of the practice
to India and other sections of the Empire
became mischievous even prior to August.
1914, and led to a wholesale expulsion of
missionaries when peace broke out, it being:
found that the reverend gentlemen kept up
their national propaganda under cloak of
religious teaching. With their ejection fric-
tion with the natives ceased. New Guinea, '
Avith which Australia is particularly con-
cerned, harbored before the war three purely
German missions—the Liebenzell, working in
the isolated Admiralty Islands, the Rliein-
isclie and the Neuendettelsaues, which
divided the north-east coast. When they
left, their mission work was taken over,
with the consent of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, by an association of Lutheran
churches in Australia and America. The
returning gospellers will therefore find the
hearth bright and their house kept swept
and garnished for them. It may be that the
spirit of honest intention to play the game
which Briand and Austen Chamberlain
see in the new Republican Germany may
tincture the future attitude of the forgiven
missions to the mandatories. But it is not
straining probability to imagine that objec-
tors to this country’s control of the Rabaul
region and Nauru will be kept well sup-
plied with material for complaints to the
Mandates Committee of the League.
+
Estate-agents.
The shark season opened early in Mel-
bourne, where the police gathered in the
best part of a dozen in one day, mostly
disguised as estate-agents. It was some-
thing, even though the difficulty remains,
under the foolish system which requires a
unanimous jury, of finding 12 men none of
whom has been “squared.” Still, the move-
ment was confined to one State and one city
and almost to one street. The need is to
find a way to reduce the estate-agency
brotherhood and sisterhood of Australia by
one-half, and to make the other half furnish
substantial security. State Governments
are strangely remiss in the matter of this
roaring evil, though any one of them could
draw a useful red herring over many a trail


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. P. R. HIGGINS (Chairman), W. NORTHAM, ALEX. KING.
Total Assets exceed. . . . • • £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses. . ~ x ...
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
GEO. PEACOCK, Secretary.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
T. W. RAP LEY, General Manager.
and divert attention from many misdeeds by
tackling it in an able and drastic style.
With a first-class Estate-agency Bill the
Allancock Ministry might even make Vic-
toria forget the redistribution-of-seats
shindy. The control of estate-agency is one
of the many things that the Federal Conven-
tionists should have included among Com-
monwealth powers, but didn’t. Still it might
be worth while for the Bruce-Paoes or
somebody to draft the ideal scheme and sub-
mit it to the States. They, or some of them,
might be so enchanted with it that they
would adopt it, or they might authorise
the Commonwealth to act under the little-
known provision contained in Section xxxvii
of Clause 51 of the Constitution, and take
over the whole business. It is a noteworthy
point that estate-agents in fiction take much
Hie same place as the dog in Scripture.
Dickens was esteemed a. notable delineator
of character, and he described some agents.
Three who stand out are Daniel Quire,
Seth Pecksniff and General Scadder.
Christopher Casby had been agent for
Lord Decimus Tite Barnacle, but when
lie appeared in the story he was a slummy
proprietor on his own account, in Bleeding
Heart Yard and other places, where the
ill-paid Pancks collected for him. Ralph
Nickleby smelt of house property. Ben-
jamin Bunker wasn’t a Dickens creation,
but as an agent he was worthy of Dickens.
In Australia James Munro, Premier and
Land Bank boomer of Victoria, turned subur-
ban estate-agent after his downfall. Munro’s
agency might be classed as respectable and
even blameless, but he kept up the tradition
that estate people are a dull tribe.
♦
Forty Hours a Week.
The report that Henry Ford has decided to
cut out Saturday labor in his factories and
run on a working week of five eight-hour
days will certainly be cited by the Labor
representatives who are helping a learned
Judge to find out what reduced working hours
have done to New South Wales since the
fourth of January. But the relevance of the
citation won’t be obvious to anyone outside
Labor-union circles. In the first place,
Ford has the good luck to be a citizen or
a nation which made more money out of
the 1914-18 scrap than it put into it, and
which is now receiving tribute from most
of its late allies. In the second place, he
has virtually a monopoly of the manufacture
and distribution of very cheap automobiles—
the fact that hi.s own genius lias put him in
that position doesn’t make him any less
of a monopolist. In the third place, it has
taken Henry nearly 12 years to get to the
stage where he could make the step from
six eight-hour days to five eight-hour days,
and the success of his latest experiment has
yet to be proved. He expects, so he says, to
pay about the same wages and to get about
the same amount o'f production, but if pro-
duction falls off it may be taken for granted
that wages will fall off, too. Ford pays
good wages, but he pays them to hand-picked
men. No union official has the right to set
a foot in Ford’s domains; no union comes
between Henry and his workers. Unless a
man can perform a stated amount of work in
a stated time, he goes out —or they put him
somewhere where he can pull his weight in
the boat. He has no animus against trades-
unions ; thinks, in fact, that they're neces-
sary to put bad employers in their place,
but he never lets them interfere in his plants.
In his book, “My Life and Work.” published
four years ago, he tells how he dealt with
the unions when he started manufacturing
in England :
The workmen of Manchester are mostly unionised,
and the usual English union restrictions on output
prevail. We took over a body plant in which were
a number of union carpenters. At once the union
officers asked to see our executive and arrange terms.
We deal only with employees and never with out-
side representatives. So our people refused to see the
union representatives. Thereupon they called the
carpenters out on strike. The carpenters would not
strike and were expelled from the union.... That
was the end of interference by trades-union officers
with our operations in England.
With an unfettered management, 'an indus-
trial monopoly, and every worker on his
toes to earn as much as possible by
working as hard as possible, 40 hours may
constitute the ideal working week. Henry
Ford ought to know how to run his own
business. But because Ford finds he can
reduce hours, it does not follow that in this
debt-ridden land, whose industries are sub-
jected to fierce foreign competition and whose
workers are in too many instances being told
by their union bosses that the less they do
for their wages the more wages they will
get, it is a good thing to try similar experi-
ments. When, as in the Ford case, the re-
duction is decided upon by those responsible
for an industry, nobody can cavil at it. But
when it is forced upon manufacturers by a
Government whose members are under the
thumb of trades-union bosses, and which made
no attempt whatever to gauge the conse-
quences of the change before it was made, a
good deal can be said, and in New South
Wales has been said. To use Ford as
an apostle of fewer hours and higher wages—
as is often done —without accepting that part
of his doctrine which insists that wages
must be earned is like cutting the “nots”
out of the Ten Commandments and pretend-
ing that the deletions don’t make any
difference.
The Fire Menace in Victoria.
Victoria recently got a foretaste of summer
in a week of unusually hot weather, and
a mild outbreak of fire in the ti-tree border-
ing Port Phillip. The winter having been
dry, the shortage of water of last year has
not been made up, and if the promise of a
hot, dry season is fulfilled the usual crisis
in that direction will occur. Bush fires, pos-
sibly as disastrous as those of last March,
when many lives were lost, townships wiped
out and much valuable timber destroyed, are
certain to break out. The State legislators’
reaction to this menace is an interesting
example of the psychology of the politician.
When the cataclysm of last summer arrived,
the crowd in office rushed about in an aim-
less and panic-stricken manner, with the
crowd out of office bellowing accusations of
unpreparedness and the like. As soon as the
flames died down business was resumed as
usual, and the Forestry Bill, which, among
other things, is designed to prevent fires if
possible, and to deal with them when they
occur, was jawed into recess. The two mobs
have now been assembled for 12 weeks of
a new session, but the vital forestry mea-
sure has not been tackled. Unorganised col-
lections of wooden shanties remain tucked
up in their narrow gullies crammed with
heavy timber, and their inhabitants will have
small prospect of escape if a fierce wind
rises after someone has lit a burning-off fire.
There is no proper system of fire control
A LEISSON IN PRUDENCE.
ONLOOKER: “You shouldn't fish on Sundays.”
FISHERMAN : “Why shouldn't I?”
ONLOOKER: “Because if the fish don’t bite there are no shops open to buy them.”
linked by telegraph and wireless, such as
exists in Westralia. There is no aeroplane
patrol to anticipate an outbreak by keeping
a watchful eye over the wide expanse of
State-owned forest. The official organisation
of fire-fighters ready at a moment’s notice
to rush to a threatened point per motor
remains largely a pious hope. And the
absurd anomaly continues to flourish of a
Forest Commission, appointed to preserve,
foster and control the forest cover, having-
no power to over-ride another department
(Lands) whose interest lies in leasing forest
land to fire-lighting settlers.
4
The Pastoralist and the Rahbiter.
Dear Bulletin, —E. S. Sorenson’s review
of the relations between rabbiter and squat-
ter (B. 23/9/’26) is rather a ridiculous
effusion. In the first place, it is absurd to
assert that graziers generally charge rab-
biters a trapping fee. I, who have lived
among rabbits, rabbiters and squatters all
my life, have never known of such a charge
being made, though I have certainly heard
much talk about it. As a rule, the grazier
welcomes the rabbit-trapper, though he
might sometimes suspect that the latter is
liable to humanitarian scruples regarding
the kittens he catches. These suspicions are
generally unfounded, but the rahbiter natu-
rally takes no pleasure in slaying the goose
that will some day lay a golden egg. It is to
the trapper’s interest that bunny shall con-
tinue indefinitely, whereas it is of immense
importance to the grazier that the pest shall
be eradicated. This clashing of interests
obviously accounts for any antagonism to
the rabbit trade which E.S.S. has noted,
and which he regards as such rank ingrati-
tude on the part of pastoralists. Mr.
Sorenson gives the impression that most
pastoralists still plump for poison as a
means of rabbit destruction. Ploughing-
out the burrows is now the method most
in favor amongst graziers; the poison-cart is
practically abandoned. To me the sugges-
tion that the N. S. Wales Government should
“proclaim all bunny haunts free trapping
areas” is quite mad, but there are certain
features about it that should appeal to the
present Government. For one thing, a large
staff of officials would be required to allot
areas to individuals and supervise the busi-
ness generally. Investigations and surveys
would have to be made continuously to see
where rabbits were plentiful and where
scarce, so that the areas might be equitably
allotted; for proletarians who had been done
in the eye would raise the devil. Since the
pastoralist would have no say in such pro-
ceedings, rabbiters could career all over pad-
docks where ewes were lambing, with disas-
trous results to the sheep industry. Of
course, Mr. S. might say there is no need
for allotting areas under his scheme, and
that there would be no interference with the
squatter’s sheep. But if Mr. S. claims that,
there is no hope for him. —Yours, etc.,
T. Jasper.
4
“Anophele” : The railway bridge over the
Katherine River, 200 miles from Darwin,
is now open for traffic, after two years of
uninterrupted toil. Though the biggest
thing of its kind north of Townsville, the
job presented no engineering difficulties, save
for a couple of foundations for the piers, but
it is surely unique among post-war public
works in that it was completed within _ the
departmental estimates of cost and time,
and without the loss of a day through
industrial disputes. The men loyally
abided by the Arbitration Court award.
With the exception of the technical
staff and a few steelworkers, they were
all drawn from the Territory. No city-
lovers these; just the nomadic toiler of
the North, whose fly and net is his home. He
came in ones and twos from distant stations
and mining-fields; prospector, cattleman and
fencer have all done their bit. Few have for
years seen a higger town than Camooweal.
Just as quietly as they came they have gath-
ered up their horses and gear, filled the pack-
bags, and faded away into the Never-Never,
leaving the work of completing the North-
South line to those who follow the railway-
construction game, and who are flocking from
all quarters of the continent. The 700 ft.
bridge over the river remains as a monument
to the “bagmen” of the Never-Never.
♦
“Retired Volt” : I am willing to preserve
an open mind about wireless rendering cables
obsolete, as recently announced for the ump-
teenth time, but I want better evidence than
the statement that the French Post Office has
been able to multiply transmission 15 times
by the application of the Baudot automatic
system to radio. The Baudot has been in
operation on Australian landlines for many
years. Instead of one operator having the
use of a single wire all the time, it is handed
to him for infinitesimal periods many thou-
sand times a second, and so rapid are the
makings and breakings of his circuit that
is, to all intents, continuous. But this
doesn’t overcome the main bugbear of
ethereal communication, which is the tact
that lightning and telegraph impulses are
made up of the same material. It they get
mixed in the upper air it is hard, to sort
them out when they reach the receiving in-
strument, and when that instrument is very
delicate and works at terrific speeds the dith-
culty is enormously increased, llie tests ot
the beam wireless between Canada and itmg-
land illustrate the problem. The new sta-
tions worked splendidly for one day ana
very badly for two. The new cable Which
the Commonwealth, along with its Canadian
and British partners, is laying at high cost
across the Pacific will work at a high speed
for 24 hours a day; and, barring seismic up-
heavals, a new cable can be trusted not to
develop faults for 10 or 12 years after it
has been put down. The -wireless people
will have to discover something more revolu-
tionary than the French innovation before
they can equal that.
“675” : In this matter of the alleged deteri-
oration in Australian wool, the important
point is not whether the bulk of our clip
is of a coarser or finer quality—that may
be easily remedied in the course of a few-
ovine generations should market conditions
so require. What is imperative is to elimi-
nate the sheep which carry wool that lacks
character (meaning thereby spinning and
milling qualities), density and length, and
also those sheep which have undesirable
body features. As every classer knows, there
is great difliculty in convincing many men
of the necessity for culling. The late
James Tyson is reputed to have said that
“10s. rams were good enough for him.” That
unfortunate remark has been quoted to nie
on two occasions lately by small sheep-
owners when tackled about the quality of
the rams they were using. There are also
very many sheepmen who cull their sheep
regularly without possessing a knowledge
of wool sufficient to enable them to do the
work effectively. They believe in culling,
but not to the extent of a classer’s wages.
So the job is done “on the gate,” possibly
by a jackeroo or overseer who has no wool
knowledge at all. Another point, and pos-
sibly the one most open to legislative cor-
rection, is the practice of selling cull rams
from big studs. The small sheep-farmer who
purchases such rams does so, not on a know-
ledge of what he is buying, but on the
strength of the stud’s name—a name built
up over many years of good breeding, but
subordinated to the demand from the small
settler for a cheap ram. The temptation
to sell such rams, instead of culling and
castrating them, is especially strong in the
case of holders of leasehold country liable
to resumption. The immediate remedy seems
to lie in education. I hope some day to see
wool- and sheep-classing raised to the status
of a profession and only licentiates permitted
to practise. Perhaps I am an optimist.
—♦ : .
“Mayne Stay” : “S.M.” is correct in his
statement, re marine wages, etc., that
“officers have been poorly looked after hither-
to” (B. 9/9/’26). And this is mostly be-
cause, as arbitrationists from the beginning,
we have been over-tolerant with the law’s
delay and mistakes. In response to our
early claim an eight-hour day was granted at
sea or in port. But the Judge neglected to
add “or partly at sea and partly in port,”
with the result that we became liable for 16
hours without overtime on days of arrival
and departure—which meant every other day
in some of our ships. The Judge acknow-
leged his mistake, but regretted that he
couldn’t repair it until the award ran out.
The owners should have come in and
asked for rectification, of course, but they
didn’t. Another time we waited over 18
months because more militant unions were
threatening strike, and we were thanked from
the Bench for foregoing our turn on the
list; but when it came to making our award
retrospective, the Judge found an obstacle
in some technicality, although even the ship-
owners had expected that the thing would Be
dated back. Again the owners didn’t do the
obvious. We are still waiting, in more or
less patience, for a new award. Our latest
claims, as far as wages are concerned, are
only to bring these up to the pre-war pur-
chasing-power standard; and the owners
shouldn’t have to be ordered to do that either.
In a previous case Justice Higgins admitted
that we were entitled to the rise, but found
the war a good excuse for not giving it us
at the time, although the shipowner, even in
Australia, was making big money out of any-
thing that would float. As for notice, in the
past we were on a casual basis. Even since
the Court gave us the right to a month’s
notice our job has been at the mercy of all
sorts of outside influences. When industrial
trouble is looming, the owner has usually
been quick to give the month’s notice and
shoot us out at the end of it. He always
counted on finding us waiting on the door-
mat when the imported agitators allowed the
ships to resume running.


Guaranteed.
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort!
They Fit"
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
AUSTRALIA
Offers you endless opportunities, for there is health, wealth and content to be
won in this great laud.
But here, as elsewhere, success and fortune mainly follow wise planning and
thrifty practice.
Let Australia’s own Bank help you with both. Its officers are ready at all
times to extend to you any assistance within their power, and the bank’s efficient
service will be available to you in whatever district you make your home.
There is a Commonwealth Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office and full
branches in the principal towns.
Commonwealth lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POLITICAL
POINTS
Forty years ago, N.S.W. was known out-
ride as “the place where members have fights
in Parliament.” Though a claimant to the
seat of which the Labor Government has
robbed the North Shore anti-Laborites was
thrown out the other day, the real fighting
days are past. Even when Minister Fitz-
gerald, at an infuriated party or mob meet-
ing, declared some alleged statements by
Premier Lang to be “absolute lies,” his
chief did nothing more than look at him
with an unforgiving eye. A leader with a
lust for battle might have hired a puce cab
and driven straight to Government House
to ask for a dissolution. Lang’s finish seems
in sight, and it would be picturesque to end
like Samson.
At a recent meeting of the League of
Nations, the Chinese representative threw a
stinkpot into the proceedings by a tale of
alleged British atrocities along the Yang-tse-
Kiang, where, according to his version, J.
Bull has committed all the atrocities that
have happened and a few over. Report has
it that the poor unpigtailed creature had
had his brief handed to him by Bolshevik
individuals with an intimation that he must
talk or die, and that he was orating to
save his life. In the end he was ruled out
of order.
The Vic. Railway Department lately made
itself unpopular again by sending an order
to the United States for 56 cars and 10
engines. The explanation was that the
matter was urgent, which evidently means
that some responsible person didn’t look far
enough ahead. That kind of policy might bo
faced with a sudden necessity to import
wheat because it forgot to sow seed in time.
No party was returned with a majority
at the Canadian election, but the Liberals
did best, and Mackenzie King is again Prime
Minister, with J. A. Robb as his Minister
for Finance. Robb it was who made the
1925 tariff arrangement with Australia.
Of that arrangement a British Columbia
manufacturer proudly reports that last year
it put 3,500,000 dollars on to the value of
the Canadian exports to Australia, while
Australian exports to Canada increased by
408,000 dollars; so Mr. Robb may be ex-
pected to suggest the inclusion of other items.
In matters of commerce, the Canadians
strikingly resemble the Dutch.
Hitherto the Sydney City Council has
done no good with its Queen Victoria Build-
ing, but with the opening of the Town Hall
station of the city railway, which will
greatly increase neighboring site values, it
has a fair prospect of getting its losses
'back in a few years, with interest. The
Labor-socialist majority has nevertheless dis-
covered that it is imperative for the building
to be passed over to Private Enterprise,
with or without a hotel license acquired
by resumption. “Serious allegations” were
made when these plans were unfolded, it
being asserted that an architect was already
preparing a remodelling scheme for people
who reckon themselves sure of getting a 50
years’ lease, although tenders have yet to be
called. But a Sydney Council meeting with-
out “serious allegations” would be a novelty.
Stewart, M.11.R., has induced the newly-
formed Vic. Country Progressive party to
make elective Ministries a plank in its plat-
form ; and for that he deserves honorable
mention. But Premier Allan, who takes
pride in the fact that the Cockies are over-
represented in both State and Federal Cabi-
nets, accuses the C.P.P. of inconsistency
in proposing a system that will mean com-
posite Governments after it has denounced
coalitions. He asks what chance there is of
inducing Labor to concur in elective Min-
istries. Not much at present, certainly, but
adult suffrage and payment of Leg. Coun-
cillors seemed to have equally bleak pros-
pects in other years. And nobody would
have dared to foretell in 1917, when Farmer
John got in first, that he would become Pre-
mier in 1924.
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS.
“Will there he strikes in Heaven, Dad ?”
“ Don't know about strikes, hoy; hut there'll he plenty of lockouts .”
For suddenness the record of the present
N.S.W. Government stands high. The rail-
way profit (over working expenses and in-
terest) in 1925 was £32,937; in one year
Political Labor turned this into a deficit of
£830,671. Even the Ryan crowd in Queens-
land broke the news more gently than that.
The last really pompous shortage on the
N.S.W. railways was £577,032 in 1921, when
Lang was in. office before, and the last in-
crease of rates was in 1920, when Lang was
in office before. Another increase in charges
is coming, Lang being in office again,
although the gentleman promised decreases
(“a reduction in country railway fares and
freights, and a reduction in second-class fares
on suburban trains”) when he was trying
to get back.
Queensland’s hard-up Labor Government
proposes to raise a little revenue by legal-
ising shop betting and licensing shop book-
makers. Far more revenue could be got by
outlawing McShortodds and interdicting the
publication of “the weights” except on
licensed racecourses with straightout, place
and “double” totes. Followers of the horse
would thereby be obliged to do their betting
on the racecourse, which would be less un-
healthy than hanging round s.p. shops, and
the Government could tax them as they went
in as well as collecting 5 p.c. from the tote.
But McShortodds has powerful friends, so on
his pedestal he goes.
N.S.W. has raised a 5 per cent, loan of
£4,000,000 in London, getting £97 for each
£lOO, less the usual expenses. It raised
£4,000,000 at the same address last March,
on which occasion it got £9B. This is the
kind of loan which has to be paid, principal
and interest, in gold or in goods (surplus of
exports over imports) which can be sold
for gold, but the Ma State has no definite
hope of having either gold or goods to spare
at the present pace of working. The State’s
annual shortage, to be made up by more
gold loans in London so long as they can be
procured, seems to be about £8,000,000 a
year at present, and this is a matter of which
wage-and-hours fixers of the Piddington and
Beeby type never take account. The loan
is nominally for public works here, but it
is really wanted to pay interest there. For
public works here, a local loan, raised in our
own paper money and with the interest paid
in paper and spent in Australia, would do
well enough. Still works must be built
with paper money (some more of these
railways which lose a million a year and
things of the kind) to keep up appearances.
The money-lending middleman must have a
tale to pitch when he appeals to the great
heart of tlie British public.
Federal financing, with loan money, of
huge land-purchase schemes for “settlement”
proved an insolvent failure. Federal pro-
vision of homes for soldiers was a scandal,
often resulting in the ex-warrior getting a
shack with misfit doors and windows and a
leaky roof for nearly the price of a mansion.
All the same, the Bruce-Pages are at it again
with a plan for investing £20,000,000 in a
house-building scheme per medium of the
Commonwealth Bank. If valuations are any-
thing to go by, a larger city than Adelaide
could be built with a good deal less than
that, provided it was planted on a new site.
Probably the scheme will prove only another
effort to provide homes in congested localities
where land values are outrageously high.
The threatened increase of railway charges
in N.S.W. has led to a strenuous agitation
for subsidising the lines out of revenue. They
are already subsidised, for the deficit is
charged against revenue, but possibly the
idea is to conceal the shortage by some
juggle or other. The plea is that there
are always a multitude of unfinished
little lines on hand, eating up money for
interest but earning nothing. The part of
the deficit which is due to this cause, it is
alleged, should be paid out of taxes. A
better idea would be to build new railways
out of taxes, and then they wouldn’t eat
up money for interest. Failing that, it is
best to leave the accounts as they are in all
their naked and bankrupt honesty. The
nude has a rugged beauty of its own.
When Melbourne gets its new town hall
the bill will be an impressive thing to look
at. The cost began to exceed the original esti-
mate early in the day. Also, the council has
shown a distaste for Australian manufactures
which is not only bad in principle but apt
to become expensive. Overseas tenders for
electrical fittings have been accepted,
although local firms supplied lower estimates.
Even city bumbles should know that this
country can provide switches, lamps and such
things as good in quality as the best im-
ported brands.
A. D. Kay, whose Leg. Assembly seat has
been bought by the Lang crowd, took the
N.S.W. meat inspectors into his confidence
at their annual dinner. Premier Lang hav-
ing asked him what he knew about meat,
Kay replied “Nothing.” “Just what I want,”
said the other mad wag; “you can learn.”
Kay’s version was greeted with boisterous
laughter, which isn’t surprising. A cat
might laugh at the spectacle of trained men
being told by a self-confessed ignoramus
how he came to draw £l5OO p.a. (about five
times an inspector’s salary) for learning how
to supervise their work.
Arbitration Judge Beeby’s assertion that
sheepmen deliberately restrict their stock to
maintain high prices gets no support from the
Bulletin of Production just issued by the
Commonwealth Statistician. During the
period covered (end of 1914 to end of 1924),
which was one of high prices for
wool, there was an increase of
millions in the number of sheep, the
total of over 93,154,900 being the highest
recorded since 1894. On the other hand,
horses, which brought comparatively poor
prices, decreased from 2,521,272 to 2,292,050.
When the Kyogle section is finished the
duplicate one-gauge railway from Sydney
to Brisbane is to be promoted to the dignity
of being the great main line, both commer-
cially and in the strategic sense, though a
route which hugs the shore so closely is poor
strategy. The tunnels are to be constructed
to carry one line of rails only, and that isn’t
looking far into the future, strategically or
otherwise. In a time of stress and hurry
and big happenings there is too much chance
that the traffic, or a lot of it, would have
to take the old track, with the old break of
gauge at the border.
It is now anticipated that the mixed mis-
sion of employers and trade-unionists which
is to go to the U.S. at the public charge
and pick up ideas won’t leave till 1927. It
is to be hoped that the faddy absurdity
won’t leave at all. If the employees come
back with ideas that will tend to increase
production and mention the same, they will
probably be fined by their unions for trying
to “speed up.” As for the employers, so
many of their class go across at their own
expense that they have probably got all the
ideas they can hold. A better feeling may
arise between these particular employers and
employees as they journey together, but
the latter will have to put on the whole gar-
ment of “class-consciousness” before they
come ashore, or thei-e will be the father and
mother of a row.
The fight between the Queensland Labor
Government and the heads of the railway
union is still on. Premier McCormack won
the first round when lie had the railway dele-
gates expelled from the Labor Conference.
The A.R.U. retaliated by casting out a num-
ber of active supporters of McCormack from
executive positions in the union. Then the
opposition forced the holding of a State con-
ference of the organisation; this, however,
confirmed the expulsions (adding a few more
for good measure) and left the old crowd
in control, more bitter than ever. The latest
issue of the union journal publishes a cartoon
representing McCormack in the dock with
the editors of two Labor newspapers and a
former district secretary. This courtly com-
pliment is emphasised by the place which the
Premier occupies being labelled “Cesspits
of Hell.” One thing, at any rate, the busi-
ness ought to teach the people of the Com-
monwealth—to resist the increase of
Federal servants. Our hopes of State
socialism have to go overboard in order to
save decent democratic government.
TO THE SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ■ sergeant-at-arms, who has removed legions
of men from the N.S.W. Assembly, summarily evicted
Mr. Meatheringham, who had appeared in person to
claim Mr. Kay’s seat.... In the scuffle Mr. Harnett’s
sword, which is understood to be more for show than
for use, got tangled between his legs and nearly
upset him.”
O Parliamentary bouncer tried and trusty,
You ought to know the game from A to Z !
How many oafs uncouth and brawlers lusty
Forth from this stately Chamber have you led,
The while they bellowed imprecations gusty
Or heaped opprobium on the Speaker’s head?
If you had kept a list, ’twould be a large
And interesting one, I’ll warrant, Sarge.
O knee-breeched Nemesis of the unruly!
Our rock of strength in times of sturm und drang,
A pillar of the Constitution, truly,
Owing allegiance to no party gang;
You have a steadier job, I’ll swear, than Dooley,
Aye, and a more enduring one than Lang.
They come and go. But no mob’s million feet
Will ever hustle you from off your beat.
Stick to it, Sarge ! But stay, I hear it hinted
Your toasting-fork is only kept for show
(And sure ’twould be a sorely notched and dinted
Weapon if it were otherwise, you know),
And some regard it with disgust unstinted
As mediaeval braggadocio
And military swank and senseless frill,
Whereat good democrats feel sick and ill.
That may be so or not. No wanton changer
Of ancient usages in me you meet.
But, Sergeant, if the skewer is a danger,
And liable to get between your feet
When you’re ejecting an intrusive stranger
Or running anyone into the street, -
Sooner or later, ’tis, I think, a cinch
Your snickersee will floor you in a clinch.
How can a chap intimidate or flatten
Out a delinquent in the talking shop
Yith such a thing? Just fancy girding that on!
I’d sooner pack the truncheon of a cop,
An oaken cudgel or a beadle’s baton.
Why not endeavor to effect a swap ?
A chucker-out with jobs like yours—good Lord !
Needs something heftier than a parlor sword.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


“ Metrovick” Products Include
The Marie of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
MSKerSM
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Mortohel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY, SECURITY.
It is your Duty to appoint an Experienced Executor.
The Trustees, Executors & Agency Company,
Limited.
Its 48 years' experience in administering Estates of every description is ample
assurance that the Company can manage yours to the best advantage.
Trust Funds administered EXCEED FORTY-ONE MILLIONS.
J.\S. BORROWMAN,
General Manager.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT,
Manager.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Call or Write for Booklet.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.: —
Dividends Writ-
Feb., Profits. (14 p.c.). ten off. Reserves.
1916. . £280,864 £280,000 £2,031,374
1917.. 301,759 280,000 2,053,133
1918.. 326,160 280,000 2,099,293
1919.. 349,321 280,000 £20,000 2,148,614
Premiums on new shares, £500,000 2,648,614
(15 p.c.)
1920.. 458,102 375,000 20,000 2,711,716
1921.. 516,340 375,000 20,000 2,833,057
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 3,233,057
1922.. 536,261 412,500 20,000 3,336,818
1923.. 552,894 450,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,140,003
1925.. 590,399 487,500 4,242,902
1926.. 627,611 525,000 50,000 4,295,513
It looks very opulent: 15 p.c. divs. and re-
serves three-quarters of a million in excess of
capital. The reserves are concrete enough,
with more inside to support them. The divi-
dends, however, are not nearly so rich as
they appear, new capital issues having been
burdened with heavy premiums. Neverthe-
less, it takes a heavy loading to reduce the
attractiveness of 15 p.c., particularly as new
issues have been frequent of later years.
Naturally the scrip is in high favor in the
market: the £5 shares have buyers at £l5
whenever they appear (shares are £l5, but
the £lO is a reserve liability).
Gross profits disclosed after provision had
been made for bad and doubtful debts and
other contingencies were of record dimen-
sions ; and so, of course, they should have
been seeing that the new capital was at work
for the full term. Here is a comparison of
gross earnings:—
1914 .. £700,978 | 1922 .. £1,459,034
1917 .. 813,759 1923 .. 1,448,267
1919 . . 944,803 1924 . . 1,416,198
1920 .. 1,104,474 1925 .. 1,430,714
1921 . . 1,361,430 1926 . . 1,493,844
Expenditure in “the Colonies” was heavier,
but £llOO-odd was clipped off exes, at head-
quarters and another reduction in taxation
eased matters: —
1914. 1924. 1926.
“Colonial” expenses .. £322,796 £658,338 £706,327
London expenses . . 34,270 67,355 67,253
Income-tax . . . . 19,404 140,213 92,653
Total .. . . £376,470 £865,906 £866,233
While taxation has gone down in England—
the abolition of the Corporation Profits Ta,x
was a big saving—it has increased in Aus-
tralia, and is not likely to turn the other
way.
Some big changes were registered in
balance-sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1924. 1925. 1926.
Notes .. .. £674,610 £721,031 £772,245
Deposits .. .. 32,838,018 33,995,484 32,038,237
Bills, etc. .. 4,115,663 4,005,166 3,668,443
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 18,017,125 20,060,779 17,368,613
Advances . . . . 25,983,296 26,274j,751 26,778,147
Premises . . . . 392,874 391,553 390,178
The decrease in deposits was largely attri-
butable to withdrawals by B.A.W.R.A. and
to “other exceptional causes.” In the assets
chief changes were among the liquids: gold
and cash balances increased by £1,782.209;
but money in London decreased by £365,000
and bills receivable by £4,110,377. The last-
mentioned movement was influenced by the
fall in the prices of primary products and
was reflected in the increased amount of
specie and cash balances. However, the
Union’s great strength was not altered : the
liquid position was very solid, 9s. 7d. of
every £ of outside liability being handy; and
only £4 13s. 7d. of outside money was held
for each £1 of the bank’s own funds. In
addition to the visible strength are the inner
resources. Premises in Australia and Maori-
land are in at £286,600, and that under-
valuation must of itself represent an inner
reserve of much over half a million.
Toohey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Juiv, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916. . £43,724 8 p.c. = £32,000 £11,724 £172,568
1917.. 36,909 8 „ ~ 32,000 4,909 177,777
1918.. 46,968 8 „ ~ 32,000 14,968 192,745
1919.. 45,974 8 ~ „ 32,000 13,974 206,719
Reserves capitalised, £37,500 . . 169.219
1920.. 64,726 8* p.c.= 37,954 26,772 195,991
1921.. 73,273 9 „ ~ 45,901 27,372 223,363
1922.. 82,856 9 „ „ 50,360 32,496 255,859
1923.. 96,899 9 „ „ 59,218 37,681 293.510
1924.. 117,570 9 „ „ 67,494 50,076 343,616
1925. . 129,132 9 ~ „ 83,498 45,634 389,250
1926.. 147,915 9 ~ „ 90,000 57,915 447,165
Toohey’s is so obviously strong that as the
time has approached each recent year for the
issue of the accounts the market has got
ideas, into its head. This time shares went
to 28s. under the influence of buyers who
were sure that largesse was to be handed out
in lumps,. ignoring completely the cautious
character of the management. All that
emerged from the annual meeting was a pro-
posal to increase capital to £2,000,000 and
make an early issue of the new shares at
par to shareholders in the proportion of one
to five. There is, of course, promise in the
increase of nominal capital, and new issues
at par or otherwise will be not infrequent
if the recent rate of expansion is maintained.
In this there are possibilities to intrigue a
market which, in the matter of Toohey’s, is
eager to be intrigued. The anticipated in-
crease in the div. to 10 p.c. is another hardy
annual. On this occasion, however, it was
almost forgotten in the contemplation of the
promised par issue. The higher dividend
could have been paid with ease. In fact, the
profit disclosed was more than enough for
10 p.c. on capital as it will be after the new
issue—which promises well when the new
money is at work. The substantial sums
sent to reserve are going to make the future
easier; at July 31, visible accumulations
amounted to £447,165. It is not likely,
therefore, that a section of the shareholders
will cease their cry for a higher div.; but
the management has its eye on the future,
and is not likely to move on before it is
tolerably certain of being able to stay there.
Toohey’s had one unfortunate experience; it
will have no more so long as the present
directorate is in control.
Disclosed profits were better than those
for the preceding term: —
Average Net Written Profit p.c.
Funds. Profit. Off. of >'umls.
1915.. £547,041 £60,206 £lO,OOO 11.0
1917.. 574,822 36,909 10,000 6.4
1919.. 599,732 45,974 10,000 7.7
1921.. 714,321 73,273 15,000 10.2
1922.. 800,851 82,856 15,000 10.3
1923.. 922,393 96,899 15,000 10.5
1924.. 1,067,091 117,570 15,000 11.0
1925.. 1,266,228 129,132 15,000 10.2
1926.. 1,418,003 147,915 15,000 10.4
The new share issue will carry the expansion
of capital to £714,851 in seven years. That
growth and the fact that the talk of pro-
hibition never altogether dies out combine to
make new brewing ventures less likely each
year. But the market is satisfied that the
likelihood of trouble from the Dry Army is
remote, so the shares are popular. Net pro-
fits shown in the first table do not include the
£15,000 which has been appropriated for
depreciation of plant each recent term. But
inasmuch as the report declares that nil
expenditure in connection with maintenance
in a high state of efficiency has been charged
against revenue, it is more than likely that
the amount is whisked away to inner re-
serves. That would mean that actual re-
sults have been so much better, although, it
is true, a brewing co. can never foresee what
it will be called on to expend to protect its
investments and maintain its existence.
Much of the new capital raised in the past
decade has gone into hotel properties. These
figures show the expansion
1914. 1920. 1925. 1926.
Capital . . £400,000 £485,149 £999,591 £1,000,000
Liabilities . . 90,590 91,320 309,225 448,341
Breweries,
hotels, etc. 390,675 442,379 1,114,334 1,326,109
Stocks . . 78,322 175,815 183,779 189,726
Book debts.. 172.921 158,445 445,011 432,025
Cash & public
securities 2,610 22,775 13,452 7,646
All very comfortable. Capital to the amount
of £1,200,000 will require feeding for most
of the current year, but profits could wilt
badly and still do it. In fact, on the figures,
the lift to 10 p.c. cannot be very far distant,
all going well.
The Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1916.. 65,478 6 p.c. lOp.c. 27,060 38,418 163,832
1917.. 56,799 6 „ 10 „ 27,060 29,739 193,571
1918.. 81,416 6 ~ 10 „ 27,060 54,356 247.927
Transferred to capital, £85,000.. 162,927
1919.. 62,611 6 p.c. lOp.c. 33,435 29,176 192,103
1920.. 102,527 6 ~ 10 ~ 35,560 66,967 259,070
1921.. 88,363 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 52,803 311,873
1922.. 61,035 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 25,475 337,348
1923.. 36,127 6 „ 10 ~ 35,560 567 387,9*5
1924.. 46,374 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 10,814 348,729
1925.. 36,880 6 „ 8 „ 28,760 8,120 356,849
1926.. 31,060 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 352,349
According to the accounts net profit for the
term was £36,144; for 1925 £25,845. But
movements in visible reserves carried the 1925
profit to £36,880, while last year’s move-
ment meant a reduction to £31,060. That
the board was satisfied with results is, how-
ever. indicated by the lifting of the ordinary
rate back to 10 p.c. Reserves of the intro-
ductory table consist of share premiums,
£6800; general reserve, £5000; insurance
fund, £64,777; provision for depreciation, re-
newals, contingencies, etc.. £266,510. The
last-mentioned fund is included with some
hesitation, because, owing to the balance-
sheet-grouping, it is impossible to estimate
what is a fair allowance for deterioration
and decay. Freeholds and a trifle of plant,
for instance, ar< shown separately, but the
remainder of the fixed assets are lumped into
one entry. What is plain is that the pro-
vision is well in excess of the necessities. As
for the insurance fund, cover has doubtless
been obtained from the usual underwriting
quarters, and the fact that £20,000 of the
last gift issue was extracted from that fund
indicates that, whatever the contingencies it
is supposed to secure, they lie far out of the
ordinary track. Moreover, such figures as
these encourage the idea that everything in-
side is riveted and watertight:—
1914. 1921. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets. . £69,596 £509,022 £289,191 £331,063
Liabilities 44.416 128,600 77,117 78,200
Surplus . . £25,180 £380,422 £212,074 £252,863
Other assets. £340,135 £315,232 £525,155 £484,966
During the year a subsidiary—the Hob-
son’s Bay Dock and Engineering Co. Pty.,
Ltd. —was formed to take over the works at
Williamstown. Its first year’s results were
reported as satisfactory. Meantime the co.,
in continuance of its policy, disposed of some
of its older craft, while another new cargo-
carrier, the Mernoo, is expected to take up
the running in the inter-State trade before
the end of the year. Shares in other cos.,
etc., increased from £20,717 to £42,466 and
the chief item (shipping, plant and premises)
fell from £472,884 to £432,647 ; in both move-
ments can be seen the influence of the forma-
tion of the subsidiary. During the term
stocks were reduced from £31,308 to £11,757
and the money thus released plus returns
from the realisation of old craft helped to
swell the cash holding by £43,112 (£30,000
of it was placed on fixed deposit) ; and there
were, of course, the progress payments on the
Mernoo. Book debts were slightly less at
£86,497, while the amount in Commonwealth
stock remained at £130,826. The co. has
done well for its shareholders, and the fact
that the various reserve accumulations tot
up to within £13,651 of paid capital makes
the payment of 10 p.c. to ords. a simple
matter under normal conditions ; and only
once of recent times —in 1925 —have the
adverse factors been so formidable as to
squeeze the div. below 10 p.c. The market
considers the scrip worth 28s. 6d., and even
allowing for the vagaries of the seamen and
watersiders that seems modest.
* * * *
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses :
To Re-
Juue, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1916. .£6,904 S p.c. = £3076 £3828 £9,053
1917.. 3,965 8 „ „ 3099 866 9,919
1918.. 3,284 8 ~ „ 3099 185 10,104
Premiums on new shares . . 458 10,562
1919.. 4,219 10 p.c. = 4039 180 10,742
Premiums on new shares . . 2822 13,564
1920.. 9,123 10 p.c. = 4843 4280 17,844
Premiums on new shares .. 3166 21.010
1921.. 13,010 10 p.c. = 5408 7602 28,612
Premiums on new shares .. 7491 36,103
1922.. 7.130 10 p.c. = 7130 36,103
Premiums on new shares .. 1210 37,313
1923.. 5,351 7 p.c. = 5159 192 37,505
1924.. 6,600 8 „ „ 5896 745 38,209
1925.. 8,613 8 ~ ~ 6115 2498 40,707
Freeholds written up, £lB,OlO 58,717
Premiums on new shares . . 422 59,139
1926.. 15,183 10 p.c. = 8422 6761 65,900
An appreciable increase in business was
attended by a useful cut in expenditure and
a better loss rate. Profits were £6570 more
than in the preceding term; so, though the
increased capital (£84,225 compared with
£76,441) was given an extra 2 p.c., a sub-
stantial addition was made to reserves. In-
cidentally, as the co.’s freeholds were in at
conservative valuations, they were written
up during the year, the amount being credited
to building reserve. The directors report
their intention to erect a building on the
Sydney site which they believe will show a
good return on capital outlay; the situation
of the block certainly should assist it in
letting. The co.’s policy is to secure in-
surers as shareholders, and the fact that
“some very excellent accounts” were secured
during the term helps to brighten the future;
the management looks for a solid increase
this year. Those who came in last year
paid £422 in premiums, a small matter con-
sidering that 31,136 new shares were issued.
Two years ago the drift of the N.S.W. busi-
ness to leeward troubled the board, but en-
couraging results have followed a reorganisa-
tion. Latest figures are stimulating:—
Net Expense- Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Hate. Rate.
1916. . £32,303 £14,981 £12,292 46.4 p.c. 38.1 p.c.
1917.. 35,356 17,942 15.508 50.7 „ 43.9 „
1918.. 44,029 25,724 16,661 58.4 „ 37.8 „
1919 . 45,372 27,180 15.647 59.9 „ 34.5 „
1920 . 54.882 29,719 18.556 54.1 „ 33.8 „
1921.. 81,501 44,211 26,633 54.2 „ 32.7 „
1992 90 202 49,031 30,677 54.3 „ 40.6 ~
1923.. 94,109 48,299 44.080 51.4 „ 46.7 „
1924.. 99.433 50,084 46,455 50.4 ~ 46.7 ~
1925.. 92,931 47,022 39,585 50.6 ~ 42.6 „
1926.. 112,150 52,830 46,905 47.1 „ 41.8 ~
If those ratios can be maintained or improved
shareholders will have good grounds for
shaking hands all round.
The balance-sheet has been kept free of
those hot-air entries which are usual fea-
tures of the accounts of most young insur-
ance cos. Indeed, the co.’s funds at June 30
made a very presentable array:—
1925. 1926.
Gov. securities, deposits and cash £50,400 £56,870
Mortgages and investments . . 24,988 21,592
Book debts 21,633 24,433
Premises . . . . . . . . 20,264 62,913
Office and field equipment .. 12,065 12,849
£129,380 £178,657
Less „
Liabilities including div. .. 12,232 28,032
Shareholders’ funds .. . . £117,148 £150,125
The management adopted this Column s sug-
gestion that the capital represented by field
and offide equipment should be disclosed and
written down; depreciation of 10 P-c. h& s
been allowed for the ye ; ar. The item still is
relatively heavy. Policy-holders could see
reserves at June 30 well in excess of the
amount necessary to cover unexpired risks,
and if total funds were somewhat less than
the 150 p.c. of premiums usually looked for,
there was £252,676 callable on the 336,902
issued shares. Shareholders can see a pro-
bable though by no means assured 10 p.c.;
especially until reserves are built much
higher a great deal depends on the manage-
ment keeping a tight grip on exes, and a
keen eye on risks. Its record so far has been
quite satisfactory.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd.
(Hobart) :
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividemß serves. Reserves.
1916.. £10,623 6 p.c. =£6,804 £3,819 £30,552
1917.. 8,650 6 ~ „ 6,804 1,846 32,398
1918.. 9,957 6 „ „ 6,808 3,089 35,487
1919.. 8,042 6„ „ 6,868 1,174 36,661
1920.. 10,244 8 „ „ 8,127 2,117 38,778
1921.. 34,710 10 „ „ 11,610 23,100 61,878
Premiums on new shares, 697 62,575
Assets written up • • 63,000 125,575
1922.. 29,155 124 p.c.= 16,054 13,101 138,676
Transferred to capital, £30,000. . 108,676
1923.. 22 401 10 p.c. =l6 1251 j 87fl n 0,552
Written off .. £4400 1
1924. 23,044 10 p.c. =l6 219 1 112 ,977
\\ ritten ofi . . tL4400 j
1925.. 23,946 12* p.e.= 18,750 ( Tqfi ii 3 773
Written off .. £4400 ( ' 9b
1926.. 20,608 10 p.c. = 15,000 ) „ o>oB H 6.781
Written off .. £2600 ) ’
Four years ago Cascade handed over its
beer-brewing to the amalgamation which now
supplies the Speck’s needs. Its current pro-
fits come from those interests, its soft drinks
and cider business and its hotel properties.
Last year’s return was “quite satisfactory,”
according to the report, and the reduced
figure disclosed and the smaller div. may
be the management’s first step to meet the
competition which will inevitably result
from the scmi-co-operative concern that was
lately put on the stocks. The new co. will
find no mean opposition, judging by the
ring of this :
In view of future keen competition, it has been
decided to i hstal the most modern and up-to-date
plant in the world. By this means our product will,
it is hoped, equal, if not surpass, the product of any
brewery in the Commonwealth, and enable us to meet
all competition.
Here is what is visible, so far as the Cas-
cade Co. is concerned, to support the man-
agement’s intentions: —
1914. 1919. 1924. 1926.
Paid capital.. £lOB,OOO £lOB,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Mortgages and
deposits . . 89,575 70,525 59,067 68,974
Overdrafts, etc. 23,548 16,600 4,125 4,413
Freeholds, etc. 181,587 173,816 168,944 193,458
Stock and plant 42,647 43,912 24,934 22,256
Book debts, etc. 14,542 14,657 30,879 26,849
Cash and in-
vestments . . 9,276 5,027 3,039 6,048
Shares in other
cos 110,929 102,129
Liabilities are fairly substantial; and it is
not known how much goodwill, if any, is in
the beer-brewing concern in which Cascade
has a heavy holding. The position, of course,
is quite solid ; and the book value of assets
apart from the shareholding—which appa-
rently is returning a decent profit—-appears
to be reasonable. Tasmania is having fair
success in attracting industry by its willing-
ness to grant concessions in the matter of
cheap power, and each additional enterprise
adds to the increment in the brewery estate
and other freeholds, and makes the position
of the co. surer. Further, the little island
(and, therefore, also this co.) promises to
be benefited by the Migration and Develop-
ment Commission, which is going to make
the backward state of most of the Speck's
industries the subject of one of its earliest
efforts. Fortunately, the Commission has
power to go beyond the mere inquiry: its
job will be to organise such beneficial mea-
sures as it finds necessary or desirable.
* * * *
Auckland Milling and Afforestation Co.,
Ltd., is a Maoriland venture, in 4200 shares
of £lO each, formed to acquire a property of
2140 acres north of Auckland, to fell and mill
the standing timber and reafforest the area.
Its chief feature is proximity to M.L.’s big-
gest market and port, giving it an estimated
freight advantage of 3s. per 100 ft. The
area is freehold and the purchase price
£23,150, payable in four years. Modest divs.
are anticipated from the commencement,
leaving sufficient to afforest the area with
redwood, from which fabulous wealth is to


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
narv. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \ 2/6 1/3 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end 7-id. (minimum charge 12/6, 20 words)
I- RANGE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
Nil
2/6 1/3
CANADA . . 2/- If- 7d. (minimum
11 /S. 20 words)
Week-end sfd. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
NEW
ZEALAND. . 4id.
f N.Z. Night Letter
J Rate minimum charge
] 3/- for 20 words and
[ 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and B 7784.
Queen’s House, Queen Street. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
"‘The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.P. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.- —Advt. [1
* * * *
Provided the head remains constant, consistent
year-in year-out full-water flow in any scheme is
entirely dependent upon the preservation of a clear
pipe interior. Pioneer Wood Pipe cannot rust or
corrode, is immune from frosts and electrolysis in
any climate, and consequently maintains maximum
delivery under all conditions. It is simply and
quickly freighted, transported and installed by practi-
cally unskilled labor, and is maintained at little or
no expense. Send for our illustrated catalogue of
interesting and comparative data. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bav Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors.--Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
♦ * •* *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coimisosr & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * .
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc.?
Arthur Leplastricr & Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; Collins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide —manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now eater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.—Advt,
8^
&
pOORD&So*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
L Swift & Company lAii..
Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. S.vciney «
HAVE YOU EVER CONSIDERED WHAT WILL BE THE
POSITION OF YOUR WIDOW AND CHILDREN
IF, AFTER YOUR DEATH, YOUR EXECUTOR SHOULD
MALADMINISTER THE FUNDS OF YOUR ESTATE ?
There is always this risk IF YOU APPOINT AN INDIAUDUAL.
He may be dishonest; your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience; or, HE
MAY DIE gOON AFTER YOU, and your Estate may pass into the hands of someone you would
never have trusted.
You can avoid all these dangers by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO. (Ltd.),
WHICH HAS HAD UPWARDS OF 39 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
be won from 25 to 45 years hence. The
proposition is not a bond issue; being a
registered limited liability co. it gives share-
holders the protection of the Companies Act.
Afforestation ventures, however, have lost
their popularity, and in this, as with all
others, intending investors have to consider
the long wait.
* * * *
The “Wild Cat” Monthly, which will
be available next Saturday, includes infor-
mation and figures that it is impossible to
squeeze into a weekly. The principal stocks
on the Australian market are listed, and
there are comments on the tin situation,
while new share issues and banking develop-
ments are reviewed.
* * * *
Believing that market premiums for tin
ventures far removed from the producing
stage have reached an unsafe limit, Gould
Macdougall sounds a note of warning in his
circular for this month. As Mac has for
quite a long time been in the thick of “East-
ern” promotions, his conclusions are the
more striking. There came a time three
years ago when tin went high and higher,
but share values, after a big run, receded.
Macdougall ascribed the deflation to a
market that had been “overbought.” Of
the present position he remarks: —-
It is to be hoped that over-enthusiasm and ill-
judged buying may not, as often happens under such
circumstances, ultimately result in severe losses....
The success of Sydney-controlled Malayan ventures
has popularised such investments and developed public
enthusiasm and trust to a point where there is a
danger of over-confidence. . . . While optimistic re-
garding judicious investment we deprecate indis-
criminate buying on boom markets... . We sound
this note of warning because we consider much of
the recent rise in prices due either to speculative
buying for market profits or to the buying of
inexperienced investors, making their first venture in
tin shares and influenced rather by r their own hopes
than by any actual knowledge. .. . Because of the
big success of the best-managed properties, and
because there have been few outright failures up to
the present time, it is being generally assumed that
all tin shares are sound investments, and that
market prices hardly matter. This is, in our opinion,
the present market position, and, if we have diag-
nosed it correctly, it is an unhealthy one.
As a case in point, Mac picks out Thabaw-
leik, the Burmese show of the Austral-Malay
group, which is far behind its starting
schedule: —
A purchaser of Thabawleik shares at about 60s.
must receive dividends at the rate of 50 p.c. p.a.
for about 10 years before he will have received his
capital back plus 10 p.c. The estimated life of
the mine is 15' years, and though the co.’s prospects
are excellent we think the present price unjustified,
especially as the co. will start operations very
heavily in debt.
Of Alluvial Tin, which lie has chaperoned,
the same writer points out that shares have
risen 50 p.c. during the past quarter. “Pur-
chasers at present prices may do well, but
they are discounting the future, and we
think they would do better to wait results.”
* * * *
B. H. Southern Lode, in the same stable as
Queensland Antimony, has adopted the same
method as that pursued in the case of that
co., viz., a new share issue instead of making
calls for development. The Lode issued 65,000
vendors' fully paid to 7s. 6d. and 100,000
contribs. paid to 2s. in the first instance.
The rights to 33,000 new contribs. paid to
2s. on allotment expire on October 10, pre-
sent holders of either denomination thus hav-
ing first call over one in five. The accom-
panying circular tells holders that £3300
will be added to the finances by the new
move, and that a mining and boring policy
will be pursued. A strong pumping plant
on Block 79 “will facilitate mining of good-
grade ore at 500 ft. or deeper. Erection of
a concentrating plant will be started imme-
diately, as there is a big supply of high-grade
ore exposed at 300 ft. on Block 38, and this
can be mined at once, being highly suitable
for concentration.” That’s that; but the
market hasn’t taken kindly to the new
issue. High tide was 4s. 9d., with a quick
ebb to 2s. 9d., second thoughts bringing the
sellers along in force.
* * * *
Kennedy’s Freehold (N.S.W.) dredge
treated 10,430yd5. for the month ended Sep-
tember 18, for a yield of 1J tons tin oxide.
The co. will require something better than
this soz. stuff if buyers are to be encouraged
to bid beyond 3s. 6d.
* * * *
Carpatliia (N.S.W.) shareholders have
become restive at mining methods which
result in a fortnightly output of about 125
tons in all weathers, this in the face of soar-
ing tin prices, which are not guaranteed to
last for ever. As only one shift is em-
ployed, chairman Markell’s explanation that
the manager could not increase tonnages
owing to the peculiar layout of the ore
bodies has excited criticism. Average daily
ore output per man was stated at half a ton.
A second shift should at least double that
without doubling the co.’s overhead exes.
Marranboy (N.T.) Tin took over in June
last. It now reports a crushing of 325 tons
of ore for 4 tons 17cwt. of tin of 65 p.c.
from the main open-cut workings. A con-
tract has been let to mine and deliver at
the mill 1090 tons of ore at 19s. per ton ;
the first 100 tons has been raised, and the
contractors estimate that they will raise the
full quantity within four months. Man-
ager Tom Harley is opening up the north-
end shaft as an open-cut; 15 p.c. ore was
left here at 60ft. by the former owners. The
west shaft shows a lode 4ft. wide of 3 p.c.
average.
Westralia is making the most of its new
gold find at Glenelg Hills. Glowing reports
are published in the papers almost daily, and
now and then some optimist is allowed to
declare in print that it is the best surface
show he has ever seen, etc. An outcrop
giving good prospects by dollying is certainly
visible, but outside the prospectors’ claim
nothing of value has been found. Still, high
prices are being asked by holders of these
“position” areas, and some have been
optioned on the basis of a few pounds down
and the balance if prospects prove good
enough to entice the public in. Jack Mc-
Dermott, formerly of the Ivanhoe and
recently arrived from London, is trying to
find an overseas buyer for-the prospectors’
holding. If he succeeds they will get £lO,OOO
cash and £lO,OOO in shares. Until more
work has been done, however, McDermott
may have some difficulty in placing it on
the terms demanded.
Ivanowna Red Hill (W.A.) potters along.
Last half-year’s crushings yielded £6Bll, and
when all accounts were paid there was a
small surplus. Receipts from a parcel
treated since the half-year closed yielded
£2046. Some new ground is now being
broken, and more good returns are expected
shortly, but, as stated on more than once
on this page, the small shoots are liable to
exit out without warning. Assets at June
30 included fixed deposit, cash in hand, etc.,
amounting to £3722. Apart from this show
there is little activity at Ivanowna. Its two
former chief reefing mines, the White Feather
and North White Feather, are paralysed, and,
despite yarns occasionally told by London
papers, are unpayable under present con-
ditions. Most of the other old-time producers
passed away years ago, and all that now
remains of a once-prosperous centre are
a few dismal structures, rusting plant and a
handful of people.
* * * *
W. A. Manganese held its first annual
meeting the other day, when unforeseen delays
in the delivery of plant were blamed for
past inactivity and shareholders were urged
to pay arrears in calls. The co. has man-
aged, as a result of a town-to-town canvas,
to sell 50,600 £1 shares and the same number
of £1 debentures on time payment, and so
far has raked in over £50,000 in instalments.
It will, however, require a good deal more
than the £30,000 it has left of this to
reach the producing stage. Meanwhile,
strenuous efforts are being made to sell
more shares.
The rise in tin has caused Greenbushcs
(W.A.) to liven up a bit A few shows have
resumed production, and in one —the Corn-
wall —a nice body of ore is being worked.
For a time mining was stone dead on this
field, but disaster to the settlement was
averted by the Government finding jobs in
adjacent timber-areas for the idle miners.
To date the field has produced about a
million pounds’ worth of tin, but for some
years past the industry has lacked vitality
owing to want of capital to develop the lodes
at depth.
* * * *
The Duke, at Ravenswood (N.Q.), looking
very sick a couple of months ago, has picked
up a run of pretty stone in No. 5 south
stopes which so far averages around 200 z.,
for five inches thick. It was as invigorating
as a breath off his native heather to old
Duncan, who has been despondent over the
general poorness of things lately. That and
the 12oz. prospects obtained in No. 3 hang-
ing wall have bucked shareholders, for there
are no liabilities to reduce now, and a good
run of ore would shortly mean divi-
dends. Output has increased the last two
crushings, and is now 60 to 70 tons a month
averaging something near 7oz. a ton. F. W.
Cuthbert, late of Etheridge, has come into
the co. and likes its present prospects.
* * * *
Mount Morgan has just lost its second-in-
command, Ilorsburgh, and old “A.A.” has
now to himself the job of seeing the open cut
through. This is assuming huge proportions,
and moderately deep levels of former days
now hang downhill in daylight. The cut also
exposes the supposed enriching dykes and
copper-stained formation outside of the old
stopes. The key to success lies in reaching
by daylight methods the eight million tons
of reserves which can no longer be won by
underground methods. And this probably
w-on’t be reached unless a bit better sweeten-
ing material is encountered on the way down
than has so far been met with. But they
are hopeful up there. It is hard to imagine
that a deposit so little understood has been
stoped out completely and that no good
patches were missed. Given a few of these
carrying Gdwt. on the way down, the
load on Boyd’s shoulders will be lightened
immensely.
It is not clear yet what sort of a run the
Palmer River Gold Co. (N.Q.) will get with
its proposed steel-bucket dredge. Capital
has been a bit shy. Walter Baker makes
no secret of the fact that he would like to
see the venture better supported by northern
Queensland. He considers the prospects
warrant it on a basis of 2455 ft. of trial
boring and sinking, which is reported as
having proved six million yards worth Is. Id.
per yard, giving a total estimated value of
£332,907 worth of gold.
* * * *
Water supply has always been a serious
trouble at the Mt. Cobalt mine, Cloncurry
(Q.), and the dry spell stopped production
for the time being. Faces look fairly good;
the stopes underground and the open cut
average about 18 inches of medium-grade ore.
* * * *
Dividends in Sardine look like being
monthly at present; the 22nd (3d.) is pay
able on October 21. The mine has never
looked better. In the south level from No. 1
winze the lode has thickened lately from
12in. to 24in. of high-grade ore and is now
about to break into the old workings at
a point where the shoot was thought to
have died out, once again proving the value
of some discriminating cross-cutting in big
formations of this type. This latest develop-
ment may alter the prospective value
of the mine to advantage, for if this
shoot comes out trumps in either the foot-
or hanging-walls of the old shoot, it proves
that the values go off unexpectedly into
distinct shoots which have been missed in
the past. No. 3 North shows values for
170 ft. and in places touches sft. of good
dirt. This page a few months back tipped
that about 2s. 6d. in dividends was showing'
then. And less than a year ago some
shareholders who had previously done well
out of it turned in their scrip over a three-
penny call.
Mt. Elliott Copper Co., which holds 270
acres of leases on the Cloncurry field (N.Q.),
has decided to make a drastic cut at its
capital. To this end the 243,018 ordinary
sliares paid to the £5 limit will be reduced
to a face value of 205., thus cutting ordi-
nary capital from £1,215,090 to £240,018,
and leaving the total paid capital at
£337,018 instead of the present £1,309,090.
The last div. paid by the co. was ss. handed
out on 22/12/T3.
* * * #
Profits piled up for Tin Bentong of E. .T.
Kennedy’s office last year. The dredge
got into 17d. ground as against 7.849 d.
ground in its previous campaign, and
with tin holding around £270 a ton
the till ran to overflowing. For a
bit the higher ground compelled slow work,
but once on the river level a big yardage was
lifted, 1,122,000yd5. going down the sluice
boxes. The dirt averaged just over lib., so
5011 tons of oxide sent to the markej; real-
ised, exclusive of royalty, a sum of £76,100.
Costs fell to 4.88 d. a c. yd. against 5.944 d.
in 1925, and the profit ran out at a shade
over Is. a yd. The sum netted was £57,255,
which on £lOO,OOO paid-up capital is a neat
return. Divs. and bonuses took £22,500, and
with the dredge still raking up good stuff,
£75,000 was paid out this month. The Pal-
freyman touch is observable, in that earn-
ings are not shelled out to the last penny.
Most of the best ground has been dredged,
but there is about eight years’ work ahead
in lower-grade drifts. Funds are held to
permit of other blocks being bought and so
to assure the co. a continuously prosperous
existence. Ambrose Pratt says “the. directors
are fully alive to their responsibilities in that
connection, and will do their utmost to pro-
mote the end in view to the best advantage
of all concerned.” When the books were
closed the co. had against debts of £lO9l
a plant costing £65,525, £17,079 in Com-
monwealth bonds, and cash £22,454.
* * * *
Last float per Tin Options of R. W.
Stringer’s team is Bidor Tin N.L. in the
Satak Padang district, Penang. Out of
820 acres W. F. McKenzie swears that 520
acres carry 36,000.000 c. yds. of Sloz. ground
working to a depth of 40ft. To yank drift
the height a big steel bucket dredge is to be
installed, having a capacity of 150,000 c. yds.
a month. It will most probably begin on
the northern block of 340 acres, which a
Malayan expert reckons will give lOoz.
wash over a depth of 32ft. Bidor
floats out with a lining of 150,000
shares of 20s. each. Vendor McCorbett
mops up 15,000 paids and £15,000 cash, and
Tin Options, because of the float, snuggles
away 30,000 shares. Its shareholders also
have the’ call of 50,000 contributing shares
of 20s. each. These A. W. Palfreyman has
underwritten, for which job he gets for cash
15,000 10 p.c. cumulative participating
shares.
Tanjong Tualang Tin, a sufferer like other
Malayan tin concerns from the labor short-
age, does not expect to “set in” before the
end of the year, when the new dredge, dig-
ging to 81ft., is expected to get through
150,000 cubic yards a month. Alterations
and additions to the original dredge design
include a water-tube boiler and a mechani-
cal stoker. To meet the additional cost,
10,000 new shares were issued, bringing capi-
tal to £130,000. All-in monthly costs are
expected to run just under 3d. a c. yd. on
an output of 150,000 yds. Profits, taking
tin price at £2OO, should run from £6OOO
a month for the pound ground, and half
that for the remainder. Estimated areas
of each are 20 and 30 million yards respec-
tively, with a prospective “life,” with one
dredge, of 10 and 15 years in each case.
* * * *
Pliin Soon, a Siamese tin concern launched
by the Malay and Siamese Prospecting Co.,
lias been the medium of a lively flutter during
the past month, and, after several ups and
downs, shares were at a premium of ss. Gd. at
last week-end, all without any obvious rea-
son. Thin Soon is not a dredging proposi-
tion, but an open cast mine, worked by
Chinese labor, and working costs are neces-
sarily higher than in dredging.
Kuala Kampar’s first annual report, issued
to shareholders this week, indicates that
digging operations will commence before the
end of October. The scarcity of skilled
labor, which is hampering tin-dredging opera-
tions throughout Malaysia, has been respon-
sible for the delay. Alterations and im-
provements to the bucket dredge, with in-
creased cost of labor and material, made it
necessary to add another £lO,OOO to the com-
pany’s £120,000 capital. This was done by
the creation of 10,000 shares at £1 each.
Malcolm Newman’s estimate of this pro-
perty gives 20 million yards of lib. ground
and 30 million going §lb. With the new
dredge digging to 85ft., if required, it is
estimated that the first-grade ground will
show a profit of £6OOO per month with tin
at £2OO, London. The lower-grade stuff
should turn in about £3OOO per month on
the same rating. Assets, as revealed in the
balance-sheet, show a healthy lead over lia-
bilities, and include a cash balance of £l3OO.
Kampar River (F.M.S.) holders may yet.
salvage their losses. Although the check-
boring operations on which the lawsuit was
compromised remain unfinished, being hung
up because of torrential rains, somebody
got busy last week and ran the shares to
10s. When things looked blackest, the stock
was down to 3s. 6d. There are 120,000 20s.
shares, of which 48,000 are vendors’.


THE NEW DAY IN CHINA.
“Since Communist freedom came to China the Yang-tse-Kiang has been the scene of incessant struggles. Myriads of yellow soldiers are dying for they know not what."


State Express methods
of manufacture are different
and produce cigarettes
unequalled in Quality.
20 for F 6
Manufactured in London by Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.
SWEgPRESS
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Soda”: Fritz has apparently had his
head turned by the recent Ilochs of brother-
hood flung at him by his late enemies. About
THE DEPARTED.
“Yes, my first was a good ’usband. You don't get ’em
like ’im now. A real pre-war one, 'e was.”
a week after Briand hugged Stresemann at
Geneva a German freighter trudged down
Sydney Harbor to the sea. H.M.A.S. .Mel-
bourne lay in Farm Cove, and in accordance
with convention Fritz dipped his bunting.
Almost simultaneously Pincligut hove up on
the starboard, and a loqd detonation smote
the air. Fritz, with his eyes on the war-
ship and his heart full of bonhomie, dragged
down his flag to the full dip, while
every man aboard clicked to attention in
response to what was evidently taken for a
startling courtesy from a late foe's gun.
Then the vessel rolled on to the Heads, while
passengers on the ferries pulled out their
watches to check them by the cannon that
booms out one o’clock from Pinchgut.
“Shed Hand”: After a consignment of 20
cases of ale had been sent to a Westraliau
township, the Railway Department at Perth
was informed by wire that there were five
bottles short, and the local constable could
prove it, the cases having been opened in his
presence. The checker at the Perth end
testified that the beer had been loaded as
received. “I’m not satisfied with the count,”
he said to the investigating detective. “Wire
back that I demand a recount.”
* * * *
“Wang”: The police warning to country
visitors down in Melbourne for the Show to
beware of affably-disposed strangers pro-
duced at least one untoward result. A
couple of cockies were standing in a crowd
near the Spencer-street station, when a smil-
ing young man came rushing up with a hand
extended and a joyous greeting of “How are
you, old chap?” to one of the twain. Before
the latter could reply his mate smote the
affably-disposed one violently in the face. A
constable hurried across and grabbed the
bellicose gentleman, who received a second
shock when he saw his friend helping the
stranger to his feet, with a string of apolo-
gies for the outrage. Explanations disclosed
that the victim was a policeman, off duty,
from the same district as the visitor whom
he had greeted.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The atmosphere of
gloom which some people throw over their
love-making is a curious thing. An elderly
gent, recently dropped dead in Rookwood
(N.S.W.) cemetery, and it was suggested at
the inquest that the shock of a refusal from
the girl lie wanted to marry was the cause
of death. Actually the girl was inclined to
accept her ancient but wealthy lover, but she
didn’t like the spot selected for the proposal,
his brother’s grave. Bondi at one time
held a seven-times-married patriarch who used
to take his latest wife into the mausoleum in
which he had stored her departed predeces-
sors and read the Bible with her. And I
know a man who made a bunch of flowers
the herald of his proposal. “They are from
my dear wife’s grave,” he breathed solemnly,
: “a sign of my conviction that she would like
you to be my wife.” That settled his chances.
“Bris”: Queensland’s most
polite wife gave evidence in
a recent divorce case. When
she called at her husband’s
shop (he is a chemist) she
found him embracing another
lady. He looked over his
shoulder at his wife and said,
“I am busy for a minute.”
She replied courteously “So
I see,” and walked out of the
shop, closing the door gently
behind her. The chemist ex-
plained later that he was only
“human.” His wife was evi-
dently something more.
* * #
“Miro”: Jenkins, having
become engaged, and being
anxious to put a house on liis
time-payment allotment, de-
cided to sell his launch. A
prospective buyer was pro-
duced by the agent and .Ten-
kins arranged a trial trip.
Prospective buyer arrived at
the jetty on Saturday with
his wife, four children, two
aunts and a friend, and Jenkins
spent an afternoon doing the
perfect nautical host. Then
the purchaser suggested test-
ing the launch’s capabilities
by moonlight, and Jenkins
put in an evening up Middle
Harbor, plus several gallons
of benzine and six bottles of
beer. An all-day Sunday ex-
cursion raised the enthusiasm
of the buyer to the discussion
of terms. “Yes, I’ll take
her,” he announced. “I don’t
consider her at all dear at a
hundred. Now, how about the
deposit?” Jenkins dropped
his eyes to hide the gladness
in them. “Well,” he said,
“I'll leave that to you.”
“Right,” said the buyer; “we
can settle it right away.
What about two pound ten
and a gramophone?”
“Centurion”: A cable from Tokio last
week mysteriously denied a rumor that a
Japanese had attempted to assassinate the
Crown Prince of Sweden, who is visiting the
land of Yum-Yum. The unhappy Nicholas of
Russia was rushed by a Jap swordsman
when, as the Czarovitch, he was walking in
an official procession in Tokio. George of
Greece, Tino’s burly brother, nabbed the
would-be assassin in the nick of time. Mean-
while, as the unconventional George said in
a deathless phrase when describing the affair,
“Poor Nicky ran.”
* * * *
“Rawhia”: Drunks’ luck doesn’t always
hold. An inebriate who had been parked in
a M.L. prison cell for the night recovered
sufficiently to investigate the peephole. Find-
ing it was too high for him to reach, he placed
a pan against the wall, mounted thereon, and
got liis. head through the aperture. The
pan, being round, rolled away, and all the
efforts of the doctors who arrived about
20 minutes later failed to revive the unfor-
tunate reveller.
* * * *
“Wang”: Undoubtedly the piano gets
into some queer
places at times (B.
16/9/’2G). A few
years ago an up-
right grand was
found in a Vic.
railway truck
buried under sev-
eral tons of coal.
It had been over-
looked when the
*t ruck was un-
loaded, and the
conveyance ha d
been shunted under
the coal shoots.
Years ago, during
a flood on the
Moorabool River
(Vic.) a farm-
house was washed
into the raging
waters. When the
flood subsided vari-
ous articles of fur-
niture were found
stranded miles
away down the
river; one was a
cottage piano, high
and dry in the
fork of a red-gum.
The owner decided
that it wasn’t
worth retrieving,
an d fo r weeks
weird sounds came
from that locality,
caused by ’possums
racing up and
down the keyboard.
Then a heavy gale
blew the tree
down, and the
piano dropped into the bed of the river.
“Canar” : The paragraph about the woman
who carried an unsuspected bullet in her
back for years (B. 16/9/’26) reminds me of
an episode at Yass (N.S.W.) some years
back. A railway-construction worker had
spent a hectic pay-night, during which he
had become involved in several free fights
and been thrown out of two pubs. He
awoke in his tent next morning with a nasty
wound on his left arm. He applied some
simple remedies, but a few days later it had
become so painful and inflamed that he re-
sorted to one of the local doctors. The
wound was opened, and to the surprise of
both patient and doctor a small bullet was
found embedded in the muscle. The patient
had no recollection whatever of having been
shot during his night out, nor could any of
his mates when questioned throw any light
on the matter.
“Loco”: I don’t know anything
about stopping leaks in petrol en-
gines with, oatmeal (B. 16/9/'26),
but I can certify that steam-engines
are good Scotsmen. Oatmeal put
into a cold boiler via the filler-
plug, or into a hot one through the
injector, has stopped many a case
of leaky tubes, and enabled the
train to get home on time. But
bran or sawdust is more often used,
being cheaper, ye ken. In bad-water
districts it is a common railway
practice to keep a stock of bran
on hand, a supply being issued to
a driver for his trip if there is any
likelihood of his engine going leaky.
I have even seen horse-manure em-
ployed for the same purpose in case
of emergency. A locomotive is not
so finicky as to its innards as a motor vehicle.
“Flagwagger”: We called him “Lucky
Jim” because of his successes at two-up and
card-schools, and he was as superstitious as
most gamblers. At Anzac his hatband bore
the inscription, “Lucky Jim, Bendigo,” and
he conceived the idea that the headgear was
his mascot' and that he was in danger when
it was off his head. So he wore it day and
night. Jim had some exceptionally narrow
shaves, the closest being when a bullet cut
a shallow furrow across liis cheek, and his
conviction about the saving qualities of his
mascot was strengthened till it became an
obsession. At Tel-el-Ivebir camp after the
evacuation the C.O. decided to smarten up
the unit. But though Jim was crimed and
fined again and again he refused to get an-
other hat. The ,C.O. tired first, and our
cobber was still wearing the dilapidated lid
when we entered the line in France. Offi-
cers and n.c.o’s soon learnt that it was
wasted effort ordering him to exchange it
for a steel helmet. Jim’s luck clung to him
until late in 1917, when we were billeted in
Hubersent, well behind the line. For a joke
a new reinforcement snatched Jim's hat and
ran off. Giving chase, wrathful and venge-
ful, the owner rushed in front of a laden
A JOKE IS A JOKE.
“I say, old girl, would you he mad if I asked you to marry me?”
“Not in the least, dear hoy; hut I would he if I did.”
G.S. waggon. Then he stumbled and fell
under the wheels. It was hi’s first war hurt
—and his last.
* * * *
“G.W.A.”: Does any record exist of a war
casualty caused directly by falling anti-air-
craft shrapnel? Tons of metal were daily
pumped into the air in the (usually) vain
pursuit of ’planes, and nearly all Diggers
were familiar with the whir of a falling
nosecap during the bombardment of a Fritzie
by our Archies, yet I never heard of any-
one being laid out.
“Oxmead”: Something new in blase
criminals has turned up in England, accord-
ing to the cableman, an individual who coolly
went to sleep while he was being tried for
murder. Which recalls that a Frenchman,
the Due de Lauzun, who visited England in
the eighteenth century, was so struck by the
apparent boredom of the Anglo-Saxon (in
contrast, apparently, with the emotionalism
THE SUBSTITUTE.
“Will you always stay at home at nights and
talk to me?”
“Don't he foolish. What on earth d’yon
think I gave you the cockatoo for?”
of the Latin) that he wrote a book about it.
The Due insisted that be once saw a high-
wayman yawning just before he was hanged
—those were the days of public executions.
Still, w T hen the preliminaries to being hanged
included a long ride to Tyburn, through
streets crowded with and a
stirrup-cup at a wayside pub, it was probably
a much more tiring business than it is to-
day. And the Claude Duvals had a certain
reputation for insouciance and devil-may-
eareness to keep up which none of their
successors have inherited.
SIGNS OF THE SEASONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If Winter comes can Spring be far behind ?”
If Spring, is Summer not behind the door?
As sound an aphorism this you’ll find,
Whatever avenue you may explore.
The merry surfers gather .on the shore ;
Tire fan appears, the radiator goes ;
And somewhat oftener than heretofore
The flapper dabs the powder on her nose.
Azaleas blaze their message to mankind
Down in the Gardens, by 'the riotous score.
Observe Vaucluse with gay wistaria lined ;
Hark to the swish of sail and clank of oar.
Industrious bees are looting flowers galore ;
The roofing Tom o’ nights more vocal grows ;
And, where but one sufficed, shots three or four
Of powder hit the flapper’s dainty nose.
The nip lias vanished from the wanton wind;
The brewery waggon groans beneath the store
Of wares to slake the city’s thirst designed;
Soon will the quivering jacaranda pour
Her soft oblations earthward. Football’s hors
De combat. Cricketers pull up their hose,
And daily fewer girls the chance ignore
To dab a bit of powder on the nose.
Envoy.
That summer’s coming signs full many a score
Unto the least observant eyes disclose.
Never a week-end dawns but more and more
Boldly the flapper powdereth her nose.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


RIGHT AHEAD.
“A fleet of taxi-cabs to be driven by the hirer is being imported from U.S.A.”
UNCLE SAM: “Thanks for the cheque, young feller. Drive yourself light ahead!”


Equitable
ĥ
Cite
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Ltd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
8* Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
A '
m / wx
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes’
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and French Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER
“Tim Tiki”: Intending suicides from the
Gap or the Gibraltar Galleries or any high
place can rest assured that it will be the
sudden stop and not the descent that will
kill them (B. 16/9/’2G). An American army
aviator stepped out of a ’plane and let him-
FINISHED.
THE MAID: “Why did you marry her?”
THE MAN : “For her money.”
THE MAID “Yes, hut now you want a divorce!”
THE MAN : “Because I’ve got it.”
self fall 1000 feet before pulling the rip
cord which opened his parachute. Describ-
ing his experience afterwards he said that he
got head downwards at the start and became
dizzy from being twisted over and over. But
for this he reckoned he could have dropped
much further. It is quite common for a
parachutist to fall a hundred feet or two
before his lifesaver opens; that’s why a
parachute is no protection when trouble
happens close to the ground. At the
R.A.A.F. tests recently one officer fell 1000
feet before his parachute opened properly
(B. 15/7/’26). He wouldn’t be getting the
full benefit of gravity, 'but his speed would
make a racing-car seem slow.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : An interesting contribution to
cancer research appeared in the S. M. Her-
ald the other day. A correspondent wrote
asking whether consideration had been given
to the fact that the Divine law forbidding
the eating of strangled animals was being
ignored by modernity, especially in the case
of poultry. Inquiries from the supplier of
an occasional Sunday “chicken” brought the
news that fowl-strangling had long been rele-
gated to the list of things not done. Bleed-
ing is universal in the poultry-murdering
GOT HER PROGRAMME MIXED.
“Do you love me, Junee?”
“Why, you know I do, Tom.”
“Tom? Darling, my name’s Jim.”
“Why, so it is! Forgive me, I keep thinking it’s Saturday.”
trade, and even the back-yard amateur has
long ago learnt to resort to the axe. Is
there any evidence either that the Jew and
the Moslem, both forbidden to eat unbled
or strangled flesh, have any special immunity
from cancer? And how is it that the Papu-
ans, Melanesians and a hundred other folk
who kill their animal food with every pre-
caution to avoid wasting a drop of blood
know nothing of civilisation’s curse?
* * * *
“Really”: The most unique send-off of
my experience happened at Quambatook
(Vic.). The sta-
tionmaster was a
good officer, but had
made himself un-
popular personally,
and a petition went
t o headquarters
asking that he be
transferred. It
was promptly
granted, and the
officer found on re-
turning from his
annual leave that
he had to move.
A send-off took
place at the local
hall the night be-
fore he left. Un-
fortunately for the
guest, a man with
a particular griev-
ance against him
arrived with a
stout horsewhip
while the cere-
mony was in pro-
gress. When the
s.-m. came out with
a wallet of notes
in his pocket and
an illuminated
address under his
arm the assailant
fell on him, and
that part of the
send-off only ended
at the station gates.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: An unpromising pre-
lude to a union of souls was witnessed in
a Sydney suburban bethel the other day,
when a wrangle began on the very altar-
steps. The argument was as to whether
bride or ’groom should pay the parson.
From the wrangle it was gathered that
the ’groom had been giving the lady portion
of his wages, out of which she was to pro-
vide the fitments for the matrimonial barque ;
he, regarding the parson’s fee as one of the
essential expenses, considered that it should
come out of that money, and declined to pro-
ceed with the business until she shelled out.
Moreover, he refused to allow any of the
relatives or friends to end the difficulty; lie
made the matter one of principle, and in
the end he had his way. Yet matrimony
started like that may turn out better than
you would expect. The softer half of one
of the serenest life-partnerships I have ever
encountered told me that when, a brand-
new bride, she was handed her first house-
keeping money it was short a penny—the
tram-fare from her parents’ house to the
dovecot over which she was to preside. She
told the story with a note of admiration in
her voice for a partner who was so uncom-
monly businesslike.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Redfern (Sydney) Council was
indignant when the City Council suggested
that it should adopt a better scheme for
street lighting, its aldermen insisting that
it was the best-lighted, district in Sydney.
However this may be, it was certainly one
of the first where electric light superseded
the old gas-lamps. Apparently the innova-
tion was not very satisfactory at the start;
there were numerous street accidents which
the aldermen of the period preferred to attri-
bute to unlighted vehicles. The. upshot was
a notice, worded perhaps a trifle ambigu-
ously, which appeared one morning on the
corners of the principal streets :
Redfern Municipality: All vehicles must carry a
light when darkness commences. Darkness com-
mences when the street lamps are lighted.
“Twenty-Two”: It hap-
pened on a recent voyage of
a Commonwealth Govern-
ment steamer from Austra-
lia. In the Mediterranean
a band of enthusiasts pro-
moted a mock breach-of-
proinise trial to enliven the
tedium of the voyage. After
rehearsals the cast was pub-
lished ou the notice-board.
To give the affair a marine
flavor, two of the characters
were described as a stew-
ard and a stewardess. That
evening the promotors were
interviewed by one of the
stewards. “Notice must
come down,” he said.
“Why?” he was asked. “We
object to thos/i characters
in your play. They reflect
on our profession.” “Bat
why?” “You know why. At
any rate they’ll have to come
down or you’ll get no break-
fast to-morrow!” “Who are
you. at any rate?” asked one
of the theatricals. “I’m the
delegate, I am. And, what’s
more, you’ll post an apology
on the board or no break-
fast. That’s final.” We had
breakfast, but before we got
it the promotors had to pull
down their programme and
post an apology.
“Harold Hardupp” : The “conquest ’of the
English Channel every few weeks by some-
one or other grows monotonous. This is the
sort of thing I exect to read in the Daily
Wireless of 1928 :
To-day Anton Gruyere, a Swiss, Nicolas Goffitoff,
a Russian, and Hubert Heartbreak, screen star,
arrived simultaneously on the English coast, after
successfully swimming the Channel. Gruyere and
Goffitoff protested against Heartbreak on the ground
that he had entered the water only half a mile
from the shore, another man having swum in his
place up to that point. Heartbreak admits this, but
contends that this procedure has always been regarded
as perfectly legitimate in the movie business.
British and French authorities have conjointly
drafted regulations for the control of Channel swim-
ming traffic. Two distinct tracks have been mapped
out, on each of which there is to be one-way traffic
only. To prevent accidents, any swimmer intending
to stop must lift his hand out of the water as a
warning to those behind him.
The petition of the shipping companies for a
prohibition against swimming the Channel during
certain hours has been considered by the conjoint
marine authorities of France and Britain. Notwith-
standing the contention of the companies that the
Channel is a traditional waterway, it has been
decided that in future the Straits of Dover will
be closed to shipping traffic.
The claim of Josef Bragoff that he had successfully
swum the Channel has been disallowed by the Channel
Swimmers’ Confederation. It is stated that Bragoff
did not swim at all. He walked across on the
shoulders of other competitors,
* * * *
“Really” : Steaks or chops grilled on rail-
way firemen’s shovels are all that is claimed
for them; but why no mention of spuds
slowly cooked in the smoke-box? One fire-
man of my acquaintance makes a specialty
of these; and his onions are also highly com-
mended by epicures from one end of the
run to the other. The same lad uses the
engine for a dressing-room as well as a
kitchen ; and I often see him shaving himself
even when shunting in a railway yard.
* * * *
“Detonator”: Touching the snobbishness
of requiring candidates for military commis-
sions to state the paternal calling (B.
3/6/’2G). When we were qualifying for pips
at Zeitoun 0.T.C., an inspection was sud-
denly announced by an old brass-hat, a
notorious sticky-beak. Some of us agreed
that we would all give the same reply to the
general’s invariable queries. The formula
was to run : “My father’s a shoemaker, my
mother’s a laundress”; there were some
further details about a supposititious sister,
to be given in discreetly lowered tones. The
old chap listened unsuspectingly to the first
rigmarole, but when he got it a second timi
he glared. I had only reached the shoe-
maker when an apoplectic roar cut me
short. “I know all about your purple family.
Your father’s a crimson cobbler, your
mother’s an adjectival washerwoman, and
yon three silly blaukards can take 14 dayj
C. 8.!”
HIS OBJECTION.
“But, father, his is such a fine old family tree'!”
“Yes, but he comes from the shady side of it.”
ANCHOR SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The telegraph has shrilled its bells
To set the screws astern;
The throb of rail and rigging tells
How urgently they churn.
The difference ’twixt life and death
In every turn may lie
When fog lias choked Night’s pulsing breath
And smothered all the sky.
So when you waver in your trust
In racking’ rod and throw,
The word I say to you is just—
Then let your anchor go.
It may be counted lubberly,
But it is safer far
Than grounding in a breaking sea
Or stranding on the bar,
Or crashing through the whole concern
Of stringers, piles and pier.
From full ahead to full astern
Is heavy on the gear.
The plunge of flukes and roar of chain .
May seem to indicate
That something faltered in your brain
And made 3'ou act too late.
Maybe ’twill spill the master-touch
You planned to crown your work,
But it won’t hurt a steamer much
To stop her with a jerk.
The tugs have got you fore and aft;
They know their job, that’s true,
For they have handled heavier craft,
In stronger tides, than you.
The pilot has her nicely fixed;
He’ll swing her, safe and slow.
But you’ll observe if things get mixed
He’ll let his anchor go.
It’s true, the owners don’t demand
That it be done, and yet
These are the things they understand
And never quite forget;
So when you waver in your trust
In crank and rod and throw,
If it’s a case of stop or bust,
Then let your anchor go.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
SPRING MAGIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The largest daffodil farm in the Empire is at
Boronia (Vic.). Each day during the season 10,000
choice flowers are packed in boxes and sent to the
Sydney market.”
Pleasure all its zest renews
Stooping daintily to sip
At each crisply fluted lip.
Beaded yet with country dews;
Till, enchanted by their grace,
The rapt worshipper may see
Herrick pacing by the quay,
Wordsworth haunting Martin-place.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


h
ĥ
fhe ce>nfr><? of
Queenslan do
‘Di'shnpuish ed
Social Life.
ħ
h
Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
h
Suites de Luxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES “ LENNONS , BRISBANE.
7 TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
I
HI
wm
v r- '4*\
■ :
What £2l
will buy
in “Fx & R”
Table Ware.
9 Table Forks
4 Table Spoons
9 Dessert Forks
9 Soup Spoons
9 Dessert Spoons
9 Tea Spoons
Pair Rustless
Carvers
9 Rustless Table
Knives
9 Rustless Dessert
Knives
1 Steel.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
Complete in Polished Oak Case, as
illustrated, £2l.
Every article will yield a lifetime’s service
and satisfaction.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“’Er 'ushand ’as 'ad three accidents at ’is work."
“Good gracious! Was they all fatal?”
Some October birthdays :
J. Garibaldi Roberts (Melb.), 66, on 3rd; John
Grice (Melb.), 76, on 6th; Justice Ferguson
(N.S.W.), 65, on 7th; poet Dr. C. H. Souter, 62, on
11th; Judge Tom Rolin (N.S.W.), 63, on 12th;
Walter Gill (ex-S.A. Conservator of Forests), 75,
on 13th; Prof. Alcock (Q’land), 40, and Stanley.
Addison (Melb. Uni.), 46, on 14th; Langdon
Bonython (Adel. Advertiser), 78, N. G. Bell (Com-
monwealth Railways Commissioner), 66, and Dr. G.
P. Darnell-Smith (Director of Sydney Botanic
Gardens), 58, on 15th; Statistician C. H. Wickens,
54, on 16th ; Vic. Attorney-General F. W. Eggleston,
51, on 17th; Geologist E. C. Andrews (N.S.W.), 56,
Lionel Lindsay, 52, and S.A. Chief Sec., Jas. Jelly,
53, on 18th; Beaumont A. Moulden (former S.A.
Attorney-Gen.), 77, on 19th; Brig.-Gen. J. O.
Robertson, C.B. (Q’land), 48, on 24th; Bishop
Thomas (Willochra), 45, and Justice Napier (S.A.),
44, on 24th; Dr. Richard Arthur, M.L.A., 61, and
Alexander McCallum (West Australian Minister), 43,
on 25th ; Federal Minister Neville Howse, V.C., 62,
on 26th; Elliott Lewis (Speck), 68, and Archgaiters
Sharp (Brisbane), 61, on 27th; T. J. Ley, M.H.R.
for Barton, 47, and Q’land ex-Premier Gillies, 58,
on 28th; poet John B. O’Hara, 62, on 29th; ex-
Q’land Minister A. J. Thynne, 79, on 30th; and
explorer Capt. G. H. Wilkins, 38, on 31st.
The Marquis of Salisbury is not the first
member of that august family to visit Aus-
tralia. His father came globe-trotting this
way in the eai'ly ’fifties, before he stood in
direct line for the title, and it lias always
been understood that he put in a few weeks
on the early-day Victorian diggings. After
he became Prime Minister somebody would
periodically start a controversy in Australia
as to whether the future Marquis ever
worked with a pick and shovel at Bendigo or
Ballarat. The point never having been sat-
isfactorily settled, it might be worth while
asking the present Marquis for a ruling. Cer-
tainly lie wasn’t born in the days referred
to, but he might have some private informa-
tion as to whether his dad had ever person-
ally assisted in panning off a prospect or
sinking, a shaft.
Ex-Premier Lawson has accepted the pre-
sidency of the Vic. Nat. Fed. for the second
time, although the holding of the job ham-
pered rather than helped him for a year.
He has not been a force in either State or
Federal politics since September, 3925, and
eyes are turned now more on Chief Sec.
Argyle than on Harry. The public got used
to thinking that anybody would do for the
headship of the Federation when Senator
Plain was given it year after year.
Captain Bidwell, of the Barrabool, has
retired after 47 years of seafaring. Bidwell
was the last skipper of Lund’s Blue Anchor
Line, and has been “lashed to the wheel"
of such craft as the Naming, Geelong and
Commonwealth. Amongst other pleasures of
his calling he enjoyed being stabbed,
operated on, burnt out, shipwrecked, sunk
by collision, left rudderless and quarantined.
He saved the crew of the Paparoa during his
last outward voyage, and left behind him a
group of officers that regretted his departure
—not so common an occurrence as may be
imagined by land-lubbers.
Australia’s part in the quelling of the
Chinese Boxer rebellion of 1900 is recalled
by the death in Sydney of Commander R. S.
Lambton, who served with the Naval Bri-
gade. He was born at the Glebe 61 years
ago, and joined the Naval Brigade when a
youngster. Lambton was a member of the
force which occupied German New Guinea
in 1914, and became harbor-master at Rabaul.
Law was his profession and yachting one of
his hobbies.
Arthur Henderson and other Empire Par-
liamentary delegates had to take back seats
when they visited the Ascot (Brisbane.) State
school. The youngsters were in charge, and
for a solid hour they lectured to the delegates,
rising one after another to deliver set
orations on Queensland’s history and re-
sources. Henderson was the only delegate
who managed to get a word in edgeways.
However,he obtained a holiday' for the school;
and the Anglo-Indian delegate, Sir Darcy
Lindsay, promised to pay for a picnic. So
there was no ill feeling.
Lovers of Gordon’s poetry and admirers of
his picturesque personality
assemble on a September
Sunday afternoon every year
at his grave in Brighton
Cemetery. This year the little
ceremony was smiled on by a
brilliant sun and breathed on
by a warm wind off the ocean
that lie loved far more than
he did the soil of his adopted
land. Gordon’s monument
strikes a simple, unaffected
note amongst the pathetic
ostentation of the vaults and
tombs around it. It is a
broken column flanked by two
wattle-trees, though one tree,
having been blasted by light-
ning, is now only the dead
support for some living ivy.
Incidentally, another natural
visitation, an earthquake, has
just laid low Fayal, in the
Azores, which was the poet’s
birthplace.
A veteran who did as much as any-
body to win the battle of Inkerman
passed out at Wellington (M.L.) lately
just five years short of his century.
This was Captain Joseph Hyde. He
was a smart artilleryman in his early
twenties, when he saw service in the Crimea,
and his big moment came when the Russian
batteries were playing the deuce at Inker-
man. Lord Raglan suddenly remembered
that he had just received delivery from
England of two smooth-bore 18-pounders.
These were hastily assembled, and Hyde
trained one of them. They proved very
accurate, and soon di'ove the Russian gun-
ners away. Hyde emigrated to Maoriland in
1876, to become field-artillery instructor at
Wellington. After that he took up volun-
teering and got his commission. Seventy of
his descendants swell the Maoriland popu-
lation.
Maoi'iland continues to import brainy Aus-
tralians. The latest to cross the Tasman is
E. P. Norman, of Melbourne, until lately
assistant engineer to the Harbor Trust; he
goes to Wellington as Town Clerk. Norman
graduated at Sydney Uni. as Bachelor of
Engineering, and had a commission as cap-
tain in the Australian Engineers in the
Flanders dispute. He’s not yet 40.
The death in Brisbane of R. H. Roe, for
many years headmaster of Brisbane Grammar
School, and later State Director of Educa-
tion, will be regretted by old pupils in many
corners of the world. In Roe’s day Bi-isbane
Grammar rose to be one of Australia’s lead-
The late REGINALD HEBER ROE.
ing schools, and many brilliant students went
from “Grammar” to southern universities
before Bananaland had one itself. Born in
Dorchester, where his father was a school-
master. “Reggie,” as everyone knew him, had
a brilliant career at Balliol, taking high
honors in maths, and pulling a good oar:
as coach and official he did much for Queens-
land rowing afterwards. His reorganisation
of the Queensland education system is a
monument to his memory.
11. L. Baillieu, probably because he didn’t
like the local chop, invited a friend he met
at the Melbounxe Show to lunch with him
on liis station near Echuca, Murray River.
They left at 11 a.m. in the Diamond Bird,
a luxurious new air ’bits recently landed by
the Larkin Co., and the friend was back
in Melbourne by 4.30. The actual flying
time was only a little over two hours.
In R. T. Robinson, who died in Perth last
week, Westralia lost one of its few K.C.’s.
He was born in Ulster 59 years ago; his
parents transferred themselves to Albany
when lie was five. “R.T.,” who was educated
in Adelaide, grew up to be an able lawyer, and
became head of a thriving firm. He was
just as shrewd a financier, and acquired
much valuable real estate in Perth. Taking
to politics comparatively late in life, he was
returned for Canning in 1914, and became
Attorney-General and Minister for Mines a
couple of years later, beating ex-Premier
Jack Scaddan at a fierce by-election. The
former post he continued to hold till differ-
ences with Jimmy Mitchell caused his resig-
nation in 1919. At the subsequent general
election Robinson lost his seat, and he never
succeeded in finding another. A brother who
represented Albany in the Leg. Assembly
pre-deceased him. -
The restless career of Earle Herman (or
Herrman) closed in Sydney last week. He
was a company promoter whose schemes
crashed in the money tightness of the early
war period; but, emerging from a brief re-
tirement, he became affluent again and the
trusted 1 adviser of people with money to in-
vest. His father was Professor Herrman, a
Russian Jew, who once held medical appoint-
ments in Russia and the Transvaal. The
family came to Australia 15 years ago ; the
Professor, who died a couple of years since,
became chemist for a German syndicate and
was the first man to handle the radium de-
posits in South Aus. He maintained that
there was sufficient value in radium there
to pay off the Australian debt.
Gilder, Molloy and Peverill, who will have
the thankless task of fixing boundaries for
26 metropolitan and 39 country Vic. Assem-
bly electorates, bring special knowledge to
the task. Molloy, formerly Chief Electoral
Officer, mapped out the existing constituen-
cies, helped Topp to draft the first lot or
Vic. Federal electorates, and prepared a
State scheme for Watt 13 years ago. Gilder
was Molloy’s right-hand man till he became
boss of the electoral branch himself eight
years ago, and lie drafted the 1924 proposals,
the rejection of which forced a dissolution.
Peverill, Under-Sec. for Lands till a few
months ago, knows the Cabbage Garden from
Mildura to Mallacoota, and from Portland
to Towong. All have kept aloof from party
politics, and have friends in all three camps.
Dr. Joe Ahearn, at 77. has gone into the
shadows from sunlit Townsville (N.Q.),
where he lived for the last half-century. In
1886 North Queensland sent the doctor to
London to plead the cause of separation.
Though in the sunset of life, he volunteered
in the Big Scrap, and served as inspector of
hospitals in fever-stricken Serbia, with the
rank of colonel. Years ago he was a contri-
butor of stories to The Bulletin and other
papers.
Closed life’s circuit at his native Seymour
(Vic.), Tim Howard, Superintendent of Vic.
Telegraphs, with which he had been con-
nected for over a half-century. In 1878,
when a mere youngster, Tim was sent to
Port Campbell (Vic.) to handle the heavy
telegraph traffic in connection with the Loch
Ard wreck; in 1900 he became electrical and
telegraph engineer, and in 1911 he stepped
into the managership. Meanwhile, he con-
trived to become amateur swimming chain
pion of Vic., and w r as second in the Stawell
Gift to a brother-telegraphist, George Bing-
ham. At all times Howard was a sturdy
battler for the operators, who will miss the
fine old chap.
Dead secrecy is being maintained about
the winning design for the new Canberra
stamp, but it is reassuring to know that
the successful competitor is lionald Harri-
son, engraver and technical assistant at the
Commonwealth note-printing branch in Mel-
bourne. Harrison came to Australia in
1912 to inaugurate the Federal note issue.
He has a world-wide reputation, and tongues
on the Belgian Congo, in Brazil, Nicaragua,
Uruguay and Guatemala lick the gum on
the backs of his masterpieces.
When C. J. Henderson, superintendent of
the Bank of Australasia, leaves his chair on
October 11, G. D. Healy will take it. C. E.
Norman steps into the managership of
the Melbourne office, where, some years
ago, he was accountant and sub-manager be-
fore being transferred to the Sydney branch
as manager. The Bank of Australasia dates
from 1835, the year Fawkner founded Mel-
bourne and Batman arrived in Port Phillip.
Tommie Coornbe, the Perth picture-kniglit,
who proposes to build two more showhouses,
one in Sydney and the other in his home-
town, once supplied Perth with a theatre
whose vastness was a terror to visiting com-
panies. One of Coombe’s innovations was a
couple of large concrete enclosures on top
of the boxes which he proposed to turn into
aquariums visible to the audience. “What
are you going to put in ’em?” asked one
disgusted star. “Whales?”
NORMAN FALKINER, pastoralist and
owner of racehorses.
Pietro Baracchi, formerly Vic. Government
astronomer, left £3500 to Mrs. Louise
Clements, wife of F.W., the managing direc-
tor of Melbourne Electric Supply Co. and
a member of Vic. Electricity Commission, “in
recollection of great friendship and many
kindnesses” shown to him by her husband,
herself and their family. The rest of his
fortune, amounting to £29,000, goes to his
son, Guido, already well endowed by his late
mum.
THE TAILORS’ TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The great Elizabethan captains,’ said Mr. Wed-
dell, president of the Merchant Tailors’ Association,
addressing the tailors’ convention, ‘wore ribbons,
silks and velvets of every line of the rainbow. The
dull and deadly respectability of men’s wear is
reflected in the decay of manliness and the spirit of
adventure. Let us welcome the tendency to experi-
ment in color.’ ” —Melbourne Herald cable.
In days of old,
W hen heroes bold
In gorgeous garb of rose and gold
Or purple cloak
Made shift to poke
A poniard in the other bloke,
Each startling hue
Would give unto
The mighty and the weak of thew,
The guts and go
To out a foe—
At least, the tailors tell us so.
In days of old
The colors cold
Had little chance their own to hold
’Gainst enemies
In gay cerise
Or puce or primrose neck-to-knces;
A doublet dull
Enclosed a cull,
Whose fighting stomach soon was full;
No Drake in grey
Had struck dismay
Into his foes, the tailors say.
Of days of old
The tale is told—
The moral shapes to any mould,
And sober greys
Of modern days
May never set the world ablaze;
But little Binks.
Arrayed in pinks,
Not e’en from big policemen shrinks;
He’s ramping mad
In raiment glad,
However meek when drably clad.
Ye days of old !
Ye heroes bold !
My thanks for hopes ye so unfold!
Lipon your hints
Some louder tints
I’m seeking now in silks and chintz ;
And soon —with axe !—•
I’m making tracks
For all my foes in greys and blacks;
Some I know well
Are due for Hell —
If true the tale the tailors tell!
VICTORIA,
HASES.


CAPSTAN
Navv
ate
m
Cl*.
mm,
m
*7
%
<2
55C4y
»aa
\ 1
k\
m\
7 > ■•:•. \
V <
: ■:? v.
i J
> .0
* <"
5 V '
\\
jn’cra?
4
\
•.%»
••s«Sßes«js??7
St
ISP***
*£SK
1
W*S*
sm
'*:^P
w»"'* w
WWW,
OVAL
HEAVY WEIGHTS
Tins of 25 and 50.
TINS OF 25- 1/5
TINS OF 50-2/9


deaf?
Socially and commercially, Deafness is a
handicap. . . , +
You can hear, and we are ready to prove t,
entirely at our expense, by sending you
ACOUSTICON
ON TEN DAYS’ TRIAL.
We do not ask you to part with one penny
until we have PROVED to you that you can
Worn by the ex-Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
and selected for the use of the Deaf at the
Wembley Exhibition.
Call or write for full particulars.
Store Ci\ 102 Daking House,
Lamsotl service. ' / 0-« Sydney.
“The Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor, 200 High Street, Christ-
church.
W.A. —H. Litt!' & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited,
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 i’itt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, Manager and Secretary.
R. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
Wake up to
m i
WHMv
y/\ J /
/Jm ■'.ir
hhmhmb
This Big
Saddle
Bargain.
The Famous
STATION POLEY
made of oiled kip leather
on a steel bar, plated tree,
narrow waist, long flaps,
leather points to the panel.
Fitted up complete with 4-
bar stirrups, leathers, sur-
cingle and folded Q’Tlini
girth for XlflMj-
Strong Bridle for 15/-
The Biggest Bargain in Australia.
Write for new Genuine Wieneke
saddle book, all about Jack
Wieneke, his life and work.
JOHN WIENEKE,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney,
Or 434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRAKIA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
“Ces”: The aversion of horses to camels
is causing the Vic. Water Commission a lot
of worry in the Mallee. There are now
nearly as many camel- as horse-teams in
this part of the country, and the horses have
gone on strike at the waterholes and tanks
where the other brute has lately watered.
Even if the camel filled his bag there a
week before, the nags will not drink. The
Commission has, therefore, issued a new
regulation prohibiting the watering of
camels at any of its tanks, wells or chan-
nels. When the bad smell wants a wet
the moisture must be carted to him.
* * * *
“Fitz” : N.S.W. North Coast chickens are
on the razzle. Some fowls have been laying
enormous eggs for weeks, while others have
been turning out fruit smaller than marbles.
A goose on Miss A. McDonell’s property at
the Bight, near Wingliam, threw out an egg
that turned the scales at 104 oz. It was 9in.
in circumference and 6in. in diameter. Per
contra, as the grocer I sell my fowl-fruit to
says, young Blanch, of Wherrol Flat, near
Wingliam, has a hen that has laid an egg
smaller than a sparrow’s. What’s it all
mean ?
* * * *
“Pick” : In the days when the sight of a
rabbit brought the blood of the settler to the
boil, various curious engines for wholesale
cottontail destruction were devised. The first
was the 4ft. by 2ft. pit trap, 6 feet deep.
Sunk alongside a wire-netted fence traversed
at night by foraging hordes of the enemy, it
had a swivel door that tipped any rabbit
lobbing on it into the pit. Often the trap
was so filled with heaving and struggling
prisoners that the door could not be tilted to
admit more. Having learned that no rabbit
in a burrow will shove past a bunch of paper
in the home entrance, Fred Cliinnery, of
Bungendore (N.S.W.), cleared every rabbit
off Balalaba and Gunningrah stations. His
method was to block with paper every
burrow but one in a warren, and in the
mouth of that one to insert the spout of his
home-invented cage trap. After a day or two
of starvation the warren inhabitants streamed
into the cage, and Fred then lifted their
pelts. .Toe Myers, of Eucumbong, invented
a spring catapult. From a ledge overlooking
a green flat he could with it send a shower
of stones into the congregation of rabbits
feeding below. Joe claims that his best shot
yielded 55 victims.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: I have seen cormorants and
shags drive fish (B. 9/9/’26), but they never
attempt it except in narrow reaches or
lagoons. Pelicans adopt the same tactics,
and one of the finest sights I have ever
witnessed was 78 of these stately birds
driving fish in a waterhole of the Georgina
River (N.T.).
* * * *
“Kriz” : Many old-timers take their storm
warnings from the
peculiar actions of
a sea-bird seen
around the Nor’-
Westralian coast
and known t o
sailormen as the
flying barometer
and the bos’n. Its
correct name is the
Tropic bird, and it
can easily b e
picked out by the
two long, slender,
red feathers which
stream after it as
it flies. It has a
white body and
rich, red beak.
Thesfe birds per-
form some peculiar
antics when bad
weather is about,
such as swooping
down close to lug-
gers or ships, cir-
cling. suddenly
dropping, then re-
covering, and so on.
Old-timers inter-
pret these gymnas-
tics to mean that
the bird wishes to
attract attention to
the approach of
bad weather, and
there are very few
of them who feel comfortable if the warn-
ing is not heeded.
* * * •
“L.C.M.”: “The light of Nature” leads
“A.H.S.” (B. 19/S/’26) to doubt “Mur-
kah’s” calculation (B. 29/7/’26) that a dog
weighing 701 b. falling 300 ft. would hit the
earth with a 44-ton thud. In this case the
reasoning of science supports “the light of
Nature.” The fallacy in “Murkah’s” calcu-
lation is that the formula he uses is only
applicable to rigid bodies. A rigid, inelastic
body falling 300 ft. would hit the earth with
a pretty considerable thud. But a live dog
—or even a dog which has died of shock
during the fall (an unlikely contingency)
is not a rigid body, but a very complicated
and highly elastic one. This elasticity,
which depends on muscular strength and is
not calculable, diminishes the force of im-
pact considerably, and accounts for the fact
that the Melbourne boy who fell 70ft.
escaped with abrasions. “Murkah” is wrong
also in contending that the fall would injure
the dog as much as a ton block of cement
would were it dropped on him from a height
of lft. Elasticity varies in different
animals. The reason that a cat has nine
lives is that its muscles are wonderfully
elastic and wonderfully strong. Snake-
muscle is even more so. Every abo. knows
that you can drive a heavy car over a large
snake and it will wriggle away unhurt
unless you have been quick enough to jamb
down the brakes at the moment of impact.
PLAINLY AN ACCIDENT.
MAGISTRATE : “What! You break a bottle over this man’s hand, and then you tell the
Court it was an accident?”
THE DEFENDANT: “ Yes, y' Worship. I never meant to break the bottle.”
“Narara”: Another old bush idea is that
wattle-seeds won’t germinate unless aided by
fire. A city-bred niece of mine came to us
on a visit in August, 1924. Wanting a few
wattle-trees at her home in Sydney, she de-
cided to try to grow them from seed. She
took some seeds and planted them in a cut-
down kerosene-tin. They were watered almost
daily. Last mail brought me a letter stating
that four young wattle-trees were growing.
The seeds were taken direct from a tree, and
J can guarantee that fire had never been
near them.
* # * *
“Akran”: A Stantliorpe (Q.) motorist was
one night recently returning from Glenlyon.
Whilst doing about 15 miles an hour a crash
startled him. The noise seemed to come
from behind. On turning he noticed that
the top windscreen was shattered. He stopped
the car and was amazed to see a big wal-
laroo hanging by its forelegs over the back
door, having been dazzled, apparently, by the
headlights. The rear support of the hood
was broken by the impact. The wallaroo
dropped to the roadway and seemed to be as
surprised as the driver was. Had the animal
jumped a second later it would have can-
noned into the man at the wheel.
* * * *
“Centre”: I have been watching a pair
of robins build, and the set they make, inci-
dentally, on spiders. They hunt these insects
out, and must eat hundreds per day; and
they use the web to camouflage their nest.
Masses of it are woven together and stretched
over the inside, and to them are attached
scraps of bark, moss, etc., till the whole is
almost invisible against the fork of the ti-trec
constituting the home site.
* * * *
“Ataronga”: Is there anything tamer,
among our native fauna, than the ’possums
inhabiting Ashton Park, alongside the Sydney
Zoo? The other night I boiled my billy
there at nightfall, and sat for some hours
beneath a lofty gum, listening-in to the
noises of this charming piece of bushland.
By-and-bye a grandfather ’possum rustled
through the undergrowth and came to survey
the remains of my banquet. There was little
food on view, but he picked out a crust of
bread and took it away a few yards to eat.
By the time he came back for more, I had
unearthed another crust, and held this out
to him. He crept forward and took it
from my fingers, retired a short two feet,
and then sat up on his haunches, with a
piece of the crust in either pa w, taking
alternate bites from each piece, and looking
at me as much as to say, “Not bad. having
a snack together like this in the moonlight.”
Afterwards he went across to a pile of dead
timber near by, and performed various gam-
bols there for my entertainment.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’ve owned a few intelligent
dorgs in me day,” remarked old Ben, rumi-
nating ; but th’ most intelligenced one of the
lot wuz a half-bred fox-terrier-kelpie I once
had. There wuz four of us camped under a
bridge one night, an’ th’ tucker-bags wuz
pretty near empty. All w r e could scramble
tergether amongst th’ lot of us wuz two
chops, one onion an’ a quarter-loaf of bread.
There wuz a cocky’s place about a quarter
of a mile away; but there wuz no chance of
gettin’ anything there—we’d been shoved
off half an hour before. We wuz _ pretty
hungry, and as th’ whole lot wouldn't have
made a decent meal for one man, let alone
four, things wuzn't lookin’ too rosy. Tne
dorg sat watchin’ and listenen’ to us wrang-
ling about th' bit of tucker left. We all got
a bit warm in th' argyment, and presently
ole Towser gits up an’ trots off. We had
just decided to draw lots ter see who would
have th' scran, when up ole Towser trots
carryin’ somethin’ in his mouth.” “A leg
of mutton or a side of bacon, I s’pose,” re-
marked one of the listeners, with a wink at
the other chaps. “No, it wasn’t,” snapped
old Ben, “it wuz a book, which he’d pinched
from th’ cocky’s place. He wuz carryin’ it,
opened out, in his mouth, an’ he trots up ter
me an’ dumps it down an’ stands lookin’
first up at me an’ then down at th’ book,
an’ whinin’. Outer curiosity I picks th’
book up an’ looks at it. Blirne if it wuzn’t
one of them cookery books, an’ on tli’ open
part, with one of old Towser’s teeth marks
through it, wuz a recipe headed ‘How to make
a dainty dish for four persons from two
chops and other remnants.’ That there dorg
—oh, well, yer an un believin’ lot of cows!”
* * * •
“L.C.M.”: I picked up a cheap rug a
couple of years ago. It happened when I
was down in the Riverina, staying at a
place where there were wheat-stacks. Mice
had been troublesome, but were being held
in check by a war-like horde of cats. These
pussies throve and multiplied and became a
nuisance ; so the men working on the stacks
organised cat shoots to while away the
moonlight nights. One chap made a fine
THE HANDY CALLER.
“The Browns are coming after dinner,
Henry.”
“Oh, Brown? Then I won’t have to take
my sleeping-draught to-night.”
collection of tortoiseshell pelts, carefully
selected and matched. The toms were in
prime condition and their skins were excel-
lent. I was lucky enough to happen along as a
tortoiseshell rug arrived back from the fur-
rier’s, and bought it from the sportsman
who had collected the skins, for—well, a
lot less than it’s worth.
A LITTLE SEND-OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am passing in my checks
1 want my friends along
In happy mood, and in their best,
For there’ll be dance and song.
No mourners need come creeping in,
On tiptoe as they walk ;
I’ll wish them all to feel at ease
And talk, and talk, and talk.
And we will have gay music then,
The flute and saxophone.
(I hope old mates will all be there—-
I’d hate to die alone.)
We’ll have the twang of steel guitars,
The noisy cymbals’ clang;
The drummer-hoy shall fetch his drum,
And bang, and bang, and bang.
Steve’s concertina will be there—
I’ll bid him tune it low,
Lest it might stir old memories
Too deep of years ago.
And Sandy’s pipes may squeal and squill,
Loud as an ass’s bray;
I’ll even welcome Tom’s Jew’s-harp
To play, and play, and play.
A smiling ballet, lightly clad,
On nimble, rhythmic feet
Will skip and gambol round my bed,
And Life and Death shall meet
And gay Pierrot and trim Pierrette
In cheerful circumstance,
With Harlequin and Columbine
Will dance, and dance, and dance.
They will be laughing as they dance;
’Twill be a blithesome time;
I’ll hope to crack a final joke,
And string a final rhyme.
Then Cap and Bells will have his say.
With banter, quip and chaff;
Perhaps they’ll drink a toast to me
And laugh, and laugh, and laugh.
A WASTED EFFORT.
CASEY: “Phwat th’ divil did yes wake me for? Oi wasn’t ashlape?”
Tn chorus then we’ll sing a song—
It may be “Auld Lang Syne” ;
And droving songs of other years
Ate all old friends of mine.
A clap, and then a round of cheers,
Will make the rafters ring;
And as the visitors file out
They’ll sing, and sing, and sing.
And when they all have gone their ways
The blinds shall not be drawn ;
I’ll let the stars of night shine in,
The rising sun at dawn.
Unchecked the wind must shriek or sigh—
The wind that sweeps the west—
Or whisper words of peace to me
To rest, and rest, and rest.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Portable Crushing and Screening Plants
FOR ROADMAKING
ALL AUSTRALIAN-MADE
i#
Wi
ISW •
-
,k%
mm
■** ■
'
A “Ruwolt” Portable Crushing, Screening and Storage Plant—Capacity 100 tons per day.
We manufacture all classes of spare parts for Stone Crushers for all makes of machines,
including Hadfields, Jaques, Champion, Blake Marsden, Robey, Hope, Fraser and Chalmers,
Bigelow, Baxter, etc.
MANGANESE STEEL JAW FACES A SPECIALTY.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161 (3 lines).
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.
If the Crop is Heavy, or Down and Tangled, or Weed Infested
Take No Risks. Have Ready on the Farm a —
: : i
mi n
1
■
lii addition to being badly lodged, this crop was infested with tall thistles.
The Sunshine Header Harvester recovered 10 bags per acre from it.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE
Sunshine
Header
Harvester
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD.,
SUNSHINE. HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Cor. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE,
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE!,
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, Burnie.


YOU
or the
Rabbit?
Who’s going to harvest your crops? You—or the rabbit?
Mr. A. A. Gorrell, the well-known farmer of “Glen View,” Yallali, writing this month, states:
“When I purchased this farm, two years ago, it was over run with rabbits. I had it wire-
netted and used about six or eight tins of flake Cyanogas. I have been cutting oats up to sft.
6in. higli and sold an acre for £8 only this week. My neighbor, who relied on carbon, never
cut a blade from six acres—-the rabbits harvested the lot of his. This ought to be proof that
Cyanogas is on its own as a rabbit exterminator. It won’t surprise you to learn that my neigh
bors are now using Cyanogas.”
Now—-who’s goiug to harvest your crops?
A
is obtainable from agents and storekeepers everywhere. It is as safe to use as certain in
Requires less labor and costs less than any other method. Particulars free from any
following:—
NEW SOUTH WALES.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA .. ..A. Victor Leggo & 00., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND . . . . Buzacott’s (Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA .. .. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
results,
of the
ĥ
ħ
h
The TOP NOTCH"ScotcM
“Geoloin” : Old George was a great yarn-
spinner, and on that account was usually
made welcome on his regular meal-time visits
to the selections in our district. To the
children especially he was a joy, and when
lie had a few of them gathered around listen-
ing in open-eyed wonder to tales of his
heroic encounters with blacks and bush-
rangers he was in his element. I heard
him telling our little lot about his lovely
bay mare Bonny Black Bess, and of how,
when he was in Victoria, a mixed gang of
bushrangers, comprising Ned and Dan Kelly,
Ben Hall, Captain Moonlite and Gardiner,
had chased him for 20 miles. “Of course
I coulder run away from them if I liked,
but I just played a game, keeping out of
range of their guns. They were chasing me
towards the Diamantina and thought they
had me, as the banks of the river were
50ft. high and the river a mile wide —maybe
more. When we come to the river I said,
‘Now, Bess, show them what you can do.’
She whinnied to lemme know slie understood
and fled down the 50ft. like a bird and
swam over the Diamantina River into Noo
South Wales.” It was here the eldest boy
put in his oar, “Oh, Mr. George, but the
Diamantina River is in Queensland!”
“Yairs,” he said—“that’s right. They
shifted it soon after.”
HE WAS VERY FOND OF 'EM UP TO A CERTAIN POINT.
MRS. FTNNIGAN : “Is your husband fond of children, Mrs.
Flannigan ”
MRS. FLANNIGAN : “Not as much as you'd expect from a father of
ten of ’em, Airs. Finnigan.”
“Tarago” : How- long can a tyke live with-
out sustenance? Peter Laurie, of Bunyip
(Vic.), lost a terrier down a rabbit burrow-,
and all efforts to recover the dog failed until
the 14th day, w-hen the owner’s son located
it by its whining. Digging dow-n he found
that it had scratched its way 3ft. up, and to
within a few inches of the surface. It was
very emaciated, but speedily revived.
“Poinciana”: No part of Australia has
been more ruthlessly shorn of its timber than
the Blackall Range (Q.). This small table-
land of about 30,000 acres held some of the
finest scrubs the country could boast, pine,
myrtle, beech and red-cedar growing luxuri-
antly in a rich,
volcanic soil. Most
of the wonderful
timber was simply
lumped and burned,
and the children of
the original pion-
eers are now buy-
ing firewood. It was
thought that the
deep layers of
chocolate loam
would grow any-
thing, and could
never be exhausted.
This breezy opti-
mism has already
been punctured.
Now that the trees
have gone, the soil
shows a disposition
to set and harden,
and will not grow
even vegetables.
True, it makes fine
dairying country
when sown with
paspalum, and part
of it shows wonder-
ful orange-orchards,
while the deep
slopes bristle with
bananas. But this
prosperity has a
temporary look.
Bananas do not last
for ever, and be-
sides the bare slopes
are already begin-
ning to show dan-
gerous evidence of
erosion. There are
bound to be big
landslides in the
near future, for the
soil is loose, and in
some parts there is
a sheer drop of a
thousand feet or so.
The area is one that screamed for careful
surveys by forestry experts before it was
opened up.
“ILK.”: “Eureka” (B. 2/9/’2(>) wants
to know why South Coast (N.S.W.) stringy-
barlc posts don’t last in other districts. The
reason is the difference of soil and climate.
Cut timber lasts best in the soil in which
the tree grew. This is an argument in favor
of every farmer and grazier growing his
own timber.
* * * *
“Raddie”: I wonder if any Abo. knows
of a more remarkable nesting-place for a
bird than one
found by a muster-
ing party on die
Lower Thompson
River (Q.). As we
rode out of a gidya
clump, on the
fringe of another
across a plain,
something that
glistened white in
the sun’s rays
stood out conspicu-
ously against the
sombre foliage. I
and another of our
number cantered
over to inspect it.
On nearing the ob-
ject we disturbed a
small bird which
fluttered in the
usual state of in-
dignation and ex-
citement show-n by
all birds und e r
similar circumstan-
ces. She had flow-n
off a nest in which
three small eggs
were deposited. The
nest w-as portion of
a human skull
which evidently had
been picked up
from a heap of
bones, some of
which were still
lying at the foot of
a small dead w-ilga
tree, and been com-
fortably wedged on
to a projecting
short dry spike of
the tree. Possibly the remains w-ere those
of an aboriginal.
“Pinta” : There are two ways of stopping
a rooster’s crowing by night (B. 2/9/’26).
(1) Slay it. (2) Place the perches in the
fowlslied close to the roof of the shed—nine
inches is about the right distance. Then
every time Chanticleer stretches his neck to
crow he’ll bump his head on the roof.
Although a rooster is as free from brains as
a frog is from feathers, he doesn’t have to
bump his head very often before it is knocked
into him that he can’t crow o’ nights without
hurting himself.
HE GUESSED WRONG.
“I suppose, my man, one gets used to lifting these weights?”
“No blinking fear, one don't. Luggin’ about pianners is always a
job for two.”
“Sucre”: I agree with “Jim Carew” and
“Two Seas” (B. 9/9/’26) as to the value of
domesticated brumbies. I bought a Ben-
galla brumby at the Warwick (S.Q.) sale-
yards some years back. It cost me just six-
pence short of two bob. It had eyes like a
cranky crab and hooves like a navvy’s shovel.
Three months afterwards I sold it for £5.
Later on it won races at Pratten, Warwick,
Clifton and Stanthorpe.
“C.A.8.”: Brumbies of the present day
must be different from those of 50 years ago
if the statements of “W.J.T.” (B. 19/8/’2B)
are correct. In the old days they were worth
taking trouble over. Such men as Jimmy
McLachlan, the Dutfields, Blundell, etjc.,
chased them for weeks, well knowing the
prices they would realise —and from good
judges of horses, too. For looks, speed,
stamina and sure-footedness in the rough
country they were unsurpassed.
“Narara”: My father was one of the early
settlers in Monaro (N.S.W.)' and on one
occasion among a small mob of brumbies
yarded was a two-year-old colt, a handsome
chestnut, showing traces of racing blood.
Dad decided to tame him, and after a good
deal of trouble saddled and rode him the
day after he was captured. The colt was
kept in one of the stockyards near the house,
but although both food and water were placed
for him, he refused to touch them, and about
a fortnight after capture died. For the first
week my father rode him daily, and although
he could notice the horse getting weaker, his
daily buck was as fierce as ever.
* * * *
“Really”: For record house-building I
give the palm to the wasps. A friend had
occasion to remove a tarpaulin from a spray-
pump in his orchard. A few minutes after-
wards he noticed a wasp flitting round it.
He returned three hours later, and found
that the wasp had constructed a complete
clay nest in a fold of the tarpaulin, while
two asphyxiated spiders to furnish the
larder lay on the ground near by.
* * * *
“Coot” : To E. E. Pescott, of Melbourne,
Australia owes the introduction of the Ice-
land poppy, which has become such a
feature in suburban gardens. As far back
as 1903 he received the first seeds from
London. Originally the flowers were either
white or pale yellow ; the rich orange hues,
now so common, arc the result of selection
and hybridisation.
* * * *
“Spenner”: Stockowners around the
coastal swamps in sou’-west Yic. run a
novel risk with their cattle. There the grass
trees grow- to a height of Sft. or 10ft. In their
spring frolics cattle often play with these
trees, and their long rope-like leaves some-
times become wound round the animal’s
horns so tightly that a broken neck or slow
starvation results should outside help not
be forthcoming. It is not uncommon to see a
dried carcase still tethered thus to one ot
these trees. #
“C.Q.” : The aeroplane is becoming a factor
in the national life at last. • The Vic. Execu-
tive Council has issued a proclamation pro-
hibiting the use of flying-machines for taking,
hunting or killing any species of native game.
Enterprising sportsmen have been cnasmg
ducks with them —hence the ukase.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The showplace of Cooma
(N.S.W.) is Nannygpat Hill, claimed by all
the residents on expert evidence to be the
most ancient spot in all Australia. Hence
Cooma will ignore the assertion of I rot. L.
A. Cotton, made at the science conference m
Perth, that he found at Southern Cross
(W.A.) strata 15,000,000 years old, and
therefore the most elderly in the world.
There is one thing in favor of Nannygoat
Hill. It looks its age.
* * * *
“Alidon”: Recently, on the road from
Bourke to Barringun (N.S.W.), I came
across a pair of hefty young men dressed
in the remnants of what had been blue over-
alls. It was raining, and the miserable pair
were crouched, fireless, under the shelter of
a blanket. One was chewing an alleged
damper which w-as more or less dry flour
it was all they had in the way of tucker.
Their twang betrayed them, and they con-
fessed to being “gobs” w-ho, after deserting
in Melbourne, had gravitated to S.A.
and thence into N.S.W. via Broken Hill.
All around stations were seeking for burr-
cutters, but these men were unaware of the
fact, and had never held a job of any kind
in this country. They guessed they would
push on to Brisbane and get a boat back to
the land of the wooden ham and the liickory
nutmeg.
* * * *
“R.X.”: Twenty years or so ago, while
travelling out west, I found this comprehen-
sive curse under a stone on the post of the
boundary gate of a certain station —let’s call
it Dogrose
Oh God-forsaken station,
Oh hungry, starved Dogrose,
The curse of hungry swagmen
Sticks to you like the crows !
The toiling, struggling farmer,
Who’s fought the drought, indeed,
Still spares a bit of tucker
To workless men in need.
May everything that’s living—
Cattle, horses, men—
On your drought-stricken station
Be food for crows again !
May dust-storms come and cover
Your fences and your tanks,
And may your station shortly be
Foreclosed on by the banks.
* * ' * *
“Cleo”: As a sample of hardy pioneer,
w-hat about this old sheepfarmer in the
western district (Vic.) ? I never knew- the
old chap to wear a singlet, nor to adulterate
his whisky with water; and lie thought
nothing of lifting the rear part of a farm-
w-aggon whilst I greased the axles. Seeing
one of the hands swinging a 561 b. slug, he
tied tw-o of the weights together with a
belt, picked them up with his teeth, and
flung them overhead. He never came to
breakfast, his favorite dish for that meal
being a slice of raw corned-beef from the
pickle tub, wedged between two hunks of
home-made bread.
WHERE,' MON, WHERE?
ACQUAINTANCE : “There's still a nip about
these mornings, Sandy.”
THIRSTY SCOT: “Where, Mon, where?”
“Valimanbag”: In the matter of strange
inheritances my revered friend, Horatio
Munch-Hausen, related to me the following
He said: “I noticed on a Queensland farm
a black foal racing round the paddock with
a bushy auburn beard trailing in the breeze.
In answer to my question as to the cause
of this, the cocky replied, ‘Yer see, it hap-
pened this way. A bloke with ginger whis-
kers frightened the flamin’ mare when she
was in foal.’ ”
OLD SHEARING DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The campfire red in silence glows
When night is dark and still and late
A-down where old Macquarie flows
Or where the Warrumbungles wait.
Grey myalls, dream in silhouette ;
I see them all around again.
In grasses long and dewy wet
I hear a horse’s hobble-chain.
A pearly dawn breaks softly through
The slowly fading wall of night,
And brolgas call their welcome to
The early morning fresh and bright.
The plains with snow-white daisies cloy,
And vernal colors climb the hills ;
The nesting bird in all its joy
By mountain, plain and bushland trills.
At sheds along the Castlereagli
Again old ringers grind the shears;
I see paekhorse-men on the way
And swagmen gone these twenty years.
In clumps of wilga and belar
The watching emus lowly drum;
From pyramids of dust afar
The sounds of whip and waggon come.
Along the gilgai winding track
The mailcoaeh swings across the plain—
Old shearing days they all come back
.To me to-night in dreams again.
N.S.W.
J. DOWLING.


THIS SEASON - KNOW
THE REMARKABLE
QUALITIES OF THE NATURAL
CREPE RUBBER SOLE/
T oi
IlnLm
MrV:
m
m
Art
E
A REVOLUTIONARY development in footwear for every kind of sport
—for seaside wear—for street wear- —-for men, women and children.
Soles of Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber, free from any deteriorating process.
It is natural gristle with “nerve” in it.
IT is more flexible and durable than any other sole. Crepe Rubber is the
only sole that actually outwears the upper. It gives shoe service and
shoe value hitherto unknown.
c^°
, e Pe sl at
'%e. 7
**«. K> /e ».
/■ Q V
Af a ;_ ‘
p.
a.
let Joj- /^y ers Ofi
P O W^o fe .
~ vr/
C.
P
°u.
i
i
I
&
For Cricket.—
More resilient
than leather
soles with studs.
Does not slip.
Pm e eFlasiiciiio22
m
6
M
0
o
Millions Walk and Play on Crepe Rubber Soles!
C VERYWHERE Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber is replacing the leather sole and the
ordinary rubber sole in all branches of sport. It gives a wonderful improvement
in footwork and foot comfort.
For Go l f. —
W at e r proof —
does not tear the
turf —gives firm
stance.
For Tennis. —A
perfect grip
under all con-
ditions. Light
—and resilient.
w
V:
m
mmm
/ ' HAMPIONS of the tennis-court, cricket-field, golf-links and bowling-
green have adopted the Crepe Rubber-soled Shoe and Boot, and
have written enthusiastically about the better grip, lightness, flexibility
and durability of Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber.
This Season—Buy Footwear with Pure Plantation
Crepe Rubber Soles.
C NJOY the proved advantages and better value of pure Crepe Rubber,
direct from the plantations. For all outdoor sports ask any shoe
retailer for Footwear with the Pure Plantation Crepe Rubber Sole. Buy
Crepe-soled Boots or Shoes for street wear—the soles will wear longer
than leather and banish all tiredness from the day’s walking.
‘‘NATURAL CREPE KEEPS ITS SHAPE.”
Inserted by The Rubber Growers’ Association,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ts.
kh
v
V
YU
A\
w
For Holiday and
Street Wear. —
Smarter than
rubber soles
more comfortable
than leather.
Does not tire
the feet.


Under
/Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1917.
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE <
ChariesHeidsieck
mrniMß
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'-fcarlesUeidsieck
REIMS
mmsxP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD, *
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
h
Sydney’s Most II
Perfect Cafe. *|
DINNERS DE LUXE, %
Thursdays and Saturdays from lii|
7.30; Suppers from 8.30. !|jj|
The Afternoon §
Tea Perfect! I
from 3.30 daily".
Wonderful Orchestra, Com- !
plete Cabaret, including Maida
Jones, Marie Crowther, Ivan I
Gorski. I
Magnificent
New
BALLROOM
Official Opening
Friday, Oct. 1.
The largest, dancing area in
the city.
Make this the scene of your
next party.
Ring 8W1361.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Supper Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.30, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30. 6/-
Tvvo hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
SAWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
Pianist Backhaus and his lady of the nut-
brown hair summoned their Sydney friends
to a great tea-drinking on Saturday after-
noon. The party was in the Backhaus suite,
and here Mrs. Backhaus, surrounded by pink
camellias, received her guests in velvets of
as rich a green as the aristocratic flower’s
foliage. Rings of hand-worked gold set in
a circle of jade added further allure to her
smile, which is swift and shy. The great
man himself was decorated with a button-
hole of heartsease, and made a eompleat and
self-effacing host. Hugh Ward squired his
erect wife to the gathering, and Bindley
Evans brought his pretty bride, who was
in blue beflowered chiffons, while Mrs. Wun-
derlich’s pink and whiteness emerged from
black georgettes. Mrs. Manson, a Maori-
land singer on her way home after 16 years
in Europe, introduced an English husband.
Mrs. Allard and sister Rose Sussmilcli,
Ruby Rich (looking attractive enough to
have stepped out of a Russian ballet, so
Cossack-like was the cut of her cream cloths
trimmed with white fox) were others who
turned an eager ear to the music in which
the magic hands said their intimate farewell.
Journalism was represented by A. L. Kelly,
art by Elioth Gruner and the Musical Asso-
ciation by Frank Hutchens.
Nothing smaller than the Town Hall
could house the Girl Guides’ fair. The
Governor’s lady declared the premises licensed
to carry on business at 2.45 p.m. on Satur-
day, but long before that the cashiers had
tick-tacked to the treasurer the signal that
meant “All's right with the world.” The
cake and scone competition, by means of
which Mrs. Lyster Ormsby craftily filled the
mouths of multitudes at afternoon’ tea, drew
hundreds of spongy sandwiches and pyra-
mids of scones; Rene Caro, who took deli-
very of the entries, reported an early-door
rush before ten in the morning. Between a
smart guard of honor formed by Girl Guides,
Lady de Chair and daughter Elaine made
their entrance and were received with due
ritual by ex-Cliief Justice Cullen’s wife,
Olive Kelso King and the Howard Palmer
and Mather matrons. Later, over a mass
of pink roses and carnations, the De Chairs
gazed with approbation on the folk dances
of many countries as interpreted by the
Guides.
Complimentary food and speeches are be-
coming even as his daily bread to knight
Hugh Denison, who is to represent Aus-
tralia in the United States. “The citizens
of Sydney”-—a few score, at any rate —made
the banquet-hall of the Australia ring in his
honor one night last week. Sam Hordern
and Consett Stephen were the speech-
makers, and shipping-knight Owen Cox
presided.
Jo O’Keefe, who leaves for Europe again
on Saturday, has crammed as many valedic-
tory parties as Hugh Denison into the last
ten days. At the dinner dance given in
hei* honor by the Arthur Mackins couple
last week, an unusual decoration was an
Italian centre-piece composed of fragile and
transparent shells. From the heart of this
a ruby light blushed over the roses and
sweet-peas massed in a tall basket of graceful
curves A smoker’s outfit in silver, inlaid
wRh beautifully-painted porcelain—Sheba
herself might not have disdained it— is
one of the au rev oh' gifts.
,^ er ® w ere hundreds of Sydney people
at the Camden Park garden party, which is
a sort of ushering-in of summer to the
district which regards the Macarthur Ons-
Jows as its chieftains. A fleet of cars met
the visitors at the station and toted them
i i a !i m i ll Park, where bougainvillaea and
rhododendrons of surpassing beauty met the
gaze, and such a multitude of blue flowers
sprinkled the pots and borders that it almost
seemed as though the sky had cut and seat-
ed her own gay smock about the ways.
Miss Macarthur Onslow topped black geor-
gettes with a hat mostly graceful plumage,
and her guests were arrayed in garments
diaphanous or merely lightweight, accord-
ing to age or inclination. Of the young
things who imbibed the aesthetic lesson of
this restrained and cultured bit of nature,
Nhirley Bavin, in embroidered white, and the
two Onslow cousins, Elizabeth in mauve
and Margaret in blue, were an attractive
trio.
The commercial travellers, having done
two good deeds last week-end, no doubt lifted
their voices with added sweetness in their
church choirs on the Sabbath morn. On
Friday the northern travellers handed over
the handsome sum of £3OOO to the Children’s
Hospital, and on Saturday night the brother-
hood gave a dinner-party to their lady friends,
wives and mothers. The eat-and-be-merry
happened in the club at the top of Martin-
place, the entertainment committee suggest-
ing Michael Arlen’s heroine by sporting
green hats.
\V ith its usual luck, the Cranbrook fete
was encompassed with a heavenly day, and
the school’s lawns and gravelled walks were
a kaleidoscope of colorful frocks and sun-
shades as mothers and sisters bought and
sold that the young man of the family might
not grow unduly wrinkled over the debt on
his playing fields. Knight Granville Ryrie
did the opening act in the early afternoon,
but before his words of commendation were
broadcast by the gentle zephyr girls in the
stripes and polka dots of the period were
busy selling baskets and embroideries, ped-
dling sweets or piloting a dizzying cargo of
multicolor balloons to the far-afield pur-
chaser. The Hordern family, being, as it were,
the foundation of the school, were among the
hard workers, Sam's lady and daughters
Doreen and Audrey helping considerably in
the day’s success. A prodigious tea-tent was
ruled over by the Gunter and Butter
matrons, who had a regular army of assist-
ants, and a long list of enthusiasts in the
cause included Mrs. Harry Dransfield, the
Sltand and Ludowici ladies, and Mrs. A. J.
Warry.
A pretty bride was Gwen Ross, of Mos-
man, who became Mrs. Tom Duckham, of
Cubbaroo, by benefit of Padre Micklem, with-
in St. James’s last week. The principal’s
white satins and silver laces were followed
by Heather Ross, whose raiment was cream
lace over shell-pink georgette. Congratula-
tors gathered at the Mary Elizabeth, where
the wliite-and-gold room supplied an effec-
tive background to Mrs. Ross’s navy geor-
gette frocking and black velvet millinery.
St. Stephen’s is the kirk in which singing-
girl Rita Kirkpatrick, of Bellevue Hill, will
become Mrs. Keith Nelson King on October
Only a foot ’neath a curtain, only a foot,
nothing more, will bring its owner a sub-
stantial sum at the Prestige Ball on October
2(1. Competitors will pass behind a black
velvet curtain that will hide all but ankles
and feet; the girl with the prettiest will
get £5O,_ while there are second and third
prizes of £lO and £5. Entries, which close
on October 0, must be sent (each with a
shilling) to the Sailors and Soldiers’
Fathers’ Association, 114 Pitt-street, to
which profits of the ball and of a cabaret
on October 14 will go.
It is a pity that there is not room to
print against this old picture of Miss Sou-
beiran one of
her- insepar-
ab 1 e Miss
Gurney. Near-
ly 50 years
ago the two
ladies c o m-
menced their
partnership as
principals of
the Fernbank
Girls’ School,
and made it
one of Syd-
ney’s most
highly-regard-
ed inst i t u-
tions. When
the school
m ovcd to
Kambala, the
partnership re-
in ained un-
broken. Side
by side the
two ladies worked during war days for the
Frencli-Australian League of Help, and now
that they have retired they are passing their
twilight years together in a home set in one
of Bowral’s most beautiful gardens. It is
to honor this friendship that the old pupils
of Fernbank and Kambala are endowing per-
manently a cot at the Children’s Hospital.
Of the thousand pounds required they have
now £7OO, and the committee feels that an
intimation of its needs to old pupils of
the two adored principals will bring in the
balance by mid-October. The cheque is to
be the glittersome gift to Miss Gurney and
Miss Soubeiran at a joint-birthday cele-
bration.
Doris Campbell, who will be married to-
day at St. James’s, has probably had more
parties in her honor than any other bride
of the year. Directly her engagement to
Dr. Edward Milgrove was announced, the
family friends got busy with gilt-edged cards
and a mailing list, and cargoes of hankies
and doyleys and guest towels arrived. Fair-
haired Doris is one of the popular Goori-
anawa clan.
The Flying Club Ball threatens to outwing
all social flutters of the dancing season. At
the Australia the other morning a delighted
committee was called upon to distribute a
further 500 tickets, and the Tom Hughes lady
announced that arrangements were work-
ing as smoothly as a Moth, a model of which
was sent cruising down the lounge by Cap-
tain Chateau. Full-grown Moths will deco-
rate the Palais Royal on the night of the
revels, and baby Moths that will really fly
will be among the novelties on sale.
A chariot of gold—or so the wattle-deco-
rated car appeared—carried Nurse Mitchell
(in the pie-
•ture herewith)
on the first
stage of her
Journey from
Hobart to
Rockhampton.
For six years
the sympa-
thetic ex-war
n u r s e had
been in charge
of the Sana-
toriu m for
C onsumptives
in Hobart,
and when she
wa s leaving
tli e patients
they hung her
motor wi t h
wattle, the
emblem under
which funds
are raised for
the chalets. Rockhampton General Hospital
now claims the heroine as its matron.
Cool, cosy and restful appeared the new
rooms of the A.T.N.A. when the Mungo
MacOallum dame turned the key in the front
door the other night. The offices of the
association are already in Beaumont House,
so the nest on the ground floor is very
happily placed. Anaesthetic-like greys and
blacks are the color scheme, with window
curtains of delft blue poplins as a reminder
of the summer sky without. The rooms
weren't big enough to hold the party, so
after the hyssop of fair words had been
sprinkled by the officiating kniglitcss innu-
merable lift journeys were made to the
Women’s Club above for the coffee-drinking.
Here women doctors and nurses juggled cups
and plates in an intimacy dangerous to their
best chiffons and sequins. Presently came a
peal on the telephone, an agitated attendant
whispered in Dr. Constance D'Arcy's ear,
and that lady twisted her ermine stole firmly
beneath her dimpled chin and went into the
night.
It looks as though future generations of
Backblocks kiddies will arise and call Alice
Currie blessed. To this lady belongs the
credit for the scheme to provide seaside
camps for rural people, now endorsed by the
Department of Agriculture. The plan is
for groups of seven or more in country dis-
tricts to form themselves into community
advancement societies. When seven of these
societies have been formed they become an
association, and can then pick out a possy by
the sea. On it they may erect one community
building (kitchen, dining-room and offices)
and a number of chalets, to be uniform in
size and design. The initial expense for 10
chalets, one community building, furniture,
etc., is estimated at £2llO, and the idea is
for each society to raise capital by the issue
of shares. Curl Curl is the site chosen for
the first camp.
A cultivated old lady was Mrs. G. M.
Badliam, who died last week, and many
times she must have repeated the sad words
of Burke, “I live in an inverted order.”
Widow of the Dr. Charles Badham who for
17 years was Professor of Classics and Bogie
at Sydney Uni., and mother of the lady
who for many years was Sydney’s leading
feminine educationalist, the lady was born
96 years ago in Guernsey, and it is all but
60 years since she came with her husband
and family to Australia. For over 40 years
she was a widow, and all her six children
went before her.
Life has been one long picnic this week
for those nice old boys, the Rotarians. It is
they who are responsible for the seven days’
glorification of the immature male known as
Boys’ Week, and each is temporarily desert-
ing his own business worries while in
earnest Rotarian fashion he sets about help-
ing fate massage the road to manhood for
the city’s cohorts of youth. Picnics at
Warwick Farm, church parades, sports
meetings, exhibitions of boys’ hobbies, choir
recitals, and a band playing every day in
the city are among the sugary ceremonial
which the kind-hearted Rotarians wrap
around their exhortations to love God, honor
the King and protect the Right. Knight
Arthur Cocks, James Nangle, of the Tech.,
Aubrey Halloran and Charlie Bean were
among the speakers who urged the boys
ever onward and upward. And one brand-
new Rotarian, whose name didn’t get into
the papers at all, has been inflating his
e.-l. bill for three nights to make up for
work neglected on the opening day of the
campaign, when he spoke at four different
schools, travelling th'e distances between
William-street and Rose Bay on a push-
bike.
All the way from Blackall (Queensland)
came a bride to St. James's last week. She
was Kate Rulil, and her bridegroom w r as
Dr. Caley Goode, of Gamijsie.
The great numbers at the preliminary meet-
ing in the Hotel Australia guarantee the suc-
cess of the Boys’ Week Ball to be held at the
Palais Royal on October 1. To help the
funds of the Kindergarten Union and the
Sydney Day Nurseries many quaint and un-
common articles are to be disposed of. Mrs.
A. Eedy is the queen bee of the entertainment
committee, and Mungo MacCallum’s lady
president of the ball.
Helen Daniel, billed as “the youngest
prima donna in the world,” has been singing
at London Promenade concerts. Melba heard
her at Paris last season and gave her a few
lessons. It is to be hoped the young woman
will have better luck than other Melba “dis-
coveries,” nearly all of whom have sunk into
obscurity. Which shows that even an excep-
tionally gifted singer may be a poor judge of
the qualities necessary in another for
climbing the heights which she herself has
reached. In more than one instance Melba
gave those “discoveries” of hers the most
generous encouragement, so their subsequent
failure is all the more striking.
Ventures overseas still have their risks for
Australian actresses. .Jean Robertson, who was
with Allan Wilkie and Moscovitch, and has
given stately prestige to the poor adventuress
part in “Rose Marie,” is the next who in-
tends to try London ; but she will give Paris
a six months’ look-over first. Australian
actresses have been pouring into England
recently; but the “successes” of some of
them have been limited through no fault of
their own. Kitty Reidy made a hit at once;
but the show lasted only a few weeks.
Archie Adams, whose song “God Send You
Back to Me” was one of the best-
sellers during the war, is still doing
good work in London as a composer and
producer of small plays. Plis little golden-
haired sister Bertie, whose bell-like voice
used to charm Sydney, made good in London
as an actress, but abandoned the boards to
marry Dr. E. Mahon, a leading West End
medico, who has lately been appointed junior
doctor to tin l Royal Palaces and attends the
Royal family in the absence of Sir Stanley
Hewett.
Miss Brisba ne tells of northern gaieties:
Unbounded enthusiasm-—and good booking—in
Brisbane encouraged Toti dal Monte to give an extra
concert. The Signorina wore a silver-beaded tunic
over ivory mariette with a border of steel sequins,
a delicate pink scarf and deep pink flowers on the
shoulder, and pearl and diamond ornaments. A
sheaf of arum-lilies, amongst other vegetable tributes,
was handed up, and the Italian colors which ribboned
it. were ecstatically kissed by the little prima donna.
Arum-lilies, sweet-peas and roses decked the Albert-
street Methodist Church for the marriage of Keith
Bennett, son of P. E. Bennett, Ascot, Toowoomba, to
Mavis Wilson, the James Wilsons’ daughter. The
bride wore ivory mariette and silver, and a posy
of orange blossom which her mother had worn when
blie was married. Apricot crepe de Chine dressed the
’maids, Thea Harrison, Gladys Wilson and Marjory
Bennett. Shirley Bennett was train-bearer in
pale blue taffetas, with a basket of statice and
lilies. Iceland-poppies amid blue tulle decked the
tables at the National afterwards.
Judge Blair opened the All Saints fete, regretting
the approaching departure of the Rev. Farnham May-
nard. Mrs. Blair was handed a bunch of red roses
by little Madeline Raymond. In the evening the
Yacht Club had a dance, the club staff supplying
the supper.
The Hamilton Girl Guides arranged a bal masque
in the Hamilton Town Hall. Fancy dress was the
order, with prizes for the best; and orange streamers
made the scene gay, with sweet-peas and roses on
the supper tables.
White roses and watsonia decked the altar in St.
John’s Cathedral for Vera Lucas’s wedding with
John Armstrong, of Takilberan, Gin Gin, scion of an
English family. She wore silver lame. Mrs. W.
E. Robbons lent the veil, which was of Venetian
point, arranged with orange blossoms. A shower
bouquet of eucharist-lilies and tube-roses was carried.
Sybil Lucas and Beryl Leclcy ’maided, in blue
taffetas with silver bandeaux and posies of red
roses. Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Lucas entertained at
the National, which was dressed in rose-pink and
ivory. Mrs. Lucas wore gold brocaded lame and
carried a pink rose posy.
Major-General Spencer-Browne presided at the
annual meeting of the League of Women Relatives
of Sailors and Soldiers, in the Rifle Club rooms,
for the fifth time. The club is non-sectarian and
non-political, • and can boast of having helped 4000
men, women and kiddies last year. Over £BOO
has been spent this year in aiding returned Diggers.
Beryl Pratten played, Marie Harding recited, and
tea was poured.
The Alliance Franqaise had a party for the Com-
mandant and officers of the Ville de Strasbourg in
the Druids’ Hall, where “Vive la France” was
inscribed over the door and roses dressed the supper-
room. Comte and Comtesse de Tournouer received,
and there was a big roll-up.


HAFCDY BFLOS LTD.
J EWE LLER.S
The two Dainty Gem-set Wristlet Watches illus-
trated are representative of the extensive display
at moderate prices, to be seen at Hardy Bros.’
The cases are of White Gold with platinum settings,
and the Swiss or French movements are fully
jewelled and guaranteed to be accurate timekeepers.
A selection of gem-set Watches will be sent on
approval to any address, at the Company’s risk
and expense.
Five per cent, discount allowed on Cash Purchases.
An attractive Catalogue will be sent to any address on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.
MELBOURNE
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
HJieJfousc oP &G&lusivc
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JI6-JIB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Hawkins
Hawkins
icj.
CUIDE
Guide
GUIDE!
Guide
Guide
Guide
Guide
Guide
a
m.
/v-3
N-4
m
N°6
jV-S
mo
IManacement
EIEtTRICITY
MAGNETISM
INDUCTION
DYNAMOS
ARMATURES
WIRING
= A.C. =
SYSTEMS _
CIRCUIT.
breakers
MEASURING
NSTRUMENTS
? A.C. -
i WIRING
: POWER
STATIONS
TELEPHONE
A WORK :
MODERN
Motion Y
pictures^
lira
rtLECRAPH
dynamos
MOTORS
APPLICATIONS
Siswp'i
currents
WIRELESS
l MOTORS
systems w
uectricitv
'NSTRUMEHTf;
bells
CONVERTERS
STORAGE I
ALTERNATORS \
REFERENCE
lighting
[-TESTING
Rectifiers
batteries
INDEX
2855,2
3368
m
m
'm
COMPLETE SET OF 10 VOLUMES,
Price SO -. Postage 2/6 extra.
Owing to limited space we give contents of
Volume I only.
The other 9 volumes complete the wonderful information available in the set.
Hawkins’ Electrical Guide No. 1.
Contains 348 pages, 388 illustrations. Electrical Signs and Symbols. Static and
Current Electricity. Primary Cells. Conductors and Insulators. Resistance and
Conductivity. Magnetism. Induction Coils. Dynamo Principles. Classes of
Dynamos. Field Magnets. Armatures. Windings. Commutation. Brushes;
Brush Gear.
EVERY-MAN
HIS-OWN
:
A Complete Guide for all
Constructive and
Decorative Work,
including
Carpentry
Joinery
Turning
Painting-
Glazing
Metal Working
Upholstery
French Polishing
Picture Framing
Household Fixtures
Fretwork
Veneering
Plumbing
Wood Carving
Paperhanging
Plastering
Graining
Staining
Masonry
Domestic Repairs
PRICE 6/6, Postage 9d. extra.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS,
Bookstall Corner, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
90£l
’ ’ k m
|
NOJLVd
■ '
■E
ill
Si
* < < .
v
%!
4
’
r
7
i 'iMM'i'M
ss&msi
; '« ’ ' f :
. '■
■ '
1 ns :
■*^V
SBiilß
iai
•:r.*v
leaf her to the foot Rubber to the Ground
'T" HEY’RE real lasted shoes—for men and
* women—properly built—like leather
shoes, with comfort in them, and long service.
Carubo Shoes are made with the Genuine
CREPE RUBBER SOLE
Plantation Finished.
ET a pair! They mean joyful
feet—they fit the foot and grip
the ground!
Leather to
I the Foot
|Rubber to
! the Grounds
n
TCM
JS
n
i- and. full of
'interesting information
about the most satisfactory plant for your water
supply problem—the Famous “COMET” Mill. “COMET”
Pumps, Troughing, Tank Stands, Sheep Jetters, Steel
Frame Buildings, and Miscellaneous “COMET" Products
are described and well illustrated. Write for a copy now.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Dulwich Hill, SYDNEY, and at 255 a George Street,
also at RocKhampton, Brisbane, and Townsville


L2L
ĥ
is tfic
ONLY
NON-SCRATCH
PHONOGRAPH
C7/xe Cre«xf
Toti Dal Monte obtainable
„ „ ONLY
says it /s MARVELLOUS At
Home Recreations L
588 Geonje St. Sydney
{opp Bea.rd WdJ’aOn’s}
ISVS
1
'OSS
Ss>
v/m
8
Ini
a si
• >E
MR
Any previous visitors to Melbourne—if they have
stayed at “Scott’s” —will point out that Scott’s is
THE best place at which YOU can stay.
r
/
The reasons that this is so are
because not only is “Scott’s”
Melbourne’s Most Centrally Situated
and Convenient Hotel
but it affords a service to its Datrons that gives real satisfaction.
Ready and willing attention to your every need, sumptuous com-
fort of rooms and furnishings (including hot- and cold-water
service and direct and intercommunicating telephones in all bed-
rooms), and courtesy of an efficient staff at all times.
Inclusive Day Tariff or Bed and Breakfast Rate.
Write for Tariff Card. (
SCOTT’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams “Scott’s” Melbourne.
CYMA
KNOWN ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
Melbourne thatter
The Occidental
P[?]
The committee of Moonee Valley Racing
Club smiled expansively on Saturday as
motor-cars, Fords, trams and trains brought
patrons in thousands to the pretty course,
which was wearing its brightest summer
dress. Though it was warm, only a very
few of the frocks and gowns proclaimed the
season. Purchasers of the new models evi-
dently are reserving their up-to-date finery
for the Caulfield Cup. There were no vice-
regents on view, but Colonel Davidson was
there with Mrs. Davidson, whose cherry-red
hat matched the trimming upon her navy
suit. Rear-Admiral Napier also took a look
at tin* gee-gees with his wife, whose apparel
was floral-patterned, with relief in biscuit
hue to blend with her hat. Harry Cliauvel
and liis lady kept the senior service company
most of the time.
The new home of the Arts and Crafts
Society is large enough to set out the annual
show of work effectively, and the atmosphere
of the place is entirely appropriate. Miss
Bates, of South Australia, who received her
training in England, shows hand-woven
scarves and mats and a host of traycloths
and runners. Unique in their way are
scarves woven of real camel’s hair and left
in their natural color, a pale fawn. Miss
Butchart, of Melbourne, makes a bid for
fame with a hand-woven bedspread, of which
the woof is white, the pattern being traced
in two blues and mauve. Miss Lawton, who
teaches needlecraft and so forth at the Pres-
byterian Ladies’ College, has done some won-
derful English embroidery, and also some
cross-stitch in the Assisi pattern, a splendid
copy of this Italian design. Her pupils have
sent along clever work in a variety of
mediums. Another example of the success-
ful teaching of art-crafts to the young is
to be seen in the collection of painted china,
hand-wrought utensils in silver and copper,
and other nice things from Swinburne Tech-
nical College. Some members of the society
have made raffia-work a special study, and
they show dainty hats and lovely baskets
bearing ornamentation so fine as to suggest
brushwork. Exquisitely embroidered babies’
frocks, beautiful lingerie and handkerchiefs
and some handsome cross-stitch designs
occupy at glass-case or two. Mrs. Douglas
Stewart’s blue jumper sprigged all over in
cross-stitcli is worth seeing. The crafts sec-
tion houses some hand-wrought metal tavern
lamps, door-handles and -knockers. There’s
a fair show of jewellery, too, including a
bit sent by Rhoda Wager, from Sydney.
Miss Tompkins earns high credit with a
hand-painted Egyptian vase, Michael O’Con-
nell has a fine sun-dial among his garden pot-
tery, and Merric Boyd, Pliillipa James and
other well-known potters are represented.
Henrietta Walker has discovered further
ways of utilising the bark of our native trees,
demonstrated in a collection of mats, baskets,
pot-holders and such. Ethel Spowers gets
first place for woodcuts, a section in which
Then Proctor, Margaret Preston and Adrian
Feint are showing book-plates. In the toy
department one is introduced to the Austra-
lian version of Noah’s Ark—a bark humpy
with King Billy and his royal lady and
sundry pairs of native animals and birds.
Miss Langdon is responsible for this, also
for a two-roomed doll’s house, fully fur-
nished. Wal Taylor, Miss Alston and others
have done some swagger bookbindings.
The C. W. Wilson couple, of Scott’s Hotel,
let the place be turned topsy-turvy for a few
hours on a recent evening to help St. Mar-
tin's Home for Boys. Mrs. Gilbert Lodge,
who wore apple-green satin encrusted with
silver, directed the dancing-cwm-bridge, with
her husband and A. D. McCallum as organ-
isers. Mrs. Richard Fitcher stocked a sweets
stall, which added £3O to the takings, her
small son Don and Mrs. Hardman assisting
with the sales. For the modest sum of half
a crown Madam Pera discovered wonderful
futures for all who cared to consult her, and
there were no blanks among the lucky en-
velopes distributed by Mrs. J. 11. Hewison.
Kathleen Ahern, one of the maidens who
lately crossed the Alps on skis, raked in a
few pounds by vending balloons. Laura
Nyulasy, in pink, lit up with crystal, cast a
secretarial eye around. Admiral Napier and
his genial lady, whose frock of royal purple
ran to pointed flounces, were among
the guests. The younger folk came
along in full force and in their pret-
tiest frocks. Peggy Ewing was in leaf-green
georgette with specks of pink; Vivie Knox
Knight blended gold lace and lime ninon;
pale pink with pearls was the fancy of
Jocelyn Outhwaite; all in silver was Nell
Webb, and there was a splash of silver upon
the rose-red frock of Iris Muspret. Dr. and
Mrs. Marsden, Mr. R. Fitcher, the Richard
Linton couple, Mrs. James Purves and
daughter Valerie, Mrs. Corrie Gardner and
the Fred Ivrcrouse couple were glimpsed, too.
The civic dinner given by the William
Bruntons at the conclusion of the knight’s
third consecutive term as a cliain-and-robes
wearer was a splendid affair, expeditiously
carried out. The feast was at the Hotel
Windsor, and the whole business was got
through in a shade over an hour, speeches
and all. Then cars were called to take the
76 guests to finish the evening with “Katja.”
The diners peeped through groups of daffo-
dils, brown and gold pansies, and the most
gorgeous of yellow tulips splashed with crim-
son, tumbling out of golden baskets. There
were posies and boxes of chocolates for the
womenfolk. The mayoral lady covered a
black georgette and satin gown with a cloak
in tones of mauve and purple, which blended
with the foliage that crept over one shoulder.
Councillor Bell’s wife had leopard-skin
appliqued upon her black satin skirt in a
flower-like device which suggested golden-
brown pansies. Dr. W. Kent Hughes was
along with his life-partner, whose frock was
pale blue, with some glistening. City-valuer
J. G. Steele was accompanied by Mrs. Steele,
robed in black satin. The Cuscaden knight,
Councillor and Mrs. Felix Lloyd, Dr. T.
Walker Sinclair and Mrs. Sinclair, and Dr.
Gengoult Smith, were of the company.
Alderman Jeffries, who was having a birth-
day, returned thanks for the party, mingled
with regrets that the Brunton couple’s reign
was almost at end.
The Harold Riggall matron led off the
summer parties with a tea-drinking that
might almost have been called a floral car-
nival. Everything in the garden was lovely,
and the guests chanted “gorgeous” and
“beautiful” to string orchestral accompani-
ment when they glimpsed the decorations of
hall and reception-rooms. The four o’clock
feast was spread among yellow and orange
blossoms arranged in baskets with harmonis-
ing golden mats, the hostess’s frock of soft
crepe and lace of burnt-bread shades blend-
ing nicely into the background. Her sister,
Tettie Appleton, lately back from Westralia,
lent a helping hand, and smiled a greeting
beneath a large black hat that topped a gown
of lightly-figured crepe de Cliine. Mrs.
George Appleton came in handsome black
attire. Among others in evidence were the
handled Mitchell and Barrett dames, Mrs.
Purves Smith, who wore Michael Arlen mil-
linery with her magpie confection, and Mrs.
Douglas Stephens.
The lady of the bobbed hair and penetrat-
ing expression, pictured by Rembrandt, is
Helen Evelyn
Wallace, who
wrote that
most delight-
ful of books
for children,
“Magic Case-
ments.” On the
volume with
the Keatsian
name Blamire
Young, for the
first time in
his career,
has conde-
scended to
string illus-
trations. Miss
W allace, who
has found
M e 1 bourne’s
Botanical Gar-
dens a source
of inspiration,
is on the staff
of Lauriston
School. She is a full-blown Master of Arts
of Melbourne University, and while taking
her degree she accumulated the well-endowed
Shakspearean scholarship, among other
prizes.
Phyllis Lett, who when she came this way
as the wife of squatter De Burgh Ker, of Rich-
mond, Bananaland, was one of England’s
leading contraltos, took a big interest in the
Melba Corn’s Operatic Society’s concert at
the Playhouse last week. Attired in lemon-
liued draperies sprinkled with silver, she was
in a box with an old Melbourne friend and
Mrs. Fritz Hart. She was enthusiastic over
the voices of the students, and particularly
admired Lilian Crisp, who was the maid
of the sorrow's in Fritz Hart’s one-act opera,
“Deirdre in Exile.” The work has but three
singing parts and no chorus. Miss Crisp
dressed her role in a flowing robe of dull
green with embellishment in tan hue; and
Lilian Stott, who was Lavarcliam, wore
raiment of grey. Deirdre’s death created the
right atmosphere for the Gluck opera,
“Orpheus,” which followed. Jean Hainbleton,
as Orpheus, was striking in her white and
gold tunic, and Millie McCormack, in blue
draperies, made a dainty Eurydice. The fine-
looking girls of the chorus wore their Grecian
robes with grace and dignity. The Robert
Garrans, Mrs. Walter Cass, the Alberto Zel-
man couple, the Keatings and daughter Tulla,
and Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Dyer were there.
The artistic temperament never lets its
wearers grow old, and Bernard Heinze,
though he was
doing his best
to look elderly
and profes-
sional when
the Re m-
brandt camera
looked at him,
will always
believe in
fairies. He is
th e. Ormond
Professor of
Music at Mel-
bourne Uni.,
but his friends
call him
‘Tommy.” He
be ga n his
musical career
by winning a
violin scholar-
ship which let
him into the
Conse r v a-
toriura lie now directs. The Clarke scholar-
ship took him to the Royal College of Music
to study under Hubert Parry. In 11)14 —
lie was 18 then —the folk of the Old World
started a cannon orchestra with bomb
and torpedo accompaniment, so Bernard
Heinze joined the artillery. When they gave
him a clean discharge he rescued his fiddle,
and drank in the wisdom of the professors
of the Royal College of Music until he won
the Garland Harrison scholarship and
gained a couple of years in Paris. Then
there were lessons in Berlin, under Heft'.
Returning to Australia, the violinist taught
at the Con. for a while, and last year he
fell into the director’s job, vacated by Prof.
Laver.
Violinist Helen Hamerton, of the Univer-
sity Conservatorium, who had as background
Gordon McKeown at the keyboard of a large
black grand piano, faced a good house at
the Assembly Hall. The programme con-
sisted of three sonatas for violin and piano-
forte ; it was an interesting experi-
ment, though perhaps on rather too exten-
sive a scale. Sonatas take such a lot of diges-
tion, and three, even when well-varied arid
intelligently played, are too many for the
majority of music-lovers at one sitting. A
garden of flowers was collected by the violin-
ist. Muriel Cheek, a soprano possessed of
considerable interpretative skill, carolled some
early English and modern Russian songs,
and was much admired.
There’s a rift in the lute of Melbourne’s
smartest women’s club. A section wishes
to make additions to accommodation and in-
crease the membership, but there’s a lot of
opposition on the part of those who want
to keep the place “select.” The blackball
has been produced often of late, squashing
the hopes of aspiring minglers in the set,
and it doesn’t seem likely that either the
premises or the membership will be enlarged
to any great extent.
The sequel to the dance and gymkhana
held lately for funds of the Victorian Civil
Ambulance Society took place at head-
quarters when Mayor Brunton handed over
a cheque for £1385 19s. to cover the pur-
chase of two motor-ambulances, ready for
action, with a balance to go into the banking
account. Life-membership certificates were
the reward of Mrs. E. M. Pearce, president
of the committee, and the joint lion, secre-
taries, Miss Rose Paterson and Mrs. Howard
Lewis. Arthur Hiskens, secretary of Moonee
Valley Racing Club, is also to be enrolled
for life, for he helped nobly. There was
tea-drinking after the speechifying, and the
Mayoress, who wore a charming frock of
powder-blue tone and a black hat sprayed
with fuchsia-toned foliage, was one of those
who clinked teaspoons and saucers. The
work of the V.C.A.S. is growing. In 1910
its ambulances (horse-drawn then) rushed
4300 cases to hospital, while the latest year’s
tally was 10,579 cases. It is figured that the
cost per ease is £l, and as Government aid
is small, and there are lots of free rides,
there’s an almost chronic deficit.
The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven got back
from their bird’s-eye survey of Australia
just in time to pronounce a benediction on
the R.A.S. Show. Secretary Schwieger read
an address of welcome to their Exes, on
Friday, but the G.-G. had given the exhibi-
tion an unofficial look-over the previous day.
Folks are being sociable to Rear-Admiral
Napier’s dark-haired lady, lately come among
us, and much tea is being sipped in her
honor. At the Lyceum Club, Mrs. M. R. Mc-
Millan, with Mrs. Alfred Deakin and Mrs.
T. W. White as aides, boiled the kettle.
Society was represented by the willowy
Chauvel lady and the handled Harrison
Moore matron, also Lady Bridges, Mrs.
Andrew McHaig, Robert Garran’s lady and
others of the elect.
Dr. Clara Stone has arrived in Lon-
don, where a goodly number of her
professional brethren are on holidays.
Besides the visitors there are a good
many Australians on the medical staff of
the large hospitals. One of these, Dr.
Savage, a former Rhodes scholar now
attached to St. Bartholomew’s, is making
preparations to visit his home country; pro-
bably Perth, where the family reside, will
receive his first call.
Kathleen Isabel Agnes Thornton, who
lives with her mother at Mount Myrtoon,
Camperdown, is sporting a sparkling new
ring. , The man who slipped it on is Arthur
Cedric Battle, of Toorak, a grandson of the
late F. S. Grimwade.
Gordon Chirnside is seriously assuming the
duties of citizenship,. He has accepted a
chieftainship in the Ballarat District Caledo-
nian Society. The chieftains already installed
are Dr. Bob Scott, of Scotsbnrn, and Com-
mander H. Ponsonby McKenzie, who lives
at Trawalla, once the home of the Bridges.
Friends are keen to glimpse the owner of
Caranballae in his* kilt and sporran.
Joan Clarke, who has been receiving an
educational polish abroad and making her
bow at Buckingham Palace, is returning home
at the end of this year with her mother, Mrs.
Reginald Clarke, and Nora Power is coming
with them. At Colombo Aunty Govett, with
Betty and Clive Clarke, will be waiting to
give the returning ones a welcome, and the
re-united family will steam back together.
E. P. Muntz, of Malvern, handed his
youngest daughter, Kathleen Francis, into the
keeping of W. J. E. White, at St. George’s,
Malvern, amidst a riot of spring blossoms.
The bride looked like a moonbeam floating
on silver, in her georgette and lace gown.
Just a faint flush of pink illuminated the long
train of figured satin, and a shower of azaleas
caught the same reflection. An elusive mist
of tulle was confined with a chaplet of orange
blossoms. The four ’maids, sister Hilda,
Alice White, lima Kraesst and Marjorie
Tucker, were in fluted taffeta frocks of faint
blue, pink, mauve and green respectively, with
erin. hats to match. Though each had her
own color scheme, the four blended as har-
moniously as a good pastel drawing. During
the signing-up, W. A. Bennet tucked his
fiddle under his chin and played divinely.
Among the first of the Cup fixtures to
be announced is a ball at Federal Govern-
ment House on the night of the classic
event, November 3. The Stonehavens, who
have dropped out of the social firmament
lately, will also give a garden-party on
November 5.
Sister Adelaide’s chronicle :
After the storm of Fleet Week we’ve relapsed
into a calm that has been only slightly stirred by
a few concerts and dances. One dance was at
the Elder Hall; its committee were members of the
Arts Association, and its aim funds for the Union
Building. A rose-garden, all pink and red, bloomed
on the stage at the bidding of Mrs. H. H. Dutton,
and guests included Lady Bridges, who had Major
Clowes with her, the Chancellor and Miss Murray,
the Mayoral Bruces and their daughter, and a
sprinkling of the professorial staff.
The University Dance Club has had one of its
evenings, too, also in the Elder Hall; the St.
Peter’s Old Collegians’ Association has given its
annual frivol in the Liberal Club Hall; and the
E. A. Brooks took a big party one night to the
Palais Royal. The St. Peter’s dance expressed the
school colors in blue delphiniums and white peach'
blossom, with balloons, butterflies and ribbon stream-
ers, and Mrs. Frank Irwin to supervise it all.
From Maoriland comes news of the death of
Arthur Boult, for many years in charge of the
Cathedral choir and once one of the best-known
music teachers in the State. His elder daughter
married Professor Geoffrey Duffleld, of the Canberra
Observatory.
Intending voyagers include the W. E. Long-
bottc-ms, who go to join their daughters in London,
and Professor Osborn, who is booked for the Pan-
Pacific Conference in Japan. Harold Wylde, who
has been holiday-making in England, has postponed
his return and resigned from the Conservatorium staff,
the reason, ill-health. The Walter Duncans have
returned from their jaunting, as also has Frederick
Bevan. Mr. Bevan, who sang at the King’s wed-
ding as a member of the Chapel Royal Choir, was
bidden to Buckingham Palace while he was on
t’other side.
Percy Grainger has shown his appreciation of the
South Australian Orchestra and the affection in
which he holds his mother’s memory by a cheque
for £5OO to head a “Rose Grainger Fund” to help
the organisation. Other cheques are rolling in, and
the orchestra’s executive is throwing its weight into
the appeal.
From London comes news of the marriage of the
11. P. Wilsons’ son to Almerta, daughter of Mrs.
Charles Bagot of Oodnadatta. There is an engage-
ment, too—Mollie, daughter of the J. H. Finlaysons,
to Jack Astlev.
The two days’ Y.W.C.A. fete at Mrs. Kidman’s
brought in £5O0 —a useful cheque that is to be
subsidised on the “pound for pound ’ basis by an
anonymous supporter of the Association.
Tlie estate of the late Mrs. Leishman, sworn at
£42,000, goes to relatives and friends.


■:: : Imm
.
sm
WMIWL
i—if
. ■
■i
ill
sip
ii
■
MsmMtm
US
mm ■.
■■IB
ii
ii
SB
■■■
i
A LTHOUGH the illustrations cannot effectively reveal
the real beauty and quality of the specially-select, tl
gems with which these pieces are set, nor the - perfect
workmanship that has entered into their production, they
disclose two very distinctive designs. The diamond, ear-
rings are flexible, the hip brooch, also -in diamonds, is
representative of a favored design now being worn in Paris.
Both have been taken from a selection of exclusive
jewellery which contains , many others just as beautiful
II and attractive, while additional designs are continually
being added.
SsSfis
sis!!-'
!«:
■P
A. SAUNDERS’
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT
and WEDDING RINGS
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon-
«hape platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, 18et. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Platinum-set
18ct. Gold King,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set Plati-
num 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
Specially Selected Diamonds.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £25,
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Oetagon-
shape, Platinum
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Five-Diamonds,
set Platinum
18ct. Cold King,
£l5.
Larger Dia-
monds. £2O,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, set
Platinum lSet.
Gold Ring, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5.
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ All-
Platinum, Dia-
mond-set Wedding-
Ring, £25.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding
Ring, 25/-
18et. Gold, 30/-
1 Wider, £2.
SENT
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num, IBct. Gold
Ring, £l5.
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
'A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
Smaller Dia.
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shape,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£20.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £15.
£. Saunders’ Pour-
Diamonds, set 1
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O. £lO.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, All
Platinum Ring,
£95.
A. Saunders’ Three-
Diamonds, Cross-
over Ring, set
Platinum, lBct.
Cold Ring,
ft £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, All Platinum
Ring, £5O.
Smeller Diamonds,
£3O, £4O.
WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK,
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ħ
ELECTRIC COOKER
r=
Will Roast, Bake, Boil or Stew
In fact it will do all kinds of cookery in the home. Wherever
there is an electrical outlet this convenient cooker can be operated
efficiently and economically. For the average family enough food
can be cooked for any meal with less current than an electric iron
would use.
The UNIVERSAL Electric Cooker cooks in two separate containers
at once—stored heat ensures economy. Foods cooked in the home
can be served warm from the cooker for picnics and outdoor meals.
Prove its utility and convenience in your home.
E96Go—Oven Cooker, complete with all
utensils, 6ft. cord and standard plug,
65/-
Obtainable from electrical dealers, stores and ironmongers.
Factory agents for Australia and New Zealand:
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney. 28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
200 Queen Street, Melbourne. 55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle. 933 Hay Street, Perth.
IMastertaurit
The Music Roll of Distinction.
ATTRACTIVE LIST OF
Fox Trots.
D. 1449—1 Never Knew How Wonderful
You Were
D. 1454—1’m Just Mad About You
D.1457—He110, Helen
D.l4sB—Freshie
D. 1460 —I “Wanna” Go Where You Go —-
Do What You Do—Then I’ll Be
Happy
D. 1463 —Just Around the Corner
D.l469—Show that Fellow the Door
One-Steps.
D. 14 5 s—Barcelona
D.l47o—Picador
Waltzes.
D.1447—A Night of Love
D.l4s6—Hawaiian Memories
D.l4s9—Daddy’s Wonderful Pal
D. 1461 —When It’s Love Time in Hawaii
Marches.
D.l4so—Valcartier
D.l464—Entry of the Gladiators (with
words)
D.l46s—Gippsland
D.l466—Birth of a Nation
Operatic (with Words).
D.l47l—The Balkan Princess (Selection)
SEPTEMBER RELEASES.
Ballads.
D.1448—A Bowl of Roses. Key of D.
E to P Sharp
D. 1451 —Angels Guard Thee —Berceuse de
Jocelyn. Key of D Flat. D Flat
to F.
D.l4s2—Lay My Head Beneath a Rose.
Key of E Flat. D to F
D.l462—Caro Mio Ben (Heart of My
Heart)
D.l467—The Silver in My Mother’s Hair.
Key of F. D to D
D.l46B—Lackaday. Key of F. 0 to E
D.l472—Sailing. Key of C. C to E
D.1473—0n1y, the River Running By.
Key of C. E to E
C Series.
C.Bo4—The Unfinished Symphony
(Schubert)
C.Bo6—Consolation. Melody in D.
(Descriptive.) (Westoby)
C.Blo—Hungarian Rhapsodv No. 15.
(Liszt)
C.Bl3—Egmont Overture Op. 84 (From
the Music of Goethe’s “Tragedy of
Egmont”). (Beethoven)
C.Bl4—Norwegian Dance No. 4. Allegro
Molto. (Grieg)
C.Bls—Moments Musicale
2. Op. 94. Andantino.
3. Op. 94. Allegro Moderate
(Schubert)
C.Bl6—Deux Arabesques (Debussy)
0.8-17—Nocturne Op. 27. No. 2. Key
D Flat (Chopin)
C.Bl8 —Der Freisehutz (Descriptive
Overture). (Weber)
The Above Titles are also Obtainable in “Expression” Rolls.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
AYASTERT OUCH
- Mand Ptayed .-=■
fr.Ausie Roms
are the * ~
ATE1ST amd BEST
G. H. Horton & Co., Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors Only, 66 CITY ROAD, SYDNEY.


p
ps\V
D
D
B
—7
satisfied
>nd
£®S
£
SB
£-
im
c
GPI OllCj
PI
Pi
,T 1
0 ~
'fit
t
SS{S?pSS»OfcO
n
KT
•**,s %J. T rfiW 9
I*os'.
[i?A '-“
• y* - *;■&■}#.
' «v«k»c ~' 1
_V.J
Sk&I&KIS
u
MB
' '
, J^Es*
*r/
H
ait
1*33
sa*
MS
SB*
s»
C 3
n
is^
».Vi«W
ii
■■-
g§?
m
Sip
/
B§l|
m
m
m
m
mi
K
/•
i
LO
0^
O
o
7//
'7
x
pta
m
'/. %
m
MAX
;\n
*T\
amd b®
satis/md
Dunlop Rubber Co. of Aust. L f i
All States & N.Z.


LIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseurs,
GRANT'S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.. Perth and Geralriton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sola Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
Count Cavour was far and away the best
horse engaged at the Hawkesbury club’s meeting
on Saturday. His previous performances in Sydney
had been unworthy of the upstanding chestnut who
won the M.L. Derby, the tl. N. Derby and Leger,
the Rangiora Gup (with 9st. 61b.), the Dunedin Cup
(with 9st. 81b.) and the Clifford Plate, beating
Rapine at w.f.a. ; but, going out at 2 to 1, he
made an exhibition of a middling field in the Spring
Handicap, 11 furlongs. Certainly he beat Lady
Lizzie, conceding 271 b., by a mere half-length, but
MeCarten could have made it a dozen lengths at
least. The only other Rand wick candidate to show
form was King Cyllene (8 to 1), who defeated some
fair milers in the Rowley. As a four-year-old King
Cyllene ran second (with 7st.) to Fuji San (Bst.
lib.) in the Doncaster Handicap. There will be
271 b. between them on Saturday, but few expect
the King to turn the tables.
* * * *
Although the two Victorian cracks are not
coming over, the A.J.C. will have some splendid
horses at the four-days meeting which begins at
Randwick next Saturday. All going well, Windbag
and Valicare will be there, along with Pantheon,
Rapine, Star Stranger, Fuji San and other good
ones, and there should be some great tussles in
the w.f.a. races, with Windbag foremost in the
long-distance events. A week ago the Derby looked
like providing a contest as thrilling as Heroic,
Nigger Minstrel and Spearfelt furnished in 192-1.
From Maoriland came Limerick, whose half-brother,
Ballymena, won three years ago ; Victoria was repre-
sented by Cromwell, a. fine son of Woorak; and
there was Rampion to carry the hopes of N. S.
Wales. Unfortunately Cromwell has been scratched
owing to a mishap on the track, and there are
doubts relative to Limerick. If the M.L. gelding
comes through the next couple of days well he
should win, as he is undoubtedly high-class. Ram-
pion must be the second choice.
The Epsom Handicap has a very open appearance,
though the field will not be large. Fuji San (9st.
91b.), Boaster (Bst. 181 b.), Amounis (Bst. 111 b.),
Bravado (Bst. 41b.), Mullabawn (Bst. 41b.), Aorangi
(7st. 121 b.), Stony (7st. 111 b.) and Quan Tart (7st.
101 b.) have all been backed, and the top-weight,
Amounis, Aorangi and Quan Tart have strong claims.
But if Kelso is satisfied with Boaster’s condition, that
fine horse will probably beat them all. Even though
his preparation has been interrupted, this Page pre-
fers him to anything else. Aorangi looks a safe place-
getter, and if it is to be an outsider’s Epsom the
outsider may be Pigeon Pie (7st.).
A seven-stoner generally wins the Metropolitan,
but the seven-stoners are not much good this year.
Pantheon (9st. 61b.) has met most of them on the
same terms or worse, and beaten them handily. This
impressive-looking Elnglish horse has a decided
chance, as also have Spearfelt (9st. 41b.), Count,
Cavour (9st.) and Star Stranger (Bst. 91b.), while
another that reads well is the Queenslander Piastoon
(Bst. 41b.), whose form last season was very good.
Star Stranger crossed the Tasmgn with a fine record,
which he has added to in Sydney, so he is here
selected to win, with Spearfelt next best. Lucy
Thrice (6st. 71b.) may be worth a tote -wager, for
she stays pretty well and takes a lot of passing
when she hits the front.
* * * *
It was hoped that Heroic and Manfred
would meet at seven furlongs in the Quality Handicap
at Moonee Valley (Vic.) on Saturday, but a swollen
limb compelled Heroic’s retirement, and, although
there was nothing wrong with Manfred, Ben Chaffey
put the pen through his champion’s name. With
the two top-liners out of the way, the public went
solidly for Waranton (6 to 4), who appeared to
have a wonderful chance with Bst. 81b. (the condi-
tions provided for a maximum of 9st.), while
Comus and Cyden were backed at 7 to 2 and
Perspective at 7 to 1. Cyden, who has retained her
two-year-old pace, made the running to the home
turn, but Comus presently took charge from War-
anton. Godby’s importation looked a good thing
at the distance, but just as his backers were thinking
of collecting Perspective came with a great run
on the outside and beat the English horse home by
three parts of a length, with Batteryman (an
early winner) a length away, AVaranton fourth, and
Cyden, who was buffeted a bit in the straight, last.
In covering the distance in lmin. 26see., Jimmy
AA’ilson’s good mare created a course record. There
were several Caulfield Cup candidates in the Tulla-
marine Handicap, 114 furlongs, for which Stralia
was favorite at 3 to i, with the imported Snowfire
at 7 to 2. Affirm (7 to 1). who had been in front
most of the journey, and Snowfire came into the
straight together, and in a great tussle the imported
horse, on whom little Godby rode a vigorous finish,
just got his head in front of Affirm, with Our Prince
(7 to 1) an impressive third. Snowfire (Pommern
—Bright) is owned by Corteen and trained by
Cecil Godby; he has 7st. 91b. in both Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups, and is now well in the betting
for the Caulfield. Epilogue (Comedy King—After
Glow), who has also had backing for the V.A.T.C.
event, won the first division of the Maiden Plate,
a mile, in the easiest possible manner from Goldwash
and Melarak, starting at 10 to 9 on; a fine-looking
colt who should stay, he has 7st. 41b. in the Caulfield
NOT MAKING A HIT.
NOVICE: “Do I stand too close to the ball, m’ boy, before I
make the stroke?”
CADDIE : “Not csackly, Mister. Trubble is y'r too close to it
after you finish.”
Cup and 6st. 131 b. in the Melbourne. The second
division was taken by Sol Green’s imported gelding
Star D’Or (Sunstar —Airashii), who was favorite at
(1 to 4 : he was followed home by Henare and
Thracian, Heroic’s brother. Star D’Or has Tst. 21b.
in the Melbourne Cup.
“Rris.”: Three-year-old supremacy in
Queensland this season will be fought out by a
son and daughter of imported Chrvsolaus —Chryso
and Greytinge. The latter carried all before her as
a two-vear-old, and also won in the best open-sprint
company. Chryso did not run until the tail end of
the season, when he collected the last of the two-
year-old races. He won again, as a three-year-old, at
Tatt.’s meeting. Both are technically greys, but
the color is not observable until one is very close
to them.
“The O’Rook”: Tasmania, like Queens-
land, is considering the licensing of bookmakers.
The bill has been prepared under the eye of the
racing clubs; the State is to be cut in two, the
T.R.C. looking after the northefm section and
the Turf Club bossing the southern. Ike may bet
in his premises on any race in his area, or outside
Tasmania, but can only ply his useless calling on
courses where the tote is not. “Fees” begin at
Cd. for a. ss. bet and increase in proportion.
According to some correspondents, odds of
7 to 2 were laid on Jack Dempsey, who met Gene
Tunney at Philadelphia a week ago. So was John
L. Sullivan favorite when he fought Corbett, Corbett
when he fought Fitzsimmons, Fitz. when he fought
Jeffries, Jeff, when he fought Johnson, and the
coon when he fought Willard; and Dempsey has
joined the dismal procession. Thirty-one years old,
he had not had a real contest since he knocked out
Firpo on September 14, 1923. He scaled 13st. 81b.
to Tunney’s I3st. 311 b., but this advantage was no
use to him. Tunney, three years younger than
Dempsey and in the pink of condition, thanks to
constant boxing, stood up to Dempsey’s ponderous
attack, outpointed him throughout the 10 rounds,
and had him all but out when the final bell brought
relief to the badly-punished ex-champion. Dempsey’s
rushes were a shade slower than they were three or
four years ago, his punches a shade less destructive,
and his bellows considerably less elastic; and so
another chapter in the history of the heavyweight
championship was written. Unlike his opponent,
Tunney was a soldier in the Great War. A clean-
looking and decent-living fellow, he won his title
fairly, and should hold it worthily.
Of- * * *
Stadiums, Ltd., lias formidable competi-
tion these times, and there wasn’t much in the house
•when “Norky” Fowler, an English-born suburban-hall
pug, shaped up to Raymond Jansen, one of the
Frenchmen who were given the freedom of the city
by the Labor Lud Mayor. “Norky” was the better
boxer, but Raymond, though merely a swinger, gradu-
ally wore him down, and the referee applied the
closure in the 17th round. “Norky” would probably
have been counted out in the previous round had not
the bell to close it interfered with his devotions
when “four” had been intoned by Wallis. Weights:
Jansen, 9st. 931 b. ; Fowler, 9st.' 8 jib.
The “liglit-heavyweight wrestling cham-
pionship of the world” changed hands at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night, Sammy Claphnm, of
Yorkshire, being now the proud possessor. Ted Thye
looked a certain winner on points until the twelfth
and last round, when Sammy, in a. final desperate
effort, dumped the U.S. grappler heavily with a
crutch hold and gained a fall before Ted could
collect his scattered senses. Sam left the ring with
a mighty Union Jack wrapped around his ample form,
while a band played “Rule Britannia” and a crowd
which had pftid £2665 at the doors cheered itself
hoarse. Said Thye to Clapham (according to Clap-
ham) : “I am proud to think my championship has
gahn to a representative of the greatest nation on
airth.” The modern wrestler has nothing to learn
from the modern theatre.
* * * *
“B oo 11 e” : No
one with a knowledge
of coursing as con-
ducted in England
will doubt the state-
ment of Oscar Asche
that his fondness for
the “long dogs'’ let
him in for £45,000.
Initial costs are not
so heavy as in rac-
ing, but the upkeep
of a kennel is much
more expensive than
that of a stable. The
stake system also costs
a lot of money, and
the number of eventu-
alities which threaten
a dog on his road to
success far outnumber
those which have to
be faced in racing.
Every coursing event
is a series of contests
culminating in the final
course. There are a
hundred openings for
trouble in the luck of
the draw and the slip-
ping, and the quality
of the hare. In Eng-
land. where open cours-
ing is the rule, the
weather may make all
the difference in the
going—and there are
other factors. Betting
also has a cumulative
tendency rarely met
with in horse-racing,
A man who backs his
dog through the card
to the final may easily
stand to lose a poui-
tic-e, and the cross-
wagering on each indi-
vidual draw is another
excellent means of
giving your cash
wings.
The N.S.W. golf championship was won
last week by the veteran D. G. Soutar, who was
Australia’s open champion in 1905. Soutar’s
opponent in the final was Tommy Howard, just
returned from a playing tour abroad and not quite
at his best. The old Tin’s driving and approach
work was certainty personified, and his putting was
also superior to Howard’s. He won by 4 up and
3 to play.
The return of Cecil Brown, the American
motor-cyclist who used to skim the cream off the
prize-money at Maroubra (N.S.W.) early in the year,
was expected to liven matters up at the Speedway on
Saturday, but Cecil couldn’t get delivery of his
machine in time. He finds conditions altered. The
Gold Helmet, which provided him with a steady
weekly salary, has quietly slipped off the programme,
and the Silver Helmet is for riders of the little
2f-h.p. ’buses—not the 8-10h.p. giants on which
Brown is most at home. However, Brown brought
with him a friend, Eddie Brinck, who can do wonders
with a baby Harley. His record to date is one
start, one win—and he won the Silver Helmet.
Among the four-wheelers there was one very popular
victory—that of Mrs. Jones in the Week-ender Trophy
race. She is a frequent and plucky competitor who
asks no favors from anyone on account of her sex.
**' * *
“Amateur Pro.”: In view of the recent
move in the direction of professional tennis, it is
interesting to rote that the N. S. Wales L.T.A. has
put the lid on “exhibition” games when organised
by individual players. The ukase was the result of
an application by J. 0. Anderson for permission to
tour N.S.W. playing exhibition matches; the high
serangs turned him down, but signified their willing-
ness to allow affiliated clubs and promoters of night
tennis matches other than actual players to stage
such shows. Is’o doubt J.O. will be able to sur-
mount his difficulty in that way
* * *' *
Vic. League's second semi-final, between
Melbourne and Collingwood, brought a smaller
attendance and less grist to the mill than the first,
though it proved more spectacular. Official attend-
ance was 44,286, and the “gate” £2164 18s. 6d.
Playing a dour, determined game, the Magpies had
the better of the first half, and at the long interval
owned 56 points to Melbourne’s 34. On resuming,
the Red Legs rallied grandly and put on eight goals
in the quarter, while ’Wood added but one. After
that the -Magpies fought hard and without quarter,
but when the bell rang they were still 11 points
behind—B4 to Melbourne’s 95. Play all through
was fast, but in that third quarter Melbourne’s
men excelled themselves, marking over their oppo-
nents, getting ever first to the ball, and passing
among the forwards with precision. Witt man.
Moyes, Duff and Deane shone above all, and their
systematic bursts entranced the crowd. All the
same, this writer expects Essendon to beat Melbourne
next Saturday.
* * * #
The Sydney football season ended on Satur-
day with the meeting of Granville and Balgownie
for the Metropolitan Soccer premiership. Granville
won, after a fast game, by 4 goals to 2, Balgownie’s
scores only coming in a desperate rally in the last
10 minutes. This is Granville’s fourth successive
premiership, and the win is the more meritorious
since the Clyde club was out of the competition for
several matches, owing to a quarrel with the executive
of the association. The Australian-rulers also finished
off their season in good style, when a combined
Sydney side beat North Melbourne by 58 points
to 51.
* * * *
North of England critics are sadly dis-
appointed with the form shown by the Maoriland
League team now engaging the Northern Union
clubs. The forwards in particular come in for com-
ment, being described as clumsy and shirkers in
the scrum—something new in regard to a vanguard
hailing from Maoriland, where good forwards litter
the landscape like Vallombrosa’s leaves. The Eng-
lishmen don’t give their guests a chance to win
a Test game. Over in France the Maori Rugby
Union team has been going through provincial sides
in good style. Barclay, the flying ’winger, who was
in Sydney with the 1922 and 1923 Maori teams,
scoring heavily in every match. The team will
probably play a few games in Britain after the
French tour is over.
* * * *
The tour of the N.S.W. Rugby Union side
in Britain next year is expected to cost £16,000.
Twenty-eight games will be played; 14 in England,
eight in Wales, four in Scotland and two in Ireland,
including an international with each country. The
last Australian Union side to visit England, the
Wallabies of 1908-09, played 31 games in England
and Wales; the Wallabies won 25, lost 5 and
drew 1, scoring 438 points against 146. That side
included N.S.W. and Queensland players only. The
A.I.F. XV, of later years, numbered some Victorians ;
it played 16 games abroad and lost four, beating
Canada, Maoriland, S’Africa and France. The 1927-
28 team will probably be drawn entirely from N.S.W.
If the best available side can go, it should do even
better than its predecessors.
* * * •
The N.S.W. Cricket Association, stung to
the marrow by the revelations of the Tests, is going
on a hunt for young bowlers. No. 2 Sydney Cricket
Ground is to be reserved for trials and coaching
one day a week, and the junior organisations are
to be asked to nominate candidates, who must be
under 25. Bowlers will be divided into groups:
fast, left-hand, medium and slow. Experts in each
department, including O. T. B. Turner and Dr.
R V. Hordern, are asked to assist the professional
coach, and another is to be sent to tour country
districts in search of potential McKibbins or Howells •
any found will be brought to Sydney and put
through his paces. Still more experts are to tour
the parks, with both eyes peeled for trundling talent.
It is a plan of campaign which deserves to succeed,
and probably will.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Was there ever seen else-
where such a steady flow of cricket talent as the
fate John Hill gave to South Aus.? A sound player
himself he made the first hundred scored on the
present Adelaide. Oval—he taught all his many sons
to hold a straight bat. Clem, who came about
midway, was by far the brightest star in the con-
stellation. Roy got as far as being 12th man in
a Test match; as it happened, he fielded (in Adel-
aide) for two whole days for Clem, who finally came
out, literally hardly fit to stand, and made a cen-
tury that is talked of to this day. But Arthur
and Peter, Harry and Frank, and finally “Solly”
(well known in Sydney) were all also of inter-
state form.
* * * #
Adelaide University cricket club, at its
annual meeting, prided itself on a number of things
done last season. It won the premiership of district
cricket for the first time; it had doubtless the young-
est team ever premiers; it provided three men for
the South Aus. XI, and it brought forward Alex-
ander, for whom the highest honors are predicted.
* * * *
Maorilander Randolph Rose, who went
round the globe to show that he could run faster
than Paavo Nurmi, and who is returning without
having even set eyes on the Finn, brings back one
record with him—the French 3000 metres. He met
Guillemot, the holder, in a race over that distance in
Paris, and clipped 1 l-ssec. off the time, which
now stands at Bmin. 41sec. —Nurmi’s world’s record
is Bmin. 25 3-ssec. Rose reckons he could have done
better if the other competitors, all Frenchmen, hadn’t
pocketed him for a couple of laps.
* * *
The Darwin-to-Adelaide motor-car record
of Francis Birtles has been obliterated by Dr Allan
McKay and Barney Woods, both of Melbourne, who
took 6 days 17 hours 51min. over the (estimated)
2000 miles. Six days would be ample, they report,
if the traveller could turn his back on the hospitality
along the way. Except for sticking in a sandy
river-bed near Pine Greek, and for a bent axle i'n
a wash-out near Marree, Allan and Barney met
little trouble.
THE CASH THAT ASCHE MADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Oscar Asche, actor and producer, admitted in th<
Bankruptcy Court that he made £120,000 ovei
‘Chu Chin Chow.’ In eight ygars he had sustained i
dead loss of £45,000 over the breeding, training
and racing of greyhounds.”
This is the “oscar” Asche made.
(Six-figure div. from “Chu Chin Chow”:
Did ever you hear of a luckier cow?)
This is the hole that yawrns in the “oscar” Asche
made.
(Forty-four thousand, three and six,
Liabilities; assets nix.)
These are the hounds that ate the hole that yawns
in the “oscar” Asche made.
(Long dogs, as folk in Lancashire say*,
And these were a bit too long on the way.)
These are the hares that ’scaped the hounds that
ate the hole that yawns in the “oscar” Asche made.
(Merry brown hares, of Kingsley’s rhyme,
But none so merry at coursing time.)
These are the dogs more fleet of foot that caught the
hares that ’scaped the hounds that ate the hole that
yawns in the “oscar” Asche made.
(Fullertons, doubtless —seldom astern,
Piling up points at every turn.)
These are the shrewdies, bred to the trade and wise
to the game, their bets who made on the fleeter
dogs that caught the hares that ’scaped the hounds
that ate the hole that yawns in the “oscar” Asche
made.
(Keen as mustard and sharp as spikes,
Liverpool Dickies and Yorkshire tykes.)
This is the Ikey Mo brigade, the odds to one and all
who laid (including actors), but only paid their cash
to the shrewdies, bred to the trade and wise to the
game, their bets who made on the fleeter dogs that
caught the hares that ’scaped the hounds that ate
the hole that yawns in the “oscar” Asche made.
(Bull-necked roarers in raiment flash;
“What are you backing, Mr. Asche?”)
This is the Registrar, stern and staid, in court where
the latest play was played, the tale of the Ikey Mo
brigade, the odds to one and all who laid (including
actors), but only paid their cash to the shrewdies,
bred to the trade and wise to the game, their bets
who made on the fleeter dogs that caught the hares
that ’scaped the hounds that ate the hole that yawns
in the “oscar” Asche made.
(Gallery, circles, pit and stalls
Under one wig—and no cheers or calls.
“Case adjourned” and the curtain falls.)
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Km®
■
CREPE-
SOLED
BOOTS
and
>SHOES.
Walk in Comfort.
Crepe Rubber-Soled Boots and
Shoes are wonder wearing and
just the thing for country roads
and tramping over grass.
Write for Illus-
trated List of
Ladies’ and
Oant.’s Crepe-
soled Footwear.
88113. —GENT.’S BLACK BOOTS,
good quality, leather lined, wide fit,
stout crepe rubber soles, 38/6.
Post 1/-
B9I2O.—TAN WORKING BOOT,
same style as above, in strong elk
leather, stout crepe soles, 36/6.
Post 1/-
89115.
CREPE - SOLED
RIDING BOOTS,
black or tan. 35/-
Post 1/-
Witli Leather Soles,
22/6. Post 1/-
4
/ i-
#
MM
HR
89115.
Walther# Stevenson, Ltd.
395 George Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
COR SALE, Collection of Bulletins from
L April, 1880, to present date. In good
Order. No. 117 Bulletin Office.
Public Notice.
jyjISS H. M. LANDER, Expert Motor Driver. Open
engagement bv hour, day or week. Ten years’
City and Inter-State Experience. Driving Lessons.
7 Kensington Road, South Yarra. ’Phone: W 6815.
ĥ
The beauty of well-planned
rooms often depends upon the
finish of the walls and wood-
work. Ripolm is the most
beautiful and practical Enamel
which can be used for this pur-
pose, as it has a rich sheen that
retains an atmosphere of
elegance. Ripolm adds beauty
to the dining-room just as it
does to all other rooms in the
house.
Write for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
STANDARD AGENCIES
PTY., LTD.,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: central. 11054.
IN I Vd
White and 65 artistic
shades.
OhW«Cc«>MtTM
FAIRBANKS SCALES
ħ
Fairbanks Portable
Platform Scales are
known and used through'
out the world in all kinds
of commercial establish'
ments for weighing all
kinds of light and heavy
merchandise. Made in
many styles for every
weighing purpose.
Representative for Australia :
R. W, WINNING,
380 Sussex Street, Sydney; 235 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE FAIRBANKS C0.,416 Broome St., New York, U.S. A.
ACCURATE DEPENDABLE
4
Hardtmuth s
so
COPYING PENCIL
Also in colours <
Volel, Black, Grccn,Wlow ana Carnatic
h
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
Clifford Love & Co., Ltd., Sydney
)'
//ost I/ol6rooA Says ~*
“I blend. I stir and 1 brew
the Sauce of the House of
. Holbrook. Aye, and then
| I mature it in vats of
3 English oak.”
ĥ
Models:
lk/hOh-v ., 20/60h.p.,
SO/90h.p. and 3-litre.
Fitted with Four-wheel Brakes.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars for i
British People •
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars arc available from
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supermoco, London
Works, Wolverhampton.
THE INKY WAY.
“Ces”: The editor of the local rag was
suffering a recovery, and the proprietor (the
local timber merchant) was carrying on.
I strolled into the office late at night and
found him and the stoneliand poring over a
bulky volume and a cable flimsy. Asked the
trouble, they handed me the cable which
read, “Obit Lord Hawhaw angina pec-
toris.” “And we can’t find the damn place
anywhere,” complained the boss, closing the
“Gazetteer of the World” with a' vicious
slam.
A long-established Inky Way attachment
finishes with the departure of cartoonist
Hal Eyre from Sydney Daily Telegraph,
whose political notions he has illustrated
for 18 years. Eyre goes to Brisbane Daily
Mail.
“Tenakohe”: Recent pars, anent theatri-
cal papers bring to mind a hectic publica-
tion called Stageland, which I once edited.
The proprietor was W. J. Miller, and one
of the things impressed on me was that I
was on no account to use the word “foot-
lights” in my columns; the reason was that
Daniels, the billposter, had started a small
weekly in opposition and called it Foot-
lights. Right up to the untimely decease
of Stageland, that almost indispensable
word was anathema. The mere sight of it
in any paper, let alone his own, was to
Miller as a red parasol to a bull.
“II.” : The power of a paragraph. I had
gone from Sydney to the little mountain vil-
lage of Faulconbridge to look at a cottage,
and quite accidentally saw Henry Parkes’s
resting-place. Its unkempt condition struck
me as worthy of a par., which ran to just
14 lines —a mere matter of a couple of bob.
from my point of view. But within a week
there had been a regular earthquake in the
daily press; meetings carried motions of pro :
test, and letters poured in on editors; the
Melbourne papers made even more of the
“shabby treatment by N.S.W. of the memory
of a great statesman” ; and, somebody asking
a question in the Assembly, the Government
promptly promised a grant to put the grave
into a good condition and maintain it so.
Which promise was kept.
“Hamer”: My most unique experience
regarding payment as a freelance was with
the eternally unfinancial John Haynes, then
running the Newsletter. Just before one
Christmas Haynes stopped me in the street
with the suggestion that I must have a
number of stories and verses which had
balanced on the edge of Bulletin accept-
ance before falling outward; lie asked me
to let him have a batch. “I’ll pay you for
them,” he added assuringly. He used the
five stories and four sets of verses sub-
mitted ; but the office treasury was hard to
find. Everybody declined responsibility, and
referred me to someone else, until John took
me to the pub opposite, shouted a drink, and
pushed two half-crowns towards me. “See
me here every Friday, and I’ll give you the
same on account,” he said. I collected that
five bob —and a drink —more or less regu-
larly for 18 months, and thereby secured the
reputation of being the Newsletter’s lucki-
est contributor.
“Oxmead”: “Referendums” is quite the
most hideous and impossible word I ever
see in cold type. If we must go to a dead
language for a label to fit a comparatively
modern method of voting, surely there is no
need to bastardise a word by tacking the
English plural s on to the Latin singular.
Why not “referenda”? —we don’t speak of
“erratums.” Or, better still, why not “folk-
vote” or something like that?
Vic.’s Crown Prosecutor, Sam Leon, K.C.,
who has just retired, will be remembered by
old Bulletin readers as the barrister whom
Tom Durkin delighted to caricature. Leon's
Wellington nose found its way into most of
Durkin’s Court pictures.
“H.M.” : The lot of the freelance, except
in the way of an enlarged market, has not
improved in the same ratio as that of the
staff men; nevertheless, press conditions
generally show a great advance on those of
20 years ago. That very capable writer,
Arthur Edwards, went from the chair of the
Sydney Newsletter to that of the National
Advocate, Bathurst, like a man entering
the Land of Promise. Later he amazed me
by confiding that his salary was only 30s.
per week, “But you get it,” he added pathe-
tically. The first regulation of journalists’
conditions was secured by agreement between
the Worker and the Writers and Artists’
Union. It was the basis for subsequent
terms secured by the A.J.A., whose path
was made easy because the big dailies pre-
ferred it to a union affiliated with the
Trades Hall. Tom Mutch (now Minister
for Education), Hehir (still with the
Worker) and I were the union delegates
who secured that pioneer agreement.
Tom Hunt, who has been running the
Kilmore Free Press (Vic.) for 60 years
or more, passed the 86th mile-post of his
pilgrimage the other day. In acknowledg-
ing greetings from former political associates
lie broadcast good wishes to the “old bri-
gade.” If he meant the crowd that, was in
the Leg. Assembly with him, it is but a
remnant now. Of the 64 who sat with Tom
in the House prior to his retirement in
December, 1908, only 13 are left —A. A.
Billson, Bowser, Carlisle, Cotter, Downward,
Lawson, Lemmon, Oman, Peacock, Prender-
gast, Solly, Toutcher and Tunnecliffe.
“Topee”: Probably no other Bulletin
contributor has been so much impersonated
as the late Phil Mowbray (“Scotty the
Wrinkler”). Speaking for the Riverina
alone, I doubt if there was a single shed
where he had not cooked, while one rarely
met a drover for whom, at some time or
other, he had not “rolled the ashman.” I
referred to this when I met him at Boat-
harbor shortly before his death; he replied
mournfully that if the future held all the
drinks blasphemers had collected in his name
he would view it with confidence. At
one time Phil had a commission in the Im-
perial Army. It was to his recognition by
the Battery Commander that he attributed
his rejection when applying for enlistment
in the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery. But he
was always careful to admit that he wore
silk socks and was slightly sprung at the
time, and that might have had something to
do with it.


PAYING for WHAT WE SHOULD MAKE
£6,000,000 OF RUBBER ARTICLES
Britain Controls
80 per cent.
Of Crude Rubber,
|WHill*WW*
MORE GOLD FOR U.S.A
Per S.S. “Sonoma.”
U.S.A. Controls
80 per cent.
Of Manufactured
Rubber,
THE AUSTRALIAN RUBBER CO., LTD.
IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO ASSERT YOURSELF FOR AUSTRALIA, AND SHARE
THE GREAT PROFITS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY.
World’s Patents held for improved methods in
Floor Coverings - - Paving Blocks - - Roofing Tiles - - Insulators - - Footwear - - Wheels, etc.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £250,000, DIVIDED INTO £1 SHARES
SHARES.
72,000 Shares of £1 each are now offered to the public for subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on
allotment, and the balance in calls of not more than 2s. 6d. per share at intervals of not less than one month.
28,000 Shares are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendors or their nominees, together with £2OOO cash, as consideration for the
transfer of certain options and patent rights set out in the body of the Prospectus.
150,000 Shares are to be held in reserve, and to be issued as and when and on what terms the Directors think advisable.
A STRONG DIRECTORATE.
Composed of men high in business esteem whose connection with this Company
is a sign of success. A combination of integrity, ability and experience rarely
found.
P. H. MORTON. Esq., 19 Bligh Street, Sydney. Late general manager of the
Australian Bank of Commerce, a director of high capacity, ripe judgment
and untiring energy, who for 13 years discharged the duties as chairman.
J. MILLICAN, Esq., Bellevue Road, Woollahra. A director of Hotel Australia,
Ltd.; senior partner of E. D. Miles & Co., sharebrokers, Charters Towers, and
with a wide and active interest in several companies.
P. K. CLARKE, Esq., 47 Cowles Road, Mosman. A director of the North
Australian Rubber Mills, Limited, a successful company turning out 20,000
pairs of rubber shoes per week; and with other wide business experience.
E. A. BTJTTENSHAW, M.L.A., Concord Road, Strathfield. Chairman of directors
of the Voluntary Wheat Pool of N.S.W.; a director of the Farmers’ Implement
Co., Ltd., and with a vast business connection.
MARKETS TO BE TAPPED IN AUSTRALIA.
FLOOR COVERINGS. —Pleasing, clean and healthy, the Australian Rubber Co.,
Ltd.’s, products have the advantage of not being liable to creep or blister.
They are light and strong, non-inflammable, and of any color and design.
PAVING BLOCKS. —Wood blocks cannot compete as regards price, and Adelaide
Council, after considerable experience with them, is asking for quotes for
further supplies.
INSULATORS.—The turning out of the material only is a trade in itself, while
if the Company wishes it can afterwards handle the production of the finished
article.
FOOTWEAR. —It is amazing that rubber soles and heels, rubber shoes and boots
are not all made here. The Australian Rubber Co., Ltd., will endeavor to
supply all demands.
ROOFING TILES. —Constant weight, pleasing color and insulating should keep
these ahead of all competition.
DISC MOTOR WHEELS. —We have the world’s patents for this invention, a
non-puncturable wheel and tyre combined, with the comfort of a pneumatic
tyre.
INVEST WHILE SHARES ARE AT PAR-NOW
In five years U.S.A. plans to be independent of Great Britain for rubber supplies. Will Australia be independent of U.S.A.
for rubber manufactures?
INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT.
Extract (tlie full report is included in the full Prospectus) : ,
Messrs. H. B. Allard, Way and Hardie, Public Accountants, of 28 and 30
O’Connell Street, Sydney, report as follows: —
Estimated Profits.
It will thus be seen that, taking the sales at . . .. .. £120,821
and deducting therefrom the cost of production and distribution .. 88,250
would result in an estimated annual profit of .. . . .. .. £32,571
This, on a capital of £lOO,OOO would show a return of a little over 321 p.c.,
subject to taxation. ————
Selling Brokers —
METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS, LTD,,
16 HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, ADELAIDE.
To METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS, LTD.,
16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Please allot me shares in the Australian Rubber
Company, Ltd. I enclose my cheque for being
at the rate of 2/6 per share on application.


HUNTING KNIVES
MAItBLE’S “IDEAL” Hunting Knife. Splendid
skinning blade. Well balanced. Compressed
leather handle. Steel hilt. sin. finest-quality
icmpered-steel blade 15 / -
MARBLE’S “WOODCRAFT” Hunting Knife,
44in. highly-tempered steel blade. Compressed
leather handle 12/6
.MARBLE’S SAFETY FOLDING HUNTING
KNIFE. The handiest, most compact, 4in. best-
uuality steel blade. Stag handle .... 157-
SOLID LEATHER SHEATHS SUPPLIED
WITH ALL ABOVE KNIVES.
WADE & BUTCHER, Pocket Knife, 2jin. skin-
ning blade and 2in. cutting blade. Very strong.
Complete with shackel and chain. Price, 57-
Sole Agents for Marble’s Knives and Arms:
GUN AND CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
EDGEWORTH
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & GO., SYDNEY.
p^\wwr"w?
EVERREADY
TORCHESi
The Worlds Best
h
Look for (hr Trademark! Agenta Everywhere.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “They Knew What They Wanted”
Royal “Mary Rose”
Grand Opera House .... “The Sentimental Bloke”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Tell Me More”
Royal “Katja”
King’s “Is Eat So?”
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
Athenjsum “Nothing but Lies”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
If there is any proposition seriously put
forward in “They Knew What They
Wanted,” staged by Maurice Moscovitch at
Sydney Criterion last Saturday night, it is
that, even as a dog is legally entitled to one
bite, a really good girl, given extenuating cir-
cumstances, is entitled to one hour of unlaw-
ful love, and is unlucky if there are conse-
quences. The extenuation for Amy is pro-
vided by the fact that when the elderly Italian
grape-grower, Tony, arranged by correspon-
dence to marry her, lie forwarded the photo-
graph of his young foreman, Joe (who had
also written the letters), for her inspection.
Tired of the drudgery of the waitress’s life
in a Dago cafe at ’Frisco, and attracted by
the young face in the photograph, Amy defi-
nitely makes up her mind to love, honor and
obey the possessor of the face. After spend-
ing her last nickel in reaching the scene, she
is naturally resentful at finding that her
husband-to-be is an elderly Italian who has just
broken both his legs in a motor-accident. Yet
she steels herself to go on with the marriage,
which Tony, lying on his stretcher, insists
should take place in spite of his breakages.
Thereafter the full brass band of emotion
blares at its loudest. After the happy bride-
groom has been given the sleeping-draught
which the doctor regards as imperative for
his patient, Joe and Amy, left alone together,
reach an explanation of the situation; and
the proximity of the girl who has trained
herself to regard him as her prospective
husband causes Joe, who is used to swift
amours, to forget that Tony is his best
friend. In the next act the story jumps
three months to the time when the conse-
quence of the manoeuvre has to be
faced. Amy, for his kindliness and good
qualities, has learnt to love her husband;
.Toe is a penitent Lothario ; and happiness is
finally dredged from a maelstrom of troubles
by the noble forgiveness of Tony.
* * * *
Sidney Howard’s play yields evidences of
having been written expressly to inflame the
critics and shock the conventional, but it
has some advantage over such a hectic pro-
duction as “The Lady.” It is a story of crude
people actuated by crude emotions, and
there is some stark realism in the language,
especially in the matter of obstetrics; but
the atmosphere is not morbid, and acting
of a high order mitigated some of the objec-
tionableness. The Tony of Maurice Mosco-
vitch was an animated person whose raw
desires, including his preference for fat
women and his eagerness for children, were
as real as his kindly good qualities; and
Nat Madison made Joe a very plausible
rebel against the conventions. Ellen Pol-
lock gave herself an excellent introduction
in portraying the embarrassment of the un-
sophisticated girl who introduces herself in
a half-shy, half-assertive way to the man
she thinks is to he her future husband. If
the strenuousness of the emotional passages
found her a little lacking, the call made
upon her was a big one, and on the opening
night she was still sobbing almost hysteri-
cally when the curtain rose for the recall
of the company. Alexander Sarner some-
times misused the Irish brogue in his delinea-
tion of Father McKee; he, with J. B. Athol-
wood, as Ah Gee —a very neat study—and
George Zucco, as the business-like doctor,
were the only others who mattered particu-
larly in a cast helped out by some very
good singing voices off-stage.
There is ratlier more than the usual allow-
ance of Barrie’s saccharine and whimsical
sentimentality in “Mary Rose,” the tender
ghost story which was given its first Aus-
tralian airing at the Sydney Royal on
Friday with all the artistic circumstance
expected in a Boucicault production.
Harry, who ran away in his boyhood to
Australia and has returned as a soldier in
the A.1.F., spends an after-the-w-ar holiday
with his grandparents and learns the story
of his mother, who, in her childhood, had a
mystic adventure in an enchanted Hebri-
dean island. The act skips back 30
years to expound the sweetness of the
love affair between Mary Rose and
Harry’s father, Simon. Harry meets his
ghost mother, who has retained her
youth in the land of shadows; and the
meeting is made impressive by the contrasts
between modes and ideas of two periods
and the mystical music supplied by the
orchestra to indicate the shadow people who
have had a hold upon Mary Rose ever
since her childish escapade. The mother,
although haunting the old house in a search
for her offspring, does not recognise him in
the grown man.
* * * *
There is good opportunity for Brian
Alierne in the contrast afforded by the dual
parts of Harry, the son who has become
transformed by the Australian open lands,
and Simon, the essentially matter-of-fact but
pawkily humorous Scottish father, who is
amused by his bride’s ghost adventures; the
second role was the better portrayed. Someone
during the war remarked that he could tell
an Australian soldier even in pyjamas; and
the actor lacks just that subtle characteristic
that made such recognition possible. Angela
Baddeley supplies all the charm and the
occasional yearning demanded in Mary Rose.
Hubert Harben, as Morland, the stout
magistrate who still bears traces of a sport-
ing youth, and Mary Jerrold, as Mrs. Mor-
land, a gentle peacemaker and composer of
quarrels arising between some of the other
characters, supplied most of the humor that
keeps the play from dragging. Norman
MacOwan, as the Highlander Cameron, was
excellent; and Mary Hinton lifts herself
another step from the amateur by her repre-
sentation of Mrs. Otery, the nervous care-
taker, who is worried by ghostly mysteries.
The only other part, that of a quick-
tempered cleric, the Rev. George Amy, is in
the hands of Frederick Culley.
Ibsen’s “Enemy of the People” has come
down from the shelf to fulminate for one
week only at the Sydney Palace. The Reper-
torians, of course, are responsible for the re-
vival, and here and there make heavy weather
of what was after all intended by the drama-
tist to be something of the nature of a chal-
lenge in the teeth of fate. Dr. Stockmann’s
final cry is tantamount to Henley’s: “I am
the master of my fate, I am the captain of
my soul.” Gregan McMahon, as the doctor
at war with his world, is extraordinarily
atmospheric, but inclined to boom a bit
too loudly in the early scenes. Many of the
old reformer’s speeches might have been
subbed, too, with advantage. Ida Rosc-
Taylor makes a spirited wife to her lord
when he is waging war on the municipal
authorities for not remodelling the civic
baths. The Petra of Helga Rolunde is one
of the sparkles of the production, and Vin-
cent Doyle’s burgomaster, Peter Stockmann,
is an unusual character-study.
“The Sentimental Bloke” will introduce
his Doreen to Sydney audiences at the Opera
House on Saturday; the mummers who
have been hitherto “The Best People” at that
address will transfer themselves to the
Palace, requesting their audience to “Meet
the Wife.” “Mercenary Mary” keeps
the St. James occupied; and although
“Rose Marie” is in its 18th week at Her
Majesty’s good seats have still to be booked
days in advance. Bookings for the near
future include “Abie’s Irish Rose,” which is
to bloom at the Royal on October 23, and
Ada Reeve, whose “Rockets” will go up at
the O.H. a week later.
SYDNEY REPERTORIANS IN “AN
ENEMY OF THE
PEOPLE,” AT
THE PALACE.
Peter Stockmann, the Burgomaster (Vincent
Doyle), and Aslaksen, the printer (J.
E. Campbell).
At Fullers’ the rollicksome, musical
“Frolics” give turns that are teeming with
humorous biz.; and “Black and White
Cargo” in vaudeville argot is parody scream-
ing that “goes with a whiz.”
* * :I: *
New arrivals at the Sydney Tivoli are
little more than a background for the San-
treys, who continue to present syncopated
variations of the most popular classics. It
is artistic jugglery. Jack Merlin is a card-
manipulator who adds a few new phases to
Ins particular branch of magic; and Imito
supplies some capital music and imitations.
There is a lesson for Australian film pro-
ducers in the Harold Lloyd picture, “College
Days,” which opened at the Prince Edward
Theatre on Saturday. Lloyd’s humor is sup-
plemented by the brightly-written captions
—almost every one has a laugh in it. The
agreeable Hawaiians provide a major portion
oi:. the gilded wrappings with which the
Prince Edward surrounds its offerings. The
“LADY, BE GOOD,”
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS.
Elsie Prince, as an automatic Swiss miss,
docs a Marathon. May Beatty as
Madame Parke.
Crystal Palace has started on a new long-
distance venture with “Stella Dallas,” a
story of an untidy woman with kindly in-
clinations but slipshod methods. The lucky
lady who wrote “Mannequin,”’ the Lyceum’s
leading film for this w6ek, won a prize of
£lO,OOO for it. It was good money for a
rather trite story; but there is some sound
acting in the film. Hoyt’s invites its audi-
ences to laugh at a slightly overstrained
farce in “Miss Brewster’s Millions.” At the
King’s Hall, Hunter-street, the “Rejuvena-
tion” picture, produced under the direction
of the Viennese Professor Steinach, is to be
shown on Friday, Saturday and Monday;
and stay-at-home Sydneyites on Saturday
wall be taken on a tour of London at the
Town Hall.
Full of smiles and inspiration, diminutive
Fritz Hart loosed upon a large audience at
Melbourne Playhouse last week his twelfth
grand—or semi-grand—opera. From such a
vigorous and vivacious personality one ex-
pects the same sort of music, and in “Deir-
dre in Exile” it arrived with all the em-
phasis of an acrobat descending from the
wings on to a rubber sheet and bouncing
up and down until his initial momentum was
exhausted. But while the music is full of
energy, the action is - enveloped in Celtic
twilight. The melodious undertaking opens
with a spoken prologue, in which Deirdre
(or her incarnation) is dying in squalor and
exile in England in 1026, no reason for her
exile being supplied. The curtain descends,
to re-arise on a dream of Deirdre’s previous
existence, when King Concliubor, desiring
her for a wife, keeps her ripening womanhood
in cold-storage over against the wedding-
day. Unfortunately for his hopes, a hand-
some gossoon named Naisi walks past the
garden-gate, and Deirdre sees him through
the casement. The curtain is lowered after
an extended argument between the king and
the lovesick girl, no decision, as far as this
Showman could discern, being arrived at.
An epilogue returns to 1926, and Deirdre
dies with the name of her lover on her lips.
The piece can scarcely be described as an
opera, which is something that works; but
as a sketch or adumbration it had merit.
Some of the music was legitimately married
to the emotional outbursts of Deirdre, whom
Lilian Crisp made a perfectly entrancing
colleen, vivid of gesture, supple in her move-
ments and thoroughly persuasive in her an-
guish. She even persuaded the king—though
Howard Andrews, in a scoutmaster’s uni-
form and armed with a fish-spear and weep-
ing-willow whiskers, made that a fairly
easy job—he was the mildest-mannered king
in Irish history. The monarch’s economical
device of ordering his army to stay outside
when he stepped into Deirdre’s room should
be brought to the notice of producers
troubled by the rising cost of supers.
Gluck’s ancient and illusively-charming
“Orpheus” occupied the remainder of a
memorable programme. It was admirably
staged—the Underworld ensemble was
worthy of a Dore. The music is a tnne
monotonous, but Jean Hambleton, as
Orpheus, was a magnificent spectacle, 01
Jovian proportions if modest voice. one
duly pursued Eurydice (tunefully done bv
Millie McCormack) into the Elysian fields,
which resembled theTlutt Valley, near Well-
ington, M.L. The ballets should not be too
harshly judged, and the orchestra, under
Fritz Hart’s direction, was admirable.
That most obliging of Melbourne accompa-
nists, Harold Rodgers, gave a pianoforte
recital of mixed matters at the Assembly
Hall one evening last week, the most note-
worthy exhibit being the Beethoven sonata,
Op. 26. The composer probably set this
work down in a mood of tender melancholy
induced by his countess having missed the
mail. The pianist rattled through it with
great sureness of touch but no particular
sensibility. He was able to exhibit this
virtue better in his Schumann panel. Aimee
Lillyan exploited in some vocal numbers a
husky soprano which does not seem capable
of surprising feats.
* *
Madame Goossens-Viceroy, Clive Carey,
Norman Bennett and a chorus voluminously
garbed will give tongue to Gustav Holst’s
remarkable harmonies in the “Savitri” opera
at Melbourne Playhouse to-night. With
Bernard Heinzc conducting, and Jennie
Brenan guiding the movements of the ballet,
the enterprise will be one of the most bril-
liantly-staged affairs in local history.
Two somewhat different Melbourne shows:
Sweetness and light are the chief characteristics
of Nature in Melbourne’s hinterland according to
Geo. C. Benson, who is showing 35 water-colors at
the New Gallery. Even a bush fire isn’t such a bad
thing, after all, since it turns green leaves to a
restful russet-brown. The artist has a cool eye for
decorative Contrasts, but in his rendering of tones
and the planting of his planes he doesn’t always
stand so securely on his feet. Nos. 1, 22 and 26 are
delicious little pictures, but some of the others have
been too hastily set down. In his two examples in
oil he lias strayed rather diffidently into the romantic
woods hitherto reserved for Blamire Young.
A good Australian who merits the support of all
who view with horror the rising tide of standardised
pots and pans is Merrie Boyd, whose tableful of
Campbellfield (Vic.) clay, punched, coaxed and
burned into enchanting shapes and color harmonies,
is a feature of the latest exhibition of the Arts and
Crafts Society. A man who sets out, in these days
of mass production by machinery, to maintain a
wife and four children on the creations of his own
artistic hands is a hero, but Boyd is slowly making
good. No manufacturer has yet realised the beauty
and value of his work, but private patrons are
growing, and some day, no doubt, the Australian bear
will take the place of the imported China poodle
on the nation’s mantelpiece. Potter Boyd intends
to show his work at the Feminist Club in Sydney
on Oct. 19.
While rumors of a merger between the two
great managements are being hourly an-
nounced and denied every minute, Melbourne
playhouses are maintaining business as usual,
and, in some cases, better than usual. “Is
ZatSo?” the pugilistic comedy at the King’s;
the overwhelming “Katja,” at the Royal;
“Tell Me More,” at His Majesty’s; and
“Lady, Be Good!” at the Princess, are
attracting large numbers. “Abie’s Irish
Rose” is still in its first year at the Palace,
and at the Athenaeum Harry Green is turning
“Nothing but Lies” into nothing but laughter.
** * *
The Bulletin man took the wrong turn-
ing at Melbourne Tivoli the other night, and
landed in a part of the theatre he hadn’t seen
since he became a dramatic critic and the
recipient of dress-circle passes from managers
eager to know his inspired opinion of their
shows. Anybody w T ho has never surveyed the
Tivoli stage from the gods has missed some-
thing. It is like looking at affairs on an-
other planet through the wrong end of the
telescope. Distance takes the edge off the
American accent and you can inspect the
back of the soubrette simultaneously with
her front. Also you see the top of her head
instead of the face part, which is sometimes
no disadvantage. On the occasion when this
Showman lost himself, Gautier’s dogs were
at their bricklaying again and they looked
like mites on a round of cheese. Dorothy
Lena resembled herself as seen in a concave
mirror and the Winskills seemed to be crawl-
ing round the floor instead of flying through
the air. The jokes that emerged from Story
and Lee, cinema follies, appeared to be far
from fresh, but that may have been due to
the distance they had to travel.
At Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week Jack
Holt and Florence Vidor are riding “Sea
Horses” through a variety of adventures to
the matrimonial stables. Hollywood’s notion
of life in the tropics is a feature of the film.
Rex, a highly-trained but_ unconvincing
equine, is the “Black Cyclone” at the Majes-
tic, which in addition is taking its patrons
behind the screen in an Oppenheim version
of movie life called “Behold This Woman.”
(Continued on page 36.)


A Racket worthy of the skill of
the Greatest Tennis Champion—
The “Masterstroke.”
m
mm.
A product of fine craftsmanship, constructed of the best obtainable in
materials, this Racket is perfect in weight, shape and balance. Undoubtedly
the “Masterstroke” represents the finest example of an Australian-
made Racket. It is being used consistently by some of the leading
and most promising players in New South Wales
77/6
The Britannic Improved Racket.
Unusual strength is the outstanding feature of this Racket.
Strung with dependable Gut, with shoulders bound with
tape and gut, and throat reinforced with greenhide. Per-
fectly shaped and balanced and beautifully fin- .
ished, it is a Racket that stands in the front rank. 55
The Lightning Improved Racket.
The ideal Racket for the average Player. Perfectly
balanced and of high-grade Ash, with concave throat and
shoulders reinforced with gut. Strung with depend- .
able English gut, it is capable of lasting service. . 5(Jj“
The Haymarket Racket.
The perfect Racket for the Schoolboy or Schoolgirl.
Beautifully finished and dependable in every way,
it is value supreme at
30/-
The Haymarket
Selected Racket.
Made of specially-selected English Ash,
bevelled frame, shoulders bound with
gut, and throat reinforced with green-
hide. Without doubt it is the most reasonably-
priced high-grade Racket on the market to-day. 45 m
The Lee Monogram Racket.
Universally acknowledged as the world’s finest Tennis
Racket. In two qualities.
STANDARD MODEL 75 1-
DE LUXE MODEL 85 1-
TENNIS BALLS.
AYRES’ FAMOUS “UNION” STITCHLESS HARDCOURT BALLS.—A special Hardcourt Ball
(We Pay Carriage.)
..2/1 each; 24 j-
doz.
> f
* n
y>
4
Ly
ft
4
SI
“Will Corry”
Autograph Golf Clubs.
Manufactured from specifications supplied by Mr. Will Corry, one of Australia’s foremost Golf
Professionals, and fitted with A-Grade Hickory Shafts, with specially-prepared grips. Each Club is
individually tested and inspected by Mr. Corry and carries our guarantee. These Clubs have been
quickly recognised by some of the leading and most experienced Players in Australia as representing
the highest standard in the intricate art of Club-making.
BRASSIES, DRIVERS AND SPOONS .25/-
IRONS 18/6
SPECIAL GRADED IRONS 20 1-
“JACK WHITE” AUTOGRAPH CLUBS.
Brassies and Drivers 25/-
Irons 20/-
“JAMES BRAID” AUTOGRAPH CLUBS.
Brassies and Drivers -
Irons 20/-
“WALTER HAGEN” AUTOGRAPH CLUBS.
Brassies and Drivers
THE FAMOUS “GLENEAGLE” GOLF CLUBS... 10/6
MANCHO MAXWELL IRONS 16/6
ANDERSENS’ STAINLESS & RUSTLESS CLUBS. . 20/-
BROWN CANVAS GOLF BAG.
Leather Fittings throughout 12/6
FAWN CANVAS GOLF BAG.
Superior Leather Fittings, cane supports, Very light and
strong. Suitable Bag for Lady or Gentleman
4|- inch 18/6
s'inch 21/-
(We Pay Carriage.)
Cricketers!
Mick Simmons’s wonderful displays of Cricket Bats and requisites for the game outrival anything of
the kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
M.S. SPECIAL BATS. C. AND S. SPORTS CO.’S SPECIAL BATS.
M.S. ALL-CANE, special practice 13/9
M.S. TORNADIC DRIVER, treble rubber ... 21/-
COITNTY DRIVERS, single rubber 32/6
COUNTY DRIVERS, double rubber 37/6
COUNTY DRIVERS, treble rubber 40/-
EXTRA SPECIAL 357-
EXTRA SPECIAL, selected 407-
EXTRA SPECIAL, specially selected .... 45/-
m
a
(We Pay Carriage.)
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED TENNIS, GOLF OR CRICKET CATALOGUES.
Vd
mm
m
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.’
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
a 6
joy
OX
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
set
in pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
A refreshing variation on the usual entre-
preneur is Thorpe McConv ille, who has been
entertaining Melbourne with his version of
“Wild Australia” at Wirtlis’ New Olympia.
Where the everyday producer insults the
intelligence of his public with stories of
how he seduced Flo Flipflop from the Zeig-
feld Follies with an offer of £3OO a week,
McConville relates how he rescued Merry
Widow from a Chinaman at Echuca for 305.,
and by means of oats and good treatment
turned her into a self-respecting mare with
all the original devil in her. Incidentally,
at Saturday’s matinee the lady mentioned
sent one hero who tried to sit her to the
hospital, but before the show ended a cheer-
ful message arrived to say that the victim
(with three stitches in his head) would
like to meet her again, view to mat., at the
evening performance. An engaging member
of the troupe is Dynamite, a 30-year-old
donkey who sheds small boys . as a duck
sheds raindrops. The only lad who stayed
in the air in her vicinity for more than two
seconds was a South Melbourne juvenile
who is suspected of having learnt his art
on the electric horse at the Y.M.C.A.
Another thrilling item is the local variant of
William Tell who opens beer bottles and
plucks cigarettes out of people’s mouths
with an 18-foot stockwhip. This show is
the genuine article.
* * *
At Melbourne Bijou this week, Jim Gerald
is using “The Tennis Club” to knock laughs
out of his audiences. A hilarious first-part
feature is Con Moreni’s topical ditty,
“2010 A.D.”
** * *
Wirths’ Circus, as far back as this paper
can remember, has hit Melbourne in the old
address on Caulfield Cup night. This year
it will smash all precedent by opening a day
earlier, on Friday, October 15.
* * * *
The latest Sentimental Bloke at Adelaide
Royal is old friend Fred MacDonald, who
gives a manly “straight” rendering of the
part. Dulcie Cherry is a pleasant Doreen ;
but her daintiness makes more puzzling than
ever the fascination the Bloke (exercised
over that maiden. The Ginger Mick part
has been written up a bit for Bert Bailey,
and he scores throughout, though the almost
weepful final curtain does not attract. As
regards film-plays. “The Phantom of the
Opera” is at the York; West’s exhibits the
always steady attraction of broken bridge
and thundering “Overland Limited”; and
Wondergraph contrasts the tremendous flood
of the Ibanez “Torrent” with Ilarry Lang-
don’s attractive foolishness.
From Adelaide: —
The latest one-man show is by Millward Grey, at
the Dunster Gallery. Distinctly versatile, as befits
one whose main work lies in teaching, Grey shows
sound etchings, and striking portrait-drawings of
the hard and clear type. In his paintings,
imagination is the quality that attracts. He loves
to show a bit of hilltop, with one or two old-world
figures displayed against a vast quantity of sky.
Specially alluring is the study of a witch of quite
ordinary size, who, by a cunning arrangement of
lights, throws a fearsome shadow. Prices are
moderate, and sales encouraging.
“Ibn el Issar”: Five Indian potentates,
including the Aga Khan and the Maharajah
of Kashmir, are combining on a big scheme
for breaking Hollywood’s stranglehold on the
vast Indian film market. The idea is to
subsidise a chain of picture-shows present-
ing British films and others not tainted with
the more objectionable features of Holly-
wood production. About time, too. The
promiscuous mingling of the sexes in public,
as practised by European peoples, has
always been a source of disgust and wonder-
ment even to low-caste Hindu and low-class
Moslem. Besides, the favorite. American
practice of depicting the Briton as a fool or
a coward, or both, does harm; but not nearly
so much as the other.
“Amity” : The prospect of all films being
produced by color-photography is worrying a
lot of fish-shop waiters and factory tabbies
who have become Hollywood stars. For
color-photography, it seems, the film-actor
must have a “color personality,” and many
too-well-known inflictions have made the
appalling discovery that they register badly
in color. Some, indeed, have visions of being
relegated to the flatliead-foundry and the
jam-factory while present-day nonentities
who register well scintillate in their stead.
“Ibsenshaw”: There are never any good
plays in England, if we are to believe what
returned Australian theatrical managers
tell us. And yet ! Three years ago
there was produced in London one of the
most thoughtful and original pieces this
century has seen, called “Outward Bound.’
It has only a small cast of characters; it
calls for no elaborate scenery ; yet its interest
is tense, absorbing, from curtain-rise to
curtain-fall. Since it was originally staged,
the play has had 47 different productions in
various parts of the world. But we have not
seen it —and a lot of us never will.
Poverty
Point
“Flaming Youth”: One result of the
polite understanding between the Ward-
Fuller and Williamson-Tait firms will be the
opening of W.-F.’s “Abie’s Irish Rose” at
W.-T.’s Sydney Royal on October 23, when
the Boucicault people have departed. The
Jewish play was to have been put on at the
christening of the upper theatre in the St.
James building on December 26; but no
work has been done upon that. The W.-
Fullers have a monopoly of M.L. theatrical
houses, some of which, by virtue of an
expiring arrangement, have been hired by
the W.-Taits, and the latter find it con-
venient to exchange courtesies in Australia.
But people with reigning successes have
opened their mouths wider and wider since
the two firms began bidding against one
another abroad; and this, I fancy, is the
main reason for the understanding which
mustn’t be called “amalgamation.”
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Noel Coward has
surprised the critics with his new play, “The
Queen Was in the Parlor,” in which Madge
Titheradge has a part. It is a romance with
a touch of melodrama, reminiscent of the
Ruritania themes dealt with by Anthony
Hope, and in its tragic climax recalling a
scene in Zangwill’s last production. Coward
cleverly introduces references to Ruritania
and some of Hope’s characters, but treats
the story in a manner entirely his own.
It is not his best play, but it lias been re-
ceived with remarkable enthusiasm.
“Yarra Ben”: A hard-worked number in
the new Yankee
musical - comedy,
“Lady, Be Good,”
at Melbourne Prin-
cess, lias for its
refrain, “A cup of
coffee, a sandwich
—and you !” That
may be all right for
prohibiti onist
America, but give
me the Omar ver-
sion.
“S pf e arshake” :
The happy ending
of the picture-play
has had a long and
wearisome r u n ;
but there are occa-
sional lapses into
reality. “The Tor-
rent,” one of the
most artistic iilm-
plays ever seen in
Sydney, begins as a
love affair, and fol-
lows the theme to
its natural end. The
youth is driven by
liis mother’s ambi-
tion into politics,
while the girl be-
comes a world-re-
n o w ned singer.
After many years
they meet again;
and the scene is
set for the overdue
reconciliation. Full
of poignant recol-
lections, the prima
donna, still in ap-
pearance young,
greets her adorer
of the past. She
sees an elderly
family man, pros-
perous and self-
sufficient. The pool-
man has coarsened
with his success.
He has developed
a tummy. The idyll
is over.
“Hamfat”: Paderewski lias signed a con-
tract with the Taits for a series of con-
certs, starting in March next; he comes back
with the glory of having been President of
Poland, No doubt Pad. will be glad to see
Wangaratta (Vic.) again. Wangaratta, he
has said, was the only Australian town of
his acquaintance in which some small boy
did not advise him to get his hair cut.
“Spearshake” : One drawback to the pill-
box Playhouse in Rowe-street, Sydney, is
the lack of a gallery. Duncan Macdougall’s
audience, composed of highbrows, critics,
cranks and a few ordinary blokes, doesn’t
help to create the atmosphere of the theatre.
Neither does its polite applause stimulate
the company to do its best. _ Yells from
the gallery would—but there is no gallery.
Nobody dares to crack even a peanut.
“C. Ockne.v”: tSince Margaret Banner-
man appeared at the London Globe a few
months ago in a piece entitled “There’s No
Fool ,” an epidemic of similar labels has
broken out. Two plays running at present
are called respectively “ , Thy Name Is
Woman” and “None but the Brave .”
Before the epidemic ends we shall probably
have “A Miss is as Good “Give a Dog
“One Swallow , and a
vaudeville show, “One Good Turn •
“Barne Storme” : It pains me to read that
the Actors’ Federation has applied to be in-
cluded in the Theatrical Alliance along with
unions of persons employed in menial capa-
cities in and about theatres. The unionising
of actors was shocking enough, but that
genius should stoop to fraternise wl th
groundlings who drag scenery about anu
show patrons to their seats is terrible. A
certain amount of affable condescension to
persons of this sort is permissible; I have
myself unbent to borrow Is. od. from a
stage carpenter. But to permit oneselt to
associate with them on terms of equality,
to incur the risk of being addressed by one
of them as “Cobber” —shade of Macready.
“J.8.F.”: “Clos V.” (B. 9/9/’26) claims
that the Brisbane Repertorian who played
Marclibanks in “Candida” could not be ex-
celled by any professional in Australia,
except Frank Harvey. Can anyone else
imagine Harvey as the effeminate boy ot 18,
who describes himself as “a snivelling little
whelp” and “a wretched little nervous dis-
ease”? For a more suitable professional
exponent than the robust Harvey
me to Eric Donald, sometime with \\ llkie.
Donald’s impersonation was praised by the
critics during the performances of Shaw s
comedy by Melbourne’s Little Art Cos.
“Ces” : Time was when the Royal Show at
Melbourne was rich in side-shows. This year
there were only four: two glass-blowers -girl
and boy, a team of acrobats, and the smallest
pony in the world. But this does not mean
that the fair-men have all gone. There were
dozens of them on the grounds lamenting the
fact that the society had refused them the
ground space which they _ can secure else-
where. Melbourne Royal is too much of an
industrial business these days to bother about
the old side-showman, with his freaks, his
fakes and his hoarse-voiced spruikers.
From W. Neill, vice-president of Adelaide
Rep. Theatre: —
Despite “Repertorian” (B. 23./9/’26), “A.H.A.’s”
(B. 9/9/’26) par. is only a decimal understated.
Adelaide Repertory can hang up its hat any week-
end on an adequate stage which cost its patrons
over £SOO in renewals.
“Curtain Raiser”: It is a pity Melbourne
Repertory Society decided to donate the pro-
ceeds of its forthcoming performances of
“Twelfth Night” to the Shakspeare memorial
at Stratford-on-Avon. That unlucky village
could well have been left as a museum for
American curiosity. The acquisition of a
repertory theatre here would be a more
useful memorial to the Bard.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: “Is Zat So?,” now in
Melbourne, introduces a boxing-match as one
of its attractions. A score of years ago Alf
Woods, who was associated with Maud Wil-
liamson, made “Big Jim” —an adaptation of
Conan Doyle’s “Rodney Stone” —his leading
bill, and figured as the hero-pug in the
prize-fight scene. Ilis opponent was Billy
McCarthy, who helped to earn liis salary by-
giving a ball-punching and sparring exhibi-
tion —as a matter of fqct, the salary was
more earned than received. Woods could
use his mits a bit, but not as well as he
thought. His proneness to introduce the
self-offence argument into his many dis-
putes cost him many painful bruises —and
still more painful withdrawals.
“Flaming Youth”: An actor-manager of a
bygone day had two peculiarities—he seldom
addressed any member of his co. off the stage,
and insisted on absolute sobriety on the part
of his employees, though by no means
abstemious himself. One night an angry
demand for the presence of his stage-manager
brought that factotum to his side. The boss
was in the dressing-room corridor, half made-
up, and swaying ominously. With an m-
certain forefinger lie pointed ahead of him.
“Loo’ there, Hardy,” he shouted, with alco-
holic intermissions; “100 - a’ tha’ drunken
beasht! Can’t even slut and up sh-shteadily!
Won’t have susli a degrad’ pershon my com-
pany! Slice tha’ lie’s discharged t’morrow.
Hardy assured him that the thing would be
done, and led him back to his dressing-room.
He never told his employer that the drunk
so virtuously denounced was the boss’s own
reflection in the pier-glass at the end of
the corridor.
“Shrewsbury”: The flavor of Hollywood
is strong in the latest J. B. Hobbs story:
how, when he was making his record score
for Surrey recently, lie stopped the game,
gazing earnestly to square-leg the _ while.
Strong men rushed out from the pavilion bar
and picked up a fluttering sparrow in articuln
mortis after stopping a leg shot from tlie
uncrowned king of Surrey. . He had refused
to carry on until euthanasia had been ex-
tended to the hapless fowl. I can foresee
it all in a topical gazette at some future
movie show. There will be a close-up of
the sparrow (dead) and another of Hobbs
with all the whites of his eyes showing, and
two large glycerine tears finding a reluctant
way down his nose. Then a caption—per-
haps Matthew x, 31: “Fear ye not, ye are
of more value than many sparrows.”
THE VANISHED RACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. , the actor-manager, who is stay-
ing at the Hotel Gorgeous, dined with his Excellency
the Governor last Wednesday.”
The ancient actor struck a pose
Upon the Point of Poverty.
As ruddy as a cray, his nose
Was mirrored in his rheumy eye.
His furrowed cheeks were deeply blue,
As though with woad they had been stained,
And still his coat of greenish hue
A fringe of mangy fur retained.
But with a gesture fine he tossed the lank hair from
his brow,
And cried: “Ye Heavens be my judge, there are no
actor-r-s now.
“Puling imposters mop and mow
Before those spineless gods, who once
Gave short, sharp shrift to any show
That harbored such a flagrant dunce
As Bloggs, who draws ‘capacity,’
Impersonating mannequins,
BUILT FOR THE PURPOSE.
OLD LADY: “I want one of those movie fans I hear so much about;
it do get so stuffy in the picture-shows .”
Or Gertie Gush, whose lingerie
A double ‘curtain’ always wins.
Ah, shade of great Dan Barry, how can Providence
allow
These insults to the Splendid Past! Are there no
actor-r-s now?
“IFe spurned the lure of Guv’men t House,
And sneered at gilded hos.telries,
We turned in dignity to browse
On fat free lunches at our ease;
Or, when the hurricane applause
Greeted the final curtain-call,
To art and fame we called a pause,
And feasted at a coffee-stall;
While to some Actors’ Boarding-house our bed
and scran we’d owe.
An Actors’ Boarding-house! Ye gods, where are
those actor-r-s now?
“When off the stage, the groundlings knew
The actor by his pride of port.
Nor deemed, that splendid mien to view,
He could be clay of common sort.
To-day a hideous change we see:
The modern mummer-—save the mark !
May actually mistaken be
For a reporter or a clerk!
The old-time aura glows no more; it but remains to
bow
The shaking head and face the truth—there are no
actor-r-s now.’’
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


■
F
/XN
BUIE CROSS
1
Record Clip
despite record drought
Typical Queensland Experience
with
Pro-phy-lac-tic “Blue Cross” Stock Lick
Drought and its attendant evils are the nightmare of the
“man on the land.” Insure against it by always keeping on
hand your supply of Blue Cross.
Read this letter from Mr. F. J. Johnston, of ‘‘Nottingham
Downs,” Queensland: —
“Since 1923 I have continuously given my sheep Prophylactic Stock Lick, 1923
and during the drought of that year I had 9000 sheep, including 3800 lambs, and bought,
all they had to live on was windfalls, plenty of Prophylactic Stock Lick and a good
supply of clean water. My losses in the young sheep were only 83, while the
older sheep battled through, thanks to your Stock Lick.
“I began feeding my sheep from last October, 1925, and have just finished 1026
shearing, my sheep cutting over twenty-four bales to the thousand. This is easily Drought,
a record this year for North-Western Queensland, and I have been congratulated
by everyone in the district, including my wool classer, for the condition of my
wool, which was full of lustre and brilliancy.
“I swear by Prophylactic Lick, as my experience proves it beyond any doubt
a record-breaker.”
Be prepared for the Fly attack
A Lick a day keeps the fly at bay
“The rains,” with their resultant springing of green feed,
bring the fly in their train. Blue Cross Lick is the scientific
answer to the fly attack.
Read the following letter from Messrs. A. and R. Mcßae,
Fairburn, Walcha, 1/9/’2 6:—
“We used Blue Cross Lick at first on a flock of weaners, about 1 000 head, which
were subject to attacks from fly ranging up to as many as six cases per day. After
using the ‘Blue Cross’ Lick for six weeks or so we found the fly trouble began to lessen,
and for the last two months we have not found any of the sheep struck, and they are
doing well and all seem strong and healthy. We have all our sheep on Blue Cross Lick.
We may also mention that we had no trouble in getting our sheep to take your lick,
unlike our experience with certain other proprietary compounds, which sheep find very
unpalatable at first. It certainly has given eminently satisfactory results.”
BLUE + CROSS
Pro-phy-lac-tic Stock Lick
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.
Young Street, Sydney.
Distributors in Q’land, Vic., S.A., W.A.: DALGETY & CO., Ltd.


How much of your
day is Worry?
m
Sleep
Recreation>C^
i
Worn
r
EVERY DAY has twenty-
four hours. The richest man has
no more time, the poorest no
less. And all men must divide
their days into three main divi-
sions—Work, Recreation, Sleep.
But there is a fourth division.
In proportion as you get rid of it,
you add to your income, your
standing and your peace of
mind. In proportion as you give
way to it, you find it spreading
like a cancer over the three main
divisions of your time.
Its name is Worry.
Effective work cannot be done
by men whose minds are wander-
ing in futile concerns about their
bills, their business positions,
their futures. No man can
benefit from his round of golf
or his evening at home with a
book if he is really far away —
fearing a pressing creditor or to-
morrow’s work.
And if worry follows you to
bed at night—then, indeed, you
have little chance for happiness
or even physical health.
There is a way out. There is
an outside influence ready to help
you reduce the hours or minutes
that worry steals away from you.
There is an outside influence
that has made the lives of
250,000 other men happier as
well as more prosperous.
Its name is the Alexander
Hamilton Institute.
You have read about it as a
training for ambitious men.
Think of it now in another way
—think of it as an agency that
will banish the needless worry
from your days.
If it is more income you need
—the Alexander Hamilton Insti-
tute has helped every conscien-
tious subscriber to earn more
money. Some have doubled and
tripled their salaries in one year.
If you need a better, more dig-
nified, more permanent position,
trust the business judgment of
the 32,000 managing directors
who have enrolled.
Here is a curious fact to which
230,000 Institute
men can
testify. The very moment you
tear off the coupon at the foot
of this page you will feel the
satisfaction that comes from hav-
ing taken a step forward—a step
that may be a decisive one in
your life.
Tear it off now, and hold it in
your hand for a moment. Say
to yourself:
“if I mail this coupon some-
thing is going to happen; an out-
side influence is going to work in
my behalf. lam going to find
out whether it can do for me
what it has done for so many
others. lam going to mail this
coupon to-day—and receive the
Definite Plan of Business Pro-
gress which it promises.”
Do that one thing NOW !
S.B.
1
&
m
&
v*
i
Si
ern
Business
dr
Alexander Hamilton in-
stitute of Australia, Ltd.,
. . •£>>'’' 11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
w Send me the book “Forging Ahead in
Business’* which I may keep without
obligation.
Name
Please write plainly.
B.


dll
HI
m
4
| I
w
B
MASTER
of every
driving
condition •
Performance is the proof!
O anywhere—in the city, where build-
ings shoot skywards; go into the coun-
try and see development works taking shape
before your eyes —anywhere—everywhere
—“Republic” Trucks are in the service of
Progress, giving amazing performance
under every conceivable running and driving
condition.
And so it is throughout the world. The
same story of overcoming “impossible”
obstacles, barriers overturned —“Republic”
irresistibly sweeping to the forefront of
popularity. Just because it’s a good truck
—consistently good.
And your transportation ? Can any-
thing less than “Republic” satisfy? Prove
“Republic” claims in your own line of
“Republic” will make good.
commerce.
There’s a REPUBLIC Truck for
every haulage need.
One to five tons capacity.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE LTD.
Crowle House,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
Gilberts, Ltd.,
.896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
\1 ellington.
m
t
w
»Ja.«
%
TTC^
w


MICOTINE-PROOF PIPES, Guaranteed.
The sweetest pipes on earth. In prime
Briars, 6/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, 330
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Amusements.
V’jj CI!I 15 I TIIISATIi IS S-
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY WANTED.
ROYAL: MARA 7 ROSE.
pr CLLE It S’ TnEA T K E, SVI)N E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
DICKAI! I) S’ TIVO I. I TIIEAT It E S.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CE LEBRITY V AUDE VITA A 3.
The World’s Best.
COMING TO
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE
NEXT SATURDAY,
The Sentimental Bloke
With BERT BAILEY as GINGER
MICK and FRED MacDONALD as
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S :
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
KATJA.
KING’S THEATRE:
IS ZAT SO?
p RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
LADY, BE GOOD.
II IS NAS U M Til EAT KIS, MELBOURNE
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., I.td.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
HARRY GREEN
In the Witty and Whimsical Comedy,
NOTHING BUT LIES.
By Aaron Hoffman, author of “Give and Take.”
p ALA CIS TIIKAT It K, MELBOI i..> ji.
THE GREAT COMEDY SUCCESS,
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
A.USSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY
Beautiful enduring monument to the memory of
the screen’s most universally beloved lover,
RUDOLPH VALENTINO in
COBRA.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
NEW BI.IOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3261.
HOYT’S I>E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
JACK HOLT and FLORENCE VIDOR in
SEA HORSES.
ALSO
TOM MOORE in
THE SONG-AND-DANCE MAN.
Prices as usual.
Missing Friends.
MR. JOHN SMITH WELLS, formerly of
Scotland, and whose last known address
was 45 Vernon Street, Woollahra, Sydney,
might communicate with THOMSON &
CAMPBELL, writers, 132 West Regent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland, when he will re-
ceive advantageous news.
gROWN, ROBERT (son qf Isabella Brown, of Camp-
hill Street, Strathbungo, Glasgow, Scotland, and
nephew of John Falconer late of Geelong), will hear
of something to his advantage by communicating with
National Trustees Executors and Agency Company of
Australasia, Limited, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
George Gilmour—Address Wanted.
GILMOUR, son of Alexander Gilmour and
Rachel Gilmour, both of whom are deceased, may
be entitled to share in the Estate of his late Uncle
George Adams (otherwise George Nelson Adams),
deceased, intestate, late of Irrewarra, in the State of
Victoria, the Administrator whereof is The Perpetual
Executors and Trustees Association of Australia,
Limited, of 100 Queen Street, Melbourne. George
Gilmour was last heard of in 1905, when he resided
for a short period with his brother Alexander Gil-
mour at Dunedin, in New Zealand. The said George
Gilmour or his legal personal representatives or heirs
should communicate at once with the abovementioned
Administrator or with the undersigned.
Messrs. SEWELL & SEWELL, of Colac, Victoria,
Solicitors for the Administrator.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
WHAT THE PRESS THINKS OF
THE GREEN MILL
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE,
Direction T. S. CARLYON.
The Herald: “The Green Mill is very pleasant... .quite Continental. .. .a very pleasing illusion.”
The Sun News-Pictorial: “Decorations unique. ...a contrast to any other hall.”
The Age: “Planned on a new idea... .picturesque... .most attractive.”
The Argus: “The decorations arc more elaborate than any that have been seen in a Melbourne
- ballroom.”
The Bulletin: “Melbourne now has its Green Mill. .. .to the admiration of all beholders.”
The Graphic: “A big acquisition to the city.”
Smith’s Weekly: “Quaint Dutch scenery for Australian dancers.”
Table Talk: “It is really a fascinating sight.”
Truth: “The Green Mill has won its way into popular favor.”
AND
WHAT THE PUBLIC THINKS OF
THE GREEN MILL
PRINCES BRIDGE,
is shown by the fact that it continues to be favored with the
public’s greatest expression of appreciation-—CROWDED HOUSES.
llMlllllllllllllllllllllllllii I illllllllli Ulllli
■
ZO
lUo^
<H»
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY
Preserves the Leather and imparts a
brilliant and lasting shine to distinctive
footwear. In Black, Light Brown,
Dark Brown and Nigger Brown.
Price 6 d, per tin . Obtainable everywhere»
WEED Chain-Jack
The Weed Chain-Jack quickly lifts the heaviest
car with little effort while permitting you to stand
free from springs and projections. Strong, well-
balanced, it is by far the most satisfactory Jack
made. Furnished with or without telescoping ex-
tension handle.
i
CAMPBELL Hammerlock
wm
551
Self-spreading Cotter Pins
The most practical cotter pin made.
All work done from head end. Especi-
ally desirable in difficult places. Fur-
nished in convenient assortments as
illustrated, or in individual sizes.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N.Y„ U,S<A.
h
Snwni
sets
1111
6500 kw. HOURS CAN DO THE
SAME WORK AS 10,400.
After mounting SKF Transmission Bearings in a
mechanical workshop, the maximum power con-
sumption dropped from 75 to 39.9 kw., and the
power consumption per month from 10,400 to
6500 kw. hours —the same amount of work being
done.
STANDARD MANGE*
ĥ
THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595BourkeStreet.
Sydney: 45 Kinjj Street.
Adelaide: Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Brisbane: Wm- Adams & Co l.td
Perth , Unhehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.)l.td.
Launceston: W. H. Kniitht &
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis Ltd.
ħ
STANDARD PLUMMER BLOCK
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. -
A.M.M.: “The Return” returns... .G.0.P.:
“The Flower” was born to blush unseen... .Starshine:
“Camel” gave us the hump Ethel W.: Too
slight. .. .E.M.C.: “Secret” is not worth keeping....
W.W.W.: All you get out of the invisibility idea
is knockabout humor J.E.S.: Verse has good
points; keep till next wattle-blooming, and meanwhile
polish up some of the rhymes. R.H.M.: Four
lines may be of use elsewhere... .J.O.H. (Japan):
Weak. .. .O’B.O’C.: Not worth 6000 words....
E. : “Hospital” is sick itself P.G. (Nelson):
So nearly good enough that we gave a sigh for
them as they fell into the abyss T. 8.: Ghost
story suffers from pallor H.C.J.: Crude; and the
“great wide bridge a-winding” must be a curious
structure... .A.L.D.: The desire to introduce Satan and
a personally conducted tour through Hell seems to
come to all immature writers.... Kruger; Crude. A
plain cop would have put a boot upon the alleged
deep treachery. .. .J.8.T.: Not bad; try again....
J.S.D.: Too much jingle before your joke arrives... .
Orlanda: Verse tinkles like thrippenees dropping into
the plate. .. .C.W.P.: Your verse contribution to the
Waratah-Wattle controversy would cause too much
spilling of blood. .. .J.H.L.: Yes, as you say, you
have tried us again.... Zoe P.: Style fluent, phrasing
good; but plot is woolly with side-issues. Study
what to leave out. . . .E.M.: “In one or two places T
have taken advantage of poetic license.” It cer-
tainly is license, but it’s not poetic.... Grey Kitten :
Consider yourself drowned. .. .R.H.M.: Rhymed dis-
sertation on restaurant meals fell in the soup....
W.J.T.: Verse perhaps. Good work in story—if it
only teas a story. .. .B.B.: “Sonnet” (it isn’t) goes
back. . . . Yanban: Your Pegasus jumps the fence too
often... .S.M.T.: Glad your typist made it: “His
face wore a fried expression. The fierce sausages
were neglected”.... H.W.: “The Gipsy” is a holy
terror ; the verse is wholly terrible. .. .P. 1.: May
do elsewhere. .. .A.S.: Still fails. .. .E.M.L.: Hut
for the creaking of the machinery the verses might
do. Try a little oil. .. . J.G.J.W.: Your muse is
only toddling; it may yet learn to walk.... Madge
C. : Many are not noticed here. Excellent idea,
but some of the expression is crude. Has a chance.
....George C. (Paris): Not of Australian interest.
.. . . E.T.W.C.: (Zululand) : Merely a versification of
sentiments whispered on suburban gas-boxes....
F. : Starts off well; but did j'ou create Curly
merely to kill him James S. G.: We agree about
the bloat; but that phrase needed your explanation.
. ...G.A.C.: “Brown Study” isn’t worth the brown.
....Stella M.: No. .. .5.0’8.: Too vague. When
we do allow a corpse in, we like to be sure it is
a corpse. .. .M.0.L.: Pretty little verses about the
spring remind us of lamb chops. ...G.H.: Not-quite.
....Satyr: “The Glory” has departed in your direc-
tion .... E.M.C.: The rough bushman who gave an
intimate description of the lady’s dress evidently
learnt to drove sheep with the Woman’s Hojib
Journal .... Gar. M.: Your “Banquet” is cold tea.
, ...R.R.D.: You began with a mistaken notion;
tiie most bloodthirsty people were those who stayed
at home. .. .Cecil M. G.: No use for your blatant
hero... .8.C.Y.: Why despise “common themes”?
A skilled writer or an artistic cook might make a
poem of fried steak. .. .H.C.M.: The reason why
your “dear, dead love rises nightly from her grave”
may be that she knows you are writing verses
about her. .. .Cay F.: “He left the world more
cheerful for his passing” is distinctly not the way
to Write a favorable obit... .S.R.P.: It has a merry
lilt-
Why did you die, dear?
Why did you die?
Bright is the sky, dear,
But still I must sigh.
There you are sleeping
Where wattle bloom rears;
Here I am weeping
Buckets of tears.
The cows I am milking
Alone. From my eye
Tears fall in the milk pail—■
Why did you die?
. ...H.P.: “What the Years Bring” is a lot of
dulness. .. .D.P.: Fails. . . .R.11.M.: “Rcnmark” verses
are exceedingly dry fruit. .. .H.0.W.: More inspira-
tion might have come from that trip to Manly....
C. : A 48-line pome about Bardsley’s Test-match
score! When did you wake up?....A.N.: Nothing
in “Them Oxford Bags”. .. . J.0.G.: Interested to
learn that your story “begins before the Christian
area.” Is that to annoy the Christians?. .. .M.L.C.:
Your dashing herb is a dashed snob.... Eric M.:
The neighbors’ gossip is over the fence. ... D.R.P.:
Charmed to learn your “foot is heartsore treading
o’er the plain”. .. .G.0.A.: Lacks originality....
T.W.D.: Not quite up to standard... .W.E.S.:
“Stone” wants re-cutting. .. .Len. L.: Verse evidently
intended to be a poetic gem is a mere tombstone. .. .
Lou. J.: Your poetic bark has no bite... .E.M.G.:
Too uneven. .. .E.F.R.: Your Mumunbidgee verses
are droughty... .G.R.C.: Bacchanalian jingle, being
unable to stand on its feet, is passed out on a
charge of drunk and disorderly. . . .E.L.C.: “Itch -
ing” is the quaintest rhyme for “spring” we have
struck this season. .. .H.R.M.: An ounce of story
(old story at that) to a ton of words... .F.M.:
“Waiting for the Mail” is a tedious business....
J.R.: Promising; might repolish. For instance,
third and fourth lines would be better: “The night-
mare that was yesterday Has vanished in the new
day’s light.... G.W.W.: Needs more stuffing....
D. (Honolulu) : Poor. . . .S.M-C.; Just fail. .. .
Queenslander: You win; Colorado won the Two Thou-
sand Guineas.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.S.: Still scratching. .. .W.A.H.: It suggests that
next summer will be a delirious season. .. .N.F.:
Curtain rung down on barnstormer with crumpled
legs.... B.T. V.: For your appalling females no
smoker would give up his seat... .M.0.H.: Where
in Australia did you see factory-lizzies dressed like
Lancashire lassies?. .. .J.0.W.: It’s unnecessary to
ink every inch.... K.W.: Poor. .. . J.T.H.: Flea joke
without a bite in it....A.L.: Original jokes? Rush
’em along... .N. 8.8.: Suicide sketch refused....
11.W.T.: Same with picture of dejected gardener....
D. 8.; It may tell a story, but it won’t bring a
cheque.
“Hem”: The Sophia Jane, the first
steamer to arrive in Australia, eventually
broken up, had its engines transferred to the
Phoenix, which foundered at Clarence Heads
in 1850. Some years ago the engines were
on the North Beach, almost covered with
sand. Can any obliging person say what bav
happened to them?


BRASS ARTESIAN
CYLINDER,
with GUNM ETAL
CAPS
&
o
-7/?e" DANKS "
ALL &R.ASS
WINDMILL
PUMP
“BILLABONG”
Hydraulic Ram.
This Pump is worked with the
power from falling water. A
fall as low as three feet is
sufficient; capacities depend
upon local conditions. In sizes
from lin. to 4in. intake pipe.
Make your creek work.
“BILLABONG”
DOUBLE-ACTING
PISTON PUMP.
A powerful pump for use with
petrol of kerosene engine. We
fit this pump up as a sheep spray
outfit, complete, if desired. .Sizes
from 2Jin. to sin.
<~A / atiiVGS Silly
BILLABONC
PUMPS £. MILLS
Hard wear over long periods has made them Nature s ally
with Farmers—Pastoralists—Orchardists and wherever
pumps are used. You have some pump in mind—send
particulars and we will post you a descriptive leaflet
and price.
TWO BILLABONG POINTS
OIL ONCE EVERY
SIX MONTHS.
ALWAYS SAFE IN A
GALE.
h
ĥ
ħ
The “Billabong” has every other
point that a Mill should have —
but these two features make it
a favorite with Mill users. It
needs no attention or watching
—a consideration where Mills
are scattered over a wide area.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
“BILLABONG”
LOW-DOWN HAND
PUMP.
A powerful double-acting hand pump with
many uses on farm or station, including
that of fire pump. Has a total force and
lift of 60ft., and a capacity of 1680 im-
perial gallons per hour.
r v
“BILLABONG”
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP.
This pump delivers enormous quantities of
water. Suction and discharge can be taken
from any angle. Fast and loose pulleys are
provided. Made also in gunmetal for use
with mineralised waters. In sizes from lin.
to Bin.
BRASS LINED
BOfLL
CYLINDER.
BORE CYLINDER
Wllk
FLUSH JOINTED
SCREWED CAP
AND
DOUBLE LEATHER
i> UCK.ET
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
JOHN DANKS £, SON PT^LT?
324-330 PITT ST. SYDNEY 391-403 BOUR.KE ST. MELBOURNE
RONISCH and LIPP PLAYER PIANOS
RONISCH GRAND.
The wonderful tone-soul of both Ronisch and Lipp instru-
ments is just the same in their Player Pianos as has beeu
the case with their world-famous pianos for many generations.
To have attained a similar high standard with their Player
Pianos may be justly described as a wonderful achievement.
With many types of Player Pianos pianoforte tone is sacri-
ficed for mechanical perfection.
Ronisch and Lipp instruments, however, have achieved the
apparently impossible—the combination of a perfect, rich
pianoforte tone and a perfect Player Piano action.
LIPP GRAND.
THEIR TONE IS STILL THE WORLD’S BEST
—THEIR PLAYER ACTION IS ALSO PRE-EMINENT.
RONISCH UPRIGHT.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
We would be delighted to demonstrate their unique qualities
to you at any time. If inconvenient to call at present, please
write for illustrated catalogue, and you can inspect the
instruments later on.
Easy Terms are offered on all instruments. Your present
piano taken in part' payment. Catalogue Free.
LIPP UPRIGHT.
h
206-210 Pitt Street
Sydney.


Season after season the value in that advice holds
its strength. Year by year the firm’s success in selling
the clip adds further laurels to their reputation as
salesmen.
Address Letters:
AVINCHCOMBE, CARSON, I/TD,,
Sydney or Brisbane.
[l
FIRTH’S
BEST CAST-STEEL
FILES
ARE MADE OF THE BEST
STEEL SUITED TO THE
PURPOSE.
They are cut with great accuracy by
modern methods, and every file is sub-
jected to most careful inspection.
Honest workmanship, good material
and, hence, long life make satisfied
users of Firth’s Files, and have built
up one of the largest file businesses
in the world. A trial will demonstrate
their superior cutting power, longer
life, and the ultimate economy of their
adoption.
Thos. Firth 8 Sons
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
310-314 Spencer St., MELBOURNE.
207 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
3 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
Metal & Machinery Co., ADELAIDE.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
s'
Office?: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
MOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
2KcU Wnoynu&Cili/ aSout
No closely-guarded secrets surround the
manufacture of this famous Emulsion. HYPOL
contains 50 % of Cod Liver Oil, a pure natural
oil, rich in health-giving Vitamins, and endowed
with nutritive and healing qualities that no
mysterious formula can equal.
nmmni
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
HYPOL has proved itself the great-
est specif c ever subm/itted for the suc-
cessful treatment of Chest Ailments.
A short course will improve the appetite,
promote growth, inc/i'ease the weight,
prevent rickets,‘aid convalescence, and
restore vitality.
Those in search of health should try
HYPOL. A genuine, palatable, health-
promoting Food-Tonic strongly recom-
mended by the Medical Profession.
Commence to-day to take, HYPOL
Sold everywhere. Made by Felton, Grimwade 6C Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Vfriv e
iVonder/ul bTFilamenl
Valve
Filament Voltage, 3.8 Volts.
Filament Current, One-tenth Ampere.
m
fSE the wonderful “N” filament valve and get
■SEVEN TIMES THE LIFE from your
,4-volt accumulator charges.
Cut down the cost of upkeep and reduce recharging journeys, tojONE
SEVENTH. This unique “N” filament is so economical of heating
power that NO SIGN OF GLOW can be discerned.
Ask for the P.M.4 • * 13/0
A power valve for majestic loud speaker volume. The
finest loud speaker valve ever produced.
This valve can also be run from 3 dry cells
HF Amplification.
LF Amplification.
Power Valves.
Detectors.
When valve is followed by
an Intervalve Transformer
or telephones, use an LF
Amplifier or Power Valve.
When valve is followed
by a Resistance Capacity
Intervalve system, use an
HF Amplifying Valve.
All Milliard Valves are manufactured at Mullard Works, London, England.
OBTAINABLE FROM EVERY RADIO DEALER IN AUSTRALIA.
Milliard
THE-MASTER. - VALVE ABKS „
Advertisement of the Mullard Wireless Service Co., Ltd., “Mullard House,” Denmark Street, London W.Ci,
England.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coot”: An advt. in the Port Phillip
Patriot of 1839 provides interesting infor-
mation concerning the price of the drinks
supplied by Melbourne’s early p-.bs:
Best Brandy, per pint, 2s. 6d.; Gin, 2s. 6d.;
Beer, Is. 6d. ; Draught Cape Wine, per ■$ pint, 6d.;
Port, Is. 6d.; Ale, Is. 6d.; Best London Porter,
per bottle, 2s. 6d.; Best London Ale, 2s. 6d.
* * * *
“Ces”: Enter for the mean-man competi-
tion the Melbourne citizen who was stand-
ing on the kerb the other night when he
noticed a girl entering a publie telephone-box.
“Are you going to ring a taxi?” he asked,
and was assured that such was the lady’s
purpose. The other walked down the road
and when the taxi-came along, hailed it, and
was driven away. He had saved tuppence
for the telephone call.
* * * *
“A.8.W.”: Sometimes bank employees can
make easy money without embezzling it. The
manager of a Melbourne suburban branch had
a bad debt on his books, an advance of £7O
made on a piece of bayside Siberia, for which
the bank held the deeds. One day an in-
spector, going through the securities, instruc-
ted the manager to sell the property for the
amount owing the bank and wipe the debt
off the books. A Saturday-afternoon inspec-
tion gave the long-sighted manager a brain-
wave and he sold it—to himself. He paid
the bank, emulated Micawber, and recently
parted with the property for £3OOO.
-** * *
“W.1.U.”: The construction of the Con-
dobolin railway is going to bring Broken
I-lill a lot nearer to Sydney. A. N. Day,
general traffic-manager of the South Aus.
Railways, has already had a conference with
the business men of his capital to devise
methods for retaining the trade, while Syd-
ney men have bee* nosing around the silver
city inquiring into prospects. The second-
class excursion fare to Sydney will, it is said,
be under £4, which will attract most of the
large holiday traffic that now goes to Adelaide.
The mines have agreements regarding the
carriage of coal, so that fuel is not likely to
be hauled over the N.S.W. line; and the Pirie
smelters will, of course, keep the ore traffic
in the hands of the S.A. Railways. But most
of the general trade of the town is Sydney s
for the asking. The line is nearly finished,
and although the bridge over the Darling will
not be completed until about February,
arrangements will be made for ferrying mer-
chandise and passengers over the stream in
the meantime.
BURGLAR ( ex-salesmwn ): “Now, while my
mate gets busy, could I interest you in
an excellent burglar alarm I’m carrying
as a side-line ?”
“Simon”: No other member of the pro-
fession works at such a disadvantage as the
pavement artist. He must construct his
masterpieces like a badger, with his head
down and his rear elevation towards those
whose approval he seeks. Even a bootblack
wins an occasional approving look from his
patron, but the man with the crayons rubs
his colors in without getting a chance to see
if his efforts are appreciated. The only ex-
ception I have ever known is an inventive
artist who has learnt to draw his “pitchers”
upside down. By this means he is enabled to
face his gallery and mark the emotions of
the art connoisseurs. Pausing the other day
I heard him informing one, obviously from
the country, “That, sir, is ‘Sunset on the
.Western Plains,’ where the men have hearts
as big as the country that holds them....
Thank you, sir.” Shakspeare says something
about the world being deceived by ornament.
It is generally responsive to eyes that watch
for openings and tongues that fill the void
with words that fit.
* * * *
“Jacaranda”: The latest firm of importers
to put up the shutters is Alexander Stewart
and Sons, Ltd., Brisbane and London, whose
shareholders have received notice of a meet-
ing to consider a winding-up. The firm was
established 60 years ago by Alexander
Stewart and William Hemmant. In 1903
the present co. was formed, the shareholders
being members of the Stewart family. In
1921 an issue of 100,000 cumulative pref.
shares was made, and in the following year
50,000 more shares of the same sort were
offered to the public; then came the slump
in values of softgoods. O. T. Stewart, who
was in charge of the London office, came
to Australia to investigate, and has been
convinced that “the outlook at the present
time is unpromising, and in the interests of
all concerned the liquidation of the company
is the correct procedure.” Holders of the
first pref. shares are likely to receive the
whole of their capital and accrued dividends,
while the holders of the second pref. shares
have a good chance of getting back their
invested capital and some of their accrued
dividends. The firm’s warehouse is in the
centre of Brisbane, with frontages to the
two main streets, recalling the time when
the importer was the head serang of the
commerce of Australia. Other dealers in
foreign wares are feeling the pinch of com-
petition. These happenings are not due to
a trade slump. They merely imply that Aus-
tralians are awakening to the advantages
of buying the products of their own kith and
kin.


m
r\
I 1
V
\)l tf
C|6
Safety first
Shun experiments with your health.
The path of safety is to drink
ENO’s “ Fruit Salt ”■—half a tea-
spoonful in a glass of water (warm
or cold) first thing every morning.
The fame of ENO is common
knowledge. For fifty-odd years
it 3 multitudes of users have freely
extolled its virtues. They know as
a positive fact that ENO keeps
them fit and well, whatever the
climate or the season.
Prepared . nty by ]. C. Eno Ltd , London, England.
Sale i Aeents — The British Harold F. Ritchie & Co. L'd.,
Sydney N.S.W.
h
The tedious method
of producing cut
early Bible**
How many Fives
Wahl Pens could
have saved had they
existed when this
monk, as history re~
cordSy spent fifty
years transcribing
one copy of the Bible.
With a Wahl Pen,
he could have done
the job in, let's say,
six months, and had
the rest of his life
free. He probably
would have contin-
ued writing, too
after finding how
convenient his smooth
writing, perfectly
balanced, non-leak-
ing Wahl Pen was.
WAHLPm
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York, N. Y., U. S. A,
Sole Wholesale Distributors fof
Australia 1
Stott & Hoare & Chartres Ltd.,
Rem ington House, Liverpool Street, Sydr.ey,
!@S*
7(<
7 S'
'—L
V §■
sr.
i'
V
/
©
vJT
\
I
4
I I
La Famosa “ Imperials ” Cigars, manu-
factured ii England of Selected Havana
Leaf. 13/- per tin oj 20 ; 02/6 per 100.
Lighter Weights and Brighter Colourings
distinguish Peapes’ new Suitings
THIS season, men’s clothes are to be more colourful
than for many years past, yet so intricately are
the colours tuoven into these fine suitings at Peapes
that the effect loses nothing in dignity and quiet
harmony.
The materials are lighter, too, and much more suit-
able to Australian Summer conditions.
For many years it was difficult to induce manu-
facturers to produce good suitings of tropical weight,
but these Suitings at Peapes undoubtedly combine all
the qualities most appreciable for smart wear on
Summer days.
All Wool Fancy Worsteds
Light, cool, protective Worsteds in Fau>ns, Greys and Blues.
Most of them show the popular interwoven colours, in stripes,
double overchecfes, and basket weaves.
Sac Suits to Measure, £B/15/-
Double-breasted Coat 5/- extra
A full range of patterns and simple self-measurement
form twill be posted to any address promptly on request.
PEAPES & CO LTD.,
MEN'S & BOYS’ OUTFITTERS
George St. (opp Hunter St.), Sydney


BRITISH WADE
VEHRr
QUALITY PENCIL
V
E
N
U
S
I
■
NOW £) EACH
BLACKLE AD-17 GRADATIONS
SOLD BYALLSTATIONERS.
The Wonderful
“LOCK-GRIP” WIRE STRAINER.
o
000
©O
SIMPLE, POWERFUL, RAPID.
Time, Money and Energy Saved.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything in-
vented for the straining of fencing wires. It saves
hours on a job. Joins, tightens and repairs with the
utmost ease. Its enormous concentrated power makes
light of any fencing work —the hardest tensile wires
cannot slip through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can be
carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your motor-
car. out of a bog.
Get one and test it —there’s no risk. Failure or
breakage impossible. Thousands sold —everyone
delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6; Interstate,
2/8 (plus exchange).
Agents for South Australia:
THE AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT AND HOUSE
FURNISHING CO., North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Controllers of World’s Rights:
S. Cohen, Sons & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL 5121
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
.Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563. Established 18/. .
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq. ; " . Ha t, ,
if. j. Ryan, Esq. ; D. \V. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Ranking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offeis the fullest
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
Road-Maker
and Crop-Raiser
The Martin Ditcher
Builds, Repairs and Maintains
Roads; Ditches, Terraces, Grades,
Levels, Fills In, Reclaims, Irrigates.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.T. B’l’gs, Light Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth.
I i
l. c
Write
to
Desk B.
ĥ
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
There’s an RCA
RADIOTRON
for every purpose
ħ
For dry battery sets
Radiotrons UX-199, WD-11, WX-12
for detection and amplification.
Power Radiotron UX-120 for the
last audio stage for added power—
greater volume —clearer tone.
For storage battery sets
Radiotron UX-200, for the detector
socket.
Radiotron UX-201-A for the radio
frequency sockets and the first audio
stage.
Radiotron UX-112 or Radiotron
UX-171 for the last audio stage.
For your own protection always look
for the RCA mark on the base and in-
side the glass of every valve you buy.
If your dealer does not handle Radiotrons,
communicate with:
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia), Ltd.,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
(Branch Office at 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Australian General Electric Company.
Corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Streei
Sydney, N.S.W.
Distributors in Australia for the
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
IVCAKad iotron
of Australasia Limited.
Capital Paid up£4,000,000
Total
1926
All classes of banking business conducted at
305 branches and J7O agencies in Australia
The Bank provides a complete service to its
customers and connections. This includes
Current Accounts, Fixed Deposits, Overdrafts,
Discounts, Collections, Drafts payable in Aus-
tralia or abroad, Tiavellers’ and Merchants’
Letters of Credit, Telegraphic Transfers.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDUCTINO
Foreign Banking Business
have been greatly extended and a world-wide
service is available through the Bank’s offices
in London and Agents in every important city.
Assets 1916 1£14.575.697
£40. 706.017
Two Melbourne men, Dr. Alan Mackay
and Barney Woods, have just lowered
Bh'tles’s Adelaide-Darwin record by two and
a half days: they left Darwin at 5 o'clock
on a Tuesday morning and trundled into
Adelaide at 51 minutes past 10 o’clock on
the following Monday.
Conductor Baile and his Commonwealth
Silver Band, whom not even a Melbourne
heatwave could dismay, got fourth place in
the Manchester brass-band contest, listened
to by 40,000 people. It was Baile who
steered the Newcastle Steelworks Band to
first place in the same musical argument two
years ago.
The first shipment of onions (134 tons)
is on the way hither from Western Canada.
There is £6 per ton duty, for the tariff is
mindful of the farmer; but it is a long, ex-
pensive way from Victoria, where the Austra-
lian vegetable mostly grows, to the northern
markets, and the foreign violet, per vessel
which lias no Navigation Act or Tom Walsh
or Piddington to contend with, may do sur-
prising deeds.
“Alwyn”: Queen Victoria Markets (Syd-
ney), the big White Elephant which the
Sydney City Council is willing to lease, is
said to be the largest building under a single
roof in the British Empire. Its constituents
include 4,500,000 bricks, 24,000 cubic yards
of trachyte, 237,000 cubic yards of freestone,
3000 tons of iron and steel, 11 acres of plas-
tering, 1 acre of glass, 6 acres of terra-cotta,
1 acre of tiling, J acre of asphalt paving and
35,000 square feet of prismatic glass lights.
“Strict Veg.” : The licensee of an Abbots-
ford (Vic.) hotel owned a magnificent Per-
sian cat valued at £lO. The spectacle of the
animal luxuriating in all the glory of its
winter pelt was too much for a passer-by who
had spent half his life catching beasts for
their skins. He lured it into the back yard
and deprived it of its pelt. The artless busli-
man pleaded that he couldn’t help it, but an
unsympathetic Bench said it would run him
into £6 4s. 6d. in fine, costs and damages.
A memorial is suggested for old Donald
Sutherland, who camped from 1876 until
1910 on the patch of level ground at the
bond in Milford Sound (M.L.). Donal’,
after leaving a seafaring life, got into the
Maori wars, and claimed to have been in
48 dust-ups with the brown race, including
the campaign with Whitmore when troopers
got a bonus for every tattooed head they
brought in. The Sutherland Falls is really
a monument such as no other Australasian
owns.
The common impression that Spain lives
only in the past has been dispelled by Dic-
tator Rivera’s resolve to take a plebiscite
regarding his administration. Not only has
he put all polling arrangements under the
control of his own party, but he has an-
nounced that only votes in his favor will be
recorded. Nothing more up to date than
the first idea has been evolvqd by the Syd-
ney A.L.P. The second notion is entirely
original, and far ahead of the A.W.U.’s
sliding panel.
“Basra”: Touching the Digger who was
turned down for a commission because his
father was a railway guard (B. 9/9/’26),
a friend of mine was less frank. In answer
to the question, “What is your father’s
occupation?” he wrote, “Municipal engi-
neer.” Dad drove the steam-roller for a
Melbourne suburban council, but the exam-
ining general refrained from asking for
details, and my friend got his commission
in the Indian Army. He rose to the rank
of major and won the D.S.O. and M.C.
A little-known phase of the 1914-18 un-
pleasantness was the bluff which kept off the
enemy thrust upon India. General Dunster-
ville was the leader of the 60 game men who
were sent to the region with the idea of
• gathering a local army to give the expected
invaders trouble. Recruiting proved to be
impracticable, the Asiatics being unreliable,
but the 60 officers and n.c.o.’s were so active
and daring that the enemy was convinced
that a large force was in readiness. Austra-
lians, of course, shared in the exploit, their
principal representative being Colonel Savige,
or Melbourne.
Coleraine (Vic.) lost its oldest identity
when Granny Hutchins died the other day.
Her father came over from Tasmania as
shepherd for the Hentys, and “Granny” was
then about five years old. Her father-in-law,
“Old George” Hutchins, went to Tasmania
from Hampshire in the ’thirties. His father
was a well-known Hampshire cricketer, and
continued playing till his 100th birthday,
which happened about 1880. Old George
himself liked to have a knock, and in pre-
railway days would walk from Coleraine to
Hamilton, 23 miles, on Friday if there was
a match on the Saturday.
In Maoriland, where the Arbitration Court
periodically reviews the cost of living and
alters the basic wage accordingly, the old
bones of contention are being raked again.
The employers say the basis overpays the
single man, and the workers say it penalises
the wage-plug with a full quiver. To get
over the difficulty a Government measure
now proposes to pay a State subsidy of 2s.
a week for every child in excess of two under
the age of 15, in cases where the family in-
come doesn’t exceed £4 a week. Employers
oppose the subsidy; Labor welcomes it, but
wants more. Priminister Coates, having ful-
filled an election pledge by giving the bill a
flutter, probably won’t grieve if the oppos-
ing factions provide him with a good excuse
for withdrawing it altogether.
“Autopsy”: Daniel Berriman, of Mel-
bourne, looks more like a commercial traveller
than a coroner. Succeeding the melancholy
Cole, liis Falstaffian presence and ready wit
shed many a ray of sunshine in the gloomy
morgue. From a vast store of human ex-
perience he sums up situations quickly and
is a pretty good judge of character. He is
tolerant to the truthful witness, but for the
man who tries to “put one over him” there
is just a withering look before the thunders
descend. Away from the Morgue this dis-
sector of the dead is good company, whose
fund of stories never runs dry. He seldom
tolls the same one twice, except to medical
men, when the chestnut is the telegram he
once received from a country constable which
ran, “So-and-so died last night without medi-
cal aid.” He has a strong taste for Bobby
Burns and the Bush bards of Australia, and
knows miles of their verses by heart.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra—V entur a
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
B7931 - 1 2 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Models, Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 0.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
„ BRISBANE;
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail— £3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
• Passengers’ Booking Office-
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brahane Booking Agents: Burns. I’hilp and Co.. Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. £2 685 303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..’£16’789,’590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Caiison • H r’
I.ysaght, O.B.E.; George J. Sly, LL.d’- Lieut'
Co). T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector lor N.8. IF.; W. G. Lull
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Qtteensland: L. Aveyabd.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
Manager; A. C. Diroin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairhairn, Alfred Siiepiierd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World,
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Corner
SYDNEY BRANCH;
GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750^000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3 390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS "SS'
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS La’SUS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid Up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 800,000
£1,675,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,550,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted, All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidcntSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,150.000
Accumulated Funds £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Shipping. &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. OCT. 7, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ „ OCT. 21, for Vancouver.
MAKURA . . . 13,000 „ „ NOV. 4, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI . . 22,000 „ „ NOV. 18, for Vancouver.
*New Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Fnri v a 11 e d
Cuisine.
h
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
• t Willi*
UNION STEAM SHIP CO
liam Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
i
§sf I
mm
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND CANADA JAPAN
EUROPE AFRICA CHINA
AMERICA INDIA JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT' JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
lii.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 18U.
WALES.
Paid-lip Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq,
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager; OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E C. 2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and ’ London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.:
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, Y.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.— lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldfon
and North-West Ports);
‘Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
fiuddart ParkcrL^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers. i
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug anti Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
ta should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Interstate Tourist
Excursion Tickets.
NEW RE-BOOKING SYSTEM
Sydney to Melbourne and return
or Melbourne to Sydney and return
Ist Class, £B/16/-
2nd Class, £5/17/-
These tickets include a Special Re-booking
Certificate to the value of £2/2/6 on the First-
class ticket and £l/8/- on the Second-class
ticket negotiable at the Government Tourist
Bureau, in excursions to their face value,
either on short tours or in part payment
for extended tours.
Sydney to Adelaide and return or
Adelaide to Sydney and return—
-Ist Class, £.13/18/-
2nd Class, £9/3/6
(Including Certificates valued at £3/10/-
and £2/5/- respectively).
Tickets available for travel by express trains
and for return within two months.
Full Information at
Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
King William Street, Adelaide,
Victorian Government Tourist
Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
or
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


\ /
O’
.4 -
/
/
/
rt
v
F
N\
H.
Always Dependable in the
World’s Rough Places
Where motor-car dependability is most vital Dodge Brothers
Motor Cars are most highly prized. These cars maintain regular
schedules over the pathless wastes of Mesopotamia, the desert
to Bagdad and a thousand other places too severe for cars less
sturdy.
Many Dodge Brothers Motor Cars have travelled more than
200,000 miles each. One-hundred-thousand-mile records are
common. Of the 1,600,000 Dodge Cars manufactured in the
last 11 years, over 90% are still in use.
DODBEBROTHERtBjNC.DBmOIT
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.
252 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty,, Ltd
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
SO/9/’2«.


Spiring brings with it Skin
Troubles, Pimples, Boils and
other Skin Eruptions.
Why Worry?
Rexona is the Rapid Healer which
brings Skin Health and Beauty.
We all look forward to the Spring, and often forget how
the change of season affects our health and naturally our skin,
causing pimples, sores, rashes, blotches, eczema and even boils
and ulcers to break out.
These skin eruptions are dangerous if neglected, and
might become chronic—you must give them careful attention.
There is no better treatment than to apply Rexona, the Rapid
Healer. This is an antiseptic ointment containing just the right
cooling, soothing and healing properties that are needed to
rid your skin of all impurities and give you a fair start for the
Summer. Rexona soothes pain, builds new fresh tissues, and
renews and heals the skin. The triangular pot of Rexona, with
its healing, soft green ointment, should be kept handy on the
dressing-table so theft every member of the family can have access
to its wonderful healing powers.
Spring Time
is Rexona
Time.
Rexona—
The Rapid
Healer.
lliiiihiA.
eft-
fl
'Cooling ~
toothing
Healing
imntisepfic Oinimenl'
Jnnrifi es -P Absolutely
'» Heals Reliable
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the skm. Eczema. Sores. Cuts
Burns. Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammation
'REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG CP ITPl T P SYDNEY^
4?
s
Hilliers
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices; 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, Post free to any address
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/- in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
D
m
, .
Si
\
a
m
M'
C
GuxeSt HiiiieA
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney,
and Cr. George & King Sts.
What a lovely
Gift! ”
The Gypsy Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY meadow’s end the long path twists
Into the glamor of the mists.
When the Avan sun came stealing
through
To light the sparkle of the dew
Beside the dappled mountain stream —
Where he had lain to rest and dream —
I met the gypsy boy. His eyes
Were dark as the night-shadoAved skies;
Caressingly the wakening air
Tossed the soft blackness of his hair,
Where he had bound a scarlet leaf.
In his brown arms he held a sheaf
Of berries from the waning trees,
And blithely sang he to the breeze:
“Oh, follow, folloAV, folloAV me,
The wind is in the sedges,
And we shall go by lane and lake,
To pluck the berried hedges!”
Adown the slope the gypsy boy,
Came running, singing in his joy,
By hilly pathways, Avinding long.
The quivering air was filled with song.
We were the comrades of the breeze,
The sky and sun and swaying trees;
The butterfly and wandering bee
Merged in our careless ecstasy,
As hand in hand at morn avc trod,
Light-heart, along the Avays of God
That ran by woodlands deeply yelloAved
To orchard lines where ripe fruit mellowed.
“Oh, follow, follow, follow me,
A shadow’s on the clover,
The linnet’s song is soft and sad,
And God’s sun’s clouded over !”
We went by road and hill again,
Soft-shrouded in a silver rain ;
Clear, through the drifting haze, we heard
The love-note of a mating bird.
On moor and field there was no dearth
Of wonder in the waking earth ;
And as the wind stole by the hills
It whispered of wild daffodils.
The red leaf lying in the mould
Saw the first tinge of tender gold
Where oak and elm had dreamed of spring,
With ecstasy of burgeoning.
“Ob, follow, follow, follow 7 me
Where tall, broAvn rushes quiver,
And swift and free the wild SAvans fly
Above the secret river.”
I shall not see the black swans fly
Like arrows dark across the sky,
Winging, beneath young, slender moons,
To havens in reed-ringed lagoons;
For fast the gypsy boy has sped,
With reddened leaves about his head,
Dowrn lonely ways of crag and hollow.
And I, who fear to run and follow 7,
Can hear the echo of his feet,
And his wild singing, high and sweet,
Resounding, elfin clear and shrill,
From ferny ledge to barren hill.
“Oh, follow, follow, folloAV me,
By untrod ways I ramble,
To steal the gold the goblins store
Beneath the briar and bramble!”
I called and called to him to wait,
But he had run, with heart elate,
Down distant tracks with leaps of joy—
So have I lost the gypsy boy!
And never will he come again,
His black hair glistening in the rain,
To meet me by a rowan-tree,
And sing his vagrom songs to me !
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY .
Diehard the Rebel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE Pilton greys, Queensland stock-
horses of Beeza blood, were famous
in the 'seventies and ’eighties as gal-
lopers and jumpers. But with all their
breeding an occasional streak would show
out amongst them. Horses, like humans, do
not always inherit the virtues of their dams
and sires, and the Pilton greys were no excep-
tion. So Diehard, a grey sired by Squatter,
son of imported Beeza, was the surprise of
the station. He was an iron-grey with black
points, a white head and a pair of shifty,
roguish eyes; otherwise, a well-made, attrac-
tive horse, with legs and fetlocks that only
a vyce or melon-hole could break or screw.
Anyone not acquainted with Diehard,
whether horseman or horse-dealer, seeing
him in the mob at the Pilton yards, probably
would have selected him for one of the best.
Those who knew him, though—and there
were some who knew him even better than
Hamlet knew Yorick —wrote him down a
shirker and a revolutionary. Bred on the
station, he was broken as a four-year-old.
He didn’t buck or lie down and sulk when
first ridden, or knock his rider or himself
about more than could be helped. In fact,
for a youngster, he displayed great restraint
and intelligence, and answered like an old
one to the reins and touch of the heels. So
much so that stockman Twidle, who had him
in work, regarded him with hope and pride.
If not a matured stockhorse, Diehard was
an animal of rare qualities. He developed
into a thought-reader till he seemed to know
just what Twidle required of him, and
Twidle appreciated him for it.
“You’d think this blinking horse can under-
stand every word you say to him, the way
he looks at you,” he’d sometimes observe.
“Give him another year, and I reckon he’ll
be the best grey on the station.” Twidle,
where young horses that he had the train-
ing of were concerned, was ever an optimist.
When the time came Diehard, along with
others, was turned out on the Seven Mile for
a spell. While he spelled and put on condi-
tion and grew a long tail again, he found
time to think and improve his intelligence.
A lot of advanced ideas got into his head,
and he brooded over them. As the months
went by he changed his habits, dissociated
himself from his kind and began leading the
life of an outlaw. By day he foraged in
the gorges, retiring to the summit of Flat
Top Mountain to camp by night. At crack
of dawn he would steal down its flint-strewn
sides by a lonely track to water. When
lie had taken his fill at the creek he d
scramble up the bank and, pausing for a
moment, scan the surroundings. If no
station-hand or horseman of any kind were
visible Diehard, with confident, leisurely
stride, would return to the ridges. But if
lie sighted human form, or if his quick ear
detected a suspicious sound, such as a stock-
whip-crack or the report of firearms, up
would go his head and tail, and off he would
gallop for his life. In truth, Diehard had
developed a master-mind, and was bent on
breaking the bonds of slavery and retaining
his freedom.
Having grazed in the gorges through the
morning, midday would find Diehard in the
shade of an isolated kurrajong on the highest
point of Plat Top, far from the bellowing
mobs and branding-yards, switching his
silvery tail at the flies, his head bowed low
to the tree-trunk, meditating upon his plans
for independence. If it happened, as it did on
more than one occasion, that some stealthy-
stepping kangaroo-shooter or prowling cattle-
hunter surprised him, Diehard would wake
with a plunge, take one astonished look at
the intruder, then down the mountain-side
he’d bound, making those silent gorges ring
with the echoes of disturbed boulders rolling
after him in his mad flight.
When the term of Diehard’s spell was up,
two of us were sent out one morning to bring
him in along with a number of other horses.
Making direct for Budgee Creek, we came
upon the mob about noon.
“A bit of luck,” said Burton, as Ave ran
our eyes over them, “finding them all to-
gether.” But he soon discovered that Die-
hard was not amongst them. “Blast him,
we’ll have to hunt the ridges now!” he
growled.
Leaving the mob undisturbed at the water
we turned and rode off. For hours we
searched the gullies and gorges, climbing
first one ridge and then another; separating
at this point and meeting at that, till at last
we came unexpectedly upon the deserter on
Plat Top Mountain. But lie was not medi-
tating beneath the kurrajong; he was stand-
ing off some twenty yards or so from it, his
head erect and staring at us. Slowly his
tail rose; then with a wild snort lie swung
round and off down the mountain ! A yell
and a crack of the stockwhip from Burton
only urged him the faster.
“Let him rip,” he said. “He’ll make for
the water and we can pick him up there with
the others.” So, giving our mounts the reins,
we let them descend at their leisure.
But much as Burton knew of the ways
of horses, lie knew very little just then of
the changed ways of Diehard, for when he
reached the foot he wheeled to the right
instead of the left and careered for Pat
Shay’s, a long spur of the Great Dividing
Range, a couple of miles away. There he
anchored safely while we took the track to
the creek.
“That’s strange!” said Burton, and he
looked puzzled as we sat in our saddles
studying the mob around the water. “Where
the devil could he have gone?” But there
was nothing left to do now but to round up
the little mob and head them for the home-
stead.
Diehard, however, wasn’t to have his free-
dom without a struggle, and next day the
manager, along with Twidle, for whose use
he was mostly required, went out to run him
in—for certain. Luck favored them for a
start, for on reaching the Seven Mile they
found him grazing contentedly at the foot
of Flat Top. At their approach he lifted
his head, gave them a defiant look and away.
But they were out to give no chances, and
after him they dashed, full split. Twidle,
riding on the high side, his mount under the
whip, was endeavoring to head him off and
turn him down into the open country. The
manager, the better mounted, followed on the
fugitive’s heels, the cracks of his stockwhip
echoing around the gorges. Through belts
of oak-trees and wattles they dashed, dis-
appearing into gullies and scrambling out up
the sides of them again; shortening their
stride before flying others that were deep
and narrow, skirting high banks and rock-
walls. Diehard holding his lead all the while
and never diverging from his course. Though
a horse under the saddle is more than a
match for one that is riderless, Diehard,
knowing every hole and snag and crossing-
place in that rough and broken country, had,
of course, an advantage. Where they had
to ease the pace to gauge obstacles ahead he
was able to put his best hoof forward.
Attempting the impossible, Twidle came to
grief in a dry, rocky water-course, and, the
manager pulling up to render first-aid, Die-
hard was given a clear run. Taking full
advantage of it he soon was lost to sight in
the mountains.
No serious damage being done, and with i
Twidle in the saddle again and their blood :
fairly up, the horsemen followed on. When
they came up with Diehard he was standing \
head and tail elevated, on the look out for j
them. Lord, what a devil of a dance he i
led them then! Anywhere and everywhere, \
over those ridges, and around them, and over [
them again ; till at last, winded and flounder- l
ing, their months covered with foam, they !
cried “enough.” And again Diehard was ;
left in possession of his freedom.
Then the station men rode slowly and dis- |
consolately back to the homestead : and what
they had to recount when they dismounted
set all hands aglow with wonder and excite-
ment. I
“He must be brought in,” the manager j
determined, “if it takes the lot of us to do it.”
* * * *
A bright, fresh morning. All hands left i
the homestead for the Seven Mile on the pick
of the Pilton greys. And as those fast
walking horses, moving abreast of each other,
passed by the huts and the woolshed. while
light tobacco clouds curled and drifted behind
them, you’d think a war was on. ’Way down
the run. where the plains were wild and
green, the air was thick with the scent of
gum- and apple-tree blossoms blended with
herbage and pennyroyal.
“If he beats us to-day,” said the manager,
“lie’ll deserve to be pensioned and let rip.”
“Or else the whole lot of us, will!” Bur- i
ton grinned, putting his arm through his !
bridle-reins and striking a match. “But I i
hope I get the first spin out of him on this !
old mare.” . i
“You shall, then, if we find him alive,” was i
the answer he got.
(Continued on next page.)


r* ® ?? A %
m
\v Mm'
fhn
r^i
•il l l
I'liii
u
ll'
$2
n
€very picture
\\\M Zells a S* or y
Stop that backache!
Look to your kidneys!
WHY be a martyr to backache? Nine times
out of ten it is quite unnecessary. Back-
ache, in common with headaches, dizziness and
urinary disorder, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago,
stone in the kidney, gravel, and dropsy, is frequently
due to weak kidney action. Don’t waste precious
time! So long as your kidneys allow impure blood to
circulate through the system, you cannot hope to get
well. Be quick to strengthen the kidney action by
using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; they will not fail.
When your kidneys are well again, take an occasional
course of Doan’s to keep them healthy and active.
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. W. H. Trott, “Fairview,” Gannon Street, Tempe,
Sydney, says: “Off and on for years I suffered a good deal
from backache and kidney trouble. Sometimes my back used
to ache terribly, the pain being particularly severe when I
stooped. One day Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recom-
mended to me, so I bought some and they worked wonders.
After taking a few doses I felt much better, so I continued
with the treatment for a few weeks, and I am glad to say
they drove the pain out of my back and made me feel
splendid. Two years : have elapsed since then, and I am still
free of backache, but I keep Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills by
me, and take a dose or so whenever I feel a little off color,
and they always do ine good.”
Twelve years later, Mr. Trott says: “Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of backache 14 years ago, and I am
still free from this trying complaint.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, 5 Queen Street, Petersham, Sydney,
says: “Some years ago I had a very bad attack of disordered
kidneys, and as a result suffered agony from backache and
rheumatic pains all over my body. I was often so bad that I
could hardly get about the house, every movement giving me
increased pain. My rest at night was very disturbed, as it was
impossible for me to lie in one position for any length of time,
owing to the nagging pain in my back. My ankles and arms
swelled a good deal, and were very painful if I touched them.
I had no energy for anything, and was| really far from well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me and
after taking a course of these grand Pills, I was completely
cured.”
Ten years later, Mrs. Osborne says: " Ten years have
elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and I
am still well, a fact that speaks volumes for this splendid
remedy.”
h
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists aiul Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney,
Entering the Seven Mile, the manager
halted to outline his plans, and to give us
a few instructions.
“If lie’s on the mountain,” he began, “he’ll
be sure to make for Pat Shay’s again as
soon as he comes down. So you, Burton,
wait here for him under this ridge. I’ll go
up and give him a start. And you fellows” —
to the rest of us—“go along half-way
between here and Pat Shay’s, and place
yourselves a distance apart and take up the
running from Burton. Keep the beggar off
Pat Shay’s if you can, but stick to him
wherever he goes.”
Then, tightening girths, the manager rode
off, sidling his way up the summit of Flat
Top, while we, our hearts thumping with
excitement, trotted away to take up our
allotted positions.
Sure enough, when the manager reached
the top, Diehard was there beneath the kurra-
jong. Then down from the heights he came,
rattling over the terraces of loose stones and
broken cliff, and crashing his way through
clumps of sighing oaks. Stockwhip-cracks
rang out in the wake of him. Diehard went
all the harder. From the first whip-crack
Burton took his cue. In an instant he was
on the back of Wall Eye, the grey mare.
She stood at attention—her sharp ears
pricked and her nostrils dilating. Down
came the rebel, picking his way now, in
short, careful strides, his nose well to the
ground.
‘“Wok, there, you dog!” rang out a
challenge from Burton.
Diehard was surprised. Up went his head.
At the same moment the grey mare was at
his side. A quick glance of recognition, then,
lengthening his stride, he opened out and
extended himself. A determined tussle com-
menced. The mare was newly shod, she was
sure-footed, and a strong, straight galloper.
Every touch and swing of her rider she under-
stood, his very intentions she anticipated.
And, knowing her to perfection, Burton gave
her the reins. Besides, he was a horseman,
and rode with the eye of an eagle and the
judgment of a ’roo.
With three or four lengths between, they
raced parallel to each other. The grey mare
was endeavoring to turn the outlaw down
into the open country, and the outlaw was
making for Pat Shay.’s again. Over gaping
gullies, across the flinty ridges, around rock
walls and through clumps of undergrowth
they rattled and battled. Where trees grew
sparse the mare closed in, and for a stride or
two Burton got to the rebel with the double
of the whip. Then how Diehard strained
('very muscle and sinew to draw away!
A mile and more was covered, Diehard
never slackening pace nor diminishing in
strength. Still Wall Eye held him. But
with eleven stone on her back she couldn’t
last out much longer.
And Diehard now had her measure.
Descending a brush ridge to an apple-tree
flat he put her to the test. Across the flat
he was out-pacing her, when suddenly he
met with surprise. With a fire of stockwhip-
cracks, Fitzgerald saluted him and then,
wheeling with him, broadsided him. Fitz-
gerald bumped the rebel out of his stride
and almost off his feet. It was a turn in
(lie tide of affairs that Diehard had not
meditated upon. But when Bluebelle crossed
his vision, and then Kildare, he was bewil-
dered, and like a wise general changed his
tactics. lie turned and made for the open
country. Then he headed direct for the
homestead, never looking back till he entered
the station-yard.
Then he turned and, facing us all, thrice
snorted his contempt for our inglorious vic-
tory.
Later, when stockman Twidle entered the
yard, with bridle on arm, Diehard made no
fuss, but took the bit as a baby would the
bottle. He followed Twidle like a lamb to
the gate of the home-paddock, where he was
let go for the night in company with others.
STEELE RUDD.
The Horse Thief.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
RED WILSON looked back over his
, shoulder and cursed ; got down to it
again and rode harder. If he could
make that line of scrub with anything of
a lead he still had a chance. Out here on
the open plain he was losing lengths in
every hundred yards, but ouce in the mulga!
These Johns were hardly ever horsemen,
though this one seemed to have a fair seat.
But it was the horseflesh that gave him
the pull. Red hated himself for being in such
a fix. The prad he was urging forward with
hands and knees and spurs wasn’t worth get-
ting pinched for. He could feel the thing
dying away between his legs. If anyone had
offered to sell it to him last week, the in-
sult to his judgment would have started a
fight.
Since then there had been the few nips
that night at Murphy’s—not a spree; he was
catching the coach to Cunnamulla next day
and on by rail to Brisbane —and the new-
chum-looking cove had suggested a shilling
in. He had won every time, and had readily
joined in the quiet little game of hazards.
He hadn’t a feather when the newclium cove
had finished with him. Kennedy, he had
heard, was thirty miles past the township
with a thousand head of Kiandra’s, and
short-handed. There had been a horse tied
up at the rail on the street.... Some fool
(the owner, perhaps) had seen him, and
squealed. Blast him! He'd have let the
horse go once he got the job, and it would
have wandered back.
He looked back again. Only seventy or
eighty yards now, and the mulga was still
a furlong ahead. That smoky wall of grey,
lacy branches looked like home. If he had
anything under him but this coffin-headed,
camel-footed slab of dingo-bait he was home
and dried. Good God! Horse-stealing!
This crock!
On that last furlong over the clean sweep
of Mitchell-grass plain he lost another thirty
yards, but he reckoned the lead of fifty would
do. He stood up in the stirrups and kissed
his hand to the policeman. Now he’d see
if he could ride!
Head down on his horse’s neck, body flat-
tened along its withers, he tore a hole in
the scrub. Interlocking branches, fallen trees
with their broken boughs like bunches of
spears, wicked-fanged limbs that cattle had
broken off with their horns, dense thickets
you couldn’t have opened a pocket knife in
—Red spurred through them all. For half a
mile he tore ahead, and then swerved sharply
to the right. Ilis hat was gone, his shirt
was a thing of shreds, and his pants flogged
his red-streaked legs. Another half-mile on
the new course, and ho rode into a patch
so dense that there wasn’t room for a dog
to bark in it. He pulled up and listened.
Hell! This was no ordinary jolin. lie
could hear the tearing crash of his approach
straight for where he sat. Loaning down
to look through the tree-trunks below the
wispy foliage, he could see the twinkle and
flash of the horse’s legs. He gritted his
teeth and set spurs to his horse for one last
desperate try.
No good! The dog’s-meat that had started
all the trouble was leaving him in the soup.
That trooper could ride. He was only yards
behind. He was filling the hole Red made
before the boughs had time to swish back.
Then it happened.
“Look out!” yelled Red as he shot through
the air into the fork of a tree, and his horse
went down with a sickening crack of break-
ing bone to the twang of snapping wires.
Another crash, a thud, a grunt of pain. A
horse scrambled unhurt to its feet; the other
one lay where it fell, and sprawled beside
it was a crumpled, inert form. Red freed
himself from his perch and grabbed the bridle
before the horse could collect itself to bolt.
It was the police horse. His own had broken
its neck.
Red looked at the cause of the smash. One
of those murderous fences built by boring
and wiring standing trees wherever they hap-
pened on the line, with an odd post stuck in
here and there. No cleared line, no cap-
rail, no warning—-nothing.
Ho shot a glance at the trooper. That
twisted, lifeless sprawl might be only a
“plant.” He might shoot from under his
arm. But, no —his gun was still in the
saddle-holster. Red came closer. A shudder
ran through him, and his whisky-toughened
stomach turned. The fallen man lay on
his face, and one booted foot poked from
under his armpit.
Red tied the bridle to the horse’s fetlock
and went to the injured trooper. Gently he
turned him over on his back, and steeled him-
self to move that ghastly limb. It was
broken in two places. At one the bone
poked through, and the wound was bleeding
freely. He tore a flapping piece from his
shirt and made a tourniquet. Then, and
only then, he had a proper look at the man’s
face.
What next —in the name of Hell ? Snowy !
Snowy a john!
He broke a sapling and bound the injured
limb to it with the surcingle off the dead
horse. He folded the saddle-cloth for a
pillow and placed it carefully under the
policeman’s head. With a last look at the
drawn face he untied the horse, led it over
the broken wires, and vaulted into the saddle.
* * * *
Trooper McArthur awoke from the anes-
thetic and looked about him. His own room
at the police-station; Nurse Hartigan, who
had the little maternity hospital, standing
beside his bed: Doc. Summers over in the
corner fiddling about with some shiny things
on a tray.
“He’s coming to, Doctor.” , ,
Doctor Summers came over and smiled down
at him, automatically laying a hand on ms
pulse.
"Well, how do you feel now . ,
“What’s the big idea, Doc.? McArthur
turned a puzzled look towards the nurse.
The doctor smiled.
"It’s all right. Nurse Ilartigan was the
handiest. We had to step lively. -"S only
your leg. Pretty bad smash; but I think
we’ve saved it. Close go—you d have got
your ticket, certain, if that chap hadn t
known a bit.” , »
A puzzled frown twisted the trooper s face
for a moment, and then he remembered. He
smiled gamely up at the doctor, shooting a
side-glance at the stolid nurse.
"We're both doing all right now, eh. Me
an’ the leg.” .
Nurse Hartigan turned her back on him,
but there wns <x little relaxing o£ the hard
lines around her mouth.
The sergeant came quietly into the room,
looking at the doctor with lifted eyebrows.
The doctor nodded.
“Well, how are you now, Mac :
“All right, Surge, only for wliat happened
me. I made a bonza mess of it. Nearly had
him, when I hit something. Just came to for
a minute to see him riding away on my
horse. A washout! Got clean away.
“No, he didn’t! We nabbed him with
your horse as he dashed away from the
ambulance. (He’s willing—look at my eye.)
They’d set off in the Napier, or we d have
gone out with them to fetch you in.”
“What—do you mean to say he rode m
here to fetch the ambulance?”
“Yes.” „ , , . .
“Lord! Y’ got him here? Fetch him in,
will you, Sergeant? Could I see him,
Doctor?”
Red was brought into the room a few min-
utes later. ~, „ ,
“Red Wilson, by all that’s holy! Good
God, man ! It wasn’t you?”
Red grinned. “Too right!”
“Here’s, what’s all this?” exclaimed the
sergeant, as McArthur held out his hand and
grasped Red’s horny paw.
Red shifted uncomfortably, and stared
down at his ragged pants.
“Aw, nothin’, Sergeant. Snowy was m
my battalion. Pulled me out of a stink one
night at Etap. I couldn’t leave ’im out
there to feed the ants!”
The doctor took a closer look at the spare-
built, hard-faced little man. The sergeant
scratched his chin.
McArthur’s strong features gave a little
twitch. Perhaps it was the pain in his leg.
tie cleared his throat. “When it comes to
dinkum law, Sergeant, I don’t think we’ve
got a case. We’d have to produce evidence,
and ‘Exhibit A’ is out there in the Twelve
Mile scrub with its neck broke There
might be a bush fire.”
The sergeant glanced at Doctor Summers,
and shifted his gaze to the window.
“Yes,” he said. “I think there might be
a bush fire.”
ERNEST CHAPMAN.


! ms*
y‘
m
m
mm ';
a
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AOSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathers ton Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
NON-PLUS-ULTRA
for
Cold Storage Insulation.
Compressed Cork Slates, Standard Size 3ft. x Ift.,
in various thicknesses.
Large stocks available for immediate delivery.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.),
HAIR
THE
MASTERS
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
cr
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne.... Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney...... Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover,
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collins.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND .
F 12
.22 Long Rifle PALMA
Choose the Cartridge
that gives you confidence
TO BREAK RECORDS—to win prizes—every
cartridge in the box must be uniformly accurate.
You may have the ability to hold your aim, to press
the trigger evenly and at the precise moment, but
unless you know what your ammunition will do —
A it is wasted effort!
h
Shoot PALMA and enjoy the thrill that come*
only to the prize winner and record breaker.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
?JI
4* 1
A Pill is
Edsi) to take
Honda to use
o°a ™
Place on the tongue
Take a little water - it’s gone!
What could be simpler?
Can be taken at any time
There is no better pill
Than Beecham’s Pills
Their effect is prompt and certain
The results are lasting
Of vegetable origin
They contain no harmful drugs
For sick headache, indigestion
Biliousness, constipation
BEECHAM’S PILLS are
A wonderful medicine
a Meat the two-
Cut it mtut Ce
foacAwrid
Whatever car you drive
for best results
fit
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
British-made and the best in the world.
The plug illustrated is the special Lodge model
for Buicks. Its insulator is Lodge steatite,
a material that is absolutely impervious to oil
or moisture right through.
Other Lodge plugs equally oil-resist ng, for American
engines, are :
Model CT. Model AF. Model SB. Model ST.
I" regular taper long regular
(small hex)
5/6 5- 5/6 5/6
All packed in sealed metal boxes and sold by motor dealer *
and stores everywhere.
lillllllliililllllfllllllll
o
Model TB.
I" long
small hex)
For BUICK.
5/6
LODGE PLUGS LTD.,
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
MARINE ENGINES
S to 100 H.P.
1 to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
yeje
■.
Jl
9
(S'
\
£Z?
KERMATH Marine Engines are made
with the precision of a watch, all parts
evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and
friction. More power with less fuel.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.;
HALL BROS.,
Foot of Willoughby St.,
North Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co*
Detroit, Mich,, U, S. A.
Cable Addre.u—KERMATH
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 3/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY ~3P m ., rom No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
T.U.: Bern « ite M ), 1/e - c "" <lrtni **• srtBCT u 4


Sr
a*
a
w
ni
cno'dVH
m
2£^
In
' • £MVo
t f?A
M\
• • •//,
%
\
*%
u
•n '
i
wSi^L m
i‘
T ,f "-; / ) i
f.'l'l'lr r
/ /
-'/'
?/,. 1
if - /
l»*"Ufc
I , i'
IW
WW /.
j/,
*****
U
THE SPIRIT OF POWER
Power is the very life’s blood of progress. For behind its sure shield happiness,
science and art can alone develop. Power gives mankind a chance to show its
best and so does . •
DEWAR’S
