

it
l\\
t
v
ft
'SAME-DAY>
SERVICE
KODAK
Those happy holiday snapshots of yours are precious pictures
—all full of holiday fun and excitement. Their develop-
ment and printing deserve to be of that high quality for
which the Kodak name stands.
Look for the words “Kodak Print” on the back of your
snapshots—they are your guarantee that the work has been
executed by the Kodak Company, and therefore by experts.
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and Tbe Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swans ton Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2446.
Thursday, December 30, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'pHE New Library Catalogue is now
ready and will be forwarded post free, with full
particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fs
k
* Shoe Cream
fPOLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6 d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
®>3i4
A
FOUNTPENS
j§uit JiattcL
Not until you actually try
out a cc Swan ” Pen will you
realise that there is a shape
of nib, a style of barrel,
definitely designed to fit
your personal requirements,
4
FOUNTPENS
m
Our three-quarter century
of experience has reduced
pen-making to a fine crafts-
manship. This is evident
in the design and structure
found in every “Swan”
Pen. The vital writing point
is of osmi-iridium—durable
beyond all other substances.
df
a
FOONTPEN9
~okamaM& mfamkit
Visit your local Stationer or
Jeweller —he will show you
the full range of cc Swan ”
Self-filling Pens. Priced
from 17/6 upwards. Ask
for w Swan 55 Ink as well.
Mabie,Todd & Co., Ltd., 133 & 135 Oxford St., London,W. I.
Factory : Swan Works, London, N.W.
Agents and Repair Service Det>ot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
m
■
< :
ftSKESa*
m
sd
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
aiqxsnw]
NON POISONOUS POWER.
THEfißßUwsaJOdraSm
OQ.
Flies.
Fleas
Buss.
i Mmouikxs
- II-
fsd
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some o
which are sold under fancy names, or
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pes
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. U
The Red Page
Art and Hocus-Pocus
There is no subject upon which the public
of Australia is so ignorant and so diffident
as that of art—particularly painting. We
all know that the nation is young, and that
in every young nation the early struggle for
existence naturally tends to produce an era
of materialism. But that is not a sufficient
explanation of the timidity of the public, of
its negative attitude,upon the subject of art
—its great, blank void of silence. Ordinary
folk nowadays do not even blurt out wrong
ideas or express themselves in bad taste.
Perhaps it would be healthier if they did let
themselves go in a lusty outburst, declaring
themselves in favor of such “art.” produc-
tions as may be picked up in places like
the Eastern Market of Melbourne, or deliber-
ately running to embroidered plush, or what-
" ever their hearts really yearn after. Instead,
if an opinion is whispered it is prefaced by
an apology, and the subject of art generally
is treated with the kind of reverence a non-
churchgoer has for religion; lie* avoids it,
but with an avoidance that is tinged with
awe. Rather than be accused of rushing
in where angels fear to flutter their plumage,
they remain nervously, negatively void.
Now, Nature abhors a vacuum, so this
void must be caused by some interference with
nature —some brow-beating influence from out-
side. And that is actually the truth of the
matter. The plain folk are brow-beaten
and quite superstitiously scared into silence
by the hocus-pocus and affectations of a
species of art critic who has managed to
establish the legend that when he is most
obscure he is most deeply erudite and pro-
foundly wise. By the pose of being very
solemn and very involved, the writer on art
matters “puts its across” to the humble
public that these things are quite beyond
their understanding. And, usually, the worse
the art the more obscure is the fog-screen of
quite unintelligible word-haze that enshrouds
it.
This is how it seems to the plain citizen
who has not put in any of his time at an art
school or in pottering round in studio-land,
but who perhaps was born with an instinct
for harmony, an appreciation of beauty of
line and a sound sense of composition and
proportion. He looks at a picture, and, if
left to himself, permitting himself to be
permeable to what the picture has to offer
him, registers certain impressions of its
values and intention. He later picks up a
newspaper screed upon the subject, however,
and finds all sorts of quite unintelligible
phrases strung together in art jargon about
that picture, and his mind misgives him.
And then there seem to him to be profun-
dities here that he cannot hope to fathom.
Heaven forbid that art should be popularised.
Heaven forbid also that there should never
be a line in. a newspaper that the mediocre
suburban intelligence should not be able to
fully grasp. But because art is so precious
and so difficult of comprehension by the great
mass of the people its high priests and altar
servants should play very fair and abstain
resolutely from monkeying with it. The
priest is there to interpret the divine revela-
tions to Fhe multitude. And when he plays
the fool and tricks and bewilders the faithful
with mysteries, liocns-pocus, shibboleths, in-
cantations and a great flood of “gyver” he is
blaspheming, and is faithless to his trust.
Always the feebler the religion the more
preposterous the hocus-pocus; so we find that
the worse the art the more nonsensical the
verbal fog. that surrounds it. If a critic
would occasionally be honest enough to say,
“Perhaps this painter has an ideal for which
he is honestly striving, but, personally, I do
not understand his stuff at all; it conveys
nothing to me,” it would do much toward
putting things upon a healthier basis all
round, and the general public would trust
him —and trust their own judgment—a little
more readily than when he maunders over-
work he really finds excruciating, though for
various reasons hfe does not care to own up to
the fact. A textf-book on chemistry would be
found difficult for a milliner to make
head or tail of without preliminary educa-
tion, and a book on crochet would be obscure
reading to the average man. But neither of
these compilations is published deliberately
to hoodwink or bewilder. And they have
really a messnge to state for those who can
understand tjieir technicalities —and for any
who cares tot take the trouble to swat up the
subject a liftle. But no one —artist or mere
fool-member of the public—can ever hope to
extract sev.se out of the gibberish befogging
much of 'the good, as well as most of the
bad, pair iting hung for the enjoyment of
the general community to-day.
HATTIE KNIGHT.
The Two Wordsworths
Jay les Stephens has said that Words-
worts.’s poetry at its best is the finest
poet/ y written in English. But there is
not / much of Wordsworth’s best, only a few
perhaps about five or six. This is
an unexpected tribute from the modern Irish
pq/at whose work is far removed from any-
tying that might be called Wordsworthian,
critics would have preferred Shelley
*<>r Keats. There is a fervor in Shelley and
an opulence in Keats that are entirely lack-
ing in the work of the dour Northerner.
But Shelley is sometimes remote and rhetori-
cal; his landscape is visionary, Turneresque,
and his characters are symbolic, having little
contact with common humanity. Keats
selects subjects that are romantic in them-
selves, and has all the delight of a Venetian
painter in rich colors and ornamentation.
Wordsworth is less literary, but lie is
simpler and more original. He makes his
finest poetry out of material that would
be despised by the conventional poet. The
most ordinary subjects, open to everybody,
serve his purpose: a girl singing in the
fields, an old man walking along a country
road, daffodils dancing, the song of a bird,
the wind blowing over a grassy plain. But
with a few simple rhymes, and using only
the plainest English words, he creates poems
that seem to be the very voice of Nature.
Matthew Arnold was right in saying that
Wordsworth’s poetry at its best was iiievit-
able. By his best we mean a few short
lyrics, a few sonnets and ballads. This
was the work of the young Wordsworth, a
heretic and a rebel.
But Wordsworth, as we know, wrote more
than a few miraculous pages. He is the
author of “The Prelude,” "The Excursion,
the amazing series of “Ecclesiastical Son-
nets” and of hundreds of pages of official
verse that the world has willingly let die.
That is the work mainly of the old and
orthodox Wordsworth, who, as Swinburne
says, for ponderosity in platitude has never
been excelled.
There are two Wordsworths, and the
tragedy of the great poet’s career is that the
later uninspired Poet Laureate spent long
years in endeavoring to tone down, if not
obliterate, the indiscretions of his daring
predecessor.
Everybody felt that there was something
wrong, something contradictory, in the bulk
of the poet’s work; but it is only in recent
years that we have found an explanation of
the cause. Wordsworth, who was the favor-
ite poet of professors of Moral Philosophy,
gave his admirers an unpleasant surprise
when it was discovered that in his youth he
had had a daughter in France. Not that lie
ever denied it, or ceased to censure the
French nation for its lax sense of sexual
morality. But the fact was so carefully
hidden by his family and friends that it
was not generally known till it was recently
revealed by a French professor. William
was never the model he was made out to be
in our histories of literature. He was a
passionate young man, an enthusiast little
less fervent than Shelley, a pantheist and a
believer in the French Revolution. “Strange
fits of passion have I known,” he wrote, but
nobody believed him. He thought that love
poetry, as usually written, was too tame,
and said that, if lie had written it, how
different it would be! But he refrained,
fearing that anything so passionate might not
be moral. For Wordsworth had now become
orthodox, a pillar of Church and State. He
repudiated his early taste in politics and
religion, and finally degenerated into an
ideal Poet Laureate,
Wordsworth seems to be a good argument
in favor of the Radical rather than the
Conservative cause. Undoubtedly, it was
only when he was a Radical that he was a
great poet. But the trouble with Words-
worth is not that he became Conservative,
for many great poets and artists have been
Conservative, but that he did not really be-
lieve in his own Conservative ideas. He
persuaded himself that he did. but his work
proves conclusively that he did not.
Now for the first time we can trace the
history of his decline. “The Prelude,” as
we know it, was not published until after
Wordsworth’s death in 18:10. It was meant
to show the Growth of a Poet’s Mind. We
were told that it was commenced as far back
as 1799 and completed in 1805. Readers
accepted this statement, unaware of the fact
that it had been carefully revised later. Now.
at last, the manuscripts belonging to the
Wordsworth family have been made public,
and the original version of “The Prelude”
can be compared with the version the respect-
able old poet preferred to present to the
world after his death.
An amusing example of his modifications
is the famous passage in which Wordsworth
as a young- undergraduate at Cambridge
drank to the memory of Milton.
0 temperate Bard I -
Be it confessed that, for the first time, seated
Within thy innocent lodge and oratory,
One of a festive circle, I poured out
Libations, to thv memory drank, till pride
And gratitude grew dizzy in a brain
Never excited by the fumes of wine
Before that hour or since.
But the original version tells a different
story:
0 temperate Bard!
One afternoon, the first time I set foot
In this, thy innocent Nest and Oratory,
Seated with others in a festive ring
Of commonplace convention, I to thee
l’oured out libations, to thy memory drank,
Within my private thoughts, till my brain reel’d,
Never so clouded by the fumes of wine
Before that hour or since.
So it appears that William had been drunk
more than once, the Miltonic episode being
only the greatest burst that he had ever in-
dulged in. But in more important matters
tile later Wordsworth has not scrupled to
modify and falsify the moods and ideas of
the younger Wordsworth. He has changed
his politics, and his pantheistic faith, which
was the animating principle of the whole
poem, has been made to conform somehow
with the doctrines so painfully expounded in
his series of “Ecclesiastical Sonnets.”
It was not that Wordsworth consciously
realised what he was doing. Young or old
he had supreme confidence in himself, and
felt that whatever he did must be right. Haz-
litt gives many instances of his sense of Ins
own superiority. But it is difficult to improve
on his performance at a meeting in Haydon’s
studio. Keats was there, and Lamb, delight-
fully tipsy, and a number of other celebri-
ties. Wordsworth was down on one of his
rare visits to London and was in a genial
mood. Somebody mentioned an interesting
novel that had just been written on the sub-
ject of'Rob Roy, and Wordsworth at once
began to recite to the company his own Rob
Roy ballad. When he had finished, he looked
round, and, as if asking an unanswerable
question, remarked, “Now, gentlemen, I
should like to know what more Mr. Scott has
to say about it.” This was the old Words-
worth, but he never lacked faith in his own
genius.
LOUIS ESSON.
A Gentleman in Gaol
A chap whom I suspect of being a gentle-
man returned the other day from working
in an arsenic-mine in the North. “Simply
had to leave it,” he told me; “one of the
fellows insisted on letting off charges of gelig-
nite in the hole while I was in it—which
isn’t done, you know.” He made no complaint
(Continued on page S.)


4
m,
nee
Shooters* Requisites of the Dependable Kind
cost less at ANTHONY HOM
I. Hollis & Sons’ 32 G.Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun, Treble-
bolted Action on the Cross-bolt principle, Steel Barrels, Left
Choke Bore, good Steel llebounding Bar Locks, well grown
Walnut Heart Stock, Half-Pistol Grip, Snap Fore-end
Fastener, Engine-turned Rib, proved for
Nitro Powders
£ll
12 G. 32in. barrels
16 G
Price, £ll/5/-
Price, £l2/10/-
i
sags
YT 173 — Savage “Sporter” .22 Calibre Repeating Bolt
Action Rifle, Model 1923 a. A Sporting Rifle with the accuracy
of the finest Target Rifle. 23in. Round Barrel. Full Curve
Pistol Grip. Sights are Rocky Mountain Knife Blade Front
and Flat Top Elevator Adjustment rear of sturdy construction.
Action obtains half-cock on opening stroke, full-cock on, closing
stroke. Five-shot detachable box type magazine,
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle Cartridge. Weight 61b. 1
£4/12/6
The wonderful
assortment of Requi-
sites at The House of
Economy bids every
ardent ‘‘shot” to be
prepared for every
opportunity the for-
tune of the chase
may bring. There
are Guns of every
grade and type—
one for every pur-
pose—and every one
splendid value, at
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
i'T 124—12 G. Belgian D.8.8.L. H«<rnnerless Gu«, Top
Lover Action, Automatic l eetor, Blv Steel Barrels. Cl’rss
Bolt, Double Bolt, Safe Engine-tin ned Rib. Left, Ffill.
Rig !hoke, t imbered 2 indh, Snap Fore-etW.
Walnut
Locks, woriu il v:;.: L’rl«« .... ...
£7/10/-
YT 180
YT 180—Bayard .22 Calibre Self-cocking Automr.
Ejecting Rifle, Chambered for Short or Long Cartridges, 19in.
Barrel. Adjustable Rear Sight, Sporting Front Sight, Plain
Walnut Pistol Grip Stock with Checkered Grip.
Weight, 3|lb.
35/-
De Luxe Model, 23Jin. barrel, full chequered stock, 45/-
YT 391 —Gun Cases, blocked
solid leather; for 30in.
barrels. Price
35/-
YT 193
YT 103—12-Gauge Westley Richards Hammerless Non-Ejector Double Gun, with Treble-bite Cross-
bolt Action, Special Barrels, Bored Left Choke, Chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Top Automatic Safety Slide,
alf-pistol Hand Stock, 30in. Barrels, Press-down Rod, Fore-end Snap. Weight about 01b. lOoz.
rice
£23
£2B
As above, extra heavy build for pigeon shooting
YT 450—Campin
Scout’s Axe, in
g o r
leather
sheath.
Price
6/-
Johnson's Folding
Fiber Board Decoys
YT 558—Johnson’s Folding
Fibi*e Board Decoys.
Weight, 6oz.
Price .. ..
3/-
YT 436 —Hunting Knife, of
finest Sheffield Steel; heavy
blade, adapted to sticking and
skinning. In leather sheath.
oin. 6in. 7in.
Price . . 7/6 8/- 9/-
YT 45— Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-Hammerless
Ejector Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrel, Choke Bored
Top Lever Action. Nitro Proved, Walnut Stock, Half
Pistol Grip, Splendidly Balanced, English
Made throughout. Weight about 61b. . .
£5/15/-
YT 442 —Hunting Knife, 4in.
blade of finest Sheffield Steel.
In leather sheath.
Price
66
YT 415 Regulation
Grey Canvas Haver-
Sack.
10 x 12 in. Price, 3/-
13 x 10 in. Price, 5/6
14 x 11 in. Price, 6/6
15 x 12 in. Price, 7/6
YT 386 —Leather Gun Cases, Grained Cowhide,
Lined with Cloth, Nut Color Spring,
Heavy Brass Corners, 32in. Price,
£5/5/-
¥4
SfrNWt u
YT 497 —B.S.A. Set, complete in box, con-
taining “CUNIRID,” an abrasive paste;
“KLEENWELL” OIL, for washing out bore;
BORE POLISHING PASTE; “SAFETI
PASTE,” for preserving bore after clean-
ing. Price, set
6/-
YT 441—The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting Kr ifp
sturdy, efficient and rustless. Blade is 4|in. ' „!
handle of variegated segments of richly-colored * j^er’
brass and bakelite, with nickel-silver hilt and
polished aluminium head. Price •;
10/6
Write for illustrated Shooters’ Guide.
A copy will be posted free,
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY. T ' '


MOTOR & CASH ORDERS LTD.
worlds' mod profitable business
CAPITAL - - - £500,000
Divided into 50,000 Preference shares at £1 each, and 350,000 Ordinary
shares at £1 each. The payments are easy—only 2/6 on application, 2/6
on allotment, and the balance at one shilling per share per month.
DIRECTORS:
SENATOR HON. \V. MASSY GREENE,
Company Manager, 4 Bri»ge Street, Sydney.
SIR EDWARD LUCAS, ICR. (late Agent-General for
South Australia), Menindie, South Australia.
T. M.' GOOD ALL, Esq;,
Financial Director, Kembla Building, Sydney.
H. C. MAGFIE, Esq.,
Company Director, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
PERCY FREEMAN, Esq,,
Investor, Shadforth Street, Bosnian,
AUDITORS:
C. A. LK MAISTRE WALKER & CO.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
2!) Bligh Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO.,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
SECRETARIES: ‘
Messrs. RUSSELL & RUSSELL. Public Accountant*
and Auditors, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
ORGANISING It ROKERS:
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN UNDERWRITERS (AMAL.), LTD.,
Adyar House, Bligli Street, Sydney.
Brokers of the Company (British-Australian Underwriters (Amal.),
Limited) have the option of taking up 100,000 Ordinary Shares at par.
THIS OPTION IS BEING USED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE HOLDERS
OF THE FIRST 100,000 SHARES.
The trade of the world is conducted on credit.
In financing it huge fortunes are being amassed
to-day. It would not be possible to discover
in legitimate commercial enterprise business
that returns such safe, sound and remarkable
profits as do the two great modern branches
of finance, Motor-Hire Purchase and Cash
Orders.
In the past these two branches have been
handled by separate companies and have
yielded them enormous returns.
For the first time in our history Motor and
Cash Orders, Ltd., have logically combined
them in one business to the end of greatest
possible profit. With its wider scope, the
Company will take advantage of avenues of
profit not open to those who operate in the
ordinary and more restricted field.
The Business Proposed by the Company.
To establish a casli-order business for the sale of Furniture, Player Pianos, Gramophones,
Farming Machinery, Tractors, Oil Engines, Launches, Wireless Apparatus, Footwear, Clothing,
Drapery, Jewellery, Millinery, Mercery, Stoves, Baths, Washing Machines, etc., etc.
Intending purchasers of motor-cars will also receive the benefits of the cash-order system
never before offered in this country. The Company will make a special feature of this. ‘ The
repute and financial stability of the buyer being assured, a cash order for the cost of the
car will be issued, which he will use as a cheque in payment to any motor firm on the Com-
pany s list. The usual agreements will be entered into and the risk fully insured.
The Possibilities.
The Daily Guardian, 12th October, 1926, states that in 1923 there were 70,000 motor
vehicles registered, and that,, given the rate of progress in the second half of this year as equal
to that of the first, there will be over 150,000 registered by the end of this year. Further,
should the present increases be sustained, there will be registered over 200,000 cars by the
end of 1930. This means, on a conservative estimate, that over £55,000,000 will be spent in
the ensuing four years in purchases alone.
So far as cash orders are concerned, the Sydney Morning Herald of 13th Nov., 1926,
states. lii Australia, the cash-order system extends to the purchase of Millinery, Clothing,
General Drapery, Mercery, Stoves, Baths, Electrical Goods, Wireless Apparatus, Boots and
Optical Goods, Jewellery, Music, Gramophones, Saddlery and Harness, even to attend-
ance by dentists. More and more people are purchasing their wants on the amazingly
convenient cash-order system On 10th August, 1926, the Sydney Morning Herald stated:
Judging by the known results of the working of similar companies, a satisfactory return
should be assured.”
The Profits.
In motor finance companies, one company has paid dividends ranging from 22 per cent, to
DO per cent on its capital Another company paid a dividend of 9 per- cent, on its first six
°, i IS trac * in £’ while another paid a dividend of 20 per cent. Another company, registered
Su r ea J’ paid 4, 2l per cent - dividend, while another, established in 1923, disclosed a net
ni ° • -IUSt °J e ?i <0 per cent. A motor finance company, registered only this year, has
expandin” C Siness ltS fl ’° m flB7 ’ 000 to f 250 ’ 000 to enable it to cope with its rapidly
ca sh-order companies are also very high. There are only two large companies
n nnn g - smal1 ’ insufficient capital. One company, established in 1907
ahSvs nn l Uivfilfn ’ “'creased this to £270,000 by distributions from reserves, and has
ioo? on ? tl 10 per . eent - to 15 Per cent, per annum. Another company
of £lOO o(¥i b onri n rpo in x92 £ capital of £50,000, and now has a paid-up capital
sLrJf’ff 1924 T*/ 40 / 0 , 0 ; * In 1922 this company issued £13,000 in free bonus
vear fW nnfit nuui P J d & d ‘ V] : der 'd of 15 per cent, and 15 per cent, in bonus shares, and last
year they paid dividends and bonus equal to 37i per cent.
PROSPECTUS.
Copies of the full Prospectus may be
obtained at the offices of British-
Australian Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
(Please mention this paper.)
THERE ARE NO FREE SHARES ISSUED
TO ANYONE.
This advertisement was prepared and
inserted by British-Australian Under-
writers (Amal.), Limited, Adyar
House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
Contracts for £lOO,OOO
in Business Already Signed
Capital subscribed to-day is put to work at
once financing its part of the £lOO,OOO worth
of business already secured. No waste time,
no period of establishment. The business
is already in hand and your investment
earns dividends right from the start. Surely
there could be no safer, quicker or more
profitable investment than this.
Non-speculative Business
in this business there is no risk. The Company
does not spend money: it lends money. All
transactions are fully protected. Every
pound lent is covered by insurance.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary
MOTOR & iCASH ORDERS, LIMITED,
G.P.O. Box 2558 E, c/o British-Australian
Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd., Adyar House,
Bligh Street, Sydney.
I apply herewith for and request you to allot
me ........ Preference and Ordinary
Shares in the above Company, in the terms of
the Prospectus issued by you.
I agree to accept the same or any less number
of shares that may be allotted to me, and to
be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Company, and I authorise
you to enter my name in the Register as the
Proprietor of that number of shares.
I enclose my cheque for , being 2/6*
per share on application, and I agree to pay a
further 2/6 per share on allotment and the
balance as provided for in the Prospectus of
the Company.
Usual Signature * '
Full Name
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Address (in full)
Occupation .
S.B/30/12/'26. Date ~v
, 1926


■
■
Wm
S
s
Easily
Sydney's
Best
Hat
Value.
The Castlereagh Hat
Five Distinct Shapes including the popular “Snap”
brim—eleven shades including twilight, banano,
mica, dust, graphite. David Jones’ exclusive
quality. Made from pure fur felt; has the appear-
ance of much higher priced hat. High grade
English greaseproof leathers and galloon bands
and binding. All men’s sizes. Price - 21/-
DAVID JONES’
about the risk—the thing wasnt done, that
was his objection. Another of whom 1
hold similar suspicions—a sixteenth-century
chronicler of Persia—had been telling me
of the manner of fighting in his country, it
was, he said, by challenging to single com-
bat with a trumpet sounded or a king-at-
arms sent forward, and no ambush was
allowed, “though indeed, as to this matter,
such is human guile that in times past, but
in remote and unknown or barbarous lands,
much treachery of this sort, so contrary to
all good custom, has not been unknown. it
is as old as that and older, this matter ot
good custom, of what is and what is not
done ; it crops up in all sorts of odd places,
but in none more odd than a German prison
camp during the war —a group of British
prisoners seriously discussing the ethics ot
escaping! _....
Captain Duncan Gnnnell-Milne, M.C.,
D.F.C., who recently compressed the thrills
of three years in the escaping profession
into a simply-written 300 pages for John
Lane to publish, describes early in his book
a meeting called by a senior British officer in
the German prison camp at Mainz. At this
meeting, he says, the question whether it
was right for a prisoner to attempt to escape
and get home to fight again was soberly
discussed. There was no parole; yet many
believed, and believed firmly, that a prisoner,
having once surrendered, had no right to
make an attempt if he were forbidden by
his captors to do so. And they "qualified
all attempted escapes as undignified and as
showing a complete lack of discipline.” Here
again, there is no question of risk. It is
undignified! It isn’t done! The probability
that sentries were under instructions to
slioot escapers without parley enters nowhere
into the discussion. They simply sat calmly
round the room and talked it out as an
ethical problem; and one gathers the infer-
ence that many remained prisoners merely
because of such fine scruples. It may be
stagnantly orthodox to admit it, but to my
way of thinking there is in that a gesture
of chivalry and something more sublime.
Milne —to obliterate his hyphen as early
as possible—was with the majority in get-
ting over any such scruples he may have had,
and lie heaves a relieved sigh when he is
transferred with another to Weilburg, where
“these were no British officers, for which
fact we were rather thankful, as we felt it
gave us more chance of working out our
schemes for escape undisturbed by ethical
discussions on the why and wherefore.”
Thereafter, with one accomplice and another,
he enters into the game of escaping until it
becomes something of a profession—a remark-
able profession of heartbreaking obstacles
and disappointments and in which the
guerdon of success is, as it was with many
of them, to return to their own side of the
front to be killed or crippled.
None of the methods adopted is at all
new or original, though all are audacious.
One of the most hackneyed of all —the tunnel
—is prime favorite, with imitative disguise
—hardly a suckling—second in the list; being
carried out in dirty-clothes baskets and
garbage cans is among the others. Perhaps
the greatest of the really first-class escapers
mentioned is Hardy, and his methods have
one feature which may be useful to anyone
who contemplates becoming a prisoner of
war. As soon as he cleared the sentries—
he did it a dozen times or more —he headed
straight for Berlin. There he cooled down
for a day or two before setting out for one
of the frontiers, and he was invariably within
an hour or so of complete escape before his
luck deserted him.
The most remarkable feature, however,
and one which the author sets down without
apparent consciousness of its import, is
the astonishingly mild punishment meted out
to escapers. Here and there one, like Mendli-
cott, is rather brutally bayoneted, and Milne
becomes mildly indignant; but Mendlieott
was a notorious escaper and had broken out
of nearly every prison in Germany before
anyone seems to have lost temper with him.
The author himself escapes about 10 times
and is implicated in thrice as many attempts,
yet his most severe punishment is a month
in a cell, and not such a remarkably unsatis-
factory cell either. Once when he and his
brother got right away and were several
days’ journey toward Switzerland they were
captured and, after waiting in gaol 14 days,
were sentenced, if you please, to 14 days’
imprisonment! Why, I served that, generous
period behind barbed-wire myself—for crack-
ing a thoroughly good joke! The Bulletin
published it later. But over there it was
called insolence.
On Milne’s showing it could not have been
the terrors of imprisonment that made every
second prisoner a potential escapee; largely,
it was something to occupy the mind. The
Russians, as he saw them, looked upon it
wholly as that. They entered into escaping
with a hopelessness which he finds character-
istic of the race, and when a tunnel which
they have spent months in excavating with
table-knives collapses, they are quite content
to move elsewhere and start another. Few, if
any, of the Russians he met ever escaped;
and upon their massive heads he heaps such
•little contempt as there is in his unbiased
chronicle. They are regarded by all as
probable traitors —one even sold his own com-
rades for a bottle of gin (and died shortly
afterward), and to them all—as stimulants
■ —“gin, methylated spirit, eau-de-Cologne or
turpentine were positive necessities.” “On
the other hand,” he adds magnanimously,
“the Russians are excellent singers.” But,
then, Milne is always a gentleman.
A large allowance in all books of this
kind must be made for the soothing effects
of time. The reality of the horrors slips
away, the privations are forgotten, a thou-
sand and one unpleasantnesses dimly remem-
bered. The average returned soldier recalls
first the poker-schools, the cherry-trees be-
hind the lines, the vin blanc, Madame
crying the hour. That, to some extent,
is what has happened to this author.
In retrospect he sees only the sport of the
thing; what was undoubtedly tragedy is
twisted to light comedy; what was sordid
has taken on a certain glamor of romance.
And. yet, after these allowances are made,
one is. caught thinking that the late enemies
of civilisation might have been a great deal
worse. Indeed, if the author were not so
patently revealed as a gentleman and a
patriot, An Escaper’s Log might be sus-
pected of being pro-German propaganda of
the subtler kind.
CECIL MANN.
The Education of Annie Besant
Annie Besant was born in London in 1847
of partly-Irish parents. Her father was an
agnostic, and died when she was five. Her
mother supported her family of two by taking
in boy lodgers at Harrow school, and the
sister of Captain Marryat, the novelist, pro-
vided for Annie’s early education. At 20
she married, without affection, the Rev.
Frank Besant, a Church of England clergy-
man. She bore him two children, became a
sceptic, refused to attend communion, and
was turned out of her husband’s house. As
a children’s nurse she managed to support
one of her own children in poverty while her
mind was passing from orthodox Christianity
to theism and rrom theism to atheism.
In 1874 she met Charles Bradlaugh. With
that famous Radical she launched a vigorous
and eloquent campaign for women’s rights,
free thought and social reform. In 1877,
. distressed at the misery of the poor, she
embraced with ardor the doctrine of birth-
control and published her famous pamphlet
advocating restriction of families and explain-
ing how to set about it. In 1884 she became
a socialist, joined the Fabian Society, was
elected in 1888 a member of the London
School Board, and amidst an uproar of disap-
proval, rough handling by mobs and general
abuse fought for medical treatment and free
meals for children, trades-union rates for
Government and municipal employees and
for liberty of speech. In 1889 she met
Madame Blavatsky, and, becoming con-
vinced of the truth of theosophy, joined
Madame’s society. She thereupon with-
drew her book on birth-control, declar-
ing that the practice wrecked many
lives and brought others to an early
grave, poisoned life at its very source and
was an outrage against the immortal soul.
Tens of thousands had read and doubtless
acted upon the advice contained in the book;
but, then, somebody had to pay for Mrs.
Besant’s higher education.
In 1893, in the fulness of her really majes-
tic powers, she removed to India. Here was a
field for her reforming zeal. If the poverty
in England was great, the poverty in India
was stupendous, and so was the birth-rate.
Mrs. Besant brought to the problem a mind
fully awake on the spiritual side and
maturely developed on the material. She
gained a mastery over Sanskrit, absorbed the
Indian scriptures, and propounded a religion
for India which, far from denying the exist-
ence of a god, accepted all the million deities
of the Hindu pantheon and of all pantheons
besides, found room on one plane for all the
purgatories and hells of other faiths and on
another for the paradises of Christians,
Mohammedans, Buddhists and Jains. She
restored the self-esteem of our Indian fellow-
subjects by apprising them that they had a
history and literature at least as glorious
as their conquerors’, put life into the move-
ment for Home Rule, and finally, at the age
of 70, earned the distinction of being interned
during the war as a dangerous person. She
believes she has discovered in an Indian youth
named Krishnamurti anew Messiah, and
although the young man has publicly
declared less fondness for his exalted mission
than for tennis and afternoon-tea with the
ladies at Dieppe, his protest is not likely
to be of much avail.
Mrs. Besant’s great recent work upon the
practical side is her re-discovery and revivify-
ing of the Indian village. Her researches
on the subject, some of which she states
were of a clairvoyant nature, have shown
her that, contrary to accepted thought, the
English did not find the Indian people an
illiterate, decaying, disorganised rabble tyran-
nised over by their kings, trampled underfoot
in racial, religious and royal strife, and ever
ana anon swept away in millions by pesti-
lence and famine. Instead, they found the
whole country bound firmly together by a
multitude of self-governing village communi-
ties—there are 497,911 villages to-day in
India. These villages had their own demo-
cratically-elected councils, their own free,
compulsory and universal education, their
own highly-skilled crafts, their own law-
courts and a sufficiency of fields all held
in common. On the fringes of this tight
organisation the kings cavorted in their
splendor, assassinated their courtiers and
massacred the mercenary troops of neighbor-
ing potentates. But the villages they left
untouched, because from the villages came
all the wealth of the land. Even barbarian
conquerors from other realms respected the
village institution. Came the English and
industrialism. The village craftsman drifted
to the cities, and factory-made pots and pans
began to arrive in his place. Came the Eng-
lish idea of centralised courts of justice and
of private ownership of land. The inexpen-
sive village school, which squatted under the
shade of a big tree, scratching its letters and
sums in the dust with a stick, disappeared,
and a central department of education, mak-
ing the English language and history its
mainstay, arrived in all its costly pomp.
The amount of literacy in the land decreased
from close upon 100 per cent, to less than
6 per cent, for boys and 2 per cent, for
girls.
At nearly 80 this English-Irish leader of
Asiatic thought is fighting as vigorously for
the right of Indian babies to live as she one
time fought for the liberty of English ones to
be unborn. In India, Bond or Free (Put-
nam’s), she argues that the nation is actually
perishing before men’s eyes ; that the disease
au its roots is the decaying Indian village,
and that only Indians, with full self-govern-
ing powers, can set the matter right. There
are many who assert that the only cure for
India’s over-population woes is the energetic
practice of birth-control, and one cannot help
wondering if the remarkable lady will live
to change her views once more.
M. G. S.
BI-!
What’s the matter with the two letters
“bl” when they are sounded together?
There’s a psychological mystery somewhere
in this: an extraordinary number of Fnglish
words beginning with that sound have a con-
temptuous, or a derogatory, or, at the very
least, a slightly unpleasant significance.
Blab, blame, bland (and blandish and
blandiloquent). blank (as in a "blank
stare”), blare, blasphemy, blasted, blatant,
blather (and blether), bleak, blue (to have
the “blues”; Bluebeard), blink, black (e.g.,
blackguard, blackball, blackhead, blackleg),
blister (and blain), blithering, blockhead,
bloated, blot, blow (as in blowfly, and
“blown” in the sense of swollen), blowsy,
blubber, bluff, blunder, blunt, blur, blush,
bluster, bludgeon, blaw (Scots for “to brag”),
bladder, and even bloke—all these words
have a tang of the aggressive about them.
They are words that may be used to get
under the hides of other people and make
them squirm. Why?
And that does not exhaust the list by any
means. For instance, there are blight, blem-
ish, blurt, blimey, blase, blind (as in “blind
drunk”), blanch, bleary, blazon (one’s
shame), bleat and bloomer (and -ing).
There is, also, of course, the Great Aus-
tralian Adjective, which is not so very Aus-
tralian after all, since the curious will notice
that Swift, in the 22nd Letter of his “Journal
to Stella,” said (before Australia was more
than “Terra Australis Incognita”) : “It was
bloody hot walking to-day.”
But what is the explanation of this? No
other letter or combination of letters enjoys
Such popularity in the vocabulary of vituper-
ation. The letter “d” has more than a modest
following, but it runs a very bad second to
“bl.” Some ambitious psychoanalyst should
tackle the problem and explain it to us.
WARREN GRAVES.
A Satchel of Books
ReUgio Medici, by Sir Thos. Browne (Blackie
and Son). An addition to “The Wallet Library of
English Prose.” This handy little reprint of the
English classic will be welcomed by all who love to
dip into the pages of a master of English prose.
Three liachelor Girls, by Lillian M. Pyke (Ward,
Look: Dymock). An Australian story by a writer
who promises to take a high place among the group
of women who are providing wholesome literary fare
for the young folk at home. The three bachelor
gills adopt respectively the callings of social service,
music and journalism, and the reader’s interest is
well sustained in following the brightly-described
incidents and adventures of their lives.
The, Man, They flanged, by Robert. W. Chambers
(Appleton: Dymock). The art of whitewashing the
sepulchres of notorious sinners is not lost. Mr.
Chambers here proceeds to do the job for Captain
Kidd. “The man they hanged,” he says, “was done
to death wrongfully.” But whether the captain was
a peaceful sailorman innocently tracking through the
high seas or a cut-throat, the author has succeeded
in weaving an enthralling story out of the material.
A Florentine Comedy, by Claude C. Washburn
(Geoffrey Bles). To make enough out of one novel
to enable the writer at the age of 28 years to live
where he will in comfort, is an unusual experience
to authors outside the world of make-believe. Conrad
Brooke, who is the American youth of this sup-
posed achievement, chose Florence for his home,
and it was there he met Elinor, with the consequent
love story, which is the life blood of all romance.
The book is apparently a first one, and if at times
prolix and irrelevant is nevertheless interesting.
Tom Fool, by F. Tennyson Jesse (Heinemann).
A book that will delight old salts. Here is a picture
of Sydney of the clipper days. “At the wharves
and in Sydney Cove they lay waiting their turn to
take up their berths. All day long the stevedores
worked at screwing in, the wool. Endless processions
of carts were driving along tne quay with bales of
wool, and the various cargoes used foi' stiffening—
hides, copper ore, casks of oil, bullock horns, old
rails, gum, tallow and knuckle bones. On) a
Sunday afternoon all Sydney would stroll down on
to Circular Quay to admire this or that famous
clipper which had just made a record passage.”
Ships—and People, by J. C. H. Beaumont
(Geoffrey Bles). For 30 years the author has roved
the seas' as a ship’s surgeon, being at the date of
writing this book on the White Star liner Majestic.
Such an experience brought him in touch with
scores of interesting folk in public life, the arts and
the stage. A typical one of scores of anecdotes is
about Sir Henry Irving. He was crossing with Ellen
Terry' to America and one night was missed from his
cabin. After three hours, all hands went searching
for him. At last the skipper found him in a
cosy corner of the crew’s galley for’ard, smoking,
enjoving a bottle of beer and y'arning with the
cook, who had long before been a super in the
old Lyceum Theatre.
Joykin, by Michael Arabian (John Lane). “Do
you know Australia ? Wonderful country! Immense
possibilities!” Then Bobby Challis outlined his
scheme of immigration. “The problem of unemploy-
ment will never be solved unless you begin with
women. Go to a theatre or any place of enter-
tainment — ten women to one man. Women full of
life; bursting with life, not knowing what to do
with it. Wasting it. Put them on the land, I
say. Result number one, less competition for our
young men at home. Result number two, a new
generation of strapping vigorous girls peopling the
Colonies. And they’ll act as magnets. Men will
flock after them. When I talked to the Prime
Minister of Australia, do you know what the blighter
said ? ‘Brawn’s what we want, Challis,’ he said;
‘a colony isn’t a nursery or a convent.’ ” For
readers who love the sordid, the silly and the
salacious, this is the book.
The Judge of Jerusalem, by Ursula Bloom
(Harrap). “I want to be a Judge,” said little
Andrew Stevens. “You can’t,” came the decisive
answer from his father; “you’ve got to be a
grocer.” But Andrew achieved his ambition. Out
of a great strike in Britain was born a revolution.
Young Andrew, grown to middle age, was appointed
Judge of a revolutionary tribunal. Fearful of death
himself, he was unsparing of others till fate brought
him face to face with a man whose innocence was
beyond question, yet the people demanded his con-
demnation. Andrew faced the issue of death to
himself or. death to an innocent man by acquitting
the accused. The novelist ingeniously weaves into
her. story the biblical account of the Judgment of
Christ and renews in Andrew Stevens the person
of Pontius Pilate making atonement for the Judg-
ment in Jerusalem. An original and dramatic story
fearlessly scorning all limits of probability.
Riverside Rights, by A. P. Herbert and Nigel
Playfair (Fisher Unwin). This production is
described as “an entertainment” ; perhaps that very
loose term, the “revue,” would nearest tit it. Yet —
“There must be something about ‘Riverside Nights,’ ”
says Mr. Galsworthy in an introduction, “which dis-
tinguishes it from other revues, because it is the
only revue I’ve been able to sit through entirely
without grief.” It has genuine fun and real wit —
and no vulgarity. Still, no highbrow production
with any airs of the superior intelligence about it.
Here is a sample from the ballad of “She Who
Comes to Oblige”—in a Hammersmith dwelling:—
“Well he didn’t oughter strike me —not at meals,
dear.
I told him of it only yesterday.
It’s, little things like that a woman feels, dear.
Why can’t he wait till dinner’s cleared away ?
“But he didn’t oughter come' to bed in boots, dear;
It’s the little things that fidget me, you see.
I never mind his keeping on his suits, dear,
But why can't he sleep in stockings same as me?”


THE PRESIDENT
DELUXE SEDAN
( Illustrated)
£865
r
V
u
t
n
3
B-754X
PRICES OF
STI'DEBAKER CARS.
Standard Six.
Duplex-Phaeton .. £420
Sport Roadster .. £475
Deluxe Sedan .... £585
Deluxe Victoria ... £565
Tourer £485
Berline £595
Big Six.
Duplex-Phaeton ... £5BO
Deluxe Brougham .. £715
President Sedan . . £865
Tourer £6lO
Berline £BB5
A DeLuxe Car in
Everything But Price
THE President is a Stude-
baker Big Six Deluxe Se-
dan, so distinctive in appearance
■—so luxuriously finished and
equipped that you will be
amazed at its moderate cost.
Its long, full-vision steel body in
lustrous lacquer, is swung low
over disc wheels with four-wheel
brake control. The interior is
richly finished in broadcloth or
mohair and accommodates seven
in luxurious ease.
The President is replete with
unusual features to contribute to
your complete enjoyment, such
as a patented ventilating wind-
screen which admits fresh air
without drafts or moisture; two-
beam acorn headlamps, controll-
ed from the steering wheel; and
instruments, grouped under
glass, with indirect lighting.
[There is all the speed and power
you will ever want —delivered
smoothly and quietly by the
famous Studebaker Big Six L-
head engine, holder of many
world’s records.
When you see the President,
you’ll refuse to pay more for any
other car,
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Branch at Newcastle.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
fs
BUILDERS OF QUALITY
VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS
dfs
KB-754X —9''xlsj4'


rr
v
<\
%
X
Every possible precaution is taken
to make your Willard Battery
acid-tight, even to testing each
finished battery with compressed
air.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
CLEVELAND,
a
miiiii!
OHIO, U. S. A


,f Gentlemen,
I have never before recorded
for any reproducing instrument.
No-w I have played my works
for the Ampico because of its
absolute faithfulness, and its
capacity to preserve beautiful
tone-painting. It goes far be-
yond any reproducing piano in
these particulars, which a pian-
ist must demand in considering
a perpetuation of his art.”
SERGEI RACHMANINOFF
M,
'om
Mmm
m- .
IK,
, - -w
> -
£ SbSslbl
s^A
aT f fa,
ST'
"XwA*
vr, • -/^
&
S'
m
m
v>
KS
C!
3
U V7P
df
c ySay#
I have played for the AMPICO
because of its absolute faithfulness.
PONDER this declaration of the great Russian pianist! Better still, consider the
t deep import of the whole of his letter which is printed above! This statement
of Rachmaninoff means definitely that he was unwilling to record "for any reproduc-
es piano. He was unwilling that his work should be judged by any repetition
which but thinly shadowed forth the magnificence of the original performance. Then
he met the Ampico and, in gratitude, he eagerly seized so rare and wonderful an
opportunity for the perpetuation of his playing.
In effect he says of the Ampico: "This is Rachmaninoff. Whatever I can do it will
repeat. Whatever I have done, it will do—for ever!” There was never L finer
tribute. It comes from a great master, jealous of his reputation and keenly anxious
that contemporaries and those to come, shall know him as he really is !
Testimony
clusively for
equally definite and convincing, has been written by other world-famous artists who perform ex-
the Ampico—notably Moisiewitsck, Ornstein, Levitzki, Godowsky, Strauss, Schmtzer, D’lndy and others.
BEALE-AMPICO
The Ampico is associated only with the world’s greatest pianos
fine subtlety of expression vital to Ampico re-enactments. In
sentative of this group of celebrities.
instruments possessing the rich tone, great volume and
Australia, the BE ALE-AMPICO is the worthy repre-
The World's Music at your Command
The mu sic of all the world is yours to command through
the Beale-Ampico: This wonderful instrument will play
for you sonatas, nocturnes, operatic selections, serenades
and fantasies; simple songs and ballads, hymns, marches,
dance music, jazz. The most modern selections beside
the musical treasures of generations.
You must hear the Beale-Ampico —
for without hearing it you cannot appreciate the marvel of its performance
We invite you to hear the Beale-Ampico at our George Street Showrooms
Sydney, or any of our Branch addresses.
Exchange your Piano
Any piano that you now own will entitle you to an allowance in buying a
Beale-Ampico. Convenient terms can be arranged.
Catalogue and other descriptive literature post free.
BEALE & COMPANY
Showrooms:
J4O George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Faeronei:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANC hS^^
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD,
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
sd
SMITH S'dUUUS
STUDIOS’


c
v
Have You Pimples Or
AClearSmoothSkin?
If you wish a skin clear of pim-
ples, blackheads and other an-
noying eruptions begin today
the regular use of Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura
Ointment. No other method
is so agreeable, so often effec-
tive and so economical.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: '"R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
HJGIIF- Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Children
enjoy
fsd
it makes them
ulellandstrona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists a, Stores
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE ,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO*
104 Queen Street* Melbourne, Vic*
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-pagc-
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
I everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
RUPTURE IS DANGEROUS.
fs
dfs
Borne things get better of themselves —rupture
gets worse unless properly supported by a proper-
fitting truss.
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
gives true support with such comfort that after
a while know it’s on.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6
Postage Extra. If unable to call, full information
sent free in sealed envelope.
DEN YER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers,
DEPT. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CRASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
Beautiful
but -
THE more beautiful a woman is the greater her dread of old age.
Woman, by her beauty alone, has ruled and ruined nations,
made and unmade kingdoms, suppressed and caused revolutions —
such is the power of her beauty.
Beauty and Youth go hand in hand. As old age appears beauty
gradually fades, the skin loses its peach-like bloom, and, worst of
all, the telltale of approaching years, silvery GREY HAIRS, make
their appearance. As soon as a woman sees the reflection of these
silver threads in her mirror she realises her maturing years. Her
husband, her children and her friends —they all notice it.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN is a simple, harmless liquid, and
when applied to the hair removes these telltale silver threads.
Obtainable in brown or black, it tints to any shade. It is
perfectly safe and easy to apply, and can be obtained from anj r
chemist or store, price 4/-, or from the Agents, Messrs. Muir & Neil,
Sydney; Lifeguard Smith, Brisbane; or Duerdin and Sainsbury, Ltd.,
Melbourne (by sending 4/6 in stamps or postal note).
Buy a bottle to-day and remember the name.
DB ALLEN’S MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
WILCOCK.<i
AW'S'2
If any illustration in 'THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
lub Hail
1
mu KXKuViwtjsßwr? zip'ii
i
m
v,<
Pi
SRI
1
mm
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6 (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG § AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Christmas Gift.
Summer from the wattle bough
Stripped away the golden spangles;
Clematis, all seeding now,
Hangs in green and silver tangles.
Not a sundew to be seen
In the sunny paddocks glinting,
Gone the fairy-hoods of green,
Gone correa’s vernal tinting.
Yet December in the hills
Finds new grace their aisles illuming,
And a fragrance far distils,
For the Christmas-busli is blooming.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Eyes of Grey.
I looked for friendship in your eyes of grey;
For love, the flame of youth, is not for me;
Let us be friends —this was my only plea.
Friendship! The dross that gauds life’s
glamorous day
Glitters a moment, like the wind-blown
spray
That vanishes within the foaming sea;
While friendship stands, as by a fast
decree,
Firm as the rocks that tower above the bay.
Your glance to me brought memories of a
friend
Beloved in youth. That likeness made
me dare
To look for friendship in your eyes of grey,
Hoping your pride or diffidence to bend.
Vain thought! Cold eyes of grey—you did
not care.
You gave me scarce a glance, and turned
away.
N.S.W.
P. E. S.
Last Night.
Last night I crept from room to room,
And groped my way amid the gloom
That close about me seemed to press,
With outstretched hands of helplessness,
This thought of fear within my mind,
“It would be thus if I were blind!”
I stumbled through the dark possessed
By dread and sudden panic lest
The blackness should remain, and I
Should look no more on earth or sky,
Lest this pervasive darkness be
In truth a grim reality.
At last I found the curtain cord!
O joy, O radiance adored!
The golden moon was riding high
In clear blue spaces of the sky,
And, frosty bright, the silver stars
Were twinkling through the poplar bars.
A glory filled the quiet night
Where all was loveliness and light,
Cool crystal airs and magic skies
And moon-pale earth.... With grateful eyes
I gave God thanks that I could see—
And all the stars gave thanks with me. '
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
Nocturne.
The air is warm with springtide,
There’s coolness in yie hreeze,
A little ghost is sighing
In the camphor-laurel trees;
The moon is magic-misty,
There’s gold-dust in her light;
There’s one great flame-tree leaning
All gaunt against the night.
The sleepy houses snuggle,
Dim-lit, beside the road ;
A breath of jasmine mingles
With scent of grass, fresh-mowed;
Soft strains of a piano,
A window warmly glows ;
A garden-liose is whisp’ring
To a pale, pale rose.
N.S.W.
SAADA.
The Water-witch.
The little creek went winding down
’Twixt whispering reeds and small blue
flowers,
Singing a pleasant summer song
Of holidays and playtime hours.
We reached it at the noonday hour,
Coming from scrub-aisles dim and coot,
Laden with ferns and lilies white.
And rested by its deepest pool.
And while we watched with drowsy eyes
The shimmering sunlight on the plain,
The water-witch within the stream
Arose and stood between us twain.
She looked on me with scornful eye
And mocking smile that held no mirth;
She knew my simple soul was kin
To the brown, kindly, homely earth.
But she kissed Mave upon the brow,
As though to steal her soul away;
She kissed her on her Irish eyes,
Her faery eyes, now green, now grey.
And now she walks alone, our girl,
Aloof from all life’s joys and pains;
The witch’s kiss is on her brow,
The dancing water in her veins.
Ah! for the hearts that cherish her,
That sigh and pine with secret pain
For her cool lips and smiling eyes,
For Mave will never love again!
Shallow and cold as water’s self;
And my warm heart that loves her well
Can only breathe a prayer to Heaven
To break the water-witch’s spell.
QUEENSLAND.
ALICE GUERIN CRIST.


• ■
• •
m
K
f
(l.
■)
:
'V -1 ># ,U
V v : -X.
■Bb
Ik
. ■
■
i& I
\ A ;;
% '■' f
» jm iiimi
, ♦ . -
me:
ft
V
aerw-rx*
//


The Bulletin.
Vol. 47—No. 2446.
December 30, 1926.
TIME TO TURN OVER.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,, o
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, toi
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Oihce of
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Austialia.
Melrourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in. Australasia, weekly:
1.1 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, I -tvs., o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all liusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 a.a.,
G.P.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the °l
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short ■fates
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. / er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it t* not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS,
To Amateurs in ltlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
I, St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
v( n cti r Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can he obtained _front_hiin_or
(lie^jHioksta^^in^Mu^Main^llall^it^^Uistrana
House. Algo j rom Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
Earringdon Street, London, E.C.It.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, EC.!/.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander," 4H-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Ilhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others .
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J/2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West lilst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co.,'lOb Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
51,1 h South Main Street, Log Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. .
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China. - „
' Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 89 Chatham Street,
Colombo. . , „
P A pua .—Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
Lonilon. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 15-19 Earringdon Street. London, E.C.Ii.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N, Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — -Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
iOoz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: !,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1926.
PROPOSED SUDDEN REMOVAL OF
THE PUBLIC DEBT.
On Monday morning, December 20, men-
tion was made in the press that a new
way had been found to pay off old Federal
and State debts. The method would also apply
to new debts as soon as they were contracted,
so as to keep them moving, in a manner
of speaking, and ensure that they would
no longer stagnate on the premises, to breed
trouble on renewal day. The scheme is the
work of Warren Kerr, chairman of the
recent Federal Royal Commission on Taxa-
tion, with the collusion and approbation,
or at least the approbation, of Treasurer
Earle Page. It seems to go further and
to be more comprehensive than anything
previously put forward, and anyone might
gladly accept it as an instalment and a well-
meant effort. The first idea is that the Loan
Council, which exists to limit and regulate
borrowing, shall be made permanent, and
that all the States shall come in, and stay
in. Then the Commonwealth is to put into
a common sinking fund 10s. per cent, per
annum on all the State debts now existing
(in addition to the usual contributions in
respect of its own debts), and to keep on doing
so. The States are' to put into the fund
10s. per cent, per annum on account of then-
new’ debts. The Federal dole of 255. per
inhabitant annually to the States is to cease,
but the plan includes a surrender by the
Commonwealth to the States of direct taxes
in sufficient quantity to make good the loss.
* * * *
Difficulties loom up in the way, though
that is no reason wdiy the experiment should
not be tried —it may lead to better things.
Assuming that the Langs change their spots,
and come into the Loan Council, and stay
there, and that the Westralian secessionists
don’t break out too hard, the position will be
that both parties, and especially the Com-
monwealth, will have more to pay and, so
far as the scheme goes, no more to pay
with. How much the States will have to
pay will depend on how fast they create
new debts, and unless something drastic can
be done to increase production and exports,
and to reduce imports, they must make new
foreign debts just as they do now, or worse.
The putting of gaols and schools into the
list of money-earning works is an iniquity;
but if real money must be had to pay
interest abroad, something must be put into
the list by way of explanation. The pace
at which the Commonwealth’s new responsi-
bilities grow will depend on the growth of
its debt, and despite surpluses and the like
the Federal debt does increase a little.
Further, the Federal authority is more likely
to have a diminished revenue than an im-
proved one, for the Customs receipts, which
rose from 17 millions to 27 millions in the
last four years, owed their brilliancy to a
fury of importing which can’t be kept up. v
To buy foreign goods, to the damage of Aus-
tralian industry, and pay for them in pare
with borrowed gold, for the sake of extracting
paper money from our own citizens as duty,
is not a permanent business. Economy might
do something to cover reduced revenue and
enlarged expenditure n but the EYderal Min-
istry is at its best in devising new outlets
for expenditure. Nor are any reliable means
in sight for ensuring that an impecunious or
shirking State will keep up its sinking-fund
contributions if it professes inability to pay.
Arrears can’t be stopped out of the per
capita, allowance when there is none. Pos-
sibly the Commonwealth may help with a
subsidy, if it has the price of a drink still
about it. Or some loan money may assist.
Westralia has a statutory sinking fund, and
the amount to credit at’ June, 1925, was
£10,183,347, of which £6,198,485 was pro-
vided out of floating debt.
* * * *
So far as it has been expounded the
scheme is easy. But the real difficulty has
yet to be faced. That is the problem of
doing something serious to a liability, the
principal and interest of which is largely
payable abroad in gold or in surplus pro-
ducts which can be turned into gold, by
accumulating and investing local paper
money here. Otherwise, of running down a
meat lion with a paper dog. The Common-
wealth has to provide annually eight million
sovereigns in London and New York. The
States are liable each year for more than
twice that amount, N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and Westralia being especially deep in
the hole. Interest on miscellaneous loans
and investments raises the yearly bill to
about £30,000,000. If the Commonwealth
exported to that extent over and above its
imports, the position abroad would not im-
prove, yet it would cease to get worse. But
the Commonwealth for years past has failed
to have the necessary surplus of exports,
and often it has a deficiency of exports. In
one recent year it should have sold
£56,000,000 worth more, or bought that much
less, to right the balance. Failing some
recipe for more work and production, com-
bined with more self-denial and simple living,
the States will continue to borrow abroad
while they can, the alternative being that
the most involved of them, will lay their
burdens at the Federal Treasurer’s feet, and
trust to him and the Minister for Customs
to provide a solution. Possibly they will
offer to pay interest as well as sinking fund
contributions in local currency, and leave
the Treasurer to transmute it into British
legal tender to the best of his ability. The
position is aggravated by the daily and
hourly mismanagement of corrupt, and in-
competent, and uncivil, and sometimes im-
moral State politicians; and a problem has
grown up which even the best class of
politicians would find hard to deal with. A
well-meant effort like the one proposed
should do something to reduce internal
liabilities. As for the external ones, it
might be w T ell to offer a prize to the man
or woman who will indicate a complete,
feasible, permanent and honest solution. A
freehold sheep-station and a peerage would
be none too much.
RUSSIA IN 1926.
At the beginning of 1926 the schism be-
tween the Third Internationale and the Govern-
ment of the U.S.S.R. (Union of the Social-
ist Soviet Republic) was well established.
Lenin in his lifetime controlled both, but
since his death no one man has held the
dual position and power. Zinovief is all-
pow'erful in the former, seconded by Kamenef
and Piatakof, the latter vice-president of the
Superior Economic Council. Stalin leads
the Government with the support of
Boukharin. The bodies are in liaison by
means of the Moscow Politbureau (or Direct-
ing Committee of the Russian Communist
Party) ; and this body, the emblem of mili-
tant Communism for Russia, has been all-
powerful until the present struggle. Zino-
vief is a wealthy Jew, one of the type of
profiteering revolutionaries. Stalin is grave
and preoccupied with the destinies of the
Russian masses. It is between the parties
of these two men, formerly partisans, but
now divergents, that the fight is on.
* * * *
The militants in the Soviets inveigh
against the enriched peasants w’hom they call
the Koulaki, Piatakof declaimed against
the fact that the peasants in Russia had
saved 600 millioq roubles in one year
(1925). He deplored the existence of indus-
tries of luxury such as electricity and auto-
mobiles. He and his party had attempted
to foment a coup de force against the thrifty
peasants in whom the Red terror has not
succeeded in destroying the instinct of saving
some portion of their incomes. Piatakof
sees in this the initial turn in the economic
cycle whereby the wealth of the country will
gradually get into the hands of the minority.
Military measures were to be used to make
the peasants disgorge their capital. It is
on this that the militants and the Govern-
ment have broken. Stalin and his party
are developing along the principles of the
N.E.P. (New Economic Policy), inaugu-
rated by Lenin himself, involving a return
gradually to a sort of State Capitalism and
even to the free initiative and use of private
capital. His opponents cannot resign them-
selves to the enrichment of the peasants
and commercials.
* * * *
To the diatribes of Piatakof a vibrant
voice replied in the Soviet Assembly on July
20. It was the voice of the man who had
been, perhaps, the most soiled by the inno-
cent blood of the Russian victims of the
Terror. It was Dzerjinski, the chief of
the dreaded Tcheka (Soviet Secret Police).
He turned with bared teeth on the militant
section of his former comrades. His words
were late, but they had vigorous good sense.
Here is a translation of portion of his
speech :
It is necessary to put an end to a stupid, destruc-
tive and sterilising demagogy. What do I care
if certain people enrich themselves if they are useful
and if they contribute by their activity to the well-
being of the masses ! Because 100 million peasants
have each saved six roubles, you want to send
military forces to make them disgorge it. I prefer
that the people earn money and that the cost of
living goes down. Grain is dearer in Russia than
anywhere else and the worker more unhappy. You,
with your principles, 'are the artisans of the misery,
the high cost of living and the frightful scarcity of
goods. Enough of demagogy—let us get to work !
The last words of Dzerjinski in the
National Assembly have acquired a prophetic
aura in the ignorant and superstitious minds
of the Russian masses, for two hours later
he fell dead under an attack of angina. It
is becoming a popular tradition that he felt
his death approaching, and, seized with re-
morse for liis ferocity in the Revolution,
made some amends by edrsing the methods
of Sovietism.
* # # #
Stalin, supported by a majority of the
Assembly, cut short the attempts at insur-
rection aimed at by the militants, re-estab-
lished order and drove Zinovief from the
Politbureau and his prominent supporters
from posts where they could be dangerous,
including Laciievitcii from the direction of
the Red Army, and another comrade from
the direction of the Marine. The fall of
Zinovief is the sign of a profound interior
transformation. It was germinated at the
last rural Soviet elections, where the Rus-
sians, as soon as a shadow of liberty was
allowed them at the elections, showed a pro-
found distaste for militant Communism.
Zinovief may still frame his Marxian plots,
but it is not likely he will succeed in any
attempt to promote a Bolshevik revolution
• directed against the peasantry. The destruc-
tion of Bolshevism is certainly not yet au
fait accompli, but the system has certainly
been strongly undermined.
REPERTORY IN MELBOURNE.
When, after the exhibition of a surprising
amount of muddleheadedness as to the
objects of its own existence, the Melbourne
Repertory Theatre Sbciety decided the other
day to commit hara-kiri, there were some
who went home murmuring their satisfaction
that now at any rate they were quit of those
who did not and never would understand
the function of repertory. As the public
has never* so far as I am aware, seen any
authoritative statement as to what the
repertory movement all over the world"means,
I hope that the following, though by no
means exhaustive, will stimulate some
thought.
The great mass of people still believes,
theoretically at least, and our schools teach,
that all men are equal. Democracy is based
on' this principle, and Christianity seems to
support it. Biologically, the whole thing is
rubbish. No two men are equal, physically,
mentally or morally, and our present-day
democracy, by giving all men an equal oppor-
tunity, only brings out more glaringly
the inequalities between individuals. In the
A.I.F. we classified men according to their
physical inequalities; it was left to the
American Army authorities to classify their
men into different categories of mental
capacity by very searching tests. It was
found that only 4 per cent, of the 1,700,000
men examined could be classed as superior
intellects. We can probably assume that
about the same percentage applies in Aus-
tralia.
Now, you ask, what has this to do with
repertory? Simply this, that whereas it
was found that the commercial theatre had
to its intellectual level down to
that of the great mass of the human herd,
so that their productions would amuse the
great 80 per cent, of people, this was no good
from the point of view of the 4 per cent, in
the intellectual vanguard. They demanded
something more than the tripe that was
being served up here in Melbourne by the
commercial theatres a few years ago. Yet
to produce plays satisfactory to the “top
4 per cent.,” unless they had a human appeal
to the rest as well, would be to court finan-
cial disaster. Hence arose the necessity
to form a body which would be bolstered up
by members’ subscriptions or private endow-
ment in addition to gate-money. This was
partly the origin of the repertory movement
in Manchester, Norwich, Dublin, Melbourne
and elsewhere. Sometimes professional
actors were employed, and sometimes
amateurs; generally according to funds.
Now comes Mr. Gregan McMahon and
says, “You are standing still. You are not
appealing to the larger public. We must
carry the message to the great mass,” and so
forth. It 'sounds very fine and democratic,
but let us examine-it. By standing still he
presumably means that we are not getting
larger audiences, or “touching the great heart
of the public.” We are still playing for the
4 p.c. only. But that is the very object of
repertory. As soon as you broaden your
audience you must obviously drop a few intel-
lectual pegs; and when you are touching and
becoming popular with the great 80 p.c. mass,
you will have brought delight to the heart of
Mr. McMahon, dropped to the intellectual
level of the mass, and destroyed the necessity
for endowment or members’ subscriptions,
though no doubt these will still be collected.
There are those who feel that the old
Repertory Society, which catered for “the
4 p_ c " — or really the literary moiety of this
fraction —and did not intend catering for
more, because to do so w'ould lower the level
of the society’s productions, has made a very
great error in joining with Messrs. Tait, for
the reasons already given. Of course, I do
not hold the view that Mr. McMahon is
wrong in trying to introduce good plays to
the greater mass. On the contrary, every
help and encouragement should be given to
the movement. But the little society, appeal-
ing only to the vanguard, should not be
dragged down into the project. There is, in
other words, room, and indeed need, for both
a repertory society, with appeal to only the
highest intellectual side of Melbourne, sup-
ported by subscriptions and endowments, and
a broader movement, such as Mr. McMahon
has in view, appealing to the public, which
does not need financial bolstering, as the
last two years have shown. Subscriptions
taken from the members of a broad-based
society, which is succeeding in drawing the
public, are obviously superfluous and can be
used only in the production of dividends.
Q.Q.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bully at the Bar.
“Parchment’': Most people have a whole-
some and well-founded dread of being mixed
up in legal proceedings owing to the bully-
ing methods of some of our most successful
advocates. The public blames the legal pro-
fession ; but is there no beam in its own
eye? The object of a lawyer is to win the
case for his client. That is what he is
employed for. If he succeeds in winning a
large proportion of his cases, he becomes
sought after, and litigants, anxious to suc-
ceed, pay him larger fees than they would
be willing to pay to a less successful advo-
cate. In course of time the talented but
briefless junior develops into the highly-feed
Iv.C. It is the same in other walks of life;
the struggling country doctor makes a name
for himself by curing a large proportion of
his patients, and blossoms into an opulent
Macquarie-street specialist. Law cases are
decided by a Judge and jury. In theory the
Judge decides questions of law and. the jury
questions of fact, but in practice there is
considerable overlapping. In some jurisdic-
tions the Judge, or a magistrate exercising
the functions of a Judge, fills the dual role
of Judge and jury. It is more particularly
in the class of cases where the trial is in
fact before a jury of fellow-citizens that the
browbeating, bullying type of counsel is most
prominent. You do not come across the types
in the Equity jurisdiction, for example, be-
cause there it is the Judge whose mind coun-
sel wishes to influence in his client’s favor.
As the test of a counsel’s ability is that he
wins cases for his clients, the ambitious
barrister naturally adopts the methods that
he thinks will enable him to do so. If the
average juryman approves of bullying and
browbeating, then counsel must bully and
brow-beat or remain briefless. The young
junior sees that the methods of the eminent
and sought-after Stoush, K.C., find favor
with the jury, so naturally he strives to emu-
late them. As to. a remedy, so far we have
not been able to invent anything to replace
trial by jury. Few struggling barristers are
endowed with the jocund wit of George
Reid or the forceful personality of Jack
Want. And I still remember the speech in the
broadest of Doric with which Jock Garland
secured a verdict from a jury most of whose
names began with Mac. Though a counsel
may not have any special ability, still, pro-
vided he has unlimited self-confidence, it is
Double-crossed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr Bavin said that the methods of the Govern-
ment would be regarded as discreditable in any
two-up school in the country.” (Labor uproar.)
“Mr. Bruxneu reminded Mr. Loughun that from
the moment he gave his late colleagues his promise
not to turn them out, they started to double-cross
him.” * N
They double-crossed you, my too trustful lad.
What should you know of crooked spin-
ning-jennies,
And what experience have you ever had
Of loaded dice and double-headed pennies?
It looked the genuine goods, the real thing;
You reckoned it was gold, the brick they
tossed you.
And all the time they had you on a string—
They double-crossed you.
You reasoned they’d be faithful to their deals
And hesitate to break their solemn pledges,
These chaps as slippery as conger-eels,
And full of points as hogs that hide in
hedges.
And now you wake —it must have been a
wrench
And many a bitter pang, I’ll bet, it’s cost
you—
To realise, my poor old Peter Ffrench,
They’ve double-crossed you.
You fell among—what shall we say you fell
Among?—not unsophisticated codgers,
But gentlemen whose ways would parallel
Those of the cunningest of Artful Dodgers.
The pig you bargained for was in the poke,
Or into such belief they lulled and glossed
you.
You oped the bag to find—oh, bitter stroke! —
They’d double-crossed you.
You named your terms. With acquiescent
nods
They undertook to do as you insisted,
Swore it, most like, by all their Labor gods.
Now they’ve reneged, revoked, recanted,
twisted. _
Time was you had them in a stick that s
cleft.
You loosed your grip and let them out.
It lost you
All you had seemed to gain. You’re diddled,
left.
You were too dull or they, mayhap, too deft —
They double-crossed you.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


not difficult to bully a witness; the witness
is in unaccustomed surroundings, does not
know how far he may go in retort# and is
naturally somewhat self-conscious, bo long
as the average juryman allows himseil to
be bluffed by bullies, so long will it pay
counsel to adopt bullying tactics. The chiel
cause is not in our judicial system nor in
the personnel of the Bar, but rather in the
mental standpoint of the average citizen
who serves on a jury.
Still Another Report on Migration.
There was a time, in the dear dead days
beyond recall, when the Salvation Army
wasn’t even tolerable, and when the musi-
cal performances of its adherents in quiet
streets were considered reprehensible. But
evangelicism, no matter how fantastic its
guise, has always been very near and dear
to the great fat melodramic heart of the
British nation, and such a shrewd combina-
tion of business and philanthropy as the
Army couldn’t fail to become a national
institution. Hence it came about that when
BooTh 11. sent his lieutenant, David Lamb,
around the Empire on an immigration
stunt, some highly respectable people fed
him, and other highly respectable people
took him into conference. The net result
of it all is that Lamb went out with some
perfectly correct ideas' and came back with
a report that looked like a summary of the
views of the Morning Post and the British
Manufacturers’ Federation. When Lamb
looked into the dismal business of Mother’s
industrial declension, before lie left home,
he found that since the Armistice Mother
had paid away, out of taxes on industry
(there isn’t any other sort), about
£500,000,(X)0 in order to support able-bodied
men and women in idleness. He found that
for six years there had scarcely been a
single day on which there were not, in
Great Britain, at least one million of dole
takers. He deduced—pretty accurately, too
—that this condition of affairs was due to
the cessation of migration during the Big
War, to the refusal of Uncle Sam to con-
tinue the policy of an open door to pauper
migrants, and to the absence from the minds
of the politicians of .the nation of any
intelligent or feasible ideas on the subject
of rearranging Empire population. Lamb
thought he might be able to supply ideas,
but all he has done in his report is to re-
hash the notion that, by spending about
£6,000,000 a year on training-farms and
fares to distant parts of the Empire,
it will be possible to convert each year about
a quarter of a million factory-workers from
Mother’s slumrniest cities into bronzed and
bearded pioneers, carving homes out of the
virgin wilderness. It is a beautiful vision,
and Lamb thinks it is a feasible one because
the Army has a training-farm that turns out
1000 young “pommies” every year, and sup-
plies them very cheaply and on very low
wages to cow-farmers and other agrarian
persons. Lamb remarks that there is “an
almost insatiable demand for such boys.” It
can be believed—but do they stay on the
land? Experience shows that they don’t,
and that Lamb’s idea of shipping to Australia
and Canada and South Africa, not to men-
tion Maoriland, thousands of people to grow
things and to provide a bigger market for
English and Scottish manufactures, won’t
work. The Empire Settlement Act is there
to promote that sort of migration scheme,
and £3,000,000 is available each year under
the Act. But it has never been possible to
spend the money. Lamb says that he found
everywhere he went in the Empire “discus-
sion and doubts as to the wisdom of estab-
lishing or developing secondary industries.”
Probably that is the reason his report doesn’t
penetrate the fog that surrounds his sub-
ject. He made his inquiries among the.
freaks and fossils of the community. If
everywhere he found “doubts as to the wis-
dom of establishing or developing secondary
industries,” can h’e explain why every over-
seas “dominion” has a Protectionist tariff,
and why practically every change in duties
is in the direction of increasing them?
The Land of the Pulled Leg.
A typical appeal to uncultured vanity
was made by the lawyer who is appearing
before the F'ederal Arbitration Court for
the two 44-liours-per-week States (N.S.W.
and Queensland) to demand that the other
States be ordered to partially leave off work
likewise: —
Australia for many years enjoyed shorter hours
and better conditions than its economic competitors.
If not because of these, then in spite of them, it
had made very rapid economic progress, had developed
its primary resources till its products outstripped
the demand in many commodities, and had already
made marked progress in the development of
secondary industries.... Chief Judge Dethridgk
had said that if the 44-hour week could be granted,
then it should be. Had the employers proved beyond
reasonable doubt that it cannot be?
Truly it would be a pitiful and abject thing
if a continent, said to be devoted to growing
“primary” products, and with less than 2J
inhabitants per square mile to feed, didn’t
outstrip the local market and have a surplus
for export. And it would be a miserable
event if it hadn’t made some manufacturing
progress in 136 years or so. But it hasn't
done enough to justify the poisonous doctrine
of reducing production and taking a day off
each week to celebrate. To take Denmark
as one of the “economic competitors,” that
country is a little more than half the size
of Tasmania, and has 200 inhabitants per
square mile to be victualled. Yet on the
last available year’s record, Denmark ex-
ported to the United Kingdom alone close
on £44,000,000 worth of three articles —
butter, eggs and bacon. And its business
was growing. All the foodstuffs of every
kind which the big Commonwealth exported
to all the outside world in its last year
were valued at barely £51,000,000. In point
of value, if not also of quantity, the Com-
monwealth’s output was diminishing, and
the decline continues. And the big items
of Australia’s food exports are produced by
men, including some women and children,
who enjoy nothing special in the way of
“shorter hours and better conditions,” so the
proof that it is possible to afford still less
hours fails badly. This country can’t be
another Denmark except in very rare spots,
but it can refuse to listen to the ignorant
ravings of its enemies, and it can make the
best of the land it has. It is a plausible gag
court in thousands and proved, to the satis-
faction of a gentleman who is proof against
proof, that the 44-hour w T eek is impossible.
The employer is often the man who hires
one “hand” on a farm, or three or four
“hands” in a miniature factory. He. is
little qualified to argue points of political
economy, and he lacks the professional
advocate’s delusive glibness. The proof
lies, not with this employer, but with the
trade statistics. For six years to June,
1920, Australia managed to export just
enough of those products the supply of which
had “outstripped the demand” (local de-
mand) to pay for its imports and meet its
interest bills. During the subsequent six-
and-a-third years the available surplus of
those products which have “outstripped the
demand” has been so insufficient that there
has been an average deficit of £26,000,000
per annum to be made good by foreign loans.
The position grows worse. Nothing can be
gained by calling the employer who makes
a few boots with the aid of a couple of
“wage slaves” to give learned evidence on
the point whether the country can afford to
do less work. But when the loan dole leaves
off, he and all other employers and employees
will be faced with the urgent and individual
necessity for doing more work.
*
The N.S.W. Tramway Service.
The Bulletin has heard from this N. S.
Wales tram-conductor before, and knows him
to be an observant man who also thinks:—
“All wealth is derived, not from land, but from
labor; and the amount of wealth depends partly
on the skill with which the labor is conducted, and
partly on the ’ proportion between the number of
those who labor and the number of those who do
not labor.” That’s from Adam Smith’s “Wealth of
Nations,” and ought to be pasted up alongside the
other slogan “Safety First.”
A business, be it Government or private, cannot
go on losing money and last, despite the average
Australian worker's idea to the contrary. The
Sydney tramway system is the horrible example of
the lost world of State Socialism. What a bright
jewel in the crown it would be if !
At the present moment an internecine war is going
on between the Commissioners on the one hand and
the union, led by the secretary, on the other, all
highly-paid officials who have been well treated by
a handful of people. Our union secretary while on
Federal business draws at the rate of £1232 Bs. per
annum, but receives only £9 per week otherwise,
and the time he gives to Federal matters is sur-
prising. The country has a right to expect some
constructive work from them all; but what do we
find? Instead of a constructive policy to secure
increased efficiency, there is move and counter-move
to out-general each other, with the service going
back all the time. For instance, a month ago the
traffic manager decided to upset a custom that had
grown old: the right of the men to work the same
sort of shift for a fortnight—straight, broken or
mid-day—and substituted a roster that made the
men do night shifts, broken shifts, morning shifts
and mid-day shifts in the one week, an unfair strain
on the men’s loyalty. Of course the union rushed
to Mr. Lang, who had the service brought back to the
old system, giving the Premier a prestige in union
circles that he does not deserve, and lowering the
manager in the eyes of his employees. The incident
should never have occurred; it was just a counter-
move in the game. Cartoonists put us in the dock
pleading for an employees’ representative on the
Appeal Board and elsewhere; but we are driven to
it by this constant battle of wits.
We don’t get a fair deal. The tramway award
expired nearly two years ago, and we have no other
yet. The Judge handling our ease just let ft stand
over in order to deal with a militant union that
would not be denied, thus creating the impression that
the bellicose union is entitled to most consideration.
This is as wrong as anything can be.
One great trouble with the tramway system is
that the department employs too many men, both
top and bottom. There are too many “spare men,”
and where that happens somebody must suffer;
economic necessity forces the issue. But, above all,
the department is not pulling together. Until the
service is harmonised friction must take place. With
men and officers working for the one end, the system
■would give very different results; and if managers
cannot bring that *’ about they are failing in their
jobs.
One other thing to be considered is the position
of the loyalists. Mr. Bavin says he will do justice
to them when he gets into power. Very good; but
while the men remain pawns in the game of politics,
chaos lurks around the corner.
«
Improving Queensland’s Sheep.
Dear Bulletin, —The Queensland Govern-
ment has appointed a Commission to look
into, amongst other matters relating to the
sheep and wool industry, the possibilities of
evolving a class of sheep which will grow
fleeces of 70’s quality as heavy as those
of the Riverina or South Aus. type—say,
an average of 101 b. On the Commission
there is one man only—W. G. Browne, the
sheep and wool expert in the Department of
Agriculture and Stock —who has practical
knowledge of sheep breeding. Every sheep-
man knows that it is a simple matter
breed fine-woolled sheep, but experience has
taught him that it pays better to grow
fleeces of medium-quality wool running 101 b.
or upwards than the fine-woolled type such
as is associated with the Geelong sales,
averaging not more than 7 to 8 lb., even if
these bring 4d. per lb. more than the broader
wools realise. Men wlm have been in the
sheep-breeding business ,all their lives, like
their fathers before them, have found as the
result of innumerable experiments that it is
impossible to combine big frames and robust
constitutions with the production of the
finest wool. The robust, big-framed sheep of
the South Australian or Riverina type are
best suited for the hot and dry regions of
the interior, where the wool fines down con-
siderably and where their great constitutions
enable them to successfully combat the hard-
ships which have to be endured. The fecun-
dity of the broad-woolled type of sheep is
much greater than that of the fine-woolled
varieties, and the lambs are much hardier.
If the Queensland Government wishes to
improve the conditions of sheep breeding,
much may be done by ceasing to rack-rent
Crown tenants, lightening the burden of
taxation, removing obnoxious and mischiev-
ous restrictions from the wool-growing indus-
try, linking up the dead ends of the rail-
ways in the West and continuing a north -
south line from Camooweal to the N. c>.
Wales border near Cunnamulla, and by
offering better and cheaper facilities for the
rail carriage of stock and goods.—Yours,
etc., W.P.D.
Ginks One, Two, Three.
“Timeter Pay” : Still going strong, after a
long run, is that delightful comedy entitled
“Everybody Is Supposed to Know the Law. ’
Interpreted by a long succession of highly-
paid and full-wigged actors, this piece has
always been a popular favorite, particularly
on the criminal stage. Yet in an educational
range, State controlled, which includes Greek
verbs and De Moivre’s Theorem, no attempt
is made to instruct the citizens as to the
law beyond the Ten Commandments and a
few hopeless generalities miscalled civics.
Nor will the State accept the responsibility
in individual cases. The Crown Law Office
will refuse to advise you on a matter of
private business, and will send you to a
private practitioner. The Profession, which
spells itself in capitals and comprises more
humbugs to the cubic foot than an immi-
grant ship, battens daily on the impossi-
bility of any ordinary citizen being able to
understand the law. Asked to advise, the
least conscientious among them give a blind
stab at something, take a victim’s fee, and
send him off to hi's fate; others follow a
general line of eommonsense with a gambling
hope of being near the mark; a few con-
scientious ones wander from one Act to
another, from Section A to Regulation
AAAZZMX, from case to case, and, becoming
more bewildered even than tjie client, give
him some vague sentences and send him
away dissatisfied into the arms of the Blind
Stabbers, who take his money and fill him
with Hope, which with them commences with
a D. In any event, you take the risk and
proceed with your course of business; and
in due time the benevolent Government, its
sense of humor not wholly defunct, comes
along in an alpaca coat, issue trousers and
big boots, calling himself a plain-clothes
man, and arrests you for doing it; but as
for holding your feet .from the wicked
path beforehand, that simply isn’t done.
In every British community hundreds of
private citizens amass more or less huge
fortunes in advising the other citizens of
the law, with which —according to the in-
fallible law itself—-everybody is really at
heart so well acquent that the man who goes
into the dock and says lie didn’t know it was
loaded can be nothing but a dissem-
bling hypocrite. Of course he knew
it was wrong! Give him two years’
hard labor and call the next case.
There ares too many lawyers, which is bad ;
too many laws, which is worse; and, worst
of all, every full-blooded new Cabinet which
bursts proudly into office forthwith pro-
ceeds to pass more laws. A vigilance com-
mittee should arrange a heavy bonus for the
Government whish can look proudly back
on three years of nothing but supply bills.
But, no ; they must pass laws. The Statute
Book must contain Brown’s Act for the
Registration of Umbrella-menders and
Jones’s Act for the Circumcision of Pariah
Dogs, so that each feeble-minded legislator
can wear a pink carnation! in his buttonhole
and (talk about the work he has done for
the constituents. God send us some Musso-
lini not cut out of a Sunday Comic, who,
with a mind above grabbing appropriated
funds and halfpenny taxes, can sweep away
the cumbersome mess of calf-bound rubbish,
codify what law is worth keeping, and have
a bonfire with the remainder!
♦—
Advertising Australia.
“Keith Barry” : Last year, on every rail-
way station of any size in the British Isles,
you could have found picturesque placards
imploring you to “Winter in Sunny South
Africa,” “Travel by the Canadian-Pacific
Railway,” and, in fact, go anywhere except
Australia. Yet Australia can hold its own
for tourist scenery and facilities with any
country in the world. We have yet to real-
ise what it means to a place to be a rendez-
vous for the wealthy tourist. We have
yet to realise that the south of France, the
Lido, South Africa and Canada make mil-
lions a year simply because of their natural
advantages. We have yet to realise that
there are an enormous number of people, in
the world, especially in England and America,
who “winter abroad,” and who in doing so
bring much wealth to the place of their
visitation. Whilst Victoria has its Gippsland
Lakes and its Mount Buffalo and Queensland
lvas its Great Barrier Reef and its Barron
Falls, N. S. Wales is the tourist State par
excellence. Nowhere in the world will you
find surfing beaches, wonderful mountain
scenery, limestone caves and inland waters
all Jranched together within a 90-mile radius
of such a city as Sydney. It is quite time
we began to talk about it. If the Govern-
ment refuses to indulge in a satisfactory
advertising campaign on the other side of the
earth, it is time the municipal councils and
shires of the resorts concerned decided to
club together and do something. The cost,
when spread out, would be small, the returns
big. Skegness, Blackpool, Brighton and the
Isle of Man, to mention a very few, enter-
prising tourist resorts, spend annually very
large sums of money on advertising them-
selves. I can’t remember a single English
station on which was not an advertisement
announcing that “Skegness is bracing.” I
can’t remember a single station anywhere in
the world, except here, announcing that
Sydney has surfing beaches or that the
Jenolan Caves are worth seeing. Suppose,
for a start, that the N.S.W. Government,
the Sydney City Council, the Blue Mountain
Shire and Newcastle City councils clubbed
together and put up a hundred thousand
pounds to be spent in advertising our tourist
facilities. If it wasn’t a paying proposition,
neither Canada, South Africa nor Deauville
would do it. It pays them. And there is
no reason in the world why it wouldn’t pay
us. After many years of wandering abroad
in all sorts of places, I declare that Sydney
lias more tourist attractions to offer than
any other two cities put together. It’s time
we began to use the fact commercially.
» -
Education in the Far North.
“Cornelia” : When the new Commission
arrives at Darwin, it might profitably devote
a few weeks in investigating the causes of
the low standard of education in the Terri-
tory. The Darwin school has an attendance
of over, 120 children, of whom about half
are Chinese, some 5 per cent, white, and
the rest all breeds and colors. The Parap
school has about 20 children, and a quarter
of these are colored. At Pine Creek prac-
tically all are colored. At the Darwin Con-
vent, on the other hand, where some 110
children attend, quite two-thirds are British
and only 5 per cent. Chinese, the remainder
being mainly Greeks and Spaniards. Most
w T hite parents naturally prefer to send their
children to the convent school, where the.
colored children are in the minority. The
Chinaman is an alien at all times. There
are Chinese children attending the Darwin
school whose parents were born in the Ter-
ritory, and who nevertheless are as alien to
Australian life and thought as if they were
living in another land. They go to the
Darwin school clad in the white child’s clothes
as a rule; but as soon as they return to
their homes off go the Australian clothes, on
go the Chinese, the Chinese language is
spoken, Chinese food is eaten (with chop-
sticks) , and, in the afternoon, many of them
attend the Chinese school in Cavanagh-
street. They are alien, and their own child-
ren wall be alien also. One may see half-
caste women married to white men living
the white life as far as they can, sending
their children to the white school, doing all
they can to lift their progeny up to the level
of the average white. In a generation or
two the black nature has almost vanished.
But the Chinese remain a people apart. Hence
there should be separate schools for them,
which they can attend alone. Some of the
teachers in the Darwin schools actually teach
in pidgin-English, for only so can their
Chinese pupils understand what they are
saying. Where a class consists of ID or
12 Chinese children and about three or four
white kiddies, the teachers concentrate so
much on the aliens that they have little time
to spare for those of their own race. The
first and most important educational need
at Darwin is a new and separate school for
white children only, which no Chinese should
bo permitted to attend.
♦
A Disputed Page of History.
“Morice”: So many inaccurate stories have
been told of the disturbances in the N.T.
which led'to the “revolutionary deportation”
of Dr. Gilrutii, the Administrator, along
with Messrs. Carey and Evans, that it may
be doing a good turn to some future his-
torian to set down coldly what did actually
occur. Incidentally, this account will differ k
materially, from that given by “Carisbrooic,
Jtjn.” (B. 21/10/’26). There were two
demonstrations during the Gilrutii rdgime,
but neither took place in the Darwin Town
Hall; one gathering was held on vacant land
close to Government House, the other at the
Darwin Oval. The first demonstration,
when the fence of Government House was
damaged, was a rowdy, ill-disciplined affair,
with the ringleaders lurking in the back-
ground. A crowd of youngsters of from 16
to < 20 years of age and a number of colored
aliens, including almost every nationality one
can mention, yelled and hooted and boohed,
but they didn’t touch Gilrutii as long as
he was facing them. It was only when he
turned his back to regain the house that
they mustered up sufficient bravado to tear
his clothes. I doubt if the mob numbered
more than about 150 at the most. The
Encounter did not arrive till about three
weeks after the first demonstration, at which
the mischief was done. The second demon-
stration did nothing but talk and threaten
—but it did both things very loudly and
noisily. Instead of the sailors of the En-
counter offering to throw their weight in
wutli the recalcitrants,' it was the rioters
who promised, if only the sailors would not
hurt them, to behave themselves as little
gentlemen once more. Dr. Gilrutii and
Messrs. Carey and Evans remained for
some time after the demonstrations, and
continued doing their work in Darwin quite
unmolested till their departure. But for the
fact of the Home and Territories Depart-
ment Behaving as if the Territory were, a
tiger that it had caught by the tail, and
acting as if it was equally afraid to hang
on or let go, the officials would never have
been jockeyed out of Darwin. The Govern-
ment lacked both the courage and the nous
to back up the men who were doing its work
up here. To say, as “Carisbrook, Jun.,”
does, that it was the most serious outburst
that has ever afflicted Australia is gross
exaggeration. I talked with one of the
rioters immediately after the first demonstra-
tion. He was just a youngster who looked
on the affair as a great joke; he had never
spoken to Dr. Gilrutii, and hardly knew
him by sight. “But, dash it all,” he
explained, “a fellow wants a bit of a break
sometimes, and we just upset these old joss-
ers who thought themselves little tin gods
on wheels. We didn’t do any harm, just
had a bit of fun. Won’t the Southern papers
spread themselves now!” And, of course,
they did.
♦ '
The Tariff on Woollens.
“Clifford Snook” : That remarkable per-
son who signs himself “James McMahon,
president of the Town and Country Union
of N. S. Wales,” and who always gets space in
the S. M. Herald to say that Australian
products (like the S. M. Herald) are no
darned good compared with imported ones,
lately had another outbreak in the usual
paper on the favorite subject of “the Tariff
on Woollens.” Some time ago he declared
in print that the tariff had forced up the
price of a child’s wool vest made in Eng-
land (most likely of Australian wool) from
2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d., ' and the controversy still
burns fiercely. Letters pointing out that
Australian-made wool vests are cheap and
abundant only add kerosene to the flames,
and Mr. McMahon disturbed the pre-Christ-
mas calm with this —and some more:—
In regard to the quality and finish of the two
respective garments mentioned, Australian and
British, we, too, have in our possession samples
of these, and also have had the opinion of women
who ar e competent to judge, the result being that
in each case the British garment was proclaimed to
be much superior in quality, and, as we said before,
infinitely superior in the finish of the top. Even the


3
a
c. 1
s:
n
saw
Sjß Qn
//I
m
m
m
rt
%
\sl
G
sa
ft nri
r*wtw7fl!
''Ll'' 'lf'
Ti
le
Paid-up Capital, £l/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
Tluojs Mjywzd
of Com|cyii/
j\jOT accidentally has "The Australia"
*■ gained a name that is world-famous.
It remains but for you yourself to enjoy
the proffered luxury and comfort, the
cuisine, the service, the atmosphere.
Cable, wireless and telegraphic address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
uninitiated could not fail to detect the difference.
We do not state this idly or from a mere con-
troversial standpoint, but simply because the evi-
dence is before our eyes, and we also have been
very careful in obtaining our information.
These rather regal statements may be true,
though I suspect that it is merely dashed
foolish to say that one child’s undergarment
which we have seen is “infinitely” better or
worse or dearer or cheaper or larger or
smaller than the others, including the mil-
lions we haven’t seen. Anyhow, there is
always a chance that the child might prefer
to have a slightly inferior bit of clothing next
to her skin than that her father should lose
his job at the woollen factory, in the interests
of a mouldy superstition and the stupid
priests thereof, and be unable to buy the
Christmas dinner, jobs being scarce just now.
That is, assuming that the Australian pro-
duct is inferior, which isn’t proved—only
asserted. I have a profound respect for
British goods and for British people. But
the Commonwealth can’t afford to buy any
more imported goods than it does, and, in
fact, there are abundant signs that it will
have to do with £50,000,000 worth per
annum less. When it is easily possible, and
even habitual, for the country to acquire
£33,000,000 of new debt in a year, simply
because foreign imports and interest on
foreign loans exceed the value of exports by
that much, and when the prices of things we
sell are practically all on the down-grade, it
is no time for piffling argument about a
child’s woollen vest. The child, being Aus-
tralian, will just have to put up with an
Australian undergarment.
Hugh Denison, Australia’s talky “Austra-
lian Commissioner to the United States,” has
been lunching and conversing again. Stand-
ing before the billionaires of the New York
Bond Club, he said: —
The United States in the near future was going to
be largely interested in the development of Aus-
tralia, which possessed an almost unlimited field for
the surplus funds steadily accumulating in the United
States. Bankers might be well advised if in the near
future they turned their eyes away from the old
effete countries of Europe, and centred their activi-
ties in the new world of the South.
The idea of many people (not necessarily
Commissioners) is that it should be the busi-
ness of Australia to accumulate its own capi-
tal, _as the United States has done. The
obvious way is the one which the United
States has taken, which is to produce more,
to export more produce, and to import a
great deal less produce—especially from the
United States. The last complete year’.s
returns showed that that very spry republic
sold us goods costing £38,728,814, and bought
goods costing only £9,153,279. That differ-
ence of £29,575,535 per annum is eloquent
and overwhelming evidence of the futility
of Trade Commissioners. It is hard to culti-
vate more export trade with the United
States, for if an Australian goes there pur-
suing the commercial will-o’-the-wisp he is
admitted reluctantly for a short fixed period
on payment of a fee, and is thrown out when
his ticket-of-leave has expired, whether his
work is finished or not. The U.S.A. sales-
man, on the other hand, may come here for
life. Some method of straightening up the
trade balance with the great republic is the
crying—even the howling—need of the hour.
—♦
In the course of a recent reunion at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) Labor-member Tully
assured the audience that the 44-hour week
was not the cause of the railway deficit
(£830,871). It was only responsible for
£190,000 of it, which he described as one-
eighth. To get down to details, what the
official report said was that £191,814 was
the loss caused by the 44 hours, and as
it only operated during six months it would
be twice as much next year. Further;
£128,147 was the cost of pay
under the N.S.W. Board of Trade award,
which operated for only 10 months of the
year, and two sums of £lBO,OBl and £86,653
were added to the deficit through awards of
the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
the State Court of Industrial Arbitration.
In short, the Commissioners set down
£586,195 of shortage to industrial changes
enacted by their numerous masters, and when
the awards operate for a full year the loss
will be greater. This doesn’t prove that the
awards are wrong, but it suggests that it
may be necessary to close a number of things
besides the steam tramways which, have
gone into the discard. The community will
have to learn that it can’t have 44-hour
weeks, and such things without paying for
them.
Small Sister is in the middle of an argu-
ment which bears a miniature resemblance
to the controversy that raged about the
N.S.W. McSharry case of several decades
ago. Attorney-General Ogilvie and a
brother-lawyer, -Shields, M.L.C., who pre-
pared the “Case for Tasmania” for presenta-
tion to the Commonwealth’s Commissioner,
Nicholas Lockyer, and prepared it well,
have just been informed by Parliament that
they are to get nothing for the job. A bill
was submitted to the Assembly by the Gov-
ernment authorising the payment to Shields
and Ogilvie of £lO5O “notwithstanding any-
thing contained in the Constitution Act.”
The Assembly took the view that work which
had been so well done, and which had proved
so effective in securing reasonable financial
consideration for Tasmania from the Com-
monwealth Government, was worth paying
for, but that the £lO5O claimed was too stiff.
After lively argument the amount was cut
in halves, and the bill sent on to the Lords,
•where it was rejected, mainly because it
was alleged to be quite unconstitutional
for members of Parliament, and particularly
the Attorney-General, to accept professional
fees from the Crown. Though the bill has
been thrown out and Parliament has closed
for the session, th§ argument is still raging-
furiously as to whether the claimants have
a moral right to some remuneration. Pre-
sumably the controversy will be carried on
until Parliament meets some time next year
and decides whether the claimants shall be
paid a moderate sum or be utterly bilked.
Meanwhile it is interesting to note that
Hobart Mercury, hitherto the chief journal-
istic upholder of all that the House of Re-
view does and is, has just declared that the
Council members were in this case “very
pleased to have the Constitutional issue
raised as an excuse to do a mean thing.”
♦
When it was first proposed to lay a State-
owned cable across the Pacific, the taxpayer
was invited to support the scheme because
it would reduce the price of cablegrams. It
hasn’t. Rates have been reduced, but not
THE SURPRISING GENERATION.
OLD-FASHIONED FATHER: “Loolc, when I was a hoy, if I had asked as many questions
as you do, I would have been”
UP-TO-DATE SON : “Able to answer mine.”
because of the competition of the Pacific
cable. The Eastern Extension Co. worked
under an agreement to automatically reduce
tariffs as the traffic increased. The State-
owned cable being long and slow, its capacity
was small in comparison with those of
the private company, which had several
routes. Hence, in order not to show a loss
and be a reflection on the politicians, it had
to maintain high rates. Rates have slowly
declined, but mainly at the instigation of the
private firm. The private concern must
submit any proposed reductions first to the
I’.M.G. and then to the Pacific Cable Board.
The P.M.G. likes high rates because of the
inordinately large terminal fee he charges
for doing nothing to every cable which
arrives. The Pacific Cable Board, until the
laying of its new line, liked high rates
because its single cable was so hopelessly
congested that it cofild not carry the increase
that a reduction in prices would create. A
reduction which it has just announced with
pride was proposed by the private company
in April last and was held up by the Pacific
board. The business is a curious example
of the indifference to the public interest that
seems to hang around a State concern as
inevitably as a miasma around a swamp.
Barcoo : Brisbane s Christmas stocking
held no strikes for once in a way, but the
public got its usual issue of trouble in the
shape of a meat famine. F'or reasons which
ranged from wet-weather interference with
transport to the Government’s failure to
supply trucks, only 900 cattle were yarded
for the Christmas-week sale, and the com-
munity usually swallows four times that num-
ber. Cow beef jumped to 425. per 1001 b. and
bullock beef to 445., in each case a rise of
about £l. Mutton sympathetically went up
also, some cuts taking on an extra lOd. a
pound. _ The Board of Trade had recently
fixed prices on much lower rates at previous
sales, and retailers were also in trouble, for
to show any profit they had to sell at least
25 per cent above the Government rate, and
by doing so incurred penalties. The whole
happening is a vivid illustration of the folly
of price-fixing—and the advantages of vege-
tarianism. Though Heaven knows vege-
tarianism lias its disadvantages, too. with
beans at 2s. per lb., as they were in Sydney
at the week-end.
♦
“Murkah” : For many years directional
wireless (i.e., the transmission of the energy
in the desired direction only) has been the
aim of the radio-engineer. The widely-dis-
cussed “beam” is the present result. Cal-
culations have shown that by the time the
British beam reaches Australia it has thick-
ened up to 2000 miles across. Despite even
this diffuseness the beam represents a very
great advance in directive transmission. The
short-wave oscillator is another recent in-
vention, and the combination of these two
advances in knowledge renders feasible a
project—British-Australian commercial radio
—which, previously, wrnuld have been hailed
with derision. The idea of the old high-
power and long-wave days was literally to
smash through. Nauen, Germany, was the
classic example. This great station used
600 k.w. (about SOO h.p.|, and operated on
a 15,000-metre wave-length. To such an
extent has radio science advanced that last
night I heard an English amateur on 50
metres, and, using barely sufficient energy to
turn an ordinary fan, make a better job of
covering the earth than the giant German
thunder-house of the war days. Of course
reception also has advanced. Wherefore, in
my opinion, the Marconi-Fisk hopes and
claims have a first-rate chance of realisation.
The fact that the cable cos. continue to lay
new .cable is no argument against the pos-
sible success of the radio scheme. It has
always been thought that each new com-
munication system would out all others. But
the world advances and gives them all more
traffic than they can handle. The objection
lodged by a recent Bulletin contributor
that in war-time even beam messages could
be “tapped” is more than counterbalanced
by the fact that the only alternative., the
cable, would surely be cut, as Germany dis-
covered. In any case, without the “key,”
modern codes, particularly the ever-changing
naval and military varieties, are undecipher-
able. Even conceding they collid e entua y
be translated, the value of the message
would long have vanished.
4
The Tasmanian Parliament, both Houses,
and almost without dissent, passed a bill
authorising the payment of a small pension
(£104) a year) to the widow of the late
Speaker O’Keefe. The £2 a week is to be
reduced when the recipient, now nearly ou,
reaches 60 and becomes eligible for the ohl-
age pension. Part of the excuse for setting
up this Tasmanian precedent lay in the
assumption that when the late Speaker met
with the motor accident he was engaged on
the business of the State, _ and the further
assumption that the injuries then received
hastened his death. But_ the late Mick
O’Keefe’s personal popularity among Parlia-
mentarians probably had most to do with
the upsetting of the order. Ike
precedent (which is probably highly danger-
ous) may possibly lead, in a devious and
roundabout fashion, to the adoption- of a
sensible system of pensions to Parliamen-
tarians for length of service. The late
O’Keefe had been an M.P. for 15 years or
so, and, like every other honest Parliamen-
tarian who makes his public duties a full:
time job, was bound to become poorer and
his outlook less cheering the longer he served.
When he attained the Speakership and its
£5OO a year he tried to put his small salary-
increase into life assurance. But he was
already a spent man and was not successful in
his attempt to make the only provision that
seemed available for his dependants. It is
about time Australia considered the question
of Parliamentary pensions as an alternative
to immoral salary-grabbing, etc.
*
“The Traveller” : Thirty years ago Vic.
Railways Chief Commissioner Speight lost
his job, chiefly owing to the attacks made on
his administration by the Age. One of the
troubles was the ever-rising percentage of
officers. It would be interesting to have a
return of the percentage of officers to men
to-day. Officers are everywhere. In the car-
riages of nearly every train is an apparent
head, who will step out and into the s.m.’s
office, often keeping the train waiting while
the guard is fidgeting anxiously with his
green flag. It is quite a regular thing to see
three men on the engine these days—a loco,
“travelling foreman” or other variety of
officer being there presumably to show the
enginemen how to do their work. If the
men are not trained to carry out their duties
properly without so much overseeing there
must be something wrong at headquarters. If
the men require so much more supervision,
something ought to be done to get a better
type. Reducing the officers by a few hun-
dreds and dividing their pay amongst the
workers might have some effect. If I were
Commissioner I would withdraw, say, for a
month, all petty officers —let them have their
annual leave simultaneously—and see what
the result would be.
<-4
“Bouragi” : Some months ago Bulletin
readers were discussing a new Papuan ordi-
nance providing more severe punishment for
native “boys” convicted of assaults on white-
women. These had chiefly occurred in Port
Moresby and its environs, where coddling
missions and armchair officials have encour-
aged the flash Hanuabadan to flights of in-
solence not attempted by the natives of more
benighted districts situated at a distance
from bureaucracy. The first-fruits of the
new ordinance were seen recently, when two
“Port” natives were given three and five
years’ hard labor respectively, with a whip-
ping of 15 strokes each into the bargain.
Perhaps it is as well that the Federal Parlia-
ment isn’t sitting, or some humanitarian ass
might have stopped at least the well-earned
strokes.
-4
Whoever else may be pleased with the
“new” Dominion status, the British citizen
of dark complexion in S’Africa most certainly
is not. He has had small reason in the
past to trust the professions of his white
rulers, especially those of Dutch blood. At
one time an appeal to the British Govern-
ment was a last resource and one that—as
in the case of the attempted Boer annexation
of Bechuanaland usually did not fail.
Recent Nationalist-Labor legislation debar-
ring the Kaffir from many avenues of em-
ployment he used to follow hasn’t helped
to allay the old distrust. The great native
protectorates, such as Swaziland, Basutoland
and Zululand, have hitherto enjoyed a semi-
independent status of their own, and have
been intensely jealous of any encroachment
on it. To make sure, these and the rest of
native S’Africa have resolved to follow the
example of their white fellow-citizens of
the Union and ask the British Governmen;
to explain “clearly and unequivocally” what
the status of the South African native really
is. It won’t be an easy job.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs, WM, NORTHAM (Chairman), T. W. RAPLEY (Managing Director), ALEX. KING, P. R. HIGGINS, and Dr. E. MORRIS HUMPHERY.
Total Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses. . . ...
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised. .
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
T. W. RAPLEY, Managing Director.
GEO. PEACOCK, A.C.1.5., Secretary. ,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prime Minister Bruce has been . fare-
welling in London, and forecasting in his
.final speeches an era of “unexampled pro-
gress.” So perhaps he is going to get to
work at last on the Snuth-to-North rail-
way—the whole railway, and no measly in-
stalment, and a 4ft. SJin. line at that.
Lang got his odious newspaper tax
through with some amendments, one of which
exempted publications sold for 3d. or more
as at December 22. This amendment was
urged on the ground that papers like The
Bulletin and the Woman’s Mirror are
inter-State in character, and are subject to
competition from publications outside tlie
State which, of course, are not subject to
the tax. There is grave doubt whether a
State duty on the production of any news-
paper is constitutional, being an excise tax;
but Lang is so hungry that he preferred to
pass it and let the lawyers wrangle over u
afterwards. That attitude illustrates the
slovenliness of the Government’s methods.
No measure is really considered nowadays.
Bills are just slung together, and the Min-
ister in charge in the Council doesn’t even
profess to understand them.
The unhappy Lang received another
enemy salvo ’twixt wind and water when his
Appropriation Bill went up to the N.S.W.
Legislative Council. Consideration of the
bill, which Lang wished to rush through at
one sitting, Standing Orders being suspended
for the purpose, was postponed till January
11. Also, the'Council de.cided to present an
address to the Governor giving its opinion
of Lang as a keeper of promises, and another
motion protesting against the changed date
of summoning Parliament also went through.
The Old Gentlemen, led by Carruthers, were
thoroughly worked up, and even the impas-
sioned pleadings of Willis, as he begged them
not to bring about their own destruction,
failed to move them.
One Sydney paper, the Sun, will be called
on to pay £350 per day under the new stamp
duty of id. per copy. Of course the paper
is only regarded as a cheap collecting agency
—a passer-on of the liability. The news-
paper cheques may square the Government’s
balance-sheet, but the altered shape of the
document won’t prevent the State ambling
along the insolvent’s road just the same. All
the. cheques can be put into the bank, and
drawn upon in Commonwealth notes, but
Commonwealth notes won’t pay interest on
money borrowed abroad, and N.S.W. owes
as much money abroad as Victoria, S. Aus.,
Tasmania and Westralia combined. The
situation can be met by selling more Aus-
tralian products in foreign parts (or buying
less in foreign parts), and thus getting more
real money to/nay bills with ; but that would
mean more production, and that would
mean more or better work, and the Lang
Government’s hold on the people lies in tell-
ing them that they are due for more money
and much less work. A hackneyed and
plausible idea is to “make the capitalist pay,”
but it means nothing so far as concerns the
dreadful pile of liabilities overseas and their
dreadful increase, and the dreadful scarcity
of the means to meet them.
Vic. Parliament wound up its inglorious
last session with a continuous sitting of 47-|
hours. Into that space it crowded more
legislation than was passed in the previous
five and a half months. Labor suddenly
withdrew obstruction just before the long
sitting began, and accepted as a reward com-
pulsory voting, Saturday polling and pay-
ment of members between the date of dis-
solution and polling-day. Of the 57 bills
passed the great majority were routine or
pot-boiler measures—34 were, pushed through
in the final two days. Redistribution of
Assembly seats was the main thing done;
there Allan (per his Liberal henchman
Argyle) succeeded where Watt, Lawson and
Peacock, his predecessors in leadership, had
failed. Members of the Assembly left for
home with the belief that they would be
facing the electors in 16 weeks, but the Min-
istry has supply till June 30, and —well, we
shall see.
THE NEW TYPIST.
THE OLD WORLD: “You seem all right, my dear. I hope to goodness you, don’t make
as many mistakes as your predecessor.”
By putting the screw on income- and
land-tax payers and by squeezing all he can
out of Lands Department tenants, Vic.
Treasurer Peacock may make ends meet on
June 30 next. It hardly suited the Allan-
cocks to flog the cat and get a small surplus
last year, as they had twice applied to Par-
liament for authority to increase income-tax.
A struggling Victoria, too, can make out a
better case for continuance of per capita pay-
ments than' a Victoria with surpluses.
Others besides The Bulletin are now
saying it. Railway-Commissioner Webb, of
South Aus., in his lat.est annual report,
gloomily draws attention to the fact that
he has included the sum of £3,982,314 in
his 1925-26 accounts for “accumulated and
deferred charges—recoups to capital for
worn-out and obsolete assets, principally
rolling-stock replacements, relaying, ballast-
ing, widening gauge, rebuilding shops, ter-
minals and running sheds.” In other words,
he has announced that there is a deficit in
his accounts of close on four million pounds,
due to inadequate provision in the past for
wastage of assets. Giving evidence on the
44-liour week business the other day, Clapp
told tlie Arbitration Court that Vic.’s rolling-
stock alone had depreciated to the extent of
a couple of millions over and above amounts
for which provision had been made in the
last 16 years. Clapp pointed out that so
long as he had to follow his present methods
of finance he was understating true expen-
diture, the State was paying working expenses
with borrowed money, and an ever-growing
parcel of trouble was being pushed on to
posterity. To use Clapp’s own expressive
words, “the Sheriff will be calling some day.”
Maoriland, which woke up in 1920 to find
that its imports overbalanced its exports by
nearly £16,000,000, had kept itself more or
less within its means up till last year. The
commercial 12 months ends on September
30, and last year imports exceeded exports
by close on 3i millions. Actually, although
Maoriland is administered by a farmers’
party that got into office by promising to
stop borrowing, the Long Lone Islands push
in an lOU whenever they think there is a
fair chance that Uncle Bull will advance a
bit more on the furniture. The easiest way
to keep in office in Maoriland, as in Aus-
tralia, is to keep on borrowing. That is why
it is so utterly foolish for the public to
expect tho politicians to put in the peg and
stop the drunk of tlieir own accord. If
anything is to be done before the smash
comes, the people must do it.
If there must be arbitration courts they
ought to be the strongest in the land, be-
cause they are the most liable to feel out-
side influences; instead, they are easily the
weakest. If a murderer threatened to do
something extra-outrageous unless his trial
was postponed for 12 months, and if a Court
conceded his demand, there would be a
prompt demand for the removal of that
Court. Yet time after time arbitration courts
and tribunals do things just as bad. For
instance, the other day in Melbourne the
plaint of the Storemen and Packers got shoved
to tlie head of the list, above many other cases
equally important, because the union had
practised direct action on numerous occa-
sions. In Sydney tlie tramway men, on the
other hand, hating to strike or do anything
of that sort, have just been pushed back
and back.
The Bulletin’s prophecy that Pidding-
ton would soon fall from favor with N.S.W.
members of “the movement” was soon ful-
filled. The Labor Council lost no time in
denouncing “good old Piddo’s” judgment on
the basic wage as being “nauseating and
hypocritical,” and “a wilful betrayal of the
working-class movement.” Caucus was griev-
ously perturbed also. “We don’t want any
theorising or dictation from Mr. Piddington,”
one stalwart declared. “We want him to do
the job for which he was appointed, or make
way for someone who will.” No piffling ideas
about impartiality there!
Another awkward moment is coming to
the League of Nations. The Filipino Parlia-
ment is credited with the intention of apply-
ing for membership on the same terms as
India and Canada. League members must
be fully self-governing States, dominions
or colonies. The Philippines are far from
that. A Governor appointed by Coolidge is
the chief executive; and only the other day
the Governor, to save the_ finances, removed
a whole lot of public services from political
control. In any case, how can Uncle Sam
let a dependency enter a club which he re-
fuses fiercely to join himself?
After it had been through the political
mill, the Vic. Film Censorship measure didn t
amount to much. The Commonwealth censor,
is empowered to act for the State, and Aus-
tralian-made films come under the same in-
spection. The one conspicuous feature ot
tlie bill is the provision that from July
1 every programme shall contain 1000
feet of British and 1000 feet of Australian
celluloid. The average length of an even-
ing’s entertainment is 15,000 feet, so the pro-
portion is modest. Still, it will give the Aus-
tralian film-maker an opportunity to get
going without being rushed or tempted into
producing shoddy to fill the distributors’
needs.
Certain professors of Columbia University
lately suggested that it ’might be well to
ease up on the struggle to collect war debts,
and view them not so much in the light of
loans, but rather as contributions to the
common cause. President Coolidge, however,
was quite sniffy with the professors, and
said his Government was “trying to. work
out its own salvation and the salvation of
others.” Which recalls the man who got
drunk on the way home every evening for the
sake of his poor wife, because he knew she
must find him a terribly dull dog whei} he
was sober.
The waterside workers and seamen of Aus-
tralia are still pursuing the silly pastime of
cutting their own throats. They have done
their best to make the Navigation Act intoler-
able, and their indifference to the hardships
of Tasmania has been simply brutal. In
the circumstances no reasonable person can
heave a brick at the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for taking advantage of a small
amendment of the law to again throw open the
Tasmanian tourist traffic to oversea boats,
of 10,000 tons and upwards. There might
be less disposition to throw crumbs of this
sort to the oversea cos. if the inter-State
lines had shown themselves less greedy.
No doubt they have had a lot to put up
with; but they have made the public put
up with a good deal more.
The Ramsay Mac. party in the House of
Commons is getting some quaint recruits.
At the Smeltwick by-election last week the
Labor standard-bearer was O. A. Mosley, the
wealthy heir to a baronetcy, and he was
assisted on the platform by his wife, Lady
Cynthia, the opulent daughter of the late
Marquis Curzon. The seat was vigorously
contested, one of the other candidates casually
mentioning that he had shovelled coal for
a living while the Labor man had been
“loafing in Mayfair drawing-rooms,” but in
the end Mosley polled 4000 votes more than
the Conservative and Liberal between them.
The last, in fact, bottomed the poll so heavily
that he lost his deposit. In the old days
young sprigs. of aristocracy with advanced
views and titled wives would have joined
the Liberal Party. Now there is so little
left of it to join, and throwing in their lot
with it is such a sure passport to failure,
that they prefer to pin the Labor colors
in their hats.
The S. M. Herald’s testimony:—
Australia and the States of Australia offer the
three requisites which a lender requires—-ample
security, ability to pay interest and provide for
redemption, and character in the people to fulfil
obligations.
Yet why should a Government’s promise co
pay a bond on maturity be better than its
promise to dissolve an Assembly in four
months?
An English radiologist is reported to have
invented a for enabling
people to watch the movements of the inter-
nal organs in themselves and others. It
would come in handy in N.S.W. just now
to settle whether Lang’s heart is in his
mouth or his boots.
The Westralian Cockies are still hostile to
Jimmy Mitchell, who has nominally led the
Opposition since his Government was thrown
out in 1924, and there is a chance of Jack
Scaddan becoming Coalition Premier if he
gets in for Leederville, as he probably will,
and Labor loses its small majority. Jack
was a Cocky himself for a time. He will
stand for Leederville as a member of the
United party, but should the label impede
a coalition he won’t mind changing it to
whatever the Cockies may prefer. He is
very obliging.
“ J.E.”: A man never recovers from his
last illness," no matter how often he may
have pulled round before. Nor does a com-
-1 munity. The Lang Government may be
! N. S. Wales’s last illness.
! One lesson which the Yallourn strike
taught Melbourne power-users is to distrust
> a single big State scheme. As a result, such
- undertakings as the auxiliary services pro-
- vided by the City Council and the private
! Electric Supply Co. are likely to be retained,
t even if the demand in normal times is not
s sufficient to warrant their existence. It is
i another part of the big price the public has
3 to pay that one section may indulge in the
f luxury of strikes.
THE PITCH OF POLITICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.].
“There was a time until recently when a definite
promise was always honored. That time had gone
since the present Government came into office. The
other day some member of tlie Labor party said
that politics was a dirty game. It was a dirty
game when played by dirty men.”— N.S.W, Opposi-
tion-leader Bavin.
It may be rough and bitter, a game for stalwarts
fitter
Than those who fain in concord with, all mankind
would live,
A strenuous rough-and-tumble where players mustn’t
grumble
At getting blows and buffets as shrewd as those
they give.
But rules should be regarded, though gloves may be
discarded,
Wherever faction blazes and partisanship’s keen.
In days remembered dimly our fathers fought as
grimly
And triumphed or were vanquished, but kept the
contest clean.
Their winnings and their cloutings, their innings and
their outings,
Such ups and downs as must be, they took them
as they came,
Accepting their reverses sans wrangles, squeals and
curses,
Like decent sports who're walloped at any decent
game.
Though office, ’tis admitted, in haste they seldom
quitted,
At least they faced the los* of it courageous and
serene;
Disdaining lies fair-spoken and solemn pledges broken
To hold themselves in place and pay, they kept
their honor dean.
They fought with sternness surely, unyieldingly and
dourly,
With bludgeons of invective, with cutting jeers
and gibes,
Hut not with plots upsavory, with treachery and
knavery,
With vile chicane and low intrigue, with false-
hood and with bribes,
They scorned exchanges placid, their tongues were
rough and acid,
But better men than some we see to-day they
must have been.
Now h ” <ls with baseness grimy, now perjured tongues
and slimy
Are politicians’ weapons—how can politics be
clean ?
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


ISHtO
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manujacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros.. Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Iry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Fhilp £ <Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Horace Summers
Howard Street.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd..
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar. Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORGINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
engineers, steel founders, forgers,
Works &
Foundries
S Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
l Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Braxch
Offices
1 312 Flinders St., Melbourne.
1 T. & G. B’l’g, Brisbane.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance,
shipping, merchandise and general agency
people:—
Ordinary Written off
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises. Reserves.
1915. . £206,672 S p.c. = £BO,OOO £40,000 £808,687
1916.. 203,857 10 100,000 40,000 847,544
1917.. 260,227 13 ~ „ 130,000 100,000 852,771
1918.. 251,000 14 „ ~ 140,000 25,000 913,771
1919.. 252,157 14 „ „ 140,000 30,000 970,928
1920.. 282,577 15 ~ ~ 150,000 50,000 1,028,505
1921.. 130,607 10 ~ ~ 100,000 1,034,112
Taxation refund, £158,210 .. .. 1,192,322
Profit from sale of assets, £20,000 ..1,212,322
1922.. 84,579 15 p.c. = 150,000 20,000 1,101,901
1923.. 239,162 15 „ ~ 150,000 50,000 1,116,063
1924.. 298,988 17 „ ~ 170,000 50,000 1,170,051
1925.. 336,313 17 „ ~170,000 75,000 1,236,364
1926.. 270,048 17 „ „ 170,000 ) nnn , ’ ’ 0
Staff bonus, £50,000 ) 50,000 1,211,41-
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
Last year’s profits look rather sick along-
side those to June, 1925; but, then, that
period was quite exceptional. Wool had
rushed up to extraordinary prices, and this co.
benefited as both grower and broker. Further,
Maoriland had been making great profits;
and a substantial part of the exceptional
earnings came from the Dominion. Last
year saw a return to drabber but more
stable conditions. Wool, which had averaged
£33 13s. lOd. per bale in 1924-25, was back
to' an average (for Australasia in both
cases) of £2O 19s. 4d. in 1925-20 ; and the
wheat harvest, which was 105,000,000 bushels
in the earlier year, was 113,500,000 in the
biter: Butter, too, had come to earth: in
October, 1925, best Maoriland had touched
2345.; in October. 1926, it was back to 1365.
Meat had also suffered in price; and, besides,
shipments had been hard to place, especially
on the Continent, partly because of monetary
disturbances, partly because, in order to
encourage home production, various coun-
tries have had the bad manners to protect
themselves against our imports. On top of
all these troubles the co. had the long over-
sea shipping strike on its hands. Apart from
that circumstance conditions were really not
bad ; indeed, they were very good as far as
wool and wheat are concerned.
The directors therefore saw no good reason
for snipping anything off the 17 p.c. p.a.
div. paid for the previous two terms. True,
they were not then able to add anything to the
reserve funds; but that was only because,
in addition to writing £50,000 off premises
and handing the usual £25,000 to the Officers!
Provident Fund, they passed out £50,000 to
the staff as a special bonus—reckoning that
probably as the staff’s share of the windfalls
of the previous two years. Not including this
£50,000 outgoings were smaller than for
several years past, and a lower taxation
bill was largely responsible for that
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Gross profits. . £957,298 £986,979 £1,039,221 £951,648
Outgoings—
Salaries, 'exes.,
etc. .. 359,592 392,493 418,046 407,547
Depreciation . . 20,637 •
Interest . . 98,251 111,952 109,210 123,906
Taxes.. .. 186,241 158,546 150,652 125,147
Total outgoings £664,721 £662,991 £677,908 £656,600
Considering the fall in production and
prices, it is surprising that there was no
greater fall in gross profits; the co. must
have had fine commission earnings other-
wise—partly, of course, from motor-cars;
the co. is the agent for the Rolls Royce,
Hudson and Essex, two of them, at any rate,
free-selling lines. 'Whether the great profits
made out of the sale of motor-cars is any-
thing to give three cheers for is quite another
matter. In general, far too much of the
trade is done on credit; and bills have a
nasty habit of coming home to roost whether
the fowlyard is ready for them or not.
Some fairly large movements have taken
place during the year:—
Liabilities.
1923. 1925. 1926.
Capital . . .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Perpetual 44 p.c... 499,910 499,910 749,910
„ 4 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Tcrnjinable 61 p.c. 300,000 230,750 59,203
6 . „ 4,403 2,703 2,703
„ 5* „ 4.585 1,985 75,985
~ 51 ~ 124,399
„ 5 „ 40,625 3,150 197,356
~ 41 ~ 7,910 46,796 44,346
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,830,846 3,729,217 2,964,805
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. . . £3,644,976 £5,241,626 £4,883,404
Premises, etc. . . 397,217 421,344 392,08?
Stock- . . . . 418,347 580,711 504,779
Sundry debtors . . 870,630 1,703,664 1,667,437
Cash & investments 3,014,716 1,420,074 1,648,961
Advances are less than they were a year
before, but at June 30 they were still far in
excess of the average of recent years. Appa-
rently this is in pursuance of the directors’
policy of extending the business. Several
times lately they have hinted that they might
be asking for more capital presently; and
during the year they issued £250,000 of 44
p.c. perpetual debenture stock. But, though
there have been various movements among
the terminable debentures—chiefly in the
direction of substituting ,5, 5i and 54 per
cents, for 64 per cents. —nothing more has
been done, and nothing has been “definitely
decided upon.” That “definitely” sounds as
though something had been pretty seriously
talked about. Indeed, the chairman is “con-
vinced that before long we will have to do
something.” The question is whether the share-
holders will be given a chance. If they are
they can hardly expect to get new shares at
par, or even to supply unpaid capital that
will carry the present dividend. It is beyond
reason to expect better profits than the aver-
age of the past three years; and in that
period the amount put by—visibly at any
rate —has not amounted to anything con-
spicuous. The current year will no doubt
show equally good results ; for, though con-
ditions in Queensland are not good, and in
a large part of the State are now distinctly
bad, the wheat harvest (in which Dalgety’s
are largely interested) will be excellent (N.
S. Wales crops are stripping bgyond expec-
tations in many districts) and wool prices
continue very profitable. But there are large
contingencies to be guarded against; and
Dalgety’s are not the people to lose sight of
them. It will be surprising therefore if any
issue or call is made which will be likely to
cause the directors any embarrassment. The
latest sale of the £2O ordinary shares paid to
£5 was at £l6; the return at that figure is
£5 6s. p.c. The visible assets are equal to
a shade over £ll per share, after allowing
for the 50,000 £lO 5 p.c. profs, fully paid.
* * * *
Goode, Durrant and Co., Ltd. (London,
Adelaide and Perth), warehousemen, etc.
Goodwill (£40,000) is not reckoned an asset
in the following table :—•
, Dividends
Net Prefs. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ords. serves, serves.
1924.. 61.403 11,550 10 p.c. =25,125 1 99a
To superannuation fund, £3OOO ) --‘.oor
1925.. 51,378 11,550 10 p.c. =25,125 14,703 242,364
1926.. 47.007 11,550 10 „ „ 25,125 10,332 252,696
This old-established softgoods house, founded
by the late Charles Goode, was acquired by
the present co. in 1898. Though it has
maintained its head office in London, its
board is almost exclusively Australian, and,
moreover, almost exclusively men trained in
the business. It has never been over-liberal
with dividends, and has thus built up a fine
reserve which comes in very handy these
days when the general warehouseman, especi-
ally in softgoods, is having a leaner time'
than he used to have. Many things are
responsible for that. First, there is the,
development of the big department store
which is its own importer; and many coun-
try stores are in that categbry. Then there
is the growth of Australian factories, which
deal direct with at least the bigger retail
traders. Here and there the wholesaler saw
what was coming and jumped into factory
work himself; but mostly the big retailer
was more energetic. Moreover, most of the
wholesale houses had very large English con-
nections—many of them had their head offices
in London—and they stuck to the old super-
stition that Australia could never be a suc-
cessful manufacturer. Simultaneously the
specialty house grew up. And, finally, the
wholesale house, as a rule, maintained too
expensive an establishment; even to this day
most of them haven’t got rid of their old
habits in that respect. So, in spite of good
times, they have not of late shown large
profits; a good many, like this one, show-
diminishing profits.
In this case there may have been special
influences at work. Early last year manag-
ing-director William Lowe died ; and if his
successors put a conservative valuation on
stock in their first balance-sheet, they did no
more than the prudent thing. The reduc-
tion of stock shown in the next table sug-
gests something of that sort:—
„ ~ „ , 1934. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital .. . . £416,250 £416,250 £416 250
H p.c. notes . . . . 195,000 190,000 185,000
Mortgage • ■ • ■ 16,500 15,500
Sundry creditors .. 397,874 384,574 391,618
Property and plant .. 147,657 156.408 165,016
Investments .. .. 19,739 20,582 21 791
Stocks .. .. 779,186 817,646 740,119
Book debts . . . . 303,068 265,252 291 497
oash > 29,223 15,805 54’,581
Grouping some of these lines, we get these
results
, ■ . „ 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liquid assets . . £1,131,216 £1,191,285 £1,107,988
Liabilities .. 413,374 400,074 391,618
Liquid surplus . . £717,842 £749,211 £716,370
Stocks are still heavy; but prices are high,
and that accounts for a good deal of it. Too
much money is in properties; but that has
been the way' with most of these whole-
salers. The liabilities shown in the last
comparison are exclusive of “6 p.c. notes”
with a 20-year currency: these are being
redeemed at the rate of £5OOO a year, and
£15,000 has now been paid off. After pro-
viding for the £165,000 7 p.c. cum. pref.
shares, there are tangible assets worth a
penny or so over 40s. for each ordinary
share. These shares are, however, held
mainly in London and by the people in the
business; the prefs., which alone are quoted
on ’Change, are worth about par (b., 19s.
3d.; s-., 20s. 6d.).
* * * *
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Duu-
edin, M.L.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1916.. 24,607 9 p.c. = 7511 7,510 9586 30,163
1917.. 10,012 9 „ „ 7511 6,500 26,161
1918.. 22,828 10 „ „ 8346 9,719 4763 30,927
1919.. 22,959 10 „ „ 8346 8,338 6275 37,202
1920.. 22,631 11 „ „ 9180 6,400 7051 44,253
1921.. 22,149 11 „ „ 9180 10,500 2469 46,722
1922:. 14,945 11 „ „ 9180 5,000 765 47,487
1923.. 21,318 11 „ „ 9180 7,500 4638 52,125
Transferred to Capital, £11,923 . . 40,202
1924.. 18,693 10 p.c. = 9538 5,000 4155 44,357
1925.. 15,358 10 „ „ 9538 5,250 570 44,927
1926.. 20,065 10 „ „ 9538 5,000 5527 50,454
Conditions have improved. Prices of raw
material were stable, and manufacturing
profit made a good recovery. Certainly this
was offset in part by increased exes., but
the management did not allow them to get
out of hand:—
Working Exes. Charges,
Manufac- and Plant Salaries
turing Profits. Maintenance, and Taxes.
1910 .. £21,212 £2,090 £5,191
1915 .. 25,932 3,162 5,482
1920 .. 58,012 8,017 21,472
1921 .. 59,041 10,419 22,002
1922 .. 61,985 9,653 22,442
1923 '.. 57,032 7,898 22,532
1924 .. 43,353 6,349 12,820
1925 . . 35,142 5,256 8,536
1926 . . 44,543 6,689 10,645
New machinery added during the term
amounted to only £1320, but £5OOO was
written off. The nasty habit textile plant
has of getting out of date has always been
faced by this co. Chiefly because of that
present-day shareholders have received a run
of good divs. which will not easily be inter-
rupted. In 1010 the mill was in the books
at £61,044; at October 0 last a net £41,063
represented “land, buildings and machinery,”
and over £68,000 had been expended on
plant in the intervening years. This policy
of- providing plant out of revenue and allow-
ing something extra has been very wise; it
hag enabled the co. to pay a decent dividend
of late years, even when it has felt the pinch
of foreign competition more than usual. In-
cidentally, the small capitalisation of reserves
in 1924 was the only act of the kind in
the co.’s half-century.
A serious fire in the Dunedin warehouse
was chiefly responsible for certain of the
movements in last year’s balance-sheet
figures:—
1914. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities.. .. £12,719 £34,867 £27,514 £18,012
Plant and fixed
property . . 66,391 53,970 50,743 47,063
(foods . . . . 44,407 68,201 79,208 42,247
Book debts, etc... 10,705 32,082 32,937 28,151
Cash and invest-
ments . . . . 35,705 21,187 02,988
Damaged stocks were sold at once; hence
in part the £41,800 in cash at the close of
the accounts. Because of this a comparison
with earlier figures is of little value. The
management is not likely to depart abruptly
from its established policy; so the market
looks upon the stock as a pretty sure 10
per center.
i * * # *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 20.082 51 p.c. t= 11,000 7,000 2,082 39,163
1917.. 19,900 6 „ ~ 12,000 7,500‘ 400 39,563
1918.. 29.553 8 „ .. 16,000 7,500 6,053 45,616
1919.-13,149 64 ~ ~13,000 1,965 43,800
1920.. 20.198.74 „ ~ 14,958 3,907 1,333 45,133
1921. .37,326 10 „ ~25,521 4,215 7,590 52,723
1922: .36,548 10 „ ~31,038 4,391 1,119 53,842
1923.-30,359 6 „ ~ 25,770 4,557 32 53,874
1924.. 33.937 5 „ ~24,412 5,028 4,497 58,371
1925. 6 „ ~30,000 9,332 10,687 69,058
1926. 4 „ ~ 21,268 10,026 2,148 71/206
East Greta' maintains its record of. doing
much less than is expected of it. Many times
the market has suspected the accounts of
hiding something, but the suspicions have
proved unfounded. Five or six years ago
the co. bought a couple of big blocks near
Cessnock —3672 acres at Millford and 6000
acres alongside at Ellalong. The old mines,
East Greta and Stanford Merthyr, were near-
ing the end, and to give the co. a strong kick-
off with its new properties, Adelaide Steam
was invited in. It took up 235,000 £1 shares
at par. The relationship has been at the
bottom of most of the market’s expectations.
But apart from two 10 p.c. divs. just after
the shipping co. arrived on the scene, dis-
appointment has followed disappointment. It
is not alone the industrial troubles in the
industry; other coal cos. have them, yet have
: given their shareholders reasonable returns.
’ Still, last year’s troubles, according to the
; directors, were industrial only. All three
I collieries suffered from the hold-up of the
industry by the engine-drivers, while the new
pit—Stanford Merthyr No. 2—was, through
its own private strike, tied up for the greater
part of the year. South Maitland Railways,
! Ltd., was also affected by the coalmine
engine-drivers’ dispute and, as East Greta,
has a substantial holding in the rail co.—-it
sold its East Greta line to the big co. in
1919 for 149,798 shares —its income from
that source suffered. Altogether it was a
poor year to add to a poor record. Balance-
sheet figures were affected by the new money
which was got in during the term: —
1922. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital. . £347,250 £500,000 £500,000 £545,563
Debentures .. 60,000 60,000 60,000 60,000
: Liabilities . . 33,944 30,263 62,593 50,937
Fixed assets.. 422,145 583,909 628,452 656,060
Liquid assets. . 90,254 77,225 80,699 79,806
The new issue consisted of 51,017 “A” shares
and 45,983 “B” shares, and at September 30
1 £45,563 was in. In common with other Aus-
tralian coal cos. East Greta gives a minimum
of information in its accounts. Some of
the new money went in reduction of liabili-
ties and the rest doubtless went into plant;
but the lumping of investments with the fixed
assets makes it impossible to see exactly
what was done. The co.’s future is wrapped
up in Stanford Merthyr No. 2. When full
production of 2000 tons per day is achieved
there should be something decent in it for
shareholders —provided markets can be found.
In that connection the relationship with
Adelaide Steam should prove valuable. If
something decent doesn’t come along then,
shareholders will be entitled to ask a few
questions. Meantime a still hopeful market
has taken shares at above par, latest quotes
being b. 21s. 3d., s. 225.
* « * *
The Hoffman Brick and Potteries,
Ltd. (Melbourne) ;
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
1916.. £l9l Nil £l9l £27,288
1917.. 6,010 5 p.c. = £4,001 1999 29,287
1918.. 16,061 74 „ „ 12,033 4028 33,315
1919.. 7,513 6i „ „ 10,027 30,801
1920.. 21,021 74 „ „ 12,033 9588 40,389
1921.. 16,565 74 „ „ 12,033 4532 44,921
1922.. 19,917 Hi „ „ 18,049 1808 46,789
Added to Reserves . . £15,699 .62,488
1923.. 31,166 16ip.c. = 26,071 5085 67,573
Reserves capitalised .. £32,088 35,485
1924.. 29,686 124 p.c. = 24,066 5620 41,105
Added to reserves .. £9646 50,751
1925.. 21,447 10 p.c. == 19,253 2194 52,945
Profit on sale of land, £17,038 .. 69,983
1926.. 24,130 124 p-c.ez 24,060 64 70,047
A year ago three kilns produced not only
sufficient for all current demands, but a
surplus for standing stocks. Within the
past few months there has been a quicken-
ing in the building trade in and around Mel-
bourne, and five kilns are now busy. The
co.’s other activities —tile- and pottery-mak-
ing—are of assistance. Sales generally were
maintained during the year. Labor-saving
plant was installed, which favorably affected
earnings. And the “understanding” in the in-
dustry helps, of course. Reserves were given a
nice lift during the year, the sale of portion
of the co.’s suburban freehold resulting in
a fat profit. The only visible movement in
the item “Freehold, property and buildings,
at valuation,” was, a decrease of £3645.
Other figures showed the influence of the
sale:—
1917. 1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities . . £5,719 £9,136 £8,763 £12,122 £14,557
Freeholds .. 72,368 75,853 76,267 79,350 75,705
Plant, stores,
etc. . . 73,397 79,813 81,248 78,126 80,745
Stock . . 35,152 18,790 19,461 22,795 20,254
Sh a res in
other cos... 6,370 26,715 26,715 36,361 36,361
Book debts . . 11,331 17,635 24,148 23,013 39,247
Cash, etc. . . 839 32,382 26,589 27,575 39,260
There was a pleasant increase in liquids:
£l2OO-odd was added to the cash holding;
£lO,OOO was placed on fixed deposit; and
“contracts of sales £12,370” represented the
amount outstanding on the land sold. Total
liabilities were more than covered by cash
and deposits alone, and at September 30,
including the co.’s pits, net tangibles visible
were equal to 275. 3d. for each of the
102,528 £1 shares. The market, however, is
interested chiefly in what the assets can
earn. Gross profit and divs. from subsi-
diaries amounted to £38,223 for the 12
months compared with £34,746 for the 1925
term, with interest and rents contributing
£2512 as against £1459. But rates and taxes
took more, and that reduced the net gain
to £2683. Machinery and plant are reported •
to be in good working order. Despite addi-
tions, plant, stores, etc., increased by only
£2619, due to the solid writing down of old
plant, £6946 being set aside out of revenue
to provide for depreciation. Divs. were poor
until 1922, but since then shareholders have
done very well. The present burst of build-
ing activity may not be long-lived, but the
co.’s side-lines are constant and valuable.
The market looks for another good year, and
there were buyers at 30s. 3d. after sales at
30s. 6d.


Want Some Advice?
GET
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY 5 ’
for December.
An invaluable guide—Companies
positions analysed—Share market
prospects examined.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has
“The Bulletin’s” “Wild Cat
experience and data of 40 years
behind it.
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per copy; 22/6 per year.
We stock -f GP -f Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., I/td., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
For all modern conduit purposes Pioneer Wood
Pipe is proving daily its many advantages over metal
pipe. Light and easy to handle, it is transported
and installed in a fraction of the time, at a fraction
of the cost required by metal pipe, and, once laid
and kept saturated, is practically indestructible. For
further particulars of this highly efficient conduit,
which will not rust, corrode, or choke with tubercles,
send direct to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
Pai ents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Are you interested in concrete mixing, etc. ?
Arthur Leplastrier & -Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough
House, Sydney; tlollins House, Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; and 29
Morphett Street, Adelaide—manufacture in Australia,
the famous “Multimix” Drum-type Concrete Mixers
from small to very large sizes, and now cater for
the small user with their “Tiltamix” One-man
One-barrowload Tilting-type Mixer. Write, wire or
telephone for full particulars to the nearest branch
of this Concrete Mixing Specialty Firm.— Advt.
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known hs
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole” Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG 8 JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody yvbo visits MELBOL RNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY in
which is included the world-renowned Chloe. '
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
TILLING STEVENS MOTORS LIMITED
ALL BRITISH.
Gear-driven Chassis: 25-30 cwt., 2|, 3 and 5-6 tons.
Petrol-Electric Chassis: 4-5 tons.
Gear-driven and Petrol-Electric* Omnibuses and Chars-a-
bancs, Trolley ’Bases, Fire-fighting Equipment, Turntable
Ladders.
M.T.A. Motor Show. Hordern Pavilion, Stand 60, Jan. 14 to 22.
CONGESSI ON N AIRES—
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Companv
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
The year has drawn to a close without
any intimation from the Federal Govern-
ment that it intends to grant an independent
inquiry into the condition of affairs on the
Nqw Guinea goldfields. It is definitely settled
that large areas were granted as sluicing
and dredging claims on ground which was
diggers’ ground pure and simple, carrying
alluvial gold eqsily worked with shovel and
sluice-box. Under no mining laws in' the
Empire is such ground granted in large
leaseholds for working by dredge or nozzle.
In this instance it would appear that the
person acting as Warden granted leases
which he had no power to grant. The
Administration, instead of admitting the
error, lias apparently attempted to bluff
its way out of the trouble. The undisputed
facts that the acting-Warden granted, the
leases without seeing the ground, or
even being within miles of it, and that he
took the word of the locators that it was im-
possible country for hand miners to work,
seems to have made no difference to the
authorities. Neither has the fact that these
leases, granted for “machine” working, have
had no machinery, dredge or sluicing plant
employed on them since the leases were
granted. The lessees, who got them on their
assurance to a languid and far-off official
that the ground could not be worked by
“hand” methods, have been busy getting gold
off them ever since in the very fashion they
had declared impracticable. In any Warden’s
Court in the Empire the foregoing facts
would make a sound basis for an applica-
tion for forfeiture of the leases. The Admin-
istration has confessed its foolish error by
refusing later applications for similar lease-
holds. Feeling has not been improved by
the open hostility shown to the Miners’ Asso
ciation, or by the official threat that any
attempt at direct action by the miners would
result in cancellation of all holdings, miners’
rights and labor contracts. Claim-jumping
is not illegal in itself, and in any case a
jumper has to justify his action in the War-
den’s Court. Officialdom does not pursue
him with threats of punishment. The worst
feature of the matter is the apparently un-
qualified support which the Federal Min-
ister for Home and Territories is giving the
obviously errant Administration.
* # * *
“Old Warden”: One of the most interest-
ing features of the reported trouble on the
New Guinea goldfields is the attitude of
the Federal Minister responsible for the Man-
dated Territory’s administration,. (Senator
Glasgow. He is reported as saying that,
when the Bulolo River rush started, New'
Guinea had no mining ordinances and that
it was “only reasonable” that mining and
sluicing and dredging leases should be iarger
and more privileged than ordinary alluvial
claims, because the lessees must have some
safeguards for invested capital. As regards
the first statement, my “Commonwealth Year
Book” confirms what I knew already—that
a New Guinea mining ordinance was in
force four years ago. In 1923-24, 35 miners'
rights were issued, 36 dredging and sluicing
leases were granted, and some 7000055. of
alluvial gold was exported. The Minister's
second statement is a much more serious
revelation of his utter failure to understand
the root of the whole trouble. By mining
law and custom, the world over, alluvial
ground that can be worked “by hand” on a
declared goldfield must be reserved for the
small miner. Only where he is unable or
unwulling to work the ground, or when it is
too poor for him, is the big lease and
mechanical working supposed to step in.
That has held good since ’49.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mines' Department expects
the output figures for 1926 to fall short of
the £19,800,000 of 1925. Droughts and
strikes are amongst the causes. Still the
Ma State produces twice as miKch in value
as all the other States combined. Coal, coke,
silver, lead, zinc and, latterly, cement are
chiefly responsible. In its mining history,
N. S. Wales has unearthed values that tot up
to £424,000,000. The estimated coal output of
10.500,000 tons for 1926 has shrunk about
750,000 tons. In between stoppages of one
kind and another the industry is now em-
ploying 23,500 miners. Improved coke pro-
ducing methods are calculated to infuse more
life into this side-line of the coal trade.
Broken Hill tonnages exceed the 1925 figure,
but lower prices will leave aggregate values
short of the £6.335,000 received for the 1925
output. The 5948 miners employed at the
Barrier turned out 1,288,000 tons for the
year, or 23,000 tons better than the 1925
effort. Tin production, mostly from sluicing,
promises a big increase in recoveries ami
values. Cement output will beat the 304.000
tons which realised £1,320.000 in 1925. Gold
and copper remain in the doldrums, but
platinum in fair quantities is still produced
at Fifield.
* * * *
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne has issued
an optimistic report about the future of the
market—“the outlook for the early part
of the coming year, when most of the- wheat
and wool money will be released, appears
bright.” With £95,000,000 coming in for
wool and wheat, it ought to be bright.
Out of 38 principal Vic. investments
25 rose and 13 fell during 1926. The
unlucky 13 are Silverton Trams, Beatl*. and
Schiess, British Tobacco, Denton Hats,
GeoTge Farmer, Howard Smith, Kauri Tim-
ber, London Stores, Port Swettenham Rub-
ber, Swallow and Ariell, Trufood, Victoria
Malay Rubber and Yellow Cabs. Dividends
from Broken Hill cos. for the year were
£1,907,789, plus £159,393 to be paid by the
Zinc Corporation in January. Excepting
Junction North, the prices of the chief silver-
lead cos. show increases. With the closing
down of the New Guinea copper-mines
Mount Lyell remains the only important
producer of copper. Though it makes a fair
margin of profit from copper, the big co. now
gets most of its revenue from its chemical
works, and proposes to establish chlorine
works near Sydney. Divs. for 1926 were
the same as for 1925, £145,035. Tin-mining
stocks were the feature of the year, though
the activity died down at the close and the
market was weak. A very lean year was
again experienced in gold. Rose, Sham-
rock and Thistle Co. was actually the only
Victorian quartz-mining co. to appear on the
dividend list —with a mere £lOOO.
The numerous cos. floated to exploit (so
they say) the gold industry in New Guinea
have gone little beyond the flotation stage.
Agents have been sent to secure leases. Hav-
ing driven plenty of pegs, they return south
to tell of the obstacles in the way of develop-
ment and the hopeless outlook with native
transport from Salamoa Bay to Bulolo. “By
aeroplane,” is therefore the new slogan.
Among others, the intrepid Raymond Parer
is being floated into a co. Joe Millican and
Fred Brown are on the board of the Bulolo
Goldfields Aeroplane Service, Ltd., on whose
behalf Parer is to fly between Salamoa and
the treasure areas. A capital of £12,000 in
£1 shares, of which 6400 are in reserve, lets
3000 out for public Consumption, after 2600
paids go to the vendors, Gallet and Parer.
* * * *
The syndicate that took the Comet Sand
Queen-Gladsome mines off the W.A. Govern-
ment’s hands is floating 60,000 shares of
10s. each to get working capital. It will
pocket 15,500 paids and £5500 for passing
the shows on. Both the mines have a record.
Out of the Sand Queen 126,665 tons won
from the surface to 800 ft. gave 108,2640 z.
gold. The Gladsome, to 458 ft., gave 75,754
tons for 59,0970 z., so that the two claims
provided £710,553 of gold. The shoots pitch
. towards the Gladsome. With the claims
consolidated, the plan is to extend the levels
in the Sand Queen into the Gladsome so as to
take out the block from 458 ft. to 800 ft. It
is estimated to contain 50,000 tons of 50s.
ore. The issue is underwritten, and Albert
Faul has been selected to get the co. over
the pay-line. Unwatering and plant will
take £B5OO or £lO,OOO, but. there is some-
thing to go on. Old-timers like Frank A.
Moss and C. de Bernales are putting good
stuff up to give it a chance.
* * # #
Optimism regarding Wiluna (W.A.) is
being helped by good developments at depth.
Large bodies of more than payable ore have
lately been cut into, and the show’s admirers
reckon that a former manager’s prediction
that 4,000,000 tons of dividend-paying rock
will be opened up for every 100 ft. of sinking,
and that two million pounds’ worth of gold
will be won within four years of the date of
starting ore-treatment, will be realised.
* * * *
W. A. Manganese Co., which is waiting to
build a railway from Meekatharra to its
deposits near Peak Hill, has been hung up
for rails. However, delivery of a big lot
from the Broken Hill Prop, has been pro-
mised in January and another shortly after.
Meanwhile. 100,000 sleepers are on the spot,
and Bill Hedges, who is bossing the show,
hopes to start plate-laying in February, and
expects the line will be completed and produc-
tion in full swing before the end of 1927.
* * » *
London-Australian Exploration Co. has
pulled right out of W.A. Years ago it
mined on its own account and also held big
wads of shares in Great Fingall, Sons of
Gwalia and other 8., M. and Co.-controlled
mines. In 1923 it amalgamated with the
Great Fingall, and since then has gradually
got rid of its Westralian burdens. Its hold-
ings are now mostly oil ventures in Mexico,
gold in California and tin in Cornwall.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Westralian Mines Department
announced the other day that a sample sent
to it had been found to contain good values
in gold, silver and lead, with traces of zinc.
Beyond a vague indication that it came from
somewhere north of Hall’s Creek, the depart-
ment refused to divulge the source of the
specimen or the name of the sender, who
has been asked to forward more samples.
* * * *
An English co. which whooped a good deal
some months ago about mica deposits near
Carnarvon (W.A.) is being compulsorily
wound up. Assets, which comprise mica in
sight and a shipment on the water valued
at £l5OO, fall far short of liabilities, and
shareholders, who all reside in London, will
get nothing. Local optimists declare that
mica abounds in the locality where the co.
operated, and can’t understand bow it cam
to get into a mess. The fact, however, is
that every Australian mica proposition toi
the last 30 years has done exactly the same
thing. What may be called theoretical prices
for the mineral are so different from what
may be called the practical values. *»
Mount Morgan is showing signs of a re-
vived interest in life, and has taken up three
40-acre leases about 12 miles from the
Mount. These copper shows were worked as
long ago as the ’seventies, hut the original
co. quitted when the sulphides came in.
Towards the end of the war prices encour-
aged small parties to get out small patches
of oxide which still remained. The old mine
workings are of considerable extent, but will
need a lot of reconditioning if the co. is going
to utilise them. The properties are close to
the Dee River alluvial field, which was the
centre of a mild rush some 20 years or
so ago. The co. is going after the un-
touched sulphides, of course, and nobody
knows how they will open up. #
Terni, Yellanderie (N.S.W.), has been
registered with £5OOO capital in £5O shares.
Lonsdale Smith’s opinion that the valley may
develop a fourth producer actuated the flota-
tion .
# * * *
Amalgamated Tin is yet another to join
the throng that aims at dredging up “East-
ern” tin and selling it on the top of the
market. Strictly speaking, the new co.,
which has the modest capital—for a Malayan
proposition—of £50,000 in £1 shares, is at
present only out to buy properties, options,
etc. As both Malaya and Siam are alive
with people eager to sell such things, the co.
should soon be “suited,” as the housemaids
say. It should be careful, however, to see
that there is a bit of tin about the place,
this being a matter which some of its rivals
have overlooked —except in the prospectuses
—if one may judge by recent returns.
# # * *
The significance of successful deep dredg-
ing at Malim Nawar South is yet scarcely
realised. Australian . brains and vision,
backed by the courageous use of Australian
capital, makes available the enormous re-
sources of the Lower Kinta Valley, which
Malcolm Newman discovered by following a
geological clue. He estimates that it con-
tains 1,000,000,000 cubic yards, with a con-
tent of half a aattio per e.y.—over 350,000
tons of tin, or more than sufficient for the
world’s requirements for three years.^
Sydney Siam, with 2250 acres leased at
lienong, reports that 54 bores put down at
3-chain intervals, showed an average of
30.x5 OK. of tin oxide per yard. Apparently
a field assay, to be followed by checkings.
* * * *
Sumatra Tin Concessions, Ltd., with a
capital of £32,500 in 130,000 shares of ss.
each, is the latest prospecting adventure.
It is promoted by Melbourne and Adelaide
interests with official “permits to search”
for tin over extensive areas in Sumatra. The
big island is almost an unknown quantity
as far as tin is concerned. Directors are
W. A. Anderson (Sydney), E. W. Holden
(Adelaide) and W. H. Jones (Melbourne).
# * * *
New Guinea Oil Co. failed to impress
holders in its campaign for more cash to
pour down the hole at Orokola Bay, and a
debenture issue is on the stocks. The board
asks for £20,000 in 400 £5O debs., terminable
on June 30, 1928. The security offered is
the oil rig and other assets, which are stated
to be unencumbered, but are of doubtful
value if the claims are not worth anything.
Debenture-holders will have 50,000 reserve
shares earmarked at par for conversion at
any time during the currency of their hold-
ing. It seems thus to be merely a case of
back up or forfeit.
# * * *
C. H. Wray, who used to be on B.M.’s staff
in Australia, has for two years been investi-
gating the mineral resources of British and
Dutch Guiana, South America, on behalf of
the New Consolidated Gold Fields of South
Africa. Wray entertains no hope for lode
mining or hydraulic sluicing in either c olony,
but is favorably impressed with the gold-
dredging possibilities of Dutch Guiana. The
fly in the ointment is thick clay overburden;
but he thinks this could be dealt with by
adopting the appliances employed by Cali-
fornian dredging engineers in handling simi-
lar material.
* * * *
“Pedro”: Most of the old brigade of the
North Broken Hill are dropping out. Hal
Sheppard, who, with Alfred Clarke, bought
the lease in the ’nineties for about £l5OO. ip
still lively. Alec Campbell, too, is busy, with
cheery greeting and a willingness to give all
and sundry a quiet game of billiards. In
that way he prepares for another brain
wrestle in a second, third or fourth board-
room. Alfred Clarke went out of the North
long before going west. The greatest loss
in the board-room, however, M. Hynd-
man, whose years compel him to go slow
nowadays. At the end of the year George
Weir will utter his last joke in the co.’s
employ, as he retires from the management
to do a bit of globe-trotting on more than an
old-age pension. Even of the mid-genera-
tion of directors only W. L. Baillieu and
Tom Birkbeck are left. The junior on the
board is Dave Gordon, the ex-REGISTER press-
man who can swim in the deep waters of
finance as if bred in them.
* * # *
South African Mining Journal states that
the system of basing gold-miniiig costs on
ounces of gold recovered instead of on ton-
nage crushed is securing an increasing num-
ber of supporters. In the early days of
Kalgoorlie, tonnages treated were over-
estimated so as to show lower costs
per ton of ore milled and a greater crushing
capacity of what were mostly unsatisfactory
plants.
# * # »
Victoria Nyanza Sugar, Ltd., an East,
African growing and refining concern with
a capital of £300,000, which sprang from the
brain of North Queenslander G. R. Mayer
some years ago, furnishes a very attractive
report for the financial year ending March
31. The year’s profit is £57,937. This, plus
£10,601 brought forward, gives £68,538
available for distribution. Of this, £14,238
has been put aside for depreciation, £30,000
goes in a 10 p.c. div., and £24,299 has been
carried forward. Since account closing, a
further 5 p.c. div. has been paid, and a final
one of 21 p.c., payable on December 20,
brings the year’s profit distribution to a
standard that should enchant the share-
holders —the £1 shares were last week
quoted at a premium of 16s. 6d. (b.). Assets
are rated at £374,155, including plantations,
£51,135; mills and plant, £207,982; land,
£45.361; stocks and stores, £23,614; debtors,
£7532; and cash, £38,621. Set-offs include
£48,552 for managing-director Mayer’s cur-
rent account, a debt of £2553 for land, and
creditors £6459. The hoard anticiptaes that
the coming year’s crop will for the first
time equal the mill’s capacity.


ANOTHER MILESTONE IN DAD’S MARATHON.


ohe #“«
20 for ¥6
Sole Manufacturers : Ardath Tobacco Company Ltd ; London
333
. CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Flagwagger”: For some unaccountable
reason Tom Blank and Bill Querry took a
dislike to one another at their first meet-
ing upon being drafted into the same com-
pany at Broadmeadows camp, in February,
1915. They differed about everything on all
occasions, and, despite the frequent inter-
ference of us, their tent mates, they had
two dinkum goes during our sgjourn at
Broadmeadows. On each occasion, accord-
ing to camp regulations, they had to use
gloves, and each fight ended when Blank
knocked Querry out. Thereafter, to get
even, Querry was a constant aggressor. The
pair fought on the transport and at Ileli-
opolis camp, Cairo ; but Querry always came
off worst. When we arrived at Gallipoli in
September to relieve the original Anzacs,
we expeeted that the rivals would call a
truce. But we were wrong. They found
time, between fighting with Abdul, for three
or four bouts. The last resulted in Blank
felling his adversary so heavily that Querry
fractured his arm and had to be evacu-
ated. He did not rejoin the battalion until
its arrival in France. Before he had an
opportunity for another fight with Blank, a
stray s shell killed him at Fleurbaix. The
strangest part of the story is still to come.
Quite recently, ex-Digger Blank, riding a
motor-cycle along Point Nepean-road, Brigh-
ton (Vic.), crashed into a tree-guard, frac-
turing his arm. The guard is one of
many surrounding a row of trees erected
to the honor of Brighton’s Diggers, and it
bears a name-plate reading “Pte. W. Querry,
Xtli Btn.” Querry had never tasted victory
in life, so I suppose Fate was evening things
UP ' »
“Windsor”: Schoolchildren’s howlers tend
to become monotonous, but several from
this year’s exam, papers are worth preserv-
ing. In an essay on “Our District,” one
small youth placed it on record that “the
local people are dairy-farmers and rare
pigs.” Another declared that “Clive was
tried because he took heavy brides from the
Indians.” A juvenile Ballaratite, “doing
gender,” gave the title of Alexander Pea-
cock’s wife as “Lady Alexander Peahen.”
A blizzard was defined as “the inside of a
hen,” and “B.Sc.” was interpreted as mean-
ing “boy scout.” The undeniably ambigu-
ous question “What king came after Queen
Elizabeth?” evoked the quite natural answer
“Philip, of Spain,” with the addendum, “but
she turned him down because she was an
old maid.” And the fourth-grade scholar
who was directed to “add an adjective” to
each noun in the sentence “The man gave
his horse a drink” may have the makings
of a bullock-driver in him. He wrote “The
adjective man gave his adjective horse an
adjective drink.”
“Feng-Shui”: The Trans-Siberian line
beats the Australian Trans-Continental not
only as to length (B. G/12/’26), but also
as to cheapness. Being due for leave, I
was presented by my firm, under my agree-
ment, with the price of a first-class ticket,
P. and 0., Shanghai to London, plus half
my wife’s fare and expenses—‘£lso I think
the cheque was. We were allowed to choose
our own route. We made swags of bedding,
boxes of dates, jam and other luxuries,
packed our £l5O in roubles in a skin belt:
and caught the Russian post train, second-
class, at Vladivostok. We slept 16 to a
coupd, and sometimes our fellow-travellers
got mixed during the night. We fed on roast
fowls, fresh milk and cheeses bought from
station hawkers ; and, when a new train was
made up, commandeered the lavatory and,
by means of a piece of oilcloth placed on
the floor, a sponge and our own soap, had
FOUND SOMETHING TO BEAT HIM.
“He's awfully fast, isn’t he?”
“Yes, but not fast enough to keep up with her running expenses.”
KEPT HIS WORD.
“Yes, but I suppose you've broken all your last New Year resolutions?”-
“Ooh, no, my deak child!”
“ How d’ you manage it?”
“Well, y’ see, the only resolution I made was not to make any.”
a respectable bath, and even if there was no
water left for the rest of the passengers they
did not notice it. In 14 days we landed in
Petrograd: fare, £10; food, £4; porterage,
£3. Of the original £l5O, I was still jingling
or crackling £lO4 when we reached London.
* * * *
“Kayefif” : Ocean Island held the extremes
of, luck for two brothers. One, in Sydney
for a holiday, was attracted by the sight
of a piece of rock phosphate used as a door-
stop, and his subsequent sleuthing led him
to Ocean Island and a million. The other
brother, a Government official on the island,
was one day seeking relaxation by dynamit-
ing fish along the reef, lighting the short fuses
from his cigarette in the approved style.
Intent on the movements of a shoal of fish,
he absent-mindedly threw the cigarette
amongst them and retained the dynamite.
After lying for some hours on the rocks be-
neath a blistering sun, lie was found by some
Kanakas terribly injured. Without white
medical aid, he viewed Death at close quar-
ters, but finally pulled through, though very
.badly mutilated.
* * + *
“Black Tracker” : This is going to bring
grist to someone's mill. A well-known
grazier and a stock dealer got into argument
in a hotel bar in South Aus. The dealer,
becoming excited, pulled o,ut his wallet and
threw it on the bar counter unopened, with
the remark that he was game to back his
opinion with the contents. The grazier
promptly responded by producing his cheque-
book and fountain-pen, and, signing a blank
Cheque, said he would cover anything from
five bob to five hundred. The wallet and
cheque were handed to the publican as stake-
holder. When the point in dispute had been
settled it was found that the dealer had
GETTING ONE HOME.
NURSE: “Don’t you want to see the dear
little baby Santa Claus brought mummie
and daddie for Christmas?”
THE KIDDIE: “He might have brought them
one each. But, then, lie’s been fright-
fully stingy this year.”
won the wager. He called on the publican
to open the wallet. It contained £5O, and
the winner of the bet requested the publican
to fill in the signed cheque for a similar
amount. The grazier protested that this
would be forgery, whereupon Bung handed
both cheque and wallet to the dealer, telling
him to do the job himself. He passed it on
to his solicitor.
BALLADE OF JANUARY 1.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Sir,’ said Dr. Johnson, ‘Hell is paved with
good intentions.’ ”
llang- up the New Year’s gaudy calendar,
Tear down the dingy remnant of the Old.
> All that last year we swore to do afar
Behind us lies—its passing knell is tolled.
Soon will Old Time his final putt have holed
For 1926; now to evolve .
A schedule for the future, for, behold !
There looms once more the Hour of High Resolve.
Put by the bowl belov’d of old Omar,
Rub out the dames that aged rip extolled.
That little game of poker we must, bar,
And the dim dens where spotted dice are rolled.
The Stock Exchange must also leave us cold,
Nor shall the barterer of land involve
Us in his plots of sour suburban mould;
Upon us looms the Hour of High Resolve.
No longer shall we pay for Ikey’s car;
For the last time the whisperers have trolled
The merits of some equine shooting star
That eftsoons shot away with all our gold.
Henceforth no prad that mortal mare has foaled
Our grim determination may dissolve,
Though urgors weep and ringsters rave and scold—
There looms too nigh the Hour of High Resolve.
Envoy.
Yet next week’s weights fair promise seem to hold.
It may be that just one more spin shall solve
Our woes—for if we backslide from the fold,
There’ll come another Hour of High Resolve.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.
DEPARTED GLORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Nearly all our restaurants show signs of a similar
degeneration; where once the food was good and
cheap, it is now dear and abominable. Can anyone
get the enjoyment out of any of our reasonable-priced
eating-houses that might have been secured 20 years
ago?” —lndignant Sydney correspondent.
The Aisles of Greece, the Aisles of Greece,
When swart and sweating Hellenes shout
“Stak-an’-da-egg—stak well done, plc’se!”
“Large plat da oyst’—a moog da stout!”
Youth’s old enchantment still lives on,
Though all that made it now is gone!
The soup is tasteless tack and flat;
The flaccid oyster shames its shell-;
Plates, clashing, make a jangle that .
Recalls a cracked and tuneless bell;
And are the girls as kind as then
To us, who now are ageing men?
Oh. splendors of tha;t ardent youth
. Whose magic gilds the dullest lead,
And makes illusion glow like truth!
Why should we fancy you are dead
Because our hearts no longer hold
The thing that changes all to gold?
Lo! as we hack our steak in squares,
See yonder pair with eyes lovelit,
Their feet embracing ’neath the chairs
On which in paradise they sit,
Whilst, as the air with music sings,
A black-mo’d angel manna brings!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Pt
pi
HR
■OUc
BAR
swer
PRACTICAL CHRISTIANITY.
“There is no present symptom in Australian life more fraught with infinite peril for the future than the recent terrible increase in class bitterness and hatred,’ said
Dean Crotty, of Newcastle (N.S.W.). ‘Christians,’ he said, ‘must seek ways of spanning the cleavages threatening society. They should avoid vulgar display and the flaunting
of wealth, which was a social irritant’”.... ’Newspaper report.
THE PRACTICAL CHRISTIAN: “I don’t like to see you two chaps going into different places. Come into the parlor and share a bottle with me.”
“Beattie”: A well-to-do childless couple,
when motoring through the Adelaide hills,
ran over a shabbily-dressed little girl. They
picked her up, and learned on the way to
the girl’s home that she was the child of a
laborer with a sick wife. The . little one,
although badly hurt, told her mother that
she was only tired, and insisted on taking
the blame for the accident on herself. This
so touched the motorists that they under-
took to carry her to the nearest hospital,
During the journey the bright little soul
so appealed to the pair that they decided
to take her to their own home and call in
the family doctor and a trained nurse. Be-
fore the child was convalescent she had so
won the hearts of her hosts that they decided
to adopt her, and the parents have consented,
* * * *
“Wing”: Re trees planted in Australia by
visiting royalties. When the present King
and the Duke of Clarence visited Australia
in 1881 they each planted a tree in Rosa-
find Park, Bendigo. Strangely enough, the
one planted by the Duke of Clarence died
at about the same time as the planter, while
the King’s tree is still going strong.
* * * *
“2612”* If you drop overboard at sea,
with your ship going at average speed, how
long may you reasonably expect to be before
you are landed aboard again, suppose every-
thing goes in your favor? I was on the
troopship Nestor in 1916 when a man fell
overboard, striking a wind shoot as he fell
and sustaining injury thereby. Another man
dived over after him; a third only waited
to strap on a lifebelt and grab two more
in his arms before going over the side. The
steamer was stopped and a boat lowered;
in 16 minutes from the time the alarm was
given it was back with all three. It was
a scratch boat-crew, too, three of the five
being Diggers. The two rescuers received
R.H.S. decorations, and it was said among
mariners that to cut more than a minute or
so off the time would be a miracle.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : I was one of a crowd
of onlookers who cheered the fully-clothed
young stranger as he walked into the surf on
one of our Sydney beaches. How were any
of us to know that a quarrel with his girl
higher up on the beach had decided him that
fife was not worth living? My own idea
was that he was a beach entertainer taking
this means of attracting a crowd; whatever
the others thought the crowd merely roared
encouragement as he got beyond the first line
of breakers. They were no more serious
when he reached the third fine, where he
was up to his neck. My neighbor reckoned
that he was doing a picture stunt, and looked
round for the camera-man; but I said with
confidence that it was obviously part of
an advertising scheme which would shortly
be unfolded. The waves tossed him back
very amusingly several times; but at last he
got well out, and the alarmed lifesavers
rushed in and retrieved him. At close
quarters T recognised him—a young man
who owns, without working for it, more
money than the Comrnonw’ealth can afford
to pay a Prime Minister. “The cows,” he
spluttered to me, “threatened to push my
face in if I asked anyone on the beach for
money. They thought I was going round
with the hat as soon as they put me ashore.”
Just then the girl who had embittered him
rushed up and draped herself around his
dripping figure.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Dozens of respectable citizens
watched £2OOO worth of jewellery being burgled
in Collins-street, Melbourne, the other day. and
none of them told the police. The two thieves
entered the Bluebird Cafe, which was
recently burned and has been closed, and,
wrenching open the back of a display win-
dow belonging to a firm with premises above,
filled a bag and walked quietly away. Being
well dressed, they were taken for employees
deputed to put the valuables in a safer
place. Their success recalls the famous pur-
loining of the clock in the Supreme Court
in Singapore. A barefooted coolie entered
the hall of justice while a case was on, put
a ladder against the wall behind the Judge’s
throne, removed the timepiece, and walked
away. Supposing him to have come under
somebody’s orders to take the thing off for
repairs, nobody tumbled to the theft until
two days afterwards. P.S. —This story has
been told of Calcutta, Hong Kong, Tokio and
Nineveh, but it really belongs to Singapore.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: The Carinthia, here last year
with a cargo of American lightning tourists,
is again threatening these shores. She put
in at Port Moresby for a few minutes the
other day, while her passengers collected data
on cannibalism in the outposts of Empire.
The natives, who were surprised at their
first glimpse of Americans in the mass last
year, accepted them casually enough on this
occasion. Which reminds me of a Binadcle
“boy” who listened with much amazement
to his first American —he came to Papua
with the Daniels-Seligmann anthropological
expedition. “Taubada,” he asked me when
the visitor had taken himself and his nasal
trumpetings elsewhere, “that one he country-
man belong you?' Told that he wasn’t
though much the same color, “Ah,” he said,
“I savvy plenty; allee same Kiwai” —the
Kiwais being a Papuan tribe for' whom the
Binadeles profess great cont'empt.
* * * *
“Morehead”: The average Sydneyite is
a darned suspicious person. You try him
and see. Recently, at the last minute, I was
left with a spare theatre-ticket on my hands.
Wanting to do someone a good turn, I in-
vited a young chap gazing wistfully at the
posters to come inside with me. He backed
away. A' second attempt provoked an angry
glare. The two experiences intrigued me,
and I went ahead. My third advance
resulted in my being told very curtly to find
some other mug. At the fourth attempt my
invitation was accepted. My guest proved
to be a young South Coast orchardist who
casually flashed a tidy roll of notes
during the evening. Incidentally, I am as.
mild and inoffensive-looking a bloke as you’d
find in half an hour.
* * * *
“S.N.R.”: Speaking of the possibly pneu-
monic effects of baths, hot or cold, I knew
an old Irish doctor who was discussing with
a friend the death of one McShanus, an 80-
year-old patient. Mac had died of “ter-
minal” pneumonia, which, incidentally, has
nothing to do with chills; and the friend
ventured the opinion that a bath had been
the cause of the fatal illness. “A bath is
it—a bath?” returned the other brusquely,
“McShanus had a bath but twoice in his
loife—wanst jist afther he was borrn, and
wanst afther he was dead ; and on nayther
occashun was he a consintin’ parrty.” One
Sabbath morn this old doctor had just com-
pleted a minor operation—the whiff of anaes-
thetic necessary for which he had himself
administered—when the Salv’army band
came blaring down the street. The patient,
just “coming out” of the chloroform,
attempted to • sit up, crying hysterically:
“Where am I? Where am I?” The sur-
geon gave his head a push back on the
pillow. “Whist, man, -be quiet, will ye?”
he said. “Lie down! Ye’re dead—can’t ye
hear the angels playin’ ye in?”
# * * *
“Adam’s Apple”: Recently a party of
city motorists, on their way back from the
Burraeorane Valiev (N.S W ) decided to
help themselves io the fruit of’ an Oakdale
orchard. They had about half-filled a ham-
per when three men, armed with a gun
apiece, and accompanied by a dog that looked
as amiable as Mr. Lang, came towards
them through a clump of scrub. Realising
the futility of trying to escape, one of the
motorists dived into his pocket as the trio
annenred and nroduein<- some cash said*
“We were iust P going up to the housc to
pay. There’s ablut five bobs’ worth here,
so take this.” The foremost of the trio
ignored the proffered money, and answered
“It’s worth a quid, and if some people
were nasty they’d send you along for pinch-
ing the stuff.” Without stopping to argue,
the motorist fished out a note and handed it
over; then with his scared friends he made
a hastv retreat to the car When the
vehicle had disappeared, the leader of the
trio turned with a grin to his cobbers.
“Lucky we took the short cut home through
Blank’s,” was all he said.
* * * *
“Muggins, Jun.” : It isn’t only in the army
that one’s belongings are liable to mysteri-
ously disappear. The magnificent head-office
manager of a big Victorian bank was going
out to a dinner, at which he was particu-
larly anxious to be resplendent; and he had
bought a shirt, singlet and pair of socks
for the occasion. He left them in a parcel
on a side desk in his office. He departed
with his parcel for his club that evening.
What followed was whispered when first
thing next morning a dress-parade of all the
clerks was held, and a rigid cross-examina-
tion followed. It transpired that when the
boss had untied the goods in the privacy
of his bedroom they were found to consist
of a terribly dilapidated pair of socks and
an ancient shirt and singlet from which all
the laundry marks had thoughtfully been
cut. The culprit hasn’t been discovered yet;
but there was one man very late for dinner
that evening.
» * • •
“Crojack” : Maoriland, with all her tour-
ist attractions, makes a very poor fist at
advertising herself. In the Mecca of travel-
lers in the South, which is Sydney, the
Maoriland office is on a third floor in Martin-
place, but the landlord will not allow the
Dominion to’ display any sign, or even flags.
except on Dominion Day. In other travel
centres in the Pacific the same thing occurs.
There is a Maoriland office in San Francisco,
where some obsolete views and stags’ heads
are hidden away in a second-storey room
without any outside display to tell the
world that the office is there. A better-
appointed office is provided in Vancouver,
but it also is readied only by elevator, and
few people trouble to seek out these strong-
holds. Even if the agent in any ot the
offices mentioned were able to hoist something
to indicate where lie lives, he rarely has
any funds to spend in advertising. Iho
total sum allowed for advertising in Aes-
tralia is about £3OO. and on the Pacific
Coast it is .less than that. Something more
handsome seems to be done spasmodically in
London, but for every tourist who will travel
13,000 miles there would be scores who
would come 6000 miles and hundreds who
would face 1200 miles of sea. The distant
fields and their inhabitants may seem
greenest, but neighbors in the paddocks over
the way are more likely to drop in occa-
sionally if they are invited.
- . *,
, ,B -Q* : Some users of the ™ ‘ ?
have ver y a . ctive forgettenes. Among goods
at a re 99 n t dean-up unclaimec pi o-
Pf** 44 of briquettes, 03. sacks
of coal, 102 drainpipes and a farm .
cdlechon of teapots left in carnage,
raa , 4 !i ey ma4e a S°°d race 0 t
wlta taKi umbrellas. # #
« Nawhpra » . Tnuehimr ouick clearances of
JNawneia . . ,rl-
- court of law < B - 2/12/’26). At Murclii-
son> a tin y Maoriland village, some 20 years
a backblock cocky was standing trial
for cattle-stealing During the Judge s sum-
up V a ex Pl° 4e4 ' a detonator
“ out . h and departed to. face a higher tri-
]> una l* „Simultaneously the Jndge wa
burled off the bench, and very nearly through
Jdie back door of the building that was doing
duty for a courtroom. Though they had only
their legs to help them, counsel, witnesses,
P°b ca and the press were outside almost as
soon as his Honor.
EHEU, FUGACES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time, how it flies
Faster and faster 1
Memory sighs,
“Time,_how it. flies!”
Foolish or wise
'Tis every man’s master
Time—how it flies !
Faster and faster!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
WHO KEEPS THE PUB IN SYDNEY NOW?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With purpose firm we’re inarching on
To where the goal shines bright and clear;
Gone are the careless days, and gone
The happy japes of yester-year.
Intent upon our daily tasks
We ponder on the when and how,
And no one cares, and no one asks,
“Who keeps the pub in Sydney now ?”
In camps of old along the “crick”
It was the one true test of mirth;
It curbed the flow of rhetoric
And brought the spouter back to earth.
Its purport all could understand,
And no one wore a furrowed brow
When cheerfully came the demand,
“Who keeps the pub in Sydney now ?”
But that is past. Calm, cold, correct,
No longer are we led astray;
Firm in our knowledge we reject
The touchstone of a simpler day.
Yet, though I grieve that once were men
Sunk in that intellectual slough,
Still do I hope to hear again:
“Who keeps the pub in Sydney now?”
Deep knowledge shows in all we do
In our pursuit of fame and gold;
But still my thoughts go backward to
The happy, careless days of old;
And for a while would I escape,
Did but my cowardice allow,
And shout aloud that senseless jape:
“Who keeps the pub in Sydney now?”
WESTRALIA.
O. WALTERS.


fvser
SHIRTS
COLLARS
PYJAMAS
" Good Pfellah
Christmas Gifts”
fse
rfv
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Black Tracker” : Of women tramps that
I have met I give Happy Fanny pride of
place. I found her near Mount Esk (Q.).
There were several camp-fires burning when
I arrived, at one of which I was surprised
to see a woman. She was small and plump,
dressed in what looked like divided skirts
of her own make, with a man’s coat and
shirt. She had a merry face, with a voice
to match, and welcomed me as if I were
an expected guest. When tea was over she
produced a workbag and called for any
clothes that wanted repairing, buttons sewn
MUTUAL REGRET.
HE (chance acquaintance): “May I call on
you?”
SHE : “ I'm sorry — I’m married.”
HE : “That's oil right — I'm married and
sorry, too.”
on, and the like. Whilst working, she kept
the company alive with her jokes and retorts.
She told me she was “a wandering widow."
and had travelled thousands of miles. She
added that, although mixing with all sorts,
she had never been once insulted or molested.
Later I learnt that she had married a station-
manager, the better to look- after his young
motherless children.
UNDER HER SPEED LIMPT.
TIM : “Yes, she cuts me since that car ride. Er—you know, I always keep both, hands
on the wheel.”
“Quiz” : After stumping around for nearly
half a century on a wooden-leg, an eccentric
old gold-digger who died recently in Mel-
bourne requested that the “peg" should be
buried with him. When, as not infrequently
happened, the old ’un “dug in” at a favorite
pub, he would invariably, at an early stage
of his carouse, unship the limb and dispatch
it by cab to liis home as a hint to his family
that he was not using it and that the date
of his return was uncertain. On sobering
up he as regularly sent a cab to bring the
limb back. He will never again be parted
from it.
* * * *
“Nawliera”: The recent colliery disaster
at Dobson, West Coast (M.L.), revives sad
memories of the more terrible catastrophe
in the Brunner mine over 30 years ago.
The two mines are within half a mile of
each other, on either side of the Grey River.
Richards, the deputy, who was one of the
mine victims on this occasion, was only a
lad when his father was one of the 62 casu-
alties of the former gas explosion. The Brun-
ner field has always had a bad name for
gas. In the recent explosion a coal tub,
weighing close on scwt., was hurled up the
main dip, and, after soaring right over the
Dobson township, landed just on a quarter
of a mile away. Strange to relate, it came
to rest within a few feet of the monument
which marks the scene of another -West
('oast tragedy, standing on the spot where
surveyor Dobson was killed by the Bur-
gess-Kelly gang of bushrangers, who operated
in the palmy days of the goldfields.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : The little goldfields towns of
W.A. used to be the places for wild and
woolly municipal council meetings and free-
and-easy deliberative methods. Bumbledom
invariably sat coatless in the hot months and
it always argued through a mist of tobacco
smoke. I have heard a mayor assure a
councillor that he was too slnckered to be of
use in the settlement of civic problems, and
the gent, aspersed, instead of hotly com-
bating the insinuation, gloomily asserting and
hiccoughing his way out into the night. I
have seen a meeting broken off by the fire-
bell. and everyone, including the press, rush-
ing off to do more useful work than wrang-
ling over rates or dog licenses. And I can
remember one stifling night when his Wor-
ship of all the municipal brains of Bun-
garfayille waited three-quarters of an hour
outside the council chambers for the town-
clerk to arrive with the keys and the minute-
books. At the end of that period an apolo-
getic Bung arrived from the other end of
the township with the intimation that the
t.c. was on his ear. There was nothing for
it but to adjourn the meeting—but the step
was taken more regretfully than resentfully,
as by men who sympathised with the absentee
in his ill luck rather than condemned him
for his laches. The auriferous section of
Groperland was as full of municipalities in
those roaring days as a bin is full of bottles;
now the few that remain have long since
sunk to roads-board level, and I don’t sup-
pose you could find more than a couple of
mayors between Esperance and the Kim-
berleys. i
* * * *
“Windsor”: A defendant at the Carlton
(Vic.) court the other day, charged with
an assault on a lorn widow, vigorously pro-
tested that the lady had been the aggressor.
She had thrown water over him. She had
hurled two bricks at him. He produced the
bricks. The case having been dismissed,
the victor nodded to the Bench, gathered
up one of the bricks and the court Bible,
tucked them under his arm and strolled
away complacently, leaving the other brick
for the clerk to use in swearing in witnesses.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : In the course of the silly-season
controversy on neck-to-knee bathers in Mel-
bourne, it was pointed out that Old England
is far more outrageous than this sunny land,
one-piecers being
the regulation. The
more striking ex-
ample of Sweden .
wasn’t quoted. In
that brief-summer
country I have
seen . whole fami-
lies bathing in the
buff, and in tin-
hotels girls scrub
the guests in their
baths, though this
villainy never hap-
pened to me. A
recent world’s con-
ference of Chris-
tian clerics held in
Stockholm found the latter custom trying,
and after his first, bath an American delegate
got over the difficulty. He bought a bathing-
suit.
* * * *
“Venturino”: Oswald Pryor’s “Militant
Christianity” (B. 2/12/'26) brings to my
mind a happening in a S. Australian Cornish
community in the days when Cousin Jacks
went to chapel on Sunday nights and sought
“graace” in a feverish welter of prayer and
song till daylight on Monday mornings.
Tregonning, a fervent local preacher, occu
pied the pulpit, his theme being the bless-
ings and rewards of the Christian life. “One
day,” he cripd, “the Lord lookin’ from His
Holy Temple will see a weary, bent, old
traveller draggin’ ’is tired limbs ’cross dusty
plains from a sinful work. An’ He’ll say,
‘Danged if it edden ol’ Willum Henry Tre-
gonning! Welcome, true and faithful ser-
vant ! Straighten shoulders, m'son! Tha’st
carried burden o’ wicked worl’ too long.
Graace is thine!’” At this point a voice
from near the door cut in : “Dedden’ shoul-
ders be stooped through heavy timber-boards
tha stole up ’t our place laas’ night, Willum
Henry?”
“Nikko” : On a recent voyage of one of the
Bay liners to England, the constant quarrel-
ling of a youthful couple alternately amused
and annoyed the other passengers. At
luncheon 'one day, after the usual argument,
the husband rose hurriedly from the table.
“Well,” he said as he left, “perhaps if I
throw myself overboard you’ll be satisfied.”
The lady intimated that it was a matter
of entire indifference to her, and he dashed
up the stairs. There was a loud splash,
and with a shriek of “He’s done it!” the
wife fainted. It took an hour to get her
round sufficiently to realise that the splash
came from a fruit-case which had been jetti-
soned just as her husband reached the deck.
* * . * *
“How. Gunner” : I was convalescing with
another Digger at a private home in Hert-
fordshire late in 1917 when Fritz appeared
to be holding a strong hand, and fears of
the actual invasion of the Old Land were
rife. The village pub was the nightly debat-
ing-ground of the ancient rustics thereabouts
—there were no young ones-—and the Aussie
countersign always made us welcome there.
One evening the discussion turned to the
inevitable invasion,, but the hoary pessimists
were soon routed by a cheerful old gaffer
of 90 or so. “The .Tarmins,” says he, “can
noa coom ’ere. There be non room for
foightin’ i’ tli’ street, an Sq noire ’e won’t
have foightin’ in the Park.” I gave the
countersign, and we drank, to “Squoire.”
AN ADEPT AT HIS PROFESSION.
“That’s Doctor Killem, isn’t it? He must
be kept busy with his large practice?”
“No; he takes life very easily.”
THE SURF QUEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I envy not the queens who reigned
In other times and lands
With crowns upon their royal brows
And sceptres in their hands.
I'd sooner be a surf queen, a surf queen, a surf
queen,
And hold my court on Manly beach-or Bondi’s
sunlit sands.
Stmiramis and Sheba’s queen
Made conquests—doubtless, lots ;
And Cleopatra, Dido too,
Had high old times —in spots—
Ere Antony had come to smash and bold .Eneas
done his dash ;
And Fate had something worse in store for Man-
Queen of Scots.
I’d sooner be a surf queen, With never diadem
Except a natty bathing cap, than any two of them.
Fair Esther queened it regally
At some uncertain date;
And good Queen Bess she lived and loved
And ruled in pomp and state ;
And silken courtiers kissed the ground and generally
hung around
To make themselves agreeable to Catherine the
Great.
1 wouldn’t swap my cavaliers in neck-to-knces for
those
Who swanked in ruffs and specialised in cloth o’ gold
for clothes.
She was more fair, accounts agree,
Than Danish tongues could tell,
The beggar maiden seantly garbed
For whom Cophetua, fell.
I’ve more in common, p’raps, with her, satiric persons
might aver,
Who’ve no encumbering robes to hide the fact that
I’m a belle.
I envy not the queens of old
Nor grudge their due to each.
But—and on this my kingdom rests—
I’m just as much a peach.
I’d rather be a surf queen, a surf queen, a surf
queen,
And hold my court on Coogee sands or Manly's
sunlit beach.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life’s a' mighty cat that lies
Stretched voluptuous in the sun,
Closing slant-cut emerald eyes;
Roused at bat-light, when the sky’s
Like the wings of dragon-flies,
Rippling through the -woods to run f
Or upon the swaying boughs
Crouched, the while they sigh and creak.
Listening for the silly squeak
Of some small beast gone astray—
Life’s the hunter, man the prey;
Life’s a cat and man thel mouse.
Life’s a cat with plush-lined paws,
Sleek and soft at times, but yet
Sw'ift enough to sink its claws
Into flesh that dares forget
Any one of all the grey
Perils that may mice beset—
Cheese to tempt them and betray,
Bolt-holes much too far away—
In the world’s well-plenished house.
Let the morsel run, and then
Catch and toss it up again!
Life’s a cat and man’s the mouse.
N.S.W.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
serf
a?
TheTOPNOTCH'Scotch
V
V>,„ "SsyWflEn Maall
X
HIS -EXCELLE
THE KT HON LORD DENMAN
GOV. GEN. OF THE •
COMMONWEALTH of AUSTRALIA
-tstahCisficcC JSB3
W
Chorley
8
Ltd
Co
313 George St., Sydney
Tailors
and Bimhesmakers
1 ' .-.\y
EXCLUSIVE LADIES'
TAILOR-MADES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CLOBE
MEAT EXTRct
GLOBE BRAND
A representative of a curious point of
view—strongly supported in its day—was
the just-dead William McMillan, of Sydney.
When the gibe was thrown at him that he
was “the member for York-street,” he loftily
replied that Commerce was the “foundation
of Britain’s greatness,” and he was proud to
be its representative. He was - The Bul-
letin’s old William McLinen. His reputa-
tion as a Heaven-born financial genius soon
faded and almost ceased to exist with the
disappearance of the old firm of W. and A.
“No, an’ there’s something queer about it —
lie's not been home ever since Mum
caught Sunty Claus kissing the maid
at our house at Christmas.”
McArthur, of which lie was a partner/ He
was a nephew of the William McArthur who
represented the “W” in the firm, and arrived
in Sydney at the age of 19. He entered Par-
liament 18 years later and was in Parkes’s
last Ministry. He was beaten in IS9B, but
got into Federal politics as representative of
the safe Wentworth seat. Business calls,
however, soon overwhelmed him; and, be-
sides, he saw that there was no future in the
House for an honest Freetrader. And what-
ever else he Was no one ever impugned his
honesty.
A sporting life, in more senses than one,
closed when Rupert Clarke died at Monte
Carlo on Christmas Day. S’Rupert, first heir
to the first baronetcy given to an Australian,
was born lucky and added to the fortune his
father left him. Before the old man’s death
in 1897 he did well as a pastoralist; he led
an expedition into New Guinea •when it was
a much wilder place than it is now, and he
was one of the early birds at Coolgardie .m
1895. He was well’known as a yachtsman,
lost hundreds and w T on thousands as a race-
horse owner, and his interest in the stage,
which was not entirely histrionic and com-
mercial, led him into a very profitable part-
nership. Always of a restless disposition,
the tail-end of his 61 years has been spent
abroad. He is succeeded by a son of a second
marriage, a mere lad.
Nippon remains a land where ancient and
modern blend grotesquely, but the death of
the Mikado, which happened last week, pro-
bably means the passing of many of the old
customs, since his successor has up-to-date
ideas. When the late Emperor died the
spirits of his ancestors (there are 122 of
them back in a direct line to the founder of
the dynasty) had to be solemnly informed,
and the three sacred treasures of which he
had been the guardian had to be handed over
t>> his successor, who immediately was pro-
claimed Emperor (the throne can never be
vacant), although, on account of the period
of mourning prescribed for a royal father,
the coronation cannot take place for more
than a year. Yoshikito was only 47 years
old. but his emotional disposition affected
his health, and for six years his son, who
now succeeds him, has acted as regent. Prince
Hirohito, who is 26. lias travelled abroad,
and has even violated the old ideas of the
sanctity of the children of Heaven by allow-
ing himself to be filmed. v
Thrit great jury-persuader. George Arnot
Maxwell, is Vic.’s latest K.C. When he is
not twisting the ten good men and true
round his forensic finger, he speaks for Fawk-
ner in the Reps. Ilis blindness makes his
continued successes all the more notable.
A rolling stone who gathered very little
moss but thoroughly enjoyed himself was
Arthur Desmond, who wound up a varie-
gated career in Palestine the other day. He
was there on behalf of an American news-
paper, writing travel-stuff. He was a Maori-
lander by birth and Irish by nationality, and
he never got on very well with constituted
authority. The beginning of the century
found him in the S’African Light Horse,
spending a great deal of time chasing De
Wet and despising the British Army. Later
he made himself active in Labor circles,
where his genuine gift for organisation and
intrigue might have carried him high had
he cared to stick at it. But he drifted back
to America. While in this country he con-
tributed a fair amount of verse to The Bul-
letin —some of it republished later in “The
Golden Shanty.”
An old-school family lawyer was B. A.
Moulden, just dead in .Adelaide at 77. The
business was started in early days by his
father, J.E., but has long been carried
on by >B.A. with his brother Bayfield,
latterly with the help of their sons Frank
and Arnold. B.A. was Attorney-General
for a few months under Cockburn long ago,
and then had nine years in the Leg. Council.
Also he was chairman of Broken Hill South,
a director of Block 14 and Electrolytic Zinc,
managing director of a brewery and execu-
tor or trustee in innumerable estates. One
son, Eldin, died young, while second-in-com-
mand of Adelaide Tramways Trust. The
surviving sons are John, probably the world’s
greatest authority on the metallurgy of zinc,
for many years past in England, and Frank,
lately Mayor of Adelaide.
Sydney’s finest beard was buried a few
days ago. It belonged to Dr. Thomas Porter,
a great old Australian —he lived in this land
86 years ago and only missed being born
here by a whisker. His first attempt to
earn his own living was made at the age
of about 15, when he did some prospecting
on Victorian goldfields. Then he went to
America, studied medicine and acquired a
degree, but, returning to Australia, he became
a preacher, and served with the Church of
Christ and the Baptists *tlie rest of his days.
For many years past lie had been at
Petersham.
No matter when Clarence Pickering, motor-
omnibus driver, of "Mackenzie-street, Rbzelle,
Sydney, slips his cable, lie is sure of a place
in local history. He bought the first ticket
sold on the Harbor City’s beautiful new
underground railway. The first train
glided out at 4.56 a.m., but Pickering left
home three and a half hours earlier in order
to make quite sure of securing the piece of
pasteboard. Of course, he didn’t get a ticket
numbered one. The first three or four were
sent round on salvers to Bradfield of the
Bridge, Commissioner Fraser and other
gentlemen who lay snug abed while Picker-
ing kept vigil.
The progress young R. G. Menzies has
made at Vic. Bar is suggested by the free
discussion of his claims to the vacancy on
the State’s Supreme Court Bench. The
Ministry would like Owen Dixon, who
accepted an acting appointment a few months
ago, to continue. But the salary of £2500
a year for a puisne Judge is considered by
the Bar to be much too low. even with the
attraction of a pension of £1250 a year on
retirement.
When Herman Van Staveren, Rabbi at
Wellington (M.L.) for the last 50 years,
is gathered to his fathers, everybody will
miss him. His snowy beard and tall silk
hat are features of the city, like Parliament
House and Custom-house Quay, and it is a
RABBI VAN STAVEREN.
toss-up which of the four adds most to the
dignity of the little capital. A Dutchman
by birth, A r an Staveren married at 26, after
being educated in Amsterdam and London,
and two years later went to Wellington to
minister to the needs of the little Hebrew
community of those days. He liked Welling-
ton as well as Wellington liked him, and while
he bred and raised 13 children he became a
great pillar of charitable and educational
movements. His family, too, has turned out
a credit to its patriarch.
Dr. Mayne’s offer of £50,000 and a new
site at St. Lucia for the Brisbane University
has been accepted by the Senate. The doctor
immediately'added £5OOO to help in the estab-
lishment of a Chair of Agriculture. With
the exception of last year's Gorrick bequest
•for the Law Faculty, this is the only sub-
stantial outside help the ’Varsity has received
since it was founded in 1910.
The Court at Mudgee (N.S.W.) recognised
a diamond jubilee just before Christmas
by congratulating George Davidson, the
father of the newly-made Judge, Colin David-
son. The old man, who has chased Costs for
00 years, and shows no sign of getting
winded, is claimed to be the oldest practising
solicitor in Australia.
Dead in Adelaide, at 72, Charlie Colyer,
a well-known figure in legal circles. Half
a century ago he was chief engrossing-clerk
for the firm of which Samuel Way was
senior partner. Since then his neat pen-
manship has been in great demand by various
lawyers—the typewriter hasn’t quite ban-
ished the quill, the pounce-box and the
.sealing-wax. A veteran of the old law
school —he was born in London—he was
seldom seen without a top-hat and cut-away
coat. No K.C. was better versed in the
etiquette of the profession.
Part of the stiff English middle-class back-
ing that made Maoriland what it is to-day
—among other things it keeps its politics
rather clean —was Major Frederick William
Gascoyne. His dad was a cavalry colonel
in India and the son was born in Cawnpore,
in 1838 —the year in which it was decided to
do something about the contumelious Afghan
—-and the news of Frederick’s birth arrived
when his father was far from home and
not very*hopeful about seeing it again.
When the boy was 15 the family emigrated
to Maoriland, about the only place where
there was any fighting going on at the
moment, and when Fred Gascoyne was of
age he joined the defence force. He took
part in a lot of scraps with the Maoris? and
when times grew more peaceful he studied
law. For some years he was the Sheriff
of Auckland (they still have sheriffs in
Maoriland), and then settled down to a
job that he thoroughly enjoyed as Resident
Magistrate in the Chatham Islands, where
the population was 20,000 —mostly sheep.
After administering the high and low justice
for a great many years he retired and went
to live at Hastings, where nearly 30 years
were allowmd him. The Reaper came at 88.
The relationships of W. A. Guesdon, who
passed out in Hobart the othei* day, were
rather complicated. He and his daughter
married a sister and brother, which made
him father-in-law to his brother-in-law,
brother-in-law to his daughter, and uncle
to his grandchildren.
On the verge of 65, amiable _ old John
Clarkson Boyce has been supervising his last
Christmas holiday-rush at the Vic. Govern-
ment Tourist Bureau. He went to school
with Alec Peacock at Creswick, joined the
Vic. railways in 1882. and was the first
railway-inquiry officer in Australia, starting-
to answer questions and explain ticket con-
cessions in ’BS. Although the face hasn’t
got any younger since then, the benevolent
smile which spreads over it as its owner
listens to'the potential tourist unwind his
extensive repertoire of rambling queries is as
pleasant and youthful as ever. Roy Gollan,
ex-assistant-publicity officer and one rime
sub-editor of the deceased Evening Sun,
will presently fill Boyce's chair.
Tom Edmunds, the oldest master-saddler
in the Ma State, died at Maitland the other
day at 76. Ten years before he was born
his father started a saddlery business there,
and it is still in the family. Justice
Edmunds, a brother of Tom, found law paid
better than leather.
A man who regarded himself as a million-
aire by right passed out when John Robert
Pinkerton died at Lidcombe (Sydney) last
week. Pinkerton for years had been pur-
suing a claim that he is the lawful heir to a
fortune left by Thomas Hall, a Manchester
knight, in 1816, which is now estimated to
,bc worth £3,000,000; but the estate is firmly
held in Chancery. His son is hunting up
records in England at the present time, his
father having died, still full of fight and
hope, at 82.
Two young men who will be able to
claim that they have seen more of Australia
than most are Bob Brown and G. F. ORegan,
who set out from Melbourne in August, 1023,
and wandered through the five States, not
forgetting the N.T. and (lontralia. Six thou-
sand miles was done in company of Matilda,
arid about 12,000 miles by rail, with flying
and motoring to diversify the menu. Now,
having finished seeing the land, they pro-
pose to write a book.
The Sargood-Gardiner softgoods amalgama-
tion recalls “Yardstick” Sargood, head of the
Vic. firm for so many years. For a decade
or more he was the official or Unofficial
leader of the Cabbage Garden’s House of
Landlords, and though a Conservative he
conceded the first few wages boards Australia
ever had. He made a mistake when lie went
into the Senate, and it was the death of
him. While he was Council leader he feed
out of his own pocket a legal firm to
examine bills and keep him privately posted
concerning their contents.
ALLAN WILKIE, who has just returned
from England with some new props, and
a couple of new actors to start his
Shakspearean productions again.
Vic. municipal men are mourning FI. E.
Lawson, sec. of their association, who
passed out the other day. He held also the
companion job of sec. to the Water Trusts
Association. As town clerk of Warrnam-
bool, lie got the experience which caused
council delegates to reach out for him when
C. 11. Meaden retired.
GENERAL CHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“it is difficult to estimate General Chen's influence
throughout China. Actually, he is British- bom.
being a native of Trinidad, and was educated at
an English school by an Irishman. He speaks excel-
lent English, with an Irish brogue, and is dis
tinctly British in appearance.”— Cable.
It’s not very often a fellow can light
On a Chinaman complex as that,
Who was bom where the firefly contrasts in the night
With the nigger as black as your hat,
In those West Indian isles where Dame Nature's
all smiles,
And the sugar-cane sings in the breezes
While it thinks of the rum it will shortly become,
And the quenching of thirst never ceases.
His schooling was English, by Irishmen taught- —
He’d pick up the local vernacular
The while in assiduous striving he wrought
To prepare himself for his spectacular
Debut, one fine day, in ancestral Cathay,
As a general clever and classy,
With the usual staff that would make a cat laugh,
But be beautif’ly ICiwi’d and brassy.
He’s, got there 0.K., but it beats me just how
He contrives in adjusting his phrases —
When he’s making inspections and raising a row,
How he sends ’em to blithering blazes.
Does he hold at the tip of his tongue, to let slip,
The right dope for the right sort of cove, eh?
And pick in a sec. which to get off his neck —
“Whaffor?” “Golly?” “Begorra?” “Bai .love?” eh?
N.S.W.
CENTURTON.


<At the BMe pump
L
m
n
£3
L
S
MOTOR
SPIRIT
“the spirit that mofes
u
I
%
\
rnU
JU
\«J
-L#§
v
t (ilM jn
/
*
f
r j
Mi
L
■^i
BH»-
/
rs
Jth—'
© // a
<^C;
> 7
- vr= «#»
W©7) (f3p>
L? 5 605
(Copyright.)
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BLUE PUMPS
IN SYDNEY AND SUBURBS
Also in All Important Country Towns
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LTD.
SYDNEY - - BRISBANE - - NEWCASTLE - - MELBOURNE - - ADELAIDE - - NORTH FREMANTLE


For CHRISTMAS and
the New Year !
The Best Gift for
Lady or Gentleman
"Right with
the Sun/ 3
*
-3
SOLD BY
ALL JEWELLERS
fs
evrf
Britain’s Best —The World’s Best!
m
ROSS
GLASSES
CONQUER DISTANCE.
Bring objects right to your feet. Observe
the movements of animals, birds, ships,
people—off in the distance. Cars racing
round the track, horses tearing down the
turf. Keep a pair of Ross Glasses in your
car and motoring will become a far greater
joy. Indispensable for camping, hunting,
yachting, watching races, motoring, for
nature study, etc.
The new extra-wide field Ross Glasses are
a revelation of what modern optical science
has accomplished. We sell all models at
London Catalogue rates. Prices range
from £lO. Write for catalogue.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Jewellers and Opticians, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
EVER-READY
l TORCHES 3
6 The Worlds Best
%
ser
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Stmt, Sydney
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Hungry Downs”: Queensland’s experi-
ence in feeding sheep in drought lends
interest to some recent experiments in “arti-
ficial” sheep-feeding at Trangie (N.S.W.)
Experimental Farm. Forty merino wethers
between one and two years old were penned
in small, shaded enclosures in lots of 10. One
lot was given 21b. of good lucerne-hay and
4oz. maize daily. The second got 31b. of
lucerne-hay, and the third 21b. of inferior
lucerne-liay and 4oz. maize. The fourth pen
got 31b. of lucerne-hay alone. A lick of salt
and Epsom salts—3o parts of salt to two
of Epsom—was available for all. Monthly
weighings showed that the sheep on the
mixed maize and lucerne did better than
those on the lucerne only, though the latter
were in capital nick, in spite of the monotony
of hay only for a year. Most interesting,
however, was the effect of the experiment
on the wool. The fleeces, at the beginning,
were 64’s. At the finish 57 per cent, had
fined to 70’s or 80’s, 37 had fined to 66's,
and the other six had retained the count
with which they started. That such an active
beast as the merino apparently suffered no ill
effects from the comparatively close confine-
ment for so long also surprised the experts.
* * * *
“Herodot”: In a Sussex-street (Sydney)
store which was over-run with rats one of
the staff secreted himself with the object of
discovering how they gained access to places
previously regarded as being inaccessible to
the pests. The observer watched a dozen
or so of them plunder a crate of eggs which
had been placed high up on a shelf. They
did so by linking themselves into a living
chain, one end of which hooked itself on to
the edge of the crate, while the other made
last to a pile of boxes near by. Along
this chain the eggs were passed, and then
the chain let go. and proceeded to enjoy
its loot, leaving only the shells.
* * * *
“ Buttenderry ” : If “Si mover ” (B.
9/12/’2O) still lives in the back-country
where lie probably contracted the itch, he
should make for the seaside. I had the
Barcoo-rot on both hands in the ’nineties,
and a Longreach doctor prescribed a fruit
diet—preferably grapes—or, better still, a
trip to the coast. As any kind of fruit was
unprocurable on the station where I was
working, I headed for Sydney, and the rot,
which had been troubling me for a year or
so, disappeared in less than a week.
“Sue Shannon” : As I write a rare sight
is to bo seen at the Back River, near New
Norfolk (Tas.). Crawling across the main
road, for a quarter of a mile in width, is
a stream of caterpillars. They began their
migration a week ago, and there are no
signs, at the time of my writing, of the end-
ing of it. Some 14 years ago the same thing
occurred in the same place.
* * * #
“Muggins, .Tun.”: “Borom” complained
(B. 2/12/’26) that from a ton of seed-wheat
only about 250,000 plants are produced by
approximately 1,000,000 grains. There is
no mystery in this. My
crops used to be very thin
until a grader was bought
which separated the stripped
wheat into four or five
grades, ranging from fowl-
feed to seed-wheat. The
top-grade wheat was kept
for seed, and next season the
crop was extraordinarily
thick, and has been so ever
since, although we use less
than one-third the amount of
seed we used to plant. Other
eockies in this district have
had the same experience,
and we believe that 95 per
cent, of the grains now put
into the earth produce
plants.
“Nuces”: Let “Laen” (B. 2/12/’26) try
the following plan for catching the wily
crow. Trap one and bind him. back down,
to the top of a fence-post, making sure that
his legs are free to claw the air. Retire to
a safe distance, and before long the squawk-
ing of the captive will bring a curious brother
crow to inspect him. Number one crow will
seize the onlooker in his claws, and will not
release him, despite his struggles. You then
disentangle the second from the first and bind
him also to a post. Soon you should have
quite a respectable tally of crows working
in this way. I have dope it often, and
have never known a failure.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: A par. a few weeks back
recorded that, a fish had been caught on a
surfboard. I can beat that. Coming from
England in October, 189 G. the Orotava
caught a shark. It happened while we were
coming down the Gulf of Arabia. A steward
awakened me at 6.30 a.m. and told me the
news. I went up on the forecastle-head and
saw that the stem of the ship had caught a
large shhrk just behind the gills, and was
pushing it through the water. Its tail was
touching the ship’s side 27ft. back from the
bow. As the ship was losing a knot on
account of the drag, Captain Linklater
slowed down, stopped, and then went astern
to shake it off.
* * * *
“Rob. P.”: “Is it possible to telepatli to
a horse fear felt by its rider?” (B. 11/U/’26.)
Yes —in capitals. The theory that horses
can and do see things invisible to the human
eye is a fallacy. I proved this when a yarn
got about that a ghost was hovering around
the grave of a camp cook who had suicided
and who was buried beside, the road. When
passing his grave, horses ridden by imagina-
tive females became nervous, and one or
two' bolted. I rode one of the “bolters”
past the grave, and. although he remembered
his scare, and showed it. a touch of the
spurs and a firm voice quietened him at once,
and he never afterwards showed nervousness
when I rode him. Some time afterwards,
with a lady rider up who had heard and
GETTING READY FOR THE ELECTIONS.
“And what do we do? We pursue the shadow, the bubble bursts and leaves but sack-
cloth and ashes in our empty hands.”
swallowed the ghost yarn, lie again bolted;
but another trial by me was sufficient to
convince me that it was the rider who had
frightened the prad. I tried several other
prads that had never been ridden there by
nervous riders, and none of them evinced
the slightest concei'n.
* * * *
“Talindert” : Re the theory that the num-
ber of bulls running with the herd determines
the proportion of female calves (B.
25/11/’26). I was dairying in the Western
district of Victoria and had only one bull
running with 27 cows. According to the
theory, I should have got female calves
chiefly, but actually 24 male and 3 female
calves were born during 1924 as a result of
the matings. Throughout the period I used
that particular bull alone, the male calves
always outnumbered the females. Certain
strains of blood show this leaning toward
one sex or the other, and its direction can
be traced'back through pedigrees.
“Kooragai” : The Queens-
land bottle-tree, N.S.W.
flame-tree, the North Aus-
tralian cream o’ tartar, Vic.
messmate, S-.A. sugar-gum
and the fire-tree of W.A. are
considered by botanists to be
the most remarkable of our
forest growths. What’s the
matter with planting them
at Canberra? All are strik-
ingly ornamental, leaving im-
portations simply nowhere:
and there are numerous
other remarkable trees, such
as the bean (Moreton Bay
chestnut), beefwood, leopard-
wood, and corkwood, the last
being as light as cork and as
hard to burn. How much
more interesting our towns
would be to visitors were
they planted with our unique
and beautiful trees —which
have the additional advan-
tage of being evei*green.
whereas the imported
growths are half the time
leaf-bare skeletons!
“Mick Stupp” : “Talk about intelligents,"
said truthful Joe, “let me tell yer that ’roos
are tli’ dizzy. I was ridin’ round the fences
one day with three dorgs an 'they started
after a big, red old-man Too. When I caught
’em up. the old man was standin’ at bay in
the middle of a water’ole. I could ha’ shot
’im there an’ then, but ’avin nothin’ else
ter do I tied the ’orse up to a tree, rested
me shotgun against the trunk, and climbed
down th’ bank ter see what th dorgs _ would
make of it. One dorg dives straight in, an
.as soon as ’e gets close enough the old man
grabs ’im an’ olds ’im under till e was
quiet. Then ’e makes across to the other
bank, and th’ other two dorgs races round
to 'ave it out. But the old man circles
round the ’ole an’ pulls up at th’ tree
where my ’orse was tied, an’ as the dorgs
come up 'e grabs th’ gun and skittles one
with each barrel. Then as I climbs the bank
he glares at me. I knoo what ’e was thinkin’
—that I c’d thank me stars there wasn’t a
barrel left.”
* * * *
“Kayelf”: Re “Clerk’s” fasting tortoises
(B. 28/10/’26). In the grounds of the
museum at Capetown (S’Africa) are three
tortoises, about 30in. across and covered
with foreign growths. I was assured by an
attendant that they had not partaken of
any food during his three years of service.,
Booking at them dozing in the sun, I be-
lieved him. I should say they hadn’t washed,
cither, for at least 30 years.
* * # *
“J.A.L.”: Can any Abo. reader tell me
if, not being “under the influence,” he ever
FOR THE GOOD OF THE PROFESSION.
“I love the Christmas season of goodwill, don’t you?”
“Heh! Yes! I’m, a doctor, too!”
heard a snake singing? The other day during
a heat wave in Goulburn I was outside my
house and heard a peculiar noise—between a
bird-song and a whistle. Thinking it came
from some strange bird, I went to investi-
gate and found a brown snake coiled, with
its head raised about a foot in the air, sing-
ing away as if he were enjoying the. heat.
His ballad was cut short.
MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Music is my only weakness; I enjoy it any time —
Mornin’s, afternoons an’ smokos just the same.
Piccolo an’ flute an’ ’cello an’ the pianola’s chime
Warm the cockles of me ’eart beyond a name.
Rut there’s i one that beats ’em ’oiler which you
never ’ear in town—
Leastwise never right an’ proper as you should ;
Vet it beats the brass bands easy, an’ it does the
jazz bands brown,
Does the sobbin’, swishin’, sighin’
Of the crosscut when it’s flyin’
Back an’ forward, back an’ forward, through the
wood!
Music ’as its funny places—yes, you’d often be
surprised ;
Tunes ’ll greet you in the creakin’s of a spar ;
An’ there’s music most invitin’, which I think old
Nick devised,
In the gurgles of the beer-pumps in a bar.
When the night is nearly over, an’ the first tram
rumbles down.
An’ ter-mori'ow wakes the sleepin’ brother’ood,
1 can ’ear my fav’rite music played a ’undred miles
from town,
Just the merry, steely ringin’
Of the crosscut when it’s swingin’
To an’ from you, to an’ from you, in the wood.
Then there’s music in the mountains when the storm
clouds gather low,
An' the thunder growls and rumbles ’tween the
steeps—
That's the Old Boy’s full orchestra in its grand
fortissimo,
When some covey slips the pearly gates for keeps.
“SCOTS WIIA’ HAE.”
An’ there’s music quaint at sundown when the
chirpy crickets sing
An’ the bull-frogs croak their basso loud an’ good,
That’s me fav’rite obligato, true in tempo, time an’
swing,
To the sobbin’, swishin’, sighin’
Of the crosscut when it’s flyin’
Rack an’ forward, back an’ forward, through the
wood.
Then the tunes o’ “Tipperary” an’ o’ “Rule Britannia,
Rule!”
Make me see agen my poor old cobber Ned
Lyin’ in the swill o’ Flanders when old Fritzie
strafed us crool
An’ a flamin’ ’unk o’ shrapnel ’it ’is ’end.
When I cut me sticks an’ join ’im, don’t make any
useless din—
You can say a prayer in case it does Some good—
Rut just ’ave a big log ’andy to the ’ole, an’ put
me in
To the merry, steely ringin’
Of the crosscut when it’s swingin’
To an’ from you, to an’ from you, in the wood!
QUEENSLAND.
ROB P.


—W^——MM——l— lWlWW—ißHiill <H T r 3
■ mm
;i
-: -•'
%m
1 111
•'
• .
m m
m
M
m&
■
;■
■ - v
&
c p:
r
■ :
T-:
-
61^
m
K 1
.
* ,*
■ -•
. -r
M E
g.: a t &b. t 741
•<5?
- -■
• A ,1L
f fem-Hi
‘ S* < WwissS
il-;
White Hi
kstsjssi
> ’P" ' '
v >* t * P
- i -:::r >?c< M
mrnffi
Have you a discerning palatt-j?
THEN you will appreciate the delicate flavour and fine
qualities of White Horse Whisky as only a connoisseur can!
White H°1 se
Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Agents.


pe??BSf!?i
: .
, . . , V . I X ... i '
Spend Your Summer Holidays
at the new “Hotel Manly”
Right opposite the Manly Wharf is
this new luxurious Hotel. Expense
has been no object in making it one
of the finest resorts of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. From the
moment you step into the Reception
Hall you are surrounded with com-
fort and personal service. Large and lofty
bedrooms, with tasteful, new furniture and
spotless linen, give restful invitation, and
the constant supply of hot and cold water
to each room is a refreshing boon to every,
guest. You can lie abed with reading-lamp
and telephone at your elbow....you can
enjoy the artistic atmosphere of the perfect
music-r00m.... or wield a racquet on the full-
sized roof Tennis Court.
Motoring guests have the convenience of
an ample basement garage—and the surf is
only four minutes distant.
Make early summer reservations at the
Hotel Manly and be certain of holiday con-
tentment.
Room and Breakfast only, from 13/6 per
day; Exclusive accommodation from £7/7/-
per week.
Full particulars and complete tariff will
be posted immediately in response to your
inquiry to
Hotel Manly,
Manly, N.S.W.
Manly 1961 (4 lines) and Manly 27.
“Up North”: The Home Island group
grows the largest stone-fish in Australian
waters. Taping sometimes two feet, they
are broad in proportion and very ugly. Un-
like their commoner and smaller brothers,
they have a turn of speed and when dis-
turbed swish away to the nearest coral
patch. The rapidity with which their bodies
identify themselves with the colors of the coral
is a study in lightning changes. Thereafter
they won’t budge, and you may tread on
them for all they care. The hideous brutes
inject poison through hollow spikes. A gin,
although she was howling with pain, assured
me she would be all right “to-morra,” because
she had killed the fish and rubbed its gall
into the wound. The niggers have great
faith in their cure. The only plan of
relief I know is to instantly cut the wound
and rub permanganate of potash well in.
* * * *
“Pick”: Many probable causes may
account for “Clerk's” burning tree in the
flooded Murray (B. 25/11/’26). Bird-
hunters travelling down the river per. boat
often kellick alongside a tree standing awash
to boil their billy at a hollow spout or dry
fork. Heat caused by friction when dry
branches rub as they are swayed by the
wind sometimes sets a tree afire. Apart from
human agency, the commonest cause of bush
fires is lightning. On the Coolumbooka
HIS BURNING THIRST.
“Dry! ’Struth, I’m that dry if yer was to chuck me in the ’arbor
I’d come up covered in dust.”
Range (N.S.W.) my sawmill mates and I
were once on a cloudless day startled by a
passing whir and glint, and immediately
across the gully a stringybark sprang into
flame. ,As lightning is not usually on tap
when the skies are clear, and as the thick
foliage of a near-by tree had been stripped
in a straight line, we decided that the
stringy had blundered in the way of a meteor-
ite.
“Up North”: Beche-de-mer fishing is a
dog's life for a white man. During eight
months of the year his only associates are
niggers. He shoulders the responsibility for
the crew and craft,
knowing that his
men will lose their
heads in any sud-
den emergency.
Every crevice of
the lugger is wispy
w T ith acrid white-
mangrove smoke
from the fish-drying
fires. Diving
glasses have often
to be worn, but
nostrils cannot be
sealed. Oil weather-
permitting fishing
days lie shepherds
Jiis scattered
dinghies and prays
that the catch may
be good enough to
cover his nowadays
heavy costs. Occa-
sionally a careless
boat drifts out of
sight. There is a
hurried mustering
of the dinghies:
then up with the
lugger’s anchor
and a chase for
the truant. By
luck she may be
caught, but occa-
sionally an adverse
wind springs up.
A dinghy and crew
are reported lost
then, and the skip-
per toes the line.
He works from
daylight until
hours after dark,
lives on the hard-
est food, and looks
dismally at the
whitening of his
finger-nails. “Vita-
mines wanted,” snaps the doctor —“tuck in
plenty of vegetables, or else go under.
* * * *
“Pfella”: When teamstering in the nor’-
west of Groperland, I employed a fine nigger
whose virtue' lay in his absolute trustworthi-
ness. For this reason ( I renamed him Faith-
ful. On one up-journey, loaded with station
stores, I camped for the night at a dry river-
bend, where also was camped Wainsty,
another roadman teaming down with wool.
“You think a hell
of a lot of your
tarpot,” said Wain-
sty over the camp-
fire that night,
“but I’m willing
to bet you a level
quid I can bribe
him to pinch a bag
of sugar from your
load, providing yon
don’t specially
warn or watch
him. Of course the
sugar will go with
the deal.” “Done,”
I said, and began
calculating the
number of drinks
I’d have on Faith-
ful’s integrity.
Next morning,
after Wainsty had
departed smiling, I
was startled to find
my abo. smoking a
new pipe. I ques-
tioned him. “Wain-
sty gibbit,” he
answered. cutting
from a plug differ-
ent from my stock.
“Wainsty gibbit,”
he repeated to my
repeated inquiry. I
whipped the tar-
paulin from the
load, and sure
enough a 701 b. bag
of sugar was miss-
ing. In another
second I was
down and swinging
my whip into
action. Faithful
never blinked an
eyelash. “No gib-
bit hidin’, boss,”
he said. “Wainsty
gibbit pipe an’
baccy for mine stealit bag tsugar belongit
you. By cripes, yes. Night-time mine put it
tsugar in empty flour-bag, mine fillet tsugar-
bag with sand from river an’ gibbit
Wainsty.”
“Will Ford”: For the female with the
most easy-going morals give me the quail.
The male, who is much the smaller, is always
found doing the hatching, and I have known
the female to mate again and have tw(|J
families presided over at one and the same’
time by two different males. Does any other'
bird carry things as far as that?
A BIT OF A HEAT-WAVE.
“Was it very hot when you was up at Brcwarrina, Mr. Hodgers?”
“”Ot? Why it was that ’ot even the beer tasted sunburnt.”
“Tarwoona”: What is the record tally for
a day's lamb-marking—only one-man tailing?
Recently I. Macdonald marked 7167 lambs
in one day on Collynunglc, Pokataroo
(N.S.W.). There were two sets of ear-
markers and 10 catchers. The sheep were
in four mobs, and three sets of yards were
used ; the greatest distance from one set of
yards to the other was six miles. About 4000
of the lambs were drafted off from their
mothers; the rest werq caught in among the
ewes. This may not be a record, but it must
be dashed close up.
* * * *
“Up Top”: ’Ware riding or walking
through scrub-country that has recently been
burned. One danger lies in the butts of the
trees. A horse stepping into a red-hot funnel
of ashes is often crippled for life, and a man
who does it has an agonising time. Often
thick roots smoulder for weeks underground.
The burrows of animals are another trap.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: “J.D.C.” and his four bush-
men friends (B. 25/11/’26) must have had
dust>in their eyes when they saw a whirlwind
revolving from left to. right. A long bush
experience has taught me that they spin from
right to left. To make sure, three of us
watched half a dozen huge black willy-willies
churning up a newly-burnt stubble-paddock
to-day out at Bogan Gate, and they all went
the opposite way to a clock. Incidentally,
there is an old Western bush-saying to the
effect that when a whirlwind goes the other
way it is a sure sign of rain.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Re magpie courtships (B.
25/11/’26). Hereabouts (Seven Hills,
N.S.W.) the home-wrecker finds himself in
the soup. In the magpie world the males,
easily recognised by their more burnished
plumage, greatly outnumber the females.
Consequently, each season a large number
have to go mateless. Here is the interesting
point. The left-over males form a committee
to see that the lucky ones get a fair go.
Butters-in are warned off. Should they per-
sist they are either killed or driven from
the colony. So far as I know, this practice
is confined to magpies. Of the facts I am
certain.
* * # *
“Tamornie”: An American scientist is
quoted by “Wingella” (B. 25/11/’26) to
the effect that men who use little or no
salt or sugar are not attacked by mosquitoes
and sandflies to the same extent as are those
who freely use them, and supports this
authority by saying that wild niggers, who
use neither, can live in comfort where mos-
quitoes swarm. I have lived for many years
in the tropics, dividing my time between
North Australia and the South Seas, and
have noticed that the pests mentioned annoy
black brudder quite as much as they do white
men. In parts of New Guinea where the
sandflies and mosquitoes are particularly bad
the natives sleep in woven grass bags, and
during their wanderings in the day-time use
switches made of feathers or the mid-ribs of
■jalm-leaves to drive the pests off. The abo-
rigines of North Australia light many little
Sires, between which they _ sleep, and are
Ithus not worried much at night. W hat has
(often puzzled me, though, is that _ native
Ibees-—and, in New Guinea, one variety of
jbutterfly also—settle on an exposed body
.when it is wet with perspiration in much
greater numbers on a white s skin than on
a nigger’s.
* * * *
“Narara”: We were discussing the per-
formances of crack bullock-teams, when old
Henry offered liis contribution. Back in
'92,” he said, “I had a job drawin’ timber
to a North Coast sawmill. I had a team
of 16 bullocks, and I d have backed them
to pull auy team in Australia. Well, one
morning early I hitched them on to a big
cedar log, and although I kept them hard
at it all the morning they couldn’t move it.
We had an hour’s spell at dinner-time, and
after that they pulled at it until sundown.
But they couldn’t shift it at all. I forgot to
tell you that I’d measured the log before we
started on’ the job in the morning, and when
we gave it best for the day I ran the tape
over it again. The bullocks couldn’t move
the log—l’ll admit now it was too heavy
for them—but they’d stretched the flamin’
thing three feet seven inches!”
* * * *
“Sucre”: Know of a bigger load of horse-
drawn wool than this? Harold Miller, of
Gleudon, brought recently into Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) 86 bales and eight bags. The
weight, according to the bridge-ticket, was
14 tons 16cwt. The 11 horses that hauled
the load are prepared to swear that it was
more. ,
* * * *
“Porangi”: What do cat owners know
about this? At our house a Persian gave
birth to four kittens. One was promised to
a lady neighbor who, after selecting one,
remarked “Mind the tom-cats don’t eat
them.” Next, day I noticed a big black cat
coming from the place, and, sure enough, one
kitten was missing, while another was partly
eaten. Further inquiries elicited the astound-
ing information that tom-cats, whether impli-
cated in the birth or not, will eat newly-born
kittens; and many instances were cited to
prove it.
* * * *
“Morob”: Although I have never heard of
there being any live specimens of the giant
lizards mentioned by “Monton Iki” (B.
8/12/’26), New Guinea contains the fossil
remains of a monster which must have put
in the shade both those and the ones seen
by Cobham. Most of these fossils have been
dug up in Dutch New Guinea, generally close
to a swamp or along the banks of a river. In
1919 Dutch geologists unearthed near Mer-
auke remains which pointed to their originals
having been about 17ft. long. They were
carnivorous and must have been nasty objects
to meet on a narrow bush track.
MISTRESS MACPHERSON’S DAY.
MRS. NEXPDOOR : “Ah, Mrs. Macpherson, how
proud you must have felt when you saw
your husband off to the Highland gather-
ing looking so fine in his kilt an’ all.”
MRS. MACPHERSON : “Aye! I said, noo’s ma
chance toe wash his breeks.”
“Murrungurry”: On big sheepruns dry
and wet ewes (the latter those in milk) are
drafted by their faces. This is done as fast
as the sheep can run through a race, and
very few mistakes are made. It is the only
workable way in dealing with big mobs. The
dry ewe has a hairy and rougher-looking
face than her wet sister. So far as I know,
this facial difference doesn’t occur in any
other animals under similar circumstances.
SEED TIME AND HARVEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I--..e you seen the field to the ploughshare yield,
The long brown furrow thread ?
The seed wheat spill from the four-horse drill
Into the soft seed-bed ?
Have you seen the tine of the harrow fine
The big rough clods to dust?
The seed take root and the green blade shoot
Up through the sun-warmed crust?
The green leaf burn in the sun and turn
Pale gold to russet-brown,
And the well-filled ear grow hard and sere
As its burden bends it down?
Have you heard the hum of the harvester di'UMj—
To the cocky a welcome sound—-
And of rattling chain, the clatter and strain
As wheels fly round and round ?
Seen the chaff from the sieve to the wind-blast give
And fall to earth like rain?
Or marked the sweat on the foreheads wet
Of men in the burning sun?
Heard the ceaseless beat as horses’ feet
Tramp on till day is done?
Have you seen the loads on the dusty roads
Pass slowly one by one,
'.ml the horses strain at the laden wain?
Then you know how the wheat is won.
VICTORIA.
V. G. WILLIAMS.


Dependability and Service
in
mm
sau.
wmk
IKK
Guns and Rifles
from
MMI. iismoms
Mick Simmons’ stocks, which embrace the leading English,
American and Continental makers of firearms, are the most extensive
in the Southern Hemisphere; and the large turnover enables them
to offer Guns and Rifles at prices that challenge comparison.
" '
No. 5.
Steven*’ “Favourite” Rifle, 22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F. or
W.R.F., round 24in. barrel, case-hardened * frame, solid breech
block, take-down action, open front and sporting rear
sights; weight, HO' m
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) •
pinw
No. 25.
Browning Automatic Rifle, Model 24, made in two styles, to
handle 22 short or long rifle cartridges; walnut stock, pistol
grip, 19 Jin. barrel; length over all, 36in.; bead front and screw
rear sight, fitted with safety bolt, barrel may be dis-
mounted by unscrewing, quarter turn; weight, 4^-lb.. .
(Carriage Paid.)
75/-
America’s Latest 6-Valve Receiver-and
undoubtedly the finest proposition in the
Radio World to-day.
fvse
The
"Eclipse
Super-Six
Here is the most exclusive, the most powerful and selective
of all Wireless Sets, the Super 6-Valve, within reach of the man
of moderate means. . ,
At the unequalled price of £lo|lo/-
In beautifully-finished cabinet without
accessories.
Or complete with highest-grade
Speaker and first-quality accessories
£37/10/-
The “Eclipse Super-Six” can also be
complete with cheaper-quality accesso-
ries at the astounding price of
£3O
CASH OR TERMS.
To those who are desirous of possessing a Set embodying
only the most advanced attainments in Radio, the Eclipse can
be bought with the absolute assurance that it will give the finest
possible results in Broadcast Receiving.
Write our Wireless Expert for further particulars.
'■ •
No. 16.
Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding bar locks, pistol grip, neatly
engraved, superior finish; weight about 71b
(Carriage Paid.)
£4/7/6
rfsev
No. 25.
B.S.A. D.B. Hammerless Shot Gun, 12-gauge
choke, nitro proof, fluid compressed steel barrels,
automatic safety pistol grip; weight about 641 b.. . .
(Carriage Paid.)
£l4/5/-
For Your Bod —
A “Daisy” Air Rifle
Dependable in every way, and guaran-
teed to give lasting service, the “Daisy” repre-
sents the highest standard of quality in Air
Rifles.
No. 2 “Daisy” 350-Shot Repeater, nickel-
plated, lever action, walnut stock;
shoots 8.8. shot only . . . Itr D
(Postage: l/6; other States, 3/2.)
No. 4 “Daisy” 1000-Shot Repeater; nickel-plated, lever
action, walnut stock; shoots 8.8. shot only •
(Postage: N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
18/6
vv
rf
worthy of the skill of the
greatest Tennis Champion.
The
“Masterstroke”
Racket
A product of fine craftsmanship, con-
structed of the best obtainable in
materials, this racket is perfect in weight,
shape and balance. The superlative qualities of this splendid
Racket having been quickly recognised, it is being used by some
of the leading and most prominent Tennis Players in HHIC!
New South Wales ■ ■
(Carriage Paid.)
OUR SPECIAL SHOOTING AND TENNIS CATALOGUES FREE ON REQUEST.
ii/
m
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE.”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
Vintage
1917
To H.M.
Kino
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
sver
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'iarifslleidsie#-
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
§M
The Hotel
Wentworth Hotel
The name stands for Perfection
New Year Greetings to all our Patrons.
1927 - a Wentworth Year
Tariff, inclusive, from 26/'- per day, of Bed and Breakfast
from 15/- per day. Rooms with or without bath, or en
suite with private sitting-room. Air-cooled in summer,
steam-heated in winter.
The gorgeous and newly-decorated Ballroom in the
Cafe is available to guests for dancing: BW 1361.
Order all drinks lejore 6 p.rn.
The Cafe
m
C&t
7hp cen/re of Queen s /anc/s
'd/shngu/s/ted Soc/o/ Life.
%
BRISBANE
Wotei
fser
Magnificent B a 11-
.v . room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
SETTER
SAY
Kayses
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
After a glorious Christmas Day, the
heavens turned all the sprinklers on as soon
as Boxing Day arrived, and the A.J.C.
meeting at Randwick was a wash-out. Women
who came not by limousine walked rain-
coated and goloshed, and she who arrived
on balloon tyres was top-coated and tight
as to hat. The steeple-crown millinery of
which Paris has forewarned us so far rears
above the brow of the few and far between;
but Mrs. Macneil Simpson’s tailorings
showed the severe cut that is the last word
in the French capital. Mrs. Sep Levy, just
returned from her revolution of the earth,
turned up in smart black and white; and
Mrs. Jim Lowry was another wanderer
noticed in the official fold. One woman came
wrapped in a pytlion-skin coat, and many
others came wrapped in boredom.
Canonbury, at Darling Point, now a con-
valescent home for sick children, grew a
Christmas tree of its own. The A.J.C., which
is its fairy godfather, had put in not a little
thought over the raising of that tree, and
the nurses had done their bit, too. One
clever sister, had made the Christmas bell,
candle-stands and sweet containers. It was
a jolly party, and 40 small guests, some glow-
ing with renewed health, others still wan and
pale, but all excited, sat down to the tea-
party in the recreation-room, in a sereened-
off corner of which glittered the tree. Bayley
Macarthur, Sydney’s best-known understudy
for Father Christmas, hid behind the turkey-
twill and cotton-wool whiskers of the part,
and did the job with just that touch of
sympathetic good humor that kiddies under-
stand.
You’d hardly think there could be even
one unfamiliar kick in a Christmas party,
so many times has the sprite danced across
Sydney’s vision this past three weeks, but
at the Wentworth the other day our old
friend turned up sparkling with something
entirely new. First she flashed a Billikins
ballet, then a magician of great power and
enterprise, a March of Toys and a pretty
Swedish bride, who wore a towering head-
dress set about with 12 lighted candles and
carried her own wedding-cake. This with a
thrifty eye she cut and sold later for a
silver coin a slice. The March had been
arranged by Daphne Dean, and was one of
the prettiest sights of the afternoon. A
dainty Columbine and Pierrot led the quaint
little puppets, and a sugar-plum fairy, who
danced all by herself, was a sort of joyous
introduction to the dazzling Christmas tree.
The revelation of this tree was the dizzy
pinnacle of a magnificent afternoon, and
young eyes were almost reverent as the
golden curtains were drawn aside. After the
youngsters had received their gifts they
marched under the guidance of Father
Christmas to Miss Dumolo’s table, around
which they danced while the orchestra told
the world she was a Jolly Good Fellow.
The gate money from this rout goes to
the Kindergarten Union. Elaine de Chair,
who was president of the committee, did
not attend. Surgeon Maitland’s widow, the
J. A. Wilson and F. Lindsay matrons and
Miss Annie Cook were staunch vice-presi-
dents, and Joyce Holden, Mrs. Harold Vale
and Mrs. B. McDonald were others who
served.
Flopsy, Mopsy and Cottontail came to
brother Peter Rabbit’s party at the Went-
worth last week. They were all dressed up
in their very best, and of course Peter wore
his nice blue coat with its brass buttons.
Mr. McGregor was not invited, but tin'
doorkeeper reported a suspicious-looking
character with a rake lurking about Church
Hill. Hundreds of youngsters fluttered and
romped about the big ballroom, and balloons
—great colored orbs —floated in the wake
of every kiddie. A giant Christmas tree
radiated joy from the middle of the room,
and a human Jack-in-the-box and a fairy
ballet were other sunshine weavers of the
afternoon. The party was to help the funds
of the Australian Mothercraft Society (Plun-
ket System).
The Renown will carry to Australia, be-
sides the Royalties, a super-shingler, one
Uden, with maids to do the launtTry work of
the Duchess and the other ladies of the
expedition; also, three jazz bands and Lord
Stradbroke’s son, Viscount Dunwic l Of
these, Uden will, of course, be the most im-
portant to the Lady of Glamis. Hair has
always been a very significant thing to her
family. Remember Macbeth’s wife paused
during the punctuation of Duncan to com-
ment on his hirsute adornments? For the
trip Uden has undergone special tuition in
waving, bobbing and shingling, and as he
is the Royal Marine barber probably a new
style of haircut among Jack Tars will be-
come the vogue. Creams, pink, blue and
pale gold are the colors chosen by the
Duchess for her frocks, so the State func-
tions will have rather a fluttering-moth atmo-
sphere, as no woman likely to be in the
presence will dare “kill” H.R.H.’s coloring
with the peacock or tropic hues of her own.
The Hon. Mrs. Greville (if you want to
show that you know all about such things
you won’t call her the Hon. Mrs. Ronald
Greville) is coming by the Naldera to be a
sort of supplementary A.D.C. to the Royal
party. A masterful woman is Mrs. Greville
(you can go this far and say she married
into the great Warwick family 35 years ago
and has been a widow for 18). At her
wonderful place, Polesden-Lacey, outside
Dorking, she entertains tremendously, and
she has always been a great favorite of the
princes. There is plenty of money to do it
with : she was a McEwan. That’s the one
—McEwan’s ale.
When Minister for Education Mutch
handed Dr. Constance D’Arcy a cheque for
£2400 as a further instalment of the £4234
raised by the State schools for the Cancer
Research Fund there were loud rejoicings
on every side, for the slip of paper carried
the total just beyond the £lOO,OOO objective.
The investigation staff at the Sydney Uni.
will be increased by three new appointments
during next month. It is also intended to
dragnet the earth for a director who will
co-ordinate research work and see that the
set programme of investigations is followed.
The treatment of sufferers will not commence
for at least three months, by which time it
is hoped much needed equipment will have
arrived and the organisation be working
smoothly.
All Saints’, at Woollahra, has not seen
many prettier brides than Barbara Laidle.v,
who last week sought its blessing on her
vows to Dr. Thomas Randell Street. The
wedding finery was sweet simplicity through-
out, and the whole effect of bride and brides-
maids was of a romantic old-fashioned valen-
tine. The bride’s frock was of white georg-
ette ruffling with georgette petals and silver
leaves, arid its train was a fairy-like after-
thought in lace and tulle. Margaret Street
and Helen Stephen ’maided in pale-pink
georgettes over which swung circular skirts
of cream lace. These skirts were garlanded
with rosebuds intertwined with foliage of
green velvet. They ci owned themselves with
coronets of cream lace, and clasped early-
Victorian posies finished off with decorative
trailing .garlands to match the floral design
on their dresses. Altogether a pictorial
effort, and bride’s father, Shepheard Laidley,
looked proud to be squiring such a picture.
Mother had her portion when, wrapped in
silver-.lace and .silver-grey chiffons, she
tessed the reception at the Rose Bay Golf
Club.
How many teachers hold a record of 22
years’ service in the same school? Twenty-
two years ago
the lady in the
picture, Con-
stance Mary
L e p 1 astrier,
went as senior
mistress to
Redlands, the
girls’ college
at Crerhorne.
But the early
days of 1927
will not see
her arranging
another year’s
browse among
the classics.
She will soon
be living and
moving among
the scenes of
the rise and
fall of Rome
an d Greece,
and savoring
the atmosphere of mediaeval Europe in its
galleries and museums. For 15 years Miss
Leplastrier has been secretary of the Teach-
ers’ Guild of N. S. Wales, and her name is
among the mighty in the Naturalists’ and
the Linnsean societies and the Forest League.
Together with Miss Brewster this Austra-
lian, as truly great as she is modest, is re-
sponsible for “Botany for Australian
Students,” which is the standard work used
in State schools. In addition, she is a story-
writer of merit, and there are hundreds upon
hundreds of Old Girls who will never forget
her talks about literature—two at least of
The Bulletin’s best short-story writers are
among them. May Moore made the picture.
Kathleen Retallack entered St. James’s on
a full tide of music, and in white geor-
gettes suggestive of a sparkling waterfall,
so begemmed were they. The male reason
for the fascinating get-up (it included a
cobwebby-lace veil over a froth of shell-pink
tulle) was Neville Campbell Milson. He’s a
son of Leslie James Milson, of Goulburn,
and the bride is a bud of the medical Retal-
lacks, of Queanbeyan. Three green and silver
‘maids added to the sylvan look of the wed-
ding procession as it made its passage up
the hydrangea grove into which St. James’s
had been turned.
The Bulletin kept in line with the rest
of the world and had a wedding in its
family during Christmas week. The bride was
pretty Lucy Hayward, M.Sc. of Perth
Uni., and her father is Andree Hayward,
principal sub-editor, whose topical verse is
a weekly delight. He’s an Australian, edu-
cated and called to the Bar in England, but
he has been so long a journalist in these parts
that he forgets all about his English con-
nections till there’s an argument about
cricket. Then he becomes so English he
nearly goes out and buys a straw hat. The
bridegroom came from the West; he is John
Henry Snaden, ex-Digger.
If there’s any woman in Sydney can cast
a fly better than Dolly Moore, then the lady
in this Eliza-
beth Maliony
picture would
like to meet
lier. Wh e n
Dolly Moore
was Dolly
Hollander, ten-
nis, golf,
bridge nor jazz
iillured lier,
.but a leaping
salmon or
trout and a
rushing stream
would fill her
dreams for
days a n d
nights on end.
Three months
of ev.ery year
she spends
a mong the
tumultuous riv-
ers of Maori-
land, and Enzed takes its hat off to her for
hooking the biggest trout ever landed by her
sex. Just now she is busy fitting her book
with a dazzling ‘array of flies and getting
her rods ready for her descent next month
on the South Island of Maoriland. By the
way, she’s a great-grand-daughter of that
Major (afterwards Colonel) Johnston who
got into all the trouble over the deposition
of Governor Bligh. Still, he died in com-
fort : lie" owned all of what is now the
crowded suburb of Ann an dale,
Frank Grose, enthusiastic director of boys'
work at the Y.M.C.A., came back from a
holiday in Victoria the other day with a
bride. She is a Bendigo girl, by name
Thelma Bovaire, and by nature one of the
biggest-hearted of her sex. The Y.W.G.A.
has been her hobby, so there’s more than
a liaison binding the two institutions now.
The wedding was fixed for the final day of
the Y.M.C.A. National Convention, and the
convenors rushed the front pews in Christ
Church, South Yarra, where the knot was
tied. Among the confetti-throwers were the
national secretary, the president and the
general secretary of the Y.M. The hosts
of the breakfast, which was spread in the
new Y.M.C.A. building, were the members
of the Convention, and a notable guest was
Daniel Swamidoss, 8.A., rural secretary of
the Y.M. in India.
Laden with the good wishes of brothers-
in-arms in Victoria Barracks, Captain George
Capes, of the Staff Corps, hied away to Mel-
bourne for a bride. The pretty blue-eyed
colleen, slim and willowy, was Alma Mac-
gillicuddy, and she was gowned in a fairy-
queen garb of woven ivory and gold-threaded
satin for the wedding. A Limerick-lace veil
was a cloud of gossamer over the white foam
of a long georgette train. Twelve-fellow-
officers in the regulation blue artillery dress
flashed an arch of steel over the lover and his
lass as they came out of the Church of the
Immaculate Conception, at Hawthorn, and a
bevy of youth and beauty—Kathleen Shrimp-
don, Irene Leppard and little maidens Peggy
and Olive Macgillicuddy—followed, with
Captain Macgillicuddy as best man and
Major Costin-Nian, M.C., Royal Tank Corps,
as groomsman.
Mrs. J. W. Coleman, of Mosman, her
mother, gave Stella, the youngest daughter
of the late J. W. Coleman, of Lismore, into
the keeping of James Cairns, of Edinburgh,
at the local Presbyterian church. White
applique lace, looking like sea-foam, formed
the bridal frock, and a sheaf of pure white
gladioli made a pretty finish. Her eldest
sister ’maided in margot lace over georgette.
The bride is a niece of the Tom Marshalls.
Pretty Anne Hogan, of Greenwich, can’t
hide from her right hand what the left
one is doing these days. It simply is a
blaze of light from the diamond Dr. George
Duncan has placed thereon. House-plaris and
furniture-catalogues are now the popular
literature with the two.
Make room on the honor roll for the
youngsters of the Metropolitan Business Col-
lege ! During a before-Christmas concert
organised for the Benevolent Society a
cheque for £5OO towards Cancer Research
was handed to Mrs. A. C. Godhard. And
this was a second clean-up. Their first
totted up £lOOO. And the good services of
the college don’t stop there. Its principal
is one of the. hardest workers among the
Rotarians.
In these days of newspaper competitions,
why not one to discover a few new Christ
mas greetings? For example:—
With the very best Christmas and New Year
wishes for self and all the family, including rela-
tions by marriage, collateral relations, strained
relations, poor relations and sundries.
Even if it hadn’t been signed you could
almost guess the incomparable ; phrase-maker,
James Edmond, as the author of that one.
Of all the things he did in the 18 years
he was away, artist Fred Leist seems to
remember with most pleasure his model of
Sydney Harbor, commissioned for Wembley.
It was 60ft. long, with beaches and docks
and ferries and overseas shipping all done
to scale. The King and Queen could scarcely
be torn from it, as point after point kept
reminding them of their own visit to Aus-
tralia. A Florida landbroker' saw the model
one day, rang the artist up the next, and
arranged for him to go to America to do
a model of a Florida estate he was handling.
The lots sold from this model like Christmas
Bulletins, men buying without even glimps-
ing their bit of real estate. The old Spanish
missions and the Arizona desert are among
the subjects whose spirit Fred Leist’s brush
•alias also captured.
“Terribly Americanised,” says Leist of
1 Sydney, besides being grown put know-
ledge. So he’s for the back country till liels
sufficiently repatriated to bring in his can-
vases free of duty, and then Ho, for a show!
The nice-looking second “boy” in this
year’s J.C.W. pantomime of “Aladdin” is
Dorothy Dewar, a clever trainee of the two
Minnies —Hooper and Everett. She has
played similar parts under the Firm’s banner
in EnZed and Melbourne.
Miss Brisbane’s Christmas experiences:—
The bountiful Christmas box of widespread rain
brightened up Christmas shopping considerably,
though the C.E. camp for Western youngsters at
Coolangatta had a very watery time of it, and the
city man who doesn’t know what droughts mean
had his customary growl at cricket and races post-
poned.
A large number of people have gone away. The
frank Harpers go to Melbourne for a year and the
Mcßrydes are leaving to settle in Maoriland. The
Cecil Palmers had a party for the t\Vo families at
Palma Rosa. Pink gerberas decked the dining-room
and Cecil Palmer spoke a parting speech. The
Albion Park races were watched from the verandah.
Hydrangea-blue was worn by the hostess.
Noela and Vera Wilkinson are off to the Cold
Country by the Ormuz. Mrs. J. H. Earle gave them
•a farewell tea at the Ritz. A recent bride, Mrs.
Bruce Lucas, was amongst the bidden.
Mrs. Theodore distributed her yearly gift of toys
and calces to the kiddies in the Sick Children’s
Hospital. Mrs. Colin Campbell and Myra Theodore
went with Mrs. Ted.
Rain fell heavily upon the roof of the Exhibition
Hall for the Musical Union’s “Messiah.” George
Sampson waved the baton, and Mrs. Allen, Jessie
McDonald, W. W. Crisp and W. G. Templeton did the
solo parts. Mrs. Allen wore ivory, beaded in silver
and crystal, and Jessie McDonald chose flame mariette.
The Lieut.-Gov. and Mrs. Lennon were there with
C. T. Winship and Captain Plant.
The Uni. men grads, had their annual association
dinner in the Johnsonian Club. Dr. Noel Lane
presided.
The Seamen’s Catholic Club set a Christmas tree
in Petty’s paddock, and nearly a thousand kiddies
surrounded it. The motor pavilion was decorated
with flags, and the tree, bright with bobbing bal-
loons and streamers, carried a great crop of toys.
Archbishop Duhig looked in; also Countess di San
Marzano. A bunch of blue water-lilies and amber
zinnias tied with blue and gold was presented to
the Countess by Elsie White, and, on behalf of the
• committee, Mrs. Copley presented a crystal water-jug,
goblets and tray to Dr. Duhib.
Doris Harden was the presiding genius at the big
Christmas tree at the Lady Musgrave Sanatorium
arranged by St. Thomas’s Ministering League, Too-
■wong. A motor-car, dressed in toys, brought Father
Christmas (Doris Harden) to the children, amidst
a merry jingling of bells. Matron Flewell Smith
and the nurses had decked the 'wards with foliage
and streamers, and afternoon tea was served on the
verandah.
Grizel Gibson, who is soon to marry Alpine
Cameron, had a tea party given her by Mrs. Cameron,
at Wainui, Ascot. Hydrangeas and autumn-hued
snapdragons dressed the reception-rooms, and blue
hydrangeas the tea tables. Grizel was in navy
crepe de Chine and cinnamon, a red felt hat on
her golden hair.
Mrs. Forrest has had a cable from Hutchinsons,
of London, that her Woman’s Mirror story, “Hibiscus
Heart,” will be the next of' her books that they
will publish.


HARDY brqther§
ardy’s Mantel Clocks
of guaranteed
reliability.
m*
1
warn
BA. 8240 —The folding Clock illustrated
above is a pleasing combination of
utility and attractive appearance. The
dial is of white enamel, the hands and
figures are luminous and the case is
of blue Crushed Morocco. Size closed,
4x4 inches.
£5/5/-
fs
erfv
ser
BA. 8248—Unusually handsome appearance
and a reliable Swiss lever movement are
characteristics of the 8-da.y Mahogany Clock
illustrated above. The height is 63 inches;
width across base, 8 inches.
£4.
BA. 8236 —The Jacobean 8-dav Striking
Clock, at right, has convex silvered dial, and
faithfully reproduces the dignity of the
Jacobean Period.
£7/10/-
fser
BA. 8249 —This Oak Mantel Clock present-
a dignified appearance which, combined with
the reliable S-day English movement, makes
it a desirable timepiece for any home. Tne
height is 6in„ width round base, 9in.
£6.
w/wp* crcs.*#:
■ . e
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
oP
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
H6-U8;
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Machining Piston Valve Liners.
Alfred Herbert Combination
Turret Lathes
If you have to produce articles from the bar, castings
or forgings, it will pay you to consult us on the best
methods of production.
Having specialised for many years in Turret Lathe
Work, we can advise you on the selection of equip-
ment to combine efficiency with economy.
On receipt of particulars of work to be done we
will quote for Machines, Tools and Fixtures and
give guarantees of production.
Alfred Herbert
(Australasia), Limited,
503-505 Kent Street, Sydney.
fs
Telegrams: LATHE.
Office, Melbourne.
erf
A
it
\
Your Holiday Snaps
If you want every Snapshot you take
to yield the best possible print—
Let
HARRINGTONS
Develop and Print Them.
THE DUPLEX PERMANENCE PROCESS is a new and exclusive
feature of our SAME-DAY SERVICE which ensures prints of
the greatest possible permanence at no extra cost to you.
Make sure that
this imprint is
on all your prints.
serf
It is the
Hall-mark
of Quality.
Your best negatives are worth ENLARGING.
We will make beautiful pictures of them at a minimum cost.
UP
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
Established 37 Years. 386 George Street, Sydney.
at Katoomba, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z.,
Auckland, N.Z.
TO EUROPE IN 1927!
MAKE YOUR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS WITH
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
ESTABLISHED
PASSAGES
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
INCLUSIVE
INDEPENDENT
TRAVEL
1841 - 165 BRANCHES.
Booked by All Lines at Tariff Rates.
Monthly Sailing List Issued Post Free.
Issued in Sterling and Dollars, in Notes
of £5, £lO, £2O and $lO, $2O, $5O, $lOO.
Tours arranged, including Hotel, Sightsee-
ing and Excursions. Any Route. Class of
Hotel and Travel optional. Itineraries
Prepared.
Pleasure Cruises to the Norwegian Fjords.
Motor-coach Tours in Great Britain.
THE BATTLEFIELDS OF GALLIPOLI.
EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR AUSTRALIAN TRAVELLERS
TO VISIT
ANZAC EN ROUTE TO EUROPE.
ESCORTED TOURS IN EUROPE,
Visiting
ITALY - - SWITZERLAND - - FRANCE - - BATTLEFIELDS
BELGIUM - - HOLLAND - - and GREAT BRITAIN.
Automobile Tour de Luxe From £613
Select First-class Tours From £441
Popular Escorted Tours r From £321
Low-rate Escorted Tours, •• • From £230
Fares include Travel, Hotel Accommodation, Meals while Travelling, Transfers
between Stations and Hotels, Sightseeing, Excursions, Gratuities, Fees, Experienced
Conductor and Return Passage to Australia.
Departures from Australia in February. March, April.
DETAILED PROGRAMMES ON APPLICATION.
Monthly '‘TRAVELLER'S GAZETTE” Post Free.
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
SYDNEY:
Martin Place,
(Opp. G.P.0.)»
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Sydney.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining 850, Suppr Dances 700,
Teas 900.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 5/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring
floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-; Suppers 10.70, 12/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Two hours’ Entertainment of Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines uefore 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
Swallow* Ariell’s
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and Seeded
ready for use.
Your Grocer Sells
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
; a ;
I ID no WLicm
?r;i
Occidental Hotel
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Right in the Heart of the City.
The most up-to-date and best-
appointed Hotel in N. S. Wales.
Hot and Cold Water
throughout.
First-class Cuisine. Lounge Rooms.
Personal Service by efficient staff.
Write or wire for reservations .
S. MOHR, Proprietor.
'Phone 8W6329.
Melbourne
Chatter.
Last week was just one Christmas party
after another for the little folk, and one has
a certain amount of sympathy for the small
rebel who sat gloomily apart at his sixth
outing in one week, and confided to a friend
who asked what ailed him that he was
“sick of women fussing over him.” Christ-
mas week found the streets and shops weary-
ingly crowded, and the parcels and packets
section of the post-offices were places of
dreary vigil, for the outbreak of gift-sending
this year was more malignant than ever
despite the fact that most sorts of presents
were dearer than ever. The lavender was
a bit late this season in coming to bloom,
but it blossomed in time for people to use
bunches for Christmas greetings—tied with
lavender ribbon and tucked into lavender
boxes—and very nice tool
A Christmas story. ’Twas late on the
afternoon of Christmas Eve, when heat and
crowds had made weary the travellers along
the city streets, that a customer in one
of the great emporiums spake kindly and con-
solingly to an almost spent head-of-a-depart-
ment, saying: “Your busy time is almost
over and you’ll be able to have a rest.” But
she said, “Nay, not so. After Christmas it
will be worse, for we’ll have ’em back again
wanting to change their presents.” And just
at that moment in there tripped a damsel
bearing three small handkerchiefs. “Could
1 change these?” she asked plaintively. “No,
Miss,” was the sad reply. “Those are not
our handkerchiefs.” “Oh, yes they are,”
said she, very indignantly; “they were posted
in one of your envelopes, and Mr. Smith,
who sent them to me, has an account here!”
Notwithstanding they were never in the
shop. And the damsel departed, wailing
“Wliat shall I do? What shall I do? 1
never use pink. It does not suit me.”
On an afternoon last week the popular
Brunton couple were entertained by the
Mayor, aldermen and councillors of the City
of Melbourne and their womenfolk, who
felt that they had to say a kind word or two
to the erstwhile king and queen of civic
Yarra-side. The Morells, who now wear the
purple, were host and hostess. The ex-
Mayoress held a shower bouquet of crimson
roses and pansies against an ensemble gown
of black satin which revealed white satin
appliqued in black, and she wore a black
beribboned hat and a wristlet watch set with
diamonds —this a gift from the aldermen,
councillors and their wives. Her lord was
given a gold watch and a chain the like of
which has not been seen within the Seven
Seas. The town clerk (W. V. McCall)
then breasted up with a silver salver and a
jug—Brunton, from the point of view of
the folk who earn crusts at the City Hall,
having been as good a boss as he is in his
own show. Christmas greetings were mingled
with wishes for a pleasant trip and safe re-
turn when the couple take an overseas
holiday in February. Another thing that
was given to the guests was the Spade that
the Mayor had used at his last municipal
tree-planting, and that was after 11 years’
civic service. The ex-Mayoress presided over
the tea-pouring in a gown of mushroom-pink
georgette with coat attached, touched up witli
mole fur, and harmonising millinery that
went nicely with a floral decoration of
gloxinias and feathery foliage. Sheila Morell
had a frock of pink eyelet-embroidered in a
floral design, her hat being a droopy one in
a pastel hue.
There was joy among the children at the
Alfred Hospital last week when a huge
Christmas tree laden with toys and goodies
arose in the Michaelis ward, which had been
dolled up with bluebirds, golden and blue
streamers, and veiled lights. The entertain-
ments committee of the institution was re-
sponsible. Mrs. Barry Thomson and Mrs.
Maurice Patkin were the leaders of the
jollo, and some kiddies from the Capitol came
along to help amuse the little patients.
The Austral Salon dressed itself up in
things suggestive of a hard winter in Britain
and provided a great cake when president
Mrs. Thomas Baker was hostess at a sort
of Christmas party one night last week. The
lion, sec., Mrs. May Quinnell, was handed a
wallet of notes, and Mrs. E. Galway, the
hon. treas., had a nice little parcel of silk
stuff—stockings and gloves—to unwrap when
she gpt home. Some music and a short play
figured in the afternoon’s proceedings.
For the fourth year in succession Mrs. Jim
Angus collected a group of well-known
artists to give a Christmas entertainment for
the blind children of the R.V.1.8. During
the interval president Lewis Carnegie men-
tioned that the institute had entered
upon its diamond jubilee year; he added
reminiscently that folk were more generous
to the ,blind at present than they had ever
been before. Jim Angus announced that the
Government had given a site on the Albert
Park Lake for a boathouse for the blind folk.
Though “Puss in Boots,” the panto, that
filled the Princess Theatre with small fry
on the afternoon of Boxing Day. was trans-
planted from London Hippodrome, so far
as rags and canvas were concerned, a couple
of ballets designed by Margery Bray sand-
wiched in more or less appropriately—any-
thing is appropriate to a Christmas panto,
—call for a word of praise. Pierrettes, in
jade green taffeta with spots of orange, red
and black and wearing white wigs, make an
effective show, and there is a gorgeous poppy
dance, in which red petals are attached to
black corsages, and the setting is a cornfield.
Eileen Castles makes her debut in pantomime,
as a fairy, in silver-sequined raiment and
star-spangled draperies, and Sadie Gale
figures in many handsome suits. Betty Lam-
bert attracts envy in a Juliet-like get-up of
ivory velvet with a pearl-net snood.
The Edgar Rules, of Tyat-Tyiug, Geelong,
brought daughter Madge to Melbourne one
evening last week, and escorted her to St.
John’s, Toorak, to keep a date with Wal-
lace Robertson Forster. The bride was a
vision of spring, in brocaded silver tissue.
A froth of jade-green tulle was confined to
the head with a circlet of pearls and dia-
monds, and the same green was glimpsed in
the shoulder train which trailed over the
carpet. Sister Marie and Brenda Gurner,
her ’maids, sported scalloped gowns of leaf-
green taffetas, ornamented with wreaths of
hand-painted la France roses, and each wore
a jewelled hair-band. Mrs. Edgar Rule
received her guests afterwards at tin; Orien-
tal, wearing a glittering gown of midnight-
blue georgette.
When Muriel, elder daughter of Profes-
sor Berry, and lan Maxwell, son of the late
John Ramsay Maxwell, were made one at
Queen’s College Chapel the bride dressed
her part in floral crepe de Chine, in tones
of buttercup and white, topped by a cream
picture hat, and she carried a sheaf of del-
phiniums. Sister Margaret was alongside,
in a grcen-and-white frock and a golden-
brown hat, a posy of yellow blossoms com-
pleting the picture.
On the last Monday evening of the year
St. John’s, Malvern, spread the crimson
wedding-carpet, and Lynda Howell, third
daughter of the T. J. Howells, of Ormond,
glided up in white array to meet It. A.
Stevens, of Richmond, who has a terrifying
array of academic letters after his name that
he hopes will help him on as a tooth-tinker.
This is Lilian Overall, the Speck’s dele-
gate to the Women’s Non-Party League at
the recent
conference in
I’aris where
the political
rights of the
sex were dis-
cussed by
representatives
from 42 coun-
tries. Miss
Overell is the
author of a
book felling of
a stay in
British New
Guinea, and is
now at work
on a novel.
She was for
m,a n y years
principal of a
girls’ college
in Hobart and
is president of
the Free Kin-
dergarten Association. The rights of
women will have a strong champion so
long as she can wield tongue or pen.
Nell Boscawen, eldest daughter of Major
and Mrs. Boscawen, Rodney station, Neiia,
lias looked with favor on the proposition of
George Cedric Tremayno Powne, whose
family squat on Toorak, Queensland.
Algernon Blackwood, author of “John
Silence” and other equally readable stories,
is coming to Australia. His niece is the wife
of Lord Stonehaven, the “flying G.-G.”
“Algy” doesn’t fly at all, tl. vugh there are
a lot of other things he can do very well.
His experience of life has been extensive,
not to say expensive. In turn he lias been
farmer, actor, hotelkeeper, tutor, secretary,
bartender, gold-seeker, poet, dried-milk pur-
veyor, reporter, parson and journalist.
He lives in Florence, is under 60, quite sound
in wind and limb, a charming host and
delightful companion. He has no frills, which
is remarkable, sine.) his father was a con-
spicuous wowser, his mother a duchess, and
his half-sister the wife of Lord Kintore, erst-
while Governor of S. Aus.
Nancy Guest, daughter of the W. L.
Giu ":s, of South Yarra. has carried off the
National Gallery scholarship, which permits
of two years’ study abroad, an annual allow-
ance of £225 being provided. The promising
lass, who is in her early twenties, painted
a fort> np-teller reading the palm of a client,
and th it did the trick. She is an old P.L.C.
girl.
Ethel Mary Bage is a University-trained
woman who has turned her back on the
academic
world and
chosen a busi-
ness career.
Whether a n
M.A. degree
will be a help
or a hind-
rance in sell-
ing and hiring
motor-cars re-
mains to be
seen. During
war she
was one of
Mary Chom-
ley’s workers
at the Austra-
lian Red Cross
h o a d q uarters
in London,
and she got
the uniform
habit there.
The other day
she shed her skirts again and got into a
chauffeur’s rig-out to become proprietor of
the motor garage, out Kew way, run by
the late .Alice Andersoii. who accidentally
shot herself when cleaning a revolver. Miss
Rage, like her sister Freda; head of the
Women’s College at Brisbane Uni., knows
all there is to know about the innards of
petrol-waggons. Broothorn did the picture
of the motor industry’s n west recruit.
Mrs. J. K. Merritt and daughter Dorothy
are being swept into many vortices of tea-
cups on the eve of their setting out to see
Europe. Mrs. James Burst on gave them an
afternoon at the Alexandra Club, and Marie
de Bavay staged a bridge-party at the family
home at Kew, at which the younger set
charged in and gave Dorothy a send-off that
she ought to remember.
Gwen Aptcd came from Geelong to give a
Dickens recitation at the end-of-the-year
evening of the Australian Institute of Arts
and Literature. Veronica Cox produced some
songs written by Amy Dickinson and Claude
M. Haydon, and then let herself go in lyrics
by the younger school of British, Russian
and French composers. A one-act play,
“Lonesomelike,” by Harold Brighousc, was
on the bill, too.
That fine pianist Rieke Parker, as much
appreciated iu Sydney as in this city, leaves
for Europe by the Maloja in January. She
combined Christmas greetings and farewells
at the Lyceum Club last week, when she
played the hostess in a frock of buttercup
hue and flowered hat. Helen Hamertou with
her fiddle, singer* Mary Mack, pianist Ada
Freeman and the hostess discoursed music.
Mrs. W. Mortill took many trunks and
boxes aboard last week’s Messageries liner
to visit relatives in Paris.
Macedon is the lair of the social lions
during the holidays. The Somerses led the
way by transferring their residence to the
picturesque Government cottage in the hills.
Posterity may hffve to pay our debts, but
there is one cumulative horror it is to be
spared. The City Council has decided uot
to have the portraits of former mayors
which were destroyed in the Town Hall fire
repainted. Instead, suitable tablets with the
defuncts’ names on them will be erected. It
wasn’t excessive humility on the part of
aldermen that prompted the decision, how-
ever. The city engineer found that the
pictures would interfere with the acoustics.
The Victorian Red Cross finds itself in
credit to the tune of £124,550 after a year’s
expenditure of £27,770. The heaviest calls
on the purse were in connection with motors
for*disabled soldiers, food for military hos-
pitals, and donations to the incapacitated
soldiers’ furniture factory. A substantial
amount was handed over, too, for the relief
of the bush-fire victims. The society gives
aid to civilian hospitals and assistance with
canteens, baby centres and, such. Junior
members in Victoria number 34,591, grouped
within 1167 circles.
Parliament House in Spring-street is to be
remodelled internally before the State Par-
liament returns to it next year. The kitchen
is out of date and misplaced, and the dining-
and billiard-rooms are inconvenient. There
is talk of a dome for the building to be pro-
vided by the Bruce-Pages as a kind of pay-
ment for rent-free use for 26 years, but
much more welcome would be a little extra
accommodation on the south front. The place
is all halls and corridors and a temple of the
winds.
“A.G.M.’s’ note frori\ London: —
The annual exhibition of the Royal Society of
Portrait Painters has many points ot interest for
Australia. George Coates has four pictures and two
of them are honored with full-page reproductions in the
catalogue. That of Forbes Robertson has attracted
great attention. Another portrait is of Mrs. Guy
Innes, showing admirable character. James Quinn
has five worthy pictures. The most interesting for
Australians is that of Steve Fairbairn, to be presented
to Jesus College by the dons and undergraduates in
recognition of his splendid services as honorary
rowing coach to the collegians. Sir Archibald
Weigall, in full military equipment, has been well
painted by Archibald Barnes —this poi trait is one
of the attractions of the exhibition. George Robey s
daughter Eileen is making great headway; her
pencil drawing of the head of a young negress and
a portrait of -Miss Winifred Mount have drawn praise
from Orpen. Her mother was Ethel Haydon, of
Melbourne. Bess Norris's work is always interesting,
and in two exhibits she gives of her best.
We are slowly but surely adding to our
list of titled residents. The latest is Henry
Wardlaw, a baronet, the 19th of his line,
who with his daughters Christine and Fran-
ces has taken up residence in Malvern. This
is the second time the family has shifted its
location. When the Normans invaded Eng-
land, the Wardlaws went over the border
and took root in Scottish, soil. Now the
main stem will be transplanted to Australia.
Incidentally, the baronet is a mechanical
engineer. *
A hooray from Hobart : —
Never before have the Hobart shops made such a
brave showing, and it is quite safe to say that at
no previous Christmastide has so much money been
spent with them. Tourists are pouring in, not
in hundreds, bui; in thousands, which means that
the guest houses, which have had a good many lean
years, are looking for a rich harvest. The general
feeling is that the bad corner has at last - been
turned; and, incidentally, one hears many a word
of grateful thanks to a pink-faced mainland paper
for its firm friendship throughout the trying years.
The Speck lias a wedding:—
The knot-tying of Dorothy Muriel, eldest chick
of the Rev. Arthur Hutchinson, and C. E. Knight,
of Windermere Park, "Claremont, which took place
at All Saints’, Bothwell, was a full-dress affair. The
bride was garbed in ivory radium lace and georgette
over satin, her grandmother’s Limerick veil being
topped with orange blossoms. Sister Margaret and
the ’groom’s sister Lilith followed in blue-arid-pink
floral crPpe-de-Chine frocks and crin. hats to match.
Her dad and the rector of All Saints’ made a good
job of the welding. Afterwards a young army of
friends and relations rallied round the cake.
Sister Adelaide’s little lot:
Early January wirf see the Simpson-Yeatman
wedding in the Cathedral, with a honeymoon in
Sydney to follow. He is J.T. of the Keswick staff
here and a son of H. S. Simpson, of Mosman; and she
is Helen, daughter of Dr. Yeatman, of Brighton.
Passers-through have included Mrs. I. H. Moss,
hon. treasurer of the Victorian National Council of
Women, on her way to confer with other National
Councillors at Geneva. Members of the local society
met her and made plans for her return in a year or
so. By then she hopes to have seen Egypt and the
Balkans and the Bosphorus, with Vienna and the
Tyrol and more familiar Europe thrown in.
There have been Ohristmas-parties at the Lyceum
Club, with Mrs. John Corbin as hostess; at the
Garden Theatre, with the .Mayor as host and his
fellow-councillors and their feminine belongings a?
guests; and one specially arranged for presswomen
under the hospitable wing of Mrs. Wallace Bruce.
There have been other parties, tod —in hospitals and
hostels where men are still held prisoner as the
aftermath of war, and at the Mental Hospital. To
all of them the Red Cross sends special gifts, which
Lady Bridges personally delivers.
Proceeds from the Repertory Theatre’s presentation
of “Fanny’s First Play” are to go to the Babies’
Hospital, and, with a good house and the sale of
various side-lines, the cheque should be a useful one.
The same night saw the “divertissement” by Norah
Stewart’s pupils at the Royal—a show that can
always be relied upon to fill the house with appre-
ciative say nothing of uncles and aunts
—and for dancing, dressing and staging well above
the amateur standard. Lady Bridges, who had with her
ll.E.’s new aide (also H.E.’s nephew), Flying-
Officer G. C. Armstrong, had a special word of con-
gratulation for Norah Stewart in the" interval.
For the rest there have been races at Cheltenham,
whereat Mrs. A. V. Benson did the honors at lun-
cheon and tea and included their Exes, and their
daughter among her guests, and breakings-up ad
infinitum.
Adelaide is to have a Countrj’ Club at Mount ,
Osmond, a 90-aci'e plateau 5 J miles by road from
the city and 1200 feet above sea level. The resi-
dential clubhouse is to cost £25,000. Fred Popple-
well and W. Spicer have laid out an 18-hole golf
course, and bowling-greens, tennis-courts and croquet-
lawns are to follow. The ground is gently undu-
lating, with a few feiant blue-gums. Unusual golfing
hazards exist at some of the holes, a sliced or
pulled tee shot being liable to land 1000 feet below.
The views obtainable from the course are splendid
panoramas of the Adelaide plains and St. Vincent's
Gulf on one hand and glorious views of the Mount’
Lofty ranges on the other. With all these advantages,
Mt. Osmond has hopes of becoming the Glen Eagles
or St, Andrews of Australian golfing.


A. SAUNDERS’
Appreciated NEW YEAR Gifts
MODERATELY PRICED.
A. Saunders’ Fruit or Cake Comport,
pure Silver-plated, hand-pierced,
17/6
Others, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
A, Saunders’ Nut Dish ami Cracks, pure
plated, pierced edge, 30/ -
Others, 35/-, 40/-
£3/5/-
ser
£3/5 1-
fs
SPECIAL
VALUE
lam
A. Saunders’ Full-size Afternoon Tea Set, pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, complete
with lids, £3/5/-. With Empire engraving, £B/15/-
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
The three new 20,000-ton liners and the
fourth now building are fitted with more
single-berth cabins than any other vessels
afloat. Their vast decks for recreation
and exercise, their palatial public rooms
and their excellent cabin accommodation
ensure both a comfortable and enjoyable
' voyage.
Considerable advance has also been made
in the deck spaces, cabins and public
rooms for Third Class passengers. The
abolition of the Second Class has enabled
similar improvements in the other
steamers of the Line.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
* •
5
, ■
m % mm f
it >«•-'<
) *,»*•'
IMI—W
ili
.-. 4* ** *fr*\ i P*
r 3 '*. * iCi r**
y &?:;&**&* ■ .rl.. vx. v; .
I
- /.
H
m
:-
M
sfeks
Turns very hard soil.
Copes with difficult weed growths.
Deals with a large acreage.
Tractor Levers if desired.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
The Implement for
this work is
The
Svmdercut
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
Cor. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, Burnie,


fM
m m
VC^O
V
W
U
n
Vv'
n
v-
V A
f\
s&l
I
«
(\
/
•to
r
'h
V
y,
k
A
N
\
w
V
St'
U/7
a
i
r?*s.
K
-V/ / /
'<^V
V.
--
V
sSsfe
'•'V-
'V
:Cl>
' & >;• ff v • .■■•>-
I«ii*iii|3
/
> .... :.j
MmBBI |MS| I
: . . ~:
.
' X/ > i' '•• '*' *r '* ~*'4i
■ : '.
■< 'vY-'--
§3
".i
ill
rfff* ' 1 /r3' 1
* ■ i * i
-
• ; :
■ ,Y? • S
■ ■ ■
■
'y s {'' v , ' , w4^ yJz M/ «, ',, '"/''s'*'' ,?*, \ '-w , ,' , ''<'■■
■
i ' tk-,L.>,\ Ik '7. ' .'/teA ' ' ' ' '' \ :
L v i S ?'v'\ Wt ■•' w®\"'' i
v >V Y-" , ;
■ ;fS .. .
ia? &"Y% * V.tjv
:ifiaS««ai:::
:pfc' : '»Y :; '
.
./..:; . -. ■-
■■ ? :
: ||
' • -Yr^
•,■.■*■; ’P : \.
. : ' . 1 :; :
/ - $, ’-S V :
V jf, <• A <' '•*% / f,/ , f r "t X //(i %<
Y ' 4 ‘-
m.
.
-a,; ,
msnm~:
pKennls
.
M i--&
> v ;ni
- :
llliii
»
/
;:;llilli»
■
k , m\-Jfs tJAt *4 T < \ i - ~ ;V - '''"
\
- - 'VY-‘ fY'&l
sseOisiueg


Lb
Atm, - *
FcolbalLaT—
Pass it on that there is no
finer feeling of exhilara-
ting “well being” than
after a clean, close shave
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
Ci. 1 ISO* J. KITCHEN a SONS PIT. LTD.
: v
iCnfv
VELVET
HAYING STICK
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO~ DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SORE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Summer Cup day at Itandwick cast a
momentary gloom over the “Bar Vons,” for only
one favorite was beaten during the afternoon. Still,
they may have found some solace in the re-
flection that had the day been fine there would
have been more punters and more paying out.
hi the big event, Frank Marsden’s natty little
Beragoon horse, Firefly, made a great race with the
favorite, Strongbow. A big betting plUbge brought
Firefly from sevens down to fours and he might
have won had the favorite been ridden by a less
brainy horseman than Toohey. This jockey rode
a very different race to the one in the Holiday
Handicap, -when he brought Strongbow along with a
belated run and scrambled home from Firefly. On
Monday he made his mount unwind his effort from
just beyond the six furlongs. Such a long-sustained
burst of speed at the end of a journey stamps
Strongbow as a stayer above the ordinary. The
Summer (flip was run under conditions specially
favorable to Firefly with his light weight and
recently-developed staying power. Sum King saw
to it that there was no loafing—although the time
compares unfavorably with other years —-and with
Strongbow near the tail of a somewhat strung-out
field a mile from home, the favorite’s chance seemed
hopeless, and Firefly in fourth place looked to have
the race in his keeping. Experience would have
warned young Marsden that when Sum King began
to tire, ft was his business to go to the front. Instead,
he allowed Lintress to take the lead, and it was
not until Strongbow shot, up on his near side that
the midget apprentice realised that he had lost
the race. W. Kelso’s Bacchus showed improved
stamina in running into third place, and his owner
is probably glad now that he has left him in
Tatt.’s Cup in preference to Fondant.
Instead of simplifying matters for Tatt.’s Cup, the
running in the big A.J.C. race on Monday clouded
the issue still further. It hardly looks possible for
Strongbow, with a 101 b. penalty, to carry his weight
successfully through the mud. In fact, it is quite
on the cards that his owner, E. J. Watt, will not
ask the chestnut to run again at the summer meet-
ings. Two years ago the ex-Maorilander just missed
the Summer'Cup with El Dorado when the evergreen
King of the Forest came to light, and he has been
fully compensated. Besides, Strongbow would have a
very big task against Firefly on the worse terms, with
the furlong shorter race all in favor of the latter.
With two' good performances to his credit—Holiday
Handicap and Cup—Firefly will probably start favorite
for Tatt.’s Cup, and few will care to look any further
for the winner. All the same, Dartmoor, the country
nag who made such a great improvement at the’
Farm, is going to make whatever beats him gallop.
The bush folk who own him have been looking
on Tatt.’s Cup as their own especial property, and
not without good reason. They were reckoned rather
foolish for not entering the brother to Comptroller
for the Summer Cup. Sum King comes into calcu-
lations on his Monday’s showing, and so does Bacchus,
while it is within the realms of possibilities that
Queen Al-vvyne may be able to effect a second win,
as she is bred more for this race than for the
Villiers. This Page, however, pins its faith to
Firefly, with Dartmoor and Bacchus as the most
dangerous of the others.
Gomus, who spreadeagled his field at
Moonee Valley a few weeks ago, looked the pick of
the starters in the 11 furlongs Hopetoun Handicap
at Caulfield on Boxing Day, though he had stronger
opposition to meet. When business finished, Godby’s
importation was at 3’s, with Tookarby (4 to 1),
Spearer and Abdera (8 to 1), Longworthy (10 to l)
and Coeur de Lion (12 to 1). The favorite was in
the van early, but at 6 furlongs little Godby eased
him a bit and The Tyrant went to the front.
However, the English horse was in command again
at the half-mile and two lengths clear of Tookarby
entering the straight. The latter finished well, but
Comus was too good and won in good style by
three-quarters of a length. Spearer, who threatened
danger for a stride or two, was a head behind
Tookarby. Longworthy, nearly last at one stag?,
finished fourth. Comus carried Bst. 111 b.; time
2min. 21sec. The winner looked in fine condition
and may score again soon. For the seven furlongs
Malvern Handicap, Eric Connoßy’s importation, Little
Coon, was favorite at 3 to 1, but Quintus (8 to 1)
jumped out well in front soon after the start and
showed the way home by three-quarters of a
length from Smoke Bomb (4 to 1), with Pale-
light (12 to 1), who finished fast, half a length further
back. This was the winner’s first success for nearly
two years. Time lmin. 271 sec. Rakwool was backed
down to 5 to 4 for the 5 furlongs Juvenile Stakes,
but Symbolist (7 to 1) hung
on better than usual and was
a neck in frond of t-’ie
favorite at the finish, with
Marsias (33 to 1) a head
away third. It was a good
day for importations, as Sol
Green’s Robespierre, equal
favorite with Willowyn at
7 to 2, finished the pro-
gramme by carrying top
weight (10st. 31b.) to
victory in the Koornang
Welter from Horoscope (5
to 1). Willowyn was third. Ashley Reed, prevh
ously successful on Quintus, rode the winner.
“Petrie”; Tricks of the turf known as “brassing”
and “bignoting” were discussed in the Brisbane
.Supreme Court the other day. As the witness, a
bookmaker of some tonnage, professed ignorance, the
cross-examining barrister defined the terms. “Brass-
ing,” he explained, meant plucking a pigeon by
getting money from him to put on a horse; putting
on part of it, in case of accidents, and pocketing
the rest. “Bignoting” meant walking off with the
whole lot. The bookie cautiously admitted that he
had heard of such practices, but denied he had ever
participated in them.
# * * *
N.S.W. pulled its match with South
Australia out of the fire, though there were times
when the home side’s grip on the game seemed
strong and sure. The Welshmen were left with 446
to make in their last knock and they did the job
with four wickets to spare, thanks mainly to the
fine batting of Tommy Andrews (126) and Guy
Mv’gan (116). Tommy Jackson, the Balmain 17-
year-old, helped with 56 n. 0., and the consistent
Phillips (52) was followed by Ivippax, -whose 42
was the only other score of importance. With over
150 in hand the South Australians had tacked on only
286 in their second attempt, the ’Varsity player
Alexander contributing a brilliant 104. McNamee,
with 4 for 63, came off at last, and the young
Bathurst bowler, McGuirk, also found himself, his
right hand fast-medium stuff, with a “fizz” off the
pitch that Macartney compares with Maurice Tate’s,
accounting for 3 for 20.'
Victoria’s big score of 533 against Queensland
helped the Cabbage Gardeners to a win by an innings
and 169 runs. The Queensland batsmen did not
show their form of the earlier games against N.S.W.
Gill’s score of 36 was the Maroons’ best knock
in their first innings of 147, fast bowler Morton, once
W. M. WOODFULL.
of S.A., with 3 for 39, and the veteran Blackie,
who took 4 for 49, cleaning up the side. O’Connor
batted well in the second essay to get 38, but it
was a brilliant 70 by bowler A. D. Mayes that
helped the score to 217. Mayes is a really good
fast-medium bowler, who has lately been led away
from trying to hit the sticks to an irritating leg
theory obsession which has so spoilt his bowling
average as to suggest that his debut as a batsman
is Well timed. Morton whs again successful, with
4 for 67, or 7 for 106 for the match —good fast
bowling figures against admittedly strong batting.
• » * *
New South Wales opened poorly against
Victoria at Melbourne on Friday, being all dis
missed after a painfully slow day’s cricket for 221.
The consistent Phillips was top scorer with 52;
the only others to do anything worth mentioning
were Hogg (40 n. 0.), Andrews (42) and Kippax
(36). Liddicut took 4 wickets for 50, Ryder 3 for
32 and Blackie 2 for 34. On Monday, per contra,
the home side followed with what looks like ranking
as the most vigorous grid sensational display of
batting ever seen in Sheffield Shield cricket, spark-
ling hock, as it were, after dismally flat beer.
When the day’s play closed, Victoria had 573 on
the board for the loss of only one wicket. Ponsford
and Woodfull batted to such good effect that the
score was 375 when the latter was taken at the
wickets after the tea interval. He should have
THEY SHOULD KNOW.
HE (tyro): “What does a man say when
people get in his way just as he’s
making a shot?”
SHE : “Oh, I couldn’t tell you THAT! You'd
hotter ask the caddies.”
been run out before reaching double figures; after
that the bowling was pasted all over the field. Wood-
full’s share of the 375 was, 133; the huge first
wicket partnership and Ponsford’s subsequent display
are going to give the statistical fiends of cricket
and the misguided enthusiasts who specialise in
records a thoroughly enjoyable time. One hardly feels
so sure about the N.S.W. selectors. They have been
applauded, and rightly, for giving coming talent
a generous show this year, but it would be interest-
ing to know —after what the returned members of
the Australian team in England have been doing
for Victoria and South Aus.—why there wasn’t a
bigger stiffening of such in the N.S.W. team that
was made to look so lamentably cheap at Melbourne.
Isn’t inter-State cricket good enough for these
celebrities after the dizzy altitudes of Lords and the
Oval—or isn’t there enough in it?
• • • •
Hendry arrived to partner Ponsford: and the total
was raised to 573 with both wickets still intact
at the close of play on Monday—Ponsford 334 n. 0.,
Hendry 86 n.o. Ponsford’s runs had been made
in 322 minutes (more work for the record-hunters!)
and included 35 boundaries. The table of N.S.W.
bowling analyses looked about as cheerful as Mother
Hubbard’s cupboard at this stage. On Tuesday
morning, however, Ponsford pulled a ball from
Morgan on to his wicket after adding only 18 to his
overnight score; and Hendry soon followed after
just reaching his three figures. Then Ratclifl'e
stumped a couple of batsmen off Mailey. At lunch,
time 5 wickets were down for 723, with Ryder 82
n.o. and Hartkopf n.o.
South Australia met Queensland in Sheffield
cricket for the first time on Christmas day, dropping
diminutive ’keeper Parry for the experienced Inkster,
and fast-bowler Scott for the much younger Halcombe.
Batting first, the home side piled up a formidable
579, thanks mainly to A. J. Richardson (232). The
international all-rounder, as Warner notes in “The
Fight for the Ashes in 1926,” can hit or play safe,
as occasion demands,, and this time he was in force-
ful mood, driving with tremendous power and
treating all the bowling with confidence. It was a
great innings, though by no means a chanceless
one The finely-shaping colt Alexander sustained his
high reputation with 88; Gun (63), Williams (56),
Schneider (54) and Rymill (33) were the most
successful of the others. Of Queensland’s seven
bowlers, Rowe (3 for 82) performed with most
credit. The Northerners could put ftp only 251 in
reply. Thompson, after a shaky opening, hit hard
for 91, and Oxenham contributed a patient 47, but
the others gave little support. Halcombe took
2 wickets for 29 and Williams 3 for 66, while
Schneider polished off the last two batsmen for 10 ;
Queensland, 328 in arrears, followed on. Their
position was discouraging, and with half the side
dismissed for 131 runs, four of the wickets falling
to Grimmett, it was nothing short of hopeless.
“Shrewsbury”: There is a charming touch in the
cabled account of the first Test match between
Gilligan’s team and All India, where the latter,
natives to a man, had all the best of an unfinished
game. The crowd at Bombay, we are told, rushed
on to the pitch when England’s first innings score
was passed, and enthusiastically “garlanded the
batsmen.” The inscrutable East! Can one imagine,
say, Syd Smith running out from the pavilion at
Sydney and hanging a spare tire of marigolds round,
say, the neck of C. Kelleway?
* * * *
“Hasen”: A 50-year-old item from Mel-
bourne Herald : “Mr. W. G. Grace, the cricketer,
remained at the wickets during three afternoons in
making the top score of 400 for the 1876 season.
In consequence of such enormous scores it is proposed
in England to introduce a new rule increasing the
distance between the wickets.” I don’t remember
ever before hearing that remedy for high scoring.
* * * #
One of the largest crowds ever seen at
Sydney Stadium- gave George Cook a stirring wel-
come home on Monday night on his return from a
seven-year absence overseas; and George reciprocated
by demonstrating his clear supei'iority over “Tiger
Payne. He scaled 13st. 71b. to his opponent’s list.
lCdb., agiinst which handicap the coon had the
youthful vigor of 20 years, whereas the veteran is
32. Payne made tremendous efforts to get the
white man bright and early, but for the first time
in Australia he found himself up against a master
of ringcraft who refused to leave his jaw open to
those terrific rights, and either ducked or left-blocked
them till their sting was gone. Keeping on top ot
his man and making the most of his weight, Cook
gave the black a boxing lesson all through the
20- rounds. Withal “Tiger’s’’ was a game display ;
most white men of his weight would have gone
wider to the incessant punishment at close quarters
and the continual left hooks in the open. After the
fourteenth, Payne, now very peevish, was snapping
and snarling in true feline fashion, and there was
always danger in him, even when exhausted and
dispirited in the latter rounds. Dave Smith’s teach-
ing had much to do with Cook’s success; the cheer-
ing- when Wallis gave his verdict was hearty and
sustained.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Tlie film of the Dempsey-
Tunney fight rather belies the cabled reports of the
match. According to the latter, Dempsey was belted
all over the ring in the closing rounds, and only
just escaped the k. 0., but the picture clearly shows
that, although Dempsey-was outpointed, he was a
strong aggressor in every round, and was still fight-
ing hard at the finish. Tunney did not attack once,
being satisfied to let Dempsey do all the leading.
Dempsey, a good fighter, shows up badly as a boxer,
and Tunney, a good boxer, doesn’t appear to be a
really great fighter.
“Past Grammar”: The showing, on the
field and off, of the New Zealand League footballers
has roused the ire of Maoriland, especially in Auck-
land, the centre of the professional code in the
Shivery Isles. “The whole tour has been a calamity
... .a second-rate team, with no claim to inter-
national standard whatever... .a clean sweep of
officials would do no harm, also a clean sweep of
some players.... interest in the tour, -which is bound
to result in heavy financial loss, is completely dead”
-—such are a few extracts from an Auckland press
appreciation. The Bulletin pointed out 12 months
ago that, on the form shown by the Maorilanders in
N.S.W. and Queensland, their tour of Lancashire
and Yorkshire was bound to be a failure in a financial
and playing sense, The behavior of the striking
players has aggravated the trouble, while its failure
to penalise the offenders shows that the Maoriland
League’s idea of discipline is as futile as its esti-
mate of football form.
The heavily pruned New Zealand League foot-
ball team—the manager and four players were sus-
pended recently by the Northern Union —beat Ponty-
pridd last week-end by l 7 to 8. The game marks
an epoch in League footer, since “Ponty” is the
first club formed in Wales to play professional
Rugger. The League club is a separate entity
from the famous Pontypridd Union team, which has
supplied many of its greatest players to the
Welsh R. U. ;>
The Maori Rugby Union team closed its tour of
Britain and France by defeating the latter at the
Colombes Stadium by 13 to 3. The tourists had
a good spin in France, proving too tough for the
French teams. In England and Wales, though not
so'successful, Parata’s men made a very good showing
indeed, and the tour was also a great success,
socially and financially. France’s reported can-
cellation of her promised visit to Australia and
M.L. next year was probably due to the require-
ments of military service, always a stumbling block
to the French R.IT. when an extended tour abroad
is mooted, but the failure of French teams to deal
effectively with the visitors may have influenced
the decision.
# * * *
At Toowoomba on Christmas night, and in
fresh water, the visiting Japanese swimmers again
made hacks of the opposition. Saito this time did
his 100yds. back-stroke in lmin. 10 4-ssec., and
Takaishi covered the -100yds. in 54 4-ssee. The
pair appear at Wellington and Newcastle (N.S.W.)
before facing a Sydney audience at the State cham-
pionship carnival, and by that time should be at
their top.
* * * *
The River Murray crews are now quite half
the rowing strength of South Australia. In the
recent State championship, not only the famous
Murray Bridge but Renmark and Mannum sent
boats, against three more from the city; and the
inlanders mostly showed “watermanship” as well
as pace. The race was on the upper reaches of the
Port Adelaide River, and stormy weather gave it
a dramatic turn. In spite of the unaccustomed
salt water and heavy seas. Mannum won comfortably,
with Renmark second. Mercantile, the third boat,
sank as soon as the post *as passed. Torrens,
Adelaide and “The Bridge” had all sunk long before.
* * * *
Golf being one of the games in which the
amazing laws of amateurism permit the mingling of
amateurs and professionals, next week will see a
12-a-side match played on the Rose Bay (N.S.W.)
links between the two sections of the royal game.
Ivo Whitton, Australia’s open champion, who has
been playing great golf in Europe, will turn out
with the amateurs, and indications of improved form
will be looked for by the initiate and acolyte alike.
Betting will probably favor the -“lilywhites” since
the strongest “pro” team will not be available.
“Ad Canes” : Nothing more vividly illu-
minates the depths to which once-Merrie England has
descended than recent accounts of successful protests
by landholders against the invasion of their property
by a hunt. One Bolshevik is said to have confronted
the ancient Tarporley Hunt in Cheshire, and, firing
a shotgun in the air, to have driven it, frustrated,
from his territory. Almost worse, an alleged Court
of Justice has granted an injunction restraining
the East Kent Hunt from entering on the domains
of a breeder of pedigree cattle. Time was when the
British farmer was taught to realise that his young
wheat was improved by being galloped over by “the
unspeakable in pursuit of the uneatable,” as a
Radical of the period wrote, for the unspeakable
supplied a market for his corn, hay and straw, to
say nothing of likely young hunters. Old ladies
who kept poultry -were likewise supposed to wax
rich on hunt payments for depredations by foxes.
A spirit of crass materialism is all too evidently
overcoming the old ideals.
COMING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“More nations will compete for the Davis Cup
next year than ever before. Greece is the most
recent challenger, and the 31st country to seek
the trophy since the first contest took place between
America and Britain 28 years ago.”
She led the world in all the arts and graces
Grandeurs and glories history proclaims,
From hard philosophy to chariot races,
From epic poetry to Olympic games,
From war to song and dance. But that, you know,
Was a considerable time ago.
She swept the board of trophies and of prizes
Four centuries b.c,, or five, mayhap,
Now from the sleep of ages she arises
And bungs into the ring her Phrygian cap,
And sort of girds her nether garments up
To swing a racquet in the Davis Cup.
She gave us Venus rising from the ocean
And Milo’s masterpiece fn marble set,
Say, can you picture them in rapid motion
Smashing and volleying across the net?
Is there some modern Sappho Lesbos can
Produce to emulate “Six-love” Suzanne?
I feature her a whirling nymph in tartan,
Chanting 'f'yrtaean battle songs the while,
Returning teasers with endurance Spartan
And grim, or lobbing with Athenian guile;
A Hellene Helen -with, as is but meet,
Another Paris at her darting feet.
The olden Greece raised poets, sculptors, scholars,
Painters and warrior-patriots enow.
When Tilden sheds his bays to chase the dollars
Shall some bold Argive bind them on his brow,
Recapturing the kudos that was lost
At Kemal’s hands by walloping Lacoste.
Who knows? Crete came to light with Venizelos
After an even more protracted span.
An easier job for Ithaca or Delos,
Surely, to grow a conquering tennis fan.
The sun of Fame which Byron reckoned set
Still waits for players potent at the net.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Leaves from a Viceroy’s Notebook
and Other Papers. By tlie MAR-
QUESS CURZON OF KEDLES
TON, K.G., Viceroy and Governor-
General of India, 1599-1904 and
1904-1905. With 32 illustrations.
28s. net.
William Blake. By OSBERT BUR
DETT. ss. net. (English Men of
Letters.)
People of the Veil. Being an Account
of the Habits, Organisation and
History of the Wandering Tuareg
Tribes which inhabit the mountains
of Air or Asben in the Central
Sahara. By FRANCIS RENNELL
RODD. With illustrations and
maps. 30s. net.
In Unknown Arabia. By Major R.
E. CHEESMAN, H.M. Consul in
North-West Abyssinia. With a Fore-
word by Sir PERCY COX. With
illustrations and maps. 255. net.
The Sunday Times : “The illustrations are of
unusual interest, and with its appendices of
technical information and its maps, the book
must take its place amongst’ the most valuable
of recent exploratory works.”
Natural Man: A Record from
Borneo. By CHARLES HOSE,
lion. Sc.D., formerly Divisional Resi-
dent and Member of the Supreme
Council of Sarawak. With a Preface
by Prof. G. ELLIOT SMITH,
F.R.S. With illustrations and map.
30s. net.
IMPORTANT NEW WORK ON
CHINA.
The Vanished Empire. By PUTNAM
WHALE, author of “Why China Sees
Red.” Illustrated. 15s. net.
The Political Principles of some
Notable
Prime Ministers of the 19 th
Century. A series of lectures de-
livered in King’s College, University
of London. Edited by F. J. C. HEARN-
SHAW, M.A., TjL.D. With 8 Port-
raits. 12s. 6d. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN &CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
I
m
m
s>, a
Williams saturated lather
in a stick with a non-slip holder!
Men want two things above all others in shaving
sticks. First: the right kind of lather; and,
second : a holder in which the soap can’t work
loose. Williams gives you both. The soap
works up into a quick, rich lather that bulks
large on the face. The razor just glides
through the beaten bristles.
The holder grips the stick so that slipping is
impossible. When a reload is necessary, the
wafer of soap comes out easily and surely, and
can be placed on top of the new reload. Buy
a stick to-day and brighten to-morrow’s shave.
Also Manufacturers of Williams Shaving
Cream in the tube with the unloscable cap.
New Reduced Prices:
Holder Top Shaving Stick 2/-
Roloads 1/0
Williams Shaving Cream.. 2/-
Williams
Holder Top Shaving Stick
Distributors: FRAZER & BEST, LIMITED,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
W-3.
The
Modern
Mercury
«
J{ibJyccrcL
1926
April 24- World's Speed Record
Flying Mile. Pendine Sands. “Babs”
car. Mean speed, 170 miles per hour.
May 26 World's Record Mile
Standing stan. Brooklands. “Babs”
car. 36 seconds.
June 8 World's Record 10 Miles
Flying start. Brooklands. Leyland-
Thomas car. 4 minutes, 45 seconds.
Aug. 2 -International Class Record
Brooklands. Vauxhall car. 100 miles
in 57 minutes, 8 seconds.
OcL 21 World's One-Hour Record
Brooklands. Leyland-Thomas car
121 miles.
e
In these events
,Mr. Thomas used
Your car is not complete
without them.
Motor
Spirit
S Oils
THROUGHOUT
LIA AND NEW ZEALAND s lay
THE INKY WAY.
Just died in Maoriland, Charlie. Purnell,
an old-time Inky Wayfarer. Born in Lon-
don 84 years ago, he hopped across to
America in time to participate in the Civil
War, on the side of Simon Degree. Arrived
in M.L. while Henare was on the rampage,
Purnell had a shot at him. Then he took
to journalism, and in the ’seventies edited
the Wellington Evening Post, Wanganui
Chronicle and Christchurch Press, and
was also on the Otago Daily Times at
Dunedin. He took up law in_ 1878, and
became a solid family solicitor in the little
country town of Ashburton, where he had
the field very much to himself. He spilt
much ink in freelance writing, and poems
from his pen are to be found in most Maori-
land anthologies.
“Morehead”: The 3000-odd Chinese in
and around Sydney support four weeklies.
The most powerful is the Chinese Times,
the official organ of the Kuo Min Tang
(Chinese Nationalist party), originally pub-
lished for 20 years in Melbourne. The
Chinese Republic News does not repre-
sent any political organisation, but its policy
is similar to that of the K.M.T. The N.S.W.
Chinese Chamber of Commerce is behind the
Tung Waii Times, the oldest Celestial
news-sheet in the city. The Chinese Masonic
Society, which, like the Chamber of Com-
merce, is at war with the K.M.T., has
issued the Chinese World’s News since
1920. The wordy warfare between the four
is one of the things that keen a Chinaman’s
life in Sydney from being dull.
“M.R.C.”: A prophet may -be without
honor in his own country, but it isn’t always
sq with the cartoonist. Any newcomer to
Moonta (S.A.) or the adjacent larger towns
of Kadina and Wallaroo is sure to be re-
minded before long that Oswald Pryor, “the •
famous Bulletin artist,” “do be a Munta
boy.” And local celebrities are then pointed
out as the originals of the best of his
sketches. Pryor’s father was a mine “cap’n,”
and son Oswald was trained as a metallur-
gist, and was for some years so employed
by the Wallaroo and Moonta Co. That’s
how he came to be so sure of his types.
ITis Bulletin drawings are almost as well
known in Cornwall as in Australia: they
are reprinted and' reprinted there.
THINGS THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN
ASKED OTHERWISE.
COMMERCIAL MAGNATE: “My success has
been (hue to determination and sticking
to things! Em! Yes! Hah! When I
began I made up my mind to succeed
by hook or by crook"— —
INTERVIKWER: “And which did you decide
on, sir?”
An old Bulletin sub-editor writes about
“Sappho Smith” (Miss Wildman), the little
lady who first cave the Woman’s Letter its
great vogue :
Tempted thereto by Nora McAuliffe’s verses in
the Christmas number, I send my wreath for Sappho.
&ne came to the sub-editor’s room one Thursday
morning in 1885 just before nine. She had a copy
o’ tLd day’s paper in her hand and opened the
attack at once, “You are the sub-editor, aren’t you,”
she said, “so I suppose you wrote this?” “This” was
an answer to a correspondent—“lna M. W.: Delightful
verses, but why not send something of your own?”
an impertinence prompted by the fact that verses
emulating those of Dante Gabriel Rossetti •were
written in the crude pothooks and hangers of
childhood. “Vou don’t think I could write verses
like those? Well, look at this one that I wrote in
the tram coming in.” The verse ran:——
“I hold it thus—a man may err
And follow all the ways of Hell,
May be Sin’s best interpreter
And never do a thing that’s well.
Yet if he have a constant heart,
A constant heart to one alone,
I vow he hath a better part
Than a cold soul in virtue grown,”
The words “follow all the ways of Hell” had been
altered from “turn from Heaven to follow’ Hell.”
'he proof was convincing - , the necessary apology
was made, and she became a regular contributor of
prose and verse.
At that time she W’as apparently under 16 and
wore a pigtail. She w r as very slender, not either
pretty or beautiful, but in feature attractive and
in manner charming. In some respects she u - as
strangely child-like. When she received her first
payment at the counter on the ground floor she
ran upstairs to the sub.’s room and, holding out
the money, said “Look at this! They gave me all
that for my verses! Fancy! Some day I’ll go
all the way home in a cab, but not this week.
Won’t it be wonderful!”
lie) litergry path had some pebbles upon it.
Archibald had a fixed belief that no woman could
write poetiy, and so it was only a very small pro-
portion of her production that won its way into
print. But Archibald once went for a holiday and
the sub. was left in charge. Two columns of her
verse appeared in the next issue, and Archibald
wiled from Rockhampton. There were two more
columns in the next and following issues. Archibald
wired from Townsville and started for home!
But what has become of her unpublished poems?
She had a bulky sheaf of them: 5000 lines at least
and every line delightful. They were to have been
published, but the world has never seen them. If
they are available and could be printed they would
be to her a monument of enduring fame. She would
be “Sappho” without the “Smith.” For I have
read them and I know.


1
m
ini *«®8
hi
-
■ :
wm
B—W
m
r
:■
:H 'j
1 s
H
$pARPLLO«
111
MR
BOCK
mra;
*
SSI
m
r %
i m
■H
mm
* *
®*1
s
p I
«* * n
m
i
0
mm
■%
mmm
wmm
v : :
i-'dEJBao. . - |
HI
m
..J'.: . ::
mr &
111111111
H
>#■ •
i-.f iMilte i
' cJHP
SHi ''^£«<wea
; -
T it « ’*
ta/l* <pr i
rouMM
91
K
often wonder tokaf ike
IVtnfiters buy
One Half so precious
as the Goods
they sell Kl
Otnaii\MaV^arn


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9a CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
Sf >
CORK-
TIPPED
and PLAIN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hose Marie”
Criterion “Is Zat So?”
Royal ... “The Gondoliers”
Grand Opera House “Aladdin”
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
St. James “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Fuller’s Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Cousin from Nowhere”
King’s “The Naughty Wife”
Royal “Pins and Needles”
Princess “Puss in Boots”
Athen-eusi “Meet the Wife”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
—• +~~
“The Gondoliers” made an appearance at
the Sydney Royal on Boxing Day before an
audience that turned the evening into a cas-
cade of laughter and applause. Old friends
were there by the hundred —-old friends who
found that the sailing craft in the Grand
Canal hadn’t moved an inch in 30 years.
It is a rather absurd bit of scene-painting
this, by the way, which modern stage-craft
might have improved. But the story of the
heir to the throne of a kingdom turned
Methodist, who was stolen by the Grand
Inquisitor so that he might be brought up in
the true faith, and of the mix-up due to his
infant marriage and his supposed adoption
in the family of a reputable gondolier with
drinking habits, carries wit and music which
compensates for every absurdity. The , audi-
ence was moved to remark with surprise
upon the excellent training of the chorus;
but what was more evident was the unaccus-
tomed quality of the music.
* * * *
Charles Walenn floated himself into a
limited liability company as the Duke of
Plaza Toro with humorous unction. James
Hay sang “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes”
with a Scotch accent, yet in a way to win
several encores ; but, apart from that superb
bit of “fat,” he did less well than Lance
Fairfax’as the other Gondoliei*, Giuseppe.
John Ralston was too soft-voiced, as the
Grand Inquisitor, and did not get the humor
out of the part that Gilbert put into it. He
failed to raise a laugh even over the comfort
provided for the lady waiting in the torture
chamber who “has all the illustrated papers” ;
but he was melodious in “There Lived a
King” and his enunciation was delightfully
clear. The part of Casilda does not supply
great vocal opportunities ; what there were
Strella Wilson and at least was able
to show her fine dramatic sense. Leo Darn-
ton, although particularly tuneful, is stiff
when he is not singing; and the part of
Gianetta was well rendered.
44 4 4
The Williamson firm put so many good
things into its pantomime pudding, “Alad-
din,” which opened at the Sydney Grand
Opera House on Boxing Day, that the gor-
geous concoction burst the cloth in a manner
of speaking. At the first matinee the
programme had to be mangled towards
the close of the performance; and even then
the show ran over 3| hours. There is very
little the youngsters—or their elders —would
care to miss; but there must be some abbre-
viation. The show carries a strong comedy
castS Bruce Green, as the widow Twankey,
sprang a surprise by some front-scene enter-
tainment in which he got the whole house
involved. Fred Bluett, as Abanazar (the
mad magician and comedy bad man),
although his singing of “It All Comes Out
of the Rates” Avas one of the hits, and Roy
Rene, as Wishee, had to take, compara-
tively speaking, back seats! Dorothy Lena
was a presentable principal boy Avith a shal-
low tunefulness in several numbers; “Bye-
bye Blackbird”-Avas her best. Marie Bremner
was a likeable Princess Zobeide—who used
to be Balroulboudour —and Andrew Higgin-
son got himself remembered chiefly for his
make-up as the Emperor of China, to whom
Grafton Williams was a first-rate Grand
Vizier. There were too many specialties.
“The Jerry Builders” provide the most
amusing event of the entertainment, but
Nellie Harrison, a self-possessed but modest
infant who sings the valse air from German’s
“Tom Jones” like a miniature prima donna,
roused loud approval. The surroundings are,
of course, gorgeous; Cass Downing has
adapted colorful music which gives an ele-
vated tone to the proceedings, and amongst
the triumphs of ballet-mistress Minnie
Everett —who had to bow a response to calls
both here and at the Royal—is an unusually
gorgeous fan dance.
44 4 4
Amongst the delights provided by the
Fullers for their juvenile patrons in Sydney
is a regular Noah’s Ark, and the property
mr 'er at St. James Theatre no doubt feels
a pioud man as lie listens to the shouts of
approval for his Avooden animals with their
nodding heads. Elsie Prince, who makes an
unexpectedly slight principal boy seeing that
she appears to be a very sturdy leading lady,
is the hero of. the “Jack and the Beanstalk”
story, and climbs the vegetable to tackle her
giants in a manner which really reflects
credit on the stagecraft of the man respon-
sible for the scenery. In “Red, Red Robin
Comes Bobbin’ Along” Elsie is supplied Avith
something that will arrive many times with
the morning milk. Jimmy Godden and Joe
Brennan, who was the Dame, provided most
of the comedy, but Charlton Morton was a
great help as the King. Renie Dixon sang
nicely as the Princess who is the guerdon
of every well-behaved pantomime boy; and
Gladys Hermes, whose dancing -was made a
feature, did well as the attendant of the
comedy King.' Amia Mackie and Mrs. Roy-
ston McDonnell helped the dancing side,
which was backed by ballets giving a fresh
advertisement to the inexhaustibility of the
Australian leg-market; the “March of the
Little Wooden Soldiers” was one of the
night’s big successes. The pie is full of
spices—amongst them the excitement pro-
vided by Africander’s lions.
'c V sjc
“The Babes in the Wood,” shown at the
Hippodrome by the Stephensoir company, is
the third panto, staged to £eed the Christmas
appetite in Sydney—and there is a fourth
one at the Fullers’ Newtown Majestic. Some-
how the supply, of entertainers did not run
short; for this show dainty D. Cooper
and G. Thompson are a pair of presentable
babes; Dan Thomas is the Dame. Several
good dances, and the work of a small army
of kiddies, including 11 juvenile acrobats,
provide the visitors with their full money’s
worth of amusement.
44 4 4
At the end of next week Australia’s own
Judith Anderson, the first actress from this
country to get her name into the electrics in
New York in connection with serious drama-
tic work, will star at the Sydney Criterion
in “Cobra.” “Is Zat So?” will be there
until next Thursday night. “Rose Marie,”
a well-established record-breaker now, hits'
Time to leg, and is to continue at Her
Majesty’s; and at the Palace “Abie’s Irish
Rose” still preaches sentiment regardless of
the realities.
44 4 4
Henry Santrey and his melody-makers—
and Anna Seymour, who matters as much —
are giving the Sydney Tivoli a happy Christ-
mas-time. Moore and Shy are a well-
balanced pair who sprinkle the programme
with some good laughs; and, talking about
balancing, Francois does something expert
in that line on his globe.
44 4 4
, The old Williamson comedian Phil Smith
having been mopped up by the pantomime
sponge, his Zig-zag Revue Co., headed by
Nat Hanley and with Bertie Wright as one
“THE NAUGHTY
WIFE," AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
George Barraud as Hilary Farrington, the
extraordinarily good husband, and Jaek
son Wilcox as his uncle, the bishop.
of its ingredients, is keeping Fullers’ Theatre
bright. But the most pleasing portion of the
programme is being provided by the Veterans
of Variety, who this time are alleged to be
farewelling. Apparently the people to whom
their ancient songs convey no memories
enjoy them as much as the old inhabitants
who by their aid are enabled to renew their
youth.
44 4 4
Frenzied efforts are being made.in the film
world to discover a new Charlie Chaplin,
now that that unique comedian has become
more interested in his divorces than his pic-
tures. Harry Langdon, a moon-faced young
fellow, is looked upon as a white screen-hope
worthy to fill Charlie’s pathetic shoes. In
“The Strong Man,” at the Strand (Sydney)
on Monday, the new clown proved himself
delightfully ludicrous, but he lacked the
artistry of Chaplin. Langdon looks like a
fool, a self-conscious fool, whereas Charlie’s
charm is his wistful, unconscious pathos.
The play in which Langdon works —and
works hard—is a riotous knockabout farce,
with speed its chief element. Charlie took
his time.
4* 4 4
Children, being the most conservative of
theatregoers, will not allow any tampering
with tradition in their pantomimes. No
pranks, it is satisfactory to report, have been
played with “Puss in Boots,” the Fuller
frenzy at Melbourne Princess, which is the
usual Indian curry of dance, jest and warble,
though the intrusion of Eileen Castles as the
Fairy Queen raises the warbling occasionally
“IS ZAT SO ?” AT
SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Major Fits Stanley, a top-hole rejerec
( Douglas Vigors), and Hap. Hurley
(Hale Norcross).
to somewhere near the regions of grand
opera, and the importation of the original
silks and settings from the London Hippo-
drome gives the ensembles a rich and unusu-
ally expensive look. Phil Smith and Jim
Gerald, the latter a comic miller’s boy, are
the chief jesters; but James isn’t as
well treated in the matter of quips and
cranks by the librettist as he treats
himself when he writes his own revues.
Six bonny girls write hieroglyphics in
the air with a dozen plump and silk-clad
legs, and when the six are expanded to a
dozen and the dozen to 24, the effect is
overwhelming. A ballet of children follows
them about and adds comedy to the whirl.
The scenery would make any baby’s nursery
proud, and there is a Meccano scene in
which an infant giant converts a monstrous
set of mechanical parts into bridges, engines,
hoists and cranes big enough to build a bank.
Lance Vane as Busbastos, King of Cats,
has an easy time sleeping on. his throne;
and Betty Lambert, as principal girl, in
looks is as pretty as a dream and as to voice
is as flat as the Nullarbor Plain, yet makes
fetching work of a song called “Gran’ma’s
Days.” Bert Elliot does many things with
a few hats and Apdale’s circus is a sub-
stitute for a visit to the Zoo. The principal
boy is Sadie Gale. This Showman did not
follow her adventures with the same passion-
ate interest he bestowed on the career of
Elsie Prince in the Fuller panto, of last
Christmas; but, then, he is a year older
and greyer and less romantic.
4 4 4 4
“Sinbad the Sailor,” O’Donnell and Ray’s
contribution to the gaiety of the season at
Melbourne Playhouse, is an inexpensive en-
tertainment in which the Oriental splendor
is left more or less to the imagination. It
is, in fact, a good deal more intriguing on
the programme than in the actual presenta-
tion. Thus we learn of little Isabel, “the
eight-year-old child wonder,” that she is the
identical infant who was missed from her
Southern home for two years and eventually
run to earth in Broome (W.A.) ; also of
a “dame” that she so delighted the Sultan of
Solo, Java, that that royal personage pre-
sented him with a magic ring; likewise of
a principal “boy” that she is “one of those
very rare throat whistlers.” Despite these
encouraging announcements none of the
phenomena mentioned amount to very much
in the flesh. Nevertheless, the prices asked
are modest, there is plenty of simple fun,
the lady who whistles with her throat walks
about on the bottom of the sea without gills
or a diving-dress, and doesn’t even get wet,
and there is a scant but frequent ■ ballet of
bare-legged damsels who are lissome, pretty
and refreshing. O'Donnell and Ray, the
comedians, incidentally, are the two enter-
prising gentlemen who in pre-'plane days
thrilled the Australian public by' dropping
from balloons in parachutes; but this in-
formation is not advanced as evidence of
their histrionic qualifications.
** * *
“Pins and Needles,” at the Royal (Melb.),
is mainly remarkable for the resurrection of
Ada Reeve, nearly as fresh as ever, and twice
as full of art. She sang some new songs and
some old ones, and all were rapturously re-
ceived. The ballets swim in color and expen-
sive clothes and a Moorish palace scene is
more Oriental than the Orient. Dad, Mum
and Dave going to the Melbourne Cup pro-
vide amusement in a novel setting, and
Reid, a danseuse with Novikoff legs and some*
Pavlova graces, dances much and well. But
Jack Morrison is only a moderate comedian,
and his sketches are weak. Indeed, “Pins
and Needles,” when it isn’t Ada Reeve' is
a trifle dull.
* 4 * *
“The Hottentot,” an American racing
farce that ran for two years in N’York, was
presented at Melbourne Palace on Saturday
by Frank Neil. The piece concerns the mis-
understandings that arise when Sam Har-
rington, a Californian magnate, is mistaken
for Sam Harrington, a famous jockey, by a
country house-party composed of people who
are all crazy on the subject of horse. The
opening proceedings are somnambulistic, but
matters wake up when a groom arrives with
the tidings that the bogus Nimrod has set
out on the Hottentot, the wildest savage in
the stable. After that the fun continues
fast and sometimes furious until the usual
explanations bring matters to a favorable
confusion. Frank Neil (Sam Harrington)
is a comedian whose method is difficult to
analyse. Sometimes liis work rises to the
dignity of sound character-acting, but anon
degenerates into plain buffooning; and the
general effect is of one who is making pre-
liminary sketches of a part and hasn’t quite
decided which line to take. Field Fisher, as
a comic butler, and Mona Thomas, as a flirt-
ing widow, are two performers who know
their way about a stage. Alex. McPherson
is a hero who enters into the garden of love
as if he were taking the Hindenburg line.
The best bit of humor in the bill is Rosa
Duggan’s and Frank Neil’s description of
a race he didn’t ride.
$* $ $
Renee Kelly continues to elope with her
husband and her lover in “The Naughty
Wife” at Melbourne King’s, and the business
of the bedroom doors is likely to attract
the multitude for some time to come. “Meet
the Wife” is more than meeting expenses at
the Athenaeum; and at His Majesty’s the
importance of the fashion parade in “The
Cousin from Nowhere” is being stressed by
the management, although, considering it is a
modern musicomedy, much might be said
with truth for the quality of the music.
44 4 4
George Wallace, playwright, composer,
librettist and clown of revue shows of a
well-established brand, is the spice in Mel-
bourne Bijou’s current bun. Little Tich.
whom octogenarians say is as fresh as when
their nurses took them to see him, is the
Tivoli’s Christmas packet.
44 4 4
At both Hoyt’s and the Majestic (Melb.)
customers are being invited to imperil the
digestion of the Christmas turkey with two
puzzle pictures that leave the unsophisti-
cated guessing to the end. At Hoyt’s Loti
Chaney is “The Blackbird,” a criminal of
London’s underworld, who is redeemed from
his evil ways by a vaudeville enchantress.
At the Majestic “The Pleasure Buyers” gives
Clive Brook, as a Hollywooden detective,
plenty of opportunity to mystify.
sjc ;Jc
The Christmas recital given by students
of the New Conservatorium included a
novelty in the form of an overture for seven
’cellos. Miss Thomson, who sang “Black
Roses,” by Sibelius, made a good impression,
despite the facts that roses aren’t that color
and that Sibelius is the most depressing of
composers. Celia Rush, Nellie Heron and
Phyllis Passmore showed that it wasn’t a
waste of time to sit them in front of a
keyboard, and Miss Silvermann’s fiddling of
a Handel sonata gave promise of mastery.
tjc
“The Messiah” performances of Melbourne
Philharmonic this year were conducted by
Alberto Zelman, and the general effect was
pleasing and even impressive. The choruses
were crisply given, and the harmonies were
decently balanced. Madame Goossens-
Viceroy and Norman Bennett gleaned all
the laurels in the solo work, the tenor sing-
ing “Every Valley” and “Thy Rebuke” par-
ticularly well. Ida Walker was not up to
the demands made on the contralto soloist
by Handel’s Italian flourishes, but she gave
promise of better things. And Ernest Sage’s
basso wasn’t profundo' enough for such num-
bers as “Why Do the Nations.”
44 4 4
Adelaide has nothing but pictures and con-
certs, the former mostly merry and bright,
and including a second innings of the vanish-
ing Indian at the Pav. But the Majestic,
the Royal and the Prince of Wales all pro-
mise pantomime for the immediate future.


ser
“ True, friendship's law is by this rule expressed :
Welcome the ‘coming, speed the parting, guest."
— Pope.
The cheery optimism which finds outlet
in the expression, “The best is yet to be,” is
abundantly supported by Life’s immutable law of
incessant change.
Lingering at the threshold, we part regretfully
from the days beyond recall, yet progress, develop-
ment, uplift, attainment, together with all the fresh joys in store,
would be impossible without a speeding of “the parting guest.”
R.
*39
s x^
7
f: V
w
8
W
r
m
l«sf I:
■
I
*; •
tf§
m
»
111
M '#p!
: W;,«s
i^',4
■ ■■.4l i
S SW \ :
■ mk \
v : mm \
&.. 1. ,i
ii
r.
S 8g?
. ?i* ‘ i
II
1
fg
K ifeS
1
■
4%%#; • ,
•■■. ■/ ■;
5 'V.7‘
Coupon
Desk ft
\
\
\
Murdoch’s in
Park-street, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Send This Coupon
for Free Patterns
Murdoch’s Specially - prepared
Mail Order Pattern Folder is
yours for the asking. It contains
a comprehensive selection of the
very latest Suitings, all “Mill to
Wearer” priced. This ; entails
absolutely no obligation what-
ever. Fill in the coupon NOWI
Please send me, free of all cost, a com-
plete range of your Nerv Season s Suit-
ings, including the £6/10/-, £5/13/9
Special Value; also simple Measurement
Outfit. This places me under no obliga-
tion whatever.
Name «
Address
December 30, 1926.
y*V 4 V «
Murdoch’s important part in Life’s Drama is to see that you are well
equipped for the coming year. The subtle influence which good clothes
exercise upon the minds both of wearer and observer is too well known
to call for comment here. It is Murdoch’s mission to supply "Quality"
Clothes which will prove a mental stimulus and create for you those all-
important influences which will contribute to your progress, welfare, and
happiness in 1927.
The art of dressing well
al low cosll
. . 1 1 v* • • • * * . • » V- 1 ■. 1 *‘ 'i * *.•• •.
MURDOCH’S “Mill to Wearer” (no Middlemen’s profits) policy,
together with an organisation reducing production costs to a minimum,
and working on the finest profit margin, provides you with highest-
grade tailoring at unusually low prices. As an instance, note that you
may procure this faultlessly-fitted Suit to Measure and Hand-finished for
ce/io/- ....
SUPERB PURE WOOL WORSTEDS —woven from the choicest
Australian Merino fleece. Plain or Fancy Fashionable Greys, new Dove
Grey, Powder Blue, Nigger Brown, also Blue Checks and latest Blue
Stripes so popular with young men. Select your favourite and secure a
faultlessly-tailored Sac Suit—
To your Measure
and Hand-Finished
for
-£6llOl-
Remarkable Serge Suit Special^
High-grade All-Wool Serges—guaranteed pure Indigo dye—sun, rain,
and acid proof. Fine Twill or Herringbone v/eaves. A Murdoch-tailored
Suit —
To your Measure for £511319
Other Splendid “Mill to Wearer” Suiting Values at £4/4/-,
£4/18/9, and hand-finished at £7/10/-, £ 8/10/-, £ 9/ 10/-
This is a copy of the Guarantee sent with each Suit:—
Guarantee
“IIIE Guarantee this Suit against flairs in making or against any
■ imperfections in the fit, and if not satisfactory ire mil make
another Suit free of charge or refund the full purchase price.
( Sgd .) Murdoch's in Park-street, Ltd.,
Sydney.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing kindly address your letter to Desk
Wa
1
r J
r /A
m
ITO
ST
m
1
m
<&edu.
m
NEV
Pt
SYD
IN
fnflhtfnflfflgtp
VS/A
‘ffie World's J&rgest JHerts and Roys'Wear Storey


f * ;
Se
--
The
PLAYER
PIANO
It’s a fine thing for a man who can’t play a note of music to be able to sit down at his
Wurlitzer Player Piano and put all the expression he feels into the music he likes best,
and hear it reproduced faithfully, in a full, resonant tone.
The construction of the “Wurlitzer” is such that the most natural, expressive rendition is given of any
piece played by music roll.
Let your music dealer prove to you the superiority of “Wurlitzer”—have him explain the wonderful metal
action that ensures permanency of tone, and the many superiorities of workmanship and finish that
establish the “Wurlitzer” as a real musical investment.
PRINCIPAL ' WURLITZER AGENTS :
NEW SOUTH WALES: Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney; M. Light & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock ;
Jas. Loneragan Ltd., Gulgong; The Australian Stores, Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Myers Emporium Ltd. . Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Young & Whatnall, Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer” communicate direct with the factory representatives:
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE,- MELBOURNE.
Poverty
Point
“Caul Boy”: Allan Wilkie has returned
with two new actors, Arthur Keene and
Dennis Barry; a new stage diretcor, Frank
Clewlow, who directed for the Carl Rosa
opera, and Sir Herbert Tree’s original
“props” for Henry VIII. He also unpacked
some strong abuse of the “eternal sex play,”
implying that sex was not a suitable sub-
ject for stage presentation, and then
announced that he had added to his reper-
toire “Antony and Cleopatra,” a sex play
if ever there was one. Nobody has ever
found a better subject for a play than sex,
and no one ever will. What Wilkie should
have said was that there are sex plays that
are plays, and sex plays that aren’t.
“Voice Off” : News comes from California
from Miss Call, daughter of the one-time
police magistrate of Melbourne, that Emelie
Melville, so long the opera-bouffe idol of
Australia, is still well, hearty and happy, a
beautiful old lady, full of radiant memories
of Australian triumphs.
“Two Seas”: If there are any Poverty
Pointers remaining who used to “point” at
the corner of King and Castlereagh streets,
Sydney, in the rowdy ’eighties, they must
dwell wistfully upon the time when they
were always sure of a free entertainment
that included at least three whiskies or
beers, sandwiches, a clay “churchwarden”
and unlimited tobacco every Sunday night
at the rooms of the Mutual Imps. The
object of the “M.T.” was to bring together
actors and pressmen whose only free night
was the Sabbath. A few good fellows out-
side the professions who could do “some-
thing” were allowed to join in financing the
society. • The Imps located first at Bau-
mann’s Cafe in Pitt-strcet, near Hunter-
street, and then moved to Compagnoni’s,
about where the Civil Service Stores now
stand. The next flitting was across the
street to rooms above Harris and Ackman’s
auction mart, where, appropriately enough,
the Imps were burnt out, lock, stock and
barrel —including the swords and regalia.
The names of some of the “members” are
still fresh in my memory: Arthur Eva
(Arch Fiend), “Handsome George” Rig-
nold, Sheridan (The Widow O’Brien),
Arthur Redwood, Phil Day, Phil Beck, Ollic
Deering, “Daddy” Halliwell, long-haired
“Lucy” Allpress, De Groen, Florace Bent,
Sam Keenan, Martin Hogan, Lance Len-
ton, Colonel Ike Austin, Fred Skinner and
Dave Clyne. Clyne was the best amateur
reciter I ever listened to. Every Sunday
night he was called upon to recite “The
Portrait.” The pros, would have nothing
else but their favorite, much to Dave’s dis-
gust. He preferred “The Women of Mumble
Head.” The badge, or coat-of-arms, of the
Imps was two long churchwardens crossed,
supported by an egg to signify secrecy, a
corkscrew rampant and the initials M.I.
How many of tlie old brigade are left who
can remember the closing hymn that used
to disturb the not-so-calm Sabbath nights
of those times? —
The “M” on the one side, the “I”, on the other,
The union of pipes shows that each man’s a brother,
The egg never tumbles, the corkscrew never far,
Hurrah for the Mutual Imps ! Hurrah ! !
Of our distinguished visitors one who will
ever remain in my memory was Dan O’Con-
nor. The Jaynil desired to become a mem-
ber. When he was led from “down below”
into the light, and his eyes unbandaged,
Dan gazed around and exclaimed: “Me
bhoys, I loike your whisky, and I loike your
company, but, be kivens, I doan’t loike your
inishiashun!” Another visitor was Bill
Beach, still hale and hearty. I dare swear
that he has not forgotten the reception the
Mutual Imps gave him the night after he
won the sculling championship from the "un-
beatable” Hanlan. The rules of the society
forbade more than three rounds of drinks
being served (free) unless extra rounds
were solemnly proposed, seconded and car-
ried. A good many members were on their
feet that night proposing or seconding for
“just one more,” and. as usual, the visiting
members of the profession were far more
entertaining off the stage than on it. Neither
actors nor pressmen had princely salaries
then ; but we had lashings of fun.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : Vera Pearce has been
given a good opportunity in “My Son John”
at the Shaftesbury. She has been very
fortunate in her experiences on this side,
and is hardly ever out of a London engage-
ment. As a joyous' matron eager for the
unauthorised love of a gallant youth whom
she has lured to the sunny South, she gave
a performance of great spirit, and greatly
pleased the first-night audience. The plot
is good, and with the strong buttress of Oscar
Strauss’s music, there should be a long run
for “My Son John.”
“Bisley” : First National Pictures (A’sia),
Ltd., is looking for an Australian film star,
and offers a guaranteed 10 weeks’ contract at
£2O a week in the De Mille productions. The
company will also pay all expenses of the
selected girl and a chaperone to and from
America. Representatives from each State
will be finally judged at the new theatre,
the Green Mill, in Melbourne. It is pro-
bable that the winner will first appear in a
production De Mille’ lias on hand with an
Australian background called “White Gold,”
dealing with our wool industry. The exter-
ior scenes will probably be shot in Austra-
lia, thereby launching the announced big
international producing policy.
“Caul Boy” : The Australian Grand Opera
League, proposed by George English, has been
duly formed, and although the inaugural
meeting wasn’t exactly packed to the doors,
the enthusiasm was genuine. There
will be two seasons yearly, two operas
at each season, each piece to have
three performances, and the approxi-
mate annual outlay will be £l2O0 —
provided the 500 at two
guineas a head eventuate. There
should be no shortage of Australian
works asking to be performed. Mona
“Well, anyway, dear, you have given him his final answer.”
“B-but I haven’t. I’ve only given him his final ‘no.”
Mcßurney lias several unsung masterpieces,
Fritz Ilart is suspected of having a dozen —
and there are others.
“L.F.8.”: Half a dozen different people
take the credit of discovering Gladys Mon-
crieff. George Highland, Hugh Ward and
Jimmy Bain all claim that they and they
alone found her; but it is to Oscar Asche
that she owes most: he gave her a chance
in “A Southern Maid” that she lacked in
previous shows. After all, mightn’t Gladys
have discovered herself? You can’t keep a
good girl down.
“Hamfat” : Sydney concert-goers of a pre-
vious generation probably remember the
proud mother of Kate Rooney, one of the
popular singers of the time, now settled in
New York with “Madame” at the front of
her name. The old lady recently died in
Sydney. She was born 85 years ago, at
Toongabbie, near Parramatta.
“Sawdust”: When Charley Ridgeway’s
circus-waggon pulled up in Pitt-street, Sydney,
the other day it was soon surrounded by 20
circus performers. It was either the lure of
those magic words on the waggon that col-
lected them or else the fact that Ridgeway
was wanting performers for his next tour.
Wonderful the number of old road men who
are now in good jobs in the city—three press-
men, a publicity man, two stockbrokers, a
shopwalker, a company secretary and a
theatrical manager, all old circus "hands,
turned up to wish Ridgeway luck!
“Bis”: Well-known songs are now to De
exploited for the movies. Producers’ Distri-
buting Corporation has led the way with
"The Volga Boatman,” and before long we
may see “The Wild Colonial Boy ’ and The
Man from Snowy River” exploited by
American producers.
“R. Mort”: Tom Skeyliill’s first play,
‘•Unknown,” is pronounced “a work of
genius” by Sir Conan Doyle. His second,
"Moon-Madness,” is to be produced in New
York in February.
“John’s Wood” (Bond.) : Maud Mac-
Carthy, daughter of Sydney’s “little doctor,”
is a personality to be reckoned with in Lon-
don’s most cultured circles. During the
week she supplied the exquisite .violin music
for the British Broadcasting Co. to the read-
ing by Sybil Arundale from Tagore’s “Gitan-
jali.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The latest aspirant for
dramatic honors on the London stage is
Lady Kathleen Curzon-Herrick, a grand-
daughter of old Victorian squatter “Salmon”
Wilson. Lady Kathleen is a daughter of
Lord Huntingdon, who is a Plantagenet of
lengthy pedigree. Her play was not equal
to her ancestry. It concerns a woman’s
acceptance of guilt in order to save an un-
intentional “murderer,” a man of science,
from the consequence of his fatal act. There
was no conviction in the story, but the author
showed real knowledge of stage-craft. The
play, “It Is Expedient,” was produced at
the Royalty as a Sunday-night show.
“Country Ped.” : Rc “Crojack’s’S pertinent
call for the production of pictures of Aus-
tralian exploration (B. 16/12/’2(5). What a
picture could be made of the, great start
of the Burke and Wills party from Melbourne
in 18(50. when Burke and Landclls headed
a procession of loaded camels, horses and
drays for the unknown North ! And what
better drama does any producer need than
the fight of the nerve-wracked Burke with
the sick King in the central wastes over
the disappearance of a few handfuls of
flour! And then the return of Burke, Wills
and Grey to the depot at Cooper’s Creek to
find just the words cut into a tree, “Dig
three feet westward.” The whole disastrous
story Is full of dramatic surprises. But is
the lack of feminine interest fatal?
In search of a travelling scholar: —
No Australian woman-painter has yet risen to
the first rank, although in their student days the
girls seem to win travelling scholarships as easily
as an ex-king can get a vaudeville job in a republic.
The £5OO grant of the Vic. National Gallery School
goes monotonously each year to a feminine member,
usually one whose papa was going to pay* her pas-
sage to Paris, anyhow; and as monotonously the
lady is no further heard froth —possibly the fleeting
image of Art gets confused with the vision ot' a
young man in Oxford bags and a good position in
the bank. Hence this subsidy does little more to
promote Australian painting than the ill-fated Archi-
bald prize.
The only aspirants worth consideration this year
were P. R. Thompson, Nancy Guest and Jeanette
Semple. Thompson’s canvas is two years old, and
the artist has progressed very greatly since he
painted it. It shows three men in a room doing
nothing in particular, but enveloped in a beautiful
harmony of color, and quite definitely living in
different planes. Jeanette Semple shows four crafts-
men engaged in the honorable trade of making
antique ornaments. A vivid light smites the fore-
ground figure on the shoulder, his neighboi is rather
wooden, but in the shadow behind him is a humorous
old workman brilliantly realised in the manner of
Honors Daumier. The group is imaginatively designed
and full of action, and the planes are so well conveyed
that the picture seems to punch a hole ir. the wall it
hangs on. With a quiet, assured picture of a for-
tune-teller, a lady and a girl, soberly colored and
flatly painted, somewhat in the fashion of the primi-
tives, Nancy Guest gained the coveted jaunt to
Europe. This commentator does not criticise the
choice of the judges, but their selection of a fourth
competitor for second place puzzles him.
The rest of a highly-promising display is given
over to Julius Caesars, dying Gauls and studies of
models politely ending at the waist, amongst which
Peggy Crombie’s charcoal drawings deserve honorable
mention.
“Lud.”: An old actress fallen by the way
in England, and well known in Australia,
is Marie Illington, in her day a comedienne
of exceptional ability—almost, if not quite,
the eaual of Marie Tempest. Her last
appearance in this part of the world was
in the Drury Dane drama - “The Whip,*’
wherein she gave a deliciously humorous per-
formance of a “sporty” widow. She is now
drawing £2 weekly from King George’s Ten-
sion Fund, and subscriptions are asked for
to enable the erstwhile favorite to have a
few comforts in her last days.
“0. Ockney” : Barrie’s beautiful little one-
act play “The Old Lady Shows ller Medals’*
was recently the means of adding a sub-
stantial sum to the funds of the London
newsvendors’ Benevolent and Provident
Institution —a charity sponsored originally
by Dickens. The dramatist sent along the
MS. of his piece to be auctioned, and it was
knocked down for 325 guineas.
“Bobette” : “Nero” is right (B. 11/11/’26).
Dorothy Cuinming was never in the chorus
in Australia, although it was the only open-
ing offered her by the Firm for many
months. On Walter Bentley’s advice (she
studied under him), she held out, and finally
succeeded in obtaining a five-years’ contract.
Her first part was Beauty in “Everywoman.”
“Schnorrer” : Moscovitcli, artist though he
is, deliberately violates accuracy in making
Svengali kneel as he delivers the Hebrew
invocation “Sliamai Ysrail! adoni Aloha!”
The phrase (“Hear, O Israel! the Lord is
our God, the Lord is one!”) is not a prayer
but a declaration, and a regular part of Jew-
ish ritual; and, anyway, no Jew kneels at
his devotions, even in prayer. Only five
times in the year he prostrates himself —
even then his knees don’t touch the floor.
Moscovitch, as a Jew, knows this, of course;
his departure from veracity is playing-down
to a public which associates damage to the
knees of the trousers with prayer.
“One Bar’s Rest”: “Choir Boy” (B.
23/12/’26) speaks of Mozart playing the
harpischord at the age of four as if that
was unusual. Heifetz began playing at three,
gave recitals before he was five, graduated
from the Russian Imperial Music School at
seven arid had a European fame at ten.
Elman played so well at four that at that
age, by special authority of the Czar, he was
admitted to the St. Petersburg Conservatory.
Joachim gave recitals in Budapest when
seven. These are violinists, of course, but
Mendelssohn published his first musical com-
position at the age of 10, and at 17 h<
produced “A Midsummer Night’s Dream. '
HalOvy and Rubinstein gave recitals at tin-
age of 10. Meyerbeer at the age of nine.
“Strict Veg.”: Even beauty competitions
can be overdone, apparently. The Wattle
Path Palais, a jazz-hall at St. Kilda (Vic.),
has been furiously competing with the
Palais de Danse, on the beach side of the
Esplanade, in tliis modern form of the
Greek cult of physical, mental and spiritual
perfection. Each management combed its
brains for stunts that would over-reach the
other. Large sums were spent on advertis-
ing, relatively huge prizes were offered and
the foyers of each place were papered with
photographs of vapid Helens simpering at the
world. The finish of the contest was told at
the annual meeting of the Wattle, when the
directors, in announcing that the concern
owned to a net loss of £BOB and was to be
amalgamated in the rival company, admitted
that the beauty competition had gone out
of favor with the public.
“Walker”: I know of three circuses, four
dramatic companies and many other shows
that have gone broke in M.L. despite good
financial backing to start with and excellent
entertainment. Stanley Mackay is one of
the few who do well over there. He has
just sailed for Wellington with a repertoire
of pantomimes. It was the war
that made Stanley popular. Pretty well
every Digger who went to France witnessed
his entertainments back of the lines; and
now in civilian life Mackay is personally
known to most of the returned men.
HARLEQUINADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let us have a stirring canto
Of the dear old-fashioned panto;
Give us back our Columbine,
Harlequin in raiment fine
With his mask arid magic sword,
And we oldsters won’t be bored.
’‘Here we are again!”—the clown
Through the trapdoors falling down,
And the British blundering, “cop”
Chasing Clown around the shop.
Bring us that remembered boon, *
Ancient wheezy Pantaloon!
Give us spring-traps in the floors,
Palls and tumbles through the doors;
Sausages in festoons —please
Give us ropes and ropes of these!
Ballets and the stately “boy”—
These are not what we enjoy.
Slap-stick, red-hot-poker stuff—
For us oldsters that’s enough !
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


UADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA)
LIMITED
achinery Specialists
Head Offices and Works: Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W. Branch Works: Bassendean, Perth,
Branch Offices: 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic., and T. & G. Building, Queen Street, Brisbane, Q.
fse
Hadfields’
42in. x 36in.
ALL-STEEL
Jaw Crusher
FITTED WITH
HADFIELDS’
FAMOUS MANGANESE
WEARING PARTS
Designed and made by
Hadfields (Australia) Limited
in their
SYDNEY WORKS
for two
New South Wales Quarries.
The 42in. x 36in. Crusher, as illustrated, is the largest yet built in Australia.
Hadfields (Australia) Limited have also now under construction in their Sydney Works two larger
Crushers, one, a 60m. x 48m., which will be the largest Rock Crusher that has ever been built in the
British Empire.
These Crushers were specially designed by Hadfields (Australia) Limited to embody the points of
superiority to be found in the Crushers of the best American and British manufacturers, including. •
(1) An All-Steel Sectional Frame of Great Strength.
(2) A Self-Aligning Toggle System.
(3) Self-Aligning Features to the Main Bearings.
(4) Manganese Steel Rolling Contact Toggles and Seats, with Special Lubrication to same.
(5) Special Underfeed Lubrication to Swingstock Bearings.
(6) Manganese Steel Jaws in Sections, for obtaining maximum wear and easy replacement.
(7) May be Belt Driven from either side, as desired.
Hadfields (Australia) Limited are makers of all sizes and types of Crushers, including:—
Double Toggle Jaw Crushers 12in. x Bin. up to 60in. x 48in. Hadfields’ Disc Crushers for Screenings.
Roll Jaw Crushers 12in. x Bin. „ „ 24Jn. x 14in. Hadfields’ Gyratory Crushers.
Hadfields ,
No. 2 Portable
Crushing Plant
as supplied to the N.S.W. Main
Roads Board, W.A. Roads
Board, and numerous Shires
and Municipal Councils
throughout Australia.
Designed and made wholly in Hadfields’
Sydney Works.
Hadfields make numerous types of Portable Crushing Plants to suit Shire and' Municipal Req irements,
/
V*
'
■Kv-\
mm
,
jT
hi
m
m
m


s§
of them
I W
S
m
MSB
K
m
ii"
if!
«s
U
K
Ik» <4
ft!
'' i3l -
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
rfs
erf
1927!
Dawn of a New Year with a yet brighter promise of
prosperity! With the closing of 1926 Republic has added
another chapter to its history of profit-earning, real service-
giving achievement. It has led the way through the year, as it will
through 1927; no other truck will rival Republic in sales, and that
is the true index of Republic’s worth.
OTRONGER frames, greater motors, larger
tyres, finer appearance, safer braking, not
to mention several of the many Republic advan-
tages! For the sake of increased prosperity
through most efficient transport, see your local
agent for the Republic demonstration he will
gladly arrange.
WRITE FOR REPUBLIC BOOKLET WHICH GIVES
FULLEST DETAILS OF ALL REPUBLIC FEATURES
“REPUBLIC” , AGENTS: I
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,’
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co.,
Ltd., 905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.


BATTERY
SATISFACTION
ser
fs
D.T.G. and
D.F.G.Type.
C.Z. Type.
W.H.Type,
Battery Satisfaction sums up in two words just how satisfactory reception
can be assured. And battery satisfaction means
xi6e
“Long-Life” Battery
No matter how small or how large your set, there is an “Exide” Type of
Battery that will give you that satisfactory service—in volume and clarity
—that you have been wishing for.
Only Need Recharging Once Every Six Months.
This is a feature of the NEW EXIDE WIRELESS HIGH TENSION "W.H.”
and “W.J.” Type Batteries —and a feature that must appeal to all wireless
enthusiasts, because it means satisfactory reception day after day without
worry of constant recharging. The 5&hH. Type is made up in 1 2-cell unit 3
(thus giving 24 volts per battery), and has a capacity of 5000 milli-ampere
hours. The “W.J.” Type has a capacity of 2500 milli-ampere hours, made up
in 20-volt units (with mid-point connection that allows of 10-volt tappings) ;
measurements, 2§in. wide, s|in. high x 1 3-Jin. long and weighs 84-lb.
(including acid). 3oth are in moulded glass containers, so that every plate
can be readily inspected.
“EXIDE” D.T.G. and D.F.G. Types.
Of special design to supply small currents at low discharge rates suitable for
dull emitter work and immeasurably superior to dry cells from a point of view
of both efficiency and economy. Supplied in moulded glass box with “sealed-
in” lid to prevent evaporation. Only need recharging once every six months.
“EXIDE” C.Z. Type (Celluloid).
Suitable for all low tension work. This type of battery is constri rted in
separate 2-volt celluloid cells, which insure exceptional durability. Convenient
to handle and highly satisfactory in service. Series C.Z.?., C.Z.3, C.Z.4,
C.Z.5, C.Z.6.
Ask Your Radio Dealer to Demonstrate
“EXIDE” to You.
Jlustralian Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle &
Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.,
472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurcfc
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun 6c Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina
Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun 6c' Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
Radio House, 308-387 Murray Street, Perth.
>


MICOTINE-PROOF PIPES, Guaranteed.
1 ' The sweetest on earth. In Prime Briars,
6/6, 8/6; Silver, 12/6, Post Free. Smokers
delighted; write now for copy testimonials.
Sole Agency, MANN, Tobacconist, 330
Auburn Road, Auburn, Melbourne.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION: IS ZAT SO?
THEATRE ROYAJL:
THE GONDOLIERS.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE: ALADDIN.
SYDNEY’S BEST SHOWS.
Direction... .Sir Benjamin Fuller & Mr. John Fuller.
PALACE: ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
ST. JAMES: JACK & THE BEANSTALK
FULLERS’ THEATRE :
FULLERS’ VAUDEVILLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE NAUGHTY WIFE.
“THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors .... J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Direction Ada Reeve.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ADA REEVE, with JACK MORRISON, in
PINS AND NEEDLES.
“A Revue with points.”
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
The Theatre Beautiful.
Sir BENJAMIN FULLER and JOHN FULLER
present
PUSS IN BOOTS,
London’s Greatest Fairy Pantomime.
Every Evening. Matinees Daily.
Plan at Glen’s.
Reserved Seats, 7/- plus tax. MatinCes, 5/- plus tax.
Children half-price to all parts.
A
THEN HUM THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Nice Americans,
“The Best People’’ Coi
In the Delightfully Funny Comedy,
MEET THE WIFE.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CLIVE BORDEN and MALCOLM McGREGOR in
THE HAPPY WARRIOR,
From the story by A. S. M. Hutchinson, the
Author of “If Winter Comes.”
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7750.
lUEAV BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8. *
GEORGE WALLACE REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LON CHANEY in
THE BLACK BIRD.
ALSO
BUCK JONES in
THE FLYING HORSEMAN.
Prices as usual.
Position Vacant.
UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA.
are invited for the posi-
tion of W.E.A. Lecturer. Details may
be obtained from any University in Aus-
tralia or New Zealand.
L. R, THOMAS,
Registrar.
Missing’ Friends.
JOHN GEORGE HOLROYD.
ANY persons having knowledge of the
widow, children or grandchildren of
JOHN GEORGE HOEROYD, who died in
Clermont Hospital 19th March, 1876, are
requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
CHAMBERS, McNAB & McNAB,
Solicitors,
139 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3tL
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
For the purpose of winding-up a partnership, Tenders are invited and will be
received at the Office of the undersigned until February 1, 1927, for the purchase of
THE VALUABLE DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY KNOWN AS
THE LEADVILLE MINES,
including THE MOUNT STEWART MINE, THE GROSVENOR MINE
THE EXTENDED MINE.
The property consists of 110 acres, comprised in two Amalgamated Mineral Leases under the
Mining Act of 1006 (not subject to Royalties).
Development work consists of Two thousand five hundred (2500) feet of Shafts, Nine thousand
three hundred (9300) feet Rises, Winzes, Drives and Crosscuts. In all twenty (20) prespecting
shafts have been sunk, each disclosing ore bodies. Nine Mineral Lodes opened up—the. chief
metals being: Galena-Silver, Lead Carbonates-Silver, Copper, Zinc Sulphides, High-grade Sul-
phide of Iron (Pyrites), carrying silver and gold.
NO TRANSPORT DIFFICULTIES—RAILWAY STATION ADJOINS THE PROPERTY—
distance from Sydney Two hundred and forty (240) Miles. The assets for sale include the plant
and machinery in and about the Mine, an inventory whereof may be inspected at the office of
the undersigned.
All Tenders must be made on the special form of Tender and subject to the conditions set
out therein, and must be accompanied by a deposit of Two and one-half per centum (21) of the
amount tendered. Such forms and full particulars will be supplied to any bona-fide applicant
by the undersigned.
Leases are available for inspection by arrangement.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
R. D. BOGAN, F.I.C.A. (Bogan and Collard),
Public Accountants, 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(AND
Lour
Pleasing in flavour and texture to people
With natural appreciation of fine quality.
s v
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactur'd try
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO LTD
SYDNEY
erf
J'
c/
%
//_
A’ •
GOOD fortune will not always come a man's way; but
any smoker may be lucky if he will. A GBD will
prove a winner every time, and the one to back con-
sistently is the new Silver-mounted GBD at 12/6. To dis-
tinguish it from the Standard range at 7/6, the pipe bears a
small GBD disc inlaid in the mouthpiece. The real point of
difference, however, in addition to the flush silver mount, lies
in the specially selected grains ; year by year fewer of them are
available. Ask your tobacconist to show you a few, and
convince yourself of the beauty of the briar.
In all popular shapes—sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries are
invited to Box 765,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Shape No.
2/4387
ser
fs
Fire? Flood? Burglars? Accident?
Death? But have you insured the Comfort
of your Home and the Health of your
Family?
What Insurance Do You Carry?
SEWAGE
OXIDATION
Is Best Policy.
Water-Flush Your House. Remove Pan, Cesspit, Filth, Smell,
Blowflies and Danger. Place Your Suburban, Seaside or
Country Home on the level of the Water-sewered City Residence.
USED IN 7100 AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Send to Nearest Address for Free Booklet- describing Sewage Oxidation Plan.
Your Name
Your Address
DESK
Bn.
D
m
r
Price Complete
from £BO up.
SYDNEY: Hoskins Buildings, 3 Spring Street. MEI/BOURNE: 187 a Flinders Dane.
BRISBANE: Queen Street. ADELAIDE: Bennett’s Buildings, Currie Street.
PERTH: Economic Chambers, William Street.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributidns volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.A.8.: You stretched poor old Coinci-
dence’s leg till it cracked.... Edward D.: Maria
moves like a hippopotamus.... W.M.W.: Sorry, but
the point of it was in an Abo. par. a few weeks
ago... .Isabel M.: Not bad, but we can’t hear an
Australian Fanner Magee talking like that... .
Patroclus: Let’s hope he’ll read it wherever he
may be:—
In far off times it was the custom
To send out lags and try to bust ’em,
By every kind of tyrannous device
And ways that are not now at all deemed nice.
But we’ve to thank the great John Dunmore Lang,
Whose voice throughout Australia then loud rang,
For stopping deportation of all lags
Whom settlers found the veriest of snags.
He said: “I speak for my dear land Australia,
Which if well used will ne’er be found a failure;
This deportation of dire lags must cease
And New South Wales be left to live in peace.”
So no more lags were sent to Austral’s shores
Who when they canie were wont to pay old scores,
And then the watchword for us all now ran
Australia we’ll hold for the white man.
. ...D.T.H;: Go away wid you, McGiwty, “reared on
mashed potaties mixed wid lashin’s o’ potheen!”
Ten pages of it, begorrah !... .M.A.P.: The fish aren't
biting... .Whitewood : It wouldn’t... .J.R.L.: Not
for this chaste publication.... J.J.8.: A good picture
spoiled by prosaic irrelevancies.... W.J.T.: Like your
rain, it is thin and c01d... .P.D.: “Three Trees”
nearly took root.'.. .L.R.8.: Would do if the first
part was as significant as the end....A.N. (W.A.) :
Rather too pretentious.... Follol: Cheer up; you’d
probably find many other things worse somewhere
else.... Relator: Nice and compact; but read over
what you write for your own ear. Your matter is
sprinkled with clashes and discords. .. .11.A.T.: Can’t
be done; there are too many thundering to be heard
in those pages on purely literary and art matters.
....W.H.W.: Red-ha'r research interesting, but
too risky in the dry back country... .R.J.M.; You
are surely very young. When next you write, draw
the material from the life you know... .P.E.J.:
Your statement that “on Christinas Day any docent
man should be ashamed to go to bed sober” prob-
ably accounts for the dream... .C.J.W.: Article “bn
the most toothsome methods of baking babies and
broiling small boys might be seasonable if it wasn’t
for the Australian’s prejudice against killing infants
at Christmas.... Sidwell: You don’t seem to have
more than a general sort of knowledge of the sub-
ject. ...F.S.H.: Picnic is too protracted... .Ernest
Ambrose; Good color in your box. but not enough
skill in putting it on Old C.: We like its
directness, at any rate: —
McCormack now has won the fight,
I’m pleased the truth to tell,
As it will give Fat Man a fright
And make him loudly yell.
I’m up against the Fat Man,
I wish to make that clear,
Because he is a robber
And a rotten Profiteer.
. ...T..J.8.: “Last night I lay a-dreaming,” Dream
on 1. .. .Wood-nymph: You sold us stolen verse twice;
you’ll not do it three times... .Yaldcn: Might grace
a scrap-album M.R.C.: Too obvious C.E.C.C.:
“Safety First”—you’re right!... .R.W.S.: Fit for
publication elsewhere. .. . J.McK.: Too old. .. .H. Half-
fare: Not a square-inch.... E.H.: Just pretty words.
Thos. Bay: Dunno what it’s all about.... Pett:
Kindly but firmly tell the old lady that it isn’t
poetry... .Fantas: Near-humor. .. .E.F.R.: Just
scenery. .. . Ripponlea: Ha ! A sonnet to “B<Jlevivc” !
Bellerive, thy life has me deeply int’rested,
So I therefore must pen this humble line
In praise of yours, so firm of foot and spine,
Without one thought to wallow i’ th’ light thoust
shed.
Nay ! Such an idea never entered my head.
’Twould, be as a match to th’ solar-shine
To compare my own efforts with thine.
For Poetry is thy lover, but my fickle friend.
But as a mere disciple, thy precepts’ do spur
Me to efforts, though my eery eyes do protrude,
To release th’ thoughts within my cerebrum locked
So thus will I on! And with Melpomene confer,
Subsequently, patiently to concoct
Thoughts which to thy glory shall I exude.
. ...C.J.S.: There’s nothing on God’s earth like your
version of “There is no place like home”,.. . J.M.D. ;
Satire on death-bed repentances has one passage
deserving notice: —
Bill Snowdrop got to Heaven,
But Heaven was full of snares;
His thieving habits woke and took
The angels unawares.
....Cas B.: “Love’s burning furnace scalds my
veins.” Try some ice. . . .E.J.H.: We’re trying to
forget “Yesterday”.... F.T. A. K.: The corpse in Paris
that wasn’t a corpse does not interest us like an Aus-
tralian pseudo-dead body might.... Sal V.: tour
straightlaced heroine fails to attract. A Miss should
be as good as a smile, anyway. .. .P.R.G.: It’s not a
Lament ; it’s merely lamentable M.K.P.: Why
do you spell the John Hop’s title “sargent”? Is he
a pie? But you’re improving... ,J.W.: The rain
doesn’t fall evenly enough Z.T.: Weak. Some
facility nevertheless, which may be improved. . . . J.W.
(Lake Cargellieo) : Sorry; it’s too lough G.H.:
(Auckland): Too many prose lines in the verse;
the article is a mete jingle of jokes, mostly p00r... .
N.E.C.: Why tell us how you came by the story?
A yarn lives on its merits, not its pedigree....
W. 8.: Can’t even begin to believe it....E.C.: Story
of Stepper falls just a shade short.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.M.K.: Drawing suffered the same fate as the
unsuitable suitor 0.L.: The Bulletin doesn’t
encourage humor based upon physical deformities. .. .
N.E.: Can always depend upon that joke arriving
at this time of the year H.T.: Underground rail-
way joke beneath us H.0.W.: The shickered
poundkeeper, the starved horse and its furious owner
are a trio that we don’t wish to see again....
A.L.T.: 1927 is going to be an unhappy year for
somebody if you follow up your threat and send a
sketch every week J.C.F.: Reproduced, it would
be a mere blur.... Smut: Your pair of pick-and-
shovel men have too many sharp corners.. . .R.H,:
Our sympathy to Ah Too Much, whose wife .presented
him with quadruplets K.L.: The batch you send
are from IS'months to three years behind the times.
E.S.: Untidy little scratches K.S.: The
mother that threatened to give her baby’s bottle to
a fellow tram-passenger is a very old friend. But
why did you make her black? N.G.: Really,
draught-horses don’t make good mounts for polo
playing.


a
that Satisfies,
The New Triangular Stick
LJ
a
a
□
&
D
Mr. Maurice Moscovitch, a famous actor, writes: —“Wherever
I go I always take a supply of Rexona Shaving Soap with
me. I wouldn’t he icithout it for worlds —it is par excellence
for the skin.”
Li
28*
Mr. George
Edwards, a
popular com-
edian writes:
“In Rexona I
have at last
found a Shav-
ing Soap that
unit retain the
full lather for
7b consider-
able period. I
shall mo s t
certainly con-
tinue to use
same, as I
find it "most
c o n v e nient
and pleas-
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another
Rexona triumph —one this time which will be
appreciated by men wherever beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same Oils
and Essences which have made Rexona famous
the world over, and is made on the Rexona
formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick which
is a soap and lotion combined. It makes for
comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the
skin against wind and bad weather. •
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is
Rexona Soap specially treated so as to produce a
thick creamy lather, which will soften the beard
and improve the skin at the same time. It is
delicately perfumed and medicated on the same
principle as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and not
only produces a lasting lather, but purifies and
leaves the skin in perfect condition. Being an
antiseptic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to
quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune
to get, and, if troubled with pimples or blotches
of any kind, will daily tend to remove them.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the New Triangular
Stick, is sold in pure aluminium containers at 1 /6.
CO
CO
i- -
■
-
Si
::
In
erf
The New Triangular
Stick
n Pure PHuminium
Container
116
#/
' ''
% ■ m
Mr. Norman Kerry, the
popular Universal star,
writes:—“Rexona Shaving
Soap is the only soap which
l have found that really
softens the heard. No soap
save Rexona Shaving Soap
for me.”


W II | jqS±J-X-fc.JSi
+*' /K
Ideal Huts for
/I Shearers c\
By building accommodation quarters for
your Rural Workers completely with
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets, you
will ensure maximum durability and fire
safety at the minimum of cost.
"FIBROLITE” is a fire retardant, white ant
proof, vermin proof and permanently'durable buil-
ding material for exterior and interior walls and
ceilings. Supplied in big sturdy building sheets
in 36 handy stock sizes, it is easily and quickly
erected. Waste is eliminated. Labour costs are
reduced to bedrock. No painting is required.
And, “FIBROLITE” costs less than weather-
boards and lining boards.
fVrite for Free Catalogue “ B
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd.
Cnr. York & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
A.M.P. Bldgs. Queen Street, Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
FIBROLITE
ASBESTOS - CEMENT SHEETS
Who’s That Knocking ?
A Cheery visitor. He speeds the
Old Year and ushers in the New with
merry festivity.
•V' e offer everyone our best wishes for a joyful festive
season and happy, prosperous days during 1927.
Wmchcombe, Carson,
LTD.
Sydney and Brisbane.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE . . . . . . .. Sd.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ser
fs
No.l for
Dark Hair
N0.5/or
Fair Hair
AM AM I
SHAMPOOS
Instead of a soapy
shampoo odour, Amami
leaves a perfume, like
flowers, in the hair. You
can buy your Amami
at any Chemist’s, Hair-
dresser’s or big Stores.
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
•11
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
erf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IVORY-
TIPPED
or PLAIN
m
v'V'.
Wte
H pi
v;
Jg'Si
BS
;
-—of course
You can now smoke
De Reszkes every day
You’ve always wanted to smoke nothing but the
best. Now you can satisfy that healthy desire by
buying the new De Reszke Virginias at ten for
ninepence.
Every cigarette that bears the name DE RESZKE
must needs be the very best in its class; other-
wise the ” goodwill ” value of the name —at
present beyond compute would be endangered.
That is your guarantee that the new De Reszke
Virginias will always preserve their present high
quality.
Ask your tobacconist for them early to-day—before
his stock’s exhausted.
De Res
(popularly pronounced “DE RES-KEY")
Vir ginias
TWENTY FOR ONE AND SIX
In 10‘s, 20s, 50’s and 100’s
J. MILLHOFF & CO. LTD., 86, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
Agents for N. S. Wales: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Poppet": The report of the American
Oil Conservation Board that the United
States had less than seven years’ supply in
view at present consumption rates scared
Uncle Sam almost out of his Wellingtons.
But the American Petroleum Institute has
come to the rescue. One point is that so-
called “exhausted" oilbeds yield freely again
when flooded with water or gas under
pressure. Better still is flooding with a solu-
tion of soda ash, which gets more oil out
of the sands than either, and isn't nearly
as expensive as it sounds.
* * * *
A. T. Latham, sec. Vic. Society for the
Protection of Animals, explains the purpose
of the new Rest Home for Horses: —
It is not our intention to take in old horses which
should be destroyed. We have refused such cases
repeatedly. If, in our opinion, a horse is past work,
we advise that it should be destroyed. If its
existence involves suffering,, we insist on its destruc-
tion. Should the owner object, action is taken in
spite of his objection. The home has been estab-
lished for the definite purpose of affording relief for
horses owned by persons unable to pay for agistment.
Particular attention is paid to horses that are over-
worked, or convalescent after an operation or sick-
ness. The home is not intended to pay, but has
been established to meet a need, and all the l persons
contributing have been definitely informed regarding
the policy here outlined.
* * * *
“ Montague Tigg ” : Company-promoters
looking for something new in bait might flo
worse than consider a recent statement by
Professor David. The great Australian
geologist, who has been on the ground, told
the Royal Institution in London that there
was much gold in Antarctica, and it could be
got, as it was in the Klondike, by thawing
out the alluvial gravel. True, the Klondike
had plenty of good burning timber easily
accessible, whereas Antarctica holds barely
enough wood to make a match. But there
is plenty of coal, and the local financiers
who find insurance flotations becoming
slightly water-logged could get the public
both ways by floating the goldmines and
the coalmines.
* * * *
“Melb": Vic. Markets, at the Argus end
of Elizabeth-street, offer a good example of
one type of migrant. Whereas 12 months
ago a fair minority of stallholders were
“dinkum blokes,” these to-day are practically
non cst; they have been displaced by Russian
and Whitechapel Jews, Dagoes, Assyrians,
Hindoos and Chows. The wares on the stalls
include “silk” stockings (2s. lid.), handbags,
“art” statuary, gent.’s socks (6d.), fruit,
jim-jams and the sweepings of stock-taking
warehouses. In the daytime these openers-up
of the country open suburban gates. A
SHOPMAN : “ You’ll find these herrings very
good, ma’am.”
LADY ( hesitating): “Er —have they roes?”
SHOPMAN : “Very little, ma’am. They’re on’y
a ’a’penny more’n they were last week.”
purely parasitic type, they save enough to
open a “manufactory" or shop or cafe, and
evolve deep schemes for evading Wages
Board awards. In a few years they nod to
politicians and policemen.-
* * * #
“Davit”: In drawing attention to the
increase in foreign motor-ship tonnage en-
gaged in our overseas trade, “Crojack” (B.
25/11/’26) instances Dutch and Norwegian
vessels. Italy is making bolder strides than
either in motor-ship construction. Thanks
doubtless to the energetic Mussolini, who
fully realises the importance of a mercan-
tile marine in empire-building and accord-
ingly subsidises ship construction, Italy
possesses fhe largest motor-vessel afloat.
This is the Saturnia, of 23,500 tons gross.
A sister ship, similarly engined, is under
construction; and Italian shipwrights, singu-
larly free from industrial agitation, are at
work on a much larger motor-vessel, the
Augustus, of 33,000 tons. These are, of
course, passenger vessels; but the motor-
driven freighter of moderate tonnage is not
being overlooked.
* * # *
“Jesmond” : Neither South Australia nor
Scotland can claim the honor of inventing
the reaping-machine (B. 9/12/’26). The
real credit belongs to a Northumbrian. A
reaper made by John Common, of Denwick,
was tried near Alnwick in 1811, just 15
years before Bell’s machine made its appear-
ance. A second machine, and a third, incor-
porating some of Lord Percy’s ideas with
Common’s, were made in 1812. It is alleged
that patterns of the third machine were given
to one Brown, of Alnwick, to be cast.
Being unable to cast them, Brown made them
of wrought-iron and took them to America
some years later. In America he became
associated with the McCormicks, and the
machines exhibited by this firm at the London
Exhibition in 1851 were exactly similar to
the one made by Common almost 40 years
earlier. Common was also the inventor of
a double-drill turnip-sower, and he devised a
method of puttiug new roots on old trees.


Your finest asset
is good health
When you are well, both work and play
are tackled with zest and vigour. So it
is very much worth while to safeguard
your health —and the way that has the
approval of fifty-odd years behind it is
the morning ‘dash’ of Enos “Fruit
Salt” in a glass of water. ENO succeeds
because it prevents inner sluggishness,
the root cause of so many health
disturbances.
ENO
FRUIT SALT
TRADE
MARK
Prepared only by J. C. Eno. Ltd., London, England
Sales Agents :—
The British Harold F. Ritchie & Co. Ltd..
Sydney. N, S. W
w
i
9
ssv
•u
mt
>■ .vO V> , *>s>
ix
Vj
V- „A V
<0
<X-
S 3
<■ -s
**oy<
o
ay'
The words " Fruit Salt ”
and ENO, and the label
shown on the package are
registered trade marke.
r
/ V
VO
<
LEARN TO DRAW
By the Weston Method.
SIMPLE RAPID EFFICIENT
Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of
the people and scenes that surround you every day?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-
and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illus-
tration of yours had been accepted by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT ! YOU CAN, TOO.
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to rapidly realise
your ambition without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and concisely all the prin-
ciples of drawing in the simplest and most effective manner. It teaches you thoroughly, because
it has been prepared by the man who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster Artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston.
Each lesson reveals the master hand of this versatile artist, and each student has the helpful
r
f "'SS
u
stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his
work.
It Teaches You to Draw—
NOT TO COPY.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward you Mr. Weston’s Booklet,
“THERE’S MONEY IN
THE PEN”
—which tells all about the course and
gives examples of lessons and specimens of
students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
45 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
ser
m
<w>o_
NEW EDISON
Delight in
its marvellous realism
all through the year
New Edison music is truly satisfying
to your inmost self; you feel that the
voice of life breathes in every record
you play. It is true music at last !
Put on an Organ record —the majestic gamut of tones leaves
you gasping. Piano —Soprano—Chorus—Bands—Orchestras
there is a beauty in reproduction that others are still seeking
but Edison has achieved
To show our belief in the New Edison we will willingly let
you hear it in your own home, for side-by-side comparison
with any other instrument on the market. Choose your
Mew Year nbonoaraph at home —write us to-clay!
- »
<R. n .v3
IMS!
n
NEW EDISON
Demonstrations
and
Catalogues from
SYDNEY—The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE—W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.,
86-8 S Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—S. A. Phonograph Co., Ltd.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
MELBOURNE—The Edison- Shop, 238 Collins Street.
PERTH—Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON—WiIIs & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
Wholesale only:
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Death to
Flies and
Ants/
m
gfunsi
RYSAKT
CRWIiAIS
Empty contents
of tin on a piece
of moistened flannel
and place on a dish
where flies, etc., are
numerous.
FLY <& /AMT,
EXTERMINATOR
Kills
Flies, Fleas,
Cockroaches,
Borer, Ants,
Bedbugs, etc.
AGENTS
IDUEROIN & SAINSBURY
BONO STRICT, MCLBOURNI
T he
“WILD
WEST”
Big Leaf
HAT
mx,p
30/-
A wide leaf Bush
Hat, built to stand
rough wear. Big
crown, leaf 3m. wide.
Steel Grey or Fawn
shades. Kindly state
size when ordering.
X
Mail to Desk “SB”
PIKE
BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen St., Brisbane
Legal Notices.
|N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
1 Nelson District.
(Blenheim Registry.)
No. 66.
In Divorce.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the grace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
King, Defender of the Faith.
TO ENA SMITH wife of Richard Newman Smith of
Benhopai near the town of Blenheim New Zealand
Engine Driver.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Blen-
heim citing you to appear and answer the petition
of Richard Newman Smith of Benhopai aforesaid
wherein he prays for a dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of your adultery with Claude
Mayes and such Citation intimates that in default of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid you are on or before the 29th
dav of January 1927 to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Blenheim in
New Zealand and there to enter an appearance with-
out which you will not be allowed to address the
Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Blenheim aforesaid.
Dated this first day of December 1926.
A. F. BENT,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foreg'ing advertisement.
Austin Edward Lester Seantlebury is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner whose address for service is at
the office of Messieurs McCallum, Mills & Co.,
Solicitors, High Street, Blenheim, in New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
Nelson District.
(Blenheim Registry.)
Nc. 66.
In Divorce.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the grace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
King, Defender of the Faith.
TO CLAUDE MAYES formerly of Hamilton in
New Zealand.
TAKE- NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Blen-
heim citing you to appear and answer to the
Petition of Richard Newman Smith of Benhopai near
the town of Blenheim New Zealand Engine Driver
wherein he prays for a dissolution of his marriage
with Ena Smith on the ground of her adultery
with you and such Citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid you are on or before the 29th
day of January 1927 to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Blenheim in
New Zealand and there to enter an appearance with-
out which you will not be allowed to address the
Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Blenheim aforesaid.
Dated this first day of December 1926.
A. F. BENT,
Registrar.
Friends of the Co-respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Austin Edward Lester Seantlebury is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner whose address for service is at
the office of Messieurs McCallum, Mills & Co.,
Solicitors, High Street, Blenheim, in New Zealand.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; VV. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —-M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 94 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Banking
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction nf all general banking business.
The Older the Bruy ere the sweeter
they smoke
Some pipes are made from imma-
ture Briar, and it is plain to the
point of obviousness that they
cannot smoke as sweetly as the aged
and matured Bruyere from which
“BBS” pipes are made.
BBBPipes
The Pipes Without Blemish '" London made
Briar roots are not at their glorious
best until they have absorbed the
sweetness of the sun-warmed earth
for 25 or 30 summers. Then only
are they considered good enough
to reach the exacting standards
demanded by the makers of this
famous pipe.
Ask your favourit:
Tobacconist to show
you the full range
of “ BBB”
m
Manufactured by
Adolph Frankau
& Co. Ltd.
London, England.
IF YOUR BOY WANTS A RIFLE
fs
Model 02, 35/-
Model 04, 457-
Carriage Free.
he wants one that is ACCURATE, one that is RELIABLE, and one that is SAFE TO HANDLE.
The celebrated “WINCHESTER” Models 02 and 04 possess all these qualities. They shoot
either the 22 short, long, long-rifle or extra-long cartridges—four different loads —with that
deadly accuracy for which the name “WINCHESTER” is world-famous. Their actions are so
simple and strong that there is nothing to get out of order. The bolt action closes right over
the head of the cartridge and protects the shooter from any risk of blowbacks. And these
rifles are cheap.
COWLES & DUNN, Gisnmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B.”
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZOR
THE i
PLUM
y man you know who uses a PLUM—
ask him li be doesn’t thmk it the best
Razor ,he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!”
erf
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
Holds More Ink
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
LpQffi
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
REVOLUTION in SHAVING!
Old Way: Rubbing
Soap made with Soda
NO SOAP! NO BRUSH!
Why the Shavex Way has come to stay
serf
se
New Way:
Smear lightly
orer face
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years
man has been scrubbing his face with soaps
containing soda, and has never reasoned that
under such treatment the skin may suffer? Noth-
ing is more ugly than a face that looks raw.
Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with soda. But
now we have discovered SHAVEX, the natural
method, where no brush and soaps containing
soda are needed.
Olio can shave with Shavex in half the time and
vou will get a smoother and closer shave than
you have ever had, and shaving will become
a pleasure. Your skin will look and feel like
satin, and your face under this treatment will
look twice as young. No after lotions are
required when using Shavex, for it is a skin
food as well.
Large tube, 1/9; larger tube
(double quantity), 2/6.
FREE SAMPLE!
A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. stamp
from Sole Australian Agents:
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
(Dept. 4) EAGLE AND GLOBE BUILDINGS, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufactured by The Zeekol Mfg. Co., London. Lng.
Archbishop Kelly has appointed Timothy
Joseph O'Connor to be diocesan inspector of
schools in the Sydney archdiocese. This
young Irishman went through at All Hal-
lows', and now, after a bare six years of
city appointments, gets a job that dozens
of Australians reckon they could do better.
“Adelaide": Australian-made bats? Kiim-
nick, of Tweedvale (formerly called Lobe-
thal), where the Australian-made cloth and
blankets also come from, has been making
them for South Aus. out of local willow for
many years. Of course there is the usual
prejudice in favor of something imported,
but the only practical point ever voiced
against the Kumnicks is that they are a trifle
on the soft side and liable to show dents.
But who cares for honorable scars?
The ordinary writer of school books does
not bother to visit all the places he writes
about. Dr. Fairbanks, of the U.S.A., is a
notable exception. His bent is physical geo-
graphy, and he makes a point of getting
glimpses of the subjects of his books. That
is why he and his wife lately came down as
far south as this. On the trip across the
Pacific his fellow-travellers scarcely saw him.
lie was in his cabin writing while impres-
sions were vivid in his mind. The pair will
stay a few weeks in Australia before push-
ing on to Asia.
“Modestine” : Appropriate trading names?
All the following are Maorilanders: William
Tripe, manager Gear Meat Co.; Miller and
Tonnage, shipbuilders, Port Chalmers; Gar-
ner and Bury, undertakers, Puturiki (these
run a pram, factory as a side-line, enabling
them to use the slogan “From the cradle to
the grave”) ; Patty and Running, bakers,
Oamaru; Right and Adding, accountants,
Auckland ; Kane and Overs, sporting goods
importers, who specialise in cricket bats;
Seymour and Bright, opticians; Smallbone
and Shanks, butchers.
The latest literary excursion of ,1. M. Fowler,
ex-M.H.R. for Perth, is a booklet entitled
“Australia’s Perils.” A plucky effort,
“Statesman or Mountebank?” a bitter attack
on W. M. Hughes, was the indirect cause
of the author losing his seat. Fowler's poli-
tical career has been chequered. When Find-
ley was expelled from the Victorian Parlia-
ment for allowing a seditious article to
appear in the Tocsin, and had to find
sureties that the paper would not offend
again, Fowler and King O’Malley went to
the rescue, and the former, in reply to magis-
trate Pan ton’s query as to his ability to pro-
vide a £3OO bond, stated he was worth
£lB,OOO. He isn’t so well off now.
When James Howard Catts was expelled
from the A.L.P. in 1922 and formed the
short-lived majority Labor Party he took
with him Percy Evans, a former secretary
of- the A.L.P.; Sam Toombs, who was
M.L.A. for Hurstville from 1913 until 1917 ;
and H. J. Mitchell, secretary of the Hos-
pital Employees’ Union. All except Toombs
went to the polls at the Federal elections
held that year, and were badly licked. Pro-
bably this set-back accounts for the fact that
none of them to-day touches politics. Evans
is insurance canvassing; Mitchell is secretary
of the Central District Ambulance; Toombs
is staff-superintendent of Amalgamated
Wireless (he organised the Wireless Opera-
tives’ Union previously) ; and Catts is run-
ning a syndicate that supplies patterns and
so forth to country papers.
“Canar”: The ramifications of America’s
tremendous prohibition problem are extend-
ing. In the beginning, industrial alcohol was
uncontrolled, but it was not long before the
bootlegging fraternity discovered that the
removal of the denaturing substances from it
was easy. The Government countered by
ordering the use of other denaturants, but
after a time the bootleggers’ chemists suc-
ceeded in taking these out as well. Now
the order has gone forth from Washington
that the production of all industrial alcohol
is to be subjected to the most rigid restrictions
and supervision. The resultant howl which
has arisen from manufacturers who cannot
do without the stuff is likely to do a good
deal towards bringing about the modification
of the Volstead Act, for, while the American
may tolerate interference with his private
habits, he will brook no meddling with his
pursuit of dollars.
“Loco”: About the most unpleasant, not
to say pugnacious, freight railway men have
to handle are bees. They are classed as
live-stock, along with elephants. One recent
hot day we had a truck of them next to
our engine. The “hook on” to the train was
a job all the yard hands tried to dodge. At
last a daring shunter, his head covered with
a net, essayed the task amid cheers. Once
we got going it was not too bad. But every
time we stopped, several thousand bees came
around our engine to investigate. It was
useless to “shoo” them off, as that only
made them more furious. The best way
was to treat them with contempt. They then
reciprocated. When we got the live-stock to
their destination, the owner said he had lost
a lot of them. “But it is my own fault,”
he remarked, "I should have packed them
myself.” He l apparently thought his “cattle”
resented being handled by strangers. Next
day in the pick-up station yard there were
still several hundreds hovering around the
place where the truck had been.
“Cowildi”: South-western Queepsland
sees a partial resurrection of the great pig
menace which gave local sheep-raisers cause
for anxiety 40 years or so back. Destruc-
tion is made more troublesome now because
of the number of cattle-stations which do
not molest the pigs. Harried by the sheep-
men, the pigs take sanctuary in the quiet
country, and return when the coast seems
clear. They work in a very intelligent
fashion, camping and travelling about with
the breeding ewes, which they don’t attempt
to attack. As soon as a lamb is dropped,
however, it is eaten. As a criterion of the
losses suffered, the experience of one station
which went in for a continuous and ex-
pensive campaign of pig destruction may be
cited. The average lambing rose in two
years from 75 to 85 per cent., and last year,
as the pigs faded out, rose to over 100 per
cent. In the ’eighties and early ’nineties all
sorts of methods were tried to get rid of the
pork, including great drives by countryside
musters. In the end, the payment of Is. a
snout was found th° best method of all, as
it has proved in the present instance.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma — Sierra —V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
8790 i. i‘j. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/10/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/3/'o
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office;
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £6,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, 1v.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood; Duncan Carson; H. R.
LYsaght, '0.8.E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut. -
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.8. 1F.; W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY' (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New Sottth Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dirdix.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Doims Faiuuairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Coiner GEORGE aiul WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £525,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Now Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSockty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 38/G per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
MAKURA .. . 13,000 tons disp. DEC. 30, for San Francisco.
MARAMA, JAN. 14, connects with Tahiti at Auckland for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI. 11,340 tons disp. JAN. 27, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ „ FEB. 10, for Vancouver.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
.
few
»<swss#»-r:
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL, HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
{Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about J/\ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain-
iiCVT MM 1E I (1111 ■
S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
Sails January 5 and February 15.
Solomon Islands:
S.S. “MATARAM” (3500 tons),
Sails February 2 and March 16.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
rfs
<52
: 8
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East);
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
in.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
by
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tDemosthenes 11,500 tons, Jan. 17
Pledic 12,000 „ Feb. 15
*Ascanius .. . 10,000 „ Feb. 25
sRunic 12,500 ~ March 1
fEuripides . . 12,000 „ March 14
* Nestor 14,000 „ March 28
*First class only. tEirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. )
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.J
Joint
Agents
Interstate Telegraphic address: ' Cable address:
“NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton $ Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Tighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.s’ Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker',
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane ’Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen. ’
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability.
mt
£6,000,000
4,750,000
6,000,000
£16,750,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2
431 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua, Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailing's—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Leaves | Leaves I-, . , ,
Sydney. I Moibourne| S - vdney A g ents ~
FOR QUEENSLAND POETS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports ami vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Retween Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
Io LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
erf
BELTANA
BENALLA
BO It DA
BEKKIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
ser
r
SCHUTE,
BELL&Clm.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/«
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


i
m
M
Wl
v:.\
.
si
V
-
r?
.1,:
The Pleasure of Travelling
The pleasure of travelling is enhanced and physical comfort restored
by the occasional application to your face of a handkerchief sprinkled
with 4:711” Eau de Cologne.
Ask for "4711” (Blue and Gold Label).
It is the original and guaranteed pure. Full strength with the lasting
fragrance.
Obtainable from all leading Chemists and Departmental Stores.
Sole Australasian Agents:
PARKER, BLAU & CO.,
8 O'Connell Street, Sydney. 308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
mi
Eaude


fse
o 7or Hccil/h
and c l>) eaulv
rf
Miss MADGE
WHITE, a beauti-
ful Rexona Girl,
uses only Rexona
Soap for her Skin
and Hair, and
writes us as
follows: “I find
Rexona Soap in-
comparable for the
skin and hair and
alivays use it.”
?•••
v • .
* &*...
f V
-
i
j.
Be Pretty !
Be Dainty !
Be Attractive !
Be a
Rexona Girl!
■lx chx)§ -
m we
it
Mm
r
Chocolates
‘ I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home /”
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
&neStHi(£a\
162-186 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
Sydney.
Send For Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fer tr nery in colors.
(I
/
mm
ms
1
E. iim.
m
-Zm~- i
Margaret.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Margaret grew too tired for
piny
She dreamed with lilies one long
day;
Most white and perfect was her rest
With scents of Heaven upon her breast.
On all the house a quiet fell,
While neighbors whispered “She sleeps well.”
We thought one breadth of linen sheet
Had stilled the dances in her feet.
But we were blind, for very clear
She whispers close in God’s kind ear;
And the great mothering angels let
The morning play with Margaret.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
That Overcoat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was truly a glorious day of sumignt
and birds, of charming young girls in
flimsy summer frocks, of a tender sun
that warmed but did not boil the many
people wandering in Sydney streets. But
for all that it was by no means a day for
exercise, rather for staying in pubs with
long glasses of clear ale, of being swung in
a hammock while delightful little girls
brought relays of sherbet. It was a delicious
day of lazy love-making and much drinking,
of relief from yesterday’s rain. Imagine my
surprise then when on turning a corner I
saw what appeared at first to be three
gentlemen taking a great deal of strenuous
exercise; one man was ahead, working his
arms like pistons and kicking himself as he
ran; behind him a moustached gentleman
with a bald head waved a grey overcoat in
the air; and behind him another gentleman
ran shouting “Police ! Thief!” But my sur-
prise grew to dismay when I my
friend Bracken in the first gentleman. What
terrible crimes could he have been up to
again ?
“Bracken !” I cried as lie drew up to me.
“Shameful —disgraceful! ”
But Bracken didn’t trouble to answer; he
was round the corner in a twinkling, and
before I quite knew what I was doing I
was running beside him.
“Bracken,” I managed to gasp. “Robbery?
Overcoat?”
“Umph,” said Bracken, darting round an-
other corner and into the hospitable doors
of a. pub, I foolishly with him.
We had hardly flung ourselves against the
bar and gasped out “Mugs!” when the two
gentlemen—one with the overcoat and one
without —flashed past the door suddenly, like
the glimpse of a magic-lantern slide, and
were gone.
“Tricked ’em !” said Bracken, winking over
the brim of his mug which the obliging bar-
maid had just brought. “Here’s luck.”
Now that he had safely eluded his pur-
suers for the moment Bracken became once
more the old Bracken. Instead of a sweaty,
tortured marathon-racer with bubbling eyes
and sinewy neck, he returned to the genial,
clear-eyed, lionest-faced scoundrel I had
always known him to be. “Tricked ’em!”
he said again. “Dead easy.” And he finished
his mug.
I had it immediately refilled. “I am all
curiosity,” I said as I gently but very firmly
caught hisi hand that was playfully'attempt-
ing to pocket my change. “What have you
been up to now to merit being chased through
the city on the hottest day of the month?”
“It was all accident,” he said airily. “At
the very beginning it was an accident. If
I hadn’t taken that rotten overcoat it
would never have happened. You see, it was
like this —yesterday, having a trifle of
cash”——
“Ah, so that’s where it went to!” I said
significantly. “I’ve been rather worried
about losing that Japanese vase.”
“Having a bit of money,” he continued
firmly, ignoring my plaintive interruption,
“I did what is natural when you have a
few bob —I got well blotto. I got charm-
ingly shot. Not drunk, understand, but in
that airy state when the world has returned
to Eden, when there are no such nasty
things as policemen or prohibitionists any-
where, all men are good comrades and every
girl is in love with you. So, buoyed up with
the dear old rosy, at six o’clock I went to
the Palestine —the only restaurant I’m
allowed in now where you can get drink
after hours.
“Well, I had a good dinner and a couple
of bottles of wine on top of it when I spotted
that cursed overcoat. It was grey and
perfectly new, and—well, you know what
my old overcoat was like, more hole than
overcoat. Plenty of places to put your
arms through, but nothing to put round
them. So I coveted that overcoat, so lonely
and inviting there, drooping from its peg.
I wanted it. I wanted it badly. But my
natural honesty got the better of my desires.
‘Dicky, old man,’ it seemed to say to me,
‘you leave that overcoat alone—it may
belong to a prizefighter.’ Reluctantly, I left
it alone and had two more bottles of bad
claret instead.
“Now, I can’t explain this part of the
business. I don’t know how it happened.
I paid my score all right, took down my
overcoat and trotted out, but I’d hardly
stepped on to the street when I discovered
that my old overcoat had suddenly meta-
morphosed itself into that brand-new grey
overcoat I’d spotted on the wall. Of course
I decided to take it back immediately—
upon my honor, I did; don’t you laugh at
me! As a matter of fact, I’d just turned
on my heel to do so when a young girl behind
me squealed, slipped and fell in the gutter.
You know what yesterday was like, raining
■fiata_.and does, and ..the poor dear was all
over mud; besides that, she had twisted her
ankle or something and couldn't take a
step without moaning. So what was I to
do? I couldn’t leave her to hobble home by
herself, so I did what any gentleman would
do under the circumstances —I called a taxi
and took her home. The overcoat could
wait. I would return it in the morning.
“She was most delightful company, even
though she was in pain, and I enjoyed the
trip thoroughly, so thoroughly that I, was
sorry when it was over, even though the
threepences were ticking up at an alarming
rate. But now enters tragedy. She invited
me within for a cup of tea, and I accepted.
I drank the tea and bathed her foot; it was
all swollen and formless like a pink bladder.
I was just kneeling there on the floor in
front of her, chatting about accidents and
the weather and thiflgs, and sponging away
juicily, when there was a scratching at the
front door as though somebody was trying
to jab a key into a lock he couldn’t find.
“‘My husband!’ she cried. ‘He mustn't
catch you here! He’ll murder you ! Out of
that window —quick!’
“Well, you know, Splinter, old son, I
don’t mind some things, but I draw the
line at murder—being murdered, I mean —
and I was out of that window double quick
and sprinting for the fence. I got over it
all right except for a clump of nettles some
hoodlum had planted the other side, and I
stood there in the street congratulating
myself on my great escape when 1 suddenly
remembered the overcoat. Like a fool, 1 d
taken the cursed thing off while I washed
her tootsies —and there, in the hurry and
scurry, I’d forgotten all about it. What was
a chap to do? Return and demand it and
risk being murdered, or go home coward-like
to bed? I confess it —I went home to bed.
“But, O Splinter, the remorse, the anguish
I suffered in the morning! I lay in bed and
groaned and rolled and moaned —what with
a feverish head, a Vesuvius stomach and that
damned overcoat, I’ve never spent a worse
morning in all my life. Well, I had a couple
of quid which had been in one of the over-
coat pockets—yes, didn’t I tell you that?
—and I did the natural thing with it. I
had a couple of beers. In fact, I had quite
a lot of beers, and by twelve o’clock was
quite in the mood to fight the whole police
force, so I thought I’d run along to the
Palestine and brave things out.
“Well, I braved things out, and the first
thing that the proprietress, Mrs. Stoop, said
to me when I came through the door was.
‘Oh, Mr. Bracken, I am glad you’ve come!’
That was enough; my stomach became ice
immediately and I goggled inanely at her,
all the devil sliding out of me. ‘The gentle-
man’s been inquiring about his overcoat,’ she
continued. ‘I had terrible trouble restraining
him from getting the police —it would look
bad for the place, you know, if he did. I
knew it was only an accident, but you will
bring it back to-night, won’t you?’
“I didn’t lose my head —no, I was quite
sane, and I said. quickly, as though over-
joyed, ‘Ah, so that’s where I got it, is it! I
was pretty wonky last night, you know, Mrs.
Stoop, and I couldn’t think this morning
where I could have picked that overcoat up.
1 just found I had it.’
“ ‘Of course you did,’ she said soothingly;
‘we all know that. You’ll have some lunch
now, won’t you, Mr. Bracken, and bring the
coat in in the morning?’
“I had that lunch in a daze. Somebody
must have spotted me last night—a waitress
probably; I never do trouble to tip ’em. At
any rate, here I’d gone and committed my-
self and I hadn’t the faintest hope of ever
seeing that blessed overcoat again, let alone
returning it, for what with the darkness and
the merry old wine, I’m dashed if I could
remember what house I’d been to last night
except that it was somewhere at Bondi. Gaol
was before me, I had no money, no hope of
ever having any, and, worse, I had no over-
coat, when —what do you think !—I spotted
that very selfsame overcoat straight ahead
of me, hanging on a peg! I knew it was the
same because I noticed the little hole in the
sleeve that I’d burnt there with a cigarette
—besides, I wasn’t likely to forget it. It
seemed like a dream —for the first time I
believed in Fairy Godmothers.
“I hurried through' that dinner —I’ve indi-
gestion yet —and then I casually stood up
and, sauntering over, took down that over-
coat and prepared jubilantly to depart. But
I hadn’t taken a step before a hand gripped
my sleeve and a big moustached giant glared
up at me. ‘Excuse me,’ he said gruffly, .‘but
you’ve got my overcoat.’
“I can tell you, Splinter, I wasn’t prepared
to give up that coat after all the chase it'd
led me. I gave him a glassy stare back and
said, ‘Excuse me, sir, but it is my over-
coat !’
“ ‘l’m hanged if it is,’ he growled, getting
up. ‘My wife gave me that coat last night
as a present. She’d just bought it that
day.’
“ ‘Well, I don’t know how she could have,’
I said austerely, ‘as I was wearing it last
night myself—and this morning, too.’
“I felt an awful fool: people were turning
round in their seats to stare and grin at
us. ‘So you’re the chap, are you?’ snarled
the moustached gentleman with an evil leer.
‘So you’re the chap, are you, who was with
my wife last night?’
“I confess my heart sank down into my
boots and my chin into my collar. I looked
death straight into the face that moment,
death in the person of a six-foot, red-faced
gentleman with black moustaches and a bald
head, whose right hand was fumbling round
the table looking for a knife. I wouldn’t be
here now, Splinter, I wouldn’t be here talk-
ing to you, if something hadn’t interrupted
us that moment. The something was a gentle-
man with yellow hair, who came bustling
gleefully ovter. ‘My overcoat!’ he cried
‘Oh, thank you for returning it! Oh, thank
you awfully!’
“We stared at him, both of us. He grabbed
the coat. ‘Oh, thank you, thank you !’
“ ‘Cut that out!’ cried the whiskered
fellow. ‘lt’s mine!’
“The yellow-haired man looked up
puzzled. ‘Mine!’ he affirmed. T lost it her,
last night.’
(Continued on next vane.)


Model 181-
Cabinet Grand.
Oak £65
Mahogany . £72/10/-
Model 171-
Cabinet Grand.
Oak £55
Mahogany . . . £62/10
The Gift that will bring Happiness
through all the glad New Year.
Such a gift is sure of appreciation—a daily reminder of the
friendship of the giver—a constant joy to utilise.
Now, when you are considering gifts for the New Year, choose
the New “His Master’s Voice’’ Instruments, for they will,
in deed and in truth, bring happiness through the coming days.
They will reveal to all who listen the melody of music and
cheer the passing hours with sweetest harmony.
<3 The new
’His ,
Masters
Voice"
Instruments
These wonderful instruments are the last word in musical
reproduction—they give 50 per cent, greater volume and an
increased range of octaves. A wide range of models to
choose from, all emphasising the unique supremacy of the New
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments.
Ask your dealer to demonstrate these instruments and simplify
your gift-giving nroblems.
Complete lists of “His Master’s Voice” Instruments and
Records with name of nearest dealer will be sent free on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice,”
Registered Trade-mark.
His Masters Voice
“Gramophone,”
Registered Trade-mark.
Model 461—Table Grand.
Oak £27
Mahogany £3l
Model 126—Table Grand.
Oak £29
Mahogany £33
“Well, I took my chance, Splinter—l ran,
and the whiskered gentleman shouted and
ran, too —after me —waving that overcoat
aloft as if he wanted to smother me in
it. In fact, we all ran. We fell down the
stairs. We ran along the street. You saw
us
“I am thirsty. What about another
drink?”
“No,” I said firmly, “I cannot afford it.”
Reluctantly, Bracken left the bar and we
strode to the swing-door. I had hardly
opened it, however, when Bracken slammed
it to again. There, coming along the street,
was a six-foot moustached gentleman cring-
ing between two immense policemen, while
a fair-headed fellow danced and shouted
beside them, waving a grey overcoat trium-
phantly in the air.
“I think we’ll have that other drink,”
suggested Bracken.
L. PHILLIPS.
The Witch Doctor of What-you-
may-call-it Island.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNLIIvE the participants, Pulau Anu
has never forgotten the Great War.
It has never forgotten it because it has
not yet heard of it. This fact is mentioned,
not as sometlring reflecting on Pulau Anu,
but to illustrate Pulau Anu’s extraordinary
isolation.
Pulau Anu, which, translated, means
What-you-may-call-it Island, or the Island
of Thingumybob, is one of that great collec-
tion of big and little islands which stretches
from the western edge of the Malay Peninsula
to within 400 miles of North Australia. To
got to it, vessels on the regular run from
Darwin to Singapore would have to steam
100 miles out of their course. They would
also have to negotiate two narrow passages
and a minor sea beset with reefs and
shallows. No steamer ever thought of doing
any of these things merely to visit Pulau
Anu. A cable ship once surveyed a route
which might have resulted in Pulau Anu
becoming a link in the chain of Imperial
communications; but the reefs and shallows
eaused her to think of a better way. Alfred
Russel Wallace, the English botanist, once
tried to reach it, but a tide-rip and a head-
wind set him off.
The Dutch own Pulau Anu, although they
have long since forgotten the fact. They
own, besides, some 19,768 other islands in
those seas, so it was easy to forget it. A
Dutch controleur some sixty years ago is
said to have visited the island in a Bugis
p ahu from Macassar, but he had such a
terrible time among the reefs and sandbars,
and found so little on Pulau Anu to reward
him that no Government official has since
done anything more than endorse his original
report that the people on Pulau Anu eat
fish, are animists, and give no trouble to
their neighbors.
And yet Pulau Anu is one of the loveliest
in that coruscation of gems which the Dutch
call Insulinde. Its stainless beaches, yellow
as buttercups, its emerald jungle streaming
in a wild cascade from the summit of its
solitary peak almost to the water’s edge, its
crimson cliffs smiling their ruddy smile into
the blue sea, may perhaps be equalled but
certainly not surpassed in the eastern seas.
As a spectacle, Pulau Anu is perfect, but
it has no harbors. Nor has it oil, gold, Argus
pheasants or other natural advantages to stir
the cupidity of men. From the beginning
of November of each tropic year to the end
of February the north-east monsoon piles
huge breakers on its buttercup beaches; from
April to October the south-west trades blow
over it. In the soft, changing months
between, the island regards its own reflection
in the water with satisfaction, and the hun-
dred inhabitants go forth to fish. They go
as far away from Pulau Anu as the land-
breeze will take them, and when the sea-
breeze whips in they run for shelter up the
shallow creeks which are the only entrance
to the island. If the sea-breeze fails to
arrive, the land-breeze blows them over the
skyline out of sight of Pulau Anu, for they
have never learnt to work their crazy craft
to windward. If they are lucky, they are
blown back when the wind changes; if not,
they reach eventually some other island,
build new palm-leaf houses, take new wives,
create fresh puzzles for the ethnologist, and
forget all about Pulau Anu, whose popula-
tion problem has been temporarily solved by
their disappearance.
Thus, unregarded by the world, life, until
the opening of this story, had revolved on
Pulau Anu by the grace of Gunong-gunong,
spirit of the (volcanic) mountain, and
through the mediation of his higli-priest,
Pawang Pandei. Pawang Pandei was the only
inhabitant of the island who had ever visited
another country and returned to Pulau Anu.
He had been to Sourabaya and had returned
with, among other things of less importance,
a book of printed leaves. The book contained
a number of magical formulae which only
Pawang Pandei could read, and some pic-
tures of quite unbelievable things. Armed
with this sacred book, Pawang Pandei had
ever since his return contended successfully
with Gunong-gunong in his savagest moods.
By simply reading the appropriate extract
from the book he had put a stop to the great
earthquake of 1915. after the tenth shake.
By sprinkling water, in which a page of the
book had been soaked, in the path of the
great lava-flow of 1921, he had checked that
attempt of Gunong-gunong to overwhelm
the village. Still with the aid of the
book he had fetched up a convenient rain-
cloud and ignominiously defeated Gunong-
gunong every time that excessively active
deity had engineered a drought; by the
same means lie had exorcised the lesser
spirits of mildew in the rice, bunchy-top
in the bananas and borer-beetles in the
mango crop. In return for all these services,
the people of Pulau Anu had made Pawang
Pandei headman, treasurer, sole lawmaker
and magistrate. It was Pawang Pandei who
decided, by consulting his book, when the
rice-seed should be Tffiuited in the nurseries.
It was he who, by advice of the same autho-
rity, decreed when the population of the
island had outgrown the margin of subsis-
tence ; and it was he who proclaimed which
old women and whose children should be
taken out tb sea and dropped overboard to
restore the natural balance. Consequently
every time Pawang Pandei blessed the fisher-
men’s nets they thankfully presented him
with a tenth of the resultant catch; and
when he planted out the first rice-shoot, mut-
tering damnations on all birds, beasts and
fungi, they promised him a tithe of the ex-
pected harvest.
Thus it was only natural that Pawang
Pandei should grow fat, and that in time
of famine he should grow fatter the thinner
his people grew. It was not, however, till
the events of 1926 that this discrepancy be-
tween him and his fellow-islanders became
an open scandal. In that year the longest
drought in the memory of„the oldest inhabi-
tant was followed by the worst famine and
the stormiest monsoon, and these severe calls
upon the resource of Pawang Pandei’s magic
culminated in the greatest display of irra-
tional bad temper Gunong-gunong had ever
given vent to. On a day of dense, low-flying
cloud and savage rain-squalls, Gunong-
gunong blew up with a tremendous roar.
Enormous and threatening shouts of anger
shook the island, and when the cloud-wrack
thinned for a moment a vast and flickering
glow announced that the spirit of the moun-
tain was very annoyed indeed. Presently
the hot stream of new lava, flowing over the
still grey torrent of the previous eruptions,
appeared under the roof of cloud. The in-
habitants of Pulau Anu looked inquiringly
at Pawang Pandei. That invincible magi-
cian, after consulting his sacred book, pro-
ceeded up the mountain and placed a stick
curiously carved in the way of the descend-
ing torrent. Reassured, the villagers went
into breakfast, but when they emerged they
observed with astonishment and incredulity
that the wrath of Guuong-gunong had
ignored the magician’s barrier. Thereupon
Pawang Pandei sacrificed two pigs and a
dozen chickens with appropriate rites full
in the face of the advancing stream. The
rage of Gunong-gunong ate up these offer-
ings and, remaining unappeased, came pour-
ing at a greater speed than ever towards the
village. Then Pawang Pandei hastily built
a small replica of the village to the left of
the real site, and placed the hand of a still-
born infant dug up from the village grave-
yard so that it pointed towards his model
village. This hint Gunong-gunong also
ignored, and, burning the jungle as it went,
the lava-stream entered the main street 6f
the village.
“Obviously,” said Pawang Pandei, looking
abstractedly at a baby a young mother was
endeavoring to soothe—“obviously Gunong-
gunong will be satisfied with nothing less
than human meat to-day.”
“Obviously!” retorted the young mother,
with unexpected spirit, staring even more
abstractedly at Pawang Pandei’s distress-
ingly protuberant stomach. “And even more
obviously he will prefer the meat with the
most fat on it.”
The entire population of Pulau Anu,
human and animal, was now collected on
the beach, the rest of the island having been
rendered unfit for habitation by the unseemly
behavior of Gunong-gunong.
At the young mother's words an approv-
ing murmur went up from the human mem-
bers of the assemblage. At a loss for a reply
Pawang Pandei was gazing with new dis-
taste at his stomach, when a humming, which
quickly swelled to an insistent droning roar,
filled the air, and an enormous bird—a bird
far vaster than anything known to the island,
a great glittering creature with stiff, pendent
legs and huge outstretched wings—suddenly
darted out of a rain-squall and, gliding
swiftly over the wind-swept water, came to
rest in the shelter of Pulau Anu.
“It is Gunong-gunong—it is the spirit of
the mountain!’’ shouted the spectators,
cowering on the beach, forgetting in this new
peril the fact that the burning lava-stream
was already flowing under their pile-buik
houses, and had set many of them aflame.
Pawang Pandei stared excitedly at the
visitor for a moment, and then turned and
ran towards the village. With the hot breath
of the lava on his face, he sped up the main
street until he reached his house. Ignoring
the fact that it was on fire, he plunged jup
the house-ladder and, stumbling through the
doorway, seized the sacred book he had
brought from Sourabaya. Turning over its
pages, he came to a picture. He stared
eagerly at the picture, and then looked out
of the window at the great bird of Gunong-
gunong riding on the water.
An awed and delighted chuckle broke from
his lips. Holding the sacred book before
him, with the proud air of a competent magi-
cian, he strode back to the beach, tin-
astounded population drawing aside and
staring after him with new hope in their
eyes.
“I go to make the bird of Gunong-gunong
eat out of my hand,” said Pawang Pandei
stepping into a dugout and propelling it to-
wards the apparition looming spectral in
the rain. Prayers, lamentations and cries
of encouragement followed him. Oblivious
of the lava stream which was now beginning
to run in dark rivulets out on to the sand, the
villagers watched Pawang Pandei grow
ghostly in the streaming atmosphere, saw
him round up alongside the vague shape of
the gigantic bird, watched him heroically
struggle with it and his dugout overturn ;
then they saw the bird, raising once more
its threatening roar, rush over the surface
of the water and, swinging round, rise
swiftly and vanish in a squall of rain with
the figure of their magician clinging to one
of its wings.
Six hours and twenty minutes after the
great volcanic eruption had caused most of
Pulau Anu to disappear from the world, two
travel-stained aviators sat in the Customs-
office at Port Darwin staring disgustedly
at the collector while that official searched
his regulations vainly for a section dealing
with prohibited immigrants arriving from
the sky. In a corner of the room crouched
a fat and smiling native, clutching firmly in
both hands a torn and tattered copy of “The.
Dictionary of Modern Science.”
M. G. SKIPPER.


■oBk
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
N.Z.- Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
jfITCO
ST"® MOTOR MOWER
AT SPECIAL CUT PRICES FOR THE
1926 SEASON.
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the neces-
sity of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, &c.
It is fitted with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one at-
tendant for guiding purposes. . . . ... _
The running cost of an “ACTO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its con-
struction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely cut
1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol and
oil mixture. , ~
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine
With the object of making this ALL-BRITISIi MOW ER more popular on
the Australian market, we are offering them for season 1926 at specially reduced
prices. Full stocks on hand. on .
PRICES:—Min. cutters, £47/10/; 16m., £57/10/; 22m., £B2/10/, 30in.,
£llO each. _
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Inspect at Stand No. 72 (Opposite Station Exits), Royal Show.
REPRESENTATIVES:
0. AND W. CHANDLER LIMITED,
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
NEW SOUTH WALES REPRESENTATIVES:
WHYSALL and BROWN,
BOX 16, KING STREET P. 0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
m
AUTOLOADING SHOTGUN
Reloads itself as it fires
3 SHOTS without reloading! Each time the
gun is fired, the smooth automatic action
ejects the empty case, feeds a fresh cartridge
into the chamber and cocks the hammer. Can’t
be equalled for rapid shooting and hard hitting.
ffuilt to last a lifetime.
ser
Model 11
12 gauge only
Order from
your dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Ine.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P.O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
fse
very
■■
mm
'J
spp gas
; • \
knows
Site eaititof
Lookiaer fees!
When out of sorts
Beauty fis more
Thait skitt deep
It depends on
A healthy stomach
Good digestion
Pure blood
If these are wrong
Health suffers
So does beauty
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will put you right
They bring back
The bloom of health.
Worth a Guinea a Box .
Sold in Boxes* 1/- and 2/6#
ROBINSON & CLEAVER OFFER
THEIR STANDARD QUALITIES OF IRISH
LINENS AND DAMASKS AT EXCEPTION-
ALLY REASONABLE PRICES, A FEW OF
WHICH ARE QUOTED BELOW:-
Delivery of Goods
is Guaranteed.
Orders of over £lO
Carriage Paid fay
Parcels Post, to
destination, or by
Steamer to port of
landing.
W&m
This beautifully
illustrated Cata-
logue of Fine Irish
Linens, together
with Samples will
be sent post free.
Ask for No. SSD.
IRISH TABLE LINEN.
From the least expensive to the finest in the
world.
Table Cloths, 2 yards square, from 11/3 each,
with Napkins to match, 22 x 22 inches, 12/6
per dozen.
IRISH BED LINEN.
Linen Sheets for single beds, 2 x 3 yards, at
33/9 per pair.
Linen Pillow Cases, 20 x 30 inches, from 2/11
each.
IRISH HOUSEHOLD LINENS.
Extra Heavy Unbleached All Linen Huckaback
Towelling, strongly recommended for hard wear,
24 inches wide, from 1/8 per yard.
Cream Linen Tea or Glass Towelling, 22 inches
wide, from 1/1 per yard.
Heavy Twilled Typed All Linen Kitchen Cloths,
sizes 22 x 30 inches, from 11/- per dozen.
Brown Linen Topped Bath Towels, very ab-
sorbent, good friction towel for bathers, 22 x 24
inches, front 3/6 each.
IRISH LINEN HANDKFS.
Ladies’ Hemstitched Handkerchiefs front 4/9
per dozen. .
Gentlemen’s Hemstitched Handkerchiefs, from
8/3 per dozen.
ROBIN SON &C LEAVER
BELFAST
Irish Linen
Manufacturers
The Borneo?
Irish Linen
NORTHERN IRELAND.
£
St
//ost Holbrooks ays ~
“Excellent with every
dish-cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.”
Hobbro o ks
lL_l_ SAUCE— I
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6. Children, I/- and Gd
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERT SUNDAY at 3p . m ., rom No. 6JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
Adults, 1/6. Children, Gd.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


\
:=sg
r:
c.
TZ^
EPAWNIi
\fyA-rsf
-Sc/
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF PATRIOTISM
Patriotism is a word with a soul. Deep down its real meaning is
individually to give to the common weal of the Empire the glory of
example, the balm of understanding and the vigour of the utmost in
thought and deed. These are the true qualities of patriotism and of . . . .
DEWAR’S
