

THE
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. Ltd.
OWNERS
IRON & STEEL
MASTERS
wmm
mgmmr**,
mmm
vr.w W
■ mffWgmmm I ■■■ ■■■ r _. WM
View of Blast Furnace Plant at Newcastlt
■ '-V v v *\
i-'vA'-' 1
m
TEE KAILS . . 14lb. to 1001 b. (with Fishplates).
BRIDGE RAILS 18lb. and 251 b.
TIE PLATES. . . Railway Track Work.
BEAMS ...... 4in. x Sin. to 24iu. x 794 in.
CLUTCH BAR for use in conjunction with beams as sheet piling.
CHANNELS . . Sin. x 19£ in. to loin, x 4in,
ANGLES . .... Equal..... 1 in. to 6in.
Unequal. . . x 2^in. to 6m. x 4m.
Bulb. 7in. x B96in. to 9in. x 3*4in.
Bedstead . . 196 in. x 194 in.
LOCKING & JOINT RING BARS.
TEES lin. x lin. and 194 in. x 194 m*
96 in. to 5141 m. diam.
% in. to Bin. . . , . . '
lin. to 18in. wire (also special shoeing sizes).
94 in. to 1 94 in.
ROUNDS. . .
SQUARES .
FLATS
OCTAGONS
d
BRANCH OFFICES!
SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street.
LONDON: 3 Gt. Winchester St.
<?~
s/
a»-
opa
m
3
o
S3
WORKS;
Iron & Steel Works;
Newcastle, N.S.W.
Ironstone Quarries:
Iron Knob, S.A.
Silver-lead Mine:
Broken Hill, N.S.W.
Head Office:
442 Little Coffins Street, MELBOURNE
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS: “HEMATITE,” MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2432.
Thursday, September 23, 1926.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.,'Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'THE New Library Catalogue for 1920
is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR EVERYONE
Chamberlain’s Tablets meet all the re-
quirements of an ideal laxative. They
are easy to take, act gently and natur-
ally, cause no inconvenience or distress.
Every man, woman and child will find
good health in Chamberlain’s Tablets.
s a Smile
in every
Tablet
vjl
J3usy writers
choose
the
-
r
M
If you have ever tried to
write against time with an in*
ferior pen, you will understand
why the “SWAN” is the boon
companion of men who write.
It is absolutely reliable—
a “SWAN” will never fail or
scratch under pressure of work.
It fits the hand—so that
there is no fatigue through
long hours of writing.
There are points to suit
everyone.
It holds long service
records from the four corners
of the globe.
The “SWAN” is a perfect joy.
Self-filling
"SWAN”
No. 130 S.F,
Fitted with
18 ct. Rolled
Gold Band*
Sold by
Stationers,
Jewellers and
Importers.
22/-
Self-filling “Swans” from 17/0.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd..
Swan House, 133-35 Oxford Street,
London, W.l.
Managing Agents:
Phipson & Company, Ltd., 181 Ctarenc*
Street, Sydney.
r
fes?
-
<3lfc.
SWAN
ff
POUNTPENS
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs.
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis. Influenza.
tm vuMSNn mmcsA
IMh
TWIS
rc. HUDSON:
agaaaL-UiWyt". »wm .» _
l he , Medlcal World says:—The Lancst:
° v ® d „ t 0 *??_ as effective bactericidally as is
r«^» te f * REPOBT FROM THE “LAN-
n, E T», is undoubted evidence
ANTISEPTIC ° P EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as M
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Proviso*
The Red Page
On Broadway
Of the 2UO plays produced on Broadway
last season 20 were outstanding box-office
successes; 20 more made a little money, or
"‘broke even”; and the balance were failures,
many of them flat failures. Of the
financial successes a bare half-dozen were
line dramas; the rest ranged from mediocre
to downright bad. Of the failures a few
were worth remembering. In all there
were perhaps a dozen which were well worth
seeing, and about that many more that
might be given honorable mention. The season
was worth while. To find a dozen good
plays in a year is an achievement.
As usual, the big money-getters were what
we here call “prostitute plays.” “The Shang-
hai Gesture,” with the story laid in an
Eastern brothel and a beautiful nude served
up at the dinner table as the piece de resist-
ance, was a smashing hit. It ran for months
to a weekly “box-office” of over six thousand
pounds; and is still “packing them in.” Ex
cept for the wonderful sets and the superb
acting of Florence Reid in the role of Mother
Goddam, it is just about as putrid as that
sort of play can be. Running it a close
second is David Belasco's “Lulu Belle,” with
Lenore Ulric, as the dusky wanton, showing
oft her charms and rioting through four
lascivious acts. There is, of course, the
Belasco bedroom scene, and plenty of pan-
dering suggestiveness. It is staged in the
Belasco way. The setfs, lighting and directing
are perfect. He is 4 the peer of them all
when it comes to producing. I wonder why
he doesn’t use his genius to better advantage
and give us some great dramas, instead of
mese “slugs in rosebuds.” As I see it, David
Belasco is a sinister and debasing influence
in the American theatre. He has his own
theatre, the best actors and actresses in the
united States, heaps of money and a
big following. He could so easily lead the
American theatre to better things. Instead,
he squanders his opportunity and betrays the
public trust by producing play after play that
reeks in the nostrils of all true lovers of
the drama. I know that he has done much
tor lighting, setting and staging, but that is
not enough.
Another class of play that has more than
paid out is the light, entertaining type of
comedy. Not much of real drama, but plenty
ot laughs and thrills, with a good story
piecing them together. Of these “Abie’s Irish
Rose is the big money-getter. It is now in
its fourth year, and still going strong. “Is
Zat So?” in its third year, is another that
has coined money. “The Jazz Singer,”
TTadle Snatchers,” “Laff that Off,” “The
Last of Mrs. Cheyney,” “The Butter and
Egg Man,” “Alias the Deacon,” “One of the
Family,” “The Patsy,” “Twelve Miles Out,”
Come, Easy Go,” “Love ’Em and Leave
hur and “The Wisdom Tooth” have also
richly rewarded tlieir producers and given
the public good entertainment. And that is
about all that can be said of them.
The really worth while plays that have
been at least fair commercial successes also
are ‘Young Woodley.” “Craig’s Wife,” “The
Great God Brown,” “The Dybuk,” “The
Makrouplis Secret,” “Bride of the Lamb,”
“The Great Song,” “Juno and the Paycock”
and “Outside Looking In.” Artistically,
these were worth all the rest put together.
Three young English dramatists have
scored hit}?, though rather at the expense of
their somewhat dubious dramatic fame. They
are Michael Arlen, Noel Coward and C. K.
Munro. ' Personally, I cannot enthuse over
them. Michael Arlen’s dramatisation of “The
Green Hat” leaves me cold. The story in
book form sparkled like champagne with the
cork just drawn. The play is a bottle which
has been opened overnight. But the name
of Arlen and the super-acting of Miss Kath-
ryn Cornell pulled it through to a fortune
tor the producer and dramatist. I under-
stand that it is going to Australia. It will
probably be a success. The public will flock
to see the lovely, dashing Iris, who loves
them where she finds them and leaves them
where she loves them. But they will not
see her. Her creator lost her when he wrote
the play. Too bad that Judith Anderson, the
finest emotional actress on the American
stage, and an Australian, too, cannot go home
and play the part! Arlen’s other play, “These
Charming People,” has been so changed by
Cyril Maude, wl»o plays lead, that it is im-
possible to pass judgment on it. It is difficult
to say where Arlen left off and Maude began.
It has been a moderate success. Noel Cow-
ard s two play??, “The Vortex” and “Easy
Virtue, are worse than Arlen’s. Their
characters all have fever in their veins.
Arlen and Ooward are the two young
stage-prophets of the Jazz Age. C. K.
Munro is a better dramatist than either.
But his plays are pretty dreary affairs. They
are too talky. He is a faithful reflector, in
a satirical way, of the idiosyncrasies of old
maids. But he does not seem to he able to tell
a story. The Theatre Guild, with its almost
endless subscription-list, presented his “At
Mrs. Beams’.,” so, of course, audiences were
guaranteed. I don’t think it would have
lasted long in an independent theatre. His
other play, “Beau Strings,” independently
produced at the same time, soon went down
into that limbo where most plays go. Neither
Coward nor Arlen will ever add much to the
theatre. Munro may. Sean O’Casey, the
young Irish playwright and the season’s
great find, *is another matter.
The consensus of opinion seems to be that
either “Juno and the Paycock” or “The
Dybuk” was the outstanding play of the
season. M}v own vote is cast for “Juno and
tjhe Payco<;k.” Wretchedly produced in a little
‘ rlbll s hfl.use” of a theatre in New York
City—a theatre with a seating capacity of
about 300 and limited stage space—it never-
theless O’Casey. The critics
lauded if to the skies, and called for more.
And mot e is forthcoming. Two of his plays
are to b«? presented on Broadway this coming
season. _ I have read the manuscripts of both.
This Irish, boy is the new star in the dra-
matic fit«m«ment.
Sean O'Casey is a realist. But his real-
ism is l-eavened with humor -and warmed
with hunnanitariahism. Ilis plays glow. He
never pi,caches. He does not attempt to
reform. <He portrays life as he sees it. He
portrays it mercilessly. He portrays the
drunkenness, the illiteracy, the ignorance, the
foolishness, and withal the humor and the
lovableness of the Irish. “There it is,” he
seems to say in his dramas. “Ireland—isn’t
it ridiculous?”
The Dybuk,” the play which divides
honors with “Juno and the Pay cock.” is a
story of the Jewish Ghetto, from the pen
ot Ansky, the Russian Jew. Ansky, at pre-
sent residing in Paris, is a son of the Ghetto.
He understands it. And against the back-
ground of its. masses, with their religious
fanaticism, pride of race, superstitions and
poetry, he draws his story of the Dybuk, and
through it rebukes his race for their narrow-
ness and materialism. (The Dybuk is an in-
visible'spirit which occupies a living, earthly
body, especially the body of its old love.) The
was* produced miles from Broadway in
the Neighborhood Playhouse, in the Bowery.
It is an endowed, experimental theatre, run
by some rich young women, among them. Miss
Morgan—all interested in better drama.
1 hither journeyed the New York playgoers
each night for months. Often it was neces-
sary to book seats weeks in advance. These
young women have earned more than their
own country’s gratitude for staging such a
arama.
NEW YORK.
TOM SKEYHILL.
La Morte d’Arthur
~ , Tllis age cares little for Homer and the
IMvine Comedy is not read. As for “Para-
dise Lost, although such copies of it as one
comes across fall open at the creation of Eve,
1 do not believe there is a dog-eared Milton
this side of the Equator. Marlowe’s mighty
line is known —by one line; Shakspeare’s
plays are read—at school; and Pope, the
great Augustan, fares worse than they do,
tor Ins song “Where’er you walk,” though
widely sung, is rarely guessed to be his. We
are familiar with Spenser’s “Faerie Queene,”
Byroivs Don .Tuan,” Sidney’s “Arcadia,”
and Piers the Plowman’s “Vision,” as we
are familiar with signposts pointing down
by-ways to towns we never visit; and even
now, four centuries since it was written,
almost any incident in Malorv’s “Morte
d Arthur’ (except, perhaps, that which
Hardy treats of) could be ticketed “It is not
generally known.”
No man since Archilocus’s day has been
as much in earnest as Sir Thomas Malory
was. Beside him Ben Jonson is a mannered
child, Bunyan a trifler, Swift and Dryden
boys at play. Compared with “The most
» n «ent FAMOVS history of the
RENO VN ED Prince Arthur. King of
Britain, wherein is declared his life and
death: with all his GLORIOVS battailes
against the Saxons, Saracens, and
PAGANS.” even the Ring and the Book is a
bibelot. Read it. Choose a day when the
yachts are out, and a wind from the north-
west blows in fitful gusts across the water.
Then, seated (for choice) in one of our older
gardens—terraced, and set with thickets of
camellias or magnolias, as the vogue • once
was -let Malory tel} you of the Knightly
Fellowships of Astolat, of Joyous Guard, of
My edition of “La Morte d’Arthur,” dear
to me beeimse it was once Miss Badham's, is
dated 1816. It is bound in three red volumes,
each a span long, and no wider than the
Greek word
ORTHOPHOITOSUKOPIIANTODIK'OTALAIPOROS.
It.is a reprint (bowdlerised) of an edition
William Stans ley printed for Jacob Bloome
in 1634.
Sir Thomas Malory was not, as Bale says,
a Welshman ; he was a knight of Newbold
.Revell, in Warwickshire. His great (and
only) work was finished in the “last yeare
of the reign of King Edward the Third.”
Caxton, who tells us in his Prologue how
“many noble and divers gentlemen of the
realm of England came and demanded of him
many and oftentimes why that he did not
cause to be imprinted that most noble history
of the Sane Grail,” published his first edi-
tion of it "Newly refined and Reduced into
English by Sir Thomas Malory, Knt,” in
1485. It was in the end Edward the Fourth
who had “instantly required’-’ of Caxton that
he ’should imprynt the history of the said
noble King and conqueror, Prince Arthur.”
But even then Caxton hesitated. He tells
us that he answered “the said noble gentle-
men” that “divers men hold opinion that
there was no such Arthur.” And raised a
storm, King, Queen and courtiers, prelates
and historians all maintaining that there
was such an Arthur.'
Yet Caxton was right. Arthur had no real
existence. It was in King Henry the Second’s
time that the “Dreams of Arthur” came
—with the exiled Celts of Rhys Ap Tcwdor
—across the Welsh marshes into England.
Geoffrey of Monmouth, padding them out
with snippets of Saxon lore, crusading
legends, and stories of Charlemagne’s day,
wove these Welsh fairy tales into a fabulous
“history of Britain.” Alfred of Beverley
made sober fact of them. The Norman
trouvers Gairnar and Wace translated them
into French. Brittany added the older
legends of the Enchanter Merlin and of
Lancelot. The Church invented the story of
the Sane Grail —the Holy Dish—and Walter
dc Map crowned all with the character of
Sir Galahad, the perfect knight. Yet even
this strange medley was not enough for
Malory. He borrowed from the Chanson de
Roland and from many other writers—French,
English and Welsh—and still managed to
make this mass of material his own. Yet lie
has a rustic simplicity. He never embroi-
ders his facts; he gets his effects solely by
weight of verb and substantive. And this
oaf-like bluntness, this sheer audacity of
statement, has about it a strangely persuasive
quality. It makes Malory seem truthful. It
makes us trust him. It deludes us into
thinking that he has no imagination. And
we give him a credence, a confidence, which
we usually reserve for business men and
deny to born and accepted liars, to poets and
(Continued on page S.)


JL
r aae
Fashion Exemplified in Attractive Jumper Suits
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Embellished with the newest touches
approved by Fashion, these Jumper Suits
please in appearance, while they economise in
cost —and their durability will make the pur-
chase of one an exceedingly good investment.
d
D 4194 —This Jumper Suit expresses one of this
Season’s newest styles, and is carried out in good quality
Crepe de Chine. Rows of fine rnchings appear on the
shoulder line. The well-cut collar is finished with long
tie of self fabric. Pointed cuffs are an excellent finish
to the full-length sleeves. Note the envelope-shaped
pockets. The skirt is widened by inverted pleats, and is
joined to Silk bodice. Obtainable in shades of
Pervenche, Tan, Petunia, Bois du Rose, Navy
and Black. Sizes: S.W., W., O.S. Price...
75/-
D 512 —This Crepe tie Chine Juniper Suit is as smart
as it is practical. The jumper is tastefully designed, and
shows roll collar with knotted tie of self material. The
turned-back cuffs give a soft finish to the sleeves. Pockets
ai*e arranged in a novel manner on the band at hem of
jumper. Buttons are an added trimming. Fine pleats
are arranged in groups on the front of skirt,. the back
being quite plain. May be had in pretty shades of Bois
du Rose, Rosewood, Peacock, Cyclamen, Navy
and Black. Sizes: S.W., W., O.S.
Price '
90/-
D 6102 —A New and Distinctive Jumper Suit, pro-
duced in Silk Marocain, shows long tie of finely-pleated
self material. The Eton collar and cuffs are of a con-
trasting shade, as also is the piping which outlines the
small yoke. The pockets are a novel feature. The skirt,
which is finely, yet firmly, pleated, is attached to Silk
bodice. In all wanted shades of Cinnamon,
Rust, Almond, Helio., Navy and Black.
Sizes: S.W., W., O.S. Price
105/-
D 9846 — An Attractive Jumper Suit, carried out in
Silk Crgpe de Chine. A characteristic feature of this
jumper is the smocking which is worked in contrasting
tone, and appears on the shoulders; also on the lower
part of jumper. The adjustable collar is very attractive.
Two pockets make their appearance on the hem of
jumper. The smart skirt is attached to Silk bodice and
is very finely pleated. In shades of Bois du
Rose, Pervenche, Almond, Black and Navy. EJ j
Sizes: S.W., W., O.S. Price
D 9912 — Becoming Jumper Suit, smartly designed and produced in Silk
Marocain. The jumper is enriched with applique embroidery in quaint
design, which also appears on the sleeves. The roll collar is complete
with tie. Width is obtained by means of inverted pleat on skirt, which
is attached to Silk bodice. In seasonable shades of Beige, Bois
du Rose, Pervenche and Almond. Sizes: S.W., W., O.S.
Price
85|-
Fashionable Hosiery
In Qualities that
Will Give Service.
Plain Pure Silk Hose, heavy-
weight, featuring extra stretch
ribbed Lisle suspender tops, double
heels and toes. New colors are:
Almond, Piping Rock, Silver
Nouveau Beige, Grey, Pawn,
Silver, Nude, Peach, Grain,
Champagne or White. Q/1 "1
Price, pair *J‘ 1 1
Plain Heavy Silk Hose, “Hor-
dernia” brand, full fashioned, per-
fect fitting. Extra wide double sus-
pender tops, double heels and toes.
Only obtainable at Anthony Hor-
derns’. New season’s colors in-
clude : Beige, Pawn, Lariat, Atmo-
sphere, Pongee, Jack Rabbit, Cham-
pagne, Piping Rock, Grey, - q i
Black or White. Price, pair 1 ' O
Plain Pure Silk Hose, all-silk leg,
full fashioned, smart fitting, extra
spliced heels and toes. In new tones
of Dawn, Peach, Atmosphere, Sun-
beam, Sunburn, Airdale, Cham-
pagne or White. Price '- fi/i -a
pair ID' 1 1
(Hosiery—First Floor.)
Good Taste and
Good Value in
Distinctive Handbags
Moire Silk Handbags, French
frames, fasten at top, finished
enamel catch. In Black, Cinnamon,
Brown, Navy and Jade, nn /r.
Price OZ O
Two-tone Underarm-bags, i n
Autumn Calf, trimmed plain Calf,
fitted purse and large g/\/
mirror. Price OU' “
Two-tone Handbags, in Grey
Lizard and Patent; short handle.
Fitted purse and mirror. ac% /
Price 4Z/ -
Python Handbags, Underarm
style, White ground, shaded; lined
Fawn Silk, fitted mirror,
puff and tablet. Price . . /Z/ O
Black Pin Seal Handbags, two-
tone effect,with real Python straps ;
fitted purse and mirror. /in/
Price XO I U -
(Handbags—Second Floor.)
A Piece of Xylonite
For a Dainty yet
Inexpensive Gift.
8X133 Xylonite Jewel-case,
grained Ivory, shaped front, flat
lid, claw feet. Sizes, 6| x 3|
Price ..9/-, 10/6, 12/6
BXI20 — White Xylonite Hair-
brush, domed back, grained Ivory,
9|in. long, 11 rows stiff QC/
bristles. Price uD' “
91 inches long, 13 rows stiff
SgT. 38/6, 45/-
BXl4s— Manicure and Pin Tray,
grained Ivory. Size, 9x 0 -
4in. Price Z/ 1 1
BXI47 — X ylon i t e Puffbox,
grained Ivory, flat top, ball - /g%
feet. Size, 5x 21 in. Price, lO' O
BXIS2 — Xylonite Manicure-case,
grained Ivory, lined velvet. Size,
7f x 5| in. Containing ££/
seven fittings. Price .. . OD »
(Toilet Requisites—Second Floor.)
Postage paid on Fashion Goods and Family Drapery in N.S.W., and to the nearest Interstate Port.
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limited.
0.P.0. 2212 c. BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440


World’s Greatest Buy
HUDSON COACH
£4BO
m
L
Only Hudson Can
Build It
HUDSON BROUGHAM,
£545
HUDSON 7-Pass. SEDAN,
£595
Everywhere the Hudson Coach is
called the ‘ ‘World’s Greatest
Buy.” That is not alone because
of its selling cost, to-day the lowest
in all time.
The value in chassis quality,
smooth performance and long-
lasting reliability, that hundreds
of thousands of Super-Sixes daily
prove, is not excelled by the
costliest cars built. And also in
the utility of a distinctive body
type that provides every closed-
car comfort without the extra
premium you pay for such advan-
tages in other closed cars.
Based on the output of other
“Sixes” Hudson quality would
have to be priced considerably
higher* Only Hudson, with the
world's largest production of 6»
cylinder cars, can build this quality
at this price.
In everything that counts —per-
formance, riding ease, smooth-
ness and reliability—higher price
can buy no more. There can be
no better proof that Hudson is
the “World's Greatest Value”
than what owners say for it, and
that its sales leadership continues
year after year, the outstanding
success of motordom.
HUDSON 7-Pass. PHAETON
£450
m
m
$
522
©
<n
ir
m
m
v'*.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth,
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
Hobart and Launceston.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.


\
r
A Suit to measure in indigo
dyed navy serge, fancy
all-wool worsteds or tweeds in neat
check and herringbone designs. Cut
to your own requirements and made
with meticulous care for - - £6/6/'
DAVID JONES’
authors. When Guillame de Machault sings
(sweetly enough) of his lady,
Blanche com lys, plus que rose vermeille,
Itesplendissant com rubis d’oriant;
when the Welsh poet of the Mabinogi praises
Olwen, saying “her hair was more yellow
than the flowering broom, her eye’s glance
lighter than the thrice-mewed falcon’s, her
skin brighter than the wave’s foam, her
snowy breast whiter than the swan’s breast,
her cheek redder than the reddest rose,” they
entertain us, as poets should, with a suc-
cession of charming if hackneyed images.
But with Malory comes reality. When he
tells us how Sir Tristram fought for the
beauty of La Beale Isonde (which had been
questioned) he makes no use of hyperbole.
Sir Brewnor brought his lady “all muffled,”
and asked Sir Tristram where his lady was
and “Sir Tristram shewed La Beale Isonde
and turned her thrice about with his naked
sword drawn in his hand. And when Sir
Brewnor saw that, he turned his lady about
the same wise. But when Sir Brewnor be-
held La Beale Isonde he thought he never
saw a lady so fair.... and so all the people
that were present gave judgement that La
Beale Isonde was the fairest lady, and the
better made lady”... . That Sir Tristram
(the hero) afterwards smote off the head of
Sir Brewnor’s lady “with an awk stroke” is
beside my point.
Again, when (in the Chanson de Roland)
Roland lies dying under a pine-tree “with his
face turned towards Spain and the enemy,”
lie began, we are told, to call many things to
remembrance —“all the lands his valour
conquered and pleasant France, and the men
of his lineage, and Charlemagne his liege lord
who nourished him,” but Malory makes King
Arthur, with his death wound on him, say:
“But I may not stand, my head acheth so.”
And after he had been placed in a barge that
was there rowed by four queens, “Comfort
thyself, and do as well as thou mayest, for
in me is no trust to trust in, for I will into
the Vale of Avilon, for to heal me of my
grievous wound. And if thou never hear
more of me, pray for my son.”
But read the book.
Then, some day, from your sheltered seat
(or you may be lying on the tufted grass by
the rim of a bay—but a garden is better)
you will see below you not bronzed men in
heeling boats (the jacaranda must be out;
yachts and the blue water look their best
through it), but Arthur and Merlin and Sir
Kay the Seneshall, Geraint and Bevidere,
Tristram, Lancelot, Galahad —a knightly
company, steeped in an antiquity that could
make them “cousins to Joseph of Arimithy,”
or “nevvies to King Soleyman.”
Instead of those girls playing hockey, you
will see Queen Guinevere, La Beale Isonde,
Iseult of La Blanch Main (whom Tristram
kissed), dame Liones, dame Linet. .. .the
fainter, lovelier wraith of Alis la Beale Pil-
grim.
ETHEL ANDERSON.
Stodge
Tlie reading public has grown up and
away from honor, sentiment, sacrifice, princi-
ple and final matrimonial bliss, and authors
who offer these things in the old way won’t
sell anywhere. Readers want real life as
it is lived by the go-getters—red-blooded
romance, love, marriage, divorce, with all its
attendant uncertainties; with laughter to
dry the quick-started tears; with short
sorrows sandwiching the hurried happinesses
that compensate for the haunting doubts that
go with a conveniently elastic morality. This
kind of life is real. It is lived by the
people of to-day who are really alive; folk
wno laughingly “bog in” for their chop of
the best offering. The great majority, who
live in unexciting, uncolored obscurity,
hemmed in by the barbed-wire entangle-
ments of stodgy convention, want the
other thing, but are not game to go and
get it. To be interested, amused and pleas-
antly shocked about it all by a go-getting
author fills in some of the dull hours in
a monotonous routine.
An unmoral commercial system, running
riot in its dishonesty, unapologetic for its
sins, improvident for its future, and, withal,
carefree, is the great moulder of all stan-
dards ; and these people who don’t live up to
them merely exist and wail, brood and rant,
dream and deplore—and read authors who
deliver the goods, native or foreign, with
the contents raw in the title, and the charac-
ters chasing intoxicating and fascinating
disaster from the opening sentences.
Jazz is the dance of to-day, because its
movements symbolise the hesitant, changing,
thrilling, enticing uncertainty of go-getting
in life to-day; and it will be popular until
economic stability stabilises all else. Then
economic security will be reflected in the
life, habits, morals, principles and customs
of peoples, just as the waltz was the dance
that expressed the smooth-going economic
life of former years.
Meanwhile, authors who tune in to what
the go-getters get, and what a lot of people
don’t get but are after, or wish they were—
these writers to succeed need only local
color, the slanguage of their people, quick-
moving action through plots that hang
together with the fascinating and tantalising
uncertainty of the heroine’s nightie, with no
gunshots or blood. These latter are too un-
seemly, and have a finalising suddenness
altogether out of place in this forgetting,
forgiving age, when real people’s life-span
is punctuated by hurried love, matrimony,
toleration, indifference, separation, divorce,
leaving them fit, ready and eager for another
burst over the same course. The age of
remorse, repentance and soul-deep affection
is gone. The majority arc interested in the
doings of the go-getters who jazz through
life and “get away with it.” And the poor
reading public, soaked in life-long stodge, has
little time for lords and ladies in literature
because it can’t imagine itself such things.
And that about sums it up. Stimulus for the
flagging imagination of those people who
miss the ’bus, who feel they are doomed to go
through life without ever really living—that
is what the call is for. The moving pictures
are supplying the goods; and, while the
intelligentsia deplores the stuff presented,
great crowds fight to get seats and clap
their hands witli delight at the go-getting
ways of the he-men and she-women. Look
at the increasing circulation of the papers
that feature realisms!
And, lastly, why don’t authors organise
with the A.J.A., get rid of their stodgy ideas,
appoint a committee to read and select, let
the printing by contract, put on an advertis-
ing genius, and give the public what it is
clamoring to buyV
L. A. SIGSWORTH.
Boys’ Books
P. O’Farrell’s list of boys’ favorite books
(R.P. 19/8/’26) is valuable in so far as it is
the result of the referendum of the boys
themselves, derived from the literature avail-
able to them. But such a list must be acci-
dental, depending on the books available to
the boys of that town, and even more so on
the interests aroused by their teachers and
parents. There are not many public schools
with more than about £2O worth of boys’
books in their libraries, and as £2O will
purchase only the complete set of Henty’s
books in duplicate—and every good book in
a boys’ library ought to be in duplicate at
least, so that young Bob can get it when
his interest is hot —one can see how com-
paratively short the list of candidates in
auy referendum must be. And, referring to
the issue of the book to the boy while his
interests are hot, many libraries are open
only one afternoon a week, instead of always
being getatable.
The Parents and Citizens’ Associations of
N. S. Wales are wonderfully helpful and
generous, but many of them expect to see
the £5 worth of books they placed in the
school library ten years ago still there;
and, to please them, in many cases they are
still there, unsoiled and unread —a bad use
of good air space so much required in many
class-rooms. I don’t pardon ill-usage of
books, but I tell the parents that if a book
is quite new after a few years in the school
library, their money has been wasted; and
that if 40 boys read a 3s. 4d. book, that book
has done its work well, and there should
be no questionings if it is then sent to the
incinerator or given as a pile of loose leaves
to one of its ardent lovers.
That the referendum depends on the
interests aroused by the teacher will be seen
by the almost certain changed result of a
second referendum even one month later.
After a course of lessons on the Napoleonic
period and British naval history, my boys,
who had a splendid boys’ library, voted
Grant’s “Romance of War” first, followed
closely by the “Three Midshipmen,” “Three
Commanders” and “Three Admirals” group.
Then came “Peter the Whaler” and five of
Henty’s—he would probably have been first
had his votes not been split among his five
candidates. Unlike Mr. O’Farrell’s boys,
mine have not taken to “Treasure Island,”
“We of the Never-Never” or “Robbery Under
Arms.”
In a referendum six months after the
above-mentioned one I found “The Great
White South” the favorite, “Allan Quater-
main” second, “Dog Crusoe” third, and
Ellis’s Red Indian books from fourth to
seventh. At present one finds, unfortunately,
Ellis’s books predominating in many boys’
libraries. I say unfortunately simply as a
protest against the American conquest of
Australia, which historians will probably
date from the days of Tom Mix and Charlie
Chaplin. Another reason why Ellis has dis-
placed Marry at, Henty, Ainsworth, Kingston
and Farrar is that three of the American’s
can be obtained at the cost of one British
author’s. It might be of patriotic value
if the States’ education authorities would
come together and print the libraries for
our boys and girls, and sell the books to the
P. and C. Associations, which have now to
take what booksellers have on their shelves.
A Pioneer Australian Artist
On December 24, 1836, • there stepped
eagerly ashore at Holdfast Bay from the
Africaine, S. Australia’s first immigrant
ship, a dark-eyed young man of 21 named
John Michael Skipper. That youth repre-
sented to the State, which aspires to a repu-
tation for culture, an irreparable piece of
ill-fortune. For he was South Australia’s
pioneer artist, and if the method he adopted
of recording his impressions of the new
colony had been different from what they
were, the culture claim might have been
based on an earlier foundation than a chance
remark of Foster Fraser in 1908.
J. M. Skipper was born, on the day Water-
loo was being decided, in the cathedral town
of Norwich. His father was solicitor to
the Duke of Norwich, and in between liti-
gating for the duke trained his offspring for
the law; but often John Michael slipped
away to the studio of his uncle, James Stark,
of the famous Noi'wich school of landscape
painters. Doubtless the figure of Old Chrome,
“the little dark man with the brown coat
and the topboots,” had been familiar to him,
and John Sell C-otman was certainly a fre-
quent visitor to his uncle’s studio. Stark
advised liis nephew to take up art as a pro-
fession, but Skipper was too much in love
with life to be content with the poverty and
dependence on noble patronage which were
normal to the artist’s lot in those days. At
the age of 17 he shipped as midshipman
aboard 11.M.C.5. Sherburne, 700 tons, Cap-
tain Corbyn, R.N., master, bound for Cal-
cutta —one Bertram Mitford was a fellow-
snottie. Skipper’s journal of that voyage
has been preserved, and is full of a remark-
ably mature humor. In his list of crew and
passengers he records the names of “Miss
Cecilia Porteous, the Misses Mary Isabella
and Caroline Nicholson (all intended for the
Indian market).” The captain broke his con-
tract to feed the middies from his table, so
they tapped the rum casks and cut a pri-
vate entrance into his pantry. There were, as
usual, gales, weevily biscuit, a mutiny and flog-
gings ; there was wine as well’ as broken
heads at Table Mountain; the customary
deaths of redcoats in the crowded fo’c’s’le
(“soon after we buried another turkey”) :
and the opulence and flamboyant color of
India at the end of the outward voyage. In
between, like Masefield’s Dauber, Skipper
squatted in the foretop and painted mono-
chrome illustrations to his journal. These
drawings are as mature as his literary style.
In one picture the Sherburne, under furled
main and top sails, is buoyantly mounting
a broken wave which has brilliant reflections
in its hollows. The ship rides as lightly
as a match, but one can feel the check of
the wave coming. There are pictures of
officers, “muzzy as moonlight,” being car-
ried aboard at Sheerness by envious sailors;
of the ship’s company drawn up to watch a
flogging. There is nothing crude in the work
—everything is astonishingly sophisticated
and a-brim with spirit. The last illustra-
tion in the journal depicts the Sherburne, in
a composition that is quite masterly,
approaching the white cliffs of Dover with
the tan-sailed pilot-boat darkly silhouetted
against her shining canvas. Two years later
the artist landed in South Australia.
A community living in huts and tents and
periodically threatened with starvation was
not a congenial soil for the propagation of
artistic talent. It preferred to provide J. M.
Skipper with a livelihood out of its immense
passion for litigation. He was articled to
Mr. (afterwards Judge) Gwynne, practised
for a while, joined the gold rush of 1850, and
finally subsided into the civil service, ending
liis days on a small pension, surrounded by
children and horses. In his leisure hours
he painted. A few large canvases survive,
but there was no sale for them, although a
publican occasionally accepted a rapid sketch
in payment for a night’s lodging.
In 1848 George Blakiston Wilkinson pub-
lished his “History of South Australia” and
presented a copy to the artist. It was not
a particularly inspiring volume, but possibly
in a spirit of sardonic humor Skipper pro-
needed to waste his now ripe skill upon it.
W ith the patience ol a mediaeval monk and
the passion of a poet, he commenced to paint
the pageant of early South Australia in
microscopic pictures on its margin. These
«nni‘i drowimre -nwl fhovo
sepia drawings, neie and there touched with
color, weie not mere lmsty improvisations,
He rode miles into the hills to get his details
true to nature, and many studies an inch in
length have had as much careful craftsman-
ship lavished on them as would go to the
making of a gallery picture. Port Adelaide
n u ,
appeals m the fiontispicee, a very busy port,
with a couple of factory chimneys in the
background and amongst the sailers a new
vessel very conscious of owning a smoke-stack,
A sketch of the road to Adelaide shows that
.■» , , , ,
the settlers had already got to work upon
the bush, though It was still a lovelier track
than the one now traversed by lords be-
tween rows of standardised Californian bun-
galows. Numerous bits of the Adelaide hills ;
the Burra Burra copper-mine; a spirited
• , e ,v » j „ ~i’ , , .
picture of the Adelaide cattle-market, in
which the artist exercised his love of horses ;
a fine moonlight study of the park lands
and one of Boston Bay, astounding in the
perfection of its perspective ; spacious pic-
; . i, . rn ~ 1 r-i 1
lures of Albert Town; the Torrens, rrome
Bridge, Government House, Hindley-street
with the old Register office cheek-by-jowl
with Coppin’s ; a pleasantly topographical
note of Yankalilla, and a beautifully accu-
rate study of the bush above the Adelaide
plain ; Encounter Bay, its surf-charged atmo-
sphere admirably suggested—each example,
could be covered with three postage-stamps,
One of the most interesting sections is
that devoted to illustrations—probably as
accurate as any recorded—of Captain Sturt’s
expedition (1844). For these Skipper did
not go to nature, but got his inspiration from
a notebook lent him by the explorer. An-
other chapter is illustrated by carefully-
observed studies, weaved into delightful corn-
positions, of the various kinds of eucalyptus,
Another depicting aboriginal life and eus-
toms reveals him as an illustrator of con-
siderable dramatic power. The book is full
of a sly humor. A word or a phrase of the
text underlined gives the motive for the pic-
ture. Thus “Lambing Down” is illustrated
by a doctor’s phaeton standing in front of
a house, and “Shed Their Bark” shows a
group of ladies disrobed for the bath. Early
colonial tastes in clothes and architecture
are carefully portrayed, and there may be
satirical intent in the picture of a native
being flogged in explanation of the passage,
“Mr. Eyre....by the faithful discharge of
his duties to his dusky friends, has well
deserved the position that he now holds.”
The artist died at Kent Town, Adelaide,
on December 7, 1883. For the Wilkinson book
he had refused an offer of £250 from Sir James
Fergusson, who proposed to take it to Eng-
land to have the drawings reproduced. Since
then it has reposed in an Adelaide strong-
room, to be taken out at long intervals and
handed round amongst the artist’s descen-
dauts. The pages are turning brown and
dry, and slowly flaking off; every time a
page is ruffled a tiny fragment of S. Aus-
tralia’s first cultured achievement passes into
oblivion.
M. G. S.
A Satchel of Books
T. A. WHITE.
Autumn Fires, by Phyllis Hambledon (Sampson
Low). Martin and Stephen Herrifield, 46 and 42
respectively, are freed from servitude to an exacting
f * lther by the old man’s death. Under his will
they come into a large fortune. 111-educated and
bo()l . ishi thev are cast on a world 0 f which they
know little apart from its business side. How they
fare in their love and matrimonial ventures is
told with skill and sympathy.
Stories Near and Far, by William J. Locke (John
Llllle: Dymock). It is rarely that the artist-in-words
“t°med to the ample canvas of the novel can,
with equal success, produce the cameos of the short-
story. In this collection the most characteristic
tales are the longest and far exceed the Australian
limits of that form. They are the best, too, arid
recall that charming side of French artistic and
Bohemian life in which Locke revels in some of
his more important work. A welcome addition to
tbe limited stock of good fiction,
Calendar of the University of Sydney (1926)
(Angus and Robertson). Apart from the fact that
the publication is essential to the work of the
institution and is a sort of academic bible for the
guidance of undergrads, the “Calendar” has much pro-
miscuous information for those without the sanctuary.
p or instance. There are approximately 1950 qualified
medical practitioners on the University list, but
only 40 rank as Doctors of Medicine and 12 of these
have been admitted ad eundern gradem from other
universities Other than as an act of courtesy and
custom the balance of the graduates are only entitled
j be “ m j s ter” of the man outside the learned walls.
+
“A.H.A.”: H. G. Wells’s new novel is to be in
three volumes. The first will be in Australia within
six weeks, and the succeeding volumes will appear
at monthly intervals. Proclaimed as Wells’s master-
piece, it should interest many readers ; but the story,
it is said, is overshadowed by the author’s scientific
preoccupations. The hero is obviously H. G. Wells,
as a man of 59, looking back over his long lifetime,
surveying the changes of the past, summing up the
present and anticipating the future. In the first
volume he envisages the advance of science, and
has some unkind things to say about leading scientists,
The book will be quite as long as his “Outline of
History.”


rrrT^L-
u -
H
-I* “>£
<3
.- I.i^
-- j /
rf=3T.
S»S!£Elsl»is7
lIIIIIHIfTM
f; :
w
G)
Graham Brothers latest one-ton truck,
known as the G-BGY, is now available,
The largest exclusive truck makers in the
world have applied all the advantages of
their huge buying and building power,
their wide experience, to this new model.
Largest Truck Makers
Latest One-Ton Model
The new G-BOY is conservatively rated.
It is built to out-live and out-perform other
trucks in its class, regardless of cost.
Designed according to a new system of
weight distribution which assures better
balance; powered by Dodge Brothers
dependable motor. Let us give you all
the facts.
Way mouth Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-48 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd.,
256 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
/Graham Brothers Trucks , with Dodge Brothers l-Ton 1
Commercial Cars , meet 90°/ o of all haulage requirements J
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
199 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty.
352-58 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
Ltd.
Graham Brothers
Trucks
Built by Truck Division of Dodge Brothers, Inc.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
28/e/’**.


ou can depend on
BATTERIE S
Unfailing?
Service
—And You Will Never
Be Let Down.
“"THOUSANDS of people and
1 scores of national institutions have
depended on Exide Batteries for years.
The Telephone Systems of the world,
the large Broadcasting Companies, the
largest Transport Companies, and
many others all pin their faith on the
dependability of Exides.
On your car, or for your wireless
set, you can bank on Exide dependa-
bility.
Australian Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.,
Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: “Exide” Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., Radio House, 308-387 Murray
Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queens Bridge (2
Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
New Zealand
Distributors:
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Wellington,
Auckland and Christchurch.
£xti>e
BATTERIES
SERVICE STATION


817
100,000-Mile
Studebakers
* I 'HE thousands of miles of excess transpor-
tation built into every Studebaker were
again publicly attested on July 18th in news-
papers throughout the United States. 817
Studebaker owners, whose present cars have
gone over 100,000 miles, were listed.
You may never desire to drive your own car
so great a distance, but the qualities which
make such long life possible, insure for you the
most dependable performance and economy for
any period of use. To pay less than a Stude-
baker costs is false economy; to pay more is
needless extravagance.
Australian and New Zealand Distributorsi
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CANADA CYCLE and MOTOR AGENCY (Q.), LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
p
mm
km
Blip
■ . ;sr *‘-
liill iS HI il'i;
in siinsiiiSiiiliiiiiEtiiH Mjjmr %
■MI ill S ~
»*m mp*so
SliSlifi
KS iililillilu iiiiii fgiSiggsam lilii iiiuiiniiisini i gfififififi Hiii as
Mm
mMPi
V w “» n WPIPW « ff ‘l* lf
H^O
mm Oi
ib 2 4
m iiiiisiiiiuiuia tutu! suiisisinisiuiuiu} su 1 i
ilisllftiia liuii
r o
18*
iiti \ isi tun fiia mi a; t; ul ytttmtt a ti tattul iinuast uiaaii masi m; sail a HiU
mu n cr
ifi fffSfftiiitiiiUiif Hum fit iiUiHfitiUiiiilUimi SfiiiiifsiUSiU iiiiinUfHi iiUiiiifiiiiiiiiiiifUUSi! ill
m
—;
ft"'
m
8® IS®*
ma
No. KB-736
STUDEBAKER
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES FOR 74 YEARS


OINTMENT
KIN AN O )CA
(uticura
OINTMENT
The Family Friend
Nothing purer, sweeter or more
effective for eczemas, rashes, itch-
ings and irritations. Bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water to free
the pores of impurities and follow
with a gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment to soothe and heal.
Soap lc.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; "R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
jW^* 1 Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
A
(
k
No.l for
Dark Hair
N 0.5 for
Fairmir
AMAMI
Shampoos
47 ingredients and the
Lemon Rinsing Powder
make this fragrant
shampoo the most
luxurious you can buy.
You will love its perfume.
Only in Amami do
you get the Lemon
Juice Rinsing Powder.
<l>
fd
ď
fd
Benger’s Food does much
to lighten the anxiou-,
happy task of Motherhood.
When a mother is unable to
nurse baby, the best food is fresh
cows’ milk, suitably modified. In
tiiousands of cases, every day
Benger’s proves itself to be one
of the best of all milk modifiers.
Beng-er’s is an entirely natural
food, able to transform the milk
into a delicate food cream and
to automatically adjust it to the
infants’ digestive powers.
Benger’s Food, when prepared
according to the directions, or as
ordered by the Doctor, provides all
the nourishment needed.
df
Food
Benger’s Booklet contain* valuable information
on rearing children, poet free from
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 117, Pitt Street. SYDNEY,
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers »
BENGIUVS POOH, Ud„ MANCHESTER, England,
ďf
Relief from Rupture
Any suffer*. I '/ will find
Denyers’ Elastic Truss
gives complete relief and support and
is conducive to curing.
It is perfect fitting, safe and sure. Why go another day without it?
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage extra.
If unable to call, a Pamphlet will be sent in a plain envelope closed, giving full
particulars.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
eirKßeil
Ihe Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
2. - ) „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
SI
n
i
It p
■
H
1
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
mm
m
The charm of a Kensitas
is in the leaf—the pick of
the sunniest of Virginian
fields-—cool-smoking, sooth-
ing, quite unutterably good!
10 Kensitas cost 9d.
io Club size cost i/-
20 Kensitas cost 1/6
25 Club size cost 2/6
d
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Deserted Lover.
I have not died, nor withered yet:
And, if- thou shouldst return,
There’s fife enough to still beget
, Young giants, when tve burn
Tall flames togetlief, fiercely thfdwiij
Until the final gust
Wafts us immortal from our owl!
Too perishable dust;
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
The Miser.
When I go
I’ll be sorry to leave the blackbird’s note
that beckons the tardy spring
And the fragrance of brown boronia sheaves;
and I know
I shall sigh for the early wattle’s gold and
the almond’s flowering.
I shall fret
For the peacock-blue of a breaker as it
curves to a smother of spray,
For the stars of a summer midnight, or the
wet
Gleam of a long white beach at the coming
of splendid day.
I shall yearn
For the drifting scurry of autumn leaves
in the gusts of the first March gale,
For the filmy green on the brown hills when
the laggard rains return,
And the dark pines clipped to the skyline,
Of a jdtung moon fairy-frail.
I shall grieve
For the bridal veils df the fefn-tfees Irt
the white boat frosts df Line*
For the shout of the straining trees when tbe
wet winds weave
The old earth’s infinite harmonies ill
free and fearless rune.
How they throng,
These things that never failed me ! And the
ones that moved me nust,
Would they still be mine, I wonder, if 1
went where 1 belong—
By river and range and sea-line, as an
unsubstantial ghost?
1 must have these —
These are my garnered treasures that I
would not leave behind,
When the long day draws to the darkness
and the unknown mysteries,
Deaf to the song for ever, to the beauty
for ever blind !
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
For Lost Glamor.
Mary, grant me grace that I may see
Saffron dawn-clouds blowing on the hill;
Twilight winging like a bird to me,
Trailing colors from the sunset still.
Mary, grant me grace that I may hear
Goblin rhyming in the crickets’ shout;
Whisper of wet roses in my ear
When the rain is falling soft without.
Mary Mother, grant me grace, I pray:
Heal my spirit, blind and deaf with pain;
Let me wander down the darkened way,
Linking hands with Beauty once again !
N.S.AV.
MARTINA BRABY.
The White Pigeon.
I watched a homing-pigeon fly
With flash of wings across the blue,
Its plumage white against the sky.
Above the spire it flew,
O beautiful, ecstatic flight,
Up, up, still upward to the light!
The dreary road is drenched with sleet;
Dead leaves blown down the muddy street
Litter the pavement at my feet.
But I have seen high overhead
A flying bird, sun-warmed and white,
With beating wings outspread—
A thing of joy and life and light
That blest my heart and upward drew
My soaring thoughts towards the blue!
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
The Old Story.
I turn my hand from the furrow; I clasp
the hilt of the sword;
I turn my face from the ploughing where
peace keeps watch and ward ;
Into the foremost fighting, on to the spears
I ride;
But I’ll find peace at the day’s end, and quiet
at eventide.
I go out in the morning; I will not stay and
toil
Where earth is wet on the fingers, and God
breathes out of the soil;
I choose the lesser treasure; but where my
friends abide
I shall come in at the day’s end for quiet at
eventide.
The silver chain of armor will darken into
rust;
The bright sword and the bugle will both go
down to dust.
When the white fire and the red wine of
youth are put aside
I shall find in the day’s end quiet at even-
tide.
Only one fear is on me. The tears are round
my heart;
I feel her own heart beating, and the arms
I tore apart—
Deep in the shadows round her mouth a
million kisses hide.
Mayhap I shall not find her—nor quiet at
eventide!
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


n


The Bulletin
Vol. 47 —No. 2432.
September 23, 1926.
THE NEW PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.—CHRISTIAN DROPS HIS BURDEN.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £ l Ws.; 6
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
Manager
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence'’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, sag,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Li. St. C. Grondona. No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“Tlie Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Alain Hall at Australia
Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. 75-
7i' Farringdon Street, London, E.CJi.; and IF. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.).; E. T. Hole, Holertli Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” )1)-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban arid Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency. Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and tfilnd Street, New York City; Hotaiing’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington ;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street. San Francisco ;
Wallace. 'The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5)1) South Main, Street, Los Angeles, Cal,
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
. China. —Brewer and Co., 31. Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 70-79 Farringdon Street. London, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to lOoz., l)d.; each
additional )oz. , Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l)d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.
LESSONS IN TAINTED DEMOCRACY.
Thirty overseas legislators—-18 from Britain
aud the others from tlie Irish Free State,
Canada, Newfoundland, Maoriland and
Malta —have come to Australia to see some-
thing of the country and attend a Parlia-
mentary conference. The 30 reached Sydney
last week, and if they keep their eyes open
will, add nobly to their store of politi-
cal knowledge. By a happy chance they be-
came acquainted on the way with a charm-
ing member of the new union-secretary class
which plays so important a part in N. S.
Wales politics, for the great Beasley, of
Sydney Trades and Labor Council, boarded
the boat at Vancouver. Mr. Beasley lias
been “representing the Australian workers,”
millions of whom have unfortunately never
heard of him, at Geneva, where lie showed
his gratitude to the taxpayers, who footed
his bills, by attacking Italy, a country which
has been uncommonly considerate of Aus-
tralian opinion in difficult circumstances, and
is an extensive purchaser of Australian
goods. _ The gentleman left Europe with a
low opinion of the Labor Conference; “very
disappointed,” in fact, “with the calibre of
the Labor men I met in my travels, tlie
majority of whom, foreign as well as British,
seem to have no push, no foresight.” He
said this to a reporter at Sydney; and no
doubt he said it on board the Aorangi to
everyone who would listen to liim. He is
that sort of person. During the voyage he
fell foul of a British Labor member over a
lecture to the crew’s social club, formed tlie
opinion that the Labor member had “at-
tacked me strongly,” which the Labor mem-
ber denies, volunteered tlie information that
“the British financiers were alone respon-
sible for Australia’s empty spaces,” and
“learned that a committee of five liad been
appointed to do all the speech-making of tlie
tour, and that Mr. Osmond Esmonde, the
Free State delegate, had been asked not to
discuss matters of an Imperial nature,”
which Mr. Osmond Esmonds and the Mar-
quis of Salisbury both deny. Altogether a
delightful fellow. Tlie delegates will find
many like him hanging round the Trades
and Labor Council, which is in constant
communication with Moscow, though not
all such happy combinations of cleverness
and modesty.
* * * *
Had tlie travellers arrived a few days
earlier they might have learned at first hand
liow to conduct a palace revolution in the
N. S. Wales Labor style. As it is, they can
read all about it in the Sydney daily press.
Campaigning in tlie country against a
periodically-proposed extension of Federal
powers, which N. S. Wales presently
approved of for tlie first time, Labor Pre-
mier Lang declared that newspaper stories
about dissension in bis Ministry were all
lies, the fact being that everybody loved him
except tlie members of the Opposition. This
assurance was followed by the resignation of
P. F. Loughlin, Mr. Lang’s Lands Minister
and deputy-leader, who said that a Labor paper
controlled in part by tlie Premier had made
scandalous bribery charges involving four
Labor Assemblymen, that it had refused to
withdraw, nor would the party executive
(also partly controlled by the Premier) per-
mit an inquiry ; further, that the Premier was
in League with Communists (“men completely
alien to tlie spirit and sentiment of Aus-
tralia”) who threatened to capture “the
movement,” and that be, Loughlin, would
put up for the leadership himself at the next
Caucus meeting. The party lias 46 seats
in a House with 90. It is buying one of
the other 44 —that of an “Independent” who
was returned by anti-Labor votes—with a
Government billet worth £l5OO p.a., such
things being possible under proportional re-
presentation ; but the transaction has not
been completed as far as the rejected Labor
candidate to whom the seat has been
promised is concerned. At the party
meeting there were 23 votes for Loughlin
and 23 for Lang. An absolute majority
being required, the proceedings were
adjourned for a day. At the appointed hour,
as the sober S. M. Llerald records, “the
approaches to Parliament resembled the
street opposite the Trades Hall during tlie
annual conference of tlie party” :
There were almost 10 O' prominent unionists present,
and it was stated that 84 unions had sent representa-
tives to give support to Air. Land. These men were
determined that the Premier should not be deposed
if they could help it; as any member of the party
approached he was surrounded and a heated debate
ensued. A rumor was spread that the unionists had
decided to force their way into the meeting. AVhetber
this was so or not, the meeting was adjourned to the
main committee room, and there, behind locked
doors and closed windows, the members proceeded to
discuss the situation. The unionists remained
within the grounds, eight were admitted to (lie
meeting, and four addressed members for an hour.
Loughlin was then re-appointed deputy-
leader and Lands Minister, a very humble
supporter of Lang was cast out of tlie chair-
manship, and Lang retired from the Labor
Daily board, to be. there succeeded by an
uncompromising critic of the Premier, Edu-
cation Minister Mutch. Honor being now
satisfied, all hands resumed their task of
emancipating the struggling masses.
•X- -X- * *
When the explorers return to Sydney they
should be conducted into the misty region
of municipal politics. There they may learn
enough to speculate on a mystery which fas-
cinates and baffles the indigenous student
—how aldermen with no visible means of
support contrive to live like fighting-cocks.
They are at present in Queensland, where,
some obliging Labor member may lay bare
the reasons why his party has won every
State election, mostly by great majorities of
seats, since 1915, although it has lost every
Federal election, by still greater majorities
of seats and votes, since 1917, the franchise
being the same. The obliging Labor member
will perhaps show them the State rolls,
which contain on an average 10 p.c. more
names than are to be found in the Common-
wealth registers, though enrolment is com-
pulsory iu both cases, and on one occasion
had 15 p.c. more than the adult population
as recorded by the census; he will also, it
may be, proudly produce the State electoral
map, which has in process of time become
a work of art, a veritable Old Master, if the
term may be so applied. In Victoria the
tourists will find a Liberal-Country party
Government which, after years of mental
agitation, lias produced a redistribution-of•
seats scheme that gives 51. country electors
the same voting power as 100 metropolitan
electors, and is astonished at its own radical-
ism : in Westralia a Labor Government
which, after stumping the country against
tlie present arrangement of electoral boun-
daries, now 15 years old, angrily refuses
to have it altered, because there are fewer
people in 16 constituencies on the goldfields,
where it is strong, than there are in one con-
stituency on the coast, where it is weak.
And before the visitors leave they should cer-
tainly bo permitted to gaze reverently on
that supreme achievement of Labor bossism,
the ballot-box with sliding panels. Then,
having learned all. that Australia can teach
them in the way of politics, they may go
back to their own countries asking doubtless
how it all came about'. If they look into
what Australia lias borrowed and how the
money has been and is being spent, they will
be on the road to the great discovery.
SHEEP-KILLING AND SETTLEMENT.
“Britain required to transplant 300,000 people
yearly. Two-thirds would have to be taken by the
self-governing Dominions, of whom 75,000 would
come to Australia. Fifty per cent, of these should
be directed to Queensland, because it liad the largest
area of fertile land. N.S.W. had more suitable land
than the three southern States and possibly Westralia
put together. He assumed therefore that N.S.W.
should absorb about 20,000 immigrants every year.
.... There ai’e about 700 large estates on our eastern
and coastal areas, containing 20,000,000 to 25,000,000
acres, that are all suitable for closer settlement, but
are now held as sheepruns. These should be made
available for new settlers. All this talk about build-
ing railways and developing Crown Lands is so much
rubbish. The English agriculturist is not suited for
such a life. We should fettle him on these areas,
and let our own people who understand the bush
take up the other.” — Ex-Premier Holman of AGS. IF.
W. A. Holman arrived here from London at
the age of 17. and resumed his career as a
city product on arrival. He stands for the
large class which has a city idea that almost
any land that carries sheep in fair numbers
is agricultural land. The burning de-
sire of this class is to kill off the
animal which is now Australia’s prin-
cipal standby, and put small unsuccess-
ful farmers in its place. It has much the
same conception of the necessary area for a
real farm, in this land of treacherous seasons,
as a suburban estate-agent has of the area
needed for a Roman camp. Its settlement
policy lias been a notable success in getting
rid of one man who made a living and paid
taxes, and replacing him with four or more
who starved and failed to pay anything.
Before another loan-resumption boom is
attempted there should be a rigorous inquiry
into the late (or present) one. It cost an
incredible pile of millions, and is said to have
deposited 30,000 men or families on the soil,
about half of them only to. go off again.
Strange tales are told concerning some of the
resumptions. Their common tenor- is that
Smith offered a promising area at the bed-
rock figure of, say, £8 10s. per acre and no
business followed, while Smitiiers offered
rocks at £7 per acre, being £0 for Smitiiers
and £1 for somebody else, the result being
that the settler got Smithers's land a great
deal too often. These tales may not be true,
but some of the prices charged to the unhappy
buyers don’t suggest that they are false. The
Federal Government found the money and
left the supervision to the States, completely
ignoring the fact that it had more than one-
sixth of Australia, as its own freehold, to
give away. An unflinching belief that the
Commonwealth should resume, or continue
settlement on these lines, and always in the
State domains, is continually manifesting
itself.
-X- * * *
Australia can’t afford to treat its jum-
buck as a nuisance which stands in the way
of settlement. The simple fact is that, in the
way of raising a bit of money by exporting
to meet or partly meet this country’s im-
mense and increasing foreign obligations
(mostly interest on debt), the Australian
sheep is a great success, while the Australian
agriculturist is a very moderate one—at
times almost a failure. In 1925-26 the wool
exports were valued at £63,206,248 and the
wheat and flour exports at £24,103,262; and
though sometimes the vegetable product shows
a little better than that, often it shows far
worse, and on a 12 years’ race it is about
52 yards behind in a hundred. And wheat
is carried on the N.S.W. and other railways
at less than one-fifth the rate which wool
pays, and without this huge subsidy a good
part of the industry would die. It is carried
to Europe by ship at one-tenth the freight
which wool pays, else some more of the
industry might perish.
* * * *
Within the .last five years a new financial
situation has arisen, that of a community
which is openly on the brink of insolvency.
Politicians, whether they are imported Cock-
ney, Welsh or Irish'or whether they are
native products, hate to recognise new situa-
tions, and they talk as glibly as ever about
chasing Australia’s most reliable asset off
20,000,000 or 25,000,000 acres, and sending
the present settlers out into the “bush.” But
the crisis exists, as is shown approximately
in these figures, with the small change left
out:—-
Shortage to
Be Made (Jock!
by Incurring
Excess Foreign Obliga- New Debts
of Exports, tions to Be Met. of Some Sort.
1914-20.. e 90,400,000 £119,000,000 £22,600,000
Excess
of Imports.
1921-26.. £11,000,000 £158,800,000 £169,800,000
That is sticking to official figures, but the
fact that £28,800,009 dividends paid by
B.A.W.R. are credited to the second period,
whereas the wool which they represented was
exported in the first, makes the situation
look more favorable than it really is. The
case might be put thus: —
1914-20 Net Surplus after meeting
Foreign liabilities . . . . £6,200,000
1921-26 Net Shortage to be added to ■
Foreign Liabilities . . .. 198,600,000
The annual bill to be met abroad, in gold or
in goods that will sell for gold, was estimated
at £16,000,000 in 1914 and is about
£28,000,000 now. So a tiew crisis has arisen
and the stereotyped babblement about cut-
ting up big estates and settling luckless
kitchen-gardeners on the land is quite out ot
date, whatever it might have been in 1920.
That policy, by piling up debt and setting
thousands of men to earn about nothing a
year on inferior allotments, has materially
helped to create the present situation. Now
it is a question of producing more, and doing
with less, and turning the neglected sixth of
Australia to account, else something must
break on a big scale.
HELPING THE FAMILY TUCKER-
BAG.
There is a steady increase amongst” the
islanders of Torres Strait, which, of course,
means also that there is an increase
of the Commonwealth’s colored population;
and those who have been keeping an eye on
the problem of color as it affects other parts
of the world express a fear that Queensland
may develop its own small edition of the
sort of thing that is worrying places like
South Africa. There is also a feeling, par-
ticularly on the part of those who have no
intimate knowledge of the Strait, that this
condition of healthy breeding will furnish
the Government with .a roll of hungry reci-
pients for the flour-and-blanket dole. Actu-
ally there is nothing to worry about on
either account. There are only 8000 or so
native inhabitants of the islands all told. Of
these 242 boys are signed on to the pearling
and beche-de-mer boats (mostly under
Japanese control), and last year they drew
£2530 in wages, besides being “kept.” An-
other 350 worked their own island cutters
and luggers, bought and paid for by them-
selves ; others, again, fished the waters in
dinghies and canoes—a combination of home
industries which brought in £20,000-odd.
Besides all this, another settlement in the
Strait which does not come within the
direct jurisdiction of the Protector, running
its own pearling- and fishing-boats as a regis-
tered company, won produce to the value of
several thousands. A good deal of this money
went into the Commonwealth’s savings bank—-
045 accounts at Thursday Island showed a
total of £13,278, which indicates that the
islander may justly repudiate the insinuation
that lie is a lazy nigger living, and likely to
live, on the charity of white brother.
A good lump of the islander’s earnings
flows into European tills, and is spent with
Australian traders to help Australian indus-
tries ; and the £20,000 he.brought into Thurs-
day Island from his own boats helps to
balance the £20,000 which, according to local
calculations, went to Japan last year from
the sons of Nippon who also work the
Strait’s waters. It ought to be mentioned,
too, that the islander, in addition to a sys-
tem of taxation, contributes his labor and
cash to the building of schools and develop-
mental works; and he also goes a little
further than other Australians in paying
regular dues towards the maintenance of the
local hospital for all colors. His prosperity
has increased considerably within the last
10 years, the earnings from his various boat
businesses having grown more than four-
fold ; if the next 10 years show a corres-
ponding increase, the SO miles or so of reef-
islands between Cape York and New Guinea
(an area which most maps of Australia fill
in with open water and a tiny pinpoint indi-
cating Thursday Island) will prove a valu-
able asset to this continent of ours.
There has been progress in other ways,
and the islander is no longer the unsophisti-
cated head-hunting son of the seas that he
once was. He has his schools, and is now
clamoring for a higher standard of educa-
tion; he reads his newspaper, and knows a
good deal about strikes and other events of
the day; he goes to the cinema, wears a
wrist-watch, and buys a camera and gramo-
phone, sends to Brisbane and Sydney for
the latest catalogues of drapery, and knows
something about the law. With his own
native councillors and his native clergy, he
will soon be claiming full rights as an Aus-
tralian citizen in the way of the franchise,
which will bring a lot of other things, in-
cluding a proper system of land tenure and
the setting up of a special administrative
department (exempting him from the Abo.
Act), in its train. The infusion of South
Sea, Manila, Malay, European, West Indian
and a few other varieties of blood has stif-
fened up the race, although it causes a deal
of worry to the official seeking definition of
racial characteristics at census time.
There are other industries in the islands
also —for instance, boat-building. Slips now
in course of extension at Badu have already
turned out native-built dinghies, and will
be putting out larger craft in due course.
Hitherto all such work has been done on the
Japanese slips at Thursday Island since the
Europeans went out of the business. Copra-
making, though not on a large scale, occu-
pies the stay-at-homes, and all islands have
their agricultural plots. All this indicates
something of the self-development that is
going on. But the islander, albeit a citizen
of the Commonwealth, an Australian, carries
the taint of color; and one of the fears ex-
pressed is that if this variegated community
thrives and increases as it is doing, it will
oust white labor, and there will be on a
small scale the problem of South Africa.
There need be no fear, though, of Australia’s
white policy suffering; nor need there be
alarm otherwise, so long as a careful eye
is kept upon the introduction of alien colored
labor into Northern Australian industries.
At present Japanese and Malays come in
under indenture to help gather the pearl
harvest. New Guinea boys are also brought
across for the same purpose, their labor for
the present being cheaper. If there is com-
petition. it is with these that the islander
will compete. There are no white divers
working in the Strait now; practically all
the dress-divers are .Japanese. The island
boys are unrivalled “skin-divers,” going
down to IS fathoms or so with just a pair
of swimming glasses ; and the white Aus-
tralian will not want to undertake that!
The' Strait boys may cut into' “dress-
diving”; but the white diver passed out when
the aliens came in, and so there is no pro-
blem there. Even where they are going in
for industrial work, such as boat-building,
they enter into competition with no white
labor, since the foreign invasion had killed
that previously. Thus, after all. the island
development is right behind the White Aus-
tralia policy, and the earnings are being dis-
tributed within the family instead of abroad.
The islander will not under-sell his labor
either; boys on beche-de-mer boats get now
from £4 a month and found, as against £2
10 years ago.
No, there need be no cause for alarm even
when the islander says “We want to make
our islands full-up people!”—-by which lie
means that he is not a birtli-rostrictionist. On
the contrary, the very fact of our having a
prosperous and contented community of Aus-
tralia's own native-born citizens with a stake
in the country living right alongside the east-
ern gateway will help to make the country
more secure for the rest, of us.
C.C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Price-fixer’s Troubles.
With more than its usual foresight, the
N.S.W. Ministry is preparing for the con-
sequences of the great rise in the basic wage
which is expected as a result of proceedings
now in progress. The method is to bo the


customary one. It was tried long ago by
a Syrian monarch, who had heard vaguely of
a miracle-worker in Israel and sent his lcpel-
general along to tile king of tilfit Minor Jhate
with an order that. lie should bfe cured iM-
iiiediatelv; TAAfc'S idea is d ti-ifle more com-
plicated ; but, then, the times are mOre .cttal-
plicated. First df ,ali AV ages-L tjmmissidner
Will tirdeiv tliat tidy, snail risk,
It did last yeah, dud tlie befdre and at
fitlief time§. He will thereby skoW his
kindness of lifeaft if life shoivs nothing more.
If he suspects, as he is liable td dd, tliat tlie
price of a manufactured article, dr of articles
in general, lias gone tip. oht Of proportion
to tlifi ivage-fisfe . Wliicli lie grdnfed,
then life . ifi td fiit in judgment bn
the Mfinuffictui-ef. witli twd accountants to
help HIM: The .simple liiet.hdd is. td remark
tliat, the iTage, bill in,, §ay, a wodllfen, Mill
Kafi Befell raised by £IOO, pet week ; therefore
tlik of a week’s output, should g 6 up
hB more than £IOO. But if a really accurate
account is taken of the fact that the wage
Bf everybody connected with the supply of
faw material (barring the sheep) is raised,
also the pay of tlie fuel and light and repair-
inen, also the railway rates and the taxes (an
increase in both of these is reckoned inevit-
able), the struggle to fix an exactly justi-
fiable increase would probably outlast an
elderly Commissioner’s lifetime. It would
almost certainly outlast an elderly Commis-
sioner’s patience and stock of worldly know-
ledge. Further, when a price is once fixed
it is to, remain fixed, no matter how much
and how rapidly conditions may change,
until the Commissioner has time to come
round and go into the matter again; and
if he is a conscientious sort of man, that
may not happen during this incarnation.
♦
Who Manages the Railways ?
Like most other people who have had to
read harrowing details about tlie most com-
plete and disastrous railway smash in the
history of N. S. Wales, the State secretary
of the A.R.U. desires, according to a state-
ment which he supplied to the Labor Daily,
to “ascertain the root cause of such acci-
dents, with a view to their prevention.” In
such a case, and in such political circum-
stances as at present exist, the secretary of
the trade union most concerned talks to the
Government of the State.fts deep speaking to
nfiefi. It is understood in such cdMMfinicfi-
tions tliat the seafeh for tlie loot Must fie
conducted with an observance of certabi
Well-understood conventions. If the LangS-
I.ougiilins, who between them arc „supi
posed to run the Labfir party in and. around
Australia’s most bloated capital, were to be
told by seven archangels that their rule .isn’t
the bes( thing ever invented, for the pi'.eser-
yfition of discipline in. the railway service;
they would first of all remark that the arch-
angels were tools of the political opponents
of Labor, and then pretend that the arch-
angels never said any such thing. But every-
bqc|y ip the N. S. AYales railway service, arid
inpst of those who travel on the railways!,
must be aware that Commissioner FRASJty
and his colleagues have a certain amount of
collaboration in railway management these
days. When the Commissioners decide to
build a line or duplicate a line or re-lay the
ballast or do something else to it that neces-
sitates the employment of large numbers of
muscular men, they decree what is to be
done. But there is somebody else to be
consulted. The union delegate is on the job
as well as the foreman, and he has the
advantage that he has a much stronger poli-
tical pull than the foreman. The foreman
has been given a job, but the union repre-
sentative wears the purple of those who give
jobs. The Commissioners can say, if they
feel like it, that the job should be done with
fewer pauses; but the union can say, if it
feels like warfare, that the job shall not be
done at all. And the union representative,
in these days, at any rate, knows that he is
expected to have a blind side. He is a parti-
san. It is the employer’s job to sort out
the slacker and the trouble-maker. The
tlpioii Mali’s job is to cater to the adherents
of a iinipli .Whbse leadets, when they warit
to be extra-impressive, draw sobs Out Of the
iiotion that it is a cruelly hard thing to be
Bpmpelled to labor, fOy one’s daily bread, by
Hie sweat ,of one’s . brow while men like
FkASEk swirl round, in motor-cars. Fraser’s
railway, system, like, every other railway
System in the world, is governed, nominally,
at all events, by certain Regulations. Tliose
regulations were framed long yfearS ago, it
May be, to enable the men responsible for
the Management to sheet home tlife responsi-
bility for mishaps. Incidentally— and this
tvOuld be nothing new in the history of rail-
way management—the regulations may have
bfeen framed by a MaCiiiavelli whose prin-
cipal concern was to protect the heads and
sacrifice the tails when anything went astray.
But his “Thou shall nots,” if effective, would
prevent most accidents. Some of them, of
course, were intended to be taken with a
grain of salt or a blind eye to the telescope.
But they were there —-all of them—in the
background. Nowadays, it may be guessed,
they are not all there. Some have been con-
demned by the union as unreasonable; others
have been broken by men whom the union
feels it must support, right or wrong. On
some there has been a battle—and if the
Commissioners won they must have a sub-
conscious feeling, at least, that it would
have been better for their worldly welfare
if they had lost. Now, within the short
space of three months and three days, N. S.
Wales has had a couple of train disasters
that have focussed public attention on to
railway management. Any inquiry that does
not cast some light upon the question as to
who really manages the railways won’t
satisfy anyone except the politicians. And
the politicians can’t leave everything.
♦
The Murder of Pitman and Walsh.
The murder of the two Westralian detec-
tives, of which two members of an illicit-
gold partnership have been found guilty by
a Perth jury and sentenced to death, shows
what one bad custom can lead to in an
isolated community. There have always
been gold-thieves in the Kalgoorlie district,
but not always were they regarded as being
on a different plane from malefactors en-
gaged in other forms of stealing and receiv-
ing. The new view of the matter perlians
dates from a time when Parliament, at the
instance of the Chamber of Mines, decided
to throw the onus of proof of lawful posses-
sion on persons found with gold reasonably
supposed to he stoieil, a measure which was
strenuously fbught; As the. prosperity Of
the held declined, and population with it. the
fCeling that there was a lot to he said ffir
the gold-stealing fraternitygrew. In tile
exodus tb thC coast find tlid fafniing are'as.
which begail about i9o§, the host types Of
goldfifelders joined—the i.GhB. tribe, _ of
course, remained—and tile war also deprived
EalgOoflife and Boulder Of much splendid
human material, .for at least a thousand of
mb' mjnOrs who flbeked io the colors did.nOt
edine bock. With the wdf, mOfedvet, arrived
union bosses WliOse .ravings wouldii't liaye
caused fl ripple On , tji e fitlefim Of, Events ip
the daßs bf ..men .like JAfifez Donri find
TjfabMAs Ba4h—gin-caSe offitofs shduting
tlla.t it, was Labor’s fight and duty td “take
and hold the means of production tty revolu-
tionary action/’ Labor , being “the source Of
all wealth.” One of these mßb leaders was
the notorious Callahan, wild Was conspicu-
ous in an attempt to drive away mine-
workers unfriendly to the I.W.W:, and who
subsequently tried to, fetrieye his shattered
fortunes —shattered at the faces, fity doubt
—by doing a bit of taking and holding on
his own account. In the dock he protested
that it wasn’t “robbery under arms,” as the
Crown maintained, but “propaganda by
deed.” Perhaps the Chamber of Mines, by
bearing part of the cost of the police opera-
tions against gold-stealers, and the State
Government, by withdrawing from the
arrangement, unwittingly contributed to an
impression, which gradually formed and
spread, that those against whom the cam-
paign was directed- —a “capitalistic” cam-
paign indeed—-were dashing fellows who
robbed the rich to give to the poor. At all
events, the work of Walsh and Pitman
seems to have been resented in certain quar-
ters with a bitterness unknown in the early
days of the fields, when police raids on gold-
stealing outfits were invariably bloodless
affairs with malice on neither side. Coming
upon an illicit-treatment plant, whose owners
they had caught once before, the two detec-
tives were ferociously murdered. Murdered,
the jury found, by men who seem to have
been good husbands and fathers, and who,
placed in an environment where distorted
viptys of .crime and soft-headed sympathy
with, criminals are. uncommon, might have
lived decfently and iisfifully until in the
course of nature they we,re gathered .to their
fathers. Nevef in the.. History .of the gold-
fields, a history which fcb'ntainS chapters
which Australians will . always recall with
pfide, has thefe.beeu a ghastlier affair’. Tliose
udio make .and those Who. administer., our.
criminal | laws dan learn Much from * it, if
they will
The Lepers of Nauru.
Australia, Britain and, Maonlfifidtpok over
a leprosy, problem with the mqtidate for
Nauru. In the 1925 report . to Geneva on
the island., Which is four-fifths phqsphatic
rock (70 p.c. of tlie output now .comes to
the Commonwealth), 189 inhabitants ..are
classed as lepers in segregation and 170 as
lepers and leper suspects attending an out-
patient clinic. They represent 29.07 p.c.
of the native population, but a few patients
(the exact number is not stated) are
Chinese. About 75 p.c. of tliose in the leper
station are treated with crude cluiulmoogra-
oil intravenously injected five times a week,
the dose ranging from 20 minims to 10
minims; the average quantity administered
in the course of a year is 81 fluid ounces
per adult. Reporting on these patients, Dr.
A. R. Townsend, Government Medical Offi-
cer, states that “the drug certainly appears
to control the disease, but in a large number
the symptoms remain stationary.” At the
suggestion of Sir Leonard Rodgers, oleum
Wightiana injected intramuscularly is being-
tried in stationary cases, which worry the
doctors most of all; hut supplies had not
arrived when the report was sent to Aus-
tralia to be printed. In addition to cliaul-
mbogra, inOogrdl, “given intramuscularly in
doses of from 5 c.c. to 21 c.C./’ has been used
with vdry promising results; moogrol, Dr.
Townsend testifies* “has proved a most
valuable .find efficient drug.” But experi-
ments with sodium-mbfrhuate and , sodiuiil-
hydnoefirpate have been disappointing. Of
the whole 189 cases, 82 were classed as sta-
tionary, 74. as improved , find 33 as worse,
while 8 patients, ivho had ali received treat-
ment “for more than two and less than three
years,” were released on parole. There were
four deaths during tile year, but in no in-
stance was leprosy the actual cause. In all,
28 patients have been released on parole
since the station was established) and others
have shown such improvement' that “further
releases are confidently expected during
192(5.” At the out-patient clinic _ chaul-
moogra-oil is* administered three _ times, a
week and moogrol once a week. Since 1921
the administration of Nauru, apart from the
working of the phosphate deposits, has been
in Australian hands, the administrator being
Brig.-Gen. Thomas Griffiths, who was in
Gallipoli from first to last. Australia has
been villainously traduced on the score of
the Rabaul mandate, so it is time some
reference was made to its successful and (if
The Bulletin may say so) noble fight to
save the Nauruans from being wiped out by
leprosy.
—♦
The Paradise of the Unmarried.
“M.L.C.”: Every increased Customs duty
sharpens the contrast between the luxurious
standard of living of the Australian bachelor
and the poverty of the man with his quiver
full. Nowhere else in the world is the con-
trast so marked as in this. land of ours;
nowhere else is so much time and money
expended on the fatuous pastime of fixing
the living wage. So much meticulous arith-
metic, and the answer so utterly wrong- for
all but the indexed household of five!
Australia has been dubbed “the Paradise of
the Working Man.” But that is long out
of date; now it is the single man who is the
spoilt darling of her industrial legislation.
The man with a large family—the man she
needs —is victimised at every turn. He may
deny himself every indulgence and work time
and overtime, and yet fail hopelessly to pro-
vide his family with the food and housing
that ordinary hygiene demands. Some day,
perhaps, men in this position will realise
that when they strike or vote for higher
wages, they are greatly improving the posi-
tion of the single nien, but are acting in
direct opposition to theil* own interests, Some
diiy, too, they niay realise that every duty
and evei-y rise in wages is paid by them ten-
of twfelve-fdld to his Once, And that the extra
pay they receive in turn compensates for a
fraction only of the extra cost. l%en, pos-
sibly, in desperation there may be formed
a. filmily-man’s Union, cutting across all
class distihctions (for the professional
classes find it each year increasingly difficult
to, educate aiid Iditneh Several iff family),
with the sole object Of reducing the cost of
living by lowering the duties. It might he
wish, therefore,- before the point is reached,
tO turn Aside from frazzling threadbare the
weil-wdrn afgiiirieiit Protection v. Ffeetrade
and find sbme wd,y to* alleviate the hardships
which, undoubtedly, are milch increased by
the present sySteril And the pi ty Of it is
that the children stittei mOst. To kefe'h a
lafge proportion Of the population with
mo’ney to 1 b’urn iS a,n extremely heavy, drain
on any country: Also, the surplus is largely
silent on fOreign llixuries father than On.the
home products which , Supply . a faniily’s
needs. ir A tax on, bachelors has been adopted
in some countries, but both that. and child
endowment wOuld be inadequate in .Austra-
lia with the cost of living at its present peak.
Considering tlie cohfitlOSs statistics , already
compiled, would it be impossible id work
the sum right through, find let every main
with less than five in family bay A propor r
tional rebate in aid of those with more?
At all events it would be logical. Or is
there a simpler method?
♦
The Perennial Quack.
“M.G.S.”: “L.C.M.” is only partly right
when he says (B. 19/8/’2ti) that popular
education is the only panacea for quacks.
Frightfully well-educated people are often
the quack’s easiest victims. I know one
Australian scientist of international repute
who has spent a mint of money in having
his spine hammered by the chiropractors.
Later lie was stroked by a dark soulful
lady with “vital” hands—l suspect the
vitality was due ,to a sprinkling of cayenne
pepper. The trouble is that there are some
deep-seated diseases which defy the best efforts
of the profession, and ivlien a sufferer is at
liis wits’ end, be he never so well educated,
he will snatch at any straw. Also many
quacks do achieve improvement, temporary
perhabfi, but actual, in their patients,
althofigh the .feasting ascribed are not the
right ones. , Tlie living cell appears to be
endowed with A will tc> Jivti, and auto-sug-
gestion can so stiffen ils resolution that
children in Switzerland, so it lias been stated,
are able to raise warts on their hands by
wishing them, there. No, the principal pre-
sent danger. lies in , the possibility of some
“class-cfinscitius” Government, like the Gov-
ernment of Queensuapd; legalising this of that
variety, of quack. Class-etinkciausness comes
into the business because of flic dative
assumption in some quarters that tlie regis-
tered practitioner .battens on the poor,
whereas lie actually battens on the well-to-do
and gives his services to the indigent for
nothing or a song. The Labor Government
of Queensland recently showed an inclina-
tion to legalise the Abrams box, tlie most
callous device for robbing tlie poor and igno-
rant yet invented. And there are news-
papers quite ready to support ( tlie movement.
Stead’s Review, a Melbourne journal founded
by one of the most sincere of journalists
now unhappily passed over, in its latest
issue demands for herbalists “a higher status
and due recognition from the law.” That
there are more of them than a poor odd one
or two is suggested by the fact that the
same issue contains nine large advertise-
ments of herbalists, two of them with Chinese
names. I know something about the Chinese
herbalist. One of them bought an expensive
house in a good Melbourne suburb from a
registered practitioner who found lie could
not afford such princely state. The herbalist
did so well that he was recently able to sell
tlie house and goodwill for £SOOO to a fellow-
countryman. who had acquired his knowledge
of tlie healing art in growing artichokes and
ieeks. These facts are not likely to weigh
with politicians and certain newspapers. One
chiropractic institute in U.S.A. advertises
that it is unnecessary to be able to read or
write to become a qualified practitioner, yet
many States have legalised the cult. One
State has legalised 17 varieties, including the
zonetherapeutist. Who cures toothache by
squeezing the big toe.
*
The Squatter and the Rabbit-trapper.
Dear Bulletin, —One would imagine that
the rabbit-pested squatter would welcome the
trapper as a friend in need, but in a great
many cases lie is actually regarded as an
enemy. Not very long ago, at a meeting; of
landowners, he was described as a parasite.
As he supplies the market with food, fur and
other valuable products, besides plugging to-
wards the suppression of a disastrous pest, I
consider him a very useful worker. But
tlie landowner begrudges him the livelihood he
is making. The trapping, said one, “should
he placed on a business basis,” to give the
landowner a direct return for the food he
unwillingly has raised. The rabbit, in the
first place, spread on tlie big runs and be-
came a national calamity through the negli-
gence of the holders; from small holdings in
closely-settled districts the pest soon dis-
appears. Under Government compulsion the
landowner had to wire-net, poison and other-
wise destroy continuously, which represented
a considerable yearly outlay, with no recom-
pense beyond a few extra blades of grass to
the acre. When tlie trapper came in, wages
on many runs were discontinued, the trapper
doing the work that tlie runliolder had pre-
viously to pay for. Not satisfied with that,
when trapping was found to be remunerative
a charge was made for the right of trapping
on good grounds. Still tlie trapper was
making too much. So the position was that
the big landowner was mainly responsible
for the propagation of the pest, but objected
to being relieved of it if its destruction
benefited anybody but himself. Another
aspect of the question is that squatters don’t
want the public to get cheap rabbits, as that
interferes with meat profits. One of them
made the astounding proposal that Bunny
should be barred altogether as an article of
diet; and the Molong P. P. Board (N.S.W.)
subsequently circularised other Boards for
co-operation to suppress all trade in rabbits.
A member of the Forbes Board declared ‘‘if
the trade was not suppressed the landowners
would have a hard fight.” From which it
can easily be understood what sort of fight
Wild Rabbo is having at the seat of the
industry. Squatters have for half a century
been groaning under the rabbit curse, and the
cost of poisoning and wire-netting to keep it
in check; yet when trappers go on the runs
to do the killing for them they are asked for
a royalty, or for trapping fees. Many squat-
ters regard the trappers as their saviours,
but the other sort wants no remedy but
poison^—another curse, which is rapidly ex-
terminating many useful insectivorous birds
and propagating the baleful blowfly all over
the continent; and he asks the Government
to make the pest a national concern to save
him the expense of doing the poisoning him-
self; The chief value of poison is that it
renders the carcase unfit for food, and thus
rubs but the' competition with meat. What
the. N;S, W: Government should do is to pro-
claim all bunny haUntS free trapping areas.
That, would give them access to all warrens,
which would benefit the country generally, or
compel the landownefs, to do tlieir own work
at tlieir owh expense, instead of charging the;
trapp'erb fOr doing it. Also, the use of
poisons should, be prohibited everywhere,—-
Yours; E. S. S'orensPn.
— =*.
Deciinal Coinage.
Anybody who pants for a decimal coinage
might dO worse than get into communication
with the Australian branch Of the Empire’
Decimal AssOciatiOn, provided lie call find
that estimable body. The Bulletin has re-
ceived a pamphlet from it, but there is no
address except “Melbourne, 1926,” and
though Melbourne may stay 1926 won’t. It
is asserted that decimal coinage exists every-
where except in the British Isles, South
Africa, Maoriland and Australia, which
seems a rash statement, but may pass.
Certainly these countries should agree on a
decimal system to simplify education and
save laborious figuring, always provided the
monetary unit or standard coin is big enough.
Nominally the standard coins of the British
Empire range from the Sudanese pound
(20s. 31d.) to the piastre of Cyprus (three
of them make 4d.). Keeping accounts ill
piastres or even in francs runs to a dreadful
multiplicity of figures when one is writing
about the public debt or anything like that,
The pamphleteers suggest a “lion” of IOOeL
(Bs. 4d.) as the nOminUl top or roof coin. It
seems a needless dragging in by the tail Of
a smellsome foreign animal. The scheme in-
cludes minor square coins, or coins with a hole;
in the ctntre to let the wind through, both of
which are Used in India, where there are in
addition some scolloped coins. It is difficult
to see that much would be gained by decimal
coinage unless accompanied by a system of
metric, weights and measures,_ but presum-
ably tliese would be included in the reform-
Tjle Weights and measures of the British
Empife ate much more tangled than its coin-
age, 0 a'hy out will find if he tries to buy a
chaldron of whisky Of a truss of cheese. Per-
haps the greatest needs o'f all are a decimal
or metric alphabet and a scolloped pronunci-
ation. It is interesting to consider that a
word like “catalogue” can contain three'
sounds not in the alphabet at all; olid
letter which isn’t used to represent its own
sound but that of another letter; and two
letters that ate piete superfluous baggage,
not being sounded at dll.-., Such a language
certainly ought to be scolloped,
.— +
The Cause of Cancer.
“Bio” : “We know that those who have least
mental worry don't get cancer.” This dic-
tum. by “S.N.R.” (B. 29/7/’26), is given
as a possible clue to the predisposing cause
of the modern scourge. It may or may not
prove to be the case; but when the old pro-
verb said that care killed the animal with
nine lives, it anticipated modern discovery.
Subconscious suggestion can not only kill —-
from no visible cause —it can in certain sub-
jects, by hypnotic suggestion, cause the
appearance and disappearance of a true
abscess ( vide experiments of Drs. Charcot,
Briggs and others). The power to make the
abscess disappear was the most startling part;
of these experiments, suggesting vast possi-
bilities. Unfortunately the startling cases of
subconscious mental control over life, disease
and death are exceptional, and usually the
exceptions are hysterical or of low intelli-
gence. Apparently our brain is a central
directing bureau with a dual control. Nor-
mally the pair work in harmony. No. 1,
the original partner, directs nearly alt our
body functions —digestion, blood circulation,
breathing, etc. We are not conscious of No.
1 unless something goes wrong. No. 2, the
modern partner, is conscious reason; and
its development tends to handicap the powers
of No. 1. As reason —in a race or individual
—develops, the instinctive powers decline.
Also (and this leads to the cancer theory),
the two partners being in the same office, an
overstrain of one upsets the other. Thus it
is not the big eaters and drinkers who are
most liable to dyspepsia, but the nervous,
temperamental brain-workers. In a general
way this has long been known, and many
empirical rules for health preservation have
been based on it. We know fairly well how-
to control and regulate the powers of No. 2,
the modern thinking brain ; but we have, so
far, the vaguest ideas of how to control the
potentially magic powers of No. 1. There
is no question of these powers. Hypnotism,
while it brushed aside the mantle of miracle,
has done little more. The item accentuated
is this; that in No. I—brain —directed by
laws yet to be defined, we have powers of
bodily health and cure seemingly incredible.
Following up this clue has so far not had
very happy results for the expert inquirers.
Like the discoverer of X-rays, not knowing
the powers they are dealing with, they get
maimed —in their case, mentally. It may
be significant that as the scourge of one
period is battled with and diminished, an-
other scourge takes its statistical place. I
recall Dr. Dkysdale’s contention of half a
century ago, that lives saved from small-
pox by compulsory vaccination were only
preserved to be victims of kindred epidemics
—suggesting that in the race, or family, there
may be a habit of length of life which modern


“The Australia”
Banqueting Hall
For Public and Private Entertainments.
Centrally situated, with a convenient en-
trance from Rowe Street.
Eminently suitable for meetings, conferences,
club luncheons, banquets, etc.
For particulars apply Manager. Telephone 86441.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “AUSTRAOTEL, SYDNEY.’
Single Room, with Breakfast from .
Ti’ e /lustralia
( Paid-up Capital, £52,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
f
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible
tubes—is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube* Obtainable Everywhere .
®3i4
d
hygiene will have to take into account in its
effort to stretch out the average. On the
whole, nevertheless, in spite of his handicaps,
it appears to be demonstrated that modern
man lives a longer and healthier life than
any of his predecessors.
Reflections at “The Show.”
Not so many years ago an Australian child
went home from an agricultural show loaded
with samples of imported goods. The im-
pression conveyed to his plastic mind was
that Germans, Japs, Americans and English-
men were superior creatures who made
things with their clever hands while the
Australian remained a red-faced, rather
gawky person with rough hands, who waited
for sheep to grow their wool, cows to secrete
their milk and liens to drop their eggs. These
simple pursuits were believed, with some
justice, to breed an unsophisticated type of
yokel who handed his year’s earnings to a
helpful stranger to hold while he posted his
letters; or who passed the boss’s cheque into
the nearest publican in return for an indefi-
nite supply of beer. And although this rustic
creature might be a knightly-looking being in
the saddle, he was a butt for the city small
boy and the comic papers whenever he
walked the streets. No wonder the belief
that Australia would never be able to make
things for herself gained ground—it isn’t
all dead yet in some quarters with regard to
things she hasn’t yet begun to make. But
times are changing. A feature of recent
Shows in Melbourne has been the steady
growth in importance of Australian manu-
factures. The usual vast Herefords and
Clydesdales cavort about the ring, but the
visitor who wanders through the network
of shop-lined streets surrounding it could
easily imagine he was at a display of
secondary industries. Taking an inventory
of the articles one infant succeeded in col-
lecting, it was found that all but one was
Australian-made —-and this was a good test,
as the child doesn’t yet practise preference
for home manufactures. Although it did not
include a motor engine the collection was
remarkably varied. Another good feature of
the Show is the growth of secondary indus-
tries with rural addresses. This develop-
ment isn’t as rapid as it ought to be, but
it is gaining momentum. Bill Blackbutt’s
whips are no longer the only manufactures
of which Hairpin Bend now boasts; it
happens to be within tapping distance of
the Yallourn power-transmission line, and so
it makes other things as well. A conse-
quence of all these factors is the changing
aspect of the country man and woman.
Contrary to the belief still entertained by
city artists, Dad no longer harbors birds’
nests in his beard. He is more often a
Gallipoli veteran in his early prime, and
addicted to clean-shaving and machinery.
Mum’s hat no longer causes city motor-cars
to climb the lamp-posts. Shingled and silk-
artoed. Miss Outback is almost undistin-
guishable from her urban sister; and small
brother has the bright look of one who,
although he may turn out to milk the cows
o’ mornings, spends his evenings tuning-in
to Mozambique.
Germany and the Mandates.
There is nai've self-revelation in a speech
by the German Chancellor, Dr. Stresemann,
to a bevy of German journalists. His claim
that Germany’s admission to the League of
Nations had removed the “moral stigma
placed upon her by the Treaty of Versailles”
may be true in the sense that a man who
has served his sentence for burglary cannot
be called a cracksman without exposing his
accuser to the risk of a libel action. But
the old spirit was in evidence in the next
sentence, when he said that, though Ger-
many did not intend to “assault” the
League with a list of demands, she aimed at
“recovering gradually what she had lost”;
in other words, the colonies, over some of
which Australia exercises a mandate. The
terms of the mandates clearly show that
the territories concerned were regarded as
having passed from Germany for good. The
mandatory idea amounted to nothing more
than a legal fiction, and the ultimate merging
of the territories in the mandatory power
was considered as a fact all but accom-
plished, the League of Nations exercising
in the meantime a benevolent supervision.
Ever since the signing of the Treaty, how-
ever, the German has bent his energies to
fostering the assumption that the mandates
are only a temporary trust, for his eventual
benefit; and recent happenings have shown
that lie has persuaded some members at least
of the mandates committee to his way of
thinking.
Readers of the Sydney Labor Daily had
an exciting sixpenn’orth last week. On
Monday they were assured that auti-Labor
reports as to an impending Loughlin move
against Premier Lang were “hallucinations,”
“dud effusions,” “a fake.” On Tuesday they
learned that “Mr. Loughlin” had “saved
the day for the anti-Labor press,” but the
betting was 1000 to 1 against him; in fact,
“the sensation nearly fizzled out.” Then
came these agitated remarks :
Wednesday: “Thoughtless members of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party, influenced by outside interests,
have allowed personal ambition to lead political
Labor into an ambush. This paper was ridiculed
because it hinted at dangerous days ahead—at dis-
loyalty to staunch Mr. Lang. A people’s Govern-
ment is tottering to its doom.”
Thursday: “Caucus is 50 per cent. anti-LANG, and
that means trouble sooner or later. Even if the
Government is saved for the time being, further
intrigues will, without doubt, send it to an un-
deserved doom.”
Friday: “The Nationalists are impotently gnashing
their teeth. After all that has been published as to
the little struggle for leadership in the Labor party,
things are going on all right. Lang is still Premier
of N. S. Wales.”
Saturday: “Mr. Lang (has) the whole movement
on his side as against 23 disgruntled politicians, plus
what has risen to the surface in the A.W.U. If a
vote was taken to-day Mr. Lough UN's following
would have dwindled like ice under a tropical sun.”
Somehow it all suggests that if Loughlin
hail got one more vote the Labor Daily
would have equalled the achievement of the
Moniteur, which announced in the course
of a few hectic days that “the Corsican bri-
gand” had landed from Elba, and would be
“ADVANCE, AUSTRALIA FAIR!"
pulverised forthwith, and that “his Majesty
the Emperor and King arrived at Paris last
night, amid the acclamations of his faithful
subjects, and slept in his Palace of the
Tuileries.”
4
Now that the Melbourne police are giving
more attention to the genial gentlemen who
sell suburban land to migrants, some in-
teresting disclosures have been made. One
man, who described himself as a “sales
superintendent,” was described by the police
in their turn as an inter-Statc thief, cheat
and impostor. Of the staff he superin-
tended. one was even more distinguished than
his boss, being an international criminal;
another had merely been frequently con-
victed. This fine collection worked for an
estate agent who hangs out his shingle in
Collins-street. And presumably they are
still working for him.
——•—•
“Henry IIorsecollar” : I said that in a
list which includes the living and dead V.C.
men of the war there are sundry marked
‘Mesopotamia,’ but barring Ciiatta Hindu
there isn’t one entry which suggests a man
of color.” The list was published in 191,8,
still exists, and that is all there is about
it. The two other Indian names which
“Ajjy” quotes were published, but they
hadn’t “Mesopotamia” or “Kut-el-Amara”
against them. The original point was that
the final and most costly effort to relieve
Ivut, then within six days of surrender,
failed because the colored troops, or many
of them, proved a disappointment. “Ajjy”
may or may not be telling the truth about
the place where Naiic Lala and Naii<
Siiaiiamad won their decorations. If he
would only take the trouble to disentangle
his thoughts, or what he thinks are his
thoughts, he would find that I said nothing
to the contrary.
“C.K.N.”: Alice Jackson’s article (B.
26/8/’26) stirs up my perennial grievance.
By the programme of the Vic. Education
Department I have to teach history stories
to my seven- and eight-year-old youngsters.
These stories are steeped with horrors. It
happens that I teach my own little boy
among the rest, and am often shocked at the
result. I start with a wholesale massacre
to get the nippers used to blood—that of
Leonidas and his Spartans. Then I have
Regulus with his gentle end in a barrel
studded with nails. (Great nightmare on
the part of little son.) After these tender
tales for babes, I tell that of lloratius
keeping the bridge, and seven-year-old Aus-
tralia remarks: “They had plenty of time
to cut it down, hadn’t they?” After this
tale of politicians and wasted heroism, I
repat. lloratius on the land, and move on
to Alfred. The interesting bit about the
cakes is smothered under slaughtered Danes.
After this wallow, we war with llereward
the Wake, and after a few pleasant murders
we have a perfect orgy on Joan of Arc.
Her ashy end induced my small offspring
to put his finger in the fire to see what
it was like (Joan gave him nightmare, too).
At present I’m mopping up more blood in
the Crimean War with Florence Nightin-
gale. Now what makes me angry is that
there are dozens of tales of our own land,
of its discovery, its exploration, its settle-
ment and of bur vanishing black race that
would be more interesting and far more
suitable than these gory tales I am forced
to narrate. Even if these first stories have
to be foreign, surely topics like the develop-
ment of printing, .of travel, of steam are
better than inculcating a hero-worship
colored with the glory of war.
——♦
“Loco”: The strain upon the human machine
under night work (B. 9/9/’26) is observ-
able in other callings besides telegraph
operating and law making. At one
period of my railway life I put in
three years at night work, being rarely
in_ bed for two consecutive nights between
midnight and 4 a.m. I believe that those
three years took 15 off my life. I once com-
plained to my doctor that daylight sleeping
did not seem to do me any good; he said it
ought to, and let it go at that. I have fallen
asleep while travelling at 30 miles an houi‘
on my engine. I have done the same thing
on a shunting engine, and been awakened
by a shunter roai*ing at me. I have been so
weary on night trains that I felt entirely
indifferent about what might happen. Yet
night work does not affect all so adversely. I
have known those who could be “happy as
Larry” all night long. It is a matter of
temperament. And it is here that vocational
selection should come in.
4
Germany’s entry to the League of Nations
will have its effect even on the Australian
sheep industry. Early in the month the first
of this country’s great wool fleet left Sydney
with the advance lots of the new season’s
clip, and by this time some millions of
pounds’ worth are on the water bound for
Europe. The opening demand has been good,
and Germany’s improved outlook points to
even better things—she may even come back
to her pre-war position, when she used more
wool than any other Continental country.
France, one of our most prominent custom-
ers, goes in largely for the finer sorts. Ger-
many used to show a healthy interest in in-
ferior sorts, which are not always easy to
move at a satisfactory price. And her general
demand may also be brisk. At any rate,
Bradford reports that the stocks of tops in
Germany in June were only 60 per cent, of
the previous year’s holdings; and in view
of a greatly-increased output from German
looms, Australian suppliers have reason to
bo very hopeful.
“Clifford Snook” : The cremation v. burial
debate is always breaking out in the Sydney
press, and then arises a great and authori-
tative shouting about the alleged earthy
practice of Early Christians and the like.
It seems to me that there is lack of discrimi-
nation about the burialists. The present
custom of digging a deep, narrow hole and
then squashing on top of the beloved remains
two tons of suffocating mould and worms is
altogether revolting. In the interments of
which the Scripture gives details, the de-
ceased was laid reverently in a clean cave
(natural or artificial), so that if he came
to life again he had some chance to get out,
either by his own efforts or by hollering
till he attracted attention. The tomb of
Lazarus is still shown. I think I could
have got out of it myself if I had come
to life again, and certainly there was' no
pile of rock and refuse on top of Lazarus.
The interment of Christ Himself was not
of the modern sort; if it had been there
would have been difficulties in the story of
the Resurrection. The Early Christians
at least avoided the squashing habit as much
as possible by the construction of catacombs.
Whether the catacomb dead had much
chance of getting free if they didn’t happen
to be deceased I don’t know, but they cer-
tainly had a better show than if they had a
whole garden piled on them. As population
increased doubtless there were not enough
caves and catacombs to go round, so the
insanitary and un-Scriptural modern method
set in. There is this to be said for crema-
tion, that if the inmate of the coffin is alive
he certainly hasn’t time to realise the fact
after it is too late.
“Detonator” : “F. Stubbs” (B. 2/9/'26)
suggests that Dr. llirsciifeld’s return to
Queensland is being opposed “because we
were at war with his country.” Had he
attended the soldiers and citizens’ meeting on
the subject (fully reported in the Brisbane
Telegraph) he would have heard Captain
Woods, late Intelligence Officer Ist M.D.,
mention that he was the officer who handled
the case, and that, instead of being handed
over to a court-martial, Hirsciifeld had
the luck to be dealt with by a civvy court,
which gave him the mild sentence of de-
portation on conviction of having' been an
active enemy-agent both prior to and during
the war, although a naturalised subject and
an M.L.C. Captain Woods also challenged
Mr. Bruce’s statement that he could not
divulge the file because he must protect
those who gave evidence, pointing out that
the evidence on which the doctor was found
guilty was that of his own documents. He
(Captain Woods) further invited Mr Bruce
to release him from his oath of secrecy,
undertaking to divulge the contents of one
document only, after which he guaranteed
that nobody would want to see the doctor
back. I was one of the interpreters who
spent three months translating consular
papers, and I fully endorse Captain Woods’s
opinion.
NOTICE UNDER COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any articles or paragraphs on these pages that
require a signature, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and
James Edmond, of 214 George-street, Sydney, accept
the responsibility.


For perfect, soft light without
glare ask for a Condor v Opalite”
lamp and safeguard your eyesight
m
Wa
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street ■ Sydney 493 Collins Street, Melbourne
16 Chesser Street - Adelaide Exton Hse., Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
m The little lamp
•with the big light"
POLITIAL
POINTS
A plan for boiling water to make it cold
is foreshadowed by the remarkable N.S.W.
Government. At present the Railway Com-
missioners can’t interfere with fares,
freights, hours, conditions or wages. They
Can’t veto the building of fines that they
know Will,be Unpayable, or order the building
of lines wiiicli they are fie, payable-
Having no powers it is ; proposed to reduce;
their powers and hand some of them, oyer to,
politicians. At the same time there is to be
found somewhere a new Commissioner —a
business man who will make the system
“thoroughly efficient.” Or it may be
thoroughly fishy.
In addition to increasing railway freight-
rates and fares to the extent of half a mil-
lion, Vic. Cabinet contemplates giving an
extra turn or two to the income-tax screw.
Not only is there a deficit to be provided for,
but civil servants are holding out their hands
for more, and the interest bill is always
rising. There was a time when kiddies could
go into Government schools which Victoria
really owned. Now the buildings belong to
capitalists from whom the money to build
them has been borrowed.
All last week the Seamen’s Union (just
officially re-established by Commissioner Pid-
dington) was understood to be wringing its
hands with grief at the contumacy of its
members who were holding up ships whole-
sale and defying its authority. What worried
it was its helplessness in the matter. Still,
when some of its members, a while ago.
merely hesitated to break the law and hold
up a Commonwealth ship at its bidding, it
Wasn’t helpless. Instead it was swift and
remorseless. If the union show r ed a little of
the same energy now it could break all the
strikes in a day and prevent any more
starting,
A frequent disaster of French politics lias
been a way the Parisian crowd has of up-
setting Governments, making new Govern-
ments, or swarming round the Legislature
with sticks and bricks and making the Gov-
ernment run its programme to order. Some-
thing of the same sort was suggested the
other day in Sydney when the election of a
Labor leader, otherwise a Premier for all
N.S.W,, was in progress, and a force of
Lang’s Sydney supporters picketed Parlia-
ment House to bring pressure to bear, and
some of them even got inside and harangued
the caucus. In a properly-equipped demo-
cracy, of course, none of these tricks would
be necessary—between elections the referen-
dum, the recall and the initiative would be
used. But we don’t five in a democracy. The
last thing the Labor boss wants to hear is
the voiee of the people.
The resignation of Jock Garden, the im-
()orted ex-parson, from the Communist body
s reported, and there is talk of his admis-
sion into the Labor ranks. The chance of
capturing a Parliamentary seat on the Com-
munist ticket gets no better, for most of the
Communists are inside the Labor movement,
where they are doing their best at the “white-
ant” business, and they own the political
machine. If the ex-preacher can negotiate
a change of venue he will then be eligible
for most varieties of billet which a Labor
Government has to give away. He may
even see his way to join the Nationalists, and
get a job as some sort of judge to practise
Communism on the Bench.
The pursuit of the “Red Objective,” with
the assistance of Russian organisers, is
achieving considerable success in China. By
cabled reports Hankow presents all the fea-
tures which Sydney is intended to present
when the revolution arrives. (Our revolution,
by way of coincidence, is also being engi-
neered by imported bad characters.) The
most notable bit of description is that the
river now consists to a great extent of
“countless dead bodies” and a plentiful sup-
ply of severed heads. Mention is also made
of the quantity of “manacled” corpses found
in the vicinity, described as those b'f fiefsons
who disapproved of the “Red” movement,
but didn’t disapprove hard enough of soo'n
enough to stop it. The next city on the list,
Wu-Chung, is described as tinder
constant attack from aeroplanes, on fire and
Starving. In one . way any Chinese city is
better fitted for this kind of work than an
Australian one—the Chinese rivers carry
down an immense volume of fresh water, and
therefore the dead make fair progress out to
sea. The N.S.W. Labor Council has ex-
pressed its warm approval of the movement,
which consists largely of the slaying, by
Chinese with foreign leaders, of Chinese who'
don’t possess tlidt Advantage. The Council
is mostly under
foreign (or non-
Australian) leader-
ship itself, and its
view is probably
that Sydney would
be a fine city to
loot.
FAIR PLAY’S A JEWEL.
“Under the Victorian Redistribution of Seats scheme, a concession is made to the rural elector-
ates; 420,000 country electors will have 39 seats and the 552,000 city electors 26 seats."
VIC. COUNTRY-PARTY PREMIER ALLAN (to the country vote) : “ Come , note, we must he
quite fair to the city man. Shift up and give him another quarter of an inch."
In the financial year 1924-25 Tasmania
made a remarkable effort to keep off the loan
market. The loan spendings of the six States
per inhabitant were :
Westralia .. £ll 5 2 | Queensland .. £4 17 9
S. Australia.. 610 9|N. S. Wales .. 4 1 5
Victoria .. 5 6 2 j Tasmania .. 12 3
The average was £5 Is. 10d., so Tas. put up
a remarkable record —for Australia. Effects
seem already visible —this year the island
finds its expected deficit of £lOO,OOO has
changed to a surplus of £28,220, while the
other States mostly have shortages—enor-
mous ones in Queensland and N. S. Wales.
Muir Robertson, Queensland Auditor-
General, has “resigned” in circumstances
which recall the “resignation” of the man
who was N.S.W. Director of Finance when
Lang succeeded to the Treasury. Robert-
son has been an unsparing critic of latter-
day Queensland financial and collectivist
schemes, so he was not popular. Premier
McCormack’s assurance that the official had
retired voluntarily was rejected by Opposi-
tion-leader Moore, who asserted that, like
Stevens, he had been told to “Get out with
what we give you or you’ll get nothing.”
Still, McCormack did not suggest that his
Auditor-General was ignorant of finance.
Lang insinuated that in Stevens’s case, and
proceeded to show what a genius he was him-
self by amassing a deficit of over a million
and a quarter in his first year.
Sydney Trades and Labor Council regis-
tered the usual protest against British inter-
ference in the Chinese situation, where the
fight is alleged to be “for national indepen-
dence and freedom from foreign parasites.”
Garden’s crowd made no protest when its
friends in Moscow interfered in Chinese.
Mongolia, when they demanded the return
of the Chinese Eastern Railway in Man-
churia, when they requested to be treated
like other foreigners as immune from
Chinese law, when they seized the Canton
Government, or when they lent troops and
ammunition to a rebel general who had just
looted Peking. It’s always Britain (or Aus-
tralia) that’s wrong, and only Russia that’s
right.
A new Peace and Disarmament League is
forming in Britain, and it is hoped that
enough signatures to sink a ship will shortly
be attached to a petition which will then
be taken to Parliament by traction engine.
It will fead something like this:—
We, the Undersigned, believing that all disputes
bet\ve6n nations are Capable of settlement, either by
diplomatic negotiation or by some form of inter-
national arbitration, hereby solemnly declare that
we shall refuse to support ot tender war service to
any Government which resorts to arms.
It is a pity the disarmament folk don’t prac-
tise first on the small niatters of life and
work up. The aggressor in war is only a
robber (among other things) on a grand
scale, and diplomatic negotiation with the
midnight burglar, who is a robber on a small
scale, would be good practice. Resort to the
policeman is an outrage On the true disarma-
ment principle.
The bagmen of Australia are riven over
the proposal to' turn the Commercial Travel-
lers’ Association of Australia into a trades
union and register under the Commonwealth
Arbitration laws. A referendum is being
taken to settle the matter: closing date 1 ,
October 23. The association is hopelessly
divided. The men who are successes are
largely on the side of the Noes; they see
that registration will mean a minimum wage
and that the failures, who will certainly
benefit, may do so at the expense of the suc-
cesses. Actually the commercial traveller
is in some danger of losing his job, anyway;
country and other retailers are beginning to
realise that they -ought to be able to get
their goods cheaper if they cut him out and
ordered direct. How this trend will be affected
by the establishment of a union isn’t plain;
but it is a point that should be considered.
The C.T.A. certainly can’t afford to in-
crease the expense of the traveller system
of getting orders.
When it was stated that Bruce might call
on Mussolini on his way to Britain, the
Lang-Willis-Garden paper asked, “in the
name of common decency,” what kind of a
man Bruce called himself, since he was “de-
lighted at the prospect of hobnobbing with
the infamous murderer Mussolini.” The
Italian Vice-Consul retorted that, “prior to
their departure for Europe, two members of
your Labor Ministry were delighted to obtain
from me letters of introduction to influential
men in Rome, with a view to seeking an
interview with Mussolini.” But the infor-
mation wasn’t published, the paper being too
busy frustrating another Fascist plot to stab
the editor to the heart with a toothpick.
A year or two ago labor unions, especially
in N. S. Wales, used all their efforts to
get their claims into the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court. Now, especially in N. S. Wales,
they are finessing to get them away from
the Federal Court into the State shop.
And, quite naturally, the two shops are
doing their best to keep their old business
and attract new. Neither has yet reached
the point of advertising that it can give
better value than anybody else in the busi-
ness; but others are doing it enthusiastically.
There ought, of course, to be a clear line of
demarcation between the jobs which tin'
two Courts can do; but there isn’t, and will
not be so long as almost any dispute may
be made a Federal dispute, as it can be
under the present law. The Commonwealth
turned down the Federal Government's
recent proposals; but that shouldn’t prevent
an effort to end the existing ridiculous and
wasteful overlapping—if it isn’t actual
competition.
One of the early jobs with which the
Migration and Development Commission
may have to deal is the paper-pulp industry
of Tasmania. Gerald Mussen, who had the
scheme in hand, has returned from England
and America with enough promises of sup-
port to justify liim in saying that the capital
will be forthcoming if Australia really wants
the product. llow to get the market is the
problem; almost every daily paper in the
country ig ready to fight to the last ditch
against a duty on what it regards as the raw
material of its trade. But that difficulty
will have to be overcome somehow; for Aus-
tralia can’t afford to go on spending millions
on imported paper when the material for
making the goods is inside the Common-
wealth. The enterprise will cost a million
or thereabouts to launch.
The voting was 30 all when Vic. Premier
Allan gave his new guillotine standing-order
a trial spin to expedite the passage into
committee of the revived Seats Bill, _ and
Speaker Bowser had to save the Ministry
from another rebuff. Snowball, always an
uncertain quantity, Dunstan, who has left
the Cockles, and Everard, who was annoyed
at the interruption of a speech against the
raising of refreshment-room charges, crossed
the floor ; but, fortunately for the Composites,
Jimmy McLachlan, who was also against
the bill, did not heed the division-bell call-
In subsequent divisions to push the measure
into committed, Allan had a majority of
five every time.
Attorney-General Latham’s immediate
neighbor at the League of Nations Assembly
is reported to have cordially agreed with
the Australian as to the necessity for dis-
armament. The neighbor in question was.
Count Bernstorff, who was German Ambas-
sador at Washington when the Lusitania was
torpedoed.
After he had received 23 votes in Caucus,
including his own, and seen an obsequious
follower ejected from tile chairmanship of
the party, Lang told the N.S.W. electors in
a, press interview what he thought about
Canadian politics, Pity the 25 p.c. Premier
doesn’t realise that the said electors are
thirsting to tell him what they think about
his. But, Ota second thoughts, perhaps he
does.
The rout of the prohibitionists at the last
reference to the people has encouraged the
Queensland Government to bring in a bill to
permit, am On g other things, the serving of
hotel boarders after hours elsewhere than
at a bar. But a worse knock for the Dry,?
is a provision for making local-option polls
septennial instead of triennial affairs.
A bill before the Maoriland Parliament—
it is well-nigh certain to pass—is designed 1
to hand over to private individuals the free-
hold of the last remaining acres of Crown
land. John Mackenzie’s dream of solving:
the land problem through State ownership'
and the leasing of State-owned land has not
been realised. The 999-year leases were con-
verted into freeholds as the first-fruits of the’
Reform victory over the Liberals in 1912;
and now the National Endowment Lands,
income from which is mainly earmarked for
education, are to be sold on time payments,
spread over 342 years. The principal weak-
ness of land settlement on State leaseholds,
as Ward discovered to his sorrow, is that it
creates a large class that will solidly put
its political power behind any party that
promises it the freehold. It was the men
Mackenzie put on the land who, having
waxed fat there, eventually pushed Macken-
zie’s party out of office.
[For any paragraphs on this page that require a
signature under the Electoral Law, J. E. Webb, 214
George-street, Sydney, and M. G. Skipper, 154
Flinders-street, Melbourne, accept the responsibility.!
BEDTIME STORY—BY THE SAND-MANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘That fiscal fanatic,’ said Mr, Mann, the Free-
trade apostle from Westralia, referring to Mr. Pratten,
‘is doing more to harm Australia than any other
man in the Cabinet.’ ”
Now listen, ye children, and shiver with flight
(Hush-a-bye! Hush-a-bye, do!);
A beautiful bogie I bring you to-night,
'The dreffulest ever you knew;
And, Lordie, you’ve heard of a few !
’Tis ancient and hoary
And gruesome and gory,
’Twill find you in cellar or attic;
And sharper than axes
The terrible taxes
bf Platted, the Fiscal Fanatic:
The Bellowing Bunyip, the Baleful Banished
(Hush-a-bye ! Hush-a-bye, dears !)
Are nothing to boast of; between you and aid
They wilt when the Pratten appears!
It’s worthy of all of your fears ;
It tracks you and nets you
And then, when it gets you
(Its methods are most systematic),
It never relaxes
Its terrible taxes,
This Pratten, the Fiscal Fanatic.
So listen, ye children! If it has its way
(Hush-a-bye! Hush-a-bye, please!),
This land will break out in a rash any day
Of horrible, rich factories;
Ok dear, it’s a dreadful disease!
Importers a-dying,
Home-made you’ll be buying—
Is’t hammers I hear so emphatic?
Yes, now the noise waxes
Because of the taxes,
Of Pratten, the Fiscal Fanatic.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


OIHSI
<2
«
GOOD JUDGMENT
Good business judgment means choosing the most efficient equip-
ment for every purpose.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
and Pioneer Mechanical Leather Goods are the accepted standards
of quality equipment in their respective classes.
Sixty-eight, years of experience in tanning, belting and leather goods manufacture are your
guarantee that quality is right.
Your inquiries or orders will be promptly attended to.
Manufactured only by
1. C. LUDOWICI (a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., lGf-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Eduard Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gei'gnite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
DOES IT INTEREST YOU TO KNOW—
That Hadfields (Australia), Limited, are making the Heavy Steel
Castings for the Famous Sydney Harbor Bridge, and also for the
Coogee Ocean Pier, now under construction?
STEEL CASTINGS UP TO 10 TONS. FORCINGS UP TO 5 TONS.
DROP FORGINGS loz. to 401 b.
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, STEEL FOUNDERS. FORGERS,
Works & S Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries | Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch f ;?12 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Offices \ T. & G. BTg, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Holden’s Motor Body Builders, Ltd.
(Adelaide). The deficit to begin with was
made up of goodwill and other intangibles :
Towards
June. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1920 £43,881
19°’ £ 12,634 8 p.c. - £10,400 £2,234 41,647
1922.. 34,755 10 „ „ 13,000 21,755 19,892
Reserves.
1923.. 93,003 10 „ ~ 13,000 80,003 60,111
, nn , nr S Pref - 8 p.c. = 9,002 1
1924.. | orc] 1Q ~'19,500 ) 80,908 141,019
Pref. issue exes., £7526 J
Dropped out of reserves, £14,322 126.697
1925.. 506 ) Ordl" »M»
1.26.. {S' i 8 5 p ;,°;ril.6?S } Bl ’ 338 340 ' 9;8
More profit was set aside than was distri-
buted. But that was counting as profit net
additions to reserves. Here is how the total
of reserve accumulations is arrived at: —
Buildings, plant and machinery . . .. £141,396
Taxation .. .. . • • • • 60,145
General . . • • • • • ■ • • t> n’ooo
Insurance .. . . . ■ • • • ■ ■*•2*222
Bad and doubtful debts .. .. • • 5,000
Undivided profit . . .. • • • • 74,437
Total . . . . ■ • • ■ £340,978
General, insurance and debts reserves re-
mained unchanged; the other two showed
expansion. This Column cannot definitely
declare that the additions are profit. If
adequate provision for depreciation, etc., has
been made apart from these funds, then the
additions to visible reserves were profit. It
would seem that allowance outside them lias
been adequate, but only the future can defi-
nitely prove it.
Not a great deal of information is to be
gained from the published accounts, although
the figures make obvious the co.’s strength.
The new capital issued during the term
(£175,500) enabled the co. to continue its
expansion. A visit to America by managing-
director B. W. Holden clinched a new con-
tract with General Motors Corp., and the
worth of it may be gathered from the com-
ment in tin' report that “a long and mutu-
,ally-profitable association between the two
companies is confidently expected.” New
machines were secured, and further re-
organisation is under way which will keep
the enterprise on a level with the world’s
best. The management estimates the cur-
rent year’s production at 40,000 bodies —a
25 p.c. increase. These figures show the
remarkable rate of progress :
1922. 1924. 1925. 1926.
£ £ £ £
Turnover . . 357,643 1,404,650 1,945,825 2,251,281
No. bodies
produced . . 4,190 18,107 26,587 32,398
Wages .. 75,869 438,463 559,451 652,566
Closed bodies played a part in last yeai , ’s
production, and they should affect the cur-
rent term even more. Changing fashion
implies new machinery and plant—the co.’s
huge works at Woodville and Adelaide are
the last word—and that in turn implies
either obsolescence or heavy depreciation of
older plant. As already indicated, the Wild
Cat believes that sufficient has been written
off out of gross profits each year to cover
the necessities; in this it is backing a man-
agement which thus far has disclosed com-
mendable caution in its finances and the
utmost efficiency in its industrial organisa-
tion. The growth of the figures has been
among the wonders of Australian industry:
1923. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £395,000 £492,500 £668,000
Liabilities .. 164,607 302,940 289,584 255,839
Freeholds . . 146,825 269,552 326,551 398,212
Plant and
machinery.. 53,779 173,092 235,153 305,077
Stock . . 120,222 326,336 418,730 541,663
Book debts .. 38,228 69,705 85,670 54,994
In re s tments,
cash, etc.. . 2,164 4,703 5,557 7,970
Liabilities again were reduced (mortgages
amount to £23,409), and creditors could see
£600,000-odd in more or less liquid form.
In the recent years of rapid expansion
shareholders have been well treated; never-
theless more profits have been sent to re-
serves than they have pocketed. The
accounts disclose that the management is
building strongly, and if the present run of
remarkably prosperous years continues for
a while longer the foundations should be
firm enough to withstand the severest blows.
Large-scale enterprises need to be worked
at capacity to win good profits, and although
the tariff protection is very handy internal
prosperity is essential to maintain demand
for the mostly luxury lines which the enter-
prise turns out. The co. is widening its
field: tramcar construction already is an
established part of the business, and there
are other activities not wholly bound to the
body-building. This is a desirable develop-
ment ; added to the superiority of the co.’s
equipment and organisation, the spread of
activities and its operation in four States
place it in an advantageous position in the
event of a setback. Meantime, the outlook
is bright enough, and there is little likelihood
of any immediate slackening in the loan
expenditure upon which, unfortunately, too
much of our apparent prosperity is built.
Prefs. are well secured; at June 30 there
was more than £5 in sight for each share —
although £4 of it was in plant and stocks—
and their divs. are a very small call on
recent profits. The 468,000 £1 ords. on a
15 p.c. basis require £70,200; and the full
amount, £86.200, should be earned more than
twice over this current year, in view of the
heavier contracts on hand.
There is something characteristic of the
management in a preface to the directors’
report: it consists of an appreciation of the
founder Of the co. and its chairman until
his death. H. J. Holden, who was all this
“appreciation” claims, was a human element
in the business, and encouraged it in his
sons and others in control. To that as well
as to his imagination and liis courage not
only the co. but South Australia is deeply
indebted; and in that connection a word
might be said, too, for the Bank of Adelaide,
which was also able to visualise great pos-
sibilities in the early days of Mr. Holden’s
enterprise.
* * # *
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.,
manufacturers of woollen underwear, etc.,
Richmond (Vic.) :
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profits. (Prefs. and Ords.) serves. Reserves.
1917.. £13,541 12J p.c. =£7,500 £6,041 £14,383
1918.. 14,771 121 „ „ 7,500 7,271 21,654
1919.. 23,726 10" „ „ 12,091 11,635 | „ s oo«
Written off, £4893 j 0
1920.. 33,999 15 p.c. = 25,312 8,687 37,083
Co. reconstructed: £90,000 of
bonus shares issued (one in three).
Accounts for 1921 not available.
1922.. 57,513 121 p.c. = 41,203 16,310 6,421
1923.. 71,096 121 „ ~ 46,500 24,596 31,017
1924.. 75,207 10 „ „ 41,625 33,582 64,599
1925.. 39,838 8 „ „ 36,750 3,088 67,687
1926.. 64,981 10 „ ~50,060 14,981 82,668
It was a better year and the div. was
increased by 2 p.c. without cutting things
fine. Larger production at both mills is
the official explanation ; and, additional plant
being on order, further increase in turnover
is expected for the current year. It has been
a good recovery from the sickness caused
by the fire which swept portion of the
plant in 1924. Profit that year was inflated
by £44,590 of bonus scrip received from the
Yarra Falls spinning subsidiary and a loss-
of-profits policy took the sting out of 1925.
Last year’s net income was made up thus -
Gross profit, etc. . . . . . . . . £53,122
Less expenses .. .. .. .. 17,443
Net profit from knitting .. . . .. £35,679
Yarra Falls divs . . . . 29,302
Profits as per table .. .. .. £64,981
The loss from the tire proved heavier than
had been anticipated—it so often does —and
when the burnt buildings and plant were
replaced it was found that expensive im-
provements were desirable; 50,000 ords.
were issued to help oiit. That the outlay
was justified is confirmed by the past
year’s figures.
Australian Knitting Mills has 318,500
shares in Yarra Falls. That spinning con-
cern has gone from record to record: —
Knitting Divs.
A.K.M. Interest in Gross from Spin-
Oapital. Yarra Falls. Profits. ning Go.
1919. . £139,900 £88,334 £31,646 Nil
1920.. 225,000 110,417 35,350 £9,3'85
1921.. ..Reconstruction; no accounts published.
1922.. 329.625 182,560 66,197 9,128
1923.. 405,000 222.950 72,062 14,605
1924.. 450,000 293,020 20,025 22,295
1925.. 500,000 293,020 29,124 27,550
1926.. 500,000 293,020 53,033 29,302
Within the decade. A.K.M.’s profits have
increased in a healthy manner, and that is
the more gratifying because the progress
has been made in the teeth of keen competi-
tion over the latter part of the period. The
co. was one of the pioneers, its efforts with
imported yarns having placed it on its feet
20 years ago. By 1910 the necessity of
additional capital to permit of expansion
brought in the public, and war conditions
prompted the establishment of the spinning
enterprise. The co. struggled for long under
an inadequate tariff, but the war afforded a
Protection which proved valuable, and recent
tariff amendments have assisted to strengthen
the position of this in common with other
textile cos. The duties are not high enough
to rule out competition, but they take the
rough edges off.
The balance-sheet position further im-
proved :
1918. 1923. 1925. 1926.
Paid capital. . £60,000 £405,060 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 3,484 52,138 50,974 49,203
Property, plant
and machinery 28,914 142,063 186,808 202,182
Stocks . . 18,996 87,616 118,652 104,641
Book debts . . 18,896 59,650 53,385 66,837
Cash, etc. . . 29.832 30,396 2,948 26,028
Yarra Falls shares Nil 222,950 293,020 293,020
Liabilities consisted of £BOOO mortgage and
£41,203 sundry creditors, well covered by
cash, book debts and stocks totalling
£197,506. Goodwill (in the books at
£25,000) has not been accounted an asset in
the introductory table, reserves being
£82,668 in excess of the item. The progress
last year augurs well for the future and
shares changed hands last week at 325. 9d.
* * * *
Beard, Watson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
house furnishers, etc.: —
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. ( ——Dividends N serves, serves.
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 14,678 1800 3675 Nil 1 ooq o 4
Arrears of divs.on2nd Prefs. paid, £2974 ) ’ ’
(15 p.c.)
1917.. 24,551 1800 3675 11,250 7,826 42,092
1918.. 27,656 1800 3675 11,250 10,931 53,023
1919.. 28,027 1800 3675 11,250 11,302 64,325
Transferred to capital, £37,500. .26,825
1920.. 49,905 1800 3675 20,000 24,430 '51,265
Co. reconstructed. Pref. divs.. lifted a point. Good-
will valued at £67,660, reserves capitalised and
ordinaries given £3l of scrip for every £l6
previously held.
Deficit.
7 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. £67,660
1921.. 38,236 2100 4200 25,455 6,481 61,179
1922.. 14,236 2100 4200 Nil 7,936 53,243
8 p.c.
1923.. 42,902 2100 4200 30,518 6,084 47,159
1924.. 50,966 2100 4200 30,518 14,148 33,011
6 p.c.
1925.. 38.325 2100 4200 22,889 9,136 23,875
1926.. 45,491 2100 4200 22,888 16,303 7,572
On sales which broke all previous records
profits registered a heavy fall in 1925, but
still further expansion in business last year
brought with it a gratifying recovery. Pro-
fits available after prefs. had been attended
to would have allowed of 10 p.c. for
ords., but the board wisely decided to add
solidly to reserves. Goodwill bulks awk-
wardly in the accounts; after final appro-
priations £7572 of capital still was unrepre-
sented by tangible assets. Keen competition
in high-class furnishings accompanied by
increased costs has been the chief factor
in restricting profits; general prosperity has
marshalled good business, but margins have
been narrow. In these times of lavish spend-
ing this experience isn’t comforting, and the
management will do well to keep divs. modest
until it accumulates reserves well in excess
of the goodwill item. Under the influence
of brisk trading the balance-sheet position
has lately improved :
1920. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities . . £115,761 £104,324 £133,795 £113,005
Leaseholds and
freeholds . . 87,250 110,500 131,810 132,624
Machinery,
plant etc... 14,528 36,172 39,948 41,726
Stock.. .. 148,213 257,884 271,295 269,613
Book debts . . 126,049 153.373 150,260 143,961
Cash, etc. . . 46,214 11,031 6,624 7,520
Liabilities were substantial, but they were
more than covered by book debts alone. The
capitalisation of reserves and the insertion
of goodwill in 1920 made possible the issue
of £Bl of scrip in the new co. for every
£l6 held in the old one, and £37,500 had
been handed out a year earlier, so that old
holders find the 6 p.c. div. quite handsome.
In the reconstruction, interest on prefs. was
raised 1 p.c. in each class. There are 30,000
first prefs. (7 p.c.) and 52,500 second prefs.
(8 p.c.). Not only are they well secured —
net tangibles at July 31 amounted to
£456,406 —but profits less than one-seventh
those of last year would be sufficient to meet
their divs. Yet, notwithstanding the very com-
fortable margin of profits in excess of divi-
dends shown during the last two years, the
market is not prepared to back ordinaries
to pay much more than 6 p.c., and is there-
fore not willing to buy at beyond 18s. lid.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1916.. £11,390 9 p.c. =£B,loo £3290 £57,435
1917.. 11,262 10 ~ „ 9,000 2262 59,697
1918.. 14,450 10 ~ „ 9,000 5450 65,147
1919.. 13,075 10 ~ ~ 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO . . 68,722
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72,486
1921 14,352 12 „ „ 10.800 3552 76,038
1922.. 14,921 12 „ ~ 12,100 2821 78,859
1923.. 18,306 13 „ „ 15,600 2706 81,565
1924.. 21,951 14 „ ~ 16,800 5151 86,716
1925.. 24.388 14 „ „ 18,900 5488 92,204
1926.. 24,615 14 „ ~ 19,600 5015 97,219
Gross earnings grew, but so did outgo; and
thus the net result was very little better
than the previous year’s. The 14 p.c. dis-
tribution was nevertheless a simple matter,
and reserves were lifted within reach of
£lOO,OOO. They are not likely to be disturbed
when they touch that level; shareholders are
apparently quite satisfied to get new par
issues—and so they ought to be with the div.
rate well nailed to 14 p.c. Although the
report has little to say, the progress^ disclosed
by the summaries is comforting, instates in
hand have moved this way:
1900.. £6,329,656 | 1920.. £13,533,081
1905.. 7,787,043 i 1923.. 14,866,551
1910.. 9,013,807 I 1920.. <76,909
1915.. 10,936,858 | 1926.. 16,3^8,016
The disposition of those trust funds has
changed interestingly in the past decade.
1916 1926.
Mortgages . . £2,460.868 £1,295,037 Dec. £1,165,831
De s b toc t k UreS and 2,741,277 7,511,355 Inc. 4,770,078
L ‘perty l> !° 2,926,861 2,526,086 Dec. 400,775
uertv 605,147 489,045 Dec. 116,102
Shares !! 1,47 0 ;942 2,433,372 Inc. 962,430
Other securi-
cash" a " d . 1,468,967 2,073,621 Inc. 604,654
High rates offering for gilt-edged securities
have been chiefly responsible for the growth
of public stocks at the expense of mortgages;
and no doubt the expansion in shares m
banks and public companies” reflects the
growing and altogether desirable popularity
of secondary industries as investments, ihe
co ’s own balance-sheet total at June 30 was
£247 019 of which £177.682 consisted of cash
or gilt edged stocks. The freehold (£75,848
written down to £56,000) accounted for most
of the remainder. Such high-class dwelling-
places for funds suggests conservative con-
trol ■ and there are the funds themselves plus
the uncalled capital-a matter of £260,000
—as further guarantees for clients.
The T.E.A. is Australia’s oldest trustee
co.; it is now within two years of its half-
century, and the figures show plainly that it
is not weakening with the years. And, of
course, no trustee office should. It represents
one of the greatest conveniences that modern
finance has evolved. In fact, it has so many
things in its favor that some of the newer
offices (and older ones, too, at times) have
not taken all the care they should to guard
against disadvantages which can also show
themselves. For instance, there is the matter
of valuations for probate. A trustee who
draws a commission on the total of the
corpus or capital value of an estate is obvi-
ously not directly interested in securing a
low valuation; yet the lower the valuation
the better for the estate and the beneficiaries.
There - have been times when trustee cos.
have been accused of not putting up much of
a fight for a low valuation; and they ought
to see that their armor is strengthened at
this and a few similar places.
* *■ * *
Walkers, Limited, engine-builders, etc.
(Maryborough, Q.) :■ —•
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1916 .£11,669 7 p.e. = £9,133 £2500 £12,210
1917 .. 11,859 7 „ „ 9,133 2500 12,436
1918 .. 11,570 7 „ „ 9,133 2500 12,373
1919 . . 47 Nil 12,420
1920 .. 12,005 7 p.c. = 9,291 2750 12,384
1921 . . 12,198 7 „ „ 9,291 2750 12,641
1922 .. 30.478 10 ~ ~ 12,419 2750 27.850
1923 . . 39,991 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 52,672
1924 . . 18,014 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 55,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.c.) £12,419 43,098
1925 . . 17,245 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 45,174
1926 . . 19,983 10 „ ~ 12,419 2750 49,988
A hopper dredge (nearly completed) and
30 locos, for the Queensland Government-
remnants of contracts obtained in 1924-25 —
were the big orders on hand at August 12;
and although the co. feels the influence of
Labor rule in high wages-costs, the partial
preference granted to local industries by the
State Government absorbs some of the shock,
so that the latest 10 p.c. was provided easily.
Profits, indeed, may have been a record.
(The big figures down for 1922 and 1923 in
the table must be left out of this com-
parison ; they included additions to reserves,
probably adjustments arising out of the cancel-
lation of ship-building contracts by the Com-
monwealth Government.) The year’s results
were certainly better than the table suggests,
for besides the usual £2750 struck off for
depreciation (shown in the table as written
off), £lO,OOO was added to the plant replace-
ment account and £5OOO was wiped off build-
ings and wharf property. Depreciation
account at June 30 was £47,750, equal to
59 p.c. of all fixed assets; there were, in addi-
tion, replacement account £30,000 and sus-
pense account £lO,OOO, each of which may
hide surplus profits; yet they are not in-
cluded with the reserves of the table, nor
of course are the additions made to those
accounts included as profit.
These comforting features are supported by
equally fine balance-sheet figures :
1914. 1921. 1925. 1926.
Liabilities .. £58,350 £135,354 £85,493 £86,361
Fixed assets.. 44,531 84,478 36,788 33,158
Stock-in-trade 20,331 33,258 34,943 35,231
Investments .. 51,446 63,918 101,312 101,102
Completed work,
cash, deposits,
etc. . . 86,437 103,976 124,237 143,471
Liabilities moved up a trifle, but that, too,
may not be all it seems; included in the


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office.
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the beet quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation Jn boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’® Asbestos Covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per (Cent. in fuel, less stoking is required where it
is used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wn>. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Advt. L 3
The efficient adaptability of Pioneer Wood Pipe
to the most remote and rugged regions in any
climatic zone is one of the reasons for its complete
recognition by all progressive engineers. It is admit-
tedly one (Of the foremost all-purpose conduits of to-
day. Not only is it simply and economically
freighted, transported and installed, but it consis-
tently delivers full-pressure flow under all conditions
for a remarkably long period, its smooth inner bore
providing no foothold for rusts, fungus or tubercules.
Write for our illustrated catalogue of interesting,
comparative data, to The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.-— -Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Kassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * » *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
“National” British Vertical Suction Gas and Crude-
oil Engines! Cheapest and most reliable power.
Recent installations for Electric Lighting include:
Bathurst, 675b.h.p. ; Parkes, 310b.h.p.; Dubbo,
540b.h.p. ; Armidale, 270b.h.p. ; Penrith, 220b.h.p. ;
Toowoomba, 800b.h.p. ; Winton (Q.), lOOb.h.p. ; Bris-
bane Water and Sewerage Board (for pumping),
630bh.p. Technical information, etc., from Arthur
Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquarie Place,
Sydney; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne; 21 Morphett
Street, Adelaide; 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
*
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
EXPERIENCE IN EXECUTORSHIP
FOR THIRTY - EIGHT YEARS.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
is specially qualified by 38 years’ experience to act as your executor and trustee. It offers
definite advantages over a private executor; it cannot die, disappear or travel, and its
whole capital and assets are liable, by Act of Parliament, for the protection of its
clients’ interests.
Estates under control exceed £11,000,000.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
O. E. FRIEND.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
TO ALL INTERESTED IN
Road-making, Quarrying, Channel-cutting and
Excavating of all kinds, including Gas, Water
and Electricity Mains.
We specialise in Machines for such work.
Full information, Data, Illustrations and Prices of various makes
and types of the latest kinds in use supplied immediately on request.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES
P.O. Box 16 Camperdown, Sydney,
£86,361 is an unspecified amount for con-
tingencies. The liquid position improved.-
1914. 1924. 1920.
Liquid assets . . ,£158,214 £213,593 £2< 9,804
Liabilities .. .. 58,350 48,554 i>6,3bl
Liquid surplus . . £99,864 £105,039 £190,443
There is £101,102 in investments— mostly
Government stock and bank shares, it is
understood. The auditors report them to
be in the books at less than current market
values. And inasmuch as paid capital is
£124,193, the substantial sum invested out-
side the business discounts many of the
troubles which the future may hold. The
liquid surplus was equal to 31s. Id. for each
£1 of capital. The latest quotes were b. 305.,
s. 315., which is higher than for a long
time. Those who bought in at 15s. four
years ago have had a rich time ; and unless
Queensland goes quite mad there are good
things still to come.
Oriomo Oil, Ltd., is a second attempt to
raise capital for an oil hunt on the Oriomo
lease, south-west Papua. Capital is £200,000
in £1 shares; 55,000 fully-paids to vendors;
100,000 contribs. offered the public; 45,000
(over which vendors have an option) in
reserve. Rights of the vendors’ shares are
restricted, and there is no cash consideration.
The co.’s lease is on the seaboard and handy
to Australia. Nine months ago the Wild
Cat remarked that if oil was there in pay-
able quantities the Oriomo crowd was going
the right way to find it. That still holds.
Orinda Co. (W.A.) has got hold of a new
show south of Coolgardie, but so far the
market has not bucked up. Some time ago
the co. tried very hard to arouse interest in
Adelaide by yarns about gold exposed in cos-
teens, and dumps of ore worth ounces, on
a property near Ora Banda, but the pre-
dicted rise in shares didn’t take place, and
after a silence followed by a slump the
option was abandoned.
Goaded by local clamor the Westralian
Government recently began blind stabbing
with diamond drills in various parts of the
goldfields. So far it has found nothing.
Holes have been put down in localities where
for years past politicians, newspapers and
street-corner mining authorities have
reckoned riches were hidden, but if they are
there the drill has so far dodged them. At pre-
sent boring is being done at the north end
of Kalgoorlie and at Yalgoo. Other fields
are on the list to he tested.
Vivien Gem, which arose some time ago
from the ashes of the Vivien gold-mine at
Lawlers (W.A.), has been closed down. A
Perth syndicate spent some money on fos-
sicking and prospecting, and then did the
usual thing—applied for Government assist-
ance on a £-for-£ basis. This being refused,
the show was abandoned.
Braeside (Nor’-Westralia) silver and lead
crowd consider they will have no trouble in
attracting capital into the show. It is pro-
posed to float a 200,000 share co., in con-
nection with which subscriptions for 50,000
shares have been promised. Assistant-State
Mining Engineer Blatcliford is now inspect-
ing. If his report is favorable, Jock Thomp-
son, the live-wire in the Braeside business,
reckons he will only have to ask to secure
applications for the balance.
* * * *
Perth speculators have received so many
jolts that they are beginning to wonder why
the nasty phases of the business always seem
to come their way. A few years ago many
of them bought Australian Petroleum De-
velopment scrip at high prices. When the
slump came the A.P.D. was absorbed by the
Australian Oil Corporation, shareholders in
the former receiving A.O.C. scrip in lieu
of A.P.D. More recently the A.O.C. was
merged into Tin Options, shareholders in
A.O.C. receiving one Tin Option share for
every four A.O.C.’s. During the past few
weeks Tin Options have been actively
traded in Melbourne at from 7s. to 13s. That
looks good for Westralian A.O.C. holders.
But they had little, if any, Tilt Option paper
left. Before anything was known in the
West of the Tin Option deal a Melbourne
buyer cleaned up the Perth A.O.C. market
at 3d. per share. Holders consider that they
have more than usual ground for complaint
here; they assert that they were not kept
informed of the Tin Options move. Perth
generally gets stung, but seldom so badly.
* -* -X- *
In connection with the recent gold find
at Glenelg Hills (W.A.), a representative
of real money turned up at the show with-
out loss of time. After giving the find the
once over, he requested an option, which was
refused. In lieu of an option he was pro-
mised first chance of one. A few days later
an option was given at less than half the
cash deposit and half the cash consideration
the first man was authorised to offer. Some-
body seems to have slipped.
Tanami Gold Mines was over-subscribed
but under-capitalised: The Bulletin
uttered a warning at the time concerning
the unwisdom of tackling such a big pro-
position with exiguous finances, but being
committed the directors went ahead. Con-
sidering the tremendous nature of the task
of hauling 50 tons of plant 040 miles cleat'
across W.A. into the N.T., the co. has accom-
plished a remarkable feat. Now, with the
battery half up and the rest of the gear
being put into position, the co. finds itself
on the rocks, and is calling for Government
assistance. As success means the disclosure
of what looks like an important goldfield
just where the newly-appointed Commis-
sioners would like to see it, and as Tan ami
Gold has made a hard and honest effort
to do the job on its own account, the Federal
authorities will probably look at the re-
quest with friendly eyes. If the help is,
forthcoming Jim Beckett talks of commenc-
ing crushing in November.
South Aus. Oil Wells last week struck
“4ft, of rich oil-sand with gas” at 1800 ft.,
and the casing is to be set for testing. Alex.
Gordon finds more promise to the vertical
foot than most. Optimism certainly is
necessary in the hunt for oil locally. The
new Belford Dome Co. has it in an aggra-
vated form: it asks for half a million
(nominal capital is a million) to test for oil
in the Hunter Valley (N.S.W.). Of the
other Australasian cos. Lander has lapsed
back into silence since the recent market
flutter, and Taranaki is plugging away at
Waiapu.
Under the influence of the high price for
tin quite a lot of activity is visible in n.-e.
Tasmania. Work on a moderate scale, apart
from the big mines like the Briseis and
Pioneer, has gone on steadily for many
years, but £3OO tin has galvanised the whole
district. Areas virgin or derelict are being
pegged by the square mile, and every second
resident seems to hold at least one option
up his sleeve. The thing is being overdone,
of course, but the big price of the metal
brings certain areas into the payable zone.
A good many boring plants are already in
operation, and more are on the way. The
first decent kick backward in prices will
prick the bubbles blown by the optimists.
Now that Rose, Thistle and Shamrock
has been provided with plant, the little mine
is to have the underlie shaft kept' going.
The grade of stone is attractive, 2873 tons
giving 30260 z. A new level at 480 ft. shows
the hanging wall splice of stone to be sft.
thick in the east drive and 4ft. to the south-
west, where the end of the shoot is in sight.
These measurements give a bigger formation
than at 380 ft., and with average values O.K.
the future isn’t so dusty. What clogs the
show is that short shoots mean constant capi-
tal outlay, and only an occasional sprat
for the shareholder. Those who go mining
in Victoria’s mountains have to be prepared
for that.
* j. i
Carpathia (N.S.W.) treated the usual
121 tons for the last fortnight for the im-
proved yield of 6.30 tons concentrates, the
previous return showing 5.06 tons. More
men have been put on in the hope of an
improved tonnage and to expedite develop-
ment, but the board cautiously notifies hold-
ers in the half-yearly report that the ore
bodies are erratic. For the half-year to
July 31 the co. milled 1691 tons for SO tons
concentrates, which realised £11,439. Mine
costs were £7107 and the office exes, were
£531, which left a net return of £4733
against £2700 for the preceding six months.
After paying tw r o Od. divs. on the 104,070
shares, the co. had £2325 to carry forward
against £2795 brought in. The bank is
owed £lOOO, and creditors claim £llB5 ; but
there is £4570 at fixed deposit and £1572 in
cash, while tin stocks and stores are set
out at £4OOO. Another sixpenny, the third
this year, has just been declared.
Tinglia Tin (N.S.W. i treated 8000yds.
last month for three tons tin oxide, which
is scwt. less than the previous yield. Pros-
pects of achieving the 20,000yds. monthly
forecasted in the prospectus appear to have
faded out.
Manna Hill. Stuart Town. (N.S.W.).
should be crushing this iveek, having pushed
along battery construction.
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) had a
great run last week, when 3580 z. were re-
covered by the old plant from 110 hours’
sluicing. It was a great improvement on
the 430 z. in 142 hours of the previous week,
when a change over to other ground was
being effected. Scrip ran to 6s.—top price
for years.
Gem mining is very dead at Anakie
(C.Q.), and is likely to be for the next year.
The published figures show that in the
Government Gem pool there are between
£40,000 and £50.000 worth of sapphires to
dispoffe of abroad before the State is likely
to purchase again. And the market is pretty
bad; it has been much affected by the crazy
course of the franc.
The gold yield for the whole State of
Queensland for August was 7710 z., value
£3275, compared with 34900 z. and £14.824
for August, 1925. Coolon supplied 3630 z„
and almost lialf of the total came from old
tailings. That is as newr the end as it is
possible to get without falling over. Morgan,
of course, will linen the figures if its em-
ployees allow it to Jive.
* * * *
The statement of -.affairs of Kawarau,
recently rendered in with the
M.L. Companies Actj makes interesting
reading. The co. was .registered obi April
8, 1924, with a subscribe,'! capital of £lO,OOO
in 200,000 shilling sliaiVfs. This is the
parent co. of the Kawaram venture, and the
expenditure on the construction of the dam
has been financed from patyments made to
the parent by the claimlholders —in all
£69,957. The shilling sharoe touched 265.
9d. in March last year, and those who got
out about that time—the scrip was over 20s.
for quite a while—did well for themselves.
The dam was closed for the faVst time re-
cently, but the gold-paved rivcvr-ibed men-
tioned in connection with one of*; the floats
is still hidden.
* » * *
Last month’s tin statistics are still;,more in
favor of the producers. The total visible sup-
plies at the end of August were lowar than
at any time during the last five years,
amounting to only 12,687 tons.
The earlier Malayan prospecting nos. —
especially Austral Malay and Alluvial T,'in —
have garnered such rich harvests that crowds
of followers are now picking over the fie Ids.
Sydney alone has at least nine prospecting
organisations—Austral Malay, Alluvial,
Tanah Biji, Malay and Siamese Prospecting,
Burma Malay, Sydney Siam, Malaysian Tin
Lands, Commonwealth Malay, and Sydney
Malayan. Apart from the two first-name* 1
pioneers, who are now rolling in affluence,
three have secured distinct wins. Malay amt
Siamese Prospecting Co. has successfully
floated Phin Soon Mines, Ltd., and several,
other reputedly good things are in store. Pen-;
man’s Tanah Biji has Jelapang to its credit,
while another is overdue. Mulligan and G-
W. Osborne have secured for Burma-Malay
what is said to be a valuable area almost;
alongside Tongkah Harbor’s old property.
Some of the others also threaten to produce
shortly. Melbourne also has a formidable
array of tin-scratchers, including Austral-
Siamese, Eastern, Pulo, Peninsular, Feder-
ated Malay States, Siamese Concessions,
Eastern Options (now defunct, but leaving-
survivors in Eastenl Tin and its pup Tinson-
kula) and Tin Options. Prominent among
the controllers of most of the Melbourne
organisations arc the three old partners,
Palfreyman, Ashbolt and Henry Jones, with
Ambrose Pratt. Some of these are on the
boards of various companies. Those in con-
trol of the different Sydney “stables” do not
fraternise like that.
* * * *
New Guinea Oil Co., Orokola Bay, Gulf
of Papua, succeeded in getting the cement
to set at 1135 ft., despite the gas pressure.
Manager Moore’s latest radio reported gas
in fair quantity.
Sydney Siam was notified last week by
Betiiune, its consulting engineer, that 28
bores put down on its 2400-acre option in
West Siam averaged lion, oxide going 69
p.c. metal to 39ft. in depth. Eighteen other
bores were unsatisfactory. Gordon Mc-
Leod, a director, will go across in October,
having in mind another promising option.
Meantime more boring will be done in the
2400 acres.
* * * *
Kamunting (F.M.S.), a London-controlled
concern with a branch office in Syd-
ney, intends to subdivide its 300,000
20s. shares into 1.200.000 of the nomi-
nal value of ss. At 80s. and upwards the
old scrip has become unwieldy in market
operations. The quarterly drv. has been
raised to Is. 9d.—that’s 3d. up. The co. is a
regular producer of 100 tons or more of oxide
a month, and with tin soaring higher than
for six years the big producers are reaping
a golden harvest.
* * * *
Bundi (F.M.S.) may thank its stars that
tin prices keep advancing. For 1925 re-
coveries were 1.0651 b. and turnover aver-
aged 57,000yd5. monthly. For the first half
of 1926 the ground operated gave just under
7 lb. for 55.000yd5., and the July and October
divs. had to be kept in the till, in order to
assist in financing No. 2 dredge. This should
commence operations in the (’bench Valley
about April, its capacity is 144,000yd5. a
month. Better yields are expected for the
second half, but forecasts have been in abey-
ance because check boring just ahead of the
dredge had not been done, the staff being
too busy on the Oheneh Valley dredge. Only
80,000 shares have been issued, and these
have moved up to 615., so that holders, if
not getting divs., see a handsome market
profit. As the co. has 2000 acres, those who
hold for the No. 2 dredge should be rewarded
if nothing unforeseen happens to tin.
The first balance-sheet of the Timor Pet-
roleum Co., which was formed to re-open an
old and abandoned oilfield in Portuguese
Timor, is interesting. It took 15 months to
sell 55.638 shares, which realised (to May
31) £48.386. The expenses for carrying the
co. to the present stage of capitalisation
were £7710, made up of preliminary exes.,
£674; flotation exes., £2826; commission and
brokerage, £4216. This works out at 2s. 9d.
a share. Establishment expenses were extra-
vagant at £5019, chiefly consisting of salaries
and directors’ fees, £3433, and travelling
expenses, £1307. In addition the share-
holders’ meeting voted £250 to H. Campbell
McFie, the chairman, and £2OO each to F.
Nomens, Robert Walker, A. ,T. Staughton,
li. B. Officer and P. J. Snape, all of them
vendors, who got 60,000 £1 shares.
Mutooroo Copper, of Adelaide, has had a
setback over its Java oil concession. A. J.
Roberts, of Adelaide, chairman of Mutooroo,
went to Java to see the oil-well, and found
it abandoned. A new hole was being started.
Di Villa told Roberts that £5OOO at least
was required to buy drill and casing to bore
to 2400 ft. The mercurial little Dutchman
considered chances* of striking oil “fairly
reasonable.’’ Roberts objected to make
further payments, and left for Singapore to
try tin and rubber, and Mutooroo's oil con-
cession looks like a blue duck.
* * *
Some of the stuff which is coming out of
the New Guinea goldfield on the Bulolo River
lias been on view this week in Sydney. In
character it is quite different from the gold
which was taken out of the old-time fields
on the same side of the island’s backbone.
Tlae metal from the Gira and Yodda was
ver y clean, though osmiridium, then classed
as “dirt,’’ often occurred in the latter field.
A Jot of the Bulolo stuff is in quartzite
lumps up to 501 b. in weight, carrying heavy
gold. On the old fields “specimen” gold was
rare*. Another important difference is in
values. The Bulolo gold, found in a decom-
posed dyke formation, is worth about £2 10s.
an ounce. The Papuan stuff brought £3 15s.
on the fields 25 years ago. In this connec-
tion, reports are to hand of a new Bulolo
find, the gold being of much higher value—-
£3 1,75. 6d. an ounce. But there is little
beyond a whisper at present.


Jock and Jack form a partv ; and qet grip t© Uoin
And Be Bound By THE Major it y,
THEY FORM A. UNION
Which includes and Snap
OH THE SAMS CONDITIONS ,
A. \_ea.g,ue )S now Set up Which Tkk.es in Four other-,,
It IS O&MIOUS'-/ TME To FORTM A COuKCIL,
Anq Them a Council, .
♦V o-C J it
Ihvs. R-uue is A, Th\hc,,oOCK.
THE RULE OF JOCK AND JACK


It’s the State Express
methods of manufacture
that perfect -
2(^,,/ 6
(XPRESS
CIGARETTES
Made in London by /Kidath Tobacco Company, Lid
m
■ V
m
3sgl
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE DUET.
DAD: “Is that Dolly at the piano? She seems to he playing with
one hand.”
MUM : “Yes . I suppose the young man she’s with is playing with
the other.”
“Onerahi”: It was a good many years
ago, before the era of arc lights and electric
flares; dusk was gathering, and a thin mist
hung over the old Wellington (M.L.) wharf.
The old Stormbird, just leaving for Picton,
had given her final whistle, and was pulling
out, and the s.s. Maori, just in from Nelson,
loomed through the mist to take up her berth
behind the outgoing steamer, when a frenzied
shout was heard: “Stop the ship! Stop the
ship!” The inevitable last man raced down
the wharf with his arms full of parcels,
balanced for a moment on the outer stringer,
took a flying leap over the intervening four
feet of water, and landed almost on top of
a fat man who stood on the steamer's deck.
His many parcels burst and distributed their
eontents everywhere. The tangle soon sorted
itself out, and the corpulent person presently
emerged from the mix-up groaning bitterly.
The other was in a fever of apology. “My
dear sir, I beg your pardon! I do beg
your pardon ! But 1 harv caught the boat.”
The fat man seemed in danger of choking.
"You d—d fool!” he presently gasped,
"this b-b-boat’s cornin’ in !” The late arrival
had jumped on the incoming Maori.
“Morob”: The alleged disturbance on the
recently-returned Melbourne (B. 9/9/’2O)
was obviously a mere trifle compared with
the outbreak on
H.M.A.S. Una in
the north-western
Pacific in 1916.
That affair was no
doubt the result of
T.W.W. influences
on board. When
the Una was in
mid-ocean the tele-
scopic gun-sights
were thrown over-
board, leaving the
ship helpless had
an enemy ap-
peared: the sex
rants. compasses
and other parts of
the equipment also
went over the side.
The same night
the cocks of the
Ia n k i n which
some hundreds of
gallons of petrol
were stored were
turned on. with the
result that soon a
large part of the
vessel had become
saturated with the
stuff and wanted
only the striking
of a match to send
it sky-high. The
Una returned to
Rabaul, navigated
chiefly by dead-
reckoning. and a
court-martial sen-
tenced the ring-
leaders to long
terms of imprisonment. That was Aus-
tralia’s one and only real naval mutiny.
-X- * * *
“E.A.D.”: When the Prince of Wales
visited Perth on his world tour a single file
of Citizen Forces lined the approach
to the Central Station as a guard of
honor. The usual
horde of officials
and military heads
were rushing about
busily between the
lines; one in par-
ticular, a gorgeous
individual on a
flash charge r,
arrested the
crowd’s attention.
A poor horseman,
he was having a
lot of trouble with
his steering, and
the climax was
reached when the.
steed commenced
pigrooting directly
in front of the
Royal dais. Women
shrieked hysteri-
cally and scrambled
for a front seat;
men sought the
safety of verandah-
poles. and mis-
chievous small
boys yelled encour-
agement to the
horse. The line of
the guard buckled
in the middle and
nearly broke,
whereupon a com-
manding voice was
heard: “Ease orf
there ! Ease orf !”
Above the tumult
a thin voice piped :
“No, Vs not, but he damn soon will be!”
And he was.
"Esir” : My first introduction to a Turkish
prison—I was destined to spend three years
as a guest of the Sublime Porte—was in
July, 1915. My fellow-captives were an-
other Australian from Anzac, a Ghurka, a
French marine and a negro Zouave. The
cell in Constantinople’s biggest gaol was too
verminous to permit of sleep, and we were
hungry, too. the daily vegetable-marrow and
olive-oil of Turkish prison fare being exceed-
ingly unsatisfying. My fellow-Digger had
an English sovereign, one of Anzac’s first
pays, which had evaded three careful Turkish
searches, between the tongue and upper of
one of his military boots. (Later even our
boots .were taken from us.) The sovereign’s
owner, yielding to our importunities, ap-
proached the prison doctor to complain of
the food, and to ask permission to buy other
with his gold. The medico not only consented,
but changed the quid into Turkish money
to facilitate transactions with the prison
canteen. The trouble was to explain what
we wanted; for none of us five knew any
Turkish. However, Johnny Ghurka pro-
duced paper and pencil, the gifts in hos-
pital of a German nursing sister, and an
egg was duly and carefully drawn on Johnny’s
paper and despatched, with some money, by
a prison orderly to the canteen. The mes-
SPARING HIS FEELINGS.
“I hope this isn't your husband's favorite spot factory.”
"Ok, it wouldn’t matter if it were. I never go about with anyone
he could be the least jealous of.”
senger returned with a vegetable-marrow!
Our next device was to draw a hen in front
of the egg; but this merely led to fresh con-
fusion, the orderly reappearing with a live
fowl-same price as the marrow. In des-
peration one of the prisoners made a make-
shift nest, put his dirty handkerchief in it
and cackled realistically to the growing
Turkish audience. This did what our
artistry had failed to do, and we were sup-
plied with a dozen fresh eggs for six piastres
-—little more than an English shilling.
“Ida IV’: Queer notices in hotels? Travel-
ling from Pilcaneu (Patagonia) to Buenos
Aires without a male escort, which is con-
trary to the custom of the country, I put
up one night at a little holiche (inn) on the
pampas. Returning to my room after a
wash in a soda-water spring among some
rocks, I read with secret joy a notice which
had been affixed during my absence. It
curtly informed me in Spanish that I would
not be permitted to receive gentlemen in
my bedroom.
“Specktonian”: He was a shy youth who
had just secured his first billet, that of
assistant in the local country store. And
now he has gone, nobody knows where. The
cause of his exodus was an outsize in females
who descended on him the other morning, a
picture of imperious indignation, and de-
manded hotly, “Young map, you’ll take them
trousers off; you’ll take ’em off.” As she
seemed quite capable of enforcing the re-
quest the horrified youth gave one gasp and
then fled. Later it transpired that the cus-
tomer had merely been referring to a pair of
pants that dad had been unable to climb
into, and which, though returned, had not
been docked off the account.
“Autopsy” : A marriage in a small country
town is usually a momentous affair, inclined
to put the hayseed population temporarily
out of its placid routine. This was the case
once in Sunbury (Vic.). when a local John
Hop’s daughter was wed. The stalwart
John, who for 20 years had maintained law
and order in the little town, must have
thought he was back in Palestine with Sam-
son and Delilah, for he kept up festivities
long after the parson had tied the knot. He
had many friends, and in this expansive
mood worshipped Bacchus with them long
and arduously, and was still at it when
suddenly called upon by the Coroner to
superintend an inquest. He pulled himself
together quickly, as only a cop. can, collected
the various witnesses, and declared the
Coroner’s Court open. But then, tricked
perhaps by the solemnity of the proceedings,
rites and ceremonies got mixed up, and
when the chief medical witness concluded
his evidence, the rubicund Robert threw
out his chest and said, “Dr. X will now
respond on behalf of the deceased.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: When 1 was last at Han-
kow, where the lid blew off the Chinese pot
the other day, the city had been looted and
partially burned in one of the campaigns
of the interminable civil war. The country
was supposed to be seething with unrest,
insolent soldiers were everywhere and
pogroms of missionaries were momentarily
expected. With a friend I visited a mon-
astery some miles outside the city, and when
we reached it we found the monks talking
excitedly of a “Yang Kuei-tze” —a foreign
devil —being in the vicinity. The chief
temple was packed with an agitated mob,
but the agitation seemed to be due more to
puzzledom than anger. Pushing through, we
found the centre of interest to be an Aus-
tralian woman quietly sitting on a camp-
stool in front of an easel transferring the
features of Ti-tsang Pu Sa, god of that
temple, to canvas. She was the sort of
person .who wouldn’t get excited if red ‘devo-
lution was raging all round her.
* -x- * *
“C.Q.”: This should have come right out
of the pitchers, but it happened in real life.
A rural cop was drowsing on a bridge over
the Mordialloc Creek (Vic.) at the witch-
ing hour of three, when two cars, the leader
containing a female, tore across at 70 miles
an hour pouring lead into each other. When
the disturbed constable rang up police head-
quarters lie found that they knew all about
it, and had actually been in receipt of pro-
gress reports of the race. It started when
news of an attempt at shopbreaking by a
party in a car reached the police patrol-
waggon which owns the invaluable wireless.
It ended after 20 miles of thrill in the crooks
escaping in a dust-screen on the Glen
Huntly-road. The most curious feature of
the welter was that the escapee’s number
was 24,351, and that in their subsequent in-
quiries the police pounced on no less than
lliree cars with this number.
* * * *
“Sunbury”: Dr. A. J. W. Philpott, the
superintendent of the Royal Park receiving-
house (Vic.), is pretty generally disliked
by medical students who don't know him
personally; and, realising this, he often tries
to score off them. Expatiating recently
before a class of a hundred, he stressed the
difficulty of arriving at a comprehensive
definition of insanity, other than that it
is the reverse of sanity. Every person’s con-
ception of insanity was different, depending,
he said, upon one’s idea of sanity. “Some
of you,” he said, looking up guilelessly at
the class, “might think that I am insane.”
The suggestion provoked the instant response
that lie desired: the students signified their
assent. But the recoil came when, after
the uproar died down, Philpott murmured
“Or vice versa.”
* * * *
“X.D.”: A drowsy Melbourne cop was
standing at a street intersection staring
abstractedly at the number of a motor-car
drawn up against the gutter. Shifting his
frame into a more comfortable position, he
AT THE HUMMER BOARDING-
HOUSE.
“So you really think it isn’t just a flirta-
tion?"
“I’m sure of it. They didn’t even get out of
the hammock when the dinner-hell rang."
gave the next street a casual survey and the
same number attached to another stationary
car met his bewildered eyes. Later a young
man explained in court that he had registered
his own car, but, the fee being high, had
attached the same number to his mother's
car. The queer thing is that it was only
chance that brought the two together with
only a street corner between them.
(Continued on page 19.)
AERIAL RESCUE WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The beneficent activities during the past year ol
Q.A.N.T.A.S. (Queensland and Northern Territory
Aerial Services), as set forth in a pamphlet, range
from ‘Conveyance of doctors and urgent medicines to
the sick and dying’ to ‘Transport of beer and rum to
a flood-bound hotel.’ ”
Speed on, swift ’planes, and cleave the central blue,
Not, as in wartime you were wont to do.
Equipped for fierce and devastating strife;
Your nobler mission now is saving life.
Healers and healing medicines you bring,
To those who need them, upon eager wing.
Hopeful, not fearful, ears and yearning eyes
Strain for your coming through the trackless skies.
Not as the eagle, beak and talons red,
But like the ravens that Elijah fed
On errands sweet and merciful you come.
(S’truth, but we’ve done a perish! Got the rum?)
Glide on! Full many a heart will leap and stir
With hope renewed at your approaching whir.
The creeks are bankers and the plains are made
Such quagmires we’re beyond terrestrial aid.
But roads with patches that resemble glue
And roaring, swirling streams are nought to you.
You streak where’er you’re wanted, smooth and quick ;
The suffering wait your coming, and the sick ;
You fail them not in floodtime or in drought.
(And here it’s one within and one without.
Our need transcends the lack of drugs or grub,
Stormbound and stuck for tiddleys —in a pub /)
Sweep on ! Not menacingly as of old
With various high explosives in your hold
To wreck and ravage, smash and burn and slay ;
A more congenial task is yours to-day.
You shoot, a rescuer, through the blue serene,
A veritable god in the machine,
A succoring angel for the licensee
Who sent the SOS for o.v.g.
Speed on, and add a life or two the more
To swell the list of those you’ve saved before.
(We’re spitting chips or we might raise a cheer
For rescue work aerial. Where’s the beer?)
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. P. R. HIGGINS (Chairman),' W. NORTHAM, ALEX. KING.
Total Assets exceed.. .. .. £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses.
(2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
GKO. PEACOCK, Secretary.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS
Probate. Children's Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
T. W. RAPLKY, General Manager.
“J.F.C.”: “Doodles’ ” electrically-treated,
black brother (P». 9/9/'26) reminds me of a
Palestine incident. Our Field Wireless Unit
was constantly missing rations, etc., and the
pilfering being attributed to the local Arabs
or Bedouins, a trap was set. An insulated
wire was soldered to the bottom of a tin of
bully beef and connected to a battery. The
tin was then placed outside the tent, the
wire covlered with dirt and the’ current
switched on. Our first catch was an elderly
buck, who danced some entirely new figures
in his attempt to drop the tin. But he
possessed some sense of h-umor, for he didn’t
take to his heels, as we expected lie would,
after disengaging himself, but squatted at a
safe distance and appreciatively watched the
trap being reset. And he clearly enjoyed
the antics of the next captive as much as
we did. "We got nine bites, the victims
being of varying ages and both sexes, before
the sport wearied.
“Tamornie”: Speaking of niggers’ intro-
duction to electricity (B. 9/9/’26). At
Madang, then German New Guinea, the
wireless station was guarded at night by
native police. A recruit, attracted by the
violet flares in the high-tension room while
the operator was at work, approached so
closely that his nose touched the wife-gauze
with which the window was covered. His
yell brought out all hands, but no sign of
the coon was ever found, then or since,
except his rifle and accoutrements, sulu and
cap, which lay where he had cast them.
Touching the gauze myself, in order to find
out what was wrong, I got all the informa-
tion I wanted.
* * * *
“Westerner”: A railway accident kept
George Reid away from a political meeting
at Bathurst. Reid’s opponents ignored the
accident and declared that the stout poli-
tician’s ‘absence was deliberate. Later on,
when speaking at Paddington Town Hall,
Reid was heckled with the question : “Why
did you funk Bathurst?” “If my friend
will allow me I will explain,” said Reid
deliberately and tolerantly. “I was on my
way to Bathurst, and was in my sleeping
berth when there was an accident. I woke
to find the train plunged in darkness, and
I felt round for my trousers. At last I
found a pair, but when I went to put them
on I found they were not a man’s trousers.”
Reid put on his best look of surprise as the
bowl of laughter came, accentuating his
astonishment by screwing his eyeglass into
his face, and leaning his stomach against
the table. “No,” he went on ; “they were
boy’s trousers.” The audience laughed till
it cried. Reid was good at tricks like that.
* *• * *
“Carbine”: The possibility of one rifle-
bullet killing several people was raised in the
recent Ivalgoorlie trial. It is not as un-
likely as it may seem. Bullets travelling
with a high muzzle velocity sometimes
exhibit the most extraordinary vagaries. At
a military camp in England a rifle acciden-
tally went off in a guard-room occupied by
10 men. The bullet struck one on the hip,
traversed his back diagonally, and. emerging
beneath his right shoulder, entered the neck
of another man on the left side and killed
him. In a further instance a Lee-Enfield
TOO FEW PASSENGERS, TOO MANY CONDUCTORS.
“A conference is being held to define the activities of the plethora of Commonwealth depart-
ments, advisory boards, commissions and councils, with a view to avoiding waste, overlapping, friction
and needless expense.”
THE KID : “Strikes me this ’bus would go better if there weren't so many conductors
to pay!”
bullet penetrated a man’s wrist and, after
running up the length of his left arm, came
out on his shoulder and then buried itself
2in. deep in a plaster wall. In a third case
two men were killed outright and a third
seriously wounded by the same bullet,
although the three men were standing in
such positions that lines drawn between each
would have formed an isosceles triangle.
* * * *
“L.C.M.” : The considerate suicide of my
acquaintance was an old man, an in-patient
of Perth Hospital. He waited till the day
nurses came on, “as they didn’t have as
much work to do as the night staff,” before
cutting his throat very neatly over a bucket.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Watching a lizard the other
day, my mind flew back to a whole line of
men as motionless, and our greenish khaki
merging as easily with the soil and crushed
barley. Fronting us lay hundreds of other
men, their bluish-grey uniforms making them
just as invisible until some nervous move-
ment betrayed a presence. To the everlast-
ing credit of the trainers of the Anzacs, the
Aussie beat the Turk at making a chameleon
of himself; probably the greenish khaki with
its not too clean-cut lines was superior to
Jacko’s bluish-grey, in that it dissolved just
a little more perfectly into any color-scheme
underneath. And many of the men soon
grasped the knack of continuously firing a
.rifle without the slightest visible movement,
right in the face of the foe. Nature, coupled
with, the threat of death, is an unbeatable
teacher.
“Burralong” : The more improvements that
are made to the Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.)
the less accessible they are becoming to the
less affluent public. Those who want a cheap
trip, with sights that the fleeting motorist
doesn’t see in the way they should be seen,
should do this. Take a haversack, with the
necessary food for a few days on the track,
and a billy. Buy (if you are in Sydney)
a month’s excursion week-end ticket to Mount
Victoria. Walk to the Half-way House
(18 miles) ; thence to the boundary of the
Government reserve (13 miles), and camp
or stay at the accommodation-bouse; go on
to the caves early next morning by the short
track over the ranges; see two caves —the
guides reckon the Lucas and the Right Im-
perial give the best value for the money—
and then make off up the Oberon road to the
top of the Dividing Range and camp there.
Next day stroll to Oberon, and take the
train back through Lithgow and past the old
Zigzag to Mount Victoria. The view from
the range above the Caves House, towards
Oberon, beats anything to be seen by the
three-days-tripper encouraged by the Tourist
Bureau. My own experience included a
magnificent snowfall at the Summit (the
highest point of the motor road to the caves) ;
much conversation along the route concern-
ing the ancient convict history of the Hart-
ley district; the most enjoyable self-made
meals I have had for many a day; a view
of the rarely-opened Skeleton Cave, with its
100,000-year-old fossil remains of a low-
browed abo. who stubbed his toe in the dark
of the cavern and cracked said low brow:
and, ,on the trip from T nth go w, a view of
Oobham .flying across Mount York towards
Govett’s Leap.
* * * *
“Schnorrer” : The Chosen have joined the
other denominations in the rush for taber-
nacle sites at Canberra. John Monash
selected one. and Jewry throughout Australia
is splitting up the light burden of paying the
£4O per annum rent. There is no talk about
putting up a synagogue yet awhile. That
is always left to the congregation itself, and
there is not likely to be a congregation in
Canberra for a few years. Still, an individual
benefactor may appear at any moment. In
Dunedin (M.L.) is what used to be known
as “the million-pound synagogue” on account
of the wealth of its worshippers; it is a
small but almost gorgeous edifice. Julius
Vogel was one of its founders.
* * * *
“Bullamacow”: Can any seafaring man
tell me what became of the figurehead of the
German raider See-Adler? She put into
Mopeha Island. Society Group, to be
careened after a long spell at sea, and while
hove-down in shallow water a strong wind
put her completely on her beam-ends, and
she became a total wreck. The Encounter
came on the scene shortly after, and salved
what was of any importance. The carpen-
ters sawed off the raider’s figurehead, and
there was some dispute over the possession
of it at the time. Did it ever get to a
museum? I have a photograph of it taken
at Mopeha in 1917.
“J.A.R.”: At Chirmside (Q.) in July,
1915, there was an examination of candi-
dates desirous of qualifying for n.c.o.’s in
the farriery school at the vet. hospital.
Quite a crowd of veterans turned up from
all over the State, their callings varying from
shepherds to marine engineers. The exami-
nation papers consisted of half a dozen old
prads suffering from various complaints, and
each aspirant had to give his diagnosis to
Major Bridletootli, the O.C. One old prad
had congestion of the lungs (broken wind) ;
and one of the competitors, evidently more
familiar with tin Lizzies than horseflesh, in
answer to a direct question from the 0.C.,
tersely gave his opinion that “his boilers
w r ant retubing.”
“Ajax”: Before embarking for Aussie and
home we were called up for a final typhoid
injection. The average Digger always dis-
liked this compulsory inoculation, and each
man after getting his issue held the place
between finger and thumb, as he would a
snakebite, and rushed back to bathe the spot
with hot water to keep it from “taking.”
The doe. must have had his suspicions
aroused, for he sent his offsider after us, and
we were caught fomenting each other’s arms.
Every delinquent was summoned before the
doc. again and got it in the other arm. Both
mine “took,” and for a few days I was
almost sorry I hadn’t the disease instead of
the antidote.
*** . #
“C. de M.”: “F.L.” (B. 17/6/’26) is quite
right when he says that Graf von Luckner
did not command the Wolf. But as com-
mander of the German raider See-adler lie
was responsible for tire capture of some 17
vessels. His own capture followed a
bit of bad luck. He careened the See-adler
.at Mopelia Island, one of the Society Group,
to clean her, but a tidal wave washed her
on to a coral shelf, and lie was unable to
get her off. He left there in the ship’s launch
with his navigating lieutenant and two men,
and reached Wakaya Island, Fiji. Here the
four were caught, and sent to Maoriland
for internment. The Graf escaped from there,
and was re-captured by the cable-ship Iris.
He was planning another escape when the
Armistice was signed. In every way he
played the game from first to last. There
was only one death during and incidental
to his raiding operations, and all prisoners
who were compelled to work on the raider
were paid current rates of wages.
“Wefmac” : To remove any confusion that
may exist about the identity of the ill-fated
Dorrigo, let me say that there have been
two Dorrigos on the N. S. Wales coast
during the last 20 years. The vessel seen
in the islands was the wooden coaster built
for the Coff’s Harbor-Woolgoolga trade in
1902-03. She was a wooden packet of about
350 tons, and when the Nicol Co. was
absorbed by the North Coast Co. continued
on the same run for some years. She was
sold into the Islands trade and eventually
came to grief in the Marshalls. The Dorrigo
which recently foundered was a very trim
little iron steamer, and certainly looked sea-
worthy enough. The wooden Dorrigo had a
penchant for breaking down; once, -when I
was coming down the coast in the Cavanba
in a moderate to nasty swell, we picked
her up with a broken tailshaft, stood by her
all night and towed her to Sydnejy.
THE PROPER ARRANGEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I could make the weather
A thing to soothe and please,
And bring- the clouds together
Or moderate the breeze,
Or set the sun to shining
On certain chosen da vs,
Tlie world without repining
Alight walk in gracious ways.
We’d have a shower each morning
from four to six o’clock,
With crystal drops adorning
The paddocks and the stock
To greet the sun’s uprising
And keep the landscape fair,
Till beauty most surprising
Was common everywhere.
From noon till five a zephyr
Should very gently fan
The drowsy lamb and heifer
And also play on man ;
And once in every season
A sprightly gale might blow,
But nothing out of reason—
Twelve miles an hour nr so.
The world might need a washing
For Christmas every year.
We’d let the drops come sploshing
For forty-eight hours clear ;
But, none need get a wetting.
For those who wore a head
Would see no sense in getting
Out of a nice dry bed.
The temperature would wander
But ten degrees or so ;
Barometers would squander
No pressures high or low,
But keep an even measure,
Their hands still set at fair,
To give the public pleasure
And tell them what to wear.
The blessing of my weather
Would feel like Kingdom-come,
When people came together
They’d nearly all be dumb ;
For while the ordered season
Was fixed without a doubt,
They’d find an ample reason
To leave their talking out.
Yet strong- imagination
Would stir a gifted few
To work for the creation
Of commonplace anew.
Though temperature might vary
No tittle and no jot,
Eenore would say to Mary
“Oh, don't you find it, hot!”
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


□
□
The Player Piano
is an instrument of exceptionally beautiful tone and exceptionally fine construction. You will appreciate the mellow tone and
faultless action of your Wurlitzer as much in five years’ time as you do to-day.
Made by the Rudolph Wurlitzer Manufacturing Co., N.Y.—builders of the celebrated orchestral organs installed at the Prince Edward
Theatre, Sydney; the “Capitol” Theatre, Melbourne; Winter Garden Theatre, Brisbane; and the Arcadia Theatre, Chatswood.
PRINCIPAL WURLITZER DEALERS.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Royal Player Piano Co., 635 a George Street, Sydney.
J. Goldstein, 137 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Jas. Loneragan, Ltd., Gulgong.
The Australian Stores, Yass.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.. The Australasian Implement & House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
James Marshall & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
VICTORIA Myers Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA... Musgroves, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a Wurlitzer please communicate direct with the factory representatives:—
PARKER, BLAU & CO., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; 308 Flinders Bane, Melbourne.
“M.G.S.” : Gipsy Smith lias been severely
criticised in Maoriland for his autocratic
treatment of interrupters, one of whom was
dragged out of a meeting in Auckland by
the ushers with far more violence than an
egg-thx’ower would receive at a political
rally. The Gipsy’s excuse is that the least
murmur of dissent will snap the state of
emotional tension in which lie is supposed
to hold his audiences. This may be so, but
the fact doesn’t wari'ant such a display of
downright callousness as I saw at one of
his Melbourne meetings. A woman in the
middle of the tier of seats at the back of the
hall fainted just as the revivalist had stirred
his admirers to the point where they begin
to confess their simple sins. Kindly-dis-
posed people who moved to help the woman
into the fresh air wei'e sternly checked by
the super-abundant ushei’s, and even a bobby
was overawed by a pale-faced, pimply young-
fanatic with the official ribbon in his button-
hole. So the lady finished her faint where
she was. If she had suffocated, ought any-
body to have been hanged?
“Sidweelan”: We wei'e dining with my
old suburban undertaker friend, whose habit
of garnishing his conversation with the tech-
nical terms of his calling is an unfailing joy
to us, and Mrs. Sidweelan had just paid a
graceful compliment to Mrs. Shroud on her
culinary pi'oficiency. “Yes,” said the head of
the table, beaming proudly on his wife,
“cookin’ always was ’er long suit. Give ’er
the raw materials and a good crematorium
an’ she’ll turn you out a dinner fit for a king.
Look at that fowl! Done to a turn, ain’t
A COUNSEL OF DESPAIR.
SHE: “ I’ve counted five hundred Dicey jumping over a fence, and
still I can’t sleep.”
IT: “Try opening the gate.”
it?” By this time he had reached the season-
ing. “Embalmed it ’erself, too, without even
a ’int from me. Never did a better pei’-
fessional job myself!” he concluded rumina-
tively, as he scrutinised the bread-and-sage
before helping me to an additional spoonful.
* * *
“Centurion” : Westralia has furnished an
agreeable variation of the usual affiliation
trouble. The relatives of the wronged dam-
sel forced their way into the shop where
the villain was working and demanded, at
the point of the straight left, so to speak, that
he mai'ry her. The youth refused and the
direct actionists were presently dispersed by
the police. Waiting outside, however, they
fell upon the immature misogamist as he
emerged for lunch, and, throwing him into a
motor-car, rushed him off to the Registrar’s
office, where the lady was waiting for him.
Luck was again on the kidnapped one’s side,
for the Registrar was out at his mid-day
meal, and before his return a flying column
of the youth’s friends, headed by the police,
snatched him from the very brink of matri-
mony.
ALL THROE OH THE DARK AGES.
LOIS: “How long has .lack known Nora?”
ALYCE : “Oh, years—ever since she ceased to he a blonde.”
“Spare Corp.”: The Germans have quite
recently released some interesting details
about the big guns which lobbed shells into
Paris from over 60 miles away. Even allow-
ing for the moral effect of ironmongery
hurled over such vast distances, these mon-
ster weapons seem to have been hardly worth
while. With a length of 128 ft. (the inner
tube itself was 98ft. long) each gun took
154 tons of metal
at a time when
Germany was hard
up for supplies;
and special calcula-
tions had to be
made out for each
shell fired. The
charge was varied
according to the
distance the 8.2
shell. which
weighed 2201 b. and
had an extremely
tapered nose to
help in overcoming
the air resistance,
was intended to
travel. The actual
range was 80
mile's. The muzzle
was given a lofty
elevation to shoot,
its missile into the
thin upper air; at
74 miles the shell
went up over 25
miles (which is
further than any-
thing else has been
sent from the
earth), and tra-
velled two-thirds of
its journey over
six miles above the
earth which
means that Mt.
Everest would not
have got in the
road. The shell
sped over 74 miles
in three minutes,
but was liable to
be deflected out of
its path by the
rotation of the earth. It scared Paris a
good deal, but it must have scared its gun-
crew badly, too.
“P.X.” : The Licensing Court of Adelaide
has turned down an application —which had
somehow come to be regarded as a mere
matter of form —to transfer the license of
the old Grand Central, out of business for
the last two years, to a new “Hotel Adel-
aide,” to be built regardless of expense on
North-terrace. The Court admitted that the
new place “would be meeting a need at pre-
sent appreciably felt”; and it had allowed
the license to be transferred to an agent
for the new co. But Villeneuve Smith,
objecting on behalf of another North-terrace
hotel, argued that there is no business exist-
ing to transfer, and that the claim is there-
fore a “gigantic humbug” and a “very impu-
dent attempt to circumvent the statute.”
The Court, without endorsing all this, de-
clined to entertain the application. The
daily papers call the decision “a legal tech-
nicality” and “a lamentable study in merely
irritating circumlocution,” and no doubt a
way will bo found to provide the new hotel
with a license—-which l'eally means to pro-
vide Adelaide with a new hotel. No city in
Australia wants one half so badly. Actu-
ally the principal hotel is without a lift
to reach its two upper floors, and in other
respects ranks merely as a nice old country
inn. The modern Grand Central, upon which
Adelaide prided itself for a few years, be-
longs to the Gibson (Foy and Gibson)
family, and they can make, as they think,
better use of it.
"8.G.” : Is there any country in the world
without a Digger or some feminine connec-
tion? At the end of last year 9223 A.I.F.
pensions were being paid in Britain through
the High Commissioner’s office, and 358 in
other countries. Ninety-two went to the
U.S.A., 76 to Canada, 42 to France, 20 each
to Sweden, Denmark and Switzerland, 18
to Finland, 13 to Italy, 12 to Russia. 11 to
Belgium and 9 to Norway. For the rest,
Malta had 8, Holland 8, East Africa 7,
Egypt 5, Poland 4, China 3, Greece 2, arid
Jugo-Slavia, Germany, Newfoundland, Brazil,
the Straits Settlements and St. Helena 1
each. That St. Helena trigger teases my
fancy. I like to think of him musing on
Napoleon and his grognards, and Monash
and his dinkums, under the willows of Long-
wood.
“Ex-Dig.”: A Parisian butcher named
Michel, one of the latest swimmers
to negotiate the Channel, was urged
on the last quarter-mile of his jour-
ney, according to the cableman, by
a trainer who yelled, “Think of your father!
Think of your mother! Think of your dear
wife!” That reminds me somehow of Dight,
an A.I.F. cobber, who earned a reputation
for the vim with which he leapt into the
fray in hopovers. One night conversation
turned on his contempt for danger. “You
hop in as if you wore enjoying yourself,
Dight,” said a Digger. “One’d think the
Germans were your personal enemies.” Dight
lifted his pipe out of his mouth and spat
venomously into the brazier. Evidently
he was going to say something, but thought
better of it. I happened to know all about
it. Dight's mother-in-law was a German who
had thoroughly got the upper hand of him.
* * * *
“M.H.H.”: Brown was a conscientious
employee of the N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners—until the final damping of his hopes
of promotion soured him, and lie- decided to
quit. With 17 years’ service behind him,
however, he disliked the idea of losing super-
annuation benefits; hence he consulted a
union official, and was told that his best
course was to earn the sack, but he must be
careful to avoid a criminal offence. Brown
took this problem to the workshop in which
he toiled, and here, as the result of inspira-
tion, tools began to be damaged, especially
while a hurry-up job was in progress. This
went on for several months, until Brown's
fellow-workmen became disgusted, and, x*e-
garding the man as a nuisance, formed a
deputation and demanded his removal. Brown
smiled to himself with satisfaction, and
awaited the verdict with confidence. It came
the next day in the form of a memo, to the
shop foreman to advise Brown that he had
been appointed sub-foreman !
* * * *
“Val” : Victoria Point, at the extreme south
of Burma, where Cobham was delayed
through bad weather, is the site of a wire-
less relay-station where I once worked. The
station stands on a grassy platform high
above the river dividing Burma from Siam,
and looks out across the Bay of Bengal. The
village subsists chiefly on the cigar industry.
It is no uncommon sight to see a village
belle puffing away at a weed 12in. to 15in.
long, and at one point as thick as your arm.
My own favorite brand were six a penny.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s antiquities have a
considerate habit of giving a broad hint when
it is time for them to go. The high stone
wall to the west of Government House has
often been condemned as unsafe, but nothing
A MATTER OF TIME.
MAUDIE : “Well, you may if you make it an
old-fashioned kiss.”
MAURICE: “Why, what's the difference?”
MAUDIE : “Oh, about five minutes.”
was done until a few yards of it fell out into
the road last year; then the hint was taken
and the whole thing removed within a few
weeks. Now it is the turn of the narrow
City Bridge, Adelaide’s main thox-ouglifare
out' to the north. When the Oval, close by,
is emptying after a big match, the bridge is
now barred to vehicles except tram-cars; but
the mere pedestrian traffic on a recent Satur-
day was enough to shake about 15 feet of the
parapet into the river. Luckily, only one
man went with it.
MY BIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Well-wishers are good, but well-doers are
better,’ said Archbishop Lees, opening a Home at
Glenroy on Saturday. ‘Everyone should do his
little bit —and more than a threepenny-bit, too.
Your Grace, to grant you what you say
Were best; and yet, to my dismay,
A prompting swells within me strong
To stoutly claim you may be wrong.
For sure, when done what “one should do,”
Some comfort to one should accrue,
A glow, maybe, of conscious worth,
A swelling of one’s moral girth.
Yet I have followed your behest—
Last Wednesday with a certain zest
I “did my bit” (your phrases fit),
And it was “more than a threepenny-bit.”
Then home I crept, forlorn and faint
And more like criminal than saint....
No glow nor comfort in my case
When that darned horse just missed a place,
Your Grace.
VICTORIA.
MACESS.
FACE CREAM-DE-LUXOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the meeting of the British Association at
Oxford, an alabaster jar of cosmetic, found in the
tomb of Tutankhamen, was exhibited. The unguent
—used, the lecturer suggested, by Egyptian flapper-
of 3300 years ago —was in excellent condition and
smelt of cocoa-nut.”
What is the fragrance, Phyllis—lavender,
lilac or thyme or violet or rose,
The scent that hovers round your charming per-
sonality and steals athwart my nose ?
’Tis Eden-old, the practice. I suppose
Eve on her Adam tried its odorous cling.
And whiffs of cocoanut they got, the beaus
Who courted damosels when Tut. was king.
Did Rachel dab her dainty nose with myrrh
And Jacob thrill responsive to his toes ?
Face creams of spikenard did the dames prefer
In lordly Solomon's seraglios?
Ah! these be toilet secrets none disclose,
But from the dust of Luxor’s tombs we wring
That flappers for their pet cosmetic chose
The homely cocoanut when Tut. was king.
Did lorn CEnone, in the morn astir
On Ida’s slopes, win from the lily’s snows
Perfumes that charm ? And Helen —what was her
Olfactory bait for Paris ? No-one knows.
Unguents and essences my chemist shows
Distilled from many a flow'r that blooms in spring,
But fi’om their Juliets’ cheeks the Romeos
Sipped eatt-de-cocoanut when Tut. was king.
Envoy.
Phyllis, a soupgon of boronia blows
Toward me from the hammock where you swing.
The mode must change in other things than clothes.
’Twould have been cocoanut when Tut. was king.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Guaranteed
COLLARS
For their exceptional
smartness and remarkable
comfort!
~(T hey Fit”
Made in Australia for Real Australian Men
rnv’c improved “u in”
rUA o puttees r.i.r.
New Non-fray Spiral (patented).
19/6 per pair.
Obtainable -from
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
Tailors and
Breechesmakers,
313
George
Street,
Sydney.
f
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
The robust story of John Hill’s life has
closed on its 80tlx chapter. He was a coach-
driver with business brains which made
J. Hill and iCo. the Cobb of South Aus-
tralia ; and his knowledge of transport man-
agement got him a job as one of S.A.’s first
“Did you touch Florence while yon were in
Italy?”
"No, old top: I was too busy stinging
Uncle!”
Railway Commissioners. Ho was a good
cricketer, and biologists might find some
significance in the fact that his son, the
redoubtable Clem, was born in the year that
dad reached his zenith as a batsman —-1877.
Amongst bis 12 children there were other
good cricketers, too. Ilis cricket associa-
tions were not only on the field: in 1874
he drove W. G. Grace’s team to play a match
with the Moonta miners—loo miles each
way.
Champion Bill Beach put in an appear-
ance at the “Back to Shoalhaven” celebra-
tion last week, and gave an exhibition of
sculling. The young man has turned 70,
hut in a sculling argument is still able to
put in his oar.
S’William McPherson, M.L.A., whose
niggardliness as Vic. Treasurer (1917-23)
is in contrast with his private generosity,
told a yarn against himself to his con-
stituents at Haw-Hawthorn the other night.
He said that when lie had presided at the
annual gathering of an institution for the
blind he was presented with an address in
Braille, and the man who handed over the
gift explained that the reason it was pre-
pared in that form was to enable McPher-
son to read it by touch with his fingers
when he got home, thus saving the electric
light.
Robert Bush, the Gascoyne River (W.A.)
squatter, is returning to Australia. He
spent 30 years in W.A. before, with his for-
tune made, he went back to England to ran-
som the old family home, which had dropped
into the hands of strangers. But when the
war came Australia had first call on his
purse and his personal services. His home.
Bishop's Knoll, near Bristol, was turned
into a convalescent hospital, the owner and
his wife going to live in a cottage near at
hand, and when Australian wounded com-
menced to arrive in England the place was
reserved especially for their use. Mrs. Bush,
who is a Westralian, acted as cook, and
Bush was carver and meal-server —a heavy
job with 100 sick men to cater for. Bush
paid all expenses himself, and saw that his
guests had everything of the best. He did
not get any rebate on his income-tax either.
Fate showed itself in a sardonic mood in
arranging the deaths of two of the victims
of N.S.W.’s most recent railway disaster.
John Giles, an engine-driver, had served the
railways from his boyhood up, until he
reached the retiring age. His wife had also
been practically a servant of the steam
horse: it was her job to get her man away
to drive and groom the animal. The conces-
sions given by the Railway Department to
its servants decided the pair, on Giles’s
final leave, to take a ’busman’s holiday and
travel by train to Moree. Both were killed.
_ Charles Hedley came to Sydney, leaving
his work on the coral reefs near Cairns, to
prepare for a trip to Japan as Australian
delegate to the Pan-Pacific Science Congress;
but a longer journey fell to his lot, with
Death as his guide. The unobtrusive scien-
tist, who arrived in Australia in 1881, left
the Queensland Museum to serve under Sir
William Macgregor in New Guinea as
naturalist. He joined the Australian
Museum (Sydney) in 1891, and remained
there until called to the coral-research job.
In the 64 years since he was born he lias
travelled in many wild countries—Alaska
and Central Africa among others—and has
written a great deal on his own special sub-
jects. His body has been cremated, and the
ashes will be scattered on the Barrier Reef,
with which his name has been so closely
associated. Among other institutions, the
Zoo will miss him—he was one of the few
sincere scientists who continue to take an
interest in that popular sliowplace.
No wonder Australian State public ser-
vants are always wondering whether the Com-
monwealth couldn’t do with them. E. P.
Fleming, of the N.S.W. Lands Department,
was thought to have wonderful luck to get
£l4OO a year—he owed his rapid preferment
to Louglilin. The Commonwealth gives him
£2500, though, certainly, it is on only a five-
year engagement.
The latest to circumnavigate the Austra-
lian continent is C. R. Herschell, who mana-
ges Pathe’s Cinema Stores in Melbourne. He
varied things by travelling by train, steamer,
donkey, camel and lugger as well as motor-
car, and took 34,000 feet of film en route.
The country between Broome and Wyndhain
(726 miles) is customarily described as the
wildest part of Australia, but the motorists
were wilder. They had to open 47 gates.
One of the Parliamentary delegates who
feels quite at home in Australia is Sydney
Menu, the English knight, who has managed
to hold a seat in industrial Blackburn in
the Conservative interest for the last four
years. He spent 30 years as representative
of a British firm in Chile, arriving back in
England in time to take part in war work,
it is his first visit to Australia, but three
brothers are firmly established on this con-
tinent. one recently retired from the head-
mastership of the Guildford (W.A.) Gram-
mar School.
“Sixenate” : In the Sydney Divorce Court
last week the orderly called loudly “Emily
Caroline —hush! Ernest Roy—hush !” Obedi-
ently the court murmurs died into silence;
and then the illusion was broken by someone
saying that he appeared for Airs. Hush.
“X.N.0.”: Re the Prince of Wales’s tie-
fiddling habit (B. 2/9/’26). The screening
referred to by “A.IJ.A.” had two objects.
The only people present were 11.R.H. and
staff, “A.11.A.” and myself. I was the opera-
tor, and the main object was to see if the
camera-man, Captain Bill Barker, had caught
the incident—at Bendigo, I think —where
Piers Legh dropped on the station platform
a parcel which had been presented by the
local young ladies to H.R.H. and scattered
its contents —a suit of black silk pyjamas.
The Vic. Treasury will collect £10,200
from the estate of A. H. Sargood; his Mel-
bourne possessions totted up to £102,000,
and he had substantial assets in other States.
A fortieth goes to charity, the rest to wife
and children. A.II. survived his politician
dad—Vic. M.L.C. and Senator—23 years.
The family is still waist-deep in the soft-
goods business of Flinders-strcet and the
Lane.
Not only is Alec Peacock's small consti-
tuency (Allandale) to he blotted out when
Vic. Assembly scats 1
are redistributed,
but bis two muni-
cipal pocket bor-
oughs, Clunes and
Oreswick, are to
be a b sorbed by
adjoining shires.
Wh e n the two
mayors and their
cocked hats (if
they have any) are
aboli s h e d, the
knightly Alec will
be about the
only relic of
ould dacency
the villages
will have
left.
J. A. VON
ALWYN, presi-
dent of the Com-
mercial Travellers’
of Australia,
which is at pre-
sent taking a
referendum as to
whether it should
form itself into
a " guild” and
register as a
trades union in
the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court.
A circular has
just been issued
to members set-
ting out the pros
and cons.
George Beal, for years Under-Secretary to
the Queensland Ti-easury, has been appointed
Afiditor-General of the northern State. His
family connections with the Queensland civil
service date back to its beginnings, for his
dad, George, senioi’, was a “foundation mem-
ber,” and was Government Printer for many
years. The new Auditor-General was a high-
class Rugby footballer in liis time, repi’e-
senting Queensland against New South
Wales as far back at the early ’nineties,
when he was the outstanding scrum half of
his day. His successor in the Under-Secre-
tarysliip will probably be J. 11. Stanley, for
some time past Assistant-Under-Sec.
The curtains have been drawn softly on
the life of Selina Kendall, cousin and friend
of the poet. She was a grand-daughter of
missionary Sam Marsden, and last survivor
of the original Kendall family, which settled
on the Carroul estate in Illawarra. Her
quiet life of 78 years was lived lai-gely in
the shelter of the Methodist Church. She
died at Kiama.
T.B. has claimed two good men in Adel-
aide. Alan McDougall was a sergeant in
the Scottish Corps of South Aus. before the
wai% and a warrant-officer in the 43rd in
France. He developed the disease after re-
turning, became secretary of the T.B. Sol-
diers’ Association, and latterly had been
in Bedford Park and Myrtle Bank, where
such cases are cared for. Lionel Hayward,
on the other hand, lived to 45 after an
almost life-long struggle with the disease.
A medical man himself, and son of the better-
known Dr. W. T. Hayward, he did good
work when in charge of both the sanatoria
above named.
Judge Mitchell, who is conducting the
Police Bribery Commission in S. Aus. —it has
already run for five months and is good for
another three —is on the wi'ong side of 70.
Before setting out in pursuit of Costs, Mit-
chell had for years conducted a flourishing
auctioneering business in the northern towns
of S.A. Despite his age, he is a very keen
member of the Northern Territorians’ Asso-
ciation. In the days when the Territory
still belonged to the central State Mitchell
was Judge of the Supreme Court, and as
such he read the proclamation announcing
the taking over of the Territory by the Com-
monwealth. But he reckons S. Aus. should
never have consented to the division.
Answered the last roll-call, Lieut.-Colonel
Schofield, at Auckland (M.L.). He was the son
of Ensign Schofield, who carried the colors of
the Irish Fusiliers at Badajos, Salamanca,
Vittoria and Waterloo. The son arrived in
Auckland in 1863 as the Waikato War blazed
up, and followed Cameron to the last kick
at Orakau. Thereafter he drilled the third
Waikatos until peace was signed. Fetching
up in the wind at Thames, where lie anchored
for 17 years, lie helped to form the Scottish
Rifles there, and during the “Long Rig Hunt”
at Parihaka he was with Major Pitt. For 27
years he was house manager at Auckland
Hospital, but all the time he busied himself
with military matters, for which the Govern-
ment gave him his colonelcy.
“The .Deacon”: Besides being a canny
accountant (R. 9/9/’26), Brother Augustine
McDonald, the Inverness Scot who with
three others now dead pioneered the Marist
Brothers’ schools here under Archbishop Pold-
ing, possessed all the natural wit of the Celt.
Born 77 years ago, he carried a gun in the
interests of Pius IX. against Garibaldi, but
soon joined up with the French brotherhood.
Fifty-odd years ago lie reached Sydney
almost dead with rheumatism, which pursued
him relentlessly all through his pioneering
work in N. S. Wales, Maoriland and New
Caledonia.
J. C. N. Grigg, just garnered by the
Reaper, fell heir to Longbeach in Canterbury
(M.L.), at one time reckoned the world's
model farm. His father, who died in 1901.
was the founder; previously he had land at
Mangere, near Auckland, where lie employed
young Bill Massey as a ploughman. When
he drained the swamps at Longbeach he
found himself owner of the best wheat-
growing land in Maoriland. The just dead
Grigg went to Cambridge, but came back to
the cowshed and shearing-board, imported
the first Holsteins, and fluttered with race-
horses.
Gone to the place where they use gold for
paving blocks, John McCombie, a well-known
Maoriland gold chaser. Born at Auckland
in 1850, he was well into the first gold rush
in Westland, was handy when the Ohimemuri
field was discovered and was in the scrum
for Karangahake, where the warden lined up
600 men and let them race for a disputed
claim beyond a creek and up a mountain side,
one and a half miles away. In 1878 Mc-
Combie had the luck to open up and get out
the first crushing of the Waihi lode, and
later he found the Silverton lode. Next he
unearthed the Woodstock mine at Karanga-
hake, and managed several mines, including
the famous Crown and the just-ended Talis-
man. In later days he turned to writing up
his expei’iences.
Ted Vincent, Brisbane’s leading rat-
catcher, who threw up his £6OO-a-year job
with the City Council a few months ago, is
now making five or six times as much as a
freelance. He has forsaken rats, and is now
chasing flying-foxes in Moreton Bay. There
are millions of them on the bay islands and
along the coast, and a bag of 500 is reckoned
a fair day’s work. The bonus is 3d. a head,
and for side-lines there ai’e bonuses for
crows (Is.), staidings (6d.) and sparrows
(2d.).
Prominent in the now considerable Aus-
tralian population of the Federated Malay
States is John Cameron, of Larut, Kota
and Tupai tin-dredging shows, Taiping. His
early mining experience was gained on
N. S. Wales and Vic. goldfields. Measuring
6ft. 4in., all sound sense, he has attained an
executive reputation second to none in
“WALLY” BRUCE, Adelaide’s Lord
Mayor.
Malaya. Tin-dredging shows are becoming
increasingly popular with touring sightseers,
and Cameron’s bungalow at Taiping has the
reputation of being a good place to drop
in at. Kipling must have had Cameron in
mind when he wrote “The Hang Men o'
Larut.”
THE SONG OF THE POMMYGRANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S.A.
“’Oo wouldn't sell a farm,” ■ says you,
“A sailor for to be?”
“’Oo wouldn’t sail the ocean wide,
Its wonders for to see?”
Well, you an’ me ’as seen ’em,
Though we didn’t sell no farm;
An’ now a snift o’ Blighty
Wouldn’t do us any ’arm!
And.... We’re sailin’ in the mo-ornin’
Back to Pimlico!
We’ll soon be rollin’ round the Cape
As fast as we can go ;
So pack your kit an’ ’op on board
Before the sun goes down,
For we’re sailin’ in the mornin’, boys,
An’ bound fer London Town 1
There ain’t no flies on Adelaide,
An’ Brisbane’s not too bad.
The Auckland gals is pretty
An’ to leave ’em makes me sad.
But w'en you’ve been all round the world,
An’ spent your money free—
W’y, down on Ratcliffe ’lghway
is the place fer you an’ me!
We’ve been ashore fer long enough,
So kiss the gals good-bye ;
The Mate’s aboard; the hatches on;
The wind’s a-pipin’ ’igh.
Oh, Melb’un is a dinky spot,
An’ so is Sydney, too;
But London is the only place
That’s good fer me an’ you!
And. . . . We’re orff to-morrow mo-ornin’,
Back ter Blooms-bur-ee.
The Old Man’s gettin’ sober
An’ the Bos’n’s swearin’ free.
So say farewell ter Susie,
An’ good-bye ter Sallie Brown,
An’ haul your sheets an’ let ’er go
For Good Old London Town !
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


\
/?
n
?
ft
r:
c.
rp
V-A-iW
/W'wf
3
ro
DEWAR’S
THE SPIRIT OF PATRIOTISM
Patriotism is a word with a soul. Deep down its real meaning is
individually to give to the common weal of the Empire the glory of
example, the balm of understanding and the vigour of the utmost in
thought and deed. These are the true qualities of patriotism and of ... .
DEWAR’S


s^"
Rustless
Knives
Reduced
Rustless Knives have proved one of the greatest boons that modern science has brought to the
household. Good, reliable, lasting, rustless knives, that not even lemon or vinegar can tarnish, are
now obtainable at such wonderfully low prices that surely no one need forego their manifold
Rustless Dessert Knives, now 15/- per halMozen.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD,,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
ďf
This little blower
means instant death
to every rabbit Ui
the warren.
CyanogaS
The immense demand recently for this
simple, safe and always certain means of
getting rid of rabbits shows that it is proving
its claim to be the most efficient and economi-
cal rabbit exterminator known. It makes no
selection. It kills the lot. However badly
infested your land may be it can be cleared
thoroughly. So why suffer the nuisance any
longer?
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA .. .. A. Victor Leggo & Co., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.. The S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union Ltd.,
Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND .. Buzacott’s (Q’ld), Limited, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA .. Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA .. .. Davidson & French, Launceston.
Roberts & Co., Hdbart.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Wanchai”: The Snowy River flats be-
tween Rote Belong and Orbost (Vic) are
encompassed by hills giving the country the
appearance of a huge bowl. Unlike the rest
of Gippsland, this bowl seems to have
pocketed an atmo-
sphere and climate
distinctly tropical.
Even Nature is
sometimes deceived.
Every autumn at
least a few swal-
lows remain behind.
In the winter of
1923 not a swallow
left the flats ; but in
that year, although
they skimmed the
pools in search of
insects during the
days and huddled
together under the
eaves for warmth
at nights, the
feathered nomads
died in hundreds.
Only the fittest sur-
vived the winter.
Monsoonal disturb-
ances swirl in
from the Pacific,
and after the heavy
rains which follow,
all vegetation
quickens to almost
tropic luxury. Net-
tles and oth e r
gi’owtu reach pro-
portions rarely seen
elsewhere. Nettle-
vines string out be-
tween 30 and 40
feet. Bracken ferns
reach 7ft., and
variegated thistles
10ft. in height.
Among cultivated
plants, the sun-
flower often lias a
seed centre 19in.
in diameter. The
average height of a
maize crop is from
10 to 11 feet; but
there are stalks as
long as 18ft. Pumpkins have turned the
scales at 2001 b., and carrots and parsnips
with a root length of 36in. have been exhibi-
ted at local shows. The amazing wealth of
soil cannot alone account for such propor-
tions.
* * * *
“Spadger”: A recent par. stated that in
abo. language “Canberra” means a woman’s
breasts. I have always heard that meaning
applied to the word Monaro, or Maneroo,
as the original name appears to have been.
If one follows the Kydra and Tom Groggin
Creek-road from Cooma to Nimitybelle the
number of conical-shaped twin hills passed
and seen in the distance gives verisimilitude
to the story.
AS COOD AS A TOURIST BUREAU.
FIRST FISHERMAN: “ What made you pick on this place ter fish, Bill?”
SECOND FISHERMAN: “Struth, a bloke couldn’t go wrong with all these bottles about!”
“Chloe”: The llamas mentioned by
“C.E.L.P.” (B. 2/9/’26) were probably
those which reached Canning Downs
station (Q.) about 1856 after a trip, which
is still an epic in droving, from Sydney to the
sugar State. The hero of the journey was
Gilbert Davidson, who was taking over Can-
ning Downs from its pioneer owners, the
Leslie Bros. Sheep at the time were selling
for Is. or Is. 6d. per head, the price of
wool having slumped terribly in London, and
the cost of transport to the coast being pro-
hibitive. It was under these circumstances
that for a time the merino gave place to
the llama, whose woolly hair was just then
booming. At first these importations seemed
to promise great things. The beasts throve
and their hair was most luxuriant, but the
“.Tack” llama had a detestable habit of
spitting at his captors when caught for
shearing, and this prejudiced the breed. All
the ringers for miles round gathered for the
opening of the first llama shearing, but no
sooner was a beast put in hand than a sudden
exit of men and a breakaway of tied-up
horses showed that the long-haired old-man
llama had an offensive worse than any
modern poison gas. Not only was the odor
insupportable, but it lingered, and for weeks
the sheds could not Le used for sheep. The
last of this famous herd died at a ripe old
age on the neighboring station of Eton Vale,
whence the animals had been transferred
in 1860.
“28”: Llamas were first introduced to
N. S. Wales in 1857. They were secured in
Peru by a man named Leeder, despite the
fact that their exportation had been forbidden
by the Government of that country. The
shipment was a large one, comprising about
160. As their natural habitat is 10,000 ft.
above sea-level, it was thought that southern
Monaro would best suit them. ‘However,
those sent there gradually declined and have
long been extinct.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: “Pick’s” tale of the whirlwind
and the petrol empties (B. 2/9/’26) reminds
me of what happened to Abdullah Khan, our
peregrinating Indian hawker, during the big
(1902) drought west o’ Darling. He had
just arrived at the homestead, and had
handed his “buckshee” —a pound of butter
—to “the missie.” (It was the first cow-fat
we had seen for months.) Surrounded by an
admiring crowd of children and hands, he
was spreading out his wares on a big cloth
on the ground, when a tremendous willy-
willy struck us, seized our hats, and circled
round for a few moments, sucking up Abdul-
lah’s stock of clothes, laces and linen. Then
it moved on, and, the last I remember of it
was seeing a frenzied Pathan doing a cham-
pion sprint across the drought-stricken plain,
hopelessly in the rear of a fast-ascending
pillar of'dust and clothes, with a bright red
garment waving gaily from its peak.
“Warihi”: The gentle art of catching a
swordfish and allowing him to tow a launch
for four or five hours until he drowns is
to have a boom this summer in Maoriland.
The Bay of Islands Swordfish and Mako
Shark Club keeps a tally of the game-fish
caught, and weighs them to thus put a check
on fisli-yarns. For last season 281 sword-
fish graced the steelyard, their combined
weight being 72,5001 b.; likewise the sea was
short of 70 mako, weighing in all 16,5801 b.;
eight black marlin handed up the spook,
along with two broadbills, fopr hammerheads
and one thresher shark. The record weight
was the 9761 b. of a black marlin which
towed the attached launch 10 miles in the
3hr. 45min. its battle for freedom lasted.
The champion swordfish tipped the beam at
4501 b. and the biggest mako was 4001 b. Three
new launches, each 50-60-h.p. and 35ft. long,
are being built at Auckland for this season’s
sport.
POOR OLD FATHER!
ALEC : “Please can I go
and post my letter
to Rupert?”
MOTHER : “No, dear. It’s a terrible night—
not fit for a dog to be out. We’ll let
your father run out with it.”
“Delos”: Ever catch one this way? A
member of the Byron Bay Life-Saving Club
(N.S.W.) was coming in on a surf-board
when a corner of it caught under the gill
of a French mackerel or kingfish. The fish
was carried on to the beach and dragged
out of the water with the board. It weighed
221 b., an extraordinary record for a fisli
of this long, thin species.
(Continued on page 2%•)
PATSY KABOR’S PIG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the pig sale Patsy Kabor with his friend and
nearest neighbor—
“Verra grippy wi’ th ’siller, frae th’ Heelands,”
far away—
Ere the first cock of the morning gave the world his
waking warning,
Started with their netted pig-carts on keen busi-
ness bent that day.
There were pigs all kinds and many; there were
squeals and cries uncanny,
Mongrels barking, salesmen shouting, buyers bid-
ding for the swine ;
Bruce McNab and Patsy Kabor had just rested from
their labor
Of wrestling with and loading up a wild long-
snouted line.
They stood viewing with some favor, with his
chopping jaws a-slaver,
A huge, hairy, fearsome tusker, viewing them with
lips a-foam,
When a well-dressed, cheerful fellow, with persuasive
tones and mellow,
Sidled up and said, “My good friends, that’s a hog
you should take home.
“He’s a prize pig—worth a fiver if he’s worth a
Dutchman’s stiver,
But I’ll sacrifice him cheaply, as lie’s just a trifle
wild.
Thirty bob, say, let us make it? No —a quid!—
well, yes, I’ll take it.”
And he grabbed the pound and vanished while
McNab and Patsy smiled.
Then with knees that sagged and trembled, and with
all their wits assembled,
They at length secured the tusker with a bag
thrust o’er his head—
MAILING TOO MUCH OF A SONG ABOUT IT.
“That bally rooster of yours won’t let me sleep. You’ll have to
off with his head or something.”
"Do you know, sir, that bird is a champion prize-taker?”
“I don’t care what he takes. What I object to is the way he’s
always crowing about it.”
Fought a catch-as-catch-can battle that made all the
pig-pens rattle,
And had nearly got him loaded when a man
rushed up and said:
“Wotinell’s th’ game, yeh creatures! ’Fore I pulp
yer Pommy features,
Just unhand my hog, yeh pig thieves, or I’ll smite
yeh good and hard.”
Then the fight of all the ages round the sty and pig-
cart rages,
While the cookies faced their foe and let the
pig race up the yard.
With his head well bagged he bounded through the
crowd that gaped astounded,
■Vs he mowed them down, or sent them sprawling
wide like ocean spray,
He then gained the street and hurried down its
length while people scurried,
Or lay strewn along the toe-path that had marked
the tusker’s way.
Dogs of divers breeds were yelping at the pig’s heels
and were helping—
Well, to raise the very devil, filled the neighbor-
hood with awe,
Till ft doorway offered shelter and the pig dived
helter-skelter
Right within the private sanctum of a sour-faced
man of law.
Looking scared and agitated, without notice he
vacated—
• Left the pig in sole possession. Then the police
arrived all armed,
And fired volley after volley. While he cursed them
for their folly,
They made colanders of law books till the pig
strolled out unharmed.
Gad! each human being vanished just as if by
magic banished,
While the tusker dropped exhausted at the under-
taker’s door,
And enraged men made inquiry with fierce threats
profane and fiery,
For the wild (jig’s owner, swearing that they had
much law in store.
Hut the saleyard fight still went on, for the three
were grimly bent on
Proving who was rightful owner in a manner
rough and rude.
Whether up or down or falling, keeping time to
threats appalling,
They still smote and clawed each other till all
three were nearly nude.
But no sooner did they waken to the turn events
had taken
Than they sought the bar like brothers to frame
up an alibi.
While they drowned their grief in glory, they con-
signed with curses hoary
The late pig and all he damaged to the place
that’s hot and dry.
N.S.W.
PAUL CUPID.


A Method of Ensuring the Maximum Drop of Lambs
*
jP ,
&
1
*1 ' . '
: ■
H
i
&& - 5 M MB
■&
m
■ i
Ms
z&W- iSiite/jisftcN.
a
: v-i
;/
i-
ii
I B
M
SB
«
rjg
H
IB
m
i
; : i:x, :.
MB
■
. *
&
'■
m
- MM
4
' /■. ■ v«
■ ■
>«(S£^ 8 w
■>;
mhhhMM
IP-'V . .
# >• •
For at least one month before turning out, rams should be allowed some food which will stimulate
working powers. The food should be nitrogenous (protein-rich) in character, for it is the proteins of
food which supply the needs of the generative system.
As there is an interdependence between the generative and the digestive systems, the food should also
have regulating properties which will maintain the digestive organs in perfect condition, for digestive
derangements are among the principal causes of sterility. The best regulating agent is Linseed Oil.
The following illustration depicts
a ‘fibre ball ' (one-third size)
taken from the second stomach of
a sheep. The smaller object is a
section of another ball taken from
the same sheep.
m
m
m
In all, 7 balls were found in the animal, their presence being
due to feeding on dry grass. The presence of such bodies in
the digestive tract has a very adverse influence upon generative
powers. Food of a slightly laxa-
tive, oil-bearing type prevents the
formation of these balls and also
kindred derangements such as
“dry bible,” etc.
m
*
The breeding impulse in ewes can also be greatly stimulated by a measure of judicious feeding. This
practice, known as “flushing,” takes the form of feeding some protein-rich food, such as green legumes,
peas, beans or Linseed Oil Cake (Sheep Nuts), for some three weeks before joining.
A combination of correctly feeding rams and “flushing” ewes ensures 100 per cent, fertility in
breeding stock.
By reason of their extremely high protein content (30 per cent.) and their content of regulating and
conditioning Linseed Oil (approx. 9 per cent.),
Meggitts Linseed sheep nuts
form the ideal food for both rams and breeding ewes.
Daily Rations.
Cost per month, including
freight up to 500 miles.
Rams (on good pasture)
Rams (on poor pasture)
Ewes (on good pasture)
Ewes (on poor pasture)
4oz. Linseed Sheep Nuts . .
4oz. Linseed Sheep Nuts . . . . . . )
4oz. crushed oats and a shake of lucerne hayj
2oz. Linseed Sheep Nuts . .
3oz. to 4oz. Linseed Sheep Nuts . .
Approx. Is. 2d.
i f 2s.
7d.
~ KHd. to Is. 2d.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA —Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—EIder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
MEGGITT LIMITED,
QUEENSLAND —-Messrs. Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane; Messrs. Denham Bros.,
Ltd., Rockhampton; Messrs. Corser & Co., Maryborough; Messrs.
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA —Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart & Launceston.
l ■' ■
■I
■H
mmm
m
■
■
m
■


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
r-rs
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur. and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner irom 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 67-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
“Old (lira": The Adelaide Museum lias
been putting up a plea for ihe emu as a
destroyer, rather than as a disseminator, of
pests. An emu's stomach lately examined
contained 3000 larvae of destructive moths,
and, having regard to the bird’s digestive
capacity, this panned out an estimated aver-
age for a full working day of 12,000 moths.
'Pile broadcasting of prickly-pcar is about
the only iniquity held against the big bird,
though he is not popular among sheepmen
especially in lambing-time. But such a
meal as that described above, especially in
country not afflicted by pear, might well be
accounted to our Australian brother for
righteousness.
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: “Jesmond’s” queer visitor (B.
2/9/’26) appears to have been a "globe-
fish.” In the West Indies it is fairly com-
mon, and is thus described : “It has all the
appearance of a small mine, being about 2ft.
in diameter and perfectly round. Close in-
spection shows it to be covered with spikes
approximately 2in. long and quite sharp. It
looks very formidable at. first, but after being
prodded it spits out several gallons of water
by way of protest and dwindles. The spikes
then lay fiat, and it looks most uninterest-
ing.”
“Trevdee”: I don’t know the scientific
name of the strange fish that “Jesmond” (B.
2/9/’26) saw in Victoria, but in Westralia
we’d call it a “balloon fish.” They are
found in large numbers along the beaches
near Cottesloe and Fremantle.
-X- * * *
“Sylvester”: Some two years ago I stated
in The Bulletin that I had had a quantity
of red beanwood cut for making furniture,
but had been warned that I would have a job
to work it up, as it had a distressing effect on
the worker. I can now say that there w r as
no exaggeration in the statement. I was
doing the work in my spare time, and the
fine dust from the shavings and glasspaper
rubbings affected my nose, throat and eyes,
causing coughing, incessant sneezing, sore
eyes and headache. I am convinced that a
man could not work this timber continuously
day after day. The Queensland wood is about
the color of red cedar, is often nicely marked,
and it is a pity that it should be so hard to
handle, as, otherwise, it would come into
more general use.
“Tc Kurri”: Mobs of cattle are taken for
winter grazing from the mainland near
Welshpool (Vic.) to Snake Island, a dis-
tance of several miles, along the sea bottom
at low tide. Two stockmen returning re-
THE CASTAWAY.
“Ha! Food at last!”
cently with a mob so depastured had a
strange experience. When part of the way
across the tide had covered the low flat,
making it difficult to find the best track,
the result being that the cattle got into
fairly deep water and started to swim round
close together. Vigorous efforts were made
by the men to break the ring, and make the
animals strike out for land, but without
success. At last, as the water was getting
deeper, the older man said, “We will have to
get out, and let the beggars drown,” and
turned his horse the mainland,
whereupon an old cow detached herself from
the others and followed him. The rest imme-
diately came after her, first swimming and
then wading, so that not one beast was lost.
“Emel”: The local agent took the city
rep. of an agricultural machinery firm on a
round of visits to the farmers in his district
in the north of Vic. They were hospitably
invited to dinner at one primitive-looking
home, and, as they sat down, the farmer’s
wife inquired whether they took milk in their
tea. The local man, who had been there
before, declined with thanks, but Brown,
fresh from the city, replied heartily, “Yes,
thanks! I like milk, and plenty of it.” The
woman walked to the door, beat on a tin
with a clothespeg, and called, “Nanny,
Nanny, Nanny!” Into the room trotted a
goat, and as she milked the animal into his
cup. the hostess beamed benevolently.
Although it was indisputably fresh, Brown
didn’t enjoy milk in his tea that day.
MINDING MARTS MORALS.
JACKY (to his missus, who is accompanying their mistress away): "Note, Mary, you
behavem proper-fashion. No drinkem cocktail, no smokem cigarette—you
keepem along pipe and rum.”
“Narara”: My grandfather, who was one
of the earliest Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.)
settlers, had been trained to his job in Eng-
land, and was a firm believer in planting
crops at night (B. 8/5/’26). When he first
camped there he grew maize on the orchard
land until the trees commenced to bear fruit.
He always planted the seed when the moon
was about full. Although all the prepara-
tory work was done by daylight, every tree
of the original orchard was put in under
the full moon, and the old man used to boast
that every one so planted flourished and bore
abundantly.
“Trevdee”: Two rams in the drafting-
yard were at the critical stage of a thrilling
fight when sleepy
Bill came along.
The sheen had com-
menced butting at
a range of 2ft. and
increased the space
after each crash,
until finally they
backed at opposite
corners of the yard.
Despite our yells
Bill got in the dan-
ger-zone just as
they charged, heads
downward. Two
human legs shot
high in the air, a
hat and a boot
found a home in
the next paddock,
and teeth and blood
went everywhere.
We carried Bill off
on a stretcher and
thought it was all
up with him, but
after a bit he came
round and looked
up with a queer ex-
pression in his
eyes. He was evi-
dently trying to
remember some-
thing. “Ah. yes.”
lie whispered. “Did the big merino win?”
if- * -x- *
“Slime”: After some six months at the
game of shell-opening on a pearling-lugger, it
is my firm conviction that there are bivalves
capable of administering electric shocks to
disturbers of their rest. The shock is a faint,
distinctive thrill that lasts for perhaps four
seconds —while you feel through the fish for
baroque. The sensation has also come
through the steel of the knife while cutting
the central muscle preparatory to cleaning.
Notes compared with those of a fellow ob-
server indicate that about one' bivalve in
seven possesses this property.
“The Rumpus”: One of the best and
cheapest ways of preserving fence-posts is
to make a mud-pie on the top of each. Use
clay of good consistency, and round off the
top to stand the beating of rough weather.
The mud-cap will keep the rain from soaking
into the grain of the timber and at other
times prevent sun-cracks. I have even heard
an old bushie say that this method of pre-
serving the posts actually keeps away white-
ants, the termite not wishing to intrude on
wliat appears to be a colony already estab-
lished —but I doubt this courtesy.
“Y. S. Yetne”: The experience of ‘ Wang”
(B. 19/8/’26) reminds me of a local bee-
farmer. Anticipating a swarming from some
of his hives, and frightened of over-sleeping
himself, he dossed in the apiary, with his
face under the alighting board' of a hive.
He dreamt that they had swarmed —and
awoke to find them tumbling all over him.
He rolled over, and waited calmly till they
had settled on his back. Then he quietly
rose, walked over to an empty hive, took off
his coat and shook the bees into their new
quarters—and never got a sting!
“Ajax”: A resident of Oxley Island
Manning River (N.S.W.), was out motor-
ing when something went wrong with the car
and he left it on the roadside whilst he went
to get assistance. When he returned about
half an hour later it was to find the steering-
wheel and the top of the front-seat door a
mass of bees. After several ineffectual
attempts to drive them off, it was decided
to leave the car till evening, and about
dusk the bees sailed off on their own account.
* * * *
“Prop”: “AdeL” (B. 22/7/’26) says “the
Gregory is the eastern boundary of iron-
wood.” It may be the eastern boundary of a
belt, but it certainly is not the eastern limit
of the poisonous shrub. I live 250 miles east
of the Gregory, and could show “AdeL’?
enough iron wood within 25 miles of this
place to kill all the remaining sheep in N.Q
* » * *
“Gregor”: If any further proof were ]
needed of the anci-
ent connection be-
tween this country
and Asia it could
be supplied by the
indigenous flora of
northern and east-
ern coastal Aus-
tralia. The re d
cedar of the North
is identical with
the Burmese tree
known as 'Moule-
mein cedar and
with the Indian
toon-tree. In many
parts of the Gulf
Country t h e r e
flourishes another
tree which is the
same as that from
which the domba-
oil of Ceylon is ex-
tracted. and in the
same places there
is also found the
ponga-tree of In-
dia. There are
dozens of smaller
growths which are
the same as their
Indian and other
Asiatic prototypes,
the difference in
conditions not hav-
ing produced any
noticeable variation.
From many of
them it is possible
to extract essen-
tial oils, though I have never heard of
this having been done in Australia.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Does any Queensland drover
remember Bill Nutting? lie was before my
time on the stock-route, but he was a much-
talked-of person, as he held a record that
no other stock-pusher wanted to beat. On
a trip with sheep from Beaconsfield (iC.Q.)
to Moree (N.S.W.) only his second-in-charge
went right through with him. His other
two assistants were changed so often that
51 different men had a hand in the job. 1
once travelled 10 weeks with a quick-change
drover from Kiliee in 1895-96, and in that
time we had 14 different cooks and just as
many changes elsewhere. He was giving
Bill a go for a record when 1 left.
“Bill Sikes” : Can birds “sense” wireless?
Not a bird has ever settled on the aerial
my neighbor has erected for reception on a
three-valve set whilst the set has been in
operation. Not only that, but there is a
perceptible hesitation and alteration in their
flight whenever they approach within 50ft.
of the thing.
“W.J.M.”: Has not “Ruarie” (B.
5/8/’26) quoted Mendel wrongly re dark-
eyed parents and blue-eyed offspring? Men-
del says: “Greens, browns or hazels mated
together may, if heterozygous, give the reces-
sive blue, but no individuals of the brown
class are to be looked for among the offspring
of blues mated together.”
* * * *
“Roycha” : Out Moree (N.S.W.) recently I
saw approaching through a cloud of dust a
car bulging at the sides. When it drew level
with my own it pulled up. It was a Lizzie,
carrying the. driver, two passengers, four suit-
cases and 13 sheep! Of the sheep, some
were in the front with the driver, more travel-
led in state with the passengers on their lug-
gage, one was fastened across the top of the
radiator, three or four were roped on to the
footboards and mudguard, and one was
hitched to the back. And they all seemed
quite cheerful about it, too.
“C. Coral”: The superintendent of tin'
aboriginal mission at Mitchell River, 300
miles down the Gulf of Carpentaria, has been
taking a ’busman’s holiday and doing a bit
of prospecting in the bush round about the
Edward River, which is some distance to
the north. He has come across tribes who
had never met a white man till the mission-
ary arrived at the front door of their gun-
yahs. In the course of these explorations
he has acquired a lot of information of geo-
graphical and scientific value. There are
many points of difference between the
Edward River and Mitchell River natives,
although they are neighbors. The former,
he discovers, burn the bodies of their dead.
They are semi-nomadic, possessing decent
gunyahs, which they seem to invariably build
in the bush and not in the open, and always
beneath a fig-tree. In other parts, including
the Straits islands, the fig-tree is venerated
because the spirit of a female is supposed to
dwell somewhere in its branches. Has the
fig any religious significance on the main-
land ?
THESE FOOLISH PREJUDICES.
THE BARBER (gloomily): “Yes, business is very bad, sir. Ever
since it got round that I was once in a lunatic asylum and
tried to cut a customer’s throat people seem to keep away
from me.”
“Yelkcub”: I have been ringbarking tim-
ber for years in Bananaland, generally dur-
ing the wet periods of the winter, and my
experience may be of service to “Raborak”
(B. 19/8,/’26). The method adopted is to
cut a ring about four inches wide and belt
out the bark with the back of the kelly. The
tree is then sapped by chopping an inch-deep
trough round the part that has been barked.


OUR
Early application will be made to list the shares on the
Stock Exchange,
WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN OIL f$ TAPPED
771
ft.
I250{
ft
1
Bituminous
limestone,
oil scum,
and strong
smell o j
kerosene
and crude
oil.
Paraffin
| Wax.
A Small Investment May Make Your Fortune.
THE STAKES ARE SMALL
THE POSSIBILITIES HUGE
INVEST TO-DAY IN
ORIOMO OIL
Not far from the field the Anglo-Persian Oil
Company, Limited (one of the biggest and richest
Oil companies in the world), is carrying out
important developments in collaboration with the
Australian Government.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
ORIOMO OIL LIMITED, PAPUA
(LIMITED BY SHARES.)
(Incorporated in Papua under the Companies' Ordinances 1912-1923.)
CAPITAL £200,000
Divided into 200,000 Shares of £1 each.
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are offered for public subscription, pay-
able 2s. 6d. per share on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment. No further calls
for three (3) months, the balance in calls of Is. per share at intervals of not
less than one ( 1 ) month.
DIRECTORS:
CAPTAIN S. N. McLEAN, F. 1.5., Btlrradoo Park, Burradoo, Surveyor.
J. MacD. ROYLE, 8.E., A.M.I.E. (Aust.), Sydney, Civil Engineer and Boring Contractor.
.T. M. MATJGHAN (Bradley, Son & Maughan), Sydney, Solicitor.
E. C. PYE, Morendah, Walgett, Grazier.
A fifth Director to be appointed at the first General Meeting.
(The qualification of a Director is the holding of five hundred shares .)
VITAL POINTS FOR INVESTORS:
1. An accurate geological and topo-
graphical survey has been completed.
2. The License acquired by this Com-
pany has been definitely proved to be
petroliferous.
8. The Vendor Company receives NO
CASH, only Shares.
4. The Commonwealth of Australia, re-
cognising the importance of Papua
and its possibility as an oil producer,
has raised its annual grant to aid oil
prospecting to £lOO,OOO, to MAKE
PROVISION for a SUBSIDY FOR
THIS TERRITORY.
5. Sir Hubert Murray, Lieut.-Gov. of
Papua, in his last report, said:
“There seems good reason to hope
that petroleum in commercially
valuable quantities will be dis-
covered eventually, and possibly in
the very near future.”
Send in your application for shares to-day. Minimum—TEN
Shares. Only 1/- per share per month after paying application
and allotment fee.
FULL PROSPECTUS ON REQUEST.
6. The license held by the Oriomo Oil
Company is only a short distance
from the important oil development
in Papua by the Anglo-Persian Oil
Company, Limited, working in
agreement with the Australian Gov-
ernment.
7. Expert and satisfactory manage-
ment has been secured.
8. The Company being registered in
Papua pays no income-tax.
9. Native labor, tractable and reliable,
is available as required.
10. The Shares of this issue rank alike
for dividend purposes with fully-paid
shares irrespective of the amount
paid up or credited as paid up there-
on respectively.
11. The Shares of this issue, before any
dividend has been paid, rank in pri-
ority to the Vendor shares in the
matter of assets of the Company in
the event of a winding up, except
for purposes of amalgamation or re-
construction.
The results of the Expedition amply
justify an investment of further
Capital to continue operations.
The Bulletin says :
“This Company starts
with a knowledge of its
area greater than that of
any recent flotation. If
oil is there in payable
quantities this crowd is
going the right way to
find it.”
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARKS.
To the Directors of OIIIOMO OIL, LIMITED,
National Mutual Building,
350 George Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,
I hereby apply for shares of £1 each in the Capital of the above Company
and enclose herewith my cheque for £ being■ the Application Money of 2s. (id. per share,
and / agree to pay the. 2/6 per share on allotment and the further sums after allotment in the Calls
provided by the Prospectus dated Twentieth day of September, 1926.
Name in Full
(ttate whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss —In block letters.)
Address
Occupation .
Date
Signature ;
Please cross and make Cheques payable Oriomo Oil, Ltd. Please add Exchange.
8.23/9/’26.
Gusher oil is
found on the
Bibi-Eibat Field
at 1400 feet and
onwards.
4
I'
%
\
IF you like these prospects
mail this coupon without delay
d
Bibi-Eibat (Russia)
of « huh the structure
is almost identical
with Oriomo aver-
aged 1,0 0 0,0 0u
gallons a day for
H years.


Under
Royal
.Warrant
fd
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Austral; Sian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'-aarleslloidsiccK
Reims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ď
Sydney’s Most
Perfect Cafe.
DINNERS DE LUXE,
Thursdays and Saturdays from
7.50; Suppers from 8.30.
The Afternoon
Tea Perfect!
from 3.30 daily.
Wonderful Orchestra, Com-
plete Cabaret, including Maida.
Jones, Marie Crowther, Ivan
Gorski.
Magnificent
New
BALLROOM
Official Opening
Friday, Oct. 1.
The largest dancing area in
the city.
Make this the scene erf your
next party.
Ring 8W1361.
7he cen/ne of Queen s/onc/s
c//s/ingu/sheaf Soc/o/ Life.
WMel
BRISBANE
fd
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
The most successful and pictorial charity
flutter of the week was the Masonic Ball in
aid of the Balmain Hospital, for which the
Moore Park Palais gave comfortable footage
lo 2000 dancers. liis State Ex., with Com-
mander 1 jOwther in attendance, was the guest
of the evening, and under a triumphal arch
of clashing steel made his way to the vice-
regal box, escorted by Dr. G. L. Betts, presi-
dent of the hospital and ball committees, and
Most Worshipful John Goulston. A flutter-
ing group of debs, afterwards passed under
the ironmongery, bobbed to Sir Dudley and
broke into a demure minuet. It was a pretty
prelude to the glittering pageant which fol-
lowed when Mrs. Barnsley was crowned
Queen of the district Masonic lodges, and
enthroned with great ceremonial.
The Duke and Duchess of York are as-
sured of at least one party during their visit
to Sydney. A Boy Scouts’ ball has been
pencilled for May and the Di\ke will be
present. At a meeting in tlie drawing-room
of the Australia the other morning, the pro-
ject was launched under the distinguished
guidance of the Governor’s lady and the ex-
C.J.’s gentle dame. A large number of
enthusiasts passed in their cheques before the
meeting drifted its various ways, Kelso King’s
being one of the earliest arrivals. Mrs.
B. E. Minns promised to pinch one of her
husband's best; water-colors to he raffled in the
cause ; Elaine de Chair, Rita Fox and Shirley
Bavin will be the secretariesand a great
committee has been formed wherein society,
law, medicine, the theatre and the army and
navy figure.
A young things’ committee working for a
charity sounds sweet and poetic, but for get-
ting results you can’t heat a few seasoned
campaigners. Especially is this the ease
with fancy-dress frolics; so, though it had
the best intentions in the world and was an
£ s. d. success, the Gilbert and Sullivan Ball
for the benefit of the Girl Guides was a
spectacular failure. Out of the goodly com-
pany of puppets immortalised by G. and S.
only three sets were mustered, though the
orchestra at the Wentworth musically
sketched in the remainder. The Gondoliers
were led by Elaine de Chair as Casilda, in
blue and silver brocades, the white curls
of the period clasped by a red rose. The
Yeoman of tlie Guard and his reserves had
been called up by amateur play-actresses
Kathleen Robinson, who made a graceful
and healthy-looking Phoebe. This set con-
tained the striking personation of tlie even-
ing—-the Jack Point of John Mant. Cor-
rect from head to toe in costume (more
than could be said for many of the others,
so an old Gilbert and Sullivan enthusiast
complains), John evidently knew the story
surrounding his character, and his prize-
winning was a foregone conclusion. Good
looks were outstanding in the lolantlie set:
Gretel Bullmore, as the wliite-clad fairy
queen, the green-wrapped lolantlie of Neil
Charley and the artless Phyllis of Pearl
Appleton caught the eye at intervals. Bill
Chance’s Streplion, too, suggested delights
in Arcady. The Governor, who came late,
was greeted with quartettes from the operas
represented, and while Mary MacCormick,
Anita Roma, Bryson Taylor and Russell
Ivix raised tlieir voices, the sets stood to
attention for tlie spotlight. Renee Kelly
arose from her bath of “Brown Sugar,” and
was a wonderfully bright Tessa, in orange
with mustard garnisliings, with correct black
Italian shoes tied on —just toes and heels.
Among the dancers in mufti, so to speak,
was Vinia de Loitte, widow of the Gilbert
and Sullivan veteran Howard Vernon, she
herself still remembered as the charming
pick of the basket” among the Utopians.
The Backhaus concert on Saturday drew
surging multitudes to a Town Hall naked to
the City gaze since the extraction of its
iron railings. For the time, at any rate the
alterations make tlie way of the ‘pedestrian
concert-goer harder than over. The nervous
person longs to dodge the savage car and
reach with one leap the top of the Crowded
steps. The State Exes, were in the audi-
ence ; Lady de Chair, ermine-wrapped, flashed
opals and diamonds, and daughter Elaine
was folded about in a rose-pink satin cape.
Another in the audience was Ward Morgan
the actor who was so badly hurt in "the
Aberdeen smash. He came followed by two
nurses, and enjoyed the music from a long-
cane chair made comfortable with a pile of
cushions and eiderdowns which the nurses
had carried with them.
“Those Wlio Love,” their trials and tri-
umphs, were limned at the Prince Edward
last Thursday. The screen drama, written
and produced by the lVlcDonagh sisters, is
a pretty enough love story on conventional
lines. _ It is not essentially or, at any rate,
exclusively Australian, though much of the
action takes place amongst the beauty spots
about Sydney. The ’Loo is not neglected
either, and for the hero some desperate
adventures lurk around unsuspected corners.
The picture interests and amuses, and that,
after all, is the object of every right-minded
yarn. The heroine, Isabel McDonagh, is
pretty and convincing, and the production is
a credit to the guiding hand of P. J. Ramster.
The intelligentsia flocked to St. James’s
Hall on Friday night to see Tchekhov’s
“Cherry Orchard,” and found characterisa-
tion but no drama. The inert and bankrupt
owners offer a deaf ear to the appeals of
the family friend to cut up the orchard into
building lots and turn it into a fiat-land
like Darlinghurst or Kirribilli, thereby mak-
ing a pot of money. But no, these irritating
people prefer to mooch about asking why
they- were born ; also “What is lifeV” and
"V by do people live?” One of the household,
a governess in an enormous check shooting
suit, fires such a volley of unanswerable
queries across the footlights that she seemed
the embodiment of some nightmare crossword
puzzle. Nobody doing anything but moralising
or declaiming (at three in the morning), the
inevitable happens and the cherry-orchard is
lopped down by the axe. But even that is
done off-stage. Ileaven-born genius might
rivet the attention of an Australian audience
to this play, but the Sydney girls and boys,
though they bore up gallantly, were unequal
to the task, and the house simmered with
amusement rather than dissolved in pathos.
The Players’ Club put it on.
This Letter dropped into one of those coffee
and composer nights with which the Beale
firm is circling the suburbs to introduce the
electric piano-player of its own choosing and
part-fashioning, and was gripped by an eerie
feeling as the instrument, an empty piano-
stool before it, rippled and thundered into
sound. Levitski might have been there in the
flesh; everything that was characteristic of
Ids playing had been caught. Moisei wit.,sell
made the air golden with his Chopin, and
Backhaus seemed to smile over his beloved
Beethoven. How long will the gods suffer
these encroachments on their provinces? A
man easts his voice or his music into space,
and behold it is heard in a thousand places
simultaneously or at intervals of days or
years or centuries afterwards. Through Ihe
ether, even as Puck, flies man, and his boats
flash not only on the waters, of the great
oceans, but under them. Prometheus was
chained to unendurable torments for much
less !
If you were the mother of the scrap of
sunshine in this picture, and if some time
dur i n g the
morning you
had in a rush
o f affection
given her a
sudden hug,
drop p i n g a
kiss or two
on the red
bobbed head
and hap p y,
freckled face,
imagine the
terror and the
agony th a t
would tear
your heart if
your chi 1 d
had vanished
before you
could call her
to the midday
meal. Van-
ished with a
c o mpleteness
that has baffled the countryside of Broken
Hill, its black trackers and tlie detectives
of the continent, lias Joan Smith, the little
daughter of the Moss Smiths, of Poolamacca
station, outside Broken Hill. Since one
o’clock on Tuesday, August 24, she has been
missing from her home, and although every
effort has been made to trace her, no news
of her has reached the agonised mother and
father. Now the idea has taken root in the
home that the disappearance is a case of
kidnapping, and the child’s grandfather,
W. T. Smith, of Warrakoo station, is offer-
ing a reward of £5OO for information that
will lead to the recovery of tlie child pro-
vided it is a case of kidnapping. He offers,
too, £lOO for the finding of tlie child or of
her remains. Joan is six years old, is 3ft.’
OUn. in height, has red, bobbed hair and a
freckled face, and if you who read this know
or think you know any news of her that
will set her mother’s heart at rest, get into
communication with the police at Broken
Hill or with Poolamacca station.
A note from “E.A.W.” :
Last week’s reference to three young ladies who
inhabit a “handsome convict-built home up Drum-
moyne way” is not quite accurate. Dvummoyne
originally formed part of a grant to John Harris of
1500 acres. One Lyons, who had a sale mart in
George-street, became possessed of part of this grant,
and in turn sold to William Wright, a merchant of
Sydney. Here Mr. Wright built his home, which he
called Drummoyne House, a corruption of the name
of his birthplace in Scotland. The locality took its
name from the house. No convicts were employed
in the building, but Italian masons and sculptors
were engaged. In the reception-rooms there were
very fine carved wooden friezes, some of which were
presented to the Sydney Art Gallery by Mr. Blain,
a subsequent owner.
Next Wednesday evening the striking-
looking girl in this Monte Luke picture will
raise her rich
contralto a t
the Adyar
Hall. In spite
of her heather-
soun d i n g
name, or may-
be because of
it, Esther Mc-
Alpin’s special
talent is for
lied e r, and
her recital
will be en-
tirely of the
best songs of
Schub e r t,
Schumann and
Brahms. Her
teacher, Mr.
Sauer, will
give his pupil
e n c o u rage-
II lent by np-
pearing on the same programme.
St. Vincent’s enthusiasts are reminded of
the dinner-dance for the big life-saving in-
stitution. Ambassadors, 28th.
Perth’s movie knight Tom Coombe had an
important engagement in Sydney on Mon-
day. It was the squiring of oretty daughter
Judy up the aisle of All Saints' at Wool-
lahra, where she met Alfred White, only
son and heir of the 11. L, Whites, of Bell
trees, Scone. There was spring in Ihe air, and
the early afternoon sunshine streamed about
the fair young bride as she turned her ear to
the evergreen lOU’s that her ’groom was
uttering. Her frock was a Titania-like affair
of Limerick lace and georgette; through
the web of the train flashed the silver of
moonlight, and an effect to be noted was
the long, tight sleeve of lace. The two
bridesmaids, sister Vera and Audrey John-
son, wove a swirl of pale' pink chiffon on to
very short bodices. Red-rose bouquets and
red roses on pink crin. hats were the cres-
cendo of the dress color theme. Frank
Gilder (Melbourne) was Alfred’s best, friend,
with John Bettington as an ally. Straight
from the church the bride and ’groom paid
a flying visit to St. Luke’s, where liis father
lay sick a-bed; then they rushed back to
the ballroom of the Australia for the con-
gratulations of a great multitude. Bride’s
mother did the honors in sand-brown geor-
gettes made with the cape effect that is to
grace this summer. Mrs. 11. L. White, too.
swung a pleated cape from the shoulders of
her grey georgettes.
In St. Paul’s Church on the leafy heights
of Castle Hill, where the orange blossom
blows, graceful Hilda Strang, daughter of
the John Strangs of that rural hilltop,
plighted her troth to D. Wpodriff, of Pen-
rith. The date was September 22. The
dark-haired bride wore her own lovely locks,
unshinglod, under bridal blooms and lacy
finery added to a shimmer of white.
Doris Goninan, of Mayfield, Newcastle,
has promised to link herself for life to
Roderick Shaw Colquhoun, of Sydney, on
October 9 at St. Andrew’s, Mayfield. After
that Melbourne will be their home, the
young man being on the staff of the Broken
Hill Prop.
Daisy Dowse, daughter of the Colonel and
his lady, has returned after about 15 months
spent in England, America, France and
Italy. The lass, whose talent for painting
and design was developed at the Women’s
Art School of the Cooper Union, New York,
went back there for further study and col-,
lected a bronze medal for architecture and
interior decoration. She took up landscape
and etching at the Art Students’ League,
and broadened her knowledge a bit more by
lessons in jewellery-making at the Columbia
University ; which harbors a famous school
of metal work. Then she did the galleries in
the Big Smoke, Paris, Rome and Venice,
and joined the Ormuz at Naples on her
homeward journey.
At last the Nightingale will have a place
to smooth her plumage ruffled by travelling
or a day’s shopping. The Australian
Trained Nurses’ Association has secured the
nucleus of a club in Beaumont House, and
has furnished a rest-room and a combined
library and writing-room. From the Women’s
Club, which nestles above, morning and
afternoon tea can be obtained, and Mungo
MacCallum’s lady is billed to throw the
whole of the glory wide to-night at 8.15 by
the clock.
There's a show at the top of Macquarie-
street that is worth a hurried lunch to gaze
upon. Spring is the manager and azaleas
the prize pieces. In the Gardens there’s an
avenue of the massed glories—coral pink
and mauve and white —that is positively
breath-taking. In near-by turnings floats
the blue grey haze of the wistaria, and bloom
and bud from innumerable shrubs and plants
send a stream of incense to the glory of
their magnificent sisters.
A neat little sum is £.820, and any book-
maker might be proud of it for a day's bag.
That amount, the result of City Tatter-
sail’s ball for Prince Alfred's, was handed
on behalf of the club by Sir Dudley to the
hospital’s representative one morning last
week.
On October 16, if you are up that way,
turn in at the gate of 117 Albert-road. Strath-
field. On the lawns and among the choicest
shrubs you will find a fair raging in the
interests of Halloween, the Strathfield Home
for Children. The big prize of the day is a
first-class ticket for a six weeks’ cruise
among the Solomons. So, though charity
may begin at home, its rewards may take
the giver abroad.
Thomas Dekker, contemporary of Shaks-
peare, is to be stirred in his tomb by the
Sydney University Dramatic Society (pro-
fanely known as “Suds”) on October 1, 2
and 4. “The Shoemaker’s Holiday” is the
play. Which all shows that Suds sees where
the duty of a University dramatic society
lies —to lift out of obscurity forgotten
classics and reintroduce them to maybe new
admirers.
Miss Brisbane’s social round :
Brislime, sceptical or otherwise, discovered for
itself that the encomiums that have been lavished
on Dal Monte, her flautist, her Beuf and her .Tames
are not unwarranted, proof being supplied at the
opening concert in His Majesty’s. A large and dis-
criminating audience testified, and a halo of flowers
surrounded the stage.
St. Augustine’s, Hamilton, was decked in arum-lilies
and roses for Everil Merson’s marriage with Francis
Bruce, son of the .1. B. Charltons, of Clayfleld. The
bride wore ivory eharmeuse. A Venetian point-lace
veil, lent by Mrs. A. Morrison, of Sydney, was caught
with orange-blossom, and a sheaf of arum-lilies was
carried, dean Grose, Molly Galder, Ruth Weather-
lake and Joyce Charlton ’maided, in ivory georgette
and satin, carrying pink camellias and maiden-hair.
Betty McGuigan, in' ivory georgette, was train-
hearer. The blade’s mother, who is the widow of
the late T. S. Merson, had a reception at the
Bellevue amid decorations of pink roses and sweet-
peas. Stic wore mastic and bois-de-rose mariette
with a bouquet of apricot and blue flowers.
A grey sky overshadowed the Creche and Kinder-
garten procession on collecting day, but, nothing
daunted, the pride of Queensland went on with their
baking and their stringing of gay cotton reels, their
tea-drinking in a miniature Japanese garden and
their aboriginal activities in a blackfellows’ camp,
with a real bark gunyah. These intriguing scenes
were presented on big lorries drawn by complacent
Clydesdales or propelled by petrol. Miss Ruth ;Bed-
ford, who takes such an active part in the work,
drove behind the procession, her car patriotically
draped with a large Union Jack. A kettledrum band,
the kiddies’ own, played the cortege through Queen-
street.
Colonel Gus. Hughes and the officers of the Field
Artillery had a dance in the National roof garden.
African daisies decorated the supper in the card-
room. Mrs. Hughes was in pale pink, embossed with
flowers. Brigadier-General and Mrs. Foott and dozens
of colonels, majors, captains, lieutenants and spouses
were on view.
Cherry bloom and poppies dressed up the Women’s
Club for a party to Dal Monte. Mrs. Wedd received,
in a black jetted mariette, and gave the signorina
a bunch of red roses and a pretty speech of welcome.
The singer spoke her thanks in a gown of floral
chiffon-velvet, under gold fish-net lace, with a wide
hem of emerald-green and a scarf of fawn ostrich
feathers on emerald.
The Fifteenth Battalion’s hall occupied the South
Brisbane City Hall, decked out with chocolate and
blue, the regimental colors, palms and the badge of
the Australian Commonwealth military forces. Orien-
tal ribbons and masses of sweet-pea and roses dressed
the supper-room. Lieut.-Gov. Lennon had Captain
Plant A.D.C.-ing, and Brigadier-General and Mrs.
Foott were there, Mrs. Foott wearing black charmante
with a blue scarf.
There were a good many heavy winter frocks worn
at Ascot. Mrs. Ken Dalzell was in bois-de-rose
tweed. Mrs. Victor Drury chose navy, with henna;
Mrs. Stanley Chapman was in black; Mrs. E. A.
Cullen wore mignonette-green; Mrs. F. K. Brodribb
had a black mariette, with pointed cape of georgette;
Jean Moore wore black and blue, and Maisie Cain
amber crepe de Chine and guipure. The gayest
things just now at Ascot are the rich-hued cinerarias,
stocks and sweet-pea, while the laurel-trees bear
king orchids on their dusky bark.
Vera Lucas is still swallowing unlimited tea and
gathering in good wishes from friends prior to her
marriage.
Died from double pneumonia, leaving a large
circle of regretful friends, W. Gordon Graham, who
seemed to be known-—and liked —by everybody.
One of Brisbane’s best-known philanthropic workers,
Mrs. Susannah Sagar, succumbed to the climate the
other day after 74 years of it. She arrived in Bris-
bane by the ship Argyle when only six years of age.
Many church and benevolent societies will miss her.


HAR.DY B LOS LTD.
J EWELLER.S _
New Prices on
Zeiss Sporting Glasses
JESSES
S
rxatia
i2EEi®
1
Hardy Brothers announce a sharp reduction in
the price of all the famous Zeiss Sporting Glasses.
ALL PRICES ARE STRICTLY NET .
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
H /\ R DY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3Re c Kousc (^Gs^lusivcSewcLUfy
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JI6-JlB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
ď
See Your Snapshots
FULL SIZE
Before You Take Them.
That’s the Advantage with the New
Ensign Roll Film Reflex
51
I li
The pictures are
3i x 2*.
With T'.T. and H. Anastigmat
F 7.7 Lens,
£412/6
and a very great advantage it is to the
amateur photographer. The picture to
he taken is seen hy looking down the
hood, and focussing is accomplished
hy means of a knob.
Then when the picture you want is
actually seen on the screen a button is
pressed and
THE PICTURE IS SECURED
EXACTLY AS IT WAS SEEN
DOWN THE HOOD.
Roll Films are used, and the Camera
is loaded in daylight, the same as an
ordinary Roll-Film Camera.
With Ross Anastigmat F 6.3 Lens,
£5/15/-
UP
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
Established 37 years .
386 GEORGE STREET (near SYDNEY.
KATOOMBA: Ivatonmba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.S5.: 43 Willis Street,
MfIELBOUIONE: 266 Collin* Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street,
you need
Buk
Bln
always
at hand/
[l. Because to neglect simple injuries or
skin affections is the shortest road to
serious trouble. Poisonous disease
germs soon swarm into any fissure or
break in the tissues.
2. Because a dressing of Zam-Buk is re-
markable for its power to expel this
germ danger, eradicate disease, and
cause the growth of new healthy skin.
3. Because Zam-Buk is ready for instant
use with its superior healing, soothing
and antiseptic properties. Zam-Buk
soon takes “the fire” out of a wound,
reduces swelling, and allays irritation
and inflammation.
4. Because Zam-Buk has opened up a
new era in skin-healing with its herbal
origin and its notable freedom from
lardy fats and coarse or insoluble
mineral drugs. Zam-Buk is termed a
“complete solution” and is thus readily
absorbed by the pores.
5. Because Zam-Buk is a complete “sur-
gery in a two-inch box.” Use it for
superficial injuries and deep-seated
skin disease, and “rub-it-in” where
directed for sprains, colds, chills,
rheumatism, and any other embroca-
tional purpose.
6. Because Zam-Buk attains the 100 per
cent, standard of healing efficiency.
First-aid experts have known and
trusted Zam-Buk for a quarter of a
century.
7. And, finally, because the regular use
of Zam-Buk by every member of your
family means better skin health all
round. Safeguard your own health
and your children’s by taking advan-
tage now of the Free Sample offer
mentioned below or by getting in a
supply of Zam-Buk.
SAMPLE FREE.
Send name and
address to the Pro-
prietors, C. E. Fulford (Aust.), Ltd., Sydney, and
a Free Sample of Zam-Buk will be posted to yon
by return. There is no charge whatever, but be
sure you mention Bulletin of 23/9/’2ts.
Zam-Buk Balm, 1/6 and 3/6 box. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, !/• per cake.
Of Chemists and Stores everywhere.
.. (/ aMj
-^yjwhm)
uy -
J^X\
m
r_r
&=
k.(^
M(.3
WPZ&S&
m
cr Av—w
—/
; * V '
v' ■
3? 3
/: * a
\ - r
A
2*^
( PP
\
/P
u,;i
/ x
if —(i
CP>
\ -A
s.
I
i
4 \
pwi
m
VI
ms
a
¥=slv
=?S*


Swallow* Ariells
Plum puddings
s
have a deliciousness all their
own—a deli piousness which,
with their purity and de-
lightful flavor, has made
them universal favorites.
Order from Your Grocer
To-day.
S'
r
A
8604
A 1
W9<rr
đ
Spring Street, Melbourne.
It is impossible to secure greater satisfaction in hotel
service in Australia—or elsewhere —than in the comfort and
convenience afforded by the Hotel Windsor.
Sumptuous to a degree, situated amidst the quiet of charm-
ing old-world surroundings and yet within a stone’s throw
of the city’s hub and leading theatres, the Hotel Windsor
is ideal in every way.
Efficient and courteous service in every department and a
par excellence cuisine also add to the pleasure of making
the “Windsor” your home when in Melbourne.
Minimum Tariff
from 22/6 (in-
clusive). Room
anti Breakfast
from 15/-
Telegrams and
Cables: ‘Te/win-
sor,’ Melbourne.
Manager: B.C.Jones.
’Phone Cent. 9260.
7,
*****
MMUm
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume.
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN & DOVLE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
Show week in Melbourne is usually Show
week and not much else, and this season’s
is no exception to the rule. Such dances
and tea-pourings as have been arranged
would have come off, Show or no Show.
There was a fair array of women’s work
on view; some of it was judged by mere
males. One gifted representative of the
stronger sex judged the crochet-bordered
linen . tray cloths, and another appraised the
embroidered lingerie and was eagle-eyed
enough to detect that one exhibit had been
shown last year, or else was an accurate
copy of a former entry. The display of
eatables was disappointing. The cakes were
ail right, but the pastry looked anaemic and
greasy, and the oatmeal cake resembled
scraps of asbestos sheet in appearance. There
was some really beautiful white linen work,
some of it richly embroidered and lace-edged.
A crochet enthusiast broke new ground with
a lamp-shade of ivory-hued silk, with a
deep crystal fringe. Another crocheted silk
effort was a parasol-cover in black and white
and heavily fringed. It was hideous. Mrs.
M. Vaughan showed a most charming bit of
knitting—an ivory-toned lace-like frock for
a small girl. Miss A. hi. ITAlton sent along
a whole houseful of ingenious articles. A
kettle made from a kerosene-tin and a work-
basket from an old hat may be mentioned
as evidences of her genius. When she isn’t
doing things like that, she teaches youngsters
the mysteries of the pianoforte.
Young Australia gets a whole lot of
limelight at this year’s Show. The small
Adam can be seen carpentering and plumbing,
and near by young Eve is busy with cooking
and sewing and other household duties. In
the Government Pavilion there is a refrigerat-
ing chamber arranged to show how meat
and poultry are packed when sent abroad.
A pheasant and a lobster frozen into blocks
of ice are among the cold exhibits. Butter
ready for export is stamped with a kangaroo
that evidently is a devotee of syncopation ;
and the jazz motif recurs in an electrical
model of an ever-moving ballet of marsupials.
Chief Justice Irvine gave the big Show
its push-off as Lieutenant-Governor, his
Ex. being still an invalid. The weather was
gorgeously fine, so much so that even the
most optimistic murmured “No, it reallv
can’t last.”
Marie Burke, very attractive in her
Russian gala attire of pink and azure
blue, got a rare welcome from the
crowded audience at the Theatre Royal
b“ her first entrance as Katja on Saturday.
At the final curtain the singer’s dancing eyes
and smooth dark hair were just visible above
the huge sheaf of daffodils and other spring*
blooms with which her arms were laden
Thelma Burness and the new arrival,
Babette Odeal, a short, fair, plumpish, very
young lass, also smiled over armfuls of
blossoms. Miss Burke’s second entrance, in
an emerald-green velvet cloak that disclosed
a silver frock gleaming with lace and spark-
ling with jewels, topped by a perfectly daz-
zling headpiece, filled the whole place with
gasps of astonishment. The bright red-caped
suit with touches of black, worn with a
tam-o’-shanter, of Thelma Burness also
made a hit; and there was an evening cloak
also, a confection of frills in shades of pink,
that set feminine tongues a-wagging.
Elsie Prince, as a Swiss maid with Tyro-
lean hat and voluminous skirts in “Lady,
Be Good,” is one of the most joyous visions
that has stepped on the Princess Theatre
stage. The most effective dressing of the
chorus is in the last act, when togs of the
Pierrot style in silver and delf blue are con-
trasted against crimson walls and a back
™ rta ”J °f blue sea dotted with white wings.
1 he 20 girls also make a nice picture in all-
wbite feathered finery, with a sprinkling of
gold frocks with orange plumage. Elsie
J arkes has an evening gown that would win
a prize anywhere—a creation of ivory satin
the top of which is crystal spattered, and has
the hip fine marked by large roses, pink,
mauve, jade and rose, with a gigantic bow
on one side. May Beatty gets into the pic-
ture in a smart black coat and white waist-
coat, with a pleated black-and-white check
skirt divided to reveal plus-fours of the
same pattern. A tall white hat and a
monocle blend in with her grey Eton crop.
1 be flower distribution at the final curtain
was an entertainment in itself. John Fuller
gave thanks.
Melbourne has been having quite a lot
of Gounod’s “Faust” lately. The Philhar-
monic Society, on the last occasion when
it faced the public, put on a “Faust” con-
cert. Then the much-advertised movie, “The
Phantom of the Opera,” gave the woes of
Marguerite a fair amount of attention, and
last week the Postal Institute boldly plunged
into a full presentation of the sad storv
of Dr. Faustus. George English did double
duty as conductor and producer, and he has
a right to feel satisfied. The chorus knew
not only how to sing, but how to walk and
what to do with its hands and feet. Maisie
Ramsay, as Marguerite, sang beautifully,
and John D. Sullivan had good moments in
the name-part, though his tenor voice was
hardly robust enough for the great feats it
was called on to perform. The Mephistoph.
of Henry G. A. Sansom lacked diabolical
qualities, but Margaret Rogan made a nice-
looking Siebel. The opera was given in
English, and was mostly intelligible.
Loads of flowers and a speech from Harry
Green, the George Washington Cohen of the
piece, arrived when the curtain fell on “.No-
thing but Lies,” at the Athenaeum on Satur-
day night. Some of the dressing was worth
making a note of. Marie Hurst’s fair locks
were set off with apple-green satin bearing
a top-dressing of black lace. Mascotte Ral-
ston, who won all her previous laurels in
musical, or allegedly musical, plays, has a
pretty frock of flowered georgette and flar-
iugs of blue taffeta, Barbara Birch’s ensemble
suit of tan tones is set off by a neat little
hat, and Vera Spaull makes a trim typiste
in a black frock and cape dashed with reseda
green.
V hen the A. J. Hennings, of Moreland,
gave their Muriel into the keeping of Geof-
frey Ellisker Lewin, of East St. Kilda, the
bridal gown was a foam of ivory georgette
with glistening cascades of silver lace. A
mist of tulle floated down the long train,
confined by a chaplet of orange blossoms;
and a shower of metal-tinted blooms was
carried. Marjorie Clarke, a lone attendant,
was wrapped in a cloud of lilac georgette
with a diaphanous crin. hat to match. Mr.
and Mrs. Lewin are going in search of
Sydney sunshine and mountain air as a
change from our chilly conditions.
St. Andrew’s, Middle Brighton, spread out
its crimson carpet on a recent evening for
Caroline Isabel McAdams, only daughter of
the A. E. McAdamses, of Hampton. Harry
Rayward was waiting for her, and the pre-
centor of St. Paul’s, a family friend, came
along and put some questions that the couple
answered to his satisfaction. The lady’s
gown was a cloudy affair of georgette and
silver. A long train of satin interlined with
pink and lightly strewn with orange blos-
som fell from the shoulders, and a Brussels
lace veil spread over, set with eardrops of
blossoms. A shower of orchids reflected a
dainty blush. Trainbearer Wilma Cornish
was a small Dresden figure in white, pink
and blue. Romola Cornish, Beryl Prior and
Hilda Raywood walked behind, each a bil-
lowy froth of sunset georgette, with a sug-
gestion of a silver lining behind the clouds.
When the Repertory Society puts on
“Twelfth Night” next month to help to re-
build the Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-
Avon, Ruby
May will be
Olivia. She
made a success
as the Widow
Quinn in “The
Playboy of the
Western
World” the
other day, and
before that she
had consider-
able stage ex-
perience. She
began her act-
ing career with
Louis Esson’s
Pioneer Play-
ers, under
Beres f o r d
Fowler she ap-
peared in Ibsen
dramas, and she
has been fill-
ing important
roles for the Repertory Society for some time.
The “Twelfth Night” production is going to
be a monumental effort, to which end the
society is bending its many talents under
Irene Webb’s direction. Ruby May, pictured
here by Broothorn, is Mrs. Gill when off
stage.
Christ Church, St. Kilda. which contains
a memorial to the good citizenship of her
grandfather and to Mona Grey Smith of
blessed memory, was naturally chosen by
the A. Grey Smiths’ daughter Laura for her
marriage with William 11. Reid, of Bal-
larat, on Saturday. The bride, all smiles,
faced the altar in cyclamen georgette, with
lace and a smart little black hat banded
with velvet. Her posy of sweet-peas and
primroses matched the blue and gold spring
morning which graced the glad occasion.
Professor Douglas Mawson’s lady is over
saying good-bye to her parents, the G. D
Delprats, before voyaging to England with
her husband, who is about to knock at the
door of that Mecca of scientists, the Royal
Society.
Barbara, daughter of Dr. H. Talbot Ilam-
ilton of South Yarra. has set out by the
Moldavia for England, accompanied by a
trousseau and Alice Creswick, to wed Cap-
tain Lames. Good wishes and tears were
mingled at several farewell tea and luncheon
gatherings.
A few months ago the City fathers pur-
chased for the Queen Victoria Gardens a
charming bronze water-nymph, the work of
Paul Montford, an English sculptor, who
came to Victoria about four years ago, and
was for a time teaching at Gordon College,
Geelong. Now firmly established in Mel-
bourne, he lias
just completed
a Peter Pan
which has been
c o m missioned
by Alderman
.1 effries as a
gift to the
Alexandra Gar-
dens. Mr. Mont-
ford, whose
lineaments and
Bohemian col-
lar and tie are
pictured b y
Lafayette, was
a constant ex-
hibitor in Lon-
don at the
11. A. Shows,
and he has in-
troduced t o
Australia what
the craft calls
the “lost wax
process” of casting in bronze. At present
be is engaged upon a war memorial for Oam-
perdown, and is also making a number of
medallions in bronze of eminent statesmen
for an official building in Canberra.
One of the most fascinating little etceteras
of feminine garbing this Chatterer has
coveted for a long time is the coat posy of
wool flowers. The term conjures up a vision
of hideous Mid-Victorian . atrocities—a side-
line of crewel-work that our grannies used
to perpetrate and cherish. But the 1920
reincarnation is dainty. The new flowers
of the sheep are tiny blossoms (they look
like verbena) of beautifully-colored soft
wool. Paris evolved the notion, but a clever
Melbourne woman is improving on the im-
ported article. Many of her lucky friends
are being presented with her handiwork, and
envy gnaws deeply at the vitals of those not
so favored.
Dr. Vera Scantlebury will mark Septem-
ber, 192(1, with red ink on her tablets, since
it has brought her not only a husband (I)r.
Edward Brown), but promotion to the high
office of Director of Infant Welfare in Vic-
toria. At the Returned Army Nurses’ Club
last week, tea was passed round by the
sisters in charge; of Baby Health Centres
throughout Victoria, and there were congratu-
lations and farewells for the Centres’ erst-
while medical officer. An amethyst brooch
and a couple of Ure Smith etchings were
handed over.
Swallow and Ariell’s Busy Bees gathered
money on Wattle Day for the free kinder-
gartens, particularly the one at Port Mel-
bourne, and the golden spoil was assessed
at ±63. This band of workers sprang up in
war-time, and is still going strong under
the guiding hand of secretary Elsie Holmes.
It helps all sorts of good causes, and the firm
ought to strike a special biscuit in its honor.
Grace Dell, who used to win prizes galore
at competitions, has had a success in Lon-
don. At the recent examinations of the
College of Music she was awarded an asso-
ciate diploma for elocution, and secured the
highest number of marks of any entrant.
This makes the second occasion the girl from
Melbourne has headed the list, and Hilda
Lifting, of Brighton, is a proud teacher.
The Savings Banks are to be used as col-
lecting agencies for the national war memo-
rial which is to be raised in front of Par-
liament House. E. G. Hicks, who has been
lent by the Mayor’s Charity Fund as honor-
ary organiser, was formerly a reporter on the
Argus ; he has shown remarkable efficiency
at extracting coin for Causes, and it is
quite likely he will get the £50,000 he is seek-
ing. The Government and the City Council
will spend £50,000 each in making a square
as a setting for the memorial; but Parlia-
ment will have to authorise, that.
Helen Kestell, only daughter of the R. M.
Turners, of Toorak, a keen huntswoman,
has been annexed by our best amateur rider,
Harry He Roux, who lives on the family's
Newminster Park at Camperdown.
The Shepherd Grimwades, with their
daughters Gertrude and Alice and son Phil,
are leaving for Australia early next month.’
After sampling Norway, they went south
in search of blue skies and sunshine.
The elder daughter of the O. T. Lem-
prieres, of East St. Ivilda, Joan Beryl, is
wearing a ring which points north. Regi-
nald Charles Giggins, of Singapore, gave
it: he is the son of a Surrey family.
Humorous verses for children, entitled
“Kiddyosities,” by Laura M. Palmer Archer,
author of “A Bush Honeymoon” and other
stories are being broadcasted these days by
“Mary Guinleaf.” The authoress comes of
a writing family. Her younger brother, who
died recently, was the “Kodak” of many a
Bulletin yarn.
Mrs. Murray Morton and her daughter Ula
have packed their summer finery and made
for Ceylon. They will sojourn with the Cinga-
lese for a few weeks, travelling back to Mel-
bourne with Dr. Morton, who will soon be
on his way from England.
The Eye and Ear Hospital put over £lOO
in its bank account the other day. the result
of an afternoon gathering at the Austral
Salon organised by Mrs. C. B. Moore and
Mrs. P. S. Robinson.
From an Australian in England :
Lady Weigall, whose purse would not run to the
maintenance of Government, House in Adelaide, con-
tinues to find funds for lavish outlay in England.
For her new home in Hill-street, Mayfair, a novel
scheme of decoration has been devised which will
shed sunshine at will on the favored occupants amid
apparently rural surroundings. The sunlight is at
the command -of an electric switch, while the country
aspect is secured by means of painted panels repre-
senting' scenes from the gardens of her home, Petwood,
at Woodhall Spa. These panels are set in the dining-
room, the chief bedrooms, the schoolroom and hall.
By the introduction of glass and an ingenious light-
ing scheme a remarkable illusion is achieved —one
seems to be looking through windows on the rose
gardens and other floral wonders of Petwood.
Sister Adelaide’s merry week: —
The Fleet is still the keynote of our gaieties—
lunches and teas on board, and ashore dinners, with
an hour or two at the Palais to follow. Commodore
Hyde has hosted a Palais party or two himself, and
Captain Massey and his officers have given a dance
aboard the Adelaide —guests mostly of the younger
set, with a sprinkling of younger matrons; quarter-
deck a ballroom, with supper in the captain’s
cabin and the ward-room, and poppies and sweet-
peas, on the tables.
Percy Grainger, whose concerts with the S. Aus.
Orchestra amUthe Bach Society have filled the Exhi-
bition and struck a high level, is dividing his time
between his relations —the Aldridges at Kensington,
Mrs. John Morish, and Mrs. George Aldridge at
Brougham-place.
The Septimus Powers turn their faces to Aus-
tralia again in January. They go straight on to
Melbourne.
Races at Cheltenham and hunting at the Levels
were Saturday’s chief entertainments, the former with
their Exes, and a big sprinkling of Navy among
their votaries, and, for those the gods loved, a
couple of dividends that ran comfortably over £2O.
At the Levels, Elder, Smith and Co. were hosts, in
a tea-tent set in lush fields, and there was a nice
spicing of .hair-raising falls for sensation lovers. For
some reason there always are falls at the Levels.
The Poetry Society empanelled A. W. Piper, K.C.,
as lecturer at its last meeting, and heard many
interesting things about “The Tempest.” Mr. Piper
knows more of Shakspeare than most people, and
has one of the most enviable libraries in this State.
Wattle Day Leaguers have been attending a meet-
ing, too —their annual planting and speech-making
at Gallipoli Grove, with their Exes, among the
guests and Mrs. T. R. Bowman, who presides over
the destinies of the National Council of Women, as
the feminine speaker.
The death of Mrs. John Murray breaks another
link with the State’s early history. She went with
her husband to the Rhine Park homestead when
Mount Pleasant was still “out back.”
The Arthur Rymills’ daughter Nancy hostessed
the Yacht Squadron’s ball as proxy for her mother
and had among her guests the Governor and Lady
Bridges, the Wallace Bruces and Commodore Hyde.
The frivol was at the Palais, with flags and
marine objects for decoration.
The newly-fledged Folk Song and Dance Society
made its bow to the public in the Town Hall, when
Clive Carey lectured on it all, with illustrations of
songs by himself and folk dances by pupils of Miss
Wanda Edwards and Miss Thatcher. By a happy
stroke of luck, Miss Agnes Gloyn, a member of
tbe English society, happened to be in Adelaide
and gave a couple of delightful expositions of the
dances.
H.M.A.S. Sydney’s at-home resolved itself into
an afternoon dance, and tea was in the storehouse
on the wharf alongside, bedizened with flags till
it looked quite superior. The men of the flagship
have given a dance on board, too, and the Adelaide
made her good-bye to Captain Massey another
dance. There’ll be sad hearts when the squadron
sets sail for Port Lincoln, where, by the way, the
Sydney takes the Governor as passenger.
Minda Home, one of our most deserving charities,
is in further trouble over the defalcations of its
recent secretary. The committee was blamed for
accepting the £3OOO which his family found as a
condition for dropping the prosecution ; now a further
close audit shows other deficiencies going back some
years, amounting to £1250 more. The committee
has asked the public to subscribe this, and H. W.
Waterhouse, the president, heads the list with £5OO.
which he had intended to bequeath at his death.


A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE
f
d
mm
***,» two:*:*.':*:"., 4 ,
.
■«
Silverplated Tea and Coffee Service, Handsomely Engraved,
£lO.
SENT POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS specialises in all
PRESENTATION TROPHIES, SPORTS CUPS, SHIELDS, MEDALS,
etc.
Special prices quoted for quantities to Schools, Clubs and other
Sporting Bodies on application. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker— Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
fd
DO NOT SAY
“Give Me a Spark Plug.”
Specify “BOSCH”
AND INSIST UPON GETTING THEM.
Unbreakable Steatite insulation and non-corrosive
electrodes are exclusive features.
Price 5/- each
There are millions in use giving satisfactory service
at this moment.
Ask any Motorist who uses them.
Melbourne Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., I,td.,
256-258 Bat robe Street.
Sydney Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Etd.,
249 .Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane Herbert Jones & Son, Adelaide Street.
Perth Elliot & Kiesey, Murray Street.
Hobart D - J- Nettlefold & Co., Etd., 26 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand... J. J. Niven & Co.. Ltd., Wakedeld Street,
Wellington.
ď
M§!
PHHI
« :
■
§||g§
1
;«s§i
m
H
1 1
:
11
Full details in Booklet “B.”
H
There's no doubt
we must install*
DELCOUGHT
I am sick and tired of replacing broken gas*
mantles and shades!
“No wonder Jackson thinks I am a fool to con-
tinue with this old-fashioned, dismal gas-
lighting system. Wby, he assured me as man to
man that the cost of operating his Delco-Light
plant is much cheaper than our gas system, let
alone the wonderful difference in convenience
and comfort it offers.
And, furthermore, did you hear what Mrs. Jackson said about
the power which it provides? Operates electric irons, washing-
machines, pumps, vacuum-cleaners, etc. The comfort and
economy of their Frigidaire’ automatic electric refrigerator alone
justifies the expense.
“There’s no doubt we WILL install Delco-Light. I will write for
particulars now!”
DISTRIBUTORS:
Warburton, Frankj, Ltd.,
307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Warburton, Franki (Melbourne), Ltd.
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Stnellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane, Q’land.
Gilberts, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
W. P. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston, Tas.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
DELCO-IIGHT


đ
| ...X.y.y... . v ••• ' < N-
Your
Holiday Hat
“Kookaburra” Hats, the most winsome examples of modern headweai
from selected Australian Fur. Shapes include the Nail (mb » •
“Prince” and latest “Snap Brim” shape Color tones of Mm
or Dark Grey, Brown, Black; also new Fawn shade with Bi m\n banu.
Greaseproof leathers. Best quality trimmings. Sizes: b* to <s
made
21
Latest in Golf Shirts
English Mercerised Golf Shirts for Men, both smart and service
Newest two-tone stripe effects on light cream ground. Made
reinforced neckband, soft turn-back cuffs, collar to match ... .
able.
with
8/11
3 for 26/3
ft
Fugiluxe ” Golf Shirts
ssuTresr
also plain ('ream shade or Cream ground with self-iaised satin
stripes. Made as above with collar to match
“Fugiluxe” Sports or Tennis Shirts, 12/6.
14/6
3 for 42/9
Blazers
Men’s Blazer Coats, cut from fine soft quality Navy
Flannel. Edges. Pockets and Cuffs trimmed with attractive coloicd
braid. Made and finished in Murdoch’s own workrooms m sizes
fit every figure
25/-
Cream Trousers
Men’s Cricket or Tennis Trousers. Made by Experienced Sports Wear Specialists
with due allowance for comfort and freedom of movement.
Material is a good, reliable wearing ( ream I will Gajai dme.
Side and hip pockets, also fob pocket. Side straps, belt loops,
cuff bottoms •••••• • • • ' • j' Ak ’/
In Cream W oollen Gabardine, 2(/ 6 ana 00/-
13111
Sports Footwear
White Canvas Tennis Shoes with White Rubber Soles, 6/11, 8/11 and V, * l '
Ss Shoes with heavy Red Rubber soles, toecap and joint strap, 15/11; with heaiy
6/11 and W 6; Heavy Red
Murdoif ‘cffilng &“Lil.-decker soles, toeeaps and joint strap
18/11; White Nubuck, 29/6. f : .
“Surfo” Bathing Costume
A Mill-to-Wearer Special! Men’s One-piece Pure Wool Knitted
Bathing Costumes, with low-cut neck and armholes, short hemmed
legs, etc. Plain black or black with colored bands or trimmings ot
Royal, White or Red. Sizes: 32in., 34in„ 36m. Supreme Value...
Sizes 38in., 40in., 9/11; 42in., 44in., 10/11.
8/11
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Murdoch Clothes
for
Holiday Wear
LOTHES of the better kind*—comfortable, smart and pleasingly
appropriate—in other words, Clothes of the Murdoch type consti-
tute the one thing needful to complete the holiday enjoyment,
Here you have a page of helpful suggestions, and we add to it the
pleasant reminder that you are buying from the Manufacturer—*
thus saving all costly intermediate profits, „
Men’s Sac Suits
Men’s Ready-for-Service Sac Suits, for fit and style unequalled.
Fashioned from splendid quality Summer-weight Australian Woollen
Tweeds featuring quite a pleasing range of pattern effects, in Light, Mid
and Dark Grey shades. Graded sizes, including
half and quarter, accurately proportioned, en-
sure a perfect fit for every figure. Coat, Vest
and Trousers complete, as illustration A. Ready
for immediate service
55 1-
Men’s Sports Suits
Comfortable and easy-fitting, Murdoch’s Sports Suits for Men find
tremendous favor. Appropriate for Sports, Motoring and leisure wear.
Distinctively made from All-Wool Australian Tweeds, in pleasing
shades and Fancy Effects. Coat is made with
pleats gathered into half-belt at back. Three or
Four patch pockets. Trousers have side, fob and
hip pockets, straps, belt loops, cuff bottoms, as
illustration B. Coat and Trousers ready to wear.. .
631-
Sports Coats
*Men’s Sports Coats that combine coolness
nil cl loose-fitting comfort with smart and
flawless make. Tweeds- are of selected
Summer-w eight quality, and
display latest pattern effects
of Grey or Fawn. Coat is
fashioned as illustration B.
Ready to put on. From
421-
Murdoch’s
Spring and Summer
“Mill to Wearer”
Catalogue.
Posted Free l
Si
m
i
m
m
4
When ordering by Post kindly state size
and address your letter to DESK R.
COPrRIGHT.
f
£7>6f e Wor/c/5 L a T*tens' anct t3oy/'S Store


o r:
©
XX
ď
Look £o* tb* Trademark ! Agtnu Rv*rywh»r*.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pin Street. Sydney
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP St CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale 'Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
Even as Windbag failed in the Chelms-
ford Stakes after an indifferent gallop on the track,
so Rampion went under in the Rosehill Guineas, run
over the same distance, nine furlongs. In a tussle
on the Tuesday with light boys atop, the Rossen-
dale —Roy'al Pet colt, had finished lengths behind
Cromwell, who completed a mile in Imin. 4445ec.,
but disregarding this de'f'eat, as they did Windbag’s,
backers laid 9 to 4 on the brown, while they could
have got 8 to 1 about the Victorian chestnut, whose
price finned a point. Amusement was mildly sup-
ported at Bto 1 and Royal Tea at 12 to 1; the
other three (Valaisian, Farmer and King Val) were
friendless. King Val was allowed to lead the field
into the straight, but Cromwell immediately took
command and Duncan was not called upon to ride
him out, for Rampion, though always prominent,
could not come on. Woorak’s son won well by two
lengths from the favorite, who was three lengths
ahead of Royal Tea, nothing else being in the
picture; the time was lmin. 52sec., which is fast
for Rosehill.
Afterwards people discovered that Rampion’s trainer
had been “too easy with him” and that “CraCknell
should have let him have his head.” The fact is
that he w'as beaten for pace and stamina by a colt
that has improved vastly since his two-year-old days,
as good Wooraks do, and now looks every inch a
Derby colt. Cromwell's dam,' Mettlesome, is a
daughter of Radium, sire of Rebus, so he should
stay. He is raced by the executors of the late C.
Meyers, who bought him as a yearling from the Phillip
Russell stud for 1625 guineas, and is trained by
L. J. McCann, who had Harvest King. The order
of favoritism for the A.J.C. Derby is now Limerick,
Cromwell and Rampion, but there is a possibility
of Limerick’s losing his place, for he has been
troubled with a cold.
Valicare (3 to 1 on) had only The Hawk (5 to 2)
and Spearfelt (25 to 1) to beat in the Hill Stakes,
and accomplished the task brilliantly. The Hawk
was fancied, having moved pretty well at Randwick,
but being now in his ninth year he can hardly be
as good as when he overcame Beauford; at all
events, he was never able to get on terms with the
mare, who vanquished him easily by' four lengths
in lmin. 38sec., a course record for a mile. Spear-
felt, though outpaced for five furlongs, came home
well, and is a Metropolitan possibility with 9st. 41b.
Bravado, an English gelding by Pommern- —Folly,
surprised his owners (Hackett, the Sydney bookmaker,
and P. A. Connolly, of Westralian celebrity) by
winning the Camellia Stakes, seven furlongs, at S 3
to 1. His opponents were below the Epsom standard,
but he ran home pretty well in creditable time
(lmin. 2545ec.), and may have a chance in the
Epsom with Bst. 41b., though he had 61b. less on
Saturday. Valamita’s success, at 16 to 1, in the
Rosehill Cup, after a fine finish with Imperial
Spark (20 to 1), Resource (3 to 1), Polycletan and
Count Cavour, also pleased McShortodds. The son
of Valais—Tressamita is almost up to weight-for-
age form at his best, but he rarely gives of his
best. He is in the Metropolitan with Bst. 71b.,
31b. less than on Saturday; Resource, who finished
stoutly, will meet him 31b. better. They ran the
11 furlongs in 2min. 19fsec. The Cause (5 to 2)
gave punters a brief respite from their cares by
winning the first division of the Highweight Handi-
cap, and Calmest (8 to 1) put up a sterling per-
formance in the second division, wherein she defeated
Stony, Zuleika and other decent horses, conceding
years and lumps of weight—she carried 9st. 121 b.
This consistent Newcastle filly' is a splendid adver-
tisement for Greenstead, her sire.
* * * *
“S.G.”; Why doesn't the A..T.C. invest
in a club horse for weight-for-age races ? The
presence of such an animal would swell the totalisator
receipts, especially' if it enabled two divs. to be paid
instead of one, or three instead of two, and it would
ensure every race of 12 furlongs and upwards being
truly run—under existing conditions they often degene-
rate into uninteresting sprints. The experiment would
not cost much—a hardy gelding with good credentials
could be got for £lOOO or so—and it might con-
ceivably' show decent profits, which could be dis-
tributed among charities. If the rules of racing
block the way, they can be altered.
There are people who think John Wren
has another Murmur in Beedos, who, after failing
at Sandown Park three days before, won. a Mentone
Handicap at the course of that name on Saturday.
All Sunshine, whom Melbourne never tires of back-
ing, was favorite at 9 to 2, Beedos being at 8 to 1.
Wren's nag, who is a five-year-old gelding by Kanflos
- Dee Bee, was a long way back at one time, but
getting a nice run inside the distance, he beat Con-
nolly’s cast-off by a length, with old Llanthony
(10 to 1) half a neck away. Beedos, who had four
successes as a three-year-old, and one as a four-
year-old, in medjoei'e company, is trained by' IV.
Gerrard. He galloped the 10 furlongs in the excellent
time of 2min. 4ifsec., and looked as if he could go
on. There was a great struggle in the Three-year-old
Handicap, six furlongs, Santock (14 to I) just
touching off Belhaven (7 to 2) by a head, while
King’s Consort (15 to 1) was only half a head
away'; and a good cut, of an English horse in Phonic,
by Polyphonic—Hemisphere (3 to 1), justified the
confidence of A. G. Barlow in the Open Handicap,
running the six furlongs in 3 min. 13sec. Cairns,
Heroic's pilot, rode Santock and Olola (3 to 1),
winner of the Welter.
“Hasen”: At the last Sandown (Vic.) meeting,
P. A. Connolly’s imported mare Sweet Lomond was
a starter in the Plate. At least 75 per cent, of the
inquiries that I heard were for “Sweet ho-mond" ;
this from people who have probably been bawling
or suffering the Bonny, Bonny Banks song for untold
THE LANGUAGE TEST.
SNIPE (to new customer): “ Don't take any notice o’ them blokes
yellin'. They're on’y beginners."
SMYTTHE: “How do you know they're only beginners?"
SNIPE : “They 'aren't said nothin' yet."
years. Leucopogon in the same race was called
“Luke Pagan” in the ring. The Sir Dighton—-
llomance gelding, Chimerical, is an old-standing trap,
but I heard that settled with the greatest confidence.
One youth announced that he had backed “Chemical.”
A companion laughed scornfully. “Chemical —be
blowed!” he said emphatically. “Can’t yer read?
It’s Commercial! ” And the other, after studying
his book, meekly agreed.
“Dead Un”: The V.R.C. caused a flutter in the
vulture-roost the other day by ordering all bagmen
•who had operated at Caulfield on September 4 to
produce their betting books at the club’s offices in
Melbourne. Stewards have come to the conclusion
that some of the form seen lately was too rotten to
be true, and are instituting a more frequent inspec-
tion of betting sheets, as a means of putting the
clever division’s pot on. One practice due for sup-
pression is the employment by bookies of runners to
back horses at better odds than they are laying
themselves. Another check under consideration is
the compelling of Ikey to use a different book for
every race, or at least two alternately. Then the
stickybeaks can have a look at Ikey’s operations
on the race just run without interfering with business
on the next,
* * * *
“Northerner”: Queensland turf stewards
are set many puzzles. In a recent case of dis-
qualification, the owners did not come into the
picture. They had leased the horse to a “laborer,”
who had passed him over to a trainer, who had got
in a punter. When, after a sighting shot, the gun
went off, the punter won £3OOO, and gave the
trainer £1500; the laborer-lessee, according to his
own account, had only a 10s. ticket on the tote.
The disqualifications imposed on horse, lessee, trainer
and jockey were quashed on technical grounds, and
the Q.T.C. committee is now making another attempt
to find the man behind the gun. In a previous
affair, the identity of the person in the background
was established by the production of the feed bills,
whicli he had paid. In a case at Goodna (un-
registered), it was found that the trainer of the
winner also trained the second horse, whose feeble
finish excited derision. The gentleman protested,
however, that he did not train the second horse —he
merely “looked after it.” Jockeys are so bothered
with conflicting instructions from their bosses that
some of them have decided to take orders only froni
their own punters.
“Naklioda”: Is there a bigger private
lottery in existence than the cable sweep on the
English Derby? lasts are sent to Cocos, Midway,
Rio, the “White Cargo” coast —-wherever submarine
telegraphists are to be found. Last year there were
73,920 subscribers to the total of £18,480. The
first prize of £7392 went to Sierra Leone,
Seven thousand-odd males and about 30
females were at the Sydney Stadium when Tommy
Uren (list. 241 b.) lost his middleweight title —it
had reverted to him through Collins’s retirement -
to the pride of Newcastle, Billy Edwards (list.
541 b.). Edwards is improving with every match,
but he still shows a lack of belief in himself which
leads to a lack of initiative and enterprise. He
gained nothing on Saturday night by threatening so
long before launching his punch, and if he should
meet an equally stiff thumper who can take advantage
of this hesitancy, it will go hard with him. Uren.
13 years older than Edwards and father of six young
Australians, boxed as cleverly as ever. He won the
third and fourth rounds, the latter by a wide margin,
and drew the claret, from Billy’s mouth. In the fifth
a collision of heads caused a cut on Tom’s right
eyebrow; it was Edwards’s round. The sixth was
equal, but half way through the seventh a heavy
right to the back of the ear put Uren down for the
count. It was a great fight while it lasted.
The first Vic. League semi-final, between
Geelong and Essendon, drew a crowd of 50,662 per-
sons, who handed in
£2720 14s. to the
trustees of the Mel-
bourne C. G. and the
aforesaid League. The
game was strenuous
and reasonably cour-
teous, but, as usual
where much is at
stake, far from scien-
tific. The seasiders
should have held a
good lead at lemon-
time, but they per-
sisted in holding the
ball too long and
handling the man;
and starting the last
quarter Essendon put
in some brilliant
bursts that yielded 4
goals in as many
minutes and made vic-
tory certain. The
’Dons were smarter
throughout and their
small forwards, Gar-
den, Shorten, Watt,
Maher, with tall Vasti
marking at the top of
his form. left the
solid Geelong defen-
ders standing. Of the
losers Fitzmaurice,
formerly of Essendon,
was the best, and
Warren, Hall and
Greeves were good.
Scores: ’Don, 17 goals
15 behinds; Geelong,
10 goals 10 behinds.
Stockdale, ’Don’s crack
forward, was a n
absentee; practising on
the Thursday before he
had collided with a
mate so solidly that
he knocked the other
unconscious and broke
his own cheekbone.
Across the Park, at
the Motordrome, the
Association wound up
its season before a
15,000 “house,” worth
£ 660, Coburg wallop-
ing Brighton by 81
points to 65. This is Coburg’s first premiership;
it has played only two seasons in the Ass. Brighton
lias belonged to that body for a dozen vears, but
has only now managed to reach “the four"”
* * * *
The N.S.W. League premiership was won
on Saturday by South Sydney, which beat University
by 11 to s—three tries and a goal to a try and goal.
It was a depressingly dull game, and most of the
20,000 spectators left the Showground convinced that
South’s second XIII, winners of the reserve-grade
premiership, could have licked Uni. South’s points
were all put on in the first half, the side’s efforts
in the second spell being mostly limited to forward
rucking. Both teams seemed fed up with football.
This is South Sydney’s sixth premiership since the
League was founded in 1908, and it was University’s
first appearance in a final. Soccer’s big event, the
State premiership for the Gardiner Cup, was fought
out at Newcastle, West Wallsend, one of the oldest
of N.S.W. Soccer clubs, winning a fine game from
the cup-holders, Adamstown, by 2 goals to 1. The
Metropolitan final went to Granville, which downed
Balgownie by 2 goals to 1, after 30 minutes’ extra
time had been played. As the South Coast men
are minor premiers, another match is to be played.
* * * *
Old rivals in Clarence Weber (13st. 81b.)
and Billy Meeske (12st, 71b.) grappled again at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night, the bone Ol
contention being the heavyweight championship.
Profiting by past experiences, Billy sported his best
tea-party manners, and all Clarrie’s efforts to tease
him into behaving like the old wild William failed.
Meeske gained a fall—the first —-in the second round.
Weber had secured an arm-scissors, but in his eager-
ness to punish the imprisoned member, he lay back
so far that his shoulders touched the mat. Each
succeeding round took its toll of middle-aged Clarrie.
and William, with a forward head lock and twist,
pinned him again in the seventh, to be crowned by
referee Bridges the human eel.
* * * •
On roads that were frightful in places, 11.
W. Lamb, known to Victorians as “Fatty,” won
the Dunlop road race from Goulburn to Sydney for
the second year from scratch, cutting out the
distance (135 J miles) in 7hr. 13min. W. Buck-
land (Newcastle) was a close second, and Johns,
another Newcastle rider, third ; the former has pro-
tested on the ground that Lamb changed his machine
after a puncture. Pooley, a Goulburn cyclist, was
well ahead at the top of Razorback Mountain, but
had a bad fall which necessitated his being taken to
the hospital. The professionals’ race over the same
course went to R. A. Munro (St. George), who had
a start of 40min. ; Ken Ross (Woy Woy) : gained
second prize and that for fastest time, 7hr. 13min.
45 sec.
* * * *
The lawn-tennis world was staggered last
week when the French players who hail failed so
signally in the Davis Gup matches avenged
themselves properly in the U.S. National singles.
The surprises began with Cochet’s defeat of Tilden
(6 —8, 6 1. 6—3, I—6,1 —6, B—6) ; then Borotra licked
Johnston (3—6, 4—6, 6 —3, 6 —4, 6 —4) and
Richards (3 —6, 6—3, 4—6, B—6, 6—2) and
Laeoste whipped Williams (6 —0, 6 —-3, B—6).8 —6).
Lacoste defeated Cochet in a thrilling five-set match,
and won the championship (previously held by
Tilden for six years, and by other Americans
since 1903) by downing Borotra in straight sets.
It seems that the Frenchmen weren’t acclimatised
when they met Tilden. and his countrymen for the
Davis Cup. To avoid that mistake next year, they
are going to play preliminary contests in the
American zone.
* * * *
Apart from pugs in training and the like,
Sydney people do very little walking; wh.en they
want to go 300 or 400 yards they mostly take the
tram. Perhaps Saturday’s 50-mile contest from
the G.P.O. to Upper Bankstown and back will help
to shame healthy young people out of a lazy habit.
There were two representatives from other
States among the dozen competitors, and Jack
Lewis (Vic.) won in 9 hours 20 minutes
24 seconds —uncommonly good time for a road
walk, though old-timer W. J. Haekford has a
track record for Australia of 8 hours 35 minutes.
Lewis, who was born in Sydney but has been employed
in the Vic. Forestry Department for years, ran third
in the first N.S.W. Marathon when a youngster of
15 (he is now 33), and intends having a shot at
the Melbourne Marathon on October 2.
* * * *
The Australian cricket tour of 1926 closed
with the match against an English XI at Blackpool;
the two or three subsequent games up north and over
the border were merely picnic knocks. The official
return for the tour shows that exactly two-thirds of
the 39 matches played were drawn; there Were 12
victories and one defeat. But five of the matches
included in the 39 —three in Scotland, one against
Durham and one against the Civil Service—were
obviously not against first-class sides, and reckoning
them with the rest helps to destroy the value of
averages as tests of merit. Taylor, for instance, the
most consistently disappointing batsman in the team
and the one who played the most innings (41), had
his one big success when he scored 201 against the
Civil Service; it is ridiculous, of course, to assign
the same value to such a score as if it were made in
a Test or even against- the weakest of first-class
counties. Averages tend to be misleading things,
anyhow, but in default of any better guide they can’t
be ignored.
No member of the side scored 2000 runs, nor is
this surprising in view of the number of matches
ruined by rain. Woodfull went nearest to it with
an aggregate of 1823 and an average of 58; then
come Macartney (1616 and 50.5) and Bardsley
(1596 and 48.4). Ponsford is fourth with 1076 and
41.3. But in Test matches alone —and here nobody
played more than six innings—Macartney shows head
and shoulders above the others. He scored 473 and
secured an average of 94.7 ; Bardsley is second with
231 and 57, Woodfull third with 306 and 51.
Richardson conies fourth with 155 and 31, and
Ponsford is nowhere with 37 and 12. Grimmett and
Mailey did the brunt of the bowling in big and small
matches alike; they took 13 and 14 wickets for
averages of 31 and 42 in Test games. With all the
burden cast on them in getting opponents out, it
was hardly to be expected that they would make
runs as well, but Mailey’s batting figures—ll 9 runs
in 25 innings (19 completed) and 9 runs for 5 com-
pleted innings in Tests —must be almost a record for
badness, even in a bowler. Yet in Australia Gilli-
gan’s team several times found in him an unexpected
snag.
“Oxmead”: Lancashire doubtless owed much to the
Australian McDonald in its winning - of the county
championship (B. 11/9/’26), but I suspect it owed
more to the 16 other Australians who were touring
England. On paper it was a very much inferior
side to Yorkshire. But the latter had to release
men for every Test —Sutcliffe, Kilner, Macaulay and
Rhodes were all levied on, and on one occasion
Holmes had to keep himelf in readiness. Lancashire,
on the other hand, had to find only one man
(Tyldesley) for one Test, and that gave it an advan-
tage not only against Yorkshire but against Surrey,
Middlesex and Kent, each of which mostly had two
men playing for England. Lancashire, overlooked by
the selectors, profited by meeting county sides not
at their full strength, or it would hardly have
reached its proud position for 1926. It is this sort
of thing and the possibility of its recurrence that is
going to make it harder than ever to reconcile
English cricketing. authorities to the playing out of
Test matches or even to allotting four days to them.
It will mean the loss of prominent players for at
least five weeks from county cricket, and the stronger
the county the bigger will be the loss.
THE SCAPEGOATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The police raided a two-up school in Surry
Hills last week.”
The punter to the racecourse goes,
By thousands there you’ll find him,
And hands his brass to totes and Mo's
Without a glance behind him.
lie picks his horse and makes his bet
With none to halt or stay him,
No cops in uniform beset,
His path, no ’tees waylaid him.
Though Johns abound about the ground
. No cause has he for dreadin' 'em.
And yet our humble joints they raid.
Their prying eyes we can't evade.
Gawd! why should we be scapegoats made
For heading ’em?,
Stout, Midascs to brokers’ lairs
Unhindered hourly amble ;
The world is full of bulls and bears,
All eager for a gamble.
The mug has Buckley's chance to win
Against the cute and shifty,
But where the kip-tossed pennies spin
It’s always fifty-fifty.
One law for all? Such fables pall,
What cant there js in spreadin' ’em.
The city man. serene and sleek, ‘
Can have his flutter ev’ry week,
While we are dragged before the Beak
For headin' ’em.
In many a room to-night they pack,
The betting's fast and furious;
But this is but a humble shack
And those are quite luxurious.
The clubmen sit, at many a game
Of chance and fear no summons
To open in the King his name.
’Strutli! but our laws are rum ’uns.
What paths arc barred depend—it's hard—
On whereabouts you’re treadin' ’em.
At Mosman, if you’re so inclined,
You gamble till you’re broke or blind.
At Surry Hills you’re pinched and fined
For headin’ ’em.
N.S.W,
IFORD.


By Appointment to
đ
HM . King George K
Some large fleets oj Ley lands
inAustralia
Among fleets of Leylands in Australia
comprising ten or more machines
are the following:
Royal Australian Air Force - Sixty-four
British Imperial Oil Company - Thirty-four
New South Wales Government
Railways .... Thirty-three
Public Works Department, N.S.W. Thirty-one
Sydney Municipal Council - Thirty
Postmaster-General’s Department - Twenty
Messrs. Nestle & Anglo-Swiss Condensed
Milk Company (Australia), Limited Fifteen
Messrs. Beard, W atson & Company, Ltd. Twelve
Commonwealth Oil Refineries, Ltd. - Ten
Messrs. Kitchen & Sons, Ltd. - - Ten
Leylands give tasting satisfaction.
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works:
2- £720 4-Ton, £1075
3- £B5O 5-Ton, £llB5
levlandMotors
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEGRAMS LEY MOTORS'SYDNEY
TELEPHONES a?951-8J952
THE INKY WAY.
“Howling Valve”: “‘Miss Australia and
“September Brides" having had their day
as circulation boosters, I offer the following
as a basis for the next “stunt": —
DECEMBER’S BEST DECEASED!
Conditions.
The competitor shall die during the month of
December.
The Burial Service will be broadcasted by DZ6.
Prizes,
Messrs. Sleight and Sons will provide a handsome
blackwood silver-mounted coffin.
\lvers will make the shroud.
Ronald and Co. will provide the wreaths.
Condolence cards printed by Robertson and Mullens.
Ball and Welch will provide mourning outfits for
the winning family.
Walpole and Co., linen merchants, will supply two
dozen black-bordered handkerchiefs.
Burial-ground will be provided free by the Mel-
bourne General Cemetery.
The grave dug bv the Gravediggers’ Association.
Rev. Digby Dugnp will read the Burial Service free.
In flic matter of ;i monument. I think it
could be made to bring in a fair dowry for
any unmarried daughters. There is a great
deal of advertising space wasted on tomb-
stones.
Harry W. Davis, a journalist of a past
generation, who died at Warrnambool (Vic.)
the. other day, aged 78, joined the infant
Standard in 1872, became editor in ’B3, and
retired in ’92. He was one of the founders
(and of late years curator) of the local
museum and art gallery
“Gooseflcsli”: Whatever may be said of
Sydney Labor Dairy’s journalistic activi-
ties, it must he admitted that its contents
posters are sometimes bicn apropos, lor
instance, take that one for the edition which
last week told the story of the Lang-Lough-
-lin battle in Caucus. It read :
THREAT OF ELECTION.
A NIGHT OF HORROR,
“Coot" Neither Argus nor Herald is
Victoria’s oldest newspaper (B. 16/9/’26).
That honor belongs to the Geelong Adver-
tiser, whose first number appeared on Sep-
tember 21, 1840. It was printed on the
press which had produced the Port Phillip
Patriot, Fawkner having discarded the
same for a new one. James Harrison edited
and printed the Advertiser on Fawkner’s
behalf. In 1863 the paper passed into the
hands of Alfred Douglass, with whom
Graham Berry was associated for a time in
the ownership, but the partnership ceased in
1880. After Douglass’s death in 1885, his
two sons, H. P. and F. M. Douglass, carried
on the paper until a few years ago, when
F.M. relinquished his interest, and his
brother became managing director of the
proprietary co. formed to take over the
business.
An ancient vendetta was revived when
Eden George, long-time-ago M.L.A. for Ash-
burnliam, photographer, originator of the
slogan “Let George Do It,” and notable
punter, who has newly returned from an
eight-years’ absence in America and else-
where, started an action to recover £20,000
damages from Truth. The newspaper
alleged that the ex-legislator had left
gambling debts unpaid, and had been ex-
pelled from Tattersall's iClub; and the jury
gave him a verdict for £5OOO. The news-
paper, completely changed in regard to staff
and more or less altered in policy, had pro-
bably no thought of ancient bickerings when
it made its attack; but the plaintiff natu-
rally remembered the days when there was
a fend between himself and Norton which
led to ebullitions in the street, on the race-
course, in Parliament —wherever, in fact,
the two might meet.
The dulness of the Melbourne Sabbath
morning, when trams and trains show a
Scotch conscience ■by not working, is still
unrelieved by a Sunday paper. The other
day the Sporting Globe tried to brighten
the city by getting out a special with the
scores of a cricket match in England. It
was a mere dodger which, instead of being
sold, was posted at various places around
the city to show how eager the journal was
to serve the citizens; but, acting under the
provision of the law that there is trading
in a newspaper handed out on the Sawbath,
even if no charge is made for it, the police
instituted a prosecution. It failed, merely
because the authority-of a law officer of the
Crown had not been obtained. Melbourne
did get Sunday papers after the Federal
elections and the referendum ; but those Were
matters of “national importance.” An
effort a couple of years ago to get out a regu-
lar Sunday journal by publishing just before
midnight and having the papers delivered
by the early morning milkman was promptly
squelched.
“Avon”: The stormy petrel in Maori-
land journalism in these days is Ted Huie,
who, not content with running an imitation
of the Sydney Sun in Christchurch —it’s
called the Sun, too —and doing it most
successfully, proposes to enter the field in
Auckland and shear off a slice of the rich
monopoly enjoyed by the Auckland Star in
the evening-newspaper field. Just before
the war Huie was editing the Evening
News, the very subordinate side-kicker ot
the ancient and majestic Press, which has
been combining Freetrade and Conserva-
tive doctrines for a long, long while. Huie
felt that his chief, the editor of the Press,
was not. hitting the Liberals hard enough,
and introduced a few unauthorised wallops
on his own account. When he went out
he went out with sufficient backing among
lhe true-blue Tories to start a rival of the
News. Then the war came and the paper
shortage, among other things, killed the
News, leaving the Sun only one opponent
(he Liberal Star, which suffered by being
run as an offshoot of the morning Liberal
journal the Lyttelton Times. The Sun.
with only one egg in its basket, has made
money for its owners, and it will go on
making money while the new Auckland ven-
ture struggles for a footing. Ted Huie, by
the way, is a strong Protectionist —which
must he a shock to his Sydney brother, who
is part of the Ma State’s Freetrade rump.


d
Republic has more trucks in active service than any other
truck manufacturer in the world. This reputation will be
maintained as long as the business world seeks out the one
truck which embodies every desideratum of trouble-free,
profit-earning road transport. The Republic Truck has never
had a serious rival. Trial will show you why.
We will prove to you detail by detail, component by com-
ponent, that the Republic is so much the very truck for
your business that to neglect an opportunity for trial is to
ignore a money making proposition. You will be able to
see for yourself that there is nothing very remarkable in the
fact that the whole Universe of Commerce puts unreserved
trust in Republic.
If you are interested in a Truck which can quickly bring
profits on your delivery service, the few minutes spent in
writing or phoning your local agent will be well spent.
WRITE FOR REPUBLIC BOOKLET WHICH GIVES
FULLEST DETAILS OF ALL REPUBLIC FEATURES
“REPUBLIC” AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd..
177 to 185 William Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114-122 Franklin Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency (Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd.,
896 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Taranaki and Cable Streets
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A, CROWLE LTD,, Crowle House, Castlereagh St, Sydney, N.S.W.


Quality Moated tie demand
Quality maintains tAe Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
%
n
M
m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Rose Marie”
Criterion “They Knew What They Wanted”
Royal “Mary Rose”
Grand Opera House “The Rest People”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller's Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Tell Me More”
Royal “Katja”
Princess “Lady, Be Good”
King's “Is Zat So?”
Palace “Abie’s Irish Rose”
Athenasum “Nothing but Lies”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
A backdrop of blue sea and moonshine is
always a grateful thing for a musicomedy
audience to lean its fevered brain against
before staggering into the outside world,
and that is probably why all songandance
shows nowadays end in the costly environ-
ment of a yacht club. “‘Lady, Be Good,”
Hugh Ward’s contribution at Melbourne
Princess, observes the new convention. In
addition it affords the usual goulash of
jazz melody, athletic exercises, male patter
and feminine vivacity, the song being pro-
vided by Les Pearce, growing more sub-
stantial with the passage of the years; the
movement by Edna Saunderson and Jack
Smith; the vivacity by that compact and
pleasing dynamo, Elsie Prince; and the
patter by .Timmy Godden. Godden, however,
is more than a mere patter-merchant, and
strolls through a fat part in an elderly
bored way which is entertaining. His bull-
fight story would scare a smile on to the
face of an antivivisectionist. Winifred Dalle
is developing more charm, and Oliver Mc-
Clellan and Charlton Morton have to do
and do it passing well. May Beatty is as
fresh as the day she first blew across the
Tasman. Ira Gershwin supplied the lyrics
which George, of the same talented family,
set to music that resembles a kitten locked in
the laundry. Producer Harry Hall appears
to be running short of ballet notions. Still,
the thing revolves exuberantly, and Jimmy
Godden is a show in himself.
Some time ago Harry Green appeared in
vaudeville in a one-act sketch entitled “The
Cherry-tree,” by Aaron Hoffman. The
theme is that the stickler for absolute truth
causes more trouble in this world than the
teller of amiable falsehoods. Aaron took
this and expanded it into a four-acter, and
a more disastrous piece of playwrightiug
hasn’t been seen for a long time. Apparently
the author was suffering from an excess of
plots, and, emptying them into his play, left
them to fight the issue out. The contest was
presented at Melbourne Athenaeum on Satur-
day under the title of “Nothing but Lies,”
with Harry Green in the star part of
a kind-hearted, truth-telling Hebrew. The
Athenamm’s patrons, not being concerned
with dramatic construction, treated the effort
with indulgence and Harry Green’s inter-
pretation with enthusiasm. Aaron is no
more niggardly in the matter of action than
of plots, and there is plenty of incident to
keep the proscenium dust moving. In the
supply of love affairs he is positively lavish.
There are no less than four, as far as this
Showman can remember. For a farce-comedy
the cast is large, but it is not half vast
enough for tlnj exorbitant demands of Aaron :
consequently characters that vanish from the
mind in the first act reappear in a fresh
set of whiskers or a different size in stomachs
in the second. Harry Green is a quiet and
effective exponent of Judaic characters, and
made his George Washington Golien an in-
teresting person. Gaston Mervale has done
better things than his bogus police inspector
who spends his time trying to shout louder
than Edward de Tisne, a wealthy stock-
broker. Vera Spaull is fetching and viva-
cious, and Mascotte Ralston is a personable
figure. Edgar Warwick landed on to the
tail end of the entertainment as Rufus
Chadwick Pettingill, a lawyer, and provided
a finished piece of acting in the Gilbert
and Sullivan manner. Unfortunately, it was
quite out of tempo. This specimen of Aaron
Hoffman’s art may be definitely thrown
on the scrapheap; but as the first introducer
of the crossword puzzle to the theatre, the
gentleman, now in the bosom of Abraham,
should be more or less gratefully remem-
bered.
“Is Zat So?” the new offering at Mel-
bourne King’s, is a good old-fashioned comedy
brought up to date by the introduction of
the 1925 additions to the American language.
Two comic representatives of the lower
orders, a prize-fighter and his manager, pene-
trate to the circles of the N’York aristocracy,
where, disguised as a footman and a butler,
they unmask, by their sterling honesty and
simplicity, the machinations of an elegant
scoundrel, who is behaving like a proud,
callous dog to his lovely, dark-eyed wife, and
making away with hex 1 money in addition.
As an amiable conclusion to a fashionable
dinner-party, the prize-fighting footman and
the chauffeur of one of the guests strip to
their boots and drawers, and provide a very
willing spectacle of stoush on the drawing-
room carpet. In the middle of the scrap the
footman recognises the villain as an Ameri-
can Army officer who offered him 10,000
dollars to sell a fight in Paris. While he is
musing over this discovery the chauffeur
catches him a neat one on the solar plexus
and lays him out. (As one of the fighters is
a genuine ex-pug. of N’York and the other
gives a very fair histrionic imitation of one,
this act should be popular with stadium-
frequenters.) The villain, however, easily
succeeds in throwing suspicion on the prize-
fighter, and he and his colleague are evicted.
Explanations are provided before the final
curtain, which descends on the two heroes
counting out the villain, who has just been
given the k.o. in his own study by his
wronged wife’s brother, specially trained by
the professional gentlemen for the occasion.
* * * *
Although not novel, the piece is a meri-
torious example of its kind, sound in con-
struction, free of extraneous gagging, with
no desire to teach a sloppy moral; painted
in natural colors and excellently acted, it is
guaranteed to keep its hearei's purring
from start to finish. Richard Taber portrayed
the tender-hearted pugilist with a quiet
economy of effoi't which should be studied
by all hard-working farce-merchants. Hale
Norcross, as his trainer, is a captivating
comedian. Ilis method of making love is
new to the local boards. No American farce
is complete without a silly Englishman, and
Noel Dainton took the part; but this time
he was mercifully neither a poltroon nor
a cad. Claude Saunders, of the disbanded
Wilkie troupe, invested the villain with an
aura of Shakspearean grandeur; Sybil Jane
suffered sweetly as his wife; Barrie Eivesey
was suitably indignant as her brother, and
a remarkably efficient remainder wagged its
very sturdy tail through a piece that
deserves success.
The Melbourne Royal on Saturday night
began its acquaintance with Ivatja, the
royal lady of the confiscated Russian
estates who has to sing and dance for her
supper. This calamity is supposedly due
to the machinations of Prince Carl, of Ivor-
uja, who incog, secures the tripping aristo-
crat’s affections, and it takes three acts
with some haunting waltz refrains to explain
that it wasn’t really his fault; whereupon
the Princess is quite willing to share his
millions with all defects. Musically, the
“IS ZAT SO?" AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Edclic "Chicle" Cowan, a coming-up light-
weight, and “Hap " Hurley, his trainer
and manager (Richard Taber and Hale
Noreross ).
play occasionally leans towards opera, but
Avanders more often into farcical comedy;
hence the prominence of the new comedian
R. Barrett-Lennard, as Leander Billdroff,
who bristles and prances with honors: he
speaks undiluted English, and for that is
forgiven a tendency to grab too greedily at
encores. Radiant Marie Burke, whose re-
ception was overwhelming, is vocally suited
to the role of Ivatja, and her dancing helps
her to an emphatic success. Claude Flemming,
as Prince Carl, veiling the years with artis-
try, is in the forefront of the picture; his
“Those Eyes so Tender” with Marie Burke
helped him to collect the greenest laurels
of the first night. Cecil lvellaway turns
Catherine wheels in Count Orpitcli’s frivo-
lous moments —a good study, though a trifle
confidential. Thelma Burness, as Pat, his
daughter, engaged to his lively secretary,
“THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTONAT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
The Earl of Loam
(Hubert Hurben) and
Tweeny (Angela Baddely).
Leander, has a big task. She is quite a nice
flapper with a fresh voice seemingly un-
touched by the art of the vocal producer,
and promises to make good in this piece
as she did in “Spring Cleaning.” A dancer
from London, Babette Odeal, is incoherently
enthusiastic and gurgling; but she can learn
something about the way to step from our
own ballet-girls. Frank Hawthorne’s
Simon, the Prince’s old servant, is a capital
little cameo ; and Paul Plunket, as Ivo, the
noble dancing partner of Ivatja, is at last
seen in a character which can be pronounced
good. On the whole, Ivatja is an even,
well-dressed, well-staged show with rarely a
dull moment, and the chorus has some very
good lookers.
“The Sentimental Bloke” having departed,
“Abie’s Irish Rose” lias the obstetrical busi-
ness all to herself at the Palace (Mel-
bourne) .
*
Gentlemen who prefer blondes will please
note that Maud Fane commenced to inter-
cept the advances of Dorothy Lena’s lover
in “Tell Me More” at Melbourne Majesty’s
on Saturday, Dorothy having stepped across
the street to strengthen the Tivoli.
Jim Gerald is now telling crowded and
interested houses what it feels like to be
“A Millionaire for a Night” at Melbourne
Bijou.
Deductions from Melbourne Tivoli’s recent
bill include the negro unmelodists and Cahill
and Brooke. Additions are Dorothy Lena,
Bluett and Mo (you know what that
means), the flying Winskills, and Estelle
Fratus with some dolls. The resultant sum
is a respectable evening’s entertainment- —
errors and omissions excepted.
Thrills and high ideals are mixed in equal
measure this week at Melbourne Majestic,
where Fred Thomson is working bis will on
horses in “All Around Frying-pan,” and
love and jealousy arc operating on the
affairs of Irene Rich, Clive Brooke and
others in “Compromise.” Grins become
audible in Hoyt’s darkened interior, where
“That’s My Baby” is providing unsophis-
ticated farce.
Baekhaus stirred Sydney to positive
enthusiasm on Saturday night when he
opened his return season with the Beethoven
Fourth Concerto, working in conjunction
with the Conservatorium orchestra. A sound
like a sigh of utter contentment went up
from the crowded Town Hall at the ex-
quisite beauty of the Andante that bubbled
into the irrepressible final Rondo. The
orchestra, directed by Arundel Orchard, had
one of its happiest nights; and was par-
ticularly effective during the middle move-
ment. Chopin in all his moods, tender,
wistful and extravagantly brilliant, and two
Debussy pieces were further delights on the
pianist's bill. A final matinde is billed for
this afternoon.
Sydney playgoers are to be asked their
opinions of t wo new plays on Saturday:
Maurice Moscovitch kicks off with “They
Knew What They Wanted" at the Criterion :
and at the Royal, “The Admirable Crichton"
having withdrawn like a well-behaved butler,
“Mary Rose” will hold the stage. £° ,
to the, tirst nights, the Repertory Society
opens a week's season at the Palace with
Ibsen's “An Enemy of the People. Jho
following Saturday (October 2) “The Best
People” co.. pushed out from the Oranu
Opera House by “The Sentimental Bloke,
takes possession of the Palace, and signal-
ises the new tenancy with a change ot bill:
the invitation is to “Meet the Wife. , f
snows of Canada are melting into floods ot
gold under the influence of that warm favo-
rite, “Rose Marie,” at Her Majesty s; Mer-
cenary Mary” is still at. the St. James,
though some doubts are arising aboiit the
prolonged lease planned for it. Looming in
the distance is a return of Ada Reeve with
“Rockets.” She opens at the G.O.H. on
October 30.
This week’s packet of crackers at Fullers’
New Theatre (Sydney) shows Phyllis Amery
in a scarecrow dance, which is the best ot
the bundle. “Accidents Will Happen and
“The Lie Indicator” are two little farce-
sketches which provide plentiful laughter;
and Alec Regan, although handicapped by
a poor voice, is particularly successful in
“I Wonder What Became of Sally.” Clem
Dawe shows his versatility by blowing a
saxophone in the show’s jazz band. It is
comical to see the comedian so serious
about it.
The squashy title of the picture pro-
duced by the three McDonagh girls
of Drummoyne is “Those Who Love”;
the film, which was given a pri-
vate screening at the Prince Edward
(Sydney) last Thursday, is better than its
name. The acting is natural and unaffected,
and the story, though sometimes maudlin
and always trite, .is well developed; the
main fault is the introduction of circum-
stances which, in an Australian picture, are
shoddy importations—a choleric baronet
with a confirmed habit of disowning his son,
a still butler, American supper-parties and
a dancing-saloon referred to in a caption as
“On the East Side.” The Lyceum has two
good pictures in “The Torrent” and “Black
Cyclone.” Open-air color-photography pro-
vides a fine introduction to the first, which
faithfully follows the lines of Ibanez’s story
to its logical conclusion. The other is an
animal story spoilt by imparting too much
subtlety to the mental processes of horses.
Rex, a steed of remarkable intelligence, is
the hero. Hoyt’s provides an unusually in-
teresting comedy of theatrical life in “The
Song and Dance man,” adapted from a play by
George M. Cohan. Tom Moore is the con-
ceited hero—if he is a hero. Buck Jones
supports with “The Gentle Cyclone.” “Col-
lege Days” commence at the Prince Edward
on Saturday.
* *
The San treys have given up the strenuous
job of holding up two theatres-I—Sydney 1 —Sydney
Palace as well as Tivoli —and have shown
their appreciation of Australian needs by
setting out their music in a new act-arrange-
ment. It is all right; but the band’s strength
is as a purveyor of music, and, apart from
the fun supplied by Anna Seymour, one likes
it best when it is delivering its own special
line of goods. In the new Tivoli act a couple of
good-looking Sydney girls, introduced as “The
Henry Twins,” supplement the show with
some neat dancing. Salerno continues to
show himself a wizard in juggling, Arthur
and Darling present an extremely well-staged
scene, and Bruce Green goes on delivering in
woman’s dresses broad comicalities, some of
them quite unclad. The Prince Sisters,, back
again, are amongst the other items.
A Spring Show-er in Sydney:—
Spring has brought out a mush of green in many
of W. J. 'Donovan's water-colors at the Art Salon.
The general impression of the show, which includes
26 items with a makeweight of pencil sketches, is
of brightness and painstaking drawing; but a few
of the exhibits arc smudgy, and the effort to get
splodges of green to pass for all kinds of foliage makes,
for instance, the bamboos in “The Bamboo Paddock”
look like anything at all but bamboos. A quiet view
of the “Woronora River,” and another water subject,
“Tranquillity,” are attractive, but some mammoth
cows spoil the effect of “Summer Afternoon, Erming-
ton,” which has a very well wrought distance. There
are failures in the show, which is a first lone-hand
exhibition ; but there is also a great deal that is
promising and a good deal that is appealing.
Animals are prominent, and as usual effec-
live, on the screen in Adelaide. At West's,
Rin Tin masauerades for once as a wolf,
but without losing the sympathy of the
audience. At Wondergraph is the story of
an elephant that loved the local doctor, and
followed him through thick and thin —also
through garden-parties and unsubstantial
dwellings. The York lias, in “His People,”
a strong story of Jewish life, on the serious
side. At the Prince of Wales, the Anderson
co. is reviving some good plays, “by special
arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.”:
and Guy Hastings gets a chance and uses it
in “The Man Who Came Back.” George
Wallace is at the Majestic again, as funny
as ever, and the Charlestons add some good
music.


A letter from Captain Cobham
MELBOURNE,
19 th August, 1926.
B. WESTCOTT, ESQ.,
MESSRS. 0. 0. WAKEFIELD & CO., LTD.,
8 Spring Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Mr. Westcott, —
So glad to receive your letter. I want to take this opportunity of
thanking you for all that you did for us during our stay in Sydney, and
all that you have done in the organisation of our supplies on the outward
journey, and also the new trouble to which toe have put yon in laying
down supplies for the new return route to Darwin. I will most sincerely
do my utmost to mention the fact that toe are using CASTROL on all
occasions. Hoping to meet again in the not too distant future,
With kindest regards., ,
Yours sincerely,
ALAN J. CO BEAM.
The great aeronaut sends an-
other message of appreciation.
At every landing place on his
route, even in Centra! Aus-
tralia, right away from the
beaten track, he was getting
supplies of his indispensable
lubricant, “CASTROL,” the
famous British-owned Oil.
Follow his example and
insist on getting
WAKEFIELD
3*3
MOTOR OIL
Obtainable from leading
garages.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., Ltd.
The All-British Firm , •
Head Office for Australasia: Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
THE ALLUVIAL
GOLD and PLATINUM
MINES LIMITED
Nominal Capital ~ - - - £50,000
Divided into 200,000 shares of 5/- each.
Payable 2/6 on application and 2/6 on allotment.
Application will be made at an early date to have
the Company listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Board of Directors :
MARTIN HENRY BLAKE, Esq., J.P., Grazier, Blakefield Station, Muswellbrook.
Hon. J. W. PERCIVAL, M.L.0., Bathurst.
FREDERICK G. SHERWOOD, Esq.. Barrister at Law, Selbourne Chambers,
Sydney.
JOSEPH PASCOE, Esq., Dentist. Orange.
A. P. EGAN, Esq., Ida Street, Sans Souci.
W. J. HARRIS, Esq., Russell Avenue, Doll's Point, Sandringham.
Secretary and Registered Office (pro tern.) :
W. G. MOYLAN, Esq., J.P., 156 King Street, Sydney.
The principal source of supply of Platinum lias been Russia, which formerly
supplied 90 per cent, of the world’s requirements from alluvial deposits. The
deposits there average half the yield of the deposits covered by this Lease.
Platinum has a growing use among Jewellers, the Chemical and Electrical Indus-
tries, Dentists, etc., being used for X-Ray work, explosives, electrical furnaces, and
parts. THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR PLATINUM. Its price is six times
that of gold, and there is every sign of the demand increasing, in addition to the
reduced supply from Russia.
SITUATION.
This Company has been incorporated in N.S.W.
granted for 20 years at Fifield, near Condobolin.
to work the mining lease
PROSPECTS.
Slugs of Platinum up to lOdwt. have been taken fr<jm this property, and up to
1922 16.0000 z. of platinum had been taken and sold from the adjoining areas. Over
600 bores have been put down on the property, and in every case platinum and
gold have been found.
OPERATIONS.
An ample water supply is available from artesian bores at 100 feet, and storage
dams. The eminent Consulting and Mining Engineer, Mr. W . H. Trewennack, on
the basis of bores and costs, estimates that the whole area contains sufficient
area is exclusively alluvial, and can be easily and cheaply worked by the dredge.
A FULL AND INTERESTING PROSPECTUS
WILL BE FORWARDED ON APPLICATION.
METROPOLITAN UNDER WRIT EPS, IYTD.,
16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
DCa ‘Warn interested in The Alluvial Cold and Platinum Mines, Limited. Kindly
forward me by return mail copy of the Prospectus oj the Company.
Date
B. 23/'9/’26.
Grossley Motors Ltd
Sm
•By APPOINTMENT TO.
HM THE KING
Let a British Car Tigflect Tour Pride of Ownership
At the New Low Price
THE BRITISH-BUILT
fd
Crossley Motors Ltd.
€
Vy AWOmMENT . TO
M.R.U THE PRINCE Of WALES
£399
15 30-H.P. TOP-GEAR CAR.
All these Special
Features are
Standard
Equipment.
FOUR WHEEL BRAKES.
FOUR BALLOON TYRES.
SPARE WHEEL.
RUG RAIL.
SHOCK ABSORBERS.
CHOKE.
Real leather upholstery through-
out. All-weather curtains
carried in a special compart-
ment, behind the rear seat
squab. A combined Foot Rest
and Tool Compartment in an
exceptionally accessible position.
.Among owners of the new i 3/30-h.p. Crossley will be found an exceptionally large number of
people who could easily afford to buy more expensive cars.
The reason is not difficult to find.
Crossley Cars are priced far below their real value in comparison with any other car on the
Australian market. They are the only cars selling at anywhere near factory prices.
The 1 5 /30-h.p. model is priced only a few pounds more than at the English factory.
The 19.6-h.p. model is sold at exactly the same price as in Great Britain.
In addition to this definite price advantage, the new Crossley 15/30 has been built specially for
Australia, with strength and stamina to meet the severest road conditions, power and flexibility
that practically eliminate the necessity for gear changing; speed over fifty miles an hour if
desired; economy —at least 30 miles to the gallon of petrol.
We shall be glad to give a demonstration, at your convenience, without obligation on your part.
Call, write or telephone.
Catalogues and full information despatched promptly on request.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (Aust.) LTD.
87 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
State Agents :
N.S.W. : CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LTD., 87 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. F. GREGERSON MOTORS PTY. LTD., 128-130 Russell Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : BRITISH DOMINION MOTORS LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : ADELAIDE MOTORS LTD., 175 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.


\tl
J \
JJowlei'f —
Are biased in favour of
this long-lasting creamy
lather. It makes their
shave a d lily pleasure.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
is. 1170. J. KITCHtN ft SONS PTY. LTD.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
fd
ď
The TOP-NOTCH "ScotcK
V>„ Say WREN Man I!
> li
«'C» / n
I
&
i=5T
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
“R.K.D.N.”: “Nothing but Lies,” just pro-
duced by Harry Green in Melbourne, has
already done the Jewish comedian good ser-
vice : he has been using the material of its
first act for years in vaudeville theatres as a
sketch, “The Cherry-tree.” The piece has
been much overhauled since it was first
staged in America. There it was once known
as “The Town Clown” ; and it had a season
in New York as “Good-for-Nothing Jones.”
Aaron Hoffman, who wrote it, died in 1924.
“Bris”; Toti dal Monte surprised Bris r
bane reporters by her new knowledge of
English. They did not need an interpreter.
Toti answered every question, and cracked
a joke or two without getting out of her
depth. She even called the operas by their
English names.
“Up Stage”; Moscovitch, true to his word,
has brought a fresh batch of mummers to
Australia. In his farewell speech in Mel-
bourne lie was not at all complimentary to
his support, and gave the public to under-
stand that his was a “one-man show.” Many
thought otherwise. Not one of the old com-
bination, mainly Australian, including Jeall
Robertson —who made a big personal suc-
cess —has been retained. Jean has to be
content with a bit in “Rose Marie.” Inciden-
tally, she will leave the country of her birth
next month for America,
“Autopsy”: Fritz Hart, whose new one-
act opera, “Deirdrc in Exile,” is to be given
at the Melbourne Flayhouse towards the end
of this month, has for many years been carry-
ing on a musical flirtation with the lady.
The elusive symbolism of modern Irish
literature seems to suit his musical ideas.
His hero is “A.E.” (George W. Russell), the
patriot and _ poet, 49 of whose songs Fritz
Ilart, working with intense fervor, once
set to music in the space of a couple of
weeks. The poet liked the music as well as
the composer liked the words, and they
became firm friends when Hart was last
in Ireland. He was at “A.E.’s” house not
long after James Joyce had made his notorh
ous visit, saying, when he met Yeats, “I’m
sorry we have met, Yeats, because you’re
too old to be influenced by me.” Fritz
Hart’s first liaison with Deirdre took place
not many years after he had relinquished
the J. C. Williamson baton to take up the
reins of the Albert-street Conservatorium,
when he set J. M. Synge’s “Deirdre of the
Sorrows” as a tliree-act opera; but owing
to the difficulties of production in Austra-
lia, this has never been put on the boards.
“Goldilocks”: The latest Australian stage
girl to earn promotion is Mascottc Ralston,
daughter of Jack, who made a hit as Schu-
bert in “Lilac Time.” in which piece Mas-
cotte was put a step or two above the
chorus. She gets a place as lead with Harry
Green, who, having decided that Australia
is a great country to live in, is staging
“Nothing but Lies” at the Melbourne Athen-
aeum.
“A.H.A.” In Bert Bailey’s career one of
the proudest moments was the night at
Sydney Palace when a nobleman occupied
the prompter’s chair. The play was “On
Our Selection,” and the nobleman was Lord
Northcliffe. It was his first evening in Aus-
tralia ; and I had been commissioned to take
him in charge. When, after dinner, it was
suggested that he should see an Australian
play, he eagerly agreed. Through the first
act he sat in a box with a puzzled frown.
“What’s that mean?” he continually asked;
and once he anxiously said, “Is that meant
to be funny?” I assured him it was. The
progress reports I carried to Bert were
steadily growing worse. Then suddenly
Northcliffe broke out into a chuckle afifi next
a roar. “Dad” had won! He was eager to
meet Bert after the first act. But 'once
behind the curtain he refused tb stir. Hat-
ing the publicity of tile box, he insisted on
sitting out the whole of Act ii on the back-
less prompter’s chair.
“Repertorian”; “A.H.A.” (B. 9/9/’26)
has been misinformed re Adelaide Repertory
Theatre. It certainly has money in the
bank and a following of 500 members, but
the Victoria Hall, where the plays are staged,
belongs to the Y.M.C.A. It is by no means
a real theatre, and the society pays several
guineas a time for the use of it. He is
incorrect also in his statement that the
Wilfrid Neills and T. 11. Nave produce all
the plays. The producing committee coiri-
prises these three, also Ray Walsh, Clivb
Carey and Frank Johnston. “Getting Mar-
ried” was produced by Ray Walsh, and “The
Dover Road” is being rehearsed under the
GRAND LARCENY.
BILLIE: “You won’t say a word to a soul, will you, but I was told Maud’s a klepto-
maniac!”
MILLIE: “Too true, she is! She got away 'with my best boy last night."
direction of Carey and Johnston. The theatre
owes much of its present prosperity to the
skilful guidance of Prof. Archie Strong, pre-
sident of the board, and the untiring efforts
of Miss Muriel Craigie, hon. sec.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Kathleen O’Connor,
a N.S.W. musician who has been improving
her artistic notions by sojourns in Italy and
France, has just sold another song to
Enoch’s. Kathleen’s voice and the manner
of its use have much improved since she was
last heard in Sydney.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The new bill at the
Coliseum includes three miniature ballets,
“Exercises,” to the music of Percy Grainger,
being accepted as the best. The chief dancer
is Anton Dolin, formerly leader of the Rus-
sian ballet, who, despite his name and pro-
fession, is an Irish youth and of remarkable
grace. His partner, Ninette de Valois, is
an attractive English girl, a really wonder-
ful dancer. Another local product, Ailne
Phillips, has challenged comparison with the
Russian stars. She is an Irish girl who
with Jean Brady set the pace fOf the All-
British ballets which ate hOw becoming a
feature of the entertainment world.
“Hamfat”: Ah ancient in the tliespian
world Of Sydney i& Jimmy Burns, now
watchman at the Sydney Palace, who 50
years ago was property-master in shows
which were the masterpieces of their time.
In the notices of the Royal Italian Opera,
which invaded Australia in 1877, “elegaut
properties by Mr. J. Burns” were a feature;
and year after year his was a master-hand
in pantomime-. In, One of them, “The Babes
in the Wood” Or “Who Killed Cock Robin?”
'(1§§0) Maggie Moore was one of the babes
and J. C. Williamson the other. The sisters
Deorwyn were also in that production.
Burns played parts, too, at times —as Charles
the Wrestler in William Creswick’s produc-
tion of “As You Like It,” Higgins in “Irish
Justice” and some others. He had travelled
a long way in the stage-world before becom-
ing chief property man; and in December,
1880, he was an old enough identity to be
given a farewell benefit. He became licensee
of the Ocean View Hotel, Bondi; but the
stage drew the old man back again. No one
knows quite how old he is.
“Flaming Youth”: From sending photo-
graphs by telegraph to transmitting movies
by wireless is merely A 6tejp in the Seven-
league boots of modern discovery.. A
Viennese experimenter, Prof. Edward Belin,
who claims to have sent wireless pictures
from Washington (U.S.A.) to Paris in 1921,
has registered the “Telestorograph.” It is pro-
bably the forerunner of the radio picture
show which will be a companion of the
radio set in the suburban home of the near
future —if it isn’t the thing itself.
“Emer” ; So Leon Gordon is to produce a
play without a woman in the cast! And, of
course, doubts are expressed concerning its
reception by a romantic public. One is re-
minded by the contemporary appearance of
John Barrymore at the Crystal Palace of
that actor’s huge success in “Jekyll and
Hyde.” In the story proper there is no
woman and no “love-interest.” Jekyll makes
his fatal experiments impelled only by his
gruesome psychological curiosity. ' In the
picture, however —it was “adapted for the
screen”—Dr. Lanyon was made father of a
heroine as a sop to the frequenters of the
films. Why remains a question. Barrymore’s
acting would have carried the story anyway.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The old hostility of legi-
timate actors to the moving pictures has
completely passed; but until a couple of
years before his death Harry Diver refused
to accept any movie work. After the first
screening of his first picture, he was leaving
the Sydney Lyceum when a stage-hand gave
him greeting, which was acknowledged with
solemn majesty—Diver was majestic even
when he had to borrow a bob. “What did
you think of yourself in the picture, Mr.
Diver?” asked the stage-hand. “I don’t know
by what right you address me,” declaimed
Diver. “But this I will tell you. Had I
had the op-por-tunity, in the days of my
youth, of viewing myself as an act-or as I
have this day, I would most cer-tainly have
sought some oth-er a-voc-ation.”
“Goldilocks”: Quite a number of mum-
mers knock out a crust by working for ama-
teurs as producers and coaches, with an
occasional turn in a difficult but essential
small part. The crust is hard-earned. My one
experience was gained when I took charge of
the dramatic club of a small M.L. town. In
addition to the three weeks’ salary for put-
ting the company through “The Blood-blist-
ered Blotter,” I was to have my hotel ex-
penses paid. I found I was expected to stay
at the pub kept by the father of the leading
lady; and she had more airs than Sarah
Bernhardt, But the player who worried me
was the chief assistant in the local boot-
shop, who, besides fancying himself as the
heroic juvenile, was painfully conscious of
wearing his best clothes. In the most pas-
sionate passages wh'en he had to kneel before
the girl he adored, he always gave his pants
a hitch to save his bags. I cured him of
the distressing habit —at rehearsals; but on
the night of the performance he relapsed.
The editor of the local paper commented
that probably no professional actor in, the
world would do that trouser : hitching busi-
ness in the midst of a passionate love-declara-
tion quite as artistically.
“Emily L.” : The exit of the last but bne
of the Lynch Family revives an ancient
grudge that had its origin in the summer
of ’96 or thereabouts. I was one of a band
of mummers doing coach trips in N.S.W. —
and what trips! During one waterless,
dusty and altogether awful trek, a wayside
shanty hove in sight;, Thirsty txiitmmefs
rushed tjie bar, to find no water, no beer—-
nbthing but “black fella’s” rum, and, jealously
guarded by the boss, one solitary bottle of
whisky. In vain was he importuned, in vain
was a pound painfully scraped together—
and a pound was a pound in those days.
“Not for 50 blanky pounds!” he said. “This
’ere bottle is for the Lynch Family of Bell-
ringers—they’re cornin’ along in a couple o’
days!”
“T. 0.1.”: I erred in my par. (B. 9/9/’26)
in stating that Charlie Ward was scenic
artist for John Bennett at the “Old Vic.”
in the first ’seventies. Charlie was property-
master; John Hennings and Herr Habbe (a
Dane) were the scenic artists;
“Wigs” : there’s nothing new in amateur
actors Boasting that they are as good as;
or better than, professionals (B. 16/9/’26).
They’ve always thought so; always said so,
And, unfortunately for them, they have not
one amongst their audiences of friends and
fellow-subscribers to tell them the truth. It
is only when they try to earn their bread
and butter at the game that they wake up.
Melbourne opens another Show
R. W. Sturgess, water-colorist, has been giving
Nature a hand again with the usual satisfactory re-
sults. His picture of the Williamstown (Melbourne)
time-ball tower reflected in the Grand Canal, Venice,
may be geographically open to criticism, but is
quite correct artistically. Full sunlight still baffles
him, but over grey days and calm weather he has
more command than a Government meteorologist. A
line, poetic soul, who would render, even an account
delightfully. The show is at the Fine Art Gallery.
Anarchy in Art:—
Judging by their eighth exhibition (at the
Athenaeum), the “Twenty Melbourne Painters’’ who
seceded from the Victorian Art Society are already
in a state of civil war. The Changs, Wus and Fengs
of the internecine strife are the Rowell brothers,
leaders of the atmospheric school; Jo Sweatman,
generalissimo of the school of detail and high polish;
and the Messrs. Frater and Arnold Shore, extreme
right wing of the New school, which is now some
80 years of age in Europe. The Rowells and A. E.
Newbury can be trusted to do fine work; Miss Bale
paints flowers, as usual, delightfully; George Bell’s
still life has caught the eye of the National Gallery
experts; Longstaff displays a clever fragment; C.
Beckett a wet street that is thoroughly damp, and
Rose Walker one of her serene young females. But
R. G. McCann's 4- sister is not so much standing out
of, as falling off, the canvas; E. Kimpton’s land-
scapes have a hangdog air; and A. Cornehls’s meal
of green grapes, scarlet apples and a glass of water
suggests a week in bed. There is so much tired
orthodoxy and fainting drawing in the show that
the two futurists, Frater and Shore, show up well
by comparison. They have at least attacked their sub-
jects while awake, and in one large picture Frater
has reacted to the blinding light of summer on a
yellow landscape in a way that makes the beholder
blink. The constitution of the Twenty provides that
each may hang seven examples of his skill without
reference to a selection committee. Frankly, the
members aren’t all so dowered with talent as to
deserve the privilege.
FROM POVERTY POINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world as I see it from Poverty Point
Is a dreary and sordid old play,
With the art of the theatre quite out of joint,
Constructed and staged the wrong way.
But one thing is certain—-
The fall of the curtain.
Yet the author himself doesn’t know
Whether virtue’s rewarded
Or vice is applauded
At the end of the silly old show !
The hero starts off in this playhouse gone mad,
But he’s killed by a brick in Act One;
The heroine marries and goes to the bad;
And that is the end of the run.
The person who penned it
Forgot how to end it;
And why it is staged isn’t plain;
Its pathos and patter
Are things that don’t matter—
And then it starts over again!
The prompter awaits in the shadowy wings,
And gives every actor his cue;
And brickbats his audience frequently flings—
Bouquets become painfully few.
He gets his scant wages
From birth till he ages—
We’re all of us under the curse.
It’s just the old story,
He’s still waiting for glory
When the curtain conies down on a hearse!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


OIL! —Australia’s Greatest Need
The forerunner of progress—the foundation of prosperity!
Fabulous profits await investors in a commercially developed oil-field in Australia.
That Australia may participate in progress and prosperity she needs the power which oil alone can supply.
Within the confines of the Mother State, adjacent to the large centres of population, where modern transport and shipping facilities are available,
there is an area embracing coal measures which have been investigated by one of the foremost geologists in the world, who has pronounced
BELFORD DOME
The most likely area for the discovery
of Oil in the Continent of Australia
Belford Dome is situated in the Hunter River Valley of New South Wales—3B miles from Newcastle—l3o miles from Sydney. A Company
has been formed for the purpose of boring and mining for Petroleum, Mineral Oils, Natural Gas and Coal in this area.
BELFORD DOME LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts 1899-1918, N.S.W.).
£1,000,000 IN 1,000,000 SHARES OF ONE POUND EACH
Of these—
-250,000
125,000
250,000
125,000
250,000
Shares of £ 1 each are offered for public subscription, pay-
able 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on
allotment, and the balance in calls as required, but not
exceeding 2/6 per share per month.
Shares of £ 1 each are placed under option for a period of
two years from the date of incorporation of the Company
at 30/- per share to the subscribers for the said 250,000
shares so offered for public subscription, and for which
option certificates will be issued.
Shares of £ 1 each, fully paid, are to be isued to the Share-
holders of the Hunter River Oil Company No Liability in
exchange for 250,000 Shares constituting the capital of
that Company.
The Articles of Association provide that these Shares
shall not be transferable until after the expiration of six
months from the date of registration of the Company.
Shares of £1 each are placed under option for a period of
Two years from the date of incorporation of the Com-
pany, at 30/- per share, to the Shareholders of the
Hunter River Oil Company No Liability, and for which
option certificates will be issued with the said 250,000
shares to be issued in exchange.
Shares are held in reserve.
1,000,000
DIRECTORS:
ELLIS E. CAPPER, Esq., West Maitland, N.S.W., Merchant, Governing Director Messrs. E. P. Capper
and Sons, Ltd., and Director of the Maitland Gas Company, Maitland.
C. G. CAPP, Esq., “Lancedene,” Keinbah, N.S.W., Pastoralist, recently Director of the Greta Alain
Colliery Co. Ltd.
THOS. ALFRED I. BRAYE, Esq., of Alessrs. Braye, Cragg and Cohen, Solicitors, Eldon Chambers, Bolton
Street, Newcastle, New South Wales.
G. F. THOMAS, Esq., Mining Engineer, Alanager of Whitburn Colliery, Greta, N.S.W.
GENERAL MANAGER:
COURTENAY MARTIN, General Manager Hunter River Oil Company, N.L., 475 Collins Street, Alelbourne,
Victoria. ’
BANKERS:
THE NATIONAL BANK Oh AUSTRALASIA LIMITED (Head Office, Sydney, and Newcastle Branch).
SOLICITORS:
J W S\dney) ND & KELYNACK > Ballk of New Zealand Chambers (corner George and Wynyard Streets,
W. J. ENRIGHT & SKILTON, 467 High Street, West Alaitland.
GEOLOGIST:
11. C. MILLARD, Esq., B.A. (Newcastle, N.S.W.).
CONSULTING GEOLOGIST:
ARTHUR WADE, D.Sc. (London), M.1.P.T., M.I.M. AL, A.R.C.Se., F.G.S., F.G.S. (America).
SELLING BROKERS:
BRITISH INVESTMENT TRUST LIMITED Bank of New .Zealand Chambers, Corner George and Wynyard
Streets, Sydney, and The Older Fleet, 475 Collins Street, Alelbourne. Branches in all other States.
AUDITORS:
W. P. MINELL & COMPANY, Q.N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
SECRETARY:
S. A. HILL, A.C.P.A. (Messrs. Watts, Hill & Co.), Public Accountants, Barrack House, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE OF BELFORD DOME, LTD., Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTE—Application will be made in due course for listing and quotation of the shares on the Stock
Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
The following facts are listed for the
attention of Investors
1. Dr. Arthur Wade —the world’s leading oil authority—after thorough investigation of
Australian Oil possibilities, pronounced BELFORT ) DOME as one structure which
is eminently suitable and the MOST LIKELY IN AUSTRALIA to yield OIL
and GAS.
2. The investigation was made on behalf of the Commonwealth Government after Dr.
Wade had been recommended by Australia’s foremost geologist, Professor Sir
Edgeworth David, as a person of high standing in the geological world, whose
advice would be of the greatest value to the Commonwealth.
3. Dr. Wade’s opinion is confirmed by Mr. Millard, the Company’s geologist, whose work
in New South Wales has distinguished him as one of the ablest geologists in the
world. Mr. Millard, in his report to the Hunter River Oil Company No Liability,
on March 1, 1926, makes this comment: “The geological structure of the Belford
Dome is ideal for the accumulation of petroleum and natural gas in important
commercial quantities.”
4. SO IMPRESSED WAS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BY DR. WADE’S
REPORT THAT THE PETROLEUM PROSPECTING ACT OF 1926 WAS
PASSED AND A SUM OF £22,500 ALLOCATED FOR ASSISTING IN THE
PRODUCTION OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS ON THE BELFORD DOME
AREA. This in itself proves the faith of the Commonwealth Government in the
development of oil and natural gas at Belford Dome. It certainly is calculated
to inspire timid investors with the wonderful possibilities of the area.
5. Suppose, however, that the Company fails in its quest for oil in commercial quantities.
There is still Natural Gas, the existence of which has been proved; further, there
are the assured resources of the GRETA COAL SEAMS —the most valuable in
Australia. In 1907 Professor David assessed the value of Greta Coal land at
£3,593,000 per square mile. If coal was worth only £1 per ton (market value is
now 20/9), the present value of extractable coal amounts to about eight million
pounds per square mile. Thus, on the estimates already given, the gross value
of workable Greta coal in the 8000 acres comprising the Belford Dome is
approximately £100,000,000.
6. Thus it will be realised that this is no mere speculative investment where returns are
doubtful. Belford Dome is a safe, sound, attractive investment as a coal proposi-
tion alone, while it may be confidently asserted, the proving of a commercial gas-
field and the discovery of an oil-field will enhance the value of the shares beyond
the limits set by the most optimistic investor.
7. The Company wishes to stress this point—Belford Dome, Ltd., is an Australian Com-
pany operating within 130 miles of the Metropolis of New South Wales. Investors
are not asked to invest their money in a field of operations thousands of
miles away, or to join forces in a pr >ject the benefit of which will go to other
countries. The establishment of the Petroleum Industry within the Common-
wealth will stop the flow of “oil wealth” to foreign countries and contribute to
8. Intending investors are reminded that priority of application will be strictly observed
in making allotment of shares. As it is confidently anticipated that the present
issue of Shares will be considerably over-subscribed, early application is
desirable.
Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company may be inspected at the
registered office of the Company, or of those of the Solicitors of the Company, and intending investors
are cordially invited to peruse these documents.
Application for Shares.
Application for shares may be made on the accompanying form, and the form of application after
being properly filled in and signed by the applicant, must be sent, together with the amount of the
application money, to the Company’s Secretary. Form of application is attached.
If for any reason an allotment is not made to an applicant, the deposit paid will be refunded to
him in full without delay, and where the full number of shares applied for cannot be allotted the balance
of the deposit will be applied towards the amount due on allotment, and anv excess will be nromnUv
refunded to the applicant. " 1 1 J
Brokerage.
Brokerage will be paid by the Company.
To the Directors,
BELFORD DOME, LTD.
Gentlemen:
I hereby make application for
shares in the abovenamed Company, and
enclose my cheque for £ , being
application money at the rate of two shillings
and sixpence per share on the above number
of shares.
I request you to allot me that number of
shares upon the terms contained in the
Company’s Prospectus, and I agree to accept
the same or any smaller number that may be
allotted to me, and to pay the balance as
provided by the said prospectus.
I hereby authorise you to place my name
on the Register of Members in respect of
the number of shares allotted to me, and I
agree to be bound by the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company.
SIGNATURE
DATE
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
NAME IN FULL
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
A prospectus maybe obtained from
The British Investment Trust,
Ltd.,
Bank of New Zealand Chambers,
George & Wynyard Sts., Sydney;
OR FROM
The Office of the Company,
Barrack House,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney. '"" -


AiniiKrnienti.
gVI) N E V’S CUI E F TIIEA TKE S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY WANTED.
ROYAL: MARY ROSE.
pOL. EE It S’ THEATR E, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
'i'llE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE
Plans at Theatre.
RICKA It I) S’ T IVOLI TREAT It E '
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUBEVILLE.
The World's Best.
E J. CARROLL says
all
THE BEST PEOPLE
are doing “it”
at
THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTI)., Mlil.liOUKM,
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
TELL ME MORE.
THEATRE ROYAL:
KATJA.
ING’S THEATRE, M E L K O C R N V.
RICHARD TABER and HALE NORCROSS
IN
IS ZAT SO?
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Agents Wanted.
OPPORTUNITY offered live representative
in States other than S.A. to handle a won-
derful Adelaide invention on sole-agency basis.
The GORDON SAWDUST HOT-WATER
SERVICE
gives a plentiful supply of hot water in the
home for twopence per day.
Particulars from F. C. MUIRHEAD,
C.B.S. Buildings, King William St., Adelaide.
Legal Notices.
|N THE SUPREME COURT OP QUEENSLAND,
Rockhampton.
No. 32 of 1926.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
BETWEEN ELLEN DOBBS Plaintiff and
CECIL WILLIAM DOBBS Defendant,
10 the abovenamed CECIL WILLIAM DOBBS.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against, you in the Supreme Court of Queensland
Rockhampton No. 32 of 1926 by ELLEN DOBBS
of Lakes Creek Rockhampton in which the Plaintiff’s
claim as set out in the AVrit of Summons and in
the Petition tiled herein is for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of your continuous
desertion and for the custody of the children of the
said marriage.
AND THAT it has been ordered that service of the
AVrit in the said Action and of the said Petition
on you be effected by this advertisement and by post-
ing up in the Registry of this Honorable Court a
copy of the said AVrit and a sealed copy of the said
Petition and a copy of this Order. If you desire
to defend the said action you must within sixteen
days from the publication of this advertisement,
inclusive of the day of such publication, enter an
appearance at the Supreme Court Rockhampton. In
default of such appearance Judgment may be entered
against you.
Dated this tenth day of September, 192 G.
J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
Daniel P. Carey, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Central Chambers, East Street, Rockhampton.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO AVILLIAM AVIIEATLEY formerly of Brisbane
in the State of Queensland Carrier but whose present
whereabouts are unknown. TAKE NOTICE that an
action has been commenced against you at Brisbane
by your wife MARGARET AVHEATLEY for the Dis-
solution of her marriage with you and bv a Petition
filed in the Supreme Court of Queensland on the
nineteenth day of December 1925 and amended by
Order of His Honor Mr. Justice Macnaughton of
the twenty-first day of April 1926 she alleges that
during the month of September 1914 you deserted
her without reasonable cause continuously for five
years and upwards and that such desertion still
continues to the present time and she prays to
have the said marriage dissolved and that she may
have the custody of the children Marv Catherine and
Lily May AVheatley AND TAKE NOTICE that it has
been ordered by a Judge of the Supreme Court of
Queensland that service of the Writ of Summons and
.Petition in this action be effected by filing in the
Registry of this Honorable Court and by fixing on
the Notice Board in the'said Registry at Brisbane
a copy of the AVrit of Summons and an office copy of
the Petition and by the insertion of this notice once
in the Brisbane Courier and once in the Daily
Standard newspapers published in Brisbane in the
State of Queensland and once in the Sydney Bulletin
and Evening News newspapers published in Sydney
in the State of New South AVales. AND TAKE
, NOTICE that you are required within thirty days
from the last act done in pursuance of the said
Order to cause an appearance to be entered for you
: at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Brisbane and that in default of you so doing
the Plaintiff may proceed in this action and that
Judgment may be given against you in your absence.
Dated this fourteenth day of September, 1926.
(1.5.) F. S. KENNEDY,
Acting Registrar.
J. B. Price & Daly, Solicitors for Plaintiff,
Post Office Chambers,
258-260 Queen Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Amusements.
plt INCESS THEATRE, MBLBOIIUNh.
DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
LADY, BE GOOD.
ll IS N AS U M TIIEATIIE, MELBOURNE
Proprietor Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
I.essee .. v . E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
HARRY GREEN
In the Witty and Whimsical Comedy,
NOTHING BUT LIES.
By Aaron Hoffman, author of “Give and Take.”
Amusements.
pALACE THEAI’ItE, JIEIAJOUKNE
the great comedy success,
ABIE’S IRISH ROSE.
jy| A.HSSTIC TIIISATKE, MELIiOUKNE
IRENE RICH and CLIVE BROOK in
BEHOED THIS WOMAN.
From E. Phillips Oppenheim’s Popular Novel,
“The Hillman.’’
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 77SC
Amusements*
|M
E\V
IJI.IOU THEATIJE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
JIM GERALD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
ROUT’S
D E LUXE
MELBOURNE
THEATRE,
DOUGLAS McLEAN in
THAT’S MY BABY,
APSO
MARY RRIAN iir
MORE PAY LESS WORK,
Prices as usual.
The New Method of Shaving
NO BRUSH,
NO SOAP.
đf
d
ď
Is it not strange that for hundreds of years man has
been scrubbing his face with soaps full of Soda and
hcis never reasoned that under such treatment the skin
must suffer? Nothing is more ugly than a face that
looks raw. Shaving soaps are always the same old method
of shaving. They are made with Soda.
But now we have discovered the natural method where
no bush and soaps full of soda are needed. Shavex is a
skin food. One can shave in half the time, and ybu
will get a smoother and closer shave than you have ever
had, and shaving will become a pleasure instead of A tor-
ture Your skin will look and feel like satin, and your
face under this treatment will look twice as young. N 6
after lotions are required when uaiftg
SHAVEX
Mr. LESLIE HENSON the famous
actor, writes:—*'l use ‘Shavex’ every
time I shave, and think it is the quick-
est, cleanest and most delightful pre-
paration ever invented for shaving.”
1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole AuSttaliari
Agents: SALMOND & SPRaGGON
(Australia) Ltd.) (©ept. ), Eagle
& Globe BuildibSSj 3?9 JCent Street,
Sydney. Eeekol Mhf§. Cd.> London, Eng.
FREE SAMPLE bii receipt of 3d. tamp.
'Jo be healthy-
ďf
the finest
tonic food
drink
Ift 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
■ ....
%£
ri
BESW
saps?*-.- ;
-:s. ' -
&
WfTTiii :
r.-. -ii^
i ■• l
S>--x
jy
WHEREVER man Uvea electricity
is his .willing setvanb It brings
comfort and convenience fo fti's home;
lightens his labor and makes rapid
transpottatian and Communicatiori
easy-.
\trHEREVER feaft lives, the
W International General Electric
Co. setV%s nith thrh’ugh convenient 1 ,
local tepreaehtatibn-.
ARGENTINA—GeneraI Electric, S. A,
BuenSs Aires', Rosario de Santa Fe,
AUSTRALlA—Australian General Elec-
tric .Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide.
BRAZlL—General Electric, S. A., Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo.
CENTRAL AMERICA International
General Electric Company, Inc., New
Orleans, La., U. S. A.
CHlLE—lnternational Machinery Co.,
Santiago, Antofagasta, Valparaiso; Ni-
trate Agencies, Ltd., Iquique.
CHlNA—Andersen, Meyer & Co.; Ltd.,
Shanghai.
COLOMBlA—Wesselhoeft & Poor, Bar-
ranquilla, Bogota, Medellin.
CUBA—General Electric Company of
Cuba, Havana, Santiago.
DUTCH EAST INDlES—lnternational
General Electric Co., Inc., Soerabaia,
Java.
ECUADOR—Guayaquil Agencies Co.,
Guayaquil.
EGYPT —British Thomson-Houston Co.,
Ltd., Cairo.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
international General Electric Co,
Inc., London.
GREECE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston,
Paris, France.
HOLLAND—Mijnssen & Co., Amster-
dam.
INDlA—lnternational General Electric
Co., Inc., Calcutta, Bombay, Bangalore.
JAPAN —international General Electric
Co., Inc., Tokyo, Osaka..
MEXlCO—General Electric, S. A., Mex-
ico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey,
Tampico, Veracruz, El Paso, Texas.
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical &
Engineering Co., Ltd,, Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, Christchurch.
PARAGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
PERU—W. R. Grace & Co., Lima.
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS—Pacific Com-
mercial Co., Manila.
PORTO RlCO—lnternational General
Electric Co., Inc., San Juan.
PORTUGAL AND COLONlES—Socie-
dade Ibirica de Construcoes Electricas,
Lda., T_isbon.
SOUTH AFRICA—South African Gen-
eral Electric Co., Ltd., Johannesburg,
Capetown.
SPAIN AND COLONIES Sociedad
Iberica de Construcciones Eldctricas,
Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao.
S W I T Z,E R L A N D—Trolliet Freres,
Geneva.
URUGUAY—GeneraI Electric, S. A.,
Montevideo.
VENEZUELA —Wesselhoeft & Poor,
Caracas.
ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING
COMPANIES
BELGIUM AND COLONIES—Sociiti
d’Electricit£ et de Mecanique, S. A.,
Brussels.
CHlNA—China General Edison Co.,
Shanghai.
FRANCE AND COLONIES Com-
pagnie Franchise Thomson-Houston.
Paris.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND—
British Thomson-Houston Co,, Ltd.,
Rugby, England.
ITALY AND COLONlES—Compagnia
Generale di Elettricita, Milan.
JAPAN —Shibaura Engineering Works,
Tokyo; Tokyo Electric Co.. Ltd., Ka-
wasaki, Kanagawa-Ken.
SAFETY
When beacon-fifes were man*s guide to safety*
everything moved slowly; Since those days, the
world has progressed. Electrical control systems
and electrical signals now make safe the speed of
modern transportation; Travel and traffic lights
its own way and safeguards its Own passage by
Self-projected streams of electric light whose bril-
liancy turns night into day. Throughout modern
industry, the dangers of darkness are dissipated
by brilliant electric illumination which lights up
the dark corners and safeguards the worker at
his task.
Thus, in range from portable flash-lights to gigan-
tic beacons, the electric light illuminates, warns
and guards.
Today representatives of the International General
Electric Company are stationed in all sections of
the world, prepared to advise and plan for that
proper lighting, so essential to safety.
K
Int.-10-26
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., INC., SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK, U. S. A*


TO INVESTORS SEEKING PROFIT WITHOUT RISK!
Send in Your Application for Shares at PAR in this
SAFETY-FIRST INVESTMENT
THE SAFEST FORM OF INVESTMENT SINCE THE WAR LOAN ISSUES.
JM**
enf a.
'"'A
And Certain Dividends of
at least 15 per cent,
may be con-
fidently antici-
pated
A Little Better Than
the Best " is offered
you in these Shares
Registered under the Companies Acts. 1899-1918
CAPITAL - - £500,000
Divided into 100,000 10 per cent Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each
400,000 Ordinary Share# of £1 each
Formed for the purpose of Financing Sales
of Motor Cars# Lorries, Pianos, Furniture, etc.
Bankers, Auditors, Accountants.
Solicitors, Brokers and Financiers,
all * keen investors, have already
taken Shares. Get the benefit of
their experience by following their
example.
£100,000,000 A YEAR
TIME PAYMENT SALES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
Applications have been
received from EVERY
STATE and
NEW ZEALAND.
DIRECTORS:
ARTHUR SPENCER WATTS, Esq.,
Merchant and Investor, Sydney.
STEPHEN LESLIE BAILEY, Esq.,
M.1.A.E., M.lnst.M.,
Factory Representative (Douglas
Motors Ltd., Bristol), Camperdown.
GEO. EDWARD FOLKARD, Esq.,
(Director Hart, Hitchcock & Co.,Ltd.,
Timber Merchants, Parramatta).
JOHN JOSEPH GARRY, Esq.,
Grazier, “Garryowen.” Binalong.
Read what the Press says:—
Editor of “Banking and Insurance Review” says:—
“1 congratulate both the present and the future
members of Australasian Motor Investment and
Finance Co., Ltd., on its splendid hoard.”
“Smith’s Weekly” says (Investor at the Break-
fast Table, 15,/5/’26) :
“The secret of success in investments, as in
managements, is to hack only men of experience
and judgment.”
Sydney “Sunday Times” (commenting upon this
Company) :
“This business is absolutely safe.”
Sydney “Bulletin,” 6/5/’26, says:—
“Good profits are to he made out of the time-
payment habit if full precautions are taken as
to security and the management is good.”
“Better than Bricks and
Mortar” and Industrial
Ventures
BECAUSE
THERE IS
NO Outlay for plant or buildings.
NO Stock to depreciate.
NO Labor strikes or strife.
NO Large Staff.
NO Heavy compensation pre-
miums.
NO Large wages and salaries.
NO Directors’ fees paid for one
year.
In Fact,
No Big Overhead Charges
to swallow up profits and retard
Dividends.
THESE SHARES ARE
OFFERED AT PAR-
PAYABLE 2/6 ON
APPLICATION, 2/G
O N ALLOTMENT.
AND CALLS OF 1/-
PER SHARE EACH
MONTH TILL THE
SHARES ARE PAID
TO 10/-
The Directors are of
opinion that the
amount of 10/- per
share, payable on Appli-
cation, Allotment and
by Instalments as above
mentioned, will be all
that is required, and
that it will not be
necessary to call up
the balance of 10/- per
share, which will re-
present the necessary
collateral security to
obtain loan money.
Contracts.
The material con-
tracts may be inspected
at the Solicitors’ Office,
and are between the
Company and
1— —Options, Ltd., dated
23/6/’2G.
2 J. W. Maund, dated
23/6/’2G.
3 H. R. Robinson,
dated 23/G/’26.
4 A. S. Watts, S. L.
Bailey, 0. E. Fol-
kard, J. J. Garrv,
A, E. Herriott, .1.
W. Man rid, dated
25/6/’26 a n d
29/7/’26.
5 British Motors,
Ltd., and ,1. W.
Maund. dated
1.3/6/’2G.
AH
X sF
C 5 JU
TD
THE SOLIDITY OF THE PYRAMID.
Reasons why this GENUINE, GILT-EDGED, SAFETY-FIRST
FINANCE COMPANY is a better INVESTMENT than any
similar Company that has ever offered its shares to the public:
BECAUSE
It has been formed for the benefit of its Shareholders, and
NOT FOR THE BENEFIT OF PROMOTERS.
The Directors are thoroughly experienced and conversant in. this class of
business, well known and highly esteemed in Commercial and Financial centres
in Australia, and second to none in Managerial Ability.
The Directors are personally managing the business and are taking
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING FOR THEIR SERVICES
until such time as the company ACTUALLY PAYS DIYTDENDS, and they
are not. receiving any fees or salary for AT LEAST ONE YEAR. They are
not interested in any other way with the Company’s Brokers.
Administrative and Overhead Charges have been cut to the Lowest Possible
Degree.
The Secretarial and Clerical Work is being performed bv a firm of Public
Accountants, using their own staff and offices at an extremely nominal fee.
It is safe to say that no other company of anything approaching the size and
importance of this in Australia has ever made such satisfactory arrangements.
Ample FIRST-CLASS BUSINESS was secured for the Company before
approaching the public. It has commenced to trade with the capital subscribed
so far. and is in the. happy position of having sufficient business ahead to absorb
the whole of the capital asked for immediately it is subscribed. FINALLY,
the Shareholders’ interests are the DIRECTORS INTERESTS, because the
DIRECTORS HAVE BOUGHT AND PAID FOR SHARE QUALIFICA-
TIONS without ANY DEDUCTIONS WHATEVER, and they have under-
written sufficient of the Shares of the Company to assure its firm establishment
and the carrying out of the valuable contracts already obtained.
The cost of all advertising in connection with obtaining the capital of the
Company is borne by the Selling Brokers, Australian Underwriters. Ltd., who
are being paid the usual brokerage on shares sold by them. The Company is
under no other expense in connection with the flotation of (he Company, with
the exception of Legal Expenses and Registration Fees.
THESE POINTS MEAN EARLY DIVIDENDS AND
LARGE DIVIDENDS.
Can Any Other Big Public Company Show Its Prospective
Shareholders Such Splendid Inducements ?
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, LTD. (Head Office).
AUDITORS:
Messrs. HERRIOTT & HERRIOTT, Fs.C.P.A.,
207 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. J. W. MAUND & KELYNACK,
Bank of N.Z. Chambers, Wynyard Street, Svdney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
H. R. ROBINSON, A.C.P.A.. A.1.C.A.,
c/o Smith, Robinson & Co., Public Accountants,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SOURCES OF PROFIT AND
EXPECTED RETURNS.
1— Profit on money advanced by the
Company.
2 Commissions on Insurances.
3 Commissions on Sales.
4 Money obtained against Securities
and invested at high Interest.
A similar Company in Australia has marie as
high as 70 per cent, net profit in one year and
paid a 50 per cent, dividend. Its business was of
the same nature exactly as this co.
This Company confidently expects to be able to
return its shareholders from 15 per cent, to 20
per cent, each year, and it anticipates being
able to pay a dividend on the first half-year’s
trading.
The Safest Security is Obtained.
FIRSTLY The motor-ears or goods purchased
under hiring agreement.
SECONDLY’ Promissory Note signed by the
Purchaser.
THIRDLY Promissory Notes endorsed by the
Agent.
FOURTHLY Comprehensive Insurance Policy
covering the goods hired.
FIFTHLY Insurance covering loss on reposses-
sion.
War Loan Bonds will
be accepted for pay-
ments for Shares. They
will be sold, and the
surplus over par re-
funded. 7-J per cent,
will be allowed on all
Calls paid in advance.
Application may be
made through any
recognised Broker.
Application will be
made in due course to
have the Shares listed
on the various Stock
Exchanges.
Application for Shares.
Tin: DIRECTORS
Australasian Motor Investment &
Finance Company, Limited,
JiiO Casllereagh Street, Sydney.
I apply herewith for and request you to allot
mc ' Preference and
; Ordinary Shares
in the above Company, in the terms of the Pros-
pectus issued by you.
I agree to accept the same, or any less number
of shares that may be allotted to me, and to be
bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Associa-
tion of the Company, and I authorise you to enter
my name in the Register as the Proprietor of that
number of shares.
I enclose my cheque for £
being application money at the rale, of 2/1! per
share on allotment, and the balance in cults at
the rate of not more than If- per share, at inter-
vals of one month, as provided for in the Pros
pectus of the Company.
Usual Signature 1
Full Fame
(Mr., Mrs., or Miss )
Address (in full)
Occupation
Dale, Ill,Hi.
NOTE.—AII Cheques must be crossed “Not, Negoti-
able'’ ohil made payable to “Australasian Motor
Investment, and Finance Company, Limited.’'
Exchange must be added to country cheques.
B. 23/9/ ; 26.
Further particulars aiul full prospectus can be obtained by application to AUSTRAL AN UNDERWRITERS LTD
160
Castlereagh Street,, Sydney.
’Phones: MAJO46, MAIO9B.


°'Pure > °'
SHELL
A Distinctive
Colour Scheme for Shell Pumps
As the majority of kerbside pumps are painted one colour we
believe that by inaugurating a distinctive color scheme it will
enable motorists to readily distinguish the Shell Pump, before
pulling up. We have therefore arranged to paint Kerbside Pumps
supplying Guaranteed Pure Shell Motor Spirit the following colours :
Red Yellow Black.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd. :: Throughout Australia and New Zealand
S 107 c
Missing: Friends.
HENDERSON.
IF ROBERT HENDERSON, a brother of
1 JAMES HENDERSON, who left Mel-
bourne about thirty-five years ago and was
once in West Australia, will communicate
with the Equity Trustees Co., Ltd., of 85
Queen Street. Melbourne, he will hear of
something to his advantage. If deceased, his
children are required to communicate with
the said Company.
Missing Friends.
HENDERSON.
JF GEORGE STEWART HENDERSON,
son of DAVID HENDERSON, who left
Bunyip about thirty years ago, will com-
municate with the Equity Trustees Go., Ltd.,
of 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear
of something to his advantage.
GLSHS®NAMES
VI
4
y
\
's£ady ! >
mm
j^co-cf
iK
c/s»ft^2
3*
■•^Zoudj-j^
OAj
FOR MARKING LINEN
Saves Trouble—Ensures Ownership
CASH’S NAMES, Unsurpassed for Distinc-
tion and Quality, are indispensable in tvery
household Any Name woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
“A few stitches and they’re on. ”
fd
Sold by all
Leading
Drapers
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Prices: 1 2 doz, 7/6, 6 doz, 5 3 doz. 3/6
J.
Write for Pattern Sheet to
& J. GASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne.
Mothers,
Children.
e uP S
đf
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
'm
BRITISH
ADE
Perfection
rush: robber
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write u« and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Ulissiiur Friends.
YY7ILL FREDERICK WILLIAM DEAR-
** LING, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
LEWIS W. CHRYSTAL. Solicitor, 247
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Henry peck over candler. at
Gympie and Rockhampton about 1908,
then talked of going to New Guinea. Any
information as to present address, or death,
please communicate to WOOLSEY. SAYER
& THOROLD, Solicitors, Bank Plain,
Norwich, Norfolk, England.
'TEMPLE DAYRELL REED. Will
* Temple Dayrell Reed, formerly of Kaim-
killenbun, near Dalby, Farmer, or any person
knowing his present whereabouts, kindly
communicate with D. J. O’MARA &
ROBINSON, Solicitors, corner Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
WILL HARRY PEARCE (or Cadman),
whose last address was St. Kilda,
Melbourne, please communicate with his
mother, Mrs. Pearce, 320 Hednesford Road,
Heath Hayes, Staffordshire, England.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no AIS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
0.M.8.: Blank verse will rarely pass;
yours has neither rhyme nor reason M.0.K.: A
parody of a parody... .C.C.M.: “Some Day” has no
future... .Juan Jim: “Though I say I Jove thee so.
And I wear a lover’s air, Once I’ve kissed thy lily
hand Thee I’ll leave to thy despair.” Thou art a
base varlet!. .. . E.F.W.: The end is lame. Why
should you creep to bed? K.V.C.: The end’s all
right, but there’s too much beginning and tile
middle’s a desert....R.H.M.: The night of the w.p.b.
closed on your vespers M.S.: Merely a lump of
verbal sugar I.G. (Melb.) : You say “Alas!” five
times. We say it once P.H.W.: Weak, but they
show promise Stella M.: “Lay-by” verses are
written on the lullaby system. .. .J.H.L.: “The North
Wind” blows back Jonah: “Wilt thou.... Wilt
thou.... Wilt tlrou.” We wilted... .T. 8.: “Adver-
sity” has too many hard lines. .. .O.H. Hackneyed,
iimlnotgood Bulletin material ILLK.:, R.I.P
Danae: Clever, but we saw it coming from
afar... .8.M.: Off our beat. ... J.A.8.F.: A case
for that can be made out—has, in fact, been
made out many times —but you haven’t put it
tersely... .O.H. (Glencoe): R. G. Croydon, A.D.R.,
P.0.F., ILK., Irvine D., R. Mort, D. 8., Uer,
T. 8.1., John F. (and many others) : Nothing wrong
with your contributions to the “Why Authors Leave
Home” debate. But space is too short. W.P.D.:
Sounds easy. But for one thing you’ve forgotten the
mice. .. .N.L.D.: A nice beginning; work 0n....
Oscar W.: That track is crowded. Get on to back-
block stuff J. Mack o’ Rio: Killing “The
man with a drop on his nose” was certainly not
murder... .W.J.W.: This paper loves parodies as a
Moslem loves pork M.N.8.: Sympathetic little
sketch; a newspaper with a magazine section might
use it... .C.R.J.L.: You haven’t made us believe it.
....Lloyd H.: No, such things don’t happen
E.W.W.: Still don’t like the end W. J.T.: The
liorribleness of it turned the scales.. . .O.B.: Much
obliged; but that old song was printed on the Red
Page only a few months ago. . . .G.L.S.: “But, ah,
my heart, my beating heart that ever beats for
thee.” That heart of yours will never beat its
beatings in The B George Mcl.: “Haunted
Mountain” is spiritless E.A. D.: They fell into
the w.p.b. from sheer weakness T.R.: “Moon
spell” suffers from spasms.... Eva G.: “Lime-
light” is by Neurosis out of Morbidity. . . .Frank II.:
Sketch too sketchy H.D.8.: The stories wander
nowhere in particular. .. .R.H.M.: “The Nightmare”
is dreadful stuff not improved by the use of “Bo”
as a term of address W.D.T.: It does credit to
your imagination:—
As I see the Bacchus ones reel by.
And the homeless derelicts scowl and sigh,
With the gaudy nightbirds standing nigh,
I think of bush-birds a-twitter.
.... Gert II.: The mysterious person in the back-
ground is rather obvious.... Dorothy M.: Verse is
overstrained. .. .F. 5.11.: Fearfully exciting—to the
lovers concerned... .A.A.: Something 'very good has
just eluded you. Try to capture it Egar: Fails.
Wilga: No, he was quite right. Henry was a
very laborious writer, and, even so, took an enormous
amount of editing... .F.A.G.: It has a sympathetic
touch, anyway:—
Tlie one he loved is gone above
There’s nought his heart to cheer—
His heart is empty of all love;
That’s why he fills with beer.
... .Sam S. C.: Too much tripe with your “Onions.”
.. . .Sap R.: When we read your careful label “Verse
Number 2” we smiled; but when, turning over the
pages, we struck “Verse Number 41,” it had gone
beyond a joke.... Jane P.: You depict your heroine
as weeping when she leaves Bourke ; she is weeping
when she reaches Sydney. What the daily papers
call a far cry, no doubt R.R.R.: “The Passionate
Lovers” supply an example of two minds with not a
single thought, two hearts that bleat as one.. . .
Sam H.: The bookmaker yarn is over the odds....
Ripponlea: “The Married Woman” makes herself
heard:—
No more her eyes do guileless roll!
Nor dimmed by maiden, pensive mist.
The brilliant windows of her soul
Are blacken’d by her husband’s fist.
Too large her slioon. And down at heel.
Hgr wan expression is a fixture!
Her sighs are genuine, we feel.
Her hands are of a crayfish texture.
Her spouse reels in with drunken leer.
Immediately she starts to pander;
And he, incensed by wine and beer,
Clouts her with a mean back-hander.
And soon her end is well in sight,
Discouraged by his nips and raps,
She tries to ease her sordid plight
And undermines her health with schnapps.
J.J.B.: Far too long. . . .C.G.P.: Try again
when your story faculty has got into long pants
G.L.S.: “Stale” is also unprofitable. .. .E.M.G.: The
verses are no more successful than the attempt to
rhyme “yellow” and “below”; but we liked the
laconic covering letter: “This poem is for sale”....
Pan’s Missus; Rough scansion put “Pan’s” pot on
V.N.: “The Knight” cannot break a lance with
us L.R.: Try it on a boys’ paper... .G.F.: “ ‘Ten
men,’ gritted Frew; ‘ha ha!’” “Ho ho!” we
emery--papered, as we marked the MS. for return....
S.A.M. : Your “typical Australian” addresses his
cobber as “Bo” and “guesses” altogether too much.
• ...8.E.C.: The more we consider the simple beauty
of the “hence-quenched” rhyme, the more we admire
your courage Sal M. G.: “She wore the Devil’s
combinations” was a line that thrilled momentarily,
until we discovered that you meant to write “They
were the Devil’s combination” G.R.M.: Your story
begins at the. end; the test is mere words P.W.:
Tame affair ; may do elsewhere. . . .D.J.H.: Pig-hunting
sketch unsuitable.... Scotty: Hewn with an axe....
A.P.: Painfully artificial. .. .N.F.C.: They fail....
H.V.T.: A par. idea only.. . .R.A.M: Verses are rough
inventories. .. .P.E.G.: You love “Australia, the land
of my berth.” How would you feel about it if you
lost your job? S.R.T. : The article about timepieces
would not fit anywhere. M.M.: The lady of the
dropped h fails to thrill us M.T.: “To the
Night” is all mixed metaphors and metres.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COKKESPON DENTS.
Wag: You’d better introduce the husband who
somnambulates while female guests are on the
premises to the War Cry... .R.L.: “The Felo-de-se’s
Dilemma” should be printed as a poster and erected
at the Gap....F.H.: Putting a line down straight
seems to be a task too great for you... .R.L.N.: Mere
collection of shaky scratches.... H.C.L.: Your
design for a Canberra commemorative stamp would
start a civil war... . W.R.8.: “The Jew chasing the
Scot for sixpence” has finished its gallop in the
joke world.


1
■
-"-Z
Miss Dorothy Dewar,
an attractive Rexona Girl,
tcrites: —“I am a user of
Rexona Soap, and find it
unequalled for keeping the
skin and hair in perfect
condition”
Miss Virginia Beresford,
a charming Rexona Girl
and a Movie Star, writes:
“I find Rexona Soap a
wonderful soap for the
slcin and hair, and excel-
lent for removing make-
up
Be
Pretty!
Be
Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
Rexona Girl!
d
Miss Valerie Bollinger,
a charming Rexona Girl
and one of the 13 finalists
in the “Miss Australia ”
Competition, writes: —“I
use only Rexona Soap, for
I find it an ideal soap for
the skin and hair."
Miss Nea Bollinger,
a beautiful Rexona Girl
and one of the 13 finalists
in the “Miss Australia ”
Competition, writes: —
“Rexona Soap is simply
delightful for the skin and
hair."
m
iSS
!»
Miss Hettie Swanson,
a charming Rexona Girl,
writes:- —“I find, Rexona
Soap a remarkable sham-
poo for the hair; the best
ever”
Miss Lettie Swanson, a
lovely Rexona Girl, writes :
“J am a constant user of
Rexona Soap as a sham-
poo for the hair.”
/1/V/Mn /T
C
/?L/1
'iealth aru)S ea
£7yThe Use of Q
cAfxona <joap
fnsures eauly
lo Skin an d /fair/
That natural beauty of skin and hair which
cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular
use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary
toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many
of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry
the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even
the best of such soaps can only cleanse; they
cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic
balsams as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the
treatment of skin affections is known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice
a day and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the pores,
lessen the tendency to pimples and leave the complexion clear,
fresh and velvety.
ij/fy
m
pu«
'//
?773
y/n/t
//
///
»
%
%
fo®
to^y*.
««**
cs^
1
//
ML
It’s
Medicated!
II-


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
FilTFoTiTfe
By building: your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilingrs
of “FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and Hoofing- with “FIBRO-
EITE” Slates, you will reduce your
costs and secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs less than weatherboard?
and lining boards, and is superior to either
in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is fire re-
tardant, white-ant proof and improves with
age. Not only are “upkeep” costs eliminated
but big concessions are secured in insurance
rates.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York 8c Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., iVlelbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings,Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
“An archer is known
By his aim, not by his arrows.”
i The same judgment applies with
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
AT THE YARDS"”
In selling stock the firm consistently hit the mark in
securing top returns for owners. That is why Winch-
combe Carson’s sheep and cattle business prospers.
TRUCK TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Homebush Yards, Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane. [3
BRITISH WADE
QUALITY PENCIL
$
1
NOW £) EACH
BLACKLEAD - 17 GRADATIONS
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
f
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
u
mmlMm.
#
■
Hi
m
I H
I HI
1
M:
"V
F /
, VA \
iWzim. ■„
...
■
i
m
iisWm
H vnluiltu y.'iva* b,- Wxvt»«u%
(•*«*> .(mp -ArilMlMlti *
It'/i'Jt 1U jM An pirrtW- ulfilt.
wAn+f
■MIWAi HI <l»wv of hu» iblnM
•/ AwrfeJbn 'thmlkm
t*t urtantt/ » taht ffVmixSi*
*• onw* e taw frfrffMAWW*
Mt+tft* 4.*. otM+4»
S'<’•'«*/ s*t&,,j fa ej> p»g>
J.BOSI|TO«tC?
*>ch*i o mo’.'m ILboubnc
COWTJWTJ arLCt-Nlt
S 3
'
as
33S
As Shakespeare says: “That is
the Question*’
Riicnlyptus Oil may be pungent op
extra strong, or may carry excessive
Kucalyptol, but is it a potent remedy
tor human ills? Kxperts say; ‘‘No,
more harmful than helpful,”
BosistO S Parrot” Brand Eucalyptus
Is a Potent Oil—in other words, cura-
tive and healing; truly medicinal, and
a powerful germicide.
As an embrocation, the genuine
BOSISTO’S promotes that delightful
feeling of suppleness beloved by the
athlete; and how refreshing after
strenuous exercise!
Put Potency before Pungency by asking for
Bosisto’s Eucalyptus Oil
The “PARROT” Brand
Sold Everywhere - 1/3 per Bottle
E|PLUM
■razor
from best Sheffield
s
a
s
fc.
I
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
•no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years .free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Vat”: South Aus. is not going to take
the devil of prohibition by the hand till she
meets him. This year’s vintage is the State’s
heaviest, and is expected to touch 12,000,000
gallons, as against less than 11,000,000 in
1924. Nothing can be said yet about quality,
though it is an ancient rule that , a bumper
quantity rarely runs with exceptional quality.
* * * *
“Runa”: The Inca is not the only sailing-
ship laid up on account of high costs. The
largest four-masted barque in the world, the
Rewa, lies in Auckland Harbor with her 84
sails stowed in her hold. Recently these sails,
over 13 tons in weight, were shipped to Eng-
land, but returned unsold. The Rewa’s chief
handicap is her size, which precludes her use
even as a coal-hulk. Only another war would
re-establish her usefulness.
* * * *
“Sirloin” : Australia’s latest competitor in
the world’s meat markets is Manchuria,/ of
all places. Smitlifield has been showing a
cargo of mutton from there frozen... in the
open air, and, though one expert describes
it as “frightful,” the price appeals to persons
not too particular. That there are a lot of
these about, even in Merrie England, is shown
by the success which dreadful Chinese pork,
fresh and cured, has achieved of late years.
“Sucre” : I “roomed” at Darlinghurst for
many years, and, unlike “Solo” (B. 9/9/’2G) ,
never had a storekeeper’s “No” when I asked
if he had Australian asparagus. I found
local sweet-corn, too, on the shelf of the
smallest store at the Dirty Half-Mile, and
Australian soaps and sauces were strongly
in evidence. Sydney is not the worst city
in the Commonwealth in which to buy Aus-
tralian-made goods, but it’s the worst place
in the world for crying “stinking fish.”
* * * *
“Mulgo” : A neighbor of mine asked her
vegetable John why the garden stuff never
reached bedrock in good seasons nowadays as
it once used to do. “Oh, Chinaman glow
sense now,” he said with a bland smile. “One
time glow too muchee wedgeble, work welly-
hard, gettee welly sma’ plice. Now tlee,
fou’, fi’, six Chinamen work oiie garden, work
fortlee-four hour, allee same union, gettee
big plice.” It must have been John and his
. brethren that Judge Beeby was thinking
about when he talked of squatters delib-
erately restricting their output.
* * * *
“W.I.U.”: Although motor-cars and aero-
planes were used in the search for little Joan
Smith at Poolamacca station, the horse
proved of more value than either or both.
Hills and rocks made motor-cars almost use-
less except for carrying searchers from
Broken Hill to the station, while the airmen
found that they could see little because of
trees and shadows. It was then that the cry
arose for horses and horsemen ; but although
near-by stations sent in alK.they had, less
than a hundred could be mustered, so general
has the use of the motor-car become out back.
* * * *
An interesting exhibit at the Queens-
land Government Bureau in Sydney shows
a new method by which Australian fruit can
be landed fresh in Europe. The preservative
is a liquid made from the prickly-pear, and
it is claimed that fruit dipped in it is
kept from deterioration by the veneer.
Fruit thus treated was placed in a show-
case in the Queensland offices in Sydney on
July 1; after nine weeks, almost without
exception it looks as good as when fresh
plucked. The discoverer of the process is
George Adams, who initiated the profitable
preserved-fern business, and has struck some
other useful ideas.
* * * *
“Avon” : Maoriland hasn’t yet got to the
stage where her Forestry Department puts
money in the public purse, but in the six
years the conservation policy has been in
operation a lot of progress has been made.
The area of plantations has increased from
1400 to 16,000 acres and the cost of plant-
ing per acre has been reduced from £10 to
£2. Seven and a half million acres are
reserved for forestry and new man-made forests
now aggregate 34,000 acres. A little more
than half of that area is under private
management. In the last year of opera-
tions expenditure was £174,000 and revenue
£152,500. Macintosh Ellis, who bosses the
State show, aims at having 300,000 acres of
new forest under cultivation by 1935, but
the goal will be hard to reach.
* * *■ *
“Oartot” : Shearers are getting scarcer and
scarcer, and every year now pastoralists have
difficulty in finding sufficient hands to man
their boards. This season the scarcity threat-
ens to be more acute than ever. Various
explanations have been offered, but probably
the real cause is the steady advance in the
rates of pay. This has resulted in owners
refusing to find room for learners. The
growth of the contract system has also had
a good deal to do with it in the same wav.
Indications of how great the shortage really
is may be estimated from the fact that in
one town in south-west N. S. Wales an advt.
for 10 shearers at slightly over the current
award fates brought within a fortnight only
two applicants, one of whom was hopelessly
incompetent. A similar call in another town
in the same district produced none where
five were required.
* ; * * •
“Tabac” : If I am the owner of a motor-
car, and, when taking an airing in it, pick
up my friend Jones and allow him to drive
Lizzie whilst I attend to a business engage-
ment, and if Jones, seeing a young lady of
his acquaintance, stops the ’bus on a stiff
gradient, alights and greets the maiden whilst
Elizabeth in a fit of jealousy bounces down
the gradient and does some damage to
Horatio Smith’s Rolls Royce, where am I
when Horatio takes the matter to court for
damages? In an English case of recent
date, ’s Honor laid down the principle, rely-
ing on Pratt v. Patrick, decided a couple of
years ago. Where the owner of a vehicle,
being personally in possession and occupa-
tion of it, requests or allows another person
to drive it, this fact will not of itself ex-
clude the owner’s responsibility. In him
still rests the right and duty of control; and
unless he has specifically abandoned such
control, as by contract or otherwise, he is the
man to go for. He. can't wash. his hands in
the bowl of Jones’s iniquities.


Chrysler Quality and
New Low Prices
r
rvs^
-V
THE NEW
LIGHTER
SIX (Model “H”)
FOR you who would limit your
motor car investment to any of
the lower-priced sixes, Walter P.
Chrysler presents another sensa-
tional quality product—the new
lighter Chrysler Six (Model “H”).
In this new lighter six are the same
supreme Chrysler quality and
value, the same sheer brilliance of
Chrysler design and the same skill
and precision of workmanship that
have won such public acclaim in
the Chrysler Six (Model “G”) and
Chrysler Imperial Six.
Sixty miles, and more, per hour;
unprecedented acceleration; aston-
ishing riding ease and roadability
—a score of fine car features
never before incorporated in any
car near the new lighter Chrysler
Six in price.
We are eager to number you with
the thousands who have already
approved the quality and value
of this new lighter Chrysler Six
by enthusiastic ownership since
its presentation.
See it; drive it; experience its un-
usual performance—and you will,
we feel sure, no longer be content
with any but the Chrysler Six
(Model “H”) in its field.
The l\[ew Jjghter Six {Model "H”)
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S. W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd. Grenville House, William Street Sydney.
Vtc.: Collins Motors; Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Old,; Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Stk. Amt.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Amt.: William AttwooQ, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Ta&: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,


Rivals the beauty of the Scarlet Tanagef
■*F* “ , «
&
D
N 3
10 iO
3>ftW
ParkerDuofold
Takes Longer
to Pill Because
of Its Over-size
Ink Capacity.
Press the But-
ton.releaseand
count 10 before
you withdraw
the Pen from
the Ink.
Its
Over-size
Barrel
Prevents Finger Cramp
—Provides an Extra
Ink Supply
Its 25 Year Point
Has a Smooth Speedy Gait
Right from the moment
this Over-size barrel
nestles in your fingers, your
hand seems to know that
here is a pen with the correct
writing balance and fit. A
size that holds an extra ink
supply for much extra writ*
ing. A point that is guaran-
teed, if not misused, for 25
years’ wear.
You will see this attractive
black-tipped lacquer-red
pen throughout the world—
a colour that is handsome
to own and hard to mislay.
Sold by Stationers, Booksellers,
Jewellers and Departmental Stores
where Pens are stocked.
Agents
BLADE, ALLAN & COMPANY.
Broughton House, 181 Clarence Street
SYDNEY .AUSTRALIA
"Parker
w
with ijucky curve feed 1 and 2; year point
D uofold Jr. 25/- Lady Duofoid S5/-
Same except for size With ring for chatelaine
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
if you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Right, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO '* Est. 1853.
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2. where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QN
BANK
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. w g Hart, Esq.;
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, ~sq., •
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices Melbourne, Sydney and 93 branches m
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, lep re sen t at l thir i _ the fullest facili-
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank o
ties for the transaction of all general hanking business.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
Office*: 44 Bridie Street, Sydney.
think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Jflatt
;Ne6 js
e**» event*
ttATHE* f AC«NQS
wax id
BACK STAY
kVATCR TtGM
ONGUE I IS*;
111 * - f
brass :
SLUGS :
A COUNTER.
,ce
SCREWS
S?tC»AUtV
SELECTED
SOLE LEATHER
LEATHER
TOE-PUrf
i^PU
SOLID
leather
g?IF?ENER
The “WORKER”
HARD WORK BOOT
Made of specially selected Ckrome Leathers
thoroughly durable. Has Water-tight
Double Weight Solid Leather Leather
Heel~Brass Slugs~Screws and rust-
ing. Tan or Black. All Sizes. .
The finest Value ever offered. IS / O Fair
State Size When Qrdenng
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, ane;
MAIL TO DESK "5.8.”
e
fI.W
Mountains
0
jlilfjL
tU KlFTfll
‘
m
iSNEi.*
>«»'{
■
'/or
Him
.ill
111/111 ll
131
MR
ifW
i null
««•
//».
m
of an ancient race—valleys of lovelmess- placid pools
and raging torrents - trappers' shacks and majestic buildings—
go to make the ever-changing panorama on the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
The world’s finest scenery is unfolded to your gaze • verily the trip
it an education and delight.
TRAVEL TO ENGLAND VIA THE
ALL RED ROUTE
rhe new Quadruple Screw Motor Passenger Liner " Aorangi"
(23,000 tons displacement), together with the favourite S.S
’* Niagara,” afford an unrivalled service to and from Vancouver. B.C.
Write for illustrated literature to any office of the Union
S.S. Co., any Tourist Booking Agency, or to
|. Sclater, Representative
Canadian Pacific Railway Company
Union House, 247 George St.. Sydney
CANADIAN PACIFIC PAILWAV
A candidate for long-distance mayoral
honors is Bobby Thompson, who has been
mayor of Quorn, in South Aus., up towards
the bull’s-eye of the continent, for over -o
years continuously.
“Uramao”: Maoriland has had such an
orgy of art unions that the Government has
had to drop in and squelch it. The other day
one teacher was handing out temperance
cards to be signed by the youthful 1 ussy-
foots. One urchin, after much studying ot
the card and labor in signing it, handed it
up to the teacher with the query -. Please
Sir, when’s it goin’ to be drawn i
“Old Nib”: How’s this for the long armV
Horsfield, just appointed third member of
Yic State Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission; Tolley, who succeeds to Horsfield s
excellent billet in S.A.; and Castles, engineer
and sec. of Deakin Shire, the runner-up for
the Water Commission job, were all fellow-
students in the late ’eighties at J. G. Rich-
mond’s Prospect House Academy, Kyneton
(Yic.). Incidentally, Kyneton furnished the
first chairman of the Water Commission
(Stuart Murray) and the first and present
sec. (Nally).
Since Foster Fraser ceased from troub-
ling, and Birtles took a rest, the use
of the bicycle by tourists has been on the
wane. A Danish youth named Kai Thorefi-
feldt arrived in Sydney lately from Bris-
bane after cycling from Amsterdam to Yoko-
hama and then touring the F.M.S. and Java
awheel. When last heard of he was m
Wellington (M.L.), having worked his pas-
sage across the Tasman as a deckhand, lie
intends to cross South America and then
get home by way of England. Of course he
will write a book about it. So far, the
most exciting things that have happened to
him have been an encounter with Arabs
near Damascus and an escape from the
charge of a mad elephant in Indo-Chma.
A determined old battler dropped out of
the fight in Maoriland the other day when
Bill McKay, of Oamaru, went west. He was
a trainer and rider of horses in the first days
of colonisation in North Otago, and took a
hand in the first Grand National in the
Shaky Isles. When Milner and Oom Paul
fell out, McKay was 64, and his old poll
was so snowy that recruiting-officers laughed
in his face, so he dyed his hair black and
got a job on a transport to S’Africa looking
after the horses. His war worries com-
menced when, in the middle of the voyage,
with the hair-dye all done, his locks turned
green, and the horses tried to chew them
whenever he came near. In S’Africa he got
into Kitchener’s Horse, saw much service,
and had a horse shot under him.
The police have just provided a funeral
for a customer who had been regarded as an
old woman for years, but whose age,, arrived
at through her early police records, turned
out to be only 34. The daughter of a wealthy
family, she bolted at the age of 18 with
the chauffeur. Her family disowned her;
and the chauffeur, who was already married,
deserted her when he found that she had no
prospects. Subsequently the family had
her placed in a reformatory, but she made
a battle of it, and her escapes and escapades
soon made her notorious. Drunkenness and
brawling brought her into very frequent con-
tact with the police after her family had
given up their efforts to keep her quiet.
During the latter part of the war she had
a period of prosperity. She “married and
drew the allotments of more than one soldier,
but prosperity was no better for her than
adversity.
,C. J. de Garis stated his taxable income
for one year at £200,000; he loved to refer
to himself as one of the biggest taxpayers
in Australia, and it would be like him to
give the tax-collector a bit more than his due.
There is a man in Sydney, doing well now,
who admits in confidential moments that
his prosperity is due to an inflated re-
turn. He was a struggling clerk when the
idea struck him, and he sent in a return
asserting that he had made in the vicinity
of £2OOO for the year, with a request for a
prompt assessment, as he contemplated leav-
ing the State. That assessment worked
miracles in helping him to extract financial
backing for the venture he had in mind, and
enabled him to establish that he was worth
a big salary and a substantial holding in
fully-paid-up shares. The co. he started has
been successful, and nobody is worse off for
his curious imposition.
“Bildad”: Anyone who takes an interest
in Arabs and aeroplanes, apropos the murder
of airman Elliott, should read “Kings of
Arabia,” by Lieut.-Colonel Jacob, who put
in three years as British Political Agent at
Dala (Arabia) and nine years at Aden. In
1919, when the war was over, he went inland
with a small escort and a safe conduct to
discourse with allies and alleged friends.
The party, however, was arrested by sheiks
and other slirieky patriots at Bajil, where
it had to live under semi-restraint for four
months. The mission was suspected of being
in league with several varieties of other
Arabs, with parties unknown, and to some
extent with the Devil. Its baggage was
searched for an imaginary £140,000, which
it was said to be carrying to a nefarious in-
dividual. At that late date the local poten-
tates had never seen an aeroplane, but they
had heard of it, and a picture of one in a
paper roused their worst suspicions. The
baggage was searched again for flying-
machines, and sundry ropes were confiscated
lest the travellers, with fiendish ingenuity,
should throw the ends up to a passing air-
ship, and swarm up them like Elijah, and
be gone. Information to the effect that mos-
quito-curtains were raw airship material
created worry. At last a harmless ’plane
came along to have a look, and the excite-
ment was intense: —
The town was thronged by armed tribesmen, who
panicked at the sight, and fired recklessly at the
apparition as it circled overhead. When the aei-o-
plane went off the excited populace turned their
attention to us, and a steady fusillade was poured
into our building for some 15 minutes. Bullets
crashed through the windows, and debris fell upon
us from the ceiling. One fanatic rushed upstairs
with drawn jambiya vowing vengeance on Jacob, but
his course was arrested. The whole place was in
a turmoil. The Saiyid community and the Sheiks,
stripped to the waist, strove to appease the mob, and
at last they succeeded.
The Arab is a person who takes offence
easily and dislikes new inventions. When
the train first started to run between Beirut
and Damascus it got much the same welcome.


Shipping.
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma—Sierra —V entura
The Oceanic Steamship Company,
Matson Navigation Company, Managing Agents.
U79 3i. 12. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modem Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north ot Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class— £3/10/-
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£3/3/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brlabane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLiii
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers." Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tEuripides . . 15,000 tons September 27
.... 18,500 „ October 23
♦Nestor 14,547 „ October 26.
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ November 22
♦Ulysses.... 14,626 „ December 7.
+Suevic 12,500 ~ December 11.
♦First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Banking. Pnhlic Companies, &e.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 .. £16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, O.B.E.; George Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.8.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Donns Fairbairn, Alfred SiiEniERn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World,
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THIS
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE £ HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on all classes ot
—— ■■■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks Merchandise,
I. Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” 1b an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Shipping-. &c.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
*AORANGI . . 22,000 tons disp. SEPT. 23, for Vancouver.
TAHITI ..... 13,000 „ „ OCT. 7, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA .... 18,600 „ „ OCT. 21, for Vancouver.
MAKURA .. . 13,000 „ „ NOV. 4, for San Francisco.
*New Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
*'
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FAKES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful scenery and
interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
ď
f
ď
f
AS
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD,,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
ni.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck’Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1811.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
m
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Directors ;
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President,
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager; OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
i
f
g
2
l
See that your
bicycle or motor
cycle is fitted for
comfort with a
101
CD
SADDLE
It. V. BRISTOL & CO. (PTY.), LTD.,
Fenchurcli Buil'dings, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Brisbane, Mack ay, Townsville and Cairns.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD .
RARRABOOL .
BALLARAT ..
BARADINE ..
BENDIGO ..
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOBDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £21 to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. B6701-2-3. 6 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton U Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Utd.
Blackheath Collieries, Utd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Utd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly ’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


Reliability
your first consideration
Whether you require a motor bicycle for touring
or for speed work, reliability is your first consider-
ation.
B.S.A. Reliability has been proved again and
again in Competitions and Speed Trials throughout
the World, and the B.S.A. reputation has been built
on such outstanding performances as the winning of
the Colmore Cup, Dunlop Cup, Trader Trophy,
Junior Cup, Frank Hallam Cup, the Austrian T.T.
(350-c.c. Class), the Dutch T.T. (350-c.c. Class), 60
ascents of Bwlch-y-Groes, etc.
To get the best out of motor-cycling you must
ride a 8.5. A., the all-British machine manufactured
throughout in the B.S.A. factories.
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Model.
O.H.V. Engine, B.S.A. counter-shaft, 3-speed gear-
box, enclosed valve gear, shock absorbers, grease-
gun and mechanical lubrication, clutch, k.s., etc
wm
v;
B.S.A. 9.86-h.p. Colonial Model.
Twin cylinder, B.S.A. countershaft, 3-speed gear,
grease-gun and mechanical lubrication, clutch, k.s.,
quickly-detachable and interchangeable wheels,
extra ground clearance, etc.
i
Motor Bicycles
PRICES FROM £57/101-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
Q’LANDJ 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F//V/./I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY. t LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS. J. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,,
WEST Alls.- MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth .
TASMANIA -S//W king pty., ltd.,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
D. Y. RENNIE
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
(Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET) MELBOURNE.
Lead the way on a BSA


RU B OUT
THE PAIN
AT ONCE
AND
FOR
FVER
d
~Ru(,i
'Ru/>!
WSMdo^
XliUmmt
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment banishes all pain, it
is the reliable over-night relief. If you are suffering from
a stiff neck, just saturate a cloth with it to-night and wrap
round your neck, and in the morning your neck muscles will
be soft and pliable.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment does its work effec-
tively and quietly. It is as pleasant to use as toilet water
and there is no fear that it will blister or hurt the skin.
If your muscles are sore from over-exertion or from overwork,
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is the remedy for quick
relief. If you have an aching back, no matter how long it
has been troubling you, one good rubbing with Magnetic
Liniment at night before retiring will make all the differ-
ence. Small size, 1/9; Large size, 3/'-.
Q'Skeldcnto
‘lTUujnettc
Xliument
-rORn-
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Cuts
Sprains
Bruises
AMD AitKIHDSOF
INFLAMMATION.
4Siiiliiaiiiinn»ft
PRtPARCD_Bj
Sheldon DrucC?
Boston
Sydney, fi.S.W
facsimile
Chocolates
4 I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home I ’’
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
CifiAdt
162-166 Pitt
Street,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
Sydney.
Send for Catalogue iilustt a'ea
with reproductions of our Con.
lee tic nery in colors .
a
■ m
M ■
mm
\i I
i a
l
a**#®
! '
v.
m
m
i
■
&
MBK
Hi
*rw
SSI
H
a
11111
aBM
mb
m
■
. .
Captain Cottington.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HIS is the way that it used to be
When Captain Cottington went to sea.
Never the smear of a funnel o’er
The clean blue waters from shore to shore;
But snow-white sails so full and free,
When Captain Cottington went to sea.
The stately ships that have left their bones
From Goodwin Sands to the Farraleones,
The bouncing barques and the dandy brigs,
And all the builds and models and rigs
Are now as dead as those fishers three
That once lay out on the sands of Dee.
Alas, my hearties, in sonsy crowds,
Who hand-over-handed up the shrouds,
Who crawled the bowsprit and crept the yard,
Who lived your lives and lived them hard,
’Tis not to-day as it used to be
When Captain Cottington went to sea.
When Captain Cottington went to sea—
'Twas back in eighteen twenty three—
Afar outspread, or in harbor furled,
'Twas sail that carried around the world
The trade and trouble, the peace and strife,
And all the traffic of seaward life.
Twas sail that carried, since Caesar's days,
Over the depths of the waterways,
Over the curves of the Seven Seas,
The human race and its histories.
That was the way that it used to be
When Captain Cottington went to sea.
Though sail is sped and its tale half told,
I read to-day as I’m growing old
Of a new invention which will gain
The driving force of the wind again...
So the turbine tank has got to go?
Oh, I hear your ghosts a-laughing so!
And never the smoke of a funnel soon
Will blue the light of the sun or moon;
Never the smear of an oil-fed tank
From Lizard light to the foggy Bank,
Never a smudge on the Herring Ground !
You set her going and round and round
She goes and goes, but she leaves behind
Their damned old kettles, by force o’ wind!
Not just the way that it used to be
When Captain Cottington went to sea
With white sails drawing full and free,
But good enough for you and for me.
e’ll wait and watch and mayhap we’ll see
How the winds will rule again the Sea!
In eighteen hundred and twenty four —
n hen Captain Cottington went ashore—
He piled her up on the coast of Brest,
Club-hauled his ship and they did their best,
In eighteen hundred and twenty four
When Captain Cottington went ashore.
In eighteen hundred and twenty three
When Captain Cottington went' to sea
Ihe world was wide and the world was
bold;
And now I fear that the world is old.
But wait and watch arid .mayhap we’ll see
I hat the winds again may rule the Sea!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Man with Two Voices.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
44 OA’D be silly!” said Isaac McGold-
| j brick, in a voice rendered opaque
by a chronic catarrh. “The thig’s
impossible.”
He gave his friend, Silas Geddes, a look
of infinite reproach. In all his years as
entrepreneur, theatrical agent, publicity
manager, and other less reputable callings,
never had he heard of such an absurdity.
“Fadcy tryig to put one over on me like
thad,” he added, his eyes moist behind their
horn-rimmed fortifications. “Gracious Abra-
ham !”
Young Geddes, delicately manipulating a
nail-file, expressed no emotion. He was a
pink, worm-like youth, ornamented with
ineffective side whiskers.
“Have it your own way, Ike,” ho mur-
mured. “Only don’t say afterwards that I
didn't offer you the first bite. I know exactly
a thousand men in Australia that will jump
at the chance to manage Zcheclomslyjpkf—
excuse me! When we open the booking
there’s going to be civil war on the streets.”
“Wliad you say his nabe was?” asked
McGoldbrick, sucking at his cigar derisively.
“I can’t repeat it under an hour’s rest,”
said Geddes, “it’s too exhausting. For gen-
eral use I’ve boiled it down to the last four
letters, _ pronounced Jay—the ‘p,’ ‘k’ and ‘f’
being silent, for the sake of sanity. You ain’t
interested, anyhow. Listen, Ike. There’s a
new line of nail-varnish coming on the
market. They call it Pearl of the Orient.
It makes the cuticle cute. Look at these
nails, will you? Almost see to read by ’em
at nights.”
McGoldbrick waved pudgy hands.
“Pouff! this is nod a beaudy parlor. Now
aboud this —this Jay! Silas, you car’d be
serious. I have known men with two chids,
ad I have suffered repeatedly frob men with
two faces. Bud a man with two
whad a joag! You make me tired.”
"It was the Almighty, not me,” said
Geddes. “You were born like it. Now, see
here, Ike. I’ll give you a last chance to
come in with me on this. Have you ever
known me to lie to you?”
_“Od the boards,” panted McGoldbrick.
wiping adipose tears from his eyes, “you’d
make a fortude. Have you ever”
“Turn off the loud speaker,” said Geddes
patiently. “You sound like a street inter-
section. I’m in plain earnest. The man’s
a freak of the first magnitude. He has two
voices—get me? One’s alto and one’s bass.
He was born with a duplicate thyroid, or
something of that kind. When he was six-
teen one voice broke and the other stayed
wdiole. I picked him up on the wharf the
day he landed as a stowaway. I heard him
sneeze.”
Geddes broke off to regard McGoldbrick
thoughtfully.
“Say, Ike, did you ever hear a man sneeze
in chords?”
“You’re mad,” said McGoldbrick. staring.
“Or I ab.”
“It’s you,” Geddes assured him. “And
I wish you wouldn’t keep on interrupting.
I say I took this Zchecl—l mean this jay-
thing home and tried him out on the Ceiling-
wurtzer in the best room. He sang ‘la ! la!
la!’ through his whiskers, and the ‘la’s’
blended like an Eastern tea. Beside him,
Caruso would have sounded like a loose
spouting-pipe in a high wind. Zchecl.... —
no, I’m damned if I’ll say it again. ‘Jay’ is a
world winner from wonderland.”
“Nod only mad,” said McGoldbrick heavily,
“bud ravig. Silas, carl) yourself. Ard we
frendts always? No violence!”
“Hell!” said Geddes disgustedly. He stood
up. “I don’t want to sell you a pnp. He’s
outside in the passage this minute.”
“Thed, for God’s sake,” said McGoldbrick,
his eyes bulging, “brig hib id.”
He stared helplessly at the calamitous
human that trod on his friend’s heels. The
face of it sprouted a forest of hair; rags
clothed its untidy proportions; two sockless
feet overflowed the remains of boots that
put a period, as it were, to a miracle of
creative humor.
“I know what you’re thinking,” Geddes
told the purpling manager, “and I don’t say
you ain’t right. But if you can get him to
wash himself and shed the whiskers, I’ll let
you have him at a slight discount. It seems
to be part of his religion to resemble a tree-
fern. And lie goes to bed in the lingerie
you see before you. But what of that? Art
takes many forms”
“Oped that window,” said McGoldbrick in
a strangled voice. He lit a fresh cigar
hurriedly. “Ad keep hib over your side. I
woa’d liab hib near me. I tell you I woa’d !”
“Oh, if you’re fussy,” said Geddes. He
grinned and sat down at the piano. “He
don’t know a word of English, but I’ve
taught him a few double-barrelled tunes.
Listen to him sing ‘Eileen Alannah’ in alto,
and ‘Has Anybody Here Seen Kelly?’ in
bass, in a musical cocktail. Or would you
prefer ‘Humoresque’ dovetailed into ‘Way
Down Upon the Swannee River’? It’s all
the same to us.”
McGoldbrick, with the expression of one
who doubts his own sanity, listened unwink-
ing to the superlative diminuendo of the
final chords. His mouth hung open and his
eyes were filmed.
Geddes pushed the hirsute and protoplas-
mic genius back into the passage.
“Well?” he demanded triumphantly. “Did
I tell the truth, or didn’t I? Is Zchecl. ..—
no, I won’t say it —is he a ruddy freak, or
ain’t he? Take your time answering.”
McGoldbrick made chirping noises at the
bottom of his catarrh.
“I knew you’d feel that way at first, Ike,”
said Geddes, with sympathy. “I did, myself.
I remember saying ‘Silas, my boy, this is
where you hit the border-line between genius
and madness.’ But by Heaven’s good grace,
I stayed put. Now take your time.”
“Jacob,” breathed McGoldbrick.
“He’s dead,” said Geddes, as one stating a
fact. “But he wouldn’t get the handling of —
I’m damned if I'll say it—even if he wasn’t.
Ike, once we sign them on the circuit,
money’ll lose its meaning.”
With immense effort McGoldbrick emerged
from his coma.
“What d’you mean by ‘them’?”
“Is the world getting two voices for the
price of one?” demanded Geddes. “Not on your
life, Ike! Where’s your business instincts?
I'm ashamed ot you. For all real purposes
Jay is in partnership with himself. He gets
double salary; or else there ain’t any justice
left in the world.”
“They woa’d stand for it,” the manager
mourned. He became all at once first per-
son singular. “But what’s the odds? Leave
things to me, my boy. I’ll make this the
biggest draw id the history of vaudeville.
Ad be sure I woa’d forget you. Whed you
cabe to me you cabe to the right man.
I’ll”
“Terminus!” said Geddes shortly. “You
get off here, Ike, and take the first turning
to the receiving house. Do I impress you
as so easy as all that? The last time you
pasted me to the wall was the first time.
Jay is my meat. I’ve got him registered,
weighed and file-indexed.”
“Where” began McGoldbrick with pas-
sion.
“I’ll tell what I’ll do,” Geddes offered
kindly. “I’ll go you fifty-fifty on the box
receipts—me to train him and do the hard
work, and you to write the cheques. Look at
my clothes! What do you think Hugh J.
Ward would offer us a week, if he saw my
shirt? We got to look the part...l wish
you’d stop eating your tongue. It worries me.”
“Silas, be a spord,” McGoldbrick implored.
“I’d be ruid on those terbs.” 1
Geddes grinned.
“Take it or leave it. I can’t see you being
ruined by a few quid a week. Well, I guess
I’ll be seeing Jabez Smith. Now there’s a
man with no bald spots on his mind. No-
thing mean about Jabez.”
“Hold on,” said McGoldbrick. “You’re so
dabbed touchy, ain’t you? Reach me over
thad book of forms, and doa’d ever for-
get it was me made your fortude. Holy
Moses! Think of a man with two voices!
Ad they say the age of miracles is parsed!”
“Not when you give money away, it ain’t, ’
said Geddes, carefully examining the signa-
ture on the cheque handed him. “Now, Ike.
keep this under your hat. In a month we’ll
spring something that will make a front-page
story. Buy some more cheque forms and
keep in touch with me. It’s the only thing
you can do.”
The admonition was more than superflu-
ous. On the first day, McGoldbrick rang his
new partner eight times. At the end of a
week, Geddes applied passionately to the
Postmaster-General to disconnect his office
from the exchange. Two days later a dis-
hevelled Hebrew fell out of a taxi and burst
into the room where Geddes was trying on
a new necktie before the cracked mirror
over his desk. The interrupted one stared
coldly.
“Confound it, Ike; I thought the under-
standing was that you kept right away from
us? What’s the matter with you, anyway?
If you ain’t careful, you’ll put the whole
show away.”
McGoldbrick sank into a chair and wiped
his brow.
“Doa’d be cross. If you knew what I'b
suffering. Tryig to raise you on the ’phone,
ad nod a solid. Ad me nod knowing maybe
you was dead, or Cliay pud id across us
somehow! Four hudred tibes I ring id the
last hour, ad nobody cubs!”
“If I saw much of you, Ike,” said Geddes.
swallowing a long draw on his cigarette,
“murder would become a habit with me.
Just because the ’phone happens to get out
(Continued on next pace.)


Greatest
oArtists
GJhe new
"His ,
[Masters
Voice"
Instruments
Finest
Recording
ď
Model 251
Horizontal Grand.
Oak, £52/10/-
Mahogany, £6O.
Nothing Less Than a Triumph!
Unique in musical reproduction, these new
instruments of “His Master’s Voice’’ reach
a standard of supreme grandeur hitherto
unapproached. Ask your dealer to
demonstrate the new models and judge
for yourselves.
The two Models illustrated are
fitted with New Type Internal
Amplifying Horn and Tone Arm
with Ball-bearing Socket, also “His
Master s Voice” No. 4 Sound Box,
which is entirely new in design.
Needle bowls for new and used
needles. Automatic stay fitted to
lid. Record-storing chamber.
Double-Spring Motor. 1 2-inch Turn-
table, Speed Regulator and Auto-
matic Brake. Made in Oak or
Mahogany.
Portable Model £l2
Table Models from - - - £l4
Cabinet Models from - - £45
Complete lists of Instruments and Records with
name of nearest dealer sent free on request.
■UP
l's
Model 161
■Cabinet Grand.
Oak, £45.
Mahogany, £52/10/-
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
His Master's Voice" Regd. Trade-mark. “ Gramophone ” Regd. Trade-mark.
VOICE
MASTERS
HIS
of order, you do your block. And now sup-
pose Jabez Smith saw you and me together
down here! Would he smell a rat, or
wouldn’t he? I leave it to you. Ive a good
mind to chuck the whole thing.”
“Doa’d exaggerate,” said McGoldbrick.
“Bud seriously, Silas, I thought maybe some-
tliig happen to Chay. Ad that reminds me
... I doa’d see liib !” . .
“If you think he’s run away, or anything
like that, you can guess again,” said Geddes
with some heat. “He’s in the next room.
Want to see him?”
McGoldbrick wrinkled his nose.
“It ain’t necessary. I cad smell lab. lell
me—ain’t you got liib a bath yet.
“He damn near screams at the sight ot
water,” said Geddes, with an approach to
despair. “You’d think he was born in the
Mallee. Otherwise things aren’t bad. Ive
taught him the Soldiers’ Chorus from I aust,
and I had his hair cut while lie was asleep.
Round at the hotel where we re putting up,
they think it’s the drains. The plumbers
were in yesterday.”
“Nothig cad be dud until you get liib
washed,” said McGoldbrick. “Cliloroforb hib,
ad get it over.”
Geddes brightened.
“I’ll be darned if I thought of that. I’ll
do it. I’ll have to get the barman to help
me, though. And there’s the cost of the
dope. Say a quid. Have you got your
cheque-book with you?”
McGoldbrick groaned, but produced the
book.
“I car’d see the end of this. I know I
shall be ruid. You’ll let me know wlied id’s
dud. Silas?”
“I'll ring you, say, to-morrow night, at
your house,” Geddes conceded graciously.
“That’ll give him time to settle down after
the shock. And believe me, Ike, we’ll be
booking him at three figures inside a month.
Zelieclo. .. But you know what I mean. And
for goodness sake, try to look cheerful. A
warm bath ain’t an operation.”
“Be careful with liib,” McGoldbrick begged
tremtilously. “Ad doa’d forget to rig.”
He departed shaking his head. Through-
out the next day his abstraction was such
that he paid a bill without argument, and
even forgot to look at a girl’s legs before
engaging her for the chorus.
It was late at night when the trill of liis
telephone brought him hastily from the fire-
side.
“It’s me—Silas,” the far-away tones in-
formed him. “Well, it's all over, bar sweep-
ing up the whiskers and burning ’em under
the copper. If you saw him now you’d say
he looked like a human being."
“You’re a wonder,” McGoldbrick ap-
plauded.
“You know I am. What’s that? Did he
kick? Listen —he bit the barman three times
in Russian. Or maybe it was German. I
hope it don’t mean blood-poisoning. I
wouldn’t like to think of you being caught
for compensation. I wish you wouldn’t
swear. Yes, Jay's all right, except his voice
is a bit hoarse. What’s that?”
“Both of ’em?” yelled McGoldbrick, sud-
denly anxious.
“Only the alto one, I think. Or was it
the bass? I can’t remember. Anyhow, I’ve
had the doctor in. He says it’s only a cold.”
“Give liib suh oil od sugar,” the manager
advised. There was an ominous buzzing.
He repeated fretfully after an interval:
“I said give liib sub oil.”
“We heard you,” a new voice told him,
with a note of derision. “The line’s
nurse. Save it for the morning.”
“To Hell!” swore McGoldbrick. “Obera-
tor! for two pids I rebort you !”
He hung up furiously, to the sound of
disrespectful mirth, and presently retired to
bed, if not to rest. In the morning, however,
his worry was a little assuaged by a short note
from Geddes, to the effect that their protege
was on the mend. The manager was exhorted
to get busy with the booking. Jay was a
scream, and he, Silas Geddes, looked forward
to a future of roseate ease. And what did
Ike think of the idea of staging a rehearsal
for the theatrical heads, anyhow?
McGoldbrick thought so well of it that he
did the rounds that very day. He was too
wise to disclose the details of the affair;
and contented himself by hinting at a. coup
of a most astounding nature. By dint of
hoarse persuasion he extracted promises to
attend his office that day week.
Flushed with this success he at first
attached small importance to the spectacle of
Silas Geddes, hunched moodily on the top
step of the landing, waiting his arrival. A
glimpse of his partner’s face, however, in-
duced a feeling of almost terror. He un-
locked his office hastily, and dragged Geddes
within.
“God's sake! whad’s wrog?”
“Jay,” said Geddes portentously, “is in
love. Can you beat it?”
“Bud I doa’d see” began McGoldbrick,
gaping stupidly.
Geddes groaned.
“Man, don't I tell you he’s done his nut
on the skirt that waits on our table. It’s
the worst thing that's happened yet. Toilers
her around like a kitten. Won’t eat, won’t
sleep, won’t do a damned thing but sing.”
“Sig!” echoed McGoldbrick.
“To think,’’ said Geddes bitterly, “that
after all I’ve'done for that, man, he thinks
no better of me than to climb down a water-
pipe last night and begin caterwauling under
the girl’s window. I beat the barman—who’s
been walking out with her for nearly a week
—I say, I beat him to it by the fraction of
a second, and hid Jay in a garbage-can. The
girl’s window was up and she was yelling
blue murder. ‘Two of ’em,’ she tells the
barman, ‘singing- duets at me through the
ventilator, in the Japanese lingo,’ she says.
So there you are!”
“Jacob!” exclaimed McGoldbrick. “The
cad will be out of the bag! Silas, whad
have you dud with hib? Car’d you reason
with hib?”
“I have,” Geddes retorted. “I’ve locked
him in the bedroom. He’s there now. He’s
still singing. He won’t stop singing. In
both his voices. Love has sent him stone
barmy. I’ve had to tell ’em it's a Russian
Choir practising for the arrival of the Duke
of York. I had to shout the house eight
times before they’d believe it. I mean,
before they’d say they believed it. No, Ike,
it's our finish. You know these white-hot
temperamental eai’ly Slovakians! Passion
demoralises them. Zchecl... . But what’s
the use? It’ll he all over Australia by the
morning. He’ll be kidnapped under your
nose and run into the Christmas pantomime.”
McGoldbrick wrung unclean but passionate
hands.
“Id shall not be. Id will mean raid.
Whad is there we can do? Once id a life-
time there cubs a man like this, ad”
“Come on back,” Geddes interrupted, with
determination. “You sit there and expect a
miracle to happen! At the worst we can
bribe the girl to But no—l forgot the
barman. Can’t you walk faster than that?”
“Abraliab ad Isaac,” said McGoldbrick, in
a sort of catarrhal ecstasy, ‘Tb ruddig!”
“Then run a bit faster,” said Geddes
brutally. “Lord! what’s the crowd doing
in the passage? Listen! Did you ever hear
the like of that for singing? I ask you!”
Panting through the knot of humans stand-
ing awestruck on the landing, McGoldbrick
came to recognition of dual voices mounting
in an exquisite harmony. Higher and still
higher soared the impassioned notes, as
though angelic troubadours gathered behind
the warped and shabby door. In McGold-
brick's fatty-degenerate heart his emotions
clamored like a psychological Greek chorus.
He fought simultaneously for breath and
position.
“Gord!” muttered Geddes between gasps
of admiration and anger. “He stands alone.
Lem me get”
He ceased abruptly. Like some horrific
anti-climax the ascending melodies had sud-
denly run together in a single cacophonous
outcry, that pierced their frightened hearing
with the discordance of breaking crockery.
Semibreves tore their way through a
strangled host of demi-semiquavers, fortis-
simo put a half-nelson upon tempo and dim-
inuendo, there was a hideous spluttering—-
then silence.
Already Geddes was flinging wide the door.
McGoldbrick, wildly jostling aside a coatless
and unshaven barman, to whose arm clung
a singularly unprepossessing female, directed
his bulging eyes at the single occupant of the
room. The prodigy was seated on the bed,
mouthing soundlessly. Panic was in his re-
ceding eyes and forehead. His hands beat
the air aimlessly.
In a bound McGoldbrick confronted him,
the fearful truth forcing beads of sweat upon
his forehead.
“Sig!” lie screamed. “For Moses’ sake,
sig!”
The only reply cam,e from Geddes, who
stood by with a pale face.
“It’s no use, Ike. You can see what’s
happened. His brain’s short-circuited, and
it's fused his voices. Damme, he’s as dumb
as if he’d been dead a week.”
“Doa’d say that—doa’d!” McGoldbrick
babbled.
The voice of a hastily-summoned police-
man smote the little silence.
“Now, then, what’s all this? Who's that
on the bed? Is he the one? What’s his
name?”
“His name,” said Geddes, with a dreamy
smile, “is Zchecl.... — no, I won’t say it.
It’s all right, constable. “I’ll go quietly.’ 1
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Bottle Thrower.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A POLICEMAN walked down the oppo-
site footpath. Back in the shadows
of the night the Spadger cursed lnm
fervently. He cursed all policemen and their
associates. Weed that he was, bred of the
squalor of city slums, cursing was the oim-
nary limit of his vindictiveness. the
swine!” he-muttered. “The dirty, niaulin
mongrels ! Snow might ha’ died. ,
Ten days had passed since old Li tangs
was raided, and Snow, escaping by way °t
a window, had been struck across the fingers
by a policeman’s baton. A week ot agony
followed without the sufferer seeking medical
attention. Not that the playing of pak-a-pu
is such a serious offence ; but for other rea-
sons he preferred to lie low. In the end
the Spadger led him away ; the wound was
septic now, and the hand had be ampu-
tated at the wrist —it was a grim battle with
death, in fact. . ,
So the Spadger cursed. llis lean, cigar-
ette-stained fingers ached to avenge that
blow. His love for the victim was about
the one fine feeling of an otherwise wholly
morbid existence. That the policeman oppo-
site may have had nothing to do with the
injury mattered not at all. They were all
the same, and he hated the lot.
A fight started down the street. Hurrying
towards it, the policeman was followed at a
distance by his watcher. The latter took in
the situation at a glance. Two drunks--
their empties lay in the gutter —jwere brawl-
ing happily. Yet so earnestly did they fight
that the cop was soon absorbed in his efforts
to stop them. He never had a chance with
the bottle that suddenly flew towards him.
He fell like a log, and the small crowd
quickly dispersed.
That night the Spadger went to bed in
unusual spirits. A feeling of triumph
swelled within him as he rehearsed the tale
he would have for Snow on the morrow.
Even his dreams were of policemen, servile
and innocuous.
Next day at the hospital he was almost
cheerful.
“Well, how y’ doin’ to-day, Snow? he
asked.
“Aw, not so bad,” was the answer. The
old doc. reckons the worst is over. But
’struth, Spadge, I never want t’ go through
it again. D’ y’ know, the last four nights
before you brought me here I never slep' a
wink. Had t’ get up an’ walk or I’d ha'
cut me throat. The queer part was I put
’em in with a cop on his beat, if y’ please.
I bumped him the first night about two in
the morning. He wants t’ know me game, so
I tells him how I hurt me hand at work an’
couldn’t sleep. Then I’m blowed if he
doesn’t set himself out t’ entertain me. Told
yarns an’ no end o’ things tryin’ t’ keep me
mind off the pain. ’Struth, he was a decent
bloke. That’s him in the next bed. Last
night they brought him in with a fractured
skull. Some cow slammed him with a bottle,
I never did have time for the dirty squib
that slings a bottle from a crowd!”
KENNELESS.


f
df
df
d
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
boutli Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH * CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
TUC
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
the "ATCO'
PETROS.
HOWES
nf i WI i ma^e a ver y strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
fpimiQi H er } a F ge a i'eas of tuff, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
, > ail( 'iJ o whng clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
part, committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
pi fitt , e l with a 2|-h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
,■ 1 . M°P el the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
tor guiding purposes.
cos t of ad ; ‘ATCO,” thanks to the scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very. easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture.
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator) ensure extra quiet running of engine.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
Send for our new season’s prices. Considerably Reduced.
AGENTS;
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHYSALL & BROWN,
Box 16, King Street P. 0., Sydney.
Holds 50%
More Ink
<MO
*\
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
‘//MSSJWSSSS/S//SS//*/SSSS////s////SW////SSJt.
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 50 per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place
THOMAS HE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
A SK your dealer
to show you
the many styles of
Remington Knives,
one for every
purpose and every
purse.
A Remington. Knife
is a friend for life!
No. R 3843
General Utility Knife,
two blades, corkscrew,
bottle opener, screw-
driver, tin opener and
reamer.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc?
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P. O. Box 686 E Melbourne, Viet.
tIPZO
/jmj
m
f/Zfj&aL
fjZZ
F 11
ďf
But like m sickness
Did I loathe this food.”
Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Ad IV. Sc. /.
Appe/zre
£* C £in<(?
_ o
Want of appetite
Is a sign of
Stomach weakness
The best remedy
BEECHAM'S PILLS
They have a corrective
And stimulating effect
On stomach, liver, bowels
They can be relied upon
To remove acidity
Constipation
Indigestion
To stimulate the liver
Cleanse and tone
The entire system
And promote
Hearty appetite.
Btecticm^^clls
BUY YOUR LINEN DIRECT FROM
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
THE House of Robinson & Cleaver has been making
fine linen for 55 years in Belfast—the home of Irish
Linen—and sending it to satisfied customers all over the
world. The beautifully illustrated catalogue offered below
shows you how you save by buying linen direct from this
famous old House. Send for your copy now.
FREE!
This large beautifully
illustrated Catalogue
ff'Co. Slv of fine Irish
Linens, together with
samples, will be sent
you free and post free.
W&M®
Table, Bed and Household Linen
Our Damask Table Linen is well known for its good
quality, beauty of design and lovely white satin
finish. We stock it in all grades. Table Cloths
2 yards square from 11/3 each with Napkins to
match 22 x 22 ins. 12/6 per doz. and so on up to
qualities used by Royalty.
Prices of all kinds of Linen goods are considerably
down; for instance, we have good wearing Linen
Sheets for single beds 2x3 yards at 33/9 per pair,
Linen Pillow Cases 20 x 30 ins. from 2/11 each.
LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS
We offer only perfect goods, such as Ladies’ Linen
Handkerchiefs, made of good quality pure Linen
hemstitched, measuring about 12 ins. square. Ex-
ceptional value from 4/9 per doz. In Men’s sizes
from 8/3 per doz. Ladies’ Linen Initial handker-
chiefs about 11 ins, square from 5/6 per doz Ladies’
Embroidered Linen handkerchiefs from 5/3 per doz.
Any monogram can be embroidered by hand at
short notice,
THE DELIVERY OF ALL GOODS IS
GUARANTEED. ORDERS OF OVER £lO
CARRIAGE PAID BY PARCELS POST
TO DESTINATION. OR BY STEAMER
TO PORT OF LANDING.
ROBINSON &CLEAVER
Irish Linen
Manufacturers .
BELFAST
NORTHERN IRELAND.
The Home of
Irish Linen
a
Jid&feooKs;
' ffost /Zoliroo&Says -
“Shake the bottle,«remove
the stopper—Ah! What a
delightful bouquet; what
an appetising zest.”
d
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6. Children. 1/- and 8d
SPECIAL TRIP EVERT SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels • 66*76 u Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Aeh.. Bo- < 6 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


BOTTLED HISTORY
Say
m
a
v
. jA
f
r
s
im
Because that
name protects
you against any
inferior spirit
Don’t take risks, specify
“Johnnie Walker” and you’ll
get the Whisky that is perfectly
matured, uniform in quality,
and of a distinctive palate-
persuading flavour. Every
bottle of “Johnnie Walker” is
guaranteed.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
ym
•w-:
•>?:<
: v' -■-
'
\ - ;. ■ ■ •
*ooooOC^//^*s««*^
.W,W/.W<<<yXv
■
S%;
H
?2w5
¥x<Ww
5: fjm%W%moWsmmm%m
Bom 1820—
Still
Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
- v
