

in
II
■
ww*
V; -
m
m
■: N
'•V "•• •
....
i
mm
» <:r.
'
9
J
w
m
9so;,
i: !
■
.
■
V
vSPi:
ißMPiW«liBww
\ ' ' Jk
:
.
■> ,:. •
•V V
- ;■ '<> V- !
W
/■
Ohtairr&ble
at all Leading
Mercer'S
None Genuine
Without the Brand
on theleatAei
• «
HATS
7Ae Ofi/x) Standardised Felt Hats made injlustralia
The Bulletin
Vol. 47.—N0. 2418,
Thursday, June 17, 1926,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'THE New Library Catalogue for 1926
is now ready and will be forwarded post free,
with full particulars, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
h
s
Kindly State
Skes
‘When-,
Ordering.
©
ĥ
Why not a Strong
WORK SHIRT?
The “SANI WILL” is the type of Shirt
you want. Made of a tough sandy coloured
twill shirting. Roomy body and sleeves. Two
breast pockets with flaps to button. Adaptable
to an;? Work Washes Well. cAll Sizes.
Each
Three
For
22/6
In Queen Street,
eMail to ‘Desk “S.B
The Best the World produces
PURE WOOL
UNDERWEAR
Also
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear
and
RAMESES
Underwear & Hosiery,
Agent:
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
WOLSEY LTD.,
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
\
THE MARK OF ,
A GOOD RAZOtf
THE \
PLUM
Ask any man you know wbe use* a PLUM—■
ask him if be doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!”
VC
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12/6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
*>«?
wram
HU
ON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet:
Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET ’ LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
AJNIIoaPTIC.
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; of
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co, Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Provine*,
The Red Page
The Oil War
The World-struggle for Oil, by De la
Tramerye (Fisher Unwin), is a book of
consuming interest. Written, to an extent,
from a Gallic standpoint, it nevertheless
envisages fairly and vividly the great con-
flict for what is to-day the world’s most vital
product. “Who has oil has empire!” ex-
claimed Henry B&renger in a note to Clemen-
ceau. “Control of the ocean by heavy oils,
control of the air by highly-refined oils,
control of the land by petrol and illuminat-
ing oils —control by a substance more precious
than gold itself!” The day of coal’s
supremacy is past. A vessel fitted with a
Diesel engine with a speed of 20 knots could
go from Europe via Suez to Maoriland and
return via Cape Horn without re-fuelling.
A vessel of the Lusitania or Olympic type
requires for loading in time and labor:
Coal, 5 days, 500 men; oil, 12 hours, 12
men. And with oil the labor of stoking and
clearing furnaces is done awav with.
“The Struggle for Oil” is in part an
account of the war between the Standard
Oil and the Anglo-Royal Dutch, a corpora-
tion backed by the Dutch and British Gov-
ernments with the resources of a Rothschild
thrown in. In the beginning it looked a
hopeless battle, but in the end the Anglo-
Dutch secured the key position and is domi-
nant. To-day the United States “consume
twice as much oil as the rest- of the world,
while their resources do not amount to more
than one-seventh of those of the world.”
Their consumption increased in 1920 by 25
per cent.: their production by only 11 per
cent. In oil as in everything else personality
counts, and in Henry Deterding the Royal
Dutch (allied with the Shell Co.) discovered
its Napoleon. Deterding found the Royal
Dutch a rising but badly handicapped pro-
position, and had yet the courage to assail
the Standard Oil’s “preserves” in China.
The American giant attacked him vigor-
ously; the Royal Dutch’s reply was to ship
petrol to New York and make good its losses.
More daring still, Deterding essayed the
conquest of California, formed “American”
companies, sold hundreds of thousands of
shares to Uncle Sam’s citizens, and in 1915
controlled one-ninth of the American output.
One-third of its total production comes to-
day from the United States. Seventy-five
per cent, of the total Californian output
(over 10 million tons) now escapes the con-
trol of the Standard Oil. But, more import-
ant still, the Royal Dutch-Shell controls the
bulk of Mexican production, having pur-
chased for a thousand million francs Lord
Cowdray’s interests, and it has acquired
commanding interests in Venezuela and Tam-
pico. Beginning in the Dutch Indies with
a capital of a million florins and seven small
tank steamers, its production to-day exceeds
15 million tons, with the most powerful
fleet of tankers in the world; and it controls
a capital of 22,000 million francs. With
consummate skill, seeing that the British
Government controlled the Anglo-Persian
group, Deterding. in conjunction with Sir
Marcus Samuel, drew in the support of the
Imperial administration, and shortly after
transferred his offices from the Hague to
London —a significant change. As a result
the Egyptian and Indian markets have fallen
to the bow and spear of the Anglo-Dutch.
Germany prior to the war was not blind
to what was going on, and made gigan-
tic efforts to secure a measure of control.
But the war destroyed her hold and the
enemy pitted the motor-lorry against the
railways—and won. Motors and aeroplanes
—in a word, oil—beat the Kaiser, and
Britain never forgot the lesson. When the
Eastern Front gave way Germany’s oil re-
sources vanished. She had only her benzol
and q little heavy oil left, and the down-
fall was accomplished. Lord Curzon was
able to declare at Lancaster House: “Truly
posterity will say that the Allies floated to
victory on a wave of oil.”
De la Tramerye cannot withhold admira-
tion from the great Britishers (D’Arcy, the
Australian, among them) who fought the
Standard Oil:—
The whole British Empire contains scarcely 4 per
cent, of the known oil resources of the; globe. Eng-
land, to maintain her supremacy, resolved to win the
control of oil. A few business men, technical experts
and diplomatists, joined forces. They laid their
plans in secret and followed them for years with
determination; they sank millions of money, carried
on intrigues in every corner of the world, they
fomented revolutions, etc. Why? To make a personal
contribution to Britain’s greatness. It is to this
tradition that Britain owes her great leaders. Their
imperialism is a danger, but it does not lack a
certain greatness.
Mexico was the scene of the greatest of the
oil campaigns. So bitter was the fight be-
tween Pearson and the Standard Oil that
“ah one time the United States Government
acquiesced in the payment by American oil
companies operating in Mexico of royalties
to bandits and insurgents as though to the
established Government. Such was the in-
security that certain American companies
paid. 1500 dollars a month to a bandit in
the Tampico district on the understanding
that he would guarantee not to cut their
pipe-lines.” After many years of conflict
the two groups came to an understand-
ing to share the exploitation of oil deposits,
ar.d finally united against the hostile Car-
lvnza Government, and beat it. A civil war
failed to drive the foreigner out of Mexico,
and Cowdray’s company (the Mexican
E :gle) remained triumphant, with a domain
of a million hectares in the richest oil
country of the world.
Not the least interesting section of Tram-
erye’s book is the story of D’Arcy, the Aus-
tralian, and the concessions he won in 1901
from the Persian Government, which covered
tlie enormous area of 500,000 sq. miles. For
these concessions D’Arcy paid merely 200,000
francs, of which 100.000 francs only were
In cash; the rest was in shares. But'he had
spout five million francs in vain before he
nrmened to hear of oozings in the Shustar
district, north of the Persian Gulf. Admiral
Fisher came to his support; Winston Churchill
barked him up, and the final result was
that two-thirds of the ordinary shares of the
Anglo-Persian are to-day in the hands of
the British Government. The Persian wells
are marvellously productive, the quality of
ben :ine and kerosene richer even than that
of Mexico. This group stands second to-
day to Mexico only.
The Americans realise that they are about
to lose their supremacy. Fifteen years ago
Britain did not possess any oil. To-day she
is independent, to-morrow she will be mis-
tress. _ The great men who built up her
crowning triumph—Sir Marcus Samuel,
Lord Cowdray (Pearson), Lord Curzon,
Stratheona, Admiral Fisher—acted without
tbe knowledge of the British people and its
1 arliamentary representatives. Their coun-
trymen only heard of their activities when
they had endowed their nation with a world-
wide empire. De la Tramerye, as a French-
man, regrets his country’s fatal inertia on
so great a question. But Britain has secured
French sympathy, and is rapidly arranging
to supply her neighbor’s deficiencies hand-
somely. Policy, of course, but how wise!
P. AIREY.
The Sitwells
“The Sitwells are mad.”
It is possible to hear still such a remark
as that even among literary people here in
London, so idiosyncratic is the group of
which the two gifted brothers and their
sister are the centre, so curious is their
production. They are apart from the Geor-
gians altogether, anathema to Squire and
his school. Nothing of theirs is in any of
the Georgian Poetry Books, the series that
Mr. Edward Marsh now announces is at an
end, it having performed its task of intro-
ducing contemporary English poets to the
people. St. John Adcock in his recent
“Treasury of Living Poets” has included
two or three of the least idiosyncratic of
their poems, but in general the cult stands
apart, shunned alike by the anthologists and
the critics. Added to that, the Sitwells
publish expensive editions—a recent one is
455. per vol. So the public does not get
much opportunity to acquire a taste for this
particular vers Hire; it is told that it is
“odd,” “mad” and so forth, but at first hand
few know it.
Never have the critics so unanimously
marked time in regard to a group of writers;
they are afraid of the Sitwells, and this
attitude has been preserved for some years.
The rails are crowded with the fraternity
waiting to know which side to get down,
and meantime the coterie is laughing at
them. At first there was some definite
slating, but Edith Sitwell—the ringleader, so
it is said, of the group—reminded the glib
ones of past serious errors of their pro-
fessional brethren, gathering enough in-
stances of the fallibility of old-time critics
to make those of any age less cocasure of
themselves in the presence of something new
in art. Anyhow, the tentative attitude about
the Sitwell cult persists for the most part,
and the queer poetry comes out in its queer
forms—queer both of content and in the
get-up of the books. There is something
jazzy about it all, something futurist, and
no man has yet decided what it shall be in
the end.
What is it that these people are aiming at?
In a Hogarth Press publication we get Miss
Sitwell’s own word for it that there is a
new force and purpose, a new belief jogging
her and her friends to their performance.
The claim is that we have oorne, to a stage
in evolution where there is possible an exten-
sion of the senses, a pushing out into a spirit-
ual world of four dimensions. And the poet,
being a super-being, gets there first, per-
ceives the things of his new heirship. His
duty it is to become a kind of central sense,
gathering up and radiating what he per-
ceives to the duller apprehension of his
fellows. He is to be the expositor of the
perceptions of the sixth sense. This new
sense, being more spiritual than the live
senses in ordinary use, is to govern, relate
and control the rest, to lift up and to extend
man. Most people, if they only knew it,
are ready for this extension, but they don’t
know it, being content to jog along in the
old ruts. Man’s senses have hitherto been
little unrelated islands, each living its life
alone, speaking its own narrow language.
These , must merge, and be thrust farther
out, too. In short, there is a new world
for the perceiving, and there are the new
poets to show it to us.
Not an unreasonable argument this. Quite
in the line of science it is and of Einstein.
Curiously enough, biology, the science of
beginnings, gives a reminder of the inter-
changeability of the senses, that the function
of one may be. undertaken by another of
them, the. specialised sense being thrown
out of action. So that part of the idea, it
would appear, is going backward as well as
forward.
But the idea carries other implications
than the mere merging of the senses—the
extension of them. Hear Miss Sitwell, how-
ever —•
It [this poetry}! is bringing a new and heightened
consciousness of life as well as a fresh perception of
natural objects, and this comes sometimes as a
shock to people who are used to taking their impres-
sions at second-hand—to people who want comfort
and not truth.
That as to content, and this as to form—
It is by no means essential that a poet should
accommodate his language to this traditional form
[that is, the rules laid down in the Poetics]....
every great poet must innovate upon the example
of his predecessors.
She goes on to advocate the “breaking down
of the predestined groups of words, their
sleepy family habits, examining their tex-
ture, and re-building them into new and
vital shapes.”
As to the liberties that the group takes
with form, we are already used to free verse
of many kinds. But when it comes to the
“extension of sense,” to the new values,
the new vision, the new dimension itself,
most of us find the atmosphere rather be-
wildering, the landscape somewhat night-
marish. Something seems wrong, but that
is just, where the suspension of judgment
comes in. It may be wo ourselves who are
at fault. Aquatic creatures suddenly flung
ashore under the necessity of using fins for
legs. Adaptation isn’t achieved in a moment.
The question is, is this new world worth
(Continued on page 3.)


Jl
V
Service and Comfort in Men’s Distinctive Clothing
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
The man who would combine comfort
with economy, and practical service
with smartness, will wear a suit such
as enumerated. And to assure himself
of getting the greatest value in the
purchase, he will choose it at Anthony
Horderns’.
The “Hordemia” Sac Suit
is made in our own workrooms under expert supervision
—from materials imported direct from the mills —and it
conforms to a standard remarkably high in quality of
materials, excellence of workmanship, and neatness in
finish.
The Coat is a two-button model, with outside breast
pocket and no vent. The Vest has medium open-
ing and four pockets. The Trousers are designed
with side or cross and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
IN ALL-WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED, in neat Grey and
Brown effects.
PRICE
59)6
Grey Worsted Sac Suits
Made in our own workrooms from materials imported
direct from the mills, are so different in materials, in
construction, in fit and in their excellent finish that a
casual inspection is all that is needed to discover how
superior they are to the average “Ready-made.”
The Coat is smartly fashioned with a two-button
front, outside breast pocket, no vent. The Vest
has a medium opening and four pockets. The
Trousers are designed with side or cross and hip
pockets, cuff bottons.
Obtainable in GREY WORSTED in neat Striped, Plain
and Check effects.
PRICE
951-
m
tov&S!
4-'V*»
£<cr
la::
fe ;
<vA
s&s
m&.
: : 4'-
m
• : -
?L
v.>
A *
fcSsfi''
NS
1 A ‘ nT\ i>»/ '/ f
i-.'y .iJSi&ji
Til
min W*
frMiW
£
£8
... <
Vffi*
?/-f.: ■'ir 1 . v-stir ■■?;■• f\ : .Q
5.V {fo. *£ j W7±\'/SWZ/
s' s.fc
IwgiMag
|^v'</
?V-&
t:.i
o.:#
•i irkv
i-v-t-VcA-
K/Jf
,1?C
\m\\
-TV-,
Illiß
:V<'~>
ei
.v-,t
a?:
tv****
p««i
k<-i-.V«'X':vV
:-.i ;'v’(*^
r
pgisi;
;ili
; /;>•/
■^\
<7.
-
English Two-piece Sports Suits
The Coat has patch pockets and belted back. The Trousers are
designed with side and hip pockets, loops for belt and side straps.
In Fancy Mixture Tweeds, in Grey and Brown effects.
PRICE
Other Values: 75/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
65J-
The Hordernia Youth’s Sac Suit
The Coat is a two-button model, with outside breast pocket, no
vent. The Trousers have side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
In All-Wool Australian Tweeds, in neat dark designs.
PRICE
Other Values: 65/-, 75/-, 84/-
57)6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712 C.
Telephone: City 9440.


ESSEX
COACH
lIIIIIM
lllil
M
The Lowest Price for
The Finest Essex Ever Built
This is the greatest Essex value in history. It is the
finest Essex ever built. The price is the lowest for
which Essex ever sold*. The largest production of
6-cylinder cars in the world, giving economies in
purchase of materials, manufacture and distribution
exclusive to that position, make this value possible
to no other builder.
The new low price places it within reach of all. At
little more than the cost of low-priced “Fours’* it
gives the brilliant performance, reliability, riding
ease and fine appearance for which Essex is famous.
What more than 300,000 owners say of Essex is the
greatest endorsement it can have. They tell of
riding comfort that is duplicated only in costly cars;
of flexibility and power that make frequent gear
shifting unnecessary; of economy that includes not
only exceptional petrol, oil and tyre mileage, but
long trouble-free service without repair expense.
A ride will give you, too, a conviction of goodness
and quality such as you never expected in a car
of its price.
ESSEX PHAETON
h
More Than 300,000 Owners
Know Its Time-proved Quality
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO„ LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney,
MOTORS, LIMITED,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
GILBERT’S, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
415 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
158 A


Our Sp cial Overcoat Values
Fleecy Tweed 52/6
Raglan Overcoat of pure Wool Fleecy Tweed in
mid or dark brown shades; all round belt. All
sizes. Price .. .. .. . • 52/6
Wool Fleecy Tweed 70/-
Double breasted Overcoat in mid or dark grey;
set-in sleeves, half belt at back, lined throughout.
All sizes. Price .. .. .. 70/-
Gabardine Raincoat 75/-
In fawn and drab shades. Made with Raglan
sleeves and check lined throughout. All sizes.
Price .. • • • • • • • • 75/"
DAVID JONES’
while? It is all very well for Miss Sitwell
to compare the new departure with the
renaissance brought about by the Iveatses
and the Wordsworths, who taught people
how to use the old five senses, to sec Nature
without a crinoline. They must begin to
introduce us to their exhibits, these Sit-
wellean folk, or we shall have adapted our-
selves in vain. How have they begun their
task?
At least quite clearly “the interchange
of the senses” lias been demonstrated. That
is effected simply enough by the use* of
adjectives carried over from one sense to
another: “the hard and braying light”;
“the lien-cackling grass of Hell” ; “a twink-
ling sound"; the “morning light creaks”;
“the dawn light lies whining." Curious,
but not an innovation that lifts us far.
Miss Sitwell has some remarkable similes
too. She speaks of "niched waterfalls";
of the “long-haired candle"; of the “goat-
legged wind”; of “early blooms like ragged
goose-plums.” She is fond of calling the
stars “prunes." One very admirable image
is this of a spoiled and pettish woman
She lies embalmed in the fire’s gold sheen
Like a cross wasp in a ripe nectarine.
She has an “electric fish a-.curl like a trochee,”
and men’s beards “gushed like fountains of
blue water.” With these fourth-dimensional
poets things take strange colors as well
as strange shapes; one reads of “green
geese” and of “pink stars." In this world
there are amazing colors all jazzing to tum-
tum tunes; a fantastic place, it bewilders
a stranger to it. Perhaps we shall get used
to it —in 30 years.
One now and then suspects that the Sit-
well folk are writing with the tongue in the
cheek, that this fourth dimensional business
is just their little joke because most of us
are too serious, and take ourselves too seri-
ously. But it's a real world (if fantastic)
that they have made, and it’s their world.
And now I will myself get back to my
rail for 30 years.
MARY E. FULLERTON.
An Australian Ethel M. Dell
In high literary circles there is a preva-
lent delusion, fostered by eminent critics,
that the Charles Garvices, Ethel M. Dells
and Nat Goulds of this world are bowelless
scoundrels who exploit the simple-minded
public for filthy lucre. Nothing could be
further from the truth. One cannot own a
winter villa in Capri and another in Cali-
fornia by writing what one dot's not believe.
The Conrads and the Galsworthys do that,
and the State has to come to their assist-
ance with civil pensions. Take Conrad's
women, for instance. The respectable sea-
man only met the species at ports, and
those he saw must have upset him. Tem-
peramentally unable to write about them
as he found,them, lie manufactured sundry
mechanical puppets, made them strut about
the stage for 20 chapters, and then sent them
back into their cupboard with a gesture of
disgust. And Galsworthy. The spectacle
of human wickedness and folly is an orgy
the mere sight of which gives him a daily
attack of literary indigestion, so he toys
with the nuts and raisins, and tells you they
comprise the banquet. But the writer of
best-sellers sees life whole. He sees it as
the primitive makers of religions saw it, as
the eternal battle between good and evil,
where those with faith share in the victory
of virtue.
.Another popular belief is that the Charles
Garvices are either hopeless botchers or
foully and deliberately false to art. Another
envious libel! When perfect faith and the
story-telling gift are in conjunction, the re-
sult is not in doubt. Nobody could tell a
story, as a story, better than Nat Gould
or Garvice. Nobody tells it worse than
the W. L. Georges and the I). 11. Lawrences,
who are for ever losing the plot in pursuit of
new literary quackeries and fresh formula;
for human passions culled from the latest
researches of the psycho-analysts, the chem-
ists and the gland doctors.
The other day in Melbourne a very cool
and self-possessed little lady put a book into
my hands. Its title was f rod's Good
Woman, its author “Juliet,” and it was
still warm from the press of Edward A.
Vidler, of Collins-street. The story con-
cerns a very serious-minded medical student
of a university—presumably Melbourne's —
at whom a professor's daughter sets her bon-
net. The professor, anxious to provide for
his frivolous offspring, leaves £lOOO and his
daughter as a legacy to the student. The
student, now a doctor, feels a call to prac-
tise in a squalid district, but his wife's social
ambitions defer her from accompanying him.
She takes to sipping the wine when it is
paid for by someone with a fascinating
manner and a dark moustache, and awakes
one morning with a dim memory of having
been drugged the night before and made to
spend the night in the dark one’s apart-
ments. A good woman, secretly in love
with the unhappy husband, steers the couple
through tin' vicissitudes that ensue into safe
harbor. On the last page but one the war
breaks out so that the tangled skein can be
untwisted in a single paragraph. The doctor
earns fame in military service, his once-
wayward wife devotes herself to V.A.D.
work in the city, and to the good woman
“there came an honor which placed her name
high hi the records of heroic service, for
she died in a hospital in France, broken in
health but unflagging in spirit.” Even the
wicked dark one is allowed to expiate his
sins after a brief experience in the trenches,
adding liis name to a roll of honor, on which
lf appeared “in such good company as he had
never known in life."
l* en I read the work I realised that here
tt was the Ethel M. Dell of Australia.
Hero was the same limpid simplicity, the
same faith in the eventual triumph of light
over darkness, and the same directness of
narration which distinguish the greatest of
the worlds best-sellers. Here was just
enough sound philosophy to give intellectual
satisfaction, sufficient characterisation to
make the various types readily recognisable,
and so little atmosphere that the actors in
tie drama would gasp in vacuo if. as every
lterary stylist believes, the reader had not
any ability to supply the lack out of his own
experience.
“Juliet,” I learn, lias been tlie maker of
many books. She has written and composed
a dozen songs, two books of poetry, several
plays—some have been staged—as well as
novels. She is her own publisher and sales-
woman, calling on the city firms and offer-
ing her message with the quiet confidence
of a traveller purveying a thoroughly effi-
cient brand of safety-razor. She assured me
she did quite well out of it. If she had been
born in America she would own 10 autos,
and 14 stenographers, and her works would
be selling by the million.
M. G. S.
Saving Our Place-names
Whatever limitations the language of
Binghi has in the matter of vocabulary and
syntax, it does not lack the power to give
resounding names to places. Often these
names seem a very part of the landscape.
Sometimes they are beautiful even at first
hearing—Orara, Caloundra. Sometimes they
are quaintly comic, lending themselves to an
affectionate grin, like I lumpy Bong, or Croa-
jingalong. It used to be the thing to laugh
them right out of court: —
lllawarra, Mittagong,
I’a ri ama tta, Wollongong—
If you want to become an ourang-outang,
(•o to the wilds of Australia.
So it came that these nanjtes were replaced
by others like Lilydale and Braeside, names
from the “Old Country” that might be used
with equal incongruity by Jamaica or any
other part of the Empire on which the sun
never sets. To-day, though, there are signs
of a feeling in favor of retaining the native
names and even reviving them where they
have been submerged and lost.
In some cases the means for restoring the
apparently drowned have been used with
success, especially when the lifesavers have
been organised. For instance, in Brisbane
there exists a very active society for register-
ing aboriginal place-names, or, ratjier, for
registering all Australian place-names and
investigating their origins. Names that seem
to be native are sometimes found to be a
broken version of a European word, while
a name like Condamine proves to be pure
French—just as it stands, the name of an
aide-de-camp a long way back. Other names,
again, are broken Binghi, and none the
better for the break. The whole map is
being sorted and sifted, and much that was
dark has become clear. Further, much that
was doubtful has proved to be hopeless, quite
beyond resuscitation. Pioneers who could
have verified certain names and given their
meanings and origins have simply, through
the effluxion of time, died: the society is
told that it should have begun to work 30
years ago! Still, there is much material left
for sifting.
The society does not set up as a pedantic,
centralised body, working from documents in
Brisbane. It depends for its material on
the man on the spot—or on all the spots,
all over the enormous State. With this idea
letters were sent to the local councils, ask-
ing them to rake their district for its names
and, where possible, their meanings. I can
only answer for one council. It is in a
district that is simply starred with abo.
names of great interest' and beauty, and that
within memory was peopled by thousands of
blacks, yet it seemed unable to take any
action. Instead of appealing to school-
masters and oldest inhabitants in the district,
it found an easier way; it passed the letter
as read, and resolved that the matter should
be left in the hands of the clerk! Apathy
like a thick cloud settled over the scheme.
And yet the request was not remote from
practical matters. In all schools children
learn Australian geography very early, be-
ginning with that of their own district: the
investigation of names is necessary, and it
is everyone’s business, from Toorak (a good
abo. name if ever there was one) to Thurs-
day Island.
In urging an obviously sound ease like
this one usually finds that it is only a re-
statement of an irrefutable argument
brought forward by someone else before. The
other day, in a large and solid book. I read
this :
The fashion of calling Australian things and places
by old-world names is a misfortune, and should be
discouraged. Fortunately the fashion is changing and
native names are coming into favor. As a rule, the
native name of a place indicates some peculiarity
of scenery, position or produce of the spot.... The
native names are all either highly suggestive or
deeply figurative, and therefore possess a value that
the nomenclature of the mere passer-by can never
possess. A§ a rule, the original' sounds better than
the imported one; and if it is desirable that we
should surround ourselves, as far as possible, with
beautiful things, the rule must certainly apply to
sounds as well as sights. Australians have learnt
something of this, and seldom interfere with the
native name nowadays.
The fervent italics are mine, hut the words are
the words of Edwin Carton Bootle F.8.C.1.,
and the book’s date was about 1875. Booth
believed that the battle on behalf of native
names had been fought and won. It has to
be fought over again repeatedly: “I have
known four-and-twenty leaders, of revolu-
tions.” Isn’t it time for another tussle?
The foes are. first, time, which has caused
truths to be hidden, and, next, the prejudice
of certain people who have a vague feeling
that Binghi’s names lead away from civili-
sation. Such people can he convinced only
by deeds. The new crusaders might lead off
in a spectacular way by settling the tangled
history of the lovely hut dubious name Nimi-
tybelle.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Word Lore (Folk Press). The first number of a
little magazine devoted to recording dialect, folk
song epigram, place-names, phrases and field-lore.
Full 'of interesting pickings and promises to be a
note-and-query budget of value.
The Lone Hand, by Joseph B. Ames (Century Co.).
The Wyoming cattle country has been done to
death, but Mr. Ames has a skilful pen. and succeeds
in lifting his story by clever charact<risation and
the gift of keeping the reader guessing. Good of
its poor kind.
The Schooner California, by H. B. Drake (John
Lane). The scene is cast in French-Canadian Quebec,
and in many respects the story is reminiscent of
Gilbert Parker’s work in the same field, but if has
a strong dramatic interest of its own which would
have been intensified by concentration.
The Stubborn Fight, by Holman Day (Geoffrey
Bles.). Among the stalwart men engaged in industrial
war iii the big-timber country comes the girl whose
delicate fingers disentangle the knot and subdue the
rude natures. Of course a high-minded and hefty
lover is provided for the masterful maid and —well,
Hint's “all there is to it,” as they say in their
wonderful land.
Humors, by Alec E. Pratt (Brown, Prior). A
reprint of essays by an Australian writer and
published through a Victorian firm. Most of the
subjects dealt with have been the stock in trade
of the essayist since and before the days of Charles
Lamb, but the writer's treatment discloses an un-
affected style with originality and literary value.
Well printed and attractively got up.
Tinsel, by Charles Hanson Towne (Appleton;
Dymock). Pent up in her narrow home town, Della
Nesbit, the robust wife of Elijah, whose dollars are
as the sands of the sea, pines for a wider sphere
for her social activities. She plunges into the
life of New 1 oik, aspiring to be a society leader.
How she and her children come through with a re-
adjustment of values is the burden of a story told
by this versatile writer with quiet satire and
keen insight. Human and healthy.
Sally in Rhodesia, by Sheila Macdonald (Angus
and Robertson). Sorting out old letters the author’s
mother came across a yellowing bundle put aside
with sentimental regard for a daughter across the
sea. The letters were written in the high spirit
of youth from far-away Rhodesia in days when there
was no thought of war, 'and are full of the inconse-
quential chatter of a young married -woman seeing
with eager eyes the feast of new and surprising
things. Full of brightness and unstudied' humor.
The Devil, by Leo Tolstoy (Allen and Unwin).
Tolstoy left several trunks full of manuscripts, chiefly
early drafts and abandoned projects, with a declara-
tion that there was lift]a, if anything, worth pfublishing
among these remains. From the wreckage Avlmer
Maude has rescued this story and translated it for
English readers. Broadly it is worked out on the
basic conception in “The Kreutzer Sonata” that between
man and woman is a spiritual conflict —a war in
which the appetites of the flesh arc the instruments
of the Devil. Despite this morbid note, the story
has power.
Cornerstones of Auction Bridge, by Carl Ehlermann
(Angus and Robertson). An Australian reprint of
an American text-book, and the fact that it runs
into 291 pages is an indication of the importance in
which the game is held in the U.S.A. A commentator
remarks that the American has the talent of working
harder at his games than the Englishman, but is
just a trifle too anxious to graft all sorts of im-
provements on to the original form. This refining
and elaborating system has turned auction bridge in
America into a series of problems, till it has become
a strain rather than a relaxation. Less pretentious
is The Economy of Auction Bridge, by H. A. 11.
Carson (Methuen). To the indifferent player, to
whom it offers a helping hand, there may 'appear a
subtle humor in the title ; but careful attention to
the author’s clearly stated leading principles may
serve to lessen the drain on his purse.
Brown Smock, by C. R. Allen (Warne). The author,
who is a son of the recent High Commissioner for
Maorilalid, made a hit with his first novel, “The Ship
Beautiful,” an original conception moving in an
atmosphere of poetry and mysticism. The same
mystic note is struck in “Brown Smock,” a dream-
child drawn from the spirit of English woodland and
meadow, symbolising the antithesis of all that the
great god Pan once stood for. Terry Hood, the central
figure, is a lad whose musical ability attracts the
attention of a blind patroness who has devoted her
life to making smooth the rough path of children
whose natural gifts would otherwise have been lost.
The spirit of Brown Smock informs her life, and the
same spirit of solicitude and sympathy is the beacon
light of her protege, who after many false steps
find:! at last a true note in life to which he may fit
a tune for Brown Smock’s pipe.
Anatole France and Ills Circle, by Paul Gsell, and
The Bloom of Life (John Lane). Through its
admirable translations “The Bodley Head” has done
much to make the French Master known to English
readers, and the good work is being supplemented
by the publication of this cheap popular edition.
The table-talk collected by M. Gsell is mainly the
fruits of conversations at the famous morning gather-
ings where the disciples sat at the feet of the sage.
Incidentally, the French Boswell does something to
remove the conception of Anatole France as the com-
plete sceptic. “If,” he says, “by sceptic oue means
a philosopher who doubts what he docs not know and
what he has no reason to believe, who laughs at
baleful prejudices, quizzes inflated glory, scourges
stupid and sanguinary ambitions, assuredly Anatole
France is the prince of sceptics. But that lie was
indifferent to everything is precisely the opposite
of the truth. In his slightest repartees we had no
difficulty in discovering most strong' convictions.
The Wooden Man, by Gilbert Norwood (Heine-
mann). A collection of bright stories and crisp and
unconventional essays. Thus in “Too Many Books
he appraises the printing press _as one of the worst
modern afflictions. “We are,” he declares, “oppressed,
choked, buried by books.” As a measure of reform
he advocates “the absolute prohibition of all novels
for the next 10 years. Then, during five years,
only those novels, hitherto held up, should be issued
which both publisher and author still thought worth
while.” After that, if people persisted in writing
novels, the Government might issue permits.
♦
“rioola”: Sydney Jephcott (R.P. 3/6/’26) is, 1
think, astray when he assigns to Mowbray Morris
the authorship of “the poem with the quatrain begin-
ning ‘Life is mostly froth and bubble.’ ” The lines
are from Fytte VIII of Gordon’s “Ye Wearie Way-
farer.” Mr. Jephcott is confusing this with “A Voice
from the Bush,” which was included in most of the
earlier collections of Gordon’s poems, though written
by Mowbray Morris.
This" country comes in for a lot of attention from
Miss Storm Jameson, a rising English author, in her
latest novel, “Three Kingdoms.” The worst character
in the book is an Australian who, when he enters
a room, shuts the door “by leaning his shoulder
against it” ; who when he walks “swings his broad
haunches like a big cat" and who “cannot look
people in the face, but lets his eyes take different
routes “with an odd swivelling movement." Also,
an English chair is too small for him; “his broad
rump spreading over it on either side." The other
characters learn their profanity in “a clean and
decent school,” the Australian knows “no such limi-
tations.” The coarse “barbarian” is a “good adver-
tiser, a liar, a braggart, and insupportably conceited,”
but this “was only to be expected seeing where he
was reared.” Would it be wrong to suggest that
Miss Storm Jameson keeps queer company?
Randolph Bedford writes: The Bulletin leader-
ette on Cassells’ publishing house (27/f>/’26)
rightly objects to Australia leaving “the supply-
ing of its mental pabulum or dope or whatever
it is to foreigners,” but the inference that this
indicates the Australian's “dashed laziness” is unfair.
America went through the phase of importing its
books and its plays and its actors, but with numbers
and High Protection it learned its job, and now
exports plays and books and actors and supplies
most of the movie demand of the world. (It sup-
plies most of the movie demand of Britain, too,
because British movies are mostly beneath contempt
in story, treatment and technique.) Ask the Aus-
tralian theatrical manager why he imports indifferent
plays and bad actors while competent Australian
actors cannot find engagement, and he will tell you
that the public demands foreign plays and new faces;
and when he tells you that he tells the truth. llow
can the Australian masses ever become sufficiently
used to their own authors and actors to demand
them when their daily dose of journalism comes
from a press so poininyised that Castlereagh-street
talks like Fleet-street, which has been Hunter-street’s
language since Governor Bourke? The only decisive
beginning for the Australian author and the Australian
book printer in the making of Australian literature
is a Copyright Act on American lines, treating all
the rest of the world as a foreigner who shouldn’t
be helped to dump on us the ghastly magazines of
Britain and the rubbish of Garvice and Ethel M. Dell.


y
%
's'
y.
/
y
y
/
»
m
m
y****sjKoy.
00ZZ&.
Sssss*«**»sws
-V
‘££4Z&*mw/J'4 s
€>
4*
A
i
/
A
*
r^;
/
/
H
T.
y
y
/
/
O'
\
/%
*
K
m
A
r
0
1/
v#
*
?J
n
oJ
//
'4
a
4
i
AS.
L
t:
♦
r*
«
/
T s
r*
W,
iera we ioilcfa longdcy is Obi
".V
Hi
7
'
Plant No. 866 is a most popular
model. Its capacity is 850 watts,
volts, 160 ampere hoiir battery.
When your day is over what doyoi# return home to? A
semi-dark house and the cheerless atmosphere of badly-lit rooms,
or the welcome glow of brilliant lights?
Good lighting c/oes make a difference to a home, and there
is no better lighting than DELCO-LIGHT. It dispels gloom and
radiates cheerfulness. It is to the night what the sun is to the day.
it spreads a gracious mantle of diffused light that makes night
brighter than day. It will fill your home with radiance and joy.
Delco-Light is like the beneficent genii who will, at the
touch of a switch, flood your home with radiant light. There is no
work——there is no trouble—there is no mess. It is easily installed
—extremely simple to operate and needs very little attention. It
also provides electric power which can be used for electric irons,
washing-machines, vacuum-cleaners, pumps and all other kinds of
machinery.
The initial cost of Delco-Light is so small that it soon pays for
itself by what it saves. Made in various sizes, there is a unit that
will exactly suit your requirements.
LET US SEND YOU FULL INFORMATION
IN OUR BOOKLET B.
DISTRIBUTORS;
Warburton Franki, Ltd., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Warburton Franki, Ltd„,Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., GrenfeU Street, Adelaide. S.A.
Sniellie & Co., Ltd.. Brisbane, Queensland.
Gilberts, Ltd., Hay; Street, Perth, W.A.
W. P. & E. A. Stewart, Launceston. Tas.
DELCO-LIGHT


N
(®
1
o
57TtjQ U
I!
D
L
2
m
30
J^O
V
m as
cy
'ZsSp.
r==y
O
¥mwm
¥0
o
&r-'-
K-rJ
Mr
B 5?
W:
&
II
0
sOnd’S for Bachelors
THE last-minute disclosure of holes in
socks is an annoyance unknown to the
bachelor who takes the precaution of
specifying "Bond’s” when purchasing half-hose. Bond’s
Half-Hose has strength and wear resistance woven in
with every thread. At the same time fine appearance
is not forgotten. A clean, crisp look is given to every
texture in the wide Bond’s range. Colors and designs
—whether they’re heathers, clocks, stripes or checks—
are exactly as a man’s man would have them—smart
without being garish. Ask your mercer to show you
these styles ;
Bond’s Triplevtear Fc f tFe man
— who likes an
all-silken sock. Colors include all the
fashionable shades, also black and white
with colored fancy clocks
4/11, Plain Colors, per Pair
4/6
Bond’s R.K. 73 comkines f ilk ,f nd
. ■ wool in heather
*
mixtures, for those who need the
extra warmth of wool. Smartly
checked in contrasting colors.
Per Pair . . . .
5/6
9
HALF - HOSE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Made in Australia by GEO. A. BOND b CO. LTD. All States, New Zealand and South Africa.
Manufacturers of Lopds Hosiery, Half-Hose, Underwear, Towels, Sheeting. Pioneer Australian Cotton Spinners


You can
WEST
AUSTRALIA
AND
TASMANIA,
£399
r
THE important announcement by Studebaker of
new low prices now places before Australian
T , buyers a new conception of motor car value.
Ihe Studebaker is ALL Studebaker—all vital parts are
made in Studebaker plants— not assembled from difTe-
rent sources. Thus Studebaker saves all the profits
or outside makers. Now, with increased production,
created by quality demand, comes this new sensa-
tional low price level.
the crowning triumph of Unit'
built,One-prof it production!
When you think of buying a Studebaker, think of its strong
sturdy chassis, powerful (i-cylinder engine, roomy comfort its
extra convenience, and absence of repair costs. The Studebaker
has always answered the demands of quality and reliability. Now
it more than answers your demands as to price. Choose to-day.
the lowest prices ever Quoted
jor6CylinderStudebakerCars
Standard Six Roadster with Folding Top, now j£3&9
Standard Six Tourer with Folding Top, now j£
Standard Six Roadster with Duplex Body, now j£4XS
Standard Six Tourer with Duplex Body, now JZ425
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
(Western Australia and Tasmania £lO extra.)
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
PANADA CYCLE ami MOTOR AGENCY <Q.), LTD., Creak and Adelaide Streets, Briabana
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
DUNCAN & FRASER, LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ISLAND MOTORS PROPRIETARY, LTD., Hobart.
ADAMS, LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
STUDEBAKER, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, U.S.A,
PR5t
h
BUILDERS OF QUALITY VEHICLES
7 4 YEARS
FOR


HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W.
Winter Garden. Palm Court.
Louis Seize Drawing-room.
Lounge. Dining Saloons.
Billiards and Dancing.
Central Heating. Gas Fires.
Single Rooms from 41 guineas.
Double from 8 guineas.
New Extension now ready.
Telephone, Park 2765.
Also
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, LONDON, W.
Thoroughly up to date. Newly decorated.
Extension now ready. Double 5i guineas;
Single 3 guineas.
Telephone, Paddington 1800.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
ffi
D
□
iif
Add Life
to Linoleum
—this Easy,
Liquid Way
Your linoleum will look more beauti-
ful—clean much easier—and last
years longer if you polish it occasion-
ally with Johnson’s Liquid Wax. It
brings out the pattern and color—
protects the linoleum from wear—>
and imparts a beautiful, dry, dirt-
repellent surface which washes off
like glass.
The new Johnson “Easy, Liquid
Way” makes the waxing of linoleum
mere child’s play. Takes only a few
minutes—requires no stooping, and
you don’t touch your hands to floor
or Wax.
JOHNSON’S
LIQUID WAX
ĥ
All you do is pour
Johnson’s Liquid Wax
on a lamb’s-wool mop
and apply a thin, even
coat to the floor. A
few brisk strokes with
the Johnson Weighted
Brush will quickly
bring it to a beauti-
ful, durable, glass-
like lustre.
It is the new, easy,
modern way to have
beautiful waxed floors.
Takes only a few minutes and is as
simple as running a carpet-sweeper.
The Johnson Wax Mop has a removable
lamb’s-wool swab, which washes per-
fectly in hot suds.
Floor Polishing Outfit
Your dealer is authorised to sell you
This 34/- Outfit for only 28/-
A Saving of 6/-
This outfit is just the
thing for waxing all of
your floors. The outfit
consists of:—
1 Pint of Johnson’s
Liquid Wax .... 5/-
J Johnson’s Lamb’s-
wool Wax Mop.. 8/-
1 Johnson’s weighte'd
Floor Polishing
Brush 30/-
1 Johnson’s Book
on Home Beauti-
fying 1/-
Value 34/-
fflU
«tu«*
CJOHW®
•SONS
S. C. Johnson & Son
Office and Factory:
Queen Street, Rosebery, N.S.W.
Air, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
n should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable hews
trom Australia and news of Australians in
Lurope and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, WC.2. where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
. obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 404 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ħ
Relief from Rupture
Any sufferer will find
Denyers’ Elastic Truss
gives complete relief and Support and
is conducive to curing.
It is perfect fitting, safe and sure. Why go another day without it?
Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6. Postage extra.
unable to call, a Pamphlet will be sent in .a plain envelope closed, giving full
particulars.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss, Abdominal Belt and Surgical Instrument Makers.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR TASTY SANDWICHES
Speck's
Anchovette is an appetising and nutri-
tious food particularly suitable for
quickly-prepared meals. See how .the
children enjoy Sandwiches made from
delicious Anchovette:
ANCHOVETTE
tSW)
P 29
Hov yourify
villyou be
„ „.at
Mother looks as
youn6 as her
D'B. Allens
WJUTSENN
“Why, she looks as young and charming as her daughter.” How
often have you heard these words spoken about women who have retained
their girlish appearance while their family is quickly growing up'around
them! Have you ever stopped to think what the real secret of their
youth is? The turning-point of youth to early middle-age comes when a
little silvery grev creeps in amongst that crowning glory of women—their
hair. No matter the youthful bloom upon the cheek, or the figure its easy
girlish form, the hair appearance is the mirror of the age.
Stop for a moment and think of the really smart women that you
know'; they do not allow those tell-tale grey hairs, the unmistakable symbol
of advancing years, to creep in and spoil their beauty.
Grev hair can never be fashionable —it is the first sign of old age. A
man mav be as old as he feels—but a woman is as old as her # hair.
Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain has enjoyed the confidence of women
for 25 years—it is perfectly harmless, easy to apply, immediate in action,
and, above all, undetectable. Carefully carry out the Instructions and let
it restore your hair to its natural shade. Grey hairs will vanish like magic
and youth will walk in at your door.
lub fteil
mm
mm
m
k
El
mm
mm
tei.rff km
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
BOX PRICES:
6d.
EACH.
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/* (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN. 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory. .
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sowing Time.
From these furrowed fields
Shall be good yields
When the year is ripe—
Harvest home
From the warm sweet loam
To the sound of tabor and pipe.
Lovely in youth,
The gleaner Ruth
Shall her apron fill
With the white corn lost
Without care or cost
To the hands that till.
Sun and brown soil!
And the earth for spoil
To the raider man!
God is in Israel!
So the praise fell
Since harvests began.
From the furrowed brow
And the midnight's plough
What yield? What yield?
Is it grain or chaff?
The years laugh
And the books are sealed!
Barley and thought!
Are the seasons nought
When the bread is eaten?
Or shall all pass
Like the clanging brass
Of a cymbal beaten?
Soil of grey brain ;
With tears for rain
And great thoughts flowing!
God is in Israel!
Trim the lamps well;
Set the horns blowing!
Once on a day of gold
Far in the years of old
Flint flashed to fire.
Flash, O my soul, again !
This is the ages’ gain—
Hope and desire!
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Pale Lovers.
Pale lovers ’neath the languid summer moon,
Why must you wait until the day be dead.
Until the songs and rosy lights are fled
And all the scents of lovely afternoon?
Why do you long for night to come so soon,
With black and starry spaces overhead,
Until love’s mystic offices be said.
And joy ingathered with its priceless boon?
I cannot think that love, this shining flower,
Should only bloom along the still, sad night
In darkness and in cold tranquillity.
Oh, let me in some radiant sun-filled hour,
Wrapped round with pulsing color and
delight,
Watch its rich petals open out for me!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Mists.
Though the niglit-mists round the house
Gather thick arid wan,
Let us take what Age allows
AVliile the clock ticks on.
Here is warmth, and here is cheer,
Comrades old and tried:
What is there for us to fear
In the night outside?
Narrower the circle grows
Round our little fire—
Let us nigher, while it glows,
Draw, and ever nigher;
Friend and friend, a glowing troop,
With a last word said,
From our genial fireside group
One by one have sped.
Sped are they with requiem,
Altar-lights and Mass;
Let us mourn no more for them,
Since we, too, must pass.
Pass across yon threshold stone,
Through yon door flung wide.
With a last look backward thrown
To the mists outside.
Comrades, though about our house
Night-mists gather whn,
Let us joy-of-life espouse
While the clock ticks on.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Queensland Butterflies.
Butterfly-time is over and gone!
Butterfly! Butterfly rover!
There is never a winy where your loveliness
shone!
Butterfly-time is over.
Velvet and vivid,
Splashed crimson.
Wings dusted with spray of the stars
And the moon's yellow honey!
Sapphire and silver!
Enchanted !
Encrusted with myriad bars
()f the sun’s golden money!
Soft as the clouds in the sky:
Swift as the winds of the night;
Sweet. . . .ah, so lovely to die,
Frail for such difficult flight!
You may not stay long lest our wonder
Should leave ns and aye and a day
We should mourn for the swift summer’s
plunder
That used just to vanish away,
Singing “Butterfly-time is over And gone!
{Butterfly! Butterfly rover!
There is never a winy where your loveliness
shone!)
Butterfly-time is over.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


a
a
Geo. Wells,
G. Bennett,
W. Mortlock,
Mr. Spiers,
R. Iddison,
THE FIRST ENGLISH TEAM IN AUSTRALIA, 1862.
Wm. Caffyn, T. Sewell, G. Griffith,
H. H. Stephenson,
Mr. Mallam,
W. Mudie,
E. Stephenson,
Mr. Pond,
C. Lawrence, T. Hearne,


The Bulletin
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 47.—N0. 2418.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1926.
Pkice 6d.
THE TEST-MATCH,
“Following on the institution of the 44-hour week in N. S. Wales, some of the unions of Australia (which is now £975,000,000 in debt) demand a 10 hour week.”
THE BOLSHIE BOWLER: “Here, give us another ball. I can get him into difficulties with this one, but I can t quite knock him out."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 2X4 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 !,s.; 6‘ months, Ids. 6d.; 3 months,, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. lid.; 3 months, 3s.
Cheques, drafts, etc., ivhich should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it xvill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivasli,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but. unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
■which has to be re-drawn —will be, paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
C. Grondona. No. 1 AVardour Street-
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. .4 is 0 from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
I'J Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.1,.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 1,11,-11 Australia
House, Strand, London, 1V.0.2j F. .ilgcir, 58 (.iva.ee-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia A ews. Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastinas
Street, \ ancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
Neu's Co., 33 West Monroe Street. Chicago New
1 or!;: Brentano’s. sth Avenue and '27th Street New
Jork City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th.
Avenue and J/2nd &tveet, New 3' ovlc City j Ilotalinr/’s
News -Agericy, 203 West I,lst Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
w heat ley News Co., 70\ Market Street , San Francisco:
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.
Egypt .—Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Bool; and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt
Mono Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Tedder Street,
Hong Kong .
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road.
Shanghai, China.
Ceylon. — R. B. Pcrera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
TT .U 1 - -A Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.- L. SI. C. Grondona. No. I Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. ; Gordon and
Gotcha , 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
•newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
Iboz. , Ml, United Kingdom,: ’,oz. to l()oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1926.
OPPORTUNITY BANGING AT THE
BRUCE-PAGE DOOR.
“Provision for the taking over by the Common-
wealth of certain of the State debts is made in
section 105 of the Constitution, and a proposed law
extending this provision to the whole of the State
indebtedness was submitted to a referendum in April
1910, and accepted by 715,053 votes to 586,271.’
No action has, however, been taken.” —Stereotyped
par. in the “Commonwealth Year Boole."
Foreign-trade editors and State Frights
politicians are fond of declaring that the
Commonwealth, which is saddled with a war
debt of £400,000,000, has no business to b 6
levying direct-taxes. Remarks to this effect
excite no astonishment when the authors are
known to be Foreign-traders or State Friglit-
ers, or both, but when they appear in papers
which make a parade of their Protectionism
and national sympathies the reader is apt
to rub his eyes in wonder. Melbourne Age
while approving of the decision to do away
with the per capita payments to the States
castigates the Government for not giving up
the Federal income-tax, as' well as the taxes
on land and entertainments and the estate
duties. Tiie Leader, issued from the same
office, says: “Under the press of urgent war
requirements, the Commonwealth invaded
the States’ domain of direct taxation, but it
should have retired from that field long ago”
—when the war debt was paid off and the
last pensioner was gathered to his fathers,
no doubt.
* * * *
Tried by the test of figures (which neither
deigned to supply) the contentions
ot the Syme papers are ridiculous. In 1924-
25 the .Commonwealth collected £37,192,781
from customs and excise and £15,617,692
from the taxes on incomes, land, entertain-
ments and dead men’s property. The only
other revenue item worth noticing was a
net profit of £1,277,975' on the note issue.
Sometimes there is a contribution from the
1 ostmaster-General’s Department, but a sub-
stantial debit balance was shown in 1924-25,
and the Commonwealth steamers and rail-
ways Cockatoo Dockyard, Papua, the Man-
dated Territory and the Northern Territory
are all losing propositions. Had the
Government abandoned its direct taxes
at the end of 1923-24, at the same time
discontinuing the per capita payments, it
would have had £35,470,756 to meet the fol-
lowing items of expenditure:—
Interest (mostly war) .. .. £19,859,95!)
Sinking funds 4,284 533
War pensions . . . . ~ . # 7 773 2 26
Old age and invalid pensions .. .. fi’qqo’qo-,
Maternity allowances .. ~ ’<sBB “>O5
Defence ..
>.avy Office 2.016,404
Air services 216 544
Parliament 355 257
Governor-General .. .. ~ *26*777
Trades and Customs Department .. 1 298 275
Health Department .. ... ~ 187 799
Attomey-GeneraTs Department .. 169 015
Prime Minister’s Department .. 415 716
Home and Territories Department . . 441X486
Markets and Migration Department . . 560'717
Postmaster-General’s Department (loss) 242*000
Treasury (less Taxation Office) 7 -, 5'175
New works .. 345’916
Hoad grants to the States .. .. 500 000
Commonwealth steamers (loss) .. 593*879
Total •• £ 4.9,944,394
In short, expenditure would have exceeded
revenue by 114 millions at the end of the
first year, and probably a lot more, for the
foregoing list is by no means complete. Even
if the maternity allowances and road grants
are cut out and the Government can be
imagined as effecting a 25 p.c. reduction in
the cost of running the departments, a ter
rmc deficit would remain. In such circum-
stances there would have been ;no revision
ot the Tariff on Protectionist lines. Rather
would there have been a lowering of duties
to encourage the boom in imports and so get
m more customs revenue, with a probable ex-
tension of the foreign-loan policy by which
revenue is already inflated (the S. Aus. Gov-
pU 1 ,!? o' 1 alone paid the Commonwealth
±260,057 last year in import duties on rail-
way material, the money, of course, being
borrowed), and certain disaster to a multi-
tude of manufacturing industries, especially
the metals-and-machinery and tcxtiles-and-
apparel groups.
r*. * * *
There is no harm in surrendering the
1 ederal taxes on land, amusements and
deceased estates as part of a definite policy
of give-and-take. But the Commonwealth
Government cannot afford to part with its
income-tax, which brings in a certain 11
millions p.a. It would be madness to let the
thmg go for even a limited period. Instead
ot indulging in these dangerous dreams,
Bruce and Page should force the States out
ot the income-tax field so that Australia may
have one such impost, and that reserved for
payment of war interest and pensions in
place of two in each State, especially as’ the
State tax is used in more than one case to
finance crazy experiments and penalise poli-
tical opponents. The repeal of the Surplus
Revenue Act gives the Bruce Government
a unique opportunity of bringing this
reform about, and of at least starting on
another of even, greater importance by acting
on a very decided popular instruction
now 16 years old. The States could
be compensated for the loss of their
income-taxes and per capita payments as
tempered by their acquisition of the Federal
land- and entertainment-taxes and death
duties, by the Commonwealth taking over a
fair proportion of their debts. Left to the
States there seems to be no prospect what-
ever of a reduction of those debts, no matter
how much of the assets supposed to have
been bought with the borrowed money lui.s
disappeared. The Commonwealth, on the
other hand, though it is not doing much to
wipe out its debt, lias at least a definite
Sinking-fund policy, and at least one fair
source of sinking-fund revenue in the note-
issue and the Commonwealth Bank.
THE GROUP-SETTLEMENT CARROT.
Speaking to a London Times reporter,
James Parr, the Maoriland High Commis-
sioner, referred without enthusiasm to the
notion that masses of the Old Man’s million
dole-drawers can be transformed into
Dominion farmers, Britain advancing the
money and the Dominions becoming respon-
sible for interest and losses. He said that
group settlement on a large scale might be
possible m Australia, but so far it had failed
badly; the Westralian scheme has gone
down with a bump.” For this he was taken
to task by Oolebatch, the Westralian Agent-
General, whose reply was to the effect that
1 arr didn t know what he was talking about,
and that, considering the difficulties experi-
enced by the group-settlers, the results are
magnificent.” The A.-G.’s version may have
been swallowed in Britain, but it was read in
Australia with wintry smiles. It is now five
years since Jimmy Mitchell, then Cole-
RATCH’s chief, published his nlan of group
settlement and touched the Old Man for the
first instalment. The arrangement was that
every immigrant who came under the scheme
should get a fully-equipped 160-acrc dairy
farm, to be hewn out of the forest primeval,
and draw 10s. a day “sustenance” until the
hewing was complete. The farm Avas to
have a four-roomed cottage, “with ..verandah
back and front”; water arid drainage; fenc-
ing; ~0 acres cleared for pasture and five
acres for intense culture; seed and manure;
a plough, harrow and chaffcutter ;..£5 worth
of. tools; a cart and harness ; a cowshed and
milk room; a cream separator, cream bucket
and milk pails, and “one horse, up to 15
cows, also pigs.’’ And each group was to
be provided with “pure pedigree bulls,”
number unspecified. Mitchell did not work
out all these details himself, but he under-
took to settle 6000 immigrants for
±6,000,000; the total charge to the indi-
vidual, it was set forth in the agreement,
shall not in any case exceed £1000.” He
talked royally of taking “25,000 overseas
settlers annually” on the same terms.
* # * .....
Mitchell went out of office in April,
1024, and liis successors, who had shared
lus enthusiasm for group settlement—at
least, An g win, Labor Minister for Land and
Immigration, had—found themselves in
trouble right away. Among other things
they learned that, when the novelty of bat-
tling with the forest primeval had worn off,
a large proportion of the settlers retired to
better holes, mostly in Perth. They also
discovered that a number of those who re-
mained would have to be transferred, at the
State’s cost, to new holdings, having been
placed on areas so barren that even grass
refused to grow. They ascertained further
that the cost of effecting improvements on
the “10-bob-a-day-susteiiance” plan, particu-
larly where splendid hardwood forests had
to be destroyed before tyros could be shoved
on land of questionable value for anything
but timber, was terrific, clearing alone ex-
ceeding £6O an acre in places. After much
pondering they substituted piecework for the
Labor shibboleth of payment by the day,
and the proceeding was rather creditable to
them, though it came late. Also they went
in for concentration on existing groups, in-
stead of putting on swarms of new settlers,
as Mitchell would have done. Nowadays
they never mention group settlement if the
subject can be avoided, and precise informa-
tion as to how it is shaping is seldom fur-
nished. The subjoined facts were, however, set
out in the useful "Pocket Year Book” issued
by Government Statistician Bennett :
End End
, of 15)24. of 1925.
bottlers .. ~ 2271 2290
Holdings .. .. 2325 2356
Cottages .. .. 1250 1577
Hairy cattle .. .. 2012 6069
350 425
Horses .. ~ 300 521
Expenditure . . £1,657,057 £2,742,988
The percentage of originals in the poor
little total of 2290 settlers is not
given, nor is it stated whether the 66
holdings shown to be in excess are
being got ready for new men or have been
abandoned as hopeless. But if the total
of settlers is small, the cost is high
enough. Obviously there is a shortage
of at least 713 cottages, the erection of
which will run into between £150,000 and
£200,000, if not more. There will likewise
have to be a considerable outlay on stock,
for the settlers won’t be able to do much
with an average of, roughly, 24 cows, two-
ninths of a horse and two-elevenths of a pig
apiece.
* * * *
In a communique published subsequent to
the “Pocket Year Book” the average cost of
establishing a settler is estimated at
approximately £1500.” or half as much
again as Mitchell’s figure. But the esti-
mate is dependent on “what the settler does
in his spare time and on the provision of
stock and plant for himself.” There is no
pay for spare-time work, and “while many
settlers have prepared several acres of land,
others have done little or nothing.” And
the latter gentry need not worry about buy-
ing stock, for the Government undertakes to
provide cows and horses on eight years’
terms, interest only being payable for the
first three years. Payments for the farm
itself are spread over 30 years, nor will in-
stalments of principal be demanded until
‘ten years after the disbandment of the
group, when the settler is expected to be
able to stand on his own feet.” In a dismal
attempt to cheer up the taxpayer, who has
to carry the burden of all this liot-house
. settlement,” it is pointed out that “there
is a ? large local market for dairy pro-
duce.” No reference is made to the
tact that the said market is already
supplied, except as to fresh milk, by
Eastern States dairy-farmers who have
mastered the job which most of the group set-
tlers are painfully learning, and whose land
is of proved quality, whereas the group-
settlement areas have to demonstrate their
worth. Neither is it mentioned that crowds
of these Eastern States farmers protest that
there has been so little in dairying of late
years that they haven’t averaged the basic
wage. Australia, has witnessed many silly
experiments in land-settlement of the politi-
cal variety, but none sillier than this Groper-
land scheme. In the end no doubt the State
will have bought bits of settlement at a pro-
digious price, but it will derive far more
wealth from the accompanying developments
in the pastoral industry which gets so little
attention from the politicians—greatly to
its advantage. While the country has been
burdened with Mitchell’s cow-farms, pas-
toral settlement has spread over vast tracts
which used to be regarded as worthless and
the movement is still going on. There has
boon, no squandering of borrowed money on
this colonisation scheme. The pastoral settler
is never spoon-fed.
AN AUSTRALIAN COLLEGE OF
SURGEONS.
The idea of an Australian College of Sur-
geons is not new, but has hitherto failed to
interest the rank and file of the profession.
At a recent meeting in connection with
a revived scheme for its formation, general
practitioners of standing were, however,
agreed as to its necessity. The rapid im-
provements in technique and asepsis in
recent years have so reduced the risks after
operation that there exists a powerful temp-
tation for men unfitted by experience or
temperament to undertake operations of
major importance. This is very far from
being in the interest of the public.
At one time major operations were per-
formed only for the purpose of saving life,
but the majority are now performefl either
to avoid the progress of conditions which
later become dangerous to life, or to relieve
conditions which cause chronic ill-health
or. constant discomfort. Thus formerly the
successful surgeon was the one with the
lowest death-rate, but this is a very inad-
equate standard by which to judge the
modern surgeon. It is, of course, essential
tuat the deatli-rate should be low, but it is
almost as important that the cure-rate should
‘ -the deatli-rate of an inexperienced
ugeon with insufficient knowledge and un-
developed judgment is far higher in emer-
&c-ncy surgery than that of tlie experienced
surgeon; but, apart from urgent surgery,
almost any qualified medical man can oper-
ate on chronic cases without killing his
patient. Yet to so operate that the patient
is cured with the least possible risk to life
and without the unnecessary sacrifice of
organs requires knowledge and judgment that
cannot be acquired by all. The. passing of
examinations and the registration by the
btatc of graduates should and usually does
ensure that the individual registered has
average knowledge and capacity. But the'
qualifications necessary for major surgery
are far beyond this, and imply very special
experience and judgment. Every surgeon
knows how much improper and' ill-judged
surgery is performed. Modern surgery is a
hard master, and makes demands that are
incompatible with the hurrv of general prac-
tice. Too many patients' are subjected to
the risk, pain and expense of a major opera-
tion from which they derive no benefit be-
cause the operation performed was unsuit-
able, and many, specially women, have
organs and functions needlessly sacrificed.
AY here experience is lacking the tendency is
to remove an organ if doubt exists. Many
of these patients are compelled to undergo
{mother operation, and some go through life
m unnecessary discomfort.
The public is entitled to and is beginning to
demand some standard by which it can judge
as to who is fitted to undertake the grave
responsibility of operating. • The Law infers
that any qualified and registered practitioner
is capable of performing major operations, as
there is but one registration for all. The
proposal is that a chartered college should
undertake to say what men are qualified to
become its fellows or members. The deci-
sion as to who shall be admitted will in-
evitably cause much heart-burning and much
opposition from a class of general practi-
tioner which has made money from ill-judged
surgery. It is essential that the control of
the college should be in the hands of wise
men; the temporary sub-committee appointed
is _ such that it has the confidence of the
thinking and ethical members of the pro-
fession, and it is determined to keep free of
political control.
The proposed qualifications for fellowship
and membership, if properly enforced, will
go far to ensure a high standard to the
public. It will depart from the standards of
the Royal Colleges of Surgeons of England
and Scotland, which are purely academic,
and are a measure not of the capacity to
perform operations but of ability to pass
examinations. The Fellowship of the Royal
College of Surgeons of England can be and
been obtained by men who have never
opened a boil. The American College of
Surgeons has a high standard of practical
knowledge, but rumor says that its standard
is frequentlv evaded. The proposed qualifica-
tions for the Australian College are that a
member shall have performed satisfactorily
50 major and 50 minor operations and supply
pathological details of the necessity for opera-
tion and of the suitability of the operation,
and that he shall possess a high standard
of conduct in a professional sense and be not
guilty of the crime of performing unnecessary
operations. The qualifications in the case
of country surgeons will include the recom-
mendation and support of fellow practitioners
in the district. There will be many diffi-
culties to overcome, but the temporary com-
mittee is powerful and tactful.
Such a college is rapidly becoming an
essential protection for the sick of the State.
It would not take any of his legal rights from
the general practitioner, who would retain
the right to _ operate, but it would give
the public an invaluable aid in arriving at
a choice of surgeons, and, if the college were
administered without fear or favor, it would
ensure for the patient the fair chance of
cure and that freedom from risk to which he
or she is entitled.
CARYSFORT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Why Do Ships Founder?
“Cleveland’’ : Only for a miracle happen-
ing and two men being picked up, the
Dorrigo would have been the fourth
Australian ship in 14 years to dis-
appear and leave nobody to tell what
happened. It is five if the Waratali be
counted. The Yongala was the first to go,
in March of 1911, and she was followed
about a year later by the Koombana. Then
in December of 1914 the Federal trawler
Endeavour slid behind the veil, and the Dor-
rigo lias just done her best to drag every-
body along with her. After the customary
messages of condolence had been despatched,
a Court of Marine Inquiry set about finding
out what happened, and elicited —among
other things—the following:—
(1) The Dorrigo, purchased about a year ago,
was found to have on board 50 tons of iron and
stone ballast. She also had a water-ballast tank
which held 16 tons.
(2) The managing director of the co. and her
master, in consultation, decided to get rid of the
ballast ‘To make room for cargo,” as the master
put it. The ballast tank was kept empty for the
same reason.
(3) The managing director stated that “he did
not consider it necessary to make any inquiries why
the ballast was there.” Not having the highly
technical knowledge to enable him to calculate the
relative importance or position of the metacentre
or the centre of gravity of the ship, he could not be
expected to know that previous owners did not carry
ballast because they disliked carrying cargo.
(4) The loading started with 10 tons of hard-
wood on the floor, then hardwood and pine mixed,
but unspecified as to aggregate amount or ratio of
mixing. “More than two-thirds of the remainder
of the cargo was flour in bags.” On top of this
they stacked 35 to 40 tons of deck cargo and un-
derneath they kept the water-ballast tank empty.
(5) A freeing port had been closed and some scup-
pers plugged,
ffi) The Dorrigo left Brisbane at 6.40 p.m. on
April 1, was handed over by the master to the
second officer outside pilotage waters at 0.10 next
morning, and the master then turned in. He was
called 54 hours later in time to jump clear as she
turned over.
(7) The weather was fine,.'With'only a moderate
sea, when she went over loaded ; but she went


through a howling gale off Newcastle while in light
trim, the inference being that she got more lethal
as she was loaded.
There was a lot more; but these are the
salient points. The Court, either with or
without full consideration of all the fore-
going, picked upon No. 5. and censured the
master for an error of judgment; though the
evidence is that an outraged centre of
gravity had climbed above the metacentre
and whs holding the ship down long before
the closed ports and scuppers started to have
effect. The problem of stable, neutral and
unstable equilibrium in merchant ships,
under the ever-changing conditions of loading
and discharging, is one that receives too
little attention. It is possible for the same
ship, in the process of loading, to pass through
the whole of the three phases without be-
traying her condition to any but the techni-
cal mind, until the effects of those conditions
reveal themselves by the ship heeling over.
The determination of the principal factors
producing stability or instability in any
given ship, under normal conditions, is an
involved and highly technical matter, and is
arrived at by the ship designer or naval
architect. In the case of warships the
original determination may be sufficient for
the whole of her career, for the reason that
the range between light- and deep-load drafts
is less than in the case of merchant ships,
and also- because no structural alterations
may be made without reference to the techni-
cal staff. The merchant ship, on the other
hand, may pass from one owner to another,
and important structural additions may be
made that will materially affect her original
metacentre and centre of gravity without
her ultimate owner knowing anything about
it. By startling a previous owner she may
pass into other hands with enough ballast
on board to keep her from capsizing—as in
the case of the Dorrigo—but there is noth-
ing to prevent the new owner from slinging
it all overboard to make room for cargo.
Nor is there anything to prevent a Court
of Marine Inquiry being so constituted that
its members either do not fully appreciate,
or else ignore, the importance of keeping
the centre of gravity low down and the
metacentre high up, but concentrate their
attention upon a footling wash-port. Any
Court inquiring into happenings similar to
the loss of the Dorrigo should include a
fully-qualified naval architect, who should
require :
(1) Original plans, and drawings of the ship, with
original centre of gravity and nictacentre.
(2) Plans and drawings of any subsequent struc-
tural additions or alterations.
(3) History of any permanent ballast carried at
any time of her career —other than water ballast.
(4) A complete cargo plan, showing stowage of
all cargo, coal, water and other stores at the time
of the occurrence.
gucii a Court would stand more than a
f porting chance of finding out what really
appened, and would be able to supply in-
valuable advice regarding how matters plight
be tightened up to avoid a recurrence. With-
out such technical advice an inquiry involv-
ing the stability of ships degenerates into a
farce —to be followed by further tragedies.
4
The Page Millions.
The above has no reference to any real or
imaginary fortune which is awaiting claim-
ants. It merely alludes, in a vague sort of
way, to the fact that Treasurer Page lately
floated a big Federal loan, and is suspected
of intending to float another. The Bullward
procession of borrowers has lost none of its
density. Maoriland called in for a large sum
the other day, but as the Commonwealth
doesn’t guarantee the debts of its small and
slightly-brown sister, the. matter- is of
academic interest only. Victoria is on the
spot now for £3,000,000, or is, just leaving
the spot. Other episodes of the same sort are
in the offing. The applications, at slightly
over 5 per cent., have been well received.
They take no money out of the Cold Coun-
try ; if they did the position would be differ-
ent. The funds remain at the old address,
and serve to pay interest on old loans —
which looks as if interest might otherwise
often go unpaid—and to liquidate the bill
for those surplus imports which help to
retard local industry. The machinery for
biting the ear of the small and medium
British investor is very elaborate. None of
these States has defaulted yet, which is in
Australia’s favor; also there exists a feeling
that borrowers inside the Empire are safer
than those outside, and that a sparsely:peo-
pled land, which can import taxpayers as well
as grow them, looks more hopeful than one
which is already full, though it probably
isn’t. Anyhow, failure to find a loan on
demand would wreck a profitable British
industry, and might pull down a tall but
slim edifice of credit on the heads of all
concerned. These may be good reasons why
Australia gets external loans, but they are
rottenly poor one's why it should want them.
If it increased exports or cut down imports
till it could pay its way there would cer-
tainly be much more work available in this
country. The responsibility rests in part
with the Federal authority, whicli possesses
any control there is over foreign trade;
partly with State Governments and their
policy of reducing working hours and output;
and partly with Freetraders and Bolsheviks,
who combine to discourage Australian indus-
try, from equally bad motives. In this mat-
ter the conduct of the past and present
Federal Governments is a fine record of
cowardice and slovenly inefficiency. Here
is; part of it:—
Federal Loan Spendings Apart prom War and
prom Money Raised for States.
1917-18 ..£1,803,447 1921-22 ..£5,146,503
1918-10 . . 1,090,483 1922-23 . . 5,383,949
1919-20 . . 1,286,786 1923-24 .. 6,068,898
1920-21 . . 3,877,912 1924-25 . . 6,341,758
In 1923-24 the Central authority borrowed
an additional £872,673, and in 1924-25
another £14,429,972, on behalf of the States.
It .had to do something, for the State loans
were getting in the way of its own. It was
after 1924-25 was finished that another 20
Page millions were raised in a heap, 15 in
New York and five at the usual stand. The
Commonwealth has had some surpluses,
which have led Freetraders to bellow for
reduced duties, but they were never big
enough to prevent it borrowing even for such
trifles as roads and “Miscellaneous.” They
were paper, and of no value to meet liabili-
ties abroad. There is a sinking fund, but it
is believed-to be paper , also, and of no value
except here. In the 44 years which ended
last New Year’s Day the Commonwealth
paid off about £750,000 of paper liabilities,
which didnh matter very much, and inciured
£49 000,000 of gold debt, which matters a
sreat deal. An impression grows that tins
Page ought to be revised.
*
If the Constrictor Holds Out.
“j E” • “British industry is being : slowly
strangled” began to be a
io the British press a week or two ago.
Later reports suggested that it was being
rapidly strangled ; however, the strain on the
constrictor is tremendous, and the anirna
may burst in the middle. There have been
plenty of disturbances in British coal-mimng
before but never since records of output
began’ to be kept was there one so lai 0 i
•md general as to make a serious impres-
sion on the shield till the 88 days stoppage
in 1921. Something which occuried in 191-
was featured ps a “national strike, but the
men of 3912 didn't know a national strike
from a blue giraffe. The effect of the 191.
event on the British production of coal
showed thus in tons:
toil 271,891,899
1912 260,416,338
The reduction of the coal harvest from 271
to 260 million tons wasn’t a big e J aoa T 1 r
calamity to stop, any industry, and it hard y
made an appreciable difference to theexpit
trade. The upheaval of Apnl-May-June,
192 t, was the beginning of a new era:
■,0,0 229,780,000
1090 229,532,000
tgii 168,251,000
This gave that composite citizen, Patrick
Llewellyn McßKjll, his first clear impression
of the possibilities of the case. There is no
known source from which the British Isles
can import coal,; even if the Isles could pay
for it, in anything resembling the required
quantity, supposing its own stocks to be
used up. The European regions which rank
next to Britain f|or production are Germany,
France (now thiat it has recovered Alsace-
Lorraine), Poland (practically inaccessible)
and Belgium. At latest advices they were
all buying, mostly in small lots, from the
Old Man in London, as were axso Italy, Den-
mark, Holland, Sweden, Norway, Spain,
Argentina, Brazil, the Irish Free State and
Russia (when it could find a bit of money).
The United States is the world s record coal-
producer, but ft exports hardly anything,
having a bitter objection to feeding other
people’s factory fires. Canada doesnt fully
supply itself. Unworked deposits are
plentiful enough, some of the best 111
China —with a revolution on top of them.
The fact is that Patrick Llewellyn Mc-
P.ull, with his Free Imports policy, lias been
steadily losing his manufacturing supremacy,
and has gone more and more into the raw-
material line of business to make up. In
1870 cord, now practically his only spare raw
article (as wool was in Plantagenet days)
represented 2fi per cent in value of the Brit-
ish produce sold abroad. In l9_o it stood
for 144 per cent. Even enterprising nations
with big local deposits have tended to be
content with supplying their own needs. Luey
preferred to wade into the factory business,
occasionally feeding the fires with Bull s
coal, and left him comparatively undisturbed
in this raw-material line, perhaps hoping,
that it would divert his mind. It did to
some extent, and they sold him much manu-
factured fluff while he wasn t looking, teo
the Old Man, living in an almost untimbered
land is threatened, not only with the hold-
up of his railways, steamships factories, etc.,
but with stoppage of the sale of the third
biggest item in his list of exports—the
second biggest in 1923. Barely one-fourth
of the British coal output m exported, but
that fourth brought m £72,000,000 (or
£80,000,000 including coke) in 1924, and
£115,000,000 (including coke) m 1923. . it
would be a staggering loss. No reason exists
for supposing that the coal-miners position
was particularly bad when the stoppage com-
menced —in fact, it appeared passably good
considering the short hours, small output,
antiquated Freetrade conditions and the
accumulated war troubles. It was said to
be far better than that of the engineering
men But the coalies have realised that
their power is almost unlimited, provided
the constrictor has enough food to enable
him to keep constricting. So they demanded
a permanent subsidy out of taxation, and
the Government objected to the setting, up
of a permanent precedent. It then remained
to be seen what happens when an irresistible
force meets an immovable post on a plain.
If the conflict should last long enough to
paralyse the loan market, then, so far as
Australia is concerned, the fat will indeed
be in the fire.
“The Ethics of Suppression.”
Dear Bulletin,— For a tissue of bad argu-
ment, worse ethics and completely misguided
zeal, commend to me the birth-control
prospectus offered by Winifred Hamilton
(B 10/6/’26). Because a paternal Govern-
ment has seen fit to suppress a small hand-
book on contraceptives, we have this
hysterical tirade against “effete old men and
-women, equipped with an inane, soiled and
weedy piety.” With these latter old folk and
their peculiar brand of piety, I myself,, to-
gether with most sensible and patriotic
Australians, would delight to be numbered.
The most obvious objections to the popu-
larising of birth-control in Austialia art
theseI —
(1) It is unnecessary and, indeed, dangerous. We
have a vast continent to populate and a limited time
in which to do so. Asia lias never heard of Maiiie
STorES.
(2) Birth-control-, to be successful, as Miss Hamil-
ton and her friends understand the words, requires
a high degree of intelligence, restraint and refine-
ment. It will always be practised more successfully
bv the “upper classes” and ignored, or fumbled with,
by the “unfit.” So far from improving the race,
it will thus help t.o degrade it.
(3) Once given an impetus, birth-control can never
be arrested. France, with a falling birth-rate and
a stationary death-rate, is within mathematical pro-
bability of national extinctios. The Australian abo.
--who, anticipating Miss Hamilton, has controlled
himself for decades—is another example. Holland,
despite Havelock Ellis, has done herself more harm
than good, and her fate remains to be seen. “We
must profit by the mistakes of others.”
(4) Natural increase is not “profligate procrea-
tion” ; the world is not, and never has been, “over-
populated.” Nobody has asked Winifred Hamilton
or any other woman “to keep pouring a continual
stream of babies into the world.” On the other hand
woman lias never been, and never will be, “mistress of
her destiny and her body” (Nature is too wise for
that). No sane person denies the right of a child to be
well born ; but many will deny the right of anyone,
Miss Hamilton included, to prevent him being
born at all!
(5) Birth-control will never help “the proletariat
to bring about a state of justice and humanity.”
The sole strength of the proletariat—if there is such
a thing—lies in its numbers. Our Hamiltons would
deprive the “workers” of their immense voting-
and man-power, and leave them bereft of their big
battalions.
(6) Women do not practise abortion “from the
fear of too frequent child-bearing,” but, almost in-
variably, from the fear of social ostracism consequent
upon illegal reproduction. Nor is abortion the only
sexual malpractice that is “ruinous mentally and
physically.” For one mother who is “worn out by
continuous child-bearing” there are a hundred who
are “fretful, nervy and irritable” from inability
(circumstantial or physical) to perform it; or from
Stopesian efforts to avoid bearing any children at all.
(7) Despite all the “reformers” the vast majority
of young Australians are born into homes “where
they are welcome,” where the father earns “a suffi-
ciency for the child’s physical well-being,” and
where the mother has “health, intelligence and
leisure.” It does not require, thank God, any birth-
control cant to make motherhood “a source of joy
and love and pride.” Nor have we heard of “women
who would make ideal mothers positively, refusing
or doing all they know to prevent child-bearing.”
If there is one dagger-thrust against Aus-
tralia’s future and the future of the white
peoples, it is contained in class-conscious,
sex-conscious, morally and ethically uncon-
scious balderdash such as this. The authori-
ties were right when they suppressed the
book; they are wrong when they do not
suppress Miss Hamilton. —Yours, J.R.G.
. ♦
Gas and the Law.
The Gilbert-and-Sullivan revival in Mel-
bourne seems to have inspired the Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales with some bright new
notions. For several weary weeks the coal-
mines in the State have been idle because
the engine-drivers employed therein didn’t
approve of the findings of their own arbi-
tration tribunal, and decided to flout its
award. The Government showed its appre-
ciation by offering to support the dependants
of any engine-driver or miner who might
happen to be taking a holiday in conse-
quence of this disagreement. It had already
been made abundantly clear that any
attempt to break the proud spirit of the
engine-drivers by getting somebody else to
do their work would he regarded by his
Majesty’s Ministers as an outrage and dis-
couraged by all the terrors of the law. This
position being established, the Premier went
off for a holiday. He returiied to duty after
having had a good rest, to be informed that
coal supplies were running low, and that,
various public services were jeopardised by
the illegal strike that enjoyed his blessing.
Something obviously had to be done. Mr.
Lang saw at once that the only thing to do
was to deal very drastically and sternly—-
with the law-abiding citizens of the State!
So a law was promulgated—if publication
of threats, warnings and instructions by
various newspapers (some of them not
notorious for their truthfulness) can be con-
sidered as promulgation—ordering every
householder within certain areas to sup-
ply to a Government board information
about his gas-meter, with a penalty of having
the gas cut off in case of non-compliance, a
penalty up to £250 in case of an error in
meter-reading, and at the very best a
penalty of having to go on half-rations ot
gas for being a householder under a Govern-
ment that fosters illegal strikes. In other
countries, when supplies, of coal run low and
gas corporations find themselves running
short of coal, they first endeavor to keep
their implied contract with consumers by
obtaining coal from any feasible source, no
matter what the cost. All efforts of the kind
failing, they approach their customers by cir-
cular, explain their difficulty as courteously
as a well-entrenched monopoly call reason-
ably be expected to, and invite co-operation
in the matter of economising the service.
Such an appeal usually succeeds in winning
not only co-operation, but respect and sym-
pathy for the corporation. The consumer
feels that he has been appealed to as a man
and a brother. In Sydney just now he has
the feeling that he lias been told, in JACK
Lang’s usual mannerly fashion, that lie
is a serf and a worm, and as such must bear
the brunt of .Tack Lang’s mistakes. There
was a time when honest folk thought of the
law as something that protected them in
their peaceful avocations. Under the Lang
regime the law is a shield for law-breakers
and a sword in their hands against lavv-
abiders.
The Land Hunger Breaks Out Again.
“The exceptionally keen demand for land
was again illustrated the other day: 3949
applications were received for a lbl*-acre
block fronting the Murrumbidgee, and when
all possible: weeding out is done it is ex-
pected that 1000 will go to the ballot at the
end of this month, and 999 go away profane
and empty. Something ought to be said in
this connection about “the exceptionally keen
demand” for first prizes in Tatt. s, for free
drinks and for pretty girls with fortunes.
The demoralising homestead-farm gamble,
peculiar to X. S. Wales, shrieks for aboli-
tion. The farm is a perpetual lease, llie
rent is 21 per cent, of the value instead ot
the usual's per cent. The prize-winner can
avoid the first five .years’ rent if lie spends
the money on improvements for his own
benefit, which it is natural for him to want
to do. Only five years’ residence is required,
and there arc various ways out of this,
including residence by a deputy who is
really a tenant. The land can t be re-valued
dc the 24 per cent, rent can’t be charged
on a higher valuation) for 25 years, and
subsequent valuations are every -0 years.
The optimist who gets a town block by
auction at Canberra has it for only A)
years instead of in perpetuity, pays o pei
cent, instead of 2|, and is reappraised a
the end of 20 years, and every 10 years
after that. Further, the homestead faun
may be converted from leasehold to freehold
by anyone who knows tl.e ropes. It is
enumerated in the “Official Year Booh
among 18 forms of N. S. Wales. Government
lease which may be converted into freehold
by one who knows the ropes, and agents
who know them arc common enough. 1 lie
whole business, invented by the first: N. *-•
Wales Labor Government in 1912, fias
created a bogus land-hunger and a race 01.
gamblers who follow the ballots as they
might the ponies. A straight-out lottery
would be better: the State would certainly
get more out of it. Incidentally, if 101~
acres, with a river frontage, in a rich and
populated railwayed district, is considered
a fair thing, what kind of a heartless jest
is it that the maximum agricultural lease ol
Class-A land in the remote Northern Terri-
tory should be 1280 acres, with lots of con-
ditions and a reappraisement every 21 years >
+
Brace the Boarder.
The Federal Government proposes to create
still another high-salaried board, with a
Welsh fog of instructions for its guidance.
If a nation can be made by boards be
boarded up, so to speak,- or boarded out
Australia will solve all its problems very
soon. It can only be said that other new
countries arrived by less luxurious ways.
The Commonwealth is really getting to work
on the scheme for borrowing £.14,000,000
from the British Treasury, interest to be very
low for the first 10 years in consideration
of this country “settling” 450,000 "migrants
in that period, and the fresh appointees are
to work the oracle. There are to be four of
them, and their principal duties have been
summarised in six clauses, three of which
mention “development.” Put m less John-
sonese language than officials use, the duties
are
To ponder over the development of the resources
of the country. They may be developed “bv co-
operation between the Commonwealth and the States,
or otherwise.” .
To investigate all existing industries in a general
way, and go deeply into “the possibility of establish-
ing new industries.” (If there is any human fieak
around who holds that it is impossible to establish
new industries, it is difficult to imagine what should
be done with him, but permanent segregation seems
desirable in the public interest.)
To negotiate anywhere with any likely seeming-
persons for the establishment of new, or the boosting
of old, industries.
To make reports, or a report, at least once a year.
(There is no undue haste about that. Something
requires doing in some part of our wide lands once
a minute.)
To exercise its prescribed powers, whatever they
may be, for the supervision of works.
To use any other powers which it may get. (This
should prevent the board thinking it is merely to
sit on them.)
The members, to begin with, are to be
chairman vice-chairman and two others, in
other words, there will be a pair of officers
and two deckhands. They are not to he
subject to the Federal Public Service Board,
but will run Avild. like the wild ass of
Persia. If the reports concerning the salaries
are correct, the board will cost as much
annually as the building and equipment ol
four miles of standard gauge railway m fairly
easy country, but there will- also be
travelling and office expenses, and the
members may make appointments, with
salaries up to £5OO a year each, on
their own. How many miles of possible
new railway the total annual bill will run
to will be revealed in time, provided there
is enough time. Some speculation lias been
indulged in as to how the new body avill
get along with the existing Immigration
Department, which used to collect its pay
(£60,000 to £70,000 yearly) from the T rime
Minister’s office, but was lately removed to
that of Markets and Migration, and which also
appears under loan funds. But a more serious
problem is how it will get on with the pair
of hazy but probably self-important Admini-
strations which are to be set up in the
Northern Territory. These two bustling
young women may easily resent tlie attempt
of a strange female to share their new
house; yet, if the huge Federal property is
barred against tlie board’s struggles to do
good it Avill be a serious limitation.
A Sorry Trade.
“Gountry Ped.” : The other day, in the street
of a country town, I unexpectedly met a
friend of my high-school days, whom I had
not seen for 14 years. "Where arc you
teaching now?” I asked, and he laughingly
replied. “Good liea\ ? ens, man, I soon found
a better job than teaching. Come along to
tlie office for a while and we’ll have a chat.
Pie led me to an imposing suite of offices
prominently displaying liis name followed
bv the significant words: “Barrister and Soli-
citor.” Now, why should the profession of
law be considered any better than the teach-
ing profession? A few struggling, impecuni-
ous young farmers have openly envied me
mv iob, but no member of any other pro-
fession or trade. Why? What is wrong
with teaching? Professor J. J. Findlay,
one of the leading English educationists, rea-
sons that the partly-veiled scorn is primarily
due “to the underlying contempt the adult
community lias for the child community.
But it is strange that this disdain docs not
extend to professors and lecturers m univer-
sities. It is reserved principally toi
teachers in the elementary schools controlled
bv the State; and no man can be a primary-
school teacher for long without becoming
anxious to escape from a position so low
iu public esteem. In an endeavor to secure
public approval teachers study for years,
and eagerlv avail themselves of every oppor-
tunity of gaining the University imprimatur
of B.A. or B.Sc. The Vic. Education De-
partment takes pride in the hundreds of
teachers in its employ who hold degrees rang-
ing from B.A. to Pli.D.; yet the scarcity of
male teachers is alarming, and the position
is aggravated by the resignation of so many
younger men. Unlike tlie doctor of medicine
or tlie lawyer, tlie State teacher has : no con-
trol over the ethics and standards of his pro-
fession. Parliament has been afraid, appa-
rently, to trust him Avitli privilege and
power. But suppose Parliament ,
a measure' of self-government, would that
lead the public to appreciate and admire the
teaching profession ? It might, but A
university professor receives £lOOO a year,
and in many instances more; and he is rated
high in public opinion, for the world to-day
values a man, his trade or his profession


E
'f* |M
v_; i/
O w
iiitiTtia
IL.ILIULLL L ILILILI
ILIUULLL L li II || I
UULILLLCILIUU
ILIULI.LLLL ILILILI!
y~>L LIUIUILILILI i
a»s
nr
Paid-up Capital, £1)22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
Come to Sydney for the Polo and Sheep Sales/
SYDNEY’S POLO WEEK, JULY 3-10. SYDNEY’S SHEEP SALES, JULY 1-3.
That’s the time to be in Sydney—sunny days—thrilling sport—gala
nights—old friendships renewed—and “The Australia” the very heart
of the fun.
Telegraph your reservations now and be assured of the utmost in luxury,
comfort and service.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Single Room, with Breakfast, 14/-; Luncheoii or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden for 2/6.
If you anticipate coming, write for your copy of our beautifully-illustrated 20-page booklev
T |e /3ustralia
according to monetary values. So long as
a teacher must spend some years in teach-
ing, backed by constant study, before he can
claim £6 a week, he and his profession will
be publicly estimated accordingly; and a £6-
a-week man is low down on the scale of pre-
sent public opinion. Forty years ago, when
smart boys eagerly competed to join the
State teaching service, there was little of
this contempt for a noble profession—at least,
philosophers say it is noble. Then the driver
of a baker’s cart received 355. a week, and
a teacher £4; to-day the breadcarter, whose
education is very elementary, gets £4 17s. 6d.
when 21 years of age, while in Victoria, a
teacher of the same age, with many educa-
tional qualifications, receives £3 10s. to £4.
it is this —the raising of wages of the un-
skilled worker without increasing in due
proportion the salaries of qualified men—
that has reduced a once popular and highly-
esteemed profession to the sorriest of trades.
♦
The Plight of Matthew Charlton.
Section 51 of the Federal Constitution says:
“The Parliament shall have power to
make laws for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth with re-
spect t 0.... conciliation and arbitration for
the prevention and settlement of industrial
disputes extending beyond the limits of any
one State,” that being paragraph XXXV.
The Bkuce Government 'u-oposes, and bitter
experience suggests, that the words “ex-
tending beyond the limits of any one State”
should be struck out. The House of Reps,
was also asked, in the first place, to approve
of the following new paragraphs being re-
ferred to the people :
XL.—Establishing authorities with such powers as
the Parliament confeis on them with respect to the
regulation and determination of terms and conditions
of industrial employment, and of rights and duties
of employers and employees, with ■ respect to indus-
trial matters and things;
XLl.—lnvesting State authorities with any powers
which the Parliament by virtue of paragraph XXXV
or paragraph XL of this section has vested or has
power to vest in any authority established bv the
Commonwealth;
XLII. —Trusts and combinations in restraint of
trade, trade unions and associations of employers or
of employees for industrial purposes, including the
formation, - dissolution, regulation and control thereof.
Va. —Protecting the interests of the public in case
of actual or probable interruption of any essential
service. [Paragraph V now reads: “Postal, tele-
graphic, telephonic and other like services.”]
Labor-leader Charl-
ton and his party
fought against the in-
clusion of the “essen-
tial service” para-
graph. They also
sought that the power
to fix wages, hours of
Labor and the like
should be given to
Parliament itself in-
stead of to “authori-
ties” to be named by
Parliament. T hey
were unsuccessful in
both efforts, although
in the second they
had three very re-
markable allies —W.
M. Hughes, W. A.
Watt and I*. ({.
Stewart, the Cocky
of the lonely furrow.
On other points a sub-
stantial measure of
agreement was arrived
at after a conference
between the Prime
Minister an d Mr.
Charlton. As regards
industrial powers, the House of Reps., bv
4b votes to 2, approved of the words "ex-
tending-beyond the limits of any one State”
being struck out of paragraph XXXV, and
of the additions proposed by the Government,
as already set forth. At the Fisher Gov-
ernment s referendum in 1911 it was pro-
posed to omit the words “Conciliation and
arbitration for the prevention and settle-
ment of industrial disputes extending beyond
the limits of any one State,” and to insert
instead “Labor and employment, including
(a) the wages and conditions of labor and
employment in any trade, industry or call-
ing; and (b) the prevention and settlement
of industrial disputes, including disputes in
relation to employment on or about railways
the property of any one State.” As regards
corporations, the suggested amendment now
reads: —
v by omitting from paragraph
AX the words Foreign corporations and trading or
financial corporations formed within the limits of
the Commonwealth,” and inserting in their stead the
words Corporations, including—( a ) the creation,
regulation, control and dissolution of corporations:
(b) the regulation, control and dissolution of cor-
porations formed under the law of a State; and (c)
the regulation and control of foreign corporations,
but not including municipal or governmental cor-
porations, or any corporation formed solely for
religious, charitable, scientific or artistic purposes,
or any corporation not formed for the acquisition of
gain by the corporation or its members.
Except for a slight rearrangement of words,
this is identical with one of the Labor
amendments rejected in 1911. And Labor on
that occasion asked for power to deal with
“combinations and monopolies in relation
to the production, manufacture or supply of
goods or services.” The corresponding
Bruce-Charlton amendment reads :
Trusts and combinations (whether composed of in-
dividuals or corporations, or both) in restraint of
trade, trade unions and associations of employers
or of employees for industrial purposes, including' the
formation,, regulation, control and dissolution thereof.
The revival of the corporations amendment
was entirely due to Charlton. But instead
of being praised by the Labor bosses for his
success as a negotiator, the astonished leader
has been pursued with roars of contumely.
Having imagined in his innocence that Labor
would rejoice at the prospect of securing a
large instalment of the powers which it has
hitherto declared to be essential for the
proper functioning of the Commonwealth
and the prevention and settlement of indus-
trial disputes—and which are essential —the
unfortunate gentleman finds that Labor,
especially in his own State, has come under the
control of rancorous provincialists who wor-
ship the joss Expediency, and who would as
soon expel their leader as look at him. Indeed,
the unhappy Charlton stands a first-class
chance of learning that it is nowadays the
business of a Labor leader not to bother
about fidelity to principle or the extension
of Federal powers or anything like that, but
to shout with the Labor mob that happens
to be in the ascendant at the moment —or
get out.
«
Among other dreadful things which .the
Foreign-trade press used to say would inevit-
ably follow a policy of protecting our own
industries was an exodus of capital. But it
isn’t working out that way. Instead, in
almost every instance where effective Protec-
tion has been applied, there has been a posi-
tive influx of foreign capital. The latest
ease is in the machine-knitting industry,
lliere never was the slightest reason why
Australia should let people on the other side
of the globe perform so simple an operation
Oil Australian wool in order to clothe Aus-
tralians, but the logic of the situation was
OF COURSE IT WILL GUT BOTE WAYS.
“It is proposed in England that unionists’ wives should have a voice in strike matters.”
not very obvious either to Australians or to
foreigners until the tariff underlined it. Now-
it is becoming apparent to those foreigners
who obtained a hold on our market in the
old happy days that if they want to retain
the business they must become upholders of
Australian manufacturing industry. The
latest concern to see this great light is
Hanusciiin and Ronus, of Liestal, Switzer-
land, which has amalgamated with Bendigo
Knitting Mills Pty., Ltd., and is setting up
works in Australia to manufacture its
specialties. Incidentally, a number of Swiss
experts will be sent to teach Australian
workers; so the cause of immigration, as well
as the attraction of capital, seems to be
getting service from a commonsense indus-
trial policy.
—7 *
In spite of warnings against the deterioration
of Australian wool, and the danger threaten-
lng from the improvement of Argentine and
South African fine wools produced under
cheap-labor conditions', the sale of Australia’s
finest stud strains to overseas buyers goes
merrily on. The other day three" African
woolgrowers cast up in Sydney and told an
unrunied daily press what a fine country
this is. . The trio have been a couple of
months in Australia, looking over the cream
of our fine-wool flocks in Tasmania, South
Aus. and Victoria, and they have also
clone the Riverina. They were buying
stud sheep all the time, and will take back
to S’Africa a fairly representative lot of
Australia s best. There was unintentional
sarcasm m the comment of one of the visi-
tors on the Riverina country. It was too
good for sheep, he said. If present condi-
tions of drift are accentuated, as they
threaten to be, the Afrikander's estimate
confirmed. The country may be
a -ii t OO £°. oc * or the class of sheep that
will be running on it.
A deputation of Sydney traders has told
Minister McKell that big establishments
are now losing as much as £BO or £9O a week
each through shoplifters, and asked him to
get busy This kind of thieving is one
cause ot the high cost of living, though Free-
traders and such like don't mention it, for
the losses must be made good by charging
extra prices to honest people. In addition
it must put an astonishing number of girls
and young women through a Fagin’s academy
ot crime, and make them very inferior wives
and mothers. Though there are freelance
shop-pilferers, there are also tales of large
and wealthy organisations which train
thieves, and buy the loot which they would
be otherwise unable to dispose of—very
cheapiy, ot course, but still at prices
which enable a capable looter to earn good
wages tor light and exciting work. If one
of the bright band is caught in her tenth or
thousandth lift she is liable to rank
f, s « °!' fem ! el ' > aii, l the way of
the hist offender is easy—it doesn’t even
involve publicity in the case of a
temale. (The way of the severaltli offender
is often easy likewise.) If the lady retires
in terror from the business at this stage, or
it the thieving firm sacks her as a failure
her non-reappearance in court is considered
evidence that non-punishment leads to refor-
mation. Ihe First Offenders Act applies to
lmnor offences and “any other offence to which
the Court applies the provisions of the Act,”
/uuf 1 ls randy used in homicide cases. The
Children s Court now deals with delinquents
aged under IS (it was formerly 16). Not
long ago. a widow who was well inside the
Children’s Court jurisdiction married a
divorced gentleman who wasn’t far outside
it. This proved nothing, but it was interest-
ing. A remarkable number of assaults on
the police are committed by children and by
first offenders, who are “first” for want of
sufficient constabulary to make them any-
thing else.
*
Fkom the Publicity Officer of the Vic. State
Electricity Commission: —
The reference (B. 3/6/’26) to an “officially created
slum” at the State Electricity Commission’s works
at Yallourn would suggest that John Monash and
his fellow Commissioners are responsible for the pre-
vailing conditions. The “frowsy shanties of canvas
and wood” are not the Commission’s property, nor
are they in the Commission’s territory. In many
cases they were erected by workers at the old State
brown-coal mine before the Commission came into
being, and were erected on the owners’ land. The
Commission has no power to enter on private lands
for sanitary purposes, although in its own township
at Yallourn an excellent sewerage system is in force.
The Commission, however, offered to provide a sanitary
removal system if the owners of the “frowsy shanties”
are willing to bear the cost, but this reasonable offer
was declined. So far as water supply is concerned,
Yallourn itself has an ample and excellent supply,
and this, with a good road, the Commission is extend-
ing to the old brown-coal mine—now the old cut—
at a cost of several thousands of pounds. Further, this
was being done before any Judge or any Court made
any suggestion to this effect. In regard to the
alleged verminous cubicles” on the Commission’s
land, these were erected by the Commission for single
men and were built in good style of good timber.
It they are verminous now the Commission cannot
be held responsible. It has its own men to keep the
camps in the Commission’s territory clean, but the
scavenging gang cannot enter the cubicles, which
the tenants lock on leaving for their shift in the
open cut.
r r • . ♦
J-HE passing in Melbourne of Henry Tate,
without more than a formal lifting of hats,
is typical of the treatment this country
accords to its talented artistic sons when
stay at home. Tate’s death coincided
with the return of Percy Grainger. The
one was born in Prahran, the other in
Brighton, both suburbs of Melbourne.
Grainger was wise enough to go abroad and
make himself the vehicle whereon Grieg,
Debussy and others rode to popular appro-
val. _ late remained behind, to become the
musical critic for a Melbourne daily. Cer-
tainly his criticisms in the Age were the most
brilliant in Australian daily journalism. But.
jewels as they were, they were only the fuel
to keep the pot boiling for a man who had
more constructive fish to fry. The job he
had set himself was nothing less than the
creation of an, Australian school of music.
Ho.w far Tate succeeded in this apparently
fantastic project only time will show but
many of the bricks of the edifice he began
look to be well and truly laid. One of his first
sets to be performed in Melbourne was “Bush
Miniatures,” light, vivid impressions, full of
the exultation with which bird-calls and the
sound of wind among the leaves always in-
spired him. Sixteen pieces followed which
had the ambitious design of telling in musical
speech the story of Billjim from his cradle
m Australian hills to his grave on Gallipoli.
Phis effort was only moderately successful,
yet it attracted the delighted interest of
critics abroad, who expressed surprise that
musical enterprise in Australia went further
than the swinging of bullroarers and the
raising of subscriptions to send precocious
juveniles abroad. “Suite Joyous” and “Bush
Moon ’ gained Tate greater notice in other
countries, although in his own land orches-
tras still served his works with an apologetic
shrug between their customary fare. His
final endeavor to realise his aim was con-
tained in, his “Dawn” symphony, by far the
most ambitious work of its kind yet pro-
duced in Australia. Great music, he agreed,
transcends nationality, but music must first
realise itself in nationality before it takes
the further stride. If that be true, then
J ate has laid the firsJ stepping-stones.
“Padkiac” : The Bombala (N.S.W.) Cham-
ber of Commerce has plumped for The
Bulletin policy of closing the little tin
temples of learning which are dotted around
the country and conveying the pupils to the
nearest large school, where they will have
the advantages of decent buildings, adequate
staffing, organised sport-activities and effi-
cient administration. In spite of recent
hysterical criticism, no more capable or
hard-working administrator has ever occu-
pied the N. S. Wales director's chair than
h. 11. Smith. He has, however, a rare lot
ot anomalies to clean up. For example, at
Silverton, 16 miles from Broken Hill, and in
direct rail, and road communication, with a
probable school population of a dozen, the
Department maintains a school and a resi-
dence, with dominie attached. What with
salary, repair and removal expenses, etc.,
it would be almost as cheap to shout the
children a college education in Adelaide.
Sending them to Broken Hill, where there are
large schools and plenty of room, would be
too obvious. At the same time there is a
danger that the big-school idea may be car-
ried too far. It has been carried much too
far m the Big City. There are schools in
Sydney which have to send their pupils out
to Play in sections because the poor, dark
pocket-handkerchief playgrounds are too
miserably small to accommodate all the
pupils at once. As for the headmaster hav-
ing any intimate knowledge of the couple of
thousand youngsters who are supposed to be
Jus special study, or of knowing what his
little army of 60 or so assistants are doing
and how they are doing it—well, the salaries
dont attract supermen. The Department
suiters from the One Big School at the top
and the Little Tin Temple at the bottom.
Loco”: Vic. Railways Commissioner
Clapp s decision to equip locomotives with
a more powerful headlight will be welcomed
by enginemen. The present dim kerosene-
lamps are quite useless for showing the road
ahead. With a good light the train will be
visible to road travellers long before a cross-
ing is reached, and the crossing to the train
crew. Only express trains are to be equipped
at first, but goods trains need similar atten-
tion. 1° °ne respect they need it more, since
the lights from the carriages of an express
give some warning to road travellers. But
provision for dimming the new lights will
have to be made, otherwise engines in station-
yards or approaching platforms will be a
source of positive danger to those having to
work in their rays.


b x
o
ainn
/
r
/
//
/
imiLilMih
mm
There arc no better lamps for your car than CONDOR
AUTOMOBILE LAMPS. They throw a powerful, brilliant
light they are designed to resist vibration and jolts and
economical in first cost and maintenance.
are
CONDOR LAMPS (Australasia) LTD.
143-5 York Street • Sydney
16 Chesser Street • Adelaide
493 Collins Stre«t - Melbourne
Exton House, Queen St., Brisbane
King’s Chambers, Willis Street
Wellington, N.Z.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Australian coal strike may he settled,
after a fashion, this week, if the strikers de-
cide they are tired of hanging around. It is
proposed by the chairman of the flouted Coal
Tribunal that the floaters should resume on
the pre-strike basis and bring “fresh evi-
dence” as to tlicir rejected, claims ; the fresh
evidence, lie undertakes, will be considered.
The employers, for their part, "must re-
instate the whole of the employees present-
ing themselves for work.” And perhaps if it
is Suggested that the afflicted country should
give each award-breaker a present of £lOO,
that also will be considered.
It is proposed by the Federal Government
to pension four States. Queensland, which
has splendid rivers, much mineral wealth
and less than 14 per cent, of its area below
the lOin. rainfall, is to get £289,000 a year.
Westralia, which has big rivers, minerals
and only 52 per cent, of it with less than
lOin. of annual moisture, is to have £152,000
a year and £450,000 extra for five years:
total, £602,000, or £3,010,000 in five years.
Tasmania, which lias the worst trouble by
reason of its island condition and chronic
shipping stoppages, is to have £136,000 each
12 months and a further £378,000 for two
years, so it will have £1,436,000 in five years,
Tasmania lacks the necessary “pull.” South
Aus., almost without rivers, with the poor-
est mineral show of all the States, and with
86 per cent, of its area within the dry belt
of less than lOin. of rain, is offered £20,000
p.a. as the reward for hard industry and
leading the simple life. There are weird
anomalies here.
When the Greene Tariff was being dis-
cussed in 1921 the House of Reps., made the
duty on foreign films 3d. a foot instead of
the lid. proposed by the Government and
threw in some severe remarks about Holly-
wood harpies and degenerates. The Senate,
however, moved by the piercing squeals of
the people interested in American films, sup-
ported the original scheme, and the House
of Reps., being in a languid mood when the
schedule returned, accepted the rebuff. By
way of atonement, the Senate has now re-
commended a duty of 21 d. a foot 3d. was
suggested, but the voting was equal. The
squealing gentry are again splitting the
welkin, and the House will earn the con-
tempt of all good Australians if it gives m
to them. Seeing that precious years have
been lost owing to its 1921 weakness, it
should go for a duty of sd. at least.
The brotherhood of toil lias some quaint
manifestations. N.S.AV. Stovemake-rs’ Union
insists that employers, when so instructed
by the union sec., shall sack any employee
who is not a financial member of the union
or is not prepared to become a member at
once. The demand is being made through
one of Lang’s “conciliation” committees. If
in return the union will agree to lodge all
its funds with the public trustee, and autho-
rise him to pay the full amount to the em-
ployers in case of a refusal to accept any
award of the properly-constituted court,
there might be some equity about the pro-
P N.S.W. Labor Attorney-General McTier-
nan who was sent to London to further
Lang's plans for doing away with nominee
legislators, and perhaps imported Governors,
proudly reported the other day that he had
induced an hereditary legislator to become
N S W. Agent-General. The hereditary legis-
lator is Viscount Chelmsford, who was Gov-
ernor of N. S. Wales from 1909 to
1913; he has also been Governor of
Queensland, Viceroy of India and one
of Ramsay Macdonald’s Labor Ministers.
The Vike habitually wears a silk hat, and
there is an impression that, with this (in-
verted) in his hand, he will be valuable m
soliciting contributions to N.S.W. -loans,
which are in bad odor since Lang broke
away from the Loan Council. This is sup-
posed to be the main reason for an appoint-
ment which shatters all Australian Laboi
traditions and makes the party’s pose ol
anti-imperialism’ ridiculous.
Tortoise Bruce’s most monotonous joint
committee was last heard of in V ictoria,
where it was bailing up witnesses with the
inevitable question: “Look here, old chappie,
do you think there is anything in this bally
idea of newspaper fellows signing their
articles when an election is on?” It has
already got about three volumes of answers,
and forgotten them. Bruce will end by tak-
ing a referendum on this silly problem, or
will send commissioners abroad to investi-
gate.
It is not unlikely that the Federal Gov-
ernment’s flit from Melbourne Canberra
will be preceded by the cancellation of the
ordinance which makes the Federal terri-
tory dry. The Parliamentary House Com-
FATE’S SHUTTLECOCK.
The part of the taxpayer in the Commonwealth and Staten taxation squabble.
mittee has urged that Parliament House, at
least, shall have a bar, and the vote in
favor is expected to be a record for unani-
mity. As there cannot well be differentia-
tion between the politicians and the more
reputable section of the territory's inhabi-
tants, the ban on beer will probably go m
its entirety. Just as well, for the dry area
would have instantaneously become a focus
for the sly-grog industry.
The AVestralian distribution of seats,
which dates from 1910, grows more out-
rageous every month. When the enrolments
were last added up there were more electors
in suburban Canning (14,603) than in 15
other of the 50 constituencies. The most
grotesque exhibit was Menzies, with 324 elec-
tors, 104 of them women; then came Mt.
Margaret (459), Cue (562), Pilbara (570)
and Roebourne (574). Twelve of the 15
are Labor seats. If the Collier Government
won’t alter the dreadful thing—and it has
made no attempt to do so, although a general
election is due in nine months —it might
arrange for the representatives of the gold- 1
fields Old Sarums to be elected by show of-
hands. In five or six districts the entire
electoral population could be collected on one
dump.
The U.S. film concern which has Adolph
Zukor for boss, and which once incautiously
admitted that it found this confiding country
a richer mine than its neighbor Canada,
held a “conference” in Sydney last week.
There were the usual advertising prelimi-
naries and one, perhaps, necessary innova-
tion—Dean Talbot opened the proceedings,
with prayer. He prayed for the welfare of '
“this great industry,” and the conference
beamed satisfaction through horn-rimmed
spectacles. A few hours later it learned ;
that the Senate, desiring to help the strug-
gling Australian industry, had passed a 1
motion to increase the duty on American
films from l|d. per foot to 2id. It was a
beautiful example of the efficacy of prayer;
but it wasn’t quite what the “conference”
had hoped for.
The infamy of the proposed stoppage of
the per capita dole has to be dragged in
somehow. The other day Vic. Premier
Allan was asked by a deputation to do some-
thing for the unemployed. Instead of stick-
ing to his text and telling the deputation
to go and talk to the engine-drivers who were
holding up the coal-trade and spragging a
hundred other industries, he wandered on
to say that when the dole was withdrawn
from the States they would have to depend
largely on income-tax, and then employers
wouldn’t be able to afford to employ work-
men who were only 50 or 70 p.c. efficient.
Certainly employers can’t afford to employ
men who earn only half their wages ; bot to
say that that is so because of the income-tax
is absurd. If a workman is a blob, at least
the employer doesn’t have to pay incormvtax
on what the blob doesn't earn.
Westralian Labor is appealing for elec-
tion funds from wages men in the Govern-
ment service on the ground that the Collier
Ministry has given them an additional
£450,000 in two years. Hitherto the Groper-
land division of the A.L.P. has ordered its
affairs decently compared with branches in
other States, and on the conscription issue
it showed none of their savage intolerance.
It’s a pity to see it borrowing a device from
the gutter politics in which Sydney Tam-
many moves.
From the Gallery :
When Hughes was speaking in the House of
Reps, on the Constitutional amendments, he was
annoyed by the unintelligible interjections of old
Jack West, of East Sydney. At last Hughes lost his
patience and asked West to stop “burbling. ’ The
old Galleryman seated beside me sighed—sighed, he
said, for the wit of other days. Alfred Deakin was
also pestered by West during an important speech.
Dropping the thread of his argument for a moment
he said, in his most polished manner, “I cannot under-
stand what the honorable member is saying, so I
i must ask him please to refrain from reminding me of
■the pearls I must be missing.”
The way Freetraders perform nowadays
suggests that they imagine there is a gleam
of promise on ,the horizon. James Mc-
Mahon, of the N.S.W. Town and Country
Union, has acquired quite a habit of break-
ing out like this :—
The onrush of his [Minister Pratten’s] suicidal
policy of strangling, and in some cases deliberately
prohibiting, imports, and thereby deliberately restrict-
ing our exports, as the latter, through the correla-
tion of the immutable law of economics, can only
be paid for by the former.
When the Cobdenite is inebriated by the
intermittent exuberance of his economic
verbosity, he becomes quite polysyllabic. One
of his intensities is that imports are always
paid for by exports, though these States
owe £350,000,000 abroad through not paying
for imports with exports. Another correla-
tion of the Freetrader’s immutable law of
bobtailed metaphysics is that this country
must accept imports to balance its exports,
or catastrophic happenings must ensue. Yet
unless it sends out some £25,000.000 of ex-
ports for which it doesn’t accept payment
in imports, it must stop payment of interest
on its outside debts, or else borrow the in-
terest money and lay the foundations of a
worse stoppage later. The fact is that
Adam Smith, born in 1723, didn’t provide
for the case, just as Moses made no provision
in his code against railway accidents at level
crossings.
The Rev. G. H. de Kay is an evangelist
who has come from the United States to give
our unenlightened folk an uplift. He told
the Sydney Prohibitionists that his country’s
motto is “A Stainless Flag and a Saloonless
Nation.” Yet numerous States of G. Wash-
ington’s country repudiated their debts, in-
curred in England, for very large amounts;
some of the interest bill_ is 80 years in
arrear; and the richest nation on earth won’t
make them pay up. Also, the other day the
usual item came along about an election in
Chicago, where a gang took possession and
committed practically every known crime
except suicide. Perhaps the stainless flag
hasn’t been to the wash lately.
South Africa counts its white population
every five years, as Australia ought to do.
The number is 1,072,106, an increase of
152,018 in five years, or over 10 per cent.
It is almost exactly (lie same percentage as
Australia’s estimated increase in a similar
period, but if some allowance is made for
the difference between a country which has
spent so many borrowed millions on settle-
ment and immigration devices and onp which
hasn’t, 8. Africa makes the better show. It
is a small country compared with ours, ami
cumbered with too many niggers, so the
result is remarkable. It would have been
still better but that an exodus of white
people (the British kind) has begun to show
itself through nigger competition. There-
fore the Union decides that the white
man’s progress must slow down and possibly
turn into retrogression, or he must reserve
for himself industries which only white
civilisation has made possible. _ The Hert-
zog Government is in favor of the white
man.
The N. S. Wales A.L.P. conference, which
was disbanded before it could do the business
it was convened for, is to stay disbanded.
The requisite number of unions sent in a
demand for a special conference to deal with
the agenda paper of the broken-up show.
This was “considered” last week the
triumphant bosses, and squelched. There
will be no conference till next year, and pro-
bably not then, if it can be bunkered.
The Reds of the Queensland Railway
Union, while still raging at their expulsion
from the Labor Convention, have been doing
a bit themselves. At a meeting of the State
Council A.R.U., 11 district officials and
members who had supported J. W. Hayes
against the Rymer-Moroney duumvirate
were called up for sentence. Eight were de-
prived of the right to hold office for periods
ranging from three months to three yeai’s ;
the others were let off with a censure. Dis-
qualification is a good plan. It is time wo
used it ourselves.
Apparently the League of Nations has had
to postpone the disarmament question again,
one reason being that if the Soviet won’t
unload its ironmongery other nations dare
not. Anyhow, a really disarmed nation with
a general strike on its hands would be in a
bad way. Britain drifted into a disarmed
condition once. The end of the U.S. war of
independence left the navy without one big-
ship fit to go to sea, and Pitt cut down the
army to 17.000 men to save money for ship-
building. Then lie sacked some thousands
of sailors to save more money, and in the
midst of all this the French revolutionary
war arrived. It was only a baby scrap at
first, but it was quite grown up before
George III.’s disarmed armaments could do
much. Nowadays the forces of disorder have
a better base) and there isn’t much time for
re-arming.
THE USES OF “HANSARD.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Coleman, Labor member for the Reid divi-
sion of N.S.W., was another who had a long speech
prepared. ‘My speech is intended for my constituents
more than for this House,’ confessed Mr. Coleman
candidly, gazing at the empty benches around him.”
Oh, I am charged with words of worth and wit,
But ere I turn the tap let me admit
1 do not really care a tinker’s curse
Whether you lend your ears or the reverse.
Snooze, if you will, like hibernating bears,
Upon your cosily-upholstered chairs,
Or tiptoe out of range when patience fails
Or boredom overtakes —or thirst assails.
The glowing periods that you may not heed
Are less for you to hear than Reid to read.
Yawn if you like—and make wry faces, too,
Like gourmets might at tripe or Irish stew !
What odds are shuffled feet or brows that frown
So long as good old Hansard gets it down?
My rapt gaze travels past you, bleak and blear,
To the enlightened folk who sent me here.
The printed page shall to their eyes disclose
The feast of reason from my lips that flows; 1
Applause in fancy I can hear them roar
(Ivor the platitudes you deem a bore.
Stay, if you like, or go. Betray or mask
Your ennui. A quorum’s all I ask.
Assured of that, no faces blank shall stem
My speech—l only spruik through you to' them.
A hustings orator may get the bird.
Within this hole one need be only heal’d
By patient scribes, and forth in print he goes
To glad his cobbers and confound his foes.
Bear with me, then, while I recite my creed
Afresh. You needn’t listen —Reid will read.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


( i »7 a s*>
Wasted Energy.
Transmitting power with a slipping belt is
like trying to fill a sieve with Water. Equip
your plant with belts that grip and last.
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
“will never shirk the hardest work.”
Manufactured only by
J. G. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
•VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards *
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co., Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for . production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended,
Ltd., Sydney:—
f Dividends x
Piefs. To Re- Re-
Profit. 7$ p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Dee., £ £ £ £ £
1015. .£20,744 £4,717 Nil . .£16,027 £13,201
1916.. 7,282 Nil Nil . 7,282 20,483
1917.. 13,849 Nil Nil 13,849 34,332
Accumulated pref. divs. funded £23,597 10,735
1918.. 17,179 9,438 6 p.c.=: 7,500 241 10,976
1919.. 23,640 10,154 6 „ „ 9,000 4,486 15,462
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves; £19,944 . . 35.406
1920.. 43,467 12,281 74 p.c.= 11,250 19,936 55,342
1921.. 39.073 14,582 8 ~ „ 12,000 12,491 67,833
1922.. 34,264 14,781 8 „ ~ 12,000 7,483 75,316
Subsidiary co.’s assets written up
and bonus shares issued .. 37,428 112,744
' Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 62,744
8 p.c.
1923.. 38,849 19,169 8 p.c.i; 12,000 7,680 70,424
1924.. 34,007 20,642 6 „ „ 12,090 1.275' 71,699
1925.. 34,499 22,345 6 „ „ 12,000 154 71,853
This holding co. is interested in three sub-
sidiaries. The chief is Arthur Rickard and
Co., Ltd., property subdivisionists and sales-
men, in which the parent holds all the
£350.000 £1 shares. Another is Hotel
Sydney, Ltd., originally Central Railway
Palace Buildings, Ltd. Two years ago 100,874
of the 130,000 fully-paid £1 shares were in
the hands of the parent; 24,310 were disposed
of during 1924. and last year the holding
was further reduced to 35,000. The third
is the Haymarket Permanent Land, Build-
ing and Investment Co., Ltd., purchased 12
years ago. Extended holds 49,722 of the
50,000 fully-paid £2 shares. Capital of A. R.,
Ltd., was increased by £75,000 during the
year, all being taken up by the parent. The
Hotel co. again proved the best profit-
maker, alO p.c. div. being paid. The realisa-
tion of the 41,564 shares supplied portion
of the £75,000 which went in the purchase
of shares in A. R., Ltd., a further £29,000
being raised by the issue of Extended first
prefs. Extended’s accounts show £2726 as
profit on. the sale of the Hotel shares, little
more than Is. 3d. net on each. The market
fluctuated between 21s. 6d. and 225. 6d.
during tile second half of last year, doubt-
less influenced by the parcel which the
market was asked to digest. Quotations
advanced sharply at the- beginning of the
year, and sales since February have aver-
aged 255. Additions are to be made to the
hotel, which will add to its appearance .and
should be reflected in earnings. The new
portion is to be ready in October. The
parent has done well out of the Hotel Syd-
ney, and the necessities of the other subsi-
diary must have been pressing to have im-
pelled the sale of such a block of shares
when the outlook seems so bright.
A. R. Extended is a bright example as
a holding co. : its own accounts are accom-
panied by those of its subsidiaries. Thus
shareholders may see the position fairly
clearly. Here, for instance, are the outside
liabilities of the parent and the three sub-
sidiaries as at December 31 -
Mortgages, Deposits, Other
etc. etc. I )ebt,s.
A. R. Extended. . £12,810 £1,034
A. R., Ltd. . . £156,984 31,838
Hotel Sydney . . 19,125 6;473
Haymarket Land 42,446 15,701 271
£218,555 £28,511 £39,616
Next the assets :
Hotel property .. .. .. .. £137,372
City premises—Rickard House, £90,000
Haymarket Co. 46,119
- - 136,119
Unsold land and property .. .. 169,889
Purchasers’ balances and mortgages .. 200,345
Other book debts . . . . . . . . 101,894
Furniture, plant, etc. .. .. .. 25,276
Debentures and other cos. .. .. .. 77,813
Shares of other cos.. . .. .. .. 112,366
Stocks 5,183
War loan and casli . . .. .. . . 13,912
£1,080,169
With £273,491 in city properties and
£169,889 in unsold land and property
(£135,714 representing the A.R. subsidiary’s
portion) the necessity of realising oil some
of those “large and saleable estates” which
were prepared in 1924 again obtrudes. Land
values are certainly keeping at high levels
—many have, in fact, moved higher—hut the
market has been sluggish of late. “Deben-
tures of other cos.” in the A.R. accounts
increased £13,928 (to £52,813) and “shares
in other cos. and in joint enterprises” in-
creased £15,062, and are how £110,239. Add
Haymarket’s figures of £25,000 (debentures)
and £2127 (shares), and you get the figures
of the table. The outside investments in-
clude an interest in Melbourne Hotels, Ltd.,
which runs the modernised Windsor. Lia-
bilities are heavy, and the liquid position
weak, while very considerable capital is tied
up in properties partly unproductive (unless
possible appreciation is regarded as a pro-
duct). As to that, everything depends on
the book values of the land which yet has
to be sold ; and no known test can be applied
to determine that. The city premises appear
to be in at a reasonable value. So far as
the Hotel Windsor is concerned it did better
last year, but its progress is not rapid.
So far as the accounts show the Rickard
subsidiary did about as well as in 1924. Con-
sidering the capital at work and the field iu
which the co. operates, the result is poor.
Certainly 6 p.c. in a year marked by almost
general prosperity makes one wonder what
will be forthcoming if and when John Bull’s
loan office is closed, even temporarily, or
adverse seasons play havoc, with our clips
and crops. In the 1924 report it was 'stated
that “some very large and saleable estates”
were prepared for the market, “the realisa-
tion of which will favorably affect future
balance-sheets.” Something like that seems
very necessary.
Haymarket Land also showed a micro-
scopic improvement. The directors think
that, “taking everything into consideration,
the result of the year’s trading is thoroughly
satisfactory.” One would judge from this
that adverse influences were at work. Yet
phenomenal prosperity, real and artificial,
suffused the country. If a land and invest-
ment co. couldn’t do well last year, it must
be very hard to satisfy. Last year’s 6 p.c.
from the Haymarket meant £5966 to the
holding co. The 6 p.c. from A. R., Ltd.,
amounted to £2j1,157, and *the share of the
Hotel co.’s 10 p.c was £5899.
There are 100,000 £1 first prefs. and
200,000 second prefs., each carrying 8 p.c.
Their backing at December 31 amounted to
just over £5 14s. for the firsts and £2 7s.
for the seconds. .Considering the risks,'’Ordi-
naries are receiving a very poor return, and
even the 6 p.c. was barely earned last year.
* * * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922.. £9,039 £9,039 £9,039
1923.. 11,092 11,092 20,131
1924.. 10,603 10,603 30,734
1925.. 15,207 6 p.c. =£5361 9,846 40,580
1926.. 15,811' 7 „ „ 0295 9,516 50,096
Earnings from investments amounted to a
net £7263, so, though the board lifted the
div. a point, the 7 p.c. still took £968 less
than interest alone had brought in. That
is an extraordinary performance; but, then,
the Bankers and Traders is an exceptional
show. In its five years it has paid two divs.
and accumulated over £20,000, apart from
£30,000 set aside to cover unexpired risks.
And in the five years all establishment costs
and furniture and stationery purchases have
been charged against revenue. In view of
these things the true expense rate is even
better than is shown here
Net Loss Expense
' Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922. .-£22,358 £7,605 £8.884 34.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
1923.. 40,049 18,240 15,583 45.5 „ 38.9 „
1924.. 68,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1925. . 73,375 41.052 23,940 55.9 „ 32.6 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
The expense figures serve as one lesson to
some of the other young cos.; and the losses
are another. Though blessed with good man-
agement, influential connections and selected
business, the co.’s loss rate last term was
no less than 56.5 p.c. For three consecutive
years fire underwriters have had a hot time,
and the experience appears to have been
general in the widest sense—other countries
have also had high losses. When places like the
C.S.R. (Adelaide), Darling’s flourmills (Mel-
bourne) and Mcllrath’s (Sydney) go up in
flames the cos. have to dredge deep in their
pockets. There was a time when under-
writers, smitten with exceptional losses ex-
tending over a wide area, put it down to
what they called the moral hazard; in short,
an exceptional number of owners, wanting
to turn their house property or stock into
cash, were less careful about fire than they
W'ould be under normal conditions. But an-
other factor seems to have crept in, and it
isn’t one that is likely to soon disappear.
There is a growing slackness on the part
of many employees to the interests of their
employers, which means, among other things,
careless use of fire and thoughtlessness in a
hundred other directions; and it seems highly
probable that this is having its effect on
losses, and will continue to have it.
The next table shows how this co.’s
figures arc piling up:—
1922. 1924. 1925. 1926.
Capital .. .. £75,000 £87,600 £89,350 £89,925
Liabilities.. .. 8,028 22i,446 24,921 63,342
Govt, securities . . 40,260 93,124 107,291 121,484
Fixed deposits , . 31.500 25,500 25,500 26,000
Cash, etc. .. ‘13,209 10,033 11,224 8,886
Book debts, etc... 7,098 12,222 16,197 17,294
Freehold . . . . —•- 35,995
The freehold property bought during the
term is in the heart of Oollins-street, Mel-
bourne. A seven-storey building is going
up. the eo. reserving the front of the ground
floor for its own. use. The unpaid balance
accounts partly for the increase in liabili-
ties. The board considers that it got a
bargain, and it ought to be a good judge.
In the underwriting field there was less ex-
pansion to report on this occasion than usual;
nevertheless two agencies (Samarang and
Alexandria) and a branch in Tas. were
established. The management thinks it has
about enough territory to cover now, and
will concentrate for a while on its present
establishments.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide)
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1916.. £2045 6 p.c. = £l2OO .€Bl5 €4,920
1917.. 2855 8 „ „ 1600 1255 6,175
- 1918.. 3165 8 „ „ 1600 1562 7,740
1919.. 3541 10 „ „ 2000 1541 9,281
1920.. -5059 10 „ ~ 2000 3059 12,340
1921.. 5411 10 „ „ 4000 1411 13,751
1922.. 6376 10 „ „ 4000 2376 16,127
1923.. 7696 10 „ „ 4 000 3696 19,823
1924.. 7969 10 4000 3969 23,792
Provident fund, £lOOO .. . . 22,792
1925.. 7749 10 p.c. = 5000 2749 25,541
1926.. 8663 10 „ ~ 6000 '2663 28,204.
Elder's Trustee Co. was given a flying start
by its influential parents, Elder, Smith and
Co. Although it is only 16 years old share-
holders have had 10 p.c. divs. since 1919 and
£28,204 —equal to almost half of the paid
capital—now stands in reserves. Income has
quadrupled in the past decade, and that is
easily understood after a glance at the rapid
increase, in the aggregate value of trusts
administered: —
1911 . . £53,562 | 1922 ~ . £4,791,056
1914 .. 1,463,454 I 1923 .. 5,206,616
1918 .. 2,779,039 | 1924 .. 5,741,550
1920 .. 3,553,763 1 1925 .. 6,213,625
1921 .. 4,078,224 1 1926 .. 7,281,876
That big increase, due partly, of course, to
the rapid increase in capital values, makes
the future look nice and comfortable. In
the previous year 100,000 new shares were
issued; yet last year’s profit was £2663 above
10 p.c. div. requirements. Indeed, as in the
three preceding terms, income from invest-
ments and miscellaneous receipts were alone
more than sufficient to meet the distribution.
In all, 300,000 £1 shares have been issued,
but only 4s. per share has been called. Of
the £88,204 of shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves) more than 90 p.c. is in gilt-
edged stocks. And in the £240,000 callable
on the shares clients can see so much addi-
tional security. All of which is very com-
forting, though the chances are that the
average client places his trust more in the
board and the efficient staff. The shares
look very attractive.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney), who
sell musical' instruments, etc.: —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., ’16.. £6,014 7 p.c, = £4,898 £lll6 £48,847
Sept., ’16.. 5,936 7 „ „ 4,898 1038 44,885
Mar., ’17.. 8,081 10 „ „ 6,998 1083 45,968
Sept., ’17.. 7,968 10 „ „ 6,998 970 40,938
Mar., ’lB.. 7;741 10 „ „ 6,998 743 47,681
Sept., ’lB.. 8,037 10 „ „ 6,998 1039 48,720
Mai’., ’19.. 7,970 10 „ „ 6,998 972 49,692
Sept,, T 9.. 8,212 10 ~ „ 6,998 1214 50,906
Mar., ’20.. 9,821 10 „ „ 6,998 2823 53,729
Sept., ’20.. 10,093 10 „ „ 6,998 3095 56,824
Reserves capitalised, £52,587 .. 4,237
Mar., ’21.. 11,184 10 p.c. = 9,641 1543 5,780
Sept., ’21.. 10,413 10 „ „ 9,622 791 6,571
Mar., ’22.. 10,748 10 „ „ 9,603 1145 7,716
Sept., ’22.. 10,654 10 „ „ 9,622 1032 8,748
Mar., ’23.. 10,703 10 „ „ 9,622 1081 9,829
Sept ’23.. 11,714 10 ~ „ 9,641 2073 11.902
Mar., ’24.. 12,097 10 „ „ 9.641 2456 14,35 S
Sept, ’24.. 12,493 10 „ „ 9,641 2852 17,210'
Mar., ’25.. 12,569 10 „ „ 9,641 2928 20,138
Sept., ’25.. 13,138 10 „ ~10,167 2971 23,109
Mar., ’26.. 13,003 10 „ ~ 10,956 2047 25,156
Gross profits were £B2OO less than in the
previous 12 months, but expenditure was
cut to such purpose that net profits were
£1079 better. Improvement certainly was
necessary, for ss. was called on each of the
105,175 contribs. (they are now paid to
155.) during the term, which means an addi-
tional £2630 p.a. on the basis of 10 p.c. divs.
There seems to be no doubt as to the co.’s
capacity under present conditions to rake in
sufficient for requirements; net earnings dur-
ing the second half of the term were more
than £2OOO over the sum necessary for the
10 p.c. Still not much was visibly added to
reserves. In fact, visible additions ever
since the capitalisation in 1921 have been
very modest. The bonus issue on that occa-
sion mopped up all but a few thousands; the
£20,919 that lias been added in the 5-J- years
is a poor accumulation considering the nature
of the business and the amount of capital m
it. T.-p. trade is developing enormously
with the arrival of finance cos. to handle
general business. Luxury lines are favored
fields, and the development should help to
swell the turnover of such firms as Nichol-
son’s so long as wc have favorable seasons.
But without a shadow of a doubt firms hand-
ling luxury lines will be in sore trouble later
on. —the date of course is uncertain—unless
they dig themselves in well. And that means
keeping a tight rein on their own liabilities
and maintaining ample reserves against con-
tingencies.
Nicholson’s passed through the last slump
—such as it was —without disturbing share-
holders from their comfortable 10' p.c.; but
more capital calls for attention nowadays,
and the jazz habits of foreign exchange
throw an element of uncertainty into the
picture. Balance-sheet movements compare
with preceding years as follows:
Mar.,’23. Mav.,’24. Mar.,’2s. Mar.',’26.
Paid capital. . £192,820 ,£192,820 £192,820 £219,114
Mortgage . . -- 28,500 28,500 105,000
Overdraft . . 20,036 14,629 43,499 604
Other liabilities 85,820 130,436 152,548 171,998
Stocks, hire
a g reements,
book debts. . 259,800 279.504 325,518 318,439
Plant, etc. . . 4,888 5,054 5,056 5,129
Freeholds . . 41,048 94,199 94,199 192,911
Sundry assets 12,891 12,128 22,873 16,849
In the latter half of the year portion of the
premises occupied by Hordern Bros., Ltd.,
in the heart of the shopping centre, was pur-
chased, and the co.’s two blocks in George-
street were sold. The property item at
March 81 was £192,911 compared with
£94,199, while the mortgage was £105,000
compared with £28,500. Included in the
real property is the co.’s big store at Cam-
perdown. The figures suggest that a nice
profit was made on the sale of the co.’s pre-
sent home and the portion of McDowell’s,
for with only £26,2)H of new capital and
an increase of £19,450 in liabilities, the bank
overdraft of £48,499 lias been almost wiped
out and £22,212 net added to tl \ property
item, although cash and the untidy grouped
item (stocks, goods afloat and hire agree-
ments under contract less unearned interest
and insurance) are a few thousands less.
Creditors are comfortably* situated, and
shareholders seem reasonably assured of some
further 10 p.c. divjs. But that anticipation
is based on the co.’s unfaltering distribution
during the slump period, and most decidedly
not on the strength visible at March 31.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.)
( —Dividends. ,
Prefs.
■ (124 Writ- Re-
Mar., Profit, p.c.). Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
1916.. 18,793 2500 10 p.c. = 9,000 6,389 7,572
1917.. 16,759 2500 10 „ „ 9.000 5,865 6,966
1918.. 15,649 2500 71-„ „ (5,750 5,749 7,616
1919.. 13,478 2500 8 ~ „ 7,200 3,778 7,616
1920.. 19,014 2500 9 „ ~ 8,100 8,213 7,817
Net To Re-
Profit. , senes.
1921.. 21,217 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 9,717 17,534
1922.. 32,841 2500 10 „ ~ 9,000 \
Reserved)for taxes, £.10,000 .. ) 11 ’ o4A
1923. . 15,215 2500 10 p.c. = 9,000 3,715 32,590
1924.. 13,557 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 2,057 34,647
Reserve taken in, £12,994 .. .. 47,641
15 p.c.
1925.. 20,983 3000 15 p.c.= 13,500 4,483 52,124
121 p.c.
1926. . 11,5010 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 52,124
Maybe, as nine result of the constant conflict
in the industry, the directors have con-
cluded that the least said the soonest
mended. Anyway, in 1925 the published
balance-sheet infoarmation was tucked into a
few entries; this time the process is taken
even further, an<H, to top it off, the amount
of profit disclosed is the sum exactly neces-
sary to meet the divs. This may be con-
sidered necessary 1 by the board, but it means
that investors haive to put their trust com-
pletely in the management. They seem to
suspect that the, management has something
in the bag, if 385.” is any indica-
tion. Here last year’s secretiveness is
placed alongside 1925 and the position as
detailed in the 1924 balance-sheet: —
1924. 1925. 1926.
Debentures . . . . £49,236 £47,736 ) r o o r ,, s
Sundry creditors, etc. 56,230 52,950 j t " ' i ’
Mines, plant, etc. .. 176,03? '
Coal 1,402
Stoves . . .. 1,704
Deposits at call .. 7,875 235,000 238,210
Deposits, fixed .. 30,359
War loans . . .. 15,371
Cash in hand . . .. 12
Investments, etc. .. 8,770 ,
Book debts . . . . 26,065 30,638 20,258
Cash 3 2,186 7,922 2,954
Of the liabilities the debenture debt may be
a trifle less than in the previous year, but on
this occasion “mortgage” is included in the
item—without comment, of course. Never-
theless, the total outside debt was £7138 less
than at March 31, 1925. Hitherto reserves
had been split into general, div. equalisation
and workers’ compensation; they are now
grouped. They Stand at £52,124; but how
much undervalued the properties are the
“Wild Oat” doesn’t know. Even if they
stand in the hooks at £200,000, that would be
a very conservative figure, for the co. owns
Neath. Oessnock and Kalingo collieries. Of
course, there has been only an average of
10 p.c. in it for shareholders since 1916:
but since 1921 Kalingo has been developed
and equipped without any new capital being
brought in. As Kalingo is on one of the best
parts of the rich South Maitland field, share-
holders should receive handsome treatment
later on. Trading last year resulted iu a
return of £153,330, compared with £211,752
for 1025 (that covered nine months of the
record coal production of 1924), and
£168,537 for the preceding year. Since the
close of the accounts the engine-drivers’


There’s Money
in Shares.
What Shares?
“The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly”
helps you to find out.
Published the first Satur-
day of every month from
“The Bulletin” Office,
2/- per single copy;
22/6 per year.
Commercial Laboratories: Before purchasing labora-
tory equipment, writes to Elliott Bros., Ltd., O Connell
Street, Sydney, or itiylfc’s and Elliotts, Ltd., Char-
lotte Street, Brisbane, who will furnish detailed par-
ticulars about the n*ast suitable types of chemical
and scientific apparatus, chemicals, reagents, etc.
These firms can suppSy all the instruments needed
for any laboratory. They are especially well equipped
to meet the requirements of sugar and mining
companies. The fact that they carry unusually
large stocks eliminates the risk of delay in obtain-
ing supplies.—Advt. 1“
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over'
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from*Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane. Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. I- 1
For preserving the purity and volume of water,
there is no form of conduit more suitable than
Pioneer Wood Pipe. At the outset it will convey
from 15 to 20 per cent, more water than metal
pipe of similar size, whilst in 10 years’ time the
increase will be even greater. The reason for this
superiority lies in the fact that the smooth interior
bore of Pioneer Wood Pipe never rusts, corrodes
or fouls and offers no foothold for organic growths.
An interesting booklet, fully illustrated, may be
obtained free on request to the Australian Wood
Pipe Go. Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street’, Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
This is the Age of Concrete, and Machinery-mixed
Concrete is cheapest and best. “Multimix” and
“Tiltamix” Drum Concrete Mixers are manufactured
bv us in Australia. Adi sizes up to 50 cubic feet
per batch. Our latest is a small self-contained
Tilting-Type Mixer, with an ingenious one-man
operated loader, the mixer having a barrow-load
capacity of mixed concrete each batch. It is strong,
cheap and quite reliable. Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty Ltd., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane; 21 Morphett
Street Adelaide; 360 Collins Street, Melbourne;
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent’s
Park N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
bein' 1- offered by Messrs. Felton, Griiftwade & Co.
Pty.” Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole ’ Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.—Advt. * #
The Svdney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
All Right!
I’ll meet you at
YOUNG U JACKSON’S
The place of meeting of all men on
business and pleasure.
Standing on MELBOURNE’S most
historic corner, everybody who knows
MELBOURNE knows—
Young & Jackson’s,
on the corner of
Flinders and Swanston Streets.
Everybody who visits MELBOURNE wants to
see the FAMOUS PICTURE GALLERY, in
which is included the world-renowned “Chloe.''
First-class accommodation for visitors.
Nothing but the best in all liquors.
J. A. SAFE, Prop.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Billett’s Patent Hot-Air Tuyere
Saves 25 in Wages and 30 in Coal.
This is not our statement, it is the statement of users.
: <s
,V :•
■ .' mm
No. 1 . .30/-, for light work
No. 2.. 35/-, ~ med’m ~
No. 3. .40/-, ~ heavy ~
Ask your store for bulletin,
or write direct to the
Sole Manufacturers-
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
strike lias tied up the mines, so that the
current term will be adversely affected; for
even though many banked-up orders may be
put through after resumption, there is always
a dead loss of trade at such times.
• * • * r *
Now that Kalingo is nearing production
on a large scale, results should expand
rapidly. The market likes the prospects.
Certainly it is a fair assumption that much
better returns will result from the three
collieries than has been shown from two,
despite the opening up of new mines on the
field and the incessant industrial troubles.
* . * * *
Brilliant (W.A.) has been favored with
the best development that has come its way
since it acquired the Gnow’s Nest mine. In
the north end of No. 4 level, 110 ft. from the
main crosscut from the shaft, the reef is
7ft. wide, and averages 15dwt. per ton.
The importance of this development lies in
the fact that a new lens of ore appears to
have been located. Should this prove of
equal value and volume to the lens previ-
ously worked, the co. will have a chance of
discharging its liabilities and possibly reach-
ing divs. There is an awful sink of shaft
to be faced, but the co. is now better equipped
than formerly for this work.
“Peter”: On June 17 a “big public meet-
ing” is to be held in the Perth Town Hall
with the object of devising means to revive
the gold-mining industry. It does not appear
to occur to the conveners that the industry
is missing out in the usual way, just as it
did at Ballarat, Bathurst, Charters Towers
and other centres. The one way to create a.
genuine revival is to locate a new body of
payable ore having an extractable gold con-
tent of about IOO.OOOoz. Wiluna is certainly
oii the way, but there is a long road to travel
before shareholders sign receipts for dividend
cheques. The financial joke of the year is
the lending by the Government of £60,000 to
the Golden Horseshoe on the security of the
mine, the ostensible reason of the loan being
to "revive the apparently dead, the real reason
being to keep the employees of the mine en-
gaged. In connection with this deal, the
Government seems to have no course but to
continue making cash advances or foreclose
and let the mine on tribute or sell it for the
best offer. One action that might help to
bring about a temporary revival is the pen-
sioning off of most of the old Kalgoorlie
managers and replacing them by young,
active men. Such men could go through
some hundreds of feet of stopes and climb
a few ladders daily and plan a policy.
This would be management. The most popu-
lar scheme for reviving the industry is by
way of a gold bonus. Such a bonus would be
agreeable to all leaseholders, and the bigger
tlic bonus the more agreeable it would be. And
at the end of the lane there would be just
such another smash as Britain is facing be-
cause it proposed to stop the precisely simi-
lar coal dole. #
Westralian mining industry is to be bur-
dened with another load—compulsory insur-
ance of miners against phthisis. The State
intends taking over the worst cases, and will
either pay these a weekly wage or find them
surface employment, such- as road-making,
To cover current risks leaseholders will have
to insure all miners ivith the State at 4|
p.c. on annual wages; the insurance cos. re-
fused the risk under 6 p.c. As the rate
already payable under the Workers’ Compen-
sation Act is 565. per cent., it follows that,
before a miner can be engaged in future,
'almost £lB annually .will have to be pro-
vided for his insurance. ' Prospecting syndi-
cates that neglect this provision will carry
a risk of £750 per miner employed.
* * * *
Devon (W.A.), whose seventh manager
recently reported that everything was going
well, lias applied to the Mines Department
for a loan. To date the co. has spent over
£50,000, and although the board has stated
more than once that “dividends would be paid
before long,” shareholders have never received
anything, and, as The Bulletin previously
remarked, their optimism has long been down
to about a trace.
* * * *
Westralian option-seeking cos. are having
a dull season. No new gold finds good
enough to attract capital have been reported
for some time, and most prospectors have
either gone elsewhere or given the game up.
* * * •*
Pernatty Central, one of the many Adel-
aide cos. that tried and failed at Hampton
Plains (W.A.). has put money into the
Kangaroo Mining Co., which is hopping
about the Northern Territory in search of
minerals. During the Hampton boom yarns
about big ore bodies, good values and “Lon-
don coming in” boosted Pern atty shares from
a few shillings to over £2. The market
then broke, and most of those who were in
were unable to get out. Later on the mine
was. let on tribute, and produced a little
gold; beyond that nothing much has been
heard of its doings.
* * * # • *•
Yet another find of osmiridium has been
made on the Boyes River (Tas.). 15 miles
n.-w. of the Adams River field. There is a
five-mile belt of serpentine, and the dis-
coverer unearthed lOoz. in one month. It
is not the valuable “point” variety, but is
small grain. There has not been much
glacial denudation is the locality, so the
find, although it is being boomed, is not
likely to prove of much value.
Belimbla Creek (N.S.W.) speaks in sub-
dued tones these days about the Great Gold
Lode it had planned to cut 18 months ago,
and the “stream of gold” Joseph Campbell
t ouched for early in 1925 seems to have dried
up at its source. Holders were lately in-
formed that “the long tunnel to cut the
lode has reached 645 ft.,” and that only
225 ft. of rock stands between the drills and
the goal. The voice of caution also obtrudes
in the further remark that "if the face rock
continues as at present, the lode may be cut
within five months, working three shifts.
Sunny Corner (N.S.W.), the silver-mining
centre that led on to Broken Hill and so
helped to make Australia famous, has now
almost disappeared. Most of the houses have
been removed to Portland or Kandos, and
the police-station, one of the few remaining
relics of former greatness, is being pulled
down. Two men are working at the old
Great Western tunnel, a few hundred yards
from the Sunny Corner mine, in the hopes
of unearthing a zinc-lead-silver deposit, and
two fossickers are sluicing at West Mitchell
and one on Bob’s Creek. This is the sum-
total of the mining activity in the locality.
Commonwealth Mica (N.Q.) is increas-
ing working capital to £lO,OOO by issuing
another 500 £lO shares, and general-manager
('has. F. Chaplin lias come south for con-
sultation. The co.'s 50 acres are 77 miles
from Duchess, on the railway, and 550 miles
from Townsville. ’The ground held is in
blocks at intervals along about four miles of
a pegmatite dyke. A trimming and grading
dep6t has been established in Sydney. As
to the marketing problem, usually the bane
of mica propositions, Chaplin cheerfully
observes: —
Exploratory work enabled us to mine to date
25cwt. of marketable mica, which found a ready
sale at from 7s. to 14s. per lb. Samples have
been sent to America, and there is a demand for
small sizes. Users ask for these sizes in tou lots,
but the price has not yet been agreed on. There is
a good demand in Sydney and Melbourne for use in
the manufacture of elements for electric irons and
other domestic appliances. A firm in Melbourne
offers up to 465. per lb. for 6x4 for use in lamps.
The Railway Department will require great quantities
of mica in the near future. Reports from America
and England indicate demand for mica at payable
rates.
Papuan ’weight-chasers have had a lean
time since Lakekamu; but if the new field
on the Bulolo lives up to reports good times
have come again. The field is in old German
territory, but the discoverers are all Papuan
mining identities, and by this time every
other ’chaser in Papua will be on his way
to the spot. It is many years since the first
British prospectors went over the border,
and tried the Waria country with success,
till the Germans chased them off. Bill Park,
leader of the party which has located the
new ground, was thereabouts some 14 years
ago. Another old hand is Joe Sloan, Avho
made a great clean-up of unsuspected osmi-
ridium at the old Gira crossing during the
war years. The original party on this occa-
sion claims to have taken out some £40,000
worth of gold, and has applied for the usual
reward claims. The field is only a few
miles west of the sea, near the head of the
Huon Gulf, starting from a point marked
on the older maps as Parsee Point, and
bearing the native name of Sulamoa. It
should thus be much more accessible than
the Gira and Yodda were. It may be as
rich as it is described, too. The Yodda and
Gira yielded a great return of alluvial,
washed out of the eastern slope of the cen-
tral vange by the torrential rains of the
s.-e. trades which broke against it half the
year. The new field is also on the eastern
slope, and the gold has probably been brought
there by the same agencies. Sea transport
lias improved out of sight, and this should
lighten the ruinous expense and loss insepar-
able from the employment of native carriers.
G. O'. Wilkinson, formerly of Charters
Towers and Gympie, is doing well at the
old gold-mine at Misima (Papua), considering
that no crushing machinery is being em-
ployed to prepare the ore for cyaniding.
About 225. to 245. extraction is being
obtained, and a 3s. dividend was paid in
March. Since June, 1924, income lias ex-
ceeded working costs; by £3OOO, but the
balance over the £9OO in dividends has been
spent on plant, stores, improvements, etc.
Lately, payable ore lias been located where
only valueless stuff had been found before.
The proposition now looks as if it would
continue payable for some years.
New Guinea Oil Co., Orokolo Bay, is
down to 1110 ft. and manager Moore reports
having successfully finished the cementing.
The plant is easily the slickest on any oil-
stabbing quest in these parts. .
* * « *
How these dredges’ capacity is climbing!
Kampong Lanjut is to acquire two with
buckets of no less than 14 cubic feet capa-
city. At 18 buckets a minute, these wiß
mean a theoretical capacity of over 300,000
yards in a working month of 600 hours.
Taking a two-thirds efficiency an actual
200,000 yards per month is anticipated. Treat-
ment may prove a trouble, for there are
doubts whether such a large volume of dirt
can be handled effectively. The. co. has no
qualms about it, however, and is installing
16 jigs on each dredge, as compared with eight
jigs only on Rawang.
* * * *
Malim Nawar put through 80,000 yards
for May, but the tin return was only 14
tons. According to the report, alterations
and additions are being made to the dredge,
which are expected to take 21 months to
finish. While this is going on, monthly
yardage isn't expected to go over 80,000,
while 40 feet will be the limit of digging
depth. Details are lacking, but inability to
go deeper than 40 feet indicates that the
dredge hasn’t enough buoyancy. Malcolm
Newman, reporting on the property, says
the high values lie in two seams of stony
karang near the bottom. It would seem,
then, that as much tin as is saved in the
first 40 feet is being lost, temporarily at
least, in the richer remaining 20 feet.
*t* * *
At Pungkah, 60 miles north from Tongkali
Harbor (Siam), Austral Malay is satisfied
that it has the goods for another big float.
It is the rule with this co. not to do things
in a hurry—and in a case where Chinese
vendors and a Siamese Mines Department
have to be haggled with, hustle takes an
outer position. A. W. Freeman’s cable said
that four months .of prospecting had revealed
30,000,000yd5. of lib., ground, going 72 p.c.
metallic. This estimate covered 600 acres.
The wet season shut off boring over
the balance of the area, but "substantial
additions” are looked for. A limestone
bottom with a minimum of pinnacles and
average dredgable depth of 32ft. should keep
two 100,000 yd. plants running for 10 years.
Indeed, the 32ft. depth has been fixed ‘to
allow for incomplete recovery at greater
depths.” It seems strange that old Tongkali
ITajbor, groping about for new lands for the
last 10 years, should have missed this.
Alan Davis has fathered Malayan Options
Syndicate to send W. J. P- Smith to the
F.M.S. Smith spent several years boring
there, and was the prospector of the Dampen
and Tepah cos. #
Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.) has taken an
option of 500 acres in Perak, a likely-look-
ing proposition if check-boring confirms the
scout boring carried out by Kuala officials.
Average depth of 48ft. is bracketed with
pound values, and a dozen preliminary holes
gave 18oz. to 46ft. It looks like a new float,
though the 83,000 reserve shares may be
utilised. They would be a gift at par m the
ratio of one for two, and the dredge finance
problem would be solved right away, the
new’' prospect and 31 tons in May from
66,000yd5. in the old area bucked shares to
335. 6d. Holders got 4s. in divs. last year.
* * * *
Takuapa (Siam) paid two interim divs
of Is. each since the close of its financial
year at December 31. There plenty of
room for them, inasmuch as £25.524 of net
profits bad been carried forward to credit of
p. and 1.. and the co. had £25.600 of liquid
assets of which £14,739 consisted of cash
and the balance in tin ore, stores and book
debts. Against this the co. owed £19,018,
mostly loans from Ratrut. About seven
months of tin production is in the balance-
sheet, which speaks of 851,000yds. of 12oz.
stuff, giving 291| tons oxide. Expenses, just
under Id. a yd., allowed a mine profit of
8.8. u. per yd. At £155 a ton the product
was worth £45.31.7, after allowing for placa-
tion of the Siamese taxgatlierer, who bit the
co. for £8559, or 15.9 p.c. of the ore value.
A working profit of £28,077 accrued after
allowing £3OOO for dredge depreciation, but
the net return was reduced to £25,524 by
administrative charges and interest. I ixed
assets are lumped in two items, concessions
being put in at £124,526 and No. 1 dredge
at £99,241. No. 2 dredge, by Poole and
Steele, to cost £68.750. is scheduled at 17
months from May 10. With the 35,000 new
shares issued this year at 255.. the two
plants, wheu going, will have 250.000 shares
to feed. The report says that the original
estimate of 224 million yards has been
moved up to 30 million, and that No. 1
dredge hitherto operating along the western
side of the property, will return this month
and dig in about the centre, where higher
returns arc looked for. The shares figure
in the market at close on 100 p.c. premium.
New Salak South, the Collins-street ven-
ture in Siamese tin which, after many years’
sleep, came to life with options over two
areas early this year, has continued its
hectic career. The scrip bolted from Bs. to
305.. and then fell back to 225. Last week
there was further zigzagging, sales in one
day running 245., 405., 30s. 6d., 325., and
the next 345., 365., 295. The position is
complicated by a tangle concerning the exact
position of holders in reference to the
28,000 fnliy-paids and tlie 56,000 contribs.
at 2s. 6d. on allotment in the subsidiary
Nakon.
* .y. -x- *
“K.” : In the record petroleum production
of the U.S.A. for the past year new physico-
chemical metliods played a definite part for
the first time by the discovery of domes
which proved to be producers. Great advances
iu geophysical jlrospecting are now to be
expected, as no less than 10 powerful oil
cos. (including the Iloyal Dutch) and the
U.S. Survey have adopted the torsion balance
and seismograph as parts of their field equip-
ment. An important fact is that no exclu-
sive rights prevent their use by anyone pos-
sessed of sufficient knowledge of physics.
The developiments are of interest to Aus-
tralia in that there may he certain sections
of the continent where buried ranges and
hills or other upheavals could form the fun-
damental geological conditions for the accu-
mulation of oil, and which, otherwise, might
pass unnoticed even in boring operations.


THE PROCESSION OF THE FUTURE.
“In the House of Commons Mr. Macquisten asked if it was intended to legislate to allow wives a voice in strike ballots.”


An always cool
tongue is a
/
tribute to
7°:,
vo
*l*l%
JJJ
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO LTD
CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“The Deacon”: Luck is a queer thing.
Young Romeo and Juliet, having loved in
the usual unwise way, sought the aid of one
of the harpies who infest the lesser suburbs.
But the hag was adamant; so much cash
was necessary—otherwise, nothing doing.
The boy and girl—he was 18 and she 15 —
decided to pool their poor resources and go
to the ponies and give it a fly. They were
lucky, or at least they reckoned themselves
so - they won enough to meet the harpy’s
demands. And now the girl is in her grave,
and the world is the poorer because Sydney
hasn’t got an institution where babies would
be taken in and no questions asked.
“Effesses”: My very considerate and
courteous friend Jones had recent occasion
to make a coastal voyage. lie is not a good
sailor, and an anxious wife instructed him
to send a wire on landing. For some rea-
son not disclosed he gave up his cabin to
two young ladies. On reaching port, in
obedience to instructions he sent a telegram
to the home. I enclose the message on the
original form, as it reached the anxious
wife: —
Dreadful voyage. Gave birth to two girls.—
George.
* -x- *
“Mephisto” : A call for the ambulance was
received in a Queensland town from an
outlying part, representing that a woman
was in need of immediate medical attend-
ance. A car was rushed out to a remote
farmhouse, whence the patient was carried
out, moaning. A man accompanied her, and
his concern for her plight was shown so
markedly that the bearers found it necessary
to remonstrate with him. fearing that his
endearments would make her worse. As
they approached the town the woman began
to feel better, and when they reached the
main street she called a halt, declaring that
she was quite well. The couple hurried
away and caught a train. Several days
later the ambulance received a visit from
a very angry man. who accused them, of
aiding and abettinn' a villain to elope with
his wife.
-** * *
“Woorook”: If some of our big depart-
ment stores keep going long enough people
will get, to hear of them. A letter from the
Never Never reached Sydney recently. The
address read: “Mr. Anthony Hordern, or
Man in Shop.”
* * •* *
“Spare Corp.” : My own experience of trench
fever (B. 10/6/'26) started with a feeling that
I didn’t care if it rained
shells; crawling into a cel-
lar, I wrote a bit of gay
verse which duly appeared
in The Bulletin. The
light-hearted feeling pre-
sently gave way to drowsi-
ness. I don't remember liow
I reached the duckboards in
the main communication-
trench, but an officer, hurry-
ing past, woke me with,
“Shake it up; it'll be day-
break soon, and you don’t
want to be caught here.” I
woke up at night feeling
sufficiently well to go out
on a fatigue, although the
boys tried to stop mo, but
all I remember of it was
staggering along a broken
duckboard with a box of
.303 and watching some
Verey lights because they
seemed to have red crosses
in the centre. My next
memory is of waking in a
deserted dug-out and won-
dering vaguely what I was
doing in a produce store
stacked ivith pumpkins and
a parrot. (The bird later
on turned out to be a Lewis
gun and my pumpkins were
sandbags.) Then the doctor,
stooping over me, back in
the dug-out, said something
about an extremely high
temperature; but, on my
undertaking to lie down and
keep warm, he agreed to
defer final judgment for 2-j
hours. At the end of that
time I was sufficiently re-
covered to stay with the
butt., but a husky dryness in tlie throat and
a craving for hot drinks remained for
months.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: A new synagogue has just
entered on existence at Bankstown, Sydney,
making the fourth place of worship for the
Chosen in and around the Harbor City. The
others are the Great Synagogue, the Eastern
Suburbs Synagogue at Bondi Junction, and
the Newtown one, where there was recently
a rumpus in the congregation, which turned
the old management out of office. The
Bankstown congregation started in the usual
way with the regular holding of “Minyan"
—regularised prayers—at which seven _is
needed for a quorum, A yarn, told with
earnest horror by a pious Sydney Hebrew to
show the ignorance occasionally found in
Australian Jewry about its own religious
observances, deals with an assembly of six
Jews who wanted to .secure the. necessary
quorum-inaßer. Looking through the tele-
phone-book the pious man discovered that a
Moses Cohen lived not far away, and, ring-
ing his number, got Mrs. Cohen on the wire.
NOT QUITE SO FATAL HERE.
“ Y’know, in England l was considered no end of a lady-killer."
“Oh, hut don't worry. Here you'll find it different, —your sort only
makes us feel a little sick."
“We want Mr. Cohen to come along to Min-
yan,” explained the pious man. “Well, I’ll
ask him,” said Mrs. Cohen, "but he doesn't
often play cards.”
“Dedi” : A class of the students from whom
sanitary inspectors are made was hearing
a lecture by a Public Health officer down
south the other day. The subject was milk
adulteration and methods of detection. The
lecturer took a sample of milk from a bottle
supplied specially to the department by a
highly respected milko, added water to it
and demonstrated how the specific gravity
was decreased and consequently the nutritive
value. Then the lecturer proceeded to show
how pure milk would support the lactometer
in comparison with the watered sample. But
the experiment failed for once, and amidst
smothered laughter came the realisation that
the reputable milko had made the horrible
bloomer of sending in a bottle of watered
juice.
-X- -X- -X- *
“The Deacon” : In the old days at the
Cardinal’s College at Manly, when Cardinal
Moran ruled the roost, it was the custom
for the ecclesiastical brass-hats of the per-
suasion to spend a day or two occasionally
at the “palace.” While there it was Moran’s
pleasure to make the stu-
dents show their paces—the
college was just across the
way—and a regular item of
the programme was for the
students to beg a holiday in
order to celebrate the arri-
val of the distinguished
guest; whereupon the old
Cardinal, who never gave
the contributing dioceses half
a whisper in the manage-
ment, would beam with
benevolence and graciously
grant the boon. But college
and Cardinal caught a snag
when the late Archbishop
Delaney, of the Apple Isle,
called in. When the usual
deputation of prefects came
along with the stereotyped
request, the Cardinal was
just getting his charming
smile into working order when
a grating voice said “Now!
If i had my way I’d put another four hours
a day on to your curriculum!” The voice
came from Delaney, who was never asked
to Manly again so long as Moran lived.
* * -X- *
“Detonator”: Touching the transmission
of war injuries or marks (R. 27/5/ 201.
There is a married Digger at Taringa (Q.l
who bears two fearsome-looking shrapnel
scars on his hip and thigh. So does his first
reinforcement.
“M.”: Re “CesV statement that John Bat-
man's real-estate deal with the blacks took
place “near the junction of the Merri Creek
and the Yarra” (B. l!7/5/’26_). Batman’s
own diary shows that this notion, first cif
ciliated by Rusden.
was wrong. Forty
years ago, James
Blackburn. C.E.,
then Melbourne's
City Surveyor, took
Batman’s diary and
followed the route,
with the eyes and
understanding of
an expert, to and
from the spot where
Jacky Jacky was
encountered ; th e
conclusion he
reached was that
the deal took place
on the banks of
the Plenty. 12
miles beyond the
Merri Creek in a
n.-e. directio n.
“Ces" furt li e r
writes that “Bat-
man has a brass
plate w here be
built his first
hou s e” in Mel-
bourne. The site
of that historic
structure would be
impossible to locate
nowadays, seeing
that Batman's Hill,
on which it stood,
was levelled many
years ago to make
room for the Spen-
cer-street, railway
yards. There is,
however, a tablet
on an insurance
company’s build-
in g i n Collins-
street which reads:
“J o li n Batman.
Founder of Mel-
bourne, built on
this corner in
1837.” But that
was his second
house, and he died
before he could
occupy it, though his widow and family lived
there for a time.
* * * *
“Bart” : It's time to revise it thus: —
The modern dress displays so wide a latitude,
Reveals so much, when all is said and done,
Each bump and dimple, line and curve and attitude,
That one must question the absurd old platitude:
“Ah, well! there’s nothing nude beneath the sun.”
* * « *
“Two Seas”: In the old game of piteli-
and-toss, as “J.K.” states (B. 10/6/20),
the coppers were pitched at a peg or "mot’
and then “headed” by the nearest pitcher.
But there was a game, as mentioned by
“T. 0.1.,” where the pennies were pitched
to a line drawn in the dust—or more often
mud. The object was to pitch the penny
close to or on the line; if it went over it
was claimed by one's opponent. After the
pennies were all thrown, each player took
a turn at swiping them over the line with a
disc of lead, about two inches in diameter,
called the “nicker.” When the pence lay
close together it took some skill to cut
TIME’S HEAVY HAND.
"She looks awfully old in this photo, doesn’t she?”
“Ah yes, dear. But that was taken a long while ago.”
one out without disturbing the other; to
strike two was a foul. All that the expert
could knock over the line with the “nicker
• —standing about six feet away—became his
property. I fancy these and similar games
originated in London streets; but whatever
they may have had to do with the genesis of
two-up, the wagering was not on the scale
associated with the modern pastime of
“heading ’em.”
(Continued on page 19.)
THE GAY CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Sydney is gayer than Paris.” —Opinion of an
English press delegate.
Toil is but subtler jesting.
The office, duchess goes
Each morning to her resting
With powder on her nose;
And where the crowds are flocking
To trams like swarming bees
The wonder of her stocking
Is known to every breeze.
Yet gayer still the miner
Who prospects in the street;
His holes grow larger, finer
To stay the march of feet
In manner bold and dashing
He whirls his shovel round,
A hundred pavements smashing
To see what’s underground.
There’s nothing small or petty
In such delightful toil;
The clay, like rich confetti,
Is every passer’s spoil.
And no one really grudges
These pleasures bravely won,
While, wreathed in smiles, Tom trudges
Round Bill’s unstinted fun.
Amid the deep crevasses
The wheels make corkscrew turns,
While every car that passes
Its thankful petrol burns;
And every driver searches
For spots to park his van
Where once in twenty perches
Is room to squeeze a, man.
INVARI ABLY CORREOT .
“Do you believe in presentiments?”
“Oh, surely! When J sec a. pretty girl whose father is
rich I feel certain,' I’m going to fall in lore.”
The ancient reputation
Of Paris swiftly fades
Where, at the railway station,
Rush home the bright brigades
Of those who, madly caper,
With mirthful elbows twain,
To snatch an evening paper
And catch a crowded train.
The newsboys still are shouting
In musical clear tone;
The merry maids are flouting'
All by-laws but their own.
In fact, all laws are needless,
For all break all they may ;
And, confidently heedless,
We own that Sydney’s gay!
N.S.W,
MARY McO.


THE OBVIOUS WAY OUT.
“Another Commission has been appointed by the Federal Government to deal, among other things, with the question of unemployment. A Commission on insurance,
which has had the problem of unemployment in mind for three years, lately went to Tasmania to see about it there.”
"There's a deputation houtside, gentlemen what is looking for work.” "Good gracious, Jim —tell ’em to get appointed to a Royal. Commission or a Board or something.”


'c7
¥
%
47:
"</ 'V
MOUNTAIN DEW! The suggestion of purity in the name—the dew
of Heaven on the highland heather—the sparkle in the morning sun—
and the freshness that makes us glad we are alive. All these
materialise in a glass of
Young's
MOUNTAIN DEW
Old Scotch Whisky
Agents: GATTINO & COMPANY, LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Quack” : There is a man in Sydney Hos-
pital who suffers from a curious family weak-
ness. After having had some teeth extracted
the severe bleeding that ensued left him so
weak that blood transfusion was necessary to
save him. A sister provided the necessary two
pints; apparently she is immune from the
family weakness, but two brothers ha\e Pre-
viously bled to death, one after merely hav-
ing a tooth knocked out. Another A. > -
Wales physiological curiosity was ‘the brittle
man,” whose hopes broke so easily with the
slightest jar that, avlicu he was last given
prominence, his tally of fractures was 40.
Tie had a son who was following in the same
path of calamity. In some cases the brittle
bone is a definite family failing. 11l ere is an
old Sydney family of five sisters who have
all had broken limbs, the fractures being
caused by simple falls or knocks, borne ot
them have had several fractures : two of them
are at this moment nursing broken legs in
the one establishment.
TWO OF A KIND.
MISTRESS ( engaging housemaid): “I'm an woman, of Jew words.
When I beckon like that it means ‘Come'at once.
APPLICANT : "That’ll do me nicely, Mum. I’m the same way.
When I shake me ’ead it means ‘ Nothin ’ doin'."
“A.G.M.” (Milan) : No other pleasure
resort in Europe lias deteriorated so much
as Monte Carlo. Down to a very few years
ago, when admission to the Casino was free,
the habitues followed certain rules which
helped the general attractiveness of the
place. Now the riff-raff of Europe who
foregather there make no pretence to be
other than what they are. Even the private
rooms and the International Sporting Club
are familiar with scenes of frank vulgarity.
Men in shabby tweed suits and without vests,
and liatless women in day dress entirely
suitable for a bush picnic, saunter where
once they would have been flatly refused
admission on the score of dress alone. Their
manners are even more indifferent than their
RESERVING JUDGMENT.
HIS HARD-UP BROTHER: “So' poor old Tom goes an’ gets sick, an’ all Ms money couldn't
save him.”
HIS FRIEND: “Perhaps it's all for the lest.
HIS HARD-UP BROTHER: “I dunno-the will ain't been read yet."
toilette, and tlie decorum to which even the
demi-monde and swell crooks had to confoi.n
is now T a thing of the past. At the tables,
pushing, wrangling and cheating are going
on all the time. Players on tlie outer fringe
of the tables often have their winnings
grabbed by others. The croupiers, in the
most brazen manner, pass round then box
for this with alarming insistence and ire-
nuenev, even to those whose winnings are
vorv modest indeed. In any _ dispute the
stakes #re handed to whoever tips the most
lavishly. The old custom of paying both
claimants rather than have a scene has gone
the way of other good things at Monte Carlo.
But, happily, the natural beauty of the place
remains.
* * * *
“Pick” : Though in size and features twins
are often remarkably alike, triplets are rarely
cut to pattern.
Bob and Jack
Rankin arrived to-
gether at Native
Dog station, on
Monaro (N.S.W.),
i n the ’sixties.
Twenty years later
three human beings
could not well have
been more unlike.
Sam was a long
splinter with red
lmir and round,
freckled features;
Rob was short and
nuggetty, with
aquiline face and
curly black hair;
Jack was a dwarf
with a sallow com-
plexion, but tough
and wiry. Still, in
their tastes and
ways they were
alike; also, they
were inseparable.
They were the
King Dicks among
the Monaro rough-
riders of their day;
what they didn't
know about hand-
ling wi 1 d scrub
cattle or breaking
the mountain brum-
bies hadn't been
discovered. Bob
went west in 1891,
and Sara and Jack soon followed.
“Nikko”: Important business matters fre-
quently leak from offices, even when the stall:
is sworn to secrecy. After spending a recent
evening in a city flat I can throw a little
light on the mystery. I looked straight into
the room of a Government official, where the
lights were on and two charwomen were
cleaning. On the table lay a pile of papers,
and the charwomen began at the top and
looked at each letter. One caused them great
interest —they came together and apparently
discussed its contents. If they continued
thus through the whole building their grasp
of the affairs of that department would pro-
bably astound some Parliamentarians.
“P.R.”: Typists’ errors? A flapper in our
Government office was responsible for the
answer to a country chemist, who had pur-
chased some medical requisites for which
the department acts as agent, and who
wrote asking for a discount. The uufortu-
nate man lias since learned that the clis-
count is granted to “wholesome chemists
only.” We are expecting a call from him
any moment. # ,
“Harold Hardupp”: The departure for
Nippon of a Japanese clerk who has been
obtaining British commercial experience m
a Sydney office has revived among his ex-
colleagiies a yarn about how he extracted
payment from’ a hardened debtor of the. firm.
There was a standing offer of halt the debt
to any clerk who succeeded in securing the
money, and, after every officer had tried his
hand,’ mostly with threats of legal proceed-
ings. the newly-arrived Jap was urged to
have a go. The office was amazed when a
cheque on account came back with an undei-
taking to pay up in instalments. lhe
Jap had written: “Sir,—Re your long due
to us account. This silly business must
accordingly stop. This is your last chance to
be honorable. Unless amount paid m due
course at once, something terrible will
happen.” The man who laughed at threats
of legal proceedings was bothered by the
ominous vngu cross of this, mid decided to
spar up. *
“Miro”: There was tremendous excite-
ment at a private hospital in Auckland the
other day. The gardener had just finished
spreading the ashes from the incinerator on
a back path, when an army of workmen
arrived and began to dig up the surface ot
the path and cart, it, away in tins until
several hundredweight of material had been
transported. They next dismantled the
chimney of the incinerator and carefully
scraped all the soot from the interior. All
tools used in connection with the upheaval
were collected and removed under escort, and
the apparel of a nurse was added to the
general pile. Out of this motley collection
the scientific enthusiasts of Auckland Uni-
versity hope to collect some portion of a
speck of radium as big as a pin’s head,
valued at £lOOO, which had been accidentally
discarded with the bandages of a patient.
As the radium has possibly undergone some
change since it was cast out, the search
may occupy months, but the hospital has
already been advised that one-fiftieth of the
missing stuff has been tracked.
“Julian”: It was in the roaring days of
the W.A. goldfields, and Denny Fite, a Law-
lers publican, had a horse entered for the
Lawlers Cup. On race-day, before leaving
for the course, he spread a wet bag over a
few dozen of champagne designed to cele-
brate the event if the gee won. Denny an-
nounced that the staff could have the day off
if they drew lots to se.e who would stay home
and mind the house. The draw was faked, and
Peter, the newchum yardman, was the victim.
“You won’t have much to do, Peter,” said
Denny as he drove off. “Everybody will be
at tiie course, but remember all drinks are
a shilling.” It was a hot day, and when a
few ol: the officials, breaking away from
the dusty course, drifted in for liquid re-
freshment they saw the gold top in cold
storage. The chance was too good to be
missed, and the amateur barman served it
out —in pots—according to direction at a
shilling a time, himself being included in
every shout. When Denny, jubilant at hav-
ing won the Cup, arrived with some thirsty
friends, he found a hilarious mob and a bait-
drunken barman mopping up the last or bis
£2-a-bottle vintage. “There wasn t enough
wine left to wet the horse’s nose, lie said
ruefully. Recovering, however, he made the
best of it. “Thank Cod, there’s plenty beer
left, so line up, boys.”
. * * * *
“Detonator” : Re camouflaged o.p s. W hen
with the Third Howitzer Battery I used to
take loads of ammunition from Remingbeist
to Dickebusch, passing near h.q. every even-
ing a cluster of ruined farm buildings. One
day my donk. tripped on a guyrope, and 1
then discovered that one of those ruined
houses was a clever canvas imitation. Ihe
roof seen from the air looked like burnt
rafters above a hollow shell. I found out
that twice a day each side of the gabled
canvas imitating a shelled roof opened up
and two concealed heavies fired. By the
time “Fritz was up” the roof was closed
once more and the canvas house looked like
an empty ruin.
* * * *
“Glen A.”: It happened at a recent early-
morning blaze at Linden Court. Sydney,
The flow of water was gradually dulling-the
flames; nevertheless there was still much
speculation whether the adjoining property
would catch. A spectator, who seemed to be
greatly concerned about the fate ot this build-
ing. addressed a ragged newspaper vendoi.
who was keenly scanning the roadway.
“Think next door will catch? ’he asked. 1
hope to cripes it does,” was the fervent reply.
“I’ve just dronped two bob, and I can t hnd
it in this blankety light.”
* * *
“Barina”: The queerest bit of treasure
trove I ever heard of was a keg of farthings.
In 1862 or 1863, when I was a schoolboy, 1
was talking to the tollbar-keeper on wliat
was then known to Sydney as Hapcnny
Bridge. A pig drover passed through with
a drove of hogs bound tor Glebe Island and
paid for them in farthings. It was the firs
time I had ever seen the com, and naturally
I was curious. In reply to my questions tie
drover told me that not long before he
had come on a keg of new farthings in a
cave in Allen’s bush, now 1 ederal I ark. lhe
farthings were George IV. ones, so they must
have lain there for close on 40 years. • 1
remember that I bought one for twopence
as a curio, and some of my schoolfellows did
the same. The drover’s story may have been
true, uars'o discharged from ships at Lirculai
Quay in the early days was scattered about
the wharf near the ships, and a heavy keg.
consigned to a bank, would naturally ha\
dishonest attention directed to it. Die
chances are it was rolled to the water s-edge
and into a boat, but when the thief found his
plunder was farthings lie decided that it was
not worth risking the gallows tor. feo it was
beached in a cave and remained there till an
honest pig-drover came on it a generation
later.
TIME FOE DRASTIC MEASURES.
WIFE : “Eve always gone home to mother
after these quarrels , hut it's done no
flood , so I’m just going to bring mother
to stay with us.”
“Gip”: Digging in my garden on the
fringe of Sydney, I unearthed the other day
one of the “tokens” made by Sydney jewel-
lers that once did duty for threepenny bits
(B. 20/5/’26). It is in a fair state of
preservation, and bears the date ISoS. tin
one side is a large “3” wreathed in leaves
on the other a palm-tree rather overwhelmed
by an emu and a kangaroo. Around the
coin is printed: “Hogarth, Ericson and Co..
.Jewellers, Sydney.”
THE PERFECT LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Will persons who witnessed man strike lady in
Crown-street, Tuesday, 6.10 p.m., kindly ring. -
S. M. IIF.RAI/U.
There’s no doubt that modernity’s siren appeal
Makes the best of us likely to slip
To those lower levels, where teachings genteel
Quite insensibly loosen their grip.
True, 6.10 p.m.’s a queer time of the day
For a dame fashioned out of superior clay
To forget her traditions, and so be embroiled
With a cave-dweller type, all too patently “oiled.
But all is forgiven, your conscience is clear,
If you never forget you're a lady, mv dear.
We know that the blighter who lifts up his hand
’Gainst a female, except with intent
To indicate kindness, is hopelessly banned
By every right-thinking gent.
While one shrinks from publicity’s searchlight, of
course,
Tlie neglect of what’s due to one’s very much worse,
So, if to her rearing she’d always be true,
A respectable girl has but one thing to do:
Send the brute to Long Bay, with a flea in his ear ;
Let the flamin’ cow see you’re a lady, my deal.
Should it chance that you issue an SOS call
For someone who -witnessed your trial,
And will swear that your he-man had no cause at all
To wallop you one on the dial;
When you’ve drafting your ad. put it quite beyond
doubt «
Your assailant was one whose acquaintance you d
scout,
And a rotter that’s ripe for triangle and cat
Homo sapiens, perhaps, though you’re not sine of
that.
But, lest a cruel world at your status should sneer,
Print it perfectly plain you’re a lady, my dear.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGiNSON.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bed-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Erench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
manager.
h
ĥ
, 1
••s*>»«£/» wwa-ll
The TOPNOTCHScotch
t AV’t IMPROVED “fl I n
rUA O puttees r.l.r.
New Non-fray Spiral (patented).
Obtainable from
W. Chorley
8 Co. Ltd.,
Tailors and
Breechesmakers,
313
George
Street,
Sydney.
-
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
The way mind can triumph over matter
is a thing to wonder at. Suddenly stricken
with angina pectoris, one of the most pain-
ful afflictions, a brilliant Melbourne surgeon
remained deeply interested in his symptoms,
and as he died minutely described them to
a fellow doctor in the hope that they would
be of value to science. This drama in real
life was enacted in the cabin of a yacht
anchored in Corio Bay. Dr. Frank Andrew,
the well-known College-street specialist, was
flic self-forgetting Stoic, and Dr. Dew the
colleague who took his dying deposition.
Killed in a motor accident, John Harry
Coyne, Queensland Land Court Judge, who
left the Warrego electorate to Randolph Bed-
ford when in 1923 he crossed from precarious
politics (he was Minister for Lands) into a
safe Bench job. Coyne entered Parliament in
1908 and held the same seat right up to the
time of his retirement. In 1912, during the
Brisbane tram strike, he was chairman of
the, strikers’ relief committee which issued
coupons to the men upon which they could
secure goods. Nefarious persons forged
coupons and secured goods, and gave Coyne
one of the most anxious times of his busy
young life.
Colin Davidson has been appointed to fill
a temporary breach in the N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench, but will probably be a fixture
there soon—there is growing congestion in the
courts, especially the matrimonial jnrisdic-.
tion. The Acting-Justice’s father, George
Davidson, is the grandfather of the N.S.W.
(fosts. brigade. Over 80 years of age, he is still
practising as a solicitor, and it is (JO years
since he qualified. R. H. (“Harry”) Levien,
who is 70 and has been a solicitor for 53
years, was at school with him.
Mrs. Adelaide Fullerton, who died sud-
denly in Melbourne a few days ago in her
99th year, was the. oldest native of Tas-
mania, where she had spent all her long life
until three years
ago. She was con-
nected with several
old military heads
of the convict days
—and very cor-
dially hated Cap-
tain Glover, one of
them, was.
C. H. WICKENS,
the Commonwealth
Statistician, who
has just dropped
A ustralia word
that its public
(Federal and State)
debt is now
within handy
reach of one thou-
sand millions.
Before Mann and Sgliutt were appointed
io the Vie. Supreme Court Bench, Weigall,
wdiom Melbourne has just mourned, was
ottered a seat there, but declined it. He con-
sidered he was better fitted for the Bar than
the Bench. Arthur Robinson, then Attor-
ney-General, tried to dissuade him, but he
woman t change his views. Three years ago,
however, he relented to enable Irvine and
Sehutt to go abroad and to permit of Cussen
consolidating the statutes. He was not as
notable a jurist as his uncle (Thomas
a Beckett), but he was very sound on equity
and lie got as near the fair thing as mortal
could.
Vic. s ex-Gov. Stanley is an enthusiast in
wireless. He is now chairman of the British
Wireless Listeners’ League, the most power-
ful organisation of its kind in the world
Even during S’Arthur’s Victorian regime he
was interested in wireless, and had a small
installation in Government House grounds.
“Adjutant” J. Gore, the first Salv’army
man in Australia, was 80 on Tuesday (15th)'.
After General Booth had set the ball rolling
in England, Gore came as a missionary to
Adelaide, and unfolded the blood-and-fire
banner. Often the Salvationists of the early
days had something more tangible than the
Devil to fight; but they have marched far
since then. Besides all its other property
in Sydney, the Army has now acquired the
big 1.0.0. F. building in Elizabeth-street for
a headquarters; the figure is said to be
£BO,OOO. So the quaint old imitation castle
in Goulburn-street will pass out of use.
Tommy Rose, athlete of a day long for-
gotten, 13 years member for Argyle in the
N.S.W. Assembly and in turns barrister and
solicitor, has submitted to the verdict that
threescore years and ten is the allotted span.
He had a great bunch of stories. In one case
in which he was concerned the police wanted
the evidence of a woman who claimed to
be the wife of the defendant, and on that
account not compellable as a witness. She
was, however, put in the box. “You persist
that you are married to the accused,” said
’s Ilonali, “but you produce no proof. How
was the marriage celebrated?” “With some
meatpies and three bottles of beer,” the
woman answered.
A name that was once well known on Aus-
tralian bank-notes was owned by Francis
How a r d Potts,
whose ledger was
closed recently. He
was born to bank
service, his father,
Francis Howard
Potts, having en-
tered the service of
the Bank of N. S.
Wales when it was
founded in 1817:
he was its first
cashier. Potts
Point was mostly
owned by him, as
well as the country
midway between
Haslam’s Cree k
(Lidcombe) and
Bankstown, where
the Totts Hill reser-
voir is now. The
son, who w T as in
the old bank’s ser-
vice for 41 years,
lived to be 87.
Col. W. P. FARR
on loan from the
Defence Depart-
ment to shift the
public service
to Canberra.
The Federal Government has taken The
Bulletin’s tip and put in charge of the
civil-service trek to Canberra a soldier with
war-time experience of the business. Col.
W. F'arr is the man. As a wholesale re-
movalist in Palestine, he was in the habit
of shifting 20,000 camels, among other
things, and attended to the wants of 10,000
troops. When the Turkish line crumpled
at Jaffa four brigades of Australian cavalry
got 78 miles ahead of Farr’s pantechniehon.
His camels, as is their wont, did their allot-
ted 25 miles and then lay dowm. Farr was
faced with the necessity of feeding an army
over 50 miles away. He requisitioned every
motor-lorry, -Waggon and donkey in the coun-
try, found tracks and mule roads that had
never felt a pair of wheels, and had the
troops breakfasting in the morning. About
580 families go to Canberra in the first wave.
Farr should do the job all right—if they’ll
let him.
Born at Cowra (N.S.W.) 105 years ago
—the first white child to arrive in the new
settlement—-Lachlan Macquarie Thompson
is still moderately hale, can read -without
glasses, and maintains a healthy interest in
tilings. He looks back on some purple spots
in a life lived in the districts near his birth-
place—can remember the Lambing Flat riots
and knew several of Australia’s most popular
bushrangers. He had altogether 17 children
—l5 of them girls.
Death of John D. Spreckels, founder of
the Ocean Steamship Co., closes a page of
Pacific shipping history which has been 40
years in the making. When the American
Pacific Mail Co. retired from the Australian
service in 1885, after running for 10 years,
two keen shipping men, on opposite sides
of the Pacific, stepped in. They were .Tames
Mills and John D. Spreckels. Each had a
subsidy from his own Government, so it was
steamers, the Alameda, Mariposa and Mar-
aroa, the last named being the Union boat.
But in 1900 Hawaii (Honolulu), where the
ships called, became a part of the United
States, and the law against any but Ameri-
can ships operating between American ports
ousted the Union Co. Thereupon Speckels
built three new steamers, which are still
running, and secured the subsidy from Maori-
land which the Union Co. had held. The
Union Line switched to the Vancouver route
(established by James Huddart), and later
on started another line to San Francisco
via Tahiti. Spreckels died on the day the
ships of the Oceanic Line passed under the
Matson flag.
Forgan Smith, the handy-man of the
Queensland Government, dominated the Agra-
rian Conference in Brisbane. The visiting
Ministers—Bourchi'er, of Victoria ; Butter-
field, of South Aus.; and Troy, of Westralia —
mostly Contented -themselves with saying
ditto to Smith, who was a house-painter be-
fore he found a more lucrative job as politi-
cal word-painter. He has been Minister for
Works and State Enterprises, is now Minis-
ter for Agriculture and Deputy-Premier, and
is prepared, at a moment’s notice, to take
over Mines, run the Railways, or lay down
the law as Attorney-General. There was
only one laugh at the intensely serious con-
ference. When Bourchier stressed the need
of co-operation between the States in insur-
ance against drought, Butterfield remarked
that when South Aus. was sending hay to
drought-stricken N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, Vic. “co-operfited” by sidetracking the
trucks passing through its territory and
forgetting to return them.
The latest addition to C. W. Leadbeater’s
bevy of bishops is John Tettemer, an
American and reputedly an ex-Passionist
priest who was for some years head of an
ecclesiastical college in Rome, but became
attracted by Theosophy. The next step took
him into the Liberal Catholic Church. Tet-
temer’s future sphere of work will be the
C.S.A., where he will be assistant to Bishop
Irving Cooper. He will carry a wonderful
mop of White hair to his new job; David
McKee Wright’s Alpine halo is a mere cir-
cular toothbrush by comparison.
Thomas Farrell, who spent most of his 70
years prospecting in Western Tasmania, and
discovered the silver-lead field that bears his
name, has pegged his last claim. Last month
he set out with two companions, Manson
and McDonald, on another quest. Farrell
and Manson contracted pneumonia, and
passed out within a few hours of one another.
America, which lias long shown a greater
interest in Australian brains than in any
of its other exports, has afforded another Aus-
tralian a distinction. N.S.W. Government
Geologist Andrews has been invited by the
Yale University to deliver the Silliman
Foundation lectures in May of next year.
The invitation is looked upon as a laurel
wreath in scientific circles, men like Sir
Ernest Rutherford, Sir William Bateman
and Sir C. S. Sherrington having been glad
to accept the honor. Andrews was born 56
years ago, is a B.A. of Sydney and associate-
editor of Economic Geology published at
Yale. His present appointment dates from
1920.
Arthur Robinson, Vic. ex-Attorney-General,
who is a solicitor with a big practice, has
been appointed by Prime Minister Bruce to
constitute the Nauru Phosphate Inquiry
Commission, and will make a start on June
29. Monash was to have taken the job, but
the Vic. Ministry wouldn’t release him. as
his hands are full with his Electricity Com-
mission work. Besides, another commission
(W. H. Sawyer) has just completed sitting-
on the briquette work at Yallourn, and the
Cabinet -wants to confer with Monash as to
what is to be done -regarding the recom-
mendations.
“J.H.C.” (One of the Claimants) : The
reference to the “Hobbs Millions’’ (B.
3/6/’26) contains assertions frequently pub-
lished, but incorrect. Robert Hobbs, 10
whom John Hobbs, silk-weaver, left his for-
tune, or most of it, was married before any
of his children were born, four years before
he was transported to Australia for stealing
turnips. The ceremony took place in 1786.
Robert arrived in Sydney in 1791, and his
wife and children followed two years after-
wards in the Sugarcane. The remaining six
children were born at Pitt Town. There has
never been any real doubt as to the legiti-
macy of Hobbs’s children; the doubt is
whether John Hobbs left any substantial
fortune. As yet no one has been able to
prove that he did, although two of the
claimants (McKenzie and Smallwood) spent
some time in England. Their endeavors to
find it failed and the.majority of the claim-
ants have now given up hope. Incidentally,
there are, or were, 650 claimants, descendants
of the seven children of the Robert Hobbs
aforesaid.
Just completed a quarter of a century as
parish priest at Stockton (N.S.W.), one of
the biggest clerics in Australia, Father
Keenan. Height, 6ft. 4in.; weight, 20st.;
and he says he’s the baby of his family in
the matter of size. The parishioners are
going to give him a banquet.
R.N.C.”: Cilento, Director of the Com-
monwealth Institute of Tropical Medicine,
may not thank “Lao-dah” (B. 29/4/’26)
tor the reference to his “30 years’ experi-
ence. Cilento is well on the right side of
40 A brilliant student of Adelaide ’Varsity
and gold-medallist of London in tropical
medicine, he speaks with authority, despite
his youth. After his graduation in 1918 he
spent some time in Rabaul as M. 0., later
on moving to the Straits Settlements with
fes wife (an M. 8., B.S. of Adelaide Uni.).
J lien followed a trip to London for further
study and honors in the sub-branch of medi-
cine he now follows. On his return to Aus-
tralia he was quickly snapped up by the
Commonwealth Government.
“F.L.” : Graf von Luckner is wrongly credited
with the command of the German raider Wolf
(B. 3/G/’26). Merger was the master of
the Wolf, though it was not until her re-
turn to Germany
after a 16 months’
cruise that her
name was made
known. During
that period she
never entered a
port inhabited by
Europeans' or iit
regular communi-
cation with the
outside world. Hav-
ing been an un-
willing guest of
Merger for seven
months I know
something of his
exploits.
The effect of high-
brow drama on a
producer —
J. Beresford
Fowler, of Mel-
bourne's Little
Art Co.
Frank Tate, Yic. Director of Education,
who will be 63 to-morrow, has been a sick
man lately, and may pull out within a year.
He will complete 49 years in the service on
August 13, and when he retires will be en-
titled to a pension of close on £lOOO. With
all his family settled he might be able to
indulge his hobbies on that. But unless his
knee improves, he will have to cut out golf.
What reminiscences Richard Bell, the
octogenarian caretaker of Melbourne Exhi-
bition building, wdio passed out the other day
at Fitzroy, might have written! He had
held his job for 46 years; indeed, he was on
hand when the ramshackle place was being
upreared. For years £ £ Smith and Tommy
Bent were trustees, and there was a long
line of- legislator colleagues. Bell could tell
of petty squabbles; of the furbishing up of
special rooms for the King (then Duke of
Cornwall), who took scarcely ally notice
of them: of Bent’s commandeering the big
concert hall for two deputations to himself
when he was Premier —one from water-
waggoners and the other from Messrs. Bung;
of prize-ring events, which caused the Gov-
ernment to step in ; of romantic and not-so-
romantie incidents on gala nights when
moonlight enveloped the straggling gardens;
even of tragedy, including the sudden out-
going of a high-placed employee.
One of the facts to be brought out in
furtherance of the canonisation of the first
Australian saint. Mother Mary of the Cross
McKillop, will be that Authority frowned on
her efforts to found the new T Order. Arch-
bishop Reynolds, of Adelaide, 'forbade her
to go on with her chosen work, and threat-
ened excommunication. But through the good
offices of the well-known priest-scientist of
South Australia, Tenison Woods. she
decided to appeal to Caesar, and made her
w r ay to Rome. In several interviews with
Leo XIII. she so impressed him with her
personality and her obvious inspiration for
the work she wished to undertake, that he
told her to go ahead, and gave her the neces-
sary papers.
Father John Milne Curran studied rocks
as a young priest in a lonely Western mission
in the Bathurst (N.S.W.) diocese. For a
while he lectured at the Sydney Technical
College, and wrote several textbooks which
are still in use, and then went freelancing
among the goldfields. On one occasion so
convinced was lie of the value of a find that
he sank all his own capital and some of his
friends’ in the venture. A set-back gave
most of his followers cold feet, and rather
than go cap in hand to them he faced the
Bankruptcy Court. But he presently paid
twmnty shillings in the pound, and contemptu-
ously refused a monetary testimonial. For
many years now r he lias been experimenting
with Australian clays with the object of
placing colored crayons on the market, equal
at least to the expensive imported article.
Success has crowned his industry and
patience, and he is now about to launch a
scheme for making crayons and pencils.
“IF I HAD”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I never sent one ship to sea—
Why should I sit and wonder
That in the offing no sail comes
From round the world or under?
I always feared to try my luck,
No matter who might bid me;
Some called me wise—’twas want of pluck.
They stepped in and outdid me.
If I had sent one ship to sea
And she had foundered truly,
I’d have some cause perchance to weep
That Fate had proved unruly;
Hut 1 could only pace the beach
And watch the waves and shiver,
And so no craft comes up the roach
From golden coast and river.
If I’d sent but one ship to sea,
Though ’twere some years belated,
I’d wait and guess the happy day
When she’d return full-freighted;
Hut now I sit with greying hair
And know that never haven
Can welcome ship with cargo fair
For one who lived a craven.
QUEENSLAND.
P. L.


y
\
A
ft
MM
Sit
2®
H,
PUB
HI
■»«
'SIB
w/s
in
>. »a*'? fern f
%
£150,000 Stock of Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Clearing—
h
ECAUSE of the tremendous stocks to be cleared
swiftly—because of the drastic reduction and because
every cut price is genuine, Murdoch’s Sale is eagerly
anticipated by thousand's upon thousands of keen
shoppers in every part of the Commonwealth.
Solid for Murdoch’s Sale Catalogue—an illustrated 1 look of Bargains
that costs you nothing and will save you pounds.
As a basis, all lines of Merchandise throughout the Great
Store (except a few proprietary lines )
have been reduced at least
101
In overstocked lines, however, immense stocks have been
sacrificed to
many lines
ensure quick
clearing as
despatch,
low as
Half Price!
Once Again—the Golden Opportunity to Secure
High-Class Murdoch-Tailored Suits
to Measure —at Greatly Reduced Prices!!!
ĥ
GENUINE opportunity! Excellent quality All-Wool Worsteds in
newest fancy weaves. Light, Mid or Dark Greys, Powder Blues,
Browns, Blue Overchecks, Grey Pinheads and Sergettes; also
smart Navy Stripes and Cheeks, also Indigo All-
wool Serges in fine Twill and Herringbone
weaves. Murdoch-tailored in dis-
tinctive fashion
To your measure. Usually
£6)6!-
Red Spot Price
£4/1916
Men’s All-wool Indigo Serge Suitings of excellent quality and guaranteed
every inch of it! Fine Twill, also tine or medium Herringbone. Take your choice.
A perfectly tailored 3-garment sac Suit from this Special f-landl Finished
Serge to your measure and
Usually £7/15/-
Red Spot
Price . .
£5/18/9
Other Suitings to measure at
£4/8/11, £5/2/5, £5/15/- and £6/15/-
Write for Free Patterns!
DESK R.
MURDOCH’S in Park Street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me free of all cost a
complete range of your Red Spot Winter
Suitings, including the £4/19)6 and £5/18j9
Specials; also free simple measure outfit.
Name ■
Address
•Juno 17, 1926.
«%gg"i»K
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
COPYRIGHT.
h
Red Spot Bargain Catalogue—Free!
MURDOCH S IN
WoWcte Largest Mens' and Boy's Store"


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
Wm
e
SM
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
ĥ
are guaranleecb
lo give satisfaction
“They Fit”
SHIRTS
ħ
h
Made In Australia
ĥ
EVERREADY
'yy
&
SS
w.
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
ħ
u*k im eb« Tradrauw* f Agmia £**rr»tor«
Writ* for llluurmttri Csflofwt,
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
169 Pin Street, Sydney
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
WANTED—A
TRADESMAN.
“You’re a returned soldier
aren’t you—would you mind
killing a fowl for us?”
“Lobster”: Re “Jim Carew’s” fish farms
(B. G/5/’26). Is it not as illegal to sell fish out
of season as to catch them? Thereby hangs the
Stiffest hard-luclc story I have ever known from the
inside. Nearly 40 years ago there was a man in
California who had prospected for gold all his life
with the intention, if successful, of embarking in
trout-raising for the out-of-season market. He made
his strike when he was about 50, and sold the mine
for £20,000 English money. Then he bought several
hundred acres of suitable hill country, well watered
by permanent streams, and laid out. a magnificent
trout nursery, with W'eirs, fattening streams, and
so forth. Also he built a nice bungalow. And when
he was ready for the off-season market the law told
him there was nothing doing. He certainly made
a living selling tfout in season, but his scheme had
cost more than he estimated, and when he died, not.
long afterwards, the bank seized the property and
subsequently sold the whole for a fraction of what
it had cost. But the man who bought was not
“lame under the hat.” He invited a crowd of
San Francisco millionaires for a week’s fishing, and
did them well. He insinuated the idea into their
heads that it would not be a bad wheeze to form
a very exclusive fly-fishers’ club. The notion worked
like yeast, and the speculator cleaned up several
times the amount the poor old prospector had put
into the place.
* * * *
“Black Tracker” : Judging by the success
of an old trapper in our neighborhood, the use of
crossbred goannas to do the work of ferrets is likely
to becpme popular. Not only do they make a
cleaner job than ferrets, but they empty the bur-
rows in less than half the time. He fixes a couple
of sleigh bells to their wagging tails, and the bunnies
don’t stop to answer any questions. Some idea of
the scare caused may be judged from the fact that
at a big warren with eight entrances, all of which
had been netted, there were 100 or more rabbits
in each net a few minutes after the gos. had paid
a call. They have, of course, to he trained to the
business and well looked after.
* * * *
“P.M.”: A lot lias been said about the
endurance of Australians in tropical Queensland and
the N.T., but what about the other extreme? Last
winter, while driving through the South Gippsland
Hills, I came across a Digger settler splitting posts.
There were six or eight inches of snow on the ground,
a sleety wind was blowing, and he was stripped to
the waist.
* * * *
“Billycan” : It is not wise for “Tarago”
and others to tell “Wang” not to worry about
cartridges dumped into incinerators. I know of a
case that happened near Romani, where a cartridge
thrown in with rubbish exploded and struck one
of our sergeants in the stomach, sending him to
hospital for a long time.
“H.A.P.”: Cartridges dumped into , incinerators
(B. 27/o/’26) may explode harmlessly, but you
cannot always trust them. At Anzac one of our
battalion pioneers looked after the incinerator,
where hundreds of cartridges were dumped in with
the rubbish, and explosions were frequent. One
morning as he turned over the heap of smouldering-
debris he got his issue, the bullet of an exploding
cartridge costing him his right eye.
“E.1.C.”: “Jesmond’s” (B. 13/5/26) sug-
gestion that the metal in his ehaffeutter got
“tired” is no doubt quite right; all ferrous metals
fatigue. The fatigue is sometimes shown by the
metal’s crystalline nature. The usual thing on
shipboard is to give the tailsliaft a spell after
it has been running for three years. It may be
that the towage the owners of the Wanganella
will have to pay is because the tailshaft wanted
a holiday.
* * * *
“J.D.C.”: Reference is frequently made
to the wonderful sight and hearing of black-trackers
compared with the same serises
in, city folk. The difference is in
training only. An experienced
man on the drafting gate doesn’t
need to see avery earmark on every
sheep to do his job well —quite
a fair percentage are placed by
general appearance. One of the
best men I ever knew on a gate
stated that he drafted most of his
own sheep “by the complexion.”
Superior sight is not necessary
to count sheep, but the tyro will
find the leaping stream of wool-
lies blur and “swim” before a
thousand have gone, while the
bushman sits on the fence a chain
away, smoking, and gets the
training again. In tracking, the
townie looks for a footmark, which
may not be there; but the broken
grass-blade, displaced twig and
small stone are plain to the
trained eye. As for hearing, a
bushman can pick out the tinkle
of a distant horsebell \yhen the
air is full of the song of birds
and) hum of insects; can hear the
rattle of a wheel at a great dis-
tance, or a cantering horse qn
hard or “dummy” ground a
couple of miles away at night;
may even recognise the horse by
his hoofbeats. But put the same
man at a telephone in a city
office with a few typewriters
going, trams and ’buses roaring
iu the street, and he is at sea. All another matter
of training l .
* * * *
“Kingking”: As a rule, the Knights of
tlie Wallaby don't burden themselves with pets, but
once, in the Rockhampton district, I met a swaggie
who had made a pet of a goat. When I came
across him he had had the animal for over four
years, and estimated that they had travelled to-
gether nearly 15,000 miles. He said that as long
as lie was on the track he would never be without
a goat. The milk not only made the wallaby fare
more palatable, but he used to sell some of it to
other swaggies. Nanny had also been trained to
carry a burden, and when I met the pair she was
humping nearly as much swag as her master.
“Wundi”: The virtues of the gum-tree
were known to Black Brother in the remote days
of his misty history. He recognised that the leaves
made a healthy bed for anyone with chest, or back
complaints, and many an early settler benefited by
FAIR WARNING.
“Madame, before you open your purse, permit me to say that I
have knocked at every door in this street for a paltry four-
pence halfpenny, and my rebellious pride will no longer be
silenced. Madame,' I cannot —I cannot —take less than
threepence.”
that knowledge. Poultices were also made with the
leaves, which were sometimes only bruised with
stones, and sometimes boiled. The steam was inhaled
for headaches, and eucalyptus tea was taken in small
doses for colds and other sicknesses. In serious cases
of colds or ’flu the patient was placed over a small
pit, in which gum-leaves were heated with stones,
and covered with rugs. The heat sweated the cold
out of him, while the body absorbed the eucalyptus
at the same time. Many a lame white back in the
bush has been cured by the same means.
# * * *
“Jimpey”: Some anglers persist in telling
me that salt-water mullet can be easily caught on
a line. Though I’ve tried for years with all sorts
of “sure” bait, including moss, red rag, dough,
mashed prawns and cheese, I’ve never landed one
of the fork-tailed splashers of the tidal streams. I
know, however, that mullet can be taken by line, as
I whipped out dozens in south Bananaland, and
saw bags full caught all round me; but they were
fresh-water surface-suckers, or fish in, water which
had gone strongly brackish. The bait used was
the ordinary earth-worm, which the “shoalers” bit
readily. But it was only at certain times of the
year, and on very warm or muggy days or nights
that they could be caught, and, as a rule, some skill
was required to hook them. Can any brother sport
tell me how to catch salt-water mullet (sea-mullet)
on a line?
#*»■»
“Veega”: A very well-known N.S.W.
squatter is blessed with a wife who is the faithful
friend of swaggies. No traveller goes empty away,
and if he is in need of clothing the Boss’s ward-
robe has to be carefully guarded. Recently, when
a regular caller arrived, Mrs. Squatter was not to
be seen, but the hard word was put on the boss
for “an old shirt or two.” Telling the supplicant
he %vou!d see what could he doue, the boss entered the
house and shortly afterwards returned with a parcel,
handed it over, and the traveller went down the
track. About half an hour later he again came to
the homestead and this time met the missus. “I
think the guv’nor made a mistake with these, mum!”
he said. The lady, opening the parcel, found two of
her own laced undies. The boss had got square
with the missus.
* * * *
“J. 8.” : The pub tat Collector (N.S.W.)
has a reminder of the bushranging days in the shape
of one of Gilbert’s boots left there with its mate
by their owner 60 years ago. The hotelkeeper of
that time was a bootmaker who had on the bar a
pair of Wellingtons which had won a prize at an
international exhibition. Gilbert remarking “ex-
change is no robbery” pulled off his old boots and
put on the new ones. The old people kept the
pair of boots while they lived, but afterwards one
was stolen.
“Gouger”: Surely there is a market for
the whopper oysters flourishing along the Cape
York Peninsula coast! The largest of the lot is
the coxcomb. The diameter of this fellow is
Sin., and he sometimes fcolds nearly half a pound
of meat.” There is a
brother species of half
the size. They are
good eating raw and
go splendidly when
stewed. Another whop-
per is the black-edged
oyster, so called be-
cause ifc shirt is a
snotvy-white with a fine
black margin. One dis-
advantage in securing
these oysters is their
cement-like grip on
whatever object they
are clinging to. How-
ever, in the Orovdon
boom days, many lug-
ger shipments were de-
tached and brought
good prices.' Then
there js the so-called
coral oyster. I’ve samp-
led him at the ex-
treme end of the
Fingerpoint and met
him as far south as
Tweed Heads. He con-
gregates in shoals up-
on the coral reefs
where the pearl fisher-
men gave him his
name. His shell grows
in every conceivable
fashion, its form de-
pending on how he is
grown over by neigh-
bors. He is a trifle
fatter than his well-
known cousin down
south, and is very
juicy. There are other
smaller varieties, but
the three above men-
tioned are found in
abundance. I have
often wondered why a
canning business was
not started up north,
especially for the large
varieties. There is also
a “poison” oyster in
the same waters, but
on account of his pink-
ish flesh he is easily
recognised.
“Glen A.”: Recent mention of Australia’s
first mail coach, housed nowadays at the Techno-
logical Museum, Sydney, recalls another ancient
conveyance, the Ranken coach, which is at Bathurst
(N.S.W.). Brought from Scotland in 1821,
it was taken back to that country in 183 S, and,
afterwards returned to Bathurst. Sold to Sebastian
Hodge, an old-time Bathurst undertaker, in the
early ’sixties, it was used for many years as a
mourning-coach. It is now in possession of his son,
and is “as good as new.” Probably the oldest
vehicle in going order in Australia, it<t has also
carried a greater variety of passengers than most.
SAFETY FIRST.
“You don’t care where you go? Well, you
know, there’s no place like home.”
“Shanksh for reminder — mush! shert’nly
keep ’way from home.”
“C. Coral”: A Cambridge anthropologist
visiting the North some time back stuck up a native
at Thursday Island one day, and, pointing to a
passing horse and cart, asked: “What name that
one? You tell me name language belong you.” The
native eyed him solemnly for a moment, glanced at
the expectant notebook and pencil, and with a
curt “Who you?” walked off. And down it went
in the professor’s book. “English: Horse and cart.
Native: “Ooyoo.”
(Continued on gage 24-)
MORNINGS AT SEVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a listening horse with his ears cocked up at the
sounds of a world astir—
Of a whispering, whirring, rustling, whistling world
of feather and fur;
A listening magpie on the bough, with his bold,
black head a-slant
To hark to the early grubs go by, his bright eye
scintillant;
And a listening mob of nibbling rabbits creeping
upon the green,
As the shy and silent sunrise steals the listening
gums between.
A listening, long, brown, ieanish bloke puts on his
pants and shirt
And looks at the dawn through the window-pane, his
quivering ears alert
For the scrumptious, sizzling, clattery, kindly sounds
of the breakfast-hour
When thq bud of the morning bursts into its flaring
and golden flower ;
And a listening lady, slicing bacon into a shiny
pan,
Smiled at the smiling morn and murmurs, “Now,
•where is that man?” •
A listening dog on the doorstep waits for the sound
of a friendly tread,
Anil a listening cow at the sliprail wonders if
everyone’s still in bed;
A listening cat in the barn sits tight and waits for
a listening mouse
That lurks, unseen and shivering hard, in the murk
of his private house;
And the sunrise shines on the whole wide world
with a promise of joyous things
As the listening magpie gathers his grub and, thank-
fully cheerful, sings.
O listening horse and listening bird and tall, old,
listening gums,
All, all are dear to Bill who waits till his call for
breakfast comes.
The dog that pines for a meaty bone and a pat on
his anxious brow,
The listening bush—Bill loves them all, or he
wouldn’t be waiting now.
Still, whether for breakfast or for love, darned socks
and all the rest,
Of all the whole darned lot Bill likes his listening
lady best!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


m
[OiHiiUniti
.■l2?
n
r
It 1
THE
ATH
*ss
- @
IN THE ELDER DAIS OF ART
E
A[\c
n
WROUGHT WITH GREATEST CARE
AND UNSEEN PART
EMVERYWHERE"
LoNGFEU-PW
THE infinite pains exercised by ancient artisans have perpetuated the glory of the “Elder Days of Art” even to the twentieth century.
Each pillar, each arch, each “minute and unseen part,”, was, in those days, chosen and designed for durability.
Not only buildings, but paintings and coloured frescoes have endured through the ages to remind us of “the glory that was Greece.”
Aeneas,* who after the fall of Troy, made that adventurous journey to Italy and founded the Roman race, carried with him the secret of
durability in painting, namely the exraction of Linseed Oil from the flax seed by pressure, the manufacture of Linseed Oil to-day ranking
among the world’s oldest industries.
The best and most durable Linseed Oil is still made on the same principles as those discovered and used by the ancients.
Science has, from time to time, introduced chemical methods of extracting oil from seed, but it is general practice throughout the world to
sse the older method of pressing and maturing in the manufacture of Linseed Oil, such oil commanding a premium over chemically extracted
oiL
MEGGITT'S LINSEED OIL
is made according to the process which has been passed down through the ages. Instead of the stone presses and crude Alters used by the
bondmen of Aeneas, hydraulic presses, other efficient machinery, modern Altration methods and bulk maturing tanks are used.
The same durability, however, that characterised the oil used in Graeco-Roman times, characterises MEGGITT’S.
A is guaranteed to be pressed, tanked and free from all traces of chemical matter, thoroughly matured, of excellent covering power and
free from sediment.
g—.
FOR LASTING WORK
MEGGITT'S
MEGGITT LIMITED
New South Wales i
Head Office: 26 King Street. Sydney./
Victoria:
MEGGITT LIMITED. P O. Box 4SIO.
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
MEGGITT LIMITED, P.O. Box 380, Adelaida.
Western Australia:
Messrs. WM. ADAMS & CO LTD., Perth.
Queensland:
R. S. EXTON & CO. LTD., Brisbane*
Tasmania:
Messrs. F. W. HERITAGE & CO. PTY. LTD-
Hobart and Launceston.
<i
P
Sr®
’& *
S,
l
lS^
I &T@
m
K?
rtfl
■iA
trr
=(• j -_H
£*»
S:
j|j*
-■W
4>
ifeJl
s>*
¥ f tM%lW*~--Ji£L
:» . *\<&
Kii
||iiih//iwiw
ilip
g? jpiF
M
LJOff
f)|
lyj 14^
llltlllll/IH
#■s.* 1
<1«
fpLM.
% —i^npf
J-? -D 1
r:> f?._ ) .
.-
.*
SUP
pi[™
‘i MHif
/>ji
rT>* j w ><
~ ‘H
V
\gs
ite
s gp
/I
*
r*si
/
18?
few** 5
-5^
fc
-s-y


IMPROVE YOUR LAND! CLEAN OUT THE RABBITS
CYANOGAS
with
(Calcium Cyanide)
u
FUMO
BRAND
m
&
P/B) y
Fumigation with Cyanogas (Calcium Cyanide) is the most rapid,
economical and efficient method of exterminating every rabbit on
30m* land. One application, blowing the Cvanogas into the burrows
witli the Fumo Dust Blower, will kill every rabbit in the warren.
II you have any difficulty with either the Cvanogas or the Blower,
write to us, and vvc shall be glad to give any information you
require.
Mv. A. W. Wilson, “Rylstbne,” Gilmore, writes,
oth 'January, 1926: “Just a line in request
for some more Calcium Cyanide. The Blower
and Cyanide 1 bought from you some t ime ago
proved a great assistance in destroying rabbits
and checking them. I would be pleased if
you would send me on at your earliest eight
alb. tins, as they are more handy to me.”
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Buzacott & Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market St., Sydney.
Victoria: A. Victor Desso & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia: S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
Queensland: Buzacott’s (Q’land), TAd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West Australia: Harris, Scarfe & handovers, jLtd., Perth.
Tasmania: Davidson & French, Dtd., Dauneeston.
Koberts & Co.. Utd., Hobart.
h
{PGEWOKnj
extra hich grade
SMOKING
TOBACCO/
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
“Jobber”: Would you call it instinct or
heredity? My small son, rising three, is a whale
on horses, and although he has seen only a few on the
road he puts a leg over anything that looks as
though it would take a saddle. He comes from a
long line of good horsemen, and I am wondering why
he never gets on or off anything from the wrong
side.
* * * *
“X2X”: In New Guinea and the Solo-
mons the natives are able to tell from the state
of the moon whether fish are likely to be about or
not. A native in Dutch New Guinea told me that
when the moon was at its full you could always
find a shoal of fish, but that certain varieties then
caught were not as good to eat as at other times—
it was even dangerous to eat some kinds. Possibly the
prevalence of shoals at full-moon is explained by the
fact that the reflected moonlight on the smooth
surface of the tropical sea attracts the fish to the
top. It is more difficult to explain why it is safe
to eat certain kinds at one time and dangerous to
do so at another. Perhaps it is that certain
species are subject to physiological changes which
run in monthly cycles, and that at one period there
are formed toxic secretions which make their flesh
poisonous. There is a chance that this is the correct
explanation, for it would fit in with certain other
fish-facts.
* * # *
“Coralier”: Nature has lavished the best
of her artistic soul upon the coral reefs. The colors
of the tainbow have been wedded to wonderful
creations. You admire some coral grass and become
aware of a black eye, sinister and unwavering,
watching you from among the anemone fronds. Un-
AFTER SIX.
“The tumult and the shouting dies.”
certain of the thing, you probe with a bamboo
and are amazed to see a tiny fish dart off into a
coral cavern. On his side was painted the eye you
saw. Binghi swears that this bluff is to scare off
any hungry enemy. Black' Brother naturalist also
says that when the young fish grow canny at
maturity they lose the protective eye. You touch
a big anemone and it blows out water, then shrinks
to a piece of seeming coral. Touch a bladder of
sponge dressed in scarlet and it rolls away wrapped
within itself. Prod a thing of purple spikes em-
bedded in a ball of green and it inflates to five times
its size, then slowly shrinks to a small colorless
marble.
“Up North”: Across the mouth of one of
the flooded reaches of the Jennie (N.Q.) a substan-
tial fence had been erected by Binghi, the supports
being forked saplings stuck at the correct angle
to withstand the weight of water. Poles were
lashed with vines between the forks. Hundreds
of stakes were then thrust into the mud, their
SAVING HIM UP.
REBECCA : "Ikey, They, there ros a man under der bed !”
IKEY : “Veil, leave him there an' ve'll charge him for lodgings in der mining.”
upper ends being lashed to the cross poles with
vines. The fence when completed was sft. high.
As the waters began to recede the fish turned back
towards the river channel. At the fence centre
was an opening like a lane made of stakes about
12ft. long, the bottom end supporting a large
basket-work fish-trap. Daily for a fortnight fish
were bumping the fence to cruise along it, only
to turn down the lane into the trap. As the waters
rapidly receded they brought swimmers in ever-
increasing- numbers, and when they had finally
vanished a. great number of fish were left stranded
before the stakes.
* * * *
“Fitz”: Wonderful the size to which fresh-
water eels will grow. Some years ago Charley
Lewis, of Bobin, near Wingham (N.S.W.), and a
mate were engaged ploughing up a strip of rich
maize land along the back of the Dingo Creek.
Harry Maehin was Lewis’s' prate, and having heard
that some out-sizes in perch were frequently caught
in the sparkling waters of the
Dingo, he thought he would try
his hand at fishing. Having no
tackle handy, Harry borrowed an
old shark hook, also a pair of
plough reins, and took the out-
fit down to the bank of the creek.
At lunch-time, while the bullocks
were having a feed, Harry baited
the hook with a big lump of
corned beef, tied it on to the end
of the plough reins, and tossed
the bait into a deep hole in the
creek. He then hitched the other
end of the plough rein to his
left leg, sat down and started to
dine. He had hardly got under
way, when lie was pulled slowly
towards the bank of the creek.
Lewis dropped to it at once,
grabbed Harry by the arms, dug
his heels into the ground and
hung back in the breeehin’, with
the result that the plough rein
parted, setting free whatever had
grabbed the bait. Next day
Lewis brought down his best log
chain and a “cant” hook, on
which he securely wired a wal-
laby ; then, taking his bullocks
out of the plough, hooked them
on to the chain. Harry threw the
wallaby into the waterhole, and
waited results. It was snapped
with alacrity, and the wallaby
was whisked upstream at a great
rate. Then Charley stood Spot
and Tiger up to it, and the
bullocks pulled out the cause of
the trouble. It was the biggest
eel that was ever lifted from any
fresh-water stream on the central
North Coast of N.S.W. No scales
big enough to weigh him being available, Charley
took his length and girth. This panned out at
1147 ft. super, log measurement. Anyone know a
bigger ?
* * * *
“Grilroden”: The rough-looking gem in the
corner had finished his lunch, and with the aid of
an ancient cherrywood was putting a smoke screen
over the table. The fussy little chap next to me
coughed uneasily, and with exaggerated politeness
remarked, “I hope you don’t mind me eating while
you're smoking?” “No,” shot back the smoker
with a good-natured grin, “so. long as you don’t
make too much noise! ”
‘'The Rumpus” : There are small caves at
WillgY Hills, in the huge Wongon Mountains, Mullewa
(\I.A.) district, the walls of which are red ochre,
greatly prized by the local Binghis. Exploring these
one Sunday 1 came upon a tierce-looking abo. whose
face seemed familiar. Before I could ask him which
wa\ he walkiun he told me the old grev mare I
abandoned for lameness on the Ashburton River had
recovered, and squatter Blank was working her every
day of the week. That part of Westralia was over
800 miles away and I had left it for good five
years before. I asked him why he was so far away
from his, tribal area, and he pointed significantly to
a sugar-bag half full of red ochre, which he intended
carrying back that long distance solely for body
decorations. “An’ no other black phella must see
me,” he added, meaningly.
“0. Coral": The Torres Strait islander.
when dugong-hunting, uses a harpoon affixed to the
end of a long and carefully-balanced wooden thrower
called a “wawp.” The Japanese, however, have now
put on the market an implement of steel which,
whilst being’ quite as effective, is compact, handy,
and costs only half a crown. Thus another of the
picturesque hunting Weapons of the Strait—the wawp
was generally well-carved, and adorned with casso-
wary feathers—-is likely to disappear ere long.
* • * -X- *
“C.C.”: Either “Biagar’s” old W.Q. bush-
man (B. 4/2/’26) was a bad reckoner when he
declared that Ma Emu lays only three to five eggs
for a full clutch, or our Central Queensland hens
are better layers than those further west. Since
water has become so scarce, a common sight is Ma
Emu —or perhaps it is Pa, as he shares the nurse-
maid duties—with eight or ten lusty chicks, strolling
along to the nearest drink. For years past the emus
on our property have been unmolested, and the birds
often feed close to the house, and drink from the
same water-troughs as the stock. They lay in the
adjacent scrub, with anything from six to ten
eggs in one nest, but never have I known as few as
three or even five.
* * * *
“Jimsey”: Most Binglii scraps end tamely
with little ' damage done to either party, but one
I saw on the Warrego (Q.) didn’t. Two abos. fell
out over* a young gin who had come into camp, and
they agreed to . settle possession by combat. Armed
with half a dozen boomerangs each, they stood about
30 yards apart, and at a signal commenced dodging
about and throwing. Although both men were furi-
ously angry, temper did not affect the accuracy of
their throwing. Each secured four direct hits, each
hit inflicting a terrible cut on the victim. The
whole affair lasted about two minutes, and when the
last boomerang was thrown both Binghis were on
the ground. Efforts were made to patch them up,
but both were dead by next morning.
* * * -X-
-“Emel”: An old orehardist alongside us,
living the simple life, disdains the use of any time-
piece, “I don’t need it,” he says. “I go to bed
when it’s dark, get up when it’s light enough to
see the way into my trousers, * and eat when I’m
hungry. That’s enough for any man.”
* * * *
“Bluelix”: Birds’ thorough digestive pro-
cesses may result in a complete disintegration of
grains (“Buttenderry,” B. -15/4/’26), and this may
a PPIy to all birds and grains; but it certainly
does not do so to the seeds of fruits. The blame
for the spread of the lantana nuisance in N.Q.
must he laid at the back door of. the birds that eat
the berries, as the first sign of the shrub is invari-
ably seen along the fences, particularly at the foot
of the posts where they perch.
“Myall Bill”: Where does “Mug Gunner”
get the information that myall is unfit for use in
a, stove? Where I live we use nothing else. Person-
ally, I have burned it for eight years in different stoves,
and never once in that time have I seen the
destruction he describes.
“Spike”: According to “X2X” (B.
6/5/’26j the beverage produced by tlie distillation
O'- Australian prickly-pour is of negligible value as
a gloom-chaser. V’et a spirit is distilled from the
pear s cousin, the American cactus, so potent that
a wineglassful would be sufficient to induce any
victiin of melancholia to dance a hornpipe. Some
yea is ago at Monte Carlo I sampled some of the
stuff then six months towards maturity. According
to mv American friend, it came “direct from the
hills of lil old Ivcntuck.” Closely resembling
gin in color and taste, it had the kick of an un-
broken milker.
* * * *
‘Black Tracker”: The general opinion
seems to bo that a duck relies entirely on its
webbed feet for propelling power in diving. It’s
wiong. In clear water the birds can be seen
to work their wings at the rate of about a stroke
a second. The movement is particularly noticeable
when they are coming to the surface
* * * ' *
M.C.A.” : In 191 (i I was batching on the
outskirts of a small town about five miles from any
fruiting prickly-pear. If I left my wash-basin with
water in it on going to work in the morning, I
would, on my return at evening, be able to collect
about half a pint of pear seeds in it, while seed
would also be scattered round about. The birds—
scrub-magpies, jays and others —having gorged
themselves on the fruit, would, when drinking at
the nearest water, empty into it their over-filled
ci ops. Here (Central S.-N.Q.) it is a common
thing to see around piggeries and yards crows’
droppings full of pear-seeds, showing that the seed
cannot be all ground up in the crop.
Mourilyan : The now ' almost-vanished
aborigines of the N. Q. Coast, about the Johnstone
and Tully, had a curious custom shared with the
Sepik River natives of New Guinea. It was the
duel with swords —huge, straight, wooden weapons.
1 hose used by the abos. fell a good deal short of
the 12-foot monsters of the Sepik, but the idea was
the same. It does not appear that such weapons
were used anywhere in Australia, except in this
coastal area. Along with the swords went shields,
large and elaborate affairs, instead of the usual abo.
nairow defences. The fauna and flora of the coastal
aiea to the *0111(1 of Cape Melville show many
Papuan affinities, and perhaps it was once connected
diiectl.i with New Guinea by / a range now sunk
under the Coral Sea.
"1 >cad Finish”: He sauntered into the
State Labor-Agent’s office at Charters Towers (N.Q.),
and . stood “gawking” / around at everything—and
nothing. “Well,” at last queried the officer in
charge, “are you looking for work?” “No,” was
the reply “not if I can get anything else to do.”
Zanthus’ : The lyckee-imt is a side-line
that might pay in some parts of Australia. It is
' ery popular amongst the Chinese, who import
quantities at considerable expense, and in the Terri-
tory and elsewhere many Europeans fancy them.
The tree does well in parts of North Queensland.
At Glen Boughton, near Cairns, there is a fine speci-
men which bears well. The owner does not do
much with the crop, but last year a Chinese bought
it and sold the lot at 2s. a lb.
* # -* *
"Rix : A Mt. Mercer (Vic.) farmer is a
firm believer in the efficacy of whitewash as an agent
in combating the crow menace. After snaring six
of the black pests, he coated them with the wash, set-
off by splashes of vermilion, and tethered them to
the fences surrounding his lambing paddock. The
dismal cawing of the captives attracts many strag-
glers ; but the sheepbreeders lambs are never molested.
HE KNEW WHERE TO FIND IT.
COUNTRY VISITOR: “Where's the Quay,
Mistor?”
CITY DRUNK: “Under slier mat”
“Ller”: Here’s a kick against the cruel
practice of usjng live yellow-tail for jewy or any
other bait. One morning recently I saw a fisherman
put two of them on his hooks, and in the after-
noon they were still alive. With a hook piercing
their bodies twice, it must, have been plain torture.
Why not extend the “Be kind to animals” slogan
to fish?
KOOLOOTAROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Swift in the wake of a wintry squall,
Over the paddocks drenched and dark,
Game with impetuous, ringing call,
Koolootaroo, the magpie-lark;
Joyous he came,
Giving his name,
“Koolootaroo ! Kooloo ! Kooloo !
Koolootnroo!”
From jetty feet to his small, pied head
Black and white was his trim attire—
Mountain snow by the winter spread
Over the char of a summer fire.
Down where the tawny floodtides creep
He cried to his mate, “Knee-deep! Knee-deep!
Pee-wee-wee! Pee-wee-wee! Knee-deep! Knee-
deep !”
Away on the wind, to come again
When storms are surging and treetops bowed,
Winged familiar of the rain
He followed fast on the scudding cloud,
Still as he flew
Crying, “Kooloo!
Koolootaroo!”
VICTOUIA.
SYD. C.


Gi^&xt/iaHftse-pow&i
a
J
*
A
W.k
i*
is not an illuminating
kerosene, but a POWER
fuel, specially proportioned
for use in Tractors.
Being a highly refined engine
fuel, Cross provides complete
combustion, which means
increased power and low
fuel consumption.
Your Tractor will develop
maximum pulling power and
maintain its highest effici-
ency when regularly run on
In conjunction with
Cross Kerosene, use
SHELL
TRACTOR
OIL “B”
a perfected Tractor
Oil that successfully
resists crankcase di-
lution, and ensures
perfect lubrication
with minimum car-
bon deposit.
CROSS
□
KEROSENE
CKI6
THE BRITISH
. L
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA X NEW ZEALAND


Under’
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1914.
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsierk
BJBXMS
Australasian Agents -
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD,
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
i
Make your reservations, 8W1361.
Whitworth Cafe
The Marne stands for Perfection
lolcl
ENTER THE REALM OE ROMANCE.
Where social Sydney meets on every occasion of importance.
Dinners 12/6, from 7.30. Suppers 7/'6, from 8.30.
Afternoon Teas are a feature at this popular rendezvous.
Without extra cost patrons are entertained by a Cabaret
of charm and originality.
Thursdays and Saturdays are Gala Nights with Dinner
21/-, and Supper 12/6.
The Glorious Wentworth Dance Band plays till 1 a.m.
The CafS
ĥ
ħ
h
ler all wines before 6 p.m.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in existence.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity—Dining 650, Supper Dances 760,
Teas 800.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Supper
Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., Dining De Luxe,
7.30, 10/6; Suppers 10.30, 6/6. No charge
for three hours’ dancing on satin-smooth
spring floors.
Thur, and Sat., Late Gala Nights, Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers 10.30, 10/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/-.
Two Peerless Orchestras. Bewitching Cabaret.
Not one Dull Moment.
Delightful Afternoon Teas 3.30 to 6.30, 6/-
Two Hours’ Sheer Delight.
Book early. Order all Wines before 6 p.m.
Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
The most exciting thing that happened
to Sydney last week was the arrival of the
Marquis of Clydesdale and his American
courtiers, the l’irie brothers and Eagan.
The Marquis, just 2i>, carries the shoulders
and biceps of the lightweight boxer on a
torso that time will probably turn into
the stocky. Meantime, lie is a first-rate
featherweight jazzcr, and is evidently built
with the taste in feminine charms that
inspired the latest American • best-seller,
"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.’' At any rate,
hosts and hostesses have carefully served up
blondes (natural and synthetic) to him at
all his parties. H. D. Mclntosh chaperones
him everywhere. It is true H.D. is not
quite a blonde; but then it may be claimed
that, like many other men, lie is not so black
as he is painted. Besides, has he not lately
purchased an ancient Broome that, going-
further than the plebeian new sort that only
sweeps clean, burnishes and gilds its owner
in the nth degreeV
It is claimed also for the Marquis that he
has Culture thick upon him. One of his
ambassadors swears lie never moves abroad
without a pocket edition of the classics. Be-
tween rounds in the ring, one of the Pirie
brothers refreshes him with a volume en-
titled “Thoughts from the Great Masters.”
A favorite line is Henley’s “My head is
bloody but unbowed !”
A prince of the blood, a princess by mar-
riage, a marquis and the wife of the Chief
Justice of Bombay were all in the A.J.C.
net last Saturday. No wonder the official
stand played with its lorgnette, and that the
local aristocracy, unless attached to the im-
ported blood, passed unheralded and unsung.
The G.G.’s lady, in a furred green top-
coat, attracted only a cursory glance; but
Princess Melikoff (she who was Pauline
Curran of Tasmania) wore beige velvet
trappings which were appraised from the
plucked bunny on her flared skirts to the
feather that mounted her velvet turban. There
are those, too, who could tell you the pattern
of Clydesdale’s vest, the number of buttons
on his coat, and whether his boots had the
Lobb cut or were of the ready-to-wear
variety. Part of the afternoon he spent
Avith Surgeon MacCormick’s lady and her
party, of which daughter Morna was a
tweeded and gaily-hatted member. Lady
Amberson Marten, whose husband is an ex-
pert in the scales of justice in Bombay, faced
the chill blasts of Rand wick over the black-
seal collar of her Robin Hood green outfit.
Mrs. Colin Stephen was braided in broAvn,
banded in fur, and hatted in brown velvet
and yellow plumes. Velvet is fashion’s latest
word. Mrs. A. E. Hughes, with the
Princess. Melikoff among her ornaments, was
clothed in this sleek fabric—very black, very
flared, very furred. Mrs. Raymond Laurie
was lassoed with amber and protected bv
brown tailorings. With her was Mrs. Mor-
gan Jones in a fur coat. And Mrs. Jimmie
Burns’s sable was the talk of Randwiek.
The Nellie Stewart season reached its
climax on Friday night, when Sweet Nell
was billed to say good-bye. The manage-
ment turned hundreds away early in
the evening, but where mummers could
detach themselves from their own shows tliev
rushed to the G. 0.11., and, with other privi-
leged people, filled up the last vacant spaces
in the big theatre. Nellie must have found
the strain of holding up a heavy part for a
week very severe; but, facing wonderfully
sympathetic audiences, she rose to great
heights. A breakdown came very near in
the speech the. vociferous demands of the
audience forced her to make. Banked byfloAvers
and tributes, she managed, lioAvever. to say
what she had to say, and it included
encomiums of Billy Russell, who had seen
and seized the opportunity for this “Sweet
Nell” revival.
Billy Russell, by the bye, has been able
™ n b . u - va fl > le new house for himself and
Nellie Bramley out of his recent successes.
Everybody will be glad of the good luck
that has come to the man avlio, until he
broke aivay with his oavh company, starring
Jus wife was .for years a touring manager'
with .1. L. Williamson, with which firm he
grew up. The luck is recent, for, although
he had early successes in M.L. and Sydney
Melbourne proved so cold to the Nellie
Bramley show that it was brought close to
disaster. It was another example of the
prophet being' without honor iii his own
country, for Nellie is a Melbourne girl.
The Marquis of Clydesdale’s entry to the
Wanderer Ball—H. I). Mclntosh in the van
and Percy Hunter in the rear—was the
star event of the evening, and there wasn't
even a thrill left over for Frank Harvey
when he descended on the Went worth from
"The Seventh Heaven.” The ball, which got
its title from the Hollywood version of “The
Prodigal. •Son,” at the Prince Edward, was
m aid ot Prince Alfred’s, mid a prize feature
uas a fatted calf. Lots of the best-nourished
ladies present seemed to think, judging by
the length of their skirts,' that this was a
competition and not a livestock trophy in a
game of chance. Hundreds rolled up to the
Church Ilill jazz hall, and dined first and
danced afterwards under* the decorations
that had drawn the loud “Oh!” of admira-
tion at the Scott Fell wedding a night or
so previously. There was a great assortment
ot flower stuffs on the tables, and the
arrangement thereof varied with the inclina-
tions of the hostesses. A high basket spill-
ing over with roses scented the vice-regal
table; bine and silver garnished the chicken
and asparagus of Mrs. Arthur ScriveueFs
group; a boat of flowers was moored on the
A. C. Godliard table; the Oxford coat-of-
arins was on Hugh D. Mclntosh’s board.
About nine o'clock the State Exes, were
wafted in on the National Anthem, and the
Anderson Stuart lady, in the charm of black
taffetas bestrewn with pink moss-roses,
dropped the first curtsey of welcome.
Other ladies-in-waiting were Mrs. . Godliard,
in a frock that looked like finest chainmail:
Mrs. (Tar.net Halloran, in pale lilac geor
gettes; and Mrs. Oswald Chapman, in an
effective combination of black lace and geor-
gette. Lady de Chair wore such greens and
golds as flew, in Tara's halls, and mingled
diamonds and pearls in adornments that
Malaehi himself might have envied. The
Japanese Consul-General entertained a table-
ful of compatriots, and a gentleman who
surely embodies the romance of trade, being
director of the Nightingale Supply Company,
held a party within a party. Toti dal Monte,
in the quaint primrose and silver frock she
wore at her concert, said to have been designed
for her in Italy by a great artist, was the first
of the pros, to step through the great gilt
frame —erected for their entry—-into the ball-
room.
This, is- a May Moore picture of Mrs.
Bertha Maxwell, a modern genius of stitehery.
To such a fine
art has she
brought her
gentle mus e.
that the
National Gal-
lery has pur-
chased many
examples of her
work. A hun-
dred years and
more from
now, when his-
torians, delv-
ing into the
literature of
to-day, read
that post-war
women were
dissolute,
drunken and
mad for
pleasure, these
treasured
specimens will
prove that there were some at least who
still applied themselves to the domestic arts.
Mrs. Maxwell, who is' a Maorilander by
birth, is enamored of Australian plants and
birds, and it is to express the beauty of
these that she uses her knowledge of draw-
ing and painting. She calls herself an
apostle of the bush, and says that if her
sermons in pencil and needle (Mrs. Maxwell
creates all her own designs, many of them
for the Woman’s Mirror) can help to
secure the recognition and consideration its
denizens deserve, then she will have accom-
plished something towards their preservation
and increase. And that is a fine ideal for a
true Australian.
The Royal Colonial Institute festooned its
portals with wattle on an afternoon of last
week, and welcomed sculptor Bertram Mac-
kennal and his lady. The Hugh Denison
couple, who will soon be Australia’s official
hosts in America, appeared in a full-dress
rehearsal of the part, she very sleek in black
velvets with silver fox appointments; he
with his best smile, his impressive hand-
shake and the quick look of pleased recog-
nition that is a public personage’s best
friend.
If, a fortnight ago, Natalie Rosenwax had
crossed a gipsy’s palm with silver and heard
that “across deep waters a young man comes
Suddenly into your life, and his feet bring
good fortune to you.” would the practical
young lady have believed it? Yet that’s
what did happen, for young Lord Clydes-
dale’s consent to appear at the Rosemary
Cabaret, which was Natalie’s special organi-
sation, resulted in a riotous success. Even
those ladies who were being the East Wind
and the West Wind, with the red dragon on
their heads in the balcony above the ball-
room, grew distracted over their mail jongg
when the young man and his American
friends with their superimposed Oxford
accent took the floor. Not that they danced
on the accent —it was merely an accessory
to very neat footwork. Another group of
men, not so young, not so dashing now as in
the brave days between 1914 and 191.8.
caught the eye and riveted the imagination.
They were disabled soldiers from Rose Hall.
Graythwaite and Randwick. Mrs. Florence
Aikman was their hostess; she and Mrs. IV.
M. Humphries had shared the job of secre-
tary to the, money-raiser. Rene Maxwell
sang like a lark on the wing.
The world can hardly afford a better
example of a self-educated educationist than
“Jimmy" Nangle, Superintendent of Techni-
cal Education, who now takes charge also
of the Sydney Observatory. He was a poor
boy, one of a
large family,
for whom an
apprenticeship
in a trade,
when appren-
tices got only
half a crown
a week, could
not be afforded :
hut he was a
whal e f o r
work, a n d.
easily winning
the confidence
of a fi ]■ m
of build e r s,
when he was
18 he was boss
on a job in
Bridge - street
where 60 men
were employed.
He soon quali-
fi e d a s a n
architect —Marcus Clark's, building in
Railway-square was constructed to his plans
—and, when a Director of Technical Edu-
cation was wanted, he was placed as the
most suitable man in charge of the school
where, as an eager boy, lie had himself pur-
sued knowledge. He is a Fellow of the
Senate of the University, and a Fellow also
of the Royal Astronomical Society in London
—his avid pursuit of knowledge years ago
led him into astronomical research. Re-
turned soldiers have to thank him for some
splendid work in connection with Repat.‘s
Vocational Training scheme, which he
directed. He had a personal interest in the
Diggers—his only son was with the A.I.F.
and won the V.C. The photo is by May
Moore.
“Will you ask the ladies in front to sit
down?” was the ever-recurring plaint at the
Happy cabaret. But there were always
more and still more ladies in front, and
many of them, even if they would have
obliged, could not unless they had squatted
on the floor. So those early-comers who
had exulted over securing a tea-table weren’t
quite so_ cheerful when the cabaret blossomed
and Elsie Prince, in prune velvets, sang “One
Fine Day” with a suggestion of Scotch mist
on the high ranges. But the most desperate
moment for the women in the purlieus was
when darling little midgets like a pair of
butterflies —he the black-and-white sort, she
of apricot gauziness—shimmered through the
Charleston.
By 10.30 every male partner at the Play-
ers’ Club dance seemed a replica of “The
Man with a Load of Mischief.” The night
had gone well, and every girl’s face was a.
laughing witness to the fun and the un-
broken line of partners she had had. The
Players are a rather highbrow but altogether
jolly little group of drama-exponents. In their
midst gambol those men who are Shaks-
peare’s best friends in Sydney: . Judges, too,
are on the club's subscription list, and men
so intrepid they will cultivate acquaintance
with the wildest of Australian flowers. Be-
fore the names of such are mentioned you will,
of course, think of Francis Jackson, Judge
Beeby and Arthur Eedy. Vera ' Keogh
brought her husband and a shawl of many
colors. Secretary Flora Maliood was in
rose georgettes panelled with strips of Per-
sian-like embroideries, while the up-to-date
equivalent of rose leaves clothed treasurer
Alice Could with still further charm. Ruby
Coxhead, of the Vagabonds, not unlike a
dark edition of' Ella Shiels, looked in with
a smile at her reptile contemporaries an
hour or so before lights out!
One of last week’s well-staged weddings
was that of Leila Trindall, whose father is
a weil-known Newtown doctor, to Haydn
Boswell, of Potts Point. The knot which
passeth all understanding was tied at St.
Stephen’s by Canon Langley and Padre J.
Bidwell. while still another padre friend
supplied a soothing wedding hymn. White
georgettes garnished profusely in diameuto
and crystal and served with a tulle veil
foamed about the bride, and were even as a
snare to the feet of her father as he led her to
•the waiting groom. Like three ladies out
for a promenade on a Dresden-china vase
were the ’maids, whose lilacy pink taffetas
wore garlanefe of hand-made flowers on their
spreading skirts, and silver and lilac ribands
on the shoulder. The bride’s parents did
the handsome thing in the way of wedding
receptions at the Ambassadors.
Another bride of the week was Linda
Moses, of Darling Point. Her marriage was
a strictly family affair, as she is not yer
out of mourning for her father. The ’groom
was actor George Barnaul, who first ap-
peared here with Pauline Frederick in “Spring
Cleaning,” and who has a date with Renee
Kelly in “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.”
White panne velvet with wrist-length tight
sleeves sheathed Dorothy Wilkinson on her
wedding day last week. St. Mark’s, at
Darling Point, blushed with pink blooms for
the event, and the guests were not so numer-
ous as well chosen. A note should be made
of the bride’s Limerick lace train loaned by
Mrs. Kell, and the Honiton lace veil which
had been worn by her grandmother. Kath-
leen Wilkinson and Hilary Blythe clothed
the part of bridesmaids in delphinium-blue
georgettes flared as to skirt and long as to
sleeve. Pink crinoline hats with satin rib-
bon entanglements were their delectable
finish. Mervyn Minter (lie’s a son of the
A. R. Minters, of Gundagai and Sydney)
was the young man waiting at the altar;
George Osborne and W. Miller his supports.
The Royal Golf Club housed the reception.
A young man very pleased with his pros-
pects is Harold Best, of Karinya, Lismore.
Hi' scintillated so gaily when he was in town
last week that Petty’s Hotel consumed only
half its usual quantity of electric light. All
because of the promise he’d got from pretty
Marie Dooley, of Murrurundi. Marie is an old
pupil of the Dominican Convent at Moss
Vale, and Harold is a member of the law
firm of Mclntosh and Best, of the Northern
Rivers.
An other-side engagement of interest to
Sydney is that of Dorothy Forster Traill,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Forster
Meddle and grand-daughter of the late W. M.
Traill, one of the early editors of Thk
Bulletin, to John Edward Caburn Morton,
only son of Dr. and Mrs. Reginald E. Morton,
of Imbergrove, Esher, Surrey.
A graceful and pretty young thing who
helps to the success of “Rose Marie” is Sadie
Bedford. Her mother, who, after business
hours, is Mrs. and not Miss Bedford, is
the confidential secretary to E. J. Tail:, of
the J.C.W, combination. She has held that
position for eight years, and was with J.
and N. Tait before the two theatrical fami-
lies decided to use the one doormat. Sadie
was one of the kiddies of the last Grand
Opera Co., and appeared in “Bohfeme” and
“Carmen.”
Miss Brisbane’s week of merry-making:—
The Moreton Handicap and fine weather lured
many to Ascot, where the Q.T.O. band played on the
lawn and Mrs. Isaac Moore and Pat O’Shea had
tea parties on the committee’s verandah. Mrs.
Wallis Hoare was in navy tailor-made, Mrs. Her-
ring chose fawn and Mrs. Halford, nut brown. Mrs.
Tcrrica Macleod was sheathed in ivory crepe de
Chine. Amongst the crowd were the Chief Justice’
and his wife, the E. T. Bells, Oadell-Gar ricks,
Major and Mrs. Pierson, the Glvn-ConnoUys and
the Ken Dalzells.
For daughter Mavis, who is off to Ceylon to be
married, Mrs. Hugh Walker had a party at the
Gresham. Black satin sheathed the hostess, while
the bride-elect was in lilac.
Merna Gillies and Vera Parker held a recital
in the Albert Hall, Scott Macallum aiding with
his fiddle. Merna Gillies wore hyacinth and cycla-
men, and \ era Palmer had a rosewood-hued crystal-
looped frock. The audience came well armed with
posies.
Nell Douglas Graham gathered a big audience
for her Dickens evening in the Albert Hall. Out-
standing performances were those of Jean Trundle,
both as Sammy Weller and as David Copperfield, boy
and man, and Leo Guyatt, who was brilliant as
Fa gin and effective in the part of Sydney Carton.
Both these young Brisbaneites are members of the
Repertory Society—next performance of which takes
place to-morrow. Church, Law and Letters patro-
nised the show, ’Gaiters Sharp and his sister,
Mrs. Price, being in the front row with Hon. Bill
Lennon, Chief Justice Jimmy Blair, poet Francis
Ivenna and Ex-Judge and Mrs. Jameson.
Trixie Crombie has said “I will” to Archie
Fogg, of the Clay field clan. The bride is the
daughter of Mrs. Crombie of Mount Samson, and
the late J. Crombie. She gave her daughter away
in sunset and gold mariette, with rosewood-tinted
hat and a bouquet of Mareehal Kiel roses. C. L.
Crombie ’maided in golden brown.
St. Stephen’s, Brisbane, was dressed up in pink and
red roses for Dr. Hampden Murray’s marriage to
Isabel Muriel Wallace, of the Glenrock station
family. The bride was in ivory crepe de Chine,
and Nancy Wallace, in mauve, maided, Lois Car-
mody, in white over pink, being trainbearer. Fin-
ney’s roof garden saw the feasting.
Jean, the elder bairn of the Donald Maeneils,
Bunya Park, has accepted the token that precedes
the plain gold band, from Cecil, sou of the L. E.
Holders, Rockhampton.
George Saunders is up here with a fine show of
etchings and other works of art. Mrs. Forrest had
a small luncheon party in his honor at the Carlton.
He is meeting many Diggers who were pals in the
42nd.
Pretty Rinda Robbins is to be presented at the
next Drawing Room. She is staying with the Countess
Haddo in London.


hafCdy' bXos ltd.
JEWELLER.S
SP
£4O
sap
124
p
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Specialising in Engagement Rings, Hardy Brothers
offer values that are not excelled in Australia.
Each ring is made in the Company’s own workshops,
under the supervision of their experts, and is hand-
forged for added strength. None but high-quali-y
gems are featured in Hardy’s Rings, and the settings
all display that delicacy of workmanship and
finish that is associated with the Company s
exclusive jewellery.
Selections of Rings will be sent to any address on
approval, with finger-size card, at Hardy Brothers
risk and expense.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
Hardy Brothers’ New, Catalogue will he sent post free on request.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
H A R,DY
BROTHERS LTD.
S&T/ouse oP Saaslusivc UewtlUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON,
116-IJB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE
d
Even on Dull Days
you can get excellent
Pictures with a
Speed Carbine
su
The Camera with which you
can take real pictures.
It is fitted with an extremely
fast lens—an Aldis-Butcher
Anastigmat F 4.5.
The Compur Shutter gives ex-
posures of from 1 second to
1-250th second.
Daylight Loading Roll Films
are used'.
BRITISH MADE.
AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES .
No. la, for pictures % 4|
No. 3, for pictures x 4J
£ll
Ensigns, Carbines, Kodaks or Brownies —
obtainable from leading Photo Dealers or from
h
L™
“The House for
Good Cameras,”
886 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Established 37 years.
KATOOMBA: Katoomba Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Queen Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 42 Willis Street
MELBOURNE: 266 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 10 Bundle Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
ĥ
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


n
■
■
✓
**
Fruit 8 Walnut Cake
A cake dainty of unrivalled delicious-
ness.
Its choice ingredients include walnuts
and a rich assortment of fruits such as
cherries, sultanas, and best quality
citron peel.
The unique circular shape
permits of easy cutting with-
out waste.
In Attractively-
Ornamented Tins
of 31b., 41b., 51b.
All Grocers.
Its Fragrance is
a sheer joy !
If you have not yet used Pomeroy Day
Cream, there is a new delight in store for
you. Its refreshing fragrance, which lingers
so long and so alluringly, captivates every
woman who has a nice regard for her
appearance and who studies charm.
POMEROY
DAY CREAM
Obtainable from all Australian Stores and Chemists
or from the POMEROY DEPOT (Ripley & Simpson)
Macdonell House, SYDNEY.
h
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
The seat or throne of government really is
off to Canberra next year. Well, as really
as anything can be in connection with that
long-postponed affair. May 9, 1927, is to
be the date; Mr. Bruce says so, and 1500
Melbourne dovecotes, more or less, are flut-
tering at the nsws. Some of the doves, poor
dears, have never flown further from home
in their lives than St. Kilda or Sorrento, and
now, so to speak, they are to be torn up by
the roots and replanted in a distant flower-bed
—and a very artificial-looking flower-bed, too.
A wail went up from the self-protection com-
mittees; so, this Chatterer, anxious about the
welfare of her sisters, put on her hat and
ran around to King-street, where Col. Wal-
lace Farr, who has been told to do the job,
has his G.H.Q. The Colonel was found set-
ting springes for woodcocks on his walls in
the shape of handsome photos of the views
Mrs. Fed. Civ. Serv. will enjoy when she
steps on to her front verandah or hangs out
the washing—plenty of nice asphalt paths
and Japanese plums and all that. Another
bait set is a large model of the dream city
and surroundings, with the (so far) entirely
mythical lake full to the brim with nice
blue water, and there are pictures and plans
of residences which would not blush to find
themselves on St. Kilda-road.
Col. Farr has had lots of callers of our
sex already. “Oh dear, 21 by 15- —-what
poky little dens!” says Mrs. Fed-up Oivserv.
But the Colonel is prepared for her. He lias
had liis office marked out in feet, and a white
dumb-waiter stands ready to be moved about
the floor. He shows the grumbler in an
instant the exact size of the room. “Why,
it’s bigger than I thought,” murmurs Mrs.
Fed-up. Then the soldier discourses upon
moving hex- and her brood in echelon, by file
and in skirmishing order, and the lady flees
—as she is intended to. In Palestine the
Colonel moved 20,000 camels as a regular
thing. But he realises, that a few hundred
Australian women, with minds of their own,
are a different proposition.
The Canberra Commission seems to have
achieved some extraordinarily expensive
houses for the folk who will be compelled to
live there. One type, with five rooms and
kitchen, plus a “sleep-out” at the back,
costs £1725, and the occupier has to
pay ground-rent on top of that. There
wiil be some work for the Public Service
Board when civil servants on £250 a year
begin asking how they are to make both ends
meet in these abodes, especially as the daily
chop and the cauliflower are likely to become
scarce and highly priced as soon as the
influx fairly starts.
The mouth of the Yankee fleet opened
wide last year when this State’s welcome was
thundered from 1000 throats and 150 instru-
ments, comprising the forces of the Choral
Association and other harmonious bodies.
The same herald angels will probably hail
the Duke and Duchess when they arrive to
slip the latchkey into Canberra’s front door.
At any rate, lion. sec. M. J. Pettigrove has
offered their services.
The South Aus. footballers who witnessed
“Betty Lee’s” first bow at the Princess got
an ovation from the sport-loving multitude.
The athletic story suited the occasion. One
covering for the chorus was sublimated run-
ning togs, which had the merit of displaying
plenty of leg without being expensive. The
first ensemble of cowboys and cowgirls was
really striking, and the scenery of Southern
California was the best Hugh Ward has im-
ported for some time. Mai Bacon, Flo-
rence Hunter and others sliowed_ in their
coverings that producers are beginning to
realise that there are decorative hints to be
got from the fashions flavored by the girl in
the street.
The Friendly Unions of Sailors’ and Sol-
diers’ Wives and Mothers trammed as usual,
at Hugh Ward’s invitation, to the top of
Bourke-street op Friday afternoon to see
“Betty Lee” in; dress rehearsal. The Nine
Nice Americans came hand in hand from the
Ath erne inn to see how tins product of their
country’s geniujs was treated by Australian
choruses and English actors. Their explo.-
sions of merriment at places where the rest
of the house preserved a granite silence sug-
gested that our education in the American
language is still incomplete. Mrs. Victor
Sellheim, president of the union, threw the
usual bouquets from a box, and Hugh Ward
cauglit them with his perennial agility.
One of the singing principals of “Betty
Lee” new to Melbourne is Doreen May.
Doreen is Adelaide-born and lisped in num-
bers on the local stage at the age of nine.
In the present play she is the chatelaine of
an American cattle ranch with a garden
that will make many a Riverina squatter’s
wife discontented.
White hair and decorum were the main
feature of a reception given to Percy Grain-
ger by the Lyceum Clubites one night last
week, Fritz Hart, in his beautiful suave
accents, chanted the story of his old col-
league’s successes. The modest pianist,
proving his Aussieness, despite his natural-
isation papers, by supporting himself on
the piano in the absence of a lamp-post, pro-
tested that his talent was the hothouse pro-
duct of his mother’s fostering care. She
threatened once, he told the assemblage, that
if he failed her she would devote her life to
putting Cyril Scott, the English composer
who once lived in Adelaide, upon the market.
Margot McGibbon’s fiddle and Mr. Cadzow's
voice put a head on the evening.
This Chatterer saw a distinguished femi-
nine musical authorityyawn at the Auditorium
on Saturday; but as she did it after a par-
ticularly graceful rendering of the Brahms
“Cradle Song,” it was really a subconscious
tribute to Percy Grainger’s art. Actually
the recitals are very brief affairs, despite the
pianist’s readiness to fulfil encore orders to
almost any extent. To remain for two hours
in effective occupation of a grand piano on a
vast platform backed by a large pale curtain
like the dawn of eternity is a feat of moment.
Grainger does it with the nonchalance of a
Digger left by the accident of war in sole
charge of Asia Minor.
Louis Esson put his life in a detective’s
pocket to get the first-hand information for
his latest drama of low life in Melbourne,
“The Bride of Gospel-place,” and the upper
crust flocked to the Playhouse to see what the
inside of the pie was really like. What they
saw convinced property-owners that Com-
missioner Blarney should double the police
force at once. Crooks and not-so-pretty
ladies seem to form the entire population of
Gospel-place. But they all have hearts of
gold. This Chatterer has often wondered
what happens to the nice young men of her
acquaintance who make free with their em-
ployers’ money, and the play told her.
Charles Dougherty is an articled clerk whose
firm warns him to do it more credit by dressing
better ; so to carry out the bosses’ instructions
he borrows £3OO from them without telling
them about it. When he is found out he be-
comes legal adviser to the underworld and
gets quite a lot of business. The prettiest
character in the piece was Maisie Bennett, a
Footscray Cleopatra with the usual hacking-
cough which brings her to the grave. Mrs.
Esson, the playwright’s wife, put good work
into' her part of a married woman who vio-
lates her vows and then adjusts matters with-
out resort to the Divorce Court. Among the
bouquets that flowed over the footlights at
the finish were a crayfish and a bunch of
celery for J. O’Connell, the tender-hearted
constable. The ol’ clo’ wardrobes of Little
Bourke-street must have been ransacked for
the costumes that adorned the Pioneer
Players who took the final curtain call, and
the author’s dress suit, although it didn’t fit
him very wellj looked positively snobbish
among them.
From the studio of Ruth Hollick comes
this picture of a well-known Melbourne
artist, Jo
Sweat man,
w hose can-
vases lately
were hung in
the Decoration
Galleries i n
Collins - street.
Her show in-
cluded some
clever portrait-
ure besides
very attractive
bus h scenes
and flower
studios. She
belongs to the
select coterie
of Melbourne
Painters —they
are 20 in num-
ber and
though s he
has not had
the advantage
of foreign training or travel she does credit
to our own National Gallery classes, wherein
she was trained under the late Fred Mc-
Cubbin.
Bernard Heinze should be given a mothers’
testimonial for turning his University sym-
plionists loose at the Auditorium in concerts
for infants. On Friday afternoon Tom Mix
and Charlie Chaplin, being merely silent
shadows on a screen, were at a hopeless dis-
count ; the kiddies flocked to hear the adven-
tures of John Gilpin recounted in Roger
Quitter’s children’s overture and to sail
aboard the Flying Dutchman on a sea of
many voices. When the cor anglais said
‘Tlaa, Baa, Black Sheep,” no solitary child
could resist its appeal. Then this new Pied
Piper, with a little explanation, led his small
followers up into the heights of Schubert’s
Unfinished Symphony and Grieg’s “Peer
Gynt ’ suite. If there were more Prof,
rleinzes the reproach that Australians belong
to an unmusical race would soon cease.
Mrs. Russell Gabb, who was hooked for a
return in July, has put off her homecoming
till the end of the year. She has returned
to London and settled-in at the Empress
Club to enjoy some of the gaieties of a
London season. Later her two young daugh-
ters, Marie and Gene, will be presented at
the Queen’s second drawing-room—the real
reason of the alteration in dates.
There was a great afternoon gathering of
smart matrons and maids at No. 9 in
response to invitations sent out by Mrs.
Howard Clark. The hostess, all in black,
was assisted by daughter Marnie, who also
affected black raiment, but cheered it with
fuchsia trimmings. Though the day was
grey and chill, all was cosy and warm within,
where red-shaded candles cast their soft glow
on masses of holly berries. At intervals Dr.
Bartolini lifted his voice to an audience
fringing tea-tables that resembled miniature
gardens.
Lafayette here pictures Mrs. Edith Smart,
who had charge of the Vic. Artists’ Society's
recent exhibi-
tion. She is
known in the
world of Arts
and Crafts as
“P a ndora”;
her wee depot
at 178 Collins-
street is a real
box of trea-
sures, for the
leading craft-
workers here
send her some
of their choi-
cest bits; and
with them are
antiques and
precious trifles
from overseas.
Mrs. Smart is
a war widow,
her late hus-
band, Sergeant
11. C. Smart,
60th Battalion, having died of wounds in
1917. But it is only within the last few
years that she has taken up her present
fascinating occupation.
“The East” has got “Bob” O’Dwyer, who
has come over from Java to visit her mother
at St. Kilda, meet her old friends and col-
lect a glory-box before sailing for'Singapore,
where William Binnie is waiting for his
bride.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Emmerton, with their
daughter Mrs. Brookes, the tennis-loving
Norman and the three young Brookes
daughters, are off to California. They will
motor across the continent to New York,
where Mr. Brookes will leave them to hop
across the pond. The party proposes to
return in time for next Cup festivities.
Queenscliff is feeling rather hurt at losing
Mrs. Manchester, who goes to Sydney with
her husband, the‘Major. Officers’ wives gave
.her a farewell party in the lounge of the
Queenscliff Hotel, transformed into a rose
garden. There was a quartet of hostesses,
with tea-drinking at tables decorated with
the colors of the R.A.G.A.
Barbara Mary, second daughter of Henry
Madden, is promised to Charles Cavan Duffy
elder son of John. The future bride, a
cousin of Mrs. Pat Osborne, will be the
second Madden to change the name for
Duffy.
Captain A. Stawell, only son of the George
Stawells, married Amy Bowring, a New
Yorker, in that city recently.
Miss E. A. Conyers, who is running in an
honorary way this end of the national mem-
orial to the late Queen Alexandra, wants
the shillings of all nurses interested, because
the money is to form an endowment fund
for the Queen Vic. Jubilee Institute. This
is the only nurses’ organisation which
touches all corners of the Empire. Care of
R.V.T.N.A. office, 314 Collins-street, is the
address at which the smallest contribution
will be thankfully received.
Feminine Launceston got all worked up
over the wedding of Florence May Scott to
Gordon Pike, of Fiji, scion of the late Dr.
C. J. Pike, of Small Sister’s No. 2 city.
The bride’s silver-beaded georgette scintil-
lated softly through a beautiful old lace veil
lent by the ’groom’s mother. A niece of the
bride and another of the ’groom maided in
pink and pervenche blue georgette respec-
tively. At the Metropole afterwards Mrs.
Scott hostessed in black Ottoman silk, with
posy of bronze-shaded flowers tied in gold
ribbons, and Mrs. Pike wore a black-and-
white crepe-de-Chine frock with millinery to
match.
One of the biggest droves of blushing debs,
ever seen here made its curtsey to Mrs.
Maurice Macgillicuddy at tire Newman
Society Ball, which brightened St. Kilda
Town Hall one night last week. There
were 76 of them, and they marched on to
the floor like a regiment, four abreast.
Gertrude Jacob has set housewives
watching their spouses’ every mouthful. She
is an American educationist who holds that
meat-eating is disastrous to morals, if in-
dulged in to excess. She avers that many
wickednesses, especially what the French
call crimes passionnel, can be traced back
to the knife and fork; and as Australians
are the most reckless* consumers .of meat,
Heaven only knows what risks Miss Jacob
takes by coming here. At home she is health
directress of a school for 7000 children.
Much melody will fill the Auditorium on
June 30, when the iChoral Association will in-
dulge in its annual outbreak and teams from
all parts will let themselves go. An .innova-
tion will be a sort of star chamber for the
judges, who will referee unseen and un-
approachable. And on this occasion there
won’t be any accompaniment for timid singers
to lean upon in test pieces.
Sister Adelaide’s budget:—
We’re to have a new society, dedicated to the
study of folk songs and dances. It’s to be launched
in August in the Town Hall when Olive Carey will
give a lecture about it all, punctuated by examples.
He, Mrs. Charles Todd and the Mawson dame are
on th'e committee.
For the musical there has been an excellent Glee
Club concert, which produced a new soprano in
Kathleen Brandwood; for the literary there have
been lectures ; and for the more frivolous there has
been a “Follies” entertainment at Marryatville, with
Eileen Ivingdon and Tom Bagshaw among the most
popular of the mummers.
Girl Guides’ week ended in competitions at Gov-
ernment House and a frivol at the Krakowsky home
in North Adelaide. At the competitions Creveen
School won the cup from 20 companies ; Miss Behrens
was judge, and there was tea to follow in the kiosk
by the river. Mrs. Krakowsky, who is metropolitan
commissioner, was hostess in the evening. Guide-
organising has been an uphill business in this State,
but the movement is moving.
From England comes news of the death of Mrs.
Luttman-Johnson, once Rose Oldham of this State
and a cousin of Mrs. G. H. Dean. She made her
home on the other side of the world for many years,
but picked up the threads of old friendships on a
visit here just after the Armistice.
The second day’s racing was not much better than
the first from this Letter’s point of view, for grey
skies and a piercing wind gave way to drenching rain
for the last race, and lawns and paddock were still
wet from Saturday’s deluge. The Government House
party included Lady Bridges and her daughter, the
former in tailored grey, topped by a small pink hat,
and the latter in browns. A younger matron was
charming in a jumper suit of almond-green and a
velvet hat that matched, and headgear of petunia
velvet topped a coat of the 'same exquisite shade.
Indeed, as far as hats went, velvet was there in
plenty, with a befurred coat or two of the same
opulent material.
Norwood is mourning the death of Mrs. H. J.
Holden, its mayoress twice and for years one of the
staunchest and most generous backers of its charit-
able enterprises. Her husband, head of the great
motor-body -firm, died only a few months ago.
Mrs. S. R. Burston and Mrs. Roy Davidson were
.joint hostesses at the Glenalg Palais on Friday even-
ing, one all black and white and gold with red
and white camellias a-blowing on her skirt, and
the other in furred gold tissue with a scarlet
tassel for its colpr-note. On the same evening there
were two Old Girls’ dances —Walford House at the
Piccadilly, and the M.L.O. in its own hall, with
Miss M. J, Baker and Miss Jean Gordon to do the
honors at the former, and Miss Patchell and Dr.
Ruth Gault to say the how-de-do’s at the latter.
The Diggers are getting impatient and want to
know when the memorial to their dead cobbers is
coming. The money has been waiting for months —
years—but to determine the form and the site
has been too much of a fag for Authority. On
only one thing the Diggers’ League is definite; it
doesn’t want the pretence of a memorial to its dead
mates to take the shape of a jazz-hall for the
living. It prefers a Shrine of Memory on Govern-
ment House corner —an admirable site for it.
Surprises from over the Strait: —
Young Eric Waterworth, Whose pa is a Hobart
optician and whose ma is the Speck’s most promi-
nent women’s non-party politician, has drawn crowds
to pa’s shop-window during- the week. The attrac-
tion is a gramophone which plays nine records, or
alternatively repeats the same record nine times,
without stopping for a drink. The nine records
are held by a light spring on a slanting bar above
the ordinary revolving; table, and when the needle-
bar, having traversed one record, swings back ready
to start a new furroHw, the bottom record of the
suspended nine slides gracefully into position, and
the needle promptly gets busy.
To attend a flower-decked cafe chantant in aid of
the children’s section of the Public Library, Hobart
tore itself from its fireside and trooped to the
Town Hall the other night. In a fine programme
arranged by James Marsh the best and brightest-
plumaged of the song-jbirds were Myra Gillon, Doro-
thy Geeves, Mrs. Dodgy Nettleford and Mrs. Eric
Harris. His Ex. O’Gridy (in hospital that evening)
was represented by daughter Margaret, and among
the half-hundred hostesses were the wives of Min-
isters and other prominent legislators, the Mayoral
Rogerses, the ex-Mayonal Valentines, Mrs. Education-
Director Brooks and many lady teachers. Librarian
Collier spoke a piece iibout the increasing popularity
and cost of the Children’s Library, and Assembly-
Chairman Woods voiced the thanks of the trustees.


A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS.
HIGH-GRADE LEVER WRIST WATCHES.
A. Saunders' Throe-
Diamond, Octagon,
Set Platinum, iSct.
Gold Ring, £->O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£4O, £3O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, Set
Platinum, 1 Sc-t.i •
Gold Ring, £45.
Smaller Diamonds,
£4O, £35.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond, Octagon-
shape, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Five-
Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18et.
Gold Ring, £B5,
Smaller Diamonds,
£25, £2O, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Diamond, Set Platinum. ISct.
White Gold Jewelled Lever Wateli, Sill; Wrist-
band, £3O. Guaranteed.
>rV r^
mzfs
fsssi
ms.
A. Saunders’ Lady's Diamond Set All Platinum
Lever Watch, Silk Wrist-band, £B5. Guaranteed.
We will remake your old-style
Rings and Watches to t lie
newest London and Paris de-
signs at a Moderate Cost.
Special Illustrations forwarded
on request.
12/
03
S 3
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 14ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, S’ilk Wrist-band, £7/10/-. Guaranteed.
la
>sso*
-S'
♦a
&2
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wrist-band, £6/10/-. Guaranteed.
SENT POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Set Plati-
num, 18ot. Gold
Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
: c
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shape, Set Plati-
num, 18et. Gold
Ring. £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shape, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. (told
Ring, £l5.
Diamond,
Larger
£2O.
&
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shape, Set Plati-
num, 18ct, Gold
Ring, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ORIENT LINE
■
11
00
n
m
i \ u
Smoking Room, R.M.S. “OIiAMA2O,OOO tons.
THE ORIENT LINE has long been noted
for the many facilities for games, sports
and amusements afforded its passengers.
The vast boat and promenade decks, the
large and luxurious public rooms and the
excellent cabin accommodation ensure a
very comfortable and enjoyable holiday
throughout the voyage.
28
Mf <3 b&orint
Greatest
Artists*
“His
Master's
Voice”
Finest
Recording*
By anointment
“Listen for the Bass!”
Wonderful depth of tone —remarkably accurate reproduction—every shade of
sound clear and distinct.
These are the outstanding features that emphasise the New “His Master’s Voice”
Instruments as supreme.
This amazing realism is the result of new discoveries relating to sound ampli-
fication. A special tone chamber, new tone-arm and new type of sound-box
enable you to hear the world’s greatest artists as vividly as if they were them-
selves present.
Model 103,
Table Grand,
h
A DEMONSTRATION WILL
CONVINCE YOU.
A varied range of Models
to choose from.
Portable Model, C. 101
(as illustrated) .... £l2
Table Grand Models.
103, Oak (as illus-
trated) £l4
103. Mahogany (as
illustrated) .... £l5/10/-
109. Oak £lB/10/-
109. Mahogany ... £2l
126. Oak £29
126. Mahogany ... £3B
Cabinet Grand Models.
161. Oak £45
161. Mahogany ... £52/10/-
511. Oak £7O
511. Mahogany ... £7B
p
Model C. 101. Portable,
Illustrated Catalogues of Instruments and
Records and name of nearest dealer sent
on request.
The Gramophone Company Ltd.
“Hvs Master’t Voice”
Bead. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street,' SYDNEY
“Gramophone”
Begd. Trade-mark.


: * 1
■
IS
.
- V ...
•
mm
't
1
c
***
,-■ . ■
■
ofrii u - /o sr ,j3ho is s ? uu^o
'Xfossvj^jndtstiO')/^
l
IS
V
■
V'
m
1
*sr
'N
10*
5*
S
closeph Jddrcellon, tyere
Uenms&lai/er^fyumierd^foWs3\
'r 1 *
usebll]tx)upl)
out mtzxzmt
and iftciortatt
(Championship
Sfournament
J|ovX92s.
rm
<c ■
mi
m
\ '
SteSS
*
*
■
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C° L TO All States &NewZealawd
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA
cAn Interesting scries of Sketches* illustrating the evolution of ISazun'Jennis which took its present form in
1873 will be produced bif the Burnet Glass Rubber C° £il. Copies of enlarged Sketches on art paper
are available on application to the Head Office, 289-299 Swanston Street ~ ~—


VELVET 1
SHAVING STICK
NOT FOP one:
PARTICULAR MAN
BUT FOR ALL
PARTICULAR MLN
I*/.
3? ..H I"'
& V «
T9C
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors; BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
AUSTRALASIAN
Pigeon
Championship
1925
WAS WON WITH A
W.W. GREENER
“EMPIRE” GRADE
GUN
Wholesale Representatives—
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY. LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The fashionably-bred Pericles (All Black
—Ferseis) completed a very profitable double for
owner-trainer H. Trenoweth and jockey' Black in
the A. J.C, Steeplechase at Randwick. He out-jumped
Minterne, who tried to pace it with him but lost
ground at every fence, and had too much toe for-
Bay Day on the flat; Jupiter cut Minterne out of
third place, Coolabah was distanced and Baoina arid
Prince Arim came down. There were only the seven
competitors for the ti 2000 hung- up, and the A.J.C.
has certainly been ill supported in its attempts to
establish jumping- races rivalling those of Flemington
and Caulfield. J. H. Trenoweth is one of two brothers
who were associated with the Westralian turf for
years before they came to .Randwick. His horse, who
is now a warm fancy for the (1. N. Steeple, went
out at 3 to 1, and was the only absolute favorite
to get home during a meeting which backers found
particularly bleak. The Newcastle mare Tullulah
(14 to 1), who is a half-sister to Nostrum, showed
a fine turn of speed in winning the Flying Handicap,
the nearest of her victims being- the M.L. colt Kiosk
(5 to 2), whose party has no gift for “placing"
horses, and Golden Voice (6 to 1) ; and the inex-
haustible Night Heron (10 to 1) outstayed Valamita
(11 to 2) and Lucy Thrice (33 to 1) in the Winter
Stakes, 13 furlongs. Another striking win was that of
Amounis (8 to l) in the Kxeter Handicap, one mile ;
he made light of lOst. 61b., and beat a big field of
platers very easily. This Magpie—Loved One gelding
went off after winning a succession of three-year-old
races prior to the A.J.C. Derby, but he promises to
play no mean part in some of the September and
October handicaps. So, for that matter, do Night
Heron and Tullulah.
With the Grand National a fortnight off,
punters gave performers at Moonee Valley (Vic.)
on Saturday earnest attention. They mostly backed
Fortesque (5 to 4) for the Wintdarra Hurdle, and
that fancied National candidate beat everything but
Scourie (8 to 1), for whom, however, he proved
no match at the finish. A six-year-old gelding
by Eudorus —Toisana, Scourie has done most of his
racing in the country. He must have a chance
for the big event with 9st., and it is nothing against
him that he is trained by F. D. Ward, who won
*the National with Narahquong in 1918. Gulyarri
(3 to 1), taking the timber with his usual free-
dom, left plenty of landscape between himself and
Reparation and Namera at - the end', of the Travan-
core Steeple. He is a dashing jumper, hut whether
the three miles of stiff fences .at Flemington will
suit this ex-hurdler is another matter. Lycurgides
(6 to l), who has been very usef’hl lately, scored
again in the Deep Creek Handicap, 10 -furlongs, in
which the distance proved a little tct> far for Smoke
Bomb (7 to 4) and Sir Dighlock (4 to 1) cut up
badly. The winner is an aged gplding by Car-
bine’s son George Frederick, who n>eyer got much of
a chance at the stud.
Adelaide .Racing Club bad poor luck with
its Birthday Cup meeting, being driven to exchange
a Saturday (which after all turned out fine) and
a holiday for the said holiday a?id a casual mid-
week day, both showery. The undxpected continued
to happen; in fact, Adelaide printers who follow
favorites complain that only once in the last 28
races have they got home. Frances Tressady was
again a disappointment in the Alderman Cup, being,
like Paroodus and Valbee, the Birthday Cup dead-
heaters, beaten out of a place by light weights,
with Our Prince (imp.) in front. The stake money
for the week was over £.10,000, A. G. Barlow being
the only one to get into four figures with his
winnings. The stewards are now hard at work
trying to find the owner of a discarded battery that
was found on the course just after the Birthday
Cup had been run.
* * * *
“Ascot”: The Sidney bookie who bought
Fujisan in April is well ahead of it as the result
of his purchase’s three easy wins in Brisbane; they
returned him £1295 in prize-money alone. When
the time (lmin. 49fsec.) for the Royal Stakes was
hoisted, showing that the Valais —Lady San gelding
had clipped a full second off Heroic’s Australian
record for nine furlongs, there was a gasp of sur-
prise, for his effortless action had made it appear
that he was merely cantering. He finished ten
lengths in front of The Black Joke, with Queens-
land’s best w.f.a. talent spread over half a furlong.
Sydney did not see Fujisan at his best last Easter;
if he is produced in his present form he will trouble
Valicare, Windbag and eo, up to 10 furlongs in
the spring.
-X- * * *
“Tabra”: Veteran Barney Page, the
fashionplate of Brisbane jockeys, retains all his old-
time skill- in the saddle, although he does not get
so many chances to demonstrate it nowadays, owing
to increased weight. He is deadly on free-going
young horses, and has won six two-year-old races
this season. Barney is no believer in finesse; he
follows the simple plan of hopping his horse to the
front and going for the doctor with all speed.
In the Sires’ Produce States at Ascot, his mount,
Budgerigah, shot out so suddenly that a disgruntled
trainer accused the starter of giving the old 'un
a fly out. of the barrier. Inquiry proved that the
start was an even one, but that Barney was hitting
on all gears while the other jockeys were admiring
the scenery.
“Vedette”: Rangi Thompson, the native
horseman who brought (he Gluten pony Dick home
in the £2OOO steeplechase at Ellerslic (M.L.), has
all the guile of the Maori added to the wile of the
racecourse. Tackled by the chief “stipe” after one
of. his horses, which had run badly two days before,
had won by a street. Rangi smiled Iris disarming
smile and replied: “Well, he have the race the
first day, a good gallop yesterday, and he the im-
proved horse to-day.” A pakeha jockey would hare
been floundering yet.
FOR DEAD-GAME SPORTS.
WIFE: “I’ve put. your shirt on the clothes-horse, Jim."
JIM: “What odds didja get?”
At Rooty Hill last week Terminus regis-
tered his second successive victory in the N.S.W.
Waterloo Cup. The field —12—was the poorest that
ever competed for the Gup; in the past, 64 of the
best greyhounds in the two coursing States (N.S.W.
and Vie.) showed' their paces, and it took four days
to find the winner. Terminus was favorite through-
out. His owners, Carter Bros., of Paddington
(N.S.W.), took £7O to £4O, £5O to £4O, £25
to £2O, £2O to £lB, and finally £lOO to £BO
on. • Buckley’s candidate, Bunty, was second favorite,
at 6to 1. The pair came together in the decider.
Bunty made a great race of it, but was a length in
arrears as a fast hare wheeled round. It was the
weary greyhounds’ fourth run in four hours, and
the hare’s first.
An eleventh-hour accident to Eddie
Butcher saved Buddy Saunders, another imported coon,
from a bad hiding at the Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night. A mere novice, Bill Torrens, was sub-
stituted for the Westralian. Saunders,: in trouble
from the flag, held and palmed and scragged, and
was hooted by the crowd and scolded by the referee.
Torrens should have got the decision instead of a
draw.
* * * *
“Hugh Stone” : Newcastle thinks it has a
possible successor to Les Darcy in the 19-year-old
middleweight Billy Edwards. Billy was practically
reared in the business, for his dad, “Jummer”
Edwards, ran the old Newcastle Stadium where the
best boys of the Coal Country have fought their way
to fame. “Jummer,” by the way, has only one eye;
a flying spanner knocked out the other when the
vessel in which he was engineer -was having a tough
time in a hurricane. #
In a polite exhibition of wrestling at Mel-
bourne Stadium, Mike Yokel (12st. I lib.), of
U.S.A., defeated Clarence Weber (13st. 71b.), get-
ting two straight falls. In contrast to recent
matches each was the perfect gentleman, and the
unusual spectacle of two grapplers shaking hands
after a slight clash of heads evoked cheers from a
crowd which would have been in no wise astonished if
each had sunk his teeth in the other’s ear. When
not engaged in these courtly compliments, Mike
worked with energy on Weber’s neck, and by head-
locks and twists so reduced Clarrie’s powers of
resistance that the latter fell an easy victim to a
reverse double armlock in round 5. Rushing to
avenge himself in the next, the Australian was caught
in a combination head- and armlock, and was pinned
in 3min. 3 6 sec.- He is getting rather old for the
game.
* * * *
“Te'nakohe”: Prank Skurry Hewitt, one
of the greatest runners of all time, died in Sydney
last week. Son of a British army officer, he came to
Australia in the late ’sixties, and at Melbourne on
May 4, 1870, ran 100 yards on the grass in 9fsec.
I first saw Frank at Auckland (M.L.), when he,
Jack Harris, a Melbourne sprinter, and A. E. Bird,
long-distance champion of England, were touring
Maoriland. Edward Ellis, a Cambridge “blue,” and
Hereward Hauraki Manning, the superbly proportioned
son of Judge Manning, were the only Maorilanders
with a chance of extending them, aiid both failed,
though Ellis was good enough, a year or two later,
to come over here and win the. Sydney Cold Cup
on the old Albert Ground, doing evens in the final.
At Christchurch, after the Auckland meeting,
Hewitt put up a world’s record for half a mile (lmin.
531 see.) that stood for 41 years. His debacle came
when Tom Malone arrived in Sydney fresh from
triumphs in Ireland and England. ‘ Larry Foley
matched Tom against him. They ran 100 yards,
in private, on the Domain cricket ground, and
Malone made such a holy show of Hewitt that old
Frank never raced again. A wonderful time-taker and
judge of a runner, Hewitt brought out. and backed
many a good man during the great pedestrian boom
of the ’eighties. He was 83 when the watch stopped.
* * * *
R. Wright I Si. George), who was first
home in tile N.S.W. novice cross-counlry cham-
pionship at Rose Bay, is a rather promising 19-year-
old. He traversed the stiff five miles in SOmin.
34sec. ; M. T. Emmerson (East Sydney) arrived
9sec. later. Emmerson might have reversed the
placings if he hadn’t taken a wrong turning, like
the girl in the play. St. George (18 pts.) won the
teams’ event, with East Sydney (21 pts.) second and
Botany (66) next.
* * * *
Collins closed his side’s second innings
against Yorkshire with 243 on the board for the
loss of three wickets (Collins 77 n. 0., Gregory 35
n. 0.). This left the county with 265 to make and,
since there were, only 160 minutes left for play,
nothing- to struggle for except a draw. Rain saved
the necessity of struggling for that, after Leyland
and Mitchell had begun to dig themselves in, while
scoring 25. In a sense, Australia may claim to have
had the better of the draw, evidencing distinct batting
superiority after a most unpromising opening. But
the fact remains that the visitors didn’t, show so
much superiority as will be required to win the
return match against the county, reinforced by Sut-
cliffe, Holmes, Kilner and Macaulay. Yorkshire, of
course, has the most formidable county team, if not
the strongest that is likely to be met outside the
international games. But both this match and the
preceding one against the North of England have
indubitably done something to hearten English sup-
porters and to emphasise that the temporary loss of
one such all-rounder a$ Hendry is a heavy blow.
The two-days match against Durham was no
more than an aperitif before the full strength of
England was encountered. The county was rocked
out for 125, Mailey (8 for 52-) having a picnic.
The tourists declared when three wickets had fallen
for 322 (Andrews 123, Collins 69, Bardsley 63 n. 0.).
That proved more than enough for a single-innings
victory, the Geordies being skittled for 116 by
Macartney and Grimmett at their second venture.
There was an idea a few weeks ago that the
selectors might have a tough job picking the first
team to meet England, but mishaps that couldn’t
have been foreseen made their task easier than anv-
one could have wished. With Hendry and Ponsford
both in hospital and Everett on the injured list,
there was nothing for the selectors to decide except
whether Mailey or Grimmett was the better goods
in the googlic department. The former got the
preference, and seems at this distance to have earned
it. Ellis has kept wicket creditably enough, and at
least once with brilliancy, but there is no question
yet of displacing Oldfield for him, Apart from the
actual casualties, the side is having more than its
share of ill-luck. Gregory has experienced some
trouble with his ankle, and the strain of strenuous
bowling spells for a man who throws every ounce of
himself into his delivery will have to be avoided
at all costs.
All other cricket faded into insignificance on Satur-
day beside what enthusiastic thousands paid to see at
Trent Bridge, but it was singularly little they got
for their money—merely the threequarters of an
hour that Hobbs and Sutcliffe occupied in putting
32 on the board, after Carr had won the toss. Both
men opened as cautiously as might have been expected
on such a momentous occasion and as coolly as they
are wont to do. After that came heavy rain and a
pitch so saturated that the umpires backed up
Collins and over-ruled Carr in certifying it unfit for
further play.
Sunday was fine, but Monday brought more soaking
rains to render resumption impossible. The fiasco
has naturally revived the old controversy as to
whether Tests shouldn’t be played out in England,
as in Australia, or at leqst have more days" than
three assigned to them. Still, in a season like this,
four or five days might prove ,equally barren of
result, besides throwing the whole machinery of
county cricket out of gear. A London paper quotes
a cabled expression of opinion from Melbourne to the
effect that “future English tours should be declined
unless Test matches are played to a finish.” If
any sueh attitude were taken up, England would
merely turn to county cricket with increased zest,
and the 'blue ribbon of prowess for the Australian
cricketer would disappear. It may be possible to
convert the Englishman to the wisdom of abolishing
the time limit for Tests on English soil, even at
the expense of the.counties and to the discouragement
of bright cricket, but it won’t be done by threaten-
ing not to continue playing unless the present
restrictions are removed.
“O.B.”: In the early ’sixties Fred Spof-
forfh and I -were schoolfellows at the Rev. .1. Pen-
drill’s seminary at the Glebe Point. That is where
he learned to play cricket. His parents lived in
Derwent-street, right opposite St. John’s Church
school. Between his father’s house and the next was
a grassy piece of level ground, part of Mother Martin's
farm, and on that piece of ground Fred would
practise bowling hour after hour. He would provide
himself with as many balls as his pocket money
would run to, and after he had bowled all of them
at a single stump he would cross over and bowl
them back again. He spent his holidays and spare
time bowling—alone for the most part. Soon after
h° left school his parents quitted the Glebe Point:,
and 1 never saw him again to speak to. “Legs-
and-wings” Spofforth we called him at school.
League, games having been sawn off to
allow of the collision of Vic. with S.A., some
30,000 persons visited the Melbourne ground on
Saturday and saw a courteous meeting up to half-
time. Playing strenuously but individual].!, the
dark-blues had then a lead /of 3 2 points, ’ which
would have been more than doubled had they locked
with reasonable accuracy. During the spell, the
Croweaters perceived that better system, combined
with their deadly certainty in marking, would give
them the game, and they waded in accordingly.
They found their men with uncanny sureness, and
their forwards, Bent and Ryan, exhibited a trick of
getting away by themselves just in time to mark
the ball. S. A us. won by 31 points—3 3 goals 3.0
behinds to 10 goals 17 behinds. Captain Golding
hurt his knee early in the game, but was good all
through ; his lieutenant, Scott, was sure and certain,
and McGregor, Lock and Chaplin shone out. Of
the Vies. Walsh, the North Melbourne full-back, was
the best man on the ground, saving his side time
and again, and Baker, Irwin* and Warne-Smith
were up to form ; but the Croweaters’ concerted
game was too much. This was the 45tli contest
between the two States; S. Aus. has won 13.
A crowd of 15,000 witnessed the N.S.W.-Vic.
match at Erskineville. Victoria, won easily by 12
goals ]5 behinds to 7 goals 12 behinds. Lack
of team work handicapped the Sydneysiders, while
the. visitors’ greater weight was anot her factor in •
their success. Their high marking and long kicking
and the accuracy of their middle-distance passing-
roused the many spectators unfamiliar with the
home-made game to admiration. Davie kicked eight
of ttfeir goals.
* * * *
Adelaide football bas every promise of an
exciting season. After the first three rounds had
been played, West Torrens was the only unbeaten
team. After a couple more, Sturt stood at the
head of the list. Now North Adelaide is there,
with Norwood, Sturt and Port all close up. There
has been one tie match, and several others have
been won only by uncanny straight shooting by a
team which had on the whole the worse of the play.
* * * ‘
In the third inter-State Rugby League
match, which was played at Newcastle, Queensland
turned the tables on N. S. Wales, winning con-
vincingly by 26 points to 11. Caples was the star
of the Queensland side, though both backs and
forwards were at their top. N. S. Wales seemed
stale after its two hard-fought victories at Sydney,
Finch, one of the three new hands on the side, mak-
ing a better showing than most of his mates. But
there is no arguing against such a decisive success, and
Sydney critics were obviously over-hasty in their
judgment that Queensland football is on the down-
grade. In the absence of the cracks, the Sydney
grade matches were uncommonly dull. Newtown
lias been complaining of not getting a show on the
Cricket Ground, but Saturday’s exhibition indicates
that the League officials knew what they were
about. South Sydney, with the best of its side
away, scored 20 points to 5. In the Rugby Union
competition University beat Glebe-Balmain by 14
to nil. The Uni. forwards paved the fray for
their smart backs, and beat the premiers at their
pet spoiling game. Balgownie’s defeat of Pyrmont-
South Sydney, 2 goals to nil, put the South Coast
team well ahead in the Soccer tourney.
“Past Grammar”: The combined Queensland and
N.S.W. Rugby League Board of Control has de-
■ cided to invite a Northern Union team to visit
Australia in 1927. In sending the invitation, stress
was laid on the fact that the tour would coincide
with the visit of the Dook o’ York. Should his
Highness attend one of the games, it will be the
first occasion on which Royalty has barracked for
the professional code. Soccer and the Rugby Union
frequently walk with kings, nor lose the common
touch, but never the League. If the incidents of
the last English match in Sydney can be reproduced,
with its all-in methods on the field and the stoush-
ing of the umpire by*, an enthusiastic tenant of the
members’ stand by way of a grand finale, H.R.H.
will feel that he has had his invitation’s worth.
A DOUGLAS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Marquis of Douglas and Clydesdale is anxious
to box a few rounds for charity with any Australian
amateur.”
Who wants to mill a Marquis, a hefty, husky Marquis,
Though only such by courtesy, to be precise, as
yet?
The call is for an Aussie to belt a Duke in posse
Just for the sake of charity and not for stake
or bet.
Who yearns to show agility ’gainst pedigreed nobility
And take a chance to tap some blood unquestion-
ably blue, ,
Or dot upon the peeper old Holyrood’s proud Keeper ?
For that’s another dignity that’s earmarked for
him, too.
Who’s game to punch a Douglas, a tough, pugnacious
Douglas,
The first of all the warrior clans that Caledonia
knows ?
Who craves the point to land on of a Hamilton and
Brandon,
To smite him in the solar plex. or tap him on the
nose ?
Here, faith ! a scope for venture is. His line goes
back for centuries.
A son of dukes thirteen at least and earls as
many more,
All commoners he mops up at “Home” who put
their props up,'
Can no-one hash him io the ropes or send him
to the floor ?
Who wants to meet a Marquis, to mix it with a
Marquis ?.
His forebears fought with’battieaxe and sword and
1 lance and spear.
But he prefers to tussle ' with merely brawn and
muscle,
The pugilistic progeny, of Scotland’s premier peer.
Who comes the gloves to don with him and put the
mittens on with him
For charity, sweet charity, and not for sordid
bunee ?
A Douglas crows.' Gramefey! there sure must be
a Percy
Somewhere to take the challenge up. But don't
all speak at once!
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
gpSHK
amm
MADE
Perfection
RITNR RUBBER
To Let.
To Let, Burraneer Bay, Cronulla.
C'' ENT.’S furnished water-front residence,
garage, boatshed. grounds 2 acres.
Terms £2 10s. per week.
.TAMES WILSON & Co..
Tel. Ivog. 53. Rockdale.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice. Brennan.
No. 23 of 1926.
BETWEEN EILEEN MAY CONNOLLY
Plaintiff and JOHN GLYNN CONNOLLY
Defendant.
To JOHN GLYNN CONNOLLY.—TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN MAY CONNOLLY
of Rockhampton in the State of Queens-
land has commenced an action against you
in the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Rockhampton by Writ of that Court dated
the twenty-sixth day of May 1926 claiming
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
your adultery and that if you wish to
defend the said action you should cause an
appearance to be entered for you within
sixteen days of the date of this publication
and that in default of your so doing the said
Eileen May Connolly may by leave of the
Court or a Judge proceed therein and Judg-
ment may be given in your absence.
Dated the fourth day of June, 1926.
H. N. GAIT.
Registrar.
Bertram Lilley, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
William Street, Rockhampton.
Missing Friends.
Cl ORDON. —ALAN EDWARD, formerly
V of Mordialloc. Please communicate
with Fink, Best and Miller, 100 Queen Street,
Melbourne, who have correspondence from
relatives at home.
TAMES BULL, son of James Bull (deceased), late of
Gowra, farmer, formerly of Ganowindra arid
Marrangulla, hotelkeeper, please communicate with
George Pile and Company, Solicitors, Blayney.
i
r
JS67
|IM|
THE BEARING THAT
BETTERS
BEARS THREE SIMPLE
LETTERS
SKF
THE SKF BALL BEARING CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street
SYDNEY: 45 King Street.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Unbehauu & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: W. H. Knight and
Peter Bros., Ltd.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
NEWCASTLE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
THE INKY WAY.
“Uramao”: Another Maoriland paper
which has just been celebrating its 50th
birthday is tiie Marlborough Express, which
has kept Blenheim on the map during that
period and itself in the paths of prosperity.
The management, recognising that its stall
has had much to do with the paper's success,
laudably handed out some nice bonuses.
“Dux”: The M.L. law forbids the tele-
graphing and publication of totalisator
dividends, but winks (and pockets the nine-
pences) when things like this are handed
over the counter: “Gloaming oats fl ss. 6d.,
Rapine chaff £3 15s. 6d., Reremoana wheat
£2 11s. 6d., Count Favour turnips £l5 os.
6d.” Isn’t it time we s,et up a few State
lotteries and ended all this hypocrisy?
The Argus kept her 80th birthday on
June 2. The first issue contained four pages
of six columns each; the present daily out-
put is 30 pages and 240 columns. The
infant Argus announced “one grand reform ’
I —the omission of “those personalities»wliich
are hut too distinguishing a feature of the
press of the colonies.” It is one promise
the polite old thing has kept, at any rate.
“Loud.”: A London “society” paper thinks
it has found a new way to distribute guineas
to subscribers by chance, without, butting
np against the Lottery and Gaming Act. Li
its group snapshots, it puts a ring round the
head of somebody here or there, and pays
the guinea to the original of the photo. As
the selection is made by the editor at dis-
cretion, legal opinion has it that the fatal
element of chance is side-stepped.
“Kir”: Sydney Daily Telegraph will he
47 next month. Watkin Wynne, then sub.
of Melbourne Daily Telegraph, and Angus
Mackay, proprietor of the Bendigo Adver-
tiser, formed the original syndicate; Carey
and Robert Sands came in next. The first
offices were at the corner of Barrack and
York streets; the. next move was into King-
street. Before the birth of the infant in
1879 there was no penny morning journal in
N. S. Wales.
“R. 8.” : Sydney has just missed acquiring
an interesting settler in Mrs. Lily Adams
Beck, who lias written largely in prose and
verse of China, Thibet and India, and helps
to keep the literary pot boiling by turning
out romantic biographies—-these under the
pen-name of E. Barrington. The lady, after
tossing for it, made her home instead in
Victoria, British Columbia. Her father was
Admiral John Moresby, who explored New
Guinea in the ’seventies.
“Petrie” : Mark Twain’s advice to an out-
of-work journalist was to pick out the paper
he would like to work for and insist on
working for it. A young fellow tried the
method on the Brisbane Daily Telegraph
and found it effective. He offered to start
as messenger, no other job being available,
and was taken at liis word ; now lie is one
of the star reporters. I knew a Sydney man
who improved on this by appointing himself
to the staff of the old Daily Mail. lie made
himself at home in the office, and turned in
reams of “copy.” The editor concluded that
the news editor had appointed the interloper;
the news editor understood that the editor
had appointed him. By the time they com-
pared notes tin' new man was earning so
much on “lines” that the office made a sav-
ing by confirming his appointment to the
staff.
A. T. Saunders, of Adelaide, noted for the
vast store of newspaper cuttings and records
he has accumulated and indexed during the
last 50 years, has a rival in E. Matthews, a
fellow-citizen. The latter’s strong suit, how-
ever, is the newspaper illustration; and hr
claims to have a copy of every paper that
has been published in the State. lie also
has a photo of every soldier who left S. Aus.,
as well as every cricketer of note who has
acquired celebrity at home or abroad. Both
the antiquaries are well up in years; their
collections should provide some valuabh
material for the historian of the future.
“Bullwh auger”: I’ll bet Capt. Snadden
(“Albatross” of many a good Bulletin
verse) would have chuckled at his obituary
par. (B. 3/6/’26) could lie have seen it.
There was a standing joke about so-long
items between us. A couple of years ago
lie aud I wore shipmates in a “copra-catcher”
in the islands. If I was down with malaria
he would stroll into my cabin and say. "Now.
come on. ‘.Bullwhangcr,’ get rid of this fever
or I’ll he collecting five bob from The
Bulletin about you." When the anopheles
had been biting him I’d tell him T could
foresee a docket coming ray way from George-
street North. Once off the Queensland
coast when we nearly lost the old packet in
a rotten gale lie remarked to me as we were
both struggling with a steering chain that
had carried away, "If we don't get this
darned chain shackled. ‘Bullwhanger.’ I
reckon Billy Fitz Henry will be collecting
half a quid soon—there'll be a five-bob par.
for him in each of us."
“Hamer”: A storekeeper's hill addressed
to a name not my own but with “Hamer”
attached as ari additional means of identifica-
tion has revealed that yet another who skites
that lie “writes for The Bulletin” lias
borrowed a now do plume. “Teddy”
Colics and myself once talked delightedly
to one of the same kidney in Lon-
don— a Digger who asserted that he
“wrote a good bit of The Bulletin.” His
assertion that lie was “Hamer” caused only
part of our delight, for lie said lie was
several other people; “and." lie added, “I
draw a hit for them, too: you might have
noticed the name I use —Norman Lindsay."
But the greatest joy I got out of my now
do plume came during a time when I was
supplying, almost weekly, a “drunk" yarn.’
I was sitting on a park seat, glancing
through the newly-publislied Bulletin.
when a conversational stranger took a seat
beside me and. opening up with “Ah ! the
old Bulletin !" announced himself as one
who had read it from cover, to cover for 30
years, and began to comment upon the
various contributors. When he floundered
for the name of one, I suggested several,
finally my own. “Ah. yes! ‘Hammer’ —
that’s the bloke!” he said. “Gripes, he
must be a drunken cow!”. I assured him
that I was personally acquainted with
“Hamer,” and that he. didn’t get , drunk
more than seven days a week; as a matter
of fact lie was a respectable married man.
“Gawd ’elp his wife!” he said fervently.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be.
taken ol communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on phe MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
11.E.F.: Please don’t forward stamps with
pars. We cannot undertake to return MS. of that
description. .. .Sike: Can’t renew that discussion yet.
.. . . A.H.G.: Haven’t room for mere precis work. .. .
Berk: “Tallyrand” scarcely worth it.... Al wyn S:
That crop has been harvested too often... .H.V. 11.:
Too much walking around. Cultivate directness....
Wendy: Not attractive. .. .Kewpie: Written to death
.... Wimereaux: Poor market this for informative
articles about the sort of toothpicks Napoleon used.
.... M.H.H.: Forestalled.... Hauhau: Very dull stuff.
.... Rita McN.: If you want to get the Australian
public to shy ofi' an article, as good a way as any
is to introduce “inferiority complex” or some other
of the jargon of that tribe into the first line....
Naomi : Light weight.... Ruby G.: The color is good.
Rut the people who are growling that Australian
yarns lack plot arc right.... A.C.L.: A fair two
columns of misery. But we buy misery only when
we must. ... Marino: Vou’ll find an opinion about it
in the April “Wild Cat Monthly,” published from this
office. ... M.0.H.5.: Wouldn't interest enough people.
.. .. Bellerive: Fifty thousand people will eagerly
wait for further instalments of the story of your
life done in poetry. First, though, the “Intro-
duction” :
1 evinced signs for verse
When a child of Ten ;
Before toys I’d delight
In paper and pen.
In lessons of spelling
At school 1 was quick,
But very backward in
Lessons of arithmetic.
As the widening years
Did prevail and depart,
Favored by dear Mother
Was my budding art.
.....C.M.: The tined man’s life-saving idea would
make a good par. —no more.. . .W.E.8.: Your burg-
lar must break in elsewhere... ..T.W. H, : Sent on as
requested... .C.G.M.: Crude, though it shows promise.
Serials are not wanted. .. .C.S.: “‘Will you partake
of some refreshment? said Bill.” And the Bill
you picture would simply say “Can you sink one ?7
.. . .Sol M. : “Doctor” collects no fee. . . .K.T.:
“Weep, weep, ye mortals.” We did. The tears are
washing your verses back to v0u....W.G.: The
“poet's license” you claim is cancelled for reckless
driving.... S.S.S.: “A real life story.” You mean
“reel”... .R.M.: Verse mere graceful covering for
nothing. .. .S.J.: You’re a beggar for detail: —
Cured of appendicitis.
She gave our hearts relief;
Pneumonia has killed her ,
And filled our hearts -with grief.
. ...H.M.W.: There’s a capital yarn in it which you
miss; and why all the dead-wood introduction?....
M. : It’s no good describing your hero as “a
dashing young fellow” and then making him act
like a sick prawn.. . . 1.T.: “Music” out of tune....
Tom H.: Several times you mention “the scared
edifice.” What's it frightened 0f?....G.8.: “Our
Shearer” tramps back. Well done, but common-
place. .. .Reggin: Writing on one side of the paper
is the beginning of wisdom. Yarn more American
in flavor than Australian... .8.W.C.: “Literature”
too ponderous... .11. R,: Not' in our line....Omer:
Your “Lament” is played on verbal bagpipes....
G.A.8.: Only a rhymed catalogue of popular ballads.
. ...V.G.W.: Both miss, but they are on the road.
....M.M. (Belmore) : Falls a long way short....
N. : The end is obvious almost from the beginning.
... .W.C.W.: You’ll find it hard to get the tale
believed. .. .R.C.N.: Excellent sentiment; horrible
verse.. . . J.H.L.: The dreary narration is about on
a par with the limping verses... .N.L.D.: Wild ideas
for such tame verse... .A.S.T.A.: Nice verse, but too
slight... .William L.: It’s “The Real Thing” all
right. The flies are a particularly realistic touch:
Fred found his foe cleaning out a dry well;
Rush’d down the ladder to meet him and fell.
“Aha! you blank, blank, blank! I’ll give you hell!”
Then they bogg’d into each other pell-mell,
Fought there for hour after hour without spell.
Now the rest of the story is shocking to tell:
For the flies came from far and wide drawn by the
smell. '
.. . .Marco: Not much improvement. . . .8.W.C.: You
can’t praise “the candid horse” in this paper....
Ojcsar: Pleasant, but not the quality... .Optimist:
An old, old theme and not very well handled....
G.M.T.: The yarn is horrible without having much
point.... D.A.W.: You don’t make what you could
of it Jim R.: Rather hysterical, and please don’t
write on two sides of the paper. ... J.1v.8.: The photo
shows fine art; the verse doesn’t. .. .C.F..T.: Memory
playing hide-and-seek in that unlikely way wouldn’t
make a yarn unless it was extraordinarily well
handled.... Skepto: Not quite enough in it....E.5.
(Toowoomba): Misses... .R.G. (Casino): Short
weight... .Una C.: The verse is only fair and the
parallel is not very clear... .B.R, (Wellington) : Two
must go back....R.H. (Auburn): Far too rugged.
....M.J.H.: Too little milk in the cow verses....
Alan W. M.: Unsavory. ... A.E.Y.: Sorry; Warrego’s
pants are too patchy... .Pepo: Your rhymed descrip-
tion of drought conditions in Queensland has too
many rocks in it....J.5.: It has a sausage-machine
action. .. .R.S.: Yes, there is some hope —when you
learn that verse is something more than lengths of
smoothly moving sound.... A.V.C.: “Longings” im-
mature. .. .D.W.: Man who gets a friend to arrange
(be elopement with a third man’s wife too unreal
a bird for Tiif. Bulletin. .. .M.H.H.: Not even the
title of “War Song” is new... .F.K.: Your falling
forest giants have thudded into the w.p.b
McC.R.: “Them Days” has gone back... .8.V.:
Sorry none suitable; try again... .M.H.M.: Fails... \
G.S.: Not exactly doggerel; call it joggerel....
Adam: “Temperance Intricacies” too watery
Gran K.: “Beggar Maid” .is ragged.... Ephusios :
With better handling there’s a very good story in
“Curly”... .L.S.: Like a man too much in a hurry
to put on his hat you rush into a story with-
out giving it a name; and then you take 4500 words
merely to land a lady in a deuced unpleasant posi-
tion.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
E.T.: Cheers rent the air and rang the welkin
as it departed on its homeward journey... .N.G.:
Quite right, no g00d... .G.G.: Yours, t 00....
1t.8.M.: What the scoutmaster whispered to the
Girl Guide wouldn’t make a flapper giggle..,..
11.P.5.,: Can’t you persuade the little green snake
to chase Auntie off the cardboard?.. . .H. 1.: Figures
look as if they have been carved out of a hardwood
block with a jagged chisel... .J.S. : You might score
a Pale Pink Certificate out of a children’s paper
with it.. . .M.W.T.: Put the jokes through,a month’s
solid physical training... ,0.E.: Has the chap on
the right a bottle concealed about his person, or is.
it merely careless drawing?... .L.E.lf.: As foggy as
Cape Cod on a February morning.


FEOERAi. DISrJUi
A Straight-out Appeal
to your Commonsense
r\o YOU KNOW that “Old Court”
Australian Whisky is made from pure
Barley Malt only?
DO YOU KNO'W that the Distillery wherein
“Old Court” is produced is the largest and
best equipped pure Malt Whisky Distillery
in the world ?
DO YOU KNOW that every process of
manufacture and maturing is carefully super-
vised by and is under the absolute control of
Government officers?
For these are solid facts that cannot be
questioned, and it is an equally unquestion-
able fact that no other whisky can put forth
the same claims to your preference.
ANTI-AUSTRALIAN PREJUDICE is
quite unwarranted, and sheer commonsense
, demands that you at least try “Old Court”
and compare it with the best Scotch Whiskies
at present obtainable, remembering the while
that “Old Court” costs you less.
Wltourf
Ask for “The World's Purest ” —
it costs you pence less per nobbier
and shillings less per bottle. .At
all good Australian Hotels.


ĥ
I
The M.ajoT
6j£ J °JOG
9/I J0 JOZ
*6 JO J Ok
'Army Club Cigarettes
* CAVANDERS L T ? LONDON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Criterion “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
Royal “The Seventh Heaven”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Fuller’s Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s .... “Pinafore” and “Trial by Jury”
Royal “Leave It to Jane”
Princess “Betty Lee”
King's “What Every 'Woman Knows”
Athenasum “The Best People”
Auditorium Percy Grainger
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic ' Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
—— ♦
Back from the wilds of' Patagonia, Jack
Graigen arrived in an American household
to be made the butt of a bad jest. A bet
is made that he will be induced to propose
to Helen Steele, who is already engaged else-
where, her inducement to take part in the
joke being a promise of a siren part in
Sidney Parker’s new play if she succeeds.
The infuriated caveman, when lie finds it
all out, kidnaps the flirt with the object of
showing her that a man has forces which he
can employ against trifling women, just as
they have arts for his distress. A sort of
taming process in Craigen’s lodge on the
Adirondacks leads to a good deal of comedy
verging, on farce, and some melodramatic
work, at the end of which Helen, having
knocked out her captor with a table tele-
phone, discovers that she prefers him to the
other one.
* * * *
With an actor who could really represent
the furious emotions of “The Misleading
Lady,” the crude story at Sydney Palace
would have been considerably improved. Rut-
land Beckett was not convincing as an open-
air person who believes in applying the same
rules to an unruly female as he would, to a
refractory horse, and his occasional smug
smirk was out of character. He did well
enough, however, to lend point to the comedy
situations. A series of comedy-dramatic sur-
prises were helped through by Dan Thomas’s
overdrawn representation of an escaped
lunatic, and the wanderings of a pair of
permanently lost and boozed motorists (Wil-
liam and Jack McGowan). Nellie Bram-
ley, living up to a conviction that only the
comedy really mattered, occasionally hurled
about a few of her caveman’s domestic
articles as if she really meant it; and George
Cross adequately played the thankless part
of Tracey, Helen Steele’s lover, who has been
very badly treated by an author obviously
anxious to justify an ending to suit his cave-
man. The most prominent of the others
was John Galway, who as Keen Fitzpatrick,
a pressman apparently assigned by his paper
to chase society scandals through the coun-
try, employed tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses to
help him look like Harold Lloyd.
It is an advt. for the stage-girl resources
of Sydney that, at a time when “Rose Marie”
has made an extra-special call on the chorus-
girl market, a presentable and lively ballet
could have been gathered for “Our Liz,”
which opened at the G.O.H. on Saturday.
Liz trundles a barrow which, whatever its
faults, has a rich cargo of honest laughter.
The young Hon. Geoffrey Mannering, arriv-
ing home to find that the butler, taking
“BETTY LEE,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS.
Doreen May and Florence Hunter leave a
vocal vacuum which Bertie Wright en-
deavors to fill with movement.
advantage of the absence of the family, is
giving a party to the people below stairs
and their friends, joins in the revels; and
after a quarrel with his haughty relatives,
whose appearance throws a bombshell into
the festivity, swears to become engaged to
the first woman he meets rather than the
woman they are trying to' force upon him.
He picks on Lizzie Pickles, Cockney scullery-
maid, who is not even regarded as class
enough for the butler’s party, His lines,
direct from melodrama, cut on the “true
hearts are more than coronets” pattern, were
hailed with joy by an audience which failed
to see their humor; but a little atonement
for tile crudity was made in the Scene in
which the Pickles family is inspected at home
by Lord Mannering (Robert Purdie) and
Lady Duff Manners (Mildred Cottell). The
Cinderella love narrative goes on developing
to a happy conclusion, but the comedy pro-
vides a covering for the skeleton of story
which keeps its bones from rattling. The
music is not of high quality; but there are a
few catchy airs.
* * * *
Walter Cornock takes whatever honors are
going with his representation of Lizzie’s
“What Every Woman
Knows,” at'
Melbourne King's
Mary Jerrold as the
Countess de la Briere.
Cockney brother
Alf, and, with
Arthur Helmsley as
the elder Pickles,
and Elsa Brull as
Ma Pickles, piles
xip the laughs.
Hilda Attenboro
added to the comedy
as Lizzie, and made
the part as little
unlikely as possible
in the love pas-
sages. Clive Hol-
land, as the Hon.
Geoffrey, was not
lively, but is with-
out the annoying
mannerisms of some
juveniles and old-
stagers William
Coulter (Timkins,
the butler) and
Peesv Payne (Betsy
Trott, the cook)
helped to put life
into the servants’
party. Dances were
provided by Nell
Malmgron a u d
Kelso Henderson,
th e lad y with
bounding energy,
but her partner’s
legs are stiffer than
they were in the
days when he did
the same sort of
thing with Williamson shows.
‘l* *•* *!•
Toti dal Monte, now in the second week
of her season at Sydney Town Hall, dis-
covers no signs of tiredness in herself or
her audience. Still she trills and warbles
and flashes her expressive black eyes from
the midst of frocking that never fails to
dazzle the eye. The Mad Scene from “Lucia,”
the old “Carnival of Venice,” which was
Toti’s choice in the singing lesson of “The
Barber,” and the “Butterfly” aria, “One Fine
Day,” never fail to intoxicate the listeners.
Then Toti replies with some of her newly-
acquired English songs—-“ When Love Is
Kind” and “The Cuckoo Clock” are first
favorites. Schumann’s “Thou’rt Like a
Lovely Flower” and Schubert’s “Wild Rose”
were the gems of Saturday’s offerings. The
baritone’s finest solo effort was the “Pag-
liacci” Prologue, but bo was at his most
vivacious and pleasing in his duets with
Toti. William James and Stanley Baines
continue to supply a warm background to
the singers.
* *
“Daddy Longlegs” is on its last legs at
Sydney Criterion; but Renee Kelly will open ,
a new chapter on Saturday with “The Last
of Mrs. Cheyney.” “Rose Marie” has taken
indefinite possession of Her Majesty’s; and
Nanette and her parting from St. James’s
are a long way off. “Seventh Heaven” can
still be found at the Royal.
Nellie Stewart can reckon her
week at the Sydney Grand Opera
House among her life’s triumphs.
The G.O.H. has become known as
a “cheap” house, but the star said
the rates had to be the same as in
the other leading theatres. That
militated against the place being
filled on the first: night, but there-
after people poured in so consis-
tently that the takings exceeded
£4OOO for the week. Sweet Nell
stood the strain wonderfully well,
but declined manager Russell’s request
that the season should be ex,tended for three
nights.
The popularity of Burlington Bertie (Ella
Shiels) is being attested by the human flood
ac Sydney Tivoli, where she is making an-
other farewell, positively finishing on Satur-
day. That queer fish, Niobe the Mermaid,
is exhibited in her tank; and the Janetski
Trio provide entertaining and praiseworthy
music.
* * &
Forget your troubles —income-tax that pesters
And all the daily grind and weekly whirl—
At Fuller's with the Syncopating Jesters
And saucy Gladys Shaw, the Whistling Girl.
The Rodney sisters furnish a corrective
For spirits low —comedian Walden, too;
And “Barebacks,” with Jim Gerald as detective,
Supplies a bit of rollicking revue.
Chefalo, the magician who spent an idle
hour last week showing Sydney’s Lord Mayor
that lie was carrying money under his collar,
still fills tlie Hippodrome with mystery.
Irving’s Midgets occupy the largest part of
the programme; the space that is left is
occupied by Signorina Palermo and her com-
pany.
The William Fox film “Siberia” looks as
if the story was really written by a Russian,
the tragedy is so turgid, the outlook so hope-
less. It is a very interesting picture all the
same, showing that, although the brutalities
of the Czarist regime were terrible, the oppres-
sion of upstart Bolshevist tyrants is worse.
Russia hasn’t discovered yet how to do with-
out tyrants, Hoyt’s Theatre shows this,
wedded with “The King on Main-street,” a
highly improbable but entertaining romance.
There is nothing of much account elsewhere;
but in “The Twain Shall Meet,” at the
Lyceum—a white-and-tan love story, mixed
up with pearls and action —there are delight-
ful views of mountain and sea.
A picture-show at Horderns’: —
This critic remembers a fine old actor of his time,
Harry Douglas, in a part of intense tragedy, speaking
lines in a thin whisper, yet making every word
plain; actually he hardly more than moved his lips
to frame some of his words, yet they were heard
by his audience. In Tom Roberts’s work, now shown
at the Hordern Galleries, there is joyousness and no
tragedy, but sometimes with a kindred art Roberts
seems to merely whisper in paint, and clearly de-
fined distances melt into the skyline. This is especi-
ally the case in “In the Shadow, of the Hills” ; and
“Mists on Como Lake,” although a surprising de-
parture from Roberts’s style, shows the same effect.
There are 37 pictures in the exhibition, all full of
light and spaciousness. All but one arc landscapes ;
the solitary portrait study, “Kathleen,” which is
not for sale, is animated awl truthfully painted, and
is evidently there to show that the artist is not
one-sided. Pictures especially attracting attention
are “Evening Cloud,” in which an upper stratum of
cumulus catches the light, whilst the billows below
and the lake over which they fioat are in shadow;
“Two Sentinels,” wherein the two she-oalcs in the
foreground appear to suffer from bunchy-top, but the
bay and the hills beyond are vigorously treated;
“Fall of Day”; and the boldly wrought “Quarry,
Maria Island.” But some of the smaller pictures
are quite as delightful. A few English countryside
studies (“The First of Spring, Wessex,” and “Wessex
Farmyard,” very attractive) are included in the show.
Louis Es,soli’s “The Bride of Gospel-
place” was conducted to her woeful nuptials
at the Playhouse by the Pioneer Players one
night last week. _ The cast includes tlie
keeper of an all-night cafe who is a British
subject because he was born in the lonian
Isles before they were handed back to Bri-
tain ; a policeman with a sympathetic soul;
a very human waiter; an ex-articled clerk
who advises crooks on how to get on the
right side of juries; ladies who are ladies
roughly speaking; thieves ; a fortune-teller;
and “the Bride,” whose merely Melbourne
experience of sin has left her naked to the
craftier wickedness of Sydney. The all-
night cafd, the sordid interior of a humble
home in Gospel-place, and the infectious
ward of a public
hospital, the only
club to which the
denizens of Gospel-
place have access,
are the theatre foV
the action. The
theme concerns the
refusal of the
Bride to blow the
gaff on her hus-
band, who is a pug
on week days and
a professional bur-
glar on Sundays.
Suspected wi thou t
reason of betray-
ing him to the
police, the loyal
lady is knocked
down by her mate
and dies iu hospi-
tal. The final cur-
tain leaves the
audience more or
less assure d,
according to its
faith in the immu-
tability of human
vows, that the re-
ward of her sacri-
“What Every Woman
Knows,” at
Melbourne King’s
Norman Maeowan as
David Wylie.
fice is the moral regeneration of her slayer.
Fsson has here unloaded a cargo of raw
material of a high order. There are touches
of the most effective realism. The heroine
dies, and the doctor makes an assignation
witli the nurse over the deathbed; all the
crooks and deadbeats of Gospel-place sub-
scribe towards the funeral, and even the
policeman puts in half a dollar —funerals are
their only festivals. Sometimes the atmo-
sphere of the underworld thickens to the
substance of an autumn fog, but from the
first word to the last the mentality por-
trayed is wonderfully consistent. But why
didn't the dramaturgist make a play out
oi his sincere investigations into a neglected,
but perfectly legitimate, field for an Aus-
tralian playwright’s activities? As the thing
stands it is less a play than an album of
sketches in the manner of George Belcher
or Honore Daumier, and the ill-devised cur-
tains are merely the book covers to Parts
I to IV of the collection. Dramatically, the
play, with a few words by way of explana-
tion, could have begun at the second act.
The Players gave it all very reasonable con-
sideration. Leo Burke, Frank T. Keon and
Maisie Bennett imparted to it touches even
of murky splendor.
Percy Grainger continues to elucidate him-
self to crowded Melbourne houses at the
Auditorium. Another Bach prelude on
Saturday night served to still further em-
phasise the athletic nature of his muse.
Where other men have brought to Bach’s
works passion and religious feeling, Grainger
“ROSE MARIE."
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTYS.
Frederick Bentley as Hard-boiled Herman ,
and Stephanie Deste as Wanda.
brings the mentality of a healthy-minded
Boy Scout fond of getting round the piano
in the evening and repeating the rhythm
of the day’s delightful tramp. In Chopin’s
Polonaise in A flat, where Paderewski found
romantic color and the whisperings of
courtly lovers, Grainger hears the exhilarat-
ing gallop of horses’, hooves. When he be-
comes thoughtful it is simple memories of
childhood that intrigue his mind, and he com-
poses liis Lullaby in grateful reminiscence
of his mother’s knee and in honor of Stephen
Poster, composer of “De Campdown Races.”
It is on this ditty he builds the work; as
played on Saturday the theme was too slen-
der for the composer’s elaborate embellish-
ments. “Spoon River,” another of his own
compositions, is also a fragment of American
folklore elaborately redressed. Under his
amazingly agile fingers a panel of Chopin
became a tropical thunderstorm of notes ; a
ballad by Grieg a vivid picture of Norwegian
plains and mountains full of curious echo-
ings. “Turkey in the Straw,” by David
Guion, who, is doing for American musical
aspirations what Henry Tate endeavored to
do for Australian, set many feet tapping to
its almost painfully potent beat. “Sheep
and Goats Walkin’ to the Pasture,” pre-
sented on Tuesday, was another clamant
example of this composer's style. To-night
and Saturday will see the last performances.
The intellectual may feel, perhaps, a trifle
hungry after the repast Percy Grainger
spreads for them ; but so will the unwliole-
s-omely erotic.
** * *
After a day's release from the exorbitant
demands of “Mercenary Mary,” the echoes
of Melbourne Princess went on duty again
on Saturday night in the service of “Betty
Lee.” The new flippancy reveals itself as
less a banquet for the hearing than for the
eyesight. In the large, voluptuous person
of the ever-smiling Mai Bacon, she unpacks
her trunks of Yankee notions at the Chopin
Spanish villa, Southern California, where
cacti grow in pots as curiosities. Under a
sky of that passionate blue which the Mel-
bourne housewife reproduces every Monday
in the washtub, she meets .Jack Morrison as
Wally Speed, a college man, and in a vein
of light comedy only faintly tinged with sen-
timent proceeds to attack liis affections; and
a chorus arrives at frequent and musicomi-
cally appropriate intervals to share her emo-
tions. A male choir, disguised as cowboys in
Australian sheepskins, intrudes upon the
lover's with a polite request for Wally to run
a race against the champion of a rival ranch,
the reward of success being the privilege
of hearing Betty sing about the house for
ever; the penalty of failure, a bullet in the
brisket. Being no more accomplished at
running than at warbling, Wally secretly
wires for Culver Covington (Phil Phillips),
(Continued on page 36.)


Men! Buy all your Clothing Now and Save Money.
Every item (except proprietary lines) reduced at least 10°/ o
GOWINGS
o a
STARTS THURSDAY, 17th JUNE. ENDS SATURDAY, 17th JULY.
“Austral Boots
Guaranteed 4 months
Usually 27 6
Now 24/9
Our famous guaranteed Boot, speci-
ally constructed to stand up to the
hardest wear. With extra tough soles,
uppei's tanned to resist all conditions,
and built-up solid leather heels. Vamp
runs full under heavy caps, not cut
off and joined. ' Wax-thread stitching.
In Black or Tan. Sizes sto 10. Bach
pair guaranteed four months.
Usual Price, 27/6.
Less 10 per cent.
24/9
2/9 Black Cashmere
Now
Men’s Black Cashmere Socks. All-
wool, in serviceable quality. Good
value. Sizes 10, 10-J and 11
2/9, Reduced to 2/3.
Less 10 per cent. ........
2/-
Three Pairs for 5/9.
Larger sizes, 11J and 12 in., 2/11.
Reduced to 2/6.
Less 10 per cent. 2/3.
14/6 Fancy
Pull-Overs
11(3
All-wool. Fancy-colored Pull-over
Sweaters, in various figured effects.
Well made, with V necks and of a
good quality. A special value.
14/6, Reduced to 12/6.
Less 10 per cent
11/3
17/6 Fur Felt
Hats
125
Here is your opportunity to got a pure
fur felt Hat of excellent quality at a
wonderfully low price. These have
medium crowns and 21 or 2| in. brims,
fairly flat set or medium curl, with
bound edges. Kitted with grease-
proof leathers, and available in Grey,
►Steel, or Slate, with Black or
Self Bands.
17/6, Reduced to 13/9.
Less 10 per cent
12/5
Now is the time to replenish your clothing need's, for Gowings’ Sale
presents a remarkable opportunity to secure quality goods at prices
much below their usual standard. Every item in our stock is substan-
tially reduced (excepting a few proprietary lines), and as there are
many cold days yet to follow you would be wise to purchase early.
At least 10 per cent, is deducted from all goods listed, in our Winter
Catalogue (proprietary lines excepted), but on many lines the reduc-
tions are considerably greater.
Suits to Measure
at Sensational Prices
£5/5/- All Wool Tweed
At the usual price of £5/5/-, these suits represent the utmost
in value, but at the Sale price no better opportunity to econo-
mise on your appearance could be presented. Just as much
care is given to the tailoring of these suits as there is to those
higher priced, and for your selection there is a choice of
All-wool English or Australian Tweeds in various designs.
Usual Price, £5/5/-.
Less 1 0 p.c
£4/146
£7 [7(- Navy Twill Serge
Every man needs a Navy Suit; so at this price it will pay you
to buy now. The Serge is an All-wool 1 will of guaranteed
Indigo Dye and a good winter weight. Tailored to measure
with the care that characterises all Gowings Suits and
specially reduced by 33/6, this is an unusual bargain.
£7/7/-, Reduced to £6/6/-.
Less 1 0 p.c •
£s|l3|6
£7|7|- Worsted or Tweed
The selection of materials in this range is without doubt one
of the finest we have ever shown. There are All-wool
Worsteds of fine quality in Mid. and Dark Greys, also the
newest fancy designs in subdued colorings, including Blue
Gleh Checks. At the same price we also have All-wool West
of England and Australian Tweeds in a large range of new
shades and designs. There is, in fact, amongst these a suiting
that will meet the individual taste of any man. Write foi a
full range of patterns whilst the choice of fabrics is complete.
£7/7/-, Reduced to £6/18/6.
Less 1 0 per cent
h
EVERY OTHER SETTING IS REDUCED AT LEAST 10 PER CENT.
£5/5/- Less 10 p.c., £4/14/6 £7/7/- Less 10 p.c., £6 12/3
£6/6/- „ „ £5/13/6 £B/15/- „ „ £7/17/6
£9/15/- Less 10 per cent., £B/15/6.
To obtain those prices orders must be placed or posted on or before -Saturday,
I7tb July the last day of the Sale. Those received before oi aftei the
Sale cuu only be filled at the usual prices.
We Pay Carriage on All Goods Throughout Australia
GOWING BROS., LTD
486 George Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 and 454 George Street.
Usually 55/-
Grey Tweed
Overcoats
42/9
Here is a good, warm coat, for a
moderate outlay. It is made from
plain Dark Grey Tweed, with Raglan
shoulders, S.B. lapels, and belt all
round. It is to-day’s popular style,
and wo have sold hundreds at the
usual price. A special value at this
price.
55/-, Reduced to 47/6.
Less 10 per cent
42)9
17/6 Tweed
Trousers
11/8
English Tweed Trousers in Dark Grey
shades. Well made from sturdy
materials; with plain bottoms, side
and hip pockets. Remarkable value.
17/6, Reduced to 13/-.
Less 10 per cent
11/8
6/9 Zephyr
Shirts
4)11
A remarkably low price for Golf Shirts.
Made from woven striped English
Zephyr of good quality, in neat designs
of Black. Blue or Mauve on White
grounds. Guaranteed fast colors.
These shirts arc cut for absolute com-
fort. and will give you good service.
6/9, Reduced to 5/6.
Less 10 per cent
4JII
ii/9 Pyjamas
-Made from a good, double-warped
Flannelette with a soft .finish and cut
full and roomy for comfort. These
Pyjamas arc in a splendid wearing-
quality, and at this price present a
sensational saving opportunity. Sizes,
Slender Men’s, Mens, 0.5., and Ex.
O.S.
11/9, Reduced to 10/6.
Less 10 per cent
95
37/6 “Bosker” (regd.)
The “Bosker” Rug. made from all pure
Australian wool, with •fringed ends and
in large check designs on attractive
ground colors. It will comfortably
cover a double bed, because of
its extra size—Bo x 100 inches.
A famous value that is known
all over Australia.
Usual Price, 37/6.
Less 10 per cent
33,9


KEEP QUIET.
No better advice can be given any*
one troubled with diarrhoea than to
keep quiet and take Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy,
Prompt recovery will quickly follow.
It never fails and is pleasant to take.
Can always be depended upon .
Oyster Wealth!
Who would expect such an un-
assumingexteriorcould hidethe
beauty and wealth of a pearl ?
Only the expert can see the
hidden worth of a BROOKS
Saddle; he knows the comfort
will last. Follow his choice.
Your dealer can supply.
m
I*9
CD
SADDLES
Write for Catalogue.
R. V. Bristol & Co. (Pty.), Ltd.,
Fenchurch Buildings,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD., Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
a famous speedster. Having been suitably
dealt with on the journey by the other party,
the substitute arrives on crutches. Ihe
second and final act proves to be too ex-
tended for its thin theme of song, dance and
story; but Sadie Gale, who has a lissome
frame and genuine dramatic talent; Dick
and Edith Barstow, who express the poetry
of commotion on their toes in a perfectly
astounding fashion; Florence Hunter, whose
graceful legs are a pleasing feature of the
Californian landscape; and the elegant sur-
roundings of a most unusual cattle' ranch,
help matters to a satisfactory conclusion in
which considerable enthusiasm is produced
by the not at all unexpected finish of the
race.
» * * *
The absence in the principals of the gift
of song threw a heavy strain on Bertie
Wright, who rose to the occasion by _ dis-
playing a variety of waistcoats and consider-
able talent for amusing farce. Several quite
bright and apparently new gems of wit adorn
the tale. The show may not be quite in tune
with the infinite, but it is thoroughly in
accordance with the average citizen’s desire
to be entertained without being instructed.
Melbourne theatregoers are giving their
attention in about equal proportions to
American unmusical comedies and English
classics. “The Mikado” is timed to perform
hara-kiri at His Majesty’s on Friday, and
from Saturday “Pinafore” will be the wear,
with “Trial by Jury” to eke out the even-
ing’s adornment. Only a few nights remain
in which to learn “What Every Woman
Knows” and say good-bye to Dion Bouci-
eault at the King’s. “Are You a Mason?’
will linger for a little longer at the Palace.
A citizen has been discovered who is prepared
to swear on oath that he has called on “The
Best People” at the Athenaeum 14 times.
He is probably meditating a trip abroad and
wants to learn the various foreign languages.
You can “Leave It to Jane” to see a mod-
erately amusing evening through at the
Boyal. This paper’s comments on that show
last week need a slight emendation. Cecil
B. Scott apparently lost himself in the part
of Billy Bolton so thoroughly that The
Bulletin lost him too.
»!■ ‘l' $
Melbourne Tivoli patrons are interested
at present in an English gent, whose voice
lias a habit of turning up in unexpected
places. Unlike most of this class of enter-
tainer, he is blest with genuine wit. The
Tossing Testros arc unusual jugglers, and
Bluett and “Mo” continue to purvey humor
whose vulgarity, at times almost amounts to
genius.
** * *
George Moon and Morris continue to fill
half the bumper at Melbourne Bijou with
a thin draught of dance, humor, song and
scenery. Hector St. Clair unpacked his
violin on Saturday, and gave his musical
skill and a whimsical personality an airing.
Scott and Graham, average English com-
edians, Kelp to fill the glass.
** $ *
The sensation at Hoyt’s, in Melbourne,
this week is Gloria Swanson washing dishes
in a lowly restaurant instead of holding con-
verse with butlers in rich interiors. The
change reveals her as a not ignoble expo-
nent of the comic spirit; “Stage-struck” is
the title of the opus. The Majestic’s flow’
of celluloid includes “The Eleventh Com-
mandment,” featuring the English girl Fay
Compton; ami “The Circle,” a rather worth-
while shadow of W. S. Maugham’s play.
% * $
Among the week’s pictures in Adelaide
the only unusual offering is at the Exhibi-
tion —views of London from all angles and
under varying conditions.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Germany lias sent an-
other great conductor to England, Professor
Hermann Abenrotli, a smiling giant. An enor-
mous audience filled the Queen’s Hall for
his debut, and the warmth of the reception
would have been remarkable even in pre-war
days. He led the London Symphony Orches-
tra through an all-Brahms programme, and
conducted the C Minor without a score.
Ernest Newman, of the Manchester Guar-
dian, alone among the highbrows found Aben-
roth’s work uninspiring. But Newman seems
to find fresh gall-bags as the years go by.
When he was on the Birmingham Post,
Melba refused to accept an engagement in
that city rather than be subjected to the
intemperate abuse which he passes off as
criticism.
“H.K.”: When sacrifices in the cause of
Art are mentioned I always recall Ludwig
Amann, impersonator of “Great Men, Past
and Present,” who appeared at the Sydney
Tivoli years ago. Having to represent cer-
tain toothless characters, Ludwig had all his
grinders taken out. I was so struck with
admiration when he told me the story that I
forgot to ask whether the grinders were
grown on the premises or purchased.
Poverty
Point
“R. 8.” (S’Afriea) : Kate Maher, known
long ago as “the Queen of Irish song,” has
a tearoom nowadays at Bethlehem, Orange
Free State. In a recent chat she harked
back to the ’eighties, when Billy Williams,
Tom Dawson and Florrie F'orde were glad to
sing for seven bob a night, and would" take
five bob at a pinch. I said I remembered
THE LADY’S SHOUT.
ABE GRABBSTEIN (outside picture palace):
“Ah, vat a good idea! This mil do
nicely.”
meeting Tom Dawson, with his props tucked
under his arm, at a suburban town hall
looking as if all the troubles of the world
had fallen on him. His favorite turn then
was “All Brand New,” which he sang with
a Buster Keaton cast of face. Billy Wil-
liams ' went to London, where he became a
music-hall and gramophone celebrity—went
as a steward, Kate says. John Bunny was
also mentioned. He couldn't make a living in
Melbourne, so he drifted to New York, where
lie found a job that suited him down to the
ground. He was the first of Filmland s fat
comedians, and the funniest.
“Goldilocks”: The latest Australian film
is the work of the three daughters of the
late Dr. J. M. McDonagh, of Sydney. It
is not by any means an inexperienced ven-
ture ; the girls have grown up in a Thespian
atmosphere—Dr. McDonagh was a kind ot
official surgeon to J. C. Williamson, and his
association with prominent stage people
brought the family into contact with them.
Phyllis McDonagh was with the Seymour
Hicks co.; Paulette has sold four scenarios
to American film people, and is responsible
for the one shortly to be given a showing;
Isabel, who takes the lead in the picture •
it is called “Those Who Love” —-has filled a
similar role in other Australian pictures. Dr.
McDonagh practised in College-street, but
lived in Drummoyne House,
an ancient convict-built resi-
dence, which provides a good
deal of the settings. Sixty
people worked in the produc-
tion, which runs to 6000 feet.
A WASTED EXECUTION.
“Well, sir, that’s a spirited execution of Wagner, isn’t it!”
“Yes, poor chap! He doesn’t know his victim died years ago."
“Yarra Ben”: Yet another complete com-
pany of American mummers is being im-
ported—this time by Hugh J. Ward —to play
in “Abie’s Irish Rose.” The event is sup-
posedly such a joyous one for this country
that a cable from the Yankee authoress an-
nouncing the embarkation of the troupe was
printed in the amusement column of a Mel-
bourne daily. And no doubt they will get a
mayoral reception when they reach Sydney.
“R.K.D.N.”: A “leading London paper”
gives as the principal reason for Oscar
Asche’s appearance in the Bankruptcy Court
the failure of his last Australian tour. As
that trip lasted a year and a half, and the
massive mummer drew £2OO a week" all the
time, a wrong guess has evidently been made.
More likely the ill-luck that has dogged
Asche’s footsteps ever since he left this coun-
try is the cause of his present plight.
“Minim” : That W. S. Gilbert in his later
years did allow some liberties to be taken
with his libretti (B. 10/6/’26) is undoubted.
I myself heard Walter Passmore at the
Savoy, as the Sergeant in “Pirates of Pen-
zance,” sing an encore verse of “A Police-
man’s Lot” in French—or what purported
to be French. A startling innovation, but
specially sanctioned by the author, with
whom Passmore, an excellent artist, was a
favorite. I have my doubts, however, whether
Gilbert would have allowed “Little Bourke-
street” to be substituted for “Knightsbridge.”
I also doubt “Curtain-Raiser’s” statement
that W.S.G. himself altered “lady novelist”
to “speed-motorist.” He died 15 years ago ;
and the motor-hog wasn’t very conspicuous
then.
“Nitric” : Australian Films Productions,
Ltd., whose first effort, “The Moth of
Moonbi,” was a box-office success, is about
to produce another venture,. “Greenhide.”
This film will be “shot” in the Dawson
Valley (Q.), where C. E. Cliauvel and his
co. are establishing their headquarters. If
it is as Australian as the title suggests it
will do.
“Hamfat”: Dot Brunton will have her
first introduction to S’Africa as a dramatic
leading lady—Guy Bates Post, who goes to
Darkies’ Africa when his coming Sydney sea-
son ends in August, takes liis entire company
over with him. It includes several Australians.
Cecil Haines, who appeared as a child with
Post, and Jean Athol are two of them.
Ashton Jarry goes across with the same
co.; and Winnington Barnes, Gerald Pring
and Eric Maxon are among the other
voyagers.
“A.G.M.” (Milan) : Ruggero Ruggeri, the
head of the Italian dramatic world, delighted
his compatriots by achieving a notable
triumph in “Hamlet” on the first night of
his Paris season. The audience at the
Theatre de la Madeleine, which included
critics and other Shakspearean students
from London. Berlin and Rome, gave the
Italian star unstinted applause, and at the
close of the great soliloquy the action of the
play was delayed for several minutes, lhe
English present were greatly gratified that
he had chosen a Shakspearean work for an
occasion of such importance, when national
pride or international courtesy might have
encouraged him to select an Italian or
French masterpiece. His repertory for the
Parisian season is mostly French.
“Alwyn”: The first play connected with
Australia was performed neither in tins
country nor in London, but in Paris. There
on November 24, 1792, “Les Emigres Aux
Terres Australes” was produced at the
Theatre des Amis de la Patrie. It was
gested by the trials of La Perouse, last heard
of at Botany Bay, but its supposedly Aus-
tralian background bore small relation to
fact.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : English audi-
ences, which used to be lauded for loyalty
to old favorites, have recently shown serious
lapses from-traditional grace. The other day
Cissie Loftus, once Henry Irving’s leading
lady, forgot her lines at the Holborn Empire
and was rewarded with the scornful laughter
of a crowded house.
Bransby Williams,
the Dickens imper-
sonator, also had
an unlucky experi-
ence the other day.
His audience
showed such im-
patience that he
was compelled to
put the question,
“Which is it to be
—you or I?” The
verdict was em-
phatic, and he did
not finish. At a
recent student cele-
bration in the pro-
vinces, George
Robey narrowly
escaped serious in-
jury. His letter
on the subject was
a masterpiece of
scathing but digni-
fied rebuke. Even
Sir Gerald du
Maurier not long ago was refused a hear-
ing at his own theatre —Wyndham’s—when
he came on to make a speech after an un-
successful premiere.
“Flaming Youth”: Australia’s first home-
grown actress was Eliza Winstanley, born
in Sydney, who, when hotel-keeper Barnet
Levey’s Theatre Royal was opened at the
back of his George-street pub on October 5,
1833, made her appearance in. “The Miller
and His Men” and “The Irishman in Lon-
don.” Eliza afterwards went to London and
became a member of Charles Kean’s co.
Levey’s was the first regular theatre in Syd-
ney, although in 1798 some performances
were given in a building erected on Church
Hill, “at the cost of a hundred pounds,” by
convicts who were warned that any impro-
priety in the show would cause them to be
banished to outlying settlements. That
warning seems to have been heeded, but it
was discovered that the homes of people who
went to the theatre were persistently robbed,
probably by others of Britain’s erring child-
ren in league with the players, so the theatre
was closed and presently pulled down.
“Topee” : The jazz band is alleged to have
been invented by a Milwaukee negro, Jasbro
Brown, but to my mind it is a modern
development of the “Foofoo” bands which
practised their art on the t’gallant f’c’s’les
of British sailing-ships in the fine-weather
dog-watches of 50 years ago. As normal
band instruments were scarce, they had to
depend largely on instruments of percussion
to fill out the score. A combination to which
I belonged for a couple of voyages consisted
of a fiddle, a Dutch accordion, a tin-whistle
and jew's-harp (for pianissimo passages),
with marline-spikes and the bell-shaped
scuttle ventilator-tops strung on spun-yarn
and vibrated with the backs of sheath-knives.
Tympani effects were obtained by operating
on an upturned shakings-barrel with a pair
of wooden belaying-pins. “Marching Through
Georgia” was our masterpieece, but our
“Mulligan Guards” was highly esteemed at
recitals in Dago ports.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The London production
of the Countess Catlicart’s play, “Ashes,”
was financed by African explorer Noel de
Norman. He found £l5OO for general ex-
penses and £5OO a week for the theatre, his
idea being to give his wife, actress _ Ruth
Bower, an opportunity in a piece which he
reckoned sure to draw because of the pub-
licity given to the Cathcart dame in America.
But rehearsals showed that the play would
have to be rewritten, and the curtain went
up with the company uncertain as to what
was to go in and what was to be left out.
The rest was mostly derision fvom the audi-
ence and hysterics among the females of the
company, one of whom had a fit. Next day
de Norman told the newspapers that he was
off again to the wilds of Africa —they are
more restful to the mind than theatrical
management.
IT’S AN ILL WIND
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On measurements of patients’ ekrs during the
last 30 years, Dr. Fritz Pfuffer, a Vienna ear
specialist, predicts that in the not too distant future
human beings will have auditory extremities the size
of a dachshund’s.... The strain of listening to con-
versation amid the din of city traffic is responsible
for the change, he says.”— Argus.
Forlorn I wandered through the night
That filled me now with dreadful fear.
“If true,” I wailed, “how sad the plight
Of poets, who would win a beer
Or two by penning polite fables
Of Minnie’s dainty ears, or Mabel’s!
“For, if in Ermyntruda’s praise
Of shell-like ears we sing, 1 ween
Some wag will soon the query raise,
‘ls six-inch shrap. the shell you mean?’
And who could read this without whooping:
‘Sweet Doris, low your ears are drooping’ ?”
Old Mrs. Broadcast I bespoke,
Who knows of all things far or near.
“Absurd!” she said. “’Tis but a joke,
Although I certainly did hear”....
But then I fled, for, Lord, no woman
Could hear like she with ears but human 1
I put the case to Grabbe, M.P.,
But late contrived a seat to win.
“Why, son, I’ve known it long,” said he;
“Although I thought,” and sly his grin,
“When taking by the ears the masses,
Not dachshunds’ were they—more like asses’.”
Then Montague Macßant I met
(Poverty Point still knows his spell) ;
In lieu of loans he might forget,
I passed my tale to him as well.
“’Tis strange,” he said; then, features lighting,
“But, laddie, an ear for biting l” ■
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


9g[i
m
sz
,yA-.;., ; /
n
V v
&
k§
<aa
??
%
m
iggs;
|@? s
Si
3
9«
ip
Me
II
M
m
m
m
m
\
PPM
Jf
»K
.' I
illl.lt
3a
mi
vrx_
»c
WgggMi
tit*
\VJOI
tt f
Z&J.
ijjsZu Ik
vz
§g
%
-
ap-
m
'~ , r>
m
S<v^
l
SUSS
!&
■-
1
3®U
Till li
GS^WM&H
SOT
ss
%
sB^
J 6
12
«
///
m,
lllltlH
■r*
Ai V;
\\
SS
m
>/’M" { ''*:-fW / ''o w/
'Mi
m
v/r
CM
"Wl
m.
iJr'
w//"*
>e»
nil' i
///
'rt£t
a?
SH
3
■"isNX'
Easy
Terms.
h
Catalogues
Free.
“Quality Our Keynote
Since 1853.”
338 George Street,
Sydney.
206-210 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Sound Advice-
Grandmother: my dear,
you certainly cannot do
better than go to Paling's
for your piano. They are,
without a doubt , the leading
firm to-day, as they were
when I Was a girl'-and that
Was very many years ago'.'
Daughter: Well, Mother dear,
knowing that your Victor
Piano is as good to-day
as it was when I was
Marjorie's age and played
upon it - I'll follow your
advice


Lead the way on a BS A
PRICES FROM
£57/10/-
m
wm
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Motor Bicycle.
EASY PAYMENT
TERMS
(F DESIRED
B.S.A.
For every-day riding over rough, ill-made roads it’s
strength and reliability you need in a motor cycle.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are world-famous for their
sturdy construction and consistent reliability under
all conditions. Their outstanding performances in
Reliability Trials all over the world offer convincing
proof of this reliability.
Study the list of B.S.A. successes opposite, read the
following testimonial from a South African rider
and you will realise that a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle —the
all-British machine—is the machine for you.
“I have had this machine (4|-h.p. 8.5. A.)
for over 9 years and covered over 150,000
miles on South African roads, which, as
you are perhaps aware, are none of the
best. Apart from chains, tyres, piston rings
and gudgeon pin bushing, the bike is the
same as it left your works.
“E. C. M. CUTHBERT, Klaas Voogds.”
1926 Successes
60 ascents of Bwlch-
y-Groes on a B.S.A.
3.49-h.p. O.H.V. and sidecar, A.C.U. observed.
COLMORE CUP
on a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. and sidecar.
FRANK HALLAM CUP
in the Victory Cup Trial on a B.S.A. 9.86-h.p.
and sidecar.
DUNLOP TROPHY
in the M.C. and A.C. Reliability Trial on a
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. and sidecar.
B.S.A. CUP
in the Redditch M.C.E. Reliability Trial on a
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p. Motor Bicycle.
TEAM PRIZE
in the Paris-Nice Trial, for the third year in
succession.
TWO FIRSTS, TWO SECONDS,
and TWO THIRDS
in the Longmore Races, Tasmania.
Motor Bicycles
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms ,
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. V
Q’LANDj
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney,
VICTORIA- Fl NLA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY mj LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne<
SOUTH AUS.-V. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide ,
WEST AUS —MORTLOCK BROS.,
Hay Street, Perth ,
TASMANIA -s ,/w K ' NG fJ Y ’ *; TD ’ t
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia .
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
The B.S.a. Trade*
mark, the symbol
of reliability.


Amusements.
jg YI) N E I’S CUIDF TIIuA T R E S
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
CRITERION:
THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY.
ROYAL: THE SEVENTH HEAVEN.
pCLLEKS’ THEAT It E, S I’DNE Y,
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S REST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
TIVOLI THEATKES
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY V AUI>EVILLE.
The World’s Rest.
J C. \YI LLIAAISUN LTD.. llULltOl’ltMs
W * ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
PINAFORE & TRIAL BY JURY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LEAVE IT TO JANE.
pitINCESS THEATRE, MEEBOUHNK.
NEW YORK’S BRIGHTEST MUSICAL COMEDY,
BETTY LEE.
INC’S THEATRE, Al ELIt()I! It N E.
DION BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY ORGANISED
LONDON COMPANY in
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
2B Ull THEATH 10, .MELItOCRNE.
Proprietor Prank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
The Merriest Play of the Day,
THE BEST PEOPLE.
Three Acts of Joyous Comedy Interpreted by an
Entirely NEW AMERICAN COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
NISW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Twice Daily. 2.30 and 8. .
MOON & MORRIS REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y| AJiCSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
MASTER PICTURES PRESENT
MONTE BLUE in
in
THE LIMITED MAIL.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Plionc 7076 & 7790.
|_| O V T ’ S HE LU X E TIIEA T R E.
MELBOURNE
ULORIA SWANSON in
STAGE STRUCK.
ALSO
CFORCE O’BRIEN in
THE JOHNSTOWN FLOOD.
Prices as usual.
U I> I T O K I U M. MEIROCKN E.
Direction. ,T. and N. TAIT.
PERCY GRAINGER.
Position Vacant.
TOWN OF HINDMARSH
(Suburb of Adelaide. S.A.)
APPLICATION'S arc invited for the position of
TOWN CLERK AND SURVEYOR
Applicants must hare civil-engineering experi-
ence, and be capable of taking’ control of all Corpor-
ation’s activities. Schedule of duties may be seen
at the office of the Town Clerk of Melbourne or
Sydney. Applications, stating age, experience and
salary required, must be lodged on or before 28th
June, 1926, suitably endorsed.
F. Iv. NTEASS, Mayor.
Missing Friends.
pONNELLY. JOHN (son of lath Wil-
liam Connelly of Melton and Lilydale,
Victoria), please communicate at once with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
rSIC-'l/' Loving birthday greetings to
L>MV-,rv. my husband.
LILLIE.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE FOR THE WINTER
BOOK UP AT THE
HOTEL CECIE
(FIRST CLASS)
Tariff from 16/- to 18/- per Day.
A
!
m.
1
\
b
A* V.’v
I &$
> :• .<*
JENKYN UP !
AT THE
BUTLERS’ ANNUAL
DINNER
4 fellow butlers, they say I am too
restrained over these Kensitas! Would
you have a man of my years become
hysterical ? *
* Shame! Jenkyn I *
‘Shall I wave my arms and shout—
‘Don’t harm the throat’; ‘The best
in the world’; ‘Rice paper’; ‘Photo
of Little Bogglesby by moonlight in
each packet ’ ? ’
‘ Never! *
£ I will not. Does a butler analyse its
virtues as he serves a ’47 port? I shall
always content myself, gentlemen, with
that terse but truthful expression— ‘As
good as really good cigarettes can be.’
(.Loud and prolonged cheers )
10 KENSITAS COST 9<l. 20 FOR 1/6
CLUB SIZE, 10 FOR i/- 25 FOR 2/6
ĥ
SHAVEX
NO BRUSH NO SOAP
A Revolution in Shaving
“SHAVEX” is a production of modern civilisation whereby men
can shave without using a brush and soaps composed of soda.
With Shavex you can shave in half the time and get a
perfect and smooth shave. This preparation leaves the skin
like satin and keeps one young, and no after lotion is required.
Shavex is a skin food. ■ It makes shaving a pleasure instead
of a torture. Safety Razor blades last twice as long and no
hot water is required. 1/9 large tube lasts 3 months. At all
chemists or from sole Australian Agents: SALMOND & SPRAGGON
(Dept. 4 ), Eagle & Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Zeekol Manufacturing Co., London, Eng.
(Australia) Ltd.
Manufactured by
r
V
FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 3d. stamp.
The celebrated author and composer, IVOR NO-
VELLO, writes:—"lt is a great pleasure to be able
to say sincerely that ‘Shavex’ is a really splendid
invention. I am so often asked to recommend pre-
parations, and can so seldom do so, but in this case
my appreciation of your ‘Shavex’ is genuine. I shall
always use it."
Best for Imvaliik
llfitltera,, **
Jit "
ħ
r
123
WEED Tyre Chains
take you o ver the
worst roads — and back.
They furnish traction —
stop power loss —save
petrol—make driving
easier, safer and mors
comfortable.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N.Y., U. S. A.
Foremost in quality for more than 20 years
WEED TYRE CHAINS
h
3 J> > )
!tv's,v
£2B
Gem-set
Wrist Watches
of Odd,
Distinctive
Shapes
These are reliable, lever
movement watches in
fashionable 18ct. white
gold cases, set with
beautiful diamonds and
sapphires. Seldom is it
possible to secure fine
watches of this type for so
small a sum. The move-
ments are guaranteed.
£26
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST .JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
25 &2S Hunter Street Sydney


While you’ve
been at the Party J
your car has been standing outside
soaking up the cold. You finally say
“Good-night,” step on the starter and
hope for the best.
Is your battery always equal to the occasion ?
Is it full-powered enough to turn over the
fi.
m
BATTERY
: ■ i
»*TIC«V C.
"■‘rißMS
motor against the
resistance of cold-
stiffened bearings and
pistons vigorous
enough to light up the
slippery, treacherous
road home?
A Westinghouse Battery
is always ready for such
gruelling work no
matter how difficult the
task may be.
Next time you buy a Battery—
say “Westinghouse, please.”
WESTINGHOUSE
BATTE RIE S
\ #
v\
h
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hipsleys Ltd., 27-37 Palmer St, and 179 Elizabeth St, Sydney.
VICTORIA: T.A.T. Electrical Co., 17 Little Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Bizzy Motor & Cycle Co., Upper Roma Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Wm. Hudd & Co,, 22-24 Divett Place and Roper Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman Pty„ Co., 85 High Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Hobart: Robt. Nettlefold, Pty. Ltd,
Launceston: Geo.Geard & Co., Ltd.,
vT 'W ZEALAND : North Island: C?irs Limited, Albert Street. Auckland.
Thompson Bros. Blair Street, Wellington.
R. Kirk, Wanganui.
South Island : Canterbury etc., Freeman & Toom, 27 Litchfield Street,
Christchurch.
Otago: J. E. Moore. Stone’s Building, Anzac St, Dunedin.
. More powerful than the revolver/
Winchester Focussing; Spot Light Electric Pocket . Torch, Two-cell
Battery and powerful sliding Lens that throws a penetrating shaft of light
200 feet. Length 6}in.; diameter ljin. Nickel or Fibre Case
15/-
Winchester Focussing Torch, Three-cell Battery, throws light 350 feet.
Length 9in.; diameter llin. Nickel or Fibre Case
Winchester Vest Pocket Lamp, Three-cell, nickel-plated finish case,
switch contact. Gives good light. Very handy size
18 6
6 6
Postage on Torches: N.S.W.', 0(1.; Other States, 1/2
Write for Complete Price List, sent Post Free on request.
ft/ick Simmons F%
“The World’s Greatest Sports Store,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
M
/
m
m
21
WINCHESTER
TORCHES
AND
BATTERIES
ĥ
HOLDS MORE INK
Onoto, the Pen, has for years been the busy man’s pen. The
ease with which it fills and cleans itself, its readiness to write when-
ever wanted, its absolute security from leakage, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any other self-filling pen, has
gained for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
ħ
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, Loudon, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker A Long-hurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK-Best for all Pens.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
By appointment
to H.M. the King.
Crossley Motors Ltd.,
England.
ĥ
Cars
019 -r
PRICES:—
15/30-h.p. Model,
£545
15/30-h.p. Model.
Australian Body.
£495
Let a British Car reflect your pride of ownership.
OR the first time in history the journey
from CAPE to CAIRO has been
accomplished by motor-car. Once
again the apparently impossible has been
achieved by CROSSLEY CARS. No other
car in the world has ever completed this
gigantic task. Thirteen thousand miles through
unknown country where no roads exist, through
veritable seas of mud, across rivers and over
the desert. More than once the cars were
completely submerged, but the journey always
went on to its final triumphant conclusion.
This is the kind of service all Crossley Cars are
built to give. They succeed where other cars
fail. In this Cape-to-Cairo journey they have
demonstrated again their extraordinary quality,
their soundness of design, and their strength.
All Crossley Cars are built to one standard—
the highest. Whether you are interested in
the popular 15-30-h.p. (R.A.C. Rating 15.6)
from £495, or the 19.6 (the car which broke
ah R.A.C. Certified Trial Car Mileage Records)
from £B9O, it will pay you to ask for details
of Crossley models at once.
CROSSLEY MOTORS (AUST.) LIMITED, 87 William Street, Sydney.
CROSSLEY DISTRIBUTORS PTY., LTD., 116 Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPALDING MOTORS, King Street, Perth.
By appointment to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales .
m
o.c
Let a British car reflect
your pride of ownership.


Us
Medicated!
II-
■US** 5
p
Hi
7 'iti
i AV./.,/ 1J
i*\:
-• A.' -
■
Miss ELSIE PRINCE,
a beautiful Rexona Girl, now appearing as leading lady in “No, No,
Nanette” «i /Si. James’s Theatre, Sydney.
c
/i r\
“I want to be Happy
and I want to make you
Happy too, so I recom-
mend you to use Rexona
Soap fot the Skin and
Hair, same as I do. ”
D
0 &
exona
it" me an 5
health and beauty!
Rexona Girls are world-famous for their
beautiful skin and hair. To be a Rexona
Girl is to use only Rexona Soap and enjoy
that natural beauty of the skin and hair
which cannot be imitated, but can be
obtained by its regular use.
Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this
influence. Many of them contain free
alkali, which tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture. Even the
best of such soaps can only cleanse;
they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing,
healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of which in the
treatment of skin affections is known
throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe and cleanse the
pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and
leave the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
n
,
WM
l
%
V;
l
58
'h
6^
f£:
//
W»
'll
Biff'
’ll
•n
•Hi
WL
%
It’s
Medicated!
I|-


Roof W ith
librolird
CORRUGATED
ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
The Ideal Roofing for
Industrial Works.
Bust Proof
Acid Proof
Sea Air Proof
Pi re Retardant
Nun-conductive
Cool in Summer
Eliminates
condensation
'Unaffected by
smoke and steam
The first Cost is
tl»e East Cost.
Write for Free Catalogue.
JAMES HARDIE & COY., LTD.
SYDNEY: Cr. York and Wynyard Sts.
BRISBANE: A.M.JP. Buildings, Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
One Sheep
may follow another. Mankind lias frequently
been criticised for taking the same action.
But the man who grows wool and follows
this advice takes a sound step which gains
general approval.
Send the Clip to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane,
13
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II you are troubled with the complaint, write u« and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
- To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it it not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Public Trustee
Established Ist January, 1914
(Under State Guarantee),
ACTS AS
Executor - - Trustee,
Administrator,
Attorney or Agent,
Trust Funds Available for
Loans on City or Suburban
Freeholds.
Full Particulars Furnished
on Application.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydn’ey. (U. mo.)
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
h
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
+
///
s
W/flftvVtt
its
BIIOF EVCABrPTUS
a
I
J &Q3ISTO AC
>cnnmMLB9URN£
Jin gffe£lioe
Safeguard jdgainst Infection
Bosistos
PARROT BRAND
Eucalyptus Oil
Famous throughout the
world for its powerful
disinfecting properties
and as a deodorizer.
BOSISTO’S Parrot Brand Oil
has over a hundred uses in
the home. Read the circular
around each bottle.
If you want true Medicinal Eucalyptus Oil, you
must ask for BOSISTO’S Genuine Parrot Brand
SOLD EVERYWHERE 1/3 PER BOTTLE IS THE PRICE
Distilled and bottled by J. Bosisto & Co. Prop. Ltd., Richmond, Victoria
: :
'
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
Limestone
Coal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing Machinery
Stone Breakers, Elevators, Screens.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented by:
Messrs. ABMSTRONG-HOLL ANJ), LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., 218 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Messrs. FRANK R. PERROT, 883 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Harold llardupp”: A second sale of
Canberra leaseholds has just brought
£40,580 into the Federal Treasury—£B7,3oo
was given for city blocks of which the upset
price was £lO,OOO. One block with a 20ft.
frontage, for which £7OO would have caused
the hammer to drop, went for £3OOO to a
medico; and the Bank of N. S. Wales paid
£5200 for a corner for which the Common-
wealth would have been contented with
£2lOO.
* * # •
“Moreton”: Queensland Board of Trade
has approved of an elaborate scheme of
apprenticeship, formulated by a committee
of employers and employees, and covering
cooks employed in. hotels, cafes, clubs,
restaurants and boarding-houses. Applicants
must go to the Director of Labor, who will
keep a register of apprentices. A proba-
tionary period of three months to test the
fitness of applicants will precede the signing
of indentures. Progress will be tested from
time to time by examination. Wages range
from 10s. a week (with board and lodging)
for the first six months, up to £2 15s. for the
last six months of the fourth year. After
that, if the apprentice passes his final exam.,
he (or she) will be entitled to full award
rates as a journeyman cook.
* * * #
“Clerk”-: Some pretty decent bargains can
be picked up at the monthly auction sales
of lost and Unclaimed property conducted by
Vic. railways. At one recent sale a buggy
realised 155., 41 ice-cream glasses the same,
30 perfectly new milk-jugs Bs., a wire couch
55., 30 dozen pie-dishes 35., a couple of bikes
255. each, a nine-foot dining-table 165., an
ice-cliest in quite tolerable condition 325. 6d.,
a dozen unused canvas water-bags 95., and
two dozen new pick-handles 17s. The exhibits
ranged from glass beads to an invalid’s chair.
And who on earth could have been the absent-
minded owner of this remarkable assortment:
6 flat-irons, 3 kerosene-pumps, a towel-
roller, 12 asbestos mats, a breadboard and
a saucepan? The lot went for 11 bob. But
it will be many a long day before anybody
beats the 30 doz. pie-dishes for three bob.
* * * *
“Mars”: A packet of cigarettes has been
causing the South Aus. courts some furious
thinking. Sold by a shopkeeper after hours,
the fags were the cause of the appearance
of the purchaser before the police court for
aiding and abetting the shopkeeper in the
commission of an offence. The magistrate
dismissed the charge, holding that, while
the sale of the cigarettes was an offence, the
purchase of them had not been created one.
The Grown appealed to the Supreme Court,
where a Judge upheld the magistrate. In-
stead of going on to the Full Court, the Gov-
ernment then decided to have the Act
amended so as to make it an offence to buy
as well as sell after hours. At the second
reading the proposal was defeated, and the
statutory time for a further appeal having
elapsed, everybody is as he was before—
except Mr. Costs.
* * * *
Captain Frederick Dunn, who plunged into
the N.S.W. trawling business when the State
Government gave it best, has been respon-
sible for bringing to Sydney the Temehani,
a 291-ton steamer with a history. Launched
in 1916 as a minesweeper, the little steamer
commenced life as a “mystery ship” with
concealed guns and torpedo tubes, and sank
one German submarine, capturing another.
After the Avar it joined in the rum-running
business in America, and, being captured
and sold, was fitted out to carry the Cocos
Island treasure-hunting expedition, but was
arrested and sold to satisfy the crow’s claim
for wages. It was then bought by a Chinese
firm, but on account of slackness in trade
Avas laid up at Tahiti, where its present
OAvners bought it. Noav it is going to help
keep N.S.W. supplied with fish.
* * # *
“Ivriz” (Broome) : The visiting English-
man De Ilaviland, of the aeroplane manu-
facturing firm, Avho is hero to inquire into
Ihe possibilities of a factory in Australia,
has given it as his opinion that the run
from Perth to Derby is the longest and best
organised service in the world. The pilots
of W.A. Airways have well earned the
bouquet. A few weeks back one of them
completed the run from Derby to Carnarvon
(close on 1000 miles) between 6 a.m. and
5.30 p.m. On May 16 another pilot left
Hedland at 6 a.m., and after going north
and landing mails and passengers at eight
different stations, returned to Hedland at
5.30 p.m., having covered a distance of 840
miles. These pilots have inspired the eonfi
deuce of the public, as the Airways returns
show; in April there were 80 long-distance
flights, and 79 passengers were-carried.
BALLADE OF IMMUTABILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A demand exists for all cuts of bacon, but at
Varied rates. Hams are’ in poor demand, as is
usual at this period ot the year. Lard is unvaried.”
—Produce market report.
Life’s a chancy, mazy jig,
Ever-changing fitfully.
Lo, the grandeur that was Pig,
Robbed ot ali its glamorie
Vanishes, inscrutably,
In the void from whence it came,
Till, in the obscurity,
Only Lard remains the same.
So tlie glory of the “Dig.”
Is a fading memory ;
Like the brasswork of the “Brig.,”
Dimmed beneath oblivion’s sea.
Yet one recompense have we
Our insistent fears to tame ; -
Though the earth’s foundations flee,
Lard will still remain the same.
Eve, who once fared forth in Pig-
Leaf, may seem the changeless She;
Spite of cocktail and of cig.,
Prone to semi-nudity.
A'et her seeming constancy
Camouflages some new game:
While, in calm benignity.
Steadfast, Lard remains the same.
Envoy.
Let the slogan echo free
Down the corridors of Fame,
Pregnant for Posterity,
“Good old Lard remains the same.”
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


UK
T'
%
11
, 1111111111 l
F
&
m
t
BA'
Ask Your
Willard Dealer
for
This Helpful Booklet
Tells how to get greatest economy and longest
possible life from your lighting plant batteries*
Tells how to keep your batteries fresh and full-
powered, so that they charge easily, and
deliver current freely for lighting and power*
Tells how to figure the size battery you need*
Tells dhout the advantages of the Willard
Lighting Plant Battery when insulated with
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation*
Tells what to look for in buying a new battery*
CLEVELAND,
STORAGE
BATTERY


Cuticura Talcum
Is a delicately medicated, anti-
septic, deodorizing powder ideal for
both children and adults. It is
cooling and refreshing and imparts
a pleasing fragrance leaving the
skin sweet and wholesome.
Soap Is.. Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
1988?“* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
pp
When it goes through the wash or
other channels, all garments
should be easily identified—so
MARK LINEN WITH
CASHS
mm
NAMES
Unrivalled for Distinction and Service.
Any name woven in fast color,
“A few stitches and they’re on”
<£^z/%'l^atA/ucJ<p(e
Actual Size. Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
Prices : 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 dor. 3/6
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
S 5 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
ĥ
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particulars
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO., Est 1853
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss-Makers,
301 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ħ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
» [
/o be healthu-
J drink
h
the finest
tonic food
drink
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1&72.
Directors — A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; VV. H. Hart, Esa *
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and 92 branches in Queensland and
Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation through the leading Bankine
Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest facili-
ties for the transaction of all general banking business.
WOUJ
hand Umt{
unites *
JM
Own
No. 110 C.
Self-filling
"SWAN"
with 18 ct. Rolled
Gold Band
21/-
Smooth as
a Swan
No two people write exactly
alike, hence we speak of character
in writing. But an unsuitable nib
distorts the character, makes writing
laboured and tiring. It is worth
while to take a little trouble in
choosing one’s pen for it is meant to
be a helper and pocket companion
for many years.
“SWAN” Pens are fitted with
the grandest gold nibs made—they
are pointed with hard natural osmi-
iridium from Tasmania; the best
found anywhere in the world. Each
point is ground to a delightful smooth-
ness, but some are broad, some fine,
some turned-up, some oblique.
Choose yours to be exactly
suitable.
SWAN
ff
POUNTPENS
ĥ
Self-filling “Swans” from 17/6,
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Manufactured by Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
133/5 Oxford Street, London, W.l.
Managing Agents: Phipson & Company, Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quality!
GBD
*T i HE first thing a man asks of a pipe is that it
**■ shall smoke well the second that it shall
look well.
A sweeter, cooler pipe than the
GBD, or one that bespeaks
quality more definitely in its
shapely polished exterior and
fine grain, it would be impos-
sible to find at any price.
Yet the GBD is obtainable in
all the popular shapes silver-
mounted with vulcanite mouth-
piece at 12/6.
ħ
r
(§bd)
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Trade enquiries are invited to
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
Shape
No. 2/4387
“S.T.S.” : Hope it isn’t too late to correct
the mis-statement which I have only just
noticed (B. 11/3/’26). that the Melbourne
Gonservatorium is “the only one in the
Empire attached to a university chair of
music.” The professor of music in the Adel-
aide Uni. is director of the Conservatorium
also, and has been since last century.
The centenary of Allan Cunningham's dis-
covery of the Darling Downs is to he cele-
brated in s.-w. Queensland on June 5, 1927.
It is proposed to erect a national memorial
at Warwick and a cairn at Toowoomba, and
to construct a highway through the Gap—
Cunningham suggested such a highway in
August, 1828, so you can hardly say that
his plans have been rushed through.
One of the last jobs of the bush-fire
relief committee was to decide the com-
pensation to be paid to the widows and
children of those who perished. It has been
decided to build a home for each widow, fur-
nish it, and add £5OO to the gift. To the
orphaned children a pension of £1 a week
is to be paid until they grow up. This will
just about cut out what is left of the £160,000
subscribed.
“Backo” : I don’t know where “E.S.” got
the notion that the idea for a ship’s propeller
came from the blackfellow’s boomerang (B.
27/5/’26). The propeller was invented by
a Scandinavian, Ericsson; the idea was de-
rived from seeing a boat propelled by an
oar in a crutch over the stern. If “E.S.”
watches a seaman sculling a boat in that
fashion he can’t fail to note the resemblance;
the blade of the oar taking a half-turn each
way is a propeller.
William Bucknell, of Quamboiie (N.S.W.),
who died lately, aged 59, linked the old
brigade of the State’s pastoralists with the
new. One of a family which pioneered the
Liverpool Plains and Gwydir country, he
built up wide pastoral interests for himself.
Born at Newtown, he was at Sydney Gram-
mar and University. At the latter he picked
up the taste, unusual in a modern squatter,
for anthropology, which led him to become
a Fellow, as well as honorary secretary, of
the Anthropological Society of N. S. Wales,
“Loco”: Re the three-line railway (B,
27/5/’26). At Mount Gambier (S.A.R
where the 3ft. 6in. meets the Vic. sft. 3in.
gauge, the station yard is equipped with the
three rails, and the plan works smoothly.
The rolling stock of the two gauges is
mixed up and shunted together; you may
sometimes see dire of the little S.A. loco-
motives pushing big brother Dd from Vic-
toria about the loco, shed if it gets in the
road. If the difficulty of adjusting points and
crossings of the two gauges can be overcome
there should not be any trouble on a run-
ning road. All the same, a standard Aus-
tralian gauge should be adopted, and soon.
“Clin Tonne”: Australian tomato-growers
have a lot to learn from the Canary Islands,
where tomato cultivation is a big and lucra-
tive industry. The fruit is shipped to foreign
parts, mainly England, where it fills in a
long gap in the markets between November
and May, when the local hot-house product
appears. The fruit is picked when it is
showing whitish-green, the stalks being cut
close to the base —not pulled out. It is
wrapped in paper, and packed on a thin
layer of granulated peat, being thus kept
apart in rows. This packing is designed to
ensure a measure of warmth for ripening,
and at the same time prevents movement and
consequent bruising.
The S’African Government’s legislation for
regulating the native franchise has proved
a stumbling-block to cable men on Australian
dailies. One of the measures gives the
“colored” population e<wial voting rights with
whites after seven years of a- restricted
franchise, and this has been assumed to apply
to the Union’s vast coon population, which
would, of course, swamp the white vote. In
Afrikanderdom a “colored” man is one of
mixed white and native descent, whether the
native strain be Bantu, Hottentot or Bush-
man. These people have long enjoyed the
franchise in the Cape Colony and lately in
Natal. Now, apparently, the privilege is to
be extended to the old Dutch Republics,
The predecessors of A. J. Ivilgour, retir-
ing headmaster of Fort-street School. Syd-
ney, were Hugh Farrell, J. O’Driscoll, Wil-
liam Wilkins, Randal MacDonald, John Gar-
diner, Thomas Harris, J. W. Allpass, F.
Bridges, W. H. ■ Johnson, Matthew Willis,
John Dettman and J. W. Turner. When it
was first decided to convert old Foi’t-street
military hospital into a school, the Govern-
ment asked the National Board of Ireland
to supply “a person properly trained in one
of their establishments and competent to
undertake the duties of headmaster of the
Sydney Boys’ Model School,” his wife to
undertake the duties of mistress, and their
joint salary not to exceed £3OO a year. The
National Board being slow over making an
appointment, the Commissioners installed
Farrell. O’Driscoll, however, arrived in
July, 1850, and was installed in charge of
the 300 scholars.
“Iford”: Jack Walsh, W.A.’s murdered
police-inspector, must have gone on scores
or hundreds of vigils in his day before the
one where ambushed death was waiting for
him. Seventeen years ago I was running
a newspaper in Ivalgoorlie when several
more or less citizens were
under suspicion of lawless activities in
connection with illicit treatment plants
and batteries that pounded stone from
bogus mines. Sometimes there would
be a thinly-veiled reference in print to the
get-rich-quick proclivities of Blank or Dash,
and the names of two partners had come to
smell particularly strong. “Yes, of course,
I know who those paragraphs refer to,” Walsh
frankly admitted on one occasion, “but I
wonder if you have any idea how many
nights I’ve watched that battery to try and
get some evidence.” I suspect he went on
watching without any luck; the partners
wound up their alleged “business” and left
the State soon afterwards. But, years later,
one of them returned and resumed the old
game, and this time Walsh caught him red-
handed. lie was convicted and sentenced
to a year’s imprisonment, and bolted while
he was out on bail pending an appeal to a
higher court, but. eventually was run down
again and served liis sentence. Walsh was
transferred from the goldfields to Perth when
he rose to the rank of inspector in 1912, but
lie went back at his own request some six
years ago.


Shipping. .
Suva, Pago Pago,
Honolulu,
San Francisco,
New York, London
Sailings Every Three Weeks.
Sonoma —Sierra-—V entura
Oceanic Steamship Company,
87981. 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Fast Modcni Passenger Vessels connect with Train
at Byron Bay, 350 miles north of Sydney.
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OR ARlA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane, Monday, 6.45 p.m.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane, Thursday, 6.45 p.m.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—First-class £3/5/-.
First-class Steamer, Second Rail —£2/18/6
THE NORTH COAST STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Passengers’ Booking Office:
Tourist Bureau, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns. Philp and Co., I.td.
Two Select Escorted Tours.
Organised by Thos. Cook; and Son.
Under Personal Escort Throughout.
Hotels, Sightseeing Couriers and All
Fees included.
JAVA. —Leaving Sydney 23rd June,
per s.s. Tasman; 14 Days’ Motor
Tour in lovely Java. Fare £l5O.
JAPAN. —Leaving Sydney, per s.s.
Aki Maru, 28th August; 22
days in Beautiful Japan.
Fare, £227/14/-
Programmes and Full Particulars on Application.
TIIOS. COOIC & SON, C'liallis House, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,634,560
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1925. . £15,395.937
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
• Lysaoht, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
PERTH, AV.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager; A. O. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and YY YNYARE)
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,088,299
GRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Hotel Kosciusko
Winter
Snow Season.
Ski-running - - - Tobogganing
Ice-skating - - - Ice Carnivals
Luxurious Accommodation
Open Log Fires
Nightly Entertainments
Dancing
Season Opens Ist July.
Booking direct with Manager.
Full information and rail concession
certificates at
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping. &«.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Francisco.
TAHITI 13,000 tons disp. JUNE 17, for San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,000 ~ ~ JULY 1, for Vancouver.
MAUNGANUI .... 11,350 „ „ JULY 15, for San Francisco.
*AORANGI 22,000 „ „ JULY 29, for Vancouver.
Screw Motor Liner.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers usin"
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
m m ■■
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom. via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
SPECIAL HONOLULU EXCURSION FARES.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
/Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
ill.***'**
a<C
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
To
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
A VISIT TO JAVA (The Garden of the East).
FAMOUS TEMPLES. NATIVE BAZAARS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. TEA GARDENS.
7 Weeks’ Wonderful Tour —including 12 days escorted
motor trip in Java, £135. Includes all expenses, steamer fare,
hotels, motor-cars, guides, tips, etc. Leaving Sydney by the
magnificent
S.S. “Marella” (7500 tons), 2nd August, 1926.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah Cafe, etc.
Via Brisbane, Queensland Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
APPIY Book early, party limited.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
5-11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
Joint
Service
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
* Ulysses .... 14,620 tons, June 21
fDemosthenes 11,500 ~ July 3
♦Ascanius .. . 10,048 „ August 16
lEuripides . . 15,000 „ September 27
iCeramic .. . 18*500 ~ October 19
* First class only, t First and Third class.
?“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to:
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
"NALDHAM.” “NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton U Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackheatli Collieries, Eld., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P: & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
BBtabliabed 1813,
WA LICS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
rzm£
mm
Directors ;
£6,000,000
4,400,000
6,000,000
£16,400,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tln-eadneedle Street, E.C.2.
414 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. _
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
h
BELT A Is A
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11.100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
' AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel'. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1925 £2,428.000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,150,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. • • £60,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £9,000,000
The Society transacts Every tilass of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H VV APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Min ut
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
iri The Manager.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.


ms
■v
7T>
§Bmih
->-• /
I
iW\'-
,»♦► *
0
' v\
1. t
I
V' f
SSSJB®
f/iV? f
**
ufij
: , \
' V #
*-/
4 ' '.
«®5
“* . v, ’ *■
#- • 4
> * <
A
fc > *
* V
I
V \
r- v
1 111 I
k ,
§5
i* ■
>8
III!
t i vr : 1
- ;if >■ -V'■;» - >
- -»■• v r
in
ni , -
X X\ <t
.
:si
X
■V x
f \
m
* >
safe
r.
*//s
*■ «gil
%
. .;JS| IPi^
f r*?M -t *
$
. «v
■O'/
/ /y
V’,„ *
m\\
/ u it
42
't'UM
_■■•—--■ ' : v V
-• v v
!'! !
j '
»i y
LAV’.S
ft-.
*o* ..;
A , 'V,
-sr
r-r
r ‘> * ** s > l l 4 F
* m* ily ,'
*v . *
f’ - K
'I M, !
A
I (
r fc
, <
■f. *i
r
MM < Ml
A
I i 1
i *
yzm
>*MT +
>- , *■ 'ml %
? jr' -
X-
'V
BftlT/SH - BUILT
■--
1 tJhl
SMimz**!
m
Efficiency
Li' **
If* Pi
v * a
V--,
I
■
■fpp^' l
■■mm"*
Bill
■
m
~i: S:
B
■
1-k.w. Belt-driven Plant on Girders,
2-k.w. Direct-coupled Plant.
THE DIRECT-COUPLED
“LISTER LITE”
THE superiority of this plant is unquestioned. It
includes the robust Lister Engine, with all its
dependability, and a heavily-made, strong generator,
Many years of useful work is guaranteed without
the least probability of a breakdown. Consider
this against the time when your house is full of your
friends and the load is heavy
Fullest information and quotations free
with Catalogue “B” from the Agents:
Levin & Co,, Ltd.,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
1 % -k.w. Direct-coupled Plant.
THE BELT-DRIVEN “LISTER LITE”
EQUALLY dependable and suitable for smaller lighting
schemes. The same high-grade Lister Engine and generator.
The “Lister Lite” not only lights! It runs your iron, your
fan, your ice machine, your radiator, and makes your life
worth living in the town or on the land.
***
,/V'
m
.11
' Jr*
■
ĥ
R.A.LISTER 6>C° L™
DURSLEY
ENCLAND
5 UA-Cl
C.OS


- ..
m
w
m
Chilblains Hurt! Rexona Heals.
All those who have suffered from Chilblains know what pain and suffering they cause.
Chilblains make thousands of us fellow sufferers. Ask your neighbors and you will find many
for whom Chilblains have lost their terror —they have used Rexona. One application and
soon the hot, throbbing pain begins to die away. Rexona's healing work has begun. It
will not be long before the inflammation subsides and you will learn what a really rapid
healer Rexona is.
For many yea rs Rexona has been re-
lieving and healing more burns, scalds,
cuts, bruises, chilblains, sunburn, chafing
and skin irritation than any other healer
known to science. Rexona depends upon
the recommendation of its friends and
users, and it is this recommendation that
has made its use so universal throughout
Australasia. Keep a dainty pot of Rexona
handy on the shelf and have its cool,
fr 'on ointment ready to relieve and heal.
REXONA
The Rapid
Healer.
1 /(S
<(/Cooling
/.Soolhing
Healing
fdniiseplic OinimenP
n,jrif' es -? Absolutely'
r . Heals 1 "
Heals Reliable
IEHGESEBESP
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of llie Skin. Eciema.Sores.Cuts.
Bums firuises.Sores.Sciatica. Piles. Stings ot Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammation
'REXONA OEP’ SMEEOQN DRUG C° IT°SVDNEV.l T °SVDNEV.
3 /-
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
1
m
i
: a
a
■HR
■
l I
i
hhh|
m
■
mm
m
m
m
:
ss
: : »p
...
i#
X
yfxe. Cate fS&i£C
lefutui
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
is tL
Aea&cn
Packed in the Famous Red Boxes and
Mailed to You the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/*
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated with
reproductions of our Confectionery in colors.
ħ
162*166 PITT St. *eet
t Cr George & King Sts
SYDNEY
Conquest Rhymes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ZTFT the trumpet and sound a sally!
Wake the troops from the tents of
* sleep!
Watch them arise and heed them rally, rank
by rank while the camp-fires leap!
Cymbals clash to a martial drumming,
trombone-tempest and cornet-call
Herald the hoofs of a squadron coming ,
pulses leaping and heart chords
strumming
Airs that a multitude is humming, watch-
ing the trim hoofs rise and fall.
Girth the saddle and strap the bridle! Take
the rifle and bandolier !
High is the sun that sees us idle! Spite of
the foeman strikes too near!
Hark to the squadron whistles calling,
claiming the speed of man and horse!
Guns on the distant ridge are brawling,
shrapnel breaks and the lead is falling
Out where a sombre haze is shawling
wastes of sorrow and white remorse.
Over the sand to El Magarah, out where the
desert breezes pine ;
Stirring the dust of Tel-el-Farah, screening
the plains of Palestine ;
-Trailing afield like mourners, scouting into
the gloom of watchful night,
levelling eves of reckless flouting, trouble-
some dawns of hot-foot routing,
Plunging and falling, cursing, shouting hot
in the wake of Abdul’s flight!
Days of battle and days of trekking over the
sands and mountains steep,
Steel blades flashing and field-guns wrecking,
red eyes robbed of the wage of sleep!
Singing days on the roads up-climbing slope
and terrace of rue and rose,
r fimbs relaxed and the loose gear chiming
gladsome airs, and the shod hoofs
timing
Measures of joy while hearts are rhyming
under the leaves that shed repose!
Into the cypress alleys streaming, scouting
the marble tombs of death,
I’assing the shrines and chapels dreaming
under the stars of Nazareth,
Far we ride through the passes darkling—•
fair 'tis the jocund sun to see,
Down from the hill-crags steep and stark,
fling light that watches a morning
lark wing
Out of the leaves with dewdrops sparkling
over the waves of Galilee.
Over the plain to old Damascus never a force
more gladly strode!
Never a redoubt-post can task us, hold us up
on the magic road!
Minarets in the sky are showing, domes in
the mists are fair to see;
Perfume out of the east is blowing hidden
guile to our hearts unknowing,
Over the pounded highway flowing into the
courts of mystery.
Gold and green are the gardens gracious,
bright with blossom and scarlet flowers
Blooming fair by the town-walks spacious,
lit with the hues of magic hours.
Water agog from fountains springing folds
and flashes in clear cascades.
Larks are heard in the walnuts singing praise
for the runes our hoofs are ringing,
Out of the garish sunlight swinging into
the leafy colonnades.
Slender towers that point to the skyways,
sprung from the Island tic dreams,
Leap from the old Damascus byways flushed
by the clear Barada’s streams.
Over the broken flags we.amble, searching
the shrouded alleyways.
Down from the road dark urchins scramble
into the lanes of branch and bramble ;
Under the leaves where pilgrims ramble
priming their souls for prayer and
praise.
Babel awakes where Arabs muster; rich are
the stalls of bright bazaars
Laden with purple grapes that cluster,
blazoned with swords and scimitars.
Camels pad with a noiseless shuffle under
the arches, one by one ;
Nomads gesture and screech and scuffle,
Gyppos bluster and bounce and ruffle.
Filth recks out from the glooms which
. muffle deeds that shrink from the tell-
tale sun.
Night at last, and the lamps are flaunting
dancing-girls and a drinking-bar.
Banjo melodies old and haunting! Tam-
bourines and a sweet guitar!
Feet that shuffle and glide and rattle, skirts
that flutter and fold and furl!
Men crowd in like a herd of cattle’ horsemen
barrack and shout and battle.
Drink and dance while the ladies prattle,
all in a sparkling rainbow swirl.
Peace reigns fair, but the squadron whistles
echo across the restless tides.
Sunlight breaks on the thorns and thistles,
barley bends where the sweet wind
rides.
Blooms of the oleander blowing deck the
shades of the olive-tree;
Night is gemmed with a star-maze showing-
domes and turrets and steeples glowing
North of the Jordan water flowing, calling
us forth to victory!
N.s.w.
GERARDY.
At Bradley’s Head.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the little group of gentlemen shiver-
ing in their military cloaks at the
extremity of the projection of land
which, with Point Pipbr opposite, is a lintel
of the inner doorway of Port Jackson, the
dawn of this cold July morning was neither
beautiful nor exhilarating. It was, on the
contrary, depressing, boresome, unnatural
and irksome to a degree.
On any morning of summer or winter the
lifting of the curtains of the night from the
loveliness of the Lake of Sydney represents
a phase of its beauty that is almost incom-
parable. When the east pales above the
dark rampart of rock that stretches, with
its invisible break at the Heads, from the
sandhills of Bondi to Manly Cove, a trans-
formation scene begins that must be wit-
nessed from Bradley’s Head to be as well
appreciated as it deserves. The dark, still
waters, their long levels sensed rather than
seen, as they stretch between the black loom
of the coastlines of the harbor beneath the
glittering stars, seem to awaken slowly from
some pleasant, dreamless period of slumber.
The high barrier silhouettes itself sharply
against the paling night that has hidden the
Tasman Sea and its great offshoot since dusk
descended yesterday. The bright planet
Venus hangs above it, in the darker upper
sky, like a single high lamp suspended in
the heavens. Leaves of the trees on the
densely-wooded heights above the descending
headland rustle with the slightest zephyr of
breeze that whispers through them the news
of a new day, and the liquid music of the
awakening birds of the bush is uninterrupted
by any grosser sound. Slowly the sky yel l
lows, and the gaunt terrain of the inner
slopes of the rampart gradually reveals itself,
whilst the waters take on the cold gleam
of polished steel. Before the sun lifts over
the edge of the world to the eastward, so
wonderful a display of lights and colors
illuminates sky and water as almost to leave
the spectator drunken with its gloriousness.
No one can describe it adequately. The late
J. M. W. Turner might have painted it.
There are not many artists w r ho would not
find it a despair of impossibility.
“This,” said Dr. Began, of H. M. 3rd
Regiment of Foot —the famous “Buffs”—“is
the most damnably disagreeable situation in
which, God prcsarve me sowl, I have ever
found myself!”
“May the Devil,” remarked Captain and
Adjutant Vincent, “afflict with a proper pun-
ishment such fire-eating follows as drag
peaceable and respectable men into such
utterly horrid situations.”
“Gentlemen,” grunted fat Major Tolle-
maclie, “I agree with you entirely. Your
sentiments do you credit. Hardiman, you
young ruffian, I have half a mind to put
you under an arrest and go back to bar-
racks.”
The fourth member of the group, a tall
and good-looking subaltern officer, drew his
cloak more closely about his shivering figure
and shrugged his shoulders. There was a
querulously protesting note in his tone, as
lie responded to these censorious observa-
tions of his companions. In the dim but
augmenting light it was possible for them to
observe the curl of a contemptuous sneer
that disfigured his well-cut mouth —the slight
frown that wrinkled his brow beneath the
fair curls, as he removed his shako, as if
to bare a hot head to the coolness of the
dawn.
“That’s all very well, Major,” he said
sulkily. “But suppose the fellow’s observa-
tion had been addressed to youf What else
could I do but give him the lie? ’Tis sure
and certain you’d have had me under an
arrest —on some pretext or another —before
the week was twelve hours older, if I hadn’t
done so. Dam’ sure and certain. I'm not
responsible for the infernal coldness of this
accursed spot.” -
“Well, thin, who the devil chose it?'
queried the doctor. “Aren’t there a round
dozen of better places than this for such an
affair? What’s wrong with the head of
Cockle Bay, for instance. Or the Exercising
Ground —Hyde Park, I believe, is the proper
name for that billy-goat pasture. Why, in
the name of all the saints, have we got to
take a confounded ocean voyage to witness
one, or both, of two young idiots inflict in-
juries—possibly death—upon one another?
In the middle of the night. In the depth
of winter. Gobless me sowl, 'tis in the mad
ward in the Sydney Infirmary we should be
instead o’ shiverin’ here in the chill o’ the
dawn! But ye may all take it from Terence
Began—if one of ye comes into hospital with
pneumonia, as a result of this insanity, he’ll
have the tortures of the damned inflicted
on him. I'll bleed ye, an' I'll physic ye
with the foulest drugs in the pharmacopoeia.
I’ll give ye Hell’s own time of it—if the
blessing of God should deliver one of ye, or
all of ye, into my hands. So I will.”
Major Tollemache drew himself up to the
full five feet eight inches of his commanding
stature. One uses the word advisedly. He
was not. tall, and lie was fat and tubby, but
no more commanding voice has ever echoed
across what is now Wynyard-square in Syd-
ney than when the Sccond-in-Command of
the Buffs was wont to send his reverberating
tones abroad to Sydney, and the soldiers
there, when it was a barrack square, in the
days-, long ago, before it became a place of
lawns and flower-beds. And although he was
short and fat, the same word as well de-
scribes his appearance as his peremptory
bellow on parade. It is certain that the
three officers whom he confronted, liis back
to the splendors of the dawn, at the foot of
Bradley’s Head that morning, found nothing
that was not ominous in his dignified atti-
tude. They awaited what was coming with
expectant respect.
“If you must know. Doctor Regan,” he
said in a chilling, and, at the same time,
curiously fiery fashion, “ 'tw r as I who. selected
the place where this meeting was to eventu-
ate. I, Major William Tudor Tollemache,
Have you any particular fault to find with
it —barring, of course, the untoward chilli-
ness of the hour? But I have yet to learn
that the swamps of Cockle Bay, or the
bleak paddock called Hyde Park, or the race-
course, are any warmer at half after six on
a midwinter morning. I await your reply
Surgeon Regan.” .
“Och, thin, ’tis a pretty spot, unlade,
Major. A very pretty, secluded spot.”
“Mr. Adjutant?”
“Well, sir, I think the scenery is most
charming. It is, really—when you come to
look at it.”
“Lieutenant Hardiman, have you any fault
to find with the place which I have selected
for the scene of the settlement of the unfor-
tunate affair in which you thought fit to in-
volve the honor of the regiment in the mess
last evening?”
"Oh. no, sir—not at all. Nothing—er —
could be more suitable. I mean, nowhere.
’Tis a most romantic spot.”
(Continued on next page.)


A Unique Breatheabie Medicine
COUGHS
COLDSa
'N ONE -FAbTILL
M) REQUIRED.
SEE BOOK
FOR FULL
DIRECTIONS
h
The Pine Air Remedy for
COUGHS,
COLDS &
BRONCHITIB
THERE is no safer or mont
certain remedy for sudden
colds, night chills, sore throats, and bad coughs than
these wonderful Peps tablets.
Peps soothe and heal the tender throat and air-tubes
and exterminate mischievous germs. They keep the
delicate breathing organs sound and healthy and pro-
tect chest and lungs from harm in this trying winter.
Sealed in every. Peps tablet are healing medicinal
fumes. These Peps fumes, carried with the breath,
exert a valuable soothing and curative influence over
the entire breathing system. This is the secret of theit
wonderful effectiveness on throat, chest and lungs.
Peps are vastly superior to and far safer than liquid cough-
mixtures, which go straight into the stomach and do not reach the vital
inner parts of chest and lungs. Being free from harmful drugs Peps
suit young and old. 1/6 per box (35 tablets), 3/- (105 tablets).
FREE TRIAL SAfViPLE.— -We, will gladly send to you, post free, a trial
packet of Peps. Address your enquiry to C. E. Eulford(Aust. J Ltd., 39 Pitt St, t
Sydney, and mention name and date of this paper.
GET A BOX TO DAY 7
THE 1926
AUSTRALIAN XI.
Appreciates The Value of
Buk,
Each member of the Cricket Team now fighting to
retain the coveted “Ashes” knows and appreciates the heal-
ing qualities of Zam-Buk. Writing to the Proprietors just
before our cricketers left Australia, Mr. Sydney Smith, Jr. t
Manager of the Australian XI, says :
“The members of the 1926 Team will, I am
sure, find Zam-Buk just as useful an adjunct
to the medicine chest as was the case in
1921. We all know how useful it is both
as a healer and for retaining the flexibility
of the muscles.’*
Zam-Buk is universally acclaimed as the best healer in all
branches of sport. It is used by the leading players of Cricket,
Football, Hockey, Lacrosse, Golf, Tennis, etc., for the same reasons
that have made it the most widely used home llrst-aid in the
world to-day.
For accidents or skin troubles stick to Zam-Buk, the tested
skin remedy. 1/6 and 3/6 per box everywhere.
A SURGERY IN A TWO INCH BOX
Major Tollemache unbent a little, and
the rigid attitudes of his brother officers re-
. laxed. Behind him the grey slope of the
harbor side of South Head stood out against
the colors of the coming sunrise. Up in the
dew-drenched branches overhead the birds
were twittering and chirruping. Far back
in the forest a chorus of kookaburras guf-
fawed their sense of amusement that another
day had begun for this amusing world. The
Major continued: —
"You are aware, I think, gentlemen, of
Colonel Stewart’s attitude towards duelling.
And also how his Excellency Lieutenant-
General Sir Thomas Brisbane regards it.
Both the Commanding Officer of the regi-
ment and the Commandcr-in-Chief of the
Forces are well known to be—ah —unequi-
vocally opposed to such methods of arranging
disputes among gentlemen. However, when
an officer of the Royal Navy takes it upon
himself to say, even under the influence of
wine, that all damned lobsters —a vulgar and
offensive fashion of alluding to soldiers, un-
fortunately in vogue amongst seamen in his
Majesty’s service—when a junior lieutenant
of a King’s ship makes such a remark as to
the uselessness of soldiers in the mess of one
of the oldest regiments in the Army, notice
of this kind cannot fail to be taken of the
affront. For my part, I would not have been
content with pouring a glass of wine over
the fellow’s head —I would have smacked his
face for him. However, the affair had to be
settled in the only way possible. And
it had to be kept from the ears
of the Colonel and the Governor. Moreover,
his Majesty's ship Augusta is sailing on the
tide, winch begins to ebb at noon. Therefore,
some place had to be chosen that would be
convenient to the officers of that ship to
send a boat to, early this morning. Bradley's
Head was chosen by Lieutenant Sparrow,
acting as second for his shipmate, this un-
speakable blackguard Delaney. In my capa-
city as second for Mr. Hardiman, I could
not but accept. I wish, however, that these
gentlemen of the Navy could be more punc-
tual in keeping an appointment, at the spot
of their own choosing, than they are. I am
of opinion that” ———
A yell from the doctor interrupted Major
Tollemaehe’s further discourse.
“Be* Saint Patlirick’s tobacco-pipe, here
they come. I can see the boat a-rounding
Pinchgut. Look, b’ys, d'ye not see ut, too?”
Eagerly, the party turned in the direction
up the harbor in which he pointed. The
sun was peeping across North Head by this
time, and the trees and shrubs began to glis-
ten with a myriad jewel-points.
“ 'Tis a cutter from the frigate, without
doubt,” said the Adjutant. “But - great
George!—look what's coming with them !”
Down across the fairway, behind the rugged
wooded islet where the old fort now stands,
a vast curtain of fog, rosy in the first rays
of the rising sun, stretched between tin;
northern and southern shores of Port .Jack-
son. Swiftly, silently, irresistibly, it pushed
itself along the surface of the blue and
shining waters, engulfing and blotting them
out as it had blotted out all the background
of the upper harbor. The masts of the ship-
ping disappeared as it came level with the
mouth of Sydney Cove. Then Pinchgut be-
came but a receut memory of the vision.
Almost immediately afterwards the boat from
11.M.5. Augusta. Its first thin wisps and
eddying spirals curled among the trees on
Bradley’s Head. Then the chill vapors—
snowy white, opaque, unfathomable—blotted
out all the rest of the world to the four
shivering soldiers at the water's edge. The
trees above them became phantoms; the
dinghy in which they had pulled themselves
down the harbor was lost to sight, though it
was tied to the edge of the flat reef but a
few yards from where they stood.
“Well, I'll be damned!” observed tli
Major.
“Did iver ye see!” said the doctor in a
tone of awe.
“They’ll never find us,” remarked Captain
Vincent. “We might as well have remained
in our quarters.”
“Dammit!" swore Mr. Hardiman.
The birds in the trees ceased their sing-
ing ; a great silence that was almost to be
felt fell upon the world. The four cloaked
figures loomed indistinctly in the all-pervad-
ing whiteness like smudges. The overwhelm-
ing quiet seemed to prohibit even speech. The
doctor sat down on a rock and buried his
face in his hands.
“The Virgin guard us,” he mumbled.
“Sure, this may lasht for hours!”
Forty minutes, maybe, of this appalling
nothingness had passed away when out of the
fog, and somewhere very close at hand,
came a crash, a violent splashing, and an
astounding burst of profanity.
“Back-water, ye damn’, God-forsaken set
of lubbers! We’ve run foul of some sort o’
craft. Oh, sink my soul, we’re on the
rocks!”
Confused shoutings, the thudding of oars
in rowlocks, terrific swearing and a sudden
profane command made a hidden din which
the awed group ashore sat and listened to in
amazement.
“You, bow-man!” cried an authoritative
voice. “Hook on to something, quick! The
cutter’s stove a— — plauk, and we’re
filling. That other craft’s scuppered,
too. All ashore, damn ye. Unless ye want
to drown !”
“ ’Tis the navy party,” murmured Dr.
Regan. “None but a naval officer can talk
like that!”
Out of the mist dim figures began to ap-
pear, standing ankle-deep in amongst the flat
irregularities of the reef. The military offi-
cers stood up. A voice from amongst the
shipwrecked mariners hailed them.
“Damme, is that the soldier-officers?”
With ominous dignity the Major replied:
“We are officers of his Majesty’s 3rd Foot,
and we are expecting a party from the
frigate. Augusta—to—to keep an appoint-
ment.”
“Oh, ’tis Major Tollemache. I’m Sparrow,
the first-lieutenant of the Augusta. I say
—it’s all off. That young ass Delaney would
sing when he. came aboard last night. Hell
to pay. He’s under close arrest in his
cabin. Can’t come ashore to fight. I told
the skipper what was on, and he damn’
nearly put me under arrest, too. I’m sorry,
but there it is. And here we are with a
busted boat. And oh, I say, Major, your
boat’s busted, too.”
Stiffly Major Tollemache addressed this
hearty sailor in a tone that was intended
to chill his familiarity.
“Do I understand, sir, that you bring an
apology on behalf of your brother-officer?”
“Oh Hell, no, sir. But I've got a keg of
rum in the starnsheets of the cutter —if
that’s any use.”
“Major, dear,” whispered Dr. Regan, his
teeth chattering. “Lave bygones be bygones.
If we talk more fighting he’ll maybe be of-
fended. A tot of navy rum would save all
our lives.”
“For the love of Heaven, Major !” urged
the Adjutant.
There was a long pause. At length the
Major spoke.
“We shall be very glad to join you, sir,
and—er—to consider the matter, in view of
these distressing circumstances in which we
find ourselves, as closed.”
“That’s all right, Major. We’re all in a
hell of a fix. I accept your apology. Par-
ker, bring that keg Out of the boat.”
The Major gasped, and choked; but the
doctor whispered: “For the love o’ God,
Major-—rum ! RUM.”
Major Tollemache said no more.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A Bit of a Blow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lIE recollections of Joe Binderpole leap,
pint by pint, towards the regions of
pure hyperbole. A lot of beer was
scoffed at the pub last Saturday, and as most
of the cockies present had been haymaking
all the week, it was natural that most of
the skiting should have been about stack-
building. After young Harrowclod had con-
fessed to having put a top on his forty-ton
stack so fine that “yer could see through
it,’’ I decided to go home, and would have
gone if I hadn't seen the light of battle
gleaming in Joe Binderpole's eye.
“Book here, you fellows,” said Joe, “I
don’t mind admitting that I can't handle a
pitchfork as well as a new-laid egg ought
to be able to. All the same, I once saw a
stack built almost as quickly and neatly as
the average of you experts could have done
it.”
As there were no average experts in the
bar, Binderpole's statement passed unchal-
lenged.
“When I was a young man,” continued
Joe, “I bought a thousand acres of rich,
black soil on the Darling Downs. After ten
years of toiling and slaving, I had cleared
all the timber and prickly-pear and stones
off it, ploughed it up and put it under
lucerne. Of course, to do all this cost money.
I had mortgaged the place for all it was
worth, and tin; time arrived when payment
fell due. But I wasn't worrying, because
all Australia was in the throes of a partic’ly
throey drought at the time, excepting the
district where I lived. Feed was fetching
record prices, and my lucerne was just about
ready to cut. However, when one Saturday
I received a letter from my bank-manager
promising to sell me up if I didn't settle
within a week, I thought it might be wise
to get busy and lift the mortgage.
“I decided to start on the lucerne the fol-
lowing Monday, so as not to cut my time too
line. On Sunday night I set the alarm for
6 a.m., and rolled into bed happy at the
prospect of a fat week's work ahead of me.
I was soon asleep, and knew no more till I
fell out of bed, just as the alarm started to
go off. I dunno how it happened, but I
sprained my ankle in the fall, and the pain
of it when I got on my feet made me sub-
side groaning to the floor again. Between
pain and worry over this setback to my
plans, I gradually lost consciousness, and
lay insensible for I don't know how long. -
When I came to myself I heard a most
deafening noise going on. I thought at first
that all the kids in Queensland were pelting
boulders on the roof. I managed to turn
over, and looking through the doorway saw
what was making this din. It was a hail-
storm —-the worst I ever see.
“My ankle by this time felt better, so I
was able to make my way to the edge of the
verandah. Struth, there was a sight! I
was ruined, and the work of my life totally
destroyed! The hailstorm had left me a
homeless bankrupt, for there was not a
single stalk of lucerne standing. The hail-
stones had chopped it down, and minced
it.
“Overcome by the sight of my ruin I crept
back to bed, arid for hours lay half-demented
with disappointment and despair. I thought
of being sold up ; I imagined how it would
feel like facing the Bankruptcy Court; I
moaned at the shame it all would mean. For
hours I lay awake, every moment approach-
ing nearer to insanity. At last, just as I felt
reason slipping from me, nature intervened,
and I fell asleep. Again I awoke to an un-
usual noise. A hideous presentiment came
over me. Anticipating some fresh catastrophe,
I sprang from the bed and made my way to
the door. At the first glance outside my
hair stood up to attention, paused a moment,
and then fell out.
“A whirlwind of gigantic size and strength
had arisen in my lucerne. A great, green
seething mass it seemed. Round and round
it whirled, increasing every second in velo-
city. Feeling a giddiness creeping over me
I closed my eyes, and held my hands over
my ears to shut out the roar of the storm.
Then as sudden as it had come the wind
ceased whirling and vanished.
“Well, gentlemen, next day I sold fifteen
hundred tons of lucerne chaff to a merchant
for twenty quid a ton cash. You see, the
hail had cut the lucerne into chaff and the
whirlwind had gathered it up, and drawn it
into its centre. And when the wind dis-
appeared it left behind it a sort of a cone-
shaped stack of chaff, which, as I said be-
fore, weighed something like fifteen hundred
tons, without counting my hair that its top
was thatched with.”
MOWERCLADE.


ĥ
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum, wear
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—UOluMG!) «V CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. „ ,
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
The Most Efficient Mower on Earth.
THE
“ATCO”
ALL-BRITISH PETROL MOTOR-MOWER.
THE'WCO
PETROV.
MOWER
The “ATCO” will make a very strong appeal to those faced with the necessity
of keeping in order large areas of turf, i.e., secretaries of cricket, golf, lawn
tennis, and bowling clubs, proprietors of estates of an acre or more, members of
park committees, hotelkeepers, etc.
It is fitted with a 2£~h.p. engine, which develops more than sufficient power
both, to propel the machine and operate the cutter, thus requiring only one attendant
for guiding, purposes.
The running cost of an “ATCO,” thanks to the. scientific precision of its
construction, is remarkably low. An operator can very easily and completely
cut 1000 square yards of turf on a fuel consumption of a quarter-pint of petrol
and oil mixture. ,
A twin silencer and an extra exhaust pipe (turned sideways to avoid annoy-
ance to operator), ensure extra-quiet running of engine.
Sold in two sizes—l6-incli cutters, £7l; 22-inch cutters, £lO5 complete.
Printed matter supplied with pleasure on application.
AGENTS:
D. & W. CHANDLER, LIMITED,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
New South Wales Representatives:
WHY|ALL & BROWN,
17 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular PointecL
Pens.
Seven
Price Medals.
ħ
These series Of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pendL
Aytc your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Workai airmingham, Englandi
Remington.
h
Knives
To suit every pur-
pose and every
purse*
In all Remington knives
only one grade of blade
steel is used —the best!
ag»
74
Y 2.
E 6439
Extra fine small penknife,
non-rusting nickel silver
handle, two keen blades
and nail file.
Rls73—Ch.
Jack knife with chain,
stag handle, two sturdy
keen edged blades. A good
knife of moderate price.
IN(
UMC
Ask your dealer
for other Remington styles
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G.P. O. Box 686 Melbourne
WISE REASONS
for taking:
Beecliam’s Pills.
THE RELIABLE MEDICINE
Easy to swallow
Handy to use
NOTHING BETTER
If you suffer from
Disordered liver
Sick headaches
Biliousness
Indigestion
Constipation
In Beecham’s Pills
You’ll find relief
A dose at night
Will keep you right.
m
&9
ĥ
Sold in boxes
1/- and 2/6.
Send to Robinson & Cleaver for
your HOUSEHOLD LINENS
ROBINSON 6- CLEAVER of Belfast, noted for
their Irish Linen, will be pleased to send
the readers of this paper their new Illustrated
Catalogue No. 534 of Household Linens. Com-
pare their prices and quality and you will find it more
satisfactory to buy direct from the manufacturers.
DAMASK BY THE YARD
Bleached pure Irish linen double
damask by the yard. Any length
cut. A very fine heavy make which
will give good dependable wear.
45 inches wide per yard 6/n
54 8/6
72 „ „ .. m/ 3
SHEETING BY THE YARD
Extra heavy cream linen sheeting by
the yard. Exceptional quality for
good hard wear.
70 inches wide per yard 4/6
Bleached linen sheeting.
72 inches wide per yard 16/6
80 11/6 ;
LINEN FACE TOWELLING
Extra heavy unbleached all
linen huck towelling. By the
yard. Will give endless wear.
17 inches wide per yard 1/4
4 v 8
LINEN PILLOW CASING
Bleached linen pillow casing.
Our standard make.
40 inches wide per yard 4/6
45 5/3
54 .. 6/6
Price list
IRISHLINEK
ROBINSON & CLEAVER
linen Manufacturers
BELFAST
WRITE FOR
OUR CATA-
LOGUE WITH
SAMP L E S
POST FREE
We guarantee
delivery of all
goods and carry
out your orders
intelligently
and promptly.
ROBINSON & CLEAVER L™
Linen Manufacturers
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND
&
k
SAUCE
Most llolbrooASays -
“Excellent with every
dish —cheese, meat, fowl
or fish.”
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m, and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: AU-dar, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon at Clifton Gardens Hotel.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY
Tels. : 86276 (4 lines).
at 3
Afternoon Tea on Board.
p.m. Steamer from Fort Macquarie, ;
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


M
(k
Ml
U'
I'l
!
iii'.u
Hi
I
<7
/A
S
V
mill I ii
zl
rAJ
or
OF fffp
Sout£i
X
y'
A llissßi! enckaniment kaunis tke Soutk.Tke magic of sunskine and
warmin is like a spell tkat kolds Ike soul. Life seems tout a ka
melody of ease as agreeable as ike serene content and
cloudless geniality tkat is ever tKe gift of • • • •
h
msf.
ĥ
