

GRAFLEX
Difficult pictures
made easy
\
J
%
i
3
<D
g
Difficult pictures made easy—easy pictures
made more successfully—good pictures of
many subjects that were previously impossible
—all are yours with that masterpiece of photo-
graphic craftsmanship that is a Graflex. /
Has reflecting mirror which enables the image
to be watched, right-side-up, in perfect focus,
until the moment of exposure. Shutter is a
high-speed focal-plane of exclusive Graflex
design, giving time, slow snapshot (1-5 second
for snapshots in bright light indoors) and
speeds up to a thousandth of a second.
A Graflex is the camera that everyone wants
—and can now find within their means with
the introduction of the Series B range.
Model for
quarter-plate
(3i x 4J in.)
pictures,
wonderful
value at - - -
£l6
(Complete with one double dark-slide.)
Write for descriptive folder if you cannot call .
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250*52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol 48. —No. 2465.
See page 36.
Thursday, May 12, 1927.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for' 3 ,Transmission by Post as a is ewspaper.


WITHIN the shadow,
By MAURICE C. GROOM.
A book devoted to Australia’s problems.
61- (Postage 3d.), ALL BOOKSELLERS.
VT/RITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
logue, which is now ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT
O
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
'. V™':'
What Chance Would
He Have
—if you suddenly, surprised a fox while
the Colt .22 Automatic Pistol swung in a
holster on your belt?
Ten vicious, expanding point bullets can be aimed, and fired
with the unerring accuracy of a rifle from this weapon in less
than half as many seconds.
If the first misses, there are nine more at the instantaneous
command of your trigger finger to follow relentlessly in pur-
suit....
£7/17/8
Post
Free
Could He Escape Such Deadly Machine-gun Fire Directed by YOUR Hand?
Write for further particulars and special leaflet “B” concerning this extraordinary weapon. It
is super-accurate, absolutely reliable, safe, and—well, nothing in the world is everlasting, but
this pistol is very nearly so.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-established Gunmakers in Australia), 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone: M 3388.
"A building-up
process takes
place after the
administration
of Sanatogen,”
wrote Professor
Dr. Mann of
Oxford.
Full of
Vigour
■4&
j a
V
That is how Sanatogen will
make you feel. It gives new
strength to body and nerves, and
in a quick and sure way restores
energy as it is used up.
Sanatogen infuses into the cells
of the body and nerves exactly
those elements—phosphorus and
albumin —from which nerve-
force is derived.
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
DSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
Of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
a
A. The Larynx 0'
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
o The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
o« the Lungs.
The Red Page
Does Method Matter?
Mr. Hilary Lofting raises the interesting
question of the value of any literary
method. He cites as examples two modern
novels, one written with an up-to-date
technique, and the other antediluvian in
theme and treatment; but by a curious
paradox it is the old-fashioned novel that
gives the pulse of life, while the novel with
all the latest technical improvements re-
mains an elegant corpse.
This concern with method for its own
sake is a terrible pitfall for critics. Most
of us are caught in it at one time or an-
other. Probably never before in the his-
tory of art and literature has so much
attention been devoted to purely technical
problems. No doubt, in the good old Eliza-
bethan days, Shakspeare and Ben Jonson
argued hotly about the validity of the dra-
matic unities. In this case Shakspeare was
the radical who produced masterpieces in
defiance of precedent; but, at the same
time, the conservative Jonson also pro-
duced masterpieces that obeyed the strictest
classical rules. At all periods there would
be differences of opinion and discussions
of artistic principles. Generally there were
but few groups of combatants at the Same
time, divided broadly into Classicists and
Romantics, Realists and Symbolists, and
so on, who stood for clearly defined prin-
ciples. But in the world to-day there are
more than 77 warring sects, fighting
not so much for general principles as for
the most minute differences in technical pro-
cedure. Method is all-important, and in
London and Paris, where fashions change
with such bewildering rapidity that a yohng
artist can find himself out-moded in a sea-
son, works are often esteemed more for
their obvious method than for their intrin-
sic merit.
Among the Painters we find Post-
Impressionists, Pointillists, , Cubists and
Futurists who all draw attention to the
manner in which their pictures are painted.
Here the confusion arises, and it takes a
strong man to keep his head. It is natural
to take sides, and some of us become one-
eyed barrackers, seeing only our own team
as we do at a football match. If we hap-
pen to be .captured by, say, the Cubist
School, we have no interest in any other,
and we soon come to prefer any work done
in cubes, however badly it may be painted,
to a much superior work, arranged perhaps
in cones or spheres, Much we have been
taught to dislike. It is the same in litera-
ture. Some writers have acquired a repu-
tation as modern poets by writing free
verse, some of it so free that it is unrecog-
nisable as verse; but free verse is neither
good nor bad in itself. It is simply a tech-
nical method, and sometimes it may be
real poetry, but, more often, just free verse.
It is characteristic of our time to follow
fashion; but it is a dangerous habit, for
fashions quickly change. Already the imita-
tors of men like Stravinsky, Picasso and
Joyce are becoming a nuisance, for they
have caught only some of the tricks of the
trade, not the spirit that gave rise to the
original works.
Joseph Conrad has been both praised and
blamed for his original method of telling
a story. He presents a character, not
directly but in perspective, as seen by many
other characters in significant situations,
a glimpse here, a revealing phrase there,
till gradually a living man emerges from
the dim and shifting background. Lord
Jim is a wonderful example of this method.
After hundreds of pages of subtle psycho-
logy, we see Jim as he might have drifted
across our own lives, but he always remains
a strange and mysterious figure. All Con-
rad’s characters are strange and mysterious,
and we never really know them. But do
we really know anybody? Aldous Huxley,
who has an extraordinarily acute mind,
objects to this air of remoteness and
mystery in Conrad and compares him un-
favorably with Tolstoi. In a Tolstoi novel
the characters are presented more clearly
than in life, for they are not mysterious
people to the author. Conrad is not a
Tolstoi; but I cannot.see that his method
is fundamentally wrong. What he gives is
all we know of most people, if we know
them at all.
Chester Francis Cobb appears to be our
one Australian writer who is likely to
receive praise or blame, not for what he
has to say about life, but for his curious
method of saying it. Some people will
dismiss “Mr. Moffatt” and “Days
of Disillusion because they fail to conform
with the general idea of what a novel should
be;, while others will be so surprised at
their modernity of technique that they will
look for nothing more. But it would be
unfair to judge these books exclusively on
their method. Ihey are really meaty books,
psychological cuts from the joint, solid and
satisfying. Nothing could be more sincere
than Mr. Cobb’s method. It is plain that
he has adopted it, not as a clever device
01 to be in the latest fashion, but simply
because it is appropriate to his subject mat-
ter Any smart young man might 'jot down
a few random impressions, without verbs
or punctuation, but we shouldn’t call him
a /°yc e . f or it. Mr. Cobb’s work is not
a feeble imitation of Joyce’s, it is genuinely
original. All his portraits of his hero at
different ages are wonderful psychological
studies, for with all the changes in features
we feel that it is the same man. His ultra-
modern narrative method is justified by the
result.
Tchakov introduced a new dramatic tech-
nique without knowing it. His plays were
startlingly original and revolutionary, not
a bit like Ibsen’s or anybody el'se’s, but he
was not consciously concerned about
method at all. He came to the conclusion
that it didn’t matter a kopeck how a man
wrote, old style or new style. All that mat-
tered was the feeling for life at the back
of it.
LOUIS ESSON.
“I Sailed with Conrad”
I knew Joseph Conrad fairly well, and
sailed with him.
Mrs. Conrad says that he tried to break
away from literary work and get afloat
again. That’s all right, but I fancy it was
to escape from seafaring that he wrote
his first book—that and the fact that, being
a genius, he had to write.
I have a notion that he hoped, at one
time, to make a living as a black-and-white
artist. He carried a supply of Indian ink
a,nd paper, and made a lot of drawings.
I may have had a sea-urchin’s ideas of art,
but seemed to me to be first-rate draw-
ings. Anyhow, he could turn out a pretty
wench, with a fine leg on her.
He was like every sailor I ever met in-
the old days, terribly anxious when at sea
to get the voyage done and be clear of
the ship. Ashore, no doubt, he had periods
of longing to be afloat again.
He hated passengers. A great many of
the old windjammer officers were like that.
I was in the Torrens with him. She was
a fine composite, full-rigged ship that could
sail like a witch. In the London papers
she used to advertise “A health and plea-
sure voyage. Stewardess carried; also a
cow.” The passengers were 90 per cent,
consumptives. The ship had no artificial
heating, and in colder latitudes her cabins
were damp and chill as a well. ’Way down
in the tropic calms the same cabins were
Hell-holes. No wonder the poor health- and
pleasure-seekers died in a hurry! We had
many a passenger’s funeral and Conrad
always looked happy.
He was a capital ship’s officer, capable
and courageous, but inclined to dream a
little. One fine Sunday morning, when the
passengers were below at church service,'
there happened to be a vessel coming
towards us sailing a course that was likely
to take her across our bows. The way the
wind was it was our duty to keep clear
pf her. Conrad carried on, and when the
Old Man came on deck it looked very much
as if the ships would come into collision.
The skipper hated Conrad, and in front
of a crowd of passengers made a great pow-
wow of averting the disaster. Conrad was
a gentleman, and the cold disdain he showed
the captain was a caution. The Old Man
wns red as a turkey-cock, and spluttered
all over the poop, but without saying a
word Conrad had the best of the argument.
.1 have never seen an officer held in more
respect or.better liked by the .crew than
Conrad was. Sailors and boys all swore
by him.
And yet—and yet I have never read a
book he wrote!
BEN GUN.
The Zoo of the Poets
Ladies and gentlemen, come along into the
Greatest Show on Earth.
What do you prefer to start with? The
beginning? Very well. Here is a pleasant
little scene from the Garden of Eden, re-
constructed by an artist on the grand scale,
John Milton by name:—
Sporting, the lion ramp’d and in his paw
Dandl'd the Kid; Bears, Tygers, Ounces
Pards; ’
Gambol'd before them th’ unwieldly Elephant
lo make them mirth, us'd all his might and
wreath'd
His lithe proboscis....
And now we have introduced you, to the
proboscidea, notice the fine specimens of
mammoth swirling in the Flood, and the
smashed track in the jungle recently rhade
by luplmg’s beast.
The torn boughs trailing o’er the trunks
aslant.
The saplings reeling in the path he trod,
Dec are Ins might—my Lord the elephant,
Chief of the ways of God:
See the wrinkled wisdom of the tethered
animal, pondering his great, slow desires:—
Out to the winds’ untainted kiss, the water's
clean caress;
I will forget my ankle rings, and snap my
picket’s stake.
D. H. Lawrence’s kangaroo is a delicate
creature with her “little loose hands and
drooping Victorian shoulders”—
. . . .the long flat skis of her legs
Steered and propelled by that steel-strong
snake of a tail.
But turn hither to the carnivora, to the
scores of lions “in grisly trains, cascading
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns-
Melts Clothing' Values
Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts. Stripe
designs of Helio, Blue, Brown, and
Black on White grounds; also con-
trast stripes on colored grounds.
Finished with double cuffs, V cased
frorits and collar to match.
Price
12/0
Better quality. Price 15/6
Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts, featuring
new colored grounds of Grey shades,
with Blue and White, Helio and
White, and Black and White check;
also White grounds with White check
and assorted colored stripes Double
cuffs, V cased front and
foliar to match Price . .
14/6
Raglan Overcoats
f**om 84/-
Men’s English Raglan Overcoat*.
Button through fronts, generous
skirt. A smart serviceable overcoat
that imparts a cosy warmth. Made
from good quality Tweeds and
Velours. In all the latest
designs and colorings Price,
/m
'
Other Values . . 75/- to 168/-
sr
X
■f?
J
I >
P x
r
jv s
High-grade Ready-to-wear Worsted Suits
Smart and dressy one that will meet the ap-
proval of the most cultured tastes. Cut and
designed from All Wool Worsteds on the latest
model two-button front All the smartest colorings
and designs in Grey and Blue Grey
effects to choose from. Price
1 Qe /
'
Other Values. Price* 110/-. 115/-, 126/-
The man of discriminating taste may choose his
every requirement from Anthony Horderns’ with
the assurance of complete satisfaction. Further-
more, all prices are marked as low as possible,
consistent with the quality of the goods.
e
f r ° m 320
’’Tree Brand” High-grade Shoes. Made expressly for
Anthony Horderns’. Illustration is showing the
"Triumph” last. An exceptionally fine fitting shoe, with
a "made to order” appearance. Stocked in half sizes.
Best Grade Box Calf . Price, 32/6
Best Grade Tan Willow Calf . > Price, 35/-
4.
Best Grade Patent Leather Price, 37/6
Advanced Style
Illustration features—for the discrimt
nating man—a specially importe
model. The new Continental Super'
Fine Soft Fur Felt Hat. Brims are
2i and 2| inches wide, with bound
edge; self -or contrasting bands.
Obtainable in the popular shades of
Slate, Steel, Zinc, Light Grey, Beaver,*
and Fawn, Unsurpassable
value at
35/-
( Freight paid in all States )
:
Q
English Velours
from 95/
len’s English Pinch Back Overcoats.
\ most popular shade for the smart
ind particular man; well cutyand de-
igned. /The new colorings are Grey,
: awn and Brown in an ex-
ellent quality Velour. Price,
/
/
>ther Values.
147 A, 168 A*
105 A, 110 A, 126 A,
Postal Address : Box
No. 2712 C, G.P.O
Anthony Horderns’
SYDNEY
We pay carriage on all
these goods in N.S.W.,


FEATURES PLUS-the reason why the
Chrysler “60” stands out so unmistakably
alone and in contrast with other values
in the light - six field .
,CH RYSLER
Smff
nr
T*
Wv«- *
Chrysler Standardised
Quality is a fixed and in-
flexible quality standard
which enforces the same
scrupulously close limits
—the same rigid rule of
engineering exactness —
the same absolute ac-
curacy and precision of
alignment and assem-
blage — in the measure-
ment, the machining and
the manufacturing of
every part, practice and
process in four lines of
Chrysler cars.
Place the Chrysler “60” alongside the
ordinary six and you instantly recognize
why any attempt to compare it “feature”
against “feature” is in vain*
For the Chrysler “60” has finely balanced
seven-bearing crankshaft, impulse neutral-
iser, oil-filter, air -cleaner, Chrysler four-
wheel hydraulic brakes, full pressure
lubrication, manifold heat control and road
levelisers*
But the Chrysler “60” offers you these
“features” plus the matchless performance,
dependability, beauty and long life that are
inevitably built into every Chrysler*
It is for this reason that the Chrysler “60”
is recognized as beyond comparison ♦
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke, Heave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydnei
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.; Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: 0. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust.: William Atticood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Chrysler Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 91 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
mi


Travel in Luxury by
ORIENT LINE
The three new 20,000-ton Liners and the
fourth now building are fitted with more single-
berth cabins than any other vessels afloat.
Their vast decks for recreation and exercise,
their palatial public rooms and their excellent
cabin accommodation, ensure a very comfort-
able and enjoyable voyage.
Write for Illustrated Literature,
2, k, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
their golden manes,” to the snarling tigers.
Would you see the magnificence ot the tear-
fill creature followed down dark and
mystic ways by William Blake?
Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Could frame thy dreadful symmetry /
Now you have penetrated as far as this
in the jungle, watch where you step, mind
how the , ,
.... gleaming serpents, shot with gold and
Poured out, as softly as a smoke might curl,
Their stealthy coils into that spectral light.
If you look carefully you cannot help see-
ing a marvellous sight made visible by
Keats. It is his “Lamia,” the serpent-
maiden :
full of silver moons, that, as she
breathed, . . ,
Dissolved, or brighter shone, or mterwreathed
Their lustres with the gloomier tapestries ■
So rainbow-sided, touched with miseries.
Here also are the “wild wormes in woods”
loved by W. H. Hudson. And the howling
is the hunting-song of the Seeonee Pack,
or the cry of the “gaunt muezzins of the
mountain-tops, the grey baboons.” Over-
head, hear the prattle and cackle ot the
Bandar-log:
Here we go in a flung festoon,
Half-way up to the jealous moon.
Speaking of monkeys, ladies and gentle-
men! But it is no use searching for an
indelicately-marked ape, discovered by R.
L. Stevenson and said to inhabit Paradise.
The censorship has excluded him. This
is the “forest beautiful' where “cranes and
gaudv parrots go up and down the burning
sky.’’ In it Ralph Hodgson’s old bull is
dreaming of his “battlefields and bellow-
ings,” of the glory that was his: —
Not a leopard bright as flame,
Flashing fingerhooks of steel,
That a wooden tree might feel,
Met his fury once and came
For a second reprimand,
Not a leopard in the land.
Leave him alone with his “splendid yester-
day.”
With your permission, ladies and gentle-
men, we will strike out across the rolling
veldt and, in passing, see the frail oribi
skimming the earth
with their golden-skinned
And feathery limbs laid light on the wind.
The South African, Roy Campbell, is re-
sponsible for “Tsessebe, koodoo, buffalo and
bongo,” which run so wildly and wantonly,
to the music of the Congo rapids:—
And the sun-dappled herds, a-skipping to the
song, go .
Kicking up the dust on the great grey plains.
For the sake of economy we have put to
graze in here Sir Walter Scott’s “antlered
monarch of the waste,” and a few other
well-known stags. Antelope and hartebeest
may be found, and the gnu is conspicuously
labelled by Hilaire Belloc.
We have come among the ungulata, and
where the plain breaks away into a waste
of yellow sand and cactus, there plod the
meditative camels of Robert Browning:—
What use is strength in me, but to surmount
Sands and simooms, and bend beneath thy
bales
No knee, till I reach the glad bazaar?
In this hideous enclosure we are forced to
keep A. Y. Campbell’s dromedary, because
he must live in captivity as an eternal pro-
test against the caging of beasts. Loqk
well on him, his pride is proof against your
gaze:—
Though his gaunt flanks with a great mange
were worn,
There was not any yearning in his eye,
But on his lips and nostril infinite scorn!
Horses, did I hear you say? Why, here
they are in hundreds, from the war-horse
which “smelleth the battle afar off, the
thunder of the captains and the shouting,”
to Masefield’s Right Royal, the steeple-
chaser, Adonis’s courser, the leapers of
Adam Lindsay Gordon, Browning’s Roland
and many another goodly steed.
You do well to look in that direction.
The “monstrous head and sickening cry ’
belong to the donkey of G. K. Chesterton.
He does not need your sympathy:—
Fools! For I also had my hour,
One far fierce hour and sweet;
There was a shout about my ears,
And palms before my feet.
There is no need to introduce you to the
griffin, the dragon and the wyvern, which
are still flourishing. But in passing you
may like to see your old friends the jabber-
wock, the jubjub bird and the bander-
snatch :
’Twas brillig. and the slithy toves
Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
All mimsy were the borogoves,
And the mome raths outgrabe.
Among other delightful creatures gathered
together by Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, you
will observe the crocodile, still with “gently
smiling jaws,” the walrus in company with
the carpenter and the Pie-eating Panther.
Ladies and gentlemen, I trust you have
had your time’s worth. Continue the ex-
ploration at your leisure. The showman
must strip his gilt and return to his delving.
IAN D. COSTER.
The New Negro
Abraham Lincoln in the earlier years of
his Presidency had some doubt as to the
probable effect of the emancipation of the
slaves on the Southern plantations. The
mingling on a footing of equal citizenship
of the negro and the white races suggested
a problem the solution of which could not
be predicted. He thought that, on the
whole, it was undesirable, and went so fax
as to suggest a system of emigration or
free negroes to Liberia or Central America.
Nothing came of the scheme, and circum-
stances subsequently led to the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation of 1863, by which nomi-
nally at least the slave became a free and
independent citizen of the U.S.A'. Sixty-
four years have elapsed since the negro
was thus manumitted and given a status ot
equality with the white. To-day, that
equality exists only in the letter of the
law. He is still, after all these years, as
much an alien in race, as much an inferior
in rank, as he was in the days of servitude
—and is rigorously kept in his place. But
he has been educated, and with education
the resentment against the color bar has
bitten in more deeply.
In Nigger Heaven, a novel by Carl
Van Vechten (Knopf), the author has gone
to Harlem, the negro quarter of . New York,
lying at the top of Manhattan Island, for
the materia] of a story that is illuminating.
In this colored city we meet representatives
of every class of negro. To the word
‘•'negro” as associated with ,the American
problem a wide definition must be given.
‘'The old slave-traders were none too par-
ticular concerning the individuals they
kidnapped along the African coast. A slave
was a slave, and a white man brought as
much as a black. Not only were the miser-
able human beings raped from all parts of
Africa, representatives of widely differing
tribes, but also Arabs, Egyptians, Moors,
and even Spaniards and Portuguese were
gathered in.” In the Southern States these
quite distinct races were thrust together
and bore children, a commixture of bloods
that had strange results in gradations of
color. English, French and Indian strains
further impregnated the mass. This brood
of crosses and intercrosses is summed up
for the American citizen in the word “Nig-
ger.” The root repugnance is not so much
a matter of color as of blood. It is esti-
mated that there are about 8000 near-whites
in New York alone. But however attenu-
ated the taint of color may be, the essen-
tial negro characteristics remain.
Niggerdom as it exists to-day appears to
fall into three classes: (1) those at the bottom,
the markedly colored, who accept with some
degree of phlegm the position of subordina-
tion; (2) those who regard the problem as
merely economic (“As soon as we, in the
mass, become rich enough, we will become
powerful. We will go wherever we really
want to go, and do what we want to do”) ;
(3) men who have graduated in the colleges,
some of black students alone, others of the
class that admit negroes on a sort of suf-
ferance into white institutions. The men of
class 3 enter the professions and practise
law, medicine and the arts. They claim
equality in the world of intellect. But there
is a line which no full-blooded negro, how-
ever eminent he may be in any intellectual
field, can pass. “It all comes down to that
question the whites are always asking each
other: Would you like your sister to marry
a negro? You must realise that social
equality means a mingling of the sexes
of the two races.”
Vechten’s story turns upon the career of
a negro-stamped and university-trained
man —the New Negro. Recently graduated
through the financial sacrifices of his father,
he has sat in the lecture-hall side by side
with white companions, has acquitted him-
self as creditably as they, has acquired
their habits, even to some extent their
modes of thought. Then he is cast on his
own resources and seeks the city of refuge,
Harlem, “The Mecca of the New Negro.”
In letters, so he thinks, lies a republic in
which color and racial distinctions are lost.
Let him but get a start with his pen and
the world, white or black, is his oyster. In
Harlem he meets a young colored physician,
Howard, with his friend Dick Sill:—
“What’ve you got on your mind?” Howard
asked.
“Oh, nothing in particular. I just want
to make a living until I get a start with my
pen.”
“You’ll have a fine time with the ofays
[whites],” Dick asserted bitterly.
“What do you mean?”
“Sort o’ kept you in your place at college,
didn’t they? Did they ask you to their
parties?”
“No,” he responded, adding: “It wasn't
so bad.”
“Well, it won’t be so bad here either, just
so long as you’re just another nigger and
know your place. They’ll give you your
choice, too. You can run an elevator or
lift pianos.”
“I guess I can find something better than
that to do. If I can’t I’ll try Harlem. I
only thought I could make more money
down town.”
“Try Harlem, will you!” Dick’s lip
curled cynically. “I guess you won’t find that
much easier. Howard here is a lawyer, but
the race doesn’t want colored lawyers. If
they’re in trouble they go to white lawyers,
and they go to white banks and white
insurance companies. They shop on white
125th-street. Most of ’em,” he added fiercely,
“pray to a white god. You won’t get much
help from the race.”....
“Don’t they want a member of the race to
get on?”
“They do not. You’ll have to fight your
own race harder than you do the other—
every step of the way. They’re full, of envy
for every negro that makes a success. They
hate it.”
Only a Hercules in concentrated effort
could batter his way through these impedi-
ments. But the inherent weaknesses of the
ne g r o—his want of stability, his emotional
unrest, the complex of colored pride and
aggressiveness and, above all, the pull of the
racial grossness of sexuality—in the end
drag him to earth. Education is a mere
veneer, underneath lies the Nigger. It is
the tragedy of the New Negro.
T. B. C.
A Satchel of Books
The Big Mogul, by Joseph C. Lincoln
(Appleton ; Robertson and Mullens). A novel
by one of the laughter-makers of the U.S.A.
Into the history of the central figure is
woven a little domestic drama that gives a
human interest to a light story.
The Himalayan Letters of Gypsy Davy and
Lady Ba (Heffer). The writers present in
a picturesque way the old life that is_ still
lived among the mountain people of the
Himalayas. With a train of ponies, yaks and
coolies the gypsying pilgrifns penetrated into
the villages, and this entertaining book hand-
somely presented is the result.
The Economics of the Kingdom of God, by
Paul R. Bull (Allen and Unwin). “My pur-
pose,” Father Paul says, “has been to pro-
vide Christian readers with material for
forming a social conscience, and social re-
formers with an assurance that the mind of
Christ is with them whenever they are plead-
ing for a just and righteous reorganisation of
our social life.” The writer is no doubt a
competent critic of the economics of the King-
dom of God, but many readers will doubt his
authoritv in the economics of this world.
Imperial Defence, by Stephen King-Hall
(Fisher Unwin). In this “book for tax-
payers” the author presents a review of the
position which demands a call on the British
taxpayers of 116 millions p.a. for defence.
Plis object is not to point any easy means of
lightening the burden, but simply to let John
Taxpayer know the problems of Empire and
give him the facts which call for this heavy
demand on his purse. “An ounce of practice
in war,” remarks the author, “is worth a
ton of theory on paper, and Imperial Defence
is wrong if, in any respect, it is not based on
the latest war experience.”
The Paris Embassy, by Beckles Wilson
(Benn). A narrative of Franco-British dip-
lomatic relations from 1814 to 1920. In
1814 the Hotel Borghese was inhabited by
the Princess Pauline, second sister of the
Emperor Napoleon. Waterloo quenched the
spirit of this mistress of /many lovers.
Wellington took over the building for the
purposes of the British embassy, and to this
day it has remained its home. Many ambas-
sadors have lived within its walls, from the
Iron Duke to Sir Edmund Monson and bir
Francis (now Lord) Bertie, who was there
when the Great War shook Paris to its
roots All are interestingly sketched.
“A.R.”: David McKee Wright's state-
ment (R.P. 31/3/’27) that “Dryden’s ‘Ode on
St. Cecilia’s Day’” is “generally known as
‘Alexander’s Feast’ ” is doubtless a lapse
of memory. Dryden’s “Song for St. Cecilia s
Day” has not the trumpet sound of his
“Alexander’s Feast,” but is preferred by
mauy. Surely, also, in any disquisitionon
the ode, Andrew Marvell’s “Horatian Ode
upon Cromwell’s Return from Ireland must
find mention. Palgrave considered this ode
“beyond doubt one of the finest in our lan-
guage,” and Ernest Rhys terms it a noble
poem—the noblest in English.” Such mas-
tery of idea, form and expression is ex-
hibited that some critics have expressed the
view that Milton was the only English poet
at that (or perhaps, any other) time who
could have nroduced an ode so perfect.
“Ah Gee” : Throw your ink upon paper, and
the words turn up in the most unexpected
places A reviewer in the Times I-dteraiy
Supplement,” discussing the obscurity of 1.
S. Elliot’s poetry, quotes the following lines:
“Oh the moon shone bright on Mrs. Porter
And on her daughter;
They wash their feet in soda-water
They are, he says, “from an Australian
ballad.” Now what Australian ballad? They
sound to me merely a parody on Lretty
Redwings,” which I understood to be an
American effusion.
“Sierra”: “Caul Boy’s” assertion (B.
3/3/’27), that the knowledge of seamanship
displayed in the opening scenes of “The
Tempest” might have been gleaned in five
minutes’ conversation with one of Drake s
men, is really a tribute to Shakspeare s
genius. Consider the number of lesser
writers who, although specialising m sea
stories, seem to be unable to glean even an
elementary knowledge of ships and naviga-
tion. Thus one of H. de Vere Stacpoole s
romantic schooners steering north from Syd-
ney keeps the coast of Australia on her stai-
board beam. William McFee, who spent half
a lifetime in steamers, puts his vessel on a
course n. by n.n.-e. Basil Bubbock writes
of grinning tompions poking through the
gunports of a ship. Five minutes’ conver-
sation with one of Jellicoe’s men might have
convinced him that tompions are _ the very
gags that prevent guns from grinning. Don
Byrne, describing a long sailing-ship passage
from Marseilles to Callao, gives vivid details
of “the tremendous fight around Cape Horn,
with a glimpse of land now and then as they
fought for easting.” Even a careful writer
like Miss C. Fox Smith slips when she takes
exception to a shipmaster’s report that he
picked up the s.-e. trades in sdeg. north
latitude. “There seems to be a mistake
here,” she writes; “what were the south-east
trades doing north of the line?” Well, any
windjammer man could have told her that
the s.-e. trades extend from about 6deg. north
to 20deg. south. Sliakspeare’s ship was on a
lee shore, and his “Down with the topmast!
yare; lower, lower! bring her to try with
main course,” is more intelligible to a modern
seaman than Keble Chatterton’s “Weather
fore brace!” an absurd command put into
the mouth of the Dundonald’s captain when
he wished to brace his ship hard up in order
to weather a headland of the Auckland
Islands.
A Mirror of Silver, by Roy Bridges (Hut-
chinson). In Kent in the days of the second
Charles, in Van Diemen’s Band in the’thirties
of last century, in mid-Victorian days and in
the years of our present generation the silver-
framed mirror had reflected the tragedies that
beset the house of Erskine. A powerful
dramatic work, relentless and unlit by any
gleams of sunshine. Roy Bridges, one of the
little band of Australian writers who with
Dale Collins, to whom the novel is dedicated,
are steadily making their way in the literary
world of London, shows again, as in “Rat s
Castle,” that he has the gift of gripping and
holding the interest of his readers.


The Wonderful "Lock-Grip” Wire Strainer
LOCK-GRIP PATN9l6l(yi6 R.C.Du
Simple, Powerful, Rapid.
TIME, MONEY AND ENERGY SAVED.
Here is a tool that absolutely eclipses anything
invented for the straining of fencing wires.
It saves hours on a job. Joins, tightens and
repairs with the utmost ease. Its enormous
concentrated power makes light of any fencing
work—the hardest tensile wire cannot slip
through the “Lock-Grip.”
Weighs only 41b., measures 14 inches. It can
be carried in your pocket, yet it will pull your
motor-car out of a bog.
Get one and test it—there’s no risk. Failure
or breakage impossible. Thousands sold —
everyone delighted.
Price 30/- each. Victorian postage, 1/6:
Interstate, 2/8 (plus exchange).
Obtainable everywhere, or write the Agents:—
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants,
262 Queer. Street, MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
jTx
■spM
CASH
WASHADLE
RIBBONS'
For the Dainty Finishing
‘Touches to “Your Lingerie
jyTADE in Plain or Bro-
x caded Styles in Pretty
Pastel Shades up to 1-i-n.
widths no need to re-
move CASH’S RIBBONS
from garment before
washing as they retain
Colour and Freshness in-
definitely.
cAsk Your Draper
IF UNOBTAINABLE WRITE TO
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
Cubitt St., Richmond
MELBOURNE
CASH'S
RIBBONS
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
actual Size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anv
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- j)ost
free.
CRAIG g AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
-
U A a
Am
Ss. *L II /-Xv ■-v
x*
n*:
BOOTS _
—with a difference
A difference that lies in their
design. These Abbey Boots are
built on special lasts, cut exactly
to the shape of normal feet. They
fit comfortably from the start —
without tightness or strain. And,
naturally, they wear better—pre-
serve their good shape.
Note the distinctive features of the boot
photographed. The curve where it laces
snugly over the arch of the instep. The
smart shape of the roomy toe. The cut
of the upper, which drops a little at the
back above the ankle. That is done to
ensure a close, neat fit.
Order by Post
The boots are available in tan willow
calf, black velour calf, at
421- per pair
They are very stronsrly finished, with soles
of just the right thickness for everyday
use. Supplied in full and half-sizes—each
size in three fittings, narrow, medium and
wide. Specify width when ordering.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street, and
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
1.19.
JOHNSTONES
PIANO TUTOR
EASIEST AND BEST.
Price 3/*; posted 3/3.
All Music Sellers, or
i rr BOTT'rxp’
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE.
That One Pimple
May Become Many
m
»=5Pj-
Prevent More by
Using Cuticura
Soap regularly and Cuticura Oint-
ment when necessary. The Soap
cleanses the clogged, irritated pores,
the Ointment soothes and heals.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns&Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Better Not.
I saw him in the laundry
When he kissed the maid,
But I’m not going to tell him— •
I’m. . . .I’m not at all afraid.
He’d sulk for maybe three days
If I said w r hat I’d seen ;
So I’m not going to tell him,
And ive’ll sail on serene.
There’ll be tears on my pillow—
Why are men the things they are?
But I’m not going to tell him
Lest my tongue runs too far.
I know he loves me well enough,
And wouldn’t give me pain....
But I’m not going to tell him
Ever.... again.
For men are like our little sons
Who play the wag from school.
And I’m not going to tell him—-
The dam’ big fool!
N.S.W.
MARY MAY.
Fair Morning.
I never had seen Fair Morning true till
her glory glowed on me
Through the hush of a hazy winter dawn,
when its grey serenity
Rose bright and warm
Like a silent storm
Of colors that fled on watery wings as the
sun came out of the sea.
For the sea was a broidered silken floor
made fine for angels’ feet,
Or a meadow gemmed with impetuous buds
and blossoms miracle-sweet;
“Fare fast, oh day,
Let us break away
From the flowering waves to the flowering
clouds, and outward, far and fleet!”
There were iris-heads, there were bells of
the strange dove-grey that moonlight
knows,
There were Heaven’s own eyes of forget-me-
nots, and the rare, faint flush of a rose,
Rayed disc and cup
Held airily up
On stems of tremulous opal gleams—where
the drifting seaweed grows!
Then, out of the mist and into the mist, with
the curve of a scimitar, .
The flash of an albatross was there, was
gone like a shooting star.
At the sign of the bird
Enchantment stirred,
And red made lovely the silver veil where
the sky-line lay afar.
Oh, redly the silver veil of mist was reft
on the waters wild,
When in the softest drowsiness the royal
Newcomer smiled !
With never a flame
The sun god came—
ihy and rosy and half asleep—the god was
only a child!
All flowers of quivering color climbed to
float off high and free
Where the mist was drawn to the pearly
blue of the sky’s pure majesty.
In glory away
Flies dawn each day;
But you never will see Fair Morning true
till you see her wake the sea.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Old Clothes.
Look you, in the high places there are thieves.
Yet every man bows to them as they go.
Is it my fault the poor are always poor?
Why am I called a skinflint and “Old Clo”?
I live in by-streets, and my door is dim.
Well, there are bats, and bats are dark and
queer.
No one must see what everybody knows.
They call me niggling Jew, and spit and
sneer.
They hate me, though I always welcome them.
Some lose their tongues, but that’s their
misery.
I take the risk —old clothes mav never sell;
If pride is more than pence, the luck's to
me.
I asked a man of books why we are cursed.
There was no need for him to turn and
frown.
It seems the soldiers stripped that Man we
treed,
And sold the web for silver in the town.
M.L.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
Moths.
The feverish hills are restless in the night.
In the hot air a million living things
Rustle and creak and beat their unseen wings
About the window, maddened for the light.
The lamp-glow falls on paper virgin white
And every word that whispers, cries or
sings,
Eager to break its thin imaginings
Circles my pen in fluttering, heedless flight.
The pale words are so many and so weak.
One easy spider-web of careless ink
Can snare them all to doom ; for being said,
They struggle but an instant and ar e dead.
The paper still is white. Ah, soon, I think,
Comes the one shining, lustrous thing I seek.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.
Contrasts.
Ah, I recall
The winding road across the plain,
The grey gums drooping in the rain
At even fall;
The homestead windows winking light
Ere yet the early autumn night
Closed over all;
Remembering yet—
Now we so long have parted ways
In this dim light of after days
And pale regret—
How glamor waited there for me
Beside the dusky pepper-tree,
All dripping wet.
Now fold on fold
Across the rolling bushland whig
The glow of early summer tide
Fours gypsy gold.
The darkening night, the sombre plain,
The grey gums drooping in the rain
Are memories old.
The warm suns wake
The busy seasons’ myriad loves
The querulous cry of wattle doves
By stream and brake.
I would not go that way again
Beneath the mournful autumn rain
For any sake!
In spendthrift store,
With petalled amethyst and sard,
The tall bush grass is jewel-starred.
Yet o'er and o’er,
Through all the day’s enchanted pride,
I wonder so why glamor died
And comes no more?
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Garnering.
Oh, autumn time is harvest time,
And I would store away
Memories of purple and of red
Ere all the fairy wealth be sped,
’Gainst winter’s sombre grey;
Glean garlands from glad gardens dressed
With color rare and gay
And make a tryst with dreams of them.
And memories of autumns gold—
Bent boughs with jewelled fruit a-swing,
And great sunflowers a-blossoming,
And leaf-piled carpets rolled;
Yellow and bronze along a stream
That tawny hills enfold.
I’ll see the sky again, a roof
Of lapis-lazuli,
And breathe once more the wine-sweet air
Of a remembered hilltop where
The sun stayed late with me,
And live it all, and love it all,
In a rich reverie.
So winter’s gloom there’ll never be
Within the dream-lit soul of me.
11. L.
PHYLLIS GAVIN.
Hospital.
In that white, unending wall
Twelve small dwarfish echoes dwell,
Who would think that things so small
Could so mock a man in Hell?
If I say the smallest thing,
If one ghost escapes my brain,
All night long they sit again,
Whispering.... whispering.
Say I: “She is walking now
Where the branches stooping low
Flake with apple-bloom her brow.
Why should she, the swift, walk slow?
She forgot so long ago
That carved heart upon the bough.
Go your ways, youth-sandalled feet,
Half, perhaps, remembering
Fad’s love, in the twilight sweet,
But a man’s a stronger thing.”
All night long an echo leant
Whispering words that were not meant....
Or I said: “When she shall see
Dim boughs of a blossomed tree
She’ll remember, being young.”
And a little venomed tongue
Laughed and laughed the livelong night
From behind the shaded light.
“Or,” I say, “if she were here—
Brook-brown eyes and taAviiy hair—
Like a bush-flower, straight and tall,
Whose dew shines but does not fall,
One small fawn-gloved hand would reach
Those still depths not meant for speech.
But she follows, follows still,
Through grey ti-tree, o’er the hill,
That strong eagle, her wind-lover.
Oh, small feet, must you discover
Those lost sunsets whispered long
In your golden eagle’s song.
Twilight-purpled hills and trees
Whispering of eternities
And the wet face of the rain?”
(“He will never walk again.”)
“Oh, small feet, are you so bold?
And your lover’s lips are cold;
Old as God he is.” And then
All the little echo-men
Scream with laughter... .whispering;
All their little voices ring
Till the moonstone-blue of morn
Strangely in the pines is. born
And the day is here again—
Thank God, for the lips of pain!
MAORILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.


Australian Mortgages
Limited
Registered Under the Companies Acts 1899-1918, New South Wales.
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
100,000 Nine Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1
each, and
500,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each, offered for public sub-
scription, payable 2/6 per Share on application, 2/6
per Share on allotment, and the balance in Calls of not
more than 1/- per Share at intervals of not less than
one month.
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each may be issued as stated in
the prospectus.
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each to be held in reserve.
1,000,000
DIRECTORS:
JAMES P. BOLGER Esq.. Kclburn Hall, Elizabeth Bay Road, Elizabeth Bay
(Director M. Bolger & Sons, Ltd., Graziers, Wonbobbie, Warren, N.S.W.).
JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, Esq., Solicitor, 350 George Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MILLER, Esq., Company Director, Coronation Avenue, Mosman.
E. It. WALSH, Esq., Investor, Burfit Street, Leichhardt.
(Another Director may be appointed.)
UNDERWRITING:
The British-Australian Underwriters (Amalgamated), Limited, have entered into
an Agreement whereby they have underwritten firm one hundred thousand
shares in the capital of the company,
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SOLICITOR:
JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, National Mutual Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS;
W. K. FULLERTON & CO., Hudson House, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITERS AND ORGANISING BROKERS:
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN UNDERWRITERS (Amalgamated), LTD., Adyar
House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
11. G. DOUTTY, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
THERE ARE NO FREE SHARES
ISSUED TO ANYONE.
Application for Shares
To the Secretary>
AUSTRALIAN MOIITGAGES, LIMITED,
C/o British-Australian Underwriters (Amalgamated), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
I hereby apply for Preference/Ordinai y
(Cross out class not required)
Shares in- the Capital of the above Company upon the terms of the
Company’s Prospectus, and I hereby agree to accept the same or any less
number as may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as
the holder of such Shares.
I enclose herewith £. being 2/6 per share on appli-
cation, and I agree to pay a further 2/6 per share on allotment, and to
pay the balance as provided in the said Prospectus, and to be bound by
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 192
Name (in full)
Address (in full)
Occupation
Signature
S.B. 12/5/-27.
To AUSTRALIAN MORTGAGES, LTD.,
C/o British-Australian Underwriters (Amal.), Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
Please send me copy of full Prospectus of above
company, without any obligation to me.
NAME . .
ADDRESS
S.B. l'2/5/’27.
Sole Representative for Queensland:
EDWARD LITCHFIELD, 324 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
y
n
m
I
~j?J
ra
THE SECURITY
Tlie Company’s security for the money it lends is REAL PROPERTY,
regarded everywhere and by everyone as “gilt-edged.” It is, indeed, the very
best and safest of all securities. Banks, Insurance Companies, Building Societies
and other financial institutions place real estate first in the matter of security
because, while other securities may diminish in value, real property is the one
asset which unfailingly increases in value with the passage of time.
There is also the security of the owner who is liable for any deficiency, and
there is a further security in the fact that every transaction will be insured with
a first-class insurance Company against any loss that might arise from any cause
whatever.
THE PROFITS
It is very rarely the case that high profits and sound security go together.
Where the return on capital is above the average, there is nearly always a very
material element of risk. In Australian Mortgages, Limited, however, the demand
is so great and the needs of the builder so pressing that a high rate of discount-
ing is readily paid in order to secure prompt financing. The average builder, being
unable to carry the heavy financial responsibility of his own mortgages, which
would involve large capital resources, has to seek some means of discounting so
as to release liis capital for further operations.
A small, private company dealing in second mortgages paid a dividend of
over 30 per cent, last year. Australian Mortgages, Limited, with its ample capital,
can earn much more than this for the reason that it can take full advantage of
the profits derivable from other sources of income, including the re-investment of
its funds, known as pyramiding the succession of investments, and therefore
its earnings should range from 20 per cent, to 40 per cent, per annum. There
will be a systematic return of the capital, thus enabling the Company to turn the
money over many times a year in hundreds of transactions.
As soon as the capital is received it is transformed into sound, dividend-
earning securities on which money may be borrowed from the bank and re-
invested at a higher rate of interest. The capital will always be earning interest
and will never be idle, and the Company will have the pick of the cream of invest-
ments throughout Australia.
THE DEMAND
The Directors of Australian Mortgages, Limited, take the fullest responsibility
for the statement that, after careful inquiries extending over a lengthy period,
there is suflicient business available to absorb, safely and profitably, every pound
of the Company’s capital of £1,000,000. In addition, the Directors have themselves
been handling for years a considerable amount of the class of business proposed by
the Company, and they have discounted second mortgages on terms varying from
24 per cent, to 29 per cent., their profits in many cases reaching up to 40 per cent.
Within one week of the publication of the prospectus in the press the
Directors were inundated with requests for second-mortgage finance, although thev
did not in any way whatever ask for or solicit business for the Company. This
further supports the claim made in the prospectus that there is plenty of business
for the employment of the large capital of the Company.
A great number of master builders and private persons have called upon and
written to the Brokers and the Company enthusiastically supporting Australian
Mortgages, Limited, and these letters will be published in due course.
The daily Sun of 19th April, 1927, said “A significant feature in the local
money market recently has been a strong and growing demand for accommodation
on the security of mortgages.”
Further evidence of the popularity of this super-investment is that many
thousands of shares were placed BEFORE the prospectus was published.
Still further testimony is the fact that the Company’s Brokers, British-
Australian Underwriters (Ainal.), Limited, a company with 25 years’ experience,
has firm underwritten shares to the value of £lOO,OOO, and that the Directors are
taking up between them shares to the value of £25,000. Thus, more than half of
the first issue of capital is assured.
It is common knowledge in the building trade* that master builders can utilise
the whole of the Company’s capital in discounting new second mortgages without
taking into account the vast number of existing second mortgages which can be
readily, safely and profitably discounted.
The First Issue of 200,000 shares is now offered for public subscription and
the holders of these shares will be granted an option entitling them to take up at
par value (£1) within a stated period further shares in the proportion of share
for share. This is a very valuable concession offered by the Brokers for the pur-
pose of enabling them to secure the capital quickly so that the Company will
begin to earn profits immediately.
Sole Victorian Representative:
E. C. TATCHELL, 400 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE,


>
1
m
l Jk
: I
£ ;
,
V. .
mm
m
i
III
Wm m
I
'
■
m
;r *
Bia
jp' #
i
..<•
jh
11,.
& iiippir
ifcatei
■
■■M
<*•»
fcasajagaii
,
ilii


The Bulletin
Vol. 48 —No. 2405.
May 12, 1927.
SALUTE I


The Bulletin
AHE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERRIS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted tO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £1 J,s.j 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, A 1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, of, say,
SOOO ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tjetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forivarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M.S.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
71) Farringdon Street, London, E.C.4.; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.h.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 1/6 Fleet Street, London E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander," l/Ui-ll Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg j Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia Neivs Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co., 161. East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l)2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
Neivs Agency, 203 West hist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Iloyat
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News Stand,
5!, Ik South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., SI Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, F.M.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Nc. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. ; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-7 9 Farringdon Street, London, E.C.h.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonivealtli, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: !/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional Ijoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z..
British Possessions and U.S.A.: Jjoz. or part thereof,
id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffuT^xilljeZzoi,
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 1927.
IB’or all articles and paragraphs in this issue
which require a signature under the Commonwealth
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and James
Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]
COMFORT OR A STICKY MESS?
The Trade Union Congress at Melbourne
left the world in no doubt as to its
attitude towards the viper of Capitalism.
More clearly and definitely than any previ-
ous gathering of the kind in Aus-
tralia, the delegates declared the thing
accursed. Particularly emphatic was the
condemnation of all schemes for improving
production. Piece-work, profit-sharing, bo-
nuses on production and co-partnership
plans were banned as “insidious and per-
nicious forms of excessive speeding up,
incapable of being effectively policed.” The
theory that it is the chief end of man to
see that nobody works hard is seldom par-
aded with such bland naivete. The extent
to which the sentiment has impressed itself
on Australian factory practice was indi-
cated by a tobacco-factory delegate, who
said that, in his industry profit-sharing had
been introduced by some firms. “But,” he
added, “the earning capacity of every
employee is limited, so that all go out of
the factory with the same amount of money
each week. The employees on day-work
do 44 hours a week, but no piece-worker
puts in more than 40 hours.” In other
words, the union has seen to it that piece-
work in making employees more efficient
brings no advantage to either employee or
employer. Apparently this is submitted as
evidence of the failure of piece-work. Of
course, it is nothing of the sort—no more
than it is evidence that knives are a failure
because wicked men have sometimes used
them to kill their wives.
* * * *
But even supposing that the policy of
keeping production down, shortening hours,
supplementing earnings with State doles,
and screwing everyone down to as near
the minimum wage as possible could be
continued for another hundred years, it
could do no more than bring about a State
in which the workers would be merely ser-
vile units, no less dependent on employers
than at present for part of the means of
subsistence, and a lot more dependent on
the State. The vision of Jock Garden and
gentlemen of his ilk perhaps is a complete
paralysis or breakdown of the capitalist
system due to the passive resistance of the
workers; but it can be by no means clear
even to such a mind as Garden’s that the
breakdown or paralysis, if it occurs, will
be the occasion for the setting up of an
Australian Soviet. There is more than a
chance that it might mean the hurried
departure of Garden and his friends from
the country, two jumps ahead of a hungry
mob. At any rate, a very much brainer
Laborite than Garden, Philip Snowden,
thinks the road to the Co-operative Com-
monwealth lies through all the things
Garden and his party so much detest—
speeding-up of industry, co-partnership,
profit-sharing, formation of industrial trusts
or combines, establishment of banks owned
and controlled by workers, and so on.
Snowden’s theory is that the workers must
learn to do for themselves the things the
capitalist organisation now does for them
—not sit down and loaf on the job, expect-
ing the Millennium to come rolling down
the street some morning without a shove
from anyone. Snowden is probably as
much a visionary as Garden, but he doesn’t
expect miracles.
* * * *
And whereas Garden’s scheme inevitably
means distress and probably widespread
starvation to go on with, Snowden’s just
as inevitably means a steady improvement
in the workers’ condition right away. “You
shall not earn as much money as you
could, because if you earned it you could
make yourself and your family comfort-
able,” Garden’s party says, “and if you get
comfortable you won’t revolush.” “Damn
your revolution,” Snowden’s party' replies,
“if you can get all you want without it, and
begin to get it straight away!” This brings
the worker and his wife hard up against
the chief point at issue. If you can get
comfort without a revolution, why should
you have the accursed thing, the more
especially as it is very doubtful whether
the accursed thing will bring comfort to
anybody at all, though it may fill the
pockets of a few? Nevertheless, if Garden
is right and a revolution would produce the
great results he claims it would, there is
some sense in going slow and spurning
piece-work and all the rest of it. In other
words, there is some sense in doing these
things if they are regarded and accepted
as part of the general plan of revolution.
The frank and unashamed revolutionist
may gladly do these things—he knows what
they are for. But how can the man who
is not a revolutionist justify himself? He,
poor fool, is robbing himself of present
gains without allowing himself the hope of
future ones. The revolutionist’s objection
to piece-work is thus quite sound. The
objection to it of the man who is opposed
to revolution is simply foolish.
WARRINGAH.
The Great National Party is cutting an
inglorious figure in the Warringah (N.S.W.)
by-election. While denouncing Political
Labor, lock, stock and barrel, it is trying to
impose Labor methods, with York-street
additions, on a district which has hitherto
prided itself on having no use for Laborisin
in any shape or form. Warringah gave the
Nationalists the greatest majority they got
in any single division at the Commonwealth
election 18 months ago. There were 46,802
names on the roll and 42,587 effective votes
were polled; 34,132 went to Ryrie, who is to
succeed Joseph Cook as High Commis-
sioner in London, and 8455 to Conway, the
Labor candidate. On the same occasion the
Nationalists and the allied Cockies won 52
seats in the House of Reps, and 18 in the
Senate, giving them a majority of 28,
without the Speaker, in one Chamber and
19, without the President, in the other. Two
by-elections for the House of Reps, have
left the state of parties unchanged, nor is
there any sign that Labor has gained ground
in Warringah; the indications are rather
that it is weaker there than ever owing to
the disgust excited by the mad legislation
and finance, the bad faith and the push-like
brawling of the Lang Government. It was
therefore expected that the Nationalist
organisation would aim at filling the
vacancy with the best man available, by
inviting nominations from Government
supporters willing, first, to take their
chance in an unrestricted field and,
second, to urge the electors to distri-
bute their preferences among other Gov-
ernment supporters, while soliciting the
No. 1 vote for themselves. Contests of this
nature appeal to the sporting instincts of
Australians, and they are nearly always
conducted in a sporting spirit, with the re-
sult that the party gains in more ways than
one. The “open go” has thus enabled both
Nationalists and Cockies to win seats, in
the Commonwealth and some of the States,
that would otherwise have been lost.
=!= :!: * #
For a time it looked as if a friendly con-
test would take place. When the Ryrie
appointment was announced several Nation-
alists with claims on the party were men-
tioned as likely candidates. Victor Wilson,
who was Minister of Markets and Migration
till he lost his Senate seat in South Aus.,
was one. R. B. Orchard, M.H.R. for
Nepean in three Parliaments and Assistant
Minister for a time, was another. Orchard
in particular was entitled to consideration;
at the general election he took on an appa-
rently hopeless fight in East Sydney, which
has been Labor since 1910, and very nearly
succeeded. R. W. D. Weaver, who headed
the poll for North Shore at the 1922 State
election, was also named. But it soon be-
came known that, as far as the party bosses
could order it, the seat was to be a gift to
Archdale Parkhill, secretary of the
National Federation: it was given out that
this gentleman had been “sefected” by
a body calling itself the Warringah Electoral
Council, and that any Nationalist who dared
to come out against him could consider him-
self “black” for the rest of his days. The
proceedings were on all fours with those of
the Labor party when arranging these mat-
ters, except that the Labor selection ballot,
however corrupt, is open to thousands of
unionists, whereas the Warringah Electoral
Council, which presumes to dictate to
50,000 electors, has 52 members all told.
# * * *
In further sincere flattery of the other
side, Archdale Parkhill is sometimes
acompanied to his meetings by W. A. Hol-
man and at other times by W. M. Hughes.
The one gentleman was Labor Premier of
N. S. Wales for three years and four
months; the other was Labor Prime Minis-
ter of the Commonwealth for a year and
four months. Each, of course, became a
Nationalist leader and remained one until the
electors signified that they had had enough.
Hughes received a present of £25,000 for
winning the war, although the shrinking
modesty of the donors has concealed the
subscription list from prying eyes. Park-
hill himself was presented with £2500 after
the other’s retreat from doubtful Bendigo
to safe North Sydney in 1922—n0t, it is
explained, to heal his injured feelings be-
cause Hughes had jumped his claim to
North Sydney, but because the Nationalists
admired him so much. Fired by the presence
of Hughes or Holman, he confides to his
audiences that he was secretary of a
“Liberal Freetrade” League when those
worthies were Freetraders. He also informs
them that he is in favor of measures like
child endowment and compulsory insurance
“because if we don’t bring these things in
the Labor party will,” meaning that if “we”
don’t promise them, regardless of cost, the
Labor party will get the votes. In short,
he reveals himself as a vote-hunter of the
good-as-a-Labor-man variety, more numer-
ous 15 years ago than now. If the Warrin-
gah people want that kind of candidate for
a member, they are welcome to him. But
The Bulletin hopes they will tell him
that they don’t want him, and tell York-
street and the Warringah Electoral Council
at the same time that Tammany methods
won’t do.
NEW ORLEANS.
Cutting the levees or embankments on the
Mississippi, below New Orleans, would have
the same effect on the flood-waters as was
achieved at Brisbane when the mouth of
the river was dredged after the disastrous
1893 flood. But whereas only the low-
lying parts of Brisbane were ever in danger,
practically the whole of New Orleans is
below river level. The city, most of which
is built on a wide wedge of land round
which the river courses, was started in
these muddy surroundings by Jean de Bien-
ville, a French-Canadian, who in 1699 tried
first to make a town right at the mouth of
the Mississippi. But British privateers
proved so troublesome that he shifted camp
up-river in 1718. On the first occasion that
the river flooded, the townsfolk built levees,
and they have been there ever since. Across
the river from the old settlement is Algiers,
now part of the city itself. It was the
site to which attempts were made to shift
New Orleans, as it stood on higher ground;
but the cosmopolitan crowd forming the
population of the old city refused to leave
their haunts, the result being that a port
which does twice as much business as Sydney
is frequently threatened with complete dis-
location of its trade.
The wharves of New Orleans are built
on top of the levees and run for nine miles
along the river, chiefly on the city side.
The port occupies in all 21 sq. miles of
river, or, with the canals and creeks which
have been dredged to make an inner har-
bor, even more than that. Negroes do all
the hustling work on the waterfront, such
as unloading bales of hides from the rail-
way-trucks. This is an exciting job, as
the trucks stand below the wharves. Planks
to take hand-trucks are laid from the car-
floors to the ground and others from the
ground to the shed-floors. The coons start
off with their load of one bale per trip
and whoop down the gangway from the cars
with enough impetus to carry them up the
other side. Sometimes the bale falls off,
or the truck leaves the plank. Then there
is shrill laughter and a babel of chatter
as the thing is righted.
In contrast to this is the slow, mournful
working habit of the “poor whites” who
do laborer’s work on the wharves. I saw
an endless line of them carrying stone from
a barge along the wharf and down to a
huge raft which had been built to be sunk
over a quicksand. Each man carried one
stone, about the size of his head, and they
moved so slowly that I asked what was
■wrong. “That’s the summer crawl,” I was
told, “and quite fast enough, too, 'for a
white man in New Orleans in summer.”
When the weight of the accumulated stones
was sufficient, the raft sank and caused the
quicksand to move further out in the river
and so allow' wharf-building to go on.
When I left, no difference in the situation
seemed possible for many days, though
the rocks dropped from the men’s shoulders
in steady streams, while the human chain
w r ent on, picked more rocks from the barge,
and came round again.
The French markets near the levees are
an institution as old as New Orleans itself.
Since 1723 they have been rebuilt three
times. They open long before daybreak
and people of every nationality meet on
them. The mixture of nations in New
Orleans is remarkable. Every public notice
is printed in nine languages, but there
are about twenty tongues spoken there,
including the gibberish of the Acadians, a
degenerate tribe of French-Canadians who
settled in the Louisiana swamps and stuck
there.
The second port in the United States,
New Orleans ships chiefly grain, cotton,
hides, rice, molasses and cattle. It is the
great distributing centre for fruit from
South and Central America, and is the big
link between towns along thousands of
miles of river and this part of the world.
Yet it still retains all its historic and
romantic charm, and in the. Cabildo or old
Spanish prison is a museum where one may
study every period of its varied career
under several flags.
With a population of 400,000, the city
ranks low in the list of big cities, but its
damage or destruction would affect trade
with hundreds of river and overseas ports,
for New Orleans is the most vital centre
in the whole of the south and in the Gulf
of Mexico. Ships of countries whose flags
are seldom, if ever, seen in Sydney frequent
its wharves, which will accommodate 90
vessels of a length of 500 feet, while ves-
sels up to 10,000 tons and 530 feet long
can be taken in the four floating docks
one of which is the second largest in th?
world.
CROJACK.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lamentation of Jeremiah Pratten.
Periodically Customs Minister Pratten
speaks a few words of truth and bangs the
drum of warning concerning the truly won-
derful financial situation, and he did the
performance over again on behalf of
Archdale Parkhill in Warringah. As he
put the familiar case:—
“We have a load of debt of over a thousand
millions, half of it being owed abroad. Our
oversea trade balance-sheet, to be sound,
must give us an average every year of value
in exports that at least balances the interest
on our debts abroad plus the value of our
imports. . . . This continued indiscriminate
pledging of our credit abroad is, in effect,
further borrowing to pay interest on current
loans and for the purchase of more imported
goods.”
And much more to the same effect. That
being the badness of the position, it is
reasonable to inquire what plan or ideal
Mr. Pratten and his colleagues have for
making it better. It may seem unattain-
able, but even an apparently unattainable
ideal is better than none, and it sometimes
improves on acquaintance.
For instance, it would be interesting if
the Commonwealth Government worked
out a scheme (and did it this month, as
time is pressing) for taking over all the
external debts of the States, on condition
that they wholly surrender the right to
contract external debts in future. To do
this it would perhaps be necessary for the
States to facilitate an amendment of the
Constitution, and though that might be
difficult it would be all part of the ideal.
Except in the case of Westralia there would
be no serious financial discrepancy to surmount
despite the variations in the sums owing
per inhabitant. If Queensland’s external
liability is £76 per head while Victoria?
is only £32, the Commonwealth could
assume the latter State’s local liability to
balance the account. Supposing one Stats
to take up the attitude of the Nark, ana
stand out, as in the case of the Loan Coun-
cil, the others might act without it, but
the loss which the Nark would suffer
through carrying its own foreign debt a?
well as its share of the greatly-enlarge-i
Federal debt would be a powerful argument
in favor of coming in. Westralia, by reason
of its huge liability per head, might profit
a little at its neighbors’ expense, but its
special subsidy could be stopped to make
things equal.- In order that the Common-
wealth should have the necessary funds to


meet its new obligations, it could abolish
.j ie per capita allowance and push or per-
‘uade the minor Governmenis out of some
fields of taxation.
The first outstanding feature of the case
wou ld be that the States would have no
r, e ed for loans abroad when they had no
interest to pay abroad, for the urgent pur-
pose of their foreign loans nowadays is to
ray foreign interest. The second feature
would be that the Prattens and Pages,
when they took over the entire external
interest bill, would have an invaluable
opportunity to show how much better they
could meet it out of Australia’s own re-
sources than the Langs and the McCor-
macks do. To secure for them that oppor-
tunity would be worth any effort, and with
the power to stop the per capita allowance
as an argument it should not be impossible
to educate the community to the necessary
elevation. Supposing the suggested change
was brought about, the Prattens and
Pages, instead of merely lamenting the
adverse balance of trade, might, for the
sake of their suffering reputations, set to
work at correcting it, even to the extent
of the prohibition of many needless im-
portations.
Baldwin’s Trades Union's Bill.
Of course, it is possible to work yourself up
into a rage over it, and no doubt some of its
provisions are too vague; but in its governing
principles the Baldwin Trades Unions Bill
is really a rather mild sort of measure. It
prohibits a general strike. Trades may strike
on the matter of their own trade grievances,
but as the whole community never has
the same grievance (about the hewing rate
for coal, as an instance) an all-round stop-
page isn’t an industrial movement but a
conspiracy or insurrection. Public servants
are to keep out of combinations of brick-
layers or the like, where they have no
legitimate business. And terrorising devices
to force unwilling workers into strikes are
to be illegal.
But the proviso which awakens the most
fury among the Labor bosses is to the
effect that, though a man is a compulsory
member of a union (it being practically
impossible for him to get employment
otherwise), he shall not also be a com-
pulsory subscriber to the funds of the Labor
party, for which he may have no use what-
soever. In theory no unionist is compelled
to subscribe, but very serious compulsion
exists all the same. The levy is resolved
upon by secret ballot of more or less hon-
esty, and, after that, any member may
refuse to pay provided he states reasons
for doing so. It being unpleasant, and un-
popular, and perhaps unsafe for the objector
to announce that he is not a Labor man
at all, and that his objection is to the
whole business, the right of refusal is not
much availed of. The new idea is that any
member of a union shall, unless he agrees
in writing to the contrary, be a permanent
non-contributor to political levies and to
levies in general apart from the regular
union dues, and need not give any reasons.
This has roused a storm of indignation
among the Jack Joneses as a base device
to cripple the party funds. It sounds like
a bald admission that the party funds are
largely the proceeds of blackmail levied on
unwilling subscribers.
And there is some evidence to support
this view. In 1909 a unionist obtained a
judgment that compulsory political levies
were illegal. Apparently this had an effect
on the party’s resources, for the number
of Labor members in the Commons drop-
ped at next election from 52 to 40, and at
subsequent election it stood at 42. The
liberal Ministry passed, in 1913, the exist-
ing law by which compulsory contribution
became a very real thing—in fact, though
not in name. The sinews of war became
more plentiful, and so did Labor members,
the numbers returned at the next three
elections being 62, then 142, then 191.
Ramsay Macdonald’s truckling with the
Soviet and the country’s growing weariness
of Freetrade were probably responsible for
the drop to 150 in 1924. The Liberals got
their reward in something approaching
extinction.
So far as the compulsory or semi-compul-
sory levy is involved, it is thus no hallowed
old privilege on which the Baldwin Gov-
ernment has laid a desecrating hand. And
to judge by the figures, it rather seems that
the Government has the majority of trades
unionists behind it.
His Excellency’s Veto.
The United States Congress recently passed
an Act of an elaborate and complicated
character dealing with the marketing of
Products, with a glance at price-fixing as
a side-line. It was called the Smith Bill, or
something of the sort, for the familiar desig-
nation of a U.S. law tells who invented it,
not. what it is about. President Coolidge
quietly suppressed the document, which
>s to say he refused to sign it, giving his
jrritten reasons as required by law. They
toiled down to two —that he believed the
nieasure to be unconstitutional, and that
he considered it a fool of a measure.
The President must either sign or an-
nounce his veto within 10 days after the
Passing of a measure, else it becomes law
automatically. But this doesn’t apply if
Congress adjourns within the 10 days and
leaves the Head of the Republic still think-
®g; in that case the bill perishes auto-
matically. State Governors also have the
v eto. Should Congress be so much in
earnest as to pass the bill again, or to pass
hin the first place by a vote of two-thirds
°i all the members in each House, the veto
is null and void. Otherwise the matter
has to rest till there is a different Congress,
or a different President.
There are some good features about the
veto as an article of political furniture.
It serves as a precaution against freak legis-
lation, and legislation that is too notori-
ously gagged through, especially when it
passes by a bare majority in a thin House
of machine-made and -controlled members.
The system which requires 67 per cent,
of the entire voting power of the Parlia-
ment to over-ride his Excellency’s “No”
may be drastic; but the United States
apparently doesn’t see any objection even
to that. If Australia comes into possession
of popularly-elected Governors on the U.S.
plan it might be well, then, if the veto was
made, in the clearest possible way, a part of
their equipment. There is difficulty, of course,
in entrusting the same large authority to
a nominee Governor-General, who doesn’t
represent the local Voice of the People;
but even with a nominee Governor-General
or Governor it might be well to givr-
him a power of veto, always provided that
a referendum majority could annul the
Figurehead’s decision. Hitherto the assump-
tion has always been that the Parliament
is the one and only democratic body, speak-
ing with the voice of the people; but it
is now quite obvious that Parliaments may
be, at the very best, accidents, and that
there ought to be some authority to pro-
tect the people until the people can speak.
Assuming that the Figurehead was a man
of intelligence, possession of the veto might
thus make him a useful part of the public
apparatus instead of a mere opener of
shows and layer of foundation-stones. ■
•
“No Trucks Available.”
The Westralian wheat-fanners are greatly
increasing their purchases of superphos-
phate; and a good thing, too. Railway
Department figures show that 123,000 tons
of fertilisers, nearly all super., were carried
over the Government lines in 1923-24,
147,000 tons in 1924-25 and 170,000 tons in
1925-26; and orders for 15 p.c. more than
last year’s total have, it is estimated, been
placed this year. And, by an arrangement
between Westralian Farmers, Ltd.—that
remarkable co-operative concern which
started in a small way just before the war
and has grown into one of the biggest enter-
prises of its kind south of the Line—and
the two companies manufacturing super, in
Jarrahland, portion of the profits on the
super, transactions will go back to the
farmers. Unfortunately, the demand for
an additional 20,000 or 25,000 tons this year
caught the Government unprepared. “Get
your super, as early as possible and dress
heavily,” has always been G. H. Sutton’s
advice to the farmers— Sutton was Farrer’s
pupil, and as head of the Westralian Agri-
cultural Department has worthily carried
on the Farrer tradition. But at the end
of April, owing to shortage of waggons,
there were still 15,000 tons awaiting trans-
port.
It is not Commissioner Pope’s fault. In
report after report Pope has advised the
Government that his waggon stock was
lamentably unequal to requirements. On
June 30, i 925, he asked for 610 more wag-
gons, “which would give an increase of
about 6 p.c. on our existing carrying capa-
city,” and in the ensuing twelvemonth he
was provided with 183. On June 30, 1926,
he wrote that the construction of 120
G.c. waggons and 255 four-wheel steel wag-
gons had been authorised, but gloomily
predicted that only the G.c. waggons would
be ready by harvest time. And apparently
he was right.
Railway Minister Willcock’s explana-
tion of the delay is interesting in a melan-
choly fashion. “If the British coal strike
had not taken place,” he said to a deputa-
tion, “we would have had 215 new 14-ton
trucks available for the carriage of super-
phosphate, but the material is only now
coming to hand. . . ■. Trucks ordered by
the Government 12 months ago are only
being delivered now.” It is sound policy
to buy from Britain when the line required
isn’t available in Australia, for, apart from
sentimental considerations, Britain is far
and away our best customer. But trucks
for carrying manure! There is no need
to go outside the Commonwealth for either
the raw material or the finished article.
There are great steelworks in the Com-
monwealth and there are numerous work-
shops, six of them State-owned, in which
railway-waggons are built. If the Westralian
Government’s own workshops at Midland
Junction were too small and inadequately
equipped, and if its principles precluded
its patronising private manufacturers, it
might have got a job done in the South
Australian Government’s shops at Islington.
That undertaking is so extensive that when
the Commissioner’s last annual report was
sent to the printer, workmen were construct-
ing 620 steel cars, 10 Mikado locomotives,
22 boilers, 22 double-deck ’buses, 25 rail-
motor-trailers and 24 acid tanks, refitting 157
engines and 200 waggons, and converting
588 waggons from sft. 3in. to 3ft. 6in.
gauge, besides attending to repair jobs.
The usual excuse for the shiftless busi-
ness of sending to the other end of the
world for things which can be, and are, pro-
duced in Australia is that it “assists
primary production.” But in this West-
ralian instance, as in many others, it is
retarding “primary production.”
- ♦
Canberra.
The sun has been shining out almost too
brightly on Canberra, for it has torn the
mask off a good many shams and make-
shifts. It is a city of shams and make-
shifts. During the past few months, the
last few weeks especially, the Federa.
Capital Commission and its staff have been
working feverishly. But feverish work could
not cover the gimcrackery of it all. Indeed,
m some respects it merely piled the gim-
crackery deeper, as when some hundreds of
pounds were spent in cutting saplings and
sticking them in the ground to look like
planted trees. This, of course, in prepara-
tion for the great event of Monday. But
the few pounds or few hundred pounds
spent to make cut saplings masquerade as
a plantation are only a fleabite compared
with the quarter-million which one F.C.C.
official in boastful mood declared that the
opening ceremony would cost. Still, there
will be only one opening ceremony, and
the waste will not be repeated. The awful
waste involved in having the seat of gov-
ernment so isolated and in so inhospitable
a district will go on and on. The Governor-
General’s residence, at the moment of writ-
ing occupied by the Duke and Duchess, is
old Yarralumla, a station homestead since
the infancy of the oldest inhabitant’s
father. While agriculture has crept out
from the city and sought every favorable
situation within hundreds of miles of Syd-
ney, Canberra has been left to the sheep
and the rabbit. Even the small town of
Queanbeyan never has grown its own vege-
tables.
There are monuments of shocking waste
over the whole area, and the conditions of
life for the workmen who have made the
city what it is stand in striking contrast
to the fair face it presents at this moment.
There is a sewer tunnel under the Molonglo
—now a dry, dusty watercourse, but to be
turned into a lake presently—which took
10 expensive months to make. There is
a bridge across the same anaemic stream
and mud-caked hollow built 10 years ago,
and already decayed planking must be re-
placed. In spite of tremendous efforts to
make everything look rosy, one can find
without much trouble such things as an
expensive concrete base for a pumping
plant which it was intended to erect —until
it was discovered that in such a position
the plant would be useless. The territory
is dotted with pretentious signs. One declar-
ing that the area thereabouts is reserved
for a zoological park is declared on very
good authority to have cost over £6O of
the taxpayers’ hard borrowed money. And
that is only one small item among a thou-
sand.
The eyes of a continent, it is said, have
been turned on the new city. But wool has
been well pulled over the eyes of the con-
tinent first.
♦
Universities, Australian and English.
Dear Bulletin, —To set up as an Australian
model the wholly peculiar and very special
sort of university that is at Oxford and at
Cambridge is merely to overlook the fact
that one does not make butter out of bricks.
There is no primary parallel at all between
these two English institutions and our own
universities, and it is a matter of the utmost
amazement that “S.N.R.” (B. 14/4/’27) or
anyone else could imagine for a moment
that there is.
In Australia the function of our univer-
sities has been revealed as an almost wholty
practical one. They are schools for training
in the necessary professions; 95 p.c. of
students have before them the goal of
remunerated service in medicine, law, peda-
gogy, commerce, and so on. The univer-
sities are, rightly or wrongly and certainly
inevitably, teaching with an end beyond the
acquisition of knowledge; the whole trend
of their development has been to increase
the number of the community’s experts, to
apply the imparted knowledge to the every-
day needs of the public.
Oxford and Cambridge, on the other hand,
are removed, by the very nature they have
assumed, from the urgent practicalities.
They do not profess to meet them. Their
business is most truly with those who learn
for learning’s sake, those who seek nothing
more immediate than the enlightenment and
sweetening of the understanding. No nobler
purpose is conceivable, perhaps, and the
question of how far they succeed in it is
here irrelevant. The point is that they aim
at something essentially different from that
which is (again rightly or wrongly, and cer-
tainly necessarily) the aim of our own uni-
versities ; something to which we cannot
aspire; for the plain fact of the matter is
that Oxford and Cambridge are impossible
without a numerous class of leisured,
moneyed people.
It is not the slightest use blinking the
fact that Sydney, even if it bears the arms
of the “parent bodies,” has a very different
job to do. The arms may be those of
Jacob, but the business to be done is more in
the way of Esau, and Sydney and Mel-
bourne and Adelaide and Queensland have
to look to the mess of pottage rather than
to the birthright.
When “S.N.R.” talks of the “true spirit of
university life” he obviously means that of
Oxford and Cambridge. But that spirit is
native to them; it is of the genius of the
places; and to suggest that it could or
would be equally true in vastly different
circumstances is a palpable self-delusion.
Further, it is a suggestion that the best we
can do is to imitate; for my part I think
it better for our institutions to create their
own native atmosphere, so that when we
speak of Sydney or Melbourne we will mean
Sydney or Melbourne, and not oseudo-
Oxford. If we are really concerned about the
future of our own institutions, we will do
more and better by them and for them if
we think of them in terms of their own
conditions and circumstances and functions.
—Yours, D. P. McGuire.
— —♦
Australian Decorative Art.
As a revelation of the standards of taste
of an enlightened democracy, Melbourne’s
biggest art show, the decorations for the
ducal visit, attended by one and a halt
million people, was both interesting and
instructive. .
Some weeks before the opening certain
reverend seigniors, presumably of high
esthetic quality, were alleged to have met
to decide on a co-ordinated plan. The pros-
pect of a noble city converted into a symbol
of patriotic rejoicing whetted the public
expectation. What eventuated was an in-
fant’s idea of a fairy palace. The only
collective manifestation was groggy avenues
of posts along the principal thoroughfares
hung lengthwise with garish red and blue
lights and crosswise with skimpy flags of
every eccentric shape and design, as if a
million tide-waiters were wildly signalling
a million ships; while part of Collins-street
was draped in sombre green, presumably
in expectation of a funeral. The best of
the one-man shows was supplied by the
Fire Brigades, which had a tower miracu-
lously suspended in the upper air; and the
fine architecture of Parliament House was
chastely outlined in pearls. The rest of
the exhibitors, with few exceptions, appar-
ently went to the cinema caves for their
inspiration.
The estimated cost of the show was
£BO,OOO, but £15.000 of this went in food
and illuminated addresses. The Bulletin
is in a position to say that the food was
better than the addresses.
♦
The Monopolists.
One of the joys of cattle-breeding in
Queensland was exhibited in a recent case
before the State Board of Trade and Arbi-
tration. Swift’s Meat Co. applied for an
order making it compulsory for the Slaugh-
termen’s Union to supply all labor asked
for. The co. had arranged to kill 254 cattle
a day, 26 less than the maximum kill for
a gang of six men. The first day’s kill was
only 210, and there was also a shortage
for the second and third days. With the
prospect of a big lot of cattle being left
in the yards over the week-end to “waste”
and lose in quality and value, the co. asked
the union for extra men to polish off the
full weekly quota. This was refused, and
192 cattle were left to “waste.” These facts
were admitted; but the union rep. reckoned
it unfair that the gang should be robbed
of its monopoly—Fate or something had
thrown a mob of bullocks into its hands,
and perish the thought of any comrade
being allowed in to sample a bit of the
fat! For the cattle between the alternatives
of slaughter and semi-starvation no one
seemed to have any sympathy to spare.
When are the unions going to recover
their old commonsense, and instruct their
reps, that unionism stands for the fair
thing and the just thing?
The Mudlarks.
The other day a deputation said to be
representative of missions and scientific
bodies waited on the Minister for Home
and Territories. Its object was to protest
against the alleged ill-treatment by whites
of the abos. of N.-W. Australia. The Aus-
tralian abo. has had a bad spin in one
way and another, but not nearly so bad
as that which fell to the lot of the Inca
and Aztec, the American Indian of the
United States, and the Bushmen and Hot-
tentots of South Africa. Indeed, the white
man in Australia, especially in the last 40
years or so, has done a great deal for the
hand-to-mouth nomads who were the orig-
inal owners of the country. This has been
especially so in Northern Queensland and
Westralia. In those areas the abo. has
had a better chance to fit in with the white
man than was possible elsewhere in Aus-
tralia. About the only white man’s job
he can fill effectively is that of cattle-station
hand. This has made him a fairly valuable
asset in those parts, and, except in extreme
cases, his employers have dealt well with
him, and Authority has seen that this was
done.
It is all the more irritating, then, to
read some of the fantastic stories told by
members of the deputation in support of
their argument that only the men of their
own blood are vile in Northern Westralia;
and the cause of the unhappy abo., deserv-
ing as it is, can receive no benefit from
advocates bringing forward venomous ex
parte statements as arguments. But that
won’t stop some of the mud from sticking,
and past experience of this sort of thing
shows that the wild ravings will be given
full prominence in the American and
European press, especially in that of Ger-
many, always of late eager to collate
evidence that Australia is not fit to control
native races.
♦
Dear Bulletin, —Your article on “Raising
the Suffrage Age” prompts me to give an
alternative proposal which has been in my
mind many years. It is too late in the day
to hope for any departure from the qualify-
ing age of 21. But it would be quite logical
to extend the suffrage to all ages, from birth
till death, the votes of minors to be exer-
cised by the parents. The beneficial effects
of such an enactment are obvious. It would
be a safe election-cry and would conform
with the existing demand for an increased
population.—Yours faithfully, O. Wunder-
lich.


THE ROAD TO FORTUNE
is before you, not behind you—push on.
Believe in the good Road around the Corner—usually there
is one.
Life is a long road to travel, and it is as full of the unexpected
as any other. When you set out on a long road trip you provide,
as far as you can, for emergencies—for repairs to your car, but
most of all you provide plenty of petrol—of power.
Use the same good sense in your other daily doings that you
have to use to go ahead in a car. You will need to provide the
power on the road to fortune.
A Bank account is the power. If you have no Bank Account
start one NOW.
(fomnonwealtb lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
EVEN WEAR ON BEAR-
INGS AND SHAFTING
IS ASSURED
when
••MANGROvrrr
Leather and Raw-hide
Belting
is the transmission medium.
<
l
The careful tanning which is given to
the selected hides used in the manufac-
ture of “Mangrovite” Belting preserves their natural
surface grain, ensures uniform flexibility and full
grip under all conditions, and guarantees durability.
For all small pulley, difficult drives, such as pumping,
and sawing, specify “Mangrovite,” and prove tor
yourself that it is belting which gives least trouble
over a longer time.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
Charles Lndowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is hoped that the one bright deed of the
short session at Canberra will be to order
the sale of the Commonwealth shipping line.
Even though enemies made the Common-
wealth an involuntary present of 17 ships to
begin‘with, the business has been a miser-
able failure. When a board took charge,
the balance-sheet total was written down
from £15,500,0iX) to £6,000,000, so the
board got a cheap fleet. Then it lost close
on £600,000 in a yeai*, and after that as
little as possible was said about losses.
Report has it that the Accounts Committee
will stipulate that the line must only bo
sold at a “price commensurate with its value,”
but if the price is long in coming the value
may be lost twice over while Availing.
Frantic but unsuccessful efforts were made
by Vic. Nationalists last week to form a
new non-Labor Ministry under ex-Treasurer
McPliairson. The four Country Progres-
sives and the four Libs, (or whatever they
call themselves) declined to assist; they
talked of supporting measures and not men,
which looks something like the beginning of
the end of the present system of party govern-
ment. The Dunstan four and Jimmy McLacli-
lan are against the further redistribution of
seats, for which the Laborites yearn or say
they do; Gray and Forrest, however, want
a stride or two towards one-Vote-one-value.
It looks as if Farmer Allan Avill throw up
the sponge to-day. That will mean a com-
mission for Labor-leader Hogan.
The W.A. Government, like the Queens-
land crowd, claims a direct mandate from
the people. A gerrymandate?
Lloyd George says Britons are stirred by
the achievements of the Australian people.
Yes; it isn’t every nation that can borrow
£l7O per inhabitant.
The appointment of ex-Senator Drake
Brockman to the Federal Arbitration Bench
was one of Bruce’s blunders; still, the threat
of a Labor boycott is silly. It invites the
reminder that Queensland Labor put its last
Premier and the secretary of its biggest union
on the State Board of Arbitration, where they
sometimes sit alone and sometimes with a
Labor-appointed Judge. Drake Brockman
will be only one of four.
The last of Victoria’s neglected harbors on
which the Outer Ports Commission reported
Avas the Lakes Entrance. Concerning this it
said that £500,000 had been wasted; that to
spend £25,000 on a dredge and then leave it
lying idle for five years was a loony business;
and that the condition of the place is “woe-
ful.” And if the petrified Allancock Govern-
ment repents of another chance lost for the
winning of popularity, it may reflect that the
time has passed, for its Allancockleshell is
definitely' sunk.
J. Ward’s gift of a battleship to .T. Bull
set the Maoriland “Reformers” gnashing their
teeth. But, being on the box-seat themselves,
their views have changed to such an extent
that Coates, their Prime Minister, has pro-
mised to contribute £1,000,000 to the cost of
the Singapore base and to maintain two
B-class cruisers, instead of two D-class, at
an extra annual cost of £140,000. And tioav
it is the Laborites who are gnashing their
teeth.
English trippers, some of them bishops, go
home wondering why the Australians they
meet object to pawning the country for a
few more hundred millions to put British
immigrants on the land. Thomson, leader
of the Westralian Cockies, has supplied a
reason; —
After six years not one of the Mitchell group
settlements is self-supporting. Over £4,000,000 has
been spent and not one settler is able to support
himself from his holding.
Yet there were 2290 settlers at the end of
1920, and the Government has provided land,
plant, cottages, fencing, stock, sustenance,
roads, railways—everything.
W. A. Holman struck a discordant note
of provincialism at the lunch xvitli which
the N.S.W. Federal Capital League wound
up its career of uselessness. He complained
that of the seven High Court Judges only
one is a Queenslander, only two are N. S.
Walers, and a whole four are Victorians.
It seems disproportionate, certainly, and if
Piddingtou hadn't, resigned things would
have been different. The High Court began
with three Judges,., one from Queensland and
two from N.S.W.. but the position changed.
Otherwise, however, the Ma State lias done
Avell enough. There have been ten Prime
Ministers, including the two halves, McLean
and Page. N.S.W. has supplied six, Vic-
toria three, and Queensland one. There
have been 17 Governments, reckoning lleid-
McLean and Bruce-Page as two each. N. S.
Walers have bossed nine, Victorians five
and Queenslanders three. The High Com-
THE SINE QUA NON.
“Last week the Vic. Nats, made an eleventh-hour attempt to retain office by proffering ex-Treasurer
Wm. McPherson the leadership of the anti-Labor section of the House.”
Conjurer’s-Assistant Peacock : “For our final experiment, ladies and gents. Perfessor
McPherson requires the loan of a workin’ majority. Will somebody kindly oblige?
If not we must lower the curtain.”
missionership has been mostly Reid, Cook
and now Ryrie from N.S.W., with a bit of
Fisher, from Queensland, for variety. The
other three States lead a lonesome existence.
A recent happening at Brisbane revealed
an astounding development of the official
trades-union mind. Some time ago there
took place an illegal strike in the building
line, the demand being for a big reduction
of the 44-hour week. Expulsions and fines
were served out to members who refused
to strike. In the end the union was de-
registered. The other day it applied for
re-registration, but when it was suggested
that a condition of the pardon should be
the re-admission of the members who were
expelled for not breaking the law and the
cancellation of fines, a protest was entered
against “unjustifiable interference with the
domestic affairs of the union.” The Arbi-
tration Board granted the re-registration
without any sign of heat, subject to the
passing of a resolution for the re-admission
of the victimised artisans and the abolition
of the fines. Nothing was said about com-
pensating them for annoyance, and the
strike-makers weren’t fined.
Ever since Vie. Senator Guthrie took up
the cause of Australian and British moving-
pictures he has been savagely attacked,
but lie got. a bit of his own back when giving
evidence before the Commonwealth select
committee in Melbourne. He carried the Avar
vigorously into the enemy’s camp, and came
out strong for a Protective duty: “I’m a Pro-
tectionist, and it seems to me the building up
of the picture industry is as worthy of sup-
port as the building up of the boot-aud-shoe
industry.” He would no doubt have gone on
to point out that the present duty on
“feature” films —14d. per foot —is only an
infinitesimal fraction of their value; but the
Foreign-trader on the committee hurried on
to another phase of the subject.
The N.S.W. Labor Government is very
friendly nowadays with Skelton, the “Protest-
ant” Labor member for Newcastle; in fact, it
has been willing for a long time to be saved
by Skelton’s \ T ote should the emergency arise.
But the man who got in for Port Adelaide
on the same ticket as Skelton is having a
harrowing time. The S. Aus. correspondent of
a Labor paper records that “the traitorous
Thompson, the sectarian sower,” is to bo ex-
pelled from the party and that those who
worked for him are also to be shot out.
Which shows over again how circumstances
alter cases.
The grounding of the Riverina near Gabo
snapped the strongest link between Tas-
mania and the mainland; but there are.
still at least a score of lesser links. Tom
Glover last week pictured Melbourne’s view
of an island served by only two ancient
arks; but that referred only to the con-
nection between the late Federal seat of
Government and the island. Between
Launceston and Melbourne during the sum-
mer a thriee-weeKly passenger service is
run; in the winter, twice weekly. The boats
ought to be better —and would be if the
subsidy were greater. With the Riverina
replaced the Hobart-Sydney passenger ser-
vice is weekly in summer and fortnightly
in winter; and between the North-Wesc
Coast and Melbourne there is an at least
twice-weekly service. There are cargo ser-
vices between Hobart and Sydney, Mel-
bourne. Newcastle (direct), Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Port Pirie and Westralia: between
Launceston and Sydney and Adelaide: be-
tween the North-West Coast and Adelaide;
and between the West Coast and Melbourne.
They are small vessels, as a rule, of course,
but they seem to do their job.
If the Bruce-Page-Pratten Government is
collecting opinions about itself London has
supplied it with a valuable specimen to add
to the rest. The big Commonwealth had to
accept £9B for a 5 p.c. loan, and a fair
amount of it was left on the hands of the
underwriters. Little Maoriland was offered
£99 10s. for a 5 p.c. loan, and could have
had more than it asked for. In Canada
the State revenues and debts are on a very
moderate scale. Quebec, with nearly the
population of N.S.W., lately owed about
£11,000,000. The Canadian Federal debi
has lately been decreasing. The Maoriland
interest bill lately diminished a little. The
South African States only borrow from the
Central. Government, which collects the
interest and sinking fund, and audits the
accounts. Australia is the one among four
which persistently fails to export enough to
cover imports and interest, so that of its
new borrowings there is no visible end
except the end of the rope which has the
noose on it. This lack of exportable goods is
the result of doing insufficient work, and
the country keeps highly-paid courts for tlr
express purpose of reducing work.
Two officials —Playford, S.M., and Major
Dudley—have furnished a condensed report
on Borroloola. (Gulf of Carpentaria), the
second port in the great Northern Terri-
tory :
Borroloola is dead. Thirty years ago Borroloola
was flourishing, with a very large store and hotel
doing a roaring trade. South Australia spent a lot
of money making a good road from Anthony’s Lagoon
to the Gulf. The shipping service was good, and
pastoralists for hundreds of miles around obtained
supplies there. But since South Australia left us
to the tender mercies of the Commonwealth all this
has disappeared.
The Territory has had 17 years of Federal
control, including ill years of Fisher, Hughes
and Pearce; 7-1 years of Hughes and Pearce
with a trace of Bruce towards the end; and
four years of Bruce, Page and Pearce. At
last census the whole Borroloola police dis-
trict had 80 inhabitants, 25 occupied houses,
five vacant houses and 11 people camping
out. No dwellings were being built; in fact,
the census found only one house in course
of erection in tlie whole N.T. —at Lake Nash.
The shipping has gone and hope has gone,
hut the Navigation Act stays on.
While the Vic. Nat.-Federationists were
manoeuvring to “keep Labor out,'’ Hogan,
who had been for days “on the dignified,”
as Bent would have expressed it, let him-
self go. “So the sports on the other side
won’t drown,” lie said. “They’ve gone down
three times—the regulation number, you
know —but still bob up. Seemingly they
will have to sink once or twice more, but
they’ll drown all right.” Certainly the cring-
ing to small groups of nondescripts was
uncommonly amusing to watch.
“Pence Card” : The Baldwin Trade Union
Bill has my sympathy, and if the Nat.-
Cockies bring in similar legislation they
will get my support. During recent years
my uhion has struck levies for Russian loan
bonds, the Melbourne police strike, the 44-
liour-week strike, the British seamen’s
strike, the Sydney Labor Daily and com-
rade Garden’s mission to China. Payment
of these levies can be, and in some cases
has been, enforced by law. In fact the law
can be invoked by arrogant blow-ins to
compel loyal Australians to support lawless
strikes, and to finance a campaign which
aims at the overthrow of all law.
Voluminous regulations have been issued to
elucidate the Queensland Water Act. The
basis of the law is that all water belongs to
the Crown, which is easy, but the question
of how the Crown is to be always on hand
to define and classify the water isn’t. For
instance a plain hole for water, on the level
and dug by human agency, must be licensed,
but in that case there is no rent to pay.
On the other hand a hole dug by human
agency in a furrow which holds, or looks
calculated to hold, water, or one connected by
an artificial furrow with a natural furrow of
that character, must be licensed and pay
rent. Artesian and sub-artesian wells must
be licensed, and the rent depends on the flow
of water. Supposing a hole or pond,
with water or probable water in it, is not
of human construction, or looks as if it
wasn’t, it is partly exempt and partly not.
The Crown may conic along and decide that
some adjacent holding or holdings could use
some of the water, and may make the enraged
owner divide it up as instructed. Whether
much revenue will result or not is doubtful,
hut it seems that the Crown is in for much
hard work and early rising.
A BALLADE OF NEW CHINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Russ has let his fury sleep ;
Freed from the thralls of Court and Czar
His hundred millions toil and weep
And draAv a new usurper’s car ;
The Jap has travelled fast and far
Along the newer nations’ way.
But now his neighbor bursts the bar
And China runs amok to-day.
In old Nanking the ways are deep
With spoil and Wreckage; blood and spar
The human things that 'prowl and creep
Steal out unchecked to rob and mar
Through market-place and packed bazaar.
The foreign legions’ stern array
Wait in formation regular.
For China runs amok to-day.
With heart aflame and tiger-leap.
The Mongol seamed with many a scar
Comes like a flood adown the steep;
The fires of battle glow and char.
The gates are slammed that stood ajar ;
The land is torn Avith flame and fray.
Where erst was peace red perils are—-
Lo! China runs amok to-day!
Envoy.
Each robber-cliief’S an avatar
To lead his hordes to power and sAvay,
The lust of loot his only star
When China runs amok to-day.
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIBEY.


o** e
vd
hea
Have y°r
X
“It was the night
of the party and the daughter of
the hostess asked one of the guests,
“ Please,Miss Smith, have you really
left your songs at home ? ”
“Yes, dear,” was the reply, “but
why do you ask? ”
“Well, daddy says it’s too good to
be true! ”
A good story and a
good cigarette are
worth repeating!
St^TE
(kPi^ESS
20foM
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LOND
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
PIZNESS FIRST.
RACHEL: “Fader! I haf broken off rid Isaac. Vill I return his ring?”
COHEN: “No, no! I vill send him a cheque for vot he pay. Tiamonds haf gone up
in der market.”
“Windsor”: In the South Melbourne
Police Court the other day a witness was
asked by counsel for the accused whether
he had ever been in trouble himself. “Yes,”
was the reluctant admission. “Wliat was
the offence charged against you?” pursued
Costs implacably. The witness hesitated and
then gulped “Disorderly conduct.” Counsel
rubbed his hands. “When was the offence
committed?” he demanded in the tone of
one who is about to lay bare a murky past.
“When I was a boy,” replied the witness,
shamefacedly avoiding the gaze of the Court,
“I was fined half a crown for playing leap-
frog in the street.”
* * *
“Borom”: One of the fears always in the
minds of the managers of big city stores is
that the electric light will fail suddenly on
a busy shopping night. When this happened
in one Melbourne establishment not long ago
something like £3OO worth of goods dis-
appeared before the lights were working
again, while a 10-minute period of blackness
in a Sydney shop cost well over £lOO. Some
proprietors have installed emergency plants,
and one Melbourne establishment has adopted
the plan of closing all its doors instantly, the
customers already in being ullowed out singly
and in pairs while keen eyes scrutinise the
parcels they parry.
$ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Tarwin” : A Gippsland couple decided to
have their wedding in Melbourne, and landed
in the city the night before the appointed
day. The bride-elect and her mother bustled
off to a select coffee-palace, where they were
given room number 27. Bill and his cobber
strolled off to a pub they knew, and they
also were put in room number 27. Next
day at the ceremony, when Bill and his
bride knelt to receive the good man’s bless-
ing. they bared their soles to the congre-
gation. Both sets of footwear showed the
number 27 in white chalk. And then —well,
you know how people will talk!
•J: i): * ❖
“X.N.0.”: “Mako” (B. 28/4/’27) must
have slipped a cog' in bis memory when he
states that the captain of the Renown in
1920 said that he “would berth his vessel
in only three harbors in the world—Auck-
land, Hobart and a port in the Philippines.”
During that cruise the Renown berthed at
Balboa, Auckland, Wellington, Lyttelton,
Melbourne, Adelaide (outer harbor) and
Honolulu. I assume that by “berthing”
“Mako” means going alongside a jetty or
wharf. We did not berth at Hobart.
* :1c -i- *
“The Deacon” : Ministers of religion some-
times receive donations from queer sources,
but an offering recently presented to the
padre of St. George’s Church of Eng-
land, Matraville (Sydney), was surely
unique in its origin. The gift came
from the prisoners in Long Bay Peni-
tentiary, and on this testimony I’m
ready to bet that St. George’s has an
all-white man for its padre.
“C.Q.": Melbourne's latest, epidemic is
dog-poisoning. In one street 13 valuable
hounds had to be buried by their owners in
the space of a few days. The usual denuncia-
tions of the scoundrel who committed the
murders were voiced, but there is no doubt
who he is—some light sleeper who has been
HORRIBLE THOUGHT !
“Of course, I shall he asked to the dance. Why, I know every girl on the committee.”
“Yes, dearie. But, then, supposing every girl on the committee knows you?”
driven to desperation by the nightly chorus
of assorted canines. One such wrote to the
Akgus asking what could be done about it.
The only solution I can suggest is the breed-
ing of dumb dogs. Except in their amorous
interludes cats are silent. Perhaps they
could be trained to bite, and so serve as house
guardians.
* * *;•
“Six and Eight”: The late Mr. Justice
limes (father of the present N.S.W. Judge)
was once Commissioner on the Hill End gold-
field (B. 28/4/’27). S’Onah used .to tell
a story illustrative of the respect his office
inspired. One Sunday a cousin-jack local
preacher saw a miner hard at work on his
sluicing claim. “lie sees yer! He sees yer!”
shouted the evangelist reprovingly, and the
startled digger dropped, his tools and asked
who was spying on him. “Gord,” replied
the preacher dramatically, pointing to the
sky. “Pouf, Him!” said the other as he
resumed his work; “I thought you meant
the Commissioner.”
*
“Emel”: The statement that women
who have their hair cut short frequently
run the risk of developing an unwanted
growth of hair on the face (B. 14/4/’27)
makes me smile bitterly. For 25. years my
hair has been untouched by the scissors, but
for half that time I’ve suffered from a
steadily-strengthening growth of hair upon
my chin and upper lip, a growth that merely
thrives upon all the widely-advertised
“cures” with which I have experimented.
As for abundant hair on the head meaning
scantiness of it on the face, Hindu hawkers
who let their hair grow unchecked —I’ve
seen some of them washing tresses of which
any woman, in pre-shingle days, might have
been proud—certainly aren’t • smooth-faced.
Some have splendid patriarchal beards.
* * * *
“Ess”: Black Brother is seldom slow in
learning how to exploit the curio-collector.
“Boomerang Derry,” of Casino, was always
on the look-out for his quarry when, the
coach came in. His stock-in-trade consisted
of two boomerangs, one new. the other old-
looking. I saw him offer the new one to
a visitor from Sydney for 2s. “How much
for the other one?” he was asked. Derry
shook his head. “Baal me sell him,” he said.
“That one belonga my grandfather, then be-
longa my father, now belonga me.” “11l
give you three bob,” said the visitor. Derry
only grinned. “Four bob?” said the visitor.
Derry looked at it lovingly. “That boom-
erang been kill ’em plenty-fella long time
ago,” be mentioned : after a moment’s hesita-
tion he added: “You gibbit five tsliillin’, I sell
him.” The money was paid. Later that
evening I saw Derry squatting at a fire,
carefully greasing and fire-blackening a
newly-made boomerang. “Why don’t you
blacken the other one?” I asked him. ‘‘Oh,
this one belonga my grandfather,” he
chuckled.
* * * *
“Topee” : Instead of replying to my usual
cheery greeting, Mr. Cohen (our local pawn-
broker) could only point upwards to his
sign and groan: “If that’s the kits’ itea
of a choke, I’ll have my pit of fun in the
Children’s Court!” I followed his gaze and
saw that one of the three balls was absent.
I condoned with him sympathetically over
the outrage, but as I pursued my way it
occurred to me that the aggrieved Hebrew
might be blaming mischievous urchins wrong-
fully. Our suburb is infested with radio
experimenters and the missing sphere is
made of copper. My impression is that if,
after Synagogue next Shobbas, Mr. Cohen
takes a pair of his unredeemed race-glasses
and prospects the backs of surrounding pre-
mises carefully, he may recognise his miss-
ing orb masquerading as an up-to-date globu-
lar aerial.
* * *
“Delph”: The reason why women very
seldom give way to the insane form of anger
which makes men vent their wrath on in-
animate objects (B. 21/4/’27) is obvious
enough. We have the blessed safety-valve
of tears to dissipate more harmlessly the
forcesof our anger. True, I have on several occa-
sions seen women hurl across the room, tear,
or trample upon the dress or hat they were
altering or making, in a sudden burst of
rage at some irritating complication. But
on almost every such occasion the storm
finished in the time-honored feminine way.
There is something satisfying about doing
something with one’s anger, however un-
reasoning it be. I know a man —one who
never allows himself the relief of even mild
profanity—who at the end of_ a _ tiresome
afternoon with a visitor of irritating voice
and mannerisms dashed three plates to the
Hoor in the kitchen, and announced: Now
[ feel better.” Childish, of course, but to
those of us who have ever felt that way,
intelligible enough.
I LOVES TM TRUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I loves ’im true!''
Gorstrewth, that’s what she chucks at me—
and ’im,
A creepin’, crawlin’, sniv’lin’ little cow!
’E’s ’arf a dago and ’e’s ’arf a chow
If looks count any. ’E can’t fight or swim
Or play at games; just spouts about the doo,
And vilets, and the sunset’s flamin’ rays,
And ’ow the little bird the mornin’ greets;
I asks ’er for ’er ’and, and —spare me days!—
She pulls ’erself orl up and softly bleats:
“I —loves —’im —true !”
“I —loves —’im—true !”
’Enceforth wiv me no females need apply.
I’m done wiv ’em for evermore. That worm!
Each time I looks at ’im ’e seems to squirm.
’E ain’t a man, this apple of ’er eye;
Yet ’ere’s me beat by ’im. I’m done; I’m
frew.
Never no more. The little spatted dude!
She sits wiv ’im, and I bowls in to tell
Me love, and says, “I ’opes I don’t hintrude,”
And shoos ’im orf, to ’ear ’er say (Oh, ’ell!) :
“I—loves —’im —true !”
“I—loves —’im—true !”
A bloke can take a beatin’ from ’is kind.
’E don’t get angry when ’e’s put to sleep
By someone better; but it makes ’im weep
To be beat up by that! Gor’ strike me
blind—
A female man ! I’ve losi me block. I ’noo
’E tagged around, but who d er ever thought
A woman such as ’er would fall for that.
By such a crawler would be caught.
And me, the best bloke in the town, knocked
flat!
“I — loves- — ’im—true !”
VICTORIA.
A. D. M.


“Mako”: Zane Grey, the
American author, has extended
his fishing knowledge of Maori-
hind until lie is as enthusiastic
over the Bay of Plenty and Tau-
ranga as he was about Russell
and the Bay of Islands. If
he comes back to these parts as
frequently as lie says he is go-
ing to he will sooner or later be
introduced to the great fishing-
grounds round the lonely Chat-
ham Islands, where the mako-
shark grows bigger than any-
where else and the blue tins of
the giant swordfish can be seen
cutting the water. The chief
industry is fishing, and the
launches go out daily from the
fishing-stations and catch, by
line only, the famous blue cod
that finds its biggest market in
Australia, and the giant hapuku.
Here lives Sullivan, last of the
Morioris, who once numbered
2000. He w r ent himself to the
mainland to present his address
of loyalty to the Duke. At
present the Chathams have no
wharf, the fortnightly steamer
lying in the open roadstead and
being served by surf boats, but
radio keeps the remote islets in
touch with the world. A larger
steamer is being built for the
Chathams trade and a wharf is
mooted, so the islands may pre-
sently be adding tourist traffic
to their assets.
* * *
“Ibn el lssar"; Those who
knew Egypt in 1917 found it a
somewhat congested country, but
this year’s census shows that
vlie population has increased in
the past decade by another two
millions, making it 14,168,756.
British rule and enforcement of
hygienic laws have lowered the
terrible child-mortality rate, but.
on the other hand, it is expected
that the enforcement of the
Koran’s long-neglected injunc-
tion that no one may marry
more than one wife, unless he
can afford the extra ladies, will
cause a drop in natural increase.
Women far outnumber the men.
and Cairo is one of the latest
cities to reach the seven-figure
mark. The most interesting
feature of the census report is
that, dealing with the lessening
of divorces. This is due to the
act making it illegal for a hus-
band _to swear to divorce his
wife if lie failed to carry out a
contract, pay a bet, or prove the
truth of an assertion. Through
no fault of their own, but be-
<■nu.se the old man was too opti-
mistic, quite a lot of married
ladies slipped up, annually, on
this curious custom.
* * *
“Horsehair”: Though practi-
tioners declare that th e
ranks are full to overflowing,
Melbourne recently admitted
20 new 7 law 7 sharks. Among
the number was a grandson of the
late J. L. Purves, K. 0., round whom more
stories have been gathered than about any
other member of the Victorian Bar. He was
once called as a witness in a case. It hap-
pened that the examining barrister had read
m the old man’s chambers. He put the usual
formal question to his former mentor: “What
is your occupation, sir?” J.L.P. replied
serenely: “A trainer of puppies, sir.” But
he didn’t always score as well and easily. In
the far-off days of Broken Hill’s first 'great
strike, Dick Sleuth, one of the miner’s lead-
ers, bought a share in the Broken Hill Prop,
to qualify him to attend the annual meeting,
his object being to show that the directors
had provoked the strike—which was probabJy
true; anyway there was a lot to be said oil
that side. In alarm the directors arranged
for Purves to also attend and thrash Sleath
with his tongue. Sleath got on his feet and
began to burr about the wrongs of the
workers. “Workers!” sneered Purves. “He
talks of workers. Look at his hands!” In-
stantly Sleath opened his hand wide and,
turning, showed them round the table. “Not
soiled.” he said —“are Mr. Purves’s hands as
clean ?”
j*.
“Hop” : Two boys, eight and twelve, were
brought before the Sydney Children’s Court
on a charge of petty larceny. The elder was
tall and well proportioned, his companion
a diminutive youth about half the elder’s
height. The tall boy pitched so plausible
a story of how lie had become possessed of
the articles that the sergeant was half in-
clined to accept it. As the story proceeded
the small bpy's mouth opened wider and
wider till at last he could no longer suppress
himself. A final whopper by his big brother-
in-crime did the trick ; the kid, looking up at
the burly sergeant, burst out: “Mister, lie’s
putting it all over you!” The tall boy
looked down on the diminutive Judas and
growled “Garn !” But the spell was broken
and the Court proceeded to get at the facts.
H* H»
“Coo-ee”: Coburg, one of Melbourne’s
northern suburbs, has been blessed with
Bumbles who have displayed more foresight
than the average councillor. The town is
well supplied with recreation reserves, but
by a recent decision every new subdivision,
no matter how small, must have one allot-
ment reserved for recreation purposes. As
•he district is being rapidly populated the
sensible decision will in years to come be
greatly appreciated by the youngsters of
Coburg.
“Sea Nomad”: Recent mention of the
Quetta recalls that a diver who later wan-
dered over her declared that the engine-room
dial still showed “Full Speed.” Quite likely,
as she went down in three minutes. The
pilot, who was saved, said lie felt as though
lie was standing in a box which sank beneath
bis feet—a pinnacle of rock had ripped her
open. The wreck was bought some time
after and divers went down to secure the
considerable amount of sovereigns in her safe;
THE MAN WHO STARTED TO MAKE A DUET OP IT.
“At the opening of Parliament at Canberra Dame Nellie Melba sang the National Anthem.”
but when they got there the cupboard was
bare —rather naturally so, human nature
being what it is and the coral seas alive
with pearling boats.
$ - $ $ $
“C.P.S.”: In a N.S.W. country main-
tenance case a wife produced a letter which
had been left under her plate at the last
meal shared by the married couple. It
read: “Dear , with the assistance of
God I mean to leave home on Tuesday next.”
And he did, though the complainant added
plaintively: “But I don’t think God had
anything to do with it.”
***•■•■*
“Queensland Nut”: That the spirit of
romantic adventure is not dead is being de-
monstrated in Queensland waters just now by
the voyage-of a 32ft. boat from Brisbane to
Cairns, the desired haven being Singa-
pore. The owner is Fred Hansel, who
comes from Bavaria and wants to see the
world ; he saved up and had his boat built
in Brisbane. It is Oft. 6in. beam with two
masts, is cutter-rigged and built for utility.
It has an engine which was bought with an
old car chassis for £l6, and in times of calm
or emergency can “push her along” at 10
knots. Hansel set out with one companion, a
Scot named McDonald, a motor-mechanic, and
when the pair took their magneto to be re-
paired in Townsville Hie electrician, an
American named Heyse, promptly closed his
business and added himself to the party. His
wireless sets (he made a 4-valve set for the
boat) have sold all the way along and covered
expenses, and he is looking to Singapore to
provide him with a business opening. The
loud-speaker on the boat is fashioned from a
large shell found on the Barrier.
❖ # Hi
“Detonator”: The best friend and confiden-
tial-secretary of Zaghloul Pasha, the Gyppo
ex-Premier, is also his dentist, but it wasn’t
a case of love at first sight. One of liis
teeth declared Zaghloul black, and started
Walsh tactics on his jaw, and he was advised
to have it extracted. The dentist told him
not to have it done “on the raw,” as it would
be painful, and suggested chloroform; but the
noble sheik bucked at that, and refused.
However, toothache persisting, he sent for one
of the Palace sentries, and told the dentist
to put him to sleep and pull one of his teeth
out. On the askari returning to conscious-
ness the Minister asked him whether he had
felt anything, and the reply was in the nega-
tive. Not yet satisfied, the Minister sent for
another sentry and had the operation re-
peated—with the same result. Still uncon-
vinced, he sent for one of the harem ladies
to bo experimented upon, and on her stating
that she too had not felt any pain he decided
to trust an anaesthetic. The result was so
much to his taste that ho embraced the den-
tist, vowed eternal friendship and appointed
him his secretary with a big rise in screw.
* * ■ * :!:
“Jim Domino”: I suppose the waitresses’
practice of folding pay slips before handing
them to patrons is necessary. The other day
I had a threepenny bun and a cup of coffee.
Noticing my empty plate, a waitress who was
passing with a tray-load of crockery insisted
on writing a docket. After standing brolga-
like on one leg, balancing the tray on the
bent knee, she succeeded. To aid her I
reached out, but she had yet to fold the darn
thing. As she did it she said: “Your slip,
sir.” But hers was a bigger one—the tray
and broken crockery were on the door.
* * * *
“Centurion” : Australia’s deeting acquain-
tance Dame Margaret Greville has denied all
knowledge of the scathing attack on Aus-
tralians attributed to her by a Ceylon jour-
nal. Followers of form, however, will recall
a somewhat similar outburst by the lady on
reaching Melbourne from Sydney, and will
conclude that, even if the Colombo reporter
didn’t get all the details right, he gave a
pretty correct summary of the running of the
Dame’s tongue.
*!• $ 4* 4*
“Strict Veg.”: Somebody played a dirty
trick on the mothers and aunts of the chil-
dren who provided the really enchanting dis-
play of physical capers on the M.C.C. ground
for the delectation of the Yorks. To get
that army of 11,000 infants dressed up and
transported to the oval for rehearsals and
for the actual show must have entailed great
labor and no inconsiderable expense in a
multitude of households, few of them burst-
ing With riches. The principal reward of
the innumerable wardrobe mistresses and
dressers was a free ticket to see their charges
perform before the royal opera-glasses. Then
some mean souls printed and sold bogus
tickets, and at one gate a man is alleged to
have admitted the general public for gratuity
received. The result was that the ground
was packed, the arena resembling a behind-
the-lines scene in France, owing to the 1110
faintees who had to be lifted out and
treated. And outside the gates, locked be-
cause the place was already over-full, wept
and stormed hundreds of disappointed rela-
tions of the principal performers. It should
be possible to trace and punish the callous
forgers.
* * * *
“Mephisto” : The other day a Rockhampton
( Q.) wedding-party got a surprise. It was
having its photograph taken in a studio, and
before the business was over the fire brigade
came clattering up and prepared to turn a
ton of water on the astonished bride. Then
it was discovered that a magnesium flashlight
had disturbed the automatic alarm, and
prompted it to register a fire-call at brigade
headquarters.
:.<= v * *
“Detonator”: Is this the earliest “mention
in dispatches”? In the eighth book of Hero-
dotus it is stated that on the 20tli September.
480 b.c., “at the battle of Salamine, King
Xerxes, seated at the foot of Mount Aegalea,
which faces Salamine, watched everything,
and when lie noticed a deed of valor lie
found out who w 7 as responsible, and his sec-
retaries wrote down his name, that of his
father, and the town he hailed from.”
“L.C.M.”: “Dingo’s” story
(B. 2S/4/'27) of the false teeth
that were not swallowed re-
minds me of the choking, gurg-
ling female who was rushed into
our casualty-room by her sister,
who averred that the patient had
swallowed her “front lialf-plate”
in her sleep and that it had
stuck half-way. The patient
pointed to the spot where the
obstacle was and continued to
gurgle and gasp. Drastic mea-
sures were afoot when in rushed
a small boy with: “Auntie, you
sent them to the dentist to be
mended yesterday.” This kind
of false alarm occurs so fre-
quently that one concludes that
most owners of false teeth m,ust
live with a sub-conscious dreaft
of swallowing the things. One
finds the same delusions with
fishbones. Every hospital resi-
dent knows that most of the
Monday patients who aver that
“a fishbone got stuck in me
throat in the week-end” are mis-
taken. One medico was highly
successful with these patients.
He used to provide himself with
fishbones of all shapes and sizes,
and after a little investigation
he could always present the
sufferer with a thrilling-looking
spicule. His .patients invari-
ably went off completely re-
lieved and proudly carrying
souvenirs of the occasion in
their waistcoat pocket.
* * *
“Herodot”: “Birre Gurra’s”
account of an unusual pub (B.
2S/4/’27) recalls another road-
side establishment in Queens-
land. It was in the Bundaberg
district, and the proprietor,
having other interests which
sometimes necessitated his
absence from early in the morn-
ing until late at night, was
accustomed to leave the key to
tiie bar-door where it could be
obtained by any thirsty neigh-
bor who arrived while the boss
was away. Others who were
not in the secret had to go with-
out, and how zealously the
privilege was guarded is indi-
cated by the fact that, while the
hiding-place of the key was
known to about 30 persons, no
outsider ever got to learn of it.
Nor was the privilege ever
abused, so far as the boss knew.
Those who wanted a drink
simply took the key, helped
themselves and, after inscribing
their names and amounts in a
book kept in the bar for the pur-
pose, put the key back in its
place.
* * *
“Sea Nomad”: West of
Thursday Island lies treacher-
ous Glamis Castle rock. A
steamer of that name hit it in
1881. The vessel was. of course,
named after the Duchess of
York's home-place.
"Stellsby” : “Topee’s” ex-tiffy friend (B.
21/4/'2T) is a romancer. Prior to the
present cruise of the Renown, no woman
passenger was ever carried in peace-time on
a British battleship. If any naval para-
graphist can quote an authentic instance to
the contrary the drinks are on me.
* * * *
ODD PAIRS.
[FOR THE BULLETINM]
“M. Paul Poiret, the famous Parisian dress-
designer, has advanced a plea for odd legs. He
says: ‘I am tired of seeing women all dressed alike.
A woman has two legs; why should she not have
one dark stocking and one light one?’”
It may be that milady fair
Would show an even shapelier pair
Of legs if, heeding Poiret’s whim,
In differing hue she decked each limb,
It may be that each winsome cheek
An added charm might find to pique,
If that were cream, and this were rose,
To port and starboard of her nose!
It may be fickle eyes could seem
More kindly to my hopeless dream—
I sometimes feel this / could do:
Make one orb black that now is blue.
It may be that her ears would gain
New grace to add to old disdain,
If one were bud in curly bower,
And one a shade more. .. .cauliflower!
But. anyhow, with verbal dress
Milady lacks no nice finesse;
Two minds she has and, nothing Joatli,
On every question gives me both.
Of mental legs at least, I swear,
Milady owns a Poiret pair.
For to my most insistent plea
.She ever says-“Yes—No” to me!
-QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.
THE BLACKBIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The blackbird is a gentleman,
He wears a satin suit,
And on the tree
Most daintily
Scoops out his chosen fruit;
The greedy starlings forage round
And plunder where they can,
The peewits fly from drain to drain,
But he regards them with disdain.
Being a gentleman.
The blackbird is a gentleman
Most courteous to meet;
The shameless doves
Parade their loves.
But he is more discreet;
He deprecates the height extreme
The skylark’s pinions fan,
And in the comfortable trees
He carols suavely at his ease —
Being a gentleman.
VICTORIA.
SYD.G.


<3
*0
<vs
<0
cvi
iLI
$
TINS OF 25 1/5
TINS OF 50 2/9
PURE VIRGINIAN.


è
ALWAYS ORDER
Schweppes ,
Dry Ginger Ale
the Only Original,
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
AND IMITATIONS.
Manufactured only by
Schweppes, Limited.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A first-class new and up-to-date
modern hotel.
Running hot and cold water in all bad-
rooms and many have Bath de Luxe.
Automatic bedside telephones.
English and Trench Cuisine.
New Marble Bar, spacious and airy.
For perfection of service, comfort
and cleanliness, Usher’s Ltd. is un-
equalled.
Inclusive Terms, apply
MANAGER.
Cbe Equitable Cife
flssce.
Zmi
m
Australasia Cfd
Head Office:
Parbnry House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 860 Collins St., Melb
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDTv. T.EVY. Mg. Director.
“X.N.0.” : There was a time when ships’
crockery could be encountered in unexpected
places without thieving being suspected (B.
28/4/’27). When I first went to sea every
officers’ mess on commissioning and re-
commissioning was given a complete new
outfit of knives, forks, plates, etc.,
by the Admiralty. This presently be-
came the absolute property of the officers,
and was sold to swell the mess funds avail-
able for distribution at the end of the com-
mission. The next commission would get
another brand-new outfit, but two-year in-
stead of three-year commissions led to the
abolition of this perquisite and the introduc-
tion of a 20 p.c. p.a. replacement scheme.
Before that, many second-hand dealers at
Portsmouth, Plymouth and Chatham used
to specialise in the purchase and re-sale of
naval officers’ mess gear.
* :!: :!:
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: The Cooktown School
of Arts can show a portion of a tree older
and of more historic interest than the piece
of wood in the Brisbane Museum (B.
21/4/’27). It is all that is left of the tree
to which Captain Cook moored the Endeavor
in 1770 when he hurriedly beached at what
is now Cooktown to repair his buffeted craft.
There can be no doubt that it is the same
tree; when doubters sniff, Cooktownites
Avrathfully drag them off to the School of
Arts and confound them with the illustra-
tions, maps and log in the official copy of
“ Yoyages of Captain Cook,” printed in 1779.
But for the carelessness of someone burning
off grass, the tree might still have been
standing. The grass-burner, instead of watch-
ing the flames, went away for a pot, and
when he returned all that was left was the
blackened stump.
SUPPOSE SHE-
“Why so tragic, Wilfred?”
"I have grave doubts about my wife. To-night she accepted my working-back-lote-at-
the-office story without a murmur!”
"Nakhoda” : The gaoler wiio took his pri-
soner to the movies in Tonga wasn’t a bit
more trusting than the most hardened Mel-
ourne bobbies sometimes are. Two con-
stables were removing a couple of sentenced
prisoners from Melbourne to Geelong. One
had injured himself deliberately while in
gaol, and the. custodians asked the other
kindly to wait in the train-compartment
while they went to fetch the invalid from
the ambulance. When they got back with
the one they found to their pained surprise
HIS MISTAKE.
BERTIE: “Here comes Marie! And she’s got
an Eton crop.”
GERTTE : “M’yes. And looks, I suppose, as
though she kept it in a barn and the mice
got at it.”
that the other had departed.. He wasn’t even
handcuffed, and a laughing remark to the
ticket-collector at the gates got him liis free-
dom.
* * * *
“T.X.”: There is luck as well as judg-
ment in the buying of Old Masters. Two
years ago a Brisbane agent for a Sydney
radio firm was spending a holiday in that
cultural centre. Happening into an auction-
room, he bought for £4 a collection of dusty
canvases Avhicli he fancied might cover the
damp spots on the wallpaper at home. The
piercing eyes of a Madonna in one picture
so distressed the radio-dealer’s wife, how-
ever, that he had to take it off its nail and
store it. Sending it later to an art shop to
have it cleaned, he learnt that it was a
Giotto. After insuring it for £20,000 and
refusing an offer of £30,000 he shipped it to
America, where it is expected to realise
£70,000. At the same time that the Avireless
merchant was in Sydney, Captain Falcke,
the little English expert, Avas combing the
auction-rooms and art-shops for Old Masters.
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: The latest
triumph of the amateur experimenter Avas
the reception by a
Melbourne station
of a concert broad-
casted from Hol-
land. This Avas re-
layed by telephone-
wire to a second
station, which sent
it forth again in re-
moved strength so
that even a crystal
set, if a good one,
could pick it up.
Owing to the differ-
ence in time the
enthusiasts had to
start operations at
an hour when most
people are embark-
ing on their beauty-
sleep, but strains of
music mixed with
static rewarded
their diligence and
there were some re-
marks in guttural
tones. Incidentally,
the ether had a hard
tussle with the
Dutch “g,” which,
correctly pro-
nounced, resembles
a cross between a
cough and a spit.
Few foreigners ac-
quire proficiency in
this exercise, and
the final mark of
the Dutch Eurasian in Java is his inability
to make the letter sound unlike an “h.”
* * -I-. $
“Lucifer”: Concerning noise and the sense
of smell (B. 21/4/’27). I worked for some
months in the rail mill of the Newcastle
steelworks. That mill never ceases, and the
noise is so great that the men can’t talk to
one another; they convey they want
to say by signs. I have worked there while
the glowing ingots were being crushed be-
tween roaring rollers driven by two great
engines, and yet I could smell anything to
be smelt as well as if I had been on the
Nullarbor Plain. And the sandwiches in
my crib were as tasty as sandwiches by the
silvery sea. And I could tell if any of the
others had brought onions, too.
* * * *
“Checkmate” : “Fined £5, and enter into a
recognisance of £2O to be of good behavior
for 12 months,” said the Sydney stipendiary.
That’s what it cost to embrace a police-
Avoman. In the obscurity of a kinema show
the offender glimpsed a woman seated alone,
moved down and threw an affectionate arm
round her. The alarmed maiden fled and
complained to the management. A little later
an attractive looking lady took the seat. To
her the defendant made the same amorous
overture. This maiden did not flee. She
arrested him. It recalls what happened to
another delinquent. One evening a constable
arrested a man who, wriggling out of his
captor’s hands, ran up a street. John Hop
was gaining on him, but lie l’eached a cross
street. The man turned the corner, saw an
open door and slipped in before his pur-
suer sighted him. Entering a room lie crawled
under a bed. The occupier of the house,
detecting a noise, came to investigate, looked
under the bed and hauled out the escapee.
“If ye want to know who I am, me man,”
said lie as he shook the rat, “I’m a sergeant
of police.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda’D Perth surfing sheiks and
sirens are agitated because authorities have
declared that recent painful experiences of
bathers have been due to small sea snakes,
too minute to bite, but capable of irritating
people in other ways. If the yellow-bellied
sea snake (II ydr us pldturus) has got down
as far as Perth and spawned, it is probably
accidental. This species grows to two or
three feet, but there is a 12ft. specimen which
probably gave rise to the legend of the sea
serpent. They are all lethal. A Malay
fisherman in Java told me that if one bites
the blade of an oar, the entire crew falls
dead. The Malay doesn’t kill them when
caught, in case they should be relations of
his. There are A’illages whose members turn
themselves into sea snakes periodically in
order to make things unpleasant to neighbors
AA T ho poach their fishing-grounds.
* * * *
Canar” : There is one well-known Sydney
detecti\ T e who is liable to get annoyed if any-
body recalls an incident of his less sophisti-
cated days. While on patrol-duty not long
after he had joined the force, he came across
a man and a woman in the darkened entrance
to a city shop. Closer inspection showed that
the man was drunk, and that the woman, who
was young and pretty, was trying to persuade
him to come home. The youthful cop lent
his persuasions to those of the lady, and even
went so far as to lead the intoxicated one
to a coffee-stall m the next block and buv
him some hot soup to straighten him up At
length the man decided to go home, and after
many good-byes the pair disappeared. J Hon
wasn’t, much older before he discovered that
his friends were two crooks, whose specialty
Avas shop-breaking, the man doing the iob
while the woman kept watcli outside
*.* * *
“Si Anu” : Doubts assail me Avlien 1 read
of elaborate business systems and think at
the same time of the half-naked chocolate-
colored magnates of Singapore. These gentle-
men, whose operations extend far bevoud
mere money-lending, do most of their busi-
ness from second-class rickshaAvs, and their
office equipment would offend a suburban
land-agent. Yet they make large fortunes
and spend them on vast jnansions like
museums, in the back rooms of Avhicli they
prefer to squat, leaving the ornate Louis
Quatorze suites to the curiosity of the Euro-
pean tourist. The other day one of them was
called upon in court to produce his daybook
and ledgers. He produced a number of
palmyra leaves threaded on a string, and.
explaining that the accounts were scratched
on them with a nail, borrowed the Judge’s
ink and smearing it over -the “documents,'
made all clear.
* * * *
“Si Ami” : No Asiatic ever walked if lie
could ride, and nothingsuits the sporting Malay
character better than to sit at the Avheel of
a 30-li.p. monster, and tear through the
bazaars of his admiring fellow countrymen
and over their dogs, fowls, pigs and babies,
while sounding the h/orn without inter-
mission. The streets of Surabaya and
Batavia these days are noisier than the
inside of a boiler factory, and on my latest
visit to ,Ta\’a I found sleep impossible except
on the tops of volcanoes. Previously the
same narrow lanes resounded to nothing
more disturbing than hawker’s chanteys and
the cries of bullock-drivers. Java and the
F.M.S. are crisscrossed by splendid roads,
which, despite the steady growth of popula-
tion, get ever emptier. The reason is that
a 10-ton truck, passing once in the day to
and fro between a village and its market,
can carry the load hitherto distributed on
the heads or backs of a hundred women.
General Motors, perceiving the growing
demand, is building a large assembly and
body-building plant at Tandjong Prio’k, the
gateAvay to Batavia. It wanted to estab-
lish itself at Singapore instead, but didn’t
get enough encouragement.
A QUESTION OF GEOMETRY.
“Here, what’s this I hear about you playing
round with Mabel?”
“Quite right, honey. But I’m still playing
square with you.”
“Private Bar”: “Seen the Dook?” said old
Alf on his return from the city. “I should
think I ’ave. An’ I’m tellin’ yer now that
that Dook they’re all kissin’ their ’ands to
an’ wavin’ flags at is no more the Dooker
York than I am; he’s the cleverest spieler in
the country. I had some drinks with ’im an'
his aidy-kong in Young an’ Jackson’s private
bar, an’ they seemed pleasant young fellers,
too —tol’ me who they was an’ arsked me if
I c’d hold another. But two minutes after
they left I seen they’d cut a hole in me
pocket an’ took everythin’ but me railway
ticket an’ a lock o’ the brindle cow’s hair.
Dooker York! Take it from me the real
Dook ain’t never left England, an’ it’s time the
p’liee woke up to it.”
THE BALLADE OF A GARDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Full many a Muse her garden sings.
But this ballade, attempting new
And starkly realistic things,
Refers to no violas blue,
Nor hymns the rose of any hue,
But, aping real life, proceeds
With up-girt courage to review
The endless problem of the weeds.
The dock, like hope, eternal springs;
While we, Avitli fingers all too few,
Untangle devious sorrel strings
(Grim garden Sherlocks on a clue!).
Thistles and dandelions, too,
Fling gaily to the Avind their seeds.
And sAviftly bumper crops ensue—
The pertinacity of weeds!
in vain the lioe incessant swings*
And deeply at the roots we hew.
No scarcity the slaughter brings
For lo ! in place of one we slew
Yestr’een, to-day discloses two.
Relieve us, where each mallow bleeds
Its martyred sap begets anew
Fresh armies of undaunted weeds.
Envoy.
Flora, our blooms are overdue,
Our laAvn indiff’rently succeeds,
Our bulbs prefer to lie perdu,
But we can grow amazing weeds.
VICTORIA.
DYD. c.


MHI-
m
%
I'SiX
<rk^A.<<>
ig
??5
Vn)
n.
--o „ -
Vi
U W
PAC
m
''AV
■ A 4
Vi
iv
W
sM
&
v#
'Wi
>
l
kir*
5
l'*k 7
v, V
i, V
\
n v
§§
VA
I
it
A
a
/
/St©'
8
S
c«r»
1
%
y/iU.ZMm
sa
■ *
jwS*
J*
, /'
W 4^
I
SlVr* ■
s?
/!
la/v-
The improved Packard retains the famous
lines which have been characteristically
Packard for a decade—with refinements of
body detail and engine design which provide
still more comfort and a finer performance.
The top speed is too great for safe use any-
where off a speedway, but the power is
there—reflected in a new standard of traffic
agility and hill*climbing ability.
The improved Packard Six is lower in price
than most men think and is obtainable at
prices considerably below a thousand pounds.
At £795 the Packard Six five-passenger
phaeton is ideal for the man who desires to
own a really fine car at a moderate price.
New Reduced Price —
IMPROVED PACKARD-SIX
5-PASSENGER phaeton
Old Price was JESTS
.£795
IRA L. ec A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Showroom,: BERK HOUSE, 72-76 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY,.
KELLOW, FALKINER PTY. LTD.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
the universal motors ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
S. A. MOTORS (PACKARD) LTD.
141 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATIIORN & CO. LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
DENNY BROS. LTD.,
439-447 Murray Street, Perth.


“ Metro vick” Products Include
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
firaasra
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughouUthe Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
In the choice of an Executor or Trustee
it is important to look tor Expert Management and Security. These essentials may be obtained
by appointing
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY CO., LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australasia.)
Founded in IS7S this Company was specially incorporated and empowered by Acts of Parlia-
ment to undertake the onerous and exacting duties of Executor and Trustee, and has during -
experience of over 48 years administered Trust Funds exceeding £42,000,000. Funds at prese
under administration exceed in value £16.300,000. This is ample evidence of the commence
the Public in the Company.
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £886,000
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
Harrv Emmerton, R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart.
CHAS. R.: SMIBERT, General Manager. V. G. WATSON, Manager.
412 COLLINS STREET, MEL.BOUR.NF-.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Piiix.p ani> Co., Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, merchants, etc.:—
To He- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1917.. £161,466 71 p.e. = £78,750 £82,710 £377,533
L9lB. . 199,747 7* „ „ 78,750 120,997 498,530
£lOO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398,530
1919.. 227.488 7lp.c.= 93,750 133,738 532,268
1920.. 260,139 10 „ ~ 125,000 135,139 667,407
Island interests sold to Horns, Philp (South Sea) Co.
1921.. 132,274 10 p.e. = 125,000 7,274 674,681
1922.. 194,718 10 ~ ~125,000 69,718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000 719,399
1923.. 192,242 10 p.e. = 126,000 67,242 786,641
Written o(f steamships, £25,000 761,641
1924.. 182,357 10 p.e. = 125,000 57,357 818,998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ ~125,000 65,155 884,153
1926.. 198,683 10 „ ~ 125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,279 10 „ „ 137,500 75,797 1,033,638
Following last year's div. there was a par
issue of 120,000 ordinaries, and a sweet gift
of the same corpulence is to accompany the
usual 2s. div. on this occasion—one new
share for every 11 held. As usual, the
directors are cautious in tlieir remarks, but
they “hope to be able to record some further
progress at the end of the present term.’’ Last
year’s step forward was quite substantial,
but that was to be expected with the new
money at work. With still more capital
last year’s record earnings should be again
eclipsed. There is little doubt of the manage-
ment’s capacity to make the new money
earn sufficient for its keep phis a little over.
The big co. has a field which is by no means
worked out; and its knowledge of Island
conditions and its lai'ge resources give it
the inside running in whatever offers. Add
to that a rare quality of management com-
bining rich imagination and a profound regard
for the pence, and you have explained the
eagerness of shareholders to advance the
necessary capital; they are confident that
wherever it is planked down the men in
control will see that it gathers its proportion
of moss. The slump wlicli affected island
trade no less than other phases of commerce
appears to have been left behind, although
conditions last year were not easy.
It may be taken for granted that in the
following amounts written off for deprecia-
tion, bad debts and losses, some solid lumps
of profit are hidden :
1919. . £68,664 I 1922. £106,587 j 1925. £103,244
1920.. 86,773 | 1923.. 96,284 | 1926.. 123,948
1921.. 88,835 ! 1924.. 118,350 | 1927.. 108,736
Substantial sums are necessary if caution
is to be satisfied, but this Column has its
suspicions that the provisions are made with
both hands and a shovel. Moreover, the
co.’s habit of dropping odd wads into reserves
without comment gives the impression that a
thorough search would reveal quite a lot
stored in odd corners.
The biggest of the co.’s subsidiaries sent
along the same amount as for the previous
term. The parent has a two-thirds holding,
so that the Is. 4d. div. brought it in £33,333.
The pup runs the Rurns-Philp interests in
those islands which are not controlled by
the Commonwealth. Results have been in
and out since it was formed in 1920: —
Burns. Piiilp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.:—
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920. . £102,846 10 p.e. = £75,000 £27,846 £27,846
1921.. 57,549 7$ „ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922.. 4,192 Nil 4,192 33,337
1923.. 37,791 5 p.e. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,272 6j „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925.. 60,806 6s „ „ 50,000 10.806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 6§ „ „ 50,000 6,725 55,556
A number of factors operated to disturb
conditions. Drought in the Samoan, Tongan
and Gilbert Islands affected trading, and
the big world-production of vegetable oil
products and the English coal strike inter-
fered with the market. The co. did w T ell in
the face of the difficulties mentioned, and it
reports further expansion. A few more
cocoanut-covered islands were secured, and
the co.’s tender for the maintenance of an
inter-island mail service for five years was
accepted by the Fiji Government.
Here is as much as can be seen from the
big co.’s balance-sheet: —
lQ9fi 1Q97
Liabilities. .£261,095 £1,361,444 £1,473,970 £1,305,599
P r operties,
s h i pping,
cash and in-
vestments 622,808 2,154,792 2,182,018 2,260,843
.Stock, ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683.968 831,083 783,206
Book debts. 382,624 781,838 793,710 807,658
The mixture of investments with shipping
and other property, and of stocks with every-
thing else except cash and book debts, does
not afford much opportunity for analysis.
It is possible, of course, to examine the
South Sea subsidiary, and hidden in the first
item mentioned is a parcel of Queensland
Insurance Go. shares —that lot is gilt-edged.
The year’s addition to reserves lifts the total
beyond the million. As inner reserves are
reported to be very strong, it is little wonder
that the shares are popular on the market.
Paid capital after the new issue will be
brought to £1,500,000. There appears to be
a reasonable chance of further new issues,
apart altogether from the steady 10 p.c. p.a.
and the possibilities. The shares are firm
at 425.
:]i $
Ivempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin. MX.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan.. Profits. Dividends. cenOff. serves, serves.
1917.. £25,575 8 p.c.= £21,200 £4,375 £65.516
1918.. 30,329 8 „ „ 22,120 5000 3,209 68,725
1919.. 33,520 8 „ „ 23,917 9,603 78,328
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 90,828
1920.. 40,768 10 p.c. = 31,493 9.275 100,103
1921.. 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7,206 107,309
1922.. 32,921 8 „ „ 31.828 1.093 108,402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ „ 35,997 1,103 109.505
1924.. 42,376 10 „ „ 40,000 2,376 111,881
1925.. 47,371 10 „ „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shores .. 32,500 151,752
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. = 41,974 ) - 95( , ]59 702
Staff provident; fund, £5OOO ( ’
1927.. 57.134 10 P.c = 48,299 - ) 7 g 35 167>53 7
Staff provident tuna, £lOOO ) ’
Keen competition in the fertiliser business
ent profits from that source last year, and
that threw more burden on the drug-making
and -importing, which isn’t a money-spinning
business in either M.L. or Australia. The
manufacture of superphosphate is the co.’s
chief activity. It has four plants, one in the
far south, one in the north, one at Christ-
church, and a new works erected at Wanganui
last year. The Wanganui unit did not start
producing until the end of September, so a wad
of capital was dead over the greater part of
the year. However, keen management keeps
the business moving to good effect, as these
figures show: —
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. .. £53,034 £36,426
1915 .. .. 67,094 43,635
1920 .. .. 139,909 100,098
1925 .. .. 147,344 99,985
1926 .. .. 161,320 106,500
1927 .. .. 163,725 106,612
Gross profits are shown after provision has
been made for depreciation on plant, build-
ings and stock. The directors consider that
“ample allowance has been made for reduc-
tion in value on all buildings and plant,
which have been maintained in a state of
thorough repair.” Here is the co.’s progress
in balance-sheet figures :
1910. 1920. 1925. 1927.
Capital . . £200,000' £367,140 £400,000 £511,094
Liabilities . . 59,442 76,650 140,800 151,917
Stock .. 149,622 188,874 214,616 258.572
Factories, etc. 103.193 140,114 305,048 431,198
Book debts .. 53,513 105,283 139,609 153,239
Cash, etc. . . 4,373 133,976 27,779 25.692
That is quite comfortable. Funds will need
to earn £53,000 to permit of 10 p.c. divs.;
on last year’s results that does not seem
beyond the capacity of the business. The co.
has been susnected of providing liberally for
all troubles that might arise, and the fact
that headquarters are at Dunedin supports
the idea. Nevertheless, that competition
was so severe last year that prices were cut
discloses at least one influence that might
prove troublesome. Talk of amalgamation
among the fertiliser cos. is in the air. but it
has to come to earth, and, in a strong farming
country, it may be difficult to make a safe
landing. Open accounts and other liabilities
were heavy; big shipments arrived just prior
to the close of the accounts. Stocks were
greater, due largely to raw 7 materials, etc.,
for the new works. Liabilities at January
31 w r ere more than covered by book debts and
cash, leaving the balance, stocks, and the
property and plant equal to 2<is. fid. for each
pound of capital. The shares (£2 fully paid)
stand at £3 10s.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Fattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Aug., 1919..21,101 12 i p.c. = 13,500 7,601 20,686
Reserves disclosed, £15.314 . . 36,000
Reserves capitalised, £36,000 . .
Feb., 1920. .26,22.3 12J p.c. = 15,750 ( „ 0 ~ 0 „
Staff fund, £3500 .. . .j 0 ’ 9 ' 3 6 ’ 973
Aug., 1920. .25,124 12* p.c. = 15,750 l 7 5 , 7
Staff fund, £l5OO .. . . J '> B ' 4 14 > 847
Feb., 1921. .22,736 12* p.c. = 15,750 6,986 21,833
Aug.,- 1921..21,498 12- „ ~ 15,750 5,748 27,581
Feb., 1922..21,718 12„ „ ~ 15,750 5.968 3.3,549
Aug., 1922..21,298 12- „ ~ 15,750 5,548 39,097
Feb., 1923..21,643 12? „ „ 15,750 5,893 44,990
Aug., 1923..22,398 .. ~ 15,750 6,648 51,638
Feb., 1924. .22,619 12? „ „ 16,750 6,869 58,507
Aug., 1924..22.694 12- „ ~ 15.750 6,944 65,451
Feb., 1925. .23,207 12-> „ ~15,750 7,457 72,908
Aug., 1925. .25.291 12, „ ~15.750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926. .25,347 12* „ ~15,750 9,597 92.046
Aug., 1926.-28,446 15 „ „ 18 900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927..28,316 12J „ ~ 15,750 12,566 114,158
The div. is declared at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
each half-year, with a bonus of 3d. per share.
For the October term a special threepenny
was handed out. Hopes of its permanence
have been shattered: the distribution falls
back to the old 121 p.c. Buyers are in no
way discouraged; whereas 525. was bid six
months ago, when the air was buzzing with
rumors of a gift issue, easing to 51s. when
it was known that the “special threepenny”
was the extent of the largesse, to-day buyers
vainly offer 535. The last bonus issue was
made in 1920. That followed on a similar
capitalisation of 18 months earlier. To-day
the visible position is more than five times
stronger than it was prior to the disclosure
of the inner reserves on the last gift-day,
and it is known that the internal resources
are greater now than ever before in the
history of the co. Little wonder that the
market considers the bonus plum ripe for
picking. However, it isn’t a board susceptible
to pushing, and it will move in its own time.
The visible strength, would support almost
anything:
Feb., Feb., Aug., Feb.,
1921. 1920. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities. . . . £34,084 £40,183 £30,090 £49,417
Premises, stocks,
plant, etc. .. 282,819 240,149 242,064 235,189
Book debts .. 10,445 36,083 37,231 45,382
Government securities 14,709 118,117 126,117 150,330
Cash, etc 17,986 6,997 10,536 7,795
Shares in other cos. 9,308 3,634 3,634 3,630
What there is inside is difficult to say.
Taxable income from Government loans was
once shown before it was .bustled out of
sight; £10,566 was put: into hiding in the
five years to 1925. The past four balance-
sheets have said not a word on this subject,
although in the period the holding of Gov-
ernment: securities has been increased con-
siderably. In the circumstances, the dis-
closed figures cannot be taken too seriously :
the book value of the premises, plant and
stocks —an untidy combination —is less than
it was 10 years ago. Considering the co.'s
expansion over the period, apart altogether
from the increase in property values, the
modesty is overdone. Indeed, the head-
quarters in Sydney are worth something
near the total in the books. Largely in-
creased manufacturing activities, too. must
be adding substantially to stocks. The in-
crease in sundry debtors, for instance, is
one evidence of the growth of the wholesale
business, for the retailing is on a strictly
cash basis.
The growth in liquid assets continued.
Gilt-edged stocks were 124,213 greater than
in August. In the past five years the expan-
sion has been more than £120,000. A gift
issue would not, of course, alter that position.
But inasmuch as there is plenty of room for
expansion, both in manufacturing and in the
retail business, it seems unlikely that the
big sum will be left at. low interest indefi-
nitely. Certainly, s|p.c.-or-so interest from
£150,000 of funds, with divs. being paid at
the rate of 121 p.c., seems to be excessive
conservatism. The visible position shows net
tangible assets amounting to £306,158. equal
to 295. per share. The market adds another
£300.000.
* * * .*
Gibson and Howes, Ltd., which grows,
crushes and refines sugar at Bundaberg (Q.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
IQOi £48,747 20 p.c. =£42,000 £6,747 £25,088
1922.'.’ 50,196 20 „ „ 42,000 8,196 33,284
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. 3,284
1923.. 28,35.3 8 .p.c. = ' 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56,669 12 ~ „ 28.800 27,869 40,300
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 . . 300
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 „ „ 22,400 12,350
This co. amalgamated the Gibson and Howes
interests in the Bundaberg district, and the
Gibson interests being the larger there are
more of that family than of the other on
the board. Of the outside public which has
come in pretty extensively there is not a
direct representative at all. A thing that
has happened many times before has appa-
rently happened again. The Gibson family
isn’t greatly in need of quick money and
wants to build up the business; and IT. J.
Howes, who is a city man these days and is
thus brought into touch with the ordinary
investor, is driven to the. conclusion that the
Gibsons are providing for the future at the
undue expense of the present. He lias there-
fore issued a “minority report,” which isn’t
quite that, but is really a criticism of the
majority’s policy.
Severe drought over the district from which
the co.’s mill at Bundaberg is fed affected the
crop, and the result was a crushing 30 p.c.
lighter than the previous year. The co. owns
Bingera plantation—Booo acres of territory
on the Burnett Biver —and this and the farms
of the 300 growers whose crops it purchases
were in the dry belt. Sugar is a difficult
proposition these times. In the preceding
season, for instance, the directors’ worry was
over-production ; there was such a huge ex-
portable surplus that the net return to
growers was cut back considerably. On this
occasion, prices for raw sugar have been
better and this has helped to counterbalance
the dry spell. Nevertheless, as the directors
figure it the 8 p.c. div. was not earned by
a few hundreds. But, as 11. .T. Howes sug-
gests, over-provision for contingencies may
have been made. ....
The factory and equipment were appraised
in 1922 by the Government Valuer at
£223,000, and there have been extensive addi
tions to the mill and plant since that date so
the figures as at December 31 (£248 4:18]
probably by no means over-state the ’posi-
tion. Other assets include the big planta-
tion, shares in other cos. and the railway
which connects with the Government system
The position as the books show it is:—
1921. 19 2 5. 1926
Paid capital .. .. £210,000 .£280,000 £280,000
Liabilities .. .. 16,205 18,383 10,826
Freeholds, machinery,
plant, etc 162,031 241,588 248 418
Stocks 30,851 40,925 56,590
Government securities.. 16,000 15,910 15,910
Debtors, cash, etc. . . 65,211. 40,023 17,488
Outside debt was more than covered by
Government securities alone. Net visible
assets at the balancing date were equal to
a shade under 23 s. per share. Their profit-
earning capacity appears to be a fairly safe
8 p.c., but that moderate rate has to be
viewed in conjunction with the two recent
capitalisations. Even the Millaquin co. was
only an S p.c. proposition until recently. Sus-
ceptibility of the smaller sugar cos. to the
adverse factors already mentioned influences
the market; there w r as a seller a few days
ago at 21s. fid. But' plainly the view of
H. .3. Howes is that the public has been
misled into taking too gloomy a view of
the prospects. "The coming year,” he says,
“should be the best that has been experi-
enced for many years past. The estimated
quantity of cane available for crushing has
been set. far above normal, and this fact
alone augurs well. Last year (17,807 tons
were crushed, while this year the estimate
is 113,000 tons. The damage done in the
North by floods and cyclones indicates that
the co. should also obtain a greater price
for its product.” In the “Wild Cat’s” judg-
ment Mr. Howes isn't the sort of man who
would issue a report of this kind to sharpen
his private axe.
* $ * *
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1921. . £10,298 7 p.c. = £9,375 £923 £7,297
1922.. 17,575 84 „ „ 11,250 6325 13,622
1923.. 27,254 14J „ „ 18,750 8504 22,126
Bonus from holdings, £15,4 70 .. .. 37,596
1924.. 22,821 141 p.c. - 18,750 4071 41,667
Special div. 2s. 6d. per share, £18,750. . 22,917
Bonus from holdings, £9,646 . . . . 32,563
1925.. 15,082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,645
1926.. 20,835 124 „ „ 18,750 2085 34,730
1927.. 24,658 124 „ „ 18,750 5908 40,638
New labor-saving machinery and briskness in
the building business in Melbourne combined
to make that improvement. Gross profit was
£4OOO-odd greater; and although expenditure
moved up, the increase on that side was not
important. The biggest bite was made by
the tax hounds, £lOO2 being placed aside, as
compared with £552 in the preceding term.
The position at March 31 was very solid,
cash and deposits being sufficient to swamp
all outside debt. More or less liquid assets
were: Book debts, £11,861; Commonwealth
loans, £8306; cash and deposits, £24.7.13;
stocks and stores, £2447. The co. lias £36,361
in shares in other cos.; the holdings are
reported to be good profit-earners. Fixed
assets were in at £122,982; considerable
additions were made _ during the year, the
not increase amounting to £2611. The
124 p.c. looks a simple matter so long as
activity continues in the building trade. Even
in less brisk times there should he no famine.
Last sales were at 255. 6d.
* * *
The New Zealand Farmers’ Fertiliser
Co., Ltd., which has big works at Auckland
and New Plymouth :
Towards
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1922.. £15,916 ' Nil £50,011
Share forfeitures, £2383 .. .. 47,6a8
Profit.
1923.. 7,247 Nil £7,247 40,411
Share forfeitures, £11,061 .. •• 29,350
1924.. 24,106 Nil 24,106 5,244
Additions to reserves, £2186 . . 3,058
Reserves.
1925.. 26,724 7J p.c. = £19,650 6,074 3,016
Written back from taxation, £1,824 4,840
1926.. 27,156 74 p.c. = 19,65 0 7,50 6 12,346
1927.. 25,187 74 ~ „ 19,650 5,537 P. 883
Although output was the best yet, the co.
felt the effects of keen competition, but
the directors were satisfied that the posi-
tion was “thoroughly sound” and current
trading so healthy that a repetition of the
74 p.c. div. was in order. Low prices are
still ruling in Maoriland and there is no
indication of any change. Unless some-
thing solid is hidden —and the “Wild Cat
cannot see any tracks —the position is pot
very strong, and a rather less liberal view
might well have been taken when the div.
was being considered. There is, for instance,
the matter of depreciation. Wear and
tear of machinery used in the manufacture
of fertilisers is heavy, and much depends
on the management’s capacity to gauge tin-
rate accurately. Provision has been ade-
quate, the directors say, but the amounts
have not been specified. Plant is said to
compare with the world’s best, and "ade-
quate depreciation has been written ott
buildings, plant and machinery, which have
been maintained in a very efficient state ot
repair.” That, of course, is worth men-
tioning. But goodwill still figures at


CIRCE, 1927 MODEL.
"There is a vitiating atmosphere about politics that destroys the ideals of even the best men who enter public life.


INVESTMENTS
FOR SAFETY.
How to Pick Them.
This most important subject is
discussed (with illustrations) in
The
“ Wild Cat’ Monthly
for May now on Sale.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents,
or
“The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -)- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For -water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
Pioneer V ood Pipe reduces maintenance costs oi
high-pres.-ure pipe lines to a minimum. Its smooth
interior cannot rust nor corrode, and offers no foot-
hold for interior growths. The simple construction
of Pioneer Wood Pipe, its lightness and ease of
handling are factors which make it the most econo-
mical pipe to transport and instal. It can be had in
many different sizes with all accessories ■ needed for
a complete reticulation system. Pioneer Wood Pipe
also costs less to buy. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co.. Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferrv
to Figtree) ; and at Footscray, Vic. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd..
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney: B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street. Sydney; J. 11.
Reid and Sons. 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith k Hassel. Patent Attorney, 77 Cast.lere.igh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* » * «
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison k Co., 483 Collins SI-vet. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
» * * •
If you are a producer of ores, mattes, metals and
metalliferous residues of any kind, Burkard and
Co., Ltd., 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney, are buyers
for U.K., Continent of Europe and U.S.A. smelters,
and will pay you the highest prices and give you
best terms. Advances made against ore —and market
information, prices, assays at your disposal. Send
samples and particulars.— Advt.
* * * *
Leplastriers’ Concrete Mixers —of all necessary
sizes—are designed and manufactured in Australia In-
expert engineers. Apply Goldsbrough House, Sydney;
Collins House, Melbourne ; 164 Edward Street, Bris-
bane ; or 21 Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT ) 2/- 1/- 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( _ 15/-, 20 words)
Week-end7Ad.(minimum chargel2/6, 20 words)
FRANCE 2/7 1/31 Nil
HOLLAND )
BELGIUM 1 2/6 1/3 Nil
GERMANY (
SWITZERLAND I
CANADA . . 1/2 91d. 7d. (minimum
11/8. 20 words)
Week-end 5f d. (minimum charge 9/7,20 words)
U.S.A. . . 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
f N.Z. Night Letter
NEW | Rate minimum charge
ZEALAND.. 4Ad. ) 3/- for 20 words and
l 2d. per word thereafter.
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
261 Ceorge Street, and 55 Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
Tel. City 1346 and 87784.
Collins House, Collins street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
ê
ijoord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
&
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26'30 Clarence St., Sydney
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
tF 1 you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after j on.
and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted.
That he may maladminister the Funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect 01
inexperience ? D
THESE RISKS CAN BE GUARDED AGAINST BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOK
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with Expert Administration.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . . . . . £1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. . . . . 840,000
Perpetual Deposit with Government .. . . . . 20.000
RESERVE FUND 105,000
Trust Funds Now Under the Company’s Control Exceed £28,000,000
Write or Call for Booklet. Managing Director: R. Copland Lethbridge.
Manager: H. A r . Douglass.
£13,000, and the balance-sheet position at
March 31 wasn’t the brightest:—
1922. 1926. 1927.
Capital £261,912 £261,995 £261,995
Bank overdraft . . .. 125,382 178,623 181,221
Other liabilities . . 4,891 35,932 15,788
Land, buildings, plant. . 309,810 434,307 424,378
Stocks 19,968 37,686 04,824
Book debts . . . . 11,514 36,177 37,265
Stores, etc. .. .. 885 375 70
The dependence on outsiders is too heavy to
be comfortable, and the immediate outlook
does not encourage the idea that all the
troubles have been left behind. The co. is
a semi-co-operative concern and in these cases
there is generally too much readiness to pay
out divs. The board should certainly turn
a deaf ear to any suggestion of increase until
such time as the outlook is brighter and the
balance-sheet has been put into better shape.
* * # *
South Kalgurli, sole survivor of Westralia's
regular div.-paying goldmines, lias issued
another periodical estimate of ore reserves,
actual and probable. This time actual com-
prises 80,000 tons of 14dwt. and 148,000 tons
of 7 4dwt.; average 10|dwt. Probable re-
serves are given as 114,000 tons worth be-
tween 6Jdwt. and 7dwt. The ore actually in
sight is equivalent to about 21 vei.rs’ sup-
plies at present rate of output, and if the
stuff sent to the mill averages lOJdwt. the
profit derived should average about 6s. per
ton. The “probable” reserves are unpayable
under present working conditions.
«i* :f *
Another electrical ore-finder is demon-
strating at Kalgoorlie. “Gratifying success”
is alleged, and it is stated that certain mines
are likely to be re-opened in order to test
the lodes which the “finder” is claimed to
have located. Similar machines were given
a try out along the Golden Mile some years
ago, but all were useless. Ernest Lidgey had
one which was said to buzz when telluride
was located and hum when free gold was
indicated. After being in operation for a
few weeks it was accidentally dropped down
a shaft and remained there.
j|: :!: # si:
Amalgamation of Golden Horseshoe. Lake
View and Great Boulder (VV.A.) is not
making much headway, but it is bound to
come. Horseshoe wants, among other things,
to split its 300.000 £5 shares into 3,500,000
£1 shares, retain 200,000, give Lake View
275,000 and Boulder 50,000, and invite all
comers to take the remaining 975,000 at par.
Lake View and Boulder reply that Horseshoe
wants too much and offers too little, and
there the matter stands at present.
:Jc sfc *
An attempt is being - made to float the
Sydney-financed Braeside silver-lead mines
(W.A.) in London. Braeside has opened up
well at one point, but capital is required to
expose the lode at other points along its line
of strike and open up parallel deposits
stated to exist.
4: * * si:
Adelaide recently became excited over an
offer received to share in an option that had
been secured on a reported new find near
Edna May. A well-known mining man stated
the show should just suit Adelaide, and pro-
bably it would have been taken had not
another equally well-known expert advised
the contrary. The show is not new, having
been found about 30 years ago, while Edna
May was distributing dividend cheques. And
the show is only distantly related to the
Edna: it is about two miles off. It is a
good prospecting venture, nevertheless, though
the near-by Royal Flush is, perhaps, better.
Notwithstanding flooded workings, the. old
Edna May Consolidated has the best pros-
pecting chances at Westonia. Certainly, the
ore at depth is limited by the flood, but it
has length, width and value in its favor, and
the prospector owner has satisfactory returns
for a number of years in sight.
* * * *
Glenelg Hills-Merredin Syndicate, Great
Beacon. Monte Carlo Co. and others are doing
good work at Hollow's Find, and deserve,
well. The structure of the country is favor-
able, and although nothing of a permanent
nature has yet been proved, it is fair to state
tin 1 field has been only scratched. Even so,
it has already furnished better results than
some others that occasioned short periods of
excitement and long, unpleasant memories.
••!: :!: :!: *
“Peter”: Apropos Federal assistance to
goldmining, what about a subsidy on capital
actually subscribed as from January 1,1927 V
If this will not entice investors to put up
cash, then nothing will, and cash for pros-
pecting and development is essential; with-
out it; a revival in the industry is impossible.
Incidentally, it would assist the genuine in-
vestor, while settling those who want some-
thing for nothing.
* * * #
“O.B.” : Allow me to settle the argument
now proceeding in the West as to where and
*7hen the first mill was erected on the Kal-
goorlie field. In 3893 the only means of
obtaining gold from the surface alluvial and
quartz veins around Paddy Hannan’s find
was by the aid of the shaker and dollypot.
Early in ’94 Maclay Bros, installed a unit
mill on the Kalgurli lease, the tailings from
the ore crushed assaying up to £4O per ton.
Thon five bead were erected on tlie Croesus.
A year or so later an Austral Otis ball-mill
was put up on the Lake View, but was soon
replaced by 10 stamps. Although not actually
the first mill on the field, this plant may be
considered the starting-point of metallurgical
practice at Kalgoorlie. By the end of '9O
cyanidation, as well as wet crushing, was in
operation. Dry crushing and roasting fol-
lowed soon after.
* *
Territory Tin, with an area five miles
long on the Reynolds River (N.T.), has
received its first prospecting report. The
area has * been sampled by costeens along
the frontage sunk “from grass roots to
river level.” Eight hundred dishes washed
gave an average return of 9oz. tin and “a
little” gold to the cubic yard. Weather has,
so far, prevented boring operations for test-
ing depths and values below river level.
=!= * * *
N.Q. tin-dredging propositions are becom-
ing fashionable. Within the past fortnight
over a dozen large areas have been applied
for. Geologist Jensen has put in for a
300-acre area near Mount Molloy, for a
Southern syndicate, while ex-Premier Theo-
dore, who once upon a time swung a miner’s
pick in the district, has pegged out two
300-acre claims at Emu Creek, near Irvine-
bank. Most of the activity has its origin in
Melbourne.
* * * *
Bowen State Colliery, under Jim .Con-
way’s steady management, is easily estab-
lishing new coal records for Queensland.
With endless haulage In; has taken out as
much as 700 tons in a single shift and last
year produced 343,000 tons, which is more
than double the output, of any other mine
in the State. Of course, he has the big end
of the stick as compared with Bowen Con-
solidated. having all the railways to supply
between Mackay, Cairns and Oloncurry. The
Consolidated had a lean year in 3926 owing
to the short sugar season and the awful
drought. It has a 20ft. seam on the Bowen
quite equal to the State's, but has to be
satisfied with the crumbs of private enter-
prise—not a very big thing in the northern
portion of Labor-ruled Queensland. It pro-
duced 31,951 tons last year, a falling-off of
4000 tons - but 3927 looks like a recovery.
* * * *
Stagnation still exists at the sapphire
fields around Anakie (C.Q.). No official
buying is being done and the yoke of the
gem pool hangs heavily on the shoulders
of those who have continued digging. Their
hope is to dig a few special yellows, which
find a surreptitious buyer occasionally. Dur-
ing the past few months a few lucky ones
have unearthed individual stones worth from
£3O to £5O each. One of Premier McCor-
mack’s jobs in England is to sell the sap-
phires now held by the pool and find a per-
manent market, if possible. The Govern-
ment looks to be facing a loss on the gems
already acquired. But there should be a
market in the near future with the stabilisa-
tion of the franc.
•-!: * :!: *
New Hope, Bell's Creek, Braidwood
(N.S.W.), has appointed R. J. Larsen mine
manager. Shareholders are given the usual
assurances that plant-erection will be has-
tened. Mine-proving is far more important.
But most young cos. are prepared to take the
mine for granted.
Malim Nawar South is digging success-
fully at 86 feet—six feet deeper than New-
man' promised. The co. announces a div.
of Is., payable May 31. According to re-
ports £21,000 should be to the credit of
profit and loss account. The success at Malim
Nawar South should revolutionise dredging
practice in Malaya. It: proves that, with
modern equipment, ground worth fioz. is pay-
able with tin at £370, London.
* * * -!=
Tingha Tin, the Australian show which
fled to Malaya to hunt for profits, has issued
a preliminary scout-boring report on its
200-acre option in Perak. Four bores have
Shown results as follow: No. 1,64 ft., 60z.;
No. 2. 53ft., traces only; No. 3,51. ft., 360 z.;
No. 4,47 ft., 3oz. People are drawing one
conclusion and another from these figures;
and it isn't safe to conclude anything.
The heads of Alluvial Tin recently left by
the Malabar for Malaya, whence they travel
on to London. In the party which left. Syd-
ney were I". G. Pratten and Malcolm New-
man, directors of Alluvial Tin; G. Macdou-
gall, stockbroker; and G. S. Hutton, repre-
senting the largest American dredging orga-
nisation. who is reputed to have been
visiting Australasia on a special mission con-
nected with the activities of his firm. And
perhaps it isn't merely coincidence that Min-
ister for Customs 11. E. Pratten is on his
way to London and publicly states he is
paying his own expenses. The possibility
of a world shortage of tin is maybe caus-
ing wealthy oversea interests to cast hungry
eyes at the largest Australian-owned Malayan
tin producers; foremost among them is the
Alluvial group, which produced in the first
four months of the current year over 1000
tons of tin worth nearly £200,000.
Gunong float, a pup of Twyford Malaya
(F.M.S.), provides for £50,000 capital in
200,000 ss. shares, of which 40,000 go to the
vendor co., four for one, along with £13,100
in cash; 120,000 are for public subscription
and 40,000 are for purchase by Twyford
holders. C. .T. Rowe certifies that his check
bores reveal 160 acres of 10|oz. stuff giving
4,500,000yd5. over shallow depths, averag-
ing about 17ft. Out of the cash considera-
tion the vendor co. will pay £Bl6O to the ven-
dor syndicate. The area is at Gunong Kan-
tang, in Perak. A Dutch dredge capable of
handling 40,000yds. a month is to cost
£17,500, and should be in commission by the
end of the year. Somebody will have to
hustle to do it. The ground is labelled friable
and containing 67 p.c. gravel; bottom lime-
stone, “slightly uneven.” The prospectus
adds that “no boulders were met with, and
timber was only found in one hole.” The
property and float are on the small side.com-
pared with average Malayan ventures. It
may, however, be only a pipe-opener, as Twy-
ford Malaya talks of acquiring Sydney
Malaya’s 1200 acres near Ronpibon, south-
ern Siam, of which 207 acres of 20ft. ground
have been bored for 114 oz. over the 8,000,000
yards content. If Rowe’s checking pro-
nounces this 0.K., Twyford will have a fine
second string.
* * * *
Kundang, an Alluvial Tin pup, has done
poorly so far. Capital was £125.000 in £1
shares. Of these 44,333 fully-paids went to
the vendors, Sime. Darby and Co.; 11,606 to
the parent co., Ratrut Basin, for an in-
effective dredge; 30,333 to Ratrut share-
holders, while 30,333 contribs. were also
issued to these last —total 116,065 shares.
The ground was estimated at 20 million
yards worth ,751 b. per c.y., and as the new
dredge which was ordered, and which began
working in January, could turn over 120,000
yards a month, at .75 per yard the monthly
return should be 40 tons. In January it
was 17 tons; in February 12 tons; in
March 17 tons ; in April 10 tons —56 tons
in all, or an average of 14 tons. However,
better things are expected, and the £1 shares
were quoted last week at 345.
* * * *
Selayang, a British-Malayan Tin flota-
tion which was acquired by the English
holding co. from F. G. Pratten and Mal-
colm Newman, who received 40.000 f.-p.
shares, has at last completed dredge erection.
The plant was to have been running in
April, but the fitting of additional jigs is
expected to delay a start till June. London
engineers F. W. Payne and Son close-bo nm
130 acres for .01b. tin per cubic yard, and
an adjoining area of the lease for ,451 b. per
c.y. Malcolm Newman’s report, later, gave
average values as from ,81b. to .91b. per c.y.;
average depth 50ft., and an estimate of 24
million yards to be turned over. The fly
in the ointment is the limestone bottom
over most of the area, which pessimists
declare is studded with pinnacles. The
dredge should soon settle that.
if * :!:
Oriental Tin, the Melbourne concern
which, after experiments in N.Q., decided to
try its luck in South Burma, has received
a report from field-engineer St. Smith which
states that, in addition to 17 scout bores
on the Karathuri option, boring is pro-
ceeding on the Huanpayak area. Here
3 000,000 yards have been proved (number
of bores not stated) with an average value
of |lb. of tin oxide to the c. yard. The
co. still hangs on to its 1800-acre option
near Cooktown (N.Q.).
* * *
Kroh Forest Tin is a Malayan flotation
with Melbourne 'affiliations—its managing
director, Rex Thompson, is of that city
and there is a fair holding of its shares in
Australia. The co. recently decided to go
into liquidation, and the circumstances are
of interest to Australian tin speculators.
Floated by Tin Lands Consolidated, it was
check-bored to give a value of .681 b. of tin
oxide per c.y. A million shares at one
dollar Straits (2s. 4d.) were issued, 400,000
going to Tin Lands (the vendors) and
000,000 being available for outside applicants.
These shares were said to have been heavily
over-subscribed. After flotation a further
check-boring was carried out by Osborne and
Chappell. Verdict: “Not payable." Tin
Lands resolved to return their money to
subscribers. There’s a moral in it some-
where.
# * *
Tliomoh Tin is forming a new co.. Tujoh.
with a property at Bavas (F.M.S.). The
newcomer will take over all assets and
£56.000 liabilities, assets including shares
in Satupolo and Pulo, and the property to
be acquired is estimated to contain 47 mil-
lion cubic yards giving fib. tin oxide to the
yard. Tujoli’s capital will be £350,000 in
£1 shares. Tliomoh shareholders will be
offered 65,000 71 p.c. cum. participating
prefs. Also they are. to get 50,000
f.-p. shares in the proportion of one for two.
and 100.000 contributing shares paid to 4s.
will be issued free, one for each share held.
The vendor of the property gets 28,400
and £59,600 in cash.
G.8.M.” : News comes from London that
the L. and N. Coal Distillation Co. has
obtained by private subscription all the
money it needs for establishing a plant near
Morwell (Vic.) for treating brown coal by
low-temperature carbonisation. The name
of the co. is derived from its association
with Laing and Nielsen, the latter a Danish
chemist. Treatment of black coal on the
lines proposed yields a profit of more than
4s. a ton of coal distilled, but the Morwell
brown coal contains 50 p.c. of moisture,
which must first of all be dried out.
* * * *
“Kerogen” (Berlin) : There are three coal-
retorting processes controlled byPintsch (P>.
10/2/’27), and all arc* primarily for maxi-
mum gas and power production, oil yield
being quite a secondary consideration. One
is working fairly satisfactorily on Upper
Silesian coal on the lines mentioned by "Oil
Shalcr,” the gases of combustion per sc doing
the actual “retorting” by passing hot through
the descending coal column. The resulting
coke in its intensely hot condition passes
over a mechanical conveyor, where its heat
is utilised under boilers. All the light oils
and some of the middle oils are destroyed in
the process. For the German Railway Co.
the same firm has constructed a “canal”
oven, in which hot. combustion gases pass
through brown coal contained in shallow
travelling waggons for the purpose of partial
distillation. Here again gas and cheap heat-
ing material are the desiderata. As applied
to Australian shales and torbanites, the
Pintsch processes would be valueless. '


@
1
min
are pre-eminent
Sn the SPORT ‘MrltL
%
>&/i
Dependable Guns & Sporting Rifles
Attractively Priced!
HARRINGTON AND RICHARDSON'S 5.8.8. L. GUN,
12 or 16 Gauge, top-action, automatic self-ejecting, steel
barrel, solid case-hardened, pistol grip, walnut
stock; weight about 6ilb. PRICE
CARRIAGE PAID.
50/-
No. 11.
WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 1902 MODEL,
22-cal., rim fire, 18in. round .steel barrel, bolt action; V
sight, scroll trigger guard, rubber lieel plate;
weight about 31b. PRICE
POSTAGE: N.S.W., 1/6. Other States, 2/8.
32/6
No License is now required for Guns and Sporting Rifles
No. 15.
THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12-gauge, top
lever, cross-bolt. 30in. steel barrels, left clioke,
rebounding locks, pistol grip, wal- nn/i (■/
nut stock ; weight about 71b. PRICE ID' “
CARRIAGE PAID.
No. 29.
SAVAGE SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE, 1904 MODEL,
22-cal., 18in. round steel barrel, bolt action,
handles short, long or long rifle cartridges, bead
front and adjustable rear sight; weight /£»
about 31b. PRICE 04'O
POSTAGE: N.S.W., 1/6. Other States, 2/S.
sacnm®®*
No. 12.
WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE. 1906
MODEL, 22-cal., 16-shot, 20in. round steel barrel,
plain trigger, straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide
action, magazine handles 15 short, 12 long or 11
long rifle cartridges; weight about J?/| /I A/
sJib. PRICE S’ 4 * 7 iv/“
CARRIAGE PAID.
THE SPECIAL SHOOTING CATALOGUE IS A MINE OF INFORMATION FOR THE ZEALOUS SPORTSMAN.
/
r
V.
Serviceable Golf
Bags
FAWN CANVAS, superior leather fit-
tings, cane supports, very light and strong.
Suitable for lady or gentleman. _ . _
4 \-inch 1 ©/ w
5-inch 21/-
WILLOW HIDE, white green lacing, 2
canes, highly polished finish,
popular Bag amongst all grades
of Players
A most
37/6
THE GOLF CATALOGUE IS COMPLETE
WITH EVERY REQUISITE FOR THE GAME.
e
A Racket Worthy of a
Champion’s Skill.
The “Lightning”
Priced at 50/-
Commands atention not only in price, but also for its fine
craftsmanship. Every material embodied in its construction
has been specially selected,.with the result that it will stand
up to the hardest usage. The Frame is of English Ash, with
concave throat and specially reinforced shoulders; strung
with dependable English Gut.
The “Lightning” Frame carries a full Six (6)
Months’ Guarantee.
Mick Simmons are Sole Distributors.
THE SPECIAL TENNIS CATALOGUE SHOULD BE
IN THE HANDS OF EVERY KEEN PLAYER AND
CLUB SECRETARY.
(CARRIAGE PAID ON GOLF AND TENNIS GOODS.)
Undoubtedly the most attractive proposition in the Radio world to-day
To see, to hear and to operate the MAGNAVOX is a revelation —a new adventure
in Radio enjoyment.
Its salient features are: —
1. Single-Dial Simplicity; 2. Single-Dial Efficiency.
SIMPLICITY : The Single-Dial feature was perfected by MAGNAVOX a
company with 15 years’ experience in making Radio products. Just one turn of
one dial for your station, without tedious tuning.
EFFICIENCY: The MAGNAYOX has remarkable power and selectivity. All
MAGNAVOX Circuits are tuned at the factory. They are always in perfect
resonance —which means perfect performance results.
One Dial (5 Valve) Radio
This Model in artistic Australian Cabinet of Dark Oak, COMPLETE
with all Accessories and new MAGNAVOX Cone
Speaker. PRICE, COMPLETE
£4O
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
Remember that satisfaction, not for a year or two, but for a life-
time, is built into every MAGNAVOX Set.
Special Demonstrations of the superlative “MAGNAVOX”. can he arranged in
your own home.
Any Set installed FREE of charge in City or Sulmrbe,
immons
• •
• THE WORLD’S GREATEST SPORTS STORE,”
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: City, Suburbs. Newcastle, Brisbane.


'Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
ce>n/r><? oP
Qu pens’/a note
'Di'S/inpuished
Social Life.
)
Suites de T.uxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS A CABLES “LENNON S , BRISBANE.
7 telephone cent. 5780 (10 lines).
STERLING SILVER
HAS EVERLASTING VALUE AND BEAUTY.
è
English Hall-
marked 3-piece
Silver Tea Set.
Teapot holds 1-1
pints. Excellent
value at
£lB/18/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PI,AIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Henry Rutters, who got a smack
with a sword from Albert of York at the
Canberra opening, is an English engineer
who made his reputation in the Speck. He
was sent out by the Hydro-Electric Power
Co. in 1911, when he was only 28, to boss
the job of making a Tassie lake produce
10,000 h.p., and did it so strenuously that
when the Government took over the plant it
took Butters also, as chief engineer and
general manager. Cheap power creates its
own demand, and by 1023 the system was
delivering 63,000 h.p. and its mains were
running as far afield as Launceston. Then
the Commonwealth Government sent But-
ters to Canberra as Chief Commissioner,
JUSTICE FRAZER, Judge of the M.L.
Arbitration Court.
and for some years he has been the Caesar
of the little colony by the Cotter, with the
last word on every subject, from the proper
laying of bricks to the correct ingredients
of stew. Large of frame and bull-necked,
he can, and does, work 18 hours a day
if necessary.
Not since the Vicar of Bray has anyone
boxed the compass quite so effectively and
completely as the beknighted Pearce. He
has followed in turn Watson, Fisher, the
old Hughes and the Hughes who shook the
dust of the Labor Caucus off his feet in
1916. And when his new associates tired
of the new Hughes, Pearce promptly trans-
ferred his allegiance to Bruce and Page.
So the accommodating gentleman who
entered public life as a Subiaco (W.A.)
councillor —he was a carpenter then—has
been a Senator for 26 years and a Minister
since 1910, with only a year's break. A
career like that wouldn’t be properly rounded
off without a title.
The Canberra business has brought two
more titles to Adelaide. A Iv.C.M.G. goes
lo John Newlands, President of the Senate.
A Scot by birth. Newlands was a railway-
man before he went into politics as a Labor
Assemblyman in 1906; defeated for *the
Assembly, he readied the Senate in 1913.
Like Pearce, he was opposed to titles for
many years, but both gentlemen have
changed their minds with facility. Then
Wallace Bruce, Lud Mayor of Adelaide
and Federal president of the Chambers of
Commerce, lias been. made a K.P>.. together
with Lord Mayor Morell of Melbourne —•
Mostyn, the Sydney man, being still a
Laborite, declined the proffered gift.
District Judge Rolin, who died on Monday,
was born in Sydney and lived there all his
life, always in a legal atmosphere, for his
father was a lawyer and the son followed
in his steps. He was called to the N.S.W.
Bar 40 years ago and took silk in 1912. Well
versed in Arbitration Court procedure, Rolin
was appointed to the Industrial Court Bench
in 1917. When the Court was abolished last
year he was transferred to the District Court.
He was a good oarsman in his day, later
hobbies being golf and economics, and he
was also a pillar of the Red Cross.
Should Vic. Labor-leader Hogan get a
commission to form a Ministry, as is ex-
pected, the party will probably elect as his
colleagues Tunnecliffe, Blackburn. Bailey,
Slater, Cain, Prendergast, Brownbill,
M’s.L.A., and Jones and Beckett, M’s.L.C.
It is not certain that Lemmon and
McNamara will be in the bunch, but there
will be 12 altogether, including four honor-
aries. Pressure may be brought on Beckett
to take the Agency-General.
One of Ethel Turner's “little Australians”
was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar the other
day—A. 11. F. Curlewis. In private life the
novelist is the wife of Judge Curlewis.
Without opposition John Allan was re-
elected leader of Vic, Country party. Octo-
genarian Downward, Minister for Lands,
was replaced as deputy-leader by A. N. L.
Walter, who is chairman of directors of Melb.
Morning Post. Mackrell retained the secre-
taryship, beating Wettenhall. Just when cir-
cumstances were forcing him to relinquish the
Premiership, after an innings of two years
and a half, it was some sort of consolation
to Allan to be confirmed in the leadership
of his party.
Eden George, dead in Sydney, was a photo-
grapher whose hobbies were politics and
horse-racing. He sat for a while in N.S.W.
Assembly, and in the lively days of Crick,
Norton and Willis dealt out verbal stoush
with the best of them. George’s pet aversion
was John Norton, and one of his last appear-
ances in the limelight was when he fought
a libel action against Truth, being his own
counsel. He was the first Sydney photo-
grapher to go in for big advertising, and
his slogan, “Let George do it,” has become
idiomatic.
There are only two survivors of the first
Federal Ministry, J. G. Drake and Elliott
Lewis, both lawyers, the former of Queens-
land, the latter of Tasmania. But Drake
is the senior: he came into the Ministry in
its second month of life ; Lewis not till its
fourth month, and then without a portfolio,
Mr. Drake, though he no longer practises
his profession, still writes a bit —he was
a journalist, before he was a lawyer.
S. Aus. Judge Poole and Gordon Castle,
Commonwealth Crown Solicitor, who died
within a few hours of one another, were
successively associates to Samuel Way when
he was Chief Justice of the Wheat State.
Poole’s successor as associate was Murray,
now C.J.
It was C. C. Kingston, a good judge of
men, who gave the late Gordon Castle his
first big lift. When Kingston went to the
Commonwealth he took Castle, then an officer
in the S. Aus. Law Department, with him,
and had the clever young man’s help in
drafting the 1901 Customs Act, with which
Kingston’s name will always be associated.
Castle succeeded Powers as Crown Solicitor
when the Queenslander was promoted to the
High Court Bench, and in that post he
proved himself a fine constitutional lawyer.
Castle’s grandfather, Gwynne, was one of
S.A.’s Judges 30 years ago.
The late Judge Poole was reckoned one
of the greatest jurists the S.A. Supreme
Court has seen. He was an accomplished
Latin and Greek scholar, a distinguished
Equity lawyer, and, in his Bar days, the
Adelaide Uni.’s star law lecturer.
An interesting relic who rolled up under
two-horsepower to the opening of the
£1,000,000 motor show in Melbourne was
W. C. Crawford, of Beech worth (Vic.),
carrying across two sturdy noddies the mail-
bags which were his care for 20 years on the
Murray and in N. S. Wales. Crawford's
father came from Massachusetts with Cobb
and 10 other drivers in 1852. The first horse
he drove and Cobb bought came from the
Faitlifull stable at Wangaratta. Cobb sold
out after three years and returned to U.S.A.,
and it was actually Crawford and his 10
colleagues w r ho, by forming separate con-
cerns, made his name a household word.
As a melting-pot of races the British
aristocracy licks even the United States.
The Duke of Manchester, whose mother was
Cbnsuelo Yznaga de Valle, daughter of a
Cuban merchant, and whose wife was
Helena Zimmerman, of Cincinnati U.S.A.,
has just seen liis son. Viscount Mandeville,
married to Nell Stead, daughter of a well-
known N. S. Wales squatting family now
resident in Melbourne. The bride is Aus-
tralian where she isn’t Scotch, and one of
her ancestors was the Colonel Johnston who
was so rude to Governor Bligh.
John Kendrick Archer, the first Labor
Mayor of Christchurch (M.lv.), just re-
elected by a two-to-one majority, is a Baptist
parson who emigrated to Fernland after 14
years in Yorkshire tabernacles. A small,
active, earnest man of (12, he has proved him-
self a good administrator and is liked by all
ARTIST H.
SEPTIMUS
POWER,
who has been com-
missioned by the
Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to paint
one of the two pic-
tures of the open-
ing of Parliament
at Canberra.
Power has been en-
trusted with the
picture of the cere-
mony in front of
Parliament House.
parties. His in-
tiuence with the
M.L. L a b o r
party, of which
lie was vice-
president one
year, has not
b e cj n great,
which is per-
haps a pit y,
since he is a
practical-minded
soul and doesn’t
waste time chas-
ing bubbles.
S. \V. Jones, whose passing knell rang in
Brisbane recently, left a harmonious
memory, for he was the inventor and manu-
facturer of the once-famous Bullfrog bullock
bell, whose sonorous “plonk” has broken the
silences from Cape York to Mungindi . these
60 years past. The contraption of riveted
copper-plate outraged all the canons of
bell-design, but no self-respecting bullock-
chauffeur would use any other. The inventor
took root at Dalby, on the Western plains,
65 years ago, and became a storehouse of
western Queensland reminiscences in the
course of his long life. lie stuck to his bell-
making to the end.
Ned Land, who died in Brisbane last
week, was one of the early recruits to
Queensland’s Parliamentary Labor party. A
Cunnamulla hotelkeeper, he was an identity
or s.-w. Queensland when he succeeded
Clowes, of St. George, as member for
Balonne. Before Clowes was elected, Bal-
onne had been a pocket borough for the
pastoral interests. Land never, lost his grip
on it, sitting through 10 Parliaments. He
was a solid party man of the old type, and
extremists liked him not, but everyone else
did.
The Kirk in N. S. Wales lost one of its
pillars when John Kirkland died last. week.
He had been handling iron most of his life,
and having a great head for figures and
finance the Hoskins brothers got him to join
them on the board when they took over the
Lithgow works; and he had long been tin*
trusted auditor and adviser of those other
money-spinners, Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
In the Kirk he was a great benefactor of
the poor country parson, and he kept a live
interest in things until within a few hours
of his death at well past 80.
Gone where schools don’t matter, David
Ewart, Bananaland’s Director of Education
and pioneer of free State-school education.
He was a Scot, but graduated at Oxford, in-
tending to be a parson. Coming to Australia
65 years ago, he found a berth as assistant
master at Brisbane’s old Normal School, and
stuck to pedagogy. The end came at 89.
The memory of Dan Carter, an old-time
Labor stalwart of Melbourne, who died a
year or so since, has been honored by a
pilgrimage to his grave. Dr. Maloney 7 ,
M.H.R., Prendergast, Holland and Hayes,
of the Assembly, and McNamara, of the
plush House, were among those who testi-
fied to Carter’s good qualities and his life-
long work for the Cause.
Manning River (N.S.W.) has an inhabi-
tant. Edwards Wilkes, who can claim a
longer Australian residence than most. He’s
lived on this continent 95 years, and cele-
brated his 100th birtlidav the other day.
His father brought Edward, Edward’s
mother and a liquor license from England
and kept what is claimed to have been the
first licensed house in Sydney.
A man to whom town-clerks and such in
Maoriland owe much, but who was not popu-
lar with the fillum importers, was William
Jolliffe, whose digest of Local Government
admitted to the Bar in London half a cen-
tury ago. and after chasing Costs in Sydney
for a while found a quiet, steady job in the
Maoriland Bills Office. He rose to be head
of the Law Drafting Office, and Dick Seddon
found him a tower of strength. An habitual
early riser and a confirmed gardener. Jol-
liffe went to his grave a week or two ago
without having worn spectacles. For the
last 11 years he was official film censor. He
cut so much out of some of the more hectic
passion-dramas that they screened like in-
consequential nightmares. But he was con-
sistent and impartial, and in time the. M. 1..
movie people learned to save his time and
their own by making their own cuts in
advance.
“Mac.”: A well-known character in s.-w,
Queensland years ago was Big Bill the coach-
driver. I only once saw him shore signs of
nerves, and that was when he carried a pas-
senger who simply refused to speak. I met
Bill at the end of the run, and he seemed
scared. “I don't like the looks of that bloke,"
he said in a husky whisper. “Passed the
time o’ day to him three times, and then he
pulled out a pencil an’ paper and wrote me
a letter. I ain't much of a schohv. so tell
me —what does it say?” On the piece of
paper was written : “I am deaf and dumb.’’
Captain H. A. Forster has arrived to take
Cantain Lane Poole’s place as boss of Jervis
Bay Naval College. In war-time he served
in the battleships Agineourt and Resolution,
and for the last two and a half years he has
been commander of the ancient royal yacht
Victoria and Albert.
With Elliott Giles, on his 15,000-mile
Pacific cruise in Utiekah 111., goes Arthur
Peck, architect, aged 72. Peck was born to
cruise in deep seas. Fifty years ago lie sailed
in a schooner to New 7 Guinea, looking for
gold, and five of the crew died of malaria in
circumstances that might have _ been bor
rowed from Conrad's "Shadow 7 Line."
It must be nearly 20 years since Worry,
an engineer from Long Gully, Bendigo,
went to London with a novel engine which
was installed in the. basement of Winchester
House. It was not fastened to the bench,
being without vibration, but made a noise
like a herd of bulls of Baslian. It. did
14,000 revolutions a minute and developed
12 h.p., though nominally rated at two and
a half. Werry claimed it would develop
four times the power of an orthodox motor
of the same capacity at half the running
cost. The Admiralty is now examining tin
engine with a view to trying it on a son
plane or submarine, but it has taken 2d
years to get the office interested.
The term “transmogrified,” used in a recent
Personal par., calls to mind an oracular
deliverance of the late Bill Law 7 ton, who for
many years kept the pub at Surat (S.Q.).
and had a habit of keeping out of arguments
by making his expressions of opinion cryptic.
Once when a group of cockies were debating
as to whether a few small clouds on tin-
western horizon foreshadowed a storm, Bill
E. C. RIDDLE, the new Governor of the
Commonwealth Bank.
was asked to arbitrate. He adjusted his
specs., gazed thoughtfully at the horizon for a
few minutes and then said: ‘‘Those clouds
will rise, transmogrify in the west, and go
down in the east in transmogrification.” That
settled it.
THE LAUGH HEROIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking with candor, mingled with jocularity,
the Queensland Premier (Mr. W. McCormack) gave
an interview to representatives of English papers
in order to justify Queensland’s economic and financial
situation.”
They come from Sun, they come from Star,
Primed for a journalistic feast;
They come as crows that sight afar
The spent and all-but-foundered beast.
But. lo! they find him jocular
Whose cause to lie is of the least.
Says one, “Such jesting is a sin
In him whose home is mortgaged so
He all but has the bailiffs in;
Me really ought to know, you know,
For those who sympathy would win
A little gloom is com'me il faut.”
Another murmurs, “ ’Tis too plain
A newer Nero has returned
To fiddle o'er his country’s pain
That in financial flames is burned;
Or grief, maybe, has turned his brain.
Or fear his begging may be spurned.”
But one, within whose weary eyes *
All garnered wisdom seems to sleep.
Now silences each wild surmise.
“Be still, ye senseless, bleating sheep !
For know ye not,” he sternly cries,
“That strong men laugh... .lest they
should weep.”
Queensland.
HASEN.


The whisky with the small
label and the big reputation
-that's Uohnme Walker
Born 1820
om
g Strong
It’s easy to see why
‘JOHNNIE WALKER'
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
V
A.
A
m
A
A
u
I
• at
fid
A
•S“L*S. B i. TI ?. N awards
«8S
c T«^r £ oT/Mr c^-
Qu AUTV
2±^^k°Z^


A Book Worth a Million Pounds
to Australian Agriculturists.
THE WILD ANIMALS OF
AUSTRALASIA.
Embracing the Mammals of New
Guinea and the Nearer Pacific Islands.
By A. S. Le Souef and Harry Burrell. With
a section on the Bats of Australia and New
Guinea by Ellis Le G. Troughton. With 105
illustrations from photographs and numerous
diagrams. Prospectus on application.
The Manchester Guardian says
“This book is indispensable to Australian
Museums, and worth (not figuratively, but in
hard cash) over a million pounds to the
Federal Government would it but read and
act upon pages 106 and 107. These two
pages might cure Australia of the rabbit
pest.”
GEORGE G. HARRAP & CO., LTD.,
Australia House, Wvnyard Square, SYDNEY.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
it. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Managing Director. ’
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
A NEW WIENEKE
—HI
fnm f p*
: :
I
m
m
Poley
Saddle!
Made on a stock steel-
plated, unbreakable
tree.
The flaps are long, the
waist narrow and the
pads specially shaped
for grip.
PRICE.
Complete with Mounts.
£l2/12/-
Write for my new book on
saddles.
JACK WIENEKE,
Maker of Saddles for 40 Years.
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY:
Or 434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
ABORIGINALITIES
MAND IN AUSTRALIA
PLENTY OF CAUSE.
"Well, yer needn’t ’ave run if the lady did
show yer the door.”
“Yes I need! She ’ad a ’amrner an’ screw-
driver in ’er ’and an’ wanted me to mend
it.”
“Gouger” : On the southern side of Thurs-
day Island the water may be at high tide
while on the western side it is at low. The
difference in the height of the water on either
side is at times as much as three feet; and
that within the space of a mile or so. The
Pacific in these parts has periodically a pro-
nounced list to port. On the Prince of Wales
group this list is often apparent. When the
tide is coming from the west it passes the
foreshore where the water is low and then
Rows past the foreshore where the water is
high. Also, you can chase the neaps for days
without having them turn on you. The shell-
ing boats often start work off Possession
Island at neap tides. They drift and sail
while fishing, following the neap waters to,
roughly, 200 miles west of Booby Island,
about 60 miles altogether, doing the trip
in approximately 12 days, and with a
favorable wind sailing back and com-
mencing all over again on the 15th day.
This has the great advantage that the boats
can work all the month in neap waters, pro-
vided they start at a set time and no “blows"
occur. Another puzzle is that if you leave
T.I. in a fast launch at high tide and run
for 20 minutes on a western course down
Prince of Wales channel you will get into
low water. Still another conundrum is that
the same tide, including its intricate back-
washes, will run in many different directions
through T.I. harbor. Which is one reason
why T.I. jetty is one of the most ticklish in
the world for big ships to tie up to.
* * * *
"Werrimee” : I saw £5 thrown down on the
road one day in South Grafton for a bullock
bell that hung at the stern of a timber-
getter’s waggon, and the money was refused
with scorn. At the same time the owner
unstrapped the jingler and placed it under a
bag on top of his logs. I suppose its in-
trinsic value was about 155., but that bell
was talked about in all the timber camps on
the river. An old scrubranger assured me
it had been purloined from a teamster on the
Barwon 30 years before. It was a Pad-
erewski among bells, and was so widely
coveted that the proud owner at last didn’t
dare to risk it on a bullock, and it was only
brought out occasionally to tune up an argu-
ment at a camp-fire.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Within certain shires of the Mu
State during the last few years the cape-
tulip has spread apace, and in some locali-
ties has been causing much upturning of
toes amongst dairy cows. The weed is
regarded by stock-owners as the most deadly
of all the imported poisonous plants. The
farmers’ great complaint is that their efforts
to hoe out the pest go for nothing, as the
seeds from unoccupied lands and roadsides,
where the tulip flourishes unhindered, re
infest the areas they have cleared. In few
localities has any help been forthcoming from
the shire councils.
* * *
“Biro”: I can sympathise with “Yufu”
18. 14/4/’27). Fear of snakes is drilled into
bush children by well-meaning but foolish
parents to such an extent that when a bite
is received more damage is done by fear than
by venom. To keep the heart going well is
the best help possible in snake-bite. Very
few bites would prove fatal if there were
no fear in the victim’s breast. My boy, who
is 13, lias no fear of anything but a snake.
In my ignorance I scared him of snakes when
lie was a toddler; they were very plentiful,
and I was terrified lest he should be bitten.
Recently a tiger-snake crawled into our vard.
My boy—a dare-deviLin other ways—sat quite
speechless with fear. And he had just finished
breaking in a wild heifer!
* * * *
“Geoloin”: “Yairs,” said old Tom Brumby,
“some of the dumb animuls kin show
'liman bein’s points w’en it comes ter
kindness t’ each other. Durin’ the last dry
spell in Queensland, the wallabies an’ kan-
garoo-rats an’ bandicoots ’ad a rough time;
there wasn’t, a blffde o’ grass fer ’em t’ eat.
We ’ad a irrigated paddick o’ loosun’, an’ the
pore animuls wus alwuz lookin’ through the
wire-nettin’ an’ tryin’ ter git in, but we kep’
a good, eye on the fence. One morliin’ I
sees w'ere somethin’ ’ad bin ’avin’ a good
go at the loosun. The fence wus orright,
so I says ter meself, ‘l’ll watch with a
rifle ter-night.’ I got a good possie, an’
I sees erbout ’arf er dozen kangaroos jump
over the fence an’ start pullin’ the feed. The
does stuffs it inter their pouches an’ jumps
out again, an’ feeds orl the other poor animuls
who couldn’t git over the fence. They done
this a good few times, an’ I was so touched
with their kindness to their feller animuls
that I didn’t kill any of the pore blighters.
No; I fired an’ missed.”
* * * *
“Te W.”: Amongst other birds which
breed in the hollows of trees the sacred or
wood kingfisher—sky-blue with buff breast
—suffers considerably from the goanna’s
depredations, often losing eggs or young.
Ivingy, however, doesn't forget to pay off
old scores when he gets a chance. A pair
of sacred kingfishers, catching a female “go”
clawing her way into a white-ants’ nesr,
immediately attacked her and with their
sharp beaks soon pierced the tough skin and
drew blood.
* * * *
“Truly Rural”: Do animals drink salt
water? Rottnest Island, near Fremantle, is
over-run with a species of wallaby called by
the natives quokkas or tammas. Although
there are lakes, there is no fresh water on
the island except what is obtained from four
wells, of a depth of about 30 feet, and
some 1 large rainwater tanks; the lakes
are intensely salt. Since the access of
the wallabies to fresh water is disposed of,
they must drink either salt water or no
water at all. The former supposition is sup-
ported by the fact that'every morning the
tracks of quokkas are to be found thick
along? the water’s edge.
“Old Dan”: Yes, an’ rabbits has got intel-
lergence too. I was walkin’ ’cross a paddick
just after some heavy rain when I spots a
couple of 'em chasin’ each other round in a
ring. A lotter little quarter-grown kittens is
sittin’ in a heajv watchin’ th' two ole ones
NOT THAT SORT.
VICTOR THE VISITOR: “I’m wanting a boat; is this one for sale?”
BILL THE BOATMAN : “No, for rowin’.”
doin’ th’ merry-go-round acts. They all scoots
orf to their burrer when I gets near. Outer
curiosity I goes over t’ have a look at th'
place, an’ ’anged if I don’t see a mushroom
’bout 10 feet across stickin’ up outer th’
ground ’bout a foot high. All ’round th’ out-
side edge of it is th’ track made be th’ ole
rabbits racin’ around on the top of it- —a mud
track six inches deep it was. Well, as the
muslieroom wasn’t any good t’ me, I left it
there. Nex’ day I’m over that way agen,
an’ strike me lucky if there isn’t th’ six
kittens racin’ like fun 'round th’ top of th’
musheroom, while til’ two big ones is
squattin’ on th’ ground, lookin’ on approvin’
like. An’ can you beat this? Since the
prevyus day th’ musheroom had growed, an’
its edges had curled up till it was somethin’
like a miniachure motor-bike track. Them
ole rabbits wouldn’t let th’ young ’uns on it
th' first day fer fear of ’em slippin’ over
th’ edge an’ hurtin’ theirselves. But with
th’ curled up edges it was quite safe fer
’em, see!
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Twenty-five or thirty
years ago the Murray and its subsidiary
streams were plentifully stocked with cod,
golden perch, silver bream, blackfish and eel-
tailed catfish, but nowadays, except in a few
favored spots, the product of a day's angling
rarely exceeds enough for tin 1 cat. There is
considerable diversity of opinion as to the
causes of the great reduction. Some blame
the ravages of pests, native and imported:
others maintain that inadequate protection
is the trouble. There is truth in both con-
tentions ; and I believe that much damage
is caused also through silting in many of tlie
smaller watercourses and the immense quan-
tities of ashes carried into the streams after
bush-fires —particularly in the hill country.
The rapid disappearance of fish from the
Murray and its tributaries is nothing less
than a calamity.
* * * *
“W..T.8.”: I left Broome (W.A.) on an
enforced walking tour to Derby on a bridle-
track winding snakeTlike through the tall
grass and between the poles of the overland
telegraph line. At the 60-mile peg a large
tree with the inscription “G.M.” marked the
grave of Gus. Monk, a brother of Cyril
Monk, the Sydney violinist; Gus. had died
six months previously of heart-failure while
travelling from Derby to Broome. Mobs of
Hereford cattle, owned by Streeter, the Lon-
don jeweller, were seen grazing on the river-
banks. My first camp past the Fitzroy
River was made memorable by a sumptuous
meal of squatter pigeons. During the night
I thought I heard horsemen splashing
through the creek, and piled fresh wood on
the fire to greet them. Instead. I found two
crocodiles roving hungrily around the sands,
Dingoes appeared on the opposite bank of
the creek and the noise became deafening,
Next day I reached Yeeda station, owned
by a wealthy London tea-merchant, who
also controlled three million acres of fine
cattle-land by the King Leopold Range, the
station most remote from civilisation in Aus-
tralia. Many miles further on I found the
grave of one of the victims of the notorious
abo. outlaw Pigeon. At one. time a police-
boy, Pigeon killed eight whites and many
natives before lie was rounded up and put
beyond further mischief.
* * * *
“Pick”: Fish at times appear to change
their locality. The barracouta was once
known only in the southern Pacific, its most
northern grounds being King and Flinders
Islands in Bass Strait. Nowadays .it is
found at all the estuaries of the N.S.W.
south coast, and has been caught as far north
as Port Stephens. The long-tom. once only
known on the far north of the N. S. Wales
and Queensland coasts, has travelled south,
and is now often amongst the catches at
A CHARITABLE WISH.
HARTIGAN : “Bill Murphy dead! Well, well!
Oi hope he’s gone where Oi don’t expict
he has!”
Twofold Bay and other southern inlets. At
least two specimens of a distinct species of
tiger-shark, hitherto found exclusively in
the Indian Ocean, have been captured re-
cently off the coast of N.S.W.
(Continued on page 27.)
THE PLOD FROM MOONTA.
[FOR THE BULLETINE
He didn’t look a miner, and he wasn’t much
for size,
And his chance I didn’t fancy with old Cap’ll
Jan Trezize ;
For the Cap’n was a hard one, and I couldn’t
see a hope
For the stranger to get busy in the crosscut,
winze or stope.
There were only two applying for a bit of
toil that day,
And at first I never doubted it was sure to
come my way ;
But to weaken and to vanish all my hope-
fulness began
When that cocky little stranger went and
worded Cap’n Jan.
He was just across from Moonta, where the
Cap’n used to dwell,
And I couldn’t help but listen, for lie told
his story well;
And, with every word lie uttered, plain and
plainer ’twas to see
That if only one was wanted ’twasn’t likely
to be me.
For the Cap’ll stood and listened while he
told him all he knew;
Who ’twas married Jennie Polglaise and
where Ned Penrose was to,
And how bravely Cap’.n’s nephew, with his
stalwart arms a-swing,
Led the choir in the chapel where the Cap’n
used to sing.
I’d have sold out very cheaply, for I knew
my chance was done
Ere the Cap’n said “Gawd bless ’ee, start
es afternoon, m’son.”
Oh! he didn’t look a miner, and he wasn’t
much for size,
But he brought the plod from Moonta to old
Cap’n Jan Trezize.
W.A.
OSCAR WAETERS.


and
v
oP
CORD
9
'avoid trouble!
llOHme&
»• fc* »
lll**'
or
\
You can motor
many thousands of miles
without the slightest tyre trouble
and at no additional initial outlay—if you fit
Cw?
D
D
The quality and quantity of highest grade rubber and fabric
incorporated in the “Dunlop”— plus its scientific construction
_ ensures ample strength to withstand the roughest driving on
Australian roads. All you have to do to obtain excellent service
is to keep your Dunlops properly inflated. Do that and
you will be well satisfied with their mileage and economy.
LEADING GARAGES STOCK THEM.
All States
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
and N.Z.


SHIPS
MARINE
ENGINES
LOCOMOTIVES
MACHINE
TOOLS
FORGINGS
CASTINGS
NON
FERROUS
PRODUCTS
DROP
STAMPINCS
HIGH SPEED
STEELS
SMALL TOOLS
GAUGES
PNEUMATIC
TOOLS
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING-
SETS
COAL
HANDLING
PLANT
HYDRAULIC
MACHINERY
DOCIf
EQUIPMENT
PUMPING
MACHINERY
WATERTURBINES
AND
FELTON VHEELS
GENERAL
ENGINEERING
M.C.629
Prosperity & Peace
THE greatest guarantee of world peace to-day
is a strong and prosperous British Empire.
As each great part of that Empire builds up its
industries, pushes forward its railways and con-
structs its docks and harbours it is building far
more than its own prosperity. It is making
stronger and stronger in the world’s councils the
voice of the British Empire ; making it more
powerful to urge peace ; even, if necessary, to
prevent the breaking of peace.
Armstrong Whitworth are now chiefly engaged
in aiding the development and extending the
power of the British Empire; harnessing water
power to develop the industries of New Zealand ;
supplying locomotives to extend the communi-
cations of India and Australia ; equipping docks
at home and overseas for the efficient handling
of trade.
Armstrong Whitworth ask for your enquiries for all classes
of engineering work, from the making of small tools to the
•undertaking of the heaviest types of machinery. They ask
for your enquiries because their aims and your aims are one —
a strong and united Empire, seeking prosperity and guarding
peace.
ENGINEERS TO
THE EMPIRE
You are invited to send
for Catalogues of any
A. W. Products in which
vou may be interested.
Sir •W • G - Armstrong Whitworth 6? C°• L TD
NEWCASTLE ' ON • TYNE • AND ' MANCHESTER ' ENGLAND
London Office: KINNAIRD HOUSE * PALL MALL EAST ’ LONDON S’W 1
Code : BENTLEY’S Telegrams : ZIGZAG, PICCY, LONDON.
Agents for Australia : Messrs. GILBERT LODGE 6? CO. Ltd.. MELBOURNE and SYDNEY


ê
The Life-blood of Business..
A plentiful supply of well-produced sales
literature is the life-blood of business. With
its assistance sales soar, profits increase.
Literature of this kind—booklets, blotters,
price lists, folders, etc.—can be produced on
the Multigraph at a speed of 4000 per hour
and an average saving of 45% !
Tho Multigraph, too, turns out personal type-
written letters in any quantity a sheet at a
time. These demand attention and get
RESULTS.
To learn more of the EARNING and SAY-
ING power of the Multigraph in business
write our nearest address. No obligation is
involved.
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.,
9-11 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
91-93 William Street, Melbourne. 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MULT/GRAPH
A FEW
MULTIGRAPH
USERS:
Cadbury. Fry, Pas-
cal 1.
Colonial Mu t u a 1
Life Assi.ranco.
Leo Motors, Ltd.
National Bank of
Australasia.
Government Savings
Bank, N.S.W.
“Warihi”: In Maorilaiid during the first
week in April one could both see and smell
scores of yards of strung-up eels turning
to dead fish in the vicinity of many Maori
villages. The tuna heke or eel harvest was
on. About the end of March every year the
adult lady eels set off for the salt water as
if in a hurry to get to a bargain-sale. Hubby
goes too, and the scene at some river-bends
is amazing; in all directions are eels, shov-
ing, pushing and wriggling out to sea. In
the spring there will be millions of young
eels struggling persistently up-stream in the
rivers, leaving their parents in the unknown
spawning grounds of the Pacific. The Maoris
have made a close study of eels, and have
classified nine varieties. They have the
same idea that once prevailed in English
counties, that eels grow from horsehairs
or threads of weed that fall into the water.
“Bill Ding”: Reading the Red Page in
the shade of a tree, I noticed a couple of
novel flies on the page. I shooed them
away; back they came, and back again,
evidently attracted by the color of the page.
Then I observed their newness in detail.
A body nearly as large as a house-fly’s, but
with a disproportionate and pear-shaped
abdomen of bright orange hue; thorax and
head light brown ; a single, light-blue, brown
dappled wing on each side, and, when at
rest, unlike the common fly's wings, turned,
screw-wise, and set vertically. The flies
moved sluggishly on brilliant orange-lined
legs, hut had keen sight. On the slightest
movement to capture they made oft'. Can
anyone name them?
“Star Rocket” : A dairy-farmer on the
North Coast (N.S.W.) adopts a novel
method of dealing with his cattle when they
get too weak to stand in time of drought.
Instead of erecting a sling with a band fore
and aft holding up the body of the beast,
he digs a hole to allow free play for the
legs and feet while the body rests on the
ground. Feed and water are supplied, and
when strong enough the animal gets on her
legs and walks away. During the last
drought, when neighbors were losing heavily,
this particular cocky never lost a hoof.
“.T.5.8.”: “Them bullicks I read about
in The Buixeteen,” said Dungaree Dick con-
temptuously, “ain’t intellergent at all.
Cripes! y’orter seen ole Leopard; he was
th' kindest-’earted and intellergentest ole
leader y’eAer struck. W’y, ’e use ter keep
th’ flies offer me w’en we was spellin’ or
campin’. But I never knoo ’ow clever ’e
reelly was till I breaks me leg one day on
th’ track erbout twenty miles outer Dirran-
bandi. Wot does ole Leopard do? ’E ’ooks
'is ’orns inter me belt, an’ carries me inter
th’ shade, an’ then ’e starts orf at a gallop
back ter town ter git th’ quack. I ses ter
mcsolf, ‘Y’ro beat this time, ole man’; but
1 wus wrong. Tlr quack tolo me orl erbout
it afterwards. W’en ole Leopard gits inter
town, ’e sees th' quack in th' street an’ runs
up ter ’im and hellers; but th’ pore cow
can’t explain ’imself, or course. Then ’e
charges th’ Doc. and makes ’im drop ’is
black bag. Leopard picks it up on ’is ’orns
an’ starts back ter me. Til’ quack gits in
’is car an’ toilers ’im ter git ’is bag, which
iS full of ’is knives an’ things, an’ ’e conn's
, .across me. ’E fixes me up an’ takes me ter
th’, ’orspertil.” “And what happened to old
Leopard?” I asked. “Oh, ’im? Th’ pore
cow starved ’imself ter death waitin’ on th’
’ojspertil steps for me ter come out.”
“Bad Australian”: Jim’s selection bad not
much in the way of improvements on it,
except a two-roomed bark humpy and a
sort-of-a-kind* of ring-fence. Whenever the
fallen timber had accumulated so as to im-
pede the movement of his handful of wind-
splitters and gully-rakers, or when he had
MORE SWANK..
“William John iron up to chapel laust Sunday wearin ’ pair glasses."
“ What- do William John want glasses for?”
"Haven't 'ce '’card? Since his hoy 'Siah pot job at the hank, William John's tryin's make
folks think he can read.'"
been -suckering or cutting brush, or when
the rabbits wore unduly numerous, it tiro
always started on Jim's holding, lie was
never at home on such occasions, and when
the neighbors arrived Mrs. Jim was generally
in hysterics and the kids in the creek.
Although his neighbors regarded these occur-
rences with suspicion, they were never able
to get any positive evidence. Years after-
wards, when the rabbits had chased him on
to the roads, James gave me what he termed
the •‘oil.” When Jim judged the time to
be ripe for a burn-off, he took a stick of
phosphorus, punched a hole in a lump of
rendered fat, inserted the phosphorus and
sealed up the packet so as to exclude air.
Then at night he deposited the surprise-
packet where it was calculated to do most
good, and went home to bed. The following
day he made an early start for the township,
and by the time the sun had melted the fat
and set the “red bull” loose, every man,
woman and child in the place was prepared
to swear that he had been there for hours.
* S< S: St
“Bihai”: It is not necessary to go out-
back to hear “tooroo” used (B. 14/4/’27).
A man from Windsor (N.S.W.), parting
from me a few days ago, said, “Well, tooroo
—see you in Liverpool.” Thirty years ago,
“tooroo” or “tooraloo” was commonly used
about Sydney. The expression seems to
have come from the chorus of a then popu-
lar song, commencing “If I had the wings
of a turtle-dove,” the last line being “I
tooral I ooral I ay.” “See you in Liver-
pool” was just as commonly used. It prob-
ably originated amongst immigrants who had
arranged to meet and sail together from
Liverpool.
* *
“Wallaby” : One day I came across a 7ft.
carpet-snake and an old grey cat on a flat
rock staring hard at each other across about
three feet of neutral ground. From a distance
I watched them for fully 10 minutes and then
left. Returning in about an hour’s time I
found them still in the same position. I
despatched the snake, and while I was doing
so the cat disappeared. Which was the mes-
meriser and which the subject?
* * * *
“Jore-Bowen”: “Sultana Jack” used to
camp on the Murray bank near Renmark
(S.A.). During the picking season he earned
enough to allow him, with the aid of a small
remittance, to spend the rest of the year
on a more or less sustained bender. I visited
his tin-and-hessian liumpy one day to ask
his help in swimming some horses across
the river. Three snakes in a small-mesh
netted cage interested me. “No,” said .Tack,
“they’re not venomous. They make just as
good pets as anything else. They don’t bark
at the full moon all night, and they don t
have kittens on your new blankets, and it
doesn't matter much if yon forget their meals
for a few days. Besides, they're cheerful
company at times.” A few days later I
Questioned a near-by farmer. “That’s right,”
lie explained. “Jack has bis bad times, when
his bouts have been extra heavy. So long
as he can feel some real snakes he is satis-
tied that the others are imaginary.”
* * ss *
“Jimmy Possum”: The clever collie (P».
14/4/’27) that entered a furniture-shop and
pulled out and licked the dry bottom of a
basin when lie needed a drink, recalls an
intelligent cattle-dog we had a while back.
When he wanted a booze badly and his water-
bag was empty, he’d come upstairs (where
his presence was forbidden) whining plead-
ingly and apologetically, and licking his
chops suggestively all the while. As soon
as he had drawn someone’s attention, he’d
hurriedly retreat down the steps and trot
to the kitchen tank, where he’d stand plead-
ing and begging and licking at the tap.
That wall-eyed heeler, by the way, was the
most sensitive tyke we ever owned, a single
rebuke at any time sending him slinking
away in abject humiliation.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Some bush nomads are
peculiar in their camping habits. Bandy
Jack, whose beat was about the Warrego and
Barcoo, would never doss near anybody else.
If another traveller unrolled at his camp-
fire, Jack would at once find some fault with
the ground or complain about ants; then pick
up his bed and walk. In such cases he
camped in the dark half a mile or a mile
away. Though he would tramp through the
day with a mate, casually picked up. lie
wouldn’t sleep near him. Far west of Jack's
beat there was a route known as “the Murder
Track,” several travellers having been mur-
dered there. I think Bandy had that in
mind, and regarded every wanderer who
wanted to camp with him as a possible
murderer.
* * * *
“Tongio West”: A few years ago my
scarlet-runner beans were covered with
flowers, which failed to fructify. Their
foliage covered the fence and also a wall
I had to whitewash, so I sot a spray and
sprayed the lime on flowers and timber alike.
An unexpected result was that the beans
at once started to firm, and I bad the record
crop of scarlet-runner beans in the district.
DELANEY.
[FOR THE THE BULETKI=ICE .]
Delaney was a steadfast mate,
A kindly, kingly soul and true.
His restless heart was ruled by fate
What time he strode with mind elate
Across a world of rose and rue.
With head erect, through shine or shade,
He journeyed down the golden years
On tracks remote from jostling trade.
He saw rude cities flare and fade,
Staunch hearts of gold and hearts dismayed,
Life’s surging hopes and voiceless fears.
Along the pad to Quandong Soak
He overtook me in the noon.
His greeting through the mirage broke
Mad visions born of thirst; it woke
Swift reason in my head aswoon,
He led me onward, staunch and slow,
And served me first, nor drank till then.
He served me .first in all I know,
As forth I journeyed long ago
To face the world through weal or woe
A student of the ways of men.
We tramped the pads, we travelled far
Through mulga scrubs and roaring camps.
On claims reflecting Fortune’s star
We toiled below with drill and bar.
We raised the ore and fed the stamps.
Dur loud carousals through the night
In strident, fitful stanzas swelled.
In barren climes of thirst and blight
We shook the dice by candle-light
And squandered money left and right,
Nor troubled what tile future held.
The fire of gold consumed the West;
Old camps were struck on ridge and range.
On other routes of bleak unrest
The aftermath we faced abreast
Through leaner years in regions strange.
When hunger stalked ivith noiseless tread
And burning were the pangs of thirst,
A minister by impulse sped,
1 lelaney strode the track ahead
Winning the doles of tea and bread
To ever serve his comrade first.
We parted, yielding seasons gone.
We pledged ourselves to each that when
We met again we’d hold upon
Naught but the brighter days that shone
Across the paths of steadfast men.
And through more kindly years a-speed
I fondly treasured up the day
When, if we met, my happier meed
Would be to serve Delaney’s need;
To toast him oft —or gently lead
His wreckage from the rocks away,
At noon I trod the market-place,
When, drifting with the human tide,
Sad yearning etched upon his face,
Delaney passed with feeble pace,
White-haired and poor and hollow-eyed.
I stared —a frozen stare, I know —
A look which held no light to greet,
lie saw me not: (I trust) as slow
He tramped the flags, a ghost of woe
From out the haze of long ago,
Worn bluchers on his soekless feet.
THE PACIFIST.
DISTRICT OFFICER: “You say you love peace, and then you go and throw a spear at the
tillage constable?”
JIMMY PAPUA: "Yes, taubada; he was very interfering person. After I threw it lie alto-
gether quiet.”
Swiftly the crowd engulfed his form;
And yet I stood, and still I stared
As one who watches, safe from harm.
Dark wreckage through the raging storm
Bearing the soul which fate has spared.
I moved to hail him then —too late !
I searched, but witnessed nevermore
Delaney, once the steadfast mate
Whose restless heart was ruled by fate —
Who walks no more with eyes elate,
Treading the shoals to find the shore.
N.B.W.
GERARDY.


His
Sale
at top values is
our work at the
yards. We are Pat
Stock Salesmen.
e
Through the facilities provided, the attention given
to business, and the energy and skill extended in
selling consignments, full market prices are invari-
ably obtained by Winchcombe-Carson senders.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney.
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
ui
GLOBE
UMBER MILLS C 9
IS:. FLINDERS ST ADELAIDE
TIMBER. , JOINERY,
GALVANIZED IRON
> Lowes! Prices. Highest- Qualify, Prompt Service -w^ST
r
.5- r
V-2
HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
10 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
THE MAN
ON THE LASD'S
PAGE
THE OPEN-GATE NUISANCE.
As to gates for motor tracks (P». 7/4/’27),
a South African inventor claims to have
solved the problem with a “gateless gate” for
motor use only. A Bulletin correspondent
writes that he has tried the new idea with
complete success, after years of testing tilt-
ing, lever, dropweight and other types of self-
opening gates. This motor-gate is used on
a special loop track for motors only, other
traffic going by the ordinary road and gate.
The new idea consists of a pit dug on the
fence line so that the latter bisects it. The
pit is 4 feet deep, and extends for 4 feet on
each side of the fence, with a width of 10ft.
Across this, and parallel with the fence, are
laid iron fencing standards, inches apart,
resting on three 3in. x 9in. timbers. All these
are bedded in concrete at each end, and
firmly fastened. The Australian experimenter
has substituted ljin. galvanised-iron piping,
6 inches apart, for the iron fence standards
of the South African. Though motors can
cross the grid without ti-ouble, the inventor
claims that no animal will tackle the open-
ing in the fence, or attempt to cross the
grid, even the jackal. South Africa’s equi-
valent to our dingo as a sheep destroyer,
refusing to face it. How the contraption
would work in the case of rabbits neither
the inventor nor his Australian adapter say.
Otherwise both seem to be satisfied that the
problem has been solved.
MANURING FOR WHEAT.
“A.J.V.”: In the reference to the manu-
rial requirements of the wheat crop
(B. 31/3/’27) it was suggested that the
application of nitrogenous manures, such
as sulphate of ammonia, would become neces-
sary as the years go on. This should never
be the case so far as our wheat areas are
concerned if an intelligent rotation of crops
is practised. Nitrogen is supplied in our
soils by certain kinds of bacteria, which to
work at their top require warmth, moisture,
air and organic material, such as crop or
animal refuse. The warmth is supplied by
our genial climate, the moisture and air
by fallowing, and the humus either by
plougliing-in stubbles or grazing the crops.
As stubble-burning has now for very good
reasons become the standard practice, the
grazing of the oat crop which succeeds wheat
in the rotation wheat-oats-fallow is to be
recommended. Besides supplying the very
necessary organic matter, such a practice
turns at least a portion of the oat crop into
a more readily marketable product as lamb
or mutton. It has been estimated that in
a Wimmera (Vic.) fallow, under this
system, sufficient nitrogen is stored for the
needs of a 72-bushel crop.
The reason nitrogenous manures play such
an important part in European agriculture
is that, while they have the bacteria and
may be able to supply the moisture, air and
organic matter, their climate fails them in
the matter of warmth—a fact which is
stressed every time Tite Bulletin refers to
“the Cold Land.” Further, any supply of
nitrogen that the bacteria, working half-
time, may be able to produce 5s sadly
depleted by heavy rains—a factor which is
absent in the Australian wheat belt.
The phosphate deposits of Nauru and
Ocean Island are worth far, far more to
Australia than all the nitrate in Chile, or
all the sulphate of ammonia in the gas and
coke works.
LICE IN SHEEP.
“T.J.”: Lice diminish the earning powers
of sheep in several ways. They irritate
the animal, so that he rubs the wool away
from the affected parts on trees and stumps,
and, moreover, he becomes lean and liauntcd-
looking. Infested sheep will never fatten,
nor will they breed to any payable extent.
Finally, lice discolor the wool and so lessen
its value.
Ten years ago lice were very rare amongst
N.S.W. sheep, but in recent times they have
become a considerable nuisance. They breed
best amongst crossbreds, and possibly the
boom in crossbreds that occurred some, years
ago had a lot to do with spreading the pest
throughout the State. To prevent the
spread a penalty is now attached to travel-
ling or selling infested sheep, but the regu-
lation is not rigorously enforced. Besides,
it is a difficult matter to detect the presence
of this pest amongst sheep that are only
slightly infested or. for that matter, amongst
‘.beep that are badly infested, provided the
latter are carrying a two or three months’
fleece. Infested sheep that are straight off
the shearing board display yellow patches
that gradually fade into a kind -of grey, and
finally disappear as the wool grows. Well-
woolled sheep that are badly infested dis-
play ragged fleeces and are easily detected.
In many cases they even have their sides
bare of wool through constant rubbing.
The only way in which lice may be de-
tected in a mob that has a few sheep very
slightly affected is to take note of any jum-
buck that bites himself. Sheep frequently
do this when bothered by grass seed or blow-
flies, but an animal that bites himself with-
out apparent reason should be closely ex-
amined. It would be foolish to dogmatise,
but I have found that a likely place to find
lice is about the shoulders.
Unlike rabbits and blowflies, they are an
easy nest to eradicate. Two years’ clipping
in succession will almost certainly free an
infested flock. Dipping is cheap and simple,
and if it was generally realised that the
losses caused by lice are very great no doubt
the pest would be wiped out within a few
years. Unfortunately, because sheep never
actually (lie as a direct result of lice, many
graziers seem to imagine that the losses are
inconsiderable.
FARM ACCOUNTS.
“Accountant”: "Gadfly" (B. 21/4/’27)
draws attention to the difficulty always
experienced in obtaining reliable data as
to the cost of producing wheat, and ascribes
this difficulty to the absence of any system
of book-keeping on the farm. Quite right;
but how can anyone expect the average
farmer to have the knowledge or the time
to remedy such a state of affairs? The
numerous' textbooks on accountancy leave
him cold, with their confusing details as
SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD TO.
’ORACE (to dying cobber): “Cheer up, old chap! This time to-morrow yer might be
flyin’ from pub to pub instead of ’arm’ to pad th’ ’oof.”
to the merits of single- and double-entry;
even the terms employed often read like
double-Dutch to him. Added to this is the
fact that any ordinary system of book-keeping
involves too much time and trouble for even
the educated farmer to be bothered with it.
Two farmers in this district (Griffith,
N.S.W.) have, on my advice, begun to
record their bank transactions in a specially-
ruled cash-book. This involves the dissec-
tion and entering of all cheques drawn or
deposits made in the one book, but under
separate headings; no ledger postings are
involved, and their womenfolk do the work,
Of course such a system fails to record all
but profit and loss items, but at the least
it allows these men to arrive at a periodical
statement of their receipts and disbursements
without much trouble. From this the nett
working profit is easily calculated, and their
income-tax returns are also compiled from
same.
SEEN AT THE SYDNEY SHOW.
Among the hitherto unmentioned exhibits
at the Sydney Show which the writer recalls
was the Cyclone Co.’s spring coil fence. It
is in all heights from 26 to 58 inches and
can be strained in 5-chain lengths. A finer-
gauge wire is used as a cross-tie, so that
droppers can be done without. This fence
does away with the trouble of boring and
running wires; the wire is stapled on to
each post. It is ideal for temporary use.
\*hen the fence is no longer needed it can
be. rolled up again and re-erected elsewhere.
The same people are putting on the. market
an improved steel post, shaped on top some-
thing like the letter Y, to be driven in. A
woven gate can be opened by running the car
or sulky wheel over a lever. As the car
goes Over the level - the gate opens and it
closes as the car presses the lever on the
other side. It is stock and rabbit proof.
The Case tractor is made in two sizes—l -
20 li.p., which is equal to an 8-liorse load on
top gear and 10-horse in low, and 18-32
h.p., equal to a 12-horse load in top and 14-
horse in low. The company claims that
both machines will plough at a cost of 2s. Gd.
per acre, with Is. 3d. for seeding and Is. 3d.
for harvesting. The main constructional fea-
ture is the Cross engine, which means a
direct drive instead of bevel gears and gives
the fan an even cooling to all cylinders. Lub-
rication is force-feed through drilled crank-
shaft. All gears are cut steel and are totally
enclosed, and at all times in an oil bath.
The main frame is a solid cast piece, which
acts as a housing for all principal working
parts, the great advantage gained being that
all gears are kept in alignment, which must
prevent wear.
The Case header-harvester takes a 12ft.
cut and has a 4t't. extension, making 1G
feet in all. It is Case engine-functioned and
can be pulled along with six horses. It will
reap crop as low as three and as high as
36 inches. Up to 65 acres can be taken off
per day. When passing through gates an
iron bar at the back of the machine can
be removed and the 16 feet of comb will
swing back and run parallel with the machine
on a travelling wheel, the whole thus passing
through a 16-foot gate. The engine can
easily be taken off. put on a transport and
used for other work.
The Fortescues, of Arncliffe (Sydney),
were showing their INL power take-off for
tractors. The device -was fitted to a Fordson
and connected with a Taylor header. This
was turning in a circle of 28 feet in
diameter. The take-off was also fitted on
a McCormick-Deering tractor, and that
engine was connected to a Massey-Harris
header. This firm's orchard sprays, which
are Fordson-tractor functioned, were worth
attention, and so were the fumigators and
poison-carts.
FEEDING THE FOWLS.
“Jack Point”: We largely fail in our
fowl-raising through neglect of scientific
feeding methods. In a recent American
poultry journal there were at least a
dozen large ads. for two lines which have
come very much to the fore thei’e of late
—cod-liver oil and yeast. A couple of manu-
facturers put up a concentrated food contain-
ing both. I think only one Australian
poultry-food manufacturer has made use of
cod-liver oil as an ingredient in a laying-
mash, whilst if any use yeast they keep it
pretty dark. I am quite aware that some
of the larger and more progressive poultry-
men have been using both foods, but it
seems that the manufacturers are missing
golden opportunities of exploiting the mar-
ket which undoubtedly awaits them. What
the small poultry-farmers want is a food,
preferably in concentrated form, containing
yeast and cod oil in the proper proportions,
together with the usual meat, meal, etc.,
which only requires the addition of bran
and pollard in the correct proportions.
For laying-hens cod-liver oil should be
given at the rate of one gallon to each 100
hens per month, and for week-old chicks
one gallon to 400 per month, increasing the
amount as the chicks grow. These propor-
tions may be increased if justified by results,
or if the ration is deficient in any way. On
the other hand it may be decreased if the
ration is above the ordinary, e.g., if milk
is available. There is no danger of upset-
ting the balance of the ration, because it
is not so much the actual food value as
the rich vitamine content which gives the
oil its great value. Only the best refined
oil should be used; it can be bought in Aus-
tralia for about 13s. per gallon in four-
gallon tins. The cost should be more than
met by increased egg-production, and the
general health of the flock will also greatly
improve. For breeding-hens, fertility and
liatchability are increased—several hatch-
eries in the U.S. pay a greater price for
hatching eggs from hens fed on cod oil.
I regret I cannot give of my own know-
ledge any particulars regarding the feeding
of yeast. Perhaps someone else can.
PIG CROSSES.
“Tarrengower”The Australian pig-
breeder will not come into his own until he
recognises that he must produce the class of
pig most suitable to present-day tastes.
Too many raisers are mating any old
crossbred sow with any old mongrel-bred boar.
The result is seen in the numerically small
litters of slow-growing youngsters carrying
most of their meat in the least sought for and
consequently cheaper cuts. What the con-
sumer wants and what the discerning pig-
breeder aims to supply is a pig carrying a
preponderance of meat in the choicest and
dearest cuts. Pigs of that class are not got
merely by luck. They must be bred for, and
expert opinion in countries where the pig
industry has been placed on a high plane is
that the best method of breeding is with pure-
bred stock. The crosses most favored are
those in which a Large White boar is mated
with a Middle White Berkshire or Large
Black sow. These crosses, as a rule, give
prolific litters of large and fast-growing
youngsters.
An almost equally important point is that
the progeny of these crosses have been proved
to be most economical in the production of
pork. They will produce a greater weight
of flesh for a given quantity of food than
the mongred-bred pig. In addition they carry
meat in the parts where it is most desired.
SOUTH AFRICAN WOOL.
“Trepex” : He is a poor man who cannot
see his own faults, but he is a poorer one
still who can see only virtue in others. In
this regard one gets tired of hearing so much
of how South African wool is eclipsing our
own.
It is true that the Union of S’Africa grows
a fine wool, but fineness is about its only
natural virtue, and it comes to Australia
for stud sheep to stiffen its flocks so that
they will grow better wool and more of it.
One indication of the difference then pre-
vailing in the two clips was contained in
the book of 848 types under which our
wool was appraised for purchase by the
British Government during the war. One
of these types was for an Australian coum
terpart of the average Cape 64’s/70’s top-
making wool. It was placed on a basis of
33 pence. Typical Australian topmaking
wool of that quality was on a basis of 37
pence. The reason was that, though it had
the quality, it lacked the soft handle, elas-
ticity and ultimate spinning property that
our clip possessed. Also, the percentage of
noils, or short and broken fibres, that are
combed out, was usually much greater. In
their unimproved state, South African wools
seldom made a yarn anything like so good
as the Australian or “Botany” yarn, the
latter the trade term for it. More fre-
quently they were used as an adulterant
to cheapen the article that was being pro-
duced on a main foundation of our wool.
But the Union wools have improved out
of sight within recent years. The biggest
factor in this improvement has been the intro-
duction of Australian rams, which have put
bigger fleeces on to their sheep, and fleeces
with more density, character and elasticity
of fibre. This, combined with a good deal
of imitation of our methods, and a growing
pastoral intelligence among themselves, has
put their clip on a higher basis than ever
it was before.
An exhibition of their wool was recently
held at East London (S. Africa), and a
high level of merit was revealed. The
(Continued on page 31.)


PARIS
<m>±
m
11
m
H
k
m
IQ
A3NQAS
\'U
m
2
m
m
/tx
w
<
m
A
m
Following Friction round the Globe
20
Years Ago.
TWENTY years ago a great invention as regards the
construction of Ball-Bearing devices was made. This
invention consisted of a self-aligning Ball Bearing with
double grooves. It was in this construction and the
unique quality imparted to this Ball Bearing by the utmost
precision in the manufacture, and the use of the choicest
raw material, that the brilliant development of the SKF
Organisation was based during its first stage.
TO-DAY wheels turn on SICP -marked bearings in
every civilised corner of the globe. SKF
possesses factories in England, Sweden, France, Germany
Russia and U.S.A. Its products are supplied to the final
customer by a world organisation which embraces the
globe. SKF wages its anti-friction crusade under 38
flags; its counsel on friction problems is given in 22
tongues.
TV/E believe that this is significant to the executive that the wide-
spread use that is being made of SKF anti-friction products
to-day, is the biggest of all tributes to the correctness of the same,
the high calibre of the workmanship, and the anti-friction service
SKF offers everywhere,
è
SELF ALIGNING
BALL BEARING
FOR NORMAL LOADS
SELF ALIGNING ROLLER
BEARING FOR HEAVY
LOADS AND SEVERE DULY
é
ê
THE SKF BALL BEARING CO. LTD.
Melbourne: 595 Bourkc Street.
Sydney: 45 King Street.
Adelaide: Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Brisbane': VV m. Adams & Co. Ltd.
Perth : Unbchaun & Johnstone I
(W.A.) Ltd.
Launceston: W. H. Knight &
Peter Bros. Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis Ltd.


Graham Brothers
trucks
Confidence
Around the world and
around the clock Graham
Brothers Trucks and
Dodge Brothers Commer-
cial Cars are at work.
Wherever they are,
whatever the work, they
operate dependably and at
low cost, inspiring owner
confidence.
Graham Brothers name
stands for fine materials
. . . skilled workmanship
. . . highest percentage of
high grade alloy steels . . .
genuine repair parts and
service always available.
Graham Brothers means
power for the hardest pull
. . . conservative ratings
of capacity . . . ease and
economy of operation . . .
endurance.
C: n
s
izs
m
c P
n
4
a
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
1- Chassis £325
1 2-Ton Chassis ------- £445
2- Chassis - £485
2-Ton Chassis (Long wheel base) £515
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane, Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
12/5/’2‘


Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors to Brisbane! Book up at the
HOTEL CECIL
(FIRST CLASS)
Reasonable Tariff—Good Position.
jNio /Sr Gyqv}
r V«»utU
&?&&»*•***;
ot ai>i! v °“ c '».',',»,;»* ' i ", ts .,!;,\
a®, i 0"b u - . .ictu'£
•&* "“fit SS
» f mc *
eA.
7
*<&>
A
** j.
' V ~nco of
i°?£, first ;<&
-should 1 _ r( .yoe<\ied Vl '
attacked n««J ” TU j» ™ uy ,
*SS? A* ‘V»S:»«
vmlf'SS tO USC. . g of
S’ S"«cv m « s
Obtainable at a fl bot tlc,
and stoves a ' tUc Agents,
or direct . n o’insbury,
Duevdm & ® (4 /g to covet
Aleibouvue f r* e meniber .
P ° S S ask for tbe full >
name.
3)'QUmk Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
i a
*
“Hr
\-
4\
ip
m
anything freshness
SOME morning or other every man has started in with the
uncomfortable feeling of having had “ only half a shave.”
What is it: Razor? Perhaps Water? Maybe. Soap?
Quite likely. Lather ? More than often.
Wouldn't you welcome a sure, quick, safe and better way to
shave—smooth and clean, with a feeling that you look the
part as well ? Here it is—Shavex. No rubbing, no soap, no
brush, no lather ! Years experimenting —perfected this mar-
vellous preparation. Just smear on the wet beard—your
razor does the rest. Shavex is a skin food, too. Obtainable
everywhere.
Large Tube 1/9 Larger Size (Double Quantity) 2/6
SHAVEX
“ the MODERN WAY ” NO BRUSH, NO SOAP, NO PAIN
FREE SAM. LE A Free Sample on receipt of 3d. from
Sole Australian Agents :
SALMOND & SPRAGGON (Australia), Ltd.,
(Dept. 4 ), Eagle and Globe Buildings, 379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Made by Zeekol Ml'g. Co., London, Eng.
chairman of the show was inclined to shake
hands with himself under the belief that
they were not only equalling Australian wool
but bettering it because theirs was finer.
The Government wool expert, however,
struck a truer note, warning his hearers
that their Cape wools had improved, though
going backwards in fineness, because they
tad developed better general characteristics.
He also made some remarks which should
uot fall on deaf ears over here, lie pointed
out that fine wool was not necessarily good
wool, nor the reverse, but that there are
good and poor fine wools, just its there, are
good and poor broad ones.
These sire points for us to notice.
Although, as general prices and demand
show, our position is still pre-eminent, we
have a growing and serious rival in South
Africa, whose farmers are improving their
position by the use of our goods. If their
rivalry grows much further, it will be neces-
sary to consider if we should not, deny them
those goods (our stud sheep) or, at least,
put a very heavy export duty on them.
THE DIB.
“Comeback": “.T.D.C." (U. 21/4/'27) ad-
vocates the U-shaped dip with a 30ft. swim.
He mentions the difficulty of getting sheep
into the dip. but not of getting them out.
After man-handling them and a long swim
they get blown and stop as soon as they
touch the steps; thus there is a block and
you soon have the dip jambed with sheep.
On the other hand, with a short, straight
dip the sheep in it can see fh<> others in
the draining-pen and swim straight out
quickly. Thorough immersion is all that is
necessary; and as dipping follows close on
shearing and the wool is short, one push
under is quite sufficient.
To lessen the man-handling, a small pen
of sheep in front of the race just alongside
the dip will act as a decoy. The sheep in
the race see the others in the pen and make
'or them ; but before they get there they run
on to planks which slope across into the
lip. A light, opaque, hanging flap-door on
to the sloping planks will shut off the view
of the dip to sheep in the. race, and close
again under its own weight as each sheep
falls in.
~ FODDER CONSERVATION.
“Biro” : I would add to “T.l.'s" splendid
explanation of the difficulties of fodder con-
servation on sheep-runs (B. 21/4/’27) that
lis plan of buying fodder from the farmers
would not be less costly than the other he
lescribcs and rejects. It is extremely hard
:o keep hay except in the stacks, and even
.here rats and mice take much of the grain,
and some of it becomes spoiled by damp
unless it is exceptionally well stacked. Stor-
ing the hay in lofts and sheds is merely
feeding rats and mice. The amount of
damage done by these little beasts is not
appreciated except b.v those who have had
actual experience. But the chief objection
to liay-production is the amount of labor
required. A man harvesting wheat needs
jnly one helper, as a rule; for hay-making
stookers, pitchers, driver and stack-builder
(at a high wage) are required. And unless
suitable weather prevails the crop is injured
uefore it can be picked up.
Considering that grain is easier to
gather and to handle, as well as easier to
■onserve, it is better to feed on it in drought
time. Special tanks or silos can be con-
structed, and a great saving in labor effected
n comparison with hay. Wheat is best for
dieep. oats for horses.
MORE HOPE FOR TOBACCO.
The Federal Government has decided to
eo-operate with the British-Australian To-
jacco iCo. in investigating tobacco-growing
n Australia and in carrying out field tests,
instructional work, etc. The big combine is
to spend £20,000 over a three-year period,
[he Federal Government throwing in another
£lO,OOO. All going well, the co. will sub-
scribe a further £30,000, and this time the
Government will put down £30.000. An
executive committee of three will carry out
the work. The mainland States are to be
asked to contribute up to £4OOO each annu-
ally. as required, toward the cost.
The issue is simple enough. Nearly 30
years ago Australia had close on 7000 acres
under tobacco, mostly in N.S.W., Victoria
and Queensland. Under the protective tariffs
of the latter two States their tobacco acreage
increased, till in 1805 Victoria had doubled
tiers and Queensland had six times as much
as six years earlier. After that it was a
ease of slide. The Federal measure of Pro-
tection, or the lack of it. saw Australia's
total tobacco-growing area down to 1315
acres in 1920-21. though this has since, risen
to 2783 acres in 1923-24. In this last year,
unmanufactured tobacco to the value of
£2.854.470 was brought into Australia from
overseas to be made up here for this coun-
try’s consumption.
Experience has shown that this country,
from N.Q. to W.A.. can grow and cure
tobacco of good qualities, ranging from cigar-
wrapper leaf to cigarette. That it is costlier
than the imported stuff is due not only to
higher labor charges, but to old-fashioned and
uneconomic methods of cropping and curing.
State-instruction in these matters has been
a spasmodic and casual business at best,
though Queensland, for one, made brave
effort with an imported American expert.
The present scheme is much the biggest
yet organised, and given adequate support
should turn out a winner.
BUSH-FIRES.
“Hazard”: In the N. S. Wales wheat
areas, with large paddocks of fallow-land
and proper breaks and reasonable precau-
tions damage can be restricted to a minimum.
Unfortunately, the average cocky is very
casual and doesn't take reasonable precau-
tions. Every few years, such as the last
two seasons, everything is just ripe for an
outbreak, and the wonder is not that the
fires have done so much damage, but that
they have not done more. No doubt the
railways cause a lot of fires, but at the same
time it is the only public body that does
anything in the way of burning breaks;
one can go miles in any part of N. 8. Wales
and .see apologies for breaks, but mostly
none at all on private and Crown lands
adjoining tlie railways. One never sees
stock routes and main roads, let alone branch
roads, made into effectual breaks, which they
should be in prolific seasons.
Some districts have their bush-fire brigades,
which do excellent work when they are
equipped with light cars, with tanks and
other equipment. Other districts don t even
bother to organise. The danger of not being
organised lies in the fact that dozens of men
go to fight fires that know nothing about
it. In one district last December the burn-
ing of breaks caused as much damage as
the fire itself through inexperienced fighters
not knowing how to work.
Seventy-five p.c. of the fires are caused
through carelessness on somebody's pari.
I’robably 2U p.c. are caused by railway-
engines (and tractors), mostly because the
breaks are not nearly wide enough in hot,
windy weather. The balance may or may
not be caused intentionally. Over-insurance
of crops no doubt has to be considered. It
is impossible for the insurance cos. to in-
spect every risk, although they try to do
so. The agent is expected to know the crop,
and. more important still, the insurer; and,
after all. the onus is on him to give a reason-
able estimate and other particulars before
the risk is accepted.
HINTS FOlt Till: FA KM.
“J.D.C.”: The first time sheep are
brought to a water-trough they often have
to be held there, and are very dubious about
the new system of watering. A simple plan
to hasten their acceptance of what is to
them a very doubtful proceeding is to spill
some water on the ground over the edge of
the. trough. The smell of moist earth will
bring them at once if thirsty, but they
seem quite unable to smell water in a
trough even a tew yards away.
“Ohmfield"; Though the dry pickling of
wheat with copper carbonate gives the best
and quickest germination, many growers are
hesitating to use it; drills Inning been dam-
aged by the copper carbonate dust becoming
hardened in the seed cups by dampness and
clogging the small grain wheels. This can
be obviated b.v running the drill out of seed
after the day’s operations, and wiping over
the grain wheels with a kerosene-soaked rag
before starting again.
“Homo": Pigs are very sensitive to cold.
If let run freely they will gather coarse
grass for their own beds, but hundreds of
keepers never offer them a bundle of straw in
captivity. When confined a certain amount
of green food is necessary, but much less
than is generally supposed. Care should
be taken that the rations are balanced, and
the best way to find the right thing is by
observing the progress made. When greens
are scarce a few pumpkin vines will be
eagerly accepted. Too much milk is danger-
ous for back-fatters.
“Jesmond": Thanks to district herd-
testing and enthusiastic dairy supervisors,
quite 75 per cent, of the dairy-farmers in
Vie. keep their sires in a separate paddock
or yard and hand-feed them all the year
round. P>ut feeding has nothing to do with
the gentleman's bad temper (B. 21/4/’27) :
it is age that makes him cantankerous and
cunning. Once a bull gets to be four or
five years old lie is not to be trusted, and
no matter how quiet he has been and how
much handled, he should be treated with
care and constantly-increasing vigilance.
More than half the reported attacks are
made by hand-fed stud-bulls, which take
advantage of attendants’ carelessness.
“Saaedi” : Sheep that have swum through
a slieep-dip mixture that is too strong be-
come. feverish, lose their condition and. in
many cases, their wool. It takes them
weeks to recover. It is easy to strike the
right mixture; the difficult thing is to see
that it stays right. The lower regions of
the water need to be stirred continuously,
and for this purpose a long pole with a
2ft. board attached to one end of it should
have very frequent use.
“Homo”: Since sheep require so much
attention and £1 is a fair average price for
one, what about turkeys for a change? They
are always worth from 15s. to 30s. a head
when full-grown. The only attention they
require is while young. Once well estab-
lished they will feed themselves on grass
and insects. No tailing, no shearing, no
drafting! Just give them a few sugar-
gums to roost in so that foxes cannot reach
them, see that they don’t get the habit of
low-roosting, and wait for them to be ready
for market.
“Paul C.”: I have never known a dairy-
herd bull that was allowed to run with the
herd, and was kept in reasonably light con-
dition. attack a man unless dogged or cor
nered. There are reasons, however, why the
bull of a dairy herd should not be allowed
to run with the herd. One is that by keep-
ing him apart the coming in of his dairy
cows can be regulated by the owner so as to
suit, the number be desires to milk, the time
of year and price of butter, or —what is of
most importance —feed conditions. The other
very obvious reason is the conservation of
the bull’s vitality.
“Glenfield”: Oats sown on stubble or
grass-land for hay in the North Malice
(Vic.) frequently have to be drilled in dry.
as waiting for rain would delay tbe seeding
of tbe wheat-crop until too late in the sea-
son. On such occasions the use of super-
phosphate dressing is questionable. The
manure gives the same stimulus to the weed
seeds as to the oats, and results in a dirty
hay-crop. Without the superphosphate, the
oats with an equal start choke and smother
the weeds, which lack the stimulus of the
manure, and the subsequent crop is cleaner
and makes better hay. Of course where
the ground can be worked wet, or when oats
are sowed on fallow, the use of super, is
not only profitable but necessary.
“R.M.” : It looks as if the rice crop this
year, practically all from the Murrumbidgee
(N.5.W..) irrigation area, will be about 10.000
tons —not a bad advance on last year’s 2000!
Over 2000 acres are under cultivation, most
of the growers being returned soldiers. But
they are not as confident as I would like to
sec them, and are still unsure whether the
Customs protection is sufficient. In the ab-
sence of data, time alone will tell.


Quality Cheated tie demand
Quality 'maintains tAe Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
MX
m
&
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
The darkest hour is the one after 6 p.m.
* *
Under the most trying circumstances men
can beer up.
* *
Many a flapper has a tight squeeze to
keep her job.
* *
Torture was abolished in Scotland in
1641. But the bagpipes remain.
* *
This may be known as the age of the air
mail and the hairless female.
The man who buys his popularity is likely
to discover he is hardly done by when he has
hardly done buying.
❖ *
In an Asiatic seaport a Miss Week
married a Mr. Day and the local paper put
it:—
One Week the less;
One Day the more;
But Time need not complain:
There’ll soon be little Days enough
To make a Week again!
A PRIMA FACIE CASE.
ATTENDANT: “There’s a man outside wonts
to know if any of the patients have
escaped lately .”
ASYLUM SUPERINTENDENT: “No. Why?”
ATTENDANT: “Well, he says someone has run
away with his wife.”
“Women are seen everywhere nowadays,”
says a fashion note. But it’s not quite true.
There is still a square inch or two hidden.
* *
“A man with a family who spent all his
day drinking in hotels ought to be shot,”
says the Rev. R. B. S. Hammond. Well,
certainly; he ought to be.
Usually it is not until a man is well on
that he is well off.
The person who beats about the bush
seldom gets down to the root of the matter.
Circumstances alter cases and the better
your circumstances the better your chance of
winning.
❖ *
For home defence a man can have no
better weapons than the means to purchase a
new hat or a fur coat.
During the Great War lots of people
wanted Bernard Shaw hanged, drawn and
quartered. But times have changed. Nowa-
days the Royal Academy refuses to even
hang him.
“H.J.K.”: As the old man passed his bat-
tered hat around he besought the crowd to
“Make it five hob, gents. —
make it five bob and get the
old girl out.” With thoughts
of an old couple come into
town and a spree, ending up
with the old girl being shot
in for drunkenness and bail
money for five bob demanded, I
shelled out, and asked the old
chap if anybody could do
anything for his wife. “Me
wife, mister!” he said, back-
ing away. “Yes —the old
girl you’ve been collecting
for.” “She ain’t me missus,”
he said, “I ain’t got no
missus. She’s Matilda, that
a lousy publican down the
street’s boldin’ till I raise a
coupler shillin’s I owe him.”
Some men are born rich, others have
widows thrust upon them.
“8.P.” : Boots in hand, he was doing his
best to ereep up the steps leading to the
railway overhead bridge, and judging by his
rate of progress he would not be home till
morning. Assuming the role of Good Samari-
tan, I linked his arm in mine and proceeded
to haul him to the top. Leaning towards me,
he whispered “Better take bootsh off, old fel’r
—if y’ wake up th’ missis there’ll be devil
(hie) of a row.”
The late drunk leaned against the fence
And softly laughed, but merrilee.
“A burglar’s at the window there—•
He’s entering my house,” said he.
“Why, that's no joke,” quoth I; but through
A fresh, well-muffled burst of glee
He said : “The wife is Waiting up—-
She’ll think the silly coot is me !”
“Bands”: A once-famous Victorian gold-
fields barrister who suffered reverses in his old
age picked up a few fees as a commissioner
for taking affidavits. I met him one day
seated at the door leading into the private
room of a leading solicitor. It was past the
hour of appointment, and liis Irish nature-
resented the indignity of having to wait.
“What do ye think of ut!” he exclaimed.
“I remember when his Lordship the Bishop
of E dined with me and was five minutes
late, he insisted on apologising to meself, me
wife and me two daughters, and begad he was
procading out to apologise to the cook when
I interposed an interlocutory injunction.
There was manners for you, sir; there was
real manners.”
* *
My mother taught me while I still
Would play around her stool:
“Be foolish, sonny, if you must,
But never be a fool!”
“Brady’s Look-out”: Johnson and Jack-
son were travellers for rival wine-and-spirit
merchants and were on the last run for orders
for the Christmas trade. It was in the days
before motors and they were travelling in
buggies. They were beating up through the
Derwent Valley, with Bothwell, the Koh-i-
-noor of the circuit, 26 miles ahead. Johnson
had the lead, but was being overhauled.
Unless something happened he must lose.
Well, something would happen. He walked
into Bill Mansfield’s store at Gretna and
bought a hammer and 61b. of 6in. nails.
“Contract?” inquired Bill. “No,” Johnson
replied, “pony’s shoes loose,” and drove on.
Jackson arrived in Bothwell next morning
in time for breakfast, but too late for busi-
ness. His rival had been round all the pubs
and made a record booking. Jackson had
been all night getting through the 14 gates
Johnson had nailed up behind him.
* *
Twinkle, twinkle little star
How I wonder if you are,
Up above the footlights sheen,
Forty-nine or seventeen.
Whisky drinkers get very little to com-
plain about these days.
A certain public park in Sydney is known
as the Grounds for Divorce.
* *
A wife misses her husband when he stays
out. Quite frequently she misses him also
when he arrives home.
When a girl takes an interest in an old
man you may be sure her intentions are
capital.
Death is a mimic to whose skill
All other mimes their hats must doff:
There lives no man, nor ever will,
But Death will some day take him off.
n.s.w. I-lamer.
“But” is the word a woman uses most
when praising another.
HE WASN’T GREEDY.
“No, George, I cannot marry you!”
"Oh, dearest, do—just this once.”
Smith : “Birthday yesterday.”
Jones: “Ho! What did you reach?”
Smith : “Dunno —lost count after the tenth.”
“To think that once 1 loved you!” said
the woman passionately, gazing on the hat
she bought the day before.
A youth charged with embezzlement from
the Scottish National Bank pleaded that he
spent the sixpence on racehorses and fast
women.
Observations of a centenarian for the
guidance of parents in choosing careers for
their children :
Aviation has its ups and downs.
Bakers should be bred to the business.
Railway men require a special course of
training.
Postmen are constantly required to deliver
the goods.
In the steeplejack trade a fall is often
followed by a complete stoppage of wages.
The farmer knows most about the Eton
crop and the slater about shingling, but
seamen had better be appealed to if you
want to know anything about the permanent
wave.
❖ ❖
“No,” said old Dan, “I was never too
shook on outside fishin’ —me stummick
wasn’t built for it. But I knoo I wouldn’t
be satisfied till I caught a decent-sized fish,
and the last time I was out I gets me wish,
and it’s not so long ago, either.
“It ’appened like this. I was down off
Barrenjoev, an’ after gettin’ a fair bag was
thinkin’ about turnin’ it up when I fastened
on to 'im, an’ I knoo be the way ’e went
that ’e was the one I’d been waitin’ for.
Strewth if ’e didn’t fight!
“For a good hour an’ a ’alf I played ’im
without gettin’ a sight of ’im, but at last I
begun to feel I ’ad the best of ’im. Then
all of a sudden —ping! and right through
the bottom o’ the boat comes the snout of
the biggest flamin’ sword-fish that musta
ever been born. ’E just missed skewerin’ me
leg as well as skittlin’ me an’ the boat, but
’e was like a fish in a trap—dead easy to get
in, but blanky ’ard to get out. The teeth on
the side of ’is stabber ’eld ’im firm, but the
rest of ’im was in good workin’ order, an’
’e sets off, ’eadin’ straight for Noo Zealand.
“I reckon’d we was doin’ about eight knots,
old swordie actin’ as a propeller. An’ then
I gets a brain wave. I puts one of the oars
over the stern an’ uses it to steer with, an’
we ’eads fer ’ome, goin’ like a motor-boat.
A coupler mile off the ’eads ’e stopped, an’
’is skewer disappeared outer the boat, takin’
a lump of plankin’ with it. I stuffed the ’ole
up with me coat, an’ finished the rest o’ the
trip with the paddles, an’ that was .the last
I seen of ’im.
“Did ’e take as big a bait as a jewie?
Why, I ’ad a blanky jewie on for bait.”
“Hamer : Fillups liad a habit of getting
into such a condition that the rap of his
ruler as lie hit imaginary snakes disturbed
the clerks in the other offices. They helped
his hallucinations occasionally by decorating
his blotting-pad with drawings of remark-
able reptiles in colored pencil, removing the
decorated blotting-paper when his back was
turned, so that the assurances of the other
clerks that there was nothing whatever on
the pad were confirmed when he looked
again. One day a few of the jokers leapt
with a yell for the door when they saw
two real snakes squirming on the desk. “1
bought the damn things,” Fillups explained.
•‘They’re harmless. I reckoned that if lie
knew there were snakes in the room—snakes
lie had paid for —a man’s mind wouldn’t
go to the trouble of imagining them.” That
was the day they took Fillups to the asylum.
Ah, many a shark at random caught
Is Murray cod when it is bought;
And many a pumpkin finds the belly
Per medium of apple jelly.
Nearly everyone has his price, but lots of
us give ourselves away.
❖ ❖
The modern skirt is fast taking the place
of the old-time blouse.
* :I:
' Married Tranquillity” was a recent head-
ing in a Sydney paper. An M.T. phrase.
Old Father Hubbard went to the cupboard,
For something to quench his thirst;
When he got there the cupboard was bare —
His missus had quenched hers first.
“Yarra Ben”: In a recent Melbourne
divorce case the sister of the lady petitioner
deposed that her brother-in-law “called his
wife names which he is and she isn’t!”
He is and she’s not
What he called her.
What was it, oh what,
That so galled her?
’Twas something too hot
To be mentioned, I wis;
Anyhow, she is not
Wliat he said— and he is!
THEIR TERN WOULD COME.
OPPOSITION ORATOR : "I tell you, gen’tmen,
the present Gov’mint is a gang of
thieves!”
VOICE: “Well, don’t get narked about it!
It’ll be your turn next!”
A BALLADE GRIM.
Rut down your foot at once, and hard,
Be sovereign sole and absolute
Or live, from independence barred,
A harried life not worth a hoot;
Erase rebellion at the root
Or you’ll discover to your cost
This aphorism most acute:
The man who hesitates is bossed.
One waverer the world has marred:
Poor Adam, too irresolute,
In indecision lium’d and ha’d
And then, succumbing, ate the fruit;
He failed Eve’s ruling to dispute
Till headlong out of Eden tossed
He realised, unlucky coot,
The man who hesitates is bossed.
Dong-married men with wrinkles scarred.
Shorn of romantic attribute,
Poor creatures held in slight regard,
Grown diplomatically mute,
Could, if they would, false hopes refute
And tell how they their freedom lost -
Their very silence seems to bruit.
“The man who hesitates is bossed.”
Condemn me for a jaundiced brute,
Prince Charming, now, but when you've
crossed
The Rubicon you’ll follow suit.
The man who hesitates is bossed.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
MORE NURSERY RHYMES.
Husli-a-bye, Lang, you're on the tree-top,
Without the Reds you’re firm as a rock.
Get in their power, become their thrall,
Then down comes Jack Lang, Labor and all.
Alby, Alby, Communist Willis,
You’ll have to get out or else you’ll spill us;
When your Reds begin to bray,
All the electors clear away.
N.S.W.
G. V. R.
WASTE TIME.
Of all the wonders on this earth
The greatest seems to be
How Fashion makes a woman's waist
To roam ’twixt neck and knee.
Some seventy years or more ago
She made a sorry jest.
And fixed the waistline very high—
In fact, around the chest.
She, later, had a change of mind —
She gave the girls the tip
And waists were in their proper place,
An inch above the hip.
But in this wicked present time,
’Tis sad to see girls fitting
Belts and girdles round the place
On which they should be sitting.
W.A.
C. R. C.


Engineered to Provide
Lowest Maintenance
and Operation Cost
1
/>,—— \
NOW-THE ESSEX SUPER-SIX
Entirely new in Appearance and Performance
with JVewßodies in a variety of Color
ESSEX SEDAN £345.
ESSEX COACH £325.
ESSEX 4-PASSENGER SPEEDSTER £255
The Super-Six principle, released to full capacity in
Hudson, is also amazingly revealed in the Essex Super-
Six. In performance as well as appearance, the Essex
Super-Six is an entirely new car.
It reveals the capacity of the Super-Six principle. It
attains an engineering triumph in low maintenance
and operating cost.
It possesses such stamina that 50 miles an hour all day
long is an easy accomplishment. And so nimble and
alert is its action that no car will surpass the quickness
with which it may be driven through traffic or in tour-
ing, whether the trip is one of a few city blocks or
hundreds of miles. To both driver and passengers, there
is rare comfort in any kind of going.
Unusual accessibility means big savings in replacement,
service and all shop work. Economy in fuel and oil is
also a notable feature of the new Essex Super-Six.
It holds further exclusive advantages in its Super-Six
motor Four years of development has resulted in a
chassis that would permit full use of its capacity. In the
Essex Super-Six, performance, safety and reliability are
realized to a degree never approached in a car of its
size or price
There are five new bodies on the Essex Super-Six
chassis —all beautiful, all smart in line, finish, appoint-
ment and upholstery They are easily the paramount
values of Essex history.
10%
Australian Built
Under this combination of resources Ameri-
can and Australian industry has achieved
manufacturing economies that no other
builder for the Australian market shares.
Prices at some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS. LIMITED.
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY.. LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street. Perth-
LEADER MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE-BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
180


Adding*
Machine
/ - ■V: ' •
m
mmm
9
jx
6?
9*
m
m
V?
m
J
•«v/«p >
ill
m
vi
m ,
„ <vy
> | m
" % . ' \
L
10
FOR TWELVE
MONTHS TERMS
Discount for Cash
Full Standard Flexible Keyboard.
Adds up to <£9,999 19 11 4 . Right
Hand Control. Weighs only I9lbs.
Has all the regular features of the
larger adding machines.
Another Portable at <£4o, adds up
to <£999*999 19 11%.
Write to-day for Free Trial.
Sole Distributors
IR A L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Hobart Perth
Newcastle Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Christchurch Wellington
JRA L. 6c A. C. BERK LTD.
SYDNEY.
Please send me a Burroughs Portable for
a week’s free trial on my own work and
with no obligation to myself.
Name
Address
Business


CYMA
KNOWN ALLOVERTHE WORLD
AS THE BEST TIME KEEPER
SOLD BY ALL JEWELLERS
K ;
The TOP NOTCH'ScotcM
V’> **s -SayW/lEN Jp
or
1
wear
. ■ oS
©
e
Look for the Trademark! Agrnir Everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Rivals and a Devil-fish.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILLY HISLOP plodded along in the
depths of the sea. He was happy,
this lone human, working in the relent-
less water world. To the animate life of
that world he appeared a big and hideous
thing, an unfamiliar thing, therefore not
to be treated with contempt. He crept
through the luminous gloom with heavy
solemnity, his dome-like helmet viewed from
the front and sides and rear appearing
curiously like the head of a beast of prey.
Such the sea things sensed lie was, a dan-
gerous beast like themselves, and left him
alone, though an odd shadow watched him
with dreadful eyes that flashed green with
phosphorus of the sea.
Billy plodded on, methodically yet warily,
content that he was armored within rubber
and steel, yet not treating the denizens of
this underworld with any undue familiarity,
for he knew there were- those among them
liable to call his bluff at an - moment.
The sea bottom here was gravelly sand,
with occasional coral patches peeking
amongst the sea gardens, areas of grasses
delicately colored with strands many fathoms
long, fine as a drowned girl’s hair. And
plant growths of such weird shape as must
lie conceived in a devil’s garden, but of
sublime colors surely born in Heaven.
Billy paused, his mind momentarily “up
above,” where leagues away the wind swayed
the grasses in a homestead paddock. Down
here the grasses were also swaying, gently
but coldly. No sweet lullaby of insects, no
scent of flowers, no sheen of sun. Just a
ghostly tremor amongst greenish gloom.
Billy grunted disapprovingly. Every
second is precious to the diver searching the
ocean bed for shell. And if he day-dreams
down there he is liable to be put to sleep
for ever. So the current swayed the grasses
and Billy plodded on.
A “nigger head!' tall as himself loomed
up, shaped and colored like a titanic mush-
room. Inside the diving dress the man
smiled. On the smooth coral “head” was
roughly but plainly scratched a list, some in
llnglisii characters, some in Jap, some in
Malay:
“Tanaka loves Echu.”
“Rimadie loves Doclas.”
“(Tidchi loves Kieo.”
“Tangona loves Percesima .”
Again Billy visioned things. An old man
tig-tree in a sunny Australian town, its bark
scarred deeply witn tlie names and initials
of lovers. He hesitated, then, clumsily
stooping, picked up a trochus-shell.
"Why not?” he grinned. “She mightn’t
like her name in company with those of
Japs and Malays, but, hang it all! no matter
what the color, love the world over is all
the same; even at the bottom of the sea
it's the same.” With the pointed shell-end
lie scratched deeply: “Billy loves Celia.”
* ❖ i\:
A few days later, just before they screwed
down liis helmet, Billy glanced casually
around. He always insisted on this last
glance, for who knows! Little Oairncross
lay hazily distant, for the sky was hot and
the sea like glass. Overhead a frigate-bird
volplaned, and a gull, a silver-fish in its
beak, somersaulted in frantic avoidance of
the pirate. Drifting down with the tide
came the Winsome Lass, and by the lines
Billy saw that their diver was overboard.
He would be drifting also, suspended just
above the bottom, searching the depths until
he signalled shell.
“Fity these dam’ Japs can’t mind their
own business,” grumbled Billy as the big
helmet cased him in; “sure as they spy a
boat working _ they must nose alongside to
see what’s doing. .Tap diver, too, I s'pose.”
lie disappeared in a foam of silver bubbles.
Down in the silent world he picked up an
odd shell, weed-covered, and fervently hoped
( «e would hold a Christmas box. It was
ages since he’d handled a decent pearl. Just
like kids and their lucky dips, this pearl-
shelling was. Every dip might hold a
treasure, every shell a pearl. Life itself was
a lucky dip. anyway.
It seemed that his leaden boots, more
than his will, drew him towards the nigger-
head. When it bulged eerily close, he de-
cided to gaze on her name again.
“Cold comfort,” he grinned, “love at the
bottom of th’ sea. Lor’ love a duck, even
th' waters of the ocean can’t cool it out of
a man’s system. An’ I’m no jazz lizard
either.”
Gingerly he skirted a hole, its lip camou-
flaged by weeping ferns of the sea. The slight
delay annoyed him. “Pity tli’ dam’ sea
wouldn’t fall through its own holes,” he
groused ; “a man would be able to pick up
pearl-shell in a Ford then.”
He lumbered through the luminous gloom
like an elephantine shadow. A rainbow-fish
pursued by a larger fish crashed against
his face-glass and registered the shock of its
life. So did Billy. Often things come sud-
denly and all are magnified down below.
But dismay awaited him by the nigger-head,
for boldly scratched below his heart’s con-
fession ran the contradiction: “Celia loves
Harry.”
Quaint perplexity followed Billy’s dismay,
then anger, but lie knew that air and water
pressure play scurvy tricks with a heated
man’s head down below, not caring what
damage is done to his heart.
But what did it mean, anyhow? He gazed
upward in shocked surprise. A monstrous
form sagged right atop of him. Billy shoul-
dered back against the nigger-liead as the
descending diver noiselessly grounded.
Both men glared behind their inch-thick
face-glass. The newcomer whipped out his
knife. 111 quick alarm Billy jerked back his
air-pipe and freed his steel. The ludicrous
idea of two such heavily-weighted monsters
fighting on the sea floor did not strike him
then. With startled breath lie watched the
indiarubber man dig into the nigger-head.
“What are you going to do about it?”
Billy thought. Then grinned. What had he
got to do with it. anyway? With his knife
point he scratched, “She’s my girl.” His
rival scratched the portentous word “Liar.”
Billy breathed heavily. The face-glasses of
both helmets drew ominously together, then
jerked back and upwards as a black pall
clouded the sea. They would have sped
straight up to the open air if they could, for
terror gripped their minds.
Cruising in mid-water, casually nosing the
air pipes, was a diamond-fisli, the dreaded
devil-fish of the native divers, its mouth
set in a malicious grin. A ton weight
of fighting strength, it clove through the
water as if the sea was fashioned for its
pleasure alone, its playfulness is its terror.
It: will gambol around a diver as a cat a
mouse; . in the whim of the moment it will
hook the air pipe between its horns and bolt
with it and the pendant diver as a child
'whips a play string through its fingers. From
above the eyes of the big fellow stubby
horns grew out, joined at tlie base but
bra 11 ching outward.
Both men looked in sick fascination, while
the fish played gently and with a beautiful
rhythm in its dreamy movements, nosing
first one set of lines, gliding off to nuzzle
the other, then leisurely circling both sets
as if uncertain which to play with. It
slipped between the men and the clear world
above, this bat-like monster, its terrible eves
glancing at the motionless things below.
They felt as the benumbed mouse must feel,
though waiting not for the pounce but for
a sickening jerk and the tearing away of the
air-pipes.
The fish glided above and delicately nosed
the life-lines, its blanket-like flippers undu-
lating with a slow motion which flashed a
whiteness underneath, instantly swallowed
in the blackness of the beating flippers.
Billy’s rival, in the forlorn hope of one
man moving his lines from the impending
tangle so that he might be able to help the
other in a crisis, started crab-edging away,
His signal cord brushed tlie manoeuvring
fish. Startled at the contact, its flat bulk
flashed around straight between both sets
of lines. These tickled the spreading wings
and it back-kicked in a rolling somersault.
Fearful now of what it did not understand,
its horns engaged both sets of lines and it
bolted in a furious swirl. The alarmed
tenders in the luggers above jumped to make
fast their respective life-lines, and the flap-
ping fish, jerked suddenly upright, pivoted in
terror. Two sets of lines caught within its
horns had completely upset its calculations.
The divers were carried off their feet to
swing the water, like kids clinging to the
ropes of a hurdy-gurdy, the circle of their
swing drawing rapidly narrower as the lines
twisted into one complete strand.
Billy threw in the towel. He hoped for a
very quick death, but he prayed frantically
for life. Disturbed sand blotted vision from
the face-glass. He thudded into something
solid, and gripped, and was gripped in turn.
He sensed that lie was staring into the
face-glass of his one-time rival. The diving-
lines had twisted into one compact strand
and the men were locked together.
Would the fish bolt again and, snapping
the lines, deposit them in some bottomless
pit of the sea? Billy’s sick mind wirelessed
a halcyon vision of how heavenly it would
be to lie dead in the clear, sunlight above.
If the luggers could only haul them up!
The startled tenders were battling with
every ounce of man-power at their command.
But the weight of both entangled divers
added to a ton or more of fish plus the
enormously increased weight of its frantic
wallowings was a strain which 110 diving
gear has been built to stand.
The very struggles of the fish gave the
men life. The jambing of the pipes between
its horns cut off tlie air supply, and pain
roared into the ears of the divers. Then an
inevitable dislocation of the gear occurred,
and excess air poured down into the diving
dresses. Their roomy proportions were in-
flated. and the men commenced to rise. The
fish, feeling the slackening at the bottom
end of this dread thing that had trapped
him, instantly bolted upward, then down on
a long slope. He was brought dead up with
a jerk that threw him a clean head-on
somersault. His horns slipped from the
twisted strands, and, he shot out for the
depths.
Released air hissed into the diving dresses;
though the dizzy men did not know it.
To the luggers, side by side on top, their
divers emerged from the depths, feet first,
grotesquely interlocked in one another’s arms.
The crews sprang overboard and succeeded
in upending the tangle while the divers were
still in the water. 4
Their face-glasses were quickly unscrewed
and Billy found himself looking into grinning
black faces.
ION L. IDRIESS.
The Complete Reformation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I GIVE this story as it was told to me
by ’Erb, the Printer. ’Erbert, who was
christened with an H, can place his
ll’s where they belong if he is put to it,
and his interpolations in my leaders are
almost Addisonian in their purity. But
when we unburden our souls over nicotine
in the calm that comes before the stunn
imd drang of getting away the middle pages,
lie clothes his tired verbiage in' f deshabille
as it were, and his diction is .just Australian.
’Erb is one of the oldest inhabitants of
the office. He was there when a comp, was
a man who stood in front of two big shallow
trays that looked like a book opened side-
ways. There was once a devil who went
round at the end of the night and shut them
all up, but that has nothing to do with this
story.
Just one more aside for the benefit of
those who have never worked in a news-
paper office. The Printer has nothing to
do with printing-presses. He is one who
rules the lino, room and the “stone” hands
and makes acid remarks to the stereo, fore-
man ; lie is a man having authority, and not
as the scribes.
“Ole Biggins”—l quote ’Erb —“was ’ere
in tli’ days when all tli’ settin’ was done
be ’and an’ almost all th’ comps, was beer-
chewers. There useter be a gap in tli' wall
openin’ inter tli’ pub next door, an’ long-
mis—what they called schooners in them
days—was passed through at any ole ’our
to anyone that ’ad th’ price. S’welp me,
them comps, could sink beer! It got some
of ’em in th’ end, but most of ’em seemed
ter jest absorb it like a food, an’ kep’ fat
an’ ’appy. Ole Biggins, though, ’e was
always looked on as a very steady bloke;
most methodical ’e was, an’ never known
ter exceed. I was a kid then, goin’' through
me time, an’ I useter run ther cutter for
’im. ’E came on at six with two riggers
square-face g-in bottles, ’oldin’ a quart ;
you could get ’em filled with beer fer a tan-
ner a time. ’E ’ad a pickle-jar in ’is locker
that ’eld a pint, and ’e ’ad a pint before
startin’, one at seven, one at eight and one
at nine. Then ’e would send me out. ter
get tli’ riggers filled up, an' that would
take ’im on to one a emina, when ’e ’ad ’is
last pint an’ tramped ’ome to ’is ole, woman
an' ’is Buff Orpington ’ens as sober as you
an’ me are now —worse luck! ’E never went
inter a pub, an’ didn't ’old with buyin’ beer
at tli’ ’ole in ther wall. ’E done all ’is
drilikin’ on tlr job, through ’is ole woman
'avin a ’orrible derry on ther Demon Rum,
as she called it, though ’e never took rum.
She useter be always naggin’ at ’im ter give
up ther degradin’ ’abit, bein’ a red-’of pro-
hibitionist, an’ she an’ ’er friends never got
tireda tellin’ ’im where ’e would land up.
They could see d.t.’s an’ a drunkard’s grave
loomin’ large at th’ end of ’is wild career,
but though a quiet bloke ’e just treated ’em
with contemp’. 'E went on, firm as a rock,
sinkin’ ’is four riggers a night, six
nights a week. On Sat’day nights 'c touched
not. tasted not an’ ’andled not.
“Well, this goes on fer years an’ years
an’ years, till tli’ linos, come an’ tli’ ole
’ands started ter die off an’ settin’ could be
done by youths that ’ad just scraped through
ther fourth standard an’ didn’t need ter
know a quoin from a quad. Ole Biggins
didn’t fit too well inter tli’ new picture,
so ter speak. ’lm an’ ’is ’and-settin’ an’
'is beer-cliewin’ was outer fashion, but ole
Dugald McTavish, ’oo was manager then,
wouldn’t sack ’im. Instead, ’e give tli’ pore
ole blighter a job on th’ stone, makin’-up,
which ’e done like th’ tradesman ’e was.
An’ Dugald tipped th’ wink to Sisley—’e
was th’ Printer then —ter let th’ old man
plant ’is riggers in Sisley’s office, so’s ’e
might ’ave ’is beer without teachin’ all tli’
sweet young lino, ’ands ter drink —though
at that some of ’em useter stop a darned
sight more than ole Biggins ever did. I
’eard Dugald say to Sizzy, ’oo was a cantin’
Callothumpian—suckin’ up to Dugald, ’oo
'ad been an elder, but really didn’t care a
turned French rule fer religion—‘We maun
be patient wi’ th’ puir auld malm, Meester
Seesley. ’E’s a verra auld serrvant of th'
firrm, ye ken, an’ ye canua teach an auld
doggie new treeks. Let ’im sup "is beer
surrr-repteetiously, ben ye’r ain wee cubicle,
au’ pit th’ telescope tae ye’r blind e’e.’
“That was all right. Sisley ’ad ter submit
’umble, though ’e groaned a lot, an’ ole Big-
gins carried on fer a few years at ’is steady
bat of six gallons a week. Then there come
th’ big slump, an’ this rag an’ most others
got so it took ’em all their time ter pay
fer paper an’ make th’ Weedin’ ghost walk
on Fridays. At last things got so bad we
was given our choice. We could carry on
with a cut in screw or th’ rag would shut
down. Even th’ unions saw it was a case
of Buckley’s, an’ agreed. So it come about
that pore ole Biggins was short on pay-
day of exactly th’ twelve bob that ’e used
fer beer-money. It was said around the
office—l dunno ’ow true it was —that ole
Biggins ’ad concealed that twelve bob from
’is ole woman all along, an’ that where ’e
got th’ money fer ’is breath was morc’n
she an’ ’er prohibitionist friends could
fathom. I think meself, knowin’ im, that
th’ pore ole geezer was too proud ter
go an’ break it to ’is missus that ’e ’ad
been reduced, no matter ow good 111' excuse.
“ ‘Owever it rnaya been, on th’ Monday
night after screws ’ad been cut ’c comes in
at six as usual an’ ’is ole kit ’as got nuthin’
in if but a packet of supper—sangwidgeS
er somethin’. ’E works on manful till seven
an’ then ’is ole eye steals ter th’ clock an’
ter Sisley’s door. ’E was on ther waggon
for tlf first time on a Monday fer maybe
forty years—funny thing ’ow ’e ’ad got use-
ter ther Sat’day break —an’ ’is pore ole
noryes was all of a flutter. ’E got worse
as th' night wore on, an’ I never see things
like ’e done in ’is agony. Tli’ readers was
ropeable by ’arf-past nine, an’ Sisley, ’no
thought V ad caught th’ ole bloke blotto
at last, stood by ’is elbow an’ smelt ’is
breath, i But all 'e smelt —I ’card ’im fellin’
Dugald after —was onions an’ cheese. An'
Sisley didn't make no mistakes about breaths,
bein’ a ’oly Rechabite an’ technically inter-
ested, like.
“Fore ole Biggins was wanderin’ round
in a sorter bally trance. ’E was a fat ole
geezer with a gait like a ’ippopotamus, an’
’e waddled ’ere an’ waddled there, leavin’
rapine an’ disaster in ’is sanguinary wake.
’E pied three formes luggin’ ’em outer tlier
trolley, an’ what ’e did ter ther placin’—
well, s'elp me, it don’t bear tollin’. Then,
right on ther stroke of ten th’ pore ole
beggar falls down in a sorter fit. an’ lies
on ther floor in a chromotype condition. We
was sorry fer ’im—’e looked awful —but we
’ad ter get ther paper out, so we sent ’im
’ome in a taxi with one of th’ grass-’ands
an’ went on with ther job.
“It took me an' Sisley an’ Tom Faulkner,
th’ sub., two bloomin’ ’ours ter get things
in any sorta shape, an’ even then, when we
come out in tlier mornin’ th’ first thing ole
Dugald spies is this, next ter ther leader.’’
’Erb fished in the recesses of an ancient
wallet and produced a much-tliumbed and
yellowed clipping:—
The chair was occupied by Mr. Dugald McTavish,
patron of the society.
His eyes were red, his nose was blue.
He couldn’t speak, but just say “Tchoo.”
Those miseries he could not endure,
So he took Brown’s Great Nutmeg Cure. •
No reason can be ascribed for the unfortunate
man’s rash act.
“I never saw a bloke go off pop as bad
as ole Dugald.” (’Erb took up his narra-
tive.) ’E was goin’ ter sack all ther beau-
tiful lino, ’ands, th’ ’oary-’eaded ole satyr
of a sub., ther sanctified saint of a Printer,
an’, most especially, ther silly ole geezer
what ’ad made up ther page. Dugald stamps
in next night at six with a face like lightnin’
flashes wrapped up in thunder, an’ closets
’imself with Sisley. I'll bet Sisley didn’t
’arf improve ther shinin’ hour. ’E’d wanted
ter get rid of ole Biggins fer long enough.
We ’eard their voices stormin’ through ther
shut door, an’ we could see ole Dugald’s
arms a-wavin’ whenever ’e come near th’
little window Sisley useter spy out of. Then
a boy from downstairs come ’untin’ fer
IJugald an’ give ’im a note, an’ when ther
boy went away there was a sort of a ’ush.
Some of. us thought Dugald ’ad murdered
Sisley an’ then fell dead of apoplexy. But
no. The door opens an’ ole Dugald sorta
tip-toes out. ’E looks as solemn as a owl
an’ beckons ter ther father of th’ chapel—
Ben Wilson it was then —an’ whispers ter
’im a bit, an’ then goes out very quiet.
“Then th’ word goes round that pore ole
Biggins ’as rolled in ’is marble. ’E ’ad
another fit at eleven, after ’e got ’ome, an’
when tli’ doctor come an’ prescribed brandy
Biggins’s ole woman ordered ’im out of tli’
’ouse. She sent fer another doctor, but
before ’e could get there ole Biggins croaks.”
“How did Mrs. Biggins take it?” I asked.
“Said it was ’Eaven’s crownin’ mercy ’e
died sober,” and ’Erb spat viciously into my
waste basket. For some reason he appeared
to dislike Mrs. Biggins.
CHARLES BLAKE.


“Bulletin” Service Coupon
t2151’27.
NAME AND ADDRESS
(for office use only)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Want” to “Service Department,’
Bulletin office, Sydney or Melbourne.
EDGEWORTH
EXTRA
HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
V
X
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Creams are made in all
principal shades, and especially noted for the
New Shade of Bois-de-Rose, Putty, Sunburn
and Oak.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere .
®>3i4
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers. .
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
.Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wants.
(Replies should be sent to the nuniDer
set against the “Want,” c/o Service
Department, BULLETIN.)
A name for a sauce in dry form to be
sprinkled on the food from bottle-shakers.
—No. 197.
Position. Six years’ exp. as social editress
of Women’s Pages. Several years editress
of Children’s Pages. Had matter accepted
for Red Page. I)o not mind country.—No.
185.
Have been years in the Queensland back
country. Now want to settle on a little
farm within 50 miles of Sydney. Just some-
thing an old bachelor can make a living on.
Have a few hundreds.—No. 182.
Position in Brisbane as cost accountant
with manufacturing or industrial firm, exten-
sive experience, testimonials. Married. —
No. 181.
Capable young N.S.W. South Coast
farmers want a dairy-farm on the share
system; up to 50 cows. —No. 170.
Lady, 15 years’ experience as book-keeper,
tvpiste, etc., wants position; temporary or
part-time preferred. Thorough knowledge all
clerical work, good knowledge French —No.
183.
Widow, two daughters, like management
boarding-house or residential. Trustworthy
and careful. Sydney or country.—No. 176.
Married man, small family, exp. sheep
and cattle, motor mechanic (own car), wants
work on station. Wife ex-schoolteacher,
governess or help in house in exchange for
quarters, etc., for family. Distance no objec-
tion —No. 178.
About 200 tons 301 b. steel rails, second-
hand, good condition. —No. 237.
To sell two farms, each 80 acres freehold,
grow sugar, maize, bananas and all sub-
tropical products. Ideal dairying and citrus
land. Permanent creek frontage and several
running springs. Adjoins railway station.
Long terms. —No. 201.
To sell 78 tall straight ironbarks, 15 miles
from Sydney, Liverpool-road.—No. 200.
The management of a station. Have
managed big properties N.S.W. and Queens-
land. Good refs, from late employers. Mar-
ried, with family.—No. 158.
Engineer, 27, highly recommended, very
exp. with every sort of station machinery,
wants job in the back country. Has lately
been looking after pumping plants on Bru-
nette Downs (N.T.). —No. 203.
Badly-incapacitated A.I.F. man wants to
sell or lease choice property, Central Queens-
land, for dairying, lucerne-growing, etc.
Highly improved, choice stock, 500 acres;
walk 'in for £3OOO, or let working-partner
in for £l5OO, with option buying me out,
as I can never farm again.—No. 212.
Position as nurse-companion in N.S.W.
Am the second oldest of ten; 27; strong
and healthy and really fond of children. —
No. 213.
Advance-agent, not afraid of work; good
billposter; wants job till September.—No.
217.
To sell a collection of authenticated Em-
den relics. —No. 223.
information Sought.
The words of a song “Remember Me No
More," by Governor Robinson. —No. 370.
In this case replies can be sent direct to
“W.Li.C.8.,” Billabalong Station, Mullewa
(W.A.).
Address of a purchaser of human hair. —No.
1(55.
Leading Sydney wigmakers state that they
are not buying at present.
Before presenting a novel to a publisher or
literary agent is it advisable to copyright it?
What do literary agents charge for disposing
of a novel? —No. 1(50.
(1) Just as well. A novel can be copy-
righted whilst m MS. form by submitting a
duplicate copy when making the application.
For further particulars apply Copyright
Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney. (2) Literary agents
usually charge from 10 to 20 p.c. of the
amount received.
1 want to get some folding saws from
America. What would be ( l) Duty? (2)
Freight? ($) How much is a dollar“? (Jf)
How should I order and pay? (5) What
ivould be the charge? ( 6 ) Could 1 deal
better through a commercial firm? (7) What
is the present exchange? —No. 187.
(1) 60 p.c. on invoice value in America.
(2) Depends upon the heading under which
shipping co. classifies article. General rate
is 20 dollars per ton. (3) 4s. 2d. (4)
Write to firm and advise that you have sent
bank-drafts (any bank will sell you a draft).
(5) As a rule, 2s. Gd. per £lOO. (6)
Should say if he is inexperienced in such
matters a large importer of machinery would
get the goods out with less trouble than lie
would. (7) Present rate of exchange: 4.851.
But write to the manufacturer before order-
ing and obtain fullest particulars. If they
are a decent firm they will give every assist-
ance.
A farmer paid for the services of a stallion
for one mare. He then used an impregnator
on two other mares and the result was two
extra foals. The owner of the stallion claims
tecs for all three. How does he stand? —
No. 171.
If tlie operation necessitated a second and
a third call on the stallion, the owner would
have a fair claim. If there was one service
only, whatever might be the results of such
service the owner could claim for that one
service alone.
We have a public recreation ground. Can
the trustees alloic a tennis club to malic a
court thereon, entirely for its own (the tennis
chib’s) use? —No. 172.
Depends entirely on the deed constituting
the trust and defining the powers conferred
on the trustees.
Is there an Australian insurance office that
will issue us a policy against twins? —No.
188. .
Don’t think there is any Australian office
that would issue such a policy. But there
are Lloyd’s underwriters who will quote
against any contingency. Lloyd’s Sydney
agents are Hogg, Robinson and Co., Bond-
street.
The name of the papers published at Oota-
eamvnd, Nilgiri Hills, Madras Presidency,
India. —No. 190.
Nilgiri Times and South of India
Observer,
Must guns and rifles be registered in
N.S.W., or only revolvers and concealable
weaponsT —No. 184.
An Act was recently passed in N.S.W.
repealing the one in existence under which
the unlicensed carrying of unconcealed fire-
arms is an offence, but the Act does not come
into operation until it is proclaimed in the
Government Gazette.
( 1 ) Is a boy of 12 years eligible to com-
pete for a N.S.W. bursary or scholarship?
(2) Its monetary value? (3) Where could
I obtain last year's papers?— No. 193.
(1) The boy would be eligible to compete
for a bursary tenable at a secondary school.
(2) A bursary carries an annual allowance
of 140 for the first three years and £5O for
the fourth and fifth years if the boy lias to
live away from home, and £l2 for the first
three and £lB and £24 for the last two
years if he resides at home. (3) Write to
Government Printer, Bent-street, Sydney.
Words of a recitation about a pack of
playing-cards representing the Lord's Prayer.
No.' 175. „ TT ,
(Replies to Keith Wingrove, Gem Hotel,
Alberton, Q.).
My employer, whose only asset is a mort-
gaged terrace, employed me at per week
to paint and renovate same, and is now
£ISO in my debt. If I prosecute and obtain
a verdict for wages can I sell the terrace
to satisfy my claim?. —No. 180.
You cannot. Your recourse would be
against the goods and chattels of the debtor,
if he have any.
Would it be injurious to mix Mobiloil B
with Mobiloil C? —No. 235.
The makers strongly advise against it.
How do 1 go about getting protection for
an invention of world-wide use? There is
not much money to waste. —No. 233.
A patent taken out in Australia gives the
patentee protection for 12 months in other
countries. By that time you would have a
better idea about things. The Commonwealth
Patent Office, 581 Bourke-street, Melbourne,
would assist you. You will find a couple of
trustworthy patent attorneys’ advts. in the
Wild Cat Column.
A copy—new or second-hand —of Spicer
and Pegler’s “Examination Note Book.” Is
it obtainable in Australia? —No. 206.
We can’t find a bookseller who has it in
stock.
Would any institution in Australia be
likely to buy a portrait of Caroline Chisholm,
the “immigrants’ friend,” painted by Sir
George Heath? —No. 83. .
The N.S.W. and Vic. National Art Gal-
leries and the Mitchell Library, know it and
don’t want it. Your only hope is to see what
a reputable dealer Would do. Ask Lyster
Ormsby, ’26 Hunter-street, Sydney.
What is manna? —No. 97.
Manna is a sweet, yellowish exudation got
from the trunk of the flowering ash or
manna-asli tree. The tree is found in Italy,
Hungary, Greece, Turkey and Asia Minor.
What makes of fountain-pens are reli-
able?—No. 204.
A census of The Bulletin staff shows
that Waterman, Swan, Onoto and Conklin
are in use and are approved of.
Is there in Australia an engineering works
where milled-to-puttern moulding, knives for
wood-working machines are made to order? —
No. 207.
Parke, Lacy, Ltd., 60 Clarence-street,
Sydney. Scruttons Ltd., 161 Clarence-street,
Sydney.
Please tell me ( 1) the Russian, Latin,
Spanish and French names for John; (2)
the meaning of Marcia and Marcus. —No.
192. ,
(1) Latin, Johannes; French, Jean; Rus-
sian, Ivan; Spanish, Juan. (2) Marcus, .a
hammer, or sprung from Mars; Marcia is
the feminine of it.
The names of the three most populous
cities in the British Empire; and where does
Sydney come in? —No. 224.
Whitaker’s Almanack gives them as
London, Calcutta, Bombay, Sydney, in that
order.
How does the writing of short stories,
sport articles and humorous articles pay?
What are the rates and inhere does one send
the fruit of his brain? —No. 226.
The market for the freelance in Australia
is limited, but there is no reason why a
person who can write good, acceptable copy
should not make a comfortable living, pro-
vided he markets his output intelligently
—it is no use sending long sermons, for in-
stance, to Tiie Bulletin. Each paper has
its own rates of pay, the minimum rate
for prose being about 2 l-sd. per line. Most
of the metropolitan papers work under
awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court; the rates have been either fixed by
the Court or agreed to by the paper and
the A.J.A. In such cases, of course, the
award rates are the minimum.
Information Supplied.
26. If Digger-farmer will rub his horses’
legs and other affected parts with kerosene
he will get rid of the bot-fly eggs. Also give
the horses a hot bran-mash, say, once a week.
It is cheap medicine and does a world of
good to the prads.
No. 26. —To keep bots from the horses
rub kerosene under the animals’ jaws. If
this should be too severe, add a little tar.
During the hay-cutting season, when bot-
flies are troublesome, pour a little oil from
the feeder into the hand and apply it. I
once used dripping, no other oil or grease
being available, with good effect. —Emel.
No. 62. —This inquirer will probably find
that jeweller’s rouge used on the ordinary
flannel will clean up his rifle barrel. A little
patience is required, as to apply it heavily
may affect the rifling of the barrel. Clean
afterwards with hot water; then oil. —11.
Scott.
20. —A thin coating of vaseline will pre-
serve lemons for at least a month, and I
believe excellent results have been obtained
by simply burying the fruit in sand. What-
ever the method, it is of paramount import-
ance to pick the fruit most carefully and
handle as little as possible. The slightest
bruise or puncture is fatal to the chance
of keeping either lemon or orange.—W. E.
Stephens.
Does Anybody Know ?
Best tony to clean a white Arctic fox fur.
—No. 198.
I have two very old oil-paintings, done on
wood (apparently cedar), of fishing-boats,
signed what looks like “A. Jcholh. Who
was he? —No. 163.
Anybody tell me of a good patch of coun-
try for Woo-shooting? Is it worth leaving
£5 a week to go ’roo-shooting? Am a good
shot but have never hunted Woos. —No. ITT.
I want to know how to renovate or ton-
dress a cement path. It is laid on very solid
material —broken rock , etc., to a depth of bin.
The cement on top is cracking. Would tar
and sand be efficient? —No. 159.
A Maorilandcr wants to know what is the
latest design in Australia for flue curing
tobacco barns (for lemon leaf) and the latest
designs in the heating unit . both by steam
pipes and flues. What varieties are grown
for the barn process? Do you have to bulk
cured leaf? Do you or the manufacturers
condition leaf? If you do, what is the
cheapest process? How many buyers area
the market and how is it panning out? How
many plants do you put in your barns? Do
you split or .tie? —No. 160.
What exactly icas the purpose of the
“Hush-hush ” towers built by the Admiralty
in England towards the end of the Great
War and never used? —No. 134.
Brief Answers.
A.H.M.: All a matter of quality. You
will have to submit them to a dealer—
preferably a high-class jeweller... .A. Ot>. .
But what do you want us to do?. . . . YV-Eds.:
Author’s reply forwarded K-8.D.: ike
time’s too short Thomas E.: No; tor
one thing, you might have difficulty in sell-
ing if you wanted money quickly J.r.lv :
Yes, if your income is tall enough both
State and Federal Governments will tax you
if you win a sweep—and they know about
it C.11.P.: One question at a time, please.
Nurse IV.: You can buy shares, ot
course; but it would be safer to take Gov-
ernment stock. Any bank or broker will
help you The Bloque: We think you
could do better with your money. ~ . .D.Iv.F:
Wm. Rodier's address is 327 Collms-street,
Melbourne. Briefly his scheme is to destroy
the females and let the males increase—
“ Birth control the rat (and the rabbit) right
out of existence by killing only the females.
. ...D.N.: Not-much prospect of any sub-
stantial rise in either div. or market value
within the next few years A.G.U.: U
Yes, worth holding. (21 Prospects still good.
But both 1 and 2 depend upon tm holding.
and that’s beyond man’s knowing aW.
No, it’s not a fraud; it’s a scheme to raise
money for a Sydney hospital—and its{ doin»
it, t 00... .P.F.W.: (1) W. C. .Penfold an
Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Ihe man
with the practical knowledge should be the
better to start with, but the other, other
things being equal, will probably beat him
after be has been on the job a while....
CHP. • (1) Victoria R. Downs station ■>
in the Northern Territory; we can get no
information as to whether there is a chance
of a job there. (2) It is a long shot and
if your means are limited, we do not recom
mend it... .T. A. Maclv. (Tas ): AU three
good. For your purposes, perhaps, in this
order: National, Commercial, Henry Berry
“Mirrool”: I was one of the first to make
use of The Bulletin’s Service Department:
I asked for a farm, preferably in N.S.VV-, t
run about 5000 sheep. You may be interest]
to know that so far I have bad over »
offered to me. In addition correspondent,
have written to tell me that various things
are better than sheep; and mie sent me «
selection of banana farms m Queensland
to choose from.


The greatest
virtue any car
can offer
"Its engine improves with use”
No W illys 'Knight
engine so far as
we know, has ever
worn out.
Modern Features of the
W illy s 'Knight
Speed between 60 and 70 miles
an hour. Extraordinarily long
sustained high speed. Power
on any hill to pass most cars in
high. 5t025 miles in 7Hseconds.
Powerful 4-wheel mechanical
brakes . . . last word in safety.
Advanced beauty in body design
and colour harmony
Eliminate engine-vibration—minimize friction do
away with carbon troubles and valve-grinding—and
you accomplish these three important things . . .
Your car is practically never out of your service ■
your upkeep cost is cut in half- —and you add scores of
thousands of perfectly good miles to the usefulness of
your car.
In the poppet-valve-engined car, it is the pounding
of cams against push-rods, the contact of push-rods
on rocker-arms, the recoil of valves under coiled
springs that cause vibration. And, in time, vibration
will wreck the finest engine ever built.
In the sleeve-valve-engined Willys-Knight Six there
is no pounding of metal upon metal. No elaborate
mechanism of rocker-arms and springs . . .You
never have carbon troubles. There are no valves to
grind . . .
The Knight engine is simplicity itself. It consists
essentially of but two metal sleeves operating with a
gliding motion. No vibration. No friction. Simply
two single sleeves working smoothly, silently, up and
down, one within the other, in a constant film of oil.
In addition to the exclusive advantages of the famous
Knight sleeve-valve-engine—-you have beauty and
luxurious comfort such as are found only in the
world’s most distinguished motor cars. Arrange for
a drive in a Willys-Knight Six and you will want to
drive it always.
WILLYS-KNIGHT SIX
Two Chassis Models Various Body Styles
Model 66-Wheelbase 126" 5-passenger Touring, 7 passenger Touring, Roadster, 5-passenger
Sedan, 7-passenger Sedan, Coupe, Cabriolet Coupe.
Model 70—Wheelbase 113" Touring, 4 dooi Sedan, 2-door Sedan, Roadster, Coupe.
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E, G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathom & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
WILLVS - OVERLAND
FINE
MOTOR
CARS


63 4 -
at GOWINGS'
This Overcoat
in Grey or Fawn Tweeds
Now, before the weather gets too cold, you should buy your overcoat.
Many new styles have been created for this season, and there are new
weaves and colors also. Gowings have extensive stocks of every type
and invite you to inspect the selection. Several styles are shown here,
drawn from the actual garments, and country customers can confidently
older from the illustrations. Remember—we pay carriage and guarantee
complete satisfaction or refund your money in full.
Coat at right is the popular belted Raglan model. Always smart-looking
and a good wearer, it is available in a wide variety of plain and fancy
Tweeds in Dark, Mid and Light Greys or Fawn. Price 63/-
Other qualities at 75/- and 847-
In Velours 95/- to 126/-
è
A New Style
in Fancy Tweed,
Velour & Covert
This style, as at left, has been specially designed for
comfort and yet possesses a distinctly smart appear-
ance. It is full-fitting, has Raglan shoulders, and is
available in Fancy Tweed, also Velour
or Covert Coatings at
147/-
Others in new and exclusive weaves
and shades. Prices: 147/- to 13 gns.
Send for a copy of Our New
Men’s Wear Catalogue and Special
Overcoat Circular - - - - FREE.
m
MB
r.-.' ;
& ivHi'y
m
w
/
%
(
m
i v'v
mm
£9 s l <
< §•• f
mV
■ -z-ir, »8
'Kr£
fUms£
m-Mj
m
m
m
For the
Countryman
A Special Extra
Long Oovercoat
in Dark Grey
Fleecy Tweed.
Price. . . . 75/-
In Navy Blue
Napp Cloth,
115/-
i
é
Here is a smart model that will gain favor this year.
Double-breasted, form-fitting style with half belt
and three pleats at back. Available in Navy Blue
Napp Cloth. Price 115/-
In Better Quality Plain Navy Velour or Navy Napp
Cloth. Price 126/-
Black Rubber
Raincoats, 35-
Smartly-styled Black Rubber-faced Mackintosh Coat, as
illustrated, in full-belled model with vertical pockets, storm
dollar and wide, comfortable skirt. Soft' and absolutely
waterproof. Price 35/-
Better Quality 49/(>
Double-breasted Style, 63/-
Double-breasted Black Rubber-faced Raincoat. Soft and
comfortable and absolutely waterproof. Full belt all
round, vertical pockets, storm collar and wind straps on
cuffs. Price 03/-
Riding Coat, 67/6
Black Rubber-faced Mackintosh, cut with extra full skirt
and V-piece back. Will supersede for service any oiled
coat on the market, and is far more comfortable.
Price
07/0
ê
We Pay Carriage throughout A ustralia
486 George Street. GOWING BROS., LTD., SYDNEY.
Branches at 304 & 454 George Street.


SHOE STORI
~ Joy Men who Care
m
POST FREE
Men's HaVannaK
Calf Shoe, circular
Vamp, mock caps ~
calf lined; also ivo
tan calf and patent
colt.
249 PITTST Opp.Tattersalis Club -
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
.Timmy Munro's little brother Darby broke
into the ranks of prominent jockeys at a
rather dull Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) meet-
ing on Saturday. To the delight of McShort-
odds the small apprentice brought the 20-to-l
chance Release (Chrysolaus—Silk Stocking)
along on the outside just in time to beat
Quixotic (7 to 1) and Gloaming’s Sister (6
to 1) in the Prospect Handicap, six fur-
longs ; then he had a victorious ride on
Spring Days (5 to 2) in the Warwick
Farm Handicap. 10 furlongs, after Duet
had been belatedly and Valparaiso compul-
sorily withdrawn (this wild beggar got rid
of his rider and tried to jump a fence), and
Cyllene Laddie (7 to 1), the second horse,
had lost lengths at the start. Darby’s
achievement was all the more striking, since
atrocious displays of riding were given by
other urchins; one race was thrown away,
if not two. Instead of putting on handicaps
for apprentices, who get too many oppor-
tunities as it is, the A.J.C. ought to extend
more consideration to nine-stoners like Darcy
and Calderwood, who rarely get a mount
except in races over the jumps or those
inflictions, jumpers’ flats. Yet Darcy and
Calderwood are better jockeys than a lot
of the little boys now in the business will
ever be.
Bacagi (5 to 1), by outstaying Somnolent
(5 to 1) in the Intermediate Handicap, gave
S. Davidson his 48th winning mount for
the season; the Newcastle lad cannot now
be overhauled. Also Bootlegger (5 to 4
on) increased W. Kelso's lead over the other
Sydney trainers by donkey-licking four com-
monplace opponents in the Casula Handi-
cap. Three of “John Baron’s” lot, now
trained by I. H. Andrew’s, were started, in
the Nursery Handicap; Prest, a 2-to-Ufav-
orite, ran nowhere; Macpherson’s March
(20 to 1), though nearly off the course at
one stage and ridden by no means artistically
at the finish, beat all the rest. When com-
petent trainers thus miscalculate, w r hat hope
is there for punters?
Some possibilities at Rosehill next Satur-
day :
Auburn Handicap, six furlongs: Reference
(6st. 121 b), 1; Golden Grist (6st. 81b.), 2.
Granville Stakes, one mile: Lady Merriwa
(7st. 51b.), 1: Nolens Volens (7st. 91b.), 2.
Rosehill Handicap, 10 furlongs: Lucy
Thrice (7st.), 1: Dion (7st. 61b.), 2.
Ili ghw T eight Handicap, seven furlongs:
Goldbeater (9st. 21b.), 1; Sea Risk (9st.
41b.), 2.
* * *
Monderna, one of the many useful horses
sired in Queensland by Seremond, won a
£lOOO Cup at Sydney’s Victoria Park on
Saturday. He was well backed at fives in his
division, but the Linacre mare Dabble had
the popular preference in the run-off; she
proved no match for him, however. Samuel
Hordern’s cast-off Wingen (Bronzino-Istria)
took a heat of the £5OO Zetland Stakes so
well, at 5 to 1, that lie was favorite for the
run-off. He met his master at the weights
in Prince Leonard (10 to 1 in liis division
and 5 to 4 in the decider), who is by Bron-
zino’s son Bronzite out of a mare called
Vilna.
Large fields of average down-the-line
quality were seen at Aspendale Park (Vic.)
on Saturday. The best horse saddled up
was David Garrick, in the Park Handicap,
for which this Comedy King—Lady Isis
gelding started equal favorite at 4 to 1
with Madom,. who had scored rather attrac-
tively at Caulfield. David Garrick got the
worst of the start and was last for a time,
but, moving up at the home turn, he was
iu front at the distance, and won well by
half a length from Coogee Bay (12 to 1),
who was the best part of a length ahead of
Ilomerus (8 to 1). David Garrick, who
has Caulfield and Flemington victories to
his credit, carried 9st. 51b. and ran the
mile in Imin. 40|sec. Owned by 8. ,C. Ken-
noii and trained by .T. H. Davies, he was
ridden by Duncan, successful earlier in the
day on Eulogise (3 to 1) in the second
division of the Trial Welter. Translator
was all the rage for the Aspendale Plate,
McShortodds offering no better than 6 to 4
in closing his libretto. As in Sydney, the
Linacre gelding was nasty at the barrier,
but he jumped away smartly, took charge
at the turn, and went on to win comfort-
ably from Threeasta (10 to 1) and Papin-
yah (14 to 1) ; the judge made it three-
quarters of a length and a neck, and the
timekeeper lmin. 15sec. So the unruly
black has paid his way in Melbourne, and
he was a profitable spec, in Sydney last
season.
<!•
J. H. Flannagan is now satisfied that his
English-bred Frilford is not much good.
Almost equal favorite with Three Kings for
the Adelaide Cup, the importation was never
in the hunt, whereas Three Kings (who is
trained by F. D. Godby for F. H. Scarlett,
a Melbourne man, and was ridden by Jones)
had the race won a furlong from home. Fril-
ford failed again in the S.A.J.C. Handicap, run
three days later; Benoni, who was first, had
led for nearly a mile and a half, the S.A.J.C.
I handicap distance, in the Cqp, and in the
circumstances his dividend-—£7 12s. for £1 —
was surprisingly good. Argument is still
ALL IN THE GAME.
VICTIM: “Here, what game arc you playing?”
BEETLECRUSHER : “Tiggy !”
raging in Adelaide as to whether the judge
missed Killara when “placing ’em” for the
Cup. The Magpie colt finished with a
great burst under the box, and his jockey,
lvrieger, is sure he was second. But the
official made it Valbee second, Au Fait third
< incidentally, this Westralian horse proved that
his Perth Cup form was to be respected),
and Samoan fourth. The matter was of some
importance to Kijlara’s backers, for their £1
tickets would have been worth £lO Bs. if his
number bad gone up next to that of Three
Kings. The winner’s div. for £1 was £3 19s.
He raced in Sydney last month, being third
to Luddenham and Piastoon in the Warwick
Farm Cup and to Bunkie and Tibbie in the
Tocal Handicap.
Footbrawl
Melbourne, last season’s Vie. League pre-
miers, went across to the South Melbourne
ground on Saturday, minus its star forward,
Johnson, down with ’flu’, and crashed badly.
Neither team boasted much science, but
South Melbourne owned three-quarters of
what was going and thereby gathered in 83
points to Melbourne’s 53. The game was
more than willing, several players being
damaged : a couple of lively brawls occurred
outside the fence and one was beginning in-
side when the umpire squelched it and re-
ported a Southerner for starting the row.
There was likewise a plentiful lack of science
about: the North Melbourne-Essendon dis-
turbance, weight being of more avail than
skill; in the end North shocked ’Don by
amassing 65 points to latter's 54. The
Carlt.on-Fitzroy imbroglio was a ding-dong
scuffle, either side prevailing alternately; but
the Blues' superior stamina gave them the
better of the last quarter—Carlton, 99
points; ’Roy, 72. Collingwood downed Haw-
thorn by 77 points to 51.; and the Richmond
Tigers overwhelmed St. Kilda by 59 points
to 48. Geelong had a great day. Having
got over welcoming the Yorks, it watched
the college boatrace. then demolished Foot-
seray by 104 points to 60.
* =!•• * *
Albert Thurgood, killed in a Melbourne
motor accident on Sunday, was literally
and figuratively a giant in, Australian foot-
ball. Asa player for Essendon in the club's
great days, he made a reputation in sport
that passed far outside the boundaries of
Victoria and the Australian code. Best
known as a forward, he could play in any
position; and his great height was a con-
siderable aid to his success in high marking,
a feature of the game in which he has never
been excelled. Asa goal-kicker he was fam-
ous not only for accuracy but also for the
tremendous distance he got into his place-
kicking. In the days when football-kicking
was included in record books, the Essendon
crack Was credited, both in English and
Australian publications, With best perform-
ances with the oval ball. Thnrgood was
a racing man in later years—called the odds
for a time and then turned owner and punter.
Chal and Amazonia were among the horses
that raced in his colors.
“L.E.”: High marking, the outstanding
feature of Australian-rules football, greatly
impressed the sailors of the Renown. Artists
like Johnson, Clover, Duncan, Fitzmaurice,
Gambetta and the Coventry brothers can
rise astonishing heights in the air and come
down with the ball. No sport has anything
more spectacular to show than the flights of
these human aeroplanes. Dr. Colin Mac-
kenzie, Professor of Comparative Anatomy at
Canberra, maintains that the Australian
physique owes a great deal to Australian
football. Man’s supremacy is due to his
erect posture; and high-marking is an excel-
lent training for the youth of a nation.
tf j>: * *
“Flagwagger” : It had to come. The Aus-
tralian game of football may now be learnt
by the correspondence route. Geoff. Moriartv
is the instructor ; he played League football
for 16 years, and passed on his knowledge
to son Jack, who holds the goal-kicking
record. Perhaps there will come a time
when the applicant for a position in a repre-
sentative team will not be considered unless
he is able to produce a diploma from a corre-
spondence college.
«1> -!*
“Coot'’: Tyson, who captained Colling-
wood last year and now plays for North
Melbourne, was presented by an enthusiast
with a cheque for £10 10s. just prior to his
first match with North. The same patron
promised North 10 shillings each if it beat
Fitzroy. As it did, the game cost him
£19 10s.
* * * *
With slush and water underfoot on Satur-
day, the fortunes of the game in both of
Sydney’s Rugby codes were delivered into
the hands of the forwards. In the League's
fourth round this was most noticeable in
University’s affair with Balmain; the latter’s
beefy vanguard showed such superiority that
the side ended with 23 to 0. South Sydney,
adapting play to conditions, distanced New-
town by 24 —0. Lapham and Carr, in the
loose forward Work, were irresistible. Glebe
felt the pang which is sharper than a
reptile’s tooth when St. George, led and
coached by Glebe's erstwhile hero, Prank
Burge, rubbed in the dirt by IS points to
nil. .Western Suburbs had no difficulty in
beating North Sydney, 19—5. South, St.
George and West are at the top of the table.
In the. Union code, conditions helped
Western Suburbs to beat the star Randwick
back division, 9—-8, Tom Lawton playing a
great wet-weather game for West. Y.M.C.A.
battled bravely against TJni.’s capital pack,
and lost by a mere two points, 11—9. Ross,
for Uni., gave a great display at full with
the wet ball, and Greatorex, the one-time
breakaway “shiner,” proved he has developed
into a first-class close and ruck man in the
Y.M.C.A. ranks. Forwards dominated the
Glebe-Balmain—East clash, the tricolors’
defence wilting badly iu the second spell,
and North Sydney also had to thank its
vanguard for its 11 —6 win from Manly.
* * * =s=
“Past Grammar”: The N.S.W. selectors
are worried about the type of forward avail-
able for the Rugby team to visit Europe
in July. All over Britain forward play
has been tremendously improved. Cohesion
and compact formation have been insisted
on in loose and ruck, as well as the scrum,
the result being a style of consolidated for-
ward play such as the Springboks showed
to perfection in Australia and Maori -
land. N.S.W. has been inclined to adopt the
more popular features of its League rival,
sacrificing soundness in defence to loose and
often ragged attack in the open. League
teams, with two men less on each side than
the Union fifteens, have wider holes to get
through, but tie last English League side ui
Australia demonstrated the match-winning
power of a solid, well-welded vanguard, even
under League conditions, and the M.L.
League combination learned the same lesson
in England last year. In the Wallaby and
A.I.F. teams Australia produced a couple
of forward divisions which stand high in
Rugby history. There must be some more
of them about.
❖ ❖ j»: $
The N.S.W. Rugby Union has received a
request from Japan for an invitation to a
team of Rugby players to tour Australia and
Maoriland this winter. The hint is rather
a reversal of the usual procedure, but the
men of Nippon evidently meant well, for
they intimated they would expect a return
visit to the land of cherry blossom. Japanese
form is Said to be good, though one w'ould
think the nation’s lack of inches would be
a handicap in the line-outs. Anyway, the
matter has been referred to the All Blacks,
and if they are willing something may be
done.
“Gate”: The N.S.W. and Q. Rugby
Leagues arc in high feather, the English
League having agreed to send a team to
Australia next season. This action means'
the re-establishment of the entente enrdiale.
which began to be strained when the last
English side came this way in 1924. and was
weakened by some utterances of the tourists’
management in Maoriland. where N.S.W.
and Q. players and officials were but
faintly praised, while the Dominion League
was cracked up as high as Mount Cook.
Then, when the English executive coldly
declined an Australian request to be asked
across, and beckoned to the Maorilanders,
the local bodies retired with a nasty feeling in
the pit of the stomach. The Englishmen come
on their own terms as regards rules; they
will ignore amendments which have been in
use here for some seasons. Their attitude
is that Australian Leaguers should not have
adopted the new rules till approved by the
Northern’ Union, the founders of the code.
The flaw in that argument is that the North-
ern Union “founders” didn’t get the approval
of the Rugby Union when it set up the
professional code by altering a few of the
R.U. rules, notably those with regard to
amateur sport.
f Continued on page J^l.)
GOFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Golf is pronounced ‘goff’ in many parts of
England and Scotland.”
“Not golf, but goff.” In thickets wild and
worn
They pass where thistles but the land adorn.
The son of Aberdeen’s provoked to scoff
At blunders of the feckless plus-four toff’
Whose play and language are both things to
scorn.
His pupil (curse the day that he was born !)
Leads him up hill and dale, by bush and
thorn,
An outrage to a Scottish philosoph.—
"Not golf, but goff.”
Bert calls it “golf.” The Gaelic pro. forlorn
Explodes in anger to the smiling morn,
lie can but grin and groan and curse and
cough
While Bertie swipes, and never eases off,
Losing his ba' among the alien corn
“Aye, golf, not goff.”
VICTORIA.
GASESHA.


Recent B.S A Successes
B.SA. Motor Bicycles have opened the 1927 Competition season with their
usual record of success. Recent awards include
THE SCOTT TROPHY
won by G. Barnwell on a B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Super-Sports, in what is described as the
most sporting event of the year—the Southern Scott Scramble. The 24-mile course is over
Camberley Heath, Sussex, and includes only 300 yards of main road, the remainder being rough
ground, mud and freak hills, and the first man home wins. Camberley Heath is used as a testing
ground by the War Office for Tanks.
Victory Cup Trial
HENLEY GUP. WALTER HACKETT GUP, WATSONIAN CUP (Team Prize)
and 10 GOLD MEDALS
Colmore Cup Trial
3 SPECIAL AWARDS (out of 6), 5 GOLD MEDALS & 7 SILVER
Paris-Nice-Paris Trial
3 machines entered, losing no marks and winning 3 GOLD MEDALS and
THE TEAM PRIZE FOR THE FOURTH YEAR IN SUCCESSION
Such consistent successes in the hands of both amateur and trade riders
prove the reliability of B.S.A. machines under all conditions. It is B.S.A.
reliability you want.
Winner of the
Scott Trophy
Henley Cup
and
Walter Hackett
Cup
o
>
Price,
£B2/10/
B.S.A. 3.49-h.p. O.H.V. Super-Sports Model,
Send for Catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
PRICES FROM £57/10/-
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. V
Q’LANDj
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F/yvzJi y bros . motor cycles
PTY m , LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
WEST AUS .-MOFtTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASM ANIA - sim king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston .
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE (Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Lead the way on a BSA


Fmero
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent :
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A GUN BUILT FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
ē
£2l
Post
Free
by WEBLEY & SCOTT, the makers of the world-famous liriUsh Service Revolver; of the same
excellent materials and high standard of workmanship; and balance and finish superior to many
guns of double the price. , , . . _ .
30in barrels of Special Steel: bored full choke in both or full and modified; Anson & Deeley
action, Greener cross-bolt, automatic safety, and the high engine-turned rib so desirable tor
close sighting. The half-pistol grip stock is composed of straight-grained English walnut, finely
chequered, and the modest hand engraving on the action parts is in keeping with the
symmetrical appearance of the gun.
COWLES & DUNN, Gunmakers, 453 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 3388. Write for Catalogue “B.”
Exchange must he added to country cheques.
Footbrawl (Continued from page 39.)
•j.H.” (Loud.) : Australians who want to
<oe X.S.W. playing England at Twickenham
next January might as well give up all idea
of getting seats. The M.C.C. provides an
-Australian Reserve” at Lords for Test
matches, but the Rugby Unions here are
centuries behind the times compared with
the cricket authorities. They regard Rugby
as "their” game—indeed James Baxter, the
English R. U. president, openly claimed it as
such in a recent speech—and the ordinary
public is given no opportunity to buy tickets
for the stands ; these, as well as the “ring ’
seats, are reserved for the clubs. Of course,
some of the players who have tickets allotted
to them are not above a little profiteering.
A week before a big international at Twicken-
ham the “Agony” columns of the Times arc
full of pathetic pleadings, “price unimport-
ant,” from country parsons, colonels and such-
like. One enthusiast who wanted to see the
Calcutta Cup match at Twickenham last year
advertised in a Scotch paper, and was offered
two seats for £14.
❖ * ❖ *
“Bolton”: An English compiler has been
amusing himself with reckoning up, as well
as he can, the amount of money paid in
transfer fees for players by the big profes-
sional Soccer clubs. It is impossible to get
at all the transactions, many of which are
closely guarded, but from January 1 to
March 16 over 100 were registered, upwards of
£100,000 changing hands. There were several
fees of £5000, others of £4000, and quite a
number of £3000. Evcrton, a Liverpool
club which has been well down the list
for some seasons past, alone spent. £23,000
within the period named in buying new
players. The same practice prevails in the big
American baseball Leagues, but there the
player can make his own terms as to
wages. In England all he can draw in pay
is £10 a week, with a 10 per cent, cut of
liis transfer price. There is a proposal afoot
to limit transfer fees to £2000, but clubs
which have given up to £5000 for their live-
stock won’t stand by and see their value
written down without squealing.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Backers of Roy Moore, “the Arizona Anni-
hilator,” lost their money at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, when iMoore
failed to annihilate Charlie Long, the new
coon in town. Moore weighed list. 41b.
and Long, who is built on the liues of Joe
Walcott, “the Barbadoes Demon,” list. 61b.
Like all Yankee ringsters, Ixing began with
a strong inclination to hold and hit, and as
this is also a predilection of the retired cow-
boy, the remarks of the crowd became sul-
phuric. They so far influenced Long that
he took to hitting with both fists free; and
thereby scored faster than he would other-
wise have done. The darkie has an effective
right, and Moore obviously did not care for
it. lie tried frantically to land the kind of
swishing rights that disintegrated, so to speak,
the phalanx of our middleweights, but though
he did often get that kind of violent assault
to its objective, the gloves merely bounced oil,
leaving no more impression than if boys were
bombarding an old-style round cannon-ball
with boiled turnips. The cowboy fell back
on his catch-as-catch-can methods, and. hung
on so flagrantly that referee Wallis issued
note after note, without improving the
offender’s manners. In the fourteenth, pre-
suming on past immunity, the curly-headed
boy pushed and clung and scragged even
worse than formerly, and Wallis disqualified
him. Long is a tough subject, and with a
man who’d have stood up and swapped
punches he’d have won (or lost if the. other
could have hit him hard enough) within six
rounds. lie has a “sleeper” in each glove
and is an eager, willing mixer. But the
spectacle of two TJ.S. middleweights. boxing
every week or so in a country which pro-
duced the three greatest middleweights of
rhe past 30 years—Fitzsimmons, Hall and
Darcy—is disheartening.
* * :l: *
“Hamer”: Bill had been the despair of
several trainers, but “Snowy,” aware of ms
possibilities, decided that it was worth trying
to keep him off the booze. So he took Wil-
liam in hand, fixed him up for an engage-
ment, and worked him into surprisingly good
shape considering the dissolute past. “Snowy’s”
method was to get the publicans within the
radius of their training operations interested
financially—through bets —in the prospects.
Whenever Bill asked for a drink he was
given only good advice. But one day, while out
for a spin on the road, the pair pulled up at
a pub. “See, here, ‘Snow,’ ” said Bill, “I know
I can't get a drink, but there’s no reason why
I shouldn’t buy you one.” “Snowy” hesita-
tingly decided that it might be allowed, and
soon they were seated on a bench, with a
cool, froth-capped mug before them.. “It’s
your beer, o’ course, ‘Snowy’,” said Bill, “but
/ want it. Tell you what I’ll do; I’ll fight
you for it.” The trainer put in his resigna-
tion there and then.
* :i: $ *
Big as it is, Melbourne Stadium was not
big enough to seat the crowd when Karasick
(12st. 21b.) and Edwards (12st. 51b.)
wrestled there on Saturday night. Ticket
speculators did well; some got as much as
£5 from late-comers for ring-side seats. Kara-
sick has no mean reputation as an all : in
grappler, hut lie had to bow to the superior
wild-man antics of Canadian Billy. In the
first round, when the Russian clapped on his
new brand of reverse lieadlock, Bill escaped
through the ropes and shouted defiance from
the safety-zone of the press scats, lie was
kept busy escaping until the third round;
then the Russian scored per medium of his
educated lieadlock. The cheering, which
lasted throughout the intermission, had
scarcely died down when Al, in trying to
repeat the performance, fell into a double
toehold, which obliged him to yield. The
(ith was a battle of headlocks, and
at the gong each paid testimony to the
power of the other's arm by wandering in
woozy fashion to the wrong corner. Edwards
returned to battle with a grim look on his
chiv, and rocking the Russ, with a series of
headlocks, eventually gained the deciding fall.
Flowers had been bestowed on the Muscovite
prior to the match, and as he returned deject-
edly to his dressing-room he was followed by
nig Peter Fatouras, bearing the drooping blos-
soms. This wrestling business has its ludicrous
side, but Melbourne goes mad about it every
winter.
Car and Cycle
“F.S.”: Although the present writer is
not yet in the sere and yellow, he can re-
member driving round in the first Oldsmobile
in Perth. The thing had a tiller like a yacht
and the shape of a bath chair. It was perse-
cuted like a criminal by the police, and “Pro
Bono Publico’ wrote to the West Aus-
tralian demanding that the monster should
he preceded by a red flag and a bell.
Memories sued! as these flock round one as
one wanders through the gay tropic birds
and lithe tiger-shapes at the motor show in
the Melbourne Exhibition. Surveying the
perfection of Holdens’ body work, as exem-
plified on scores of different brands, and the
splendor of the Kellow-Falkiner handicraft
on the 30-h.p. Minerva sedans, it is hard to
believe that 50 years ago the highest achieve-
ment in that direction was a dc luxe Cobb’s
c0ach.......
Here is a Stutz from U.S.A., for which
£I3OO is asked. It has a ’phone, a radio
set, a cigarette lighter and a vanity case
aboard, aiid when you open a door, whose
glass is so constructed that it hangs together
even when shattered by a blow, the step is
automatically flooded with light. Yet it is
by no means the Duke-aiul-Duehess in cars.
Here is a Rolls-Royce, price £3IOO, and its
specialties would fill a column. It is hard
to believe it, bnt every year there are 25
people in Victoria alone who indulge their
tastes and buy this. wonder.
Rut the chief marvel of the show is not
the excellences of these chariots for million-
aires. It is the excellences of the cheap
HER LOSSES.
MRS. WAITE : “A specialist pore me some,
tips, Charlie, and Tee lost nine pounds
already."
CHABLIE : “Some of those tipsters ought to
he shot!”
MRS. WAITE: “I mean avoirdupois, not
money, you ass.”
cars designed for the motoring proletariat.
Giving forth a proud nickel glitter, rejoicing
in their graceful linos, boasting of their 40-
50 miles to the gallon, and pointing confi-
dently to the absolute efficiency of their
design are the £195 class and the £240 class
of single and double-seaters. It is hard to
believe that a world of such perfections
should still be populated by people who lose
their shirt-studs under the bedroom furniture,
let the milk boil over, mark ballot-papers
wrongly, marry a second w T ife before the
first is dead and catch colds in the head in
winter.
“Lao-dah”: All the village turns out now-
adays when a motor-reliability trial is on,
but it was not always so. When the first
Melbourne-to-Sydney test was mooted a
councillor at Euroa (Vic.) moved that
bullock-chains should be placed across the
road at the entrance to the shire.
“Garry”: An enterprising British maker
is Morris, whose Oxford and Cowley models
command a good market in Australia and
Maoriland. They arc strong, chubby cars,
without frills, and stand up well to their
work. They have now been given a big
brother, the Empire. Only a chassis was
available for Sydney Show, but it made a
good impression. The 4-eyl. motor measures
up to 15.9 h.p., the track width is 56in.
and wheel-base 9ft. Gin. Four-wheel brakes,
four speeds and worm
drive are features. If
the price with an Aus-
tralian body is rela-
tively as reasonable as
that of the other
models it ought to
make a hit here with
those who want a big.,
fairly powerful car at
a price not too steep.
Power, size and cheap-
ness, all together, have
hitherto been a Yankee
specialty.
“Lytt”: When W.
E. Ilootes, head of an
English firm that ex-
ports motor-cars,
arrived in Sydney
about the first thing he
asked was : “Have you
any rough road s
here?” The people who
handle his interests
at this end determined
to show him. So
they collected some picks and shovels and
axes and a couple of cars and Mr. Hoot.es
and went over the old Bell-road from Kurra-
jong to Mt. Victoria. It. took a long time to
do it, because in places landslides had to bo
filled up, in others huge boulders had to be
quarried through, and in yet others tree-
trunks had to be hauled out of the path.
They crossed watercourses so sudden and
deep that the only way to cross them was to
leap them —if the front wheels dipped in they
could never get out. The cars stood it all
right—they were British-built and designed by
men who evidently took no chances —but
Rootes now cherishes a deep respect for the
Ma State’s country roads. He says that he
has motored in almost every country in the
world and the roads of N.S. vV. can lick any-
thing in creation for pure awfulness.
# * « *
“Iv.D.S.”: A, E. De Garis, of Mildura,
is the inventor of a bicycle which he claims
will revolutionise the industry. In addition
to the ordinary pedal gear a sprocket and
chain is attached to the front wheel, actu-
ated by cranks, used in place of handles.
The rider works with both hands and feet.
Dodges like that used to be invented every
day 25 years ago. The trouble about them
is' that the rider has onlj one boiler, so
to speak, and it’s not much good giving him
two engines to drive.
* * * *
“Trembler”: Hardly a day passes without
some motor-car gadget being put on the
market which claims to save anything from
10 to 25 per cent, of petrol. It. is a curious
fact, though, that the big oil combines evince
no anxiety at the prospective loss o f revenue.
Far otherwise was it. when my late friend
Ahasuerus W. Bugge invented his appliance
for the same purpose. He claimed a saving
of 75 per cent., but, on the trial run, he
must have stepped on the wrong pedal or
something, for the infernal percentage rose
to 100 and then to 125. The result was
that; towards the end of the run Ahasuerus
had to stop frequently and empty his tank
of superfluous petrol. That night his car
was dynamited, and all his papers and plans
stolen and burned, While he himself was
given the option of being shot or emigrating
to Australia, where no one dreams of adopt-
ing a motor invention unless it is made
somewhere else and imported.
* * -t *
“Traveller”: “Garry” asks (B. 28/4/’27)
on what salary one can keep a motor-car.
Three of my office mates all own new light
cars. One is single and in receipt of £225
p.a.; he has an American car that cost over
£2OO. The other two are married and haye
two children apiece. They have either paid
off their homes or are still paying them off.
These men get only £295 p.a. One of them
has a new English car that cost nearly £3OO.
“Nosino” : “Garry’s” informant was biased
when lie said a car may be run on an income
of £4OO p.a. Assuming the car will be used
for week-end flutters, here’s the bill: Depre-
ciation. 10s.; petrol, say, 10s.; oil, 25.; tyres,
Is.; taxes and insurance, 10s.; interest on
money (which could be otherwise invested),
7s. 6d.; total 40s. 6d. a week. This does not
include anything for repairs. \\ hat eight-
pounds-a-week married man could afford a
quarter of his screw for such a luxury?
“Garry”: The life of a car has a bearing
on the cost of motoring. Some American
makers reckon that three years of hard use
is all that ought to be expected by a first
owner, who should then buy a new car. In
England it is held that 10 years with an
average of 5000 miles a year would be good
service, and that the chassis would still be
of sonic use as the basis of a truck or de-
livery-van. An American maker once set
out to see how long his biggest and heaviest
model would last, and retired it into a
museum after 100,000 miles had been cov-
ered, but history is silent about replace-
ments. The best record I have ever come.
A MARVEL.
ADOLPHUS: “Clevah little blightah, what? Holed out in- one!
across is that of a De Dion one-lunger,
imported to Maoriland in 11101. Its still
running, and has been through at least a
score of hands. It cost about £350 landed,
and last time it was sold it went for a ten-
ner. Depreciation has been under 4 p.c. p.a.
in that case.
The Watermen
Leading all the way, Westralia won the
inter-State eights on the Derwent River at
Hobart on Saturday; so the King’s Cup goes
to Perth for another year. N. S. Wales was
second, two lengths behind the Westralians,
Victoria third and the Mannum crew, repre-
senting South Aus., fourth. The time was
15min. 51 3-5sec. —very good considering that
the water was very rough, so much so that
the Tasmanians and the Queenslanders could
not finish. The winners, who had A. G.
Rosser for stroke, showed fine watermanship,
and would probably have won in any circum-
stances. Westralia has now captured the
King’s Cup thrice; it was first in 1021 and
1925, second in 1923 and 1924. and third in
1922. Last year it did not compete. >
Bobby Pearce, of N.S.W., won the cham-
pion sculls by 20 lengths; A. II. Cambridge
(Vic.) and L. R. Marsh (Tas.) struggled
gamely, but were left behind in that order.
As the Australian Rowing Council is to send
a sculler to the 1028 Olympiad, “if one can
be found good enough,” the well-coached son
of Harry Pearce should have a good chance
of seeing Amsterdam.
* * * -1=
While the inter-State contests were being
decided in the Speck, Sydney. Melbourne and
Perth hung breathless on the results of the
secondary schools’ regattas. Vile weather
did not prevent the usual vast crowd from
thronging the event on the Parramatta, where
the eight-oar went to Sydney High School
for the third time in three starts; Sydney
Grammar was second, the King’s School third
and “Shore” fourth. A. W. .T. Watts, Highs
stroke, rowed a particularly well-judged race
for a schoolboy. Lying well back in the
earlier part of the race, he brought his
reserve power into play in the last quarter,
and, cutting down the leaders one by one,
led Grammar home by three-quarters of a
length. It was a tight finish, but. a triumph
for High’s coach, O. R. Smith. The first and
second fours went to Newington and “Shore ’
respectively.
Scotch College rivalled Sydney High’s per-
; formance by winning the Vic. eights for the
i third time running, thus lifting the Fairbairn
• Cup for keeps. A shade the heaviest of the
> three crews in the final, it was “all out ’ at
[ the finish; only by a third of a length did it
. beat Wesley College, with Geelong Grammar
i another length away. The winning crew was
stroked by T. M. Chisholm and coached by
Dr. Littlejohn ; it rowed in a boat borrowed
I from the Mercantile club, the college’s own
i boat having been destroyed in the recent
l Yarrasjde fire. ....
At Perth. Christian Brothers were easy
’ victors, with High School and Guildford
1 Grammar following,
t (Continued on page 42.)


NEW IMPROVED TORCH,
200-YARD BEAM.
Winchester Focussing Torch.
ĕ
Everyone who lias a Winchester Torch recog-
nises a Winchester Torch is a necessity , not a
luxury. This new model is a wonderful torch.
Easily focussed to throw a narrow beam of light
a distance of 000 ft. or, if required, to show a
broad light at a distance of a few feet only.
Nickel case, 3-lin. lens, 9in. in length. Complete
with 3-cell Winchester patent drawn seamless
cell battery, 21 /-
SPARE BATTERIES, 2/6 each. SPARE
GLOBES, 1/3 each. Postage Torches complete
Batteries. Other models of Focussing Torches
from 15/- to 18/6. Standard non-focussing
types, 7/6 to 17/6. Direct Factory Distributors ;
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ė
ę
Write
to
Desk B.
MARTIN DITCHER’S TRIUMPH.
Mr. H. L. Tooth, Murami Irrigation Settlement, on
the Murrumbidgee, writes: —
“The ten acres of rice field yielded me 144*
bushels. I consider the use of the Martin Ditcher
reduced the cost of ditching and check bank work
by 50 per cent.”
The photograph shows a section of Mr. Tooth’s
fine field which was recently described in the Agri-
cultural Gazette. Many other rice farmers are
now using the Martin Ditcher.
CHALLIS HOUSE,
MABTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane.
499 Eittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. T. Buildings, Eight Square, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Perth. g.B.
ě
e
Motorists'—'
Are delighted with the
speed and smooth run-
ning qualities of their
razors when they lather
with
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
•aii ’iM snos « Niirein *r lairsa
k/ELVET^
SHAVING STICK
The Watermen
(Continued from page Jfl )
“J.H.” (Lond.) : An Australian, Steve
Fairbairn, has been responsible for admini-
stering a little unpleasant medicine to those
spoilt darlings of the newspapers, the Oxford
and Cambridge crews. Steve has been in-
stilling- the principles of the Fairbairn style
of rowing, anathema to the old school, into
the bank and insurance clerks who form the
backbone of the rowing game on the Thames.
On a recent Sunday morning 41 crews, row-
ing Steve’s style, competed in time tests from
Mortlake to Putney, and eight coached by
Steve himself easily beat the trial times put
up the same week by the two crack ’Varsity
crews. The Melbourne man has an uncon-
cealed contempt for the methods of coaching
and training that govern the inter-Uni. boat-
race. He has always said that his crews of
college youths and London clerks could lose
any modern Oxford or Cambridge crew, and
now he has proved it.
* * $ #
“Slide”: The Australian Amateur Rowing
Council decided last week not to send an
Australian eight to the 192S Olympiad. The
reason given is the great expense, added to
"the tremendous handicap” an Australian
crew is under by reason of the long journey
and the difficulty of-getting “acclimatised.”
The failure of the Murray Bridge (S.A.)
crew at Paris in 1924 was cited in proof.
Nothing was said of the brilliant success of
the .1912 Australian eight, which beat the
cream of English rowing at Henley and won
the Grand Challenge Cup. The feats of
the A.I.F. crew may be omitted, since its
members had plenty of time from 1914 to
.1919 to become “acclimatised.” It is a
matter of common knowledge among rowing
men that the greatest handicap the Murray
Bridge crew suffered was the utter failure of
the Australian Olympic Council to organise
adequate provision for housing, training and
boating the crew. This ineptitude w T as the
subject of complaint among our represen-
tatives generally, but the oarsmen, unable to
get proper rowing practice, were the
worst off.
* * * #
“Ibn el Tssar”: Enthusiasts have been
arguing in Sydney dailies as to the compara-
tive difficulty or otherwise of rowing in fresh
or salt water. Une individual asked whether
any experiment in regard to buoyancy had
been made in the Dead Sea. I can quote
one; it was tried at the southern end, where
the buoyancy is greatest. A party of Light
Horsemen had gone down there in a launch.
After arrival, they found the boat floating so
high that the propeller was above water. Not
relishing the prospect of an enforced sojourn
in that desolate spot, the most powerful
member of the party got over the stern.
Standing on the water, he shoved the stern
down by main force till the screw “bit”
again and less buoyant fluid was reached.
* * *
“Slide”: The cable announces that Major
Goodsell, now a resident of California, has
accepted Bert Barry’s challenge and will
race the latter for the world’s sculling cham-
pionship in America on June 26. Barry is
a nephew of Ernest Barry, and has been
coached by his famous uncle, a fund having
been raised for the challenger in England.
By the custom of the half-century-old event,
the race should be rowed in the country of
the title-holder. There have been exceptions,
but since Canadian Jake Gaudaur Avon from
Stan bury on the Thames in 1896 the only
variation has been Dick Arnst’s agreement
to meet Ernest Barry on the Zambesi —and
that was for special reasons. The present
champion Avon his title in- Australia and
should defend it here. That he has chosen
to do so in America argues that he has
expatriated himself.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: A characteristic of the “mug”
golfer is his huge assortment of clubs. Most
big players are content with a kit of half
a dozen. There is a lesson for the elaborately
outfitted one in the story of a Kaffir caddy
in a recent edition of Golf Illustrated.
This youth won a nine-hole tournament for
caddies at Bloemfontein with one “general
purpose” club. He did the 3000-yard course
in 44 —say, five to the hole. The club was a
length of 3-16th-inch fencing-wire, doubled
over at one end, and wrapped with a piece
of sacking for a grip. The other end was
bent at an angle with the shaft, and on this
was slipped a round piece of steel tubing,
4in. long, and wedged to the wire with an
ordinary nail. I knoAv plenty of gents in
plus-fours avIio can’t get near 44 for nine
holes, in spite of their up-to-the-minute
equipment, even 'if alloAved to tee up afresh
for every shot.
* * * *
“Ploughman” : The news that Cyril Tolley,
the English amateur, has driven a golf ball
335 yards reminds me of Angus McCorquo-
dale. Angus was an inventor as well as a
golfer, and after years of experiment
announced that he had designed a practically
self-propelling ball. This contained a chemical
compound which, on the impact of the club,
developed an atomic relativity—you follow
me, of course—which offset the force of
gravity and made the thing practically a
self-propelled entity—this should be per-
fectly clear. He made only one ball, and
the night preceding the trial before the Mac-
Judah Syndicate, Ltd., which was going to
take it up, burned all his chemical and other
formula. 1 , trusting to his memory or the ball
itself for starting on large-scale manufactur-
ing. When Mac drove off next morning at
the trial, the ball went fast and low over
the first ridge. The caddie stationed there
said it was still carrying on when his eye
lost it over some sandhills a mile away. The
money and time spent in trying to find that
ball would break your heart. In the excite-
ment, Mac drank a glass of water by mis-
take, and when he recovered from the subse-
quent fit was found to have completely lost
reason and memory, so that was that. I did
hear, soon after, that some astronomer had
discovered anew asteroid revolving in space,
but these scientists aren’t reliable.
* * * *
“Mower”: The Royal Queensland club
opened its new 18-liole course at Hamilton,
on the northern bank of the Brisbane River,
with the annual A.I.F. handicap. The
course borders the Hamilton Reach, where
most of Queensland’s sailing races are con-
tested, and. apart from the fine views of the
big river is one of the most sporting in
Queensland. Bogey has been fixed at 38
out and in. The colonel should taste the
bitterness of defeat fairly often.
“Knutsford”: The British open amateur
golf championship will begin at the Royal
Liverpool club’s course at Iloylake on May
23. Only players with a national handicap
of four or less arc being accepted. The open
championship is to come off at St. Andrews
in July. Amateurs must have a national
handicap of three. Qualifying rounds will be
played, and those 15 strokes behind at the
end of the second round will get the axe.
There will be a big American contingent at
JACK CRAWFORD, junior and State champion of
N.S.W., and (on the right), E. F. MOOR, the
Queensland crack. Both are in line for Davis
Cup honors.
both events, but the only Australian heard of
so far as a likely competitor is Len Nettle-
ford, of Hobart, amateur champion of Aus-
tralia.
Miscellaneous
“ J.J.M.” : Professional footrunning, which
waxes and wanes in Australia according as
the peds. behave, is to wax again for a time.
Melbourne Carnivals, Ltd., which controls
the Motordrome, has applied to the Austral-
asian Athletic Council for permission to
stage a series of sprints for the world’s
championship; distances, 75yds., 100yds.,
130yds., 220yds. Tim Banner, of N. S.
Wales, who claims to have brought back the
world’s, title from Glasgow last year, will be
a certain starter, and an effort will be made
to bring out Paddock, the American. The
last time a world’s championship, real or
alleged, was staged in Melbourne was in 1911,
when Jack Donaldson gave Holway (U.S.A.)
a good view of his flying feet on the Exhibi-
tion Oval. Besides the championship, the
promoters propose to stage a “Melbourne
Thousand” handicap, I3oyds., with a first
prize of £6OO.
* * * $
“The Gaffer”: Some of the kind-hearted
fellows who used to do their best to help
the professional ped. and encourage the
manly sport of running were hardly dealt
by. Not only did they nourish serpents in
their bosoms, only to be stung at the finish
with a spiked shoe, so to speak, but they
suffered a lot at the hands of “carnival” pro-
moters and officials, who are about the last
word in doubting Thomases when it comes
to an explanation. I’m thinking of a nigger
I once had, named Goonbi Charley. He was
a snorter over 75, but the last 10 yards
in a 100 were always too much for him.
However, I entered him for a 100 yards
scratch in Cairns one Christmas, and the
cove who was getting the ground ready being
an old pal, I went out the day before the
“carnival” and had a chat with him. The
scratch was the only 100 event, and my
abo. scrambled home by a yard. Just as we
were getting ready to collect, one stickybeak
steward chipped in that the track looked
short. Sure enough, when it was measured, it
was only 90 yards. After the row had died
down, I pointed out that half a day’s N.Q.
sun, following on heavy rain in the night,
must have shrunk the turf, but devil a bit
would they listen, and I got away with only
my unblemished reputation. They’ve no
brains for scientific theories up Cairns way.
* * * *
Queenslander Frank Schultz put up a
great run at Roma (Q.) the other day, when
he was credited with cutting out 300 yards
in 29 4-ssec. The distance is not much
affected by amateurs, though Americans
claim a world’s record for B. J. Wefers, who
ran it in 30 3-ssec. as long ago as 1896.
Among the professionals the 300 finds a lot
more favor. That great runner Harry Hut-
chens still stands as world’s-record holder
in most of the books with 30sec., put up
in 1884. Australian Jack Donaldson, fin-
ishing second, was timed to do the 300 in
29 61-64 sec.—cutting it a bit fine. That was
in 1913, but as he didn’t break the tape
the figures are not accepted.
“Murkali” : For the second year
in succession the Bennett-Buckley
kennel has supplied the winners of
the Derby and Oaks at Rooty Hill
(N.S.W.). And, like Bobs and
Bright Daisy last year, Bertha
and Cubby, the latest successful
pair, were bred from Bouncing
Nancy, which obliging lady also
provided the winner of the 1926
Woodstock Cup. Two years pre-
viously Bouncing Nancy and her
litter brother Bold Ben collared the
D. and O. double for the same ken-
nel. For more than half a century
this particular kennel has been
turning out slick greyhounds. From
the other fellow’s point of view, a
Buckley dog is a dreary spectacle.
* * *
“Gan”: .Tack Boyles, who won
the draughts championship of Aus-
tralia at Launceston, went through
the strenuous tourney without los-
ing a game. Boyles is a railway-
man, and came to Victoria from
Scotland as a youngster. Draughts
is quite as scientific a game as
chess; it takes years of study to
pass out of the novice class, and
only a few players ever become ex-
perts. There is a Huge library of
textbooks, from Sturges, whose his-
toric volume was honored by a pre-
face by Dr. Johnson, to works that
come out every year. The chief
objection to draughts is that a man
could learn a foreign language or
physics or chemistry in half the
time that it takes him to become a
decent manipulator of the simple-looking
black and white pieces.
* * * *
“Naklioda” : The team of Australian crick-
eters who left for a season in Malaya the
other day will, as often as not, think they
are playing in a grade match in Sydney.
Australians bulk out of all proportion to
their numbers in sport in the F.M.S.; there
have been years in Singapore when they
have annexed practically all the pi’izes. The
reason probably is that the Englishman is
more inclined than the Australian to accept
the dictum that the tropics are best taken
in a long chair under a verandah. The
equatorial heat, which seldom rises above
90 deg., has no terrors for a man who has
fielded all day in Melbourne or Adelaide
with the mercury at 105. The heads of
English firms, however, are very keen on
keeping up the sporting prowess of their
staffs and will imperil their immortal souls
to lure a good slow bowler or half-back
from branch offices to their own. The all-
round athlete is sure of nlenty of holidays
in Malaya. I knew one Australian who
went with teams as a rower to Hong Kong,
as a swimmer to Penang, as a Soccer player
to Batavia and a cricketer to Kuala Lumpur,
all in the one year.
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Baomata”: An itinerant vendor of seed-
lings to. Sydney's suburban gardeners de-
scribes bis wares as “a new variety of daisies
—beautiful yellow flowers with a big, brown
centre. Plant a few of ’em along your bor-
ders and the garden will soon be a blaze
of color.” But they come up dandelions—
or what Westralians know as dandelions.
* * * *
“Joystick”: The season-ticket notion has
now spread to the aerodrome. Australian
Aerial Services, of Melbourne, will sell you
for £4O a neat little book of coupons, varying
in value from 2s. 6d. to £5; these ' are
available for flights over any of the concern's
services within 12 mouths of date of issue.
So far services run to Adelaide, Broken Hill
and Cootamundra.
* * * *
"Platman” : The Kingaroy district (S.Q.)
will harvest this year some 4000 tons of
peanuts. Harvesting is in progress, and
Customs Minister I’ratten has promised a
duty that will effectually block importation.
Now, what about encouraging tobacco-grow-
ing by taking off the excise duty V That
market should be worth nearly £3,000,000
to the Australian farmer.
, * * * *
"Flit”: Flying is becoming a common-
place of life. At the conference of the
Commercial Travellers’ Association at
Launceston (Tas.) the question of insuring
members against accident while flying was
discussed, and the cheapest cover of several
offers submitted by the insurance cos. was
255. per £lOOO for 12 hours’ flight in daylight.
The Westralian delegates said that many
of their members were in the habit of mak-
ing flights of four days’ duration, and a
mileage rate was suggested.
Hi % $ . *J.:
“Scut” : The president of the Master Fur-
riers’ Association has told a Sydney audi-
ence that Australian-worn furs are 05 p.c.
rabbitskin, most of them made in Australia,
and a large number of made-up furs are
exported. Kabbitskins worth £3,000,000 were
sent to America last year, he said, and
Australian furriers would soon be exporting
£10,000,000 worth of finished furs p.a. There
is a long way to go yet to catch up with
the sheep, but it looks as if the time is
ripe for taking up rabbit country and mak-
ing an organised effort to improve the breed.
He * $ $
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: Talking about cheap
houses (“Alastor,” B. 31/3,/’27), Cooktown
can also boast. In the main street a two-
storey brick-and-cement building, once bank-
ing premises, was sold for £lBO. The
fittings and massive door to vault must
have cost a good deal more than that. A 12-
room residence, which originally cost thou-
sands to build, is for sale at £3OO, with no
takers, even though there are an electric-light
plant, a windmill, running water, extensive
grounds and a billiard-table. Several owmers
of property in Cooktown would gladly give it
away—provided arrears of rates are paid up.
* * * *
“Marco”: “Harold Hardupp’s” yarn (B.
21/4/’27) about the latest mechanical rival
of the typist recalls the time a dictaphone
was installed in our office on a week’s trial.
The boss was vastly interested, and his
typist-stenog. was sent into the sales depart-
ment, it being reckoned by him that the
office-boy could transcribe what the dicta-
phone said. The first letter under the new
arrangement gave the old man a shock: —
Er Hum Dear Sir, —V our-er-letter of the fourth,
no, the fifth, just to hand. We-er-regret to note
the machine is not working to your-er-satisfaction.
The idiot’s been monkeying with the dam thing,
ft was-er-thoroughiy tested before it left our work-
shops. It couldn’t have been the day Mcßooze got
screwed. And reported o.k. You suggest 3'ou should-
er-return the motor and that we should return your
deposit. Like Hell we will. Not. We cannot
entertain this as the-er-transaction was on firm sale.
That settles this bird and next week we’ll put on
the screw for the balance. —Yours faithfully,
* * * *
“Nikko”: Uncle Sam buys the raw
material for his manufactures all round the
world, and never says a word about it. Even
little Maoriland contributes its mite. It
sends Samuel cheese, to be made up in highly-
colored wrappers and sold at about four
times as much as the cockies at Akaroa,
who make the best cheese in the world,
would dare to charge for it. Part of the
supply of Yankee cigarette tobacco also
comes from Fernland. Growing has been
under Government supervision for some years,
and they’re now getting to the stage when
they post samples abroad and ask for opin-
ions. One came to me the other day. It
has only one fault. It’s a bit coarse and
smokes too quickly, but in aroma and all
the other qualities one asks for in ones
pet cigarette there’s no fault to find. Maori-
land spends more of its substance than it
ought to on coffin-nails. With a duty of
255. 6d. per 1000 (which means 241 b.) on
imports, and only 14s. lid. excise duty for
the same quantity made in the country, it
ought to be possible for Maorilanders to
make a bid for the local trade.


THE FIRST REALLY FINE QUALITY SMALL CAR
Sfc EUSKLAfE SIX
Stud&bakers GNlw Wonder Gar
© Op
m
if
<ii
/IS
X
*
4 Door, 5 passenger, Custom Tourer, .£315
4 Door, 5 passenger, Custom Sedan, .£375
(All Erskine Six models equipped with five Tyres
and Bumpers front and rear.)
THE ERSKINE SIX
SUPERLATIVE PERFORMANCE
of
“ THE NEW WONDER CAR ”
1. Capable of maintaining a
speed of 60 miles per hour.
—GREAT STAMINA
2. Hugs the road at all
speeds. —CORRECT BALANCE
8. Brakes, (new 4-wheel type)
operate easily, smoothly
and unfailingly. —POSITIVE SAFETY
4. Glides over rough roads—
rides like an aeroplane.
—NEW COMFORT
5. 30 and more miles to the
gallon of petrol, 1,200
miles per gallon of oil.
—THRIFTY ECONOMY
5. Accelerates from 5 to 25
miles in 8| seconds—
whips through traffic like
a bullet. —EXTREMELY FLEXIBLE
7. With full load climbs 11
per cent, grade in top gear.
-SUPER-RESERVE POWEF
8. Turns in a radius of 18 ft.
—EASY CONTROL
9. Steers as easily as a bi-
cycle. —A REAL PLEASURE
10. Occupies only 14 feet
of parking space.
—A RARE CONVENIENCE
“THE LITTLE ARISTOCRAT” evokes
both admiration for itself and respect for its
owner.
A complete line of New Studebaker Custom
Models are also now on display at our Show-
rooms. Prices of Studebaker, open cars from
£395 to £685. Prices of Studebaker closed
cars from £455 to £865. STUDEBAKER
BUILDS FINE QUALITY CARS ONLY.
To-day, more than ever before, the knowing
motorists with discriminating tastes, who
want a really fine car and know how much
they should pay for it are making their
selection from the STUDEBAKER-ER-
SKINE line of FINE QUALITY CARS.
There are many small cars.
There are many fine cars.
But there is only one small car that Is
also a really fine car—namely —
The Erskine Six—Studebaker’s New Wonder Car*
“The Little Aristocrat”
The new elegance, the new smartness, the outstanding quality
and downright excellence throughout of the New Erskine Six
have rightly earned for it the title ** THE LITTLE ARIS-
TOCRAT ”
Its dignified elegance, smart appearance and superb comfort
give it an individuality which appeals to men and women
of wealth, good taste and discrimination* For the same reason,
plus low initial cost, thrifty economy and great stamina, it
appeals to all classes of motorists*
New Small Car Standards
Wherever it has been shown, ** The Little Aristocrat ” has
changed the motoring public's ideals of small car standards*
Such quality, elegance, power, speed, safety, comfort, stamina
and economy have never before been combined in any small car.
Make yowr own Tests
See ! Inspect! Take the wheel of the NEW ERSKINE SIX !
Be as critical as you like—be exacting—but be prepared for
surprises* This “ New Wonder Car ” will change your ideals
of small car performance* It looks different, it acts differently,
and it IS different from any small car you have ever seen before.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS i
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd., 165 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.), Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd., 41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd., 76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch.
Local Dealers at all important towns. r\
THE LITTLE ARISTOCRAT OF
MOTOKDOM


Under
Royal
Warrant
è
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsieck
mu
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
*+ o wsm'***
champacnk
Qarleslleidsie(K
Reims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD,
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
:.A
m
■mi
8W1361 for
Reservations.
Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
SITUATED in a portion of old
Sydney, just a few minutes from
the Theatres, Shopping, G.P.0.,
Circular Quay and the Railway.
Attached to the hotel is the
famous Cafe, with its gorgeous
Palm Court, a splendid Dance
Orchestra and a sparkling C;.baret,
afternoon and evening.
Sydney’s Social Rendezvous.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and Dance
Rendezvous in Australasia.
PATRONAGE CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up to 1300.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining and
Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Dining de Luxe, 7.30,
10/6; Suppers, 30.30, 6/6. Value and satis-
faction without equal. No charge for three
hours’ dancing on satin-smooth spring floors —
a new thrill of real delight.
Thurs. and Sat. Late Gala Nights. Continental
Dinner from 7.30, 21/-. Suppers, 10.30. 13/6.
This evening in London costs £2/2/- upwards.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret, afternoons and evenings.
Delightful Afternoon Teas, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Two hours’ entertainment of Sheer Delight. |
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M. 5666,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISTTE
GLOVES
On Sunday morning the Duke and Duchess
arrived at Canberra, with the usual pendant
of politicians, just in time to see the sun-
shine dispel the early morning mists; and
there had been a nip of frost, too. Five
hundred or less local inhabitants turned up
at the station—unhandily placed, as so many
things in Canberra are—and tried to mas-
querade as a vast multitude. A feeble cheer
was raised. Quite obviously the royal party
had been led to expect something quite dif-
ferent from this hungry little convocation;
it might have been the welcome of a remote
bush village. The smile was startled off the
Duchess’s face for a moment. Then, after
a little talk with Prime Minister Bruce—
looking very heavy at this morning hour —
she and the royal party were whisked away
to Yarralumla.
There had been rehearsals of all the prin-
cipal events on the programme, sometimes
with a casual Digger playing the Duke,
sometimes with General Brand in the part.
Everything had been planned for the arrival,
and everything went according to programme
—except that the cheering crowds weren’t
there.
A massed military and naval parade took
place later in the day. One of the jests of
Canberra is that all that you see around you
is merely temporary—something just run
up, in 20-odd years, till there’s time to
acquire the real thing. About the centre of
the parade-ground was the foundation stone
<>i the Parliament House which, if we are
young enough, our grandchildren’s children
may see. But little of the foundation stone
will be left. Souvenir-hunters have made
large onslaughts upon it already. It was a
military-religious event; and Chaplain James
Green was the big man of it. But it did not
appeal to many onlookers. This they had
not “come out for to see.”
The mere taxpaying people who had come
to take pot-luck dropped in all day; some
had camped on the way, and there were
others who preferred not to arrive till Mon-
day : they knew something of the frosty
reputation of the motor reservation. Of the
thousands who found time to kill on Sunday
(in the presence of the invited guests who
occupied the strongposts most of them felt a
good deal like interlopers), it is safe to say
that not half per cent, saw the best sight the
territory lias to offer —the view from Mt.
Ainslie, from which the whole city can be
viewed as on a relief plan.
On Sunday afternoon there was a sort
of general inspection. The treasures of Par-
liament have been put into position to the
last detail; color schemes have been studied;
pink blotters have been torn out because
i hey clashed with the complexion of the blue-
books or something of the sort; and the
eye rested gratefully upon the original of
David Low’s Bulletin drawing of a pro-
digiously excited little Billy Hughes banging
the. table and scattering half the Allied Min-
isters of Europe. The G.-G. of the day
bought it and presented it to the Parliament
of the Commonwealth.
A few, but not very many, Canberra
visitors looked into the housing, etc., of
the workmen who have been employed on
the job. It is well for the peace of mind
of the. Duchess that she was not one of the
few. The camp at Blandfordia, near the
Prime Minister's deplorable imitation of
Chequers—the country residence of the
British Prime Minister —has been pushed
over the hilltop. Here as in the case of
No. 1 camp it is hidden behind Capitol Hill.
Canberra can be a bitterly cold place, especi-
ally by night, and the camps seem to have
been placed where they will catch most wind
—they are at any rate obviously unpro-
tected. The Commission issues the men
six-by-eight tents, for which they have to
pay £2 12s. A good many of the men have
erected breakwinds of old bags, etc.; and
the Commission charges Is. fid. per week
extra for wooden floors. The whole sur-
roundings are incredibly mean and sordid.
There is no proper water or sewerage system
and no lighting system at all in the camps.
In the Redliill camp there are four baths
and four sets of tubs. Indeed, the No. 1
and the Redhill are insanitary horrors, and
the Rivermore is said to be worse, though
this Letter did not investigate it.
One after the other special trains crawled
into “the Territory”—it is always “the
Territory” at Canberra, never “the Capital”
—and in the early morning dropped their
mostly cold and disgruntled passengers. So
enthusiastically had the authorities pro-
claimed the discomforts awaiting uninvited
visitors that one train was said to have left
Sydney with two passengers aboard: and
two others,, for wlich no passengers at all
offered, were shunted out of the way. The
only train that was at all well filled carried
members of the State Parliament, /and,
though they had been warned that in “the
Territory” they would have to shift for them-
selves, they could hardly believe it possible
that they must walk the mile and a bit
from the station to their appointed stand.
But it was a good morning for a walk, and
they trudged with the rest.
Archbishop Riley, of Perth, officiated at
the consecration on Sunday of the site of
the future Anglican Cathedral. This stands
towards Eastlake. Like most things at
Canberra, denominational sites are scattered
round so that each district gets a share.
The R.C. Cathedral site is towards Ainslie,
the Presbyterian, Methodist, Jewish and
others are elsewhere. But all the churches
are only dreams and plans yet—all except
the picturesque old church of St. John’s at
Ainslie, whose steeple towers over the trees
in its churchyard.
MRS. BRUCE, wife of the Prime Minister
of the Commonwealth.
MRS. EARLE PAGE, wife of the
Federal Deputy-Leader.
In spite of blunders in minor matters, the
official inauguration of the National Parlia-
ment proved a well stage-managed event, and
moved with clockwork precision a minute
or so ahead of time. The outdoor proceed-
Tiff ? e ,?! r ,TS go l d , en -
_I „ ti, o frfnfan!- eS T* ° CI owded - Else-
£ If f everywhere below
the estimates, although the last-morning rush
was solid. Special guests were given places
on the entrance piazza, where the dazzling
a “ d
Znomino- ’rdofpf ff fwrT'
/joomin H planes in a fleet of 20 kept the
happy crowd interested, and the movements
mifitarv I Kmow* £ Austr f. li « n na '’.»}>
" V: u d , ‘yyyyT y Bpl T 11 T 1!
.I ol ' Late, i’ it f T dog f
got themselves tangled amongst the legs of
the guard and provided a small comic relief.
G.-G. Stonehaven’s arrival was one of the
spectacular items of the show. After the
ceremonious movements of his attendants, the
comparatively simple arrival of the Duke and
Duchess seemed tame, in spite of booming
guns and stunting ’planes. A stand-bordered
enclosure had been prepared fronting Par-
liament House, and the crowd rose cheering
as the Duke and Duchess made a round
journey, smiling upon the three sides of the
hollow r square.
The Souvenir Key which the Duke and Duchess will take home.
After that the show became mainly load-
speaker as far as the general public was
concerned. One of the promised titbits was
Melba’s singing of the National Anthem,
But the singer was not in the best voice
and the loud-speaker did not improve things.
The Prime Minister’s speech inviting the Duke
to open the door was heavy and uninspired,
weighted with platitudes and lacked an Ans-
tralian character. The Duke’s simple words
were vastly more effective. They were de-
livered in hesitant style but with crystal-
clear enunciation. The religious service was
a model of brevity; the Right Rev. Scott
West prayed for a sound spirit of service in
our legislators, and the Benediction was
sonorously delivered by the shaggy acting-
Primate, Archbishop Riley, who wore a
chaplain’s uniform under his surplice.
In the afternoon the hoarse voices of the
horns of hundreds of motors parked on the
green slopes of Capitol Hill gave the ducal
couple greeting as they approached the re-
view ground—the ground is the area intended
originally to be occupied by a pond, and it
was that intention which gave Eastlake its
name. The noisy demonstration was spon-
taneous enough to earn forgiveness for its
horror; but the operators regarded it as
so satisfactory that thereafter they produced
such sounds as Bedlam never heard at every
opportunity. On his black charger the Duke
did not look altogether happy, but showed
good seamanship, and the horse was guilty
of no misbehavior.
Returned men led off the march. They
moved well, but as they possessed only half
a dozen uniforms between them, and as
more than one dear old grin-bearer had
grown laterally since the uniforms were first
fitted, it wasn’t exactly spectacular. Returned
Diggers are very strong in the Federal area ;
it is said that there have been times when
95 per cent, of the Commission’s employees
could sport badges. Their turn-out on Mon-
day was remarkable, considering how many
Diggers were required to be on other duty.
The regimental colors of A.I.F. units, each
re preserited by a small but sufficient band,
VR a pietm 4 que touch to the proceedings
and t]li * wa „ aid d h th of A
The?e was offiv nebatterv of
but a linTof Svante eonMiont
**© oi; cap“oi &av££rs
forcement of weird war engines. It was not;
wa „ mprp ]v the Commission’s strength of
1 d i JL 5 xers and the like
lined up with labelling for public informa-
«on. The Commission is anxious for the
public to know all about itself, and it was
1 •, a review
'‘ * *
„ The motors began to move for home before
the march-past was finished, for people had
*l° wish to be caught by the cold night in
Canberra or by congestion on the roads
away . from it. Then came an aeroplane
smash, resulting in one fatality, to spoil the
f llll , rd a splendid day. Dangerous stunt-
ia §' had lad previously to what looked like
Cose escapes.
The general absence of bright plumage
amongst the women w T as emphasised at Mon-
day night’s reception to overseas repre-
sentatives, though as far as the men wore
concerned, it scintillated slightly and was cer-
tainly widely representative. Conspicuous in
this crowd was the pleasant-looking lady of
Colonel Creswell, the South African Labor
leader, who is a Minister in the Composite
Government. Canada was represented by
Mr. Lapointe, who speaks with a strong
French accent and puts his views boldly,
Canada, Maoriland and S’Africa brought
words of greeting; India through its repre-
sentative brought gifts as well —a jewelled
scarf, which Air. Bruce blushed furiously at
receiving, and something in a frame for
Speaker Littleton Groom, who was un-
perturbed. Words were not stinted either.
A Sanscrit poem of remarkable length recited
chantiugly was part of the offering. Maybe
it was relief that caused the audience to
outpour more applause at the conclusion of
that item than all the other speakers put
together received.
Perhaps not a dozen of the thousands
who were near it troubled to visit the foun-
dation stone on top of Capitol Hill which
was laid by the Prince of Wales for the
future Parliament House. It was quietly
left out of all the proceedings and out of
all the references to past. events. The site
is magnificent, looking with a clean sweep
even to Mount Ainslie. It will be made
clearer by levelling down a bump immedi-
ately behind the gimcrack Parliament House
which was opened this week. But the stone
will have to be shifted, as the hilltop is being
cut down 15 feet to make a level for the
Parliament’s permanent home.
To prevent Canberra being over-run by
pressmen and to conserve space, Australian
newspapers were grouped, and each group
was requested to select a single representa-
tive for the ceremony in the House and at
the bigger shows. The scheme was more of
a farce than a failure; it set papers at work
determined to beat one another on the trim-
mings of the main show, and this caused them
to send more men than they otherwise would
have done. One newspaper secured a cottage
where its representatives formed a camp.
Harassed officials of the Capital Commission
did their best to find accommodation for the
others and satisfy the insatiable demand for
motors. Tt was not their fault that the
whole of the arrangements, except for the
actual opening and the parades, were full of
bungles.
There was little for the presswomen to do.
Men were tremendously in the majority, and
of the women few seemed to care about
their clothes. The Japanese Consul supplied
the most dazzling uniform within the House.
It was miraculously "•old-laced even to the
trousers. The dress of the other Consuls
and of the Governors and the Judges
gave the impression that man loves _ him-
self best when he is most brightly
plumaged. General Monasli was a mass of
medals relieving his khaki uniform, but he
seemed to have trouble with some of his gear.
Lady Stonehaven, in blue, was the most
striking of the women in the gathering.
The key which the Duke will take to
England in its blackwood casket is not. really
and truly the one which the Priminister
handed to him to unlock the door. That was
but a burnished facsimile of the expensive
gaud. This is a long, slim affair of 15-carat
gold in a recd-and-ribbon design, the head
of it in three layers, the groundwork of
bright gold, surmounted by a slightly smaller
layer of dull gold, topped off by the Aus-
tralian coat-of-arms in the yellowest of gold.
There will be four keys altogether. The one
of burnished silver that really opened the
portals will for the rest of its life reflect
on ils nail in the Hall of Speech; two of
sturdy steel will take up the common round
of working keys. E. A. Henderson, of the
Commonwealth Architect’s Department, is
responsible for the thoroughly artistic design,
and Hardy Brothers for the workmanship.
It was Hardy Brothers, too, who supplied
the silver, china and glass from which the
Duke and his Duchess took their nourish-
ment during their stay at Yarralumla.
The dinner service at Yarralumla is of
white Wedgwood: it is bordered with a
narrow rim of gold, and each piece bears
a gold crown —exactly the same as the
dinner-set used on Sundays by the Duke at
Richmond House. It is the largest set ever
imported to Australia and holds one thou-
sand pieces. The glassware is a reproduction
of the choicest Waterford designs, the water-
jugs fashioned like graceful old cider-jugs
The plate is reproduced Sheffield ; each piece
is frankly stamped “Reproduction.” The
Duchess sipped her Pekoe from Crown Derby
banded with her favorite blue.
The Duke made an informal inspection of
Parliament House on Sunday afternoon, and
this Letter found him standing bare-headed
before the portrait of the King.
There may have been earnest intention
behind the Priminister’s jocular remark that
this would be the only occasion Parliament
would meet at Canberra without having the
opportunity to say that it would rectify its
honest thirst. But the sufferings of male
visitors, one gathers, have not been severe.
The joke among them is that whenever with
the feelings of the Good Samaritan one asks
another to his bedroom, it is only to discover
that he was on the point of inviting the Good
Samaritan to his bedroom. But a few days
of this soon told on the supplies, which may
have been the reason why nobody seemed to
want to stay at Dryberra after Monday
night.
Cavan is the autocrat of the Royal tour.
We are accustomed to the rehearsal of the
supers, for these big events; it comes rather
(Continued on page 1/7.)


JJARDY LTJi
9
p
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Specialising in Engagement Rings, Hardy Brothers
offer values that are not excelled in Australia.
Each ring is made in the Company’s own workshops,
under the supervision of their experts, and is hand-
forged for added strength. None but high-quality
gems are featured in Hardy’s Rings, and the settings
all display that delicacy of workmanship and
finish that is associated with the Company’s
exclusive jewellery.
Selections of Rings will be sent to any address on
approval, with finger-size card, at Hardy Brothers’
risk and expense.
Hardy Brothers’ New Catalogue will he sent post free on request.
Five per cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
HAUDY
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE
BROTHERS LTD.
S&T/ouse oP &clusivc Z/eweUay
JI6-JIB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET,
And at LONDON.
SYDNEY.
'
jrry
Audels
iftSOMS
BUILDERS
@ IDE :
Audels
Masons
__ AND :?
Builders
Guide
2
s
Audels!
Masons!
_ *ANP
Builders
Guide
3
* w-
\
ggICK
:^ORK
,sr(ck:
j
' QNOfNG
SIGNSJ
c BRICK
FOUNDATIONS
ARCHES
.tile %i
setting ■
Estimating
CONCRETE
mixing
placing
w IQRMS ■
RE'NFOHCEIf
STUCCO
p Hh /
A
«>
PRICE
301-
POST FREE
the
Complete Set
of
FOUR
VOLUMES
AUDEL’S MASONS U BUILDERS’ GUIDE
Give information in handy form, easy to use, showing
2067 illustrations, plans and working methods of the
best, approved outlines of work and materials, including
instructions how to lay out and figure various jobs—
-1100 pages of inside practical information which will
increase your range of knowledge.
THEY TELL Y OU
How to mix concrete.
How to operate the mixers.
How to place concrete.
How to make concrete forms.
How concrete is reinforced.
How to build stucco.
How to build with concrete
blocks and tile.
How concrete is made water-
proof.
How to estimate.
How to figure brickwork.
How to handle hollow tile.
How to set tile.
How to read blue prints.
How to lay out foundations.
How to plaster.
Howto do stone-masonry work.
How to use structural steel.
How to distinguish clays.
How bricks are made.
How to fix mortar.
How to use bricklayer’s tools.
How to handle the materials.
How to lay brick.
How bricks are bonded.
How thick brick walls should be.
How to brick around openings.
How to lay out arches.
How to place anchors.
How to build foundations.
How to brick up boiler settings.
How to build chimneys.
How to do ornamental brick-
work.
How to repair old brickwork.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
Your Health!
Guinness’s Stout
The World Over
1759-1927
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


A. SAUNDERS’
FIRST QUALITY DIAMONDS.
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold King,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Half-hoop Bracelet
set Platinum, 15ct. Gold, £45.
v:.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, set
Platinum 18ct.
Gold Ring, £4O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Bow Necklet,
set Platinum, 18ct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ Three-Diamonds, Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
Larger Diamonds, £2O.
irggaoim
w 12 /
S. O> •*<=:.
t* m
>6 &
55
A. Saunders’ Diamond-set, 18et. White Gold
Jewelled Lever Wrist Watch, Silk Wrist-
band, £27/10/-. GUARANTEED.
A. Saunders' Dia-
mond Necklet, set
Platinum, 1 Set.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £75.
IlSipSI
A. Saunders’
Four-Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond-set, 15ct. Gold, Plati-
mum Settings, 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl-set Initial Wrist-band,
Silk Strap, 25/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
ALL SENT PER REG. POST, FREE.
WRITE FOR GIFT BOOK.
A. Saunders’
Two-Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £5O.
A. Saunders’
Three-Diamonds,
Hexagon-shaped,
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
WINTER TOURS
ARRANGED BY
THOS. COOK & SON
Railway, Steamship and Tourist Agents,
PASSAGES BOOKED BY ALL LINES.
Monthly Sailing List—Post Free.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Issued in Sterling and Dollars.
PASSENGERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
ESCORTED INCLUSIVE TOURS
TO
JAVA
SIAM
MALAYA
JAPAN
Departures in June, July and August.
INDEPENDENT INCLUSIVE TOURS
HONOLULU - - CALIFORNIA
BRITISH COLUMBIA
SOUTH AFRICA and CEYLON.
Special Departures June, July, August, October.
CRUISES TO SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
TOURS TO NORTH QUEENSLAND.
WINTER SPORTS
MT. BUFFALO (Vic.), MT. COOK (N.Z.)
FULL DETAILS IN
WINTER TOURS PROGRAMME
POST FREE FROM—
THOS. COOK & SON
MELBOURNE:
239 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place
(Opp. G.P.0.)
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street*
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.O.)*
r> r ■
/■"N
j\|
DAY LACQUER CLOCK
SIZE - ifx 6'
n
£> I O
Handsome 'LOUiS'XV-
B U M L_
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Beaufi fully Inlaid
and Mounted
hefjrhf- W 4
Fan cy Intai d
BUiiL
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Gilr* mount's. Strikes I+ie
half-hours & hours on 5005
12"
2 1
WM-DRUMMOND 6 CO.
J EWELLERS-SILVERSMITHS- CLOCKMAKERS
344*346 COLLINS STREET "MELB OUFUiEr'.
in
IN all the range of man’s inven-
tions and achievements how few
things there are to approach the
perfection of an ELGIN.
It is perfect in utility—reliable and
durable.
It is perfect in beauty —its artistry
of design, form, and ornamentation
fully harmonises with its aspects of
utility.
ELGIN is in all truth THE
WATCH-WORD FOR ELEGANCE
AND EFFICIENCY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THIS TRADE MARK
IN THE WATCH CASE


e
è
é
You positively COULDN’T get a more centrally-situated hotel—a stone’s
from everywhere—railway stations, steamship wharves, offices, theatres, etc.
“Scott’s’’ has always kept abreast of the times, supplying everything you
expect of the best hotel of its kind in the State. All
throw
And
would
bedrooms equipped with hot and cold water and direct
exchange and inter-communicating telephones.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams; “Scott’s,” Melbourne. ’Phone, Cent. 9012
S.-25.
iwtti
MELBOURNE
m
ysffFfran
p t:
m
M)
u
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
tr
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
as a surprise to hear that the principals are
rehearsed too. The Duke, it is said, de-
murred at some suggestion that he should
practise his part. Cavan respectfully but
very firmly insisted. The Duchess has to
bow, too. She was dancing—her enjoyment
therein is joyously natural- —when a new
move was due. She danced on. "Look."
whispered one lady onlooker —“I believe if
the Duchess does not go at once Cavan will
smack her!”
One of the best features of the arrange-
ments for the opening ceremony—arrange-
ments in which Red Tape had the time of
its disreputable life—was the prominence
given to the widows of men who have earned
the nation’s gratitude. Here the widows
of Alfred Deakin and George Reid and
Edmund Barton met; and Austin Chapman’s
widow was another upon whom the lime-
light streamed, for Canberra was for years
his special charge. Another, less disturbed
by the eyes of a crowd, was the wife of
Fred Holder, first Speaker; she is a lady
with a great deal of platform experience
herself.
Mrs. Deakin, who had a place of honor at
the opening, apparently maintains those
democratic principles which caused her hus-
band to refuse all gauds. A multitude of
ladies by right of their husbands’ knight-
hood were present; but when someone greeted
the wife of the great Alfred as “Lady
Drakin” he was gently corrected. “Mrs.
Deakin,” said the loyal lady.
The face of Henry Parkes looks into
King’s Hall over a partition where the
inquiry office is to be. “Ah,” gushed one
lady visitor, “there’s a painting of the dear
poet Longfellow!”
There were some brave souls amongst
those who made the trip. Mr. and Mrs.
Moorehead had travelled from Elsternwick,
Melbourne, in a light touring car, doing this
slowly and camping in a tent by the way.
The pair are old enough to have three great-
grandchildren and have been married 51
years. Another old couple were Mr. and Mrs.
Molyneux, who with some members of their
family came from Geelong in an old motor-
’bus in which bunks had been fixed. A grand-
son 12 years old was one of the party. The
two old couples were amongst the outdoor
campers. So was Pat Hayes, 82 years old,
who had “waltzed Matilda” from Boonah
(Q.) to be present.
As you might expect, not all the prepara-
tions ran quite smoothly. Dame Nellie and
the band that was to attend the real open-
ing couldn't see things quite note to note,
and deeply-interested listeners-in expected
every minute to hear the Dame tell the
band her candid opinion of it.
One determined lady created some amuse-
ment. Her husband was one of those whose
importance was recognised to the extent of a
single invitation. When lie arrived it was to
find his room occupied by his wife. She had
hurried to Canberra by motor, and by in-
ducing some officials to believe that “Mr.”
on the guest-list was a mistake for “Mrs.”
had taken possession. And there she stayed.
Residents may have enjoyed the big show,
but they had to pay for it in inconvenience.
Practically every facility was seized by the
Commission for the use of guests. It even
took possession of motor-’buses, and it’s a
long walk from one part of Canberra to
another. A few private owners who cared
to do it profiteered heavily. Residents of
the hostels were put out of their homes to
make room for guests, and uiany visitors nor
on official lists had to camp coldly in the
open.
The trees stuck without roots into the
ground to improve the city’s appearance for
the big event are one of Canberra's jokes.
The Commission had the bad luck to strike
nights of frost and hot days; these played
havoc with the bogus avenues as they did
with the real flowers, which up to a week
before looked likely to make the garden
places lovely. But some remarkable work was
done in the rush of preparations. Beauchamp
House, for instance, was full of plumbers and
painters on Friday when the cloud of press-
men arrived. It locks now like an old-
established hostelry.
Not all the brass-hats were at the opening.
Round the fire in the mess-room in Victoria
Barracks on Monday morning a group of
R.A.G.A. officers and their wives—with a
daughter or two —heard the Canberra oratory
and the cheers. H.R.H. made the best wire-
less speaker, with Prime Minister Bruce next
best, and Melba an indifferent third. In the
circle of listeners were General Bruche and
his lady. Artilleryman Cox-Taylor and his
wife, Colonel and Mrs. Alderman, Mrs. Leslie
Wilson, Colonel Jackson and his bright-eyed
lady and Flight-Commander Wackett.
Fleurette King, the pretty (and only)
daughter of Maitland’s best-known medico,
is unite satisfied with father’s profession,
and has consented to presently take a pride
in the brass-plate of Dr. Douglas Stewart:,
resident super, of Newcastle Hospital.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
There were sounds of revelry by night at
Port Melbourne when the captain and officers
of the Renown held a jazz on board, inviting
some of our Very Best People. Decks Were
well closed against the wintry air, and a
clock-like arrangement with a buzzer
announced the number of each dance. Chinese
lanterns and huge chrysanthemums struck
a festive note and the strains of the ship’s
jazz-band were amplified by microphones.
After 10 o’clock the Anthem proclaimed the
arrival of his Ex. and Lady Somers, who
very soon took the deck in a one-step. The
Irvine lady had embellishment of onyx and
diamente upon a black gown. Mrs. Ernest
Turnbull was in sylpli-like drapery of moss-
green georgette. Mrs. Geoffrey Haggard fav-
ored a glitter of silver sequins and tissue.
June Baillieu’s skirts were a froth of pink-
tipped tulle flounces issuing from a sheath
of silver tissue. Mrs. Otway Falkiner was
regal in black. Pat Clarke wore white,
skirted with a deep fringe, and a wide band
of black satin amidships. Commander Ire-
land’s dark-haired life-partner was a har-
mony of dull gold lace, and Mrs. Simon
Fraser featured a similar effect.
Stonington has staged the first servants’
ball given at the vice-regal residence. Gilt-
lettered invitations were issued in the names
of his Ex. and Lady Somers, but it was
the butler and the housekeeper who received
the guests in the hall. The electric light
failed as the first contingent arrived, and a
candle here and there was the only illumina-
tion for a quarter of an hour. The drawing-
room and its glowing hearth made a com-
fortable refuge till the lights went on. About
250 were bidden to the dance, which was
held in the big marquee used for balls in
honor of the royal visit. Besides personal
friends the household staff invited men from
the Renown and Australian warships. The
Governor led off with the housekeeper, while
Lady Somers tripped it with the butler,
who is one of the best dancers seen here
this season. Colonel and Mrs. Davidson
and Aide Malcolm joined in until it was
time to leave for the dance on the Renown.
Lady Somers wore a simule gown of wine-
hued georgette with a floating panel or two,
and no jewels. Mrs. Davidson had a spark-
ling of crystal upon a black gown.
Twelve officers from the Renown were
special guests at the Tennis Association’s
dance, held in Kooyong Club House. Vera
de Bavay and Gwen Bedggood were respon
sible for the floral setting, using giant chry-
santhemums iu cyclamen pink hues and maple
autumn foliage. The entrance to the ball-
room was arched with blossoms and twinkling
roseate lights, and the supper-tables were
brightened with groupings of varicolored
blooms. Mrs. Norman Brookes was there,
frocked in blue with twinkling sequins, and
the Gerald Patterson couple and Captain ana
Mrs. Bracegirdle were also sighted. Mrs.
Bill Macaw, just back from Colombo, was
a dancer in raiment that sparkled in tones
of mauve and heliotrope.
Geelong had its crowded hour of glorious
life on Saturday morning, when the Yorks
arrived and were put through their paces.
Everything went exactly according to
schedule, and the 60-odd minutes wen
filled with happenings. The royal visit coin
cidecl with the Ilead-of-the-River race on
the Barwon and with the first big football
match of the season at Geelong. The popula-
tion was swollen for the occasion, there-
fore, by thousands of football barrackers and
hordes of supporters of school crews.
Arrived at the flagged and garlanded Town
Hall, addresses were read, and then coffined
in polished blackwood cases. Other cases
of the kind were houses for various gifts—
a gold correspondence-clip for the Duke, a
boomerang for the Duchess, and a doll for
Baby Elizabeth. The local notabilities
having shaken the Duke’s hand, the pro-
cession of motor-cars moved on to Johnstone
Park, where limbless soldiers waited, each
receiving a friendly word from the Yorks.
There was a guard of honor that represented
every sort of soldier and the boy and girl
scouts, and 6000 school kids were drawn up
in mass formation. Four small girls in pale
green Dolly Varden frocks strewed the royal
path with rose leaves and another kiddy
Passed over a bouquet. Then there was a
quick retreat to the cars again, and a sprint,
through streets lined with beaming faces, to
the railway station and a waved farewell.
The splendid weather of Friday and Satur-
day ensured the boatrace on the Barwon a
huge crowd of spectators. Geelong never
before held such a multitude. Many found
beds unobtainable and restaurants could not
feed all the hungry. Every good possie on
the riverside during the racing was crowded
with an excited throng. Songs warbled
through megaphones added to the babel
between the races. Scotch won, and in a
borrowed boat at that. It was a popular
win, for the crew had a bad set-back when fire
destroyed their craft a month or so ago.
The race could be watched comfortably, since
the Barwon course is almost straight. Fortu-
nately there was little wind to stir the dust
—Geelong is calling for rain—and everything
went happily. No craft of any kind save
those actually racing was allowed on the
water, and there were no mishaps. The
racing over, the evacuation of Geelong didn’t
take long. As early as four o’clock there
seemed to be an unbroken line of cars on the
homeward journey.
On the eve of the great race there was an
enjoyable ball at St. Mary’s Hall, for which
Mrs. T. S. Barnfather and a few others did
the decorations. A latticed canopy was
made up of crews’ colors, and each of the
six windows was devoted to a competing
eight’s hues. The stage was set to represent
the scene of next day’s great encounter, and
a miniature Barwon meandered through
a garden of hollyhocks. Mrs. Barnfather was
clad in black and gold brocade, and her
sister, Miss Beatty, wore a frock of autumn-
leaf tones. Gertrude, the Shepherd Grim-
wade’s daughter, was in rose pink taffeta,
and Gwen Carnegie, of Melbourne, who is to
wed Eric Grimwade, had black and steel
adornment upon amber georgette. The
Mayor and Mayoress of Geelong, Mrs. New-
ton Lees, Sheila Meyser of Hamilton, and
the R. Brisbane couple of Gourie Park, were
patrons.
The same night the Wesley Dramatic
Society played “Facing the Music” at His
Majesty’s (Geelong). The theatre, which
was gaily decorated, was crowded. Mayor
and Mayoress Solomon gave the performers
supper.
During the interval at the “Rose Marie”
show at His Majesty’s on Saturday night
the film of the afternoon’s boatrace was
shown, and Geelong and Melbourne Gram-
mar supporters spurred on their crews again
with instructions and cheers. The theatre-
was as pretty as banks of chrysanthemums,
garlands, red, white and blue draperies, and
colored lights could make it. The Horace Wim-
poles and their children, the Walter Moore
couple and two bairns, Mrs. Carty Salmon
and one of her sons, Mrs. Peter Lynch (who
had some small boys in her box) and Mrs.
Davies and Mrs. Dorothy Campbell, from
Tasmania, were there.
At the Theatre Royal the purple-and-gold
of Wesley College were displayed in honor
of the defeated eight, who were in the
audience.
Lafayette here pictures Mary Struthers
Masson, wife of David Orme Masson, the
knight of chemical fame. She interests her-
self in social
service an d
takes the chair
at meetings of
the Victoria
League. Tli e
Women’s In-
stitutes of the
1 .(‘ague a r e
li e r especial
care, and she
gives much of
her time to the
New Settlers’
League, of
which she is
president. A t
present, too, a
club for girls
from overseas
is occupying
her attention,
an d weekly
g a t h eri ngs
have been ar-
ranged in conjunction with the Y.W.C.A.
She was a valiant war-worker, and a C.B.E.
came her way.
The Athenaeum housed the Scotch College
crew on Saturday night. “The Unfair Sex”
was hardly the comedy for such an occasion,
but the actors, who sported the blue, gold and
red of the successful crew, did their best to
introduce references to the victors and their
victory, and the audience also took a hand.
There were flowers for all performers, Zillah
Bateman receiving a gilded skiff filled with
blossoms in the colors of Scotch. Amid a
tangle of streamers, the Robinson knight,
who is president of the Old Scotch Collegians,
went aboard the stage and thanked the man-
agement. Zillah Bateman had a few words to
say, and the crew were bidden upon the stage
to be decorated with buttonholes from the
stage-ladies’ bouquets. The fun began with
the singing of college songs before the curtain
arose, the students having possession of the
gallery. The heroes of the day arriving after
the performance began, the play had to be
held up while they were fittingly greeted,
but no one worried. Arthur Robinson had
dined the lads at Menzies’ and he sat with
them in the centre of the d.c. His lady,
who wore a pale mauve cloak over a
black robe, was in one of the boxes with her
daughter Nan, son Alan, and Darrel Best.
The two young men brought along the college
flag with them and draped the box, this
being the only decoration of the theatre.
The State Governor and his lady, with
Viscount Dunwich, had the centre of the d.c.
at Paderewski s first concert at the Audi-
torium. The night was chilly, and the King
of the Piano had to sit on the bleak plat-
form for several minutes, after playing.the
National Anthem, waiting for the late-comers
to get settled. The etiquette of entertaining
vice-royalty must have occasioned him a good
deal of inconvenience, but his playing didn’t
suffer, though he must have started with cold
hands. Offerings of laurel leaves in various
forms, tied ’ with the Polish colors, were
handed up at the end of the evening. One
tribute, twined with an Australian flag, bore
the words “True Patriot.” The Mayoress
and daughter Sheila, the Miller lady. Mrs.
Albert Miller, the Arthur Hordern couple,
Dr. J. Ross Soden and his life partner, Fritz
Hart and son Basil, and the Mansley Greers
were amongst those whose applause brought
forth six encore numbers.
One of the most brilliant of the graduates
who received their sheepskins at Melbourne
Uni. the other
day is here
pictu r e d by
Broothorn. She
is Sophie Bor-
land. second
daughter of the
minister o f
Scots’ Church
at South Yarra.
A former stu-
dent of Toorak
College, sh e
took her final
degree at the
Uni. with
honors, win-
ning the
Dwiglit Prize
for English,
and the Wyse-
laskie scholar-
ship for mod-
ern languages.
She got her
blue for hockey, too. Her interest in the
Students’ Christian Movement has caused her
to be chosen as a delegate of the Australian
Unis, to the Pacific Conference of the move-
ment which was to have been held in Pekin
in June. But Pekin won’t be a nice place
for Christian students in June.
A matinee at the Athenaeum increased the
funds of the Red Cross Auxiliary of St.
Vincent’s Hospital. The “House Full” sign
was out early, and sales and auctions helped.
The second act of “The Ghost Train” was
put on by the E. J. Carroll co. Muriel Starr,
in ensemble array of black evening gown and
cape, with dazzling embroideries, was star
of “The Bridal Suite,” a short comedy in
which Pressy Preston was a dashing maid.
Betty Ross Clarke and Joan Bailey were
leading ladies in other light pieces, and Amy
and Irene Castles sang operatic excerpts.
Lady Somers gave the v.-r. stamp to the
gathering, and stayed till the end. Mrs.
Merson Cooper Was president of the organis-
ing committee.
A bride who found time to get married in
a gay week was Margery, younger daughter
of Mrs. M. G. Lewin, of St. Kilda. Frank,
eldest son of the F. N. Vincents of Caulfield,
was her chosen partner for the venture, which
was inaugurated at All Saints’, East St.
Kilda. A mist of ivory georgette and taffetas
formed the bridal gown, trained and draped
with a Limerick-lace veil. Sister Jo Lewin
attended her, in a saffron-tinted gown of
taffetas. Mrs. Lewin, in black lace and
georgette, received at No. 9.
Ellis Price, who was a Repertory player in
Adelaide and later in Newcastle, has a small
part in "The Green Hat.” lie's a link with
the star lady’s first glimpse of the footlights,,
since it was in an amateur production of
a sketch written by him, “The Latest Step,”
a recruiting effort, that Judith Anderson
faced her first audience.
Florence Russell’s marriage to J. T. Drake
came off within coo-ee of the heme acreage
at Barunah Plains, the linking being done t
the Presbyterian Church, Shelford. The
bride’s white veil of tulle cascaded over a
gown of silver lame that had a glimmer of
pink. Her two ’maids, Florence Cox and
Claire Salmon, wore frocks that suggested a
summer sunset with a gleam of blue sky—
pink with gold lace and a bit of blue drapery.
Guests from all parts of the State made
merry at Barunah afterwards.
The Harrison-Moores are thinking about
suitcases. On May 19 they are to board the
Tahiti at Sydney and steam off towards the
Islands. F. W. Eggleston, who has been
selected ns Australian representative, at the
Pan-Pacific Conference at Honolulu since his
Parliamentary defeat, will go too.


An open letter to
REPUBLIC OWNERS
PICS Cht and Piospcctiv&\
m
m
*o©
et . «£V®‘
,tocos' l
ifO^
a.* 6 :;* rv
-V
V O® 3 *
ffc®* Cl©
oj A'" e ’^
O')-
< s>3‘ <£** S« 68 ;*>
f??.e ..^t 8 ® ** „S 3^
a ®
O* * v. \> 8
v 6®^V
.**» ** o«
»® t^^-
at V v/ 0
tor -
«©®- A* V® if
<r *?#**»
*•?>» :> *
o')-
° 6 >r 0 * •*?. v
B *V’v*' B
©.-ss■
€t
o©
A
°^ aX \vs
">■
n©
et^*
r.t^ 9
*%««
V>
,«/
o O< T feV»*
8^^ e '
&•
$e
©*
©o£
>3©
e?o 0
<ofr
ISSS-
A^ a 0
Jfc©
W>r
»®’
AV«'
A® 8 '
(OS®
tor
\>©
vf
*<*
ioS
o®®-
v»*-
Republic has
more trucks in
use than any
other exclusive
truck manufac-
turer, and there’s
a model for every
haulage need
from I—s tons.
Your local agent
will be pleased to
demonstrate Re-
public at any
time to suit you.
e
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Cor. Elizabeth and Therry Sts., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Panada Cycle & Motor Agency (QTd),
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:
Ino-lis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets. Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Oastlereagh Street, SYDNEY, N.MN


The Aristocrat of Musical
Instruments
m DUOPHONE
DOUBLE
Tone Arm.
è
SINGLE Needle.
DOUBLE
Reproducer.
FAITHFUL REPRODUCTION ABSOLUTELY GUARANTEED
Table Models and Cabinets suitable
for any Home at reasonable prices.
COUNTRY AGENTS PLEASE COMMUNICATE WITH US.
Terms or Cash
For Illustrated Catalog, Terms List, etc., write to
GLORIA LIGHT CO.,
DUOPHONE DEPARTMENT,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 10006.
TRADE MARK
US FINE AS FINE CHINA CAN BE .
\3^>
iiStf
m
m
mm
XM
mk>
cclcli,
/
mc^
There is one Wedding Present that will be welcomed and prized
for many a year. It is a Shelley Tea Set—made by master crafts-
men who have worked with their brains as well as their hands
to produce this,, the finest and most exquisite of all Shelley
Fine China.
The pattern illustrated is one of many; most Pottery and
Glass Stores will be glad to show you this fine china. In the
meantime may we post you a folder which shows a selection
of these Shelley Tea Sets in their true colors?
Obtainable from all high-class stores and Pottery
dealers. If any difficulty, icrite for name of nearest
stockist to our Wholesale Representatives,
T.W HEATH & CO.
limited
232 , Clarence St, Sydney & Commerce 'House, C'Melbourne, »
CHINA
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
For the first time Eight-hours Day passed
without a procession, but the weather took
no notice of the omission, for it was glori-
ously cloudless and warm. In the afternoon
the second meeting of the Q.T.C. s autumn
programme took place at Ascot, and though
it was really too mild for winter trockiug
some coat dresses in winter materials were
worn, Mrs. A. A. Baynes being in fawn wool
repp, Mrs. R. ,1. McNab in black Italian
cloth bound with petunia, and Mrs.
Austin Lennon in a red wool jersey. Mrs.
A. H. Whittingham. who was one ot the
hostesses on the committee-room verandah,
was in biscuit mariette, and Mrs. H. (!.
Mustard, who was with her, wore peacock-
blue and black.
The Queensland women grads, had their
annual dinner at the Bellevue, _ when Freda
Bage, Jean White-Haney and Frances Craig
gave travel-talks. Gold chrysanthemums en-
twined with
r o y a 1-blue
tulle were the
decorations.
Phyllis
Brown, who
was married
the other
day to Fred
Derrick, i s
on* 1 of th e
a c knowledged
young beauties
of the North;
and the Re-
gent Studios
have pictured
her fo r us.
Fred is the son
of a metallur-
gist, and he
belongs to an
old Victorian
pedagogic
family.
The iCommem. dance was held in the Uni.
main hall. Pale mauve and pink streamers
with palms and foliage dressed the ballroom
handsomely, and roses and gerberas decked
the tables. In the afternoon the degrees
were conferred in the Exhibition, when
black and scarlet, the gownings of students
and members of the Senate respectively, made
a picturesque background. Chief Justice
Blair, the William Lennons, several of the
Judges, and a profusion of professors were
present. In the morning the time-honored
procession was held.
It is not only those astute Sydney men
who pick up artistic trifles for a few pounds
and discover they are worth thousands. The
other day in a Brisbane art shop a discrim-
inating squatter bought an urn, a beautiful
example of early French art, for £5O. He
has since refused 30 times that amount
for his bargain.
Australia’s oldest active bowler lives in
Brisbane. He reached his 89th milestone the
other day, beating another young chap at bowls
on the occasion, “Pa” Taylor is a feature
of our landscape. Erect and ruddy, lie jazzes
still, and spends a lot of time outdoors de-
fying our wretched northern climate.
Members of the Q.T.C. gave a lunch to
A. H. Whittingham as a welcome on his
return from the Cold Country. His racing
colors, blue and gold, were used in the decora-
tions. Many a kind act has been done by A. H.
Whittingham, who has the charitable trick of
not letting his left hand into the confidence
of his right. Indifferent health has followed
him for some time.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Duke and his Dresden-china Duchess
have come and gone, bearing with them
royal weather —-rain o’ nights to wash us
clean of the summer dust, and by day flood-
ing sunshine with drifting clouds to drop
purple shadows on the hills. For the whole
five days of the royal visit the entire popu-
lace seemed to pour itself into the streets.
But it was an orderly crowd. Only once, on
the day of the children’s demonstration at
the Oval, did it burst the barriers. . One
other awkward moment was when the
Duchess’s train was trodden on at the
Mayor’s ball, with the snapping of a chain
and the temporary loss of a jewel.
Social functions were cut to a minimum
—a garden-party and a very small dance at
Government House, a private and an official
dinner, and a Mayoral ball. For the ball
the Bruces made a garden of the bleak
desolation of the Exhibition Building, turn-
ing the gallery pillars into fern-twined tree-
trunks and setting hollyhocks to nod their
heads over grey canvas walls. On the stage
were sloping lawns, balustrades and flower-
filled urns, all complete, with a flight of
steps up the centre and a fountain. The
dais was near the stage and there the Bruces
said their how-de-do’s —she all silver with
a hint of blue; two daughters, one blue-clad,
the other silver and white, were her lieuten-
ants. The Duchess, aglitter with sequins
and crystal fringe, with a panel train of
green and silver tissue, had for her first
partner Alderman Moulden, who wore the
mayoral chain when Edward P. was here.
Lady Bridges was in jetted black and her
daughter in blue and silver, and there was
silver on Mrs. Gilmour’s Alice-blue georgette.
The citizens’ ball next night drew no roy-
alty. A quiet evening at Government House
was sandwiched between a busy day and an
early start for Wellington Lodge.
For the Government House garden-party
the Duchess slipped a coat of steel tissue
over her pink frock, topped it with a pink
hat, and wore grey fur at her neck and
wrists. It was an informal affair, and there
were few presentations.
At the races the Duchess was again grey-
clad —velvet with fur, and a hat of cyclamen
pink. Lady Cavan topped a tailored tweed
with a green hat, and Mrs. Gilmour’s straight-
cut coat was of petunia hue. The \Y. B.
Carrs were in the Royal box. she all in
black, with a high-crowned hat, and took
the Yorks on a tour of stands and paddock
before tlm Cup. The crowd was big, but
there wasn't much scrumming. Wc feel
we've really rather nice manners.
In all the rush there has been time for a
private engagement or two; a motor tour of
the hills for visiting pressmen, with tea at
the Boynthon home at the top of the mount.
The Lavington Bonythons sponsored a dance
at the Masonic Hall as a final flutter before
the royal visit began. The occasion was the
debut of second daughter Ada and of live
other debutantes, among them the George
Gunsons’ daughter and the Herbert Tolmers’
chick.
TASMANIA.
1 lobart.
The nicest thing that has been said to
us for a long time came from Frank Hut-
chens, who at a lecture-recital advanced the
theory that it is the brooding heights of Mt.
'Wellington and the beauty of our scenery
that give llobartians “their quiet mind and
pleasant manner” —so much prettier than
the usual gibe.
The Hobart laity have been feeling like
lions in a den of Daniels lately, owing to
the irruption of hordes of Anglican dog-
collars for Synod. There was a “rally” in
the City Hall, where, the digestion of a
feast was assisted by some community sing-
ing.
Bishop Hay went to the annual meeting
of the District Nurses’ Association the other
day and said kind words about women’s
work. Mrs. Robert Hall, the president, was
granted a year’s leave of absence, as she
is in Europe, where she will represent the
Child Welfare Association at Geneva.
Mrs. Tommy Murdoch, Mrs. Waterworth
and Mrs. Lyndhurst Siblin, all hard workers
for civic and philanthropic causes, are to
attend the Sydney conference in connection
with the Federation of Women’s Societies
for Equal Citizenship. They will represent
the Women’s Non-party League.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady were at
the Anzac Ball in the City Hall. A very
fair crowd turned up to dance under the
rays of an electric rising sun, left over
from the ducal week. The hop was a benefit
affair for the returned soldiers’ relief fund.
The wedding of Eleanor Andrewartha and
Walter Senior took place at St. Mark’s,
Bellerive, the bride wearing a Paris frock
of white georgette beaded in crystal, and
veil of Limerick lace lined with pink tulle.
The ’maids wore frocks of taffetas and georg-
ette in Duchess-pink, the skirts finished
with large taffeta roses, and their quaint
caps of tulle were bordered with pink rose-
buds and silver leaves.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Tongues are wagging and purses opening
for the Visit. There’s to be a garden party
and a State reception and ball, and the Naval
and Military ajnd Karrakattai clubs are
engineering dances. Everyone is asking
where will They go for the week-end. Since
the cancellation of the Peel Estate jaunt, tw<>
whole days are free.
The Girl Guides’ committee, headed by
Mrs. Maynard, Mrs. Jack Durack, Mrs.
Arthur Gibson and Nell Stewart, sprinkled
the Piccadilly ballroom with bridge tables
and invited a host of well-wishers to sit
round them. Her Ex., the Guides’ Chief
Commissioner, wearing graceful black lace,
came to play and present the prizes.
The Kindergarten continues its appeal.
Enticing stalls and merry workers did a
brisk trade at the fete in the college
grounds. Lady Campion and Mrs. A. E.
Joyner came to speak nicely and buy a few
knick-knacks. There were games for the
little ones, folk-dancing on the lawn, and
tea served in a large marquee. Bridge in
the evening brought the day’s harvest up
to £lOO.
Mrs. Ernest Chenery, who as Kathleen
Butcher was a favored dancing partner of
Edward P.. is not waiting to meet brother
Albert. She and her baby daughter have
journeyed north to their station home on
Dirk Hartog Island. Mrs. John Chenery
and daughter Pip accompanied them.
Graceful Irene Heron, who is a daughter
of the Wittenoom knight, and was well
known here as an exponent of eurhythmies, is
introducing her husband to Perth and the
new Wittenoom lady. The good-looking
couple leave this mouth for Sydney and
America, and plan to return to their Singa-
pore home in January.
This is Dr. John Dale, who this month
exchanges his job cf Chief Medical Officer
and Inspector of Hospitals for Westralia
to become
Medical Officer
for the City of
Melbourne. An
Englishman
born, he be-
longed to the
Terriers, and
at the declara-
tion of war,
though mar-
ried bu t a
fortnight, en-
listed and car-
ried on till the
Armistice. The
French gave
him the Croix
de Guerre and
Med a i lie d’
Honneur des
Epidemies, and
the British
handed him an
0.8. E. It was
at the suggestion of his Australian wife that
he migrated to this country, where he has
done great things with baby clinics. He
believes men could dress more sensibly than
they do, and has campaigned on that behalf.


Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 “SUNNY” 5/6
(By arrangement with Chas. Dillingham, N.Y.)
PLAYING TO CAPACITY NIGHTLY.
“SUNNY” commences at 7.45 sharp. Orchestral
items from 7.30.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson's
Baling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton, Samuel’s.
Matinfes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WIT.T.T AMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: TIP TOES.
CRITERION:
THE CRADLE SNATCHERS.
ROYAL: FRASQUITA.
PALACE: SIX-CYLINDER LOVE.
CULLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
STIFFY AND MO.
QRAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Prop.: Geo. Marlow. Direction William Russell.
FRANK NEIL’S COMEDIANS
in
GETTING GERTIE’S GARTER.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
yy IR T H BROS. LIMITED.
Governing Directors: Messrs. Philip & George Wirth.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS YEAR’S ALL NEW PROGRAMME
Bewilders the Audience with its THRILLS,
VARIETY and NOVELTY ACTS that stagger the
Imagination.
HIPPODROME, Haymarket, Sydney,
at 8 p.m.
Farewell Matinee Saturday.
,1 C. WILLIAMSO N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: ROSE MARIE.
KING’S THEATRE: THE GREEN HAT.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE RINGER.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, at the Matinee.
The Eminent Actress MURIEL STARR in Dodson
Mitchell’s Great Drama in Four Acts, entitled
CORNERED.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL Presents,
By Arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
The Delightfully Funny Three-act Comedy,
THE UNFAIR SEX.
Plans at Allan’s.
(VIEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Twice Daily, 2.30 and 8.
GEORGE WARD REVUE CO.
Popular Prices. Plan Cen. 3251.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
DOLORES COSTELLO,
Whose meteoric rise to stardom counts amongst the
wonders of the screen, will be seen in
THE LITTLE IRISH GIRL
A mystery comedy; produced by Warner Brothers.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
1 MELBOURNE.
THE WHITE BLACK SHEEP.
With RICHARD BAUTHELMESS and PATSY
RUTH MILLER.
ALSO
WINNERS OF THE WILDERNESS.
With TIM McCOY and JOAN CRAWFORD.
Prices as usual.
A UDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, MAY 14; WEDNESDAY, MAY 18.
J. and N. Tait present that remarkable artist,
PADEREWSKI.
Plans at Allan’s.
-THE PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Direction: E. J. Gravestock.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
ALEXANDER WATSON RECITALS.
Attracting Crowded Houses.
“THE INCOMPARABLE WATSON.”
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
piink: robber
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
PROTECTS BRUISES
Cover bumps, bruises and other
broken skin with “Vaseline” Jelly.
Quickly soothes and heals. Takes
away the hurt.
Look for the Trade Mark “Vaseline”
It is your protection j
Chesebrough Mfg. Co., Cons’d
New York London Montreal
Position Vacant.
THE CAIRNS HARBOR BOARD.
A PPLICATIONS are invited by the Cairns
Harbor Board (North Queensland)
for a qualified and experienced Civil
Engineer for the position of Engineer to the
Board.
Applicants to state age, qualifications and
experience, and whether married or single.
Applicants must have practical experience
in concrete work, and reinforced wharf con-
struction, and general harbor works, and Do
capable of taking control of the whole of the
Board’s Dredging Plant (Suction and
Bucket) and construction operations, includ-
ing Cold Storage Works, Mechanical Sugar
Conveyors (electrically driven), Electric
Cranes and other Plant and Workshop.
Applicants should have a knowledge of
electrical machinery.
No private practice allowed.
Salary at the rate of £750 per annum.
Three (3) months’ notice on either side
to terminate engagement.
Applicant to be in a position to take up
his duties on the Bth August, 1027.
Applications to be endorsed “Application
for Engineer” and addressed to the Chairman.
Applications close at 10 o’clock a.m. ou
Tuesday, 14th June, 1927.
T. R. HALL,
Secretary.
Legal Notice.
TN the matter of the Public Curator Acts
of 1914-1925 and in the matter of the
Will of JOSEPH EDWARD BUTCHER,
late of Brisbane, Master Mariner, Deceased.
Notice is hereby given that JOHN AD AIM
PATRICK BUTCHER, a son of the above-
named deceased, or any person knowing his
whereabouts is requested to communicate
with tlie Public Curator, Brisbane, on or
before the twenty-seventh day of December,
1927, and that after the expiration of that
date the Public Curator will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, without
regard to any claim by the said John Adam
Patrick Butcher.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Missing Friends.
WANTED. —Information as to HENRY
EDWARDS (of Catford, London), who
left England for Australia 39 years ago, then
aged 20. If he or his family will write to
BELLORD & CO., 8 Waterloo Place,
London, England, they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
DERSONS WANTED. A Free Register.
A All persons desirous of ascertaining
whether they have ever been advertised for to
BENEFIT should write DAY & CO., 140
Strand, London, England.
They have the largest and most complete
Register extant in the Old Country. Send
FULL names and a stamped reply envelope.
MATRIMONIAL.
TTAIR LADY, 29, good character, several
A hundred cash, wishes to correspond with tall
farmer. Means unnecessary. Address “Part-
nership,” Bulletin Office, Melbourne.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently sle.moed.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H.J.T.: An idea; but some of the poetry
is prose... .Tawell: Thanks, but it has been said so
often.... Anna G.: Several bunches of better autumn
leaves in hand. Yours is over-stressed... .W.G.8.:
No kick... .Ross McIC.: Dull; Corot the least 50... .
Jay B.: “Nameless” and “Nocturne” thoughtful but
unattractive... .Old Subscriber: Very much obliged to
y0u.... Bis M.: Why weep over the falling dew ?
The falling due is a darn sight worse... .C.M.R.:
Just as well you forwarded a return ticket for “The
Train”... .P.M.L.: “The Dying Day” is stone dead.
... .G.H.N.: That lullaby metre is rocky... .Gar G.:
“I hereby swear and declare the accompanying verse
is original.” Our oath it is ! W.L.L.: The brutal
murderer who loved his mother was too, too much.
... .Cam. D.: Well, have it your own way:—
Scornful, I curve my noble lip in scorn.
Whoever made me, that is what I am;
And being that which was, should I be born,
And therefore, being it, don’t care a damn,
San Tan: “The Curfew” tolls its 1 own kne11....
G.R.8.: One of the heaviest tombstones we have
inspected. .. .8.L.G.: Said Wilde: “For each man
slays the thing he loves.” You say you love verse-
writing. .. .R.W.S.: No particular thrill in the
description of how the girl sold books and snubbed
the boss.... Cecil G. J.: Why jettison rhyme in the
last lines?... .S.J.B. : A queer mixture of present
and past tenses... .A.C.M. (M.L.) : The “Blind Sea-
man” won’t be seen in The Bulletin. .. .G.A.B.
(Halcombe, M.L.): No; the editor is not a “fiery
dragon with sword ready to slay everyone”; just a
newspaper man with a raging thirst for good
stuff and a w.p.b. for the rest.... Mac T.:
We prefer our Scotch in a glass... .C.L.N.:
You made a mistake. What you forwarded to
us were the sheets of paper the flies crawled over,
after falling in your inkpot.... Gord T.: Nice story;
but it failed to carry conviction... .W.M.R.: One
line, “Jerusalem, eowcocky land, with milk and
money blasted” gave hope; but the hope was
blasted, too. .. .W.M.C.: Very poor.... Doug Mac:
Dull catalogue of grumbles.... Rob M.: Thin....
Wagtail: Your navy verse capsized with the recoil
from its own broadsides... .M.S.C.: Good idea worked
far too easily. .. .W.J.W.: What have the Duke aud
Duchess got to do with it?... .N.L.D.: Poor fancy,
on which good work is wasted.... Daphne L.: The
Australasian or Leader (Melbourne) might. Boys’
Weekly (Sydney), if the yarn is suitable for boys.
. ...R.S.: The tragedy of that Newcastle reception
is here recorded:—
Her gracious smile she gave, as they did pass us,
But alas! at King Edward Park the worthy Mayor
he lost his glasses,
Where the crowd, up to their ankles in mud sank in;
Then to the hospital the ducal pair drove, and met
Mr. Rankin.
He mentioned that the Newcastle people wished for
something royal,
So “The Duchess Ward” was recorded by the secre-
tary, Coyle.
I In his exalted position the Mayor meets many classes,
But on this memorable day he won’t forget how he
lost his glasses.
....Fred F.: The sea tragedy went down with all
hands. .. .F.S.H.: Congratulations... .Gay T.: Sixty
lines of gush about a lady’s dimple is too much for
us W.T.S.: “With a weird yell the shadowy hand
struck.” The murderer evidently talks with his
hands.... Roy M.: No room in this paddock for
Dobbin... .A.W.P.: Spoilt by incomprehensible lines.
... .R.F.0.: Why go to South Africa for your
setting?....Huld. S.: Some promise; but the verses
are too obviously manufactured... .F.A.L.: “Button
—slip-on” settled it.... Mena W.: “Not Too Bad”
is - not good enough.... Marjorie P.: The imagery
is overstrained W.W.R.: Not up J.R.L.:
“One took a pot-shot at him named O’Farrell.”
Don’t care for this naming of pot-shots.
.... Orion: A bit of planing on the rough edges
might make it right... .H.C.C.: Thanks for the
invitation to cast our soul adrift on the dancing
blue. Afraid it can’t be done. .. .M.M.K.: The fluency
of it gallops you into errors.... Donald Mac: Not
bad; but it isn’t a story... .C.C. (N. Syd.) : The
mutton idea doesn’t tickle our palate... .S.C.
(Padd.): That cat story has already had its nine
lives.. ..J.R.8.: Weak work.... Jim D.: Quite a lot
of the phrases are like patches on the pants of your
verses... .J.8.M.: Your burst of indignation exploded
in the w.p.b V.L.S.: It bored u 5.... J.M.8.:
Nicely versified, but that’s all. .. .Mary M.: Trans-
lations no use; and there’s nothing in the French
thing, either. .. .Sirod: You ought to be able to write
something if you get something to write about....
M.C.M.: Very forced funmaking. .. .G.C.L.: Stilted
conversations pad a poor story.... T.M.D.: This
much of your ode:—
Rise, Canberra rise! Re-fuel crackling fires;
Rise, vision city of a thousand spires—
Since we started Nation-building
Let us see that all the gilding
Is not tarnished by the smearing of the curs who
show no love.
Let us rise and stifle yawning,
Happy, face a God-sent morning.
Australian bathes in sunlit beauty watched by
One above.
. ... G.R.C.: The pedigree of your Pegasus is Foolish-
ness out of Dulness R.C. (Lindfield): A poor
lot. .. .Perigrim: Feeble. ... A.W.D. (West Maitland) :
The Duchess’s smile deserves better treatment
G. (Richmond): They say nothing J.W. (Home-
bush): Dream stories make us sleepy... . Yufu,
H. T.A.W., A. Saunders, J.A.McC., Stan 8.,
V.C.W.: Reached the second reading, and failed
there... .Peter H.: Material for a couple of good
short pars; but it doesn’t make a story G.C.L.:
Doesn’t read true. .. .N.S.M.: Well written, but the
track is deep rutted with use... .N.K.C.: Would be
a very good thing if it was better written.... Aldan
C.: Much the same to you. .. .C.H.P.: Idea good;
but a few things too obviously thrown in for
rhyme’s sake. See if you can’t repair.... Fred Fit/,:
“Voice” is thin.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.D.: Refuse to have birds like that about the
premises 1.D.: Two ghastly figures in a wilderness
of blots... .U.K.: Scratchy and du11... .R. J.R.: As
rough as an oyster shell. .. .H.E.W.: Don’t let those
damsels darken our doors again J.C.: Drawings
all bristles and wrinkles; jokes pointless J.G.:
There is a chance for a joke (as is a joke) turning
on a person’s nose, but not for mere coarseness
L.N.: Nothing attractive in it E.0.D.: Give your
pen more head, but don’t let it bolt with y0u....
P.H.: Unmoved by drawing of callous steam-roller
pilot and flattened victim Bally B.: No chance
unless there is a miraculous improvement 1.A.M.:
Moss grows on the dentist who kept drilling till he
struck the back collar-stud. . . .11. W.: Nothing bril-
j liant about the motorist and his vision.
THE INKY WAY.
“Qwerty”: Politeness doesn’t cost any-
thing. The editor of the Century maga-
zine of America, in returning a story of
mine, merely enclosed a neatly printed card,
“Thank you very much.”
“Mlink” : The M.L. artists have produced
a clever and entertaining N.Z. Artists’
Annual. From the Shivery Isles have come
David Low, Tom Glover, George Finey and
other comic artists. Their country couldn’t
keep them, however; the editor of the
Annual mentions that The Bulletin stole
Low from Christchurch at the age of 22.
Cradle snatching?
“Hamer” : His paper wanted a man for a
special job, and it sent a note to a promising
district correspondent, thinking he might be
glad of the money. “Do you know anything
about rowing?” the chief asked. The corre-
spondent sadly turned up the corner and
endorsed the chit: “The wife and I are
experts.”
Archbishop Duhig, of Brisbane, has
bought a newspaper, the Australian
Weekly Visitor, a Queensland journal with
a reputed circulation of 32,000. This is just
by way of a start. The next step, so the
faithful aver, will be the establishment or
acquisition of a Brisbane daily.
Gone to give Peter advice about the
Heavenly Chronicle, Robert W. Baxter,
an Aberdonian, who was proprietor for 28
years of the Ballarat Star, which two years
ago was absorbed by the Courier. He was
in Stawell for many years and managed the
Times. One of his sons, G. S. Baxter, is
manager of the Sunraysia Daily at Mil-
dura.
“Old Sub”: The most sarcastic editor I
ever worked under was annoyed one night
because the erudite young man who had been
put on to do the theatre was still scratching
hard at 3 a.m., when the daily was due to
go to bed. “I’d like this theatre copy in a
little earlier,” remarked the chief mildly.
The youngster looked up. “Ah, you see,” he
said, “I’ve been used to working for a
weekly.” “A weekly, was it?” chirruped the
old man. . “I thought it was a blasted
almanac.”
Anthony Cashion was one of Sydney
Worker’s oldest inhabitants till quite re-
cently. He joined 30 years ago when the
Labor paper’s quarters were in Kent-street,
next to Bathurst-street, and for a quarter of
a century had been in the publishing room.
A stroke of that financial luck which is the
pipe dream of most journalists led to his
retirement, and the Worker staff farewelled
him the other day.
“J.H.” (Lond.) : The British Turf has a
unique paper, the Racing Calendar, which
has been owned by one family, the Weather-
bys, for 154 years. As the official organ of
the Jockey Club it gets a lot of exclusive
raciitg news that would be featured as
“scoops” by any of its contemporaries. But
the Calendar rigidly eschews headlines;
even the latest “warning-off” is generally
printed in some inconspicuous two-line par.
“Uramao” : A national shrine in honor of
the Press is proposed in the Cathedral of St.
John the Divine, N’Yark, which is to be the
largest in the English-speaking world. Men
and women of the literary craft are invited
to help in erecting this shrine, which will
take the form of a chapel opening from the
side of the great nave; it will cost between
150,000 and 200,000 dahlers. Stained-glass
windows will record the activities of the
Press and the names of those who have added
lustre to the profession in ’Murika. If such
a movemeut catches on in Australia I w r ould
suggest that the scribes themselves should be
featured instead of the names; I know several
who would look well in stained glass.
“Lao-dah”: University students often
have to submit to lectures on good taste from
leading newspapers, but seldom do leading
newspapers have to submit to lectures on
good taste from University students. V hen
the Duke was ragged by Melbourne ’Varsity
lads, the chemistry school presented him with
a document which read: “Dear Bertie, you
know that we, the cream of the University,
desire to invest Lizzie, in her absence, with
the degree of N. E. Plum. Give our kind
regards to the old man and the missus.
This the open-hearted journal described as a
“most humorous address.” W hereupon the
Students’ Representative Council, in the
person of its president, Brian Jones, in-
formed the paper that in the opinion of
the bulk of the students “this was not
humorous, nor was it creditable in any way.
A nice, backhanded wallop!
“N.Q.”: Those who are recording the
names of Australian writers whose books
have been translated into continental lan-
guages must not omit Henry Handel Rich-
ardson. “Maurice Guest,” a novel dealing
with musical life in Leipzig of the nineties,
has been translated into handsome German
in two volumes. Indeed it is almost a German
classic. More than this, a later book, part
of the Australian trilogy. “The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony.” has been discussed at
great length in German and Danish literary
encyclopedias. It may even reach our own
encyclopedias some day.
The Westralian Worker is probably the
only living Labor weekly in Australia which
didn’t start in the capital of the State, it
got going in ’O9 at Kalgoorhe when trades
unionism was far stronger on the goldnen s
than anywhere else in Groperland, and i
wasn’t until 13 years later that it slntt> ■
its quarters to the city. John Curtin, v '
has been in control for nearly a dozen year?,
is almost the only editor who has found tat
job a steady one. He is an able and mcisi.t
writer who has had time for one or two un-
successful shots at Parliament am -
experienced the quaint distinction of bem»
declared “black” by the seamen s .union.
Curtin’s predecessors in the chair me ■.
Tommy Bath, who later became Labor -
Parliamentary leader, Wallace kelson,
.Tones, Julian Stuart, the late A ' fk ;
White” Emerson (a Bulletin vers.-wruer
of merit), Will Bodley and John Hilton.


IYiW26.
-Jl# 1
a mm
Ziondon Office?
"Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E C. 2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd’,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The “Texas Ranger” Cowboy Saddle
mm
Hi
a
M
m
I
m
This is our most popular American
style Stock Saddle, double rigged with
Cord Cinchas and Wood Stirrups.
price £13/15/-
Freight paid for
cash with order
to any N. S. W.
Railway Station.
Write for our Catalogue, showing other
Styles of Texas and Australian
Saddlery.
COWBOY CHAPS, fringed, 85/- pr.
FANCY BRIDLE, with Gunmetal Cowboy
Bit with Nickel Horse Head 76/-
FANCY BREASTPLATE, to match, 75/-
GENUINE AMERICAN LARIAT, with
Rawhide Honda 65/-
AU STRATA AN LARIATS, with Rrass
Honda: Cotton, 15/-; Linen 22/6
SPURS, CUFFS, QUIRTS, ETC.
STETSON COWBOY HATS.
THE “DRIVE” at 63/-; 6in. Crown, 3in.
Brim.
THE “CARLSBAD .TR.” at 75/-; 6-Jin.
Crown, 3Jin. Brim.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.,
Saddlers, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
beverage --different
{REMEMBER this: Coffee contains caffein,
which has no food value, but is an artificial
stimulant which deadens the normal sense of
fatigue and withdraws energy from the body’s
vital reserve. Postum, on the other hand, con-
tains no trace of any stimulant. It is made
of whole wheat and bran, roasted to bring out
the full, rich flavour. Compare these two where
you can really see results —on your dinner-
table! Learn how delicious it is. Experience
the relief from drug stimulation. Then judge
for yourself! Your grocer keeps Instant Postum.
Wholesale Agents:
Lewis & Cull, 316 Pitt Street, Sydney
Posturn is one of
the Post Health
Products, which in-
clude also Grape-
Nuts, Post Toasties
( Double-thick Corn
Flakes), and Post’s
Bran Flakes.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Life and Letters
of Lord Bryce.
By the RT. HON. H. A. L. FISHER.
With Portraits and Illustrations. 2
vols. 325. net.
The Russian Revolution
(1917-1926).
By LANCELOT LAWTON. With
Illustrations. 21s. net.
The Daily Chronicle: “Very well-informed
and comprehensive work.”
Industrial Fluctuations.
By A. C. PIGOU, M.A. With Charts.
255. net.
The Economist : “An important contribution
to economic literature, in which the Professor
of Political Economy in the University of Cam-
bridge explores one of the most vital fields of
modern economic problems.”
A Treatise on Viticulture.
By A. I. PEROLD, 8.A., Ph.D., Pro-
fessor of Viticulture and Oenology in
the University of Stellenbosch. Illus-
trated. 255. net.
This treatise is the most complete and up-to
date work on Viticulture and grape products
existing in the English language.
To be Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONOON, W.C.2
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR/’
PRICE 3d,
Contains everything « woman needs to know.
-
Gd
r*
■ Pv
V'-'
P
w
C?3&o
r •'. .
ZP
/a ~
Tins beautiful Grecian
Bronze Vase, 18in. high,
£7/10/-
14in., £3/10/-
Obtainable Sydney House.
Wallpaper does for a room what a
beautiful gown does for a woman.
It makes the room attractive,
charming and elegant.
The finest homes in Britain,
Europe and America use walk
paper to obtain graceful interiors.
It is these very papers we stock.
You may use the same designs as
used in the leading homes of
London, Paris and New York.
Our showrooms are now equal to
the best in Australia, and we cordi-
ally invite you to inspect. We are
showing some of the 1 927 designs
just at present. Ring or write us
for samples.
JOHN DANKS 8 SON IS:
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney;
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs, W. NORTH AM (Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. E. MORRIS UUMI’IIERY, Senator J. D. MILLEN, and Mr. EDMUND S. \V. PAUL.
Total Assets exceed. . . . . . £1,724,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) .Because in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums
will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or
bonuses. .. . , ...
<2) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public
and private hospitals, varying in. amount according to the sum assured
and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR THESE BENEFITS:
Probate, Children’s Education and Finance Policies specialised.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO PEACOCK. F.C.1.5.. Secretary. T. TV. RAPLEY, General Manager.
(3) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the
sum assured will be paid forthwith, and the premium reduced propor-
tionately.
(4) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for
almost every contingency.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Tip Toes'’
Criterion “The Cradle Snatchers”
Royal “Frasquita”
I’alace “Six-Cylinder Love"
Empire “Sunny”
Grand Opera House .... “Getting Gertie’s Garter”
Fullers’ Vaudeville
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
King’s “The Green Hat”
Royal “The Ringer”
Princess 1 “Cornered”
AtheN/Eum “The Unfair Sex”
Auditorium Paderewski
The Playhouse Alexander Watson
Tivoli Vaudeville
Bijou Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
-
The main features of “Tip Toes,” which
came to Sidney Her Majesty’s last Satur-
day, are ballets and trombones. Nobody
worries much about the plot, but the show is
smart and bright, with any amount of de-
lightful dancing. The staging ami dressing
are gorgeous and decorative in the scents
upon the house-boat and at America’s Palm
Beach, and a bunch of girls and men equipped
with silver trombones waving in rhythm is
received by the audience with especial favor.
There is something in Elizabeth Morgan that
recalls Josie Melville; she has a dainty little
ligure, qnd her voice, if light, is so admirably
used that even her American accent
lias an attractive touch in it. And her
dancing is fairy-like. There are some
other genuinely good dancing acts by Ger-
ardo and Enid Adair and Freddie Hodges
and Frecker; and two grand pianos may be
included in the east, since Henry Penn and
Jack Wright brighten the interval by their
artistic playing.
* * * *
The sudden emergence of Gus Bluett in
the leading role is another of the surprises.
He presents a shy and pleasing hero as if
lie had been doing that sort of thing for
years. Ole Olsen and Chick Johnson, snatched
from the variety stage, fit easily into their
ludicrous parts, though the scene on the
houseboat where one of these acto.s flings
soup over the stage might be toned down,
if only because it spoils the girls’ dresses.
Such plot as is discernible between the
Charlestoning shows a trio of variety enter-
tainers stranded at Palm Beach and man-
aging to pass themselves off as society people.
When the girl is knocked down by a car she
“CRADLE SNATCHERS,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Ethel Drake, heavyweight cradle snatcher
(Bertha Belmore), and Susan Martin,
cra.lle-snatcher-in-chief (Olive Sloane).
loses her memory, and believes she is really
the part she had been only acting, which
gives scope for a little drama; but the
musical comedy ends in a whirl of ballets
and dancing divertissements. A word must
be said for Winnie Tait and Mona Barlee,
who helped the show to trip its gladsome
way into the first-nighters’ hearts. There
are no markedly catchy songs, but “Looking
for a Boy” has a lilt.
The fiddle of Heifetz will commence to
charm crowds to Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night; other concerts follow on Tues-
day, Thursday and Saturday of next week.
On Saturday, also, a more modern lady than
“Charley’s Aunt” will take possession of
the Grand Opera House, the. newcomer being
the heroine of “Getting Gertie’s Garter.”
The arrival of “The Ghost Train” on May
21 will start a new game of musical-chairs
in which “Six-cylinder Love,” which is
doing well at the Palace, is doomed to be
the odd play out. “Cradle Snatchers” will
dispossess it to let the Carroll thrill-produc-
tion, which has had a remarkable Melbourne
season, into the Criterion. “Frasquita,”
which removed to the Theatre Royal last
Saturday, is going strong at the new address ;
and good houses continue to greet “Sunny”
at the Empire. After Saturday night. Wirths’
Circus will fold its tents at the Hippodrome
and steal away from Sydney for a whole
year.
The current programme at the Sydney
Tivoli is rich in gymnasts and acrobats. The
Amazing Gallenos propel themselves through
the ether with the abandonment of flywheels
that have escaped from their fixtures, whilst
Les Athenas, with the aid of a see-saw.
somersault, from one wing to the other as
if it were an obvious method of locomotion.
Evans and Perez are a pair of perch bal-
ancers with a flair for dizzy and hair-
raising stunts. Among the vocal enter-
tainers Alexander Carr continues to supply
the brightest patch in the bill with his im-
personations of well-known national types.
Sydney Burchall, a soulful baritone, warbles
feelingly of moons and meadow larks, whilst
the fiddling section of the Two Vagabonds
uses a beer-bottle, a visiting-card and a
safety-match in place of the bow. The Jan-
etski Trio give some galloping and thumping
turns on the zyloplione.
*
Stiffy and Mo shuffle the cards and give a
fresh deal every Saturday at Fullers’ Sydney
Theatre, and the audience waxes so hilari-
ous over Mo’s every antic that it hardly
notices that it is mainly the same old pack that
is being used. Roy Rene’s pull with his
public is a curious thing to contemplate;
but the qualities of a comedian who can
make his audience laugh with such remark-
able case cannot be gainsaid.
* * * *
When “The Big Parade” finishes its occu-
pancy of the St. James Theatre a new man-
agement—from a metropolitan point of view
—will step in; Phillip Lytton, Ltd., will
introduce a dramatisation of Mrs. E. M.
Hull’s novel, “The Sheik,” with a company of
mainly imported mummers already rehears-
ing in Sydney. Phillip Lytton furnished the
company which staged the successful “Gappy
Ricks,” but remained in the background, the
Carrolls conducting the show. He has pro-
vided many stock companies for country
tours; it seems rather a pity that he did
not rely for his new venture on the Aus-
tralian material which has served him so
well.
* * *
The Australian picture patron emphati-
cally does not want the American historical
play. Even pictures taken from English his-
tory fail to “get over” in a modern audience.
The aim of all picture plays is to induce the
individual in the audience to identify him
(or her) self with the leading character. This
cannot be done when the player has to dis-
guise his (or her) identity in a powdered
wig. “Winners of the Wilderness,” at Sydney
Strand and Hoyt’s, is doubly handicapped:
we have forgotten if we ever knew early
American history, and we cannot play our
essential part in a peruke.
*
“The Lady in Ermine” had swift to deter-
mine
Whether or no she her castle would save;
For the Austrian invader had drunkenly bade
her
To sacrifice honor. The lady was brave,
But despite all her pleading he seemed near
succeeding,
When her grandmother’s portrait stepped
out of the frame.
The redoubtable lady, whose past had been
shady,
To rescue the heroine gallantly came.
The Austrian sat thinking, and blinking and
drinking,
Until he got fuddled and dropped oft' to
sleep.
No stigma upon her, she ’scaped from dis-
honor,
While the Austrian lay in an indolence
deep.
Of course she was frightened—she might
have or mightn’t—
She wore but her ermine, and in it looked
fine.
The moral, if any, is not worth a penny,
Except that a villain should keep off the
wine.
This picture, now at the Strand and Hoyt's,
is a film adapted from the musical play
“The Lady and the Rose,” some time ago
produced in Sydney.
A feminine satirist; —
From the methods of Laura Knight, an English
artist who lias had some measure of success, one
features a lady who invades the back-of-the-stage and
when she discovers the performers half-dressed or with
their clothes off (the latter for preference), proceeds
to delineate their imperfections relentlessly. In the
show of etchings and aquatints exhibited at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, the lady’s rather fantastic
display, of drawings is to be viewed; it seems like a
criticism of life with the weapons of the artist. Xo.
31, “Youth and Age,” shows the contrast of the rather
too heavily fatted features of fresh babyhood with
the shrivelled countenance of age. Tn such pictures
as “Three Graces” (No. 17), where the ungainly
naked females make a foolish play of covering them-
selves with one thin band of riband, there is con-
siderable disagreeable truth and a great deal of
satire; and in “A Quarrel” (No. 5) a gent, standing
with hand on hip has evidently just swiped the lady
one on that facial region which was once known in
music-hall songs as “the kisser.” There are a
“THE RINGER,” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Patrick Cur wen as a Scotch M.D. with a
profound contempt for Scotland Yard.
number of these pictures which stress the ugliness
of the enjoyments of the madding crowd. It is not
a pleasing show ; but it compels attention for a cer-
tain strength and vigor of action. These are particu-
larly noticeable in “Swing Boats” (No. 16), although
in “The Acrobats” (No. 29) the perspective seems a
little out.
A little old man- with a grey face like
a mask and the appearance of having had
on his shoulders at some time or another
all the woes of this world sat down at the
Melbourne Auditorium piano on Wednesday
night of last week to amuse a liallful of
mixed citizens. If Paderewski’s countenance
expresses anything, it portrays disillusion-
ment, the disillusionment of an elderly
idealist who, in the evening of his days, has
discovered that even a bare 20 million people
cannot be turned into angels, even by the
greatest pianist of the age. An artist should
never seek to become a statesman, because
a statesman is obliged to dabble in muck,
while an artist’s business is amongst the
stars. But if Paderewski’s face expressed
disillusionment his fingers were in as excel-
lent condition to express romance, sentiment,
humor, pathos and passion as ever they have
been. It must be a terrible thing to have
lost one’s illusions and still be in possession
of hands perpetually called upon to minister
to the illusions of other people.
* # * *
It may have been fancy, but the hands
seemed full of angry petulance when they
came to the tremendous final gaiety of the
F minor Sonata (Appassionato), as if their
owner were annoyed with old Ludwig for
dying with his faith in life still unimpaired.
The facile tenderness of the Schumann fan-
tasia, Op. 17, was an easier task emotion-
ally, though full of technical gins and pit-
falls that would daunt many a younger pair
of hands. After the serious business of the
evening the same versatile collection of digits
showed what they could do in the way of
decoration, and Chopin’s dadoes, friezes,
bas-reliefs and odds and ends of exquisite
ornament were shortly hung about the audi-
torium. On Saturday Bach’s gorgeously-
tinted chromatic fantasia and feeling fugue
in D minor started the proceedings, and were
succeeded by Beethoven’s last, most pro-
found, paradoxical and finally triumphant
sonata, Op. 111. After these came a lengthy
lyric (Op. 2), dedicated by the youthful
Schumann to a girl who doubtless sucked
peppermints and wore a yellow pigtail. The
gentle sentiment of Schumann wears thin
when spread all over the sonata form, and,
even with Paderewski playing, the attention
presently wandered from the composer’s calf-
love to the chandeliers. The sharpest piece
of music of the evening was a polka of the
virtuoso’s own composition.
The Melbourne critics were so busy enjoy-
ing their orgy of moral indignation over "TV
Green Hat” at the King's that they unani-
mously forgot to notice that the real charge
against the world-famous Michael Arlen as a
playwright is not one of bad ethics, but bad
art. As a fact, Mike's play is a highly moral
masterpiece. It exudes morality and sweats
righteousness as a green log sweats gum.
A young man, who is suffering from the sane-
complaint as the youth in Brieiix’s “Damaged
Goods” and who commits suicide on hi-
wedding night, is moral No. 1. The wife,
who invites suspicion to dwell on her rather
than distress her brother, whose friend tin
young man was, is moral No. 15. The brother,
who drinks himself to death because he feel-
his general worthlessness, is moral No. 3.
The widow again, who saves a husband from
pursuing her to perdition by telling him
falsely that; his wife is about to provide him
with an heir, is moral No. 4. And the widow
once more, who, rather than be the cause of
more marital infidelity, accelerates her His-
pano Suiza to 70 m.p.li. and aims it at a
free, is moral No. 5. Arlen, in fact, is no
more immoral in “The Green Hat” than
Sophocles, Corneille and Voltaire were in the
plays they wrote dealing with a revolting
subject, or than Shelley was in “The Cenci.”
But if the Anglo-Armenian's moral notion-
arc those of a bench of bishops, his art i<
the art of Charles Garviee and Nat Gould,
expressed in language midway between that
of a coal-trimmer and Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
Lent being a season of the past. “Gold
fish” will be off the Melbourne 1 Tine-
menu on Saturday, when Muriel Starr will
submit to being “Cornered.” The new piece
is our old friend the mystery drama, and
to prove her versatility Muriel will appear
as a shopgirl and anon as a beauteous
society queen. The business of picking the
Ringer at the Royal is provoking moderate
enthusiasm among crossword-puzzle expert-
but little amongst students of the drama.
“The Unfair Sex,” at the Athenaeum, ami
“Possum Paddock,” at the Palace, are farce-.
“Rose Marie” stands in the unusual position
of being the only leg show in town.
More people are interested in elocution in
this country than the standard of public
speaking would suggest. Alexander Wat-on
lias talked in divers styles to crowded audi-
ences at Melbourne Playhouse, and he is a-
astute as any musical virtuoso in the com
position of his programmes. His Shat
pearean items, which have tile tin fortune
disadvantage of sounding like series of quota-
tions, are politely listened to, but it is his
Dickens repertoire and his recital of old
forgotten far-off things by Rudyard Kipling
and Mark Twain that enthral. The Barrack-
room Ballads in particular have an un-
expected dramatic quality—at any rate, when
recited by Alexander Watson.
“THE GREEN HAT,"
AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Iris, suffering from post-natal complication
(Judith Anderson), while Dr. Conrad
Masters (Wallis Clark) is anxious To
get hack to a bridge-party.
The Jovers, two alien absurdities in un-
conventional attire, are keeping Melbourne
Tivoli cheerful, and Valencia is once more
supplying it with thrills. Before the last-
named makes his remarkable flight abov>
the stalls, manager Nodin warns spectators
not to walk down the aisle, the presumption
being, apparently that if the acrobat should
accidentally leave his perch lie would be
bound to explode harmlessly in the empty
space'. The other night the lights flickered
ominously in the middle of this turn and
the act was stopped. A second later the
theatre, along with the rest of the town, was
plunged in darkness. One wonders what
would be the feelings of a man thus smitten
(Continued on Pape 5).)


tc.
&
\
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials
for a perfect “Valet” shave —the
razor, strop and blade in jgy
leatherette-covered case. . O/Vr
Of all dealers.
it
WHS
vfl
Si
<*>•
Ever
Felt
Velvet?
H e can’t pass that mirror without marvelling. Fifty
perfect shaves and the self-same blade still as keen as
ever on its job. The secret? No secret; it s the
“Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor, the razor that
strops its own blade without removal from the frame.
Ask your dealer to show you how it works.
BRITISH
MADE.
VALET”
JVviA>
Safety Razor
OF ALL
DEALERS.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd.
197-207 City Road, London, England.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The best underwear
conies from
The best English made
underwear is —
'too(*W
Buy one
WOLSEY
Garment.
Compare it with
any other make
and you’ll realise
WOLSEY S
great value.
é
Made in England by
WOLSEY OF LEICESTER
WOLSEY LTD.
316, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
WHERE THE RUD6E-SPORTS
«ETS ITS SUPREMACY
80 MILES AN HOUR!
RUDGE-WHITWORTH PATENT PROPORTIONAL
COUPLED BRAKES
Reduce the bogey of skidding to a minimum.
MECHANICAL LUBRICATION
Ensures the engine being always
properly “fed.”
FOUR OVERHEAD
VALVES
Give amazing power and valve
reliability.
INTERCHANGEABLE
WHEELS
Save roadside troubles—you have
the advantage of a spare wheel
like a car.
FOUR SPEEDS
Give you the exact gear for every
variation of road, load and speed.
There are two other 4.99 h.p. models, the cc Standard ” and the
:c Special.” All models fully maintain the world-wide reputation of
Tudge-Whitworth for high-grade workmanship, and every detail has
been designed for the utmost comfort and convenience of the rider.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE! JAMES THORNELL, 312 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Full particulars of all models maybe obtained from— Sydney: Biden and Roberts/
150 Hay St. Melbourne : Rogers Bros.Pty.Ltd., 3os Swanston St. Brisbane:
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (QTand) Ltd., Creek St. Adelaide : Behrens
Tniem Co., 3 Devon House, Chesser St. Perth : Flower, Davies and Johnson,
404 Murray St. Tasmania. Hobart: J. Bilyard, no Elizabeth St. Launceston?
Carl Mantach, no Charles St.
ê
Rudge- Whitworth Ltd., Coventry, England


Children
enjoy
e
it makes them
ule/l and strong
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists (.Stores
FULFIL THIS OBLIGATION.
In the interests of his dependents it is the bounden duty of every man to safeguard
his Estate by appointing a reliable Trustee.
The Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W., LTD.,
as a result of the experience based on 39 years’ control of all classes of Estates,
offers a service in capable and secure, administration which is unequalled by tlie
individual. It ensures continuous control by men of expert knowledge. UnliKe
an individual, the Company is permanent, whilst under a special Act ot I arliament
the whole of the capital and assets, exceeding one million pounds, is available tor
the protection of clients’ interests.
At all times the Company is available to clients for information.
Estates Under Control Exceed £11,000,000.
Arrange now for interview, or write for booklet, sent post free on request.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
LIEUT.-COL. T. F. RUTLEDGE.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager.
F.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
JAMES MOIR.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
J. \Y. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
TH B ALL A N WILKIE SHAK-
' SPEAREAN PRODUCTIONS
QUKKNSLANU TOUR:
Brisbane Season terminates May 14.
Maryborough ; May 17. Bundaberg: May IS to -
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Head Office: Pulsford’s Chambers, 1,8 Castlereagh
Cable and Telegraphic Address. Othello, ..'ln
G.P.O. Box 2229 LL.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything;
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
blind in the middle of a flight calculated to
the fraction of an inch. Not to mention the
sensations of the audience.
There is as much difference between one
Fuller revue and another as between a pair
of pyramids. Six moderately pleasing girls
with 12 well-conditioned calves and
voices not so pleasing or well-conditioned;
two frequent comedians; a sentimental tenor
in a straw hat and flannels; a soprano m
silvery attire and an unattached lady who
sings coon songs—these are the chief in
gredients of Melbourne Bijou's current stew,
and George Ward is its chef.
Further evidence that, whatever may hap-
pen to the Australian alto., the American
Indian will never be allowed lo die, is pro-
vided at Hoyts house in Melbourne this
week, where Tim McCoy, in “Winners of the
Wilderness,” i.: clearing his land of savages,
preparatory to settling down. Hoyt's would
not he Hoyt's without a tale of sheikdom,
and Richard Kartelmess sets himself vigor-
ously to supply lli!' need in “White Black
Sheep.” “Stage Madness" is the Majestic's
tale of how Virginia Valli became a famous
dancer and subsequently an ordinary faithful
wife.
There is much gay French insouciance
hanging at the Fine Art Society’s gallery in
Melbourne. It was collected by 11. Walter
Barnett, one time of Falk’s studios in Syd-
ney, who has been spending some of the
money he earned at photography on pictures
which are the ‘vividest opposites to the
camera’s pale art. None of the morbidness
of the Baris schools is present. The artists
are provincials, satisfactorily drunk on light
and color —often to the exclusion of form.
The brush is not a strong enough weapon
for some of them. In the still-lifes the
paint has apparently been laid on with a
trowel; yet at a suitable distance the rude
mosaics quite frequently resolve themselves
into softly-blooming anemones or roses. The
landscapes are invested with much energy,
though in some, if you subtracted the vigor
of the brush strokes or smashes, there would
be little vision left. In such as Nos. 25,
23. 105 and 127 the pigment shouts, but
shouts nothing particularly worth remember-
ing. On the other hand, where restless
strength is suitably wedded to subject, a
startlingly fine and often delicately imagin-
ative picture is achieved. No. 125 is a
robust sea chanty; and a sudden ray of
sunshine seems just to have fallen on the
Lac d’Aiguebelette, which slumbers in No.
99. The names of the artists scarcely mat-
ter, but local painters could study their
methods without coming to any harm.
H. Van Raalte’s fine exhibition of
etchings, drypoints and aquatints opened
on Monday at F. W. Preece and Sons’
rooms, King William-street, Adelaide. The
artist makes the Australian gum a veritable
thing of majesty in the drypoint “The Mon-
arch,” purchased by the Royal Academy in
1920. His recent work includes a lovely
aquatint, “Hillside and Stream,” an out-
standing effort in three colors. “Silver
Evening, Torrens Gorge,” is in both aqua-
tint am] drypoint. So is a typical Aus-
tralian subject. “Gully Stones.” “Moonlight”
shows a delightful scene, in which heavy
clouds are breaking. There are 29 exhibits,
one of which, “Low Light,” was purchased
by the British Museum in 1924. The cata-
logue, written by the artist, includes an
instructive article upon the simple principles
of etching and engraving.
. The capacity houses at Adelaide Royal
on the last two G. and S. nights, when “The
Yeomen of the Guards” and “Patience” were
staged, provided fresh evidence, if any were
needed, that nothing can stale the pungent
wit of Gilbert or the haunting music of
Sullivan. At the Prince of Wales Theatre
“The Laughter of Fools” is proving one of
Bill Anderson’s most successful productions.
Guy Hastings, who impersonates the wealthy
Charles Yidal, has a suit that always makes
a hit in these parts; Mary Anderson pro-
vides capital comedy as the charity maid-
of-all-work, and Hilda Dorrington makes a
charming Doris Henley. Newcomers at the
Majestic Theatre are Ford and Aldous,
whose song, dance and patter throw some
new and fierce lights on matrimony. The
Four Jacksons feature in an acrobatic turn
in which the parents handle their full-growu
son and daughter as if they were rubber
balls. Elton Black’s Scotch numbers are
popular. Alice Bennetto sings and dances
to the gallery's entire approval, and the
Gayle Wyer company supply bright revue
work in “When the Cat’s Away.” At West’s
Pictures Billy Maloney’s songs, notably “The
Red Robin.” tend to obscure the film, and
Doreen May’s “Princess Betty’s Lullaby”
throws Tom Mix further into the back-
ground.
Poverty
Point
SILAS AND JOHN VISIT THE THEAYTER.
SILAS (offer the curtain rifles'): “I s’pose, John, ’e do he (join' for to taake the chair.
“Musi Cuss”: Talking of Paderewski,
what wonderful pianoforte players there are
amongst our star actors and actresses! Take
Maurice Moscoviteh. In “The Ringer,” at
Melbourne Royal, he sits down casually at
a semi-grand and plays, keeping up a lively
conversation with members of the cast, de-
livering the author’s epigrams with point
and gusto, and never once looking at the
music or the keys. Could Paderewski do
that? I doubt it. On the same stage
recently an exactly similar tour de force
was accomplished by Judith Anderson. In
“Tea for Three” she likewise sat down at
the semi-grand—the same instrument in the
same spot—and mingled the dialogue with
her snatches of song to her own accompani-
ment. The effect was most convincing, as
I am sure the real executant (off stage) will
agree.
“S.G.”: English-born W. A. Gibson,
0.8. E., assured a Parliamentary Committee
in Melbourne last week that British films
“don’t come up to the required standard —I.
sat three weeks in England watching British
films and never saw a good one.” Yet a
British film called “Mademoiselle from
Armentieres” ran two months (wasn’t it?)
in one of the Gibson concern’s Sydney
theatres, and I'll wager it’s good for a full 12
months in the amalgamation’s 43 houses.
Other things said by this Essex gentleman at
the inquiry were that he had signed a three-
years’ contract with an American producing
co., though some of the pictures were not
even made; that he had refused to take cer-
tain Australian films because he had so many
American productions on hand; and that
he wasn’t prepared to answer questions as
to what salary lie got as general manager
of Australasian Films, Ltd., and of Union
Theatres, Ltd., or what the directors got.
The committee dispersed, evidently thinking
deeply.
"Harnfat”: Phillip Lytton, who is using
the • popularity of “The Sheik"’ to introduce
his firm to metropolitan audiences, barged
into the theatrical limelight 25 years ago by
forming the Players’ Club. It gained so
many adherents that Lytton was at one time
instructing half a dozen amateur cos.
Occasionally the best of them was given a
showing in a Sydney theatre; usually the
performances were suburban. Lytton had
professional assistance from his wife, Madge
Hope, an actress of ability. When the wave
of amateur enthusiasm had subsided Phil
saw opportunity in tent theatres in the
country; and with several cos. composed of
Australian mummers he has done well.
“Caesar's Ghost”: “Abie’s Irish Rose,”
still running in Noo York, has exceeded 2000
performances. The previous N’York record
belonged to “Lightnin”’ (never a great suc-
cess in this country), which finished its run
at the 12915 t performance. “Lightnin”’ is
likely to be pushed from second place by the
stage version of “The Big Parade,” which is
nearly at the thousand mark.
“Curtain Raiser”: According to St. John
Ervine, the growing habit of smoking in
English theatres will be the ruin of the
drama. But what about the chocolate mas-
ticators? The £4-a-week sheik nowadays
considers a 10s. box of confectionery for the
girl necessary for every theatrical perfor-
mance. This wouldn’t matter if the local
manufacturer didn’t supply the Ford chassis
of his goods with a Hispano Suiza body
consisting of many rolls of tissue-paper and
colored tinfoil, bedded between sheets of
gelatine. The noise set up by starving
females burrowing for nutriment amidst all
this gaudy rubbish resembles an artillery
preparation in France, and actors have
to shout to make themselves heard. Smoking
in Australian theatres, many of which are
badly ventilated, would make all but the
most garish effects invisible to half the
audience, as anybody who has been to shows
in Paris will certify. Still, I suppose it will
come. The competition of broadcasting, the
gramophone, jazz and the movies is making
legitimate producers think.
“Lime’': Sybil Thorndike has given her
temperament a canter by referring to British
audiences as “lumps of suet."’ The spec-
tacle of a leading lady quarrelling with
“fat” is disconcerting.
“Dum Spiro”: The American stage can
go a little better than “White Cargo" stuff
and studies in the nude. In New York a
friend of mine saw a play in three scenes.
The first is taken un by conversation
between a young husband and wife regarding
the sex of the expected child. A clair-
voyant tells the pair that if it is a girl the
mother will die: if a boy the father will
turn un his toes. Scene two shows the
husband while the wife is being confined
off-stage. In scene three there is a knock
at the door. Husband opens it. It is the
iceman. Out comes a nurse. “It's a boy!"
she cries. The iceman drops dead.
“Lud”: Four Australian stage favorites
are playing in “Lady Luck” at the new
Capitol Theatre in London —Madge Elliott.
.Tosie Melville. Cyril Ritchard and John
Kirby. Near by, at His Majesty’s, George
Gee is making his bow to Londoners in a
revue called “Whitebirds”; he was para-
graphed in advance as having played Leslie
Henson parts for years in Australia. Hen-
son, by the way. is the chief comedian in
the opposition show, the aforesaid “Lady
Luck.”
“Peter Pan”: Newcastle is becoming
noted for the number of its Australian pre-
mieres. Ward gave his last two musical
shows, “Little Jessie James” and “Lady,
Be Good,” trial spins there. The Zillah
Bateman eo. sought Newcastle's opinion ot
“The Unfair Sex” before it reached Melb.
Athenaeum. Muriel Starr kicked off in tin;
coaly town with three shows when she
started under her own management. And the
firm selected Newcastle for first perfor-
mances of “Frasquita,” “Cradle Snatchers"
and “Tip-toes.”
“Caul Boy”: In a few years’ time the
Australian picture entertainment will be
completely canned, except for the collection
of the coin. Hollywood already has small
orchestras which play sob-stuff to create the
appropriate reactions in the star. Soon it
will have great symphony orchestras com-
parable to those of Paris and Berlin. The
overture and the incidental music will be
photographed on to a roll exactly as the pic-
tures are and posted to any address; and
attached to the tail of every drama will be
the national anthem of the country ordering.
Over 400 theatres in U.S.A. are installing
the vitaplione. It reproduces photographed
sound which is almost as much a pleasure
to listen to as broadcast music—if broad-
cast music is a pleasure to listen to. So
the population of Poverty Point is likely
soon to be increased.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Dorothy Seacombe has
succeeded Betty Chester in Billy Merson’s
production of “My Son John” at the
Shaftesbury, in which another Australian.
Vera Pearce, is an established favorite. Miss
Seacombe, who has already succeeded in
straight comedy, gives an excellent account
of herself in this musical show; she sings
and dances with vivacity, and her appearance
and vitality are assets in musicomedy.
Gladys Moncrieff in “The Blue Mazurka is
a reigning toast. The Moncrieff voice is
much finer than any other to be heard on
the London musical comedy stage.
“Hamfat” : Eugene Lauret, whose merry-
go-rounds and side-shows are known through-
out Australia, sank his profits on them in
land in the Granville (N.S.W.) district:
and the old chap died a rich man. Over 40
years ago he arrived in N.S.W. and started
as a sideshowman; before that he was in
the French navy for a time. With his wife,
Lauret was a notable worker for patriotic
purposes during the war.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Somerset
Maugham’s new play. “The Constant Wife,’
is cynical stuff in which marriage is pictured as
little more than a joke. The tliiug is not with-
out smart dialogue, cleverly-drawn characters
and effective situations, but the first-night
audience did not like it, and there was a good
deal of boo-ing after the final curtain. And
when the leading lady, Fay Compton, thanked
the civil members of the audience, roars of
disapproval w T ere renewed. “The author is
not in the house,” Miss Compton said. “And a
good job, too!” responded a gallery critic.
“0.P.H.”: Frank Tate, Vic. Director of
Education, illuminated the souvenir pro-
gramme he issued for the kiddies' display on
the M.C.C. Ground during the Royal visit
with 27 gems from Shakspeare. The Yorks
were tickled with the references to them-
selves: “They say the lady is fair: lis a
truth; I can bear them witness" (“Much Ad«.
About Nothing”); “His worth is warrant
for his welcome here’ (“Two Gentlemen of
Verona”) : “What think you of a Duchess?
(“Henry VIII.”) : “In niine eye she is the
sweetest lady that ever I looked on
(“Much Ado About Nothing”). And so on.
“Flaming Youth”: A gamble on the hap-
hazard Australian fashion of collecting Gov-
ernment railway tickets or lea\ ing them un-
collected saved a touring co. from disaster.
The management could not find fares to the
uext town for all the co., so it took a risk.
Half the crowd on, the jaunty manager
among them; and he succeeded m getting
through the railway gates in the next ton":
without surrendering the tickets. These lie
sent back to the other moiety of the moo
by the grace of a motorist who was going
that way. The first-comers meanwhile dis-
tributed "dodgers ’ and verbally scatt■ n
the news that the show would not open until
8.15, owing to half the company having
missed the earlier train, a result of then
excessive popularity. That -publicity
worked wonders, and the bumper-house
which followed marked the turning-point m
the co.'s fortunes.
THE TOPICAL GAZETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though to the cinema I go
And watch the flickers every week,
I find the featured pictures slow;
There’s something else I always seek,
Something appealing and unique
For which I find myself in debt.
I’d like to slay the vamp and sheik:
(Jive me the Topical Gazette!
1 want the ever-passing show,
Not the ‘ fantastic or antique.
No topic ever is de iron;
(•’or facts and knowledge still 1 shriek.
These picture-men have got the cheek
To tell us what we ought to get;
Their stunts I view with glance oblique:
Give me the Topical Gazette!
This world of ours I want to know
From verdant vale to mountain peak;
The wondrous grace of motion slow,
The pride of horses, trim and sleek.
Gaunt cliffs and Arctic regions bleak,
Strange natives in their jungle met....
Gut out the tiresome movie-freak!
Give me the Topical Gazette!
Such topics I in vain bespeak—
This world of ours in silhouette.
The foolish farce to me is Greek:
Give me the Topical Gazette!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


Shipping.
Thos. Cook & Son’s
Winter Tours
TO
JAVA, MALAYA,
SIAM, JAPAN,
HONOLULU,
CALIFORNIA,
BRITISH COLUMBIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, CEYLON,
NORTH QUEENSLAND,
WINTER SPORTS AT
Mt. Buffalo (V.), Mt. Cook (N.Z.),
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES.
Special Programme Post Free from
THOS. COOK & SON,
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49a Grenfell Street.
Huddarf ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steainshi|>3
STIC A M K IIS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STICAMICItS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and tice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
I' 01 ' full particulars apply HUDDAilT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Straat, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
„ BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Sunshine and Flowers now in
HAWAII
Avoid the winter cold by visiting the Islands of
Enchantment. Total cost of round-trip from
Sydney in eight weeks or less (three to four
weeks in Hawaii), about £100 to £150. En
route to America or Europe, “stop-over” privi-
lege costs no more. Complete modern con-
veniences, good hotels with meals, 12/- to .£3
per day. Tropical scenery, fresh fruits, vege-
tables ; thrilling melody. Golfing, motoring,
outrigger canoeing and surfboard riding. Inter-
island cruises. Ask steamship or travel agent,
or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
21.10. G.P.O., Sydney, N.S.W., for full des-
cription in colored booklet, attaching this
advertisement.
No extra cost to break your journey at
HAWAII
Banking, Public Companies, etc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authored Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £2,685,303
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1926 ..£16,789,590
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.B.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; Duncan Carson ; H. R.
Lysaght, O.B.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-
Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 151 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: L. Aveyard.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
Manager: A. C. Dibdin.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Donns Faiiihairn, Alfred Shepherd.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Finland, and at all the Chief Cities of the World,
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £52J,d88
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875*000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,390,378
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
_ „ . . land, Fiji, Samoa,
'■roat Britain and Ireiand, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at i nterest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital, increased to . . 1,000,000
Paid Up Capital, „ „ .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund, „ „ .. 850,000
n . £1,850,000
Reserve liability of shareholders,
increased to 1,000,000
£2,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
ho 114 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Lifts and Letters of Credit issued on London, America
and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected and pro-
eea, remitted. All usual banking business transacted.
Shipping, etc.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu, Victoria and Vancouver.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and San Francisco.
TAHITI 7,900 tons, MAY 19, for San Francisco.
MAUNGANUI . 7,527 „ JUNE 2, for Vancouver.
MAKURA 8,075 „ JUNE 16, for San Francisco.
AORANGI 17,400 „ JUNE 30, for Vancouver.
Past and splen-
didly equipped
steamers using
oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
r.,
m
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE I r OR RETURN
BY OTHER LINES.
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS COMMENCE JUNE 2.
UNIOX STEAM SHIP CO.
f Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\ William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
SOUTH SEA TOURS
Attractive Island Trips, occupying about J/§ Weeks.
SIX-WEEKLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
Now Britain' S.S. “MONTORO” (5000 tons).
iIWVV lil IIISI 11 a Sails Tnno 9.8 nnrl Anomst <1
Snlnmnn s.s. mataram (3500 tons),
ooiomon im&ecis. gai i s June 8 and j u i y 20.
A Delightful Holiday in Island Wonderlands.
For Particulars apply—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
J&k
flea
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Passenger Booking Agents for All Steamship Lines
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc.
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
Attractive tour to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
m.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
WOULD TOUIt and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817-
WALES.
.. .. £6,875,000
.. .. 4,750,000
.. .. 6,875,000
£18,500,000
Directors:
Thomas -Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfully Esq.,
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
477 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,500,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND 3,000,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
£10,000,000 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman; Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, K. 8., C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office.—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. Agencies
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the World.
AIF Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR QUEENSLAND PORTS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
bcig. and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Brisbane, Mackay (no cargo for Mackay), Townsville
and Cairns.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“NALDHAM.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.'
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lJlackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British-India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Itd Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart Parker,
Ltd London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg and Bowen.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds . . .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income .. .. .. •• £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Hotel
Kosciusko
Early Winter
Tourist Concession
Ticket.
First-Class Return]
Rail, Motor, \
3J Days Hotel. J
£8146
July and August excepted.
Bookings and Further Particulars at —
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Have you Tried AnchoveHe This way ?
d/lnchovette. tomatoes
peck's
Take as many firm ripe Tomatoes as required and cut a hole in
. the top of each. Bake till tender, and fill with a mixture of
Anchovette, butter, bread crumbs, pepper and salt, well beaten
together. Place under griller to brown and serve hot. An
easily prepared and delicious entree.
ANCHOVETTF
c 5? delicious 9 ish 9?aste
-
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — .think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL &C uk.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
è
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you .re troubled with the complaint, write u« «nd
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.
164 Queen Street, Melbourne, Vic.
é
“As the
Walrus
said —”
The IVaims and the Carpenter
IVere -walking close at hand ;
They wept like anything to see
Such quantities of sand.
‘ If this -were only cleared away'
They said,‘it would be grand!’”
or Plain
“They might almost have been dis-
cussing some of the cigarettes of
to-day, which claim that tons of sand
are extracted from their tobacco.
They certainly could not have been
discussing De Reszke Virginias, for
De Reszke tobacco never did contain
any sand. Only the lower, cheap
leaves of the plant become sand*
blown, and these are never used
for De Reszke.”
DE RESZKE
Virginias
TEN FOR NINEPENCE
Also in 20's, joV and 100's.
J. MILLHOFF & CO., LTD., 86 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.-l.
Agents for N.S.W.: DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney.
r
c NATIONAI BANK
oJ?asfi&/crs7ct limited
,: ra
CAPITAL PAID UP jC4,000,000
Reserve Fund j 02410.000
/h Z/>e Sus/hess-
Total Gtssets lib 19/6 575,697
- -J926 <^40.706,017.
The Bank is widely represented directly and by
Agents throughout the country districts pf Australia,
and has Offices in all the Capital Cities#
Its large capital and deposit resources place it in a
position to assist the development of the various
industries of the Commonwealth. In rural areas the
great bulk of its business is connected with the farming
and grazing interests#
Full facilities are provided, for the transaction of
\ local and overseas banking business.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
3Uy THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-]
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR-
£%Ca
Ar
I|§f
&
in order for two years freeJ
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST,SYDNEY,
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
ê
No. 1369.
Uhese @otmie Cherubs Owe their Precious
Lives to the Building-up Power of
fEEBLE and fretful, unable to as-
similate nourishment from their
natural food, HYPOL was ordered.
Almost the first few doses put the
joy of living into their little beings
by promoting fresh impulse, vigour,
and bodily health. Now it’s romp
all day, and sweet, refreshing sleep
at night. Mother says the HYPOL
treatment was “Just Wonderful.”
BYPOLis a Cod Liver Oil Emul-
sion of peculiar distinctiveness
-full of valuable elements for
health, and famed for its richness,
freshness, and restorative p uypoL
Only those who have taken HYP
know how good it is ho
thens and sustains.
Colds,Bronchitis, Unhealthy Lungs,
HYPOL is without equal.
You protect yourself by asking for the Original and Genuin
An high-class Chemists stock it. Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PROP- LTP 2


If You Have a Bad Leg
LJ
□
0
ffi
CP
;
a
G
c
Mr.
R. H.
Rowe.
Use
Rexona
It Heals!
“Ten years ago I knocked
my leg and the wound turned
to blood poison. I was
treated at the hospital for some
time and my leg healed up,
but I was unfortunate enough
to get it knocked again, and
for seven years it did not
heal up. I went to two
specialists and their treat-
ment. did my leg good for a
while; then it seemed to be
at a standstill till at last
I tried Rexona Ointment and
Rexona Soap on the wound,
and in four months the wound
was almost healed.”
(Sgd.) R. H. ROWE,
“Brenda,”
England Avenue,
Marrickville, N.S.W.
Rexona—A Medicine
Chest in Itself!
The Best Treatment for
Bad Legs, Varicose Veins,
Ulcers, Piles, Eczema,
Ringworm, Cuts, Sores,
Bruises, Scalds, Burns,
Sores on the Head, Falling
Hair, Dandruff, Rashes,
Chilblains, Chapped
Hands, Cold Sores and all
Skin Eruptions.
r Cooling
soothind
3/-
y Healing '
dntiseplic Ointment
olir ifies i Absolutely
‘ Heals Reliable
%
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of Ihe Skin. Eczema Sores Oils,
Burns Bruises. Sores. Sciatica Piles Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP T SHELDQN DRUG C° U° SYDNEY
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Chocolates
“I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
EhneSttiiliul
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Sene/ for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our con-
fectionery in colors.
. xm
m
mm
mi ■! ?
'li ® *1
m
r lfmm
■
m
l
k
dt dH
■
a
»?8S
il
as
■
: 1
m'
m
■Mi
At the Comer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A CROWD upon a corner stood
With faces grave and grey,
While in their midst, with wide
strange eyes,
A poor, still body lay.
With silken hair, in silk arrayed,
Nor limb nor lash she stirred.
One muttered: “He that thrust her down
Drove on without a word.”
Another said: “I cried to him,
Yet he no notice took,
No pity showed, but sped straight on,
Indifference in his look.”
A third man said : “He swerved no inch,
Firm hands upon his wheel;
Grim jawed he sat. like steel he was,
Like cold, unfeeling steel.”
With silken hair, in silk arrayed,
While, hued by sunset, blushed
The western sky, the woman lay,
Pale, broken, still and hushed.
I'p street and down the traffic sped,
Wheels whirred, horns hooted loud;
No time had it, the Passing Show,
For that dazed corner-crowd.
One kneeling at her side looked up
And said (’twas strange to hear) :
“She has the eyes of Juliet,
The hair of Guinevere.”
Up street and down the traffic roared,
Harsh tumult was astir;
No time had it, the Passing Show,
To pause and pity her.
The kneeler at her side looked up
And said : “I have not seen
So fair a face in all my days—
She seems a murdered queen.”
Within that little corner crowd,
While sunset flamed and blushed,
Slain by the Spirit of the Age.
Romance lay pale and crushed.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Postman’s Sunshine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WRONG, old man, entirely wrong.
Wrong as Hell!”
My business guide, philosopher
and friend, Joseph Kenilworth Tucker, and
I were seated as usual over our mid-day ham
and tea, and were, also as usual, immersed
in an argument, this time concerning itself
with our modern educational system. Tucker
had just flung his “entirely wrong” at me
with some degree of truculence.
I knew I had a good case, but I couldn’t
quite make it clear. I ended lamely by quot-
ing that “the child is father to the man.”
“Just what do you mean by that?” His
question sounded like a rebuke, more perhaps
in the tone he used than in the actual words.
Tucker has a habit of stinging your mind
into action by firing at you just such simple,
direct questions as this with machine-gun
precision.
“Well,” I commenced, as the grey matter
began to take shape, “there is the generally
accepted meaning of the phrase—latent ideas
that grow to habits and convictions, ten-
dencies in the young that develop into genius
or perhaps criminal instincts with manhood.”
, “Yes, but that isn’t to the point”—also de-
livered with quick-fire rapidity. Neither it
was.
I began to expound as well as I was able,
having by this time succumbed to that state
of torpidity which follows the satisfying of a
keen appetite, gradually evolving an answer
to suit the occasion.
“What I mean is, isn’t there a perceptive
instinct, a finer sense of intuition, that our
modern education entirely destroys? Don’t
young people show us a natural sensitiveness
for the feelings of others which is dulled and
blunted by our humdrum existence from the
'cry first days of school life? Don’t you see
that”....
But this isn’t getting on with the story.
ijs H* $
Joe Livingstone opened his eyes to a world
of damp, dense mist, a typical Dunedin sea-
fog such as we are accustomed to expect on
an early spring morning—rolling up the har-
bor in thick clouds and prying into every
nook and crevice of the unfriendly cold-grey
buildings. The ground where Joe had been
lying was soaking wet. He had never put
in such a miserable night. Why hadn’t he
just gone to a cheap boarding-house for a
bed and breakfast? He could have paid for
it, even if it had taken his last sixpence. But,
then he would not have had enough left for—
The realisation of his position brought him
sharply to his senses. It was no joke, this
sleeping out. The tree under which he had
curled offered his emaciated frame but poor
protection. As he stretched his limbs he felt
the flip-flap of wet trouser legs against his
bony knees, and perceived for the first time
how cold he was. A short walk would wear
it off. Up and over the little park, round a
couple of blocks, then back again.
With the air of one who mechanically goes
through movements long become mere habit,
he lounged in a hard iron seat bearing the
legend “Rest and Be Thankful,” picked up a
discarded copy of last night’s Evening Star,
and turned to the “Situations” column. Auto-
matically he marked with his thumb some
half-dozen advertisements for “looking up”
as soon as the city should waken. One par-
ticularly attracted his attention. It read
“Wanted, Insurance Clerk for Marine Work,”
and went on to explain, rather laboriously
fit took two good inches of space to do
it), that the applicant must possess secondary
education, smart appearance, and several
other equally vague qualifications. It was
concluded by the name of a well-known office.
That’s what Joe had been. Marine insur-
ance clerk. Four years’ experience. Bitter
years! Watching juniors pass him and drop
into head-office jobs, jobs he had slaved and
toiled for. But in every commercial concern
there seems to be a “goat,” one who does
ail the hard work and gets no credit, and is
the very first to lose his billet when the
periodical cycle of depression makes itself
manifest.
“Insurance Clerk for Marine Work” —yes,
he could get that job all right. Just a good
meal and a shave, and perhaps the extra-
vagance of a new collar, and he would be
ready to interview the most pompous of their
managers. He pulled a handful of silver out
of his pocket.
Ten shillings and eightpence—that was all.
And it had cost such a struggle. No work
for nearly the whole winter. Of course, Joe
had his name on the unemployment roll, but
that brought but a day’s labor here and
there, and, anyway, they gave the married
men the preference. From the few odd notes
he had received he had saved just ten shillings
and eightpence.
Ten shillings and eightpence worth of life’s
blood! Sometimes he had slept out every
night of the week, some days all he had had
to eat was a single apple. At other times
he had been more fortunate, meeting a pal
at the Y.M. or the Soldiers’ Club, but usually
night found him fighting the pains of hunger
and balancing a few odd coins against human
endurance. The silver won —but only to the
extent of ten shillings and eightpence in a
whole six months.
By nine o’clock depression had left him
and he stepped almost buoyantly up High-
street in the direction of a sweet-shop, well
known as catering for those who like the
finest candies and can afford to indulge their
fancies.
“Show me something better, please.”
The shop girl looked startled, especially as
it was scarcely nine o’clock, but complied.
“These are the very best we have —won’t
you try one?”
“They will do nicely. Please wrap them
well —they have to go a long way.”
“Ten shillings, please.”
Joe clutched his parcel under his arm and
marched with a firm step to the G.P.O. With
the post-oflice pen he scratched an address
on the brown paper, filled in the prescribed
form, and handed both over the counter. The
clerk threw the parcel on to the weighing
machine.
Joe stood in a kind of a trance, lhese
were for someone he held dearer than all
the world, a sweet old soul who would bless
him as she read his handwriting. He pic-
tured with exalted joy the few moments of
contentment and happiness he was sending
into a lonely life, and he counted his aching
limbs and crumpled clothes well worth it.
“One and sixpence, please.” It was the
voice of the clerK demanding the postage.
Yes, the postage, of course. With an effort
Joe collected his thoughts.
Then a blank grey wall seemed to rise up
right in front of him, shutting out every-
thing, numbing his mind, paralysing his bodv.
One and sixpence! What a wall of solid
despair can be bunt of just tenpence !
Suddenly a flood of thought poured
through his mind. Why hadn’t he stayed out
just one night more? Why hadn’t he bought
a cheaper box? .
“No, there’s no cheaper way of sending it,
answered the clerk to his mumbled question.
Joe looked round the office, much as I
should imagine a condemned criminal looks
round his cell as he leaves it for the last
time, and then stepped towards the door.
“What’s the matter? Aren’t you going to
send it?” demanded the clerk; then shot
several uncomplimentary remarks about
wasting official time, adding “Better take it
with you.”
Joe turned mechanically and met, over the
counter top, the wide eyes of a freckle-faced
urchin, probably a telegraph messenger.
“Give them to him,” said Joe, and added to
the lad, “They’re chocolates —hope you enjoy
them.”
Another two seconds and he had gone.
“Queer bird,” laconically commented the
clerk. “Better take the parcel and hop it,
kid.”
* $ * *
The mellow sunshine of a spring afternoon
drifted down through apple-trees in blossom,
and bathed in a soft glow a little two-roomed
cottage, facing the main road over an anti-
quated picket fence.
By the gate stood an old lady, bent with
years, but wearing an eager expression which
lit up her face and lent it the charm of
almost girlish freshness.
Opening the gate, she stepped into the
roadway, looked searchingly in the direction
of the village, and returned to a chair before
the cottage door.
All day she had sat there, repeating the
journey to the roadway perhaps twenty times.
For this was the Day of Days. This was
her birthday, the day when her last link
with the past, her boy Joe, remembered her —
remembered his old mother, and sent her a
little something for old sake’s sake. Joe
didn’t write much now. It was over six
months since she had heard from him, but
he would not forget her to-day !
The old lady’s birthday brought both
sweet and bitter memories. It was also the
day on which her helpmate had left her old
Joe Livingstone, “Captain” Joe as he was
known for miles around, right up the valley
through the whole “Central,” the man who
struck the pay dirt at Moa Flat. Poor old
Captain Joe! He had struck it right enough,
but his was one of those minds that see too
far ahead. He sold out his claim and staked
his savings on the future of the Central as
the orchard of the country. They told him
he was mad when he planted his first apples
and apricots, and he began to think so, too.
when, after waiting years for results, he had
to watch the fruit rot unpicked for lack of
transportation. That was a part of the pro-
blem that poor old Captain Joe hadn’t figured
Of course, he didn’t dd so badly, but he
lived a generation too early. His ideas about
fruit would have been worth a fortune twenty
years later. “Old lady Livingstone” was
left with just enough to live on. Her cot-
tage was her own. and a couple of acres,
rented out to neighbors, brought in a pit-
tance which iust sufficed to fill her needs.
One o’clock passed—she quite forgot to
prepare a midday meal. ~ , ,
Two o’clock —still no step on the dusty
highway. , ~ , , ,
Three o’clock —and the sun began to lose
its heat as it approached the hilltops across
the valley. She was nearly frantic with
(Continued on next page.)


\\W
Automatic, Self-contained,
Complete
MODEL 750 750 watts, 32 volts, Full Automatic, non-
battery, single cylinder, 4 cycle, valve-in-head, air-cooled
engine. Operates on benzine.
D I S T R I BUTORS :
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-11 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBLRTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
™ RT ° N ’ FRANKI > LTD -» 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
& ROBERTSON, LTD., Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
. STEWART. 29 Cameron Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
HERE is the latest product of Delco-Light—Model
750—full automatic, non-battery home-lighting
and power plant—the plant which is giving the
benefits of electricity to the multitude at a price
hitherto impossible.
This new FULL-AUTOMATIC Delco-Light Plant is
self-contained and complete—its only battery a 6-volt
one for cranking. It stops, starts and runs itself at
the touch of a switch. Bright, safe, clear electric light
is only one of its gifts, for it operates FRIGIDAIRE,
dependable Electric Refrigeration, and DELCO-
LIGHT WATER SYSTEMS, and other accessories,
supplying power, automatically, as these units require it.
Think how dependable electric lighting will improve
your home, of the health and pleasure cheated by
purer, more inviting foods in summer and an abun-
dance of clear, running water all the year round!
There is a Delco-Light Product for each of these
services—and the new Full Automatic Model makes
possible a wonderful combination of them all at
remarkably low cost.
Write for Booklet B.
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors.
anticipation of she knew not what evil for-
tune. Utterly despondent, she arose for one
last despairing glance along the high road.
A black speck she could barely distinguish
was moving in her direction. Her spirits
rose, but with a subdued undercurrent of
fear lest an even greater loss should over-
whelm her. What if they were coming to
tell her that her Joe was no more? What if
he lay at death’s door while she was unable
to reach him?
The postman came on his bay mare at a
canter. The old lady’s heart thumped vio-
lently, her head swam dizzily, she just man-
aged to control herself enough to ask, “Any
for me, Bob?” Bob dismounted, and, with a
cheery word, handed her a brown paper
Pa Her heart leapt when she recognised her
boy’s handwriting. He had remembered her!
No longer was she lonely, no longer unhappy.
With a smile of thanks the old lady re-
turned to her cottage, covering her precious
package with tears and kisses.
The parcel was soon opened.
“Dear Joe, he always knew I was a sweet
tooth.”
As I was saying to my friend Tucker, there
does seem to be some faculty, some finer
sense -of intuitive discernment which our
modern life flattens, subdues and gradually
effaces. That is why only the very young—
office boys or telegraph messengers, for in-
stance —can instinctively and nicely judge the
feelings and purposes of their fellow-
creatures.
J. G. J.
Fitzroy Linda.
[FOR THE BULETIN.]
IT’S seldom one hears music in Johns ton-
street, Fitzroy. Mr. Boone was sur-
prised, and looked inside the shop to
see who was playing. He couldn’t see well,
because the place was gloomy; also, there
were rows of dingy dresses in the way, and
a flock of hanging trousers beside a pyramid
of suitcases and mouldy boots. But he did
catch a glimpse of Linda sitting there at
the back, playing her mandolin, swaying
about a little to the time.
The second-hand clothing-shop enclosed a
doubtful smell and an air of depression ; yet
there was something fresh about Linda that
drew Mr. Boone inside. He coughed. The
music stopped abruptly, and Linda came
forward to serve. She came only a step or
two, as if loath to leave the shadows. The
customer thought that strange in Fitzroy.
She was a well-built youngster, of about
IS years, and dressed in the pick of the
stock. At first glance, particularly if you
were watching her brown, bright eyes, you
would think her strikingly handsome. But
she came a little more into the light, more
prominently under Mr. Boone’s inspection,
and he got a start, because Linda was —well,
not black, but certainly dusky.
“Hello, dear,” he said, recovering himself,
“er —I like it when you bin play that-phella
music-box.”
Linda’s native nose went in the air. “Don’t
act childish ! Talk your own language!”
Although he was a travelling showman,
and had lately done business around Lake
Tyers aboriginal station, he hadn’t met a
half-caste quite like Linda. Why, given a
brighter complexion, and lighter hair, she
would be a beauty. He looked her over
carefully, and wasn’t so sure that she wasn’t
a beauty now. Her skin was really a warm,
glowing color, when one got used to it.
“Sorry! I wish to inquire if you have a
pair of boots to fit these size 10 feet; if so,
I will try them on, whilst you, if I may
suggest it, continue to make the air melodi-
ous.”
Linda smiled faintly, and routed about in
the boot department. Presently she went on
playing. She was so fond of it that anyone
could get on the soft side of her that way.
Mr. Boone put tactful questions, offered
different kinds of sympathy, got her talking.
Yes, she. came from Lake Tyers, and, yes,
she hated it. The shop was her uncle Joe’s.
She liked Fitzroy best of any place. Why?
Because the people were kind, minded their
own business, and didn’t stare. She managed
to “knock out lots o’ sweet jinks.”
He stayed in the shop a good while. He
did not actually tell her he was a circus
proprietor, but he led her to believe that he
lived a gay, bohemian life. She quite
enjoyed his visit. He came around the next
day, because he liked music.
Lame Joe Mills, Linda’s uncle, discreetly
ducked when he saw the tall showman
approaching, so as to give her a fair go.
There . were more visits, and perhaps an
excursion or two. The circus man should
really have been wearing a black moustache,
for with him one day Linda packed up and
disappeared.
Her uncle was very disturbed by the affair;
it meant so much extra shop work. He adver-
tised . in the “Missing Friends,” told the
Birmingham about his loss, and otherwise
left no stone unturned. As she was tour-
ing east of Holy Plains by that time no-
thing came of it. He had to hire out a
girl from the Salvation Army to run the
shop. She was not nearly so satisfactory
as his niece, being- half-witted, and on one
occasion she bungled the sale of a complete
chest of drawers.
All this happened in the month of March
last year. In March this year, at about
nine o’clock one night, someone knocked at
the side entrance. After putting out all
lights and chaining the door Lame Joe
opened it a bit and peeped out.
“Linda!” he squeaked.
Sure enough, it was Linda, quite finished
up with her travels, and back home again.
‘‘Well, well !” said Joe, when they were
inside and the lights lit. “You do come
back! Where’ve you been all this while,
and how’s Mr. Boone?”
Linda was downcast. “Oh, him! I
cleared out from him a month ago—the
yellow-tail. I been to Lake Tyers, sick.
That man an’ me ’ve got no use for each
other. How about my job? Do I have it
back?”
She poked at her bundle, out of which
came a tiny chuckle. Then she bent over
and tickled something. More chuckling.
Lame Joe’s mouth dropped open; he actually
got up from his chair, and looked inside.
“That’s Rose,” said Linda shyly. “That’s
Baby. Spare me days, Uncle, she won’t be
no expense—see how little she is.! Pink
toes ! Blue eyes ! Ain’t she a trick ? And
—look again, Uncle —ain’t she white!”
Lame Joe got back to his chair, to think
a space, rubbing the bristles on his chin.
“Well, girlie, you do know second-hand
from salvage, so for yer dear father’s sake
111 take you back. You never seen such
a girl as Salvation-Army, Linda. Got me
on the run all day. How was circus life?”
‘Not too much circus, Uncle! It was low-
life ridin’-gallery, with half the horses in
splinters, and me puttin’ patches on his
worship’s pants. Can I get a kero.-case to
put the kid in?”
The days passed happily for all three.
Rose lay in the shop most of the time, kick-
ing her rosy legs and bubbling at Linda or
whoever was near. Every night she went to
sleep to the sound of a mandolin lullaby.
Even Lame Joe took to her enormously.
Sometimes she played with his moustache.
Linda showed her baby off to all the street.
“Don’t she take after her dad! No one’ll
say ‘Nigger’ to her, the pet. Wisht I had
a skin like hers !”
At nine o’clock another night there was
more knocking at the side door; Lame Joe
chained up and peeped out. This time a
solid iron-bar appeared in the aperture.
Came a heave, a rasp of broken screws, and
crash! The door was back against the
wall. In walked Mr. Boone, followed by a
taxi-driver friend.
“What the ’Ell”—began uncle Joe.
“Shut yer mouth!” said Mr. Boone, very
loudly. “Where’s Linda? Where’s the kid?”
Linda was well and truly in the shop,
wrapping up Rose for a hurried dash. Rose
spoiled everything by starting to weep,
whereupon the merry-go-round man pushed
Joe aside, and rushed into the shop.
“Come out of it, my beauty !”
Linda picked up a dressmaker’s bust of a
lady from the shop floor, and smote at Mr.
Boone. He jumped back, but it caught him
all right.
"You don’t get Rose!” she remarked, and
followed up the bust with a rubber boot
to the jaw, but not quite so successfully.
Her uncle was in by this time; he sprang
on Mr. Boone from behind, bearing him
heavily to the floor.
There followed a wild, rolling combat on
the shop floor, amidst many overcoats and
broadcasted piles of other C 3 garments.
Lame Joe tried to use his nails and teeth,
and Linda did her best to get one “in” with
a wine-bottle. Perhaps it was just as well
that she didn’t, because hate was making her
arm strong.
Baby Rose, not understanding how things
stood, cried louder and louder. The taxi-
driver remained at the side door, watching
his taxi. One can’t afford to take one’s eyes
for long off a car at night in Fitzroy.
A pretty fair crowd stood outside on the
tram-track already. With such a hullabaloo,
it was only a question of time before the
police arrived. Mr. Boone realised that.
They pitched over the floor spasmodicallv,
but he was on top most of the time. He
yelled to the taxi-driver to hold the car door
ready.
Linda grabbed up Rose with one hand, a
carving-knife with the other, and rushed
out. The terrified chauffeur recoiled at sight
of the shiny knife, but it was intended for his
tyres only. She jabbed savagely at them
until the air gushed out. Pursuit in that car
was soon out of the question.
A cable tram came up; she rode it out
to the terminus, and spent her last night
with Rose on the generous bosom of Studley
Park, in almost exactly the same spot, anil
in the same circumstances, as her great-great-
grandmother had done one night before white
men were even heard of.
A warder on his way to Kew Asylum in
the dawn’s early light came across them;
he took them along, and by-and-bye the police
were on the job. So Linda had to give up
the baby, after all.
“It’s not hers!” protested Mr. Booim,
loudly enough to make his claim undeniable.
“Damn it all, haven’t you got eyes to see?
Mrs. Boone died when it was born, and
Linda got that fond of it she reckoned it was
hers to keep. First chance she clears out
with Rose, after pinching the best part o'
my clothes. Being in the second-hand trade,
she knew her ekker.
“Linda? Oh, she was crazy to be on the
roads with us from the jump, and there
was no choking her off.”
Walk along Jolmston-street some day, just
to hear a mandolin really played.
PHILIP ABSON.
Requiem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They have, closed your eyes for ever, crossed
your hands upon your breast;
On a hill beside the river they have left
you to your rest.
Mary, whom I walked with often in the
starry nights of old,
“Forty,” written on your coffin, was the
story that they told ;
Though your children weep around yon in
the waning autumn sun
You were twenty when I found you—and
you died at twenty-one.
Dear dead girl, do you remember vows of
love we whispered low
In that sunny far September over twenty
years ago?
Did you kiiow my heart was broken, did you
think my love untrue,
When you sent me back the token, given
with my heart, to you?
Woman, gone beyond my reaching since God
kissed your weary brow,
Has He with His clear teaching taught you
my devotion now?
Silver-throated birds are singing in their
sanctuary of trees,
And amongst the blossoms winging seek the
nectar-laden bees,
With a faith that does not vary they are
building in the sun,
“Forty” on the white stone, Mary—but you
died at twenty-one!
N.S.W.
WHITE CEDAH.


ë
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. „ tM( _ .. „
N.Z. Office— 93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. ' ” *
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH A CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CORKBOARD
We are Sole Agents for High-grade Com-
pressed Corkboard, “Non-Plus-Ultra” and
“Record” Brands, the finest insulation for Cold
Storage Rooms.
Supplied in standard sizes, 3ft. x Ift., thick-
nesses of lin., 2in. and 3in., and easily fixed.
Large Stocks always available.
J. WILDRIDGE g SINCLAIR, LTD.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland (N.Z.).
If any illustration in
to the MANAGER, who will
. - ..'
takes your fancy, write
* ~ j>
■
rice for
THE CRYPTOGRAM
THE GREAT SHAKESPEAREAN WHERE IS IT!
the search for gold and a chance of winning the
£lOOO GOLDEN HELMET.
£5O IN PRIZES FOR A CRYPTOGRAM SOLUTION, AND £6666
IN PRIZES IN THE
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES' ART UNION.
For the Hospitals and Ambulances of the State.
„ (Sanctioned by the Attorney-General).
Special distribution of £5O in Prizes to those who can discover a quotation from Shake-
speare in the Cryptogram in this advertisement.
,
The First Prize,, in the Fire Brigades’ Art Union for the
Hospitals and Ambulances is a Fireman’s Helmet of Pure
Gold, weighing over 201 b.. and valued at £lOOO in Sterling
Cash.
THIS Helmet that shines OUT like burnished gold- in
times of . danger, we BIND was in use in THE heroic
ages, AND it still REMAINS the symbol of deeds oU re-
nown. No matter what the CAUSE may be, when fires
break oi(t, when danger threatens life and ,limb, WE look
to the men in the golden helmets to EFFECT a save.
And so it has come to pass THAT all OF us NOW look
to the Fire Brigades to help the Hospitals. Send your
Shillings along, for they help you and they help the
community you live in.
In the above paragraph there are twelve words printed in
capital letters Assemble,, these words and make them read
as a Quotation from Hoihlk, Act 11. Enclose the answer in
The Old Pot of Luck, an envelope with a shllljHg.fbr a ticket in the Art Union.
3475 Chances for £l. Tlle answers will be placed in a separate barrel and the
FIRST PRI7F FOR TMF^AMSWF^fWu after the Art Union,
rIKaT PRIZE FOR THE ANSWER TO THE CRYPTOGRAM £2O- Second Prl»c VS-
Tw • n,, C "" ,ola,i “" Prl '« »' '»/•
draw„ pr « s?,?" 1 s,£
answer. . Send on separate slips as many answers as you take tickets, and remem-
ber 25 Tickets for £1; 12 tickets for 10/; 6 tickets for 5/.
The solution of this Cryptogram, known only to the Secretary, has been lodged
iSKm Br’nS” C ° mKny * SW ” l ’ Ltd ' IPlt * “ d
Fort ” e - K “‘ " ***“"*-
N-S-W E|RE BRIGADES’ ART UNION EOR THE. HOSPITALS AND AMBUL-
ANCES OJV-THE STATE (Sanctioned by the Attotney-General).
FIRST PRIZE ;»i-A Solid Gold Fireman’s Helmet, Valued at £lOOO.
This is a veritable Pot of Luck..
Olto Studebaker feix, £845; 3rd, Thornyqroft Motor Lorry, £641;
o th ’ Cyl^der ash * £ 595 ,’ sth > Austin Five-seater, - £395; 6th, Buick Touring
pfftvef 3 pi a ; i, n 7t v’9if“ e a nd o ?lft^’' - Bth ’ Shulz Player--Piano, £225; 9th, Victor
Pl a y®^,P, la no» £212, and 130 other prizes valued at from £275 to £4/10/-.
FOR K f/ S ’ BOOKS 0P 25 PO® £1 : 12 TICKETS FOR 10/-; 6 TTrmr.TR
3475 CHANCES FOR £l.
'sydney 0 \v eCT6^aX * ® rigades’ Art Union, Circular Quay Station,
Write .plainly, state whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.
Drawing takes place at Fire Brigade Headquarters on August 10. Positively
no . postponement. Closing date July 27. a* *
Send Stamped and Addressed Envelopes for Ticket and Result Slip.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Sec.
A Pill is the best
form of medicine
Handy to use - easy to take
If taken regularly
The best form of medicine
Provided it’s a good pill
BEECHAM’S PILLS are
The tried and trusted remedy
Of countless thousands
Contain finest ingredients
Requisite for the
Toning and strengthening of
Stomach, liver and bowels
Beecham’s Pills
Remove poisons from system
Prevent biliousness
Indigestion, sick headache
And evils which follow
Constipation.
<1 PICCi the thaw
12 ,
Jo
£8800
r.
r
> /
\
3 to 100 H. P.
1 to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
MARINE engines
KERMATH Marine Engines are made
with the precision of a watch, all parts
evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and
friction. More power with less fuel.
All Parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.),
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, NiS.W.
fCermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich,,, U. S. A.
Cable Addreaei—KEßM ATH
? m
Models:
lJt/JfOh.p., 20/60h.p.,
80/90h.p. and 8-litre.
Fitted with Four-wheel Brake*.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
British Cars fbr i
British People '
The new Sunbeam three-litre sporting
car is the finest ever produced. It
embodies all the experience in engine
design and chassis construction which
has made Sunbeam cars supreme in the
racing world. Its body work is typical
of Sunbeam easy luxury and fine
appearance, and it comes as a worthy
addition to the fine range of touring
models which are already famous for
their inimitable performance and re-
liability.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Further particulars are available jrom
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department, 12 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cable Address: “Supermoco, London.”
Works, Wolverhampton.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY Irml No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
, _ ~ Adults, 1/6. Children, 6<i.
Tels.: 86276 (1 lines), Sydney Ferries, Ltd.


7fm
mrrmmvTZi
m
to
1 vVV\\NV\
i > tVSVE=S
i 5 -
? f*
- •{«
JL
\Vcu\>^
Xxx^N.VvWW^^W^\\XXV\
ssssssfSsfiUtl/ttliaLU.
7
m
s
A
s .'
s '
s S
x x
4
\
m
M
TTmimiTl
WL
%
> M
*£2i
,vl fc-
»«&
* X
&
wmm
t^ims
I ' 1
«ni
?/.
i
/
DEWAR’S
The Spirit of the Empire
It is that unbroken EVENNESS that is so much
appreciated in DEWARS. It is produced by
the skilful blending of whiskies Old and Ample.
DEWAR’S is simply a
mingling of good things.
HAROLD
NELSON
